
A/64/PV.11
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

11th plenary meeting 
Monday, 28 September 2009, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 

Ms. Antonella  Mularoni,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of the Republic of San Marino. 
Ms.  Mularoni  (San  Marino):  Mr.  President,  I 

wish  to  congratulate  you  on  your  election  as  the  head 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session and 
to assure you that the delegation of the Republic of San 
Marino  will  do  its  utmost  in  collaborating  with  you 
throughout the session. 

In  my  first  speech  before  this  Assembly  as 
Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  San 
Marino, I would like to express my most sincere thanks 
to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  for  guiding  this  Organization  with  great 
energy and extraordinary dedication. I wish to mention 
his  admirable  commitment  in  the  area  of  reform  and 
his  constant  and  important  involvement  in  world 
affairs. 

The United Nations reform process is fundamental 
to  ensuring  future  world  stability  and  must  remain  a 
priority  in  our  efforts,  not  only  because  we  have  the 
duty  to  guarantee  that  the  Organization  and  all  its 
activities  are  fully  effective,  but  in  particular  in  order 
to preserve its primary and essential value. We cannot 
afford  to  witness  a  decentralization  of  the  substantial 
role of the United Nations caused by the impossibility 
like 
express 
I  would 
Moreover, 
of reaching agreement on measures to be implemented 
for the improvement of its functioning.  

to 
the 
appreciation of San Marino for the work accomplished 
in  the  General  Assembly  with  the  contribution  of  all 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  for 
the  attention  paid  to  particularly  relevant  issues,  such 
as  the  world  economic  and  financial  crisis,  climate 
change and the global food crisis. 

The Republic of San Marino supports the process 
of  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  That 
process  is  a  political  reform  necessary  to  reaffirm  the 
Assembly’s role as the most representative body of the 
United Nations, as well as the role and leadership of its 
President.  San  Marino  believes  that  the  reform  should 
make  the  activities  of  the  General  Assembly  more 
efficient  and  effective,  improve  its  relations  with  the 
other main United Nations bodies to avoid duplication 
of work and aim at the effective implementation of its 
resolutions. 

The  Security  Council  reform  process,  which  the 
Republic  of  San  Marino  has  been  following  with 
commitment  and  interest  since  the  beginning,  is  also 
very important. We are grateful to the Afghan Chair for 
the  important  activity  carried  out  and  for  the  way  in 
which  it  has  presided  over  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  aimed  at  reaching  the  widest  possible 
political agreement on Security Council reforms. 

should  be 
democratic, 
San  Marino  believes  that  the  aims  of  the  reform 
to  make 
the  Security  Council  more 
transparent,  efficient,  accountable  and 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52598 (E) 
*0952598* 

the  reform  should 
take 
A/64/PV.11 

representative,  to  restore  the  balance  between  the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  and  to 
enhance  its  cooperation  with  the  Secretariat.  It  is 
important  that  this  process  allow  for  the  development 
of a sense of belonging to the Security Council among 
all Member States, thus avoiding the risk that it could 
be  perceived  as  an  isolated  body  within  the  United 
Nations.  Moreover, 
into 
consideration  the  legitimate  interest  of  all  States,  big 
and small, in being elected to the Security Council. 

San  Marino  participates  with  commitment  and 
interest  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
reform of the Security Council and regrets that, to date, 
no reasonable compromise has been reached to make it 
more  representative,  democratic  and  possibly  less 
paralyzed  by  cross-vetoes  concerning  fundamental 
issues. 

Mr.  Acharya  (Nepal),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

The  reforms  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  are  encompassed  in  a  wider  process 
of  transformation  and  strengthening  of  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  within  the  global  governance  system. 
San Marino believes that the United Nations plays and 
must  continue  to  play  a  pivotal  role  in  managing  the 
global governance system and that the United Nations 
reform  process  must  be  aimed  at  reaching 
this 
objective. 

is  characterized  by  marked 
differences  in  terms  of  power,  wealth,  income  and 
social  well-being  among  nations  and  peoples,  and 
within  individual  nations.  Unfortunately,  the  world  is 
beset  by  numerous  ethnic  and  interreligious  conflicts, 
which  are  sometimes 
fuelled  by  economic  and 
geopolitical  factors  originating  outside  the  area  of  the 
conflict.  Moreover,  global  warming,  which  is  also  a 
consequence  of  indiscriminate  energy  consumption  in 
developed  and  developing  countries,  is  one  of  the 
major causes of disasters and is leading, inter alia, to a 
reduction 
tropical  and 
in 
subtropical  countries.  Furthermore, 
in 
this  year 
particular the world economy has undergone one of the 
most  devastating  financial  crises  in  history,  whose 
consequences are clear to everyone. 

These  challenges  can  be  faced  only  through 
global and coordinated action, and the United Nations 
has the responsibility and the duty to be at the centre of 
this  process.  Only  by  tapping  into  the  rich  and  varied 
in  agricultural  yields 

the  official  speaker  at 
cultures  and  traditions  represented  by  the  United 
Nations is it possible to manage the global governance 
system in such a way as to achieve sustainable human 
development. That the United Nations might relinquish 
its  role  as  leader  of  the  global  governance  system  in 
favour of other bodies would be a defeat for all. 

Unfortunately, the widespread poverty that affects 
such  a  large  percentage  of  the  global  population, 
causing  hunger,  disease  and  underdevelopment,  is  one 
of the most endemic problems faced by States. Despite 
the efforts made and the commitments undertaken at a 
global  level,  poverty  continues  to  plague  the  whole 
planet. 

San Marino values the efforts and success of the 
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) over the last 
60  years  and  is  proud  to  host  Jacques  Diouf,  FAO 
Director-General,  as 
the 
investiture  ceremony  of  the  new  Captains-Regent,  the 
heads  of  State  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino,  which 
will take place on 1 October 2009. 

San Marino endorses the Millennium Development 
Goals  —  which  have  unfortunately  become  more 
difficult  to  achieve  because  of  the  crisis  we  are 
currently  facing  —  and  believes  we  must  continue  in 
our commitment. 

The strengthening of multilateralism — included 
by  the Assembly  President  in  the  theme  proposed  for 
this  general  debate,  namely  “Effective  responses  to 
global  crises: 
strengthening  multilateralism  and 
dialogue  among  civilizations  for  international  peace, 
security  and  development”  —  is,  in  my  opinion,  a 
central  element.  In  fact,  international  organizations, 
and  the  United  Nations  in  the  first  instance,  promote 
the  affirmation  of  democracy,  rule  of  law,  freedoms 
and  human  rights  as  a  condition  for  economic  and 
social development, cultural growth and education. 

The  current  world  economic  and  financial  crisis 
is the greatest global disaster since the very birth of the 
United Nations, all the more so because it has added to 
a  severe  food  crisis  that  has  affected  many  regions  of 
the  world.  As  this  crisis  concerns  all  countries  and 
regions  indiscriminately,  it  is  now  one  of  the  major 
challenges our Organization has to face. 

The  Republic  of  San  Marino,  as  a  small  State, 
attaches  great  importance  to  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly in the lives of our nations. It has welcomed 
the  high-level  Conference  on  the World  Financial  and 
09-52598 
Today’s  world 
2 

the 
final 
document 
discouraged 


Economic  Crisis  and  has  supported 
its  outcome 
document  (resolution  63/303,  annex),  which  is  the 
result  of  long  and  complex  negotiations.  However,  I 
note with regret that the uncertainty in the preparation 
of  the  Conference  and  the  difficulties  encountered  in 
drafting 
the 
participation  of  many  world  leaders,  whose  presence 
could  have  made  that  United  Nations  conference  an 
historic event. 

The task of the United Nations is to find, through 
coordinated  and  global  action,  the  right  methods  to 
mitigate  the  impact  of  the  crisis  and  to  achieve 
sustainable  economic  growth  and  development,  taking 
into  account  the  negative  effects  of  the  crisis  on  the 
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. 

Climate change has become a central issue on the 
United Nations agenda in the last three years, thanks to 
the  commitment  and  efforts  undertaken  by 
the 
Secretary-General  in  this  regard.  Climate  change, 
which  in  the  1990s  was  already  among  the  main 
environmental  concerns,  has  now  become  an  absolute 
priority on the political agenda of all States, including 
the smallest ones like our Republic. The deep changes 
caused  by  human  intervention  in  the  energy  dynamics 
of  the  climate  system  are  indeed  the  elements  of  this 
concern 
future. 
Therefore, urgent and significant changes in social and 
economic  development  patterns  cannot  be  further 
postponed. 

San  Marino  has  recently  submitted  its  first 
national communication in accordance with the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
That  communication  represents  the  beginning  of  a 
process,  first  of  all  of  a  social  and  cultural  nature, 
aimed  at  making  all  citizens  of  our  country  aware  of 
the  need  to  face  climate  changes  and  effectively 
commit to reducing as much as possible the impact of 
these changes. 

Among  the  most  serious  challenges  we  have  to 
face at national and international levels, terrorism in all 
its forms and manifestations is of primary importance. 
The Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy adopted by the 
General  Assembly  in  2006  represents  a  fundamental 
initiative, because for the first time all Member States 
agreed to a common strategic and operational approach 
the 
to  counter 
foundations 
this 
emergency by envisaging preventive measures and the 
terrorism.  Such  a  strategy 
for  a  coordinated 
response 
for 
the  present  and 
immediate 
A/64/PV.11
in  order 
strengthening  of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
fight against terrorism. It also recognizes that counter-
terrorism measures and the protection of human rights 
are  not  conflicting  goals;  on  the  contrary,  they  are 
complementary and mutually reinforcing. 
However, an effective response to terrorism must 

also  be  based  on  education 
to  foster 
understanding and respect for each other as a sine qua 
non condition for achieving justice and peace. Indeed, 
hatred,  lack  of  understanding  and  injustice  provide 
breeding grounds for terrorist groups and organizations 
to recruit new members. 

My  country  focuses  great  attention,  both  at  the 
national and international levels, to the promotion and 
protection of human rights, with special attention paid 
to  those  of  the  weakest  and  most  vulnerable  groups.  I 
am  pleased  to  recall  that  this  year  we  celebrate  the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  a 
fundamental  instrument  that  has  been  ratified  by  a 
large  number  of  States.  However,  we  must  not  forget 
that  still  today  9.2  million  children  under  the  age  of 
five die every year from largely preventable causes and 
more than 100 million school-age children do not have 
access  to  education.  Furthermore,  many  children  are 
robbed  of  their  childhood,  are  victims  of  sexual 
violence,  are  used  by  armies  or  armed  groups  as 
soldiers or sold as sexual slaves. 
San  Marino  applauds  and  supports  the  United 

Nations  and  UNICEF  for 
the  efforts  undertaken 
worldwide  in  order  to  improve  the  life  of  these 
children. We  also  actively  endorse  the  United  Nations 
commitment to women’s rights. 

Finally, the protection of human rights is strictly 
connected to the need to guarantee every human being 
and every population the possibility of living in peace 
and  justice.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  give  new 
momentum  to  the  disarmament  process. An  important 
step was taken last year in this regard by adopting the 
Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions,  an  instrument  that 
will  prove  essential  to  protecting  affected  populations 
from those weapons, which have devastating effects on 
civilians.  The  Republic  of  San  Marino  attaches  great 
importance  to  this  Convention,  which  is  focused  on 
human  dignity  and  the  interests  of  victims,  and  hopes 
that it will promptly enter into force. We therefore call 
upon the States that have not yet ratified it to do so as 
soon as possible. 
laid 
to 
09-52598 

3 

like 
I  would 
(Namibia): 
Mr.  Hausiku
A/64/PV.11 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Marco  Hausiku,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Namibia. 
to 

congratulate the President on his unanimous election to 
preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session.  We  are  confident  that  he  will  discharge  the 
responsibilities of that office with honour and dignity, 
given his track record and experience. I wish to assure 
him  of  Namibia’s  support  and  cooperation  to  ensure 
that his tenure in office is crowned with success. In the 
same  vein,  I  wish 
to  commend  His  Excellency 
Mr. Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  for  the  able  manner 
in  which  he  presided  over  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
third  session.  I  equally  wish  to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his tireless efforts in leading our 
Organization to respond effectively to the large number 
of challenges and pressing issues facing humanity. 

We are meeting today at a very challenging time. 
The impact of the world financial and economic crisis 
on  our  countries  and  economies  is  very  severe.  This 
crisis is a major concern that requires concerted efforts 
to  search  for  effective  methods  of  coping  with  it,  in 
order to mitigate its impact and to achieve sustainable 
growth  and  development.  This  crisis  is  taking  its  toll 
on every aspect of our development and social life. The 
progress  that  we  made  in  the  fight  against  poverty, 
hunger  and  diseases,  as  well  as  in  achieving  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
is 
threatened. 

The  financial  crisis  came  in  the  middle  of  the 
food  and  energy  crisis.  Skyrocketing  prices  of  basic 
foodstuffs,  though  said  to  have  stabilized  now,  have 
left  many  households  unable  to  put  food  on  the  table. 
Net  food  importing  countries  like  Namibia  had  to 
divert resources from development to emergency relief, 
while  importing  high-priced  food  destabilized  our 
balance of payments and State revenues. 

The  situation  was  also  worsened  by  high  fuel 
prices.  Oil-importing  developing  countries  like  ours 
have  been  negatively  affected  by  ever-increasing  oil 
prices, which have also led to price increases in other 
sectors, as suppliers of goods and services raise prices 
to make up for production and transportation costs.  
The  financial  and  economic  crisis,  coupled  with 

the food and energy crisis, has plunged the world into a 
(MDGs), 
face 
However,  we 
the  Secretary-General 
global recession. The combination of these crises with 
climate  change  and  its  adverse  impact  on  sustainable 
development  is cause  for great concern.  Namibia, like 
many  other  developing  countries,  is  an  insignificant 
contributor  to  greenhouse  gas  emissions.  Yet  our 
country is one of the most vulnerable to the effects of 
climate change. I therefore call upon major emitters to 
not  only  make  drastic  reductions  in  their  greenhouse 
gas emissions, but also to use technology and financial 
resources to support the efforts of developing countries 
to  adapt  to  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change. The 
Government of the Republic of Namibia fully supports 
the  efforts  of 
to  mobilize 
political  will  to  ensure  a  good  and  legally  binding 
agreement  on  climate  change  in  Copenhagen  this 
December. 

Namibia  is  one  of  the  countries  with  the  highest 
socio-economic  inequality  in  the  world  because  of  its 
colonial  past.  Nevertheless,  the  country  has  made 
progress in the provision of health, education and other 
critical services for the majority of the population, and 
we are on course to meet a number of the MDGs. 

in 
responding  to  the  combination  of  the  devastating 
HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  high  levels  of  food  insecurity 
and  poverty.  I  once  again  call  upon  the  international 
community 
to  our  national 
programmes  for  sustainable  economic  and  social 
development  through  measures  such  as  market  access 
and  access  to  financial  resources  in  the  form  of 
concessional loans and foreign direct investment flows. 

The  need  for  a  strong  and  effective  United 
Nations cannot be overemphasized. The process for the 
reform  of  the  Organization  should  be  expedited  in 
order to deliver on its promises in the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  respect  for  human 
rights,  social  and  economic  development  and  the 
protection of the environment. 

There  is  an  urgent  need  to  reform  the  Security 
Council to make it more representative, democratic and 
accountable.  Is  it  not  an  anomaly,  and  unjust,  that 
Africa  remains  the  only  region  without  permanent 
representation  on  the  Security  Council? This  does  not 
reflect  the  continent’s  vital  role  in  the  maintenance  of 
global  peace  and  security.  The  need  for  Africa  to  be 
equitably  represented  on  the  Council,  with  all  the 
privileges  associated  with  membership,  remains  our 
priority. In this regard, Namibia stands by the common 
severe  difficulties 
increase  support 
to 
4 

09-52598 


African position on the reform of the United Nations as 
articulated  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte 
Declaration. 

Namibia  welcomes  the  joint  communiqué  on 
strengthening  the  capacity  of  the African  Union  (AU) 
in peacekeeping operations, as agreed to by the United 
Nations Security Council and the African Union Peace 
and  Security  Council,  as  a  step  in  the  right  direction. 
There  is  a  need  for  more  structured  and  formalized 
cooperation between the two bodies on issues of peace 
and  security  in  Africa.  Such  cooperation  should  also 
include  the  areas  of  financing,  logistics,  transfer  of 
technology  and  training.  Furthermore,  there  is  a  need 
for  the  United  Nations  to  support  the AU  position  of 
principle on not recognizing Governments that come to 
power through military coups. Namibia calls upon the 
General  Assembly 
to  urgently  pass  a  resolution 
prohibiting  the  participation  of  such  Governments  in 
the activities of all United Nations institutions. 

The  right  of  all  people  to  self-determination  is  a 
fundamental  human  right,  which  is  enshrined  in  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  It  is  deplorable  that  almost 
10 years  into  the  twenty-first  century  colonialism  is 
still an issue with which this Organization has to deal. 

My  delegation  has  raised  its  voice  repeatedly  in 
this  Assembly,  calling  for  the  realization  of  the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  people  of  Western  Sahara  to 
self-determination. The international community has an 
obligation  to  assist  the  people  of  Western  Sahara  in 
their  quest  for  freedom  and  independence.  Namibia 
therefore  calls  for  the  immediate  and  unconditional 
implementation of the United Nations Settlement Plan 
for  Western  Sahara  and  of  all  resolutions  of  the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  with  the 
aim  of  holding  a  free  and  fair  referendum  in  Western 
Sahara. 

Similarly, Namibia is deeply concerned about the 
continuing  suffering  of  the  people  of  Palestine  under 
Israeli  occupation.  We  wish  to  reaffirm  our  full  and 
unequivocal  support  for  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
people of Palestine to self-determination, including the 
return  to  their  land.  I  wish  to  again  call  upon  the 
parties to resume the peace process on the basis of all 
relevant United Nations resolutions. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  its  long-held 
position  on  the  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  blockade  imposed  against  Cuba.  We  believe 
that the blockade constitutes a violation of international 
A/64/PV.11
community 
to 
attain 
to 
to  heed 
the  call  of 
the 
international 
the  rights  of 
law  and 
the  people  of  Cuba.  Its 
extraterritorial nature impedes free trade and economic 
development. Furthermore, it undermines the efforts of 
the 
the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  as  it  affects 
that  country’s  economy  adversely  and  subjects  its 
people to untold pain and suffering.  
We  urge the  Government  of the United States  of 

America 
international 
community  and  to  implement  the  resolutions  of  the 
General Assembly that call for an end to the blockade. 
Namibia  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  solidarity  with  and 
support of Cuba’s call for the immediate release of the 
five  Cuban  nationals  detained  in  the  United  States  of 
America. 
I  would  like  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  express 

our  deep  appreciation 
the  Governments  and 
international  organizations  that  responded  in  a  timely 
manner  to  our  appeal  for  support  and  assistance 
following  the  devastating  floods  that  my  country  has 
experienced during the past two years. That assistance 
has  greatly  contributed  to  the  alleviation  of  the 
suffering of those in the affected areas. 
Finally, I wish to call upon all States Members of 

their 
the  United  Nations, 
responsibilities  and  obligations  under 
the  United 
Nations Charter, to fully address the challenges facing 
humankind  today  in  order  to  make  the  world  a  better 
place  for  all  and  where  we  can  all  live  together  in 
peace, security and true justice. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  José  Antonio  García  Belaunde, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Peru. 
Mr. García Belaunde (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): 

I  wish  first  of  all  to  congratulate  Mr. Ali Abdussalam 
Treki  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  Knowing  his 
broad  experience  in  the  United  Nations  and  his 
dedication to dialogue and consensus, I assure him that 
Peru will constructively support his initiatives. 

The global outlook is extremely complex and full 
of  great  contradictions. We  face  the  deepest  economic 
and  financial  international  crisis  that  our  generation 
has experienced and which once again proves that the 
borders  in  a  global  world  are  purely  cartographic  and 
that the symbol of our times remains interdependency. 
The  economic  and  financial  crisis  has  stymied  world 
keeping  with 
in 
09-52598 

5 
those  resources  must  support 
resources  and  political  capital 
A/64/PV.11 

growth  and,  above  all,  exposed  the  weaknesses  that 
caused  the  market  to  malfunction. As  rarely  in  recent 
history,  the  international  community  has  mobilized 
huge 
to  avoid 
unprecedented  economic  collapse.  A  significant  share 
of 
the  developing 
countries,  which  certainly  did  not  cause  the  crisis  but 
are the most affected by it. 

It is regrettable that the convergence of wills and 
interests  with  regard  to  the  crisis  is,  in  turn,  not 
apparent with equal resolve in the endeavour to achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015  and  to 
firmly  address  the  threats  that  endanger  freedom, 
democracy  and,  ultimately, 
regional  and  global 
stability. 

In  that  context,  allow  me  to  point  out  that  one 
crucial  problem  we  face  is  the  huge  sums  spent  on 
arms acquisitions. How can we explain to our peoples 
that, in the midst of one of the worst global economic 
recessions and with more than 1 billion people living in 
extreme  poverty  throughout  the  world,  countries  can 
commit  over  $1,464  billion  to  military  expenditure  in 
2008,  and 
that,  while  economies  contract,  arms 
purchases grow in real terms every year? 

Recently, the President of Peru, Mr. Alan García, 
in  a  communication  to  South  America’s  ministers  for 
foreign  affairs  and  of  defence  that  is  being  circulated 
as  a  document  of  this  General  Assembly  (A/64/367), 
seriously  questioned  that  state  of  affairs  in  the  region 
and  asked  why, 
the 
establishment of the Union of South American Nations, 
our  countries  have  allocated  for  military  spending  a 
total  of  $156  billion,  but  in  addition  have  acquired 
approximately  $23  billion  more  in  new  weapons, 
cannons,  aircraft  and  ships.  That  figure  could  reach 
$38  billion  this  year.  The  President  appealed  for  that 
absurdity  to  stop  if  conditions  are  created  for  a 
strengthening of security and confidence in the region. 

To  that  end,  on  this  occasion  I  affirm  Peru’s 
proposal  that  a  friendship  and  non-aggression  pact  be 
concluded 
to 
strengthening a zone of peace in South America, and to 
achieve  the  gradual  reduction  of  arms  purchases  and 
the  future  establishment  of  a  peace  and  interposition 
force  to  avert  any  conflict  in  the  region.  The  final 
objective  would  be  to  create  a  regional  collective 
security system that complements and is upheld by the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  enabling  all  our 
five  years  since 
commitments 
guarantee 
the 
in 
to 
the 

through  our 
countries to end the arms race in which South America, 
a region that is otherwise demonstrating great maturity 
and respect for international law in the handling of its 
disputes,  seems  to  be  engaged  for  no  discernible 
reason.  Our  proposal  will  certainly  require  greater 
study  and  consideration  in  the  light  of  experiences  in 
other parts of the world. 

A second transnational threat that is not receiving 
due attention is drug trafficking and its dangerous link 
to terrorism and violence in general, the consequences 
of  which  affect  not  only  the  security  and  rights  of 
millions  of  people,  but  also  the  environment.  We  are 
paying  an  enormous  price 
inaction 
concerning  a  problem  that  causes  millions  of  deaths  a 
year and tremendous material losses. 

At the global level, the traffic in drugs  brings in 
around $500 billion a year, equivalent to 8 per cent of 
global  trade,  while,  according  to  data  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  their  use  affects 
over  200  million  people,  in  particular  young  people, 
throughout the world. 
According to the 2008 report of the International 

that  South 
Narcotics  Control  Board, 
America’s  narcotics  trafficking  networks  collaborate 
with  one  another  in  their  illicit  activities,  especially 
money-laundering, and recruit specialists at the highest 
technical level. It is therefore a matter of urgency that 
combating narcotics trafficking once more be given top 
priority  on  the  world  agenda  and  in  cooperation 
between developed countries, pursuant to the principle 
of shared responsibility. 

We  must  respond  jointly  to  halt  the  advance  of 
narcotics  trafficking  and  related  criminal  activities, 
such as trafficking in arms or people, the destruction of 
nature, corruption and terrorism. Legislation concerning 
illicit crops and their interdiction and eradication should 
be  complemented  by  prevention  and  rehabilitation 
programmes  aimed  at  comprehensive,  alternative  and 
sustainable  development.  To  that  end,  the  concerted 
efforts of all international actors are essential under the 
principles  of  cooperation  and,  above  all,  shared 
responsibility. 
In  Peru,  drug  traffickers  are  working  with  the 

remnants 
situation 
exponentially  increases  the  level  of  violence  among 
both  criminal  groups,  and  if  we  do  not  solve  the 
problem  now,  we  may  find  ourselves  in  a  situation  of 
unprecedented  consequences  in  the  future.  Illicit  coca 
groups.  This 
is  clear 
terrorist 
of 
it 
6 

09-52598 
illicit 
industry  with  a 
the  soil  and  has  resulted 


production is a process of utmost destructiveness to the 
environment.  Three  hectares  of  forest  have  to  be 
destroyed to obtain one hectare of coca. This is causing 
irreparable damage in the Peruvian Amazon forest; the 
logging  and  burning  of  trees  to  clear  land  for  illegal 
crops  erodes 
the 
deforestation of 2.5 million hectares of Amazon forest, 
a leading contribution to global warming. 

For all these reasons, the Government of Peru has 
devoted  special  attention  to  the  problem  in  terms  of 
financial  and  human  resources.  But  the  results  have 
often left us feeling that this is a solitary struggle with 
a problem for which the international community, and 
especially  the  countries  that  consume  the  bulk  of 
narcotic drugs, do not have adequate or rapid solutions. 
Peru, which dedicates more than $600 million a year to 
fighting  an 
turnover  of 
$22 billion, cannot fight the illicit production of drugs 
alone  or  hope  for  any  long-term  success  without  the 
firm,  supportive  cooperation  of 
international 
the 
community  and,  particularly,  of 
the  consuming 
countries, based on the established principle of shared 
responsibility. 

Real cooperation has diminished alarmingly since 
2002.  The  largest  contributor  to  Peru  reduced  its 
contribution from $140 million to $128 million in 2003 
and to $116 million in 2004. This year, the total will be 
$70 million and next year, $57 million. Peru therefore 
considers it essential for the United Nations Office on 
Drugs  and  Crime  to  draft  a  report  providing  updated 
figures  for  the  global  resources  that  the  international 
community allocates to combating the illegal narcotics 
trade, the donor sources and specific ongoing projects, 
as  well  as  identifying  key  programmes  to  improve 
cooperation with the countries most affected by illegal 
drug 
and 
internationally  comparable  information  would  dispel 
many myths concerning the efforts and joint action that 
we  should  undertake  without  delay,  and  would  be  a 
practical starting point from which to better coordinate 
the  efforts  of  contributing  States, 
international 
organizations  and  financial  institutions  with  those 
States most affected by illegal narcotics production and 
trafficking, in order to strengthen them in this fight. We 
hope that this task can be accomplished without delay, 
since, I repeat, international action in this area must not 
be postponed. 
Another  sensitive  issue  that  has  been  the  subject 

of  special  debate  is  that  of  climate  change  and  the 
production.  Such 
precise, 
reliable 
in 
A/64/PV.11
towards 
preservation  of  the  environment  in  general.  Peru  is 
suffering  dramatically  from  the  effects  of  global 
warming, seen in the accelerated retreat of its tropical 
glaciers  and  its  ensuing  difficulties  in  adequately 
meeting  the  water  needs  of  its  population.  Peru 
considers  it  essential  to  establish  concrete  goals  for 
technological  cooperation  and  transfer,  as  well  as  the 
creation  of  financial  assistance  funds  for  projects 
aimed  at  directly  combating  the  effects  of  climate 
change in the countries most affected by it. Faced with 
the  urgent  need  to  confront  the  adverse  effects  of 
climate change, Peru supports the ongoing establishment 
of binding international commitments by the countries 
that  created  this  problem,  and  hopes  that  at  the 
fifteenth International Conference on Climate Change, 
to be held in Copenhagen in December, all States will 
be willing to adopt them. 
In  this  regard,  Peru  reiterates  its  proposal  that  a 

financial  mechanism  be  established 
the 
creation of a global fund to support measures aimed at 
mitigating  and  adapting  to  the  effects  of  climate 
change  in  developing  countries. This  would  involve  a 
duty  of  $0.50  on  every  barrel  of  oil,  inasmuch  as  the 
fuel bears a responsibility at every stage in its chain of 
production,  from  extraction  through  refining  to  its 
uses,  direct  and  indirect.  Peru  also  proposes  that 
comprehensive  programmes  of  adaptation  to  climate 
change be established. Such programmes, which could 
be financed by the Global Environment Facility or the 
World Bank, would identify a comprehensive approach 
to  sectoral  adaptation  and  emphasize  strategies  to 
reduce  the  occurrence  of  disasters  and  to  protect  the 
health  and  food  security  of  affected  populations, 
economic infrastructure and biodiversity. 

Finally,  we  wish  to  raise  an  issue  of  particular 
interest to Peru and developing countries in general — 
the situation of migrants. Peru is an active promoter of 
the  defence  of  the  human  rights  of  migrants  and  their 
families,  and  of  the  sharing  of  responsibility  for 
addressing  this  phenomenon  by  their  countries  of 
origin and host countries. We endorse the principle that 
migration 
is  a  factor  for  development  and  has 
undeniably  been  so  throughout  human  history.  It  has 
enriched  the  culture  and  social  life  of  nations,  and 
allowed us to come into contact with the contributions, 
discoveries  and  developments  that  have  gradually 
shaped our modern society.  
It  is  therefore  essential  that  we  be  aware  that 

what migrants contribute to their host countries today, 
7 
09-52598 


A/64/PV.11 

and  what  they  can  contribute  in  the  future,  will  be  in 
large measure the backbone of those societies. That is 
why xenophobic and discriminatory pressures must be 
avoided, since they do nothing but delay the inevitable 
integration of the world and the human race. 

In Latin America, we are living through a crucial 
time  in  the  consolidation  of  democracy  and  the 
promotion  of  the  social  and  political  rights  of  our 
peoples. Peru therefore expresses its deep concern over 
the  recent  events  in  the  sister  country  of  Honduras, 
where 
the  democratic  system  has  been  abruptly 
interrupted. The actions taken against Brazil’s embassy 
in  Honduras  should  be  repudiated  and  should  cease 
immediately, pursuant to Honduras’s legal traditions as 
a  country  that  respects  its  international  obligations, 
particularly  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic 
Relations. 

We  call  for  a  dialogue  aimed  at  re-establishing 
democracy in Honduras. All Honduran political groups 
should  take  advantage  of  the  return  of  President 
Manuel  Zelaya 
to  establish  a 
Government  of  unity  and  national  reconciliation  as 
outlined  in  the  San  José  agreement,  which,  through 
entirely  peaceful  means,  will  allow  the  country  to 
move  forward  with  free,  democratic  and  transparent 
elections 
the  election  of  a 
Government that respects its Constitution and promotes 
national  integration  and  solidarity  for  each  and  every 
Honduran citizen. 

At  a  time  when  communications  and  technology 
bring us closer together than ever before, we must also 
understand 
that  our  problems  and  responsibilities 
should also bring us closer together and that challenges 
to  one  State  are  challenges  to  all.  This  Assembly 
therefore remains the most appropriate forum in which 
to  discuss  global  and  local  challenges,  which  are  now 
identical  and  of  concern  to  us  all,  and  should  also  — 
why not? — inspire us all with hope. 
that  will  guarantee 
to  Tegucigalpa 



  Address by General Thein Sein, Prime Minister 
of the Union of Myanmar 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Union of 
Myanmar. 

General Thein Sein, Prime Minister of the Union 
of Myanmar, was escorted to the rostrum. 
(spoke 
(Myanmar) 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  General Thein  Sein,  Prime 
Minister of the Union of Myanmar, and inviting him to 
address the General Assembly. 
General  Thein  Sein
in 

Myanmar;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I 
would  like  to  extend  our  warm  congratulations  to 
Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on his well-deserved election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  a  special  tribute  to 
Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann for his able leadership 
of the sixty-third session of the General Assembly. 

The  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  that 
began  last  year  is  showing  tentative  signs  of  abating. 
However,  many  countries  large  and  small  still  face 
daunting  challenges.  The  crisis  originated  in  the 
developed countries, but the developing countries have 
been  the  hardest  hit.  The  nascent  economic  recovery 
has yet to  begin to lift the low-income  countries from 
the trough. 

It  is  commendable  that  the  developed  countries 
have played a leading role in addressing the crisis. The 
views of the developing countries should also be taken 
into consideration, together with those of the members 
of  the  Group  of  Eight  and  the  Group  of  Twenty. 
Measures  that  could  have  adverse  effects  on  the 
economic  growth  of  developing  countries  must  be 
avoided.  The  developing  countries  have  worked  long 
and  hard  to  combat  poverty  and  achieve  favourable 
conditions for economic growth. Low-income countries 
require  development  aid  beyond  existing  pledges  of 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  if  they  are  to 
meet  the  challenges  posed  by  the  global  economic 
downturn.  The  developed  countries  should  increase 
their  ODA  to  the  developing  countries.  We  welcome 
the  reaffirmation  by  President  Hu  Jintao  of 
the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  in  his  statement  to  this 
Assembly  that  his  country  will  increase  support  for 
other  developing  countries  hard  hit  by  the  economic 
and financial crisis. 

Climate change is the most pressing major threat 
facing our planet. It is a global challenge that requires 
a  global  response.  No  country  can  be  insulated  from 
the  consequences  of  climate  change.  The  rapid  pace 
and  scale  of  climate  change  requires  the  global 
community  to  respond  immediately  and  effectively. 
The  United  Nations  Summit  on  Climate  Change 
convened  by 
last  week 
the  Secretary-General 
8 

09-52598 
We 
to 
look 
forward 
in  2012  when 
international  peace, 


underlined the magnitude of the problem and the need 
to redouble our efforts in addressing climate change. 

the  Climate  Change 
Conference in Copenhagen in December. We hope that 
the  negotiations  will  be  fruitful  and  result  in  a  new 
agreement to curb greenhouse gas emissions, to go into 
effect 
the  Kyoto  Protocol’s  first 
commitment  period  expires.  To  be  effective,  any  deal 
must  be  comprehensive  and  consistent  with 
the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. 

The global financial and economic crisis and the 
climate  change  crisis  have  compounded  the  problems 
we  have  faced  in  recent  years.  These  include  rising 
food  prices,  high  energy  prices  and  the  spread  of 
pandemic  diseases.  No  single  country  can  effectively 
overcome these problems alone. The global community 
must work together to meet its common challenges. In 
these  trying  times  for  our  planet,  multilateralism  is 
more  important  than  ever.  Dialogue  among  nations  of 
different  religious  and  cultural  backgrounds  can 
contribute 
security  and 
to 
development. 
single  world 

Organization  dedicated to  peace  and development that 
enjoys  almost  universal  participation.  In  recent  years, 
steps have been initiated to reform the Organization in 
order  to  make  it  more  democratic,  effective  and 
accountable and enable it to meet the challenges of the 
twenty-first  century.  Regrettably,  progress  has  been 
painfully slow. 
If  the  United  Nations  is  to  make  decisions  in  a 

more democratic manner, it is essential that the role of 
the  General Assembly  —  in  which  all  Member  States 
are  represented  —  be  enhanced.  Security  Council 
reform is also important.  For many years, the General 
Assembly  has  debated  the  matter  but  made  little 
headway. In addition to the focus on the vexed issue of 
enlarging 
to  see 
constructive  changes  in  its  procedures  and  working 
methods,  particularly  those  that  would  make  it  more 
transparent and accountable. 

The  continued  existence  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  particularly  nuclear  weapons,  poses  the 
greatest  threat  to  mankind.  Myanmar  believes  that  the 
total  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons  is  the  sole 
absolute  guarantee  against  the  threat  or  use  of  those 
weapons.  Accordingly,  we  have  called  on  nuclear-
weapon  States  to  undertake  a  step-by-step  attenuation 
the  Council,  we  would 
The  United  Nations 
like 
is 
the 
A/64/PV.11
instrument  on 
assurances 
support 
security 
States.  We 
of the nuclear threat with a view to achieving the total 
elimination of those weapons. 

We  believe  that,  pending the  total  elimination  of 
nuclear weapons, we should pursue efforts towards the 
conclusion  of  a  universal,  unconditional  and  legally 
to 
binding 
non-nuclear-weapon 
the 
establishment  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  on  the 
basis of arrangements freely arrived at among States of 
the  regions  concerned.  Nuclear-weapon-free  zones 
enhance global and regional security and contribute to 
reaching the objectives of nuclear disarmament. 

It  is  our  hope  that  all  nations  of  the  world  will 
continue to work together to eliminate nuclear weapons 
so  that  the  power  of  the  atom  can  be  harnessed 
exclusively as a tool for the benefit of mankind and not 
as an instrument of self-destruction. At the same time, 
every nation has the right to the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy.  Nuclear 
technologies  have  widespread 
applications  in  such  areas  as  food,  agriculture,  health 
care,  industry  and  science.  We  welcome  last  week’s 
summit  meeting  of  the  Security  Council  on  nuclear 
non-proliferation and disarmament and its reaffirmation 
that  the  international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime 
should  be  maintained  and  strengthened  to  ensure  the 
effective 
the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 

Some powerful nations have resorted to economic 
sanctions  to  pressure  developing  countries.  Their  aim 
is  to  influence  the  political  and  economic  systems  of 
those  countries  without  taking  into  account  those 
countries’  historical 
cultural  backgrounds. 
Sanctions have no moral basis, as they not only hinder 
the  economic  and  social  development  of  peoples,  but 
also interfere in matters that are essentially within the 
domestic  jurisdiction  of  the  country  concerned.  As 
sanctions  are  indiscriminate  and  a  form  of  violence 
per se, they cannot legitimately be regarded as a tool to 
promote human rights and democracy.  

Sanctions  are  being  employed  as  a  political  tool 
against Myanmar and we consider them unjust. I would 
like  to  state  that  such  acts  must  cease.  Myanmar 
practises  a  market  economy  based  on  agriculture.  We 
are  self-sufficient  in  terms  of  food  and  able  to 
contribute to food security in the region. We have made 
considerable  progress  in  improving  socio-economic 
conditions  thanks  to  the  combined  efforts  of  the 
Government  and  the  people.  Without  the  economic 
implementation  of 
the  Treaty  on 
and 
09-52598 

9 

the  Tripartite  Core  Group  (TCG) 
A/64/PV.11 

sanctions  imposed  on  us,  progress  would  be  even 
greater. 

Following Cyclone Nargis, which hit Myanmar in 
May  2008,  the  Myanmar  Government,  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Association  of  Southeast  Nations 
established 
to 
undertake  relief,  rehabilitation  and  reconstruction  in 
the  affected  areas.  The  success  of  the  TCG  has  been 
duly  recognized  by  the  international  community  and 
acknowledged  as  an  exemplary  mechanism  for  future 
disaster relief and rehabilitation.  

The Post-Nargis Recovery and Preparedness Plan 
(PONREPP)  has  been  established  for  the  period  2009 
to  2011.  Further  plans  have  also  been  adopted  to 
effectively  respond  to  similar  natural  disasters  in  the 
future.  We  will  implement  the  projects  diligently. 
PONREPP  will  require  $691  million  over  a  period  of 
three years. To date, only half of that amount has been 
pledged  by  the  international  community.  We  have 
carried out many rehabilitation activities relying on our 
own  funds  and  resources.  If  more  funds  were 
forthcoming  and  donors  fulfilled  their  pledges,  the 
rehabilitation  process  would  be  speedier  and  more 
effective. 
The Myanmar Government and the people of the 

the 
affected  areas  will  always  be  grateful 
individuals,  organizations 
international 
community  at  large  that  came  to  our  assistance  in  our 
hour of need. 

Domestic  peace  and  stability  and  the  successful 
holding  of  democratic  elections  are  essential  to  the 
democratization  process  in  Myanmar.  A  new  State 
Constitution was approved by 92.48 per cent of eligible 
voters  in  a  nationwide  referendum  held  in  May  2008. 
Multiparty general elections will be held in the coming 
year. Subsequently, Parliament will be convened and a 
Government  formed  in  accordance  with  the  new 
Constitution. 
The  country  will  have  a  bicameral  legislature. 

The Constitution provides  for a presidential system of 
governance.  It  is  envisaged  that  the  President  will  be 
elected  by  a  presidential  electoral  college.  The  State 
will  be  composed  of  seven  states,  seven  regions,  five 
self-administered  zones,  and  one  self-administered 
division. The capital, Nay Pyi Taw, will be designated 
union territory. In keeping with the State structure, the 
Constitution  also  establishes  14  State  and  regional 
legislative bodies. 
and 
the 
to 

The  transition  to  democracy  is  proceeding.  Our 
focus  is  not  on  the  narrow  interests  of  individuals, 
organizations  or  parties,  but  on  the  larger  interests  of 
the  entire  nation.  We  have  urged  all  citizens,  whether 
they agree with us or not, to participate actively in the 
process without losing sight of the democratic goal. In 
this way, the aspirations of the people will be fulfilled. 
The President returned to the Chair.


The  Government  is  taking  systematic  steps  to 
hold  free  and  fair  elections.  Electoral  laws  will  be 
promulgated  and  an  election  commission  created  so 
that  political  parties  can  be  formed  and  contest  the 
elections. On 17 September 2009, 7,114 prisoners were 
released  for  good  conduct.  They,  too,  will  be  able  to 
participate  in  the  general  elections  next  year  in 
accordance with the law. 

The holding of a multiparty general election is a 
significant step in our transition to a peaceful, modern 
and developed democratic State. Democracy cannot be 
imposed  from  the  outside,  and  a  system  suitable  for 
Myanmar can be born only out of Myanmar society. It 
is  the  citizens  of  Myanmar  who  can  best  determine 
their  own  future.  They  can  judge  the  merits  of 
democracy  and  make  adjustments  as  they  see  fit.  The 
international  community  can  best  assist  Myanmar’s 
emergence as a new nation, based on the principles of 
justice,  freedom  and  equality  enshrined  in  the  new 
State Constitution, by demonstrating understanding. 

Global  issues  that  require  the  attention  of  all 
countries  will  increasingly  come  to  the  fore  in  the 
years  to  come.  Firm  political  will  and  commitment  of 
all  countries  will  be  needed 
the 
challenges.  Previous  speakers  have  emphasized  the 
need  for  collective  efforts  to  find  solutions  to  those 
problems and challenges. I fully share their views and 
affirm that Myanmar will do its part. 

the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Union of Myanmar for the statement he has just made.
General Thein Sein, Prime Minister of the Union 

of Myanmar, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  President: I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 

Ms. Patricia Espinosa Cantellano, Secretary of Foreign 
Relations of the United Mexican States. 

Spanish): Since 
Ms.  Espinosa  Cantellano  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
the  General 
The  President: On  behalf  of 
last  session  of 
to  overcome 
the 
10 

09-52598 
tested 
is 
linked 
to 
in  Copenhagen 
in  which  developing  countries  are 


Assembly,  a  number  of  crises  have 
the 
capabilities  of  multilateral  institutions  to  face  them 
firmly  and  with  unified  purpose.  The  international 
community  has  come  to  understand  that  only  joint 
action 
full 
participants  can  offer  sustainable  responses  to  these 
emergencies.  Fortunately,  we  see  some  positive  signs 
of economic growth in some places. 

Nevertheless,  insecurity  and  uncertainty  prevail. 
The  insecurity  results  from  the  persistence  of  armed 
conflicts,  terrorism  and  transnational  organized  crime, 
which threaten our achievements in sustainable human 
development.  The  uncertainty 
the 
negotiations  that  will  lead  to  the  United  Nations 
Climate  Change  Conference 
in 
December. Global warming is now a threat to humanity 
of incalculable proportions, to which we all contribute 
and 
for  which  we  all,  without  exception,  are 
responsible. 

Contributing  to  sustainable  human  development 
requires,  first,  conditions  conducive  to  international 
peace  and  security.  As  President  Felipe  Calderón 
pointed  out  in  the  Security  Council  summit  (see 
S/PV.6191), 
highly 
insufficient  legal  access  to  peaceful  uses  for  atomic 
energy demand a renewed commitment to disarmament 
and the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime. 

I  also  echo  the  emphatic  call,  issued  by  global 
civil society at the sixty-second Annual Conference of 
the  Department 
for 
Non-Governmental Organizations, held in Mexico City 
this year, that we, the Governments of the world, fulfil 
our responsibilities to attain our goal of a world free of 
nuclear weapons. 
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights 

constitute  a  universal  ethical 
imperative  and  an 
obligation  that  no  government  can  renounce.  The 
progress attained in this field at the national level has 
been  possible  thanks  to  my  country’s  close  alignment 
with  the  international  system  for  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights,  which  has  proved  an 
invaluable  tool  for  promoting  improvements  in  our 
national structures. 

It  is  clear  that  to  attain  full  sustainable  human 
development  we  must  tackle  poverty  and  inequality, 
fostering  a  development  that  ensures  access  for  all 
people 
to  adequate  food,  health,  education  and 
housing. 
proliferation 
Information 
nuclear 
and 
of 
Public 
A/64/PV.11
in  order 
to  reduce 

In response to the health emergency that Mexico 
faced some months ago with the outbreak of influenza 
A(H1N1), the World Health Organization gave  its full 
support to the timely, energetic and responsible actions 
of  my  Government.  This  is  proof  that  the  United 
Nations  system  is  capable  of  mobilizing  coordinated 
action  by  States  and  avoiding  unilateral  measures  that 
are  not  appropriate  in  response  to  such  emergencies. 
We must continue to update our protocols for action. 
For Mexico, meeting the Millennium Development 

Goals is a State commitment. Our priority continues to 
be  the  eradication  of  poverty.  We  must  make  the 
necessary  structural  changes  to  reduce  inequality  and 
attain  prosperity  for  all.  We  must  implement  policies 
that  ensure  that  concrete  action  is  taken  based  on  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  on  financing  for  development, 
that the Doha Round is successfully concluded and that 
contributions  by  developed  countries  and  multilateral 
development  banks  to  projects  in  countries  with  low 
growth rates are increased. 
It  is  imperative  to  address  urgent  needs  such  as 

food  security 
inequality  and 
strengthen the capacities enjoyed by our peoples. Food 
security 
the  very  foundation  of  development. 
Therefore, we must ensure food security by eliminating 
market distortions, boosting production through the use 
of  technology  and  improving  productivity  without 
making sacrifices on the environmental agenda. 

The  recent  Group  of  20  Summit  in  Pittsburgh 
demonstrated  that  the  scale  of  the  global  financial 
crisis requires a firm response, both in coordinating the 
measures  taken  by  individual  countries  to  mitigate 
impact in areas such as unemployment and in avoiding 
protectionist  measures.  There  is  still  much  left  to  do, 
but it is a fact that the timely intervention by the Group 
of 20 allowed further resources to be channelled to the 
international financial institutions and strengthened the 
participation  of  developing  countries  in  the  decision-
making bodies within those institutions. 

The  United  Nations  must  realize  that  we  are 
witnessing  a  reconfiguration  of  global  economic 
governance,  and  that  policies  must  be  adjusted  to  this 
new reality. We require an Organization that is strong, 
effective and efficient. The cuts that are being imposed 
on  all  countries  at  home  must  also  be  reflected  in 
United  Nations  system  budgets.  If  it  remains  passive, 
alienated and conformist, our Organization risks losing 
is 
09-52598 

11 
this 
for 
in 

that  obeys 
negotiations 
reason,  Mexico  has  proposed, 
A/64/PV.11 

its  relevance  as  the  premier  universal  and  legitimate 
forum for solving the major problems of humanity. 

The  challenges  of  global  warming  have  made  it 
clear that the absence of economic incentives is one of 
the  main  reasons  that  the  commitments  under  the 
Kyoto  Protocol  and  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change have not been fulfilled. 
For 
the 
preparatory 
the  Copenhagen 
Conference, an innovative financing scheme, known as 
the  Green  Fund,  which  would  reward  the  efforts  of 
States that adopt policies aimed at reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions, without jeopardizing their development 
goals. The  Green  Fund  fully  responds  to  the  principle 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibility.  It  is  not 
just  another  financial  mechanism 
the 
conventional criteria. 

All  countries  must  be  able  to  receive  financing, 
but  the  scale  of  the  contributions  will  result  from  a 
combination  of  factors  that  take  into  account,  among 
other  things,  their  level  of  development,  the  size  of 
their  population  and  the  volume  of  their  emissions. 
Least-developed  countries  will  not  be  obliged  to 
contribute. This initiative of President Felipe Calderón 
has  received  growing  support  from  Member  States, 
which  reinforces  the  will  of  my  Government  to 
continue  moving  forward  with  all  parties  in  the 
negotiations prior to Copenhagen. 

achieving 
comprehensive  Security  Council  reform  have  made 
significant  progress  through  a  process  that  has  heard 
debate on all aspects of reform and identified proposals 
that  can  garner  the  broadest  possible  consensus.  We 
must  continue  negotiations 
towards  compromise 
solutions  which  would  increase  the  representative 
nature  of 
into  greater 
accountability, without jeopardizing its effectiveness. 

The  world  has  undoubtedly  changed  since  1945, 
and  remains  in  a  state  of  permanent  mutation,  as  the 
ongoing discussions on the international economic and 
financial architecture demonstrate. It is absurd to argue 
for  static  institutions  in  a  world  that  is  anything  but 
static. 

a 
non-permanent member of the Security Council for the 
2009-2010 term, Mexico announced that it would seek 
to  foster  closer  communications  between  Member 
States  and  the  Security  Council,  something  which  is 
the  Council  and 
negotiations 
translate 
aimed 
As  we 
presented 
our 
candidacy 
as 
The 
at 
for 
strengthening  protection 
essential  if  the  Council  is  to  accomplish  its  tasks. As 
President  of  the  Council  during  the  month  of  April, 
Mexico  made  progress  in  increasing  the  transparency 
of  that  body  by  issuing  information  on  a  significant 
number  of  the  Council’s  consultations.  We  will  keep 
working to enhance the effectiveness and legitimacy of 
the  Council  in  several  ways.  First,  we  will  seek  to 
strengthen  the  work  of  the  Council  in  preventing 
international  crises  relating  to  massive  human  rights 
violations  and 
the 
thousands of internally displaced persons and refugees. 
Secondly, we will seek to focus the Council’s attention 
on  preventing  conflicts,  and  not  just  managing  them, 
by  incorporating  in  its  resolutions  mandates  that  link 
security  with  strengthened  development  aid  and 
humanitarian  assistance.  Thirdly,  we  wish  to  make 
development  assistance  a  fundamental  strategy  for 
conflict prevention and reconstruction. 

The  situation  in  Honduras  has  made  evident  the 
importance  of  continuing  to  improve  our  means  in 
preventing actions that suspend democracy and the rule 
of law. We can celebrate the fact that the international 
community  responded  unanimously  to  the  forceful 
interruption of constitutional order in Honduras and the 
ousting  of  President  José  Manuel  Zelaya.  Mexico, 
together  with 
the 
hemisphere,  has  acted  within  regional  mechanisms, 
including  the  Rio  Group,  which  we  chair,  to  secure 
President Zelaya’s return to office and that democratic 
order  is  restored  based  on  the  initiative  of  President 
Arias  of  Costa  Rica. We  issue  an  emphatic  call  to  the 
de  facto  authorities  to  continue  the  dialogue  with  the 
commission  established  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Organization  of American  States,  to  abstain  from  any 
act  that  would  endanger  the  inviolability  of  the 
Embassy  of  Brazil,  where  President  Zelaya  is  located 
and to respect his physical safety and that of those who 
are with him. 

Let  us  work  together  for  a  world  that  is  more 
secure and more just, a world where in the words of the 
great Octavio Paz, liberty can take root — a prosperous 
world  anchored  by 
the  rights  and  freedoms  of 
individuals. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed  Bin 
Mohamed  Al-Khalifa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Kingdom of Bahrain. 
the  majority  of  countries  of 
12 

09-52598 
to 
its  efficiency 
My  highest  appreciation  also  goes 


Shaikh  Al-Khalifa  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

With  great  pleasure  I  extend  heartfelt  congratulations 
to  my  brother,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam 
Treki, Secretary of African Union Affairs of the Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya, on his unanimous election to the high 
office of President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
fourth  session.  His  extensive  diplomatic  experience 
and  intimate  knowledge  of  the  United  Nations  will 
undoubtedly  enable  him  to  conduct  the  work  of  this 
session with great effectiveness. 

I  wish  also  to  put  on  record  my  appreciation  for 
the  efforts  of  the  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  of 
Nicaragua,  for  his  able  stewardship  of  the  sixty-third 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  for  the  many 
enlightened  proposals  he  made  during  his  tenure  to 
enhance and develop the Organization. 

the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  tireless 
efforts  to  enhance  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  and  to  promote  the  role  of  the  Organization 
and  enhance 
in  coping  with  new 
developments and responding to the emerging needs of 
our peoples. 

tolerance, 
diversity,  non-violence  and  rejection  of  extremism 
requires  us  first  to  free  our  minds  of  egoism  and 
prejudice  in  order  to  replace  conflict  with  dialogue, 
disagreements  with  consensus  and  violence  with 
persuasion, thus broadening our alliances and outreach 
efforts. We must exert greater efforts to show tolerance 
towards those who do not necessarily share our values 
and 
or 
argumentative issues can be tackled and resolved only 
if  each  party  is  open  to  the  other,  willing  to  coexist 
with  the  other  and  ready  to  resist  preconceived  ideas 
and  stereotypes. The  presence  of  common  ground  and 
of  mutual  understanding  can  help  to  create  a  more 
progressive and creative world and hence more secure, 
based  on  tolerance,  constructive  dialogue  and  human 
coexistence.  

While  the  world  has  become  a  small  village  as 
distances  have  been  effectively  abolished  thanks  to 
technological  advances  and 
the  communications 
revolution  that  has  erased  barriers  and  frontiers,  it  is 
still  dominated  by  political  antagonisms,  as  States 
continue to pursue conflicting individual interests. This 
requires  us  all  to  design  pragmatic  strategies  for  the 
Our  belief 
in  open-mindedness, 
certain 
philosophical 
ideas. 
Indeed, 
09-52598 

A/64/PV.11
future that safeguard everyone’s interests. That can be 
achieved only through mindsets capable of assimilating 
these  transformations  and  processing  them  to  serve 
humanity  and  to  ensure  international  security  and 
stability.  

It is clear that global security cannot be achieved 
through  the  sole  efforts  of  the  super-Powers,  because 
the challenges we face are more serious, daunting and 
more  widespread  than  ever  before.  This  requires  a 
broader  global  alliance  of  United  Nations  Member 
States  as  well  as  the  support  of  the  entire  United 
Nations  system  in  the  interest  of  the  international 
community  as  a  whole.  At  the  same  time,  it  requires 
national strategies to address the challenges, problems 
and  issues  through  close  and  sustained  coordination 
among nations. The task that burdens us today requires 
that  we  discuss  all  the  issues  threatening  our  world, 
while taking into account the historical background and 
the  particular  values,  ideas  and  traditions  of  our 
respective societies. At the same time, each party must 
be ready to understand and appreciate the positions and 
characteristics of the other and be ready to collectively 
fight hatred and prejudice. 

The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  has  always  been  a 
melting pot of diverse  civilizations, cultures,  religions 
and  races  and  since  time  immemorial  has  adopted  the 
concept  of  tolerance  and  openness  towards  the  other 
and  coexistence;  thus,  we  firmly  believe  that  finding 
common  ground  between  universal  civilizations  and 
cultures and building a culture of peace among peoples 
is necessary. In that context, the peaceful settlement of 
conflicts  is  deeply  rooted  in  our  values  and  our 
traditions,  which  are  guided  by  the  principles  of  our 
Islamic faith.  

The Arab-Israeli  conflict  of  the  past  six  decades 
has  had  a  great  effect  on  our  generation.  It  is  a  sad 
legacy that has left behind misery and human suffering, 
poisoned 
international  and  regional  relations  and 
continues periodically to exacerbates tension, violence 
and military confrontation in the Middle East. We have 
tried  repeatedly  and  in  vain  to  find  a  solution  to  this 
chronic  conflict.  To  be  sure,  one  conference  after 
another  has  been  held,  and  initiative  has  followed 
initiative.  But  we  have  been  unable  to  deliver  our 
message to the minds, hearts and homes of the people 
of  the  region. That  is  the  essence  of  the  proposal  that 
His  Highness  Shaikh  Salman  bin  Hamad  Al-Khalifa, 
Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Bahrain, presented in 
his  article  published  in  The  Washington  Post  on 
13 

A/64/PV.11 

16 July, which makes a meaningful contribution to the 
adoption  of  a  pragmatic  approach  to  ending  the 
conflict. His Highness wrote: 

“Our biggest mistake has been to assume that you 
can simply switch peace on like a light bulb. The 
reality is that peace is a process, contingent on a 
good  idea  but  also  requiring  a  great  deal  of 
campaigning — patiently and repeatedly targeting 
all relevant parties.” 
and 
directly 
to  addressing 
Careful  examination  of  this  argument  reveals  the 
correct  approach 
the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict, 
expeditiously 
namely, 
communicating our Arab Peace Initiative to the Israeli 
people through their own information and news media. 
In so doing, we will be in a better position to explore 
the path to peace. 

Today,  wisdom  requires  that  we  use  available 
communications  and  media  technology  prudently  and 
with  awareness  in  order  to  establish  the  channels  and 
structures  that  will  enable  us  as  leaders,  Governments 
and  civil  society  to  establish  the  will  and  momentum 
necessary  to  create  an  environment  conducive  to 
advancing  the  peace  that  we  aspire  to.  Because  today, 
dialogue  has  become  an  omnipresent  issue  on  the 
global  agenda  of 
the  United  Nations  and  other 
international  forums,  as  shown  by  the  many  ongoing 
dialogues,  including  the  dialogue  among  civilizations, 
dialogue  of  cultures  and  the  interfaith  dialogue.  All 
these processes aim at enhancing peaceful coexistence 
between  nations  and  peoples  and 
the 
principal  course  of  action  to  eliminate  the  causes  of 
conflict, tension and discord. 

Mr.  Acharya  (Nepal),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.

The  Middle  East  peace  process  requires  that  we 
all  exert  greater  political  and  diplomatic  efforts  in 
order  to  achieve  the  two-State  solution  —  Israel  and 
Palestine  —  as  part  of  a  comprehensive  and  just 
settlement based on equal security for all the nations of 
the  Middle  East  region. We  believe  that  the  failure  to 
end  this  conflict  is  due  simply  to  the  lack  of  a 
methodology  based  on  justice  and  balance  and  to  the 
absence  of  a  binding  implementation  mechanism.  We 
are all aware that the Arab side went to great lengths to 
make  it  clear  that  it  supports  peace  as  an  irreversible 
strategic option.  
represent 
Initiative 
the 
relevant 
Among 
The  Arab  Peace 

unequivocally 
confirmed  that  position.  We  therefore  expect  the 
international  community,  and  particularly  the  most 
influential  leading  Powers,  to  exert  effective  pressure 
on  Israel  to  freeze  and  eventually  dismantle  all 
settlements  established  in  the  territories  occupied  in 
1967,  to  ensure  demarcation  of  the  borders  of  the 
Palestinian  State  with  Jerusalem  as 
its  capital, 
peacefully coexisting with Israel, and to withdraw from 
all the occupied Syrian Golan and Lebanese territories, 
in  conformity  with 
resolutions  of 
international  legitimacy  and  the  requirements  of  the 
Road Map and the Arab Peace Initiative. 

Here  I  would  like  to  commend  the  speech  of 
President  Barack  Obama,  delivered  from  this  very 
rostrum,  which  we  consider  a  frame  of  reference  for 
the  resumption  of  the  Middle  East  peace  process. 
President  Obama  explicitly  affirmed  the  need  to 
relaunch negotiations on final status issues — notably, 
security  for  both  Israelis  and  Palestinians,  boundaries, 
refugees  and  Jerusalem  —  rejected  the  continued 
illegitimate  Israeli  settlement  activity  in  Palestinian 
territories  and  called  for  the  creation  of  a  contiguous 
and viable Palestinian State. 

the  other  challenges  and  concerns 
confronting  our  region  is  the  question  of  nuclear 
proliferation  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  Gulf  region. 
The Iranian nuclear programme is undoubtedly among 
the  causes  for  this  common  concern;  nonetheless,  it 
should  be  dealt  with  in  such  a  way  as  to  spare  our 
region  the  threat  of  confrontation.  This  can  best  be 
achieved  through  diplomatic  means.  It  is  in  that  spirit 
that  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  pursuant  to  Security 
Council resolution 1887 (2009), renews its call on the 
international  community  to  actively  work  towards 
making  the  Middle  East,  including  the  Gulf  region,  a 
zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of 
mass  destruction,  thus  ensuring  the  security  and  well-
being  of  the  peoples  of  the  region  and  the  world  at 
large, and to call upon Israel to accede to the Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
its 
universality. All  nuclear  facilities  and  activities  in  the 
Middle  East  should  be  placed  under  International 
Atomic 
while 
acknowledging the legitimate right of States to possess 
nuclear technology for peaceful uses in the areas where 
it  has  become  vital 
the 
diversification  of  energy  sources,  in  conformity  with 
relevant international agreements. 
for  development  and 
Energy  Agency 
to  achieve 
safeguards, 
in  order 
14 

09-52598 
either 
through 



Other important regional issues are also a matter 
of concern to us. Foremost among these is the situation 
in  brotherly  Iraq,  whose  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity it is important to affirm, while not interfering 
in  its  internal  affairs.  We  should  also  condemn  all 
terrorist activities perpetrated against Iraq with a view 
to  destabilizing  its  security  and  rekindling  sectarian 
hatred there. 

Also,  in  order  to  build  confidence  between  the 
Member  States  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  and 
Iran,  it  is  imperative  to  reach  a  settlement  on  the 
question  of  the  occupied  islands  belonging  to  the 
United  Arab  Emirates, 
direct 
negotiations  or  referral  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice.  We  also 
joint 
international  and  regional  efforts  to  assist  brotherly 
Yemen, under the supervision of the United Nations, in 
coping with the heavy refugee burden and focusing on 
its  development  efforts  and  the  restoration  of  security 
and  stability  throughout  its  territory.  Similarly,  we 
stress the importance of preserving peace, stability and 
unity  in  the  brotherly  Sudan  and  we  look  forward  to 
the  cooperation  of  all  relevant  parties  to  resolve  the 
Darfur issue and to achieve the desired peace. 
We urge the international community to shoulder 

its  responsibilities  regarding  security 
in  Somalia, 
whose internal troubles and fragile central Government 
have led to the spread of maritime piracy in the Gulf of 
Aden  and  the  Bab-el-Mandeb  strait,  much  to  the 
detriment  of  international  navigation  and  trade.  Also, 
the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  once  again  reaffirms  its 
consistent  position  concerning  the  sovereignty  of  the 
brotherly  Kingdom  of  Morocco  over  the  its  entire 
national 
international 
community to support the negotiation process initiated 
by the Security Council, to maintain its momentum and 
activate it. 

With peace and development the twin concerns of 
our  world,  it  is  only  natural  to  feel  frustration  in  the 
face  of  the  prevailing  environmental  degradation, 
pandemics,  desertification,  poverty,  water  scarcity, 
depletion  of  the  ozone  layer,  climate  change  and  the 
world  financial  crisis.  These  challenges  represent  an 
imminent  threat  both  to  our  life  now  and  to  that  of 
future  generations.  It  is  therefore  no  overstatement  to 
say  that  in  the  twenty-first  century  our  destinies  are 
intertwined,  and 
to  redouble  our 
collective  efforts  to  address  these  universal  dangers 
territory  and  calls  on 
that  we  need 
reaffirm 
the  need 
for 
the 
A/64/PV.11
that  daily  threaten  humanity  and  its  health,  food  and 
security. 

In  this  regard,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  in 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  and  in  the 
presence  of  the  Secretary-General,  hosted  in  May  the 
launch  of  the  2009  Global  Assessment  Report  on 
Disaster  Risk  Reduction.  The  report  deals  with  issues 
pertaining  to  the  protection  of  lives  and  property  in 
natural  disaster  situations  related  to  global  warming, 
earthquakes, floods and rising sea levels. We hope that 
the  major  industrial  countries  will  play  a  key  role  in 
forging  an  agreement  at  December’s  Copenhagen 
Climate  Change  Conference,  with  a  view  to  curbing 
harmful  greenhouse  gas  emissions.  It  is  our  hope  that 
the necessary political will can be mustered to respond 
to this threat to humanity and to make our world safer 
and more sustainable. 

In  this  context,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  in  its 
capacity  as  a  small  island  developing  State,  wishes  to 
express  great  concern  at  the  evident  causal  relation 
between  climate  change  and  rising  sea  levels,  which 
poses  a  serious  threat  to  our  world.  We  are  in 
agreement  with  the  other  small  island  developing 
States  in  their  concern  over  the  adverse  impact  of  the 
increase in average global temperature. 

In  conclusion,  the  gravity  that  characterizes  our 
present  session,  as  exemplified  by  the  responsible 
discussions 
the  
22  September  Summit  on  Climate  Change  and  the  
24 September Security Council summit (see S/PV.6181), 
reconfirms  our  need  to  return  to  the  spirit  of  the 
Charter: that the United Nations is the principal forum 
for multilateral cooperation to address a wide range of 
contemporary 
issues.  The  United  Nations  as  an 
institution is not limited merely to the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security.  Rather,  it  is  the 
principal  forum  for  the  coordination  of  positions  and 
efforts  aimed  at  addressing  the  challenges  threatening 
human  beings  and 
their  environment,  alleviating 
poverty,  controlling  pandemics  and  settling  conflicts 
and  wars  through  dialogue,  negotiations  and  other 
peaceful  means  in  a  world  guided  by  tolerance, 
peaceful coexistence and security for current and future 
generations. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cuba. 
first  week,  notably  at 
the 
in 
09-52598 

15 

like 
Since 
(spoke 
(Cuba) 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
A/64/PV.11 


in 
Spanish):  I  would 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki on his election to the presidency and 
reiterate  our  confidence  in  his  ability  to  conduct  our 
work  and  our  deliberations  successfully.  I  would  also 
like  to  recognize  the  excellent  leadership  of  Father 
Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  President  of 
the 
its  previous  session.  The  ethical 
Assembly  at 
dimension  and  political  scope  of  his  presidency  have 
enabled  us  to  move  forward  towards  the  goal  of 
restoring to this Assembly all its powers, and will stand 
as a benchmark for the future. Thanks to his example, 
it has become even clearer to us now that reforming the 
United Nations is about democratizing  it and bringing 
it closer to the people. 
the  general  debate  of  one  year  ago 

important  events  have  occurred  in  the  international 
arena.  Climate  change  is  now  more  visible  and 
dangerous.  The  economic  crisis  has  become  intense 
and global. Social exclusion has increased. 

However,  the  international  community  reacted 
with profound optimism to the  change  of Government 
in the United States. It seemed that a period of extreme 
aggressiveness,  unilateralism  and  arrogance  in  the 
foreign policy of that country had come to an end and 
the infamous legacy of the George W. Bush regime had 
crumbled in repudiation. As those in this very Hall can 
attest,  novel  and  conciliatory  words  from  the  White 
House raised great hopes, and the world welcomed his 
repeated  messages 
and 
cooperation.  Unfortunately,  time  goes  by,  and  those 
words  do  not  seem  to  be  supported  by  concrete  facts. 
The words do not coincide with reality. 

The  most  serious  and  dangerous  aspect  of  this 
new situation is the uncertainty about the real capacity 
of  the  present  authorities  in Washington  to  overpower 
the  sweeping  political  and  ideological  currents  that 
threatened the world under the previous Administration. 
The  neoconservative  groups  that  placed  George  Bush 
in the presidency — the powers that promoted the use 
of  force  and  domination  under  the  protection  of  the 
colossal  military  and  economic  strength  of  the  United 
States  and  that  are  to  blame  for  crimes  including 
torture,  assassination  and  the  manipulation  of  the 
American people — have quickly regrouped and retain 
immense resources of power and influence, contrary to 
the change proclaimed. 
dialogue 
change, 
of 
to 
is 
out 
carry 
companies 
torture  centre  at 
The  detention  and 

the 
Guantánamo  Bay  Naval  Base  —  which  usurps  Cuban 
territory  —  has  not  been  shut  down.  The  occupation 
troops  in  Iraq  have  not  been  withdrawn.  The  war  in 
Afghanistan  is  expanding  and  is  threatening  other 
States.  

As  for  Cuba,  which  has  suffered  American 
aggression for half a century, last April the new United 
States  Government  announced  measures  to  abolish 
some of the Bush Administration’s most brutal actions 
that  prohibited  contact  between  Cubans  living  in  the 
United  States  and  their  relatives  in  Cuba,  particularly 
the  possibility  to  visit  them  and  to  send  assistance 
without limitations. These measures are a positive step, 
but they are extremely limited and insufficient. 
The  announced  measures  included  authorizing 

American 
certain 
telecommunications  operations  with  Cuba,  but  other 
restrictions  that  prevent  the  implementation  of  those 
operations have not been modified. Nor has there been 
any sign that the United States Government is ready to 
put  an  end  to  the  immoral  practice  —  which  has 
recently increased — of misappropriating Cuban funds 
frozen  in  American  banks,  as  well  as  other  goods, 
under the protection of venal judges  who violate their 
own laws. 

the  economic, 
commercial and financial blockade of Cuba remains in 
place.  The  United  States  President,  despite 
the 
existence  of  laws  such  as  the  Helms-Burton Act,  still 
has  broad  executive  powers,  such  as  the  granting  of 
licenses,  by  means  of  which  he  could  modify  the 
implementation of the blockade.  

If there were a true desire for change, the United 
States Government could authorize the export of Cuban 
goods and services to the United States and vice versa. 
The  United  States  could  allow  Cuba  to  buy  anywhere 
in  the  world  products  comprised  of  more  than  10  per 
cent American components or technology, regardless of 
trademark  or  country  of  origin.  The  United  States 
refrain  from 
Department  of 
pursuing, 
third-country 
transfers  in  United  States  dollars  and  other  currencies 
to  Cuban  nationals  or  entities.  Washington  could  lift 
the ban preventing third-country vessels from docking 
at any American port until 180 days after calling at any 
Cuban port. The Treasury Department’s persecution of 
financial  institutions  and  companies  that  trade  with  or 
the  Treasury  could 
freezing  and  confiscating 
The  essential 
that 
fact 
16 

09-52598 
to 
ignore 
community’s  overwhelming 


carry out operations in Cuba could also be suspended. 
President  Obama  could  allow  American  citizens,  by 
means  of  a  license,  to  travel  to  Cuba  —  the  only 
country in the world they are not allowed to visit. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  to  the  Assembly 
(A/64/97)  abounds  with  examples.  In  the  course  of 
2009  numerous 
fines,  confiscations  and  other 
hindrances  have  been  levelled  at  trade  carried  out  by 
Cuba  or  by  third  countries  with  Cuba.  As  the  United 
States  Treasury  Department  itself  has  reported,  since 
January this year almost half of the funds collected by 
its  Office  of  Foreign  Assets  Control  came  from 
sanctions imposed on American and foreign companies 
for alleged violations of the economic blockade against 
Cuba.  
The  true  and  indisputable  fact  is  that  the  new 

the 
American  Government  continues 
international 
appeal, 
expressed  in  this  Assembly  year  after  year,  to  put  an 
end to the blockade of Cuba. Two weeks ago President 
Obama  instructed  the  Secretaries  of  State  and  the 
Treasury  that,  contrary  to  what  is  reflected  in  all 
American opinion polls, “it is in the national interest” 
to maintain economic sanctions against Cuba under the 
Trading with the Enemy Act — a law enacted in 1917 
to  address  wartime  situations  and  which  is  today 
applied  only  to  Cuba.  The  United  States  blockade  of 
Cuba  is  an  act  of  unilateral  aggression  that  should  be 
unilaterally terminated.  

its 
willingness  to  normalize  relations  with  the  United 
States.  On  1 August  2009,  President  Raúl  Castro  Ruz 
publicly  reiterated Cuba’s  readiness to  participate in a 
respectful  dialogue,  between  equals,  with  the  United 
States  —  a  dialogue  that  assumes  our  independence, 
sovereignty  and  self-determination.  He  emphasized 
that  we  should  mutually  respect  our  differences  and 
that  Cuba  does  not  recognize  that  the  Government  of 
that or any other country, or any other group of States, 
has any jurisdiction over our internal affairs.  

The  Government  of  Cuba  has  suggested  to  the 
United  States  Government  a  set  of  essential  topics  it 
considers must necessarily be discussed during a future 
dialogue  aimed  at  improving  relations.  Those  topics 
include  the  lifting  of  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  blockade;  the  removal  of  Cuba  from  the 
spurious list of terrorist countries; the revocation of the 
Cuban Adjustment Act and of the “wet foot, dry foot” 
For  many  years  Cuba  has  expressed 
A/64/PV.11
policy;  compensation 
for  economic  and  human 
damages;  the  return  of  the  territory  occupied  by  the 
Guantánamo Bay Naval Base; the end of all radio and 
television  aggression  from  United  States  territory 
against Cuba; and the cessation of American funding of 
domestic subversion.  

An essential item on that agenda is the release of 
the  five  Cuban  anti-terrorism  fighters  who  have  been 
unjustly  imprisoned  in  the  United  States  for  11  years. 
President Obama has the constitutional prerogatives to 
free them as an act of justice and of his Government’s 
commitment against terrorism. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


Furthermore,  we  have  proposed  to  the  United 
States to begin talks on setting up cooperation to tackle 
drug  trafficking,  terrorism  and  human  smuggling, 
protect  the  environment  and  address  natural  disasters. 
In  that  spirit,  the  Cuban  Government  has  held  talks 
with that of the United States on migration and on the 
establishment  of  direct  postal  services.  Those  talks 
have been courteous and useful. 

Cuba enjoys extensive and fruitful relations in all 
parts  of  the  world.  With  the  single  exception  of  the 
United  States,  Cuba  has  friendly  relations  with  all 
countries  of 
the 
solidarity  of  the  region.  We  cooperate  with  dozens  of 
countries  of  Africa,  Asia,  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean. 

Ours  is  a  stable  country  with  a  united,  cultured 
and healthy people who have amply proven that, even 
under  an  embargo,  they  are  capable  of  facing  the 
consequences  of  the  global  economic  crisis  and  the 
effects  of  climate  change,  which  last  year  cost  the 
national  economy  20  per  cent  of  its  gross  domestic 
product. 

Conditions  in  Cuba  are  such  that  it  can  face  its 
own problems and find solutions to them. We do so in a 
just  and  fair  society  that  relies  on  its  own  efforts  and 
has been able to advance and guide its development in 
the most adverse conditions. We are ready to continue 
facing those challenges calmly and patiently, confident 
that  no  citizen  has  been  or  will  be  abandoned  and 
certain  that  we  are  defending  a  cause  of  national 
independence  and  a  socialist  plan  that  have  the  huge 
support  of  the  Cubans.  Anyone  who  tries  to  stop  the 
revolution  and  bend  the  will  of  the  Cuban  people  is 
suffering from delusions. Patriotism, social justice and 
this  hemisphere  and  counts  on 
09-52598 

17 
situation,  characterized  by 
the 
the  usurpers  who  kidnapped 
their  privileges.  The  coup  d’état 
A/64/PV.11 

the  resolve  to  defend  independence  are  all  part  of  our 
national identity. 

Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  are  in  a 
dramatic 
sharp 
contradiction  between  the  large  majorities  —  which, 
together  with  progressive  Governments  and  broad 
social  movements,  are  demanding 
justice  and 
fairness — and the traditional oligarchies committed to 
preserving 
in 
Honduras demonstrates that. Those who participated in 
the  coup  and 
the 
legitimate  President  of  that  country  are  violating  the 
constitution  and  brutally  repressing  the  people,  as 
happened in the dark years of the military dictatorships 
in  Latin  America  propped  up  by  the  United  States. 
Hundreds  of  thousands  of  assassinated,  missing  and 
tortured  persons  are  stirring  the  conscience  of  our 
America in the face of impunity.  

It has still not been explained why the plane that 
kidnapped  the  constitutional  President  of  Honduras 
made  a  stopover  at  the  American  Palmerola  air  base. 
The American fascist right, which Cheney symbolizes, 
openly  supports  and  defends  the  coup.  President 
José Manuel  Zelaya  must  be  fully,  immediately  and 
unconditionally  reinstated  to  the  execution  of  his 
constitutional duties. The inviolability of the Brazilian 
Embassy  in  Tegucigalpa  must  be  respected  and  the 
siege of and the attacks on its property must stop. The 
Honduran  people  are  valiantly  resisting  and  will  have 
the last word. 

Those  events  coincide  with  the  renewed  and 
aggressive  interest  of  the  United  States  in  setting  up 
military  bases  in  Latin America  and  in  re-establishing 
the  Fourth  Fleet,  clearly  with  the  aim  of  putting  the 
region  within  only  a  few  hours’  reach  of  American 
troops,  threatening  the  revolutionary  and  progressive 
movements,  in  particular  the  Bolivarian  revolution  in 
the  sister  nation  of  Venezuela,  and  gaining  control  of 
the region’s oil and other natural resources. 

The  slander  and  lies  against  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela are brutal. It should be recalled 
that it was thus when atrocious aggression emerged and 
was instigated against our fatherland. The broader and 
clearer the policy towards that sister nation, the more it 
will  contribute 
independence  and 
development  of  the  peoples  of  Latin America  and  the 
Caribbean. 
to 
the  peace, 


Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  can  advance 
and, to a certain extent, are moving forward to new and 
higher  forms  of  integration.  They  have  more  water, 
land, forests and mineral and energy resources than any 
other  region  of  the  planet.  Their  population  exceeds 
570  million.  The  Rio  Group,  the  Latin American  and 
Caribbean  Summit  on  Integration  and  Development 
and  the  Union  of  South American  Nations  are  bodies 
set up by virtue of the ties that unite us. The Bolivarian 
Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  Americas  and  the 
Petrocaribe cooperation scheme are prime examples. 

The  optimistic  forecasts  from  Pittsburgh  on  the 
progression  of  the  global  economic  crisis,  which 
predict  a  possible  economic  recovery  early  next  year, 
are  not  based  on  solid  data  and,  at  best,  only  indicate 
relief  from  collapse  for  a  very  limited  group  of  the 
world’s  most  powerful  economies.  It  is  worth  noting 
that  objectives  have  been  set  but  not  a  word  has  been 
said about how to achieve them. 

No one should forget that what is involved is an 
unprecedented  crisis  of  the  capitalist  system  that 
encompasses  the  respective  food,  energy,  ecological, 
social and financial crises. Nor should we overlook the 
danger of debt combined with inflation, of the bursting 
of other financial bubbles, or of a second collapse. The 
developing  countries  are  not  to  blame,  but  are  the 
victims  of  the  consequences  of  the  unreasonable  and 
unsustainable  model  of  consumption,  exploitation  and 
speculation,  the  attack  on  the  environment  and  the 
corruption in the industrialized economies. 

While  the  debates  go  on,  the  number  of  hungry 
people  will  reach  a  record  figure  of  1,020  million  in 
2009  —  a  sixth  of  the  world’s  population.  This  year, 
another  90  million  will  be  cast  into  poverty  and  
50  million  others  into  unemployment.  During  these 
months,  another  400,000  children  are  expected  to  die 
as a result of the crisis. 

The  measures  that  have  been  adopted  are  only 
palliative  ones  that  perpetuate  the  serious  deficiencies 
of  an  unjust,  exclusive  and  ecologically  unsustainable 
international  economic  system.  We  need  a  fully 
comprehensive  and  inclusive  international  dialogue 
with 
the  active  participation  of  all  developing 
countries.  We  need  to  establish  a  new  international 
economic  order  based  on  solidarity,  justice,  equality 
and 
international 
financial  architecture  should  be  founded  anew.  The 
sustainable  development.  The 
18 

09-52598 
As  Commander  in  Chief  Fidel  Castro  Ruz  said 


United  Nations,  particularly  this  General Assembly,  is 
called upon to play a key role in this endeavour. 

In conclusion, I reiterate Cuba’s gratitude for the 
traditional  and  invaluable  solidarity  it  has  received 
from  this  General  Assembly  in  its  struggle  against 
aggression  and  the  blockade.  Today,  that  solidarity 
remains as indispensable as ever. 

from this very rostrum nine years ago:  


“Nothing  in  the  existing  economic  and 
political order serves the interests of humankind. 
Thus  this  order  is  unsustainable  and  must  be 
changed.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  the  world  has 
already  more  than  6  billion  inhabitants,  80  per 
cent  of  whom  live  in  poverty. Ages-old  diseases 
of  the  third  world  —  diseases  such  as  malaria, 
tuberculosis and others equally lethal — have not 
been  eradicated,  while  new  epidemics  like AIDS 
threaten  to  exterminate  the  population  of  entire 
nations  …  Meanwhile,  wealthy  countries  keep 
devoting enormous amounts of money to military 
items,  and  a 
expenses  and 
to  buy 
voracious  plague  of 
exchange 
currencies,  stocks  and  other  real  or  fictitious 
values for trillions of dollars every day. 

“Nature  is  being  devastated. The  climate  is 
changing under our own eyes, and drinking water 
is increasingly contaminated or scarce. The seas, 
a source of human sustenance, are being depleted, 
and  crucial  non-renewable  resources  are  being 
wasted on luxury and vanities … 

“The dream of having truly fair and sensible 
norms  to  guide  human  destiny  seems  impossible 
to  many.  However,  we  are  convinced  that  the 
struggle for the impossible should be the motto of 
this  institution  that  brings  us  together  today.” 
(A/55/PV.4, p. 20) 

Despite everything, the fiftieth anniversary of the 
Cuban Revolution is being celebrated victoriously and 
with pride. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Abdelwaheb Abdallah, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Tunisia. 
Mr. Abdallah (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset, I would like to extend to you, Sir, and through 
you  to  the  brotherly  Socialist  People’s  Libyan  Arab 
luxury 
speculators 


A/64/PV.11
I  also  express  our  warmest 
that  have  added  new  dimensions 
Jamahiriya  our  sincere  congratulations  upon  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session. We  are  confident  that  your  broad 
experience and many skills will help enrich our work at 
this session and achieve the objectives to which we all 
aspire.  Our  high  appreciation  goes  also  to  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann for the excellent manner in which 
he conducted the work of the previous session. 

thanks  and 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
tireless  efforts  in  the  service  of  world  peace  and 
security  to  promote  the  role  of  the  United  Nations, 
achieve  our  common  noble  objectives  and  find 
effective solutions to various international problems. 

Today our world is witnessing profound and rapid 
changes 
to 
international  relations,  which  in  turn  have  altered  the 
balances  and  equations  that  have  long  governed  those 
relations.  These  changes  have  generated  major 
challenges  at  various  levels,  requiring  all  parties  to 
shoulder their responsibilities with vision and wisdom 
and to enhance their efforts to establish the foundations 
of a safer, more stable and more developed world and 
of balanced and equitable international relations based 
on solidarity. 

We  must  redouble  our  efforts  to  reform  the 
United  Nations,  which  was  designed  decades  ago,  in 
order  to  update  it  to  current  global  circumstances  and 
enable  it  to  carry  out  its  essential  role  in  maintaining 
international  peace,  security  and  development,  and  in 
serving the interests of world solidarity.  

Global  circumstances  have  changed  since  the 
creation of the United Nations. Its present structure and 
equations  no  longer  reflect  the  reality  of  the  world 
situation and international relations. Given our concern 
for  justice  and  balance  in  international  relations,  we 
hope  that  the  international  community  will  introduce 
the necessary reforms to the United Nations system, in 
particular  in  the  context  of  expanding  the  Security 
Council and increasing the transparency and efficiency 
of  its  work,  while  bearing  in  mind  need  for  the 
broadest  possible  consensus  among  States  on  pending 
issues. 

In spite of its complex and interrelated nature, the 
world  situation  can  only  strengthen  our  attachment  to 
the  United  Nations  and  to  its  founding  principles. 
Those  principles  constitute  the  ideal  framework  for 
coordinating  and  uniting  our  efforts  to  address  issues 
09-52598 

19 

frameworks  of  partnership 
A/64/PV.11 

and  challenges  in  the  implementation  of  the  noble 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter,  finding  effective 
solutions  to  pending  issues,  mitigating  the  impact  of 
the  economic  and  social  crisis,  and  promoting 
solidarity-based 
and 
cooperation,  in  keeping  with  a  more  comprehensive 
approach based on the close correlation between peace, 
security and development. 

Further  rapprochement  and  solidarity  among  the 
nations  of  the  world  remain,  in  our  view,  among  the 
noblest  aims  of  the  United  Nations  and  a  pillar  of  the 
new system of international relations. Therefore, today 
more than ever before, we must further disseminate the 
culture  of  tolerance,  dialogue  and  acceptance  of  the 
other and respect for cultural differences and religious 
symbols.  We  must  build  constructive  relations  among 
States  and  peoples,  based  on  moderation  and  the 
rejection of extremism, violence and fanaticism of any 
kind. 

For  many  years  now,  Tunisia  has  promoted 
initiatives  to  give  effect  to  that  noble  objective,  the 
most  recent  of  which  was  “Kairouan,  Capital  of 
Islamic Culture for the Year 2009”, organized with the 
cooperation  of  the  Islamic  Educational,  Scientific  and 
Cultural  Organization 
International 
and 
Organization of la Francophonie. 

Globalization,  with  its  numerous  problems  and 
major challenges, requires us to pay close attention to 
our  young  people  and  to  constantly  listen  to  their 
concerns  in  order  to  protect  them  from  exclusion, 
marginalization 
seclusion, 
extremism, carelessness and estrangement, while at the 
same  time  instilling  in  them  a  culture  of  tolerance, 
compromise and moderation.  
Based  on  the  special  status  that  we  reserve  for 

our  young  people,  whom  we  consider  to  be  our  true 
wealth, the support of the present and foundation of the 
future,  we  in Tunisia  have  insisted  on  entrenching  the 
spirit of responsibility within this group and encourage 
them to participate actively in all aspects of public life 
and  in  establishing  the  country’s  future  policies  and 
objectives. 
Based  on  this  vision  and  our  experience  in 

dealing  with  our  youth  and  its  aspirations,  President 
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali called for the proclamation of 
2010  as  the  International  Year  of  Youth  and  for  the 
convening,  under  United  Nations  auspices  and  in 
cooperation with the relevant international organizations, 
the  dangers  of 
and 
the 
of 
peace 
all 
cultures 
that 
this 
solidarity, 
citizenship, 
concerning  which 
We  strongly  hope 
of  a  world  youth  conference  to  be  attended  by  young 
people  from  all  over  the  world  and  to  conclude  with 
the  drafting  of  an  international  pact  uniting  world 
youth around universal values. 

initiative  will 
contribute  to  deepening  awareness  of  the  position  of 
young  people  in  society  so  that  they  become  active 
stakeholders 
the  success  of  our  development 
processes.  Furthermore,  young  people  should  play  a 
major  role  in  promoting  dialogue  and  in  enhancing 
understanding  and  mutual  respect  among  peoples  on 
the  basis  of  universal  values  and  noble  human 
and 
principles 
civilizations  agree  —  values  such  as 
tolerance, 
moderation  and  respect  of  the  other;  rejection  of  all 
forms  of  violence,  extremism  and  discrimination;  the 
culture 
and 
communication;  stimulation  of  the  spirit  of  initiative; 
volunteerism and environmental protection. 

This initiative already enjoys the support of Arab, 
African  and  Islamic  regional  organizations  as  well  as 
the Non-Aligned Movement. We look forward to your 
support, Mr. President, for the adoption of a resolution 
by  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session  in  order  to 
give concrete expression to this initiative. 
Terrorism remains a major threat to world peace, 

security  and  development, 
in  spite  of  numerous 
national  and  international  efforts  to  counter  it.  It 
remains  a  challenge  to  the  international  community, 
and  we  have  on  numerous  occasions  called  for  a 
comprehensive  approach  in  addressing  a  danger  that 
spares no one. We must take into consideration the root 
causes  of  such  phenomena,  as  well  as  just  and 
sustainable  solutions  to  ongoing  world  problems.  We 
must  work 
to  decrease  poverty,  exclusion  and 
marginalization,  and  we  must  confront  extremist 
movements 
that  favour  fanaticism,  seclusion  and 
hatred. 

As  one  of  the  first  countries  to  warn  against  the 
dangers of this phenomenon in the early 1990s, Tunisia 
renews  its  call  for  the  convening  of  an  international 
conference under the auspices of the United Nations to 
craft  a  universally  binding  code  of  conduct  to  fight 
terrorism. 
Faithful to its identity and keen to ensure its full 

integration 
strives 
tirelessly  and  resolutely  to  enhance  cooperation  with 
its partners in various regional affiliations. In the firm 
its  community,  Tunisia 
in 
into 
20 

09-52598 
that 
to  work 
the  position 
are  preventing 
it  deserves  on 
Tunisia  also  continues 


belief that the Arab Maghreb Union is an indispensable 
strategic  choice  for  the  interests  of  the  Maghreb 
peoples and will enhance the regional and international 
status  of  its  members  in  a  world  where  blocs  and 
groupings  are  proliferating,  Tunisia  has  spared  no 
effort,  together  with  other  Maghreb  countries,  to 
complete  the  process  of  building  the  Union,  promote 
common  Maghreb  action  and  work  to  overcome  the 
temporary  difficulties 
its 
materialization.  We  seek  thereby  to  ensure  that  the 
Union  enjoys 
the 
international  scene  and  to  increase  the  capacity  of  its 
member States to meet present and future challenges. 
to  promote 

common  Arab  action,  revitalize 
its  mechanisms, 
develop  cooperation  and  partnership  relations  with 
sister Arab States in various fields, and bring about the 
desired Arab economic integration and complementarity. 

Many  international  problems,  particularly  in  the 
Middle  East,  remain  unresolved  and  are  a  source  of 
deep  concern  for  the  international  community,  with 
negative consequences for security and stability in the 
region  and  the  world.  From  this  rostrum,  we  reaffirm 
Tunisia’s  constant  and  principled  support  for  the  just 
Palestinian  cause  and  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people 
in their struggle to recover their legitimate rights and to 
establish their independent State on their own land. 

We  note  with  satisfaction  the  positive  stance  of 
the  United  States  Administration  on  the  Middle  East 
issue,  the  elements  of  a  just  and  comprehensive 
settlement  of  the  conflict,  the  two-State  solution,  and 
subsequent  international  efforts  and  momentum  to 
revive the peace talks.  

Today,  we  renew  our  appeal  to  the  international 
community,  especially  the  sponsors  of  the  peace 
process, to intensify their efforts so as to compel Israel 
to end its settlement policy, without preconditions, thus 
enabling talks between the Palestinian and Israeli sides 
to resume, in accordance with international resolutions, 
all  peace  terms  of  reference  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative. 

Achieving  peace  and  ensuring  security  and 
stability in the Middle East will require Israel to lift the 
blockade,  dismantle  the  roadblocks  and  abandon  its 
humiliating  measures  and  other  provocative  steps 
against the Palestinians, as well as the recovery by the 
Palestinian people of its legitimate national rights, the 
establishment  of  its  independent  State,  and  Israeli 
A/64/PV.11
still 
face, 
to 
this 
they 
achieve 
themselves 
Faced  with 
Iraqis  can  devote 
situation  and  given 
withdrawal  from  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  and  the 
Lebanese lands that remain under Israeli occupation. 

We also express our solidarity with the brotherly 
Iraqi  people  and  hope  that  they  will  overcome  the 
difficulties 
national 
reconciliation and consolidate security and stability so 
that  all 
the 
reconstruction of their country in  a spirit of unity and 
accord. 

The  hotspots  of  tension  and  conflict  in  many 
regions  of  Africa,  some  of  which  persist,  have 
devastated  the  continent,  sapped  its  energies  and 
potential,  jeopardized  its  development,  slowed  its 
growth and negatively affected its societies. 
the 

necessarily  comprehensive  nature  of  any  approach  to 
world peace and security, the international community 
and  the  United  Nations  organs,  first  and  foremost  the 
Security  Council,  must  support  the  efforts  of  the 
African  Union  and  its  member  States  and  stand  with 
the African peoples as they seek to restore security and 
stability  and  to  overcome  the  effects  of  conflict  and 
war. 

Given  the  organic  relationship  between  peace, 
security  and  development,  and  the  world’s  pressing 
need  to  reinvigorate  the  values  of  cooperation  and 
solidarity,  Tunisia  proposed  an  initiative  that  was 
adopted by the General Assembly in December 2002 to 
create  the  World  Solidarity  Fund  to  fight  poverty  and 
lay  the  foundations  of  solidarity-based  development. 
Today  we  renew  our  call  to  operationalize  the  Fund, 
thus  enabling 
to  assist  developing  countries, 
particularly those in Africa. 

On a different level, and taking into consideration 
the  rich  and  long-standing  political,  economic,  social 
and  cultural  links  between  Tunisia  and  Europe,  our 
country is ever keen to strengthen its relations with all 
the  States  of  that  sphere.  Tunisia’s  relations  with  the 
European Union have seen tangible progress, thanks to 
both  sides’  determination  to  upgrade  their  ties  to  the 
level  of  advanced  partnership,  thus  opening  prospects 
for enhanced cooperation in all fields and enabling our 
country to achieve further integration with its regional 
and international environment. 

The  Euro-Mediterranean  region  remains  one  of 
the  main  focuses  of  Tunisia’s  foreign  policy.  On  the 
basis of our strong belief in the importance of building 
it 
09-52598 

21 

through 
in  ensuring 
A/64/PV.11 

a  secure,  stable  and  prosperous  Mediterranean  region 
on  a  foundation  of  equal  partnership  and  mutual 
interests,  we  support  initiatives  and  mechanisms  to 
consolidate peace and promote development. From this 
perspective,  Tunisia  is  determined  to  play  an  active 
role 
the  success  of  Mediterranean 
cooperation for the benefit of the peoples of the region. 

Tunisia  is  also  working  to  strengthen  its  ties  of 
friendship  and  to  broaden  and  enrich  its  cooperation 
with  American  and  Asian  States 
the 
establishment of a solidarity-based partnership. We are 
thus  laying  the  groundwork  for  a  new  era  in  these 
relations that will secure the interests of all sides, bring 
them  together,  consolidate  conditions  of  peace  and 
stability,  and  achieve  further  progress  and  prosperity 
around the world. 

The  peoples  of  the  world  today  urgently  need  a 
clean  environment  and  all  States  must  preserve  it  in 
order to avoid the severe consequences of which much 
research  and  many  studies  have  warned,  as  climate 
change  has  caused  huge  economic  losses  to  the 
international community. 
Seeking to meet the environmental, economic and 

in 
social  challenges  caused  by  climate  change, 
November  2007  Tunisia  hosted 
the  International 
Solidarity  Conference  on  Climate  Change  Strategies 
for  the  African  and  Mediterranean  Regions.  Our 
country also hosted the African regional meeting of the 
Preparatory  Committee  for  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  to  Combat 
Desertification  in  order  to  develop  a  unified  African 
position and garner support for African States that are 
negatively  affected  by  desertification  and 
land 
deterioration, as well as to promote scientific research 
in this field. 

Tunisia has spared neither effort nor energy over 
the  past  two  decades  to  join  the  ranks  of  developed 
countries,  based  on  an  open-minded  and  forward-
looking  vision,  the  foundations  of  which  were  laid  by 
President  Zine  El  Abidine  Ben  Ali.  This  vision  has 
encompassed  all  fields  —  political,  economic,  social 
and  development  —  and  been 
implemented  via 
thorough  reforms  to  strengthen  democracy  and  the 
culture of human rights in word and deed, and through 
the expansion of public freedoms and the participation 
of  all  sectors  of  Tunisian  society  in  charting  the 
country’s political course within the frameworks of the 
rule of law and institutions. 
Mr.  Saleh

I  reiterate  in  conclusion  that  our  success  in 
securing  development  and  promoting  relations  of 
cooperation  among  all  States  is  closely  linked  to  an 
international  environment  characterized  by  security, 
stability and justice.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Osman Mohammed Saleh, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Eritrea. 
(Eritrea):  Let  me  begin  by 

congratulating  our  sisterly  country  the  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya and you personally, Mr. President, on your 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-fourth session. I express our confidence that 
your  long-standing  diplomatic  skills  and  leadership 
will lead us to a successful conclusion of the session. I 
wish to assure you of the full support of the delegation 
of the State of Eritrea in the realization of this mission. 

Permit me also to seize this opportunity to pay a 
well-deserved  tribute  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at 
its  sixty-third  session,  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann  of  Nicaragua,  for  the  very  able 
and effective manner in which he led the affairs of the 
Assembly. 

commend  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon  for  his  continuous  efforts  to  administer 
the  affairs  of  the  United  Nations,  and  especially  for 
convening the Summit on Climate Change last week. 

The  General  Assembly  is  holding  its  annual 
general debate for 2009 at a very critical juncture. One 
year  after  the  world  financial  and  economic  crisis 
began, 
this  gathering  provides  us  with  another 
opportunity for reflection. 

The  Hall  in  which  we  meet  today  and  the  lofty 
purposes for which it was built have both outlived their 
time.  This  body  was  conceived  in  another  era  to 
address  the  challenges  of  the  world  order  prevailing 
after  the  First  and  Second  World  Wars.  Therefore,  it 
cannot  realistically  cope  with  the  demands  of  the 
twenty-first  century.  From  an  objective  point  of  view, 
the United Nations should have embarked on a process 
of transformation 20 years ago, in concurrence with the 
end  of  the  cold  war.  By  now,  it  should  have  been 
replaced by a reformed Organization fit to address the 
challenges of the century we live in and beyond. 

renewed 
Organization  have  not  been  few.  Two  decades  have 
passed without any meaningful results in the direction 
Likewise,  we 
re-engineer 
The 
calls 
to 
this 
22 

09-52598 
and  nations  have  been 


of  substantive  reform.  The  financial  and  economic 
crisis and the global awareness that it has spawned are 
mere symptoms of the consequences of inaction at the 
cost of reform. 

The  prevailing  world  order  has  not  succeeded  in 
guaranteeing  the  peace  and  security  of  our  planet,  in 
spite of all the intentions that brought forth its creation 
and  of  the  harsh  lessons  learned  from  the  two  World 
Wars. On the contrary, this ageing world order has been 
hijacked  to  serve  the  interests  of  the  few,  opening  the 
door to a myriad of ramifications.  

Financial  institutions  have  been  left  to  operate 
unrestrained  by  restrictions  or  regulations.  Economic 
structures  that  pillage  the  resources  and  wealth  of 
peoples 
consolidated. 
Illegitimate  military  and  coercive  blunders  have  been 
allowed  to  fester  unchecked.  The  exploitation  of  war 
and  those  who  help  spread  it  have  been  honed  in  a 
purposeful  manner.  The  number  of  people  suffering 
from  poverty  and  hunger  has  not  been  reduced;  it  has 
rather  multiplied  many  times  over.  Violent  extremism 
has not received the attention it deserves; rather, it has 
been  further  fuelled  and  manipulated  as  a  pretext  and 
excuse for ulterior motives. A culture of the politics of 
fear  and  management  by  crisis  has  been  nurtured, 
exploited  and  established  as  a  norm.  Indeed,  world 
peace  and  security  have  been 
imperilled  beyond 
measure. The United Nations itself has been one of the 
victims  of  this  world  order.  Evidence  to  this  effect  is 
known to us all and is well documented. 

Reform  and  change  are  long  overdue.  Despite 
fervent  calls 
international 
community,  the  few  who  control  our  outdated  world 
order  are  unfortunately  not  attuned  to  the  notion  of 
change.  They  have 
regarded  crises  and 
suffering  as  ordinary  historical  imperatives.  To  this 
end, they have resisted all attempts to introduce change 
and,  through  their  clout,  influence  and  advantages, 
have  been  able  to  block  it.  Thus,  no  real  reform  has 
occurred so far. 
In this global maelstrom, where even the peoples 

of 
the  developed  countries  have  been  adversely 
affected,  none  have  been  more  exposed  to  harm  than 
the  marginalized  in Africa. We,  the  peoples  of Africa, 
have  been  victims  of  poverty  and  hunger,  models  of 
backwardness,  and  metaphors 
for  diseases  and 
epidemics.  And  the  continent  has  become  a  breeding 
ground for crises and conflicts.  
instead 
for 
reform  by 
the 
A/64/PV.11

In this regard, the most urgent concern is the fact 
that  special-interest  groups  have  rendered  Africans 
paralysed.  Hence, 
instead  of  resolving  our  own 
problems,  we  find  ourselves  mired  in  poverty,  hunger 
and  disease  rather  than  actively  striving  to  achieve 
development  and  growth.  Similarly,  when  it  comes  to 
the  resolution  of  crises  and  conflicts,  Africans  find 
themselves dependent on the goodwill of others.  

However,  criticism  cannot  be  reserved  only  for 
the  special-interest  groups  that  steer  the  prevailing 
world  order;  it  must  also  be  apportioned  to  those 
groups  that  serve  as  their  instruments  and  partners. 
Indeed,  the  role  of  Africa  in  this  body,  as  well  as  in 
other international organizations, can best be described 
as  inconsequential.  The  evidence  for  this  unfortunate 
situation is also well documented. 

If  world  peace  and  security  are  to  be  preserved, 
justice and human rights respected, hunger eradicated, 
and economic development and growth made to benefit 
the majority in a sustainable fashion, the implementation 
of  fundamental  change  in  this  Organization  and  other 
international  bodies should not be left to the goodwill 
of  the  few.  The  change  needed  to  transform  this 
outdated  world  order  into  a  new  one  must  not  be 
limited  to  reform;  it  should  be  solid,  genuine  and 
capable  of  bringing  peace,  security  and  prosperity  to 
coming  generations.  Reform  should  not  be  limited  to 
increasing the number of seats in the Security Council. 
It  should,  rather,  steer  our  world  away  from  its 
dangerous downhill path, controlled by a powerful few, 
and  redirect  it  towards  one  that  ensures  the  safety  of 
all. 

Though  this  is  the  ideal  to  which  the  world’s 
peoples aspire and strive for, the African continent, for 
obvious  and  particular  reasons,  needs  to  expend  more 
effort to achieve it. But beyond all the good wishes, the 
fundamental  reform  we  are  waiting  for  requires 
collective commitment. On this auspicious occasion, it 
would not do simply to dwell on various current events 
or  those  consequences  spawned  by  the  fundamental 
flaws of the world order. Doing so would only confuse 
and  distort  the  bigger  picture.  I  have  therefore  chosen 
not to address important issues concerning the Horn of 
Africa  and  Eritrea’s  specific  problem  of  the  illegal 
occupation  of  sovereign  Eritrean  territory,  which  is 
already  in  the  records  of  the  United  Nations  awaiting 
responsible and urgent action. 
09-52598 

23 
the 
the  work  of 
issues  with  which 
A/64/PV.11 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Walid  Al-Moualem,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Syrian Arab Republic. 
Mr.  Al-Moualem  (Syria)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Allow  me  to  congratulate  the  fraternal  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya and you personally, Mr. President, on your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
this  session.  I  wish  you  success  in  your  endeavours, 
and  succeed  you  will,  given  your  vast  experience  and 
competence.  
I  also  extend  our  deep  appreciation  to  your 

predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for 
successfully  steering 
the  sixty-third 
session;  I  recognize  his  positive  stand  vis-à-vis  the 
fundamental 
international 
community is seized. I also wish the Secretary-General 
every  success  in  his  undertakings  as  he  seeks  to  fulfil 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  our 
international 
Organization. 

We  come  here  every  year  and  stress  from  this 
very rostrum, as do many others, that the Middle East 
is one of the most tense regions of the world and that 
the  situation  is  extremely  ominous.  From  this  very 
rostrum,  most  speakers  stress 
just  and 
comprehensive  peace  is  an  urgent  requirement  for  the 
realization  of  the  interests  of  all  parties  in  the  region 
and the world at large. However, paying lip service to 
the need for peace is obviously different from working 
for  peace. Actions  inside  and  outside  the  region  have 
spoken  louder  than  words,  and  peace  has  remained 
elusive for years.  

During  that  time,  Israel  waged  two  devastating 
wars  against  Lebanon  and  Gaza.  It  had  no  qualms 
about  committing  internationally  prohibited  acts  or 
breaching  international  law,  encouraged  and  protected 
by 
former  United  States 
President  Bush.  To  date,  Israel  continues  to  impose  a 
stifling  siege  on  Gaza,  in  contravention  of  the  most 
basic 
of 
international  humanitarian  law.  These  facts  have  been 
confirmed  by  many  investigations,  and  were  most 
recently  published  in  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict.  The  head 
of  the  Mission  concluded  that  Israel  had  committed 
grave violations of human rights law, and international 
humanitarian  law,  including  war  crimes  and  possibly 
crimes against humanity. 
the  Administration  of 
that  a 
humanitarian 
principles 
and 
tenets 

law. 
Israel  continues 

The  international  approach  to  the  Middle  East 
question  has  changed  in  previous  years.  Addressing 
this issue has become a priority, and has been followed 
by  immediate  action  on  the  ground.  This  is  certainly 
reassuring. It is our sincere hope that these efforts will 
bear  fruit.  But  the  engagement  by  the  new  United 
States  Administration,  the  members  of  the  Security 
Council, the European Union, the Organization for the 
Islamic  Conference  and  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
has been continuously confronted with Israeli measures 
and positions that ignore the most basic underpinnings 
of  the  peace  process.  Israel  defies  the  policies  of  its 
friends and allies and undermines their will. Israel also 
challenges the will of the overwhelming majority — if 
not  the  entirety  —  of  the  international  community. 
Perhaps more than ever before, Israel has now revealed 
its  true  colours:  an  entity  that  has  enshrined  racism, 
aggression and tension-building while balking at peace 
and repudiating the advocates of peace. 
Israel  refuses  to  freeze  illegitimate  settlement 

building  and  is  thus  in  breach  of  its  obligations  under 
international 
to  confiscate 
Palestinian  land,  build  the  apartheid  wall,  Judaize 
Jerusalem,  expel  inhabitants  from  their  homes  and 
bring in settlers to replace them. This list is in no way 
exhaustive.  These  facts  are  substantiated  by  figures 
but, in the interest of time, we shall not dwell on them 
in  detail.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  the  two-State  solution 
advocated  by  the  international  community  has  been 
rejected  by  the  Israeli  Government.  The  Israeli  Prime 
Minister’s  comments  on  the  subject  are  sheer  tactical 
manoeuvres  that  are  contradicted  entirely  by  the 
policies pursued by his Government on the ground. 

President Bashar Al-Assad  has said that  peace is 
antithetical to occupation. Peace and occupation cannot 
coexist.  He  stressed  that  we  in  Syria  seek  a  just  and 
comprehensive  peace  and  that  peace  is  our  strategic 
choice.  It  is  a  choice  based  on  the  implementation  of 
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338 
(1973), the Madrid terms of reference, the principle of 
land for peace and the Arab Peace Initiative. We have 
supported every effort aimed at achieving this goal. To 
that  end,  we  entered  into  indirect  talks  with  Israel 
through  Turkish  mediation  and  sought  to  arrive  at 
common  ground  that  would  ultimately  enable  us  to 
launch direct negotiations. But the absence of genuine 
political will to make peace and the war of aggression 
that 
the  Israeli  Government  waged  against  Gaza 
brought this pursuit to a halt. 
24 

09-52598 



In  full  view  of  the  world  and  in  defiance  of  its 
unanimous  will,  Israel  has  chosen  to  be  a  rejectionist 
State.  It  has  chosen  to  challenge  the  international 
community. This  is  a  dangerous  position  and  a  stance 
that  threatens  peace  and  security  in  the  region.  The 
continued occupation, the Judaization of Jerusalem, the 
intensification  of  settlement  activities  and  the  racist 
slogans  presage  serious  consequences  for  the  world. 
The  world  must  not  succumb  to  the  dictates  of  Israeli 
extremists.  It  must  not  allow  Israel  to  persist  in  its 
violation  of  international  law  and  its  defiance  of 
international will and decisions. 

Brotherly Iraq continues to bleed. The situation in 
Iraq  is  a  cause  for  serious  concern  to  us  as  a 
neighbouring  Arab  country.  We  have  continuously 
stressed  the  urgency  of  preserving  the  unity  of  Iraq’s 
territory and people while guaranteeing its sovereignty 
and safeguarding its independence and its Arab-Islamic 
identity. To that end, it is urgent to build Iraqi national 
unity  on  the  basis  of  national  reconciliation,  which 
must include Iraqis of all stripes. Iraqi national unity is 
the cornerstone of the reconciliation process, but it will 
remain  elusive  unless  the  necessary  conditions  for 
national reconciliation are achieved. 

We  have  continuously  condemned  all  aggressive 
acts that claim the lives of innocent victims in Iraq. We 
have  also  repeatedly  called  for  the  withdrawal  of  all 
foreign troops from Iraq and for the restoration of full 
Iraqi  independence  and  sovereignty.  We  have  stressed 
our readiness to facilitate that withdrawal by extending 
our  cooperation  in  maintaining  security  in  Iraq.  It  is 
our hope that Iraqis will soon be able to arrive, through 
constructive  dialogue,  at  solutions  that  firmly  support 
Iraq’s  unity,  strength  and  prosperity  while  remaining 
fully dedicated and loyal to the unity of the land of Iraq 
and its people. 

to  strengthening 
bilateral  Syrian-Iraqi  relations  in  all  their  aspects. We 
established a bilateral council for strategic cooperation 
in  various  fields.  We  were  distressed  by  the  recent 
“Bloody  Wednesday”  terrorist  bombings  in  Baghdad, 
which we strongly condemn. But we were surprised to 
hear,  days 
levelled  at  us  — 
accusations  devoid  of  any  truth  —  implying  that  we 
harboured  those  suspected  of  masterminding  those 
bombings. These claims and the ensuing developments 
are  extremely  unfortunate  and  cannot  serve 
the 
interests of Iraq or Syria. 
Syria  has  been  dedicated 
later,  accusations 
A/64/PV.11

We  are  open  to  suggestions  on  how  to  solve  the 
current crisis by demanding that real evidence be made 
available to substantiate those claims. This has not yet 
been  done.  We  stress  that  protecting  the  Iraqi  people 
and safeguarding their interests is one of our priorities. 
We  are  also  keen  to  safeguard  the  fraternal  relations 
between  the  Iraqi  and  Syrian  peoples  and  express  our 
satisfaction  at  the  current  efforts  of  Turkey  and  the 
Secretary-General of the League of Arab States. 

We  have  followed  with  grave  concern  the  recent 
developments  in  Yemen.  We  hope  that  security  will 
ultimately prevail. We support Yemen’s unity, stability 
and the prosperity of its people. 

Attempts  to  undermine  the  Sudan’s  unity  and  to 
compromise  its  security  and  sovereignty  are  also  a 
cause  of  concern  for  us.  We  fully  support  the  Sudan 
and  its  leadership  and  stress  the  need  to  create 
favourable  conditions  conducive  to  a  settlement  of  all 
pending issues. In that regard, we appreciate the efforts 
made  by  the  State  of  Qatar  in  cooperation  with  the 
League of Arab States and the African Union. 

Another cause for concern is the events unfolding 
in  Somalia,  a  country  already  afflicted  by  war  and 
internal strife. We call on our brothers there to work for 
national reconciliation and to use dialogue as a means 
of  settling  their  differences.  We  urge  them  to  work 
towards  the  unity  of  Somalia,  which  as  the  supreme 
national interest should take precedence over any other 
consideration,  and  to  lay  the  foundations  for  security 
and stability in their country. 
We  support  the  efforts  of  the  African  Union  to 

settle  the  existing  conflicts  that  continue  to  plague 
some  parts  of  the  African  continent,  to  achieve 
development in the countries of Africa and to promote 
the African role in the international system. 

We  also  renew  our  call  for  the  lifting  of  the 
blockade  imposed  on  Cuba  for  more  than  half  a 
century. 

the 
establishment  of  a  zone  free  of  all  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  in  the  Middle  East  region.  To  this  end, 
Syria  tabled  a  draft  resolution  before  the  Security 
Council in 2003 calling for the establishment of such a 
zone.  Today  Syria  stresses  the  need  for  Israel  to 
commit  to  complying  with  the  resolution  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  adopted 
on 18 September of this year regarding Israeli nuclear 
For  years,  Syria  has  been  calling  for 
09-52598 

25 

A/64/PV.11 

capabilities  (GC(53)/RES/17),  in  which  the  Agency 
called  upon  Israel  to  place  its  nuclear  facilities  under 
comprehensive  IAEA  safeguards  and  to  accede  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT).  We  recall  once  again  the  right  of  all  States  to 
acquire  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  as 
guaranteed  by  the  NPT. We  fully  support  constructive 
dialogue as a means to settle all differences. 
The  world  is  still  reeling  from  a  crippling 

economic  and  financial  crisis 
that  has  adversely 
affected  the  economic  and  social  conditions  of  most 
countries of the world. Very few countries, if any, have 
been spared its devastating effects. This crisis led many 
to  question  its  root  causes,  shedding  light  on  the 
deficiencies  in  the  financial  system  and  its  practices 
and  thus  highlighting  the  sound  practices  that  could 
have  prevented  the  crisis. The  world  cannot  deal  with 
the crisis as a fait accompli. We must seek answers and 
outcomes  that  endorse  sound  practices  and  remedy 
systemic  imbalances  that  are  bound  to  affect  us  all  in 
the  globalized  world  in  which  we  live.  Our  common 
goal  is  to  establish  a  more  secure  economic  and 
financial world order. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  the  countries  of  the 
South have disparate economies and are comparatively 
more  disadvantaged  and  adversely  affected  by  the 
current crisis than those of the North. The world’s poor 
end  up  paying  a  higher  price  for  a  breakdown  that  is 
not  of  their  making.  Rich  States  are  therefore  duty 
bound  to  provide  all  forms  of  support  to  poorer 
countries  to  help  them  overcome  this  crisis.  Poor 
countries  have  earned  this  support,  and  any  positive 
results that it generates will serve the interests of poor 
and rich countries alike. We also call for the increased 
participation of developing countries in the work of the 
Group of 20, which would enable them to put forward 
proposals  and  advance  appropriate 
to 
overcome the crisis. 

We  and  many  others  have  often  called  for  an 
enhanced and reinvigorated role for the United Nations 
in  order  to  build  a  better,  more  just  and  more  secure 
world.  We  believe 
is 
auspicious. We  therefore  call  on  all  Member  States  to 
work  seriously  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  Charter 
of  our  international  Organization  and  to  introduce  the 
necessary reforms in order to promote it, learning from 
the lessons of past decades and from our achievements 
and  failures.  We  sincerely  look  forward  to  a  world 
the  present  moment 
responses 
that 
through 
governed  by  respect  for  international  law  in  which 
security, stability and prosperity reign supreme. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

Her  Excellency  Ms.  Aïchatou  Mindaoudou,  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation 
and  African 
Integration of the Republic of the Niger. 
Ms. Mindaoudou (Niger) (spoke in French): The 

delegation of the Niger — which I have the honour to 
lead  and  which  brings  the  message  of  His  Excellency 
Mamadou Tandja, President of the Republic — is more 
than  pleased  to  see  you,  Mr.  President,  presiding  over 
the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session. Your 
election,  which  the  Niger  welcomes  with  pride,  is 
without  a  doubt  both  recognition  and  endorsement  of 
your  exceptional  abilities  as  a  seasoned  diplomat, 
which  you  have  demonstrated 
throughout  your 
distinguished career. We in the Niger are well placed to 
attest to your commitment to the cause of Africa and of 
our  common  subregion,  specifically 
the 
Community  of  Sahel-Saharan  States,  that  other  forum 
in  which  our  countries  work  together  for  the  same 
goals  that  are  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. Thus we consider ourselves to be in your good 
hands,  ready  to  advance  the  work  of  the  Organization 
in this time of formidable challenges. 

I should like  to renew our  congratulations to the 
outgoing President,  Father  Miguel d’Escoto  Brockmann, 
on his active and very full presidency, and to state that 
the  Niger  was  honoured  to  serve  alongside  him  in  its 
capacity as Vice-President at the sixty-third session. 
On  behalf  of  the  Niger,  I  should  like  to  reiterate 

our  profound  gratitude 
to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his unflagging efforts to make the United 
Nations a more just and effective Organization, able to 
meet the expectations of its Members. 

My  delegation  welcomes  your  decision,  Sir,  to 
declare  as  the  very  apt  theme  for  the  Assembly’s 
current session the strengthening of multilateralism and 
dialogue  among  civilizations  for  international  peace, 
security and development. In our view, this theme has 
the potential to spur Member States to greater initiative 
in  realizing  the  goals  that  we  are  pursuing,  namely, 
those  of  preserving  international  peace  and  security. 
We  are  pleased,  in  this  regard,  by  the  renewed 
dynamism in cooperation between the Security Council 
and  regional  organizations,  in  particular  the  African 
Union. We believe that this direction has the potential 
26 

09-52598 


to  lead  to  lasting  solutions  to  the  problems  of  peace 
and security in Africa. 

We are convinced that such cooperation will yield 
results  even  on  the  most  delicate  issues,  such  as  the 
implementation  of  the  political-legal  concept  of  the 
principle of universal jurisdiction. While my delegation 
welcomes  the  inclusion  of  this  topic  in  the  agenda  of 
the  General  Assembly,  we  should  like  once  again  to 
endorse the concerns already expressed by the African 
Union  and  to  urge  Member  States  to  avoid  using  this 
principle  inappropriately.  We  hope  that  our  debate  in 
this  common  forum  will  make  possible  a  better 
understanding of this concept and a better definition of 
the framework governing its eventual application. 

We  note  the  progress  that  is  being  made  in 
various  areas  in  the  prevention  and  management  of 
conflicts,  both  in  Africa  and  elsewhere.  And  we 
welcome  the  commitment  and  goodwill  of  all  parties 
carrying  out  concerted  actions  to  ensure  international 
peace and security. 

The  recommendations  of  the  special  summit  on 
conflict  prevention  and  management  held  in  Tripoli 
reflect the will of African leaders to take on issues that 
have always slowed our continent in its march towards 
progress and prosperity. It is at this level that the theme 
of  multilateralism  —  which  you,  Mr.  President,  have 
selected for the sixty-fourth session — takes on all its 
meaning.  Indeed,  the  United  Nations,  as  the  common 
framework  enjoying  the  highest  level  of  participation 
by countries and other actors in the world, should serve 
as a laboratory in which we work towards the goal of a 
more balanced international community. 

Governed as it is by the laws of globalization, the 
current international scene is, as we know, much more 
complex  today  than  in  the  past.  We  must  address  and 
manage the consequences of the international financial 
crisis and, for countries in the Sahel such as the Niger, 
the  recurrent  effects  of  food  insecurity.  We  must 
address climate change in a concerted and coordinated 
manner,  and  we  must  constantly  question  the  current 
formulas  for  preventing  conflict  and  maintaining 
international peace and security.  
My  delegation  supports  such  initiatives,  which 

must be inclusive, because they must benefit from the 
contributions  and  perspectives  of  everyone,  including 
the most vulnerable countries. In particular, we support 
the  various  discussions  under  way  on  this  subject, 
whether  in  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and 
A/64/PV.11
thanks 
to 
in 
the  bold  actions  of 
Social Council or the Security Council, or even in the 
context  of  specific  initiatives  such  as  the  discussions 
being held by Canada on peacekeeping operations. 

We  in  the  Niger  have  made  undeniable  progress 
in  the  area  of  combating  poverty  and  promoting  basic 
development, 
the 
President.  Through  projects  designed  specifically  to 
meet  the  needs  of  Niger’s  people,  he  has  enabled  our 
country to finally give meaning to development. Today, 
development  is  palpable  in  every  corner  of  the  Niger 
because  of  proactive  and  systematic  efforts  to  build 
classrooms  and  health  clinics,  dig  wells,  build  local 
drinking  water  systems  and  promote  a  microcredit 
system  designed  specifically  for  the  most  vulnerable 
rural  women.  The  head  of  State  is  doing  this  to 
improve  the  living  conditions  of  our  people,  who 
suffered from the political instability that characterized 
our  country  during  the  1990s,  which  one  could 
describe  as  a  lost  decade  for  Niger’s  development.  In 
late  August,  a  meeting  was  held  in  Niamey  for  the 
second  2009  review  by  the  Poverty  Reduction  and 
Growth  Facility  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund. 
The  Niger’s  performance 
those  areas  was 
acknowledged  and  commended  at  the  meeting,  which 
brought together representatives of the World Bank and 
of our country’s Ministry of Economy and Finance. 

I  recall  these  aspects  of  the  situation  in  Niger 
because, as members are aware, a referendum was held 
in  our  country  on  4  August  2009  to  adopt  a  new 
constitution.  It  formalizes  the  return  to  a  presidential 
Administration  more  suited  to  the  realities  of  our 
country  and  introduces  new  provisions  such  as  that 
establishing two chambers, Parliament and the Senate. 
The  referendum,  held  in  an  atmosphere  of  calm  and 
transparency  by  the  National  Independent  Electoral 
Commission, enabled us to adopt the new constitution, 
which formalizes the arrival of the sixth Republic.  

Therefore,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
reassure  the  international  community,  development 
partners, civil society and other actors and entities that 
may  be 
the  political 
situation  in  the  Niger  that  the  country  is  not  in  a 
situation of lawlessness or insurrection, as some would 
have one believe, but rather is a place where all people 
freely  express  their  opinions  within  the  framework  of 
the  democratic  process,  to  which  we  are  deeply 
committed. 
justifiably  concerned  about 
09-52598 

27 
the 
in 
forefront 
A/64/PV.11 


The sovereign people of the Niger have chosen to 
refashion  the  Republic  around  certain  values  with 
which  they  identify.  In  this  new  endeavour,  President 
Mamadou Tandja  has  solemnly  pledged  that  no  group 
or  structure  will  be  overlooked.  Following 
the 
referendum,  the  President  recalled  his  willingness  to 
work with all citizens of the Niger in the interest of the 
country  and  its  people.  The  forthcoming  legislative 
elections, to be held on 20 October, and the municipal 
elections  in  December  2009  will  be  opportunities  for 
large-scale mobilization to ensure better representation 
for the people in the conduct of State affairs. It is this 
reality  of  a  Niger  marching  towards  development, 
resolutely  committed  to  building  its  future  and  more 
determined  than  ever  to  lift  its  people  out  of  poverty, 
that we must bear in mind. 

We  fully  support  any  joint  action  that  can 
contribute  to  general  and  complete  disarmament.  We 
have  been  at 
fulfilling  our 
commitments  in  this  area,  and  we  are  resolved  to 
continue  to  work  in  that  regard  within  our  modest 
means.  Our  most  recent  initiative  was  to  ratify  the 
Convention on Cluster Munitions on 14 May 2009 — a 
formality  that  made  the  Niger  one  of  the  very  first 
countries to do so and accelerated its entry into force. 
We  believe  that  this  gesture,  although  it  may  seem 
minor,  assumes  its  full  meaning  in  the  context  of  the 
difficult  path  towards  complete  disarmament.  For  us, 
this  initiative,  together  with  our  country’s  ratification 
of the Convention on Small Arms and Light Weapons, 
Their  Ammunition  and  Other  Related  Materials, 
adopted by the Economic Community of West African 
States,  is  a  significant  contribution  to  disarmament  at 
our level. 

We  are  following  the  various  processes  carried 
out  at  various  levels  to  reform  the  United  Nations 
system.  This  includes  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
with regard to which we call for greater recognition of 
Africa’s  role  through  the  Ezulwini  Consensus;  the 
ongoing  preparations  to  ensure  the  success  of  the 
United  Nations 
in 
Copenhagen;  and 
the 
Secretary-General  and  just  concluded  here  in  New 
York,  which  benefited  from  the  valuable  guidance  of 
heads  of  State  and  Government.  In  addition,  there  is 
United  Nations  system-wide  coherence;  the  definition 
of  the  new  concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect, 
which needs to be clearly defined and set out, as in the 
Constitutive Act of the African Union; and, finally, the 
climate 
conference 
the  summit  convened  by 
change 

follow-up to the outcome document of the Conference 
on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its 
Impact on Development, which the previous President 
of the General Assembly wished to begin by appointing 
facilitators. 

With  regard  to  all  those  issues  and  many  other 
important  concerns,  such  as  those  referred  to  in  the 
outcome  document  of  the  Follow-up  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  to  Review 
the  Implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  held 
at  Doha  at  the  end  of  2008,  we  wish  to  express  once 
again  our  ongoing  concern  that  we  should  develop  an 
inclusive  and  transparent  approach  at  all  levels  that 
takes into account the concerns of both large and small 
countries.  

We  are  following  with  great  interest,  and  often 
concern, the progress of the commitments made within 
the framework of the Millennium Development Goals, 
and  we  note  that  it  remains  mixed. At  the  same  time, 
adverse  phenomena  are  placing  constraints  on  both 
developed and developing countries, such as the world 
economic  and  financial  crisis.  These  problems  now 
require  that  all  of  us  redouble  our  efforts  to  keep  our 
commitments. In that regard, we will closely follow the 
preparations for the 2010 mid-term review conference, 
which, we hope, will result in efforts to accelerate the 
attainment  of  the  agreed  objectives.  We  also  take  this 
opportunity  to  reaffirm  the  irreplaceable  nature  of  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  as  a 
relevant African  initiative  that  must  enjoy  the  support 
of 
international 
community as a whole.  

We  welcome  the  decision  to  convene  the  Fourth 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  and  we  salute  the  host  country, Turkey,  for 
its generous initiative vis-à-vis our group of countries. 
We also thank other countries and partner organizations 
which  have  always  remained  sensitive  to  the  many 
constraints  and  concerns  of  our  countries.  We  also 
know  that,  if  significant  progress  has  been  made  in 
10 years  in  recognizing  our  difficult  conditions  and 
establishing  useful  partnerships  in  that  regard,  it  is 
thanks  to  the  coordination  of  the  Office  of  the  High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States.  We  thank  him  for  his  initiatives, 
which  remain  essential  for 
least  developed  and 
landlocked countries in the Sahel, such as the Niger.  
the  United  Nations  and  of 
the 
28 

09-52598 
session. 
on 
dialogue 
among 
cultures 
conference 
the  dialogue 
Indeed,  we  must  maintain 



I  should  also  like  to  express  my  Government’s 
appreciation to the President of the General Assembly 
for  his  decision  to  devote  part  of  this  session  to  the 
subject  of 
and 
civilizations.  We  believe  that  that  issue  is  worthy  of 
much  attention  and  of  action  throughout  the  sixty-
fourth 
the 
momentum  begun  by  eminent  Member  States  through 
the  Third  Ministerial  Meeting  on  Interfaith  Dialogue 
and  Cooperation  for  Peace,  held  in  2008;  the  High-
Level  Dialogue  on  Interreligious  and  Intercultural 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace;  and  the 
international 
among 
civilizations  and  cultural  diversity,  held  from  2  to  
4  June  2009  in  Kairouan,  Tunisia.  We  must  develop 
these initiatives, for which my delegation reiterates its 
congratulations  to  the  Governments  of  the  countries 
concerned.  

Along the same lines, my delegation applauds the 
Government  of  the  Philippines,  which  has  decided  to 
organize  a  special  meeting  at  the  ministerial  level  for 
the countries of the Non-Aligned Movement, under the 
theme  “Interreligious  Dialogue  and  Cooperation  for 
Peace and Development”, from 1 to 3 December 2009 
in Manila. That shows that the theme continues to draw 
the interest of many States and that you, Mr. President, 
were  aptly  inspired  in  identifying  it  as  a  topic  of 
interest for the international community. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  my  statement  by 
renewing  my  delegation’s  delight  at  the  direction  that 
you,  Sir,  have  suggested  for  the  current  Assembly 
session  and  by  reiterating  our  full  confidence  in  your 
leadership, which promises a very fruitful and dynamic 
term  in  the  pursuit  of  common  objectives  of  the 
international community. As always, you can count on 
the  unflagging 
the 
Government of the Niger throughout your term. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Ghazi Salahuddin Atabani, Adviser 
to the President of the Republic of the Sudan. 
Mr. Atabani (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): It is my 

pleasure at the outset to convey the best wishes of the 
Government  and  people  of  the  Sudan  for  successful 
deliberations in the sixty-fourth session of the General 
Assembly  on  its  entire  agenda.  The  agenda  contains 
topics 
the 
international  community  and  the  priorities  we  have  to 
set,  such  as  the  development  and  welfare  of  our 
the  challenges 
readiness  of 
support 
and 
A/64/PV.11
the 
(MDGs), 
to  commend 
implementation  of 
the  Millennium 
peoples, 
Development  Goals 
the  mitigation  of 
economic and financial crises, containing the effects of 
climate change and maintaining international peace and 
security. 

I am also pleased to extend warm congratulations 
to  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at  this  important 
session. We are confident, Sir, that your political skills 
and  diplomatic  expertise  will  help 
realize  our 
ambitions  to  have  an  able,  effective  and  transparent 
United  Nations.  We  also  wish 
the 
dexterity  and  high  competence  with  which  your 
predecessor,  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  conducted 
the proceedings of the previous session. We also wish 
to  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  the  efforts 
undertaken  by  the  Secretariat  to  fulfil  the  role  and 
responsibilities of the United Nations. 

Millions  throughout  the  world  look  forward  to 
our deliberations in the  wake of the suffocating crises 
through which the international community is passing. 
Traces of the crises are still lingering in the family of 
nations,  especially  in  the  developing  countries,  while 
the  fruits  of  scientific  and  technological  progress 
nourish  the  hope  of  better  opportunities  for  a  just  and 
equitable world order. 

While  non-compliance  with  the  purposes  and 
principles  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
international  law  and  its  established  rules,  along  with 
double  standards,  has  made  the  world  less  safe,  the 
economic  and  financial  crises  have  exacerbated  the 
challenges.  The  world  is  experiencing  the  worst  and 
gravest  economic  and  financial  crisis  since 
the 
Depression of the 1930s. The crisis is compounded by 
such  numerous  and  intertwined  problems  as  the  food 
crisis  and  climate  change  along  with  their  destructive 
effects on the developing countries and threats to their 
national  priorities  and  to  the  gains  they  have  made 
towards the achievement of the MDGs. 

In its chairmanship of the Group of 77 and China, 
the  Sudan  has  accorded  special  attention  to  the 
repercussions of this crisis on the developing countries. 
In  those  countries  the  crisis  has  given  rise  to  poverty, 
hunger, unemployment and slackening of growth, if not 
economic  downturn,  and  has  adversely  affected 
balances of trade and of payment. At the same time, the 
crisis  has  led  to  falls  in  commodity  prices,  sharp 
fluctuations  in  exchange  rates,  sudden  diversions  of 
reflecting 
faced  by 
09-52598 

29 

and 
in 
the 
drops 
tourism 
Comprehensive 
investment  and  States  meeting 
A/64/PV.11 

capital flows and of foreign direct investment, falls in 
remittances 
revenues. 
Concomitantly,  the  social  sector  has  suffered  greatly 
because of the erosion of social security networks that 
provide  health,  education  and  other  services.  That  in 
turn has augmented infant and maternal mortality rates. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  deeply  concerned 
over  this  crisis  and  its  impact  on  countries  facing 
special  challenges,  foremost  among  which  are African 
States,  the  least  developed  countries,  small  island 
States  and  countries  emerging  from  conflict.  The 
realities  impose  a  moral  duty  on  us  —  especially  the 
industrial  countries  — 
to  channel  our  collective 
response  into  a  strong  commitment  to  providing  the 
required  solutions.  Those 
include  direct  funding, 
capacity-building, promoting sustainable development, 
addressing  debt  problems,  eliminating  obstacles  to 
trade  and 
their 
international development pledges. 

reform  of 
international 
financial  and  economic  system  and  ensuring  an 
enhanced role for the developing countries in decision-
making processes in international financial institutions 
are  of  central  significance.  Major  industrial  countries 
cannot ignore the universal legitimacy of the collective 
voice of the world’s States here at the United Nations. 
In  this  connection,  the  open-ended  working  group  of 
the  General  Assembly  to  follow  up  on  the  issues 
contained  in  the  Outcome  of  the  Conference  on  the 
World Economic and Financial Crisis and Its Impact on 
Development  (resolution  63/303,  annex),  held  in  New 
York  in  June  2009,  must  discharge  its  work  and 
mandate expeditiously. 
By  the  same  token,  we  hope  that  endeavours  to 

deal  with  climate  change 
the 
conference  to  be  held  in  Copenhagen  in  December  of 
this year will be crowned with success. The developing 
countries  —  which  were  by  no  means  responsible  for 
climate  change  and  global  warming  —  urge 
industrialized  countries,  on  the  basis  of  their  historic 
responsibility,  to  address  the  root  causes  of  climate 
change  by  providing  new  and  additional  predictable 
financial resources, to help build capacities, to transfer, 
entrench and develop technology and to fulfil relevant 
obligations  and  pledges  with  a  view  to  attaining 
sustainable  economic  growth 
the 
legitimate  priorities  and  needs  of  the  developing 
countries. As Chair of the Group of 77 and China, my 
the  course  of 
satisfies 
that 
in 
in 
those 
in  furthering 
The  absence  of  democracy 
country  will  spare  no  effort 
demands. 

international 
relations,  as  exemplified  by  the  present  form  and 
composition  of  the  Security  Council,  has  become  a 
major  factor  in  diminishing  the  ability  of  the  United 
Nations  to  respond  to  the  structural  and  substantive 
challenges and changes in the international community. 
That has been exacerbated by unilateral sanctions that 
hinder  international  trade  and  investment  and  violate 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  rules  of 
international law.  

The  United  Nations  rostrum  is  being  used  by 
some to serve narrow interests such that the concept of 
human  rights  has  become  a 
tool  for  ceaseless 
politicization  and  score  settling.  In  the  same  vein,  the 
often  misused  concept  of  terrorism  has  led  to  the 
victim being equated with the aggressor, as is currently 
evident in the plight of the Palestinian people, who are 
still chafing under the yoke of occupation. As a result, 
the Palestinian question has remained unsolved, which 
has gravely compromised the reputation and credibility 
of the United Nations. 

It  is  thus  clear  that  for  the  United  Nations  to 
effectively  serve  a  changing  world,  it  has  to  effect  an 
all-out  change  in  its  working  methods  and  approaches 
so  that  it  will  truly  express  the  voice  of  all  nations. 
Consequently,  my  country,  like  all  other  developing 
nations,  supports  the  call  to  reactivate  the  role  of  the 
General Assembly and to reform the Security Council, 
based  on  the  well-known  African  position  on  this 
matter. 

This  session  is  of  special  importance  to  my 
country for it comes at a time when we are putting an 
end  to  what  has  been  called  the  longest  civil  war  in 
Africa  by  concluding 
the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement.  The  Agreement  adopts  a  system  making 
citizenship a basis for rights and duties, and espousing 
diversity as a source of unity and brotherhood built on 
the rule of law, good governance, respect for freedoms 
and  human  rights,  as  well  as  fair  and  democratic 
power-sharing. 
the 

principles of wealth sharing, in line with the norms of 
equity  and  equality.  The 
the 
Agreement  has  proceeded  with  the  completion  of  the 
formation  of  relevant  mechanisms  and  institutions, 
along  with  the  full  commitment  by  the  two  parties  to 
the  Agreement  establishes 
implementation  of 
Additionally, 
30 

09-52598 
regional 
international  and 
spheres  of  development, 


the Agreement  to  the  sound  treatment  of  the  question 
of  entitlements  as  reflected  in  the  handling  of  the 
question of Abyei. 

We  note  here  the  fact  that  donors  have  not 
fulfilled  the  development  resources  and  pledges  they 
took upon themselves in support of the Agreement has 
adversely  affected  its  implementation,  particularly  in 
the 
rehabilitation  and 
reintegration  of  former  combatants  in  society.  We 
therefore  urge  the  fulfilment  of  all  pledges  so  as  to 
foster peace and stability, as well as the reconstruction 
of the country after the ravages of years of war, so that 
peace can be meaningful. 

After  conducting  a  population  census  —  the 
accuracy  and  credibility  of  which  were  testified  to  by 
numerous 
institutions, 
including the United Nations — and in conformity with 
the Agreement, we are about to hold general legislative 
and  executive  elections.  We  assert  our  resolve  and 
determination  to  hold  them  in  April  2010,  while  we 
continue to strengthen efforts aimed at political reform, 
which  is  indispensable  for  founding  a  durable  peace. 
We  invite  the  international  community,  including  the 
United  Nations,  to  support  the  holding  of  elections  in 
word and deed. 

Despite all the positive developments in the peace 
process,  we  note  with  profound  concern  the  recent 
armed 
in  southern  Sudan.  Those 
conflicts  threaten  not  only  the  stability  of  the  Sudan 
and the South but also the stability of the whole region. 
We  would  like  to  recall  here  that,  in  accordance  with 
the Agreement,  the  responsibility  for  the  maintenance 
of  peace  in  the  South  lies  with  the  Government  of 
Southern  Sudan.  Therefore,  it  is  everybody’s  duty  to 
urge and encourage the Government of Southern Sudan 
to  discharge  its  duty  for  the  sake  of  its  citizens’ 
security and prosperity. 

Our people have recognized that peace will not be 
complete unless it extends to our people in Darfur. The 
signing of the Darfur Peace Agreement in Abuja under 
the  gracious  aegis  of  the  African  Union  affirmed  the 
Government’s  serious  commitment  to  resolving  the 
problem of Darfur peacefully. 

While we were earnestly attempting to implement 
that  Agreement,  certain  international  parties  did  not 
fulfil their pledges and obligations in strict application 
of  the  Agreement,  such  as  by  applying  unwarranted 
pressure  on  the  wrong  side.  Instead  of  pressuring  the 
tribal  conflicts 
A/64/PV.11
and  with 
national 
and 
and 
far-reaching  developments 
parties that shied away from the peace option, pressure 
was  put  on  the  Abuja  signatories  themselves.  That 
hampered  peace  endeavours  and  led  to  the  protraction 
of the conflict. 

Yet,  thanks  to  the  steadfast  maintenance  of  the 
Agreement  by  our  Government  and  people  and  our 
relentless  efforts  to  achieve  peace,  we  are  now  seeing 
positive 
leading 
towards  lasting  peace  in  Darfur,  thanks  also  to  the 
complete  commitment  shown  by  the  National  Unity 
Government and its close cooperation with the African 
Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur 
through the Tripartite Mechanism. 

That policy has led to far-reaching improvements 
in  the  humanitarian  situation  in  Darfur,  as  recognized 
and  attested  to  by  United  Nations  reports.  That  is 
further supported by our scrupulous commitment to the 
humanitarian  agreement  signed  last  April  with  the 
United States Special Envoy to the Sudan. We reiterate 
our  commitment  to  close  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations 
international 
organizations with a view to enhancing and developing 
that policy in a manner that prevents any humanitarian 
disaster or even food gaps in the future. 

In  this  connection,  it  is  imperative  to  note  the 
massive  return  of  internally  displaced  persons  (IDPs) 
to  their  villages,  which  makes  it  incumbent  on  the 
Government, the Sudanese people and the international 
community  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  foster  this 
trend, as it is the real test of peace. 
We  renew  our  commitment  and  preparedness  to 

work  expeditiously  and  at  all  times  to  ensure  the 
success of the forthcoming negotiations in Doha within 
the  framework  of  the  Afro-Arab  initiative  and  the 
efforts  of  the  Joint  Mediator,  in  accordance  with  the 
decision  taken  by  the  initiatives  committee  in  its 
meeting held at the margins of this session. 

the 
American President, Barack Obama, before the General 
Assembly,  on  his  country’s  readiness  to  help  find 
solutions to the problems of Darfur. Noting the positive 
tone 
the  American 
President  towards  developing  countries  in  general,  we 
hope  that  his  words  will  be  translated  into  action  and 
sincere effort in order to correct the misguided policies 
and positions of the previous American Administration, 
which  have  compromised  bilateral 
relations  and 
aggravated  the  region’s  problems.  This,  undoubtedly, 
the  statements  voiced  by 
the  declaration  made  by 
We  welcome 
in 
09-52598 

31 
A/64/PV.11 

requires,  first  and  foremost,  lifting  the  unilateral 
sanctions  and  removing  the  name  of  the  Sudan  from 
the United States’ list of terrorist States. 

We  renew  our  appeal  to  the  armed  groups  to 
muster  the  will  for  a  solution  and  for  involvement  in 
the peace process, so that the interests of the Sudanese 
people  are  put  first  and  foremost.  The  people  of  the 
Sudan  are  more  than  capable  of  solving  their  own 
problems.  My  country  has  repeatedly  declared  its 
commitment to a unilateral ceasefire as an initiative for 
confidence-building  and  bringing  about  successful 
negotiations,  and  we  hope  that  armed  factions  will 
respond  positively  so  that  a  permanently  monitored 
ceasefire can be reached. 

The  international  community,  which  has,  in  the 
past, promised to take stringent measures against those 
who  refused  to  take  part  in  the  peace  talks  or  impede 
them,  has  to  do  so  in  deed  and  not  just  in  word.  The 
question  of  development,  recovery,  rehabilitation  and 
reconstruction  should  be  given  special  attention,  as 
called  for  in  Security  Council  resolution  1769  (2007). 
There should be a transition from providing emergency 
humanitarian  assistance  to  supporting  development,  in 
order to facilitate the return and settlement of IDPs and 
refugees. 

From this rostrum, I wish  to assert my country’s 
keen  interest  in  having  constructive  relations  with  all 
its  neighbours  and  its  full  readiness  for  complete 
cooperation with them, with a view to extinguishing all 
regional  hot  beds  of  tension.  In  this  regard,  I  would 
like  to  stress  our  preparedness  and  willingness  to 
normalize  relations  with  Chad,  in  conformity  with  all 
agreements  and  instruments  signed  with  them  and  we 
hope they will demonstrate the same determination and 
readiness. 
At  a  time  when  the  Government  of  National 

Unity  had  made 
the 
implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
and  when  the  Sudan  had  started  a  new  phase  towards 
the achievement of political reform and transformation, 
peaceful  devolution  of  authority,  progress  towards 
ending  disputes  and 
the 
achievement  of  inclusive  development  for  our  people, 
the President of the Republic himself, who is the chief 
guarantor  of  the  Sudan’s  sovereignty,  was  targeted  by 
so-called  international  justice  in  a  futile  attempt  to 
undermine  stability  and  development.  The  Sudanese 
remarkable  progress 
infighting  and 
towards 
in 

rejected  this,  as  did  the  international  community, 
including regional and international organizations. 

We emphasize that the realization of security and 
stability  in  Darfur  requires  speedy  correction  of  those 
developments and a renewed commitment to the peace 
process  and  the  avoidance  of  all  that  may  have  a 
negative impact on peace in the Sudan and the African 
continent. 

Between the signing of the United Nations Charter 
in  the  middle  of  the  last  century  and  the  momentous 
developments  and  profound  challenges  currently 
experienced by the world, much water has flown under 
the  bridge  of  international  relations,  which  makes 
annual General Assembly sessions serious opportunities 
for introspection and for gleaning lessons. 

Let  us  renew  our  resolve  to  foster  multilateral 
action,  for  which  this  Organization  stands.  Let  our 
sixty-fourth  session  be  a  defining  point 
towards 
achieving our collective aspirations  for  a world where 
the values of fraternity and common destiny prevail. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

Mr.  Alexis  Thambwe  Mwamba,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
Mr.  Thambwe  Mwamba  (Democratic  Republic 

of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  Mr.  President,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of 
the Republic, is unable to attend but has instructed me 
to convey to you his most heartfelt congratulations on 
your  election 
the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. The head of State 
has  no  doubt 
the 
Organization,  broadened  by  your  talents  and  your 
knowledge,  will  help  you  to  overcome  the  myriad  of 
challenges 
that  come  with  your  new  office.  He 
expresses his wish also for every success in your work 
at this regular session. 

Let me, as I begin my statement, commend your 
predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  and 
express to him our gratitude for his excellent service as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session, which has just been completed, and this to the 
satisfaction of all Member States.  

Lastly,  I  pay  well-deserved  tribute  to  Secretary-
General  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  commitment  to  the 
quest for peace and security worldwide, in general, and 
for  his  very  commendable  involvement  in  restoring 
that  your  vast  experience 
the  presidency  of 
in 
to 
32 

09-52598 
this 
conflict 
specifically 


lasting peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
my country, in particular. 

At this time when the sixty-fourth regular session 
of  the  General  Assembly  is  beginning,  it  is  worth 
dwelling on the situation currently prevailing in certain 
regions of the planet. In the Middle East, the situation 
continues to be tenuous and to be the focus of attention 
of  the  global  public.  The  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  recognizes  the  right  of  the  people  of  Israel  to 
live in peace in a State with internationally recognized 
borders,  just  as  it  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the 
settlement  of 
entails 
recognition  of  the  fact  that  the  Palestinian  question  is 
at the heart of the very problem in the Middle East.  

The situations in Afghanistan and in Iraq continue 
to  be  of  concern.  The  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  urges  the  international  community  to  eradicate 
the  scourge  of  terrorism,  so  that  those  two  countries 
can  fully  return  to  their  place  on  the  international 
scene. 

In  Africa,  and  speaking  just  about  our  own 
geographic  area  in  the  central  and  southern  portion  of 
the  continent,  we  would  like  to  refer  to  the  healthy 
progress made in the implementation of the agreements 
reached  in  2006  between  the  Government  of  Burundi 
and  the  Forces  Nationales  de  Libération;  the  smooth 
evolution  of  the  inclusive  political  dialogue  in  the 
Central  African  Republic;  the  needed  promotion  of 
good-neighbourly  relations  between  Chad  and  the 
Sudan;  the  admittedly  slow  but  sure  and  determined 
promotion  of  democracy;  and  the  consolidation  of 
peace and stability in Southern Africa. 

I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely 
thank  the  South  African  facilitation,  the  Economic 
Community  of  Central  African  States,  the  Southern 
African  Development  Community  (SADC)  and  the 
international community, as well as other bilateral and 
multilateral  partners,  for  the  efforts  that  they  have 
continued to make to achieve the considerable progress 
that we hail today.  

With  respect  to  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  I 
would  particularly  like  to  express  my  full  satisfaction 
with the mediation by the eminent SADC representative 
with  respect  to  the  political  dialogue.  Here,  I  would 
like  to  reiterate  the  SADC  position,  which  rejects  and 
condemns  any  unilateral  decision  that  would  violate 
the spirit of the Maputo agreements.  
A/64/PV.11

No  social  or  economic  order  remains  safe,  if  it 
fails  to  bring  beneficial  effects  to  the  greatest  number 
of  people.  The  crisis  of  the  global  financial  system 
continues  to  undermine  global  economies  worldwide, 
be  they  developed  or  developing.  For  my  country,  in 
particular,  this  crisis  has  led  to  a  significant  drop  in 
export  commodity  prices,  declining  currency  reserves, 
the growing cost of imports, with a depreciation of the 
national currency, declining growth rates and a decline 
in budget and tax revenues. 

The  consequences  of  this  turn  of  events  are 
considerable.  This  crisis  has  led  to  a  shortfall  in 
resources  to  finance  infrastructure.  It  has  led  to  broad 
job loss, worsening of social conflict, and, particularly 
at  a  time  when  we  are  coming  out  of  a  complex 
conflict,  a  shrinking  budget  to  finance  the  necessary 
restoration  of  State  authority  throughout  the  national 
territory  in  order  to  complete  the  establishment  of 
peace.  It  is  urgently  necessary  therefore  to  review  the 
international financial system. 
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  aware 

that  we  will  need  colossal  resources 
to  ensure 
sustainable  development  in  a  world  context  that  has 
seen  surging  food  and  energy  prices  and  a  global 
financial  crisis. These phenomena  are compounded by 
the  effects  of  climate  change.  That  is  why  I  welcome 
the holding by the Secretary-General on 22 September 
2009 of the high-level event on this issue. If we do not 
make  decisions  on  the  fate  of  present  and  future 
generations with respect to global warming and climate 
change  and  if  we  are  not  able  to  prevent  rising  sea 
levels,  desertification  or  the  extinction  of  species  and 
the  loss  of  biodiversity,  inter  alia,  our  world  will 
inevitably  move  towards  the  risk  of  a  disaster  for 
which the African continent will be the first to bear the 
costs.  

The  issue  of  adopting  a  post-Kyoto  agreement 
that  would  require  polluter  countries  to  reduce  their 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  and  financially  compensate 
those who have forests needs to be seriously considered. 

The Democratic Republic of the Congo accounts 
for  more  than  half  of  the  forests  in  the  Congo  basin, 
which  is  the  second  largest  in  the  world  after  the 
Amazon region. This area has an enormous asset that it 
will  defend  at  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change, scheduled for December 2009 in Copenhagen.  
09-52598 

33 
Regardless  of 
the  outcome  of 
A/64/PV.11 


With  respect  to  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  agrees 
with the view that the current United Nations system is 
no  longer,  in  its  current  design,  in  keeping  with  the 
expectations of those who promote it or even with the 
letter  of  Charter,  which  is  its  inspiration. That  is  why 
we  would  like  to  reiterate  our  plea  for  the  full 
representation of Africa in the decision-making bodies, 
and more specifically in the Security Council.  

the  current 
negotiations on this matter, my delegation continues to 
be  of  the  view  that  any  viable  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  must  take  into  account  the  political  and 
numerical  weight  of  Africa  in  the  General  Assembly, 
especially since two thirds of the situations before the 
Security Council involve Africa.  

With  respect  to  the  responsibility  to  protect,  we 
believe that it is up to each State to protect its people 
from genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity or 
ethnic  cleansing.  We  are  also  of  the  view  that  the 
principal  role  of  the  international  community  in  these 
areas should be to determine how to build institutional 
capacities  and provide substantial assistance to States, 
more specifically to the Administrations of countries in 
post-conflict  situations,  so  that  they  can  acquire  the 
means to ensure that they have the resources to provide 
this protection.  

I  have  very  succinctly  addressed  the  major 
challenges  that  today’s  world  faces  and  for  which  we 
need to build a common response. I have talked about 
reform  of 
the 
responsibility  to  protect.  I  have  not  addressed  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  or  the  troubled 
region of the African Great Lakes. Three years after the 
success  of  the  electoral  operations  in  2006,  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo is now, at long last, 
facing  the  trying  process  of  normalizing  democratic 
life. We understand that restoring the rule of law is an 
urgent priority. 

In  that  context,  peace  and  stability  can  only 
persist  if  the  citizens  realize  that  politically  sensitive 
issues  can  be  resolved  by  legitimate  and  fair  means. 
The  rule  of  law  cannot  go  hand  in  hand  with 
corruption.  It  is  no  exaggeration  to  assert  that  the 
efforts  initiated  recently  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic  and  the  Government  to  fight  corruption  and 
to  put  an  end  to  the  rule  of  impunity  have  begun  to 
bear fruit. However, we accept that much remains to be 
the  United  Nations  and  about 

experience  of 
The  Congolese 
done  in  terms  of  capacity-building  to  ensure  proper 
administration of justice. 

the  2006 
democratic elections was built on a difficult legacy of 
the  dark  years  of  foreign  occupation  followed  by  an 
internal  rift,  the  consequences  of  which  are  still  seen 
today  in  the  ongoing  use  of  rape  as  a  weapon  of  war. 
To  address 
that  situation,  at  the  request  of  the 
Congolese  authorities,  the  first  investigation  of  the 
International Criminal Court began by considering the 
serious crimes that had been committed on the territory 
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo since 1 July 
2002.  The  rest  is  well  known:  the  first  three  cases 
before  the  International  Criminal  Court  are  based  on 
that submission and the national courts have also been 
called upon to work on those issues. 

The  Congolese  courts  currently  involved  are 
certainly already playing an important role in restoring 
the rule of law, but a successful transition from war to 
peace, from a divided past to a shared future, cannot be 
envisaged for the people of the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo without a mechanism that can bring a sense 
of justice to all citizens, establish or renew civic trust, 
restore  the  duty  of  memory  and  reconcile  the  people 
and the communities. 

The  sexual  violence  perpetrated  against  women 
and girls in the eastern part of Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo  is,  in  our  view,  the  most  shameful  and 
gravest  crime  witnessed  by  humankind  in  the  twenty-
first  century.  Statistically,  80  per  cent  of  the  crimes 
committed  in  the  entire  country  took  place  mainly  in 
the  two  provinces  in  the  East  of  the  country  most 
affected by the effects of war, namely South and North 
Kivu. In fact, 60 per cent of the rapes were committed 
in  North  Kivu  and  20  per  cent  in  South  Kivu.  Justice 
must  be  done  to  the  women  and  girls  who  have  been 
raped. 

I  can  already  attest  to  the  strong  resolve  of  His 
Excellency President Joseph Kabila Kabange to put an 
end  to  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  those  heinous 
crimes,  whether  civilian  or  military.  Despite 
the 
apocalyptic  picture,  the  situation  that  persists  in  the 
East of my country continues to improve. 

In conformity with the relevant provisions of the 
Pact  on  Security,  Stability  and  Development  in  the 
Great  Lakes  Region,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo, working with Rwanda and Uganda respectively, 
launched  joint  military  operations  last  year  and  early 
34 

09-52598 
their  country  of  origin;  all 


this  year  with  a  view  to  disarming  and,  where 
necessary,  forcing  the  rebels  of  the  Lord’s  Resistance 
Army,  on  the  one  hand,  and  those  of  the  Forces 
démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR), on the 
other, to return to their respective countries. As part of 
the  same  military  operations,  called  Kimia  II,  the 
Forces  armées  de  la  République  démocratique  du 
Congo (FARDC) are carrying out an offensive against 
the  elements  of  the  FDLR  that  have  remained  in  the 
mountains  of  South  Kivu,  in  order  to  bring  peace  to 
that region.  

The  results,  I  repeat,  are  positive.  By  way  of 
illustration, the authority of the State has been restored; 
the  FDLR  command  posts  in  North  and  South  Kivu 
have been destroyed; more and more FDLR troops are 
surrendering to the FARDC and to the United Nations 
Observer  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  (MONUC);  several  FDLR  elements  have 
returned 
the 
communication  and  supply  lines  in  North  and  South 
Kivu  are  now  open;  the  fight  against  the  illegal 
exploitation  of  natural  resources  and  the  protection  of 
Virunga National Park have been strengthened; and the 
incidents of rape and all other forms of sexual violence 
against women have seen an appreciable decline.  

Peace  is  gradually  being  established  to  the  great 
benefit  of  the  Congolese  people.  Moreover,  fruitful 
talks aimed at benefiting our bilateral and multilateral 
relations with Burundi, Uganda and Rwanda are under 
way, and the future looks better. 

The  return  to  normalcy  in  our  subregion  is 
enabling  us 
the  urgent 
peacebuilding  and  economic  recovery  of  the  country. 
As 
to 
underscore, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has 
resolutely  undertaken  to  strengthen  and  promote  the 
ideals of national reconciliation, peace, democracy and 
good  governance  within 
is 
unquestionably  committed  to  a  policy  of  openness 
without  exclusion  based  on  dialogue  and  cooperation 
of  all  kinds  with  all  countries  that  favour  peace  and 
dialogue.  Our  wish  today  is  to  see  the  international 
community  step  up  its  efforts  and  continue  to  support 
the process of bringing about peace and unity. 

On the elections, my country is preparing to hold 
city, municipal and local elections, which represents a 
great meeting of the people with its history. The steps 
the  Republic  continues 
the  President  of 
to  make  efforts 
towards 
to 
its  borders, 
and 
A/64/PV.11
the  reoccurrence  of 
to  update  the  national  register  of  the  Independent 
Electoral Commission started in the first half of 2009.  

The Democratic Republic of the Congo is already 
involved in the reform of its institutions. It is important 
to  conclude  those  various  reforms,  in  particular  in  the 
area  of  the  administration  of  justice.  The  Congolese 
justice system will be more effective and efficient if it 
has  the  international  community’s  support,  especially 
in terms of capacity-building. 

Reform of the security system is also under way. 
The reform of the army and police services has had the 
consistent  support  of  bilateral  partners  and  of  the 
United  Nations  through  MONUC,  its  Mission  in  the 
Congo. My country is firmly committed to working to 
successfully  conclude  that  reform  aimed  at  ensuring 
not  only  its  peace,  unity,  territorial  integrity,  national 
sovereignty  and  stability  but  also  those  of  the  entire 
subregion  by  preventing 
the 
security problems and tensions seen there. 

In  addition,  the  Government  is  doing  its  utmost, 
through duly identified ways to increase prosperity, to 
implement  programmes  in  order  to  meet  the  basic 
needs of the people, in particular on health, education, 
food  self-sufficiency,  basic  infrastructure,  electricity 
and  drinking  water  for  all,  not  to  mention,  of  course, 
the  fight  against  malaria  and  HIV/AIDS  as  well  as 
poverty alleviation.  

Like other post-conflict countries, the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo underscores the urgent need to 
organize  and  hold  an  international  conference  on  the 
financing of its reconstruction as soon as possible. For 
us,  it  is  a  question  of  building  a  new  Congo,  a  nation 
opening up to the world at the centre of a continent full 
of  change,  a  country  where  every 
foreigner, 
indiscriminately, can be free, assured of the protection 
of  his  investments,  to  work  for  his  better  future.  All 
that foreigners do to contribute to our development will 
be duly acknowledged and appreciated. 
Emerging  from  a  long  war  with  many  outside 

implications,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
my  country,  is  fully  aware  of  the  importance  of 
regional  cooperation.  The  most  fervent  wish  of  the 
Congolese  people  is  to  restore  relations  of  trust  and 
cooperation with all its neighbours, without exception. 
The  Government 
to  pursue  a  policy  of 
dialogue,  openness,  friendship,  cooperation  and  good-
neighbourliness,  because 
the  country  has  always 
strived to work to bring about a more united Africa that 
intends 
09-52598 

35 

A/64/PV.11 

stands  together,  distinct  in  its  greater  understanding, 
tolerance, peace and solidarity.  

By way of  conclusion,  allow me to reiterate  that 
so much war and fratricidal violence has taught us that 
the most expensive peace is still less onerous than the 
cheapest  war.  In  this  regard,  I  appeal  for  international 
solidarity  during  this  stage  of  building  our  hard-won 
peace,  for  a  peaceful  and  stable  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo  is  an  asset  to  our  planet’s  common 
destiny. 
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not  conclude  my 

statement without thanking once again all those whose 
commitment,  courage  and  determination  have  helped 
and continue to help my country embrace the concepts 
of  negotiation  and  peaceful  settlement  of  crisis  by 
casting aside war and the use of force. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Yousef Bin Al-Alawi Bin Abdulla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Sultanate of Oman. 
Mr.  Abdulla  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 

me  at  the  outset,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  to 
congratulate  you  and  your  fraternal  country,  the  Great 
Socialist  People’s  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session.  We  are  confident 
that  your 
experience and knowledge of the role and influence of 
the United Nations in international relations will play a 
great part in the success of the work of this session. I 
also take this opportunity to express our thanks to your 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann  of  friendly  Nicaragua,  for  his  excellent 
efforts  in  guiding  the  work  of  the  previous  session.  I 
wish  also  to  express  our  appreciation  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his tireless efforts to enhance 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Organization’s  machinery.  We 
wish him every success. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  United  Nations  has 
achieved  much  during  its  more  than  60  years  of  joint 
international  action.  Its  achievements  have  made  a 
positive 
of 
international peace and security. The Organization has 
provided  technical  assistance  to  developing  countries 
in their socio-economic development projects, and has 
helped to reach consensus on many political issues and 
conflicts, 
the  development  of 
international peacekeeping mechanisms. 
the  maintenance 
contribution 
to 
contributing 
to 
indeed  help 

And yet the Palestinian issue remains unresolved 
despite  all  the  efforts  of  Arab  countries  and  the 
international  community.  We  believe  that  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative  and  international  peace  efforts  are  the 
most appropriate way to settle the Arab-Israeli conflict 
on the basis of an end to occupation, the return of Arab 
lands  occupied  since  1967,  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  Palestinian  State  on  the  West  Bank  and 
Gaza  Strip  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital  and  the 
removal  of  all  the  illegal  and  illegitimate  Israeli 
settlements.  This  would 
to  achieve 
peaceful coexistence and positive cooperation between 
Arab States and Israel, and would contribute greatly to 
opening  new  horizons  of  cooperation,  progress  and 
development in the region and the world at large. Peace 
based  on  those  principles  would  be  one  of  the  most 
important achievements of the people of the region and 
would pave the way towards ending regional crises and 
eradicating the root causes of terrorism. 
We  thus  call  on  Israel  to  seize  the  historic 

Initiative  and  join  the  efforts  to  establish  a  just  and 
comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East,  one  that 
would  bring  security  and  peaceful  coexistence  to  all 
the States and peoples of  the region. Squandering this 
historic  opportunity  would  constitute  a  grave  loss  for 
the Israeli people, and we would all regret it. 

We welcome the recent positive developments in 
Iraq. We hope that such developments will continue in 
order  to  achieve  security  and  stability  in  that  country, 
contribute to the success of the comprehensive national 
reconciliation  efforts  and  help  establish  positive, 
cooperative  relations  with  neighbouring  countries, 
allowing Iraq to resume its distinct positive role in the 
region at all levels. 

We  look  forward  to  positive  results  from  the 
Darfur peace talks, to be held in Doha, Qatar, between 
the  Sudanese  Government  and  the  Darfur  opposition. 
We  hope  that  the  parties  concerned  can  build  a 
framework  for  a  political  agreement  that  would  help 
realize  security,  stability  and  development  in  Darfur. 
We also welcome the policies of Sheikh Sharif Sheikh 
Ahmed,  President  of 
the  Transitional  Federal 
Government  of  brotherly  Somalia,  and  his  efforts  to 
achieve  peace  in  his  country.  We  urge  all  of  our 
brethren  and  all  factions  in  Somalia  to  renounce 
violence and embrace dialogue. We support international 
efforts  to  combat  piracy  and  armed  robbery  against 
commercial ships off the coast of the Horn of Africa. 
36 

09-52598 
to 
increase 
investment 



We  welcome  the  continued  cooperation  between 
the friendly Islamic Republic of Iran, the international 
community  and 
the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency. In this respect, we see some positive signs that 
could lead to a sound diplomatic solution. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  efforts  exerted  by  the 
rich  industrialized  nations  to  restore  stability  and 
balance to the international capital markets have begun 
to  bear  fruit.  This  could  lead  to  the  recovery  of  the 
world economy. We believe more international effort is 
needed to reach consensus in the Doha Round of trade 
negotiations,  taking  into  account  the  interests  of  all 
States,  including  the  developing  countries.  In  light  of 
the serious shortages of food, water and medicine from 
which  many  countries  are  suffering,  we  urge  the  rich 
industrialized  countries 
in 
agriculture  research,  food  security  and  the  supply  of 
water and medicine,  for these have  a direct impact on 
humankind.  

It  is  also  our  hope  that  the  Climate  Change 
Conference to be held in Copenhagen at the end of the 
year  will  adopt  a  long-term  plan  to  protect  the 
environment  and  reduce  harmful  carbon  dioxide 
emissions.  

Mr.  Viinanen  (Finland),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our  deep 

thanks  and  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  his  efforts  in  leading  the  work  of  this 
session.  We  urge  all  Member  States  to  take  the 
necessary  practical  measures 
reach 
consensus on all the issues on our agenda. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  The  Honourable  Wilfred  Elrington, 
Attorney  General,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Foreign Trade of Belize. 
Mr.  Elrington  (Belize):  Please  permit  me  to 

congratulate  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  on  behalf  of 
the Prime Minister, Government and people of Belize, 
on  having  assumed  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session  and  to  wish  him 
every  success  in  his  stewardship.  Permit  me  also  to 
extend my Government’s thanks to Mr. Miguel d’Escoto 
Brockmann  for  his  excellent  stewardship  of  the  work 
of the sixty-third session of the General Assembly. 
Belize  is  pleased  to  discharge  its  obligation  by 

participating  in  the  general  debate  of  the  sixty-fourth 
to  help  us 
A/64/PV.11
remittances, 
regular session of the General Assembly on the theme 
“Effective  responses  to  global  crises:  strengthening 
multilateralism  and  dialogue  among  civilizations  for 
international peace, security and development”. 
Just  over  one  week  ago,  we  celebrated  the 

twenty-eighth  anniversary  of  our 
independence. 
Joining  us  in  the  celebrations  were  members  of  the 
diplomatic  core  drawn  from  the  four  corners  of  the 
globe.  And  even  as  we  made  merry,  our  collective 
minds were silently cogitating upon the crises that are 
threatening  to  destroy  our  collective  way  of  life  and, 
indeed, the very planet which sustains us. 

All  indications  are  that  the  aftershocks  of  the 
global  economic  crisis  have  now  begun  to  affect 
Belize’s  real  economy.  We  are  experiencing  declining 
levels of revenue, a worrying reduction in productivity, 
diminishing 
crushing  debt-servicing 
obligations,  unrelenting  budgetary  pressures  and  a 
drying up of resources on which to draw.  

These challenges are aggravated by other ills that 
plague  our  day-to-day  existence.  Annually,  we  are 
threatened  by  hurricanes  and  floods  of  ever  greater 
intensity, which reduce the yields of our farmers, erode 
our  beaches  and  wash  away  vital 
infrastructure. 
Warmer seas damage our great barrier reef and impair 
its  capacity  to  incubate  and  nurture  the  fish  and  other 
marine  organisms  that  depend  upon  a  healthy  reef 
system for their survival. Illicit traffickers in drugs and 
arms  penetrate  our  borders  at  will,  leaving  drug 
addicts,  broken 
and 
destruction in their wake. Our population is also being 
ravaged  by  HIV/AIDS.  Other  non-communicable 
chronic 
pandemic 
proportions. All these crises have placed the attainment 
of the Millennium Development Goals in Belize in real 
jeopardy. 

The globalization that was the tide to lift all boats 
has not been so even. Its networks of interdependence 
have  compounded  how  we  as  national  Governments 
can  secure  the  basic  needs  of  our  people.  Its  evolving 
system  of  global  governance  is  unresponsive  to  the 
cares  and  concerns  of  middle-income  countries  like 
ours,  for  despite  the  devastating  impact  it  is  having 
upon  our  economies,  we  are  yet  to  be  invited  to  the 
table  to  participate  in  the  discussion  on  the  global 
economic  crisis.  Our  pleas  for  an  ambitious  climate 
agreement  are  yet 
to  be  honoured  with  serious 
contemplation in the current negotiations, although the 
families,  violence,  death 
approaching 
diseases 
are 
09-52598 

37 
structural 
engendered 
relationships 
A/64/PV.11 

viability of our countries hangs in the balance, and the 
global  commitment  of  a  development-oriented  trade 
round seems to have been perfunctorily relegated to the 
annals  of  trade-negotiating  history.  Our  demands, 
although  ceremoniously  acknowledged  in  countless 
resolutions  and  declarations,  remain  unceremoniously 
unmet. 

If we are to define an effective global response to 
the  converging  global  challenges  that  confront  us,  we 
must first examine how we are governed. While we, as 
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations,  have  endorsed 
the principle of sovereign equality, it is apparent from 
the 
in  our 
institutions  that  the  principle  is  honoured  more  in  the 
breach than in the observance. The United Nations has 
its  Security  Council  and  the  Permanent  Five;  the 
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have 
their  weighted  voting 
the  World  Trade 
Organization  has  its  green  room.  In  the  larger  global 
arena,  we  have  a  proliferation  of  convenient 
groupings — the Group of Six, the Group of Seven, the 
Group  of  Eight,  the  Group  of  Twenty  and  the  Major 
Economies Forum, to name but a few. The club model 
of cooperation is deeply entrenched in our multilateral 
system. 

While  we  cannot  deny  that  this  model  has 
facilitated  some  decisions  and  agreements,  we  also 
cannot ignore the costs associated with that facilitation. 
This  model  of  global  governance  has  progressively 
accumulated a debt of trust and confidence among the 
wider  international  community  not  only  as  a  result  of 
its  manner  of  exclusive  decision-making,  but  also 
because  of  the  lack  of  implementation  of  global 
decisions  and  agreements.  The  club  model  of 
multilateral  cooperation  suffers  from  a  crisis  of 
legitimacy. 

If we accept that we operate as sovereign equals, 
we  cannot  continue  to  acquiesce  to  governance  by  a 
few.  We  must  accept  nothing 
than  equal 
that  regard,  we  recognize  and 
representation.  In 
applaud our brothers from the South who have, through 
their  economic  prowess  and  political  deftness,  taken 
the  mantle  of  leadership  in  some  international  issues. 
We  are  all  entitled  to  be  heard  and,  what  is  more,  we 
are  all  entitled  to  have  the  decisions  that  are  made 
reflect our concerns if not our demands. 

We need a new model for multilateral cooperation 
framework in which all nations have meaningful input 
less 
and 

their 
impact  on 
interests.  This 
into the decision-making process on issues that have a 
direct 
requires 
fundamental  structural  reform  and  not  mere  cursory 
efforts  for  technocratic  coherence.  Given  the  far-
reaching  geopolitical  consequences  that  the  global 
economic  crisis  has  touched  off,  we  now  have  the 
perfect  opportunity  to  redress  the  shortcomings  of  the 
exclusive  club  model,  thereby  restoring  trust  and 
confidence in our multilateral institutions. The time for 
inclusive multilateralism is now upon us. 

Allow me to now address some of the issues that 
bear upon the immediate interests of my people and my 
country,  Belize.  Belize  falls  within  the  World  Bank 
category  of  middle-income  countries.  Middle-income 
countries play a pivotal role in the global economy and 
in  global  politics.  We  account  for  some  two  thirds  of 
the  world’s  population.  Our  economies  provide 
important  and  growing  sources  of  export  demand  and 
investment  opportunities.  Some  economies  of  middle-
income  countries  are  now  even  big  enough  to  create 
systemic risks in global financial markets. On strategic 
issues,  middle-income  countries  have  not  infrequently 
emerged  as  key  players,  and  one  half  of  the  world’s 
protected areas are to be found in our countries.  

Still,  poverty  remains  prevalent  in  our  countries. 
Some three quarters of the world’s poor live in middle-
income  countries.  We  also  account  for  an  estimated 
47 per cent of global carbon dioxide emissions.  

Given  the  aforementioned,  it  is  evident  that 
whatever  happens  in  middle-income  countries  affects 
the entire world for better or for worse. For this reason, 
if  for  no  other,  it  is  in  the  interest  of  the  world 
community 
remain 
viable, vibrant and dynamic. 
In order for that to happen, however, bilateral and 

multilateral  institutions  must  redefine  the  terms  of 
engagement  with  our  countries.  Rather  than  focusing 
on  per  capita  income,  a  needs-based  analysis  is 
necessary.  Financing  arrangements  that  tend  towards 
the  short  and  medium  term  must  also  be  revisited.  In 
order  to  build  capacity,  improve  our  institutions  and 
spur  economic  growth,  we  need  direct  fiscal  and 
budgetary support. Moreover, in view of the high ratio 
of  debt-to-gross-domestic-product  (GDP)  in  many  of 
our  countries,  which  has  been  further  exacerbated  by 
the  recent  global  economic  crisis, 
the  need  for 
concessionary  financing  and  debt  relief  is  ever  more 
critical. 
that  middle-income  countries 
38 

09-52598 



During  the  1980s  and  1990s,  the  integration  of 
markets  spurred  significant  growth  in  high-income 
nations,  while  low-income  nations  exploited  their 
comparative  advantage  in  cheap  labour.  However, 
middle-income  countries  had  neither  advantage  in 
knowledge nor low-wage products and consequently, in 
real terms,  experienced economic stagnation. Many of 
us  were  forced 
to  embark  upon  a  process  of 
diversification  to  ensure  our  continued  growth  and 
development. 

Therefore, in  the early 1990s, Belize made rapid 
strides in building up its international financial services 
industry.  We  did  so  in  accordance  with  the  best 
practices  of  the  industry  internationally,  and  we  were 
guided every step of the way by the recommendations 
of  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development (OECD). As a country whose GDP is just 
over $1 billion, the contribution of this industry to our 
economy  is  significant.  A  large  percentage  of  the 
deposits from the international banking sector has been 
used  to  finance  development  projects,  support  our 
citrus  industry  and  commercial  free  zone  and  export 
processing  zone  businesses,  which  account  for  some 
$1 billion worth of investments in our country.  

Furthermore,  since  this  sector  finances  only 
foreign  exchange  earning  businesses,  it  enables  the 
generation  of  millions  of  dollars  in  foreign  exchange 
that  directly  supports  our  fixed  exchange  rate  system. 
It  is  also  a  source  for  the  creation  of  relatively  high-
quality jobs for many Belizeans. On the whole, in 2008 
the  international  financial  services  industry  accounted 
for some 9 per cent of Belize’s GDP and 10 per cent of 
its gross imports. 

Considering the vital role that this industry plays 
in the Belizean economy, ensuring its integrity is in our 
best 
regulatory 
framework 
its 
for 
reinforcement. We have also made commitments to the 
OECD  to  improve  transparency  and  establish  an 
effective  exchange  of  information.  But  now,  in  the 
midst  of  an  economic  crisis  that  had  its  origin  in  the 
financial  markets  of  the  developed  world,  the  Group  
of  20  (G-20)  finds  it  convenient  to  reactivate  its 
harmful  tax  initiative  at  the  expense  —  and  to  the 
disadvantage  —  of  an 
so 
painstakingly and carefully groomed into a productive 
sector of our economy. 
interests.  We  have  developed  a 
legislation 
industry  we  have 
enacted 
and 
A/64/PV.11
to  applaud 

Beyond the calls for reform, we have heard some 
G-20  members  call  for  a  complete  annihilation  of  the 
industry. If that were to occur, I shudder to think of the 
suffering  and  hardship  it  would  occasion  for  our 
country  and  people.  We  are  convinced  that  a  more 
equitable  and  effective  way  to  address  the  issue  of 
offshore financial services is through a mechanism for 
multilateral cooperation in which all States participate 
on an equal footing. 

Climate  change  poses  perhaps  the  most  serious 
threat  to  our  sustainable  development  and  viability.  I 
need  not  remind  the  Assembly  of 
the  emerging 
scientific  evidence,  which  prognosticates  more  rapid 
climate  change  and  sea-level  rise.  Let  me  take  this 
opportunity 
the  Secretary-General  for 
making  climate  change  a  priority  and  for  convening 
last week’s Summit. The urgency of a global response 
to  this  issue  is  inescapable.  We  welcome  the  various 
national  and  regional  efforts  to  construct  mechanisms 
to address climate change and its impact. In our region, 
Belize  hosts 
the  Caribbean  Community  Climate 
Change  Centre,  which  has  benefited  from  the  support 
of 
international  community  and  has  been 
recognized as a centre of excellence.  

However, we know all too well from the impacts 
we  are  observing  today  that  piecemeal  action  is  not 
sufficient. 
fact,  notwithstanding  national  and 
regional  action,  global  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
continue  to  increase.  We  can  only  begin  to  respond 
effectively  to  this  problem  by  agreeing  to  implement 
ambitious mitigation targets and increasing our support 
for 
island 
developing  States  and  other  particularly  vulnerable 
coastal  countries  are  already  experiencing  dangerous 
climate  change,  avoiding  adverse  effects  on  these 
especially  vulnerable 
the 
benchmark  for  determining  our  targets  and  our  levels 
of  support.  In  that  regard,  the  prophetic  words  of  the 
President  of  the  Maldives  resonate  with  good  reason: 
“If  you  can’t  save  the  Maldives  today  you  can’t  save 
yourself tomorrow.” 

Building  upon  the  momentum  of  the  much-
proclaimed new era of engagement, we are hopeful that 
longstanding  issues  on  the  international  peace  and 
security  agenda  may  achieve  progress.  In  some  cases, 
change is already afoot. Cross-Strait relations between 
Taiwan  and  China  have  improved  and,  for  the  first 
time,  Taiwan  has  participated  as  an  observer  at  the 
World  Health  Assembly.  Haiti  held  elections  earlier 
adaptation.  Considering 
should  be 
countries 
that 
small 
the 
In 
09-52598 

39 

A/64/PV.11 

this  year,  in  a  relatively  peaceful  and  orderly  fashion. 
After  47  years,  the  Organization  of  American  States 
has now lifted Cuba’s suspension from that body. 

We welcome these developments and expect that 
they signal a change in approach that will allow for the 
full integration of our sisterly nations of Taiwan, Haiti 
and  Cuba  into  their  rightful  place  in  the  international 
community. However, for that integration to occur, we 
must find an appropriate way for Taiwan to participate 
in  the  activities  of  the  specialized  agencies  of  the 
United Nations, we must sustain our support for Haiti 
and  we  must  urge  that  efforts  be  made  to  end  the 
anachronistic embargo against Cuba. 

In  cases  where  processes  have  stalled,  let  us 
renew our engagement. We cannot fail in realizing the 
vision of two States, Israel and Palestine, living side by 
side  within  secure  and  recognized  borders.  We  also 
cannot  fail  in  resolving  the  political  stalemate  in  our 
neighbour country of Honduras. Peace and security are 
not options, they are imperatives. 

My  Government  is  committed  to  securing  just 
and lasting peace for our people. Last year, we happily 
concluded  a  special  agreement  with  Guatemala  that 
will  pave  the  way  for  the  referral  of  the  Guatemalan 
territorial  claim  to  our  country  to  the  International 
Court  of  Justice.  A  preliminary  and  critical  phase  is 
upon  us,  in  which  we  must  prepare  our  people  to 
determine  by  referendum  whether  the  case  shall  be 
referred.  My  Government 
a 
comprehensive  public  education  campaign  to  raise 
awareness  and  ensure  that,  when  our  people  decide, 
they  will  do  so  having  been  fully  informed  of  the 
issues. We  are approaching what  could be a definitive 
moment in our history. 
the 

governance dilemma — to govern and to be governed. 
that  we  
What 
as  developing  countries  —  and  small  States 
in 
particular  —  have  made  is  that  we  want  to  have  a 
meaningful role in the governance of our affairs at the 
international  level. We  want  to  have  meaningful  input 
into  the  solutions  that  are  being  crafted  for  the 
problems that we face and of which, in some cases, we 
bear the disproportionate burden.  

For  us,  the  model  of  multilateral  cooperation 
must  be  imbued  with  legitimacy.  For  that  to  happen, 
we  must  work  for  a  more  inclusive  process.  Twenty-
first  century  challenges  require  a  new  dynamic  for 
I  began  my  statement  by  addressing 
the  demands 
is  consistent 
beginning 
in 
is 
of 
legal 
assert 
institutions, 
the  United  Nations” 
international relations, one that must be inclusive and, 
dare  I  say,  democratic. The  United  Nations  Charter  is 
founded  upon  the  premise  of  democracy.  “We  the 
peoples 
our 
determination not only to be governed by the principles 
set  out  in  the  Charter  but  also  to  govern  by  these 
principles. 

As such, the Charter itself vests in us a role in our 
own governance. We in Belize accept that role, and we 
are  thus  empowered,  notwithstanding  the  pressing 
challenges in satisfying the basic needs of our people, 
to  return  our  country 
to  a  path  of  sustainable 
development.  No  effort  will  be  spared  to  draw  upon 
our  limited  resources  as  well  as  other  available 
resources to invest in our human resources, to improve 
our  political  and 
to  support 
traditional  and  niche  industries,  to  practise  fiscal 
responsibility  and 
to  protect  and  preserve  our 
environment for present and future generations. 

We  solemnly  agree  that  our  development  is  our 
own  responsibility.  We  welcome  the  support  of  the 
international  community  in  the  spirit  of  multilateral 
cooperation  as  we  take  action  to  achieve  our  high 
aspirations. 

The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  George  Yeo,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Singapore. 

Mr.  Yeo  (Singapore):  When  we  met  here  last 
year,  financial  institutions  such  as  Lehman  Brothers 
and American  International  Group  (AIG)  were  falling 
like  tenpins.  For  weeks,  credit  froze  as  perceptions  of 
risk  shot  up.  The  global  financial  system  went  into 
seizure.  National  Governments 
took  emergency 
measures  to  rescue  banks  and  keep  credit  lines  open. 
The  United  States  Treasury  and  the  United  States 
Federal  Reserve, 
reacted  with 
extraordinary boldness. For a period of time, it seemed 
as if everyone was flying blind. 
After  a  year,  the  situation  no  longer  looks  as 

bleak  today.  In  fact,  after  a  sharp  contraction  of  the 
advanced economies in the first half of this year, there 
are signs of a recovery. Some of the leading indicators 
are  flashing  positive  again  and  the  next  two  quarters 
will  probably  register  good  growth  globally.  Whether 
this  growth  can  be  sustained  is,  however,  a  different 
question. 
particular, 
in 
40 

09-52598 
to  dwarf 
the 
expectation 
institutions, 
guaranteeing 
relief.  First, 
financial  sector  grew 



It  would  be  a  mistake  to  think  that  the  global 
economic  crisis  will  soon  be  over.  The  crisis  came 
about because of excesses and imbalances which have 
to  be  put  right.  Looking  back,  we  know  that  the 
excesses  were  the  result  of  inadequate  regulation  of 
banks  and  quasi-banking  institutions.  Over  the  years, 
clever  minds  turned  non-banks  into  de  facto  ones 
which  were  not  regulated  as  conventional  banks. This 
unregulated 
the 
regulated sector. 

To  forestall  collapse  when  the  bubble  burst, 
Governments  and  regulators  stepped  in  taking  over 
financial 
liabilities, 
increasing  public  spending  and  pumping  liquidity  into 
the economy. These are emergency measures which are 
needed  to  get  the  global  economy  through  a  critical 
phase.  They  have  stabilized  the  financial  sector  and 
prevented  the  real  economy  from  being  too  badly 
affected. 

However,  as  when  steroids  are  administered  to 
reduce inflammation, there is a price to be paid for this 
temporary 
that 
Governments will step in when things go badly wrong 
creates  a  huge  moral  hazard.  Once  Governments  set  a 
bottom  limit  to  the  consequences  of  risk-taking,  more 
risks will be taken in the future. 

Secondly,  the  huge  increase  in  global  liquidity 
has  slowed  down  or  reversed  the  fall  in  inflated  asset 
prices.  Worldwide  stock  markets  have  benefited  from 
easy  money.  In  Asia,  property  markets  are  booming 
again even though the real economy is still struggling. 
Withdrawing liquidity without destabilizing economies 
and asset markets in the coming months and years will 
be a tricky business. 
And thirdly, the emergency measures which have 

been  taken  reduce  the  need  for  painful  restructuring. 
Yet  without  major  restructuring  of  regulatory  systems 
and  businesses,  the  imbalances  which  created  the 
conditions for the crisis in the first place can only get 
worse. 

While  excesses  in  the  financial  sector  were  the 
trigger  of  the  crisis,  the  deeper  underlying  cause  was 
the global imbalance between producers and consumers 
and between saving and consumption. For too long, the 
world  depended  on  the  United  States  consumers 
keeping  global  demand  high  and  on  lending  those 
consumers  the  money  to  keep  the  game  going.  To 
correct  this  imbalance, Asians  have  to  consume  more 
A/64/PV.11
and  save  less  as  a  proportion  of  income,  while 
Americans  have  to  consume  less  and  save  more. 
Otherwise,  a  global  Keynesian  paradox  of  thrift  will 
cause the global economy to operate below capacity. 

Rebalancing the global economy is, however, not 
a simple matter at all, and is not only about economics: 
it  is  also  deeply  political.  The  rise  of Asia  is  altering 
the  global  power  structure.  Nothing  expresses  this 
more  than  the  complex  relationship  that  now  ties  the 
United  States  and  China  together.  China,  with  its 
reserves  of  over  $2  trillion,  is  heavily  invested  in  the 
United  States  dollar,  making  it  a  major  stakeholder  in 
the United States economy. Without continuing market 
confidence  in  the  United  States  dollar,  not  just  the 
United States economy, but the entire global economy 
will be put at risk. 

Looking  ahead,  however,  it  is  not  going  to  be  a 
bipolar  world  but  a  multi-polar  world.  Europe  and 
Japan  will  remain  heavyweights.  India,  Russia,  Brazil 
and  others  will  become  more  significant  players.  A 
multi-polar  world  means  a  messier  world  with  a 
diversity  of  political  systems,  values  and  worldviews. 
Non-State  actors  like  civil  society  organizations  must 
increasingly  be  engaged. At  the  same  time,  we  are  all 
members  of  the  same  human  family  sharing  the  same 
planet.  Looking  ahead,  we  will  need  more  effective 
global  governance  across  a  wide  range  of  issues  from 
protection  of  human  rights  and  international  financial 
regulation  to  efforts  to  combat  pandemics,  climate 
change and terrorism. 

The  greatest  challenge  confronting  us  today  is 
that of ensuring effective global governance. We do not 
want  a  global  Government  but  we  do  need  better 
coordination,  cooperation  and  enforcement  in  many 
areas. The reform of the United Nations, including the 
United Nations Security Council, is going to take time. 
Incremental  rather  than  dramatic  change  is  a  more 
practical approach. 

the  World  Trade 
Organization, while far from perfect, can still function 
well  with  effective  political  leadership.  Once  that 
leadership is supplied, the Doha Round of negotiations 
can  be  concluded  within  the  next  few  years.  We  are 
fortunate  to  have  in  Pascal  Lamy  a  strong  Director-
General  at  the  helm.  But  this  is  a  dangerous  period 
because  domestic  politics  in  many  countries  favour 
greater protectionism. At all regional and international 
terms  of  world 
trade, 
In 
09-52598 

41 

A/64/PV.11 

forums,  we  must  take  a  clear  collective  stand  against 
protectionism. 

Climate  change  is  a  long-term  challenge  for 
humanity  which  needs  to  be  addressed  with  some 
urgency. While we cannot be sure how much increased 
carbon dioxide emissions will affect the global climate 
in  the  coming  decades  and  centuries,  it  would  be 
irresponsible for us in this generation not to start acting 
now.  The  increased  weather  volatility  we  have  been 
experiencing  in  recent  years  could  be  a  warning  of 
longer-term trends already under way. An international 
agreement on climate change which aligns our interests 
and  efforts  is  absolutely  necessary  to  preserve  this 
planet for future generations. 

For  that  reason,  we  must  redouble  efforts  to 
conclude negotiations for an international agreement at 
the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference at the end 
of this year. It is good that caring for the environment 
is  increasingly  becoming  a  moral  norm  in  the  world, 
especially  among  the  young.  We  must  not  fail  them. 
The  strong  political  commitment  expressed  by  many 
leaders  at  the  Summit  on  Climate  Change,  chaired  by 
the Secretary-General himself here last week, gives us 
reason for hope. 

The present economic crisis is a major challenge 
to  global  governance.  In  November  last  year,  then 
United States President George W. Bush convened the 
first  summit  of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20).  The  second 
meeting of leaders was held in London in April and the 
third  has  just  concluded  in  Pittsburgh  under  President 
Barack Obama’s chairmanship. The G-20 has now been 
designated 
international 
economic  cooperation,  replacing  the  Group  of  Eight 
(G-8). 
This G-20 process and the swift, decisive actions 

that  it  brought  about  have  helped  avert  an  economic 
depression  in  the  last  year.  The  emergency  measures 
taken  by  various  Governments  in  response  to  the 
financial  tsunami  have  bought  us  precious  time  to 
restructure  and  rebalance  the  global  economy.  In 
Pittsburgh, the G-20 leaders acknowledged that a sense 
of  normalcy  should  not  lead  to  complacency.  We 
welcome  their  pledge  to  adopt  policies  needed  for 
strong,  sustained  and  balanced  growth.  If  the  biggest 
economies do not persist in that effort — and persisting 
means  pain  for  domestic  constituencies  in  many 
countries — the respite we are now enjoying will lead 
the  premier 
forum 
for 
For 
the  G-20  process 
to  an  even  bigger  crisis,  this  time  possibly  involving 
foreign exchange markets as well. 

In  the  coming  months  and  years,  it  is  important 
for  the  G-20  process  to  develop  greater  legitimacy, 
especially  as  it  begins  to  deal  with  a  broader  set  of 
issues.  That  the  establishment  of  the  G-20  leaders 
meeting was not blessed by the United Nations or other 
existing international organizations should not hold us 
back  from  giving  it  full  support.  Although  the  G-20 
process  is  not  ideal,  it  is  the  most  important  driver  of 
change that we have right now.  

The United Nations itself is too intricate and not 
structured to deal with issues such as a major financial 
crisis. The old G-8 lacked representation, and the G-8 
Plus  was  not  acceptable  because  it  put  the  additional 
participants at a disadvantage. As for the International 
Monetary Fund, it was never designed to tackle a crisis 
of  such  scale.  In  any  case, 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions themselves need reform, which indeed is a 
major subject on the G-20 agenda. 

to  be  effective  and 
legitimate,  however,  it  is  not  enough  for  leaders  to 
confer  and  make  general  exhortations.  Ministers  and 
experts must also meet and go into details. They should 
not be confined to the same G-20 countries every time. 
We  need  variable  geometry 
in  membership.  For 
different  subjects,  there  could  be  different  groups  of 
participants, 
including  both  G-20  and  non-G-20 
countries.  The  views  of  small  States,  which  comprise 
the  majority  of  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  must 
not  be  ignored.  The  meetings  should  be  transparent. 
There  must  be  wide  consultations  so  that  those  not 
included in specific meetings can still table their views. 
Depending on the subject, those consultations can take 
place  at  the  United  Nations  or  at  one  of  the  other 
international organizations. 

Mindful  of  the  need  to  widen  participation, 
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown invited regional 
representatives, such as the Chair of the Association of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  the  Chair  of  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  and  the 
Chairperson  of  the African  Union  Commission,  to  the 
G-20  leaders  meeting  in  London  in  April  2009. 
President Obama followed this precedent in Pittsburgh. 
We in ASEAN certainly hope that the inclusion of the 
ASEAN  Chair  will  become  the  norm  at  future  G-20 
leaders  meetings.  It  is  right  that  the  United  Nations 
42 

09-52598 
included 
from 
the  very 


Secretary-General  was 
beginning. 

A balance has to be struck between effectiveness 
and  inclusiveness.  If  a  meeting  is  too  big,  it  becomes 
unwieldy  and  unworkable.  If  too  small,  it  lacks 
representation and legitimacy. As most Members of the 
United Nations are not in the G-20, it is important for 
us to have a say on the role the G-20 should play as an 
agent of change in global governance. While we should 
support  the  G-20  process,  we  should  do  so  in  a  way 
that ensures that our own interests as smaller States are 
taken into account. 

A  great  power  shift  is  taking  place  in  the  world. 
The  formal  establishment  of  the  G-20  as  a  new 
international  institution  last  week  marks  a  momentous 
new  beginning.  History  shows  that  power  shifts  never 
occur  smoothly.  Without  a  good  system  of  global 
governance, we can be sure that the power shift in this 
century will also be a troubled one. Putting that system 
in  place  requires  the  collective  effort  of  all  of  us. We 
should  not  be  lulled  by  the  temporary  easing  of  the 
global  economic  crisis  into  thinking  that  the  worst  is 
behind us and that we can return to our old ways. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Péter  Balázs,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Hungary. 
Mr. Balázs (Hungary): Allow me at the outset to 

congratulate  the  President  on  his  assumption  of  the 
high post of the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-fourth  session.  In  fulfilling  his  challenging 
tasks  during  this  session,  he  may  rest  assured  of  the 
support  and  cooperation  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Republic of Hungary. 
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly 

the  backdrop  of  an 
begins 
its  work  against 
extraordinary  downturn  of 
the  world  economy. 
Hungary  was  among  those  countries  which  were 
especially hard hit by the storm of the current financial 
and  economic  crisis.  In  order 
its 
consequences, the Hungarian Government has adopted 
and implemented a series of stabilization measures. As 
a  result  of  this  policy,  the  first  positive  trends  have 
already  emerged.  Today  we  can  claim 
the 
Hungarian  economy  is  well  on  its  way  towards 
recovery and that the foundations of a more sustainable 
development  have  been 
implemented 
vigorously,  the  strict  fiscal  policy  of  my  Government 
to  cope  with 
laid. 
that 
If 
A/64/PV.11
to  achieve 
will  put  the  country  back  into  the  ranks  of  the 
financially stable economies. 

At  the  same  time,  Hungary  cannot  and  does  not 
want  to  turn  a  blind  eye  to  the  plight  of  millions 
worldwide,  especially  the  most  vulnerable  ones  in  the 
developing  world,  particularly  in  Africa,  who  have 
been  thrown  into  poverty  as  a  consequence  of  the 
global  economic  crisis.  The  present  crisis  should  not 
undermine  our  common  efforts 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. Hungary continues to 
take  its  share  of  responsibility  by  implementing  its 
donor  programmes  in  Afghanistan,  Viet  Nam  and  the 
neighbouring  middle-income  countries  of  the  Western 
Balkans. 

Global  crises  require  that  we  all  think  and  act 
together in the spirit of shared responsibility. It is right 
that  climate  change  is  high  on  the  United  Nations 
agenda, as it threatens the very foundations of our life. 
Yet  for  too  long  we  failed  to  respond  adequately. 
Hungary is willing to accept its share of responsibility 
and is fully committed to achieving important results at 
the  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  in 
Copenhagen.  In  this  regard,  the  summit  on  climate 
change  recently  convened  by  the  Secretary-General 
was  a  useful  forum  in  identifying  the  necessary  steps 
towards a successful outcome. 

Preventing  conflicts  and  managing  crises  remain 
high  on  our  agenda.  The  United  Nations, 
in 
cooperation  with  regional  organizations,  continues  to 
play  a  key  role  in  this  respect.  Full  integration  of  the 
Western  Balkans  into  European  and  Euro-Atlantic 
structures  is  a  means  to  promote  the  stability  and 
prosperity of that region, a goal that Hungary supports 
actively.  Interaction  among  countries  of  the  region  to 
fulfil  the  conditions  of  European  integration  is  an 
essential tool. International efforts in Kosovo represent 
a good example of effective cooperation among various 
stakeholders, such as the European Union and NATO. 

In  Georgia,  the  situation  on  the  ground  remains 
fragile.  We  firmly  believe  that  a  peaceful  and  lasting 
solution  to  the  conflict  must  be  based  on  full  respect 
for 
territorial 
integrity  of  that  country  within  its  internationally 
recognized borders. We deplore the decision that led to 
the  termination  of  the  monitoring  activities  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  in  the  breakaway  parts  of 
Georgia/Abkhazia  and  South  Ossetia.  The  resumption 
independence,  sovereignty  and 
the 
09-52598 

43 
politically 
and 

supporting, 
A/64/PV.11 

of  the  international  presence  in  these  regions  is 
necessary. 

The  stakes  in Afghanistan  are  high.  The  success 
of international stabilization and reconstruction efforts 
will  have  a  major  impact  both  on  our  security  and  on 
the  defence  of  the  values  our  societies  stand  for. 
is  not  an  option.  Hungary  will  remain 
Failure 
to 
committed 
by 
troops  and  civilian  and  development 
contributing 
assistance, 
the  creation  of  a  stable  Afghanistan 
governed  by  the  rule  of  law.  We  welcome  the  joint 
initiative of the United Kingdom, Germany and France 
to  hold  an  international  conference  at  the  ministerial 
level, co-chaired by the United Nations and the Afghan 
Government. 

In  the  Middle  East,  Hungary  warmly  welcomes 
the  commitment  of  the  United  States  to  vigorously 
pursue  a  two-State  solution  and  a  comprehensive 
peace. It is now up to the parties themselves to engage 
in  a  meaningful  process  of  negotiation.  It  is  our 
responsibility  to  assist  them  in  carrying  the  process 
forward. 
The nuclear programme of Iran continues to be a 

matter  of  most  serious  concern. We  deeply  regret  that 
Iran’s  leadership  has  refused  to  abide  by  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions. In flagrant violation of its 
international  obligations,  Iran  has  even  increased  its 
uranium-enrichment  capacities.  Recent 
revelations 
about  the  existence  of  a  second  enrichment  facility 
underscore the legitimacy of our previous concerns. We 
urge  Iran  to  engage  in  substantive  negotiations  on  its 
nuclear programme without further delay. The news of 
recent  missile  tests  only  reinforces  our  sense  of 
urgency. 
The idea of a world without nuclear weapons has 

long  been  cherished.  We  welcome  the  affirmations  of 
commitment  to  this  goal  made  at  the  recent  summit-
level meeting of the Security Council (see S/PV.6191), 
along  with  the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive  set  of 
measures  to  strengthen  the  global  non-proliferation 
regime. Hungary hopes that the momentum created by 
that  meeting  will  also  have  a  positive  impact  on  the 
2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 

The  global  economic  and  financial  crisis  has 
affected  the  political  landscape  in  many  countries  and 
has  led  to  the  re-emergence  of  extreme  nationalist, 
ideologies  and  political 
racist  and  xenophobic 
44 

of  minorities.  The 
movements. Like many other countries, Hungary is not 
immune from this phenomenon. We cannot allow those 
alarming  trends  to  prevail  or  to  roll  back  the  advance 
of  democratic  values  and  human 
rights.  The 
Government  of  Hungary  condemns, 
the  most 
in 
resolute  terms,  all  forms  of  racism,  anti-Semitism  and 
xenophobia  and  fights  any  manifestation  of  them  not 
only in words, but also in deeds. 

The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights, 
including  the  rights  of  national  minorities  and  the 
preservation  of  their  cultural  and  linguistic  identities, 
have  traditionally  been  high  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Hungarian  Government.  The  presence  of  flourishing 
minority  communities  does  not  weaken  a  State,  but 
rather  makes  it  stronger.  Trust  between  the  majority 
and  minorities  within  a  country  can  be  built  only  on 
that  basis.  The  Republic  of  Hungary  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Forum 
on  Minority  Issues  and  is  determined  to  contribute 
actively to the Forum’s second meeting, to be held this 
November  in  Geneva.  We  are  witnessing  alarming 
tendencies  that  have  a  detrimental  effect  on  the 
political  participation,  cultural  life  and  educational 
opportunities 
international 
community  should  pay  special  attention  to  respect  for 
minority rights. 

At  this  point,  I  would  also  like  to  confirm  the 
commitment of Hungary, as a newly elected member of 
the Human Rights Council, to play an active role in the 
most  important  human  rights  body  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  strongly  believe  that  there  is  a  clear  and 
urgent need for further institution-building in the field 
of the prevention of genocide and mass atrocities. For 
that  reason,  this  year  Hungary  prepared  a  feasibility 
study on the establishment of the Budapest Centre for 
the  International  Prevention  of  Genocide  and  Mass 
Atrocities. It is envisaged that the Centre will work in 
close  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  including 
the Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of 
Genocide  and  Mass  Atrocities  and  the  Office  of  the 
High Commissioner for Human Rights. 

The ongoing changes in international politics and 
the world economy have created a new situation for the 
United Nations. We welcome and strongly support the 
efforts  aimed  at  strengthening  the  ability  of  the 
Organization  to  adapt  to  the  new  realities,  but  we 
cannot be satisfied with the pace of the transformation. 
The present challenges should lend additional impetus 
to  moving  forward  more  vigorously  on  such  issues  as 
09-52598 
to 
It  needs 
to  adapt 


Security  Council 
reform,  peacekeeping  activities, 
system-wide coherence, budgeting of the Organization, 
management  reform  and  reform  of  the  environmental 
governance system of the United Nations. With a view 
to  actively  promoting  those  goals,  Hungary  presented 
its  candidacies  for  the  Security  Council  for  the  term 
2012-2013  and  for  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
for the term 2011-2013. 
Once  again  the  United  Nations  stands  at  a 

crossroads. 
the  changing 
international  environment.  This  change  will  require 
sacrifices,  but  it  also  offers  new  opportunities  as  it 
paves  the  way  for  new  consensus  on  the  future  of  the 
United Nations. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Daw  Penjo,  Foreign  Secretary  of 
the Kingdom of Bhutan. 
Mr. Penjo (Bhutan): I should like to congratulate 

the  President  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  We  are 
confident that under his able leadership  and guidance, 
our deliberations will be successful. I assure him of my 
delegation’s  fullest  support  and  cooperation.  I  would 
also  like  to  convey  our  deep  appreciation  to  his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, for his leadership at the sixty-third session. 

It  has  been  only  18  months  since  my  country 
successfully  made  the  transition  to  a  democratic 
constitutional monarchy. Within this period, the elected 
Government has made every effort to establish a strong 
foundation for a sustainable and vibrant democracy, as 
it is these initial years that will determine the direction 
of  democracy  in  Bhutan.  Concrete  steps  are  being 
taken  to  empower  the  people  and  to  ensure  that 
democracy truly benefits every citizen. 

The  people  of  Bhutan,  although  hesitant  at  first, 
were  guided  and  encouraged  by  our  enlightened  and 
visionary  monarchs 
embraced 
democracy.  From  our  experience  so  far,  we  are 
confident  that  a  strong  foundation  for  democracy  has 
been established; it is now time to nurture and continue 
to strengthen this foundation. 

The world is grappling with multiple, interlinked 
global  crises.  The  impact  of  these  crises  has  been 
particularly  severe  on  the  least  developed  countries, 
where levels of poverty and insecurity are already high. 
The food and energy crises have driven millions of the 
and  have 
fully 
A/64/PV.11
that, 
(MDGs). 
the  most 
In  Bhutan,  we 
to  achieving 
It 
in  many  areas  of  domestic 
most vulnerable people deeper into poverty and further 
desperation. Meeting their needs and freeing them from 
the  cycle  of  poverty  continues  to  be  the  major 
to  development  and 
challenge 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
is 
inconceivable 
in  an  era  of  unprecedented 
prosperity, the vast majority of the  world’s population 
remains  in  poverty  and  destitution.  The  alleviation  of 
poverty,  therefore,  must  be  at  the  forefront  of  the 
international community’s development efforts. 

Since the adoption of the Monterrey Consensus in 
2002,  developing  countries  have  made  significant 
progress 
resource 
mobilization.  However,  challenges  remain,  especially 
during the current economic slowdown, for developing 
countries  to  mobilize  adequate  domestic  resources  to 
their  development  needs.  For  many  such 
meet 
countries,  official  development  assistance 
(ODA) 
remains 
important  source  of  external 
financing  for  achieving  their  development  objectives 
and attaining the MDGs. We therefore encourage donor 
countries to take concrete steps towards fulfilling their 
ODA commitments. 

relative 
socio-economic  progress  over  the  past  five  years. The 
annual  gross  domestic  product  growth  rate  has 
averaged  around  8  per  cent,  the  national  literacy  rate 
has  reached  60  per  cent  and  health  coverage  has  been 
sustained  at  90  per  cent.  The  royal  Government 
continues  to  accord  high  priority  to  the  social  sector. 
Bhutan  launched  its  tenth  five-year  plan  in  July  2008 
with  the  overarching  goal  of  poverty  reduction  and 
implementing  MDG-based  initiatives.  As  this  is  the 
first  plan  to  be  implemented  under  our  first  elected 
Government, 
is  of 
paramount importance to reaffirming the people’s faith 
in  parliamentary  democracy  and  ensuring  a  successful 
political transition. 

These  successes  in  the  political,  social  and 
economic fields would not have been possible without 
the  support  of  our  development  partners,  bilateral  and 
multilateral.  To  them  I  offer  our  deep  gratitude  and 
appreciation,  and  we  look  forward  to  their  continued 
assistance  and  support  during  this  critical  transitional 
phase. 

It  is  becoming  increasingly  evident  that  the 
impact of continuing climate change cannot be ignored. 
While  its  adverse  effects  will  spare  none,  small 
implementation 
its  successful 
have 
achieved 
09-52598 

45 

the 
Our  capacity 
framework  of 
A/64/PV.11 

developing  countries  will  bear  a  heavier  burden,  even 
though they contribute the least to the causes. Despite 
Bhutan’s negligible emission of greenhouse gases, our 
fragile  mountain  ecology  faces  potential 
threats, 
primarily  the  adverse  impact  on  agriculture,  which  is 
the mainstay of our people. Erratic and severe weather 
patterns  and  the  threat  of  glacial  lake  outburst  floods 
are  of  particular  concern  to  Bhutan.  Other  hazards, 
such  as  flash  floods,  landslides,  forest  fires  and 
droughts,  are  also  likely  to  increase.  When  Cyclone 
Aila  hit  the  Bay  of  Bengal  in  May,  it  also  had 
disastrous  and  widespread  effects  in  Bhutan,  touching 
every  corner  of  the  country.  Precious  lives  were  lost; 
power  and  water  supplies  affected;  roads,  bridges  and 
vital 
infrastructure  damaged.  Farms, 
the  most 
vulnerable sector, were the worst affected. 

to  carry  out  adaptation  and 
mitigation measures is severely constrained by our lack 
of scientific, technical and financial resources. Bhutan 
has  always  maintained  that  climate  change  must  be 
addressed  within 
sustainable 
development.  The  issues  are  inextricably  linked  to 
development, and any debate on the subject must take 
into  consideration  equity  and  the  right  of  developing 
countries to be able to provide their people with better 
livelihoods. 

My  delegation  appreciates  the  initiative  of  the 
Secretary-General in convening the high-level Summit 
on Climate Change. It provided the necessary political 
impetus 
in 
Copenhagen this December. We must now advance the 
progress  of  the  multilateral  negotiations  in  every 
possible  way 
tangible  results  are 
achieved  in  Copenhagen  for  the  well-being  of  present 
and future generations. In  this regard, I  am pleased to 
inform this gathering that Bhutan will assume the chair 
of  and  host  the  sixteenth  summit  of  the  South  Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC)  in 
April  2010.  Given  the  importance  of  the  subject, 
climate  change  and  environment  will  be  the  Summit’s 
theme,  and  the  issue  will  receive  our  leaders’  highest 
attention when they meet in Thimphu. 

Terrorism  in  all  forms  and  manifestations  is  a 
serious threat to domestic  as well  as global peace and 
security.  It  endangers  and  undermines  our  common 
values of respect for human rights and the rule of law, 
and  our  basic  desire  to  live  in  peace  and  harmony. 
Preventing 
these  fundamental 
terrorism  preserves 
to  be  concluded 
for  negotiations 
to  ensure 
that 
a 
fully 
supports 
therefore 
convention 
comprehensive 
values,  through  which  we  can  achieve  lasting  peace 
and security. 

Even  my  country,  which  has  always  enjoyed 
peace  and  stability,  has  not  been  spared  this  evil 
menace.  Bhutan 
the 
international  consensus  on  taking  firm  action  against 
terrorism.  The  General  Assembly’s  adoption  of  the 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy (resolution 60/288) 
was an important political achievement that represents 
our  common  approach  to  combating  the  scourge  of 
global terrorism. We must show similar commitment in 
concluding 
on 
international  terrorism.  Within  our  region,  the  leaders 
of  SAARC  have  concluded  an  agreement  on  mutual 
legal  assistance  in  criminal  matters,  reaffirming  our 
region’s  commitment  to  collectively  addressing  the 
evils of terrorism. 

Bhutan accords high importance to reform of the 
United  Nations,  particularly  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly and reform of the Security Council. 
We fully support the expansion of the Security Council 
in both its permanent and non-permanent membership. 
For their active role in global affairs and their capacity 
and  resources  to  shoulder  greater  responsibilities, 
reflect  present  global  realities  and  make  the  United 
Nations more representative, we fully support electing 
India,  Japan,  Brazil  and  Germany,  plus  two  African 
countries, to be permanent Security Council members.  
My  delegation  is  greatly  encouraged  by  the 

momentum 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  reform  process.  We  hope  that  the 
sixty-fourth session will build on the progress achieved 
so  far  and  bring  this  long-drawn-out  process  to  a 
successful conclusion under Mr. Treki’s leadership. 
Natural  calamities  are  occurring  regularly  every 

year, and smaller developing countries are increasingly 
faced with the challenge of coping with such problems. 
Just last week, my country was severely affected by an 
earthquake that measured 6.3 on the Richter scale. It is 
one  of  the  biggest  disasters  we  have  experienced  in 
recent  times.  Its  devastating  effects  were  felt  in  six 
districts  of  eastern  Bhutan,  where  13  people  lost  their 
lives and many were left injured and homeless. About 
1,900  homes,  numerous  schools,  Government  offices 
and historical monuments were destroyed or damaged. 
The  full  impact  is  still  being  ascertained.  During  this 
difficult  period,  we  have  been  comforted  by  the 
outpouring  of  support  from  friendly  countries  such  as 
gained 
the 
in 
46 

09-52598 


India  and  others,  which  have  rendered  much-needed 
technical and financial assistance for the massive relief 
work. 

Given  the  increasing  frequency  of  such  severe 
natural  calamities  and  their  negative  effects  on  many 
parts of the world, there is a need for institutionalized 
disaster  preparedness  and  response  mechanisms  at  the 
national, regional and global levels. In this context, the 
establishment of the United Nations Central Emergency 
Fund  is  an  important  step  towards  providing  the 
disaster  relief  that  is  urgently  required  for  life-saving 
operations.  Bearing  this  in  mind  and  as  an  expression 
of  our  continued  support  for 
the  commendable 
humanitarian  work  of  the  United  Nations,  Bhutan  has 
made  a  modest  contribution  to  the  Fund,  which  we 
hope to increase in the coming years. 
A/64/PV.11

These  are  indeed  difficult  times  with  multiple 
crises  hitting  us  simultaneously.  The  threat  of  climate 
change  is  real  and  its  effects  are  occurring  even  as  I 
speak.  Global  governance  needs  to  be  made  more 
effective to help us address the global challenges more 
efficiently.  In  this  interdependent  world,  it  will  be 
impossible  for  any  country  to  act  alone  in  resolving 
these crises. Therefore, as we gather here once again to 
deliberate  and  find  solutions  to  the  many  difficult 
problems confronting us, I conclude by reiterating my 
delegation’s  full  support  and  cooperation  in  working 
towards addressing our common challenges.  
The meeting rose at 2.05 p.m. 



09-52598 

47 
