
A/64/PV.35
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

35th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 3 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
the 
for  African  States, 
Ukraine  and  Uruguay.  Therefore,  those  24  States  are 
not eligible in this election. 

I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
following States have been nominated by the Economic 
and Social Council: the Comoros and Namibia for the 
two  vacancies 
the  Russian 
Federation  for  the  one  vacancy  for  Eastern  European 
States, Haiti and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
for 
two  vacancies  for  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  and  Israel  for  one  of  the  two 
vacancies for Western European and other States. 

In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of 
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot 
and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  However,  I  should 
like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of  General  Assembly 
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing 
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs 
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the 
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard, 
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a 
given election. 

In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot? 

It was so decided. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): The number of 

States  nominated  from  among  the  African  States,  the 
Eastern  European  States,  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States  and  the  Western  European  and  other 




The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m. 




Agenda item 111  
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections 
  (a)  Election of seven members of the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/307) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Pursuant  to 

General  Assembly  decision  42/450  of  17  December 
1987  and  upon  the  nomination  by  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  the  Assembly  elects  the  members  of 
the Committee for Programme and Coordination. 

The Assembly  has  before  it  document A/64/307, 
which  contains  the  nominations  by  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Committee 
that  will  occur  as  a  result  of  the  expiration,  on 
31 December  2009,  of  the  terms  of  office  of  the 
Comoros, France, Haiti, Israel, the Russian Federation, 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and Zimbabwe.  

Those States are eligible for immediate re-election. 

I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after 
1 January  2010,  the  following  States  will  still  be 
members  of 
the  Committee:  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Brazil, 
the  Central  African 
Republic,  China,  Cuba,  Guinea,  India,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya, 
the  Niger,  Nigeria, 
Pakistan,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  South Africa,  Spain, 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-59137 (E) 
*0959137* 


A/64/PV.35 

States is equal to or less than the number of seats to be 
filled in each of those groups.  

May I therefore take it that the Assembly wishes 
to declare those States nominated by the Economic and 
Social  Council  from  among  the  African  States,  the 
Eastern  European  States,  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States  and  the  Western  European  and  other 
States, namely the Comoros, Haiti, Israel, Namibia, the 
Russian  Federation  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela,  elected  members  of  the  Committee  for 
Programme  and  Coordination  for  a  three-year  term  of 
office beginning on 1 January 2010? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  congratulate 

the  States  that  have  just  been  elected  members  of  the 
Committee for Programme and Coordination. 

Members  will  recall,  as  indicated  in  document 
A/64/307, that there remain four vacancies in the Group 
of  Western  European  and  other  States  for  members 
whose  terms  of  office  would  begin  on  the  date  of 
election. Three terms will expire on 31 December 2011 
and  one  term  on  31  December  2012.  The  General 
Assembly will be in a position to act on those vacancies 
upon  the  nomination  by  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council of four Member States from that region. 
(spoke in English) 

Republic of Iran on a point of order. 
Mr.  Seifi  Pargou  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I 

want to inform the Assembly that the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  opposes  the  election  of  Israel  as  a  member  of 
the Committee for Programme and Coordination. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  have  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  our  consideration  of  sub-item 
(a) of agenda item 111. 
the  representative  of 
the  Islamic 
I  call  on 

  (c)  Election of thirty members of the  

United Nations Commission on International 
Trade Law 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  General 

Assembly will now turn to the election of 30 members 
of  the  United  Nations  Commission  on  International 
Trade  Law. The  30  outgoing  members  are  as  follows: 
Algeria,  Australia,  Austria,  Belarus,  Colombia,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Ecuador,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Guatemala, 
India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Israel, Italy, Kenya, 
2 

Those  Member  States  are  eligible  for  immediate 
Lebanon,  Madagascar,  Mongolia,  Nigeria,  Pakistan, 
Paraguay,  Poland,  Serbia,  Spain,  Switzerland, 
Thailand,  Uganda,  the  United  States  of  America,  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and Zimbabwe.  

re-election. 
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  as  of 

21 June 2010, the following States will continue to be 
represented  on  the  Commission:  Armenia,  Bahrain, 
Benin,  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  Bulgaria, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  Chile,  China,  Egypt,  El  Salvador, 
France,  Germany,  Greece,  Honduras,  Japan,  Latvia, 
Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, Norway, 
the  Republic  of  Korea, 
the  Russian  Federation, 
Senegal,  Singapore,  South  Africa,  Sri  Lanka  and  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 
Therefore, those 30 States are not eligible for election. 

The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the 
election  of  30  members  to  replace  those  members 
whose  term  of  office  will  expire  on  20  June  2010.  In 
accordance with rule 92 of the rules of  procedure, the 
election shall be held by secret ballot and there shall be 
no nominations. 
I should like  to recall, however, paragraph 16 of 

General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  whereby 
the 
practice  of  dispensing  with  the  secret  ballot  for 
elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of 
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be 
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation 
specifically requests a vote on a given election. 

In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  With  regard  to 

candidatures,  I  should  like  to  inform  members  of  the 
following:  for  the  seven  seats  from  among  the African 
States, there are six candidates: Algeria, Gabon, Kenya, 
Mauritius, Nigeria and Uganda. For the seven seats from 
among  the Asian States,  the  Group  of Asian States has 
endorsed  Fiji,  India,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
Jordan,  Pakistan,  the  Philippines  and Thailand.  For  the 
four seats from among the Eastern European States, the 
Group of Eastern European States has endorsed Belarus, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Poland  and  Ukraine.  For  the  five 
seats  from  among  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States,  there  are  four  endorsed  candidates,  namely, 
09-59137 


Argentina,  Brazil,  Colombia  and 
the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela. For the seven seats from among 
the Western  European  and  other  States,  that  Group  has 
endorsed Australia, Austria,  Israel,  Italy,  Spain, Turkey 
and the United States of America. 

Since  the  number  of  candidates  of  the  five 
regional groups is equal to or less than  the number of 
seats  to  be  filled  in  each  group,  may  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  wishes  to  declare  those  candidates 
elected for a six-year term beginning on 21 June 2010? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  congratulate 

the following States, which have been elected members 
of  the  United  Nations  Commission  on  International 
Trade  Law  for  a  six-year  term  beginning  on  21  June 
2010:  Algeria,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria,  Belarus, 
Brazil,  Colombia,  the  Czech  Republic,  Fiji,  Gabon, 
India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Israel, Italy, Jordan, 
Kenya,  Mauritius,  Nigeria,  Pakistan,  the  Philippines, 
Poland, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, the 
United  States  of America  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic 
of Venezuela. 

With regard to the two remaining vacancies, from 
the  Group  of  African  States  and  the  Group  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States, the General Assembly 
will  hold  elections  upon  notification  by  interested 
Member States from those two regions. 

Islamic Republic of Iran on a point of order. 
Mr.  Seifi  Pargou  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I 

would  like  to  state  that  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is 
opposed  to  the  election  of  Israel  as  a  member  of  the 
United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
sub-item (c) of agenda item 111. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 

  (e)  Election of twenty-nine members of the 

Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will first proceed to a by-election to elect one member 
of  the  Governing  Council  of  the  United  Nations 
Environment Programme. 
In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  draw  the 

attention  of  members  to  document  A/64/297,  which 
A/64/PV.35
like 
that  Belarus  would 
contains  a  letter  dated  12  August  2009  from  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Belarus  to  the  United 
Nations  announcing 
to 
relinquish  its  seat  on  the  Governing  Council  of  the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme,  as  of 
31 December  2009,  for  the  remaining  term,  in  favour 
of  Hungary.  As  a  result,  a  vacancy  will  occur  and  a 
new member must be elected to fill the unexpired term 
of  office  of  Belarus,  commencing  on  1  January 
2010 and expiring on 31 December 2011. 

In accordance with paragraph 1 of resolution 2997 
(XXVII), of 15 December 1972, and taking into account 
that  the  vacancy  will  occur  from  among  the  Eastern 
European  States,  the  new  member  should  be  elected 
from that region. The President has been informed that 
the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States  has  endorsed 
Hungary as the candidate for the one vacancy. 

As  members  are  aware,  in  accordance  with  rule 
92 of the rules of procedure, all elections shall be held 
by  secret  ballot,  and  there  shall  be  no  nominations. 
However,  I  should  like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of 
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing 
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs 
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the 
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard, 
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a 
given election. In the absence of such a request, may I 
take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  proceed  to  the 
election on that basis? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): May I therefore 

take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  declare  Hungary 
elected  as  a  member  of  the  Governing  Council  of  the 
United Nations Environment Programme for a term of 
office  beginning  on  1  January  2010  and  expiring  on 
31 December 2011? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  congratulate 

Hungary on its election as a member of the Governing 
Council 
the  United  Nations  Environment 
of 
Programme. 
The  General  Assembly  will  now  turn  to  the 

election  of  29  members  of  the  Governing  Council  of 
the United Nations Environment Programme. Pursuant 
to resolution 2997 (XXVII), of 15 December 1972, and 
decision  43/406,  of  24  October  1988,  the  Assembly 
will  proceed  to  the  election  of  29  members  of  the 
09-59137 

3 

A/64/PV.35 

Governing Council of the United Nations Environment 
Programme,  to  replace  those  members  whose  term  of 
office expires on 31 December 2009. 

The  29  outgoing  members  are  Algeria,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Belgium,  Botswana,  Burundi,  Canada,  Chile,  China, 
the  Czech  Republic,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  France,  Germany,  Haiti,  Indonesia,  Japan, 
Kenya, Pakistan, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the 
Russian  Federation,  South  Africa,  Thailand,  Uganda, 
the  United  States  of  America  and  Uruguay.  Those 
States are eligible for immediate re-election. 

I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after 
1 January  2010,  the  following  States  will  still  be 
members  of  the  Governing  Council:  the  Bahamas, 
Bangladesh,  Benin,  Colombia,  the  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Fiji,  Finland, 
Guinea,  Hungary,  India,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
Israel,  Italy,  Kazakhstan,  Mali,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Monaco, the Netherlands, Niger, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, 
Somalia,  Spain,  Tunisia  and  Tuvalu.  Those  29  States 
are therefore not eligible in this election. 
As  members  are  aware,  in  accordance  with  rule 

92 of the rules of procedure, all elections shall be held 
by  secret  ballot,  and  there  shall  be  no  nominations. 
However,  I  should  like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of 
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing 
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs 
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the 
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard, 
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a 
given election. In the absence of such a request, may I 
take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  proceed  to  the 
election on that basis? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Regarding 

candidatures, I have been informed by the Chairmen of 
the  regional  groups  that,  for  the  eight  seats  from  the 
African  States,  the  eight  endorsed  candidates  are  the 
Central  African  Republic,  Gabon,  Kenya,  Lesotho, 
Mauritania,  Mozambique,  the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania and Zambia. For the six seats from the Asian 
States, the six endorsed candidates are China, Indonesia, 
Japan, Malaysia, Pakistan and the Republic of Korea. For 
the three seats from the Eastern European States, the three 
endorsed  candidates  are  the  Czech  Republic,  Romania 
and  the  Russian  Federation.  For  the  five  seats  from  the 
Latin American  and  Caribbean  States,  the  five  endorsed 
candidates  are  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Brazil, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  Uruguay.  For  the  seven  seats 
from  the  Western  European  and  other  States,  the  seven 
endorsed  candidates  are  Australia,  Belgium,  Canada, 
France,  Germany,  Switzerland  and  the  United  States  of 
America. 

Since the number of candidates endorsed by each 
of the five regional groups corresponds  to the number 
of  seats  to  be  filled  in  each  region,  may  I  take  it  that 
the General Assembly decides to elect these candidates 
as  members  of  the  Governing  Council  of  the  United 
Nations  Environment  Programme  for  a  four-year  term 
of office beginning on 1 January 2010? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  following 

29  States  have  thus  been  elected  members  of  the 
Governing  Council  of  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme for a four-year term of office beginning on 1 
January  2010:  Australia,  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, the Central African 
Republic,  China,  the  Czech  Republic,  France,  Gabon, 
Germany,  Indonesia,  Japan,  Kenya,  Lesotho,  Malaysia, 
Mauritania,  Mozambique,  Pakistan,  the  Republic  of 
Korea,  Romania,  the  Russian  Federation,  Switzerland, 
Trinidad and Tobago, the United Republic of Tanzania, 
the United States of America, Uruguay and Zambia. 
I  congratulate  the  States  that  have  been  elected 

members  of  the  Governing  Council  of  the  United 
Nations Environment Programme.  

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (e) 
of agenda item 111? 

It was so decided. 


Agenda item 112  
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments  
  (f)  Appointment of members of the Committee  



on Conferences  

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/107)  
The President (spoke in Arabic): As indicated in 

document  A/64/107,  since  the  terms  of  office  of 
Belarus,  Germany,  Grenada,  Honduras,  Nigeria, 
Senegal  and  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  will  expire  on 
31  December  2009,  it  will  be  necessary  for  the 
4 

09-59137 


President  of  the  General Assembly  to  appoint,  during 
the current session, seven members to fill the resulting 
vacancies.  Those  members  will  serve  for  a  period  of 
three years, beginning on 1 January 2010. 

After consultations with the Chairmen of the five 
regional  groups,  I  have  appointed  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Germany and the Syrian Arab Republic as members of 
the  Committee  on  Conferences  for  a  period  of  three 
years, beginning on 1 January 2010. 

these appointments? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Regarding  the 

remaining vacant seats from among the African States, 
the  Eastern  European  States  and  the  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States,  I  urge  those  regional  groups  to 
submit candidatures as soon as possible. 

consideration of sub-item (f) of agenda item 112. 
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  takes  note  of 

  (g)  Appointment of members of the Joint 


the  sixty-fourth  session, 
Inspection Unit  
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/106)  

The President (spoke in Arabic): As indicated in 

document A/64/106, the General Assembly is required, 
during 
to  appoint  four 
members  to  fill  the  four  vacancies  on  the  Joint 
Inspection  Unit  that  will  arise  from  the  expiration  of 
the term of office on 31 December 2010 of Mr. Gérard 
Biraud  of  France,  Mr.  Papa  Louis  Fall  of  Senegal, 
Mr. István  Posta  of  Hungary  and  Mr.  Cihan  Terzi  of 
Turkey. 
As  also  indicated  in  document  A/64/106,  in 

accordance with article 3, paragraph 1, of the statute of 
the Joint Inspection Unit, the President of the General 
Assembly shall consult with Member States to draw up 
a  list  of  countries,  in  this  case,  four  countries,  which 
would  be 
for 
appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

in  document  A/64/106, 
paragraph  4,  the  General  Assembly,  by  its  resolution 
61/238, decided that, beginning on 1 January 2008, the 
President  of  the  General Assembly,  when  drawing  up 
the  list  of  countries,  in  accordance  with  article  3, 
paragraph  1,  of  the  statute  of  the  Unit,  will  invite 
Member  States  to  submit  the  names  of  the  countries 
to  propose  candidates 
Also,  as 
requested 
indicated 
A/64/PV.35
to 
those 
to  propose, 
respectively, 
and  their  respective  candidates  simultaneously,  on  the 
understanding  that  the  candidates  submitted  would  be 
the  candidates  that  the  respective  Member  States 
intended 
the  extent  possible,  for 
appointment  by  the  Assembly,  in  accordance  with 
article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute. 

After  holding  the  necessary  consultations  with 
the  regional  groups,  I  should  like  to  communicate  to 
the Assembly the following information received from 
the  Chairmen  of  the  regional  groups.  For  the  one 
vacancy from the African States, there is one endorsed 
candidate:  Senegal.  For  the  one  vacancy  from  among 
the  Eastern  European  States,  the  Group  has  endorsed 
Hungary.  For  the  two  vacancies  from  among  the 
Western  European  and  other  States,  there  are  three 
candidates: France, Spain and Turkey.  

As the Group of African States and the Group of 
Eastern  European  States  have  each  endorsed  one 
candidate  for  one  vacancy,  namely,  Senegal  and 
Hungary, 
two  countries  will 
therefore be requested to propose a candidate each for 
appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 
Since,  from  among  the  Western  European  and 

other  States, 
two 
vacancies,  I  should  like,  in  accordance  with  past 
practice,  to  consult  with  Member  States  through  the 
procedure of holding an advisory vote by secret ballots, 
to  select  two  countries  from  among  the  Western 
European  and  other  States  to  be  requested  to  propose 
candidates  for  appointment  to  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit. 

Although  this  advisory  vote  would  not  be  an 
election, we would follow the rules of procedure of the 
Assembly governing elections. 

General Assembly agrees to that procedure? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  accordance 

with  existing  practice,  the  two  countries  receiving  the 
greatest number of votes and not less than a majority of 
the  votes  of  those  present  and  voting  shall  be  the 
countries  selected  to  propose  a  candidate  each  for 
appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

agrees to that procedure? 

May  I  also  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly 
If  there  is  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  the 
three  candidates  for 
It was so decided. 
there  are 
09-59137 

5 

A/64/PV.35 

The President (spoke in Arabic): In the case of a 

tie vote, there will be a restricted ballot limited to those 
candidates who have obtained an equal number of votes. 

May I take it that the Assembly also agrees to that 
procedure? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I  remind 

members that the Assembly is not appointing members 
to  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  at  this  time.  It  is  only 
selecting  two  countries,  which  will  be  requested  to 
propose a candidate each. Therefore, only the names of 
two countries, and not the names of individuals, should 
appear on the ballot paper.  

I should now like to repeat the names of the three 
countries from among the Western European and other 
States  that  wished  to  propose  a  candidate:  France, 
Spain and Turkey. I should further like to point out that 
from  the  Western  European  and  other  States,  the 
United States of America already has a national serving 
on  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit.  The  name  of  that  State 
therefore should not appear on the ballot paper. 
Before we begin the voting process, I should like 

to  remind  members  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the 
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no 
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a 
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting. 

We shall now begin the voting process. Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.  

Ballot  papers  will  now  be  distributed.  May  I 
request representatives to write on the ballot papers the 
name  of  the  two  States  for  which  they  wish  to  vote. 
Ballot papers containing more than two names will be 
declared invalid. If a ballot paper contains the name of 
a  Member  State  that  does  not  belong  to  the  relevant 
region, that ballot paper will be declared invalid. Ballot 
papers  bearing  the  name  of  an  individual  will  not  be 
counted at all. 

At the invitation of the President, Mr. Toba (Brazil), 
Ms.  Lalama  (Ecuador),  Mr.  Perestrelo  Pinto 
(Portugal),  Ms.  Latif  (Romania),  Mr. Guidiglo 
(Togo) and Mr. Al-Shahari (Yemen) acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
  The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.10  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.50 a.m. 



6 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  result  of 

the voting is as follows: 






















Turkey 
France 
Spain 
186 
0 
186 
0 
186 
94 
Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   

Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 

Number of members present and voting: 
Required majority: 
Number of votes obtained: 

146 

117 

101 

The  following  two  countries  have  obtained  the 
required  majority  and  the  largest  number  of  votes: 
France  and  Turkey.  I  declare  that  they  are  therefore 
selected to propose one candidate each for appointment 
to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

I  thank  members  for  their  advice,  and  the  tellers 
for  their  assistance.  I  should  also  like  to  congratulate 
Turkey and France on their selection by majority vote. 

In  accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  1,  of  the 
statute  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit,  France,  Hungary, 
Senegal and Turkey will be requested to submit the names 
of  candidates  and  the  curricula  vitae  highlighting  the 
candidates’ relevant qualifications for the tasks ahead. 

I would like to remind members that, in accordance 
with resolution 59/267, of 23 December 2004, candidates 
should  have  experience  in  at  least  one  of  the  following 
fields:  oversight, 
investigation, 
valuation, 
finance,  project  evaluation,  programme 
evaluation,  human  resources  management,  management, 
public  administration,  monitoring  and/or  programme 
performance, as well as knowledge of the United Nations 
system and its role in international relations. 

After holding the appropriate consultations described 
in  article  3,  paragraph  2,  of  the  statute  of  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit, including consultations with the President 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  with  the 
Secretary-General  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the 
United  Nations  System  Chief  Executives  Board  for 
Coordination, I will submit the names of the candidates to 
the Assembly for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit.  

this  stage  of  our 
consideration of sub-item (g) of agenda item 112. 
The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.  

thus  concluded 
inspection, 
We  have 
audit, 
09-59137 
