
A/64/PV.31
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

31st plenary meeting 
Friday, 30 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
alongside  development,  and  peace  and  security,  as  a 
pillar of the Organization.  

I  then  called  on  Member  States  to  commit  to 
ensuring  that  this  third  pillar  was  one  made  of  stone, 
buttressed  by  the  resources,  respect  and  credibility 
benefiting  an  institution  dedicated  to  the  cause  of 
human dignity and justice. I asked  for the Assembly’s 
support  for  the  further  development  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  for  effective  follow-up  to  the 
Durban  Review  Conference  in  combating  the  global 
scourge  of  racism.  I  appealed  for  an  approach  on 
human rights marked by universality and non-selectivity.  

The  agenda  before  us  today  is  a  reminder  of  the 
significance  of  the  principles  of  human  rights  and  of 
the  vital  need  to  assess  the  progress  made  and  the 
remaining  challenges 
those 
objectives. 
The  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  covers 

the remarkable scope and depth of the Council’s work 
over  the  past  year.  This  technical  body  has  already 
registered an impressive list of achievements, addressing 
the  full  range  of  human  rights  in  countries  all  around 
the  globe.  New  instruments  have  been  developed, 
special sessions convened to address emergencies, and 
vital  resolutions  adopted.  The  independent  special 
mechanisms  have  undertaken  countless  missions,  and 
the universal periodic review is now in full operation, 
reminding us all of the universality of the human rights 
of all our citizens, the universality of the obligations of 
all  our  Governments  and  the  universality  of  the 
challenges  faced  in  realizing  human  rights. The  broad 
the  attainment  of 
in 




The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.  


Agenda items 64 and 75 (continued) 
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/64/53) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  connection 

with  this  item,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  the  General 
Assembly, at its 2nd plenary meeting, on 18 September, 
decided,  inter  alia,  to  consider  agenda  item  64  in  a 
plenary meeting and in the Third Committee.  
Also, at its 27th plenary meeting, on 28 October, 

the  Assembly  decided  to  consider  directly  in  plenary 
meetings, without setting a precedent, the report of the 
Human  Rights  Council  on  its  twelfth  special  session 
(A/64/53/Add.1). 

Taking  into  account  these  two  decisions,  the 
Assembly  will  consider  in  its  plenary  meeting  today 
the  annual  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  its 
activities  for  the  year,  as  contained  in  document 
A/64/53.  On  Wednesday,  4  November,  the  Assembly 
will  consider 
in  document 
A/64/53/Add.1.  The  Assembly  will  now  begin  its 
consideration of the annual report of the Human Rights 
Council (A/64/53). 

of the Assembly.  

In  my  statement  at  the  opening  of  the  general 
debate,  I  recalled  the  affirmation  by  the  2005  World 
Summit  that  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  was  one  of  the  three  principal  purposes  of  this 
Organization.  I  declared  that  human  rights  stood, 

Allow  me  now  to  make  a  statement  as  President 
the  report  contained 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-58708 (E) 
*0958708* 




A/64/PV.31 

participation that has characterized the Council’s work, 
from members and observers alike as well as from civil 
society, is a hallmark of its consultative approach. 

Ensuring  that  the  Council  has  the  necessary 
support  and  resources  is  imperative  for  the  successful 
continuation  of  its  work,  and  this  Assembly  has  to 
assume the primary responsibility in that regard. As the 
Council  approaches  its  mandated  five-year  review  in 
2011,  we  should  develop  a  transparent  and  inclusive 
process. The Assembly must begin preparations for this 
review  in  close  cooperation  with  the  Council.  To  this 
end,  I  met  yesterday  with  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  will  continue  consulting  with 
delegations in the coming weeks. 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Belgium,  who  is  also  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. 
Mr. van Meeuwen (Belgium): It is an honour and 

privilege  to  present  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council (A/64/53) to the General Assembly, and to come 
before the Assembly this morning to apprise Members 
of its activities, in accordance with resolution 60/251. 

Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  state  how  delighted  I 
am,  Mr.  President,  to  see  you  presiding  over  the 
Assembly.  I  am  pleased  to  reaffirm  the  support  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  to  your  leadership  of  the 
Assembly  and  to  express  our  best  wishes  for  a 
successful tenure. 

My  predecessors,  His  Excellency  Luis  Alfonso 
De  Alba,  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Doru  Romulus 
Costea 
Ihoeghian 
Uhomoibhi, had presented the Human Rights Council’s 
reports  (A/61/53, A/62/53  and A/63/53  and Add.1)  to 
the Assembly  at  its  sixty-first,  sixty-second  and  sixty-
third  sessions  respectively,  covering  the  activities  of 
the  Council  from  June  2006  to  September  2008. 
Therefore,  my  present  report  will  cover  the  period  of 
the  third  cycle  of  the  Council  following  the  session 
from September 2008 to June 2009. 

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  the 
decision  of  the  General  Assembly  four  years  ago  to 
establish 
the  Human  Rights  Council  marked  a 
significant  moment  in  United  Nations  history.  It 
reflected  the  commitment  and  resolve  of  Member 
States  to  revitalize  and  strengthen  the  Organization’s 
role  in  guaranteeing  the  effective  enjoyment  of  all 
human  rights  for  all.  Member  States  reaffirmed  their 
and  His  Excellency  Martin 
The  universal  periodic 
to  be  one  of 
faith  in  fundamental  human  rights  and  in  the  dignity 
and worth of  the human person, which forms the core 
of the United Nations Charter, as laid down over half a 
century  ago.  The  important  mandate  the  Council  was 
entrusted with raises high, yet legitimate, expectations 
on  the  part  of  people  around  the  world.  This  is  a 
significant  responsibility,  which  we  all  share,  and  to 
live  up  to  these  expectations,  which  guide  our  daily 
work, is a common endeavour. 

With this, allow me now to briefly highlight some 
of the achievements and activities of the Human Rights 
Council. 
(spoke in French) 
is  generally 
review 

the  most  meaningful 
considered 
innovations  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  but  in  fact 
this  mechanism  expresses  the  spirit  of  the  United 
Nations Charter in every aspect. It is based on equality 
among  States,  large  and  small,  and  provides  equal 
treatment in the implementation of agreed standards. It 
reflects  the  solidarity  that  prevails  among  States  that 
have decided to carry out peer review endeavours and 
join their efforts in order to promote and protect human 
rights.  The  establishment  of  this  mechanism  and  its 
modalities  required  important  and  intensive  work  by 
the Council. Almost half the Member States have now 
been  examined,  and  the  global  evaluation  of  the 
mechanism has been unequivocally positive.  
Attention  will  now  be  progressively  shifted 

towards 
implementation  of 
recommendations.  Although  this  has  been  said  a 
number  of  times,  the  fact  remains  that  carrying  out  a 
serious  and  sensible  universal  periodic  review  is  an 
important  test  of  the  credibility  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council as a whole.  

Whether at regular sessions, in working groups or 
other  forums  linked  to  the  Council,  continuous  efforts 
have  been  made  to  develop  and  secure  a  better 
understanding of the international norms and standards 
on  human  rights.  Several  new  fields  related  to  human 
rights  have  been  considered,  and  older  issues  have 
been  discussed  in  greater  depth.  The  adoption  of 
standards is also an area in which visible and tangible 
progress has been achieved over the past few years. 

In  accordance  with  its  mandate,  the  Council  has 
been  seized  of  events  that  have  occurred  in  certain 
parts  of  the  world  and  which  constitute  serious 
follow-up 
to 
and 
2 

09-58708 


violations  of  human  rights,  thus  requiring  an  urgent 
response.  The  Council  devoted  its  eighth  special 
session  to  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the  east  of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo;  its  ninth 
special session to the grave violations of human rights 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including  the 
recent Israeli military aggression in the occupied Gaza 
Strip; its tenth to the impact of the world economic and 
financial  crisis  on 
the  universal  realization  and 
effective  enjoyment  of  human  rights;  and  its  eleventh 
special  session  to  the  human  rights  situation  in  Sri 
Lanka.  The  reports  of  the  Council  for  these  special 
sessions  (A/HRC/S-8/2,  A/HRC/S-9/2,  A/HRC/S-10/2 
and A/HRC/S-11/2) are also before us. 

Although the Council has been operating for four 
years now and although its institutional architecture is 
in  place  and  its  mechanisms  operational,  it  is  still 
evolving, covering new topics concerning human rights 
in  its  discussions  and  thereby  broadening  its  agenda. 
The  Council  has  sought  to  find  novel  approaches  to 
questions concerning human rights in order to transcend 
the  inherent  rigidity  of  its  procedures  and  to  avoid 
falling  back  into  the  old  patterns  that  were  widely 
criticized  when  it  was  known  as  the  Commission  on 
Human Rights.  

I am pleased to have witnessed the emergence of 
these  new  debate  formats  and  more  flexible  work 
modalities. These innovations have allowed the Council 
to  focus  more  on  debate.  They  have  also  enabled  the 
experts  and  representatives  of  national  human  rights 
institutions  and  members  of  civil  society  from  around 
the  world  to  make  a  meaningful  contribution  to  the 
deliberations of the Council.  

Panel  discussions  have  been  organized  on  many 
human rights topics, such as the rights of the disabled, 
the right to food, children’s rights, women’s rights and 
human  rights  and  climate  change,  in  order  to  bring 
about  greater  awareness  and  take  concrete  action  on 
essential topics. 

As  I  mentioned  previously,  the  Council  has 
reached  another  important  achievement  by  holding  a 
second special session on the world economic crisis. In 
doing  so, 
trend  of 
substantially linking economic, social and cultural rights 
with  what  is  actually  happening  on  the  ground  and 
having an impact on the lives of millions of people.  
the 

Council continued to engage with a broad spectrum of 
the  period  under  consideration, 
the  Council  continued 
During 
the 
A/64/PV.31
institutions, 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
stakeholders and participants — individuals, of course, 
but  also 
including  special  procedure 
entities, human rights treaty bodies, organs and entities 
of the United Nations, other international organizations, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  national  human 
rights  bodies.  The  question  of  whether  the  Council’s 
ability to effectively integrate into its debate the views 
and  contributions  of  other  stakeholders,  such  as 
national human rights institutions and civil society, will 
be  a  key  element  in  assessing  its  performance  and  its 
impact. The Council has clearly recognized that taking 
into  consideration  the  views  and  contributions  of  the 
entire  range  of  stakeholders  is  a  prerequisite  for  the 
enrichment of its work.  

Allow  me  briefly  to  emphasize  that  the  work  of 
the Council at its previous sessions — and the reports 
on  those  sessions  are  before  the  Assembly  —  was 
continued  during  the  Council’s  twelfth  session,  which 
was held from 14 September to 2 October, and during 
the  twelfth  special  session  of  the  Council,  held  on 
15 and 16 October, which focused on the human rights 
situation 
territories, 
including  East  Jerusalem.  I  will  not  mention  anything 
further  about  these  two  sessions,  since  they  are  to  be 
discussed later on by the Assembly. 
(spoke in English) 

the 
Council’s inception only three years ago. Yet, the past 
years  have  also  revealed  the  challenges  ahead  of  us. 
The Human Rights Council is not a perfect institution, 
and  the  upcoming  review  process  will  indeed  provide 
us  with  the  opportunity  to  fine-tune  some  of  the 
mechanisms and adjust working methods in those areas 
where  changes  will  allow  for  genuine  progress  to  be 
made.  It  is  our  duty  and  shared  responsibility  to 
continue to strengthen the United Nations human rights 
machinery  for  an  enhanced  promotion  and  protection 
of  all  human  rights  for  all.  This  can  only  be  done 
through  cooperation  and  with  the  collaborative  efforts 
of  the  entire  spectrum  of  the  membership  of  the 
Council, civil society and, indeed, all stakeholders. 

The Human Rights Council has decided to create 
an open-ended intergovernmental working group on the 
review of the work and functioning of the Council and 
to  undertake 
has  requested 
transparent  and  all-inclusive  consultations  on 
the 
modalities of the review, thereby aiming to implement 
paragraph 16 of resolution 60/251, which states that the 
things  have  been  achieved  since 
its  current  President 
in 
Many 
09-58708 

3 

A/64/PV.31 

Council  shall  review  its  work  and  functioning  five 
years  after  its  establishment  and  report  to  the  General 
Assembly. The Working Group will meet in the second 
half of 2010 and is requested to report to the Council at 
its seventeenth session, in June 2011. 

During my mandate as President, I will spare no 
effort  to  facilitate  the  debate  on  issues  of  process  and 
try  to  reach  a  consensus  on  the  way  forward,  to  be 
implemented  by  my  successor  next  year. The  ongoing 
dialogue among stakeholders in New York and Geneva 
should  of  course  also  be  ensured,  respecting  the 
division  of  labour,  as  set  out  by  the  Assembly  in 
resolution  60/251.  While  we  continue  to  improve  our 
agenda and working methods, the review process should 
not  slow  down  the  Council’s  substantive  work  or  the 
implementation  of  the  commonly  agreed  mandate.  I 
will pay particular attention to this and will call on the 
sense of responsibility of all stakeholders in this regard. 

While  recognizing  that  we  have  to  continue  to 
improve  the  functioning  of  the  new  Human  Rights 
Council,  there  is  wide  acknowledgement  in  Geneva 
that there is a perennial lack of appropriate resources to 
service  the  Council’s  work.  I  have  called  for  the 
establishment  of  a  tripartite  task  force,  composed  of 
representatives  from  the  Office  of  the  President,  the 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights 
and  the  Division  of  Conference  Management,  to 
address this issue. Member States will be aware as well 
of the initiative to request an audit from the Office of 
Internal  Oversight  Services 
this  respect.  The 
Division  of  Conference  Management  has  continued  to 
grapple  with  the  challenges  raised  by  the  voluminous 
workload generated by the Human Rights Council and 
its  subsidiary  machinery,  including  the  new  universal 
periodic  review  process  mandated  by  the  General 
Assembly. The practice employed thus far, of servicing 
these new mandates from within existing resources, has 
proved to be impractical. The time has come to address 
the entire spectrum of meetings-servicing requirements 
and to ensure that the universal periodic review process 
is  fully  supported  by  the  necessary  budgetary  and 
capacity resources for the next biennium. 

I am confident that, in the years ahead, we will be 
able to consolidate the gains of the first years towards 
improving  people’s  realities.  The  tasks  before  us  may 
be  daunting;  in  spite  of  this,  we  remain  committed  to 
the  plight  of  the  victims  of  human  rights  abuses  and 
must ensure that this message translates into results to 
their benefit. 
in 

In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my personal 
commitment to follow the path of my predecessors and 
to work closely with the Council’s members to achieve 
those noble objectives enshrined in the Charter and the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  Albania, 
Armenia,  Croatia,  Georgia,  Iceland,  Montenegro,  the 
Republic of Moldova, the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, Turkey and Ukraine align themselves with 
this statement.  

First  of  all,  we  would  like  to  thank Ambassador 
Alex  van  Meeuwen  for  submitting  the  Human  Rights 
Council’s  fourth  annual  report  (A/64/53).  We  would 
also  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Martin  Ihoeghian 
Uhomoibhi, the former President of the Human Rights 
Council,  who  was  in  office  during  the  period  covered 
in the report. 
When the Assembly decided in 2006 to establish 

the  Human  Rights  Council,  it  aimed  at  strengthening 
the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  all 
persons would be able to enjoy all human rights. It was 
decided  that  the  Council  should  address  situations  of 
violations  of  human  rights, 
including  gross  and 
systematic violations, and  respond promptly to human 
rights emergencies.  
Peace,  security,  development  and  human  rights 

complement each other and are mutually reinforcing. It 
is  through  their  joint  promotion  that  our  collective 
well-being 
strengthened.  The  principles  of 
universality, impartiality and objectivity must guide the 
work  of  the  Council  and  direct  us  in  the Assembly  as 
we consider its report. 

this  plenary 
meeting of the General Assembly to be the appropriate 
place  to  consider  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  which  was  established  as  a  subsidiary  organ 
of this Assembly. 

The members of the Human Rights Council have 
the responsibility to fulfil the promise of the Council as 
the  main  United  Nations  body  for  the  protection  and 
promotion  of  human  rights.  It  is  important  that  States 
that  pursue  membership  in  the  Human  Rights  Council 
formulate concrete, credible and measurable pledges to 
promote  and  protect  human  rights  at  the  national  and 
international levels.  
The  European  Union  considers 
is 
4 

09-58708 
The  European  Union 


Some important progress has been made since the 

establishment  of 
the  Council.  We  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  majority  of  States  that  have 
engaged  constructively  in  the  process  of  the  universal 
periodic  review.  We  hope  that  those  States  that  have 
instead  tried  to  hamper  the  process  in  order  to  avoid 
criticism will engage more openly next time. 

The  EU  encourages  all  Governments  to  take 
advantage of the opportunity that the universal periodic 
review provides for States in all regions to do better by 
means  of  dialogue  and  cooperation.  It  hopes  that  the 
experience  gained  at  previous  sessions  will  help  to 
improve  future  ones  and  that  all  States  under  review 
will cooperate with the Council in good faith and with 
all the necessary rigour. 

The  EU  attaches  great  importance  to  the  role  of 
the  Council  as  a  forum  for  dialogue  in  which  every 
human rights issue can be raised. We encourage Member 
States to continue to consider the human rights situation 
on the ground and the needs of victims as the guiding 
criteria when determining the agenda of the Council. 

the  ongoing 
monitoring  and  reporting  role  of  the  Council  to  be 
equally  important.  It  has  allowed  the  Council  to  learn 
about new developments and possible best practices. It 
is  only  through  objective  monitoring  and  reporting  to 
the Council that it can identify the needs of victims and 
possible areas for assistance to States.  

We  wish  to  underline  the  importance  of  the 
cooperation  of  States  in  allowing  the  Council  to  fulfil 
the  mandate  agreed  upon  and  to  live  up  to  the 
expectations of people around the globe.  

thank  civil  society 
organizations  for  their  important  contributions  to  the 
work  of  the  Council.  We  hope  that  their  cooperation 
with the Council will continue and develop further. 

Regrettably,  while  some  situations  of  violations 
have been addressed in resolutions and special sessions, 
the  Council  has  been  prevented  from  addressing  a 
number of other human rights emergencies. It is crucial 
for its credibility that the Council be able to live up to 
its  promise  of  ensuring  universality,  objectivity  and 
non-selectivity, in accordance with its mandate. 

The eighth special session dealt with the situation 
of human rights in the east of the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo. The  EU  still  hopes  that  the  mandate  of 
the independent expert on the situation of human rights 
The  EU  would 
finds 
like 
to 
A/64/PV.31
in 
law 
issues  need 
international  humanitarian 
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  will  be 
re-established.  A  number  of 
to  be 
addressed,  not  least  the  widespread  use  of  sexual 
violence against women and children and the impunity 
enjoyed  by  those  responsible  for  violations  of  human 
rights  and 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  

Many of the issues dealt with at special sessions 
remain of very serious concern, such as the promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  in  Sri  Lanka.  In 
particular,  the  situation  in  the  former  conflict  zone 
remains  critical.  We  are  convinced 
that  country 
mandates  are  needed  to  keep  the  Council  and  other 
parts of the United Nations system informed of serious 
situations and to assist in making tangible improvements 
on the ground.  

The  primary  objective  of  the  special  procedures 
of  the  Council  is  to  promote  expertise  and  best 
practices  and  to  make  recommendations  in  order  to 
ensure  greater  respect  for  human  rights.  All  States 
members  of  the  European  Union  have  extended  a 
standing  invitation  to  the  special  procedures,  and  we 
call  upon  all  United  Nations  Member  States  to  do 
likewise.  The  EU  finds  it  imperative  to  safeguard  the 
role  played  by  all  special  procedures  mandate-holders 
in  monitoring,  advising  on  and  publicly  reporting  on 
serious human rights situations and thematic issues. It 
is also crucial to safeguard the independence of Special 
Rapporteurs and the other  procedures so that they can 
carry  out  their  respective  mandates  without  undue 
interference and pressure from Member States. 

We  call  upon  the  Council  never  to  let  down  its 
guard  concerning  situations  that  deserve  the  full 
attention of the international community. The mandate 
of  the  Council  is  not  to  protect  Governments  from 
scrutiny,  but  to  protect  individuals  from  human  rights 
violations. We do not accept an artificial divide between 
raising human rights violations in individual countries 
and  providing  technical  assistance  to  improve  respect 
for  human  rights.  The  important  role  of  the  special 
procedures  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
Office of the High Commissioner in providing advice, 
capacity-building and monitoring is a case in point. 

We  are  now  closer  to  the  2011  deadline  for  the 
General Assembly to review the status of the Council. 
Meanwhile,  it  is  important  to  remember  that  only  two 
years  have  elapsed  since 
institution-building 
package  for  the  Council  was  adopted.  The  ongoing 
the 
09-58708 

5 

A/64/PV.31 

work of the Council must not be interrupted. Moreover, 
we  may  seek  the  best  ways  to  address  many  of  the 
shortcomings of the Council during its continued work. 
The  European  Union  calls  on  all  States  to  work 
together  to  fulfil  the  full  promise  and  potential  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  order  to  make  a  difference 
when  it  comes  to  protecting  and  promoting  human 
rights. 
Mrs. Dunlop (Brazil): At the outset, let me thank 

Ambassador  Alex  van  Meeuwen,  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council, for presenting the report of the 
Council  (A/64/53)  today  at  this  meeting.  I  would  also 
like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the former 
President  of 
the  Council,  Ambassador  Martin 
Uhomoibhi, for the important contribution he made to 
the strengthening of the Council during his tenure. 

As  we  start  to  engage  in  initial  informal  talks 
regarding  the  review  of  the  Council,  scheduled  for 
2011, it is time to take stock of its performance and its 
contributions to the promotion and protection of human 
rights  worldwide.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  reflect  on  what  we  expect  from  the 
Council in the future. 

It is fitting to recall that the Human Rights Council 
was  created  as  the  embodiment  of  the  commitment 
made  at  the  2005  World  Summit  to  elevate  human 
rights, an issue that constitutes one of the main pillars 
of  this  Organization,  to  the  forefront  of  the  United 
Nations agenda. In our view, the Council fulfilled that 
expectation. 
After the hard work that led to the adoption of the 

institutional  package 
in  2007,  much  ground  was 
covered to ensure that the Council would not suffer the 
shortcomings of the old Commission on Human Rights. 
First, we regard the universal periodic review as one of 
the  main  achievements  in  the  field  of  human  rights 
since the creation of the Council. We are on the way to 
seeing,  for 
time,  every  Member  State 
submitting  its  human  rights  situation  to  a  peer  review 
process in which contributions by relevant stakeholders, 
including civil society, are taken into account. It cannot 
be denied that this mechanism per se represents a huge 
step  towards  a  more  egalitarian,  non-selective  and 
transparent  approach  to  human  rights.  Improvement 
was also observed in the special procedures mechanism 
inherited from the Commission, which was strengthened 
in  the  Council  through  the  increased  institutional 
the  first 
support  provided  to  Special  Rapporteurs  and  other 
mandate-holders. 

The Council is consolidating its role as a relevant 
forum  for  the  discussion  of  pressing  issues  on  the 
international agenda as they relate to human rights. In 
that regard, it is worthwhile to praise the decision taken 
by the Council to hold two thematic special sessions to 
discuss  the  world  food  crisis  and  the  financial  and 
economic crisis from a human rights perspective. 

The  Council  sent  a  message  to  the  international 
community that those crises, which many had believed 
to  be  of  a  purely  economic  nature,  had  an  undeniable 
and  serious  human  rights  dimension.  We  expect  the 
Council  not  to  shy  away  from  addressing  similar 
challenges  in  the  future,  as  needed.  All  in  all,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  has  represented  a  significant 
improvement  over  the  Commission  by  promoting 
dialogue  and  cooperation  among  Member  States  and 
with other relevant stakeholders. 

Despite the positive aspects I just mentioned, the 
Council, as we know, is not perfect. There is still room 
for  improvement,  as  one  could  expect  from  an  entity 
that is only three years old and tasked with the difficult 
mission of overseeing human rights  around the world. 
Among  possible  improvements,  I  will  briefly  mention 
two  areas  that  merit  our  attention.  First,  we  need  to 
improve  participation  in  the  interactive  dialogue  by 
countries  undergoing  universal  periodic 
review. 
Secondly, there is a need to expand the mandate of the 
Council  in  the  field  of  cooperation.  After  proving  its 
usefulness  in  identifying  human  rights  challenges,  the 
Council  should  be  able  to  help  interested  countries 
overcome  the  problems  identified.  This  would  help 
address  current  deficiencies  in  the  implementation  of 
recommendations  issued  at  the  universal  periodic 
review. 

We will have a better opportunity to address our 
expectations regarding the future of the Council during 
the review process which, it is worth recalling, will be 
carried out by the Council itself in relation to its work 
and  functioning  and  by  the  Assembly  regarding  its 
status. 
As  a  steadfast  supporter  of  the  creation  of  the 

Human Rights Council in 2006, Brazil will participate 
actively  in  our  common  efforts  towards  the  review  of 
the  Council  in  2011.  We  are  convinced  that  through 
constructive  dialogue 
at 
understanding each other’s positions and limits, it will 
and  openness 
aimed 
6 

09-58708 
like 


be  possible  to  achieve  a  consensual  decision  in  the 
review  process.  That  decision  must  reflect  solutions 
that  are  acceptable  to  all  and  result  in  a  Council  that 
fully corresponds to the high aspirations it embodies. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  would 
to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  the  comprehensive  statement  made 
here  by  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
following  his  participation  in  the  debate  on  the 
Council’s  report  (A/64/53) in the Third  Committee  — 
the  expert  negotiating  body  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  all  issues  related  to  human  rights  and  international 
human rights law. 

In  that  context  I  reiterate  that  our  acceptance  of 
the ad hoc agreement reached in the General Committee 
to  consider  the  report  both  in  plenary  meeting  and  in 
the Third  Committee  this  year  was  based  on  the  clear 
understanding that the Third Committee would consider 
and  act  upon  all  recommendations  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  to  the  General  Assembly,  including 
those  on  the  development  of  international  law  in  the 
field of human rights, without prejudice to the right of 
Member States to submit draft resolutions and decisions 
in  the  General  Assembly  or  the  Third  Committee  on 
any issue contained in the report. 

Indeed,  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council as a subsidiary organ of the General Assembly 
has  ushered  in  the  dawn  of  a  new  era  of  cooperative 
and  collective  action  that  avoids  the  politicization, 
selectivity  and  double  standards  that  characterized  the 
work  of  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights.  The 
Council  has  been  successful  in  laying  favourable 
foundations to overcome the obstacles that in the past 
blocked international efforts aimed at strengthening the 
universal  respect  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms.  This  became  possible 
through  diligent 
efforts to unify standards and thanks to a constructive, 
cooperative  approach  in  dealing  with  human  rights 
questions  based  on  advice  and  on  the  provision  of 
necessary  technical  and  financial  support  upon  the 
request  of  national  Governments  pursuant  to  their 
responsibility to promote and protect the human rights 
of  all  of  their  citizens.  The  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  laid  out  these  foundations, 
which were  more recently reinforced by the launch  of 
the  universal  periodic  review  mechanism.  We  look 
forward to its review of Egypt’s report early next year. 
A/64/PV.31
Egypt  welcomes 
the  progress  made 
in 
the  work  of 
the  Council.  It 
the  one  hand  and  all  of 

the 
practical implementation of the institutional framework 
for 
includes  clear 
regulations defined by the Code of Conduct for Special 
Procedures  Mandate-holders  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  in  addition  to  the  positive  developments  in 
reviewing  the  mandates  of  the  special  procedures,  the 
design  of  mechanisms  to  deal  with  communications 
and the establishment of the Forum on Minority Issues.  

Meanwhile,  as  a  current  member  of  the  Council, 
Egypt is eager to support the continued development of 
the  Council’s  activities  to  meet  the  great  expectations 
we  share  for  it,  based  on  the  complementary  roles  of 
national  institutions  and  the  international  community 
on 
the  human  rights 
mechanisms on the other hand.  

Our  mutual  quest  for  the  promotion  of  human 
rights  in  the  world  at  large,  to  make  them  a  common 
denominator  shared  by  all  societies, 
requires  a 
commitment  to  implementing  the  fledgling  universal 
periodic  review  process  for  all  States,  on  an  equal 
footing  and  without  exception,  within  a  constructive 
interactive  framework  and  with  the  participation  of 
non-governmental  organizations  and  all  segments  of 
civil  society.  We  must  also  respect  the  institutional 
balance  between  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations when dealing with human rights questions. We 
must confront with solid determination the tendency of 
a few to impose themselves as worldwide custodians of 
human  rights  —  based  on  a  flawed  and  groundless 
assumption  that  their  values,  cultures,  concepts  of 
social 
rights 
standards are superior to those of others. 

Additionally,  it  is  imperative  to  make  available 
the financial resources necessary to support the activities 
of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for Human Rights so that it can implement its mandates 
efficiently.  It  must  have  the  capacity  to  provide  the 
necessary  technical  assistance  and  consultation  to 
Member States, follow up on the implementation of all 
Human  Rights  Council  decisions  and  assist  States  in 
capacity-building  in  order  to  achieve  complementarity 
between  the  roles  of  the  Commission  and  of  the 
Council,  and  between  the  roles  of  the  international 
community and of national Governments. 

We  must  respect  the  prerogatives  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  refrain  from  submitting  country-
specific  draft  resolutions  in  the  Third  Committee, 
legal  systems  and  human 
justice, 
09-58708 

7 

A/64/PV.31 

especially  those  targeting  developing  countries,  which 
serve only to undermine the potential to reach consensus 
decisions  that  promote  respect  for  human  rights. 
Equally,  it  is  necessary  to  put  an  end  to  attempts  to 
create  structures  parallel  to  the  Council,  for  example 
by  appointing  officials  responsible  for  monitoring 
human  rights  situations  in  developing  countries  in  the 
offices of United Nations development programmes, in 
contravention of the principles of equality in monitoring 
human  rights  situations  in  all  countries,  whether  they 
are developing or developed countries. 

We  should  work  in  parallel  within  the  United 
Nations system to strengthen early warning capabilities 
through  reliance  on  authenticated  and  non-politicized 
information, and strengthen cooperation by States with 
fact-finding  missions  dispatched  by  the  Council  to 
investigate gross violations of human rights, particularly 
in the case of peoples under foreign occupation and in 
conflict situations. The international community’s quest 
for universal respect for human and peoples’ rights will 
remain unattainable unless we completely leave behind 
selectivity,  politicization  and  double  standards  when 
dealing  with  human  and  peoples’  rights,  starting  with 
the inalienable right to self-determination. 

In this context, the Council must remain engaged 
in  order  to  ensure  respect  for  human  rights  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian 
full 
adherence to its international obligations, including its 
commitment  to  full  cooperation  with  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the 
Palestinian territories occupied since 1967 and the fact-
finding  missions  established  by 
to 
investigate  gross  violations  of  human  rights.  That 
includes  permitting  the  requested  field  visits  —  the 
most recent of which was the fact-finding mission led 
by  Justice  Goldstone  to  investigate  the  tragic  events 
that  took  place  in  Gaza.  In  that  regard,  Egypt,  on 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  supported  the 
Council’s  recommendation  that  the  General Assembly 
consider the report of the fact-finding mission. 

Restoring  the  balance  in  international  attention 
between  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights,  on  the 
one hand, and civil and political rights, on the other, is 
sorely  needed  if  we  wish  to  fulfil  the  common 
aspiration  of  peoples  throughout  the  world  to  the 
effective  realization  of  the  right  to  development  as  a 
fundamental right inherently linked to all other rights. 
That in turn is not possible unless we work together to 
bridge the gap between North and South, thus making 
territories  and 
the  Council 
Israel’s 
the 
of 
regard 
approach 
cooperative 
it possible to achieve better standards of living, which 
contribute  to  the  promotion  of  human  rights  for  both 
individuals  and  societies.  Furthermore,  we 
look 
forward to strengthening efforts to eliminate all forms 
of discrimination throughout the world, whether based 
on race, sex, language or religion, and to honouring our 
mutual commitments under the Durban Declaration and 
Programme of Action and the outcome document of the 
Review  Conference,  particularly  with 
to 
discrimination  against  women,  minorities,  migrants 
and  others  who  face  varying  degrees  of  social 
marginalization  and  discrimination.  In  our  efforts  to 
that  end,  we  should  avoid  conditionalities  and 
controversial notions that do not take into account the 
diverse  social,  cultural  and  value  systems  of  various 
societies  or  linking  such  notions  to  development 
assistance and programmes. 
Egypt  hopes  that  joint  efforts  will  continue  to 

strengthen 
the 
international community in addressing all human rights 
issues,  based  on  mutual  respect,  commitment 
to 
equality in terms of rights and duties, compliance with 
the principles of international law and complementarity 
between 
and 
international  humanitarian  law. Thus,  the  Council  will 
be  able  to  fully  play  its  desired  role  and  carry  out  its 
lofty  mission,  thereby  strengthening  our  collective 
efforts  to  consolidate  universal  respect  for  the  human 
rights of all, without exception. 
the  world 

celebrated  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  That  noble  document 
reaffirmed  faith  in  fundamental  human  rights,  in  the 
dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal 
rights of men and women. Its principles and standards 
were  meant  to  guide  the  work  of  the  United  Nations 
and lead us to a better future.  

Eleanor Roosevelt, René Cassin, John Humphrey, 
P. C. Chang and Charles Malik, among other authors of 
the Universal Declaration, believed that a better world 
was  both  necessary  and  possible.  In  the  words  of 
Eleanor Roosevelt, “We stand today at the threshold of 
a great event both in the life of the United Nations and 
in the life of  mankind”. Yet, as we consider today the 
report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/64/53),  it  is 
regrettable that the work of the Council has strayed far 
from the principles it was mandated to uphold.  
(Israel):  Last  year, 
Ms.  Shalev
international 
human 
rights 
law 
8 

09-58708 



The Human Rights Council, according to its own 
founding  documents,  must  base  its  work  on  the 
principles  of  universality,  impartiality,  objectivity  and 
non-selectivity, without distinction of any kind and in a 
fair  and  equal  manner.  Instead  of  upholding  those 
values,  however,  the  Council  has  demonstrated  an 
obsessive  preoccupation  with  Israel  during  the  three 
and a half years of its work.  

Israel  is  the  only  country  in  the  world  that  is 
singled out in a discriminatory manner by the Council’s 
agenda.  Half  of  the  Council’s  special  sessions  have 
been held to condemn Israel. The Council has adopted 
more  resolutions  and  decisions  against  Israel  than  on 
all  other  United  Nations  Member  States  put  together. 
While  the  Council  has  reviewed  and  revised  the 
mandate of nearly every special procedure, it refuses to 
review  its  grossly  one-sided  mandate  concerning  our 
region. And the Council continues to dispatch so-called 
fact-finding  missions  that  are  mandated  to  denounce 
every  Israeli  action,  irrespective  of  the  facts  on  the 
ground  and  the  ongoing  terrorism  facing  Israel  on  a 
daily basis.  

Is this the work of a Human Rights Council that 
is  impartial?  Is  this  the  work  of  a  Council  that  is 
objective? Unlike some members of the Human Rights 
Council, Israel is a democracy that respects fundamental 
freedoms,  protects  a  vibrant  press  and  possesses  an 
independent  judiciary.  Nevertheless,  it  is  repeatedly 
condemned by the Council. These repeated unjustified 
condemnations do not help to protect human rights. 

Around the world, true victims of the most severe 
violations  of  their  most  basic  rights  cry  out  for  their 
plight to be heard and for their suffering to be redressed 
by  the  international  community.  But  the  Council  is 
silent.  As  innocent  Israeli  men,  women  and  children 
suffer relentless suicide terrorism and terrorist attacks, 
the Council chooses to say nothing. Is this the work of 
a Human Rights Council that reflects universality? The 
work of the Council is neither constructive nor fair nor 
impartial. 

The report before us today reminds us all that the 
Human Rights Council is increasingly manipulated and 
exploited  by  some  of  its  members  and  their  obsession 
with  demonizing  Israel  and  demeaning  its  democratic 
nature. 

that  a 
credibility deficit existed within United Nations human 
rights  institutions. Yet  today,  that  deficit  is  not  a  relic 
In  2005,  Kofi  Annan  acknowledged 
A/64/PV.31
lists 
for 
the  outcomes  of 
of the past; it is a fixture of the present. The longer it 
takes  to  rectify  this  injustice,  the  greater  the  damage 
will  be  to  the  integrity  and  legitimacy  of  the  Council 
and the wider United Nations system. 
Mr.  Vigny  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation wishes to thank the President of the Human 
Rights Council for the report on the Council’s activities 
(A/64/53).  It 
two  regular 
sessions — including  more  than  40  resolutions  and  32 
decisions  on  universal  periodic  reviews  —  and  four 
special  sessions,  one  of  which  was  a  special  thematic 
session. 
My statement will address five key issues. 


First, the Council is now working at full speed. A 
significant number of resolutions have been adopted on 
subjects  ranging  from  child  protection  and  climate 
change  to  human  rights  education  and  training.  The 
regular  sessions  are  followed  by  meetings  of  the 
Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review and 
of  the  Social  Forum.  In  addition,  this  year  saw 
preparatory  meetings 
the  Durban  Review 
Conference,  held  in  Geneva  in  April.  Given  this 
increasing  number  of  meetings,  the  Council  should 
both  endeavour  to  streamline  the  activities  of  certain 
working  groups  and  better  distribute  its  workload 
among its three annual sessions. Switzerland is willing 
to study in depth the issue of the Council’s programme 
of work in Geneva. 

The  Council  is  developing  best  practices  for  its 
working  methods,  and  there  are  examples  of  fruitful 
transregional cooperation. We are thinking in particular 
of cooperation on human rights education and training 
within  the  Platform  for  Human  Rights  Education  and 
Training,  which  now  includes  representatives  from  all 
regional  groups:  Morocco,  Switzerland,  Costa  Rica, 
Italy,  the  Philippines,  Slovenia  and  Senegal.  I  should 
also like to mention the cooperation between Germany 
and  the  Philippines  on  the  issue  of  human  trafficking. 
Those two nations — one a country of destination and 
the other a  country of  origin — have joined efforts  to 
protect the human rights of the same persons, the same 
victims.  Even  in  notoriously  difficult  areas,  such  as 
freedom of expression, considerable progress has been 
made 
the  adoption  by  consensus  of  a 
resolution  on  the  subject,  jointly  sponsored  by  the 
United States and Egypt. 
Thirdly, the Human Rights Council must be able 

to  deal  appropriately  with  specific  situations,  and 
through 
09-58708 

9 
is 
convinced 
the  Council  and 
Moreover,  Switzerland 
A/64/PV.31 

concerted  efforts  are  needed  to  fulfil  and  build  on  its 
mandate under General Assembly resolution 60/251, be 
it  in  addressing  situations  of  gross  and  systematic 
violations  of  human  rights,  responding  promptly  to 
emergencies,  or  preventing  such  violations  from 
occurring.  Switzerland  considers  the  development  of 
this potential to be a priority and consequently pledges 
its commitment to this end. 

that 
strengthening  the  presidency  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  is  necessary  in  order  to  better  tackle  the 
political and operational questions the president faces. 
For  that  reason,  Switzerland  has  decided  to  present  a 
draft  decision  in  the  Third  Committee  of  the  General 
Assembly as  a follow-up to a decision  adopted by the 
Council in September of last year. 
Finally,  I  would  like  to  return  to  relations 

between 
the  General  Assembly, 
particularly  in  light  of  the  forthcoming  discussion  on 
Council  review. There  is  still  no  clear-cut  vision  with 
regard to the allocation of responsibilities between the 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  and  its  Third 
Committee.  Switzerland  would  like  to  enhance  the 
complementarities  between 
two  bodies  by 
improving  cooperation  and  thus  reducing  existing 
duplication.  Given 
the 
General Assembly should be used first and foremost as 
a general frame of reference and, as such, should play a 
programme-based,  standard-setting  role.  The  Human 
Rights  Council,  for  its  part,  should  strengthen  the 
operational  role  it  plays  in  implementing  the  political 
commitments  pledged  by  Member  States  pursuant  to 
their international legal obligations. 
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf 

of  my  delegation  I  would 
thank  you, 
Mr. President,  for  organizing  this  important  debate  on 
the report of the Human Rights Council (A/64/53), the 
report  of  a  body  whose  deliberations  and  decisions 
have  an  undoubted 
life  of  our 
Organization.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  President 
of the Council for his presentation of the report. 
To  begin  with,  we  feel  we  must  appropriately 

acknowledge 
the 
misgivings  that  existed  at  the  time  of  the  birth  of  the 
Human Rights Council in 2006, the Council nonetheless, 
day  by  day,  session  by  session,  provides  a  useful 
doctrine  for  effective  action  promoting  and  protecting 
human  rights,  irrespective  of  its  controversial  aspects. 
its  universal  membership, 
that,  notwithstanding 
impact  on 
the 
these 
like 
to 

My delegation can only welcome such a development, 
which should encourage proper support for the Council. 
We also extend our congratulations to the Office of the 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  as  well  as  the 
mandate-holders, the rapporteurs, special representatives 
and independent experts, whose relationship allows us 
to improve and pursue our endeavours in support of all 
human rights. 

Going  beyond  a  general  assessment  of  the  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  mechanisms  it 
has  generated,  my  delegation  would  like  to  make  a 
number  of  comments.  The  Human  Rights  Council 
shoulders  important  responsibilities  in  promoting  and 
protecting human rights around the world. The diverse 
contributions  of  the  members  and  non-member  States 
of  the  Council,  as  well  as  of  the  institutions  of  the 
United Nations system and civil society, mean that we 
can  glimpse  a  world  in  which  the  universalism  of 
human  rights  and  their  interdependence  are  daily 
becoming  a  fact  of  life.  This  dynamic  should  be  a 
component of progress, in understanding and analysing 
human rights situations in a world marked by multiple 
crises  that  jeopardize  international  peace  and  security 
and  hamper  development  efforts,  particularly 
in 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 

In  this  context,  my  delegation  commends  the 
Human Rights Council’s efforts to strengthen, through 
a  multilateral  approach,  cooperation  in  the  area  of 
human  rights.  Food  security,  which  is  the  corollary  to 
the  right  to  food,  as  well  as  the  various  resolutions 
regarding the effects of foreign debt and States’ related 
international  financial  obligations  on  people’s  full 
exercise of human rights,  are undoubtedly essential  to 
upholding  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights.  My 
delegation remains concerned, in this regard, about the 
repercussions  of  the  economic  and  financial  crisis  on 
the  universal  attainment  and  effective  exercise  of 
human rights. 

Violence  and  discrimination  against  the  most 
vulnerable,  especially  women,  children,  the  disabled 
and  migrants,  should  also  continue  to  be  part  of  the 
Human Rights Council’s work. We welcome the annual 
Day on Women’s Rights, held in Geneva on 4 June,  a 
key moment in raising awareness of the difficult plight 
of  women  in  some  parts  of  the  world,  particularly  in 
developing  countries.  The  celebration  of  the  fifteenth 
anniversary  of  the  Beijing  Conference  on  Women 
should,  we  hope,  be  a  new  landmark  in  the  fight  to 
the 
fact 
10 

09-58708 


abolish laws that institutionalize discrimination against 
women. 

In this regard, the Republic of the Congo, through 
its relevant national bodies, is reviewing a bill aimed at 
combating violence against women. With respect to the 
protection  of  children,  my  country  has  just  deposited 
the instruments of accession to the Optional Protocol to 
the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  on  the 
involvement of children in armed conflict and the sale 
of  children,  child  prostitution  and  pornography. As  to 
migrants, we note with horror the conditions to which 
they  are  subjected  in  their  countries  of  destination  or 
transit  after  they  have  risked  their  lives  to  leave  their 
countries of origin. 

Another intolerable form of discrimination is that 
related to racism and racial intolerance. In this regard, 
my delegation welcomes the success of the deliberations 
of  the  Durban  Review  Conference  on  racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and 
intolerance.  The 
Conference,  held  in  Geneva  from  20  to  24  April, 
adopted  a  platform  for  a  new  departure  in  the  fight 
against racism and its modern manifestations. It was an 
edifying  example  of  collective,  concerted  action  by 
States,  as  well  as  testimony  to  what  their  common 
commitment  can  achieve 
the  urgent 
challenges facing human rights. While we welcome the 
extension  for  three  more  years  of  the  mandate  of  the 
Intergovernmental Working Group on the implementation 
of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action — 
and,  indeed,  we  commend  the  arduous  work  it  has 
already done — we call for the formulation of additional 
standards  for  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. 

One  of  the  major  innovations  related  to  the 
creation  of 
the 
establishment  of 
review 
mechanism, which to this day functions effectively and 
is achieving results. The universal periodic review was 
established,  we  should  remember,  in  order,  among 
other  things,  to  avoid  the  kind  of  disputes  that  arise 
when  countries,  whose  situations  are  reviewed,  often 
are factors in confrontation. This mechanism allows the 
Council  to  review,  without  distinction,  human  rights 
situations in all countries, and to make recommendations 
with a view to their eventual improvement. 

For its part, the Republic of the Congo is resolved 
to  intensify  its  efforts  to  promote  and  protect  human 
rights, and submitted to this review exercise, held from 
the  Human  Rights  Council  was 
the  universal  periodic 
in 
tackling 
A/64/PV.31
6  to  8  May.  Out  of  59  recommendations  made 
following  the  review,  we  consented  to  50,  while  the 
remaining  nine  were  irrelevant,  having  already  been 
dealt with in Congolese law. The Congolese Government 
is  endeavouring  to  implement  these  recommendations 
and to refocus its work in some sectors which have not 
received major attention until now.  

In this context, the accreditation procedure for our 
national  human  rights  commission  has  been  organized 
under  the  aegis  of  the  International  Coordinating 
Committee of National Human Rights Institutions, and 
contact with its accreditation subcommittee has proved 
fruitful. Moreover, the Congolese Government, despite 
its  difficult  financial  situation,  has  pledged  to  allot 
adequate appropriations for the National Human Rights 
Commission,  an  independent  constitutional  body,  so 
that it may discharge its mandate efficiently. Efforts to 
promote  and  protect  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  are  carried  out  in  the  schools  through 
programmes  of  education  in  civics,  ethics  and  peace, 
which represent a new demand on Congolese society.  

The midterm evaluation in the universal periodic 
review  last  month  of  commitments  undertaken  proved 
to  be  fruitful  and,  in  a  closed  meeting  during  its 
eleventh  session,  the  Council  adopted  the  decision  to 
end  the  review  of  the  human  rights  situation  in  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo.  Certainly  that  is  cause  for 
genuine satisfaction. Still, the Congo, anxious to build 
a  modern  State  predicated  on  respect  for  law  and 
democratic rules, will continue to endeavour, insofar as 
possible, along with national and international partners, 
to  effectively  promote  and  protect  human  rights  and 
human beings. 
Mr. Ali (Malaysia): At the outset, my delegation 

wishes to extend our appreciation to the Human Rights 
Council  for  its  report,  as  contained  in  document 
A/64/53. 

We  reaffirm  that  human  rights  are  universal, 
indivisible, 
interrelated.  The 
international  community  must 
treat  human  rights 
globally in a fair and equal manner, on the same footing 
and  with  the  same  emphasis.  Those  basic  principles 
underpin  international  human  rights.  Countries  should 
not continue to pick and choose which rights they wish 
to emphasize or how those rights may be enjoyed, nor 
should  they  seek  to  impose  on  others  a  differing 
emphasis  or  urgency  to  human  rights  based  on  their 
own domestic political expediency or external pressures. 
interdependent  and 
09-58708 

11 

in 
the  Council.  Supporting 
A/64/PV.31 


Malaysia  is  pleased  that  the  Council,  within  the 
scope  of  General  Assembly  resolution  60/251,  and 
within  the  institution-building  mechanism  in  Human 
Rights  Council  resolution  5/1,  has  continued 
to 
develop. It is our hope that the work undertaken by the 
Council  on  a  range  of  issues  will  lead  to  tangible 
results  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  all  human 
rights.  The  discussions  within  the  Council  are,  in  our 
view,  a  healthy  process  towards  realizing  the  highest 
standards of human rights as enshrined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  vast  majority  of 
the  United  Nations  membership  is  supportive  of  the 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  especially  in 
ensuring  that  the  Council  avoids  the  mistakes  of  the 
previous Commission on Human Rights that became at 
times highly politicized, and which practiced selectivity 
and double standards.  

We welcome the decision by the United States to 
engage 
the  Council 
constructively  is  a  much  more  positive  approach  to 
ensure  the  promotion  and  protection  of  all  human 
rights. While  we  may  disagree  on  issues  and  even  the 
processes  within 
the  better 
proposition. It would be disheartening if criticisms that 
were  once  applied  to  the  Commission  were  now 
levelled  against  the  Council  without  allowing  it  to 
further  develop.  Moreover,  to  function  effectively,  the 
Council  needs  to  be  given  the  necessary  support  and 
resources. 

With  the  review  of  the  Council  due  by  2011, 
Malaysia is encouraged by the proactive steps taken by 
members  of  the  Council  to  establish  a  framework  for 
the  review  process,  as  decided  at  its  twelfth  regular 
session.  In  our  view,  the  resolution  adopted  by  the 
Council will allow sufficient time for all delegations to 
undertake  early  preparations  aimed  at  achieving  a 
fruitful and mutually acceptable review of the Council 
so  as  to  ensure  its  role  as  the  premier  multilateral 
institution  charged  with  advancing  the  promotion  and 
protection of all human rights across the world. 

We wish to touch upon a number of issues related 
to the work of the Council. With regard to the universal 
periodic review, Malaysia is of the view that the review 
process  provides  an  important  non-confrontational, 
objective, 
transparent  and  universal  platform  for 
dialogue on the promotion and protection of all human 
rights, which complements and adds value to the work 
the  Council, 
that 
is 
of the Council in fulfilling its mandate as envisaged by 
resolution 60/251.  

On  the  whole,  the  international  community  has 
responded  positively  and  demonstrated  commendable 
constructive engagement with the review process. With 
a  view  to  enhancing  and  widening  the  gains  achieved 
thus  far,  it  is  crucial  that  the  General  Assembly 
continue to ensure that adequate material, financial and 
other resources are allocated for the smooth functioning 
of  the  review  process.  While  there  remain  areas  that 
can  be  further  developed  and  strengthened, 
this 
innovation  represents  a  good  alternative  to  country-
specific resolutions here in the General Assembly. The 
review  serves  as  a  constructive  approach  through 
genuine dialogue and cooperation among countries that 
may  have  differing  views  and  systems,  and  it  is  our 
hope that through the review process, all countries will 
seize  the  opportunity  to  improve  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights  in  a  cooperative  and 
constructive manner. 

Ms.  Štiglic  (Slovenia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
Malaysia  takes  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  its 

belief in the importance of the work and independence 
of  the  Special  Procedures  mandate-holders. That  said, 
we  also  believe  that,  given  the  sensitive  nature  of  the 
various mandates, the mandate-holders must themselves 
exercise  responsibility  and  sensitivity  in  discharging 
their  respective  mandates.  The  ability  of  mandate-
holders  to  effectively  exercise  their  functions  rests  on 
their  ability  to  adhere  to  the  Code  of  Conduct  for 
Special  Procedures  Mandate-holders  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. In our view, recent examples whereby 
several mandate-holders had attempted to reinterpret or 
depart  from 
the 
international  community  could  undermine  confidence 
in  the  mandate-holders  themselves,  thereby  impacting 
negatively  on  their  ability  to  contribute  effectively  to 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  In  this 
regard, we welcome the Council’s resolution 11/11, on 
the system of special procedures. 

Malaysia supports the views expressed during the 
eleventh  regular  session  last  June  by  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  of  indigenous  people,  which 
included  the  need  for  enhanced  coordination  and 
cooperation  among  all  the  human  rights  mechanisms 
dealing  with  indigenous  issues  within  the  United 
their  mandates  as  decided  by 
12 

09-58708 
to 
the 


Nations system. Such coordination would help to avoid 
duplication within the United Nations indigenous issues 
structure,  provide  coherence 
roles  and 
responsibilities of the Special Rapporteur, the Permanent 
Forum on Indigenous Issues and the Expert Mechanism 
on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples,  and  ensure 
effectiveness and efficiency. 

We also look forward to the successful conclusion 
of  the  work  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights,  and  the  work  being  undertaken  by  the  ad  hoc 
committee  on 
the  elaboration  of  complementary 
international  standards  to  study  the  interface  between 
religion and other forms of discrimination. 

On  a  final  note,  I  wish  to  remind  members  that 
Malaysia  is  seeking  election  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council for the period 2010 to 2013 at the elections to 
be held in May 2010. Malaysia was a founding member 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  from  2006  to  2009;  if 
again  elected  as  a  member,  Malaysia  will  strive  to 
ensure  that  the  Council  remains  a  credible,  effective 
and  just  body  entrusted  with  the  responsibility  of 
promoting and protecting the human rights of all people. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 

like  to  thank  and  congratulate  Ambassador  Alex  van 
Meeuwen  of  Belgium,  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, for the outstanding presentation he has given 
of  the  report  of  the  Council,  and  to  state  that  the 
consideration  of 
is  for  my 
delegation  a  welcome  opportunity  to  express  its  great 
appreciation  of  the  positive  results  achieved  by  that 
body  and  to  restate  its  commitment  to  dialogue  and 
cooperation  as  guiding  principles  of  our  work  in  its 
ranks. 

At  this  time  of  crisis  when  the  most  optimistic 
minds  are  filled  with  doubt  and  uncertainty,  the 
invaluable  contribution  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
to protecting basic values such as tolerance, intercultural 
dialogue  and  responsible  freedom  of  expression  is  a 
source of hope and reassurance. 

In only four years of existence, the Human Rights 
Council,  thanks  to  the  joint  effort  of  its  members  and 
the  support  of  the  entire  international  community,  has 
been  able  to  dispel  doubts  about  its  ability  to  respond 
to questioning of its mandates by constantly enhancing 
the way it functions so as to make it more effective and 
more efficient. In the context of that positive dynamic, 
it  is  fitting  to  note  the  recent  thematic  panels  on 
intercultural  dialogue,  human  rights,  women’s  rights, 
the  report  (A/64/53) 
A/64/PV.31
to 
the  mobilization  and 
climate  change  and  also  the  human  rights  of  migrants 
in detention centres, which have been highlights of in-
depth and enlightening debates. Such steps, which gave 
rise  to  very  welcome  joint  initiatives,  such  as  that  of 
Egypt and the United States of America at the twelfth 
regular session on the freedom of expression, are to be 
encouraged in future work. 

In  co-sponsoring  the  important  resolution  on 
freedom  of  expression,  Senegal  wished  to  reiterate  its 
belief  that  the  promotion  of  tolerance  and  responsible 
freedom  of  expression  is  essential  in  the  fight  against 
racism  and  discrimination. Thanks  to  that  cooperation 
and 
flexibility  of  all 
stakeholders, the Council was able to meet the challenge 
by  successfully  holding,  in  April  2009,  the  Durban 
Review  Conference  on  racism,  racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia  and  related  intolerance.  The  outcome 
document,  adopted  by  consensus,  provides  promising 
prospects  for  fighting  such  scourges,  and  its  full 
implementation should continue to galvanize us. 

The  broadening  of  the  spectrum  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council’s  composition,  moreover,  perfectly 
reflects recognition of the significant progress made by 
that  body  in  such  a  short  time,  since,  as  the  famous 
French  writer  Corneille  said,  “In  souls  nobly  born, 
valour does not depend upon age.” 

However, far from engendering in us a paralysing 
attitude  of  blind  self-satisfaction,  those  more  than 
heartening results of the Human Rights Council should 
prompt us to step up our efforts to strengthen that body, 
which, thanks to its contribution, gives rise to the hope 
of  a  promising  outlook  in  protecting  and  promoting 
human  rights.  In  that  context,  the  Council  should 
bolster its action to promote intercultural dialogue and 
human rights education, which could greatly contribute 
to  attaining  the  goal  of  a  world  free  of  prejudice  and 
mutual fear. Likewise, the fight against poverty, which 
is  a  major  hurdle  for  a  large  part  of  humankind, 
deserves special attention in the Council’s work. 

The  more-than-encouraging  way  in  which  the 
universal periodic review operates is another source of 
genuine satisfaction for all those who, by pooling their 
efforts,  have  made  it  possible  for  that  mechanism  to 
establish  an  objective,  constructive  and  transparent 
dialogue  among 
to 
contribute  to  strengthening  the  credibility  of  the 
Human Rights Council. In fact, the positive impact of 
that  mechanism  in  protecting  and  promoting  human 
the  various  actors  and 
thus 
09-58708 

13 
that  earned 
it 
the  commitments 
is  already  striving 
A/64/PV.31 

rights  can  be  gauged  only  by  how  effectively  its 
recommendations are implemented. In that regard, I am 
pleased to recall that my country, in a spirit of dialogue 
and openness, underwent the universal periodic review 
on  6  February  2009  and 
to 
implement  the  undertakings  into  which  it  voluntarily 
entered.  

Thus,  to  strengthen  its  cooperation  with  the 
Council’s  special  procedures  system,  Senegal  hosted 
the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  Human  Rights  of 
Migrant  Workers  in  August  2009  and  the  Working 
Group on Arbitrary Detention in September. Similarly, 
a third mandate-holder, addressing the sale of children, 
has  been  visiting  my  country  since  21  October  for  a 
period  of  10  days.  In  that  field,  as  in  others,  Senegal, 
faithful 
the 
confidence  of  United  Nations  Member  States,  which 
elected  it  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  a  second 
term,  will  continue  its  efforts  at  the  national,  regional 
and international levels. 

To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
adoption by the Human Rights Council of its resolution 
11/12, extending the mandate of the Intergovernmental 
Working Group to review the work and functioning of 
the  Council  five  years  after  its  establishment,  as, 
moreover, is stipulated in General Assembly resolution 
60/251.  Thus  the  review  of  the  functioning  of  the 
Human Rights Council in 2011 should, in our view, be 
an  opportunity  for  an  objective  assessment  of  that 
organ,  with  a  view  to  making,  where  needed,  the 
necessary  adjustments to better address  the challenges 
that  continue  to  arise  in  protecting  and  promoting 
human rights. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  presenting 
its  report 
(A/64/53) 
the 
importance 
the  protection  and 
promotion of human rights as one of the pillars of our 
Organization. We welcome the  report  on  the  activities 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  which  covers  the  work 
of that organ between September 2008 and June 2009. 
Mexico  is  fully  committed  to  the  strengthening  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  as  the  organ  par  excellence  in 
the  Organization 
for  promoting  and 
protecting human rights. 

In  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  the  human 
rights  situation  in  Mexico  was  reviewed  under  the 
the  General  Assembly,  given 
responsible 
to 
that 
it  gives 
to 
to 

in 
the  context  of 
universal  periodic  review  mechanism.  My  country 
participated  very  seriously  and  responsibly  in  that 
review.  It  committed  itself  to  following  up  on  the 
recommendations  received  and  accepted  under  that 
mechanism in three spheres: the national human rights 
programme, 
the  cooperation 
agreement that Mexico has with the Office of the High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  and  in  our  ongoing 
dialogue with civil society within the framework of the 
Commission on Government Policy on Human Rights. 

We  are  convinced  of  the  usefulness  of  this 
innovative  mechanism  as  a  tool  for  comprehensively 
evaluating  goals  that  constructively  seeks  to  improve 
human  rights  in  all  the  countries  of  the  world.  In  that 
effort to protect human rights, the Council, through the 
universal  periodic  review,  has  already  considered  the 
situation  in  nearly  80  countries  in  every  region  of  the 
world.  

This year, the Council has continued to carry out 
its  normative  work.  In  that  regard,  I  should  like  to 
point out the adoption of Guidelines for the Alternative 
Care  of  Children  and  the  establishment  of  an  open-
ended  working  group  to  draft  an  optional  protocol  to 
the Convention on the Rights of the Child to provide a 
communications  procedure. With  regard  to  strengthening 
the  system  of  special  procedures,  I  would  underscore 
the establishment of the post of the independent expert 
in  the  area  of  human  rights. We  therefore  have  at  our 
disposal  today  a  host  of  39  procedures  to  promote  an 
agenda  for  the  protection  of  human  rights  in  the 
context of their respective mandates. 

Moreover,  as  part  of  the  Council’s  innovative 
working methods, thematic panels have been held on the 
issues of the rights of children, of women, of disabled 
persons  and  of  migrants  being  held  in  detention 
centres. The thematic discussions and the exchange of 
views with experts have benefited the Council’s work. 

Two  fundamental  changes  in  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  should  be  made  in  2011.  The 
first  pertains  to  issues  associated  with  the  Council’s 
work  and  functioning.  The  second,  which  necessarily 
will involve the General Assembly, has to do with the 
status of the Council itself within the Organization. We 
consider  it  crucially  important  that  both  of  those 
elements,  which  are  part  of  the  same  process,  should 
lead to genuine strengthening of the Council so that it 
will  be  in  a  position  to  fully  carry  out  the  important 
mandate for which it was established. The Government 
14 

09-58708 


of  Mexico  believes  that  the  revisions  to  be  made  in 
2011  will  be  a  unique  opportunity  to  strengthen  the 
Council’s  working  methods  and  move  towards  a 
genuine  culture  of  dialogue  and  good  practices  that 
will  bolster 
the  enjoyment  of  all  human  rights 
throughout the entire world. We would like to express 
our full commitment to contribute constructively to the 
working  group  that  the  Council  has  established  to 
begin that process. 

Lastly, Mexico is pleased to have been re-elected 
as  a  member  of  this  important  body  last  May. We  are 
therefore  even  more  committed  to  continue  to  work 
actively and collectively in the Human Rights Council. 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 

like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council for its report contained in document A/64/53. I 
would also like to welcome the statement made in the 
General  Assembly  by  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. 

The  Council  has  done  a  commendable  job  over 
the  past  four  years  in  building  and  establishing  the 
appropriate mechanisms and subsidiary bodies to fulfil 
the  mandates  given  to  it  by  resolution  60/251.  One  of 
the  priorities  in  the  new  phase  of  United  Nations 
human  rights  machinery  has  been  to  approach  human 
rights  issues  in  a  comprehensive,  cooperative  and 
constructive  manner.  To  meet  such  expectations,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  must  act  as  a  focal  point  of 
reliance,  hope  and  participation  for  all  peoples  and 
Governments  so  as  to  address  global  human  rights 
challenges.  It  also  ought  to  be  a  forum  for  dialogue, 
understanding and cooperation. 

their 
interdependence  and  indivisibility  require  that  all 
rights be given equal status. As such, economic, social 
and cultural rights should be given the same importance 
as  civil  and  political  rights.  The  creation  of  new 
mandates  focused  on  economic,  social  and  cultural 
rights  and  the  holding  of  panel  discussions  on  a 
number of important subjects are worthy achievements 
of  the  Council.  However,  there  is  a  need  for  more 
effective mechanisms to reinforce and support cultural 
rights. Operational steps are needed to further strengthen 
the right to development and other collective rights. 

While  the  process  of  setting  standards  in  the 
Human  Rights  Council  is  ongoing,  it  should  be 
underlined that cultural diversity must be at the centre 
of  any  attempt  to  create  human  rights  instruments,  as 
The  universality  of  human  rights  and 
A/64/PV.31
is 
international 
remain 
daunting 
challenges 
for 
the  Third  Committee,  as 
such an approach would help to prevent hegemony and 
will enrich the universality of human rights. 

The pervasiveness of poverty and the increase in 
inequality between countries, which have mainly been 
economic 
caused  by  unfavourable 
conditions, 
facing 
developing  countries  and  undermine  their  efforts  to 
promote  human  rights.  Moreover, 
the  spread  of 
intolerance,  certain  misconceptions  on  the  right  to  the 
freedom of expression and the lack of an ethics code of 
conduct for media still stand in the way of the effective 
implementation  of  all  human  rights  for  all.  They  also 
infringe upon the rights of some sectors of society. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  world  is  still  witnessing 
attempts on the part of a few who wish to impose their 
own  views  and  interpretations  on  the  application  of 
certain  internationally  agreed  concepts  and  standards. 
The  Human  Rights  Council  should  confront  such 
attempts by designing innovative approaches. 
We are of the opinion that it would be extremely 

necessary 
its 
prerogative,  to  pay  greater  attention  to  its  designated 
work  and  mandate  and  that  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  In  principle,  the  General  Assembly’s  Third 
Committee  should  primarily  focus  on  policy-oriented 
deliberations  and  discussions 
to  provide  strategic 
policy recommendations to the Assembly, which in turn 
can guide the international community, in particular the 
Human  Rights  Council,  in  further  enhancing  the 
promotion and protection of all human rights. 
One  of  the  real  challenges  before  the  Council  is 

to  ensure  that  its  monitoring  system  works  truly  as  a 
universal mechanism to address human rights situations 
worldwide.  That  will  require  the  Council  to  adopt  a 
balanced and integrated approach and enforce a unified 
set  of  criteria  and  terms  of  reference  in  all  situations 
alike. 

In  that  respect,  the  universal  periodic  review 
mechanism  constitutes  a  breakthrough  in  the  work  of 
United  Nations 
rights 
activities.  The  purpose  of  the  mechanism  is  to  ensure 
universality, objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality 
in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  human  rights 
machinery. Logically speaking, if it works as intended, 
that 
rights 
machinery 
interests  and 
ambitions.  We  appreciate  the  degree  of  transparency 
and the constructive examination of situations that took 
intergovernmental  human 
instrument  should  allow 
the  human 
to  act  beyond  political 
09-58708 

15 

A/64/PV.31 

place  during  the  universal  periodic  review  in  the 
context of discussing challenges ahead, acknowledging 
that there is always room for improvement in any State. 

According to the timetable of the Working Group 
on  the  Universal  Periodic  Review,  the  national  report 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  will  be  considered 
during the Group’s fourteenth session, in February 2010. 
My Government has made comprehensive arrangements 
with all national stakeholders, including governmental 
and  non-governmental  institutions,  to  draw  up  and 
submit  the  national  report  for  the  consideration  of  the 
Working  Group.  My  country  is  fully  committed  and 
ready  to  engage  constructively  and  cooperatively  with 
other States when our national report is considered by 
the Human Rights Council’s Working Group. 
Mr.  Nirupam  (India):  Thank  you  very  much, 

Madam,  for  giving  me  this  opportunity  to  address  the 
General Assembly on the important issue of the report 
of the Human Rights Council (A/64/53). At the outset, 
on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President of the Human Rights Council for his report. 

My delegation notes positively the promise shown 
by  the  Human  Rights  Council  since  its  inception,  in 
2006,  as  the  premier  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
dealing  with  human  rights.  Considerable  progress  has 
been  made  in  the  past  three  years  in  strengthening  its 
institutional mechanisms and reviewing, improving and 
rationalizing  all  mandates,  mechanisms,  functions  and 
responsibilities  of  the  former  Commission  on  Human 
Rights. 
The strength of the Human Rights Council lies in 

its  emphasis  on  dialogue,  cooperation,  transparency 
and non-selectivity in the promotion and protection of 
all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. The 
enthusiastic  participation  of  Member  States  in  the 
universal periodic review process to date points in that 
direction.  It  also  underscores  the  success  of  that 
innovative mechanism, which has provided a platform 
for  sharing  national  experiences  and  best  practices  in 
consultation with, and with the consent of, the country 
concerned.  The  importance  of  the  universal  periodic 
review  mechanism  was  rightly  summed  up  by  the 
Secretary-General when he said that “This mechanism 
has great potential to promote and protect human rights 
in the darkest corners of the world”.  

The holding of special sessions on thematic issues 
over the past year and a half attests to the wide-ranging 
debate being conducted in the Council. We reiterate our 
firm commitment to continue to engage constructively 
with  all  Member  States  and  to  strive  to  make  the 
Council  more  effective,  responsive  and  efficient.  We 
strongly  believe  that  the  international  community  can 
advance  our  common  cause  through  dialogue  and 
interaction. 

The Human Rights Council is still evolving. It is 
important  that  we  continue  to  provide  collective 
guidance to the Council and help it mature. We should 
also ensure that those efforts are inclusive and respect 
the  diversity  in  the  historical  national  experiences, 
cultures and development of different countries. In that 
regard, we would like to state that we look forward to 
the  forthcoming  review  process  of  the  functioning  of 
the Human Rights Council in 2011. 

Let me take this opportunity to also reaffirm our 
trust  in  the  work  and  independence  of  the  special 
procedures  mandate-holders.  While  they  have  done 
commendable  work,  it  is  important  that  they  exercise 
responsibility  and  be  sensitive  in  discharging  their 
respective  mandates.  The  Human  Rights  Council  has 
provided mandate-holders with a code of conduct, and 
it  is  important  that  it  is  adhered  to.  Any  attempt  to 
reinterpret  the  code  of  conduct  or  depart  from  their 
mandates  would  weaken  the  mandate-holders  and  the 
important  functions  entrusted  to  them  by  the  Council. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  adoption  of  Council 
resolution 11/11, on the system of special procedures. 

We  are  encouraged  by  the  efforts  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  to  translate  the  right  to  development 
into a reality. Discussions on the right to development 
are  gradually  moving  away  from  the  realm  of  theory 
and  principles  into  that  of  the  design,  implementation 
and realization of policies. In that connection, we note 
the  significant  contribution  of  the  Working  Group  on 
the Right to Development. 

in 
denouncing terrorism, which poses the biggest threat to 
our  common  efforts  towards  peace,  security  and 
development.  It  also  undermines  the  very  foundations 
of freedom and democracy and the enjoyment of human 
rights, including the most important fundamental right 
of all, namely, the right to life. 

In conclusion, I would like to say that the work of 
the Human Rights Council should proceed in a spirit of 
cooperation and mutual understanding. It should strive 
to  promote  human 
international 
cooperation  and  genuine  dialogue  among  Member 
The  Council  must  play  a  central 
role 
rights 
through 
16 

09-58708 


States, including capacity-building and mutual assistance. 
India remains committed to making the Human Rights 
Council  a  strong,  effective  and  efficient  body  that  is 
capable of promoting and protecting human rights and 
fundamental freedoms for all. 
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  New  Zealand  is 

pleased to welcome Ambassador van Meeuwen to New 
York  for  the  presentation  of  the  report  on  the  Human 
Rights Council’s third year of operation (A/64/53). We 
acknowledge  his  contribution  and 
that  of  his 
predecessor, Ambassador Martin Uhomoibhi. 

New  Zealand  firmly  believes  in  the  universality 
and  indivisibility  of  human  rights  for  all  people  and 
regards  the  Human  Rights  Council  as  the  primary 
United  Nations  mechanism  with  responsibility  for 
human rights. New Zealand wishes to see the Council 
fulfil  the  mandate  with  which  it  was  entrusted  by 
Member States, namely, to respond effectively and in a 
timely  manner 
to  human  rights  situations  while 
promoting open and inclusive dialogue and cooperation 
with concerned countries. 

The  third  year  of  the  Council’s  operation  has 
been an important one. In its first year, the Council laid 
the 
solid 
institution-building  package.  Last  year, 
that  was 
followed by the consolidation of those institutions and 
mechanisms. After  that  establishment  phase,  the  third 
year  has  been  the  Council’s  first  full  year  of  work.  In 
that  period,  we  have  been  encouraged  to  see  some 
positive  work  in  the  Council  that  has  contributed 
towards  the  fulfilment  of  its  mandate.  In  that  regard, 
New  Zealand  has  welcomed  the  contribution  of  new 
members  and  has  been  pleased  to  see  evidence  of 
increased cross-regional cooperation. 
Transparency is also important. We commend the 

Council  for  its  use  of  webcasting  and  for  other 
improvements,  such  as  the  use  of  new  technology  to 
distribute meeting alerts. 
Strong  operational  practices  in  the  Council  are 

critical  for  the  effective  implementation  of  human 
rights.  For  that  reason,  New  Zealand  considers  the 
system  of  independent  special  procedures,  including 
those  on  specific  human  rights  situations,  and  the 
universal  periodic  review  to  be  among  the  more 
valuable components of the Council’s work. 

This  year,  New  Zealand  was  pleased  to  undergo 
its  own  first  universal  periodic  review.  We  look 
the  adoption  of 
foundations 
through 
A/64/PV.31
in 
forward  to  the  continuing  evolution  of  the  process, 
which  we  see  as  positively  complementing  other 
mechanisms,  including  country  statements  and  treaty 
body reporting. 

We particularly recognize the challenges faced by 
smaller States in participating in the universal periodic 
review process, especially those without representation 
in Geneva. In support of the review process, therefore, 
New  Zealand  hosted  a  seminar  earlier  this  year  for 
Pacific  countries  to  exchange  views  and  build  the 
region’s  capacity  to  engage  in  the  process.  We  are 
pleased that those of our Pacific neighbours who have 
so  far  been  reviewed  have  found  the  experience 
positive  and  rewarding.  We  look  forward  to  others 
participating  in  the  next  review  process  round,  in 
December. 

Despite  some  encouraging  positive  steps,  New 
Zealand remains convinced that much more needs to be 
done. As the President said, the Council is not a perfect 
institution. The Council must intensify efforts to assist 
States in their responsibility to address the gap between 
the  norms  embodied 
the  core  human  rights 
instruments  and  the  reality  faced  by  individuals. 
Specifically,  we  urge  member  States  of  the  Council, 
past and present, to reinvigorate their efforts to deliver 
on  the  pledges  they  made  upon  their  election  to  the 
Council. 

This  year,  the  Council  also  addressed  some 
important thematic issues. In that regard, New Zealand 
was pleased to have co-led initiatives on the issues of 
disabilities  and  maternal  mortality.  However,  other 
important 
the 
attention they deserve, and others that have been taken 
up by the Council did not always add value to its work 
or promote human rights. 

New Zealand considers that being able to address 
critical  country  situations  in  a  timely  and  effective 
manner  is  fundamental  for  the  fulfilment  of  the 
Council’s  mandate,  and  vital  for  its  credibility.  We 
were  pleased  to  observe  a  number  of  instances  where 
that has taken place this year. However, we regret that 
there  have  been  other  situations  where  that  has  not 
happened. 

We  are  also  concerned  that  the  Council  can 
sometimes  be  selectively  willing  to  condemn  what  it 
regards  as  human  rights  abuses  in  some  places,  while 
conveniently ignoring others that might be uncomfortably 
issues  have  not  received 
thematic 
09-58708 

17 
A/64/PV.31 

closer  to  home.  Greater  consistency  in  that  regard 
would do much for the Council’s wider credibility. 

While  it  is  still  early  in  its  existence,  the 
forthcoming  2011  review  of  the  Council  could  also 
provide an opportunity for assessment and improvement 
of  its  working  methods,  taking  into  account  the  need 
for the proper implementation of existing structures. In 
that regard, we again urge the Council to move towards 
a  clearer  and  predictable  annual  programme  of  work. 
We also believe that more can be done to increase the 
effectiveness  of  meeting  time,  especially  for  working 
groups. 

The  United  Nations  was  established  in  1945,  in 
part  in  response  to  the  human  rights  abuses  of 
preceding  years.  New  Zealand  put  its  hand  to  that 
original  establishment,  has  maintained  its  support  for 
global  respect  of  human  rights  and  remains  firmly 
committed  to  those  ideals,  both  domestically  and 
internationally.  But,  for  all  that,  we  are  under  no 
illusions as to the nature and extent of the task that is 
still  at  hand  —  a  task  that,  in  United  Nations  terms, 
belongs  with  the  Human  Rights  Council. We  wish  the 
Council well for the challenges ahead. They are many 
and  they  are  real,  but  they  must  be  taken  up  and 
addressed.  That  is  why  we  worked  for  and  supported 
the  Council’s  establishment  and  why,  despite  any 
shortcomings, we continue to support it today. 
in  Spanish): 

Colombia  has  taken  note  of  the  report  of  the  Human 
Rights Council, contained in document A/64/53, which 
includes  the  resolutions,  decisions  and  presidential 
statements adopted during its two regular sessions and 
four  special  sessions. As  we  stressed  yesterday  in  the 
debate  in  the  Third  Committee,  in  those  sessions  the 
Council  adopted  important  thematic  resolutions  that 
include new provisions to be taken into account in the 
realization  of  political,  civil,  economic,  social  and 
cultural rights.  

My delegation welcomes the work of the Council 
on  matters  concerning  the  rights  of  children,  the 
elimination  of  violence  and  discrimination  against 
women,  the  response  to  various  crimes  that  seriously 
impair  the  enjoyment  of  human  rights  —  such  as 
trafficking 
in  persons  and  arbitrary  arrests  and 
disappearances  —  and  issues  related  to  the  right  to 
education  and  human  rights  training.  Colombia,  in  its 
capacity  as  an  observer  State 
the  Council, 
Ms.  Blum
(Colombia) 
(spoke 
in 

to 
international  dialogue 
take  concrete  steps  with  regard 
co-sponsored  several  of  those  initiatives  and  actively 
participated in the relevant consultations. 

Colombia  has  supported  the  reforms  that  have 
been  implemented  in  the  United  Nations  since  2006 
with  regard  to  the  system  of  bodies  with  mandates  in 
the area of human rights. My country believes that the 
creation of the Human Rights Council, the establishment 
of the universal periodic review and the adoption of the 
code  of  conduct  governing  the  work  of  the  special 
procedures are fundamental achievements that make it 
possible 
to 
cooperation  in  the  realization  of  human  rights  in 
various countries and regions. 

It  is  important  that,  in  complying  with  its 
mandate,  the  Human  Rights  Council  continue  to 
strengthen  its  working  methods  and  decisions  in 
accordance  with  the  objectives  and  spirit  that  inspired 
the  Assembly  to  establish  the  Council.  The  Council 
should  continue  to  be  strengthened  as  a  body  for 
constructive 
that  promotes 
international  cooperation  in  the  protection  of  human 
rights.  The  principles  of  universality,  impartiality, 
objectivity  and  non-selectivity  must  at  all  times  guide 
its  work,  as  provided  for  by  the  Assembly  in  2006. 
Adherence  to  those  principles  is  a  guarantee  for 
enhancing  the  legitimacy  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Council in fulfilling its mandate. 

The  universal  periodic  review  has  continued  to 
develop, as reflected in the decisions referred to in the 
report.  Having  voluntarily  accepted  the  procedure, 
Colombia’s review took place at the end of 2008. It is 
important that each State set up internal systems for the 
follow-up  to  the  implementation  of  the  commitments 
made  under  the  review,  so  as  to  strengthen  the 
legitimacy  of  this  tool  in  the  future.  My  Government 
has defined a national methodology for that purpose. 

It  is  important  that  future  reports  of  the  Council 
include  more  references  with  regard  to  the  Council’s 
contributions  in  areas  that  we  believe  are  relevant  in 
assessing the new institutional system on human rights. 
That  should  include,  for  example,  information  related 
to contributions in the mainstreaming of human rights 
within the United Nations system; the strengthening of 
the  work  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights; the continuous review and formulation 
of  increasingly  coherent  and  organized  objectives  and 
the  system  of  special  procedures; 
mandates 
complementary  actions  with 
the  various  existing 
in 
18 

09-58708 
relevant  national 
institutions. 
system, 


human  rights  institutional  systems  at  the  regional  or 
continental  levels  and  strengthening  coherence  among 
the  different  human  rights  treaty  bodies  while  taking 
into account their respective mandates. 

The Council’s effectiveness could be increased if 
its  efforts  included  particular  priority  on  the  goal  of 
helping  to  instil  the  culture  of  human  rights  at  all 
levels.  Those  activities  must  be  promoted  objectively, 
avoiding the politicization in the approaches taken. 

Through  dialogue  and  cooperation,  the  Council 
will be able to strengthen its work for the promotion of 
human  rights  and  to  raise  human  rights  awareness  in 
the policies of other multilateral bodies and in the work 
of 
It  could  also 
encourage the involvement of economic and corporate 
sectors,  prompting  their  commitment  to  the  principles 
of  corporate  social  responsibility  which  contribute  to 
the  enjoyment  of  human,  environmental  and  social 
rights in various countries and regions. It may also, in 
a  more  general  way,  foster  constructive  interaction 
with  civil  society.  My  delegation  hopes  that  in  the 
work  of  the  Council,  we  will  see  progressively  more 
tangible results on these fronts. 

It  is  equally  important  for  the  Council  to  move 
forward  in  analysing  standards  for  monitoring  the 
implementation of the recommendations adopted in the 
field  of  human  rights  by  the  various  bodies  of  the 
United  Nations 
this  General 
Assembly. That  should  always  be  carried  out  with  the 
conviction 
the  broadest 
possible participation of all member States in decision-
making processes are essential prerequisites for ensuring 
greater effectiveness and legitimacy of decisions while, 
at the same time, fully reflecting the democratic values 
underpinning the United Nations system. 
Ms. Plaisted (United States of America): Let me 

join  with  others  in  welcoming  the  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  to  the Assembly  and  thanking 
him for his report (A/64/53). 

The  United  States  was  honoured  to  take  up  its 
seat on the Human Rights Council for the first time this 
year  and,  in  the  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  we  look 
forward to continuing this work with our colleagues on 
the Council, and the entire United Nations membership, 
to protect and promote human rights around the world. 

The  United  States  decision  to  join  the  Human 
Rights Council was not made lightly. It was based on a 
that  multilateralism  and 
including 
09-58708 

A/64/PV.31
in 
clear  and  hopeful  vision  of  what  we  can  accomplish 
together.  This  vision  is  not  an American  one,  but  one 
that respects the aspirations embodied in the Universal 
Declaration  on  Human  Rights  and  the  mandate  of  the 
Council itself. 

In his address to the General Assembly, President 
Obama  emphasized  that  respect  for  human  rights  and 
democracy  is  essential  to  sustained  prosperity  and 
lasting security. In his remarks last month, and in Cairo 
and  Accra  earlier 
the  year,  President  Obama 
provided a direction for our approach to the Council’s 
work  which  is  guided  by  four  tenets,  as  was  outlined 
by  Assistant  Secretaries  Grimmer  and  Posner  during 
the  September  session:  the  universality  of  human 
rights,  dialogue  among  nations  and  people,  principled 
engagement, and a fidelity to the truth. 

As  others  have  noted,  we  approach  the  Council 
willing to support what it does well, but also pledging 
to  challenge  actions  that  we  believe  undermine  the 
Council’s  effectiveness  and  its  mandate.  The  United 
States seeks to build partnerships in our efforts to listen 
and  learn  from  one  another  and  work  to  identify 
common  ground.  We  will  remain  steadfast  in  our 
assertion that all Governments, including our own, are 
responsible  for  ensuring  the  rights  and  freedoms 
spelled  out  in  international  human  rights  law.  We 
believe the Human Rights Council must focus its work 
on  making  a  practical  impact  on  respect  for  human 
rights,  the  betterment  of  the  lives  of  victims  and  the 
prevention of abuses. 

It  is  with  those  views  in  mind  that  we  approach 
the  Council’s  report.  Indeed,  the  breadth  of  work 
covered by the Human Rights Council is tremendous — 
close to 100 or more resolutions a year on any number 
of  thematic  areas,  with  multiple  special  sessions.  The 
universal periodic review, multiple committee meetings, 
including the Ad Hoc Committee on the Elaboration of 
Complementary  Standards  —  currently  meeting  in 
Geneva — only add to the enormous workload. 

As  is  true  with  any  political  body,  as  the  United 
States  looks  back  at  the  activities  undertaken  by  the 
Human  Rights  Council  over  the  past  year,  there  is 
much  we  can  agree  with  and  much  with  which  we 
would take strong exception.  

For example, in reviewing the Council’s report on 
its  activities  last  year,  the  United  States  strongly 
supported the Council’s considerable work on women’s 
issues, including resolutions on maternal mortality and 
19 

transparent  reminder  of 
A/64/PV.31 

violence  against  women,  as  well  as  its  emphasis  on 
trafficking  in  persons.  We  supported  resolutions  on 
Somalia  and  we  worked  diligently  with  others  on  the 
Council  to  try  to  forge  agreement  on  sensitive  and 
difficult  issues  in  the  Sudan  and  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, to name just a few. 

We  would  be  remiss  not  to  point  out  that  the 
report, while including the Council’s successes, is also 
a 
its  failings.  We  were 
disappointed  that  the  Council  failed  to  seriously 
address  some  of  the  most  difficult  and  sensitive 
situations,  including  the  situation  in  Iran,  to  mention 
just  one  example.  The  Council’s  failings  also  include 
the  continued  one-sided  treatment  of  Israel. There  are 
multiple resolutions within the report that target Israel, 
resolutions  the  United  States  could  not  support  for 
many reasons, but in large part because they attempt to 
isolate  and  criticize  the  Government  of  Israel  with  no 
mention of Hamas. 

As  a  member  of  the  Council,  the  United  States 
hopes  to  work  in  partnership  with  all  Member  States, 
and  particularly  with  Council  members,  to  strengthen 
the  Council’s  work  and  impact  in  fulfilment  of  its 
mission. We look forward to working with the Human 
Rights Council and the General Assembly to empower 
and  strengthen 
the  United  Nations  human  rights 
mechanisms and to improve its — and our — ability to 
make an impact around the world in order to better the 
lives  of  the  world’s  most  vulnerable  peoples.  We 
believe the United Nations and Member States — and 
particularly  the  victims  of  human  rights  violations 
around the world — deserve no less. 
(Maldives):  The  Maldives 

welcomes  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/64/53),  the  pre-eminent  body  of  the  international 
human rights framework. I would also like to take this 
opportunity  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Alex  van  Meeuwen,  President  of  the 
Council,  and  his  predecessors,  for  the  invaluable 
contributions  they  have  made  to  the  work  of  the 
Council  as 
the  better 
protection and promotion of human rights worldwide. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  congratulate  the 
excellent  work  the  Council  has  carried  out  so  far.  We 
believe  that,  despite  its  young  age,  the  Council  has 
worked diligently in trying to meet our expectations in 
elevating human rights protection for all citizens of the 
world. We also recognize the importance of the review 
Mr.  Mohamed
it  continues 
to  strive  for 
tenth  regular  session,  and  on 
of  the  Council  in  shaping  its  future  work.  It  is 
imperative that, in reviewing the Council’s performance, 
we  pay  due  heed  to  maintaining  our  engagement  and 
commitment  to  upholding  the  very  fundamentals  on 
which the Council was established. 

The Maldives would like to take this opportunity 
to comment on Human Rights Council resolution 10/4, 
on  human  rights  and  climate  change,  adopted  during 
the  Council’s 
the 
subsequent  panel  on  the  subject  held  during  the 
eleventh  session. The  Maldives,  the  lead  sponsor,  was 
pleased  that  Council  resolution  10/4,  which  breaks 
important  new  ground  in  clarifying  the  complex  and 
important  relationship  between  climate  change  and 
human  rights,  was  adopted  by  consensus  and  with 
almost 90 sponsors.  

The  resolution  makes  clear  that  climate  change 
impacts have important negative implications, in both a 
direct and indirect sense, for a range of internationally 
protected  human  rights.  Those  implications  fall  most 
heavily on the most vulnerable countries and segments 
of  society.  The  resolution  also  states  that  the  current 
negotiations  on 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  due  to  conclude  in 
Copenhagen  in  December,  must  succeed  in  order  for 
human  rights  to  be  protected,  and  that  climate  change 
policy agreed at the negotiations must be implemented 
in a way that supports and does not undermine the full 
enjoyment of the human rights of all peoples. 

The  operative  part  of  resolution  10/4  called  on 
the Council to hold a dedicated interactive panel debate 
on the relationship between climate change and human 
rights.  That  debate  was  convened  during  the  eleventh 
session  in  June.  The  Maldives  found  the  debate  an 
extremely  worthwhile  and  productive  exercise.  We 
were  particularly  delighted  by  the  range  of  detailed 
views  and  comments  presented  by  States,  experts  and 
non-governmental 
listening 
carefully to those views and comments, the Maldives is 
now considering what next steps to take. In this regard, 
we will also be informed by the merits of the outcome 
of  December’s  crucial  climate  change  conference  in 
Copenhagen. 

the  Council’s 
adoption, during its tenth and eleventh sessions, of the 
outcomes of the universal periodic reviews of a number 
of  small  island  developing  States,  including  Bahamas, 
Barbados,  Cape  Verde,  Tuvalu  and  Mauritius.  We 
The  Maldives  also  welcomes 
organizations.  After 
20 

09-58708 
that 
the  review  process  places  on 


would  like  to  congratulate  those  States  on  their 
successful  and  productive  reviews.  The  Maldives  is  a 
firm supporter of the review process, which we believe 
offers an invaluable opportunity for small island States 
to engage in an open dialogue on ways to improve the 
enjoyment  of  human  rights  and  also  to  access  much 
needed international capacity-building support.  
At  the  same  time,  we  are  fully  aware  of  the 

pressures 
the 
administrations of small island States, especially those 
States that do not have permanent missions in Geneva. 
For  that  reason  the  Maldives  and  a  group  of  like-
minded  States  have  established  a  group  of  friends  in 
Geneva  to  offer  practical  advice  and  support  to  States 
that do not have a presence in Geneva, if those States 
so wish. The group of friends will contact all States in 
that position ahead of their reviews. 
Mr.  Saeed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 

like  to  express  the  appreciation  of  my  delegation  for 
the  statement  made  by  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  before  the  General  Assembly,  having 
spoken  in  the  Third  Committee  last  Thursday  at  the 
beginning of deliberations on the report of the Human 
Rights Council (A/64/53). My delegation would like to 
stress the importance of continuing the deliberations on 
the  Human  Rights  Council’s  report  in  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  subsidiary  bodies  that  deal  with 
human  rights.  Indeed,  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  a 
subsidiary organ of the General Assembly, as stipulated 
by its resolution 60/251, which established the Council.  

The  Third  Committee,  which  is  the  technical 
body authorized to discuss human rights issues, with a 
view  to  their  promotion  and  protection,  remains  the 
most 
the 
recommendations  and  findings  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council. The Council resolution, adopted by consensus 
this  past  year,  stipulates  that  the  Council’s  report 
should be considered by the General Assembly and the 
Third  Committee,  with  the  latter  dealing  with  the 
recommendations  contained  in  Council’s  report.  The 
resolution reflects all approaches and opinions relevant 
to 
this 
consensual resolution.  

The  Human  Rights  Council,  as  the  report  makes 
clear, is an important step in the process of considering 
human  rights  activities  and  reform  in  the  United 
Nations system, in light of the need to breathe new life 
into  this  aspect  of  the  work  of  the  Organization. This 
the  subject.  We  wholeheartedly  support 
deal  with 
appropriate 
forum 
to 
A/64/PV.31
on 
dialogue, 
constructive 
will bring it into line with the realities of our modern-
day world after the passage of more than half a century 
since  the  founding of the  United Nations. The Human 
Rights  Council  thus  represents  a  new  phase  in  the 
development and enhancement of human rights.  

The  Council  was  set  up  in  a  way  that  took 
account  of  the  shortcomings  and  malformations  that 
existed  previously  in  the  Human  Rights  Commission 
and  that  were  reflected  in  its  politicization,  double 
standards  and  selectivity.  The  former  body  was  a 
malleable  instrument  in  the  hands  of  certain  Powers 
that  used  it  to  serve  their  own  purposes  and  agendas 
which ran counter to the noble objectives for which the 
body had been established. The important work and the 
measures  already  taken  by  the  Human  Rights  Council 
since  its  creation  three  years  ago,  in  the  areas  of 
institutionalization  and  study  of  the  working  methods 
of  the  previous  Commission  on  Human  Rights,  paves 
the  way  for  a  new  era  in  the  field  of  human  rights, 
based 
international 
cooperation,  the  provision  of technical  assistance,  and 
the  process  of  inclusiveness  in  dealing  with  human 
rights throughout the world. That is a new approach for 
tackling  human  rights  issues,  replacing  the  heavy 
legacy  of  politicization, 
selectivity  and  double 
standards that marked the Human Rights Commission.  

My  delegation  is  eager  to  see  the  Human  Rights 
Council undertake more action, efforts and arrangements 
to strike the correct balance between cultural, economic 
and  social  rights,  including  the  right  to  development, 
on  the  one  hand  and  political  and  civil  rights  on  the 
other. Political and civil rights had been in the ascendant 
in  the  Human  Rights  Commission;  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  by  contrast,  must  endeavour  to  promote, 
enhance and protect cultural, economic and social rights.  

The  universal  periodic  review  process  needs  to 
consider the human rights situation in all States on the 
basis of dialogue and constructive cooperation. That is 
a  new  hallmark  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  a 
project  worthy  of  support  and  serious  assessment  to 
develop it and to provide it with technical assistance so 
it  may  continue  and  progress.  We  hope  that  this 
positive development will mark the end of the previous 
era of politicization and double standards, and we hope 
that  its  results  will  put  an  end  to  the  country-specific 
resolutions singling out one State, which would then go 
to  the  Third  Committee  —  a  process  that  does  not 
contribute  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  but  rather  deepens  confrontation,  widens  the 
09-58708 

21 

common 
understanding 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 
reaffirms 
to  working  with 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
A/64/PV.31 

circle of politicization and selectivity and targets only 
developing  countries,  and  is  not  consistent  with  the 
new spirit and approach of the Human Rights Council, 
founded  on  a  spirit  of  mutual  understanding,  dialogue 
and international cooperation.  

its 
wholehearted  commitment 
the 
international  community  and 
the  Human  Rights 
Council’s  machinery  in  order  to  achieve  the  noble 
objectives  of  protecting  and  promoting  human  rights 
approach  predicated  on  dialogue, 
through 
an 
international 
and 
and 
cooperation.  We  hope  that  such  an  approach  will 
remain the one adopted by the Council and that it will 
prevail in all the Council’s activities and endeavours. 

speaker in the debate on this item.  

One  representative  has  requested  to  speak  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members 
that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats. 

I  call  on 
Republic of Iran. 
Mr.  Mamdouhi  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  In 

exercising the right of  reply to the statement made by 
the  representative  of  the  United  States,  my  delegation 
would like to state the following.  
It is unfortunate that abuse of the United Nations 

human 
the  General 
Assembly and the Human Rights Council, has become 
a prevalent tradition among certain States in advancing 
their  political  purposes.  We, 
the 
overwhelming majority of the international community 
who  have  opposed  or  have  not  consciously  supported 
similar  moves  in  the  past,  are  firmly  convinced  that 
such  ill-intended  practice  has  nothing  to  do  with  the 
cause of human rights and harms the credibility of the 
Human  Rights  Council  and 
rights 
mechanisms. 

Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

Adopting  an  unconstructive  policy,  the  United 
States makes references to others in the context of the 
violation of human rights while certain parts of its own 
the  representative  of 
rights  machinery, 
along  with 
the  Islamic 
its  human 
including 
from  human 
its  watch  and 
immigrants,  foreigners  and 
suffer 
rights 
its  exercise  of 
population,  especially 
indigenous  peoples, 
violations  under 
discriminatory policies. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 64. 





to 
thank 
like  first 
fundamental 
the  President  of 
its  primary  and 
Agenda item 75 (continued) 
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/356) 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/363) 

Ms.  Blum  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

the 
would 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  preparing  the 
fifth  report  of  the  Court  (A/64/356),  submitted  for 
consideration by the Members of the United Nations. 

My delegation wishes to highlight the work of the 
Court in consolidating international criminal law and in 
its  efforts  to  ensure  the  prevalence  of  international 
justice  over  impunity  for  crimes  within  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction.  The  report  gives  account  of  those  efforts 
and  of  the  Court’s  support  for  national  jurisdictions 
through 
role  of 
investigating  and  prosecuting  those  responsible  for 
such crimes, while upholding the basic premise of the 
Court’s complementary jurisdiction. 

Let me stress that, having finished its substantive 
preliminary  proceedings,  the  Court  initiated  its  first 
trials  this  year.  This  is  unquestionably  an  important 
step  forward  in  the  due  administration  of  justice.  My 
country  welcomes  the  progress  made  on  the  path 
towards  the  universalization  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
which now has 110 States parties following the recent 
accession  of  Chile  and  the  Czech  Republic.  My 
delegation also urges the full and effective cooperation 
of States, the United Nations and civil society towards 
the proper functioning of the Court. 

the 
International  Criminal  Court,  Mr.  Luis  Moreno-
Ocampo,  paid  a  visit  to  Colombia  at  the  invitation  of 
the  Colombian  State  and  the  Office  of  the  Attorney 
General. During his visit, Mr. Moreno met with senior 
Government  officials, 
the 
Supreme Court and representatives of civil society, and 
had the opportunity to analyse information concerning 
the  Attorney  General, 
the  Prosecutor  of 
In  August  2008, 
22 

09-58708 
in 
fulfilling 
the  Court’s 
that  fall  within 
the  existence  of 
its  primary  obligation 


investigations  and  ongoing  lawsuits  against  leaders  of 
illegal armed groups, politicians and military personnel 
suspected  of  crimes  that  could  fall  within  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction. The  Prosecutor  also  discussed  allegations 
regarding 
international  support 
networks assisting criminal armed groups in Colombia. 
The  Government  hopes  that  the  work  of  the  Court  in 
general,  and  of  Prosecutor  Moreno-Ocampo 
in 
particular,  will  benefit  the  Colombian  judicial  system, 
mainly 
to 
investigate, prosecute and punish those responsible for 
such crimes, and to prevent impunity. 

States  parties  are  committed  to  renewing  our 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and  bring  national  legislation  into  line  with  the  Rome 
Statute,  particularly  regarding  the  definition  of  the 
crimes 
jurisdiction. 
International cooperation and judicial assistance are an 
integral part of that commitment.  

Colombia  has  made  progress  in  adjusting  its 
legislation  in  accordance  with  the  principles  and  rules 
governing the Court. In April, Colombia acceded to the 
Agreement  on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the 
International Criminal Court. In November, Colombia’s 
declaration  concerning  war  crimes,  in  force  for  a 
period  of  seven  years  pursuant  to  article  124  of  the 
Rome  Statute,  will  expire.  At  that  time,  the  ICC’s 
jurisdiction over all such crimes will go into full effect 
in my country. Colombia hopes that full implementation 
of the Rome Statute will help deter such war crimes as 
the forcible recruitment of children and terrorist attacks 
on  civilians,  and  that  it  will  also  contribute  to  the 
efficiency  of  the  justice  system  and  strengthening  the 
rule of law. 

Thanks to the implementation of recent legislative 
changes, Colombia has a more efficient justice system. 
The introduction and implementation of  an accusatory 
justice system is one of the most notable developments. 
The  office  of 
the  Attorney  General  has  been 
modernized  and  its  investigative  capacity  enhanced. 
Where  there  have  been  allegations  of  violations  of 
human  rights  by  members  of  the  security  forces,  the 
national  Government  has  moved  quickly  to  refer  all 
such  cases  for  investigation  by  the  regular  courts 
through the office of the Attorney General. 

As a part of its fight against impunity, Colombia 
has enacted a law of justice and peace that provides a 
legal  framework  independent  of  the  executive  and 
A/64/PV.31
rewards truthful confessions and reparation for victims. 
It  has  facilitated  the  demobilization  of  some  52,000 
members of illegal armed groups. As a further result of 
its implementation, approximately 30,000 criminal acts 
have been confessed and around 2,500 bodies exhumed, 
and 35,000 victims have taken part in legal proceedings.  

Thanks  to  the  commitment  of  the  Colombian 
State to truth and justice, Colombia today has achieved 
unprecedented  results  in  this  field.  The  guerrilla 
leaders  of  some  illegal  armed  groups  have  been 
sentenced. All former paramilitary leaders are in prison 
and some have been extradited. Some 694 members of 
paramilitary  groups  are  being  prosecuted  under  the 
justice  and  peace  law,  150  members  of  the  security 
forces  have  been  prosecuted  by  the  justice  system, 
almost 400 have been subject to precautionary measures 
and  approximately  1,300  are  under 
investigation. 
Eleven  leaders  have  been  convicted  of  colluding  with 
former  paramilitary  groups,  7  have  been  brought  to 
trial,  32  are  being  investigated  and  8  are  giving 
voluntary depositions.  

Additionally, the State has launched an ambitious 
programme  to  compensate  victims  through  official 
channels,  to  which  significant  budgetary  resources 
have been allocated. It has sought to establish a system 
that  allows  for  comprehensive  symbolic,  material, 
administrative  and  legal  reparations.  The  goal  set  by 
the  Government 
through 
restitution, compensation, rehabilitation and guarantees 
of non-recurrence.  

Coordinated  efforts  by  all  States,  international 
organizations and civil society are vital to enabling the 
International  Criminal  Court  to  establish  itself  as  an 
international  body  engaged 
the  fight  against 
impunity  and  to  ensure  the  due  application  of  justice 
with regard to the heinous crimes under its jurisdiction.  

The Review Conference of the Rome Statute will 
be  an  exceptional  opportunity  to  work  together  to 
strengthen  this  important  Court.  As  a  country  with  a 
legal  tradition  of  strict  adherence  to  international  law, 
Colombia reaffirms its commitment to the Court and to 
the objectives that led to its creation. 
Mr. Appreku (Ghana): First of all, Ghana aligns 

itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Kenya on behalf of the African group 
of  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  We  wish  to 
highlight the following points in our national capacity. 
the  victims 
to  help 
in 
is 
09-58708 

23 

A/64/PV.31 


Ghana  welcomes  the  note  (A/64/356)  by  which 
the Secretary-General has transmitted the report of the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) in accordance with 
article  6  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United Nations and the ICC, as stated in paragraph 17 
of resolution 63/21. Ghana further welcomes the report 
itself  and  the  statement  made  by  the  President  of  the 
ICC, Judge Sang-Hyun Song, in presenting the report. 
My  delegation  congratulates  Judge  Song  on  his 
election as President, as well as the newly elected First 
Vice-President,  Judge  Fatoumata  Dembele  Diarra,  and 
Second  Vice-President,  Judge  Hans-Peter  Kaul,  on 
their elections. 

We  also  welcome  the  five  judges  who  were 
elected to the Court for the first time on 11 March 2009, 
and extend our deepest condolences to the Government 
of Japan on the demise of Judge Fumiko Saiga.  

Ghana,  as  a  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
remains  committed  to  the  principle  that  agreements 
must not only be honoured — pacta sunt servanda — 
but must be honoured in good faith. Therefore, Ghana 
will  continue  to  support  and  cooperate  with  the  Court 
as  an  independent  judicial  institution  responsible  for 
investigating and prosecuting individuals alleged to be 
responsible for the most serious crimes of international 
concern,  namely,  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity 
and  war  crimes.  We  appreciate  the  fairness  and 
impartiality  with  which  the  Court  has  carried  out  its 
work since its inception. 

We  wish  to  emphasize  that  due  process  dictates 
that every accused person or alleged perpetrator of any 
of  these  crimes  shall  be  presumed  innocent  until 
proven guilty. By this standard, justice and the rule of 
law must be seen to have been equally served whether 
an accused person is proven guilty and thus deserves to 
be  convicted  and  jailed,  or  proven  to  be  innocent  and 
thus  acquitted  and  discharged.  Public  discourse  on 
questions relating to alleged crimes carried out by any 
individual,  regardless  of  race,  nationality  or  region, 
must therefore reflect this balance, bearing in mind that 
it is only in a court of competent jurisdiction, such as 
the ICC or national courts, where such findings of fact 
and law regarding guilt or innocence may be determined.  

It  is  gratifying  to  note  that  the  cases  that  have 
come before the Court so far have given the Court the 
opportunity  to  test  and  clarify  some  of  the  provisions 
of 
to 
the  Review  Conference 
participating  actively 
the  Rome  Statute.  Ghana 
forward 
looks 
in 
convened  by  the  Secretary-General,  scheduled  to  take 
place in Kampala next year. 

Among other things, the Review Conference will 
provide  a  platform  to  try  to  reach  some  consensus  on 
the definition of the crime of aggression and fill other 
gaps  in  the  existing  regime  of  the  Rome  Statute.  We 
believe that the Conference will also provide a unique 
opportunity to take stock of the work of the Court and 
make  the  necessary  amendments  to  the  Statute  on  the 
basis  of  consensus,  with  a  view  to  enhancing  the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the Court as a veritable 
mechanism in the fight against impunity.  

Some may disagree  with  certain decisions of the 
Court,  but  the  Review  Conference  in  general,  and  the 
stock-taking segment in particular, should not be used 
as  an  occasion  to  impugn  or  question  the  integrity  of 
the judges of the Court. As the various ad hoc criminal 
tribunals reach the end of their completion strategies, it 
is expected that the workload of the ICC will increase 
in  the  foreseeable  future. This  fact  makes  the  need  to 
promote universal participation in the Rome Statute all 
the  more  imperative  and  underscores  the  need  to 
adequately  resource  the  Court  in  order  for  it  to 
discharge its mandate.  

In  conclusion,  efforts  must  be  made  to  address 
legal  and  legitimate  concerns  raised  by  interested 
parties 
stakeholders.  My  delegation 
acknowledges  that  peace  and  justice  are  two  sides  of 
the  same  coin,  one  reinforcing  the  other.  The  Charter 
recognized  as  much  when  it  provided  for  respect  for 
the  principles  of  justice  and  international  law  as  the 
cornerstones of the attainment of peace and security.  

It  is  well  known  that  justice  delayed  is  justice 
denied, but sometimes peace delayed is justice denied, 
too.  So  we  must  pay  equal  attention  to  addressing  the 
twin  challenges  of  peace  and  justice  in  our  collective 
endeavour to promote international criminal justice and 
to  ensure  accountability  and  the  rule  of  law  without 
fear or favour. 
Mr.  Argüello  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Argentina  expresses  its  appreciation  and  gratitude  to 
Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song,  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  for  introducing  the  Court’s  report  to 
the  United  Nations,  contained  in  document A/64/356. 
My country once  again highlights the  contributions of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  to  the  international 
order  through  the  fight  against  impunity  for  crimes 
against humanity, genocide and war crimes.  
state 
and 
24 

09-58708 



This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  finds  the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  full  judicial  activity. 
This year, just a decade after the adoption of the Rome 
Statute,  it  began  its  first  trial,  while  the  second  is 
scheduled to begin next month. This year also finds the 
Rome  Statute  with  110  States  parties. Thus,  I  wish  to 
welcome the Republic of Chile and the Czech Republic 
to the Statute. 

The  Court  is  firmly  establishing  itself  in  its  trial 
stage,  in  which  it  is  essential  that  it  demonstrate  its 
ability  to  administer  justice  effectively,  expeditiously 
and  impartially.  For  that  reason,  it  is  important,  inter 
alia,  to  swiftly  fill  vacancies  to  ensure  that  all 
Chambers of the Court are fully operational. It is also 
essential  that  the  organs  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  without  prejudice  to  their  independence  or 
respective  mandates,  constitute  a  single  Court  united 
by shared values and objectives. 

The  International  Criminal  Court  has  a  global 
mandate but has not yet achieved universal participation. 
Achieving  such  universality  is  the  great  challenge  for 
the  Court  and  for  the  international  community  in  the 
medium  and  long  terms.  Universal  participation  and 
the Court’s credibility will enable it to investigate and 
issue rulings in all appropriate situations.  

Here,  I  wish  to  stress  that  achieving  universality 
depends  not  only  on  the  number  of  ratifications,  but 
also  on  States’  adoption  of  domestic  legislation  that 
ensures operational complementarity and a functioning 
cooperation  regime,  as  provided  for  in  the  Rome 
Statute. In particular, this includes arrest and surrender 
warrants,  without  which  the  Court  will  not  be  able  to 
effectively  carry  out  its  mandate  of  investigating  and 
issuing rulings.  
In the quest for universality, outreach campaigns 

concerning  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
Rome  Statute  are  also  essential.  I  should  like  to 
recognize  the  role  played  by  the  Coalition  for  the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  other  civil  society 
organizations in that regard. 

Next year, another important event will take place 
in  the  life  of  the  Court  —  the  Review  Conference  of 
the Rome Statute to be held in Kampala, Uganda. The 
Review  Conference  will  be  the  forum  for  considering 
article 124 of the Statute and for adopting a definition 
of  the  crime  of  aggression.  My  country  also  believes 
that  it  will  be  an  opportunity  to  study  other  proposals 
A/64/PV.31
I  wish 
to 
recognize 
enjoying broad consensus and to carry out the important 
exercise of review or stocktaking.  

Argentina is convinced that a segment should be 
included  in  the  Review  Conference  for  considering 
such  issues  as  complementarity,  the  cooperation  of 
States  with  the  Court,  and  the  impact  of  international 
justice on national trials and peace processes. I should 
like  to  urge  the  widest  possible  participation  in  the 
Kampala  Conference  and,  given  the  commitment  of 
States parties to the Court, representation at the highest 
possible governmental level in the review exercise.  

Cooperation  on  the  part  of  States,  the  United 
Nations,  regional  organizations  and  other  actors  is 
essential  if  the  Court  is  to  effectively  carry  out  the 
functions entrusted to it by the international community. 
Here, 
the  United  Nations 
operational,  logistic  and  diplomatic  assistance  to  the 
Court,  which  is  highlighted  in  the  report. With  regard 
to  cooperation,  I  should  like  to  recall  that  in  2006, 
Argentina  adopted  the  measures  necessary  to  the 
domestic  implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute  as  part 
of my country’s cooperation with the Court. In addition, 
we  ratified  the  Agreement  on  the  Privileges  and 
Immunities of the International Criminal Court, enabling 
the  Court  to  carry  out  its  functions  unimpeded  on 
Argentine territory.  

The  International  Criminal  Court  is  a  unique 
tribunal.  Only  two  decades  ago,  a  permanent  tribunal 
to judge individuals for the most atrocious crimes was 
unthinkable.  Now,  the  Court  is  gaining  strength.  The 
credibility  of 
their 
judgements and on the quality of their proceedings. In 
the case of the International Criminal Court, it will also 
depend  on  its  universality  and  on  the  cooperation  of 
States. Therefore,  I  should  like  once  again  to  urge  all 
States  to  cooperate  with  the  International  Criminal 
Court and to urge those States that have not yet done so 
to ratify or accede to the Rome Statute and thus ensure 
the universality of the fight against impunity. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We wish to pay tribute 
to Mr. Sang-Hyun Song, President of the International 
Criminal Court. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
congratulates Chile and the Czech Republic on having 
joined  the  countries,  including  Venezuela,  that  are 
parties 
the  Rome  Statute.  Their  membership 
contributes  to  the  achievement  of  the  long-sought 
universality of the Court and to its strengthening as an 
tribunals  depends  on 
judicial 
to 
09-58708 

25 

to 
the 
A/64/PV.31 

international  criminal  tribunal  that  can  effectively  and 
transparently  contribute 
the  development  of 
international criminal law. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of Venezuela  played  an 
active  role  in  the  deliberative  process  on  the  Rome 
Statute,  aimed  at  establishing 
International 
Criminal Court. Later, it was among the first States to 
ratify  that  constitutive  instrument.  Thus,  Venezuela, 
together  with  many  other  countries,  contributed 
decisively  to  fulfilling  the  long-held  aspiration  of  the 
peoples of the world to international peace and justice.  

The aim here is to end the impunity that has been 
enjoyed  by  the  perpetrators  of  unspeakable  crimes 
committed  against  humanity.  The  Court  is  without  a 
doubt  a  necessary  institution  in  light  of  its  noble  task 
as  a  subsidiary  entity  of  the  penal  institutions  of  the 
States parties. 
For  the  reasons  I  have  set  out,  it  is  of  vital 

the  International  Criminal  Court 
importance 
maintain 
independence  and  autonomy  as  a 
permanent  legal  body,  as  strictly  defined  under  the 
provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute,  and  in  exercising  its 
jurisdiction with respect to States parties to the Statute 
and  those  non-States  parties  that  have  accepted  its 
jurisdiction 
through  special 
agreements. Due attention and care must be paid to the 
issues  of  compensation  for  victims  and  procedural 
guarantees for defendants. 

For  countries  devoted  to  peace  and  justice,  such 
as  Venezuela,  it  is  of  crucial  importance  that  the 
International  Criminal  Court  not  be  hampered  in  any  

in  contentious  cases 
that 
its 
in 
in 
important  step 
way in carrying out its functions fully as it endeavours 
to establish procedural norms for litigation.  
Our  country  believes  that  greater  willingness  to 

the  Rome  Statute  Review 
participate  actively 
Conference  would  be  an 
the 
consolidation  of  international  law.  We  emphasize  the 
importance  of  the  Conference  which,  as  we  all  know, 
will  be  held  in  Uganda  in  May  2010.  We  recall  the 
responsibility of States parties to the Rome Statute for 
decisions  to  be  adopted  at  the  Review  Conference  to 
define the crime of aggression. 

We  believe  that  this  would  be  a  substantive 
development that could change the history of injustice 
that has afflicted the sad fate of peoples that have been 
victims  of  aggression  and  invasion  and  seen  their 
political  and  economic 
flagrantly 
violated, their territory dismembered, their Government 
institutions  usurped  and 
treasures, 
including  their  cultural  assets,  plundered.  This  effort, 
which  will  contribute  to  the  consolidation  of  peace, 
security  and  justice,  will  be  possible  only  if  the 
sacrosanct  independence  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court is maintained. 

I  should  like  to  conclude  by  saying  that  the 
Statute of Rome must never contain any provision that 
could  be  interpreted  as  suggesting  that  the  Court  is 
subject  to  any  relationship  in  which  it  is  subordinate. 
For  that  reason,  we  recall  the  great  importance  of  the 
International Criminal Court. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 

their  natural 
independence 
26 

09-58708 
