
A/64/PV.13
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

13th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 29 September 2009, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
risk 
them  are 
if  not  a 
Fortunately, we have no better place than within these 
hallowed  walls  to  continue  the  long  and  important 
journey of building a better world. We cannot respond 
to one challenge and choose to ignore another, because 
all  of 
interconnected.  Indeed,  working 
together  is  our  raison  d’être  —  the  essence  of  the 
“united” in the United Nations. 

Climate change is rightfully described as the most 
urgent threat facing mankind, and, at least for the next 
several  months,  it  will  remain  at  the  top  of  the  global 
diplomatic  and  negotiating  agenda.  But  what  is  the 
challenge  of  climate  change 
to 
development, security and peace? What is the threat of 
climate  change,  if  not  a  threat  to  the  very  notion  of 
human  survival  and  ecological  balance?  For  small 
States, this threat is particularly pronounced. 

Today,  I  address  this  Assembly  on  the  heels  of 
two very important responses to climate change — the 
AOSIS  Climate  Change  Summit  and  the  Secretary-
General’s  summit  on  climate  change.  What  is  clear 
from  these  very  well  attended  global  meetings  is  that 
for  developing  countries  such  as  Grenada,  the  alarm 
has  been  sounded  —  the  alarm  that  climate  change  is 
bearing  down  on  our  countries  and  undermining  our 
potential for both economic recovery in the short term 
and economic growth in the longer term. 

It  is  hampering  our  efforts  to  attain  sustainable 
development, as set out in the Barbados Plan of Action 
and the Mauritius Strategy for Further Implementation. 
In  the  case  of  Grenada,  this  is  due  to  our  dependence 
on  our  natural 
supports 
resource  base,  which 




The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
The  President:  I  call  first  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Peter  David,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Grenada. 
Mr. David (Grenada): I am honoured, Sir, to add 

Grenada’s  voice  to  the  many  warm  congratulations 
offered  you  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  Grenada 
looks  forward  to  working  with  you  and  pledges  to 
support  your  leadership  as  you  exercise  impartial 
stewardship  over  this  fine  institution.  Equally,  we 
commend  your  predecessor,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  for  his  dedication  and  conviction  in 
pursuing the vision of the United Nations as a home for 
social  justice  for  all,  particularly  those  who  carry  the 
greatest burden. 

Through  you,  Mr.  President,  Grenada  wishes  to 
highly  commend  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and 
his  staff  for  their  performance  over  the  past  year  in 
advancing 
this  Organization  and 
“delivering  as  one”.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  interest  and  participation  in  the  recently 
concluded  Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  (AOSIS) 
Climate Change Summit, chaired by Grenada. We wish 
him and the Secretariat every continued success. 

mirrored 

The  challenges  facing  the  global  community  are 
regional  and  national  context. 
the  work  of 
in  our 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-53165 (E) 
*0953165* 



the  world 
island  States  around 
When  my  Prime  Minister, 
A/64/PV.13

agriculture  and  tourism.  Together,  they  account  for 
more  than  40  per  cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP),  and  they  are  extremely  vulnerable  to  the 
negative  impacts  of  storms,  hurricanes  and  other 
economically  disruptive  events  induced  by  climate 
change.  Hurricane  Ivan  in  2004  brought  home  this 
reality,  causing  damage  estimated  to  be  equivalent  to 
204  per  cent  of  GDP  at  the  time.  The  country  is  still 
recovering  from  that  event.  Grenada  is  not  unique 
among  small 
in 
experiencing those impacts. 

The gap in terms of the experience of the reality 
of  climate  change  between  those  Member  States 
already  impacted  and  all  others  needs  to  be  urgently 
bridged. If we fail to do that, the United Nations itself 
will have to bear the consequences of the humanitarian 
and  environmental  crisis  resulting  from  the  fact  that 
some islands will no longer be inhabitable. 

the  Honourable 
Tillman  Thomas,  addressed  the  Secretary-General’s 
summit  on  22  September,  he  spoke  on  behalf  of  the 
most  vulnerable  States.  For  these  80  or  more  poor 
island  and  landlocked  States,  a  rise  in  temperature  of 
two degrees Celsius is unacceptable, for our safety and 
survival will most certainly be at risk. That is why we 
insist  on  a  global  commitment  to  ensuring  an  average 
temperature  increase  of  no  more  than  1.5  degrees 
Celsius,  accompanied  by  appropriate  midterm  targets 
of  a  reduction  in  greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  more 
than  45  per  cent  of  1990  levels  by  2020  and  by  more 
than  95  per  cent  by  2050.  These  reduction  levels 
respond  to  our  vulnerabilities,  and  surely,  in  a  United 
Nations  system 
is 
unthinkable that known threats will be allowed to turn 
into grave risks.  

We  must  solve  the  climate  change  crisis  and  we 
must solve it now. Estimates place the cost of financing 
adaptation  and  mitigation  at  about  1  per  cent  of  the 
industrialized world’s GDP — that is a contribution of 
$10,000  for  every  million  dollars  of  GDP.  Given  the 
moral  principle  of  historical  responsibility,  this  is 
affordable by any measure. 

With the adoption of the AOSIS Climate Change 
Declaration,  small  island  States  have  said  we  will  not 
stand  by  and  watch  our 
islands  sink,  see  our 
livelihoods  disappear  and  witness  our  children  made 
homeless  due  to  the  effects  of  human-induced  climate 
change. We  again  call  on  the  international  community 
to  which  we  all  belong, 
it 
and 
to 
pursue 
reforms 
far-reaching 
to  stand  in  support  of  the  most  vulnerable,  so  as  to 
ensure  that  the  targets  set  forth  in  the AOSIS  Climate 
Change  Declaration  are  agreed  to  in  Copenhagen. 
Grenada  will  continue  to  play  its  part  in  highlighting 
the needs of the most vulnerable while advocating for 
the strengthening of their capacity for resilience. While 
it  continues  to  chair  AOSIS,  Grenada  will  always 
advocate for  sustainable development goals as well  as 
for agreements in the Copenhagen negotiations that are 
commensurate to the level of the threat. 

The  financial  and  economic  crises  continue  to 
undermine  economies  worldwide. The  green  shoots  of 
recovery  need 
to  blossom  everywhere.  Grenada 
continues  to  insist,  as  our  Prime  Minister  Tillman 
Thomas stated at the June summit on the crisis, that the 
global  financial  and  economic  architecture  needs 
fundamental 
(see 
A/CONF.214/PV.1).  Changes  are  needed  in  its  rules, 
regulations  and  governance  in  order  to  facilitate  the 
effective  participation  of  small  economies,  which 
suffer the effects of the crises harder and longer. Here, 
we wish to echo the call for reform of the international 
financial institutions, particularly the call for a review 
of  the  policy  conditions  attached  to  lending  by  the 
International Monetary Fund. 

sustainable 
economic  development  and  prosperity  for  our  people, 
as they show resilience to economic setbacks. A study 
by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations  shows  that  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
was the most successful region before the surge in food 
prices in 2008. That affirms our efforts.  

However,  another  study  showed  that  in  times  of 
crisis,  social  spending  does  not  favour  the  poor  and 
development goals are stymied. This is our fear, and it 
is  also  our  reality.  That  is  why  the  Government 
introduced a package of measures, greatly supported by 
financing  from  the  Trinidad  and  Tobago  Petroleum 
Fund, which has begun to lay the basis for developing 
a  low-carbon  and  rights-based  economic  development 
model. 
the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
for  its  continued  assistance  to  Grenada  and  to  the 
Caribbean region through its contribution to this Fund. 
We are also grateful for the Petrocaribe agreement with 
the  Government  of 
the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela,  through  which  several  Caribbean  countries 
are able to purchase oil on softer terms. 
regard,  we  wish 
continues 
Grenada 
to 
thank 
In 
this 
2 

09-53165 
strengthening 
the 
national 



Grenada has put in place strategic initiatives that 
include  revitalizing  the  agricultural  sector,  increasing 
labour  productivity,  diversifying  the  export-services 
sector, 
investment 
environment  and  modernizing  our  tax  system.  In 
implementing  those  initiatives,  we  seek  partnerships 
with  the  international  community  and  the  United 
Nations system. 

Trade  continues  to  be  of  major  importance  to 
Grenada. We are experiencing severe setbacks from the 
loss  of  preferential  treatment  in  agricultural  markets. 
We  are  among  the  smallest  and  most  open  markets  in 
the  world.  And  yet  larger  countries  contest  whatever 
benefits  we  receive  to  offset  the  disadvantages  of  our 
small  economic  size,  which  are  compounded  by  high 
transportation cost and energy prices. 

Grenada  is  pleased  that  the  United  Nations 
system  continues  to  pursue  economic  growth  and 
development.  We  support  the  perspective  that  any 
outcome 
in  Copenhagen  must  be  a  development 
outcome,  for  each  is  connected  to  the  other.  We  urge 
support  for  meeting  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  We  have  made  progress  by  achieving  80  per 
cent  primary  school  enrolment,  by  reducing  violence 
against  women  and  by 
to 
antiretroviral drugs for persons living with HIV/AIDS.  

All  the  same,  Grenada  is  striving  to  achieve  a 
faster  rate  of  poverty  eradication. That  goal,  however, 
is  hampered  by  the  drop  in  revenue  caused  by  the 
economic  downturn  and  by  our  heavy  debt  burden, 
which now stands at 107 per cent of GDP. That is why 
we add our voice to the call for a review of the criteria 
for  determining  middle-income  status.  For  while  we 
welcome  efforts 
indebted  poor 
countries,  States  such  as  Grenada  that  are  currently 
referred to as highly indebted middle-income countries 
deserve special attention. 

The  Government  of  Grenada  favours  peace  and 
reconciliation,  aspiring  to  bring  people  together  to 
work  for  a  common  good.  From  that  platform  we 
pursue  true  partnership  for  development,  beginning 
with  the  private  sector,  trade  unions  and  civil  society. 
Together, then, as one nation, we face the international 
community. 

Development is important in its own right. It also 
serves  as  a  guarantor  for  peace  and  security. We  urge 
the  United  Nations 
in 
peacebuilding and peacekeeping. My country continues 
scaling  up  access 
to  assist  highly 
to  continue 
its  efforts 
A/64/PV.13
to  support  those  efforts  in  the  Caribbean  region,  to 
which we have contributed a small number of officers. 

We  welcome  the  reopening  of  the  office  of  the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in Barbados 
to serve the eastern Caribbean region, and we highlight 
the need for more intervention to stop drug trafficking.  

In our region, the proliferation of small arms is as 
lethal  as  nuclear  weapons.  So  while  we  welcome  the 
unanimously  adopted  Security  Council 
resolution 
1887 (2009)  on  nuclear  disarmament,  shepherded  by 
President  Obama,  we  in  the  Caribbean  call  for  an 
agreement on the small arms trade. 

Grenada  again  calls  the  Assembly’s  attention  to 
the need to ensure the protection of the Caribbean Sea. 
The States of the Caribbean Community and members 
of  the Association  of  Caribbean  States  depend  on  the 
tremendous  benefits  from  the  pristine  waters  of  the 
Caribbean  Sea.  Yet  those  ocean-based  resources  are 
threatened  by  the  trans-shipment  of  nuclear  and  other 
hazardous waste materials through our waters. We look 
to  the  General  Assembly  to  strengthen  the  resolution 
on this issue and to ensure that the threat is removed as 
soon as possible. 

In  what  United  States  President  Barack  Obama 
calls  the  new  era  of  engagement,  we  believe  that  we 
face three major undertakings. The first is to respond to 
whatever  threatens  us  at  a  level  commensurate  to  the 
threat;  second,  to  strengthen  the  institutional  capacity 
of the United Nations to enable it to respond; and third, 
the  sacredness  of  this  grand  institution  to  inspire 
humanity. 

In  this  endeavour,  Grenada  is  guided  by  its 
national  values,  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and its participation in the hemispheric 
system and the Caribbean regional integration process. 
Consequently, we reject the removal of the duly elected 
head  of  State  in  Honduras  and  call  for  the  immediate 
restoration  of  President  José  Manuel  Zelaya  to  the 
position to which he was legitimately elected. 

The  maintenance  of  the  40-year  United  States 
embargo  against  Cuba  and  the  failure  to  bring  into 
being a homeland and State for the Palestinian people, 
despite  numerous  United  Nations  resolutions  on  both 
issues,  remain  of  deep  concern,  for  they  violate  the 
spirit  and  letter  of  international  law,  on  which  this 
Organization is founded. We join the entire Caribbean 
community  in  calling  for  an  end  to  the  United  States 
09-53165 

3 
to  resolve 
the 
removing 
A/64/PV.13

embargo  against  Cuba  and  urge  the  normalization  of 
relations  between  the  two  countries.  We  call  for  a 
sincere  engagement 
long-standing 
Palestinian-Israeli  and  wider  Middle  East  conflict. 
Resolution  of  those  entrenched  conflicts  will  generate 
the momentum needed for resolving similar conflicts in 
other regions in Africa and elsewhere. 

The United Nations plays a critical role in every 
facet of global affairs. That is its strength. To become 
more  effective,  the  Organization  must  necessarily 
become  stronger,  and  that  is  why  the  resolution  on 
system-wide  coherence  is  timely  and  has  our  support. 
Likewise, the reform of the Security Council must not 
be  put  off  for  another  16  years.  Reform  must  mean 
greater  democratization  by 
the  veto, 
enlarging permanent and non-permanent categories and 
making operating rules and procedures transparent. 
Grenada  is  proud  to  continue  playing  its  role  at 

the  United  Nations.  We  support 
the  pursuit  of 
international peace and security, the rule of law and the 
fight  against  terrorism  and  for  the  eradication  of 
poverty and the promotion of human rights. We support 
the  agenda  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  the 
Group of 77 and China. We support the just ambitions 
of Africa, and we proudly support the initiative of the 
Government  of  South  Africa  to  mark  and  celebrate, 
across the globe, 18 July as Nelson Mandela Day, a day 
of selfless giving. 

We  welcome  the  United  Nations  support  for  the 
initiative  to  establish  the  permanent  memorial  to 
honour  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic 
slave trade: lest we forget. That memorial is addressed 
to  all  humanity  so  that  we  may  draw  the  lessons  of 
yesteryear for our empowerment. We thank all Member 
States  which  have  already  contributed,  and  we 
encourage  others  to  support  the  Permanent  Memorial 
Fund. 

Grenada continues to value the role of the United 
Nations  as  the  pre-eminent  institution  for  effecting 
multilateral diplomacy. We support its ability to ensure 
international peace and stability and to accord a voice 
to all sovereign States, as enshrined in its Charter. We 
have  made  significant  and  meaningful  progress  in 
previous  sessions  of  the  General  Assembly.  Let  this 
sixty-fourth  session  be  another  outstanding  forward 
movement 
the  most  pressing  global 
challenges of our time. 
in  meeting 
4 

such  as 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  The  Honourable 

Samuel  T.  Abal,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Trade 
and Immigration of Papua New Guinea. 
Mr. Abal  (Papua  New  Guinea):  It  is  indeed  my 

honour  and  privilege,  Mr.  President,  to  bring  you,  on 
behalf  of  the  people  and  Government  of  Papua  New 
Guinea,  our  warmest  greetings  and  to  pledge  our 
support as you preside over the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth  session.  We  thank  your  predecessor,  His 
Excellency Father Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, for his 
strong leadership during his tenure as President of the 
Assembly at its sixty-third session. 
We  would  like  to  reiterate  our  support  for  the 

the  United 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
Nations  agencies 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  (UNDP)  and  UNICEF  for 
their  efforts  to  enhance  the  benevolent  work  they  do 
for the world and Papua New Guinea. 
When  God  distributed  the  peoples  of  the  world 

everywhere, he wedged in Papua New Guinea, a small 
country  of  6.5  million  people,  between  the  South 
Pacific and the South-East Asia. It has been a privilege 
that  has  allowed  us  to  appreciate  the  peaceful  and 
colourful people of the Pacific as well as the dynamic 
nations  of  South-East  Asia.  We  may  not  be  a  large 
country  or  a  country  of  economic  or  military  power, 
but  in  our  own  way  and  from  our  own  standpoint,  we 
have  a  right  to  contribute  to  the  world  among  other 
nations,  to  collectively  approach  issues  and  problems 
and to speak out whether in support or in disagreement. 

Very recently, on 16 September, we celebrated the 
thirty-fourth  anniversary  of  our  independence.  But  an 
important  achievement  for  us  was  the  fact  that  by  the 
grace of God, we have had an unbroken constitutional 
democracy  for  those  34  years.  Our  current  Prime 
Minister,  the  Grand  Chief  Sir  Michael  Somare,  has 
been  in  Parliament  for  41  years.  He  is  the  founding 
Prime  Minister  and  has  been  ousted  only  through  a 
parliamentary  constitutional  vote  and  has  returned 
three  times  as  Prime  Minister,  the  current  term  being 
his  fourth.  I  am  mentioning  this  because  Papua  New 
Guinea  is  contributing  to  democracy  in  the  world. 
Through  its  democratic  form  of  government,  in  a 
nation of over 800 languages and cultures, a people of 
diversity can find a way towards harmony and political 
acceptance of one another. 
We are proud of that achievement, but we are also 

mindful  of  the  many  critical  challenges  that  lie  ahead 
09-53165 
firmly  believes 
together 
the  social  agenda  of 
Papua  New  Guinea 
international  peace  and  security 


of us as we develop and progress. Many are challenges 
that  cannot  be  handled  by  one  individual  country  — 
whether  large  or  small  —  on  its  own.  The  United 
Nations  must  therefore  continue  to  provide  the  global 
forum  for  all  Member  States,  big  and  small,  powerful 
and weak, to come together to address the many global 
issues and challenges we face collectively as a human 
family.  And  together  we  must  confront,  first,  the 
continuing 
threats  of  climate  change  and  global 
warming,  the  global  food  crisis  now  compounded  by 
the  global  financial  crisis,  and  the  threats  of  diseases 
that  know  no  borders,  such  as  H1N1,  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria,  tuberculosis,  cholera,  et  cetera.  Secondly,  we 
must  achieve 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
that 

strengthening 
is 
fundamental  and  is  a  prerequisite  to  achieving  human 
development,  progress  and  prosperity.  My  country 
denounces  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  is  fully 
committed  to  the  principles  of  a  world  free  from 
weapons of mass terror. That is attested to by the fact 
that  we  are  a  State  party  to  the  South  Pacific  Nuclear 
Free  Zone Treaty  and  also fully support the Treaty on 
the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. 

We  are  now  working  earnestly  towards  early 
ratification  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  and  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty. We also look forward to contributing 
constructively 
to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  Papua  New  Guinea  therefore  welcomes 
initiatives  of 
positive 
the  new  United  States 
Government  and  other 
to 
like-minded  countries 
enhance  the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
encourage disarmament. 

A  continuing  major  concern  of  Papua  New 
Guinea is the increase in global conflicts heightened by 
the  illicit  trade  and  use  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons,  which  continue  to  cause  untold  suffering  to 
millions  of  people  around  the  world.  The  people  of 
Papua New Guinea are no exception. The global debate 
on  small  arms  has  focused  on  curbing  their  use. 
However, 
is  never 
comprehensively  discussed.  We  therefore  support  a 
proposed  arms 
in 
negotiations  and  which  will  deal  with  one  of  the  key 
elements of the arms issue. 
the  supply  side  of  weapons 
trade 
treaty,  which 
is  still 
A/64/PV.13
this 
issue 

In Papua New Guinea we have seen the presence 
of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  threaten  the  stability 
of  communities.  My  Government  prioritized  the  need 
to  comprehensively  address 
through 
commissioning the 2005 National Gun Summit Report, 
which will be implemented soon. 

The  various  global  crises  of  today  have  had  a 
disproportionate  negative  impact  on  many  developing 
countries.  From  falling  commodity  prices  to  increases 
in  food  and  energy  costs,  the  damages  caused  and  the 
costs  incurred  to  redress  them  have  heavily  impacted 
their  development.  The  impact  of  the  crisis  has  also 
reduced 
levels  of  official  development  assistance 
globally  and  resulted  in  big  shortfalls  in  the  national 
budgets of developing countries.  

While  we  appreciate  that  many  countries  have 
had to assist  their economies by massive injections of 
capital,  we  nevertheless  support  the  strong  call  for 
reforms  of  the  international  financial  architecture  to 
include  major  developing  countries  like  China  and 
India. Such reforms would better reflect today’s global 
economic  realities  and  provide  effective  management 
of the global process, which needs to be fair, equitable 
and transparent. 

At  the  2005  World  Summit,  leaders  agreed  to  a 
set of broad reforms to the United Nations. Since then, 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  have  been  established.  Furthermore,  the 
concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  has  received 
broad  support,  with  an  inclusive  process  now  under 
way to better elaborate it. 

We  support  the  continuing  call  for  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  membership  categories.  In  this  regard, 
we support the ongoing intergovernmental negotiations 
within  the  General  Assembly,  which  have  seen  the 
emergence of strong agreement on certain issues. 

We  note  that  great  strides  are  being  made  in 
reforming  the  global  gender  architecture.  We  applaud 
the strong but cautious consensus reached at the sixty-
third  session  of  the  General  Assembly  to  support  the 
creation of an Under-Secretary-General post to assist in 
better  management  of  the  various  United  Nations 
entities dealing with the gender issues. We take note of 
and  commend  the  work  of  former  Prime  Minister  of 
New  Zealand,  Her  Excellency  Helen  Clark,  as  the 
UNDP  Administrator.  We  therefore  strongly  support 
the  ongoing  reform,  as  the  gender  issue  in  its  entirety 
09-53165 

5 
issues  of  my 
the  key  policy 
the  Pacific  and  beyond  enjoy 
A/64/PV.13

remains  one  of 
Government. 

As  a  growing  democracy  in  the  Pacific,  it  is  my 
Government’s desire to see our friends and neighbours 
in 
freedom  and 
prosperity. We reaffirm our continuing support for our 
Pacific  neighbours  in  their  development  aspirations. 
We  feel  that  on  the  issue  of  Fiji  we  need  to  continue 
dialogue  and  not  to  isolate  them. We  also  support  the 
main  thrust  of  the  Pacific  Plan  and  encourage  our 
Forum  dialogue  partners  to  assist  with  its  ongoing 
implementation,  as  we  believe  it  will  catalyse  the 
Pacific region’s development. 

The  social  sector  of  many  of  our  developing 
countries  suffers  greatly,  and  the  United  Nations  has 
quite  rightly  set  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
They provide us with one of the greatest opportunities 
to leverage our development process. We commend and 
strongly support the Secretary-General for his proposal 
to  convene  a  high-level  session  on  the  MDGs  in 
September 2010. 

integral 
Achieving 
development  priority  of  our  Government.  We  are 
working to achieve the Goals in close cooperation with 
all 
and 
international  development  partners  such  as  the  United 
Nations  and  its  agencies,  the  Commonwealth,  the 
Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat and the South Pacific 
Community.  

The  MDGs  have  been  incorporated  into  our 
Medium-Term  Development  Strategy,  which  focuses 
on  15  national  targets  and  67  indicators  under  the 
National Road Map. They are specifically designed for 
Papua  New  Guinea  to  reflect  the  nation’s  stage  of 
development. MDG 8 is ongoing through international 
cooperation with bilateral and multilateral development 
partners. 

The Joint MDGs Project was launched in August 
2008  and  comprises  the  National  MDGs  Steering 
Committee,  made  up  of 
the 
Government,  the  United  Nations,  academia  and  civil 
society.  The  Project  is  mandated  to  build  national 
awareness  and  facilitate  a  strong  data  collection  and 
analysis regime in the country. The Project also serves 
as  a  constituency  for  the  Medium-Term  Development 
Strategy and the MDGs. 
representatives  of 
stakeholders, 
remains  an 
the  MDGs 
including 
civil 
society 
in 
localized 
is  needed 
to  achieve 
The  Government  has 
the  Kavieng  Declaration 
For  the  MDGs  to  be  achieved,  strong  and  viable 

the  Paris 
Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness  by  reaffirming  its 
principles 
to  foster 
collaborative  commitments  with  our  development 
partners  in  pursuing  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs. 
Our  long-term  aim  is  to  grow  our  economy  to  such  a 
level as to allow us to exit from our dependency on aid. 
We  want  to  be  economically  independent;  we  choose 
not  to  be  aid-dependent  forever.  We  want  to  give  aid 
and not receive it. Our aim is also to assist others from 
the richness of God’s blessings on us. 

The  Government  recognizes  that  greater  and 
sustained  commitment  to  implement  policies  at  all 
levels 
the  MDGs.  That 
commitment will also be supported by  ongoing public 
sector  reforms,  especially  in  relation  to  delivery  of 
basic services to our rural majority.  

partnerships must exist.  

MDG 8 is critical to the achievement of the other 
seven  Goals.  However,  all  our  partnerships  must  be 
underpinned  by  mutual  respect  between  the  partners 
and the Government. Some of our key partners include 
Australia,  New  Zealand,  the  European  Union,  Japan, 
China, the United States, Italy and Austria, along with 
many  non-governmental  organizations,  such  as  the 
Clinton  Foundation  and  the  Bill  &  Melinda  Gates 
Foundation,  which  continue  to  strongly  contribute  to 
Papua New Guinea’s development. 

Climate  change  has  emerged  as  one  of  the 
greatest crises now facing humanity. The consequences 
appear  dire,  and  they  are  truly  global.  Such  a  global 
challenge  can  only  be  met  by  a  concerted  global 
response. 

In Papua New Guinea today, we see  evidence of 
climate  change  in  the  inundation  of  coastal  areas,  an 
increase  in  malaria  due  to  warming  in  the  highlands 
region of the country, and especially in the plight of the 
people of the Carteret Islands, where sea level has risen 
and some 1,200 people have had to be resettled. 

We therefore strongly support the recent Alliance 
of  Small  Island  States  declaration  on  climate  change. 
For many small island States to survive, we must strive 
to  roll  back  atmospheric  carbon  concentrations  to  less 
than 350 parts per million and limit temperature rise to 
less  than  1.5  degrees  Celsius. Therefore,  emissions  of 
greenhouse  gases  must  peak  by  2015  and  be  followed 
6 

09-53165 
reducing 
emissions 
action  on 


by  reductions  of  45  per  cent  by  2020  and  90  per  cent 
before  2050.  Further,  we  will  require  healthy  and 
expanded forest cover and widely available low carbon 
technologies, including carbon capture and storage. 
In  this  context,  the  importance  and  urgency  of 

extensive 
from 
deforestation  and  forest  degradation  (REDD+)  can 
hardly  be  overstated,  and  many  delegations  have 
spoken  on  it.  Deforestation  continues  at  an  alarming 
pace,  with  around  13  million  hectares  of  the  world’s 
forests  being  lost  annually  —  an  area  the  size  of 
Denmark, Norway and Belgium combined. 

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC) estimates that deforestation and degradation in 
developing  countries  may  contribute  to  approximately 
20 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions caused 
by humans, while also representing around 30 per cent 
of  the  total  cost-effective  mitigation  potential  in  the 
period up to 2020. Any solution to the problem should 
thus attract 20 per cent of any financial or institutional 
response. 

It  is  worth  stressing  that,  without  rapid  and 
significant  reductions  in  emissions  from  deforestation 
and  forest  degradation  in  developing  countries,  added 
to deep emissions reductions by rich countries, it may 
be impossible to avoid global warming levels that will 
prove  catastrophic 
for  many  vulnerable  nations. 
Without  question,  immediate  action  on  REDD+  is  a 
crucial  part  of  the  climate  change  solution.  Under  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  we  will  therefore  require  strong  institutional 
frameworks  for  REDD+,  including  accommodating 
different  national  circumstances  and  providing  for 
resource mobilization. 
the  excellent  work  and 

analysis under way via the Informal Working Group on 
Interim Finance for REDD. This work estimates that, if 
a total of €15 to €25 billion were provided to catalyse 
early  action  from  2010  to  2015,  then  a  25  per  cent 
reduction  in  annual  global  deforestation  rates  may  be 
achieved by around 2015. 

in  developing 
countries are the results of the stark economic need for 
local  communities 
the 
destruction  of  forests.  How  do  we  keep  the  trees 
standing to sequester carbon? 
Deforestation  and  degradation 
We  also  recognize 
that  propels 
to  survive 
A/64/PV.13
through  a  phased 

There  is  hope.  Significantly,  early  actions  for 
REDD+  can  be  achieved  at  a  reasonable  cost,  while 
protecting  the  livelihoods  of  indigenous  peoples  and 
local  communities,  protecting  biodiversity,  rainfall 
patterns and soil quality, and helping countries to adapt 
to  climate  change.  To  succeed,  a  REDD+  mechanism 
should  accommodate  countries  at  different  levels  of 
development 
approach.  The 
agreement  should  be  results-based  and  incentives-
driven. To achieve that, it must include both a reliable 
framework  for  monitoring,  reporting  and  verification, 
and encourage a predictable and sustainable system for 
financing. 

We  must  succeed  in  Copenhagen.  If  we  are  to 
succeed, rich countries must come forward and take the 
lead.  Without  their  collective  leadership  on  emissions 
reductions,  finance  and  technology,  the  Governments 
of  developing  countries  will  not  be  able  to  make  a 
compelling case at home to get people to allow trees to 
be  left  standing.  As  a  result,  20  per  cent  of  carbon 
emissions  will  continue  to  flow  into  the  atmosphere. 
Therefore,  let  me  be  candid. Without  a  transformative 
grand financial bargain in Copenhagen that involves all 
nations, there could be no deal. 

Let  me  conclude  by  repeating  that  the  United 
Nations  is  the  forum  for  agreeing  on  solutions  for 
problems and challenges. In times of global crises such 
as  climate  change,  financial  meltdown  and  social 
sector vulnerabilities, there is also opportunity. Indeed, 
there is opportunity here, if we remember that MDG 8 
allows us to leverage the greatest asset we have: strong 
partnerships between nations, both rich and poor. 

More than ever before, we need the political will 
of the leading developed and developing countries, for 
the  sake  of 
the  world  and  for 
generations after them. I  ask the  General Assembly to 
please consider this and make a stroke for history.  
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Samuel Santos López, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Nicaragua. 
in 

Spanish): Thirty years after the triumph of the people’s 
Sandinista  Revolution  and  the  start  of  a  process  of 
popular  and  participatory  democracy,  on  behalf  of  the 
President  of  Nicaragua  and  Commander  of 
the 
Revolution,  Mr.  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra,  I  salute  and 
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  as 
Mr.  Santos  López
the  children  of 
(Nicaragua) 
(spoke 
09-53165 

7 
in  an  exemplary, 
and 
punitive  measures, 
A/64/PV.13

President  of  this Assembly,  which  it  is  my  honour  to 
address. 

Nicaragua is a country impoverished by historical 
circumstances no different from, if not identical to, the 
histories  and  circumstances  of  countries  of  our  Latin 
American and Caribbean region and others around the 
world.  This  history  has  been  repeated  over  time  and 
space, as we will outline later. Nevertheless, Nicaragua 
remains a land rich in beauty and natural resources. It 
is  a  nation  symbolic  of  reconciliation  and  of  national 
and international unity. 

Although few may know this, our country is one 
of  the  safest  countries  of  this  continent.  Nicaragua  is 
engaged 
tireless  and  decisive 
campaign  against  organized  and  petty  crime  in  an 
exemplary  fashion,  as  acknowledged  by  international 
bodies  and  authorities.  It  does  so  not  only  with 
coercive 
but,  more 
significantly,  by  building  an  alternative  model  of 
development  that  transforms  the  structures  of  poverty 
and  marginalization  that  are  the  breeding  ground  of 
public  security  problems.  Our  model  is  based  on 
democratic  reform  expressed  by  the  people’s  will, 
which we call “citizen power”. 

By means of the “From Martí to Fidel” campaign, 
illiteracy  has  been  reduced  to  3.16  per  cent.  We  have 
made  progress 
in  preventive  medicine  and  have 
successfully  controlled  pandemics,  such  as  that  of  the 
A (H1N1) virus. In our country, the mortality rate from 
this disease is one of the two lowest in America. These 
achievements have been made possible by the generous 
solidarity  of  the  fraternal  people  and  Government  of 
Cuba,  which  has  been  consistent  and  has  perpetuated 
the internationalist calling of Commander Fidel Castro 
Ruz. 

The  Government  of  Nicaragua  has  opened  the 
door  to  production  credits.  The  Food  and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations (FAO) selected our 
school  nutrition  programme  as  one  of  the  top  four  in 
the  world.  In  that  spirit,  President  Daniel  Ortega  has 
proposed 
the  adoption  of  a  Central  American 
agriculture  policy  to  transform  the  region  into  a  food 
production  zone,  and  in  that  same  spirit,  we  welcome 
and  support  the  World  Summit  on  Food  Security 
scheduled for November of this year. 

Today,  we  have  an  electrical  power  reserve  of 
42.6 per cent, although barely two years ago there was 
a  shortfall  of  3.29  per  cent.  This  is  thanks  to  the 
the  world.  While 
solidarity  of  the  Bolivarian  Government  of  Venezuela 
under the leadership of its President, Commander Hugo 
Chávez  Frías.  Meanwhile,  we  continue 
to  make 
targeted  efforts  to  promote  the  use  of  alternative 
renewable  energy  sources,  such  as  water,  wind, 
geothermal,  solar  power  and,  more  recently,  biomass. 
We also support initiatives aimed at developing civilian 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. 

Clean drinking water has been made available to 
217,000 families. We have launched programmes such 
as  Zero  Hunger  and  Zero  Usury,  which  were 
highlighted  in  a  report  by  the  United  Nations  Special 
Rapporteur on the right to food. In order to refute the 
daily  lies  of  certain  media  outlets  in  Nicaragua,  FAO 
recently  issued  a  published  notice  of  the  positive 
results  of  the  programmes  it  coordinates  with  the 
Nicaraguan  Government  to  fight  hunger  and  extreme 
poverty. 

Food security cannot continue to be subject to the 
greediness  of  a  few.  There  is  enough  food  to  nourish 
twice  the  current  world  population,  but  thousands  die 
every  minute  around 
in  some 
countries  automobiles  are  fed,  millions  of  boys  and 
girls  die  with  an  empty  stomach.  That  is  simply 
criminal. 

We  also  express  our  profound  rejection  of  the 
discrimination  and  persecution  of  immigrants  and 
unequivocally  support  full  respect  for  their  human 
rights. The Government of National Reconciliation and 
Unity  also  seeks  to  reverse  the  exclusion  to  which 
native  peoples  and  communities  of  African  descent 
have been subject throughout history. 

Nicaragua is the enemy of terrorism in any of its 
forms,  including  State-sponsored  terrorism.  It  is  for 
that  and  many  other  reasons  that  we  oppose  the 
criminal  embargo  against  the  heroic  people  of  Cuba, 
six  generations  of  whom  have  been  born  since  the 
embargo  began.  How  many  more  generations  must 
outlive  it?  How  many  more  resolutions  must  the 
Assembly  adopt  on  this  topic?  There  are  already 
17 resolutions on this issue. 

It  is  also  rightfully  of  interest  to  this  Assembly 
that,  while  a  criminal  murderer  of  Cuban  athletes 
enjoys  total  liberty,  five  anti-terrorist  Cubans  are 
imprisoned far from their families and incommunicado 
for the sole crime of simply being anti-terrorists. 
8 

09-53165 
the 
their 
independence,  we  congratulate 



Today’s Nicaragua is an active militant in favour 
of  solidarity,  as  well  as  a  militant  supporter  of 
gratitude.  We  therefore  appreciate  the  disinterested 
cooperation  of  the  sister  nations  that  contribute  to  the 
economic  and  social  development  of  our  people.  We 
also  embrace 
just  cause  of  Puerto  Rican 
independence  and  support  the  return  of  the  Malvinas 
Islands to their rightful owner, the Argentine people. In 
the  same  manner,  we  endorse  the  struggles  of  the 
Saharan and Cypriot peoples.  

We  also  call  on  Israel  to  withdraw  from  the 
occupied  Syrian,  Lebanese  and  Palestinian  territories. 
We  stand  unconditionally  with  the  Palestinian  people 
in their daily fight for their own sovereign State. That 
is why we advocate a peaceful, just and lasting solution 
that  guarantees  peace  in  that  region.  One  year  after 
gaining 
the 
peoples of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and affirm that 
we  have  already  established  diplomatic  relations  with 
Abkhazia. 

We  support  the  new  and  positive  focus  that 
Taiwan  has  adopted  in  its  relations  with  the  People’s 
Republic of China, as well as its participation in United 
Nations specialized bodies and agencies. 
We  condemn  the  coup  d’état  in  Honduras  and 

hereby  proclaim  our  definitive  decision  not 
to 
recognize  the  results  of  any  electoral  farce  in  that 
country.  By  means  of  the  coup,  its  perpetrators  have 
sought  to  kill  the  democratic  hopes  and  initiatives  of 
the Honduran people, just as they sought to thwart the 
fraternal  process  of  Bolivarian  Alternative  for  the 
Americas (ALBA). Nonetheless, a change in Honduras 
that supersedes a formal and hypocritical democracy is 
inevitable. 
From this rostrum, we denounce the massacre of 

the Honduran people and point in no uncertain terms to 
the  assassination  plot  against  President  Zalaya.  We 
must heed this now, because later it will be said that he 
committed  suicide.  From 
this  very  moment,  we 
unconditionally support and endorse the proposal made 
last night in this same forum by the Foreign Minister of 
Honduras, Patricia Rodas, to the Secretary-General and 
the General Assembly. 

The time has come to make the General Assembly 
a forum in which substantive, irreversible decisions are 
taken. We  cannot  continue  to  have  a  Security  Council 
with an abusive veto privilege. 
A/64/PV.13
institutions,  and  with 

The  time  has  also  come  for  cooperation  without 
humiliating preconditions, the construction of the most 
beautiful dream of Bolívar and Sandino, and the dawn 
of  a  realistic  and  coherent  solidarity.  I  speak  of  the 
Bolivarian Alternative  for  the Americas,  composed  of 
the peoples of Antigua and Barbuda, Bolivia, Cuba, the 
Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Nicaragua,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Venezuela, and Honduras 
in  its  resistance.  ALBA  is  the  basis  for  cross-cutting 
and  inclusive  cooperation  between  our  peoples.  Its 
membership increases day by day. 

I  cannot  fail  to  note  with  profound  concern  that 
we  are  meeting  today  under  economic  circumstances 
that  are  similar  to  or  worse  than  those  of  a  year  ago, 
when the worst world economic depression of modern 
times arose to exacerbate the existing food, energy and 
environmental crises. Unfortunately, these world crises 
have  met  with  a  decrease  in  official  development 
assistance,  which  remains  conditional  thanks  to  the 
international 
the 
reluctance of developed countries to replace the current 
model  with  one  that  is  more  just  and  respectful  of 
Mother Nature. 

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development demonstrated that the Group of 192, as it 
has been called by my brother, Father Miguel d’Escoto 
Brockmann, has a voice in world economic matters. It 
is  within 
that 
economic  policies  affecting  millions  should  be 
decided,  and  not  within  exclusive  groups,  such  as  the 
Group  of  Eight  or  the  Group  of  20,  defenders  of  the 
model  of  domination  by  the  few  over  the  majority.  In 
that  regard,  we  welcome  establishment  of  the  ad  hoc 
open-ended  working  group  that  will  follow  up  on  the 
outcome of the Conference. 

For some years now, climate change has become 
not  a  threat  of  the  future,  but  rather  a  very  present 
threat.  We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  Climate 
Change  Conference,  to  take  place  in  December  in 
Copenhagen, should be a debate not on the need to act, 
but  rather  on  the  need  for  the  developed  countries  to 
fulfil their historic obligation under the Kyoto Protocol 
and  to  end  their  attempts  to  repudiate  the  principle  of 
common but differentiated responsibility. 

It is time for attitudes and actions to reflect a true 
commitment  to  counteracting  the  harmful  effects  of 
global  warming.  We  firmly  believe  that  it  is  the 
the  most  representative 
financial 
institution 
09-53165 

9 
A/64/PV.13

exclusive  responsibility  of  the  General  Assembly  — 
and  in  no  case  of  the  Security  Council  —  to  seek  the 
consensus and commitments necessary  for us to move 
forward  in  this  struggle,  which  is  a  struggle  for  the 
survival of all humankind. 

It  is  not  possible  to  democratize  selfishness, 
exclusion or the manipulation of truth. It is not possible 
to put a kind face on perversion or arrogance. That is the 
essence  of  the  prevailing  economic  system  —  the 
exploitation  of  one  human  being  by  another, 
the 
subjugation  of  nations,  and  the  hoarding  of  wealth  by 
the few. 

This is why we are in crisis; it is not because of a 
lack  of  resources,  but  because  of  the  concentration  of 
resources  in  the  hands  of  a  few,  because  of  disregard 
for our environment, because of the rejection of moral 
values,  because  of  human  arrogance  towards  other 
species and, worst of all, because of disdain for human 
life itself. 

We  are  optimistic.  It  is  necessary  to  replace  and 
find  alternatives  to  the  current  socio-economic  and 
political  model,  which  has 
to  unjustified 
interventions  such  as  those  in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan, 
and  to  that  now  being  committed  against  our  region 
with  the  establishment  of  military  bases  in  Colombia 
under the pretext of fighting drug trafficking. 
We  cannot  fail  to  be  struck  by  the  fact  that, 

despite the $7,558,000,000 invested, the flow of drugs 
out  of  Colombia  continues  to  grow.  In  1999,  at  the 
beginning  of  Plan  Colombia,  the  drug  traffic  to  the 
United  States  and  Europe  was  an  annual  600  metric 
tons. Today, in 2009, that traffic has more than doubled 
to  1,450  metric  tons.  In  other  words,  the  strategy  of 
militarizing  Colombia  has  failed,  absolute  proof  of 
which are the numbers I have cited. The true objective 
of  installing  these  “seven  daggers  in  the  heart  of 
America”,  as  they  are  called  by  Commander  Fidel 
Castro,  is  to  salvage  the  moribund  economic  and 
political  system  with  which  capitalism  flaunts  its 
power  by  controlling  the  hemisphere’s  water,  oil  and 
biodiversity. 

We  believe  in  the  strengthening  of  energetic  and 
progressive  positions  in  the  defence  of  peace  and 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  the  countries  of  our 
region.  We  are  sure  that  it  will  ultimately  serve  to 
further  advance  the  Latin  American  unity  dreamt  by 
Bolívar, Morazán, Martí and Sandino. 
led 
10 


Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

Today, the solidarity practices of Fidel Castro and 
revolutionary  Cuba  have  grown  and  spread  like  never 
before. The wide world of Latin America has ceased to 
be  foreign,  and  as  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  said 
during  his  particularly  outstanding  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly, the current scenario is not a tragedy 
but a crisis. Crisis purifies. The pain we now feel is not 
the  death  rattle  of  a  dying  man  but  the  pain  of  a  new 
birth.  

Finally,  I  wish  to  inform  the  General  Assembly 
that  Nicaragua,  respectful  of  international  law,  has 
abided  by  the  ruling  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice in its decision of 13 July 2009, and has issued a 
presidential  decree  to  regulate  navigation  in  the  San 
Juan  River,  over  which  Nicaragua  has  full,  absolute 
and  unquestionable  sovereignty,  as  was  recognized  by 
the ruling. 

I send greetings to all on behalf of our President, 
Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra,  and  of  all  Nicaraguans  who 
sing  in  praise  of  Darío  and  who  proudly  carry  on 
Sandino’s  legacy  in  order  to  defend  ourselves  today 
with  peace  and  dignity.  Nicaragua  is  proud  of  its 
devotion to peace, honour, solidarity and the relentless 
struggle against injustice. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Jonas Gahr Støre, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway. 
Mr.  Støre  (Norway):  In  recent  weeks,  we  have 

witnessed  a  resurrection  of  the  authority  of  this 
Assembly  and  a  new  commitment  to  multilateral 
cooperation and a belief that it can and must be made 
to work. The new tone of voice we have heard from the 
United  States  here  in  New  York  is  setting  forceful 
persuasion  above  persuasive  force  and  extending  a 
hand to those who are willing to unclench a fist.  

We must all seize this moment. Every country — 
including  the  smallest  and  weakest  —  can  make  a 
difference.  Building  bridges  means  that  we  must  all 
reach  out  from  where  we  stand  today  as  we  struggle 
together  with  the  crises  in  finance,  food,  energy, 
climate and health. New efforts must be undertaken to 
break  cycles  of  impasse,  including  moving  decisively 
towards  peace  in  the  Middle  East  and  a  peace 
agreement that can deliver a Palestinian State living in 
peace side by side with Israel.  
09-53165 
should 
countries 
Last  month, 


the  Secretary-General  visited 

the  effects  of  global 
Norway’s  Arctic 
to  study 
warming.  As  we  approach 
the  Climate  Change 
Conference  in  Copenhagen,  the  pace  of  negotiations 
must accelerate. Economy-wide reduction targets must 
be  set  for  all  developed  countries.  Large  and  more 
advanced  developing 
commit 
themselves  to  measurable,  reportable  and  verifiable 
actions. Cuts in emissions from rainforest preservation 
must  be  institutionalized  —  as  stipulated  under  the 
United Nations Collaborative Programme on Reducing 
Emissions  from  Deforestation  and  Forest  Degradation 
in Developing Countries — funded and included in the 
new treaty. 

Financing  is  key  to  success  in  Copenhagen.  Our 
Norwegian  contributions  and  proposals  may  generate 
substantial  new  and  additional  financing  for  measures 
in  developing  countries,  based  on  public  finance  and 
dedicated income from the carbon market. 

The financial crisis has pushed millions of people 
back into the trenches of poverty and made us stumble 
in  our  pursuit  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Loss  of  income  is  placing  public  policies  at  perilous 
risk,  potentially  undermining  services  on  which  the 
poorest  and  weakest  depend  the  most,  such  as  health 
and  education  services.  Norway  supports  all 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  will,  for  the 
second  year  in  a  row,  surpass  the  1-per  cent  mark  in 
official  development  assistance  (ODA).  After 
the 
financial  crisis  hit  us,  we  increased  our  ODA  in 
absolute  terms  to  show  solidarity  with  those  who  are 
less fortunate than we are. 

We  focus  our  action  on  particular  areas  where 
Norway  can  make  a  difference.  We  will  continue  to 
take  on  a  special  obligation  with  regard  to  the  health-
related  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  have 
tripled  our  contributions  to  health  care  since  the  year 
2000.  Millions  of  lives  have  been  saved  through  the 
efforts  of  a  broad  alliance  of  partners,  private  and 
public  alike.  We  will  continue  to  play  a  leading  role 
until we have achieved those Millennium Development 
Goals. 

The  most  disgraceful  underachievement  of  the 
effort  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is 
the lack of progress to improve maternal health. While 
we  can  vaccinate  children  and  give  mothers  a  bed  net 
under a tree at a particular time, what women need are 
round-the-clock  services  in  clinics  to  ensure  safe 
A/64/PV.13
the  situation 
in  Afghanistan  after 
deliveries,  as  well  as  preparedness  for  transfer  to  a 
hospital  in  the  event  of  complications.  Strengthening 
health  services  is  key  to  reducing  maternal  and  child 
mortality and is also a vital element in guaranteeing the 
rights  of  women  and  children.  New  and  dedicated 
efforts  to  combat  maternal  mortality  will  now  be 
mobilized. 

The  appalling  rise  of  rape  and  other  forms  of 
sexual  violence  reveals  an  ugly  story  of  men  around 
the  world  still  regarding  women  and  children  as 
secondary  citizens.  We  must  never  rest  as  long  as 
women are denied the services and rights that we men 
take  for  granted.  Nothing  less  than  our  claim  to 
civilization is at stake. 

Today,  as  we  speak,  the  Security  Council  is 
debating 
the 
elections,  as  well  as  the  need  for  a  new  Afghan 
Government to connect more strongly with its people, 
fight  corruption  and  narcotics,  empower  State 
institutions and protect human rights, and in particular 
women’s  rights,  so  that  the  day  may  soon  come  when 
Afghans  can  take  care  of  Afghanistan’s  security  and 
when  Afghan  men  and  women  can  run  a  democratic 
Afghanistan. 

We  must  continue  to  support  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA),  which 
has  a  mandate  to  coordinate  international  assistance 
with 
the  Afghan  Government.  UNAMA  requires 
additional  resources,  as  well  as  a  strong  commitment 
on the part of all United Nations Member States to the 
coordination of efforts under Afghan leadership. 

We stand on the threshold of a new era of nuclear 
disarmament. The Review Conference of the Parties to 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons next year must set a clear and specific agenda 
for the elimination of existing nuclear arsenals and for 
ensuring  that  nuclear  technologies  are  only  applied 
peacefully, 
the  benefit  of  mankind.  Recent 
information  casts  new  doubt  about  Iran’s  nuclear 
ambitions. 
the  opportunity  and 
responsibility to remove this doubt, and it is imperative 
that it do so. 
Furthermore, while nuclear weapons pose a threat 

of  mass  destruction,  actual  destruction  of  mass 
proportions is caused every day by small arms, cluster 
the 
munitions 
unacceptable  harm 
to 
to  humanitarian 
civilians,  Norway 
that 
is  committed 
landmines.  Motivated 
these  weapons  cause 
itself  has 
by 
to 
Iran 
and 
09-53165 

11 
to 
A/64/PV.13

disarmament.  We  urge  all  States  to  accede  to  the 
Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions  and 
join 
intensifying efforts to control small arms and the arms 
trade. 

Norway  is  honoured  to  have  been  elected  a 
member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  will  work 
with  others  to  raise  the  credibility,  effectiveness  and 
visibility  of  that  important  body.  Last  week,  Norway 
submitted  to  the  Council  its  first  report  on  the  human 
rights situation in my country, taking a critical look at 
our own record and inviting constructive criticism. We 
encourage  all  States  to  submit  to  similar  constructive 
criticism  of  their  own  records  so  that  the  review 
process becomes substantial and meaningful. 

Here  in  New  York,  we  welcome  the  decision  to 
establish a new and enhanced gender entity and hope to 
see  it  operational  as  soon  as  possible. We  will  pursue 
the  United  Nations  reform  agenda  and  system-wide 
coherence,  as  well  as  the  Delivering  as  One  agenda. 
The United Nations should take pride in being subject 
to  more  public  scrutiny;  reform  must  be  an  ongoing 
effort.  Only  such  an  approach  will  allow  us  to  keep 
lending  the  United  Nations  all  the  support  this  noble 
body deserves. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Hassan Wirajuda, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia. 
Mr. Wirajuda (Indonesia): We meet today while 

the  world  is  in  the  grip  of  intertwined  crises  from 
which we must break free if we are to ensure our long-
term survival. The most urgent of these is the economic 
and financial crisis. It has put scores of millions out of 
jobs,  shut  down  tens  of  thousands  of  factories,  and 
pushed  more  than  100  million  people  below  the 
poverty line. 

A  few  days  ago,  at  the  Group  of  Twenty  (G-20) 
summit  in  Pittsburgh,  the  20  largest  economies  of  the 
world,  both  developed  and  developing,  addressed  this 
crisis  by  agreeing  to  reform  the  global  financial 
architecture  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  No  longer  will  we  depend  on  just  a  few 
industrialized  nations  to  solve  the  world’s  economic 
problems.  The  developing  world  is  now  part  of  the 
solution  to  those  problems.  Through  the  G-20,  the 
voice  of  the  developing  world  will  be  heard  in 
international economic and financial decision-making. 
and 
contributions 
the  market.  Financial 
to  financial  resources 
Thus,  we  are  building 
in  other  bodies,  such  as 

today  a  new  and 
constructive power equation, increasing the sharing of 
responsibilities 
and  widening 
participation in decision-making. This redistribution of 
power  constitutes  fundamental  reform  that  should  be 
replicated 
the  Security 
Council. And no more will our economies be left to the 
mercy  of 
institutions  and 
instruments  will  have  to  be  regulated  and  closely 
supervised.  There  will  be  close  consultations  and 
mutual  assessments  of  national  economic  strategies  in 
order to ensure coordination at the global level and to 
identify potential risks to financial stability. 
For our part in Indonesia we are working hard in 

the  G-20 
the  mandate,  mission  and 
governance of the International Monetary Fund and our 
multilateral  development  banks.  These  banks  must 
deliver accelerated and concessional financing without 
conditionalities  to  the  low-income  countries  so  as  to 
cushion the impact of the crisis on the most vulnerable 
and the poorest. 
All of this has set refreshing precedents in terms 

of  access 
for  developing 
countries  and  in  terms  of  transparency,  and  most 
importantly,  it  reflects  current  global  realities  rather 
than the world of 60 years ago. As such, it represents a 
democratization  of 
the 
international financial architecture. It has also given us 
a remarkable insight: that it is not an array of disparate 
crises that is confronting us. We are actually in the grip 
of  one  systemic  crisis.  The  economic  and  financial 
crisis,  the  challenge  of  climate  change,  the  food 
security  crisis  and  the  energy  security  crisis  are 
problems  that  fed  on  one  another  and  thus  grew  to 
critical  proportions.  That  reality  materialized  because 
the international community failed to form an effective 
global  partnership  to  address  the  large  bundle  of 
challenges that have ultimately affected all humankind. 

In  that  sense,  the  root  cause  of  this  overarching 
crisis is the failure to achieve multilateralism and forge 
a system of democratic governance at the global level. 
But  we  can  rectify 
through  an  all-
encompassing  reform  of  the  relationships  between 
nations in the world today. 

In  December  in  Copenhagen  we  can  strive  to 
reach a new consensus on climate change that is more 
effective  in  averting  climate  disaster  by  forging  an 
equitable 
between 
the  global  economy  and 
to 
reform 
that  failure 
and 
transparent 
partnership 
12 

09-53165 
that 
into 
ready 
to 
the  Kyoto  Protocol 
for  a  consensus.  We  are 


developed and developing nations. As the host country 
to  the  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  in 
Bali, which adopted the Bali Road Map by consensus, 
Indonesia  fervently  desires 
the  Copenhagen 
meeting will  yield a new commitment to a framework 
to  strengthen 
in  2012.  This 
framework must stipulate deep cuts in greenhouse gas 
emissions and sufficient financing for adaptation to and 
mitigation of climate change. 

We would like to see the role of forests given the 
top priority that it deserves. We look forward to ocean 
issues  being  mainstreamed 
the  new  climate 
regime. And we cannot allow the negotiation process to 
be derailed; the stakes are too high. We need not even 
wait 
forge 
partnerships  to  carry  out  concrete  projects  like  the 
Indonesia Forest Carbon Partnership Facility, which by 
itself  is  already  a  contribution  to  climate  stability.  In 
the  same  spirit,  Indonesia  is  hosting  the  Forest-2011 
ministerial meeting in Jakarta next month.  

By  the  same  token,  we  can  launch  a  more 
successful and durable Green Revolution that is based 
on  the  same  kind  of  partnership  and  gives  developing 
countries  sorely  needed  access 
to  resources  and 
technology. That partnership can and must provide for 
the  massive 
investments  required  for  agricultural 
production  and  building  agricultural  infrastructures. 
When 
to 
agriculture, the result is the productivity that Indonesia 
has  enjoyed  in  the  past  several  years.  We  have  a 
surplus production of rice and part of that surplus will 
become  a  buffer  stock  for  our  national  food  security. 
Part of it will be allotted as our contribution to global 
food security. 

Through  similar  reform  we  can  involve  more 
nations  in  a  coordinated  quest  for  new  sources  of 
renewable  and  clean  energy,  without  compromising 
food security. A global partnership for energy security 
rather than a scattering of individual efforts will have a 
much  better  chance  of  achieving  a  technological 
breakthrough 
the 
efficiency of current fuel-burning mechanisms. 

and 
multilateralism,  we  will  be  able  in  2010  to  break  the 
impasse  in  the  Doha  Round  negotiations,  which  will 
lead  to  an  outcome  that  is  pro-development.  In  that 
same  spirit  we  can 
the  barriers  of 
protectionism  that  are  rising  again  out  of  fear  of  the 
that  will  enormously 
tear  down 
investment 
channelled 
sufficient 
increase 
reform 
spirit 
is 
With 
this 
new 
of 
A/64/PV.13
It 
A 
can 
that 
field. 
global 
reforms 
resuscitate 
partnership 
economic  crisis.  With  trade  revitalized,  world  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  could  be  bolstered  by 
$700 billion a year. 

the 
international  financial  architecture,  works  for  climate 
stability, food security and energy security and brings a 
successful conclusion to the Doha Development Round 
should also bring about the fulfilment of the Monterrey 
Consensus.  This  will  ensure  the  attainment  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
If this new spirit of multilateralism and reform can 

pervade international socio-economic affairs, there is no 
reason  why  it  should  not  also  find  its  way  into  the 
politico-security 
the 
disarmament agenda — especially nuclear disarmament, 
which  has  been  lying  moribund  for  decades.  In  a  truly 
democratic world order, the nuclear Powers would fulfil 
their  commitment  to  the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  by 
slashing  their  nuclear  arsenals  and  abiding  by  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  In  turn,  we 
non-nuclear  countries  will  continue  to  refrain  from 
developing nuclear weapons.  
This is no longer an impossible dream. A window 

of  opportunity  has  been  opened  with  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1887  (2009)  on 
the 
maintenance of international peace and security leading 
to  a  nuclear-weapon-free  world,  and  with  the  current 
process  between  the  United  States  and  the  Russian 
Federation  towards  deeper  cuts  in  their  respective 
nuclear  arsenals.  Thus,  the  disarmament  agenda  is 
being revived. 

Even the persistent Middle East conflict, with the 
question  of  Palestine  at  its  core,  could  be  more 
expeditiously  resolved,  if  the  task  of  promoting  the 
peace  process  involved  a  wider  base  of  stakeholders. 
The main problem in reviving the peace process at the 
moment  is  the  intransigence  of  Israel  on  the  issue  of 
illegal  settlements.  But  the  early  engagement  of  the 
Obama Administration in the peace effort and its even-
handed  multilateral  approach  to  the  problem  brings 
hope for an eventual two-State solution. 

Let  us  therefore  respond  to  President  Obama’s 
call for partnering for peace. Likewise, the challenge of 
terrorism  demands  the  broadest  possible  coalition  of 
nations  to  put  an  end  to  it  —  not  only  through  sheer 
force  of  arms  but  also  and  mainly  through  a  dialogue 
of  faiths,  cultures  and  civilizations  that  will  put  the 
merchants of hate out of business. 
09-53165 

13 
A/64/PV.13


Every major problem in the world today calls for 
the  concerted  efforts  of  many  nations  to  work  out  its 
solution.  This  includes  transnational  challenges  like 
piracy,  irregular  migration,  money-laundering,  human 
rights  violations,  the  threat  of  a  pandemic  and  natural 
disasters.  All  these  problems  demand  reform  and 
strengthening  of  international  cooperation.  A  clamour 
for reform that must be heeded now is the call for the 
overhaul  of  the  composition  and  workings  of  the 
Security  Council.  For  by  no  means  does  the  Council 
reflect the realities of our time — it is a throwback to 
the world at the end of the Second World War. 

In  the  same  way  that  the  Group  of  Eight  can  no 
longer  solve  the  economic  problems  of  the  world,  a 
Security  Council  paralysed  by 
its  undemocratic 
composition  and  the  veto  system  can  no  longer 
guarantee  our  collective  security.  It  needs  to  be  more 
democratic,  transparent  and  accountable.  It  needs  new 
sources of strength that the developing world and their 
ancient  civilizations  can  help  provide  in  the  same 
manner as the inclusivity of the G-20. 

We in Indonesia are great believers in democratic 
reform,  because  that  is  what  saved  us  from  being 
totally  crushed  by  the  Asian  financial  crisis  of  1997. 
Over the years until then, we had focused too much on 
the market and on our GDP growth and thus neglected 
our  political  development.  The  only  way  out  of  the 
crisis  was  reform  —  reform  of  every  aspect  of  our 
national  life.  And  so  we  made  the  transition  from  a 
highly 
a 
decentralized,  more  fully  democratic  system.  We 
reformed our military, our bureaucracy and our justice 
system. We modernized our economic infrastructure. 

And  since  October  2004,  the  administration  of 
President  Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono  has  been 
consolidating  and  fine-tuning  earlier  reforms.  Now, 
having  won  re-election  in  only  the  second  direct 
presidential  election  in  our  history,  he  is  ready  to 
launch  a  second  wave  of  reform,  which  will  lay  the 
foundations  for  Indonesia’s  becoming  a  developed 
country  by  2025.  Meanwhile,  we  have  come  to  be 
known as the world’s third largest democracy, the land 
where democracy, Islam and modernization not only go 
hand in hand but thrive together. We intend to keep on 
earning  and  deserving  that  recognition  —  by,  among 
other ways, learning from others and sharing with them 
our experiences in political development. 
authoritarian 
centralized 
regime 
to 

That  is  why,  last  December,  we  organized  the 
Bali Democracy Forum, Asia’s first intergovernmental 
forum  on  democracy.  We  are  making  this  an  annual 
affair. And  it  is  our  hope  that  the  world,  as  it  reforms 
its  economic  governance,  will  learn  a  truth  that  we 
came  upon  during  our  crisis  some  12  years  ago:  that 
prosperity  without  democracy  is  but  a  bubble.  And 
democracy  that  does  not  deliver  development  will  not 
endure.  Economic  and  political  development  must 
march  hand  in  hand.  As  it  is  with  a  country  such  as 
Indonesia, so it is with the world. It is not enough for 
the world to get its economics right. It must also get its 
politics right. For man does not live by bread alone. He 
must also have his freedom. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Roble  Olhaye,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Djibouti. 
Mr.  Olhaye  (Djibouti):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

extending my warmest congratulations to the President 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  current  session.  I  also  take  this 
opportunity to place on record our sincere appreciation 
of  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  for  his  efforts 
and leadership during the sixty-third session. I wish as 
well 
the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive report on the work of the Organization 
and  for  his  tireless  efforts  and  dedication  in  the  cause 
of international peace and security. 

financial  and  economic  crisis 
affecting many countries around the globe, particularly 
in 
the  shores  of  Africa. 
Originating  in  the West,  the  uncontrolled  banking  and 
mortgage  crisis,  arising  from  over-leveraged  subprime 
lending  schemes,  burst  into  the  open,  destroying  the 
liquidity  and  survivability  of  many  institutions  in  the 
developed countries. 
It was thought that, since Africa was not a player 

in 
this  sector, 
its 
economies would escape more or less unscathed. Such 
was  not 
to  be;  African  difficulties  have  been 
compounded.  This  crisis  follows  on  the  heels  of  the 
food and energy crises and the challenges posed by the 
impacts of climate change. The severity of the crisis on 
poor  countries  cannot  be  underestimated.  Poor 
countries  have  no  choice  but  to  work  hard  to  restore 
strong growth and recover lost ground in order to move 
towards  internationally  agreed  development  goals.  In 
this  respect,  it  must  be  emphasized  that  the  global 
the  West,  has  reached 
institutions  and 
to  commend 
its  financial 
The  current 
14 

09-53165 
facilities, 
infrastructure 


crisis  cannot  be  an  excuse  to  avoid  fulfilling  existing 
international  aid  commitments.  In  addition  to  timely 
delivery, flexibility of resources and predictability, it is 
critical  that  the  aid  be  effective.  Developing  countries 
need  access  to  new  funding,  including  credit  and 
liquidity 
investment  and 
support for domestic financial systems. 

Members  of  the  General  Assembly  are  by  now 
aware of the tense standoff that prevails in the northern 
part  of  my  country,  following  the  unwarranted  and 
deliberately  provocative  incursion  and  occupation  by 
Eritrean  forces  of  Djibouti’s  sovereign  territory  at  the 
beginning  of  last  year,  2008.  This  wholly  reckless 
action  by  Eritrea,  a  neighbour,  provoked  a  mutual 
military  build-up,  leading  to  serious  clashes  between 
the  two  forces.  In  particular,  the  clashes  of  10  to 
12 June  2008  resulted  in  many  deaths,  countless 
wounded  and  prisoners  taken  on  both  sides,  and  this 
merits a special note. 

My  country  embarked  upon  a  calm  and  prudent 
policy that deliberately allowed sufficient time for the 
possibility of comprehensive bilateral contacts at every 
level  in  order  to  resolve  hostilities  amicably  and 
peacefully.  Our  efforts  fell  consistently  on  deaf  ears, 
accompanied  by 
and 
dismissive  and  condescending  utterances.  Regional 
organizations, heads of State and Government, and the 
United Nations have all attempted to initiate dialogue; 
these efforts have gone for naught with Eritrea, which, 
in its usual brazen manner, has gone so far as to deny 
even  the  existence  of  any  tension  in  the  area,  despite 
the clear, far-reaching and unmistakable conclusions of 
the  United  Nations  fact-finding  mission.  Indeed,  the 
mission’s report represents a damning indictment of the 
regime’s deceptive and erratic behaviour. 

The Security Council has consistently condemned 
Eritrea’s forceful occupation of my country’s territory, 
namely,  Ras  Doumeira  and  Doumeira  Island,  and  in 
resolution 1862 (2009) of 14 January 2009, demanded, 
inter alia, that Eritrea withdraw its forces and all their 
military hardware to the status quo ante; acknowledge 
its  border  dispute  with  Djibouti;  engage  actively  in 
dialogue to defuse the tension and in diplomatic efforts 
leading  to  a  mutually  acceptable  settlement;  and  to 
abide  by  its  obligations  as  a  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. 

to  comply 
The 
immediately, and, in any case no later than five weeks 
rebuffs,  blatant  denials, 
A/64/PV.13
after  the  resolution’s  adoption  date  of  14  January. 
Eritrea,  however,  rejected  the  resolution  the  next  day. 
There the matter has essentially remained, in the light 
of  the  series  of  requests  made  by  the  Secretariat  for 
more  time  to  pursue  contacts,  particularly  with  the 
Eritrean  authorities. As  everyone  now  realizes,  it  is  a 
futile exercise to seek a credible response from Eritrea, 
whose intentions have always been to procrastinate on 
various  pretexts  while  firmly  entrenching  itself  in  the 
occupied territory. 

As  Djibouti  has  repeatedly  stated,  the  occupied 
areas  of  Ras  Doumeira  hill,  which  overlooks  the 
Bab-El-Mandeb  strait,  and  Doumeira  Island,  which  is 
in  the  same  Red  Sea  area,  are  situated  in  one  of  the 
busiest shipping lanes in the world. The  militarization 
of this key strategic maritime route does not augur well 
for peace in the region or for international shipping and 
investment. 

The  dispute  between  Eritrea  and  Djibouti  must 
not be allowed to fester any longer. It must be resolved 
along  the  lines  of  Security  Council  resolution  1862 
(2009)  without  further  equivocation,  confusion  or 
deliberate  procrastination.  Inaction  sets  a  dangerous 
precedent  that  others  will  surely  follow  in  the  future: 
deny  and  refuse  to  cooperate.  The  Council  must  not 
appear  to  be  appeasing  Eritrea  indefinitely.  It  is  a 
dangerous and an unpredictable regime that so far has 
not  shown  any  respect  for  international  norms  and 
behaviour. The Council must act now, using all means 
at its disposal. 

Once  again,  the  situation  in  Somalia  is  tense, 
tenuous  and  unpredictable.  Somalia’s  plight 
is 
sickening,  hopeless  and  disgusting,  to  say  the  least. 
Here we have a transitional Government that enjoys the 
full  backing  of  the  international  community.  Yet 
paradoxically, that same entity is woefully lacking the 
money and manpower that would enable it to confront 
the  deadly  insurrection  that  has  paralysed  the  whole 
country.  Mogadishu,  the  capital,  is  essentially  a  war 
zone.  Most  of 
its  civilian  population  has  been 
displaced,  having  fled 
the  never-ending  anarchy, 
abuses,  impunity  and  other  egregious  crimes  against 
humanity.  The  collateral  damage 
the  civilian 
population  is  horrendous  —  in  short,  unquantifiable. 
Coupled  with  that,  the  Somali  people  are  facing  an 
extreme  drought  that  threatens  a  widespread  food 
shortage and starvation, which would necessitate major 
international emergency food aid. 
to 
resolution 
required  Eritrea 
09-53165 

15 
the 
in  keeping 
in  particular 
A/64/PV.13

The presence of African Union peacekeepers has 

been  a  major  factor 
transitional 
Government in power, but they are continuously under 
attack, and the need for more troops, as well as for the 
training  and  equipping  of  sufficient  Somali  forces, 
cannot be overemphasized. Indeed, there is tremendous 
goodwill  towards  the  current  Transitional  Federal 
Government, 
towards  Sheikh  Sharif 
Sheikh Ahmed, the current President, who enjoys both 
trust  and  international  credibility.  Unfortunately,  that 
has  not  been  matched  by  a  commensurate  support  in 
terms  of  resource  flows  consistent  with  the  promises 
and pledges made to the Government. Resources make 
the difference in the outcome of hostilities.  

All  the  same,  life  in  Somalia  goes  on,  and  with 
resources that country would be able to start addressing 
the  critical  urgent  problems  and  issues  of  security, 
governance  and  job  creation.  Addressing  the  terrible 
drought  now  battering  the  country  and  crippling  its 
already  low  food  stock  is  a  top  priority.  We  must  all 
fulfil  our  obligations  to  enable  the  Government  to 
function. No doubt that is a tall order, but that is what 
it  takes  and  that  is  the  challenge  that  we  all  have  to 
confront.  

We are well aware of the flow of arms, resources 
and foreign fighters into Somalia and of the threat that 
Al-Qaida  might  establish  a  beachhead  there.  One  can 
say  that  the  time  has  come  for  all  well-meaning 
Somalis,  as  well  as  peoples  and  Governments  of 
goodwill everywhere, to step forward in order to create 
a  lasting  and  stable  environment  for  the  people  of 
Somalia. We owe that to the people of Somalia. 

The stage appears set for dramatic developments 
in  the  Israeli  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  territories, 
which is by far the longest occupation in modern times. 
As  we  all  know,  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 
Mission  investigating  last  winter’s  three-week  war  in 
Gaza has issued its report. While both the Israelis and 
the  Palestinians  were 
the 
condemnation of Israel by a United Nations body was 
unprecedented, stating that the result was 

“a  deliberately  disproportionate  attack  designed 
to  punish,  humiliate  and  terrorize  a  civilian 
population, radically diminish its local economic 
capacity both to work and provide for itself, and 
to  force  upon  it  an  ever  increasing  sense  of 
dependency  and  vulnerability”.  (A/HRC/12/48, 
para. 1893) 
criticized, 
strongly 
the 
issue 
landscape, 
international 

The peace process is frozen and there is no hope 
in  sight  of  jump-starting  it  soon,  as  the  new  Israeli 
Government is intent on pursuing its business-as-usual 
policy  of  more  settlements  and  refusal  to  engage  in  a 
process that addresses the final status issues. 

My  country  is  keen  to  have  peace  and  security 
soon restored in the northern part of the sisterly nation 
of  Yemen,  within  the  framework  of  its  territorial 
integrity, sovereignty and unity. 

One cannot fail to notice the number of countries 
that have raised the issue of the representation on and 
composition  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is  undeniable 
that we are in a different world from that which existed 
in  the  aftermath  of  the  Second  World  War.  Given  the 
critical  need  to  have  a  global  body  capable  of 
addressing,  in  some  manner,  the  challenges  of  an 
evolving 
is  of 
concern  to  many  countries.  For  the  United  Nations  to 
retain  its  credibility  and  authority,  it  must  continue  to 
be  relevant.  New  norms  have  risen,  while  whole 
continents lack permanent representation, let alone the 
power of the veto. 
Once  again,  it  must  be  said  that  Africa,  the 

continent with the largest number of countries, needs to 
have a permanent voice in the conduct of world affairs. 
We  see  no  reason  to  change  our  position,  which  we 
noted  in  2007,  that  Africa  seeks  no  fewer  than  two 
permanent  seats,  with  all 
the  prerogatives  and 
privileges of  a permanent  member, including the right 
of the veto, in addition to five non-permanent seats. Of 
late, things have been changing for the better in much 
of  Africa,  but  the  current  disastrous  international 
economic  crisis  was  not  of  our  making,  as  is  true  for 
the fallout from global warming. They and other crises 
underscore the urgency of our meaningful involvement 
in  the  United  Nations  and  in  world  affairs.  Permanent 
seats  and 
the  Security 
Council  would  be  in  keeping  with  those  growing 
international demands. 

Time and space do not allow us to consider in any 
depth  a  number  of  other  critical  issues  confronting 
developing  countries.  There  should  be  some  mention, 
however,  of 
trade  and 
development  stemming  from  the  protective  tariffs  of 
the industrialized West. The effort to provide subsidies 
for  a 
farming  operations,  blocking 
competition  from  farmers  of  the  developing  world, 
only hurts the latter. Perhaps cotton is a good example. 
increased  membership  on 
to  countries’ 
the  harm 
few 
large 
16 

09-53165 
to 
reach  a 
In  conclusion, 
the  commitment 



There  is  also  the  stalemate  in  the  Doha  Round 
trade  talks. Those  discussions  must  reopen  in  earnest, 
with 
satisfactory 
conclusion.  Lastly,  we  need  to  highlight  the  concern 
regarding  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the 
likelihood  that  they  will  not  be  achieved  by  2015  in 
most countries. In sum, that is tragic for so many lives. 
Efforts must therefore increase towards mitigating that 
trend. 

I  wish,  on  behalf  of  my 
Government and the people of Djibouti, to express our 
heartfelt  sorrow  and  profound  condolences  to  the 
bereaved  families  and  to  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  the  Philippines  for  the  torrential  rains  and 
heavy  flooding  that  caused  havoc  and  unprecedented 
disruption of lives and destroyed infrastructure. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Antonio  Pedro  Monteiro  Lima, 
chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Cape 
Verde. 
Mr.  Lima  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke  in  French): 

Before  beginning  my  statement,  I  would  like  to 
mention something that happened on our continent, in 
West Africa,  yesterday.  Indeed,  tragic  events  occurred 
yesterday  in  a  country  in  West Africa,  of  which  Cape 
Verde  is  a  part:  soldiers  once  again  fired  on  a  crowd. 
As  a  neighbouring,  friendly  and  long-standing  partner 
country of Guinea, I wish, on behalf of my country, to 
express  my  deep  sympathy  and 
the  unequivocal 
condemnation  of  an  act  that  disgraces  the  entire 
continent.  I  am  referring  to  a  challenge  to  the  brave 
people of Guinea and to the international community. I 
pay tribute to the numerous victims of this odious act, 
which  threatens  stability  and  peace  in  the  entire 
subregion. 
(spoke  in  Portuguese;  French  text  provided  by  the 
delegation) 

I  am  pleased  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki on his election to the presidency of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. I also 
congratulate  his  predecessor,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  for  his 
involvement,  dedication  and 
courage,  which  left  an  important  imprint  on  the  work 
of  the  sixty-third  session.  To  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon, Cape Verde  expresses its confidence that he 
will continue to further our aspirations and consolidate 
the  foundations  of  this  Organization  he  leads  that  is 
dedicated  to  the  common  good. We  thank  him  for  his 
A/64/PV.13
detailed  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/64/1).  

Peace, security and development are public assets 
that are essential to the progress of humanity. However, 
they  have  never  before  been  as  threatened  as  they  are 
today.  Therefore,  I  would  like  to  share  with  the 
Assembly  some  of  my  country’s  concerns  in  that 
context.  

During  the Assembly’s  sixty-second  session,  the 
Prime Minister of Cape Verde, Mr.  José Maria  Neves, 
said: 


“We are living at a time when problems and 
threats  are  of  concern  to  all.  They  are  not 
confined to a single State or region. Nor can there 
be  local  solutions  to  the  global  threats  of  our 
era.” (A/62/PV.11, p. 2) 
threaten 
instances 
the  foundations  of 
He  was  referring  to  terrorism,  organized  crime  and 
human  trafficking  and  to  weapons  and  drugs  that  in 
certain 
the 
democratic  rule  of  law.  He  said  that  these  phenomena 
“corrupt  values,  compromise  development  and  thwart 
the  most  legitimate  expectations  of  peoples”  who  are 
exposed  to  them  and  that  “Responses  to  these  issues 
will be ineffective unless they are undertaken within a 
robust,  balanced  and  fair  multilateral  perspective” 
(ibid.). 

I quote these remarks by the head of Government 
of  Cape  Verde  because  they  are  quite  current  and 
because  the  themes  they  address  have  been  the  object 
of increasing attention by the international community. 

Cape  Verde  and  other  West  African  States  are 
facing organized crime, which has found fertile ground 
for  its  activities  in  our  region  because  of  our  fragile 
economies, 
emerging 
democracies  and, 
in  general,  our  States’  weak 
capacities  to  respond  to  this  major  threat.  With  the 
support of the United Nations, in particular the United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  and  the  logistics 
capabilities of our partners, we, the States members of 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  are 
pooling  our  capabilities  to  confront  this  tremendous 
challenge that has engulfed our subregion.  

In  Cape  Verde  we  believe  that  a  small  country 
cannot allow itself to be poor, vulnerable and unstable 
all  at  once.  We  therefore  seek  to  reinforce  our 
advantages,  reduce  our  weaknesses  and  diversify  our 
partnerships, in addition to strengthening our relations 
the  vulnerability  of  our 
09-53165 

17 
A/64/PV.13

of  solidarity  for  the  benefit  of  peace,  stability  and 
progress in our subregion. 

Therefore,  at  the  October  2008  conference  on 
drug  trafficking  in  our  region  and  at  the  April  2009 
round  table  on  Guinea-Bissau  security  sector  reform, 
both  held  in  Praia,  the  capital  of  Cape  Verde,  we 
sought to define together the parameters of our actions 
in these areas. We will continue to pay special attention 
to  this  threat,  as  we  are  convinced  that  the  zone  of 
peace  we  are  building  in  the  South  Atlantic  must 
become  a  tangible  reality  if  we  wish  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and,  in  general,  the 
life of peace and progress that we wish for all. 
In  this  context  in  which  States  and  democratic 

processes  are 
threatened  by  exogenous  elements, 
multilateralism appears  as an indispensable shield  and 
an  essential  resource.  There  is  no  doubt  that  this 
confluence of wills and means among the most diverse 
countries and the most widespread regions at the heart 
of  the  international  community  constitutes  the  path  to 
follow,  not  only  for  strengthening  cooperation  among 
the  entities  of  international  life  and  for  the  timely 
resolution  of  differences  in  the  framework  of  the 
principles  and  values  of  the  United  Nations,  but  also 
for  the  strengthening  of  international  law,  which  is 
indispensable  for  strengthening  peace  and  security  in 
the world.  

The  United  Nations,  in  this  context,  remains  the 
central  element  of  the  collective  conscience  of  the 
community  of  nations.  Thus  the  revitalization  of  the 
United  Nations  system  emerges  as  a  necessity  of  our 
time,  giving  priority  to  the  participation  of  all,  to  the 
detriment of unilateralism, strengthening efficiency for 
the  benefit  of  common  interests  and  seeking  solutions 
that meet the aspirations of the most vulnerable and of 
present and future generations. 

Cape  Verde  is  contributing  to  that  framework  as 
one  of  the  eight  pilot  countries  testing  the  Delivering 
as  One  process  on  the  ground,  which  is  successfully 
under  way  as  a  unique  programme  with  a  unique 
budgeting plan, a single purpose and single leader. This 
process  has  had  positive  repercussions  on  cooperation 
between  the  Government  and  the  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes  of  the  United  Nations  working  in  Cape 
Verde, 
this 
programme,  reducing  transaction  and  administrative 
costs and benefiting all. 
the  coherence  of 
thus  enhancing 
seen 
an 
increase 
and 

According  to  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade  and  Development,  it  is  expected  that  the  global 
gross  domestic  product  will  shrink  by  more  than 
2.5 per  cent  in  2009.  The  growth  of  developing 
countries will decrease from 5.4 per cent in 2008 to 1.3 
per  cent  in  2009,  which  means  a  reduction  in  the 
average  per  capita  income.  In  light  of  the  stagnation 
and  reduction  of  economic  growth,  the  developing 
countries  have 
in  poverty, 
unemployment, 
the  cost  of  essential  goods  and 
malnutrition. With the drastic reduction in investment, 
there  is  a  strong  likelihood  that  the  Millennium 
Development Goals will not be achieved. 

It  is  expected  that  in  2009  world  trade  will  be 
reduced  by  at  least  11  per  cent  in  real  terms  and  by 
20 per cent  in  dollar  terms.  For  the African  continent, 
the prognosis points to a significant deceleration of the 
growth of production in 2009. However, it will remain 
positive  and  drop  to  3  per  cent  in  North  Africa  and 
1 per cent  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  The  medium-  and 
low-income  countries  in  this  context  will  certainly 
require  more  support  in  the  form  of  a  coordinated 
effort  at  the  international  level  to  increase  official 
development assistance.  

The  perspective  of  a  solution  to  the  crisis  is 
significant.  It  requires,  among  other  things,  a  new 
political  strategy 
the 
financial  market.  The  recent  meeting  of  the  Group  of 
20  in  Pittsburgh  offers  some  elements  of  response. 
Indeed,  management  of  the  crisis  in  the  context  of 
globalization 
an 
integrated response of the parties as well as a change in 
the global financial system, more efficient institutions, 
countercyclical  policies,  better  monitoring  of  risk  and 
regulation.  The  outcome  document 
institutional 
adopted  by  consensus  at 
the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis of 24 to 26 June 2009 (resolution 63/303, annex) 
contains recommendations to fight economic recession 
and  establishes  viable  and  safe  financial  practices,  in 
addition to indicating important areas of intervention.  

Cape Verde, despite the difficult situation created 
by the economic and financial crisis, seeks to preserve 
the  gains  already  made  in  the  various  areas  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  thanks  to  a  prudent 
and  pragmatic  policy  and  taking  its  partners  into 
account to help diminish the impact of the crisis on the 
archipelago. 
includes  regulation  of 
interdependence 
requires 
that 
18 

09-53165 
all 
We 
think 



international  partners  must 
implement  joint  efforts  to  minimize  the  impact  of  the 
economic  deceleration,  especially 
for  developing 
countries,  and  enable  all  to  achieve  more  inclusive, 
equitable  and  balanced  development,  oriented  towards 
economic sustainability, to help overcome poverty and 
inequity  in  order  to  avoid  an  unprecedented  human 
crisis. 
The Summit on Climate Change organized by the 

Secretary-General 
last  week  was  an  undeniable 
success.  The  Member  States  wished  to  participate  in 
large  numbers  to  reaffirm  their  determination  to  see 
this  vital  problem  treated  in  a  convincing,  urgent  and 
genuine manner. The head of State of one of the heavy-
emitting  countries  declared  that  if  we  do  not  act  now, 
no  one  will  ever  be  able  to  do  so,  reinforcing  what 
scientists have been demonstrating for some time: that 
our planet is at serious risk of not being able to assure 
life  in  all  its  fullness  because  of  the  consequences  of 
climate change. And the time to act is now. 

The  participants  departed  the  Summit  convinced 
that there is no more time for evasion. The moment has 
come  for  concerted,  coherent  and  systematic  action  to 
achieve  a  convincing  and  meaningful  reduction  of 
greenhouse  gases,  to  slow  global  warming  and  avoid 
raised sea levels likely to endanger vast coastal regions 
throughout the world, particularly the small developing 
island  States.  Such  States  are  increasingly  vulnerable 
and  suffer  the  most  from  the  consequences  of  a 
situation created to a large extent by emitter States. At 
its  summit  here  in  New  York  on  21  September,  the 
Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  (AOSIS),  of  which 
Cape  Verde  is  a  member,  adopted  a  declaration 
clarifying 
its  position  on  various  points  being 
negotiated within the framework of the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 

Cape  Verde  is  a  small  archipelago  with  a  small 
population,  in  a  geographic  location  that  leaves  it 
simultaneously  isolated  in  the  ocean  and  dangerously 
exposed  to  the  effects  of  climate  change  and  global 
warming.  As  a  Sahelian  State,  it  has  long  faced 
drought,  desertification  and  a  serious  lack  of  water. 
Those  phenomena  aggravate  the  population’s  poverty, 
hinder  Government  efforts  and  strongly  affect  actions 
in  the  areas  of  environmental  preservation  and  human 
development. 

In Cape Verde we are making efforts to make the 
best  possible  use  of  our  river  basins,  saving  water 
A/64/PV.13
wherever  possible  and  adopting  modern  irrigation 
methods  with  the  help  of  new  technologies.  We  are 
implementing  an  active  policy  in  that  area. A  dam  on 
one  of  our  islands  is  energizing  the  local  agricultural 
sector  and  allowing  us  to  promote  better  subsistence 
methods  among  farmers,  while  helping  us  develop 
renewable  power  sources  throughout  the  country  with 
the  goal  of  providing  electricity  to  95  per  cent  of  the 
country  by  2011.  A  research  and  development  centre 
for renewable energies aimed at serving the entire West 
African region is under construction in Cape Verde. 

The  international  community,  and  the  developed 
countries  in  particular,  must  strive  to  support  the 
specific  dynamics  of  those  States  in  the  areas  of 
adaptation  to  and  mitigation  of  the  effects  of  climate 
change  and  to  enable  them  to  minimize  the  risks  that 
burden them today, given that some of those States are 
already  facing  issues  of  mass  dislocation  and  forced 
migrations. 

For the people of Cape Verde, the ocean is more 
than  a  nurturing  mother  or  a  demanding  lover  —  it  is 
our  vital  source  of  civilization  and  inspiration.  We 
want to protect it; we want to preserve it. But equally, 
along  with  the  coastal  nations  of  the  Atlantic  Ocean, 
particularly in its southern half, we want to see it be an 
area  of  exchange,  not  speculation,  a  realm  of  active 
solidarity,  not  unruly  competition.  Far  from  making  it 
one  more  focus  of  human  greed,  let  us  preserve  its 
unique  value  as  a  precious  cradle  of  life  and  the 
repository of the hopes of our planet. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Camillo  Gonsalves,  chairman  of 
the delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. 
the 

Grenadines): At the outset, the Government and people 
of  Saint  Vincent  and 
this 
opportunity  to  extend  deepest  condolences  to  the 
people of the Philippines and the Socialist Republic of 
Viet  Nam  for  the  lives  tragically  lost  in  the  wake  of 
tropical  storm  Ketsana.  Our  thoughts,  prayers  and 
solidarity  are  with  them  as  they  grapple  with  that 
catastrophe. 
that  we  welcome 

Mr. Treki to the leadership of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-fourth session. His experience and abilities are 
well known and respected, and he has our full support 
in the coming year. Indeed, we in Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines are particularly pleased that the presidency 
is  with  great  pleasure 
Mr.  Gonsalves
(Saint  Vincent 
and 
the  Grenadines 
take 
It 
09-53165 

19 
role  of 
the  “G-192” 
A/64/PV.13

has  moved  from  Nicaragua,  a  country  touched  by  the 
Caribbean Sea, to a continent that is the ancestral home 
of  the  vast  majority  of  our  citizens.  We  have,  in 
essence,  kept  the  presidency  within  our  extended 
family.  We  trust  that  he  will  continue  the  exemplary 
work  of  his  predecessor,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  who  fearlessly  and  tirelessly  championed 
the 
in  addressing  global 
challenges. 

We face many challenges within our international 
community,  but  at  their  most  basic,  the  majority  are 
symptomatic of a single underlying issue: a struggle by 
the  powerful  to  cling  to  their  dominion  long  after  the 
legitimate  bases  of  their  power  have  faded.  We  find 
ourselves  in  a  world  governed  by  outdated  norms  and 
assumptions,  and  our  failure  to  adapt  has  wrought 
disastrous consequences on our peoples. 

In his welcome and inspiring maiden statement to 
the  General  Assembly  last  Wednesday,  our  esteemed 
brother  and  friend  President  Barack  Obama  of  the 
United States correctly identified the challenges to our 
multilateral  unity  as  “rooted  in  a  discontent  with  the 
status  quo”  (see A/64/PV.3). We  wholeheartedly  agree 
and endorse that assessment.  

It is a discontent with the status quo of a 63-year-
old  Security  Council,  which  continues  to  administer 
our  collective  security  unchanged  and  impervious  to 
the  logic  of  a  new  world.  It  is  a  discontent  with  the 
role,  effectiveness  and  mandate  of  the  65-year-old 
Bretton  Woods  institutions,  which  were  created  in  a 
bygone  era  to  address  bygone  circumstances.  It  is  a 
discontent  with  a  49-year-old  blockade  on  the  noble 
people  of  our  neighbour  Cuba,  the  continued  illegal 
application of which is illogical when viewed through 
the 
or 
humanitarianism,  and  can  be  successfully  explained 
only  by 
local  political 
considerations.  

It  is  a  discontent,  even,  with  the  stagnation  of 
efforts  to  change  the  status  quo  in  other  critical 
respects:  the  eight  years  of  unresolved  negotiations  of 
the  Doha  Development  Round,  the  12  years  of  the 
toothless commitments of the Kyoto Protocol, and the 
seven  years  of  unfulfilled  Monterrey  Consensus 
promises  to  achieve  a  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national 
product  for  official  development  assistance,  a  full  40 
years after this modest percentage was first mooted. 
to  narrow 
geopolitics, 
economics 
reference 
prism 
of 
rather 
it  all, 
structural  bases  of 
the  geopolitical  status  quo 

Through 
remains.  The 
international 
interaction  are  distressingly  similar  to  their  decades-
old  antecedents.  Those  structures  were  forged  in  the 
fires of World War II, hardened in the frost of the Cold 
War and entrenched by the legacies of colonialism and 
exploitation.  But  World  War  II  has  long  since  ended, 
the  Cold  War  is  relegated  to  history  books,  and  the 
reach  of  formal  colonialism  continues  to  recede.  The 
structures spawned by those historical episodes are no 
longer valid. 

Our discontent is born not only of stagnation but 
also  of  exclusion.  Although  we  have  a  seat  in  this 
hallowed building, it is often the seat of a spectator in a 
historical drama. The directors and actors script history 
not  in  the  General  Assembly,  but  in  other  rooms  and 
locales,  without  our  input  or  knowledge.  In  many 
significant  ways  we  are  attendees, 
than 
participants, on the international stage. 

We  are  in  the  midst  of  a  global  financial  and 
economic crisis of unparalleled depth and scope. Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  played  no  part  in  the 
reckless  speculation  and  corruption  that  precipitated 
this crisis, yet the people of our country are hard hit by 
its  effects.  Our 
suffering, 
remittances  are  shrinking,  foreign  direct  investment  is 
scarce, and the spectre of unemployment is a real and 
gathering  regional  threat.  However,  we  are  actively 
excluded from the solutions to this problem.  

Last  week,  we  learned  that  the  Group  of  20 
(G-20)  anointed  itself  “the  premier  forum  for  our 
international economic cooperation”. Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines is not a member of the G-20, nor were 
we consulted on its ascension to the ranks of arbiters of 
our  economic  fate. While  there  is  an  undeniable  logic 
to  a  small  group  of  the  world’s  largest  economies 
meeting  informally  to  thrash  out  matters  that  affect 
only their own large economies, the logic fades in the 
face  of  a  crisis 
rapidly  and 
comprehensively to every corner of the globe. 

Additionally, the G-20 faces a serious legitimacy 
problem. Aside  from  the  Group’s  being  non-inclusive 
and  unofficial,  many  of  the  countries  at  that  table 
represent the champions of the financial and economic 
orthodoxies that led the world down the rabbit hole to 
its current economic malaise. 
Further,  the  G-20’s  recent  self-congratulatory 

pronouncements  of  “mission  accomplished”  in  the 
that  has  spread 
industry 
tourism 
is 
20 

09-53165 


midst of this economic upheaval are of cold comfort to 
the suffering peoples and countries of the world. While 
the G-20 may claim that its actions have “worked”, and 
claim  a  “sense  of  normalcy”,  the  people  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  and  our  Caribbean  region 
are  under  no  such  illusions. The  invisible  hand  of  the 
market is still clasped firmly around the throats of poor 
people  and  the  developing  countries  of  the  world. We 
see none of the so-called green shoots that populate the 
fantasies of discredited economic cheerleaders. 

Indeed, the seeds sown by this crisis may produce 
the  strange  and  bitter  fruit  of  increased  poverty, 
suffering  and  social  and  political  upheaval.  The  crisis 
itself, with its disproportionate impact on the poor, will 
only  widen  and  deepen  the  yawning  gap  between 
developed and developing countries. 

It is not merely the economic crisis against which 
the  people  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 
continue  to  struggle  heroically.  Today,  we  face  the 
triple 
threat  of  being  globalized,  climatized  and 
stigmatized.  We  have  already  been  globalized  by  the 
World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  out  of  our  trade  in 
bananas, which, until very recently,  was the engine of 
our  economic  growth.  We  are  on  the  verge  of  being 
climatized  out  of  our  reliance  on  tourism  as  its 
development  substitute,  as  climate  change  wreaks 
havoc  on  our  weather  systems, 
intensifies  our 
hurricanes, destroys our coral reefs, damages our costal 
infrastructure and erodes our beaches. 

Now,  we  face  being  stigmatized  out  of  our 
transition  into  financial  services,  as  the  G-20,  the 
Organization 
and 
Development  and  other  non-inclusive  bodies  seek  to 
scapegoat  and  root  out  so-called  tax  havens  in  a 
pathetic effort to cast a wide and indiscriminate net of 
blame  across  a  swath  of  legitimate  and  well-regulated 
countries’ development efforts. 

We  note  the  irony  of  hearing  these  paternalistic 
prescriptions from the same countries that are unable to 
stem  corruption  and  mismanagement  within  their  own 
borders,  where  corporations 
squander 
trillions of dollars and a single buccaneer investor can 
make  $50  billion  —  an  amount  greater  than  the 
combined  annual  budget  expenditures  of  the  entire 
Caribbean Community subregion — disappear into thin 
air. 
The  unholy  trinity  of  exogenous  assaults  on  our 

development  prospects  posed  by  globalization, 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
recklessly 
logically  compelled 
09-53165 

21 
A/64/PV.13
that 
find  ourselves  unfortunately 
climatization and stigmatization cannot be ignored, nor 
can  the  security  threats engendered  by  the  illicit  trade 
in firearms and narcotics. We in Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines 
located 
between  the  supply  of  and  demand  for  these  poisons 
and weapons, and their deleterious effects rip holes in 
our  cohesive  social  fabric.  The  Caribbean,  which 
produces  not  one  single  firearm  or  one  single  kilo  of 
cocaine,  is  awash  in  drugs  and  guns,  and  is  now  the 
subregion  with  the  world’s  highest  per  capita  murder 
rate. 

Our  plight  cannot  be  ignored.  Indeed,  we  are 
heartened that the United Nations Office on Drugs and 
Crime,  which  inexplicably  ended  its  presence  in  our 
region,  has  now  seen  fit  to  reconsider  its  decision  to 
cede  the  Caribbean  to  drug  cartels  and  murderers. We 
hope 
it  represents  a  genuine  and  generous 
recommitment to our regional challenges. 

As  a  small  archipelagic  State,  we,  more  than 
most,  are  affected  and  threatened  by  the  ravages  of 
climate  change.  We,  more  than  most,  recognize  the 
critical  importance  of  a  meaningful,  measurable  and 
enforceable  global  compact  on  climate  change. 
However, we do not simply want to “seal the deal” at 
Copenhagen, as posited by the sloganeers of the United 
Nations. We  want  to  seal  the  right  deal,  the  just  deal, 
and  the  deal  that  ensures  our  continued  survival.  We 
most emphatically will not seal a suicide pact that will 
assure  the  elimination  of  small  island  States  and  our 
way of life. 

The Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  has  recently 
issued a declaration that contains what we consider to 
be the essential contours of any meaningful agreement 
on climate change. We trust that our blameless position 
on  the  front  lines  of  climate  change  fallout  will  be 
considered and respected in the global effort to seal the 
deal. We cannot, as in the case of the world economy, 
be excluded in any way from the solutions to a problem 
that so fundamentally affects us. 

The  theme  of  exclusion  is  equally  applicable  to 
our  friends  in  Taiwan.  The  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  agencies  must  find  ways  to  ensure  the 
meaningful  participation  of  the  23  million  people  of 
Taiwan.  Just  as  their  economic  strength  has  merited 
inclusion  in  the  WTO  and  the  universality  of  global 
health  challenges  have 
their 
participation  in  the  World  Health  Assembly,  so  too 
should  the  global  reach  of  climate  change  merit  their 
in 
in 
the 
the  United  Nations 
A/64/PV.13

meaningful  participation 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 

The  interconnected  networks  of  global  air  travel 
and  our  shared  safety  concerns  similarly  mandate  the 
participation  of  Taiwan  in  the  International  Civil 
Aviation Organization. The Government and people of 
Taiwan  have  advanced  a  reasonable  and  responsible 
policy of engagement to usher a new era in cross-strait 
relations. The international community can and should 
encourage  and  reward  this  fledgling  rapprochement 
with  meaningful  participation 
relevant 
specialized agencies. 

Any  cursory  analysis  of  the  excluded  and  the 
included,  of  the  discontented  and  the  defenders  of  the 
status  quo,  will  quickly  reveal  that  many  current 
inequities are rooted in our colonial history and that the 
struggle  for  geopolitical  balance  and  inclusiveness  is 
indeed  the  last  struggle  of  decolonization  as  we,  the 
former  colonial  territories,  remain  excluded  from  the 
inner  sanctums  and  power  structures 
that  were 
established  by  and  for  the  colonizers  in  a  time  long 
since passed. 
On  27  October  this  year,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 

Grenadines  will  celebrate  its  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
independence.  However,  we 
that 
independence  is  a  process,  not  a  one-time  event.  Our 
independence  journey  continues  today.  Thirty  years 
after gaining formal independence, we retain the Queen 
as  our  Head  of  State,  and  our  highest  judicial  appeals 
travel  from  our  shores  to  the  United  Kingdom  to  be 
decided by Her Majesty in Council. While we cherish a 
special,  modern  and  respectful  relationship  with  the 
United Kingdom, we do not intend to tarry on colonial 
premises a moment longer than is necessary. 
Even as we wage a wider war of attrition against 

geopolitical  colonialism,  our  citizens  are  preparing  to 
vote  on  a  new  and  home-grown  constitution  that  will 
break  the  chains  of  outmoded  dependence  and  place 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines firmly on its two feet 
as  a  truly  independent  republic.  This  new  proposed 
the  product  of  six  years  of  open, 
constitution, 
transparent  and 
is 
testament to the political maturity of our people and to 
the  value  of  locally  tailored  solutions  to  externally 
imposed impediments. 

In  a  similar  manner,  our  brothers  and  sisters  in 
the  developing  world,  including  Cuba,  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  Turkey,  Mexico,  Malaysia, 
inclusive  public  consultations, 
recognize 
and 
to 
existing 
span 
changes 
systemic 
structural 
economic 
geographic, 
Iran,  Libya,  Brazil  and  many  others,  have  forged  new 
links  and  bonds  of  friendship,  cooperation  and 
solidarity  with  our  country  that  go  beyond  historical, 
geographical  or  colonial  linkages.  We  value  these 
friendships  and  partnerships  as  important  additions  to 
our traditional and treasured allies in the United States, 
the  United  Kingdom,  Taiwan,  Canada  and 
the 
European Union. 
Just  as  our  myriad  bilateral  friendships  and 

and 
partnerships 
ideological  divides,  so 
too  must  our  multilateral 
cooperation  be  inclusive  and  participatory. We  can  no 
longer  maintain  the  illusion  of  holding  hands  in 
artificial  solidarity  across  the  moats  and  turrets  of 
structural 
inequalities.  Modern 
multilateralism  cannot  proceed  on  the  bases  of  the 
included  and  the  excluded,  of  the  political  haves  and 
have-nots,  nor  can  token  assimilations  of  individual 
developing  countries  serve  to  mask  the  necessity  for 
deep 
power 
arrangements.  

We urge our brothers and sisters who have gained 
limited  access  to  the  halls  of  power  to  not  only  be  a 
voice  for  their  excluded  brothers  and  to  not  only 
remember  where  they  came  from,  but  also  to  view 
themselves as the tip of the spear, the thin edge of the 
wedge  that  will  use  their  newfound  privileges  to 
dismantle  these  structures  from  within,  even  as  we 
continue to make our presence felt outside the citadels 
of stasis and indifference. 

Psalm 118 of the Bible teaches that the stone that 
the builder rejected shall become the cornerstone. We, 
the poor and developing countries of the world, are the 
stones  that  the  builders  of  this  body  refused  and 
ignored.  In  rebuilding  and  revitalizing,  either  we  will 
become  the  cornerstones  of  this  institution,  or  this 
edifice  of  multilateral  cooperation  will  crumble  into 
irrelevance and illegitimacy. 

Addressing  the  economic  crisis,  poverty  and 
development  is  not  an  academic  exercise.  Climate 
change  is  not  a  theoretical  event.  Reform  of  global 
governance is not a diplomatic parlour game. They are 
the  clear  and  present  dangers  of  our  time,  and  they 
reflect the need for the real and inclusive participation 
of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, the Caribbean and 
the  developing  world.  They  represent  also  a  need  to 
reflect  and  address  our  discontent  with  the  status  quo 
perpetuated for far too long. 
22 

09-53165 
above 
and 
ancient 
animosities 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of 



We  stand  now  in  the  autumn  of  our  discontent, 
but, as Gandhi said, “Healthy discontent is the prelude 
to  progress”.  The  challenge  of  the  discontented  is  to 
rise 
artificial 
balkanization to achieve the clarity of vision, unity of 
purpose  and  political  will  to  finally  and  successfully 
storm  the  castles  of  stagnation  and  status  quo  and  to 
drive  our  peoples,  our  politics  and  our  planet  into  a 
new  era  of  genuine 
inclusiveness,  equity  and 
meaningful, people-centred progress. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr. Alexandru  Cujba,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of the Republic of Moldova. 
Mr.  Cujba  (Moldova):  I  am  deeply  honoured  to 

address 
the 
Republic  of  Moldova.  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  to  wish  him 
success and to assure his Bureau of the full support of 
our  delegation.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  high 
competence  and  professionalism,  and  his 
tireless 
efforts in leading the United Nations in these complex 
times. 

The  distinguished  speakers  who  have  taken  the 
floor in this debate have elaborated extensively on the 
most  pressing  issues  that  the  international  community 
has faced over the past year. The current financial and 
economic crisis, the food and energy crises, the first flu 
pandemic  of  this  century,  and  climate  change  have 
been at the core of deliberations in the United Nations, 
revealing the central role of the Organization in dealing 
with  these  problems. A  reformed,  robust  and  effective 
Organization  has  to  deliver  prompt  reactions  and 
sustainable responses to the major challenges to peace, 
security 
and 
non-proliferation,  climate  change,  food  and  energy 
security, and the spread of international terrorism. 

We commend the efforts of the Secretary-General 
in strengthening the United Nations and promoting the 
core  values  enshrined  in  our  founding  Charter:  the 
fundamental  principles  of  peace,  justice  and  human 
rights. The Republic of Moldova supports the ongoing 
process  of  reform  of  the  United  Nations  aimed  at 
creating  a  revitalized,  representative,  efficient  and 
more  responsive  Organization.  Following  significant 
advances  in  the  reform  of  its  principal  organs,  we 
development: 
disarmament 
and 
A/64/PV.13
the  part  of 
recognize the steps being undertaken towards reform of 
the Security Council, which undoubtedly necessitates a 
firm  political  pledge  on 
the  entire 
membership.  

In  our  opinion,  the  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council  is  a  matter  not  only  of  equity  but  also  of 
efficiency. Any proposal for reform of the Council has 
to  reflect  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the  regional 
groups.  Thus,  in  supporting  the  expansion  of  the 
Council 
in  both  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories,  we  believe  it  indispensable  to  allocate  an 
additional non-permanent seat to the Eastern European 
Group. 

By  virtue  of  the  primary  responsibility  of  the 
Security  Council  laid  down  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  its  reform  should  also  contain  provisions  for 
consolidating  United  Nations  operational  capacities  in 
the  field  and  revitalizing  peacekeeping  operations  in 
order  to  make  them  more  effective  and  capable  of 
achieving  their  goals,  including  the  development  of 
cooperation  with  regional  organizations  and  Member 
States for the resolution of conflicts in various areas of 
the globe. 
the  greater 

commitment  of  Member  States 
the  area  of 
disarmament,  arms  control  and  non-proliferation.  We 
have  recently  witnessed  a  historic  summit  of  the 
Security  Council,  which  voted  to  stop  the  spread  of 
nuclear  arms  and  endorsed  a  broad  framework  of 
action to  reduce global nuclear dangers. The Republic 
of  Moldova  welcomes  the  results  of  the  most  recent 
Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  and  looks 
forward to continued positive trends in the work of the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  and 
the  Preparatory 
Committee for the Review Conference of the Parties to 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons. 

The current global economic and financial crisis, 
one of the most serious since the creation of the United 
Nations,  has  affected  virtually  all  countries,  including 
the  Republic  of  Moldova.  In  2008,  the  previous 
Communist  Government 
the 
existence  of  an  economic  and  financial  crisis;  only 
after its defeat in the elections of 29 July 2009 did its 
representatives begin to raise the alarm. 
the  Alliance  for 

European  Integration,  is  assuming  full  responsibility 
Building  a  safer  world  requires 
The  current  administration, 
in  Chisinau  denied 
in 
09-53165 

23 
At 
the 
the 
ensuring 
A/64/PV.13

for  managing  the  economic  crisis  by  attracting  funds 
from  international  financial  organizations,  securing 
foreign  investment,  providing  jobs,  reviving  the  real 
sector of the economy, ensuring the de-monopolization 
of  production  sectors,  and  liberalizing  exports  and 
imports.  The  liberal  democratic  Government  relies  on 
the  support  of  United  Nations  institutions  and  all 
international  structures  in  promoting  the  rule  of  law, 
safeguarding  fundamental  human rights  and freedoms, 
and 
functionality  of  democratic 
institutions and the freedom of mass media. 

The  Republic  of  Moldova  followed  intently  the 
work  of  the  high-level  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development, held this summer at the United Nations, 
and  welcomed  the  adoption  of  its  Outcome  Document 
(resolution  63/303).  The  Conference  highlighted  once 
again the role of the United Nations and gave a strong 
impetus  to  the  dialogue  on  identifying  solutions  for 
overcoming  the  crisis  and  reforming  the  international 
financial architecture.  

for 
same 
strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s 
coordinating  role  in  formulating  global  economic  and 
social policies and in further promoting active dialogue 
with  the  international  financial  institutions  and  the 
Governments  of  Member  States  in  implementing  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

Nine  years  ago,  in  September  2000,  the  world’s 
leaders committed our countries to a global partnership 
in  fighting  poverty  and  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. Today, in the context of the global 
economic  and  financial  crisis,  considerable  common 
efforts  on  the  part  of  developed  and  developing 
countries alike are needed to achieve our commitments 
by 2015. We welcome the decision to convene a high-
level  meeting  in  2010  dedicated  to  evaluating  the 
Millennium Summit decisions. 

The  General Assembly  has  proclaimed  2009  the 
International  Year 
the 
International  Year  of  Human  Rights  Learning,  and 
21 September as an International Day of Peace. It is in 
this  vein  that  we  would  like  to  reiterate  the  necessity 
for  an increased United Nations role and strengthened 
cooperation  with  regional  organizations,  such  as  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 
in  preventing  and  managing  crisis  and  conflict 
situations;  guaranteeing  respect  for  and  the  promotion 
of  Reconciliation 
time,  Moldova 
stands 
and 
Respecting 
democratization 
the  principle  of 
of  fundamental  human  rights  in  separatist  regions; 
undertaking  more  efficient  international  actions  to 
stabilize  the  situation  in  countries  affected  by  internal 
conflict;  and 
taking  a  complex  approach  under 
international  law  to  mediation  and  conflict  resolution. 
The  intensification  of  international  cooperation  with  a 
view  to  solving  conflicts  and  preventing  the  future 
emergence  or  escalation  of  crisis  situations 
that 
threaten  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
States is of paramount importance  for the Republic of 
Moldova,  which  faces  a  secessionist  movement  in  the 
eastern regions of the country.  

the  peaceful 
resolution  of  conflicts,  we  are  confident  that  the 
demilitarization 
the 
Transdniestrian  region  are  indispensable  to  a  viable 
solution  to  the  Transdniestrian  problem.  The  new 
Liberal  Democratic  Government’s  coalition  will 
undertake  sustainable  efforts  to  identify  a  lasting 
solution  to  the  Transdniestrian  problem  in  the  current 
five  plus  two  format  and  will  consistently  urge  an 
increased United States and European Union (EU) role 
in the resolution process. Concurrently, the Republic of 
Moldova will revive its efforts towards the withdrawal 
of  foreign  troops  from  the  country,  replacing  the 
present  peacekeeping  operation  with  a  multinational 
mission  with  an  international  mandate,  and  achieving 
the  integration  of  the  country  in  all  socio-economic 
segments by encouraging the broad participation of the 
non-governmental sector.  

We  will  consistently  act  in  accordance  with  the 
law on the basic provisions of the Special Legal Status 
of Localities from the Left Bank of the Dniester River, 
adopted  unanimously  by  Parliament  on  22  July  2005. 
Focused  on  the  creation  of  conditions  needed  for 
reconciliation and advancing the resolution process, we 
put forward a series of initiatives in 2007 to strengthen 
trust  and  security  between  the  two  banks  of  the 
free 
Dniester  River, 
movement, 
in 
developing  and  implementing  projects  to  restore  and 
modernize infrastructure, and addressing various social 
issues.  
so-called  Transdniestrian 

authorities  time  and  again  have  undermined  these 
initiatives  by 
taxes, 
impeding  the  elections  process  in  the  villages  situated 
on the left bank of the Dniester River, and confiscating 
school  premises,  gravely  violating  the  right  of  the 
in  particular  by  ensuring 
common  participation 
illegal  customs 
Unfortunately, 
introducing 
instituting 
and 
of 
the 
24 

09-53165 
in  both  States. 


Moldovan  citizens  to  study  in  their  native  language. 
The  implementation  of  democratic  reforms  and  the 
normalization  of  the  economic  and  social  climate  on 
the  right  side  of  the  Dniester  will  accelerate  the 
resolution of the Transdniestrian problem.  

The Republic of Moldova appreciates the activity 
of  the  EU  Border Assistance  Mission  to  Moldova  and 
Ukraine  and  its  close  cooperation  with  the  relevant 
border  management  bodies 
Its 
contribution  to  border  security  and  transparency  has 
created  a  more  constructive  atmosphere  in  which  to 
seek  a  resolution  of  the  Transdniestrian  problem.  The 
Republic  of  Moldova  will  further  direct  its  efforts  to 
resuming negotiations in the existing format in view of 
resolving the Transdniestrian problem. We count on the 
consistent  support  and  political  will  of  all  mediators 
and observers in the resolution of this conflict. 
Ongoing terrorist activities in various parts of the 

world  demonstrate 
continuously 
threatens  the  security,  fundamental  democratic  values, 
human rights and the letter of the law that are the basis 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  This  scourge  can  be 
defeated  only  by  firm,  common  action  by 
the 
international community. In this context, we would like 
to  reaffirm 
the  Republic  of  Moldova  fully 
participates  in  the  global  fight  against  terrorism  by 
implementing  measures  at  the  national  level  and  by 
contributing  to  the  international  community’s  efforts. 
The  new  Government  of  Moldova  will  take  concrete 
action 
in 
accordance  with  international  instruments,  pertinent 
resolutions  of 
the  Security  Council  and  relevant 
national  documents,  such  as  our  national  strategy  for 
preventing  and  combating  money-laundering  and  the 
financing of terrorism.  

In  compliance  with  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy (see resolution 60/288), the 
Republic  of  Moldova  will  further  contribute  to  future 
United  Nations  efforts  at  consolidating  international 
legislation  to  combat  terrorism,  especially  in  view  of 
finalizing 
the  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism and organizing a 
high-level  conference  on 
terrorism  under  United 
Nations  auspices.  We  believe  that  special  attention 
needs to be paid to fighting those aspects of terrorism 
that  are  nourished  by  separatist  tendencies  that  affect 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. 
the  negotiations  of 
in  combating 
international 
terrorism 
that 
terrorism 
that 
A/64/PV.13
to  our  peoples  and 
Climate  change  poses  a  grave  challenge  to  the 

its 
international  community.  Global  warming  and 
including  natural  disasters,  have 
related  effects, 
threats 
to 
become  major 
international  security.  Its  consequences  greatly  affect 
vulnerable States, compromising economic growth and 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. International cooperation is essential to dealing 
with the obvious threat of climate change. We have to 
raise  alarm  concerning  the  urgent  need  to  strengthen 
regional  and  global  cooperation  and  to  enhance  the 
assistance of donor States to developing countries and 
to countries with economies in transition.  

In  recent  years,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  has 
been  confronted  with  considerable  natural  calamities, 
from  acute  droughts  to  severe  floods.  Each  year,  the 
intensity  and  frequency  of  these  phenomena  increase. 
The harm caused to the population, to the agricultural 
and  food  sectors,  as  well  as  to  the  overall  national 
economy is huge. In this respect, the implementation of 
the  United  Nations  Conventions  addressing  climate 
change  and  desertification  and  the  development  of  an 
international  strategy  for  disaster  reduction  are  of 
increasing  urgency  for  countries  severely  affected  by 
droughts and desertification.  

the 
importance of environmental protection to ensuring the 
sustainable development of the country, as well as the 
need  for  this  issue  to  inform  all  national  policies.  In 
this  connection,  we  welcome  the  outcome  of  last 
week’s  Summit  on  Climate  Change  and  strongly 
support the continuation of negotiations. We hope that 
we  will  conclude 
forthcoming  Copenhagen 
Conference  with  a  new  far-reaching  document.  We 
praise the Secretary-General’s efforts in mobilizing the 
political  will  needed  for  the  adoption  of  a  new, 
equitable and ambitious agreement.  

The  Republic  of  Moldova  strongly  supports  the 
activity  of  the  High-Level  Task  Force  on  the  Global 
Food  Security  Crisis  set  up  and  led  by  the  Secretary-
General. The  efficient  collaboration  between  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations, 
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  other  relevant 
United  Nations  structures,  aimed  at  mobilizing  new 
funds in order to overcome the global food crisis, will 
significantly  contribute 
the  achievement  of  a 
comprehensive  action  plan  on  food  security.  We 
support  the  convening  of  the  World  Summit  on  Food 
Security in Rome in November this year.  
The  Republic  of  Moldova 
recognizes 
the 
to 
09-53165 

25 
A/64/PV.13


The  Republic  of  Moldova  is  firm  in  its  path 
towards  European  integration  and  committed  to  the 
universal  values  of  peace,  democracy,  respect  for 
human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  economic  freedom. 
European  integration  constitutes  the  major  strategic 
goal  of  Moldova’s  foreign  and  internal  policies.  We 
welcome  positive  developments  in  our  relations  with 
the  European  Union  and  their  progress  over  the  past 
few years, particularly after the victory of the Alliance 
for European Integration in the parliamentary elections 
held on 29 July 2009.  

The new Government will firmly pursue the goal 
of rehabilitating the image of the Republic of Moldova 
in the international arena and will negotiate in the near 
future a new association agreement with the European 
Union.  The  leaders  of  the  Alliance  for  European 
Integration are firmly committed to an efficient reform 
of  the  socio-economic  system  in  the  Republic  of 
Moldova,  without  which  the  advancement  of  the 
country  towards  progress  and  prosperity  is  hardly 
possible. Those commitments represent eloquent proof 
of the positive evolution of the political situation in the 
Republic  of  Moldova  after  the  recent  parliamentary 
elections. The democratic process has been resumed.  
the 

the 
responsibility 
recommendations 
the  European 
Parliament  and  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the 
Council of Europe with regard to the events of 7 April. 
Those  recommendations  call  for  Moldova  to  improve 
its  electoral  legislation  and  to  initiate  the  process  of 
direct  application  of  EU 
this 
perspective, we count on the support and opportunities 
offered by the United Nations and its Member States to 
promote  Moldova’s  political  and  social  economic 
objectives,  its  aspirations  to  European  integration,  the 
resolution  of  the  Transdniestrian  problem  and  the 
withdrawal of foreign troops. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  confirm  the 
adherence of the Republic of Moldova to the ideals of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  will  to  further  cooperate 
through  concrete  action  with  a  view  to  accomplishing 
the  commitments  assumed.  While  respecting 
the 
diversity  of  views,  cultures  and  religions  of  everyone, 
we  must  also  be  united  in  reaching  for  a  common 
goal —  protecting  humanity  and  preserving  human 
dignity as a foremost universal value. 
complying  with 
legislation.  From 
new  Parliament 
formulated 
by 
has 
accepted 
all 
The 
of 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Anastassis  Mitsialis,  chairman  of 
the delegation of the Hellenic Republic. 
Mr.  Mitsialis  (Greece):  On  behalf  of  Her 

Excellency  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Hellenic  Republic,  Ms.  Dora  Bakoyannis,  who 
unfortunately could not be in New York today, I would 
like to address the General Assembly. 

Allow  me  first  to  congratulate  the  President  of 
this  body,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki.  I  am  confident 
that  his  extensive  prior  experience  will  serve  us  well 
and guide us through the trials that we are called upon 
to  address.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to 
Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann for his tireless efforts 
to  promote  the  work  of  the  General Assembly  during 
its sixty-third session. 

I cannot but take pride in addressing the General 
Assembly of the most important ecumenical institution 
humankind has ever created, the original idea of which 
was initially conceived and put into practice by Greeks 
25 centuries ago. The ancient Greek Amphictyony was 
the  concept  of 
the  precursor  and  matrix  of 
multilateralism,  which 
to  deal 
effectively  with  the  many  and  varied  challenges  faced 
by the international community. The United Nations is 
in  fact,  along  with  the  various  regional  alliances  and 
organizations,  the  essential  framework  for  joining 
forces and collectively confronting our common threats 
and promoting our common values. 

Greece currently has the privilege of being at the 
helm  of  one  of  the  most  important  regional  security 
the  Organization  for  Security  and 
organizations, 
Cooperation 
in  Europe 
(OSCE).  The  OSCE’s 
consensus-based  decision-making  process,  along  with 
its  comprehensive  approach  to  security,  is  a  testament 
to the power of multilateralism. Greece has pledged to 
be  an  honest  broker  and  to  work  with  every  single 
participating  State  to  realize  the  common  vision  for 
peace, security and development for all 56 members of 
the  organization.  The  Corfu  Process,  our  common 
promise  to  turn  the  page  on  European  security  within 
the  framework  of  a  structured  all-inclusive  dialogue, 
proves  once  more  that  where  there  is  a  will  there  is  a 
way. 

the  United 
Nations  is  important,  but  it  is  not  enough.  What  is 
needed  first  and  foremost  is  the  political  will  to  turn 
words into deeds. We stand at  a most  critical juncture 
Indeed,  our  annual  gathering  at 
the  only  way 
is 
26 

09-53165 
responsibilities  and 


for our environmental, social and economic future, and 
all  of  us  —  policy-makers,  diplomats,  scientists, 
activists  and  concerned  citizens  alike  —  have  a 
responsibility to preserve the habitability of our planet 
and  hand  over  to  our  children  a  better  world  than  the 
one bequeathed to us. 

It was Aristotle who said that nature acts as if she 
foresees the future, and currently nature’s auguries are 
not encouraging at all. We cannot afford to forget that 
our  planet  is  in  a  state  of  environmental  emergency. 
Scientific  evidence  on  the  issue  is  compelling.  The 
socio-economic impact of climate change on the global 
economy,  if  left  unchecked,  is  likely  to  dwarf  the 
current economic recession.  

Now  is  the  time  to  speed  up  our  joint  efforts  to 
effectively  address  the  negative  impact  of  climate 
change,  while  respecting  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated 
respective 
capabilities  of  each  country.  Copenhagen  will  be  the 
litmus  test  of  our  commitment  to  an  ambitious,  all-
inclusive climate change agreement. 

The urgency of the situation is such that, if I may 
paraphrase  the  man  who  first  set  foot  on  the  moon, 
even if man now takes a giant leap in trying to mitigate 
the 
it  will 
unfortunately  still  only  be  a  small  step  for  mankind. 
But small steps are important too. Greece continues to 
strongly  support  the  financing  of  climate  change 
adaptation  and  mitigation  projects  and  of  low-carbon 
development strategies. We have repeatedly proven our 
commitment  to  this  effect  by  supporting  the  most 
vulnerable  countries’  adaptation  to  climate  change 
through  the  provision  of  a  total  sum  of  €21  million 
through the end of 2011. 
The challenges posed to all nations by the current 

economic  crisis  require  an  ambitious  and  imaginative 
range  of  responses  that  provide  effective  and  lasting 
solutions. The  United  Nations  can  play  a  vital  role  in 
achieving  these  objectives.  Our  commitment  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  needs  to  be 
the  world  economy  and 
reaffirmed.  Regenerating 
promoting 
pro-growth 
are 
fundamental  to  solving  the  crisis  and  essential  to 
maintaining  and 
the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs.  Support  for  the  most 
vulnerable nations, which have been even more deeply 
affected  by  food  insecurity  and  climate  change,  is 
where a special effort must be made. 
improving  progress 
consequences  of 
sustainable 
towards 
policies 
the 
climate 
change, 
A/64/PV.13

Our  action  against  hunger  and  want  has  not  yet 
produced  the  desired  results,  while  humanitarian  and 
development aid needs to be streamlined in order to be 
more  effective  and  productive.  Synergetic  multilateral 
action  is  urgently  needed.  People  living  on  the  edge 
have  run  out  of  time. They  need  to  know  whether  the 
decisions of their leaders at the Pittsburgh summit are 
the right decisions that will put us back on the road to 
development. 

We know that climate change, the economic crisis 
and the North-South divide are exacerbating pressures 
on  people  to  migrate.  These  crises  are  creating  living 
conditions  that  contribute  to  one  of  the  greatest 
disgraces of humanity and one of the greatest insults to 
human  dignity  —  the  modern  slave  trade  or  human 
trafficking.  

Some  192  million  people  have  been  forced  from 
the  lands  of  their  birth. Almost  a  million  people  have 
been  arrested  since  2000  while  trying  to  cross  from 
Turkey  to  Greece  in  their  quest  for  a  better  life.  This 
modern form of the slave trade has claimed thousands 
of lives. We owe it to them and to the people who have 
lost their lives to change things, to fight traffickers and 
work  together  to  discourage  illegal  migration  by 
bringing development and giving a vision to countries 
that migrants leave.  

Athens will host the Global Forum on Migration 
and Development from 2 to 5 November 2009. We seek 
specific proposals for actions and policies and we want 
to  formulate  best  practices  for  adoption  by 
the 
participating States. 
Terrorism  continues  to  pose  a  serious  threat  to 

security.  The 
international  peace, 
international  commitment 
terrorism 
must  remain  strong,  and  our  efforts  to  successfully 
address this challenge should be intensified. But if our 
efforts  are  to  be  successful  and  self-sustaining,  they 
must  garner  the  broadest  possible  consensus  and 
acceptance and be based on respect for the fundamental 
principles  of 
international 
humanitarian  law  and  on  full  respect  for  and  the 
protection of human rights. 
This  brings  me  to  an  issue  that  has  come  to  the 

forefront  of  international  attention  and  concern  —  the 
issue of human rights. Respect for human rights is one 
of  the  cornerstones  of  the  contemporary  legal  order. 
Human rights conventions and institutions have raised 
the  awareness  and  sensitivity  of  States,  Governments, 
to  confronting 
stability  and 
international 
law  and 
09-53165 

27 
society, 
organizations 
and 
A/64/PV.13

civil 
international 
non-governmental organizations. 

Greece has submitted its candidacy for a seat on 
the  United  Nations  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
period 2012-2015, as it wishes to play a proactive role 
in  the  protection  of  human  rights. We  believe  that  the 
Council can play a crucial role in the improvement of 
the  situation  of  human  rights  worldwide.  That  role 
should  not  be  restricted  to  pointing  out  the  violators, 
but  should  mainly  help  overcome  shortfalls  and 
implement universal standards. 

Interest in the protection of human rights must be 
genuine  and  anthropocentric,  and  protection  must  be 
carried  out  in  full  compliance  with  the  fundamental 
principles  of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.  

We should award a special place to gender issues 
in  the  system  of  human  rights  protection.  Women’s 
rights  deserve  all  our  attention,  because  they  continue 
to  be  violated  systematically  and  flagrantly  in  many 
corners  of  the  world.  Education  and  equal  working 
opportunities are key areas. 

As  I  said  earlier,  Greece  approached  its  current 
term in office as OSCE Chair with a heightened sense 
of  responsibility  and  sensitivity,  based  on  the  belief 
that  security  and  stability  are  not  and  should  not  be  a 
zero-sum  game.  In 
the  post-cold-war  era,  where 
security  challenges  are  multifaceted  and  interlinked, 
the  security  needs  of  all  States  should  be  given  due 
consideration despite contradictory and often mutually 
exclusive political perceptions of what is right and just. 

to  build 
consensus  and  achieve  collective  and  comprehensive 
solutions 
to  deep-rooted  and  protracted  conflicts, 
convinced  that  enhancing  the  security  of  one  will 
undoubtedly  enhance  the  security  of  all.  Our  efforts 
have been based on mutual trust and confidence and on 
the  realization  that  security  is  both  indivisible  and 
comprehensive. In some cases however, as in Georgia, 
consensus has been elusive. 

Our  most  important  collective  achievement  has 
been  the  launching  of  the  Corfu  Process,  a  profound 
and  open  debate  on  the  future  of  security  in  Europe. 
The  Corfu  Process  marks  a  pan-European  effort  to 
revisit  and  redefine  the  broader  European  security 
system.  At 
in 
Since  January,  our  aim  has  been 
the  Athens  Ministerial  Meeting 
28 

December, we aim to lay a solid foundation, so that our 
dialogue will start producing tangible results. 

A  few  days  ago  the  Security  Council  adopted 
resolution  1887  (2009),  thus  taking  an  important  step 
in the direction of advancing nuclear disarmament and 
non-proliferation. We  applaud that important decision. 
Yet, practical tools are essential for the achievement of 
high-minded political goals such as this. Greece firmly 
believes  that  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  remains  the  cornerstone  of  the 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  Broad  participation 
in  it,  along  with  the  conclusion  of  comprehensive 
safeguards  agreements  and  the  implementation  of  the 
additional  protocol,  is,  beyond  any  doubt,  the  most 
effective answer to threats of nuclear proliferation. It is 
equally important to have additional ratifications of the 
Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and the early drafting 
of a fissile material cut-off treaty. 

As  regards  major 
international  and  regional 
issues,  conflicts  and 
flashpoints,  Greece 
fully 
subscribes  to  the  European  Union  (EU)  policy  and 
action,  as  described  by  its  presidency. The  role  of  the 
EU in the handling of a number of urgent and difficult 
situations, such as piracy in Somalia, has proved to be 
vital, successful and effective. 

The broader region of South-Eastern Europe and 
the Eastern Mediterranean is at the forefront of Greek 
foreign  policy.  It  is  a  vital  region  from  a  geopolitical 
and geo-strategic perspective, but also one of the most 
volatile  areas  of  the  world.  Our  vision  for  the  region 
incorporates the consolidation of security, stability and 
development. Our aim is to work with all neighbouring 
States  in  the  region  to  promote  stability,  democracy 
and  robust  economies,  with  the  ultimate  goal  of 
elevating  the  quality  of  life  of  the  citizens  to  the 
highest European standards. This vision is founded on 
four  pillars:  first,  the  establishment  and  safeguarding 
of  good  neighbourly  relations;  secondly,  the  full 
integration of all the countries of South-Eastern Europe 
into European and Euro-Atlantic structures; thirdly, the 
enhancement  and 
regional 
cooperation  in  the  fields  of  infrastructure,  economy 
and  trade;  and,  last  but  not  least,  the  strengthening  of 
bonds  and  cultural  interaction  at  the  level  of  civil 
societies.  We  are  doing  everything  in  our  power  to 
materialize this vision. 

We  continue  to  build  upon  the  agenda  of  the 
Thessaloniki European Council of 2003, which laid the 
further  deepening  of 
09-53165 
infrastructure  projects,  and  by 


foundations  for  the  integration  of  the  Western  Balkan 
countries into the European Union, on the condition, of 
course, that the accession criteria and requirements are 
fully  met.  The  prospect  of  a  future  within  Europe  for 
almost all the Western Balkan countries is now within 
reach and seems more feasible than ever. 
At  the  same  time,  Greece  is  promoting  regional 

in 
cooperation  by  financing  of  and  participating 
significant 
joining 
forces with other neighbouring countries to establish a 
reliable and adequate energy-distribution network. It is 
one of the top investment and trade partners in most of 
the  neighbouring  countries,  thus  contributing  to  the 
development of the entire area. 

Above  all,  we  are  working  hard  to  establish  and 
consolidate good neighbourly relations by pursuing and 
promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  on  the 
basis  of  international  law.  However,  long-standing 
disputes  persist.  For  the  past  15  years  Greece  has 
participated  in  United  Nations-led  negotiations  on  the 
issue of the name of the  former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia.  Greece  has  participated  in  good  faith. 
Regrettably,  no  substantive  or  tangible  progress  has 
been made so far, despite the fact that Greece has taken 
a  huge  step  towards  a  compromise. We  have  accepted 
the  use  of 
the  term  “Macedonia”  along  with  a 
geographical qualifier that reflects reality. Of the large 
geographical  region  of  Macedonia,  only  a  part  falls 
within  our  neighbour’s  territory.  So  how  can  this 
country  claim  exclusive  rights  to  the  name?  The 
persistence  of  the  leadership  in  Skopje  in  claiming 
exclusive  rights  to  the  name  by  denying  a  geographic 
qualifier  and  the  anachronistic  rhetoric  and  policies 
that  run  contrary  to  the  principle  of  good  neighbourly 
relations 
that 
Government’s real motives. Greece is negotiating for a 
solution that will respect the dignity of both countries 
and  both  peoples.  We  are  negotiating  for  a  clear 
solution to which both sides will agree and which our 
neighbour  will  use  with  pride  in  its  dealings  with 
everyone  —  a  solution  that  will  make  everyone  a 
winner. 

The  Cyprus  issue  is  still  an  open  wound  at  the 
very heart of Europe. Thanks to the efforts of President 
Christofias, a new round of talks has started under the 
auspices of the United Nations. This gives rise to hope, 
but there is still a long way to go, and there are many 
hurdles and difficulties to overcome. Greece supports a 
definitive,  sustainable  and  just  solution,  based  on  the 
questions 
as 
to 
raise 
serious 
09-53165 

A/64/PV.13
United  Nations 
resolutions  and  compatible  with 
European  Union  values,  principles  and  institutional 
framework, one that will lead to the reunification of the 
island.  We  strongly  believe  that  the  two  communities 
should  be  left  alone,  with  no  external  pressures, 
guidance  or  interventions,  to  decide  on  their  common 
future.  The  solution  must  be  theirs  and  theirs  alone. 
Artificial deadlines, strict time frames and threats of a 
permanent  division  have  no  role  in  the  quest  for  a 
durable  solution.  They  add  unnecessary  pressure  and 
strain  to  the  delicate  negotiating  process  and  raise 
questions about the true intentions of those promoting 
them. 

The  current  situation  in  Cyprus  is  unacceptable. 
Turkish  military  forces  continue  to  occupy  part  of  the 
territory of a European Union member State. Turkey — 
a European Union candidate — refuses to recognize a 
fully  fledged  European  Union  member  and  future 
partner.  Once-vibrant  cities  like  Famagusta  remain 
ghost towns. The families of missing persons continue 
to  wonder  about  their  loved  ones’  fates,  while  the 
unspeakable  atrocities  of  the  past  come  to  light,  little 
by little. This picture is unimaginable in the eyes of the 
average European citizen and completely incompatible 
with today’s European reality. We hope that the Cypriot 
people — both Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots — 
will be able to leave behind the painful past and look, 
reunited,  to  the  future  that  awaits  them  within  the 
European  family,  which  constitutes  the  best  guarantee 
for  their  security  and  prosperity.  Turkey,  which  holds 
the key to the solution of the Cyprus issue, knows full 
well that such a solution  would also speed up its own 
journey to the European Union. 

Greece is probably the most sincere supporter of 
Turkey’ s accession to the European Union — and this 
is true even at a difficult time. It is our conviction that 
Turkey  would  be  a  better  neighbour  for  Greece  if  it 
carried  out  all  necessary  reforms  and  became  a 
European  Union  member  State.  Turkish  membership 
would contribute to stability in our region. Yet, this is 
not a blank check, nor is it a leap of faith. In order to 
become a member of the European Union, Turkey will 
have to fulfil all the criteria set by the European Union. 

The  Government  I  represent  has  invested  in 
Greek-Turkish  rapprochement.  Kostas  Karamanlis  is 
the first Greek Prime Minister to have paid an official 
visit to Ankara in 40 years. We dared to turn the page. 
We went beyond words, but we have not seen an active 
response  from  the  other  side.  Turkey  declares  that  it 
29 
A/64/PV.13

wants  zero  problems  with  its  neighbours. Yet, Turkish 
fighter  jets  kept  flying  only  a  few  metres  above  the 
rooftops  of  Greek  islanders’  homes  throughout  the 
summer. The Turkish  Parliament  maintains  a  threat  of 
war against my country. 

Disputes  should  be  settled  peacefully  and  in 
accordance with international law. The United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  embodies 
customary  law,  shows  the  way  to  settle  maritime 
boundary disputes peacefully. Greece would welcome a 
decision by Turkey to follow the example of the other 
160  Members  of  the  United  Nations  that  have  ratified 
the  Convention.  Such  a  move,  along  with  clear 
political  will  on  the Turkish  side  to  invest  in  friendly 
relations with Greece, could strike a definitive blow to 
the tensions and mistrust in our bilateral relations and 
contribute  to  the  promotion  of  peace  and  stability  in 
our entire region. 

Aristotle  proposed  that  it  is  possible  to  fail  in 
many  ways,  while  to  succeed  is  possible  in  only  one 
way. It is our conviction that this one way is effective 
multilateralism led by the United Nations. We need the 
leadership of the United Nations, if we are to carry out 
our ultimate mission — safeguarding the dignity, lives 
and freedoms of the citizens we represent. We need to 
give  the  Secretary-General  the  tools  to  guide  this 
Organization,  so  that  the  United  Nations  can  once 
again  take  up  its  central  role  in  international  life  and 
meet the myriad challenges facing  humanity. We  have 
to  identify  the  weaknesses  of  the  United  Nations  and 
we  must  have  the  courage  to  redress  them,  using 
common  sense,  just  as  we  would  do  at  home,  in  our 
countries,  because every failure of the  United Nations 
is a personal failure for each and every one of us, and 
because the world is changing, and we have to change 
with it. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Carsten  Staur,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of the Kingdom of Denmark.  
Mr.  Staur  (Denmark):  At  this  moment  in  time, 

major  economic  and  environmental  challenges  are 
giving rise to increasing global concerns and impacting 
people  all  over  this  planet.  To  meet  those  challenges 
effectively,  we  need,  more  than  ever,  a  dynamic  and 
proactive  multilateral  system.  We  need  the  United 
Nations to provide global answers to global challenges. 

In  less  than  three  months,  we  will  meet  again  in 
Copenhagen  to  seal  the  deal  on  climate  change.  The 
effects of climate change are increasingly felt all over 
the  world,  not  least  in  developing  countries,  and  the 
whole world is looking to us for answers. And answers 
we  must  provide  —  new  directions  for  the  future, 
transformational  changes  in  the  way  we  do  business 
and  a  new  paradigm  for  growth  and  development.  In 
this  respect,  I  do  welcome  the  leadership  of  the 
Secretary-General  as  demonstrated  by  his  call  for  a 
Summit on Climate Change a few days ago and by his 
concluding remarks on that occasion. 

The  message  is  clear:  we  must  act  now  to  avoid 
potentially  disastrous  changes  in  the  global  climate. 
The focus in Copenhagen three months from now will 
be  on  three  deliverables.  First,  we  must  agree  on  a 
common  goal  for  a  significant  reduction  in  global 
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and we must set clear 
targets for both medium and longer term. Secondly, we 
must  agree  on  a  pathway  towards  achieving  these 
targets. And, thirdly, we must set in motion the policies 
and measures to sustain our efforts on that pathway. 
Reducing  CO2  emissions  is  a  challenge  for 

industrialized  countries,  emerging  economies  and 
developing  countries  alike.  There  is  no  contradiction 
between  economic  growth  and  ambitious  policies  to 
address  climate  change.  Pursuing  a  green  economy  is 
possible,  as  shown  by  the  example  of,  among  others, 
my  own  country.  And,  in  this  context,  it  is  also 
important to keep in mind the security risks emanating 
from  climate  change  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  I 
welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  recent  report  on  this 
issue entitled “Climate change and its possible security 
implications”  (A/64/350),  and  look  forward  to  further 
deliberations on this topic. 

The  ongoing  financial  and  economic  crisis  is 
reversing  hard-won  progress  in  developing  countries 
striving to achieve the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). The  international  community  must  assist  the 
poorest of those countries in mitigating the immediate 
effects  of  the  crisis,  while  at  the  same  time  ensuring 
that we do not lose sight of the longer-term challenges 
in  relation  to  the  MDGs  and  the  climate  change 
agenda.  There  is  an  imminent  risk  that  the  economic 
crisis will lead to the overall stagnation — or even the 
reduction — of official development assistance. That is 
a  challenge  we  must  counter  and  overcome,  and  it  is 
more crucial than ever that all donors speed up delivery 
on their aid commitments. 
30 

09-53165 
African  countries, 
in  particular,  are 



facing 
significant  obstacles  in  their  efforts  to  achieve  the 
MDGs.  As  recommended  by  the  Africa  Commission 
and the MDG3 Global Call to Action, both initiated by 
the  Government  of  Denmark,  there  is  a  need  to  focus 
strongly  on  employment  for  young  people,  economic 
empowerment  of  women  and  private  sector-led 
economic growth. Renewed focus on those policy areas 
will  also  be  essential  in  coping  with  the  economic 
crisis and its impact on the continent. 

As  we  embark  on  the  final  stage  towards  2015, 
the  upcoming  2010  MDG  Summit  gives  us  an 
important  opportunity  to  identify  means  to  speed  up 
achievement  of the MDGs. Denmark looks forward to 
this  occasion  and  is  ready  to  engage  actively  in  the 
process. 

In an increasingly globalized and dynamic world, 
where the problems we face tend to become ever more 
complex and intertwined, it is important to treasure and 
uphold  the  principles  and  the  objectives  enshrined  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations:  to  promote  and 
encourage  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  for  all;  to  establish  conditions  under  which 
justice and respect for international obligations can be 
maintained;  and  to  promote  social  progress  and  better 
standards of living. 

States  must  protect  their  own  populations,  and 
States must be accountable to the global community. In 
that  context,  I  welcome  the  recent  debate  held  in  this 
Hall  on  the  responsibility  to  protect,  which  showed 
overwhelming  support  for  the  concept  on  the  part  of 
Member  States.  It  bodes  well  for  our  continued 
deliberations on that issue. 

I  should  also  like  to  use  this  opportunity  to 
encourage  all  United  Nations  Members  that  have  not 
yet  done  so 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  There  should  be  no 
impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
international crimes. 

Among the most serious present dangers to peace 
and  security  is  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction and their means of delivery. The upcoming 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  is  of  utmost 
importance.  The  meeting  of  the  Security  Council  on 
24 September,  headed  by  President  Obama 
(see 
S/PV.6191), provided ample evidence. We welcome the 
negotiations  between  the  United  States  and  Russia  on 
to  become  States  parties 
to 
A/64/PV.13
reductions  to  follow  up  on  the  Treaty  on  Strategic 
Offensive  Arms,  and  we  welcome  President  Obama’s 
commitment  to  the  ratification  of  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  both  of  which  will  have  a 
positive impact on the NPT Review Conference. 

I  should  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  call  on 
Iran and the Democratic People’ s Republic of Korea to 
comply  with  their  obligations  to  suspend  enrichment 
activities  and  to  start  negotiations  on  transparent 
civilian  nuclear  programmes,  as  set  forth  in  Security 
Council resolutions. 

The election in Afghanistan was far from perfect. 
We need to engage with the new Government to create 
the crucial legitimacy between the Afghan Government 
and the Afghan people. The new Afghan compact to be 
built  is  that  between  the  Government  and  the  people, 
and our role should be to strengthen that compact and 
hold the Government accountable. In terms of the role 
of  the  international  community,  we  need  to  be  better 
coordinated  and  more  effective  in  our  support  for 
building  the  capacity  of  the  Afghan  Government.  In 
this  the  United  Nations  and  the  United  Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan play a crucial role. 

international 
community  and  the  Friends  of  Democratic  Pakistan 
must  seize  the  opportunity  to  support  the  democratic 
Government  in  fighting  poverty  and  extremism.  We 
must  help  Pakistan  build  a  stable,  democratic  and 
prosperous  State.  This  would  be  a  significant 
contribution to peace and development in South Asia. I 
warmly welcome the efforts of the Government to fight 
terrorism,  while,  at  the  same  time,  it  tries  to  alleviate 
the  hardship  experienced  by  Pakistan’s 
internally 
displaced persons (IDPs).  It is  a positive development 
that so many IDPs have returned. Now, a full and fast 
implementation of the Malakand development strategy 
is important. 

The  deadlock  in  the  Middle  East  peace  process 
and  the  high  level  of  regional  tensions  demand  new 
international  efforts  to  promote  stability  and  peace  in 
the  region.  We  are  encouraged  to  see  the  enhanced 
American engagement in the Middle East, and we urge 
all  in  the  region  and  all  parties  to  the  Middle  East 
conflict  to  honour  the  Road  Map  commitments,  move 
speedily  ahead  and,  once  and  for  all,  settle  their 
differences 
international 
agreements and the Arab Peace Initiative. Furthermore, 
Denmark is in favour of expanding the mandate of the 
In  neighbouring  Pakistan, 
in  accordance  with 
the 
the 
09-53165 

31 
A/64/PV.13

Quartet  to  include  a  regional  dimension.  Also,  the 
Syrian  and  Lebanese  peace  tracks  should  feature 
permanently on the agenda of the Quartet. 

Pirates  operating  in  the  Indian  Ocean  and  the 
Gulf  of  Aden  off  the  coast  of  Somalia  are  a  security 
challenge  that  poses  new  legal  challenges.  Denmark 
has  taken  the  lead  in  the  international  community’s 
work  to  identify  practical  and  legal  solutions  so  as  to 
ensure 
the  prosecution  of  suspected  pirates.  We 
welcome  the  increasingly  active  involvement  of  the 
United Nations in that issue. 

In that respect, we have to remember that what is 
taking  place  on  the  open  sea  is  closely  linked  to  the 
situation  on  the  ground  in  Somalia.  Bringing  security 
and  stability  to  the  Somalis  is  of  the  highest  priority, 
and Denmark supports the efforts of the United Nations 
and the African Union, and the Djibouti process. 

The United Nations itself must be able to change 
in  order  to  effectively  meet  and  deliver  on  all  those 
new challenges. It is important to keep  up momentum 
in the intergovernmental negotiations on reform of the 
Security Council in order to adapt that key body to the 
world  of  today.  The  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
commitments continue to play a decisive role in global 
peace  and  security,  with  now  more  than  100,000 
peacekeepers deployed in nearly 20 missions globally. 
However,  the  immense  growth  and  the  demand  for 
strengthening  the  capacity  to  manage  and  to  sustain 
those peacekeeping operations have revealed shortfalls 
pertaining  to  the  decision-making  processes  and  the 
engagements  themselves.  Denmark,  therefore,  warmly 
supports recent initiatives that would enable us to meet 
the  growing  demands  with  a  system  in  place  that  is 
more 
and  more 
accountable. 

Security is a precondition to programme delivery. 
Some  degree  of  risk  cannot  be  avoided,  but  the 
therefore, 
challenge 
supports 
security 
assessments and procedures. However, the situation in 
a  country  after  the  end  of  a  conflict  is  also  often 
extremely  volatile.  There  is  a  need  to  ensure  quick, 
effective  and  efficient 
in  post-conflict 
situations and to strengthen peacebuilding efforts. The 
United Nations is uniquely suited to lead those efforts, 
and we welcome the strong emphasis on that issue and 
look  forward  to  the  review  of  the  peacebuilding 
architecture next year. 
it.  Denmark, 
continuing  overhaul  of 
effective,  more 
to  mitigate 
transparent 
support 
is 
the 
entities, 
funds 
of 
in 
the 
therefore, 
harmonization 
All  United  Nations 
responsibility  and  an  opportunity 

The  work  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of 
gender,  women’  s  rights  and  development  has  for  too 
long  been  fragmented  and  underfunded.  In  that  light, 
the  recent  decision  by  the  General  Assembly  in 
resolution 63/311 to create a new gender entity within 
the  United  Nations  is  of  great  significance.  We  will 
support the Secretary-General in every possible way in 
his efforts to ensure the swift establishment of such an 
entity.  The  rapid  creation  of  a  new  gender  entity  will 
represent  a  milestone 
important  work  of 
reforming the United Nations system. 

and 
programmes  and  the  Secretariat  need  to  act  more 
coherently.  On 
the  operational  side,  we  strongly 
support  the  “delivering  as  one”  initiative  which  seeks 
to  base  the  various  parts  of  the  system  on  a  common 
understanding  of  needs  and  priorities  and  with  full 
country  ownership  of  the  joint  programme.  It  is  a 
collective 
to 
comprehensively  pursue  that  agenda.  More  effective 
and  efficient  ways  of  working  system-wide  are 
important; 
the 
Organization’ s business practices must  be accelerated 
across the system. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


Multilateral  cooperation  is  the  best  means  of 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  and  of 
responding to the challenges, risks and opportunities in 
an 
and  globalized  world.  This 
Organization  holds  great  legitimacy  and  moral  force, 
and  we  encourage  the  United  Nations  —  Member 
States, 
the 
Secretariat — to seize the moment and take the lead in 
addressing  the  new  global  challenges.  An  ambitious 
and  successful  outcome  to  the  upcoming  fifteenth 
session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Copenhagen  in  December  would  be  a  significant  step 
in that direction. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Ronald Jean Jumeau, chairman of the delegation of 
the Republic of Seychelles. 
Mr. Jumeau (Seychelles): On behalf of President 

James  Michel  of  Seychelles,  leader  of  one  of  the 
smallest  nations  of  this Assembly,  I  congratulate  you, 
Sir,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. 
the  entire  organizational  system  and 
interdependent 
32 

09-53165 
As 
In  Seychelles,  our 
into  a  Standby  Arrangement  with 



With  a  population  of  just  over  85,000,  we  are 
painfully  aware  of  our  vulnerability  as  a  nation  at  the 
mercy  of  the  ebb  and  flow  of  global  tides.  Our 
vulnerability  is  all  the  more  acute  in  this  age  marked 
by  economic  and  other  crises  and  the  increasingly 
destructive  effects  of  climate  change.  However, 
precisely because of that, our citizens are aware of our 
responsibility  as  a  nation  within  the  community  of 
nations.  We  are  aware  that  the  solutions  to  our 
problems do not lie solely within our borders. 
an  assembly  of  nations,  we  must  take  into  account 
more than ever the responsibility that we have and that 
we share. That is our responsibility to our peoples and 
to humanity as a whole.  

The international community has not shirked that 
responsibility  in  the  face  of  the  world  financial  crisis, 
for  example,  as  every  nation  has  had  to  react  in  one 
way  or 
inherent 
vulnerabilities  and  economic  imbalances,  which  had 
accumulated over time, meant that we had to act earlier 
than  many  other  States  to  face  up  to  the  crisis.  We 
entered 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  and  are  also 
discussing debt rescheduling through the Paris Club. 

for  every 
Seychellois,  but  we  are  seeing  the  results,  and  our 
nation is emerging stronger and more resilient. We still 
have a long way to go, but we, and our multilateral and 
bilateral  partners,  have  all  been  surprised  at  how 
quickly we have emerged and managed to improve our 
economic  situation.  The  process  has  also  marked  a 
milestone  in  the  relationship  between  multilateral 
financial  institutions  and  a  small  island  developing 
State.  It  has  proved  to  us  that,  although  the  voices  of 
the  smaller  States  are  often  drowned  in  the  tumult  of 
the  international  arena,  the  instruments  of  the  global 
economy can be adapted to meet the needs of a smaller 
partner. 
Our  specificities  and  vulnerabilities  have  been 

the  discussions  with  our 
recognized 
multilateral  and  bilateral  partners.  Seychelles  would 
like  to  salute  the  role  played  by  the  IMF,  the  World 
Bank  and  the  African  Development  Bank  in  that 
process. We would also like to express our appreciation 
to  our  bilateral  partners  and  other  organizations  that 
have supported us in one way or another in facing up to 
the  crisis.  It  is  an  example  of  a  responsibility  shared. 
Through  shared 
responsibility,  a  crisis  can  be 
The  process  has  been  difficult 
another. 
throughout 
A/64/PV.13
shared 
responsibility,  what 
contained.  Through 
appeared to be impossible has become achievable. 

It is our duty in this Assembly to use the principle 
of shared responsibility in solving our global problems, 
especially in offering solidarity and assistance to those 
States  in  need  of  outside  support.  We  have  all  heard 
how  the  unrest  in  Somalia  has  spilled  beyond  its 
borders  to  manifest  itself  as  piracy  on  the  high  seas. 
Seychelles  is  one  of  the  States  directly  affected  and 
heavily  impacted  by  that  scourge,  as  pirates  prey  on 
shipping  and  lay  siege  to  the  yachting,  tourism  and 
fishing industries of the Western Indian Ocean. 

The  long-term  effects  are  much  broader:  as 
insurance  premiums  for  shipping  increase,  the  cost  of 
transporting  essential  goods  rises  correspondingly. 
Also,  we  have  often  seen  that  economic  desperation, 
coupled with long-term political instability, can lead to 
a breeding ground for terrorism. 
Seychelles  is  pleased  to  note  the  increasing 

engagement of many States in the fight  against piracy 
in  the  Indian  Ocean.  We  share  the  responsibility  to 
ensure peace and stability in the region; as always, this 
is the prerequisite for progress. We must take action in 
three  areas  to  effectively  tackle  the  piracy  situation. 
The root cause of the problem lies within Somalia. The 
long-term  solution  lies  in  establishing  peace,  stability, 
progress  and  the  rule  of  law  within  Somalia. Through 
enhanced coordination and the sharing of information, 
we must ensure that piracy is not economically viable. 
We  must  share  information  to  ensure  that,  by  keeping 
vessels beyond their reach, we are always ahead of the 
pirates. 

We must ensure that there is enough deterrence in 
terms of military assets in the region. Seychelles alone 
has  an  exclusive  economic  zone  of  1.4  million  square 
kilometres  to  patrol  and  protect,  which  we  would  not 
be  able  to  do  effectively  without  the  help  of  friendly 
countries. 
is  our  shared  responsibility  more 

needed  than  in  protecting  and  nurturing  our  shared 
environment.  For  the  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS),  the  preservation  of  our  environment  is  about 
our  safety,  our  security,  our  economy  and,  ultimately, 
our survival. Thus, the battle against climate change is 
for  a  battle  for  our  survival.  Small  island  States  and 
other  particularly  vulnerable  nations,  such  as  the  least 
developed  countries,  cannot  look  at  that  issue  in  any 
other way. 
Nowhere 
09-53165 

33 
previous  global  disasters,  is  not  occurring  in  one 
sudden  instant,  but  rather  is  gaining  in  pace  and 
destructive power over time. It is also a disaster which 
is  man-made,  which  is  to  say  that  it  is  our  fault.  As 
such,  it  is  a  disaster  that  we  have  a  duty  and  a 
responsibility to prevent and that we can prevent. 

We  cannot  afford  to  leave  any  nation  behind  in 
Copenhagen,  no  matter  how  poor,  how  weak  or  how 
small. Once again, this is our shared responsibility that 
we must assume.  
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Kodjo  Menan,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Togolese Republic. 
Mr.  Menan  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 

outset,  allow  me  to  convey  the  warm  greetings  of  the 
Head of State, Government and people of Togo on the 
occasion  of  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  also  wish  to  add  that  the  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Togo,  who  unfortunately  is  absent 
from  New  York,  asked  me  to  read  out  the  following 
statement : 

A/64/PV.13


The fight against climate change is a fight based 
on  our  undeniable  human  right  to  exist  not  only  as 
nation  States,  but  as  peoples  and  communities.  For 
example,  the  Arctic  peoples  and  other  indigenous 
peoples  are  also  suffering  from  climate  change  first 
hand.  Their  voices,  just  like  those  of  us  in  the  SIDS 
and  other  particularly  vulnerable  States,  need  to  be 
heard by the world’ s leaders. 

Nothing is more critical to our survival as States, 
as  nations,  as  peoples  and  as  communities  than  an 
urgent, coherent and effective response to the effects of 
climate  change.  But  the  response  thus  far  has  been 
sorely lacking. Weeks before Copenhagen, we are still 
unsure  as  to  what  type  of  an  agreement  we  will  get 
there.  Furthermore,  there  are  indications  that  if  an 
agreement  is  made,  it  will  not  suffice  to  save  many 
island States. 

As the last small island developing State to speak 
in this general debate, Seychelles therefore feels it has 
a  duty  to  remind  the  international  community  that  in 
the coming weeks before Copenhagen, the Alliance of 
Small Island States will continue to steadfastly call for 
that  which  is  necessary  to  our  survival.  That  includes 
stabilizing 
long-term  atmospheric  greenhouse  gas 
concentrations  at  well  below  350  parts  per  million; 
ensuring 
temperature 
increases be limited to well below 1.5 degrees Celsius 
above  pre-industrial 
levels;  and  requiring  global 
greenhouse gas emissions to peak by 2015 and decline 
significantly  thereafter.  Furthermore,  greenhouse  gas 
emissions should be reduced by more than 85 per cent 
by 2050. Annex 1 greenhouse gas emissions should be 
reduced by at least 45 per cent by 2020 and by 2050, at 
least 95 per cent of 1990 carbon dioxide levels should 
be  reduced.  Non-Annex  1  emissions  should  also 
demonstrate  significant  deviations  from  baseline  over 
comparable time periods. 

Before  concluding,  Seychelles  must  salute  the 
United Nations for the body of work it has contributed 
to advancing our understanding of how climate change 
is  damaging  our  planet.  Seychelles  also 
thanks 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  leadership  in 
ensuring that climate change, and especially the plight 
of  the  particularly  vulnerable  such  as  the  small  island 
developing States, get the attention they deserve. 

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
has  shown  us  that  climate  change  is  a  disaster  very 
much  in  the  making.  It  is  a  disaster  which,  unlike 
that  average  global  surface 


to  convey 
to  you,  Sir, 

“From this rostrum, where the leaders of the 
entire  planet  have  expressed  their  views  on  the 
major questions of the time, I should in turn like 
to  share  with  this Assembly  the  following  ideas, 
prompted by the developments in our world over 
the past 12 months.  
“Before  performing  this  duty,  however,  I 

wish 
the  warm 
congratulations of the Government and the people 
of  Togo  on  your  well-deserved  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this 
session.  I  can  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s 
willingness  to  work  with  you  to  carry  out  your 
mandate, the success of which will do honour to 
Africa  and  in  particular  to  your  country,  the 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  with  which  Togo 
maintains  friendly  relations  of  solidarity  and 
cooperation. 
“Also I wish to convey to your predecessor, 

Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  my 
congratulations on his work and in particular for 
the  commendable 
initiatives  he  undertook 
throughout  his  mandate  to  restore  the  General 
Assembly  to  its  due  place  and  role  under  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  To  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  I  convey  our 
34 

09-53165 





in 
solidarity 
international 
congratulations  for  the  dynamic  and  pragmatic 
manner  with  which  he  has  guided  our 
Organization.  

“I  hereby  forcefully  reaffirm  Togo’s  full 
adherence  to  the  ideals  of  peace,  security  and 
development that are at the centre of the priorities 
of  our  Organization.  My  country  also  endorses 
the  approaches  adopted  by  our  Organization  in 
recent  years  to  further  sustainable  development 
by  promoting  peace  and  security  and  by 
mobilizing 
the 
economic, social and cultural arenas. 

“Political,  administrative  and  economic 
governance remains essential to the consolidation 
of  peace  and  security  in  our  countries  and 
undoubtedly helps to speed up achievement of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  However,  no 
harmonious  and  lasting  development  is  possible 
without a climate of peace and national concord. 
That  is  why  the  Government  of  Togo  spares  no 
effort  to  create  conditions  conducive  to  bold 
reforms  and  to  lay  the  foundations  for  a  new 
republican  pact  and  national 
reconciliation. 
Indeed,  since  2005,  the  Government,  under  the 
guidance  of  the  Head  of  State,  has  worked 
tirelessly for a policy of openness, the promotion 
of democracy, the strengthening of the rule of law 
and  the  reduction  of  poverty.  A  number  of 
reforms  have  been  undertaken  in  this  regard, 
especially 
constitutional, 
institutional and socio-economic areas. 
“Politically,  the  Head  of  State  has  engaged 

in  dialogue  as  an 
instrument  of  political 
consensus. This  approach,  based  on  a  politics  of 
complete  openness,  culminated  in  the  signing  in 
August  2006  of  the  Global  Political  Accord, 
which 
the  formation  of  a 
Government  of  national  unity,  facilitated  by  His 
Excellency  Blaise  Compaoré,  President  of 
Burkina Faso. I recall that the implementation of 
the  Global  Political  Accord  and 
the  22 
commitments  undertaken  with 
the  European 
Union  led  to  the  holding  of  free  and  democratic 
legislative elections in October 2007, which were 
welcomed  unanimously  by 
international 
community.  In  the  same  spirit,  a  Truth,  Justice 
and  Reconciliation  Commission  has  been  set  up, 
the members of which were appointed on 29 May 
2009. Its purpose is to shed light on the political 
the  political, 
turn 
led 
the 
in 
in 
to 
A/64/PV.13
“With 
regard 
relaxing 
to  constitutional 
acts  of  violence  that  occurred  in  Togo  between 
1958 and 2005 in order once and for all to banish 
impunity  from  our  country  and  to  reconcile  the 
people of Togo with their history. 

reform, 
significant  progress  has  been  made.  In  August, 
the  National Assembly  adopted  a  law  modifying 
the  electoral  code, 
the  eligibility 
conditions for presidential elections, and allowing 
for  the  establishment  of  a  national  independent 
electoral  commission  and  its  reconfiguration  in 
order  to  adapt  it  to  current  political  realities. At 
the  same  time,  discussions  of  certain  questions 
continue with the firm resolve of the Government 
to carry out the rest of the reforms on the basis of 
consensus,  since  we  have  made  concerted  action 
and  dialogue  the  foundation  of  our  political 
action in Togo. 

“In the institutional area, we have striven to 
reconstitute the Constitutional Court, the National 
Human  Rights  Commission  and 
the  High 
Authority  for  Audiovisual  and  Communication. 
Similarly, 
the  Government  of  Togo  has 
established a court of audits and adopted statutes 
for 
the 
opposition. It has also made arrangements for the 
public  financing  of  political  parties  and  the 
organs of the private press. 

judiciary,  our  vast 
the 
modernization  programme  of  the  judicial  system 
continues in a satisfactory manner, with a view to 
involving 
the 
administration  of  justice.  In  this  regard,  the 
Government  has  taken  measures  to  guarantee 
citizens  freedom  of  expression,  for  example,  by 
decriminalizing  press  offences.  Furthermore,  to 
demonstrate  its  desire  to  respect  human  dignity 
rights,  our  Government 
and  defend  human 
submitted 
the  National  Assembly  a  bill 
abolishing  the  death  penalty.  This  law,  adopted 
unanimously  on  24  June,  is  the  outcome  of  a 
constitutional provision that requires the State to 
guarantee  the  physical  and  mental  integrity,  life 
and security of all persons living on our national 
territory. 

“The efforts undertaken by the Government 
in the areas of health, education and employment, 
particularly  for  young  people,  have  also  seen 
the  people  more  closely 
the  security  forces  and 
“As  concerns 
the  army, 
to 
in 




09-53165 

35 
it  a  genuine 
instrument  for 
cooperation.  This 
the  past  15  years  due 
the  financial  constraints  afflicting 
to 
considerable  progress.  In  the  field  of  health,  we 
have  established  a  national  health  development 
plan  for  the  years  2009  to  2013,  at  a  cost  of 
317 billion  CFA  francs,  reflecting  the  will  of  the 
Togolese  Government  to  respond  effectively  to 
our  people’s  health  needs.  With  regard 
to 
education, Togo’s educational system has suffered 
from 
the 
the 
country  for 
suspension  of 
situation, 
compounded by a high demand for education, has 
resulted  in  a  decline  in  teaching  conditions  and 
serious  structural  problems.  In  the  face  of  these 
constraints,  the  Government  has  committed  to 
establish a sectoral education plan that will allow 
the  country  to  launch  a  fast-track  initiative  in 
2010 to ensure education for all. 
“To put a new face on public administration 

and  make 
the 
reconstruction and modernization of our country, 
we  have  undertaken  broad  reforms  that  require, 
inter alia, the recruitment of new officials. Thus, 
thousands  of  young  people  have  found  work  in 
the  public  and  private  sectors  thanks  to  the 
creation  of  better  production  conditions  for  the 
economic and social development of the country.  

the  economic  sector, 
appropriate  measures  have  been  taken  to  put 
public  finances  on  a  sound  footing,  create  a 
favourable  framework  for  business  and  attract 
investment,  particularly  from  abroad.  In  this 
context,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  once  again 
make  an  urgent  appeal  to  all  our  bilateral  and 
multilateral  partners,  particularly  the  European 
Union and the Bretton Woods institutions, to help 
in 
Togo 
towards  socio-economic 
recovery. 

the 
“In 
development and proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction 
to 
international peace and security, and thus a reason 
for us to give these questions the highest priority. 
In this regard, my country welcomed the Security 
Council  summit  held  on  24  September,  under  the 
presidency  of 
the  United  States,  on  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament.  While  we 
reaffirm  that  multilateralism  is  the  fundamental 
principle 
of 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation,  Togo  hopes 
the  opinion  of  my  delegation, 
consideration 
a  growing 
its  efforts 
governing 
represent 
threat 
“With 
regard 
to 
A/64/PV.13




36 

our 
times.  In 
in  modern 
this  regard, 
the  Assembly  commit 
that  the  Security  Council  summit  will  lead  to  a 
new approach to this crucial question. With regard 
to  light  arms, Togo  reiterates  its  desire  to  see  the 
current  session  of 
to 
strengthening  the  implementation  of  the  project 
aimed at negotiating a treaty on the traffic in light 
arms,  as  has  been  done  by 
the  Economic 
Community of West African States in this area. 

“Concerning terrorism, an obstacle to peace 
and lasting development, my country feels that it 
has  become  imperative  to  improve  and  globalize 
the  international  legal  framework  in  order  to 
combat  this  scourge,  which  has  assumed  a  new 
form 
the 
completion  within  a  reasonable  time  frame  of 
negotiations on a draft comprehensive convention 
against  international  terrorism  would  be  salutary 
and in the interests of all.  

“Similarly, the phenomenon of drugs, and in 
particular the illicit traffic in drugs along the west 
coast  of Africa,  has  become  a  true  danger  and  a 
destabilizing factor for the region. In light of the 
scale of this scourge, it is beyond a shadow of a 
doubt that no country can combat or hope to put 
an  end  to  it  alone.  Togo  therefore  appeals  for 
international  cooperation,  and  in  particular  for 
the  wealthy  countries  and 
assistance 
competent  organizations, 
this 
phenomenon and thereby restoring the climate of 
security so essential to development. For its part, 
in  spite  of 
its  scarce  resources,  Togo  has 
undertaken  a  relentless  struggle  against  drug 
traffickers and is cooperating with its neighbours 
in order to contain the scourge. 

“As  we  all  know,  international  peace  and 
security  continue 
the 
stability  of  certain  countries  disturbed  by 
conflicts, terrorism and underdevelopment, all of 
which  are  largely  man-made.  Indeed,  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Chad,  the 
Central  African  Republic  and  Darfur,  where 
crises continue, our Organization should continue 
to engage in a search for solutions that will allow 
those countries to recover the peace and security 
necessary to their development.  

initiatives 
despite 
undertaken  in  April  2009  by  the  international 
community  and  by  the  African  Union  in  July 
threatened  and 
in  eradicating 
“In  Somalia, 
to  be 
from 
the 
09-53165 












2009  in  support  of  security  institutions  and  the 
African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia,  the  situation 
remains  precarious  and  disturbing.  That  is  why 
my  country  urgently  appeals  for  other  urgent 
measures to be taken to prevent that country from 
succumbing to chaos for good. 

“Regarding  Côte  d’Ivoire,  we  note  with 
satisfaction the positive evolution of the political 
situation  in  that  country  since  the  Ouagadougou 
Political Agreement. Consequently, we call on the 
stakeholders  to  display  the  political  will  to 
organize the presidential election. 

“With  regard  to  Guinea,  it  would  seem 
appropriate and timely to encourage the political 
class  to  find,  through  dialogue  and  consultation, 
ways  and  means  of  ensuring  a  rapid  return  to 
constitutional order. 

“As to the situation in the Niger, where the 
revision of the Constitution has provoked a crisis, 
my  country  hopes  that  the  parties  concerned  in 
the  Niger  will  strive  to  restore  dialogue  and 
consensus in order to maintain a climate of peace 
and harmony in that sister country. 

the 
Middle East, a theatre of violence and desolation, 
an  equitable  and  final  settlement  of  the  conflicts 
between  the  countries  of  this  region  should  be 
found  as  soon  as  possible.  To  that  end,  the 
international  community  should  encourage  the 
various actors to find a peaceful solution to their 
conflicts.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  reaffirms 
that the solution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict 
requires the creation of a Palestinian State living 
side by side with the State of Israel within secure 
and internationally recognized borders.  

the 
continuing  acts  of  terrorism  that  have  afflicted 
the peoples of Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan and 
undermined  the  efforts  of  these  countries  to 
promote  development.  That  is  why  we  urge  the 
international community to increase its assistance 
to  the  Governments  of  those  countries  in  their 
fight against terrorism in order to promote peace 
and reconstruction.  

“After  two  decades  of  economic  stagnation 
resulting  from  policies  of  budgetary  austerity 
imposed  on  developing  countries,  the  latter  are 
“Furthermore,  my  country  deplores 
in 
“Outside 
the  African  continent, 
A/64/PV.13
now  facing  new  challenges  from 
the  food, 
financial, energy and environmental crises. In the 
light of this situation, it is imperative to work to 
mitigate  the  financial  shock  and  to  pursue  bold 
policies  to  increase  the  agricultural  and  energy 
production capacities of the developing countries. 
At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  consider  overall 
structural  reform  of  the  world  economic  and 
financial system in order to prevent a resurgence 
of such crises.  

“My  country  therefore  welcomed  the  high-
level  Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and 
Economic Crisis and Its Impact on Development, 
held  from  24  to  26  June,  which  illustrated  the 
need for international solidarity in the face of the 
crisis in order to ease the suffering of the peoples 
of developing countries. 

“In  that  context,  Togo  welcomes  the  early 
implementation,  in  April  2009,  of  one  of  the 
pledges  made  at  the  G-20  meeting  in  London, 
concerning the establishment of the Global Trade 
Liquidity  Programme  amounting  to  $50  billion 
from  2009  to  2011,  $15  billion  of  which  are 
allocated  to  the African  continent.  Similarly,  my 
country  welcomes  the  initiative  taken  in  March 
2009 by the African Development Bank to create 
a  special  $500  million  funding  mechanism  for 
African trade. 

“Furthermore, my delegation is pleased that 
the  United  Nations,  at  the  initiative  of  the 
Secretary-General,  has  taken  the  measure  of  the 
danger  posed  to  humanity  by  the  problem  of 
climate  change  and 
the 
environment. 
the  high-level 
this 
meeting  that  took  place  a  few  days  ago  in  this 
very  body  was  an  opportunity  to  analyse  the 
situation  and  to  clear  the  way  for  the  Climate 
Change Conference in Copenhagen in December. 
To paraphrase a great man, we have inherited the 
Earth  and  we  should  not  destroy  it.  Living 
creatures come and go, but the Earth remains.  

“In  the  face  of  the  questions  that  my 
delegation  has  just  raised,  it  is  imperative  to 
intensify  partnerships  of  all  kinds  if  we  wish  to 
prevent  a  situation  in  which,  64  years  after  its 
creation,  our  shared  Organization  should  find 
itself  still  facing  the  same  challenges.  It  is  to  be 
hoped,  therefore,  that  Member  States,  in  whose 
the  degradation  of 
regard, 
In 




09-53165 

37 
A/64/PV.13

interest  it  is  that  the  United  Nations  should  be 
more  democratic,  strong  and  effective,  should 
determine  to  give  it  the  resources  necessary  to 
permit it to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals and thereby to meet the challenges that our 
world faces today.”  
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Oumar Daou, chairman of 
the delegation of the Republic of Mali. 
Mr. Daou (Mali) (spoke in French): At the outset, 

Sir,  it  is  a  pleasure  for  Mali  to  congratulate  you  on 
your  election  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fourth  session  and  on  your  outstanding 
management of our work. The trust placed in you does 
honour to the whole of Africa and is a brilliant tribute 
to  the  great  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  and  its  leader, 
whose commitment to African unity and just causes is 
acknowledged by all. I assure you of our full support in 
your  new 
responsibilities  and  congratulate  your 
predecessor,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  of 
Nicaragua,  on  his  excellent  work  throughout  his 
mandate. 
I  also  congratulate  Secretary-General  Ban 

Ki-moon on his strenuous efforts to strengthen the role 
of  our  Organization,  and  reaffirm  our  desire  for  his 
success in his assigned missions.  
The current general debate is a timely opportunity 

for us to consider together the urgent problems facing 
the  international  community,  to  share  our  worries  and 
concerns about the challenges that affect the world, and 
to  find  sustainable  solutions  pursuant  to  the  heartfelt 
aspirations of our peoples.  

While the financial and economic crisis that burst 
onto  the  scene  last  year  has  spared  no  country,  it 
undoubtedly  weakened 
the 
developing  countries,  especially  in Africa,  a  continent 
that  has  long  been  marginalized.  Fluctuations  in  food 
and oil prices have decreased revenues and exacerbated 
inflation in many developing countries. 
The  current  multifaceted  crises  in  the  realms  of 

finance,  food,  energy  and 
the  environment  have 
plunged  hundreds  of  millions  of  people  into  poverty 
and  aggravated  circumstances  already  straitened  by 
unemployment  and  the  high  cost  of  access  to  basic 
services.  The  plight  of  the  most  vulnerable  strata  of 
society in developing countries, especially women and 
children,  calls 
international 
for  action  by 
economies  of 
the 
the 
the 
community  and  should  be  at  the  heart  of  international 
concerns. 

Even  as  this  year  we  celebrate  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Child, hundreds of millions of children still live at risk 
and  in  extreme  poverty.  More  than  26,000  children 
under  the  age  of  five  die  each  day  in  developing 
countries of diseases that for the most part could have 
been avoided if adequate resources had been mobilized 
and  effective  measures  put  in  place  to  respond  to 
immediate needs.  
The breadth and complexity of the challenges that 

must  be  met  cannot  distract 
international 
community  from  its  responsibilities.  It  goes  without 
saying  that  the  resolution  of  the  world  financial  and 
economic  crisis  requires  a  democratization  of  the 
international  monetary  system,  notably  the  institution 
of  a  new  international  financial  architecture  based  on 
the  genuine  participation  of  all  nations,  including 
developing  countries.  Only  a  global  and  cooperative 
effort  will  succeed  in  laying  the  groundwork  for  a 
lasting recovery. It is also essential to strengthen global 
development partnerships in order to create conditions 
favourable 
the 
improvement  of  health  and  education,  gender  equality 
and  environmental  protection,  as  set  out 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

In  this  regard,  the  Government  of  Mali  has 
launched  an  innovative  project  to  focus  the  MDGs  on 
the  166  Malian  municipal  districts  most  vulnerable  to 
food  shortages.  That 
the 
Millennium  Village  approach,  is  part  of  the  economic 
and  social  development  project 
the 
President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Amadou 
Toumani Touré. The project’s principal aim is 

“to  assure  robust  and  sustainable  growth  that 
produces  opportunities  and  prosperity  for  all 
citizens;  to  open  the  way  to  the  achievement  of 
the MDGs by 2015, thus allowing all Malians to 
enjoy the fundamental rights of all human beings 
to  have  enough  to  eat,  to  have  access  to  potable 
water,  to  enjoy  basic  services  within  a  radius  of 
five  kilometres  and  to  send  their  children,  both 
boys  and  girls,  to  primary  school;  and  to  create 
good  working  conditions  for  the  majority  of  the 
country’s young people”. 
As part of that initiative, the Forum on Initiative 

166,  organized  by  the  Malian  Government  in  the 
reduction  of  poverty, 
instituted  by 
inspired  by 
initiative, 
for 
the 
in 
38 

09-53165 
Despite 
the  progress  made 
We  also  urge  donor  nations, 


margins  of  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  has 
increased  awareness  among  development  partners  and 
donors  alike  of  the  need  to  support  the  efforts  of  the 
more  than  2.5  million  people  living  in  nearly  3,000 
villages  in  the  166  districts  to  raise  themselves  out  of 
extreme  poverty  and  launch  their  own  social  and 
economic development process. 

in  developing 
countries with regard to the MDGs, the 2015 deadline 
looms on the horizon and much remains to do. We dare 
believe  that  the  pledges  made  by  the  industrialized 
countries, notably at the Group of 20 summits held in 
Washington,  D.C.,  London  and  Pittsburgh,  will  be 
honoured.  

international 
financial institutions and development organizations to 
give  full  attention  to  the  special  circumstances  of  the 
group  of  landlocked  developing  nations.  Given  their 
lack  of  access  to  oceans,  their  isolation  and  their 
removal  from  international  markets,  those  countries 
face  great  difficulties  in  their  endeavours  to  ensure 
their  economic  growth  and  social  well-being  and  to 
participate  in  the  global  economy  and  international 
commerce. We remain convinced that pushing forward 
the  implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action for landlocked countries will greatly contribute 
to the realization of the goals identified. 

Climate  change  remains  one  of  the  greatest 
challenges  of  the  day.  We  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  initiative  to  convene  a  summit  devoted 
exclusively 
to  climate  change  and  environmental 
degradation.  We  believe 
international 
community  must  intensify  its  efforts  to  reach  an 
international  accord  at  the  Conference  in  Copenhagen 
this December. 

international  peace  and 
security  is  a  prerequisite  for  all  development.  That  is 
why Mali remains firmly devoted to the ideals of peace 
and stability both inside and outside its borders. In that 
spirit  and  at  the  initiative  of  the  President  of  Mali,  a 
regional  conference  will  shortly  be  convened 
in 
Bamako  on  peace,  security  and  development  in  the 
Sahelo-Saharan  region.  Our  most  ardent  wish  is  to 
transform that area into a haven of peace, stability and 
prosperity. 
Mali  welcomes  the  progress  made  in  Africa  in 

post-conflict 
restoring 
reconciliation under the auspices of the African Union 
The  maintenance  of 
stability 
peace, 
and 
that 
the 
A/64/PV.13
to 
to  support 
Today  more 
and  the  United  Nations.  We  reaffirm  our  active 
solidarity with the peoples of the Middle East and will 
continue 
the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  on  the  Middle  East  and  the  Palestinian 
question.  
International  terrorism  is  yet  another  serious 

threat 
international  peace  and  security.  Mali 
therefore firmly and unequivocally condemns terrorism 
in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations,  and  applauds  the 
General  Assembly’s  adoption  of  the  Global  Counter-
Terrorism Strategy (resolution 60/288), as promoted by 
our heads of State and Government at the 2005 World 
Summit. 

than  ever,  our  nations  must 
coordinate their efforts to overcome together the great 
challenges  faced  by  humanity.  The  strengthening  of 
international  cooperation  demands  greater  solidarity. 
That is in the interest of us all, because humanity needs 
to  harness  all  of  its  potential  if  it  is  to  achieve 
harmonious  and  sustainable  development 
in  an 
environment of peace and security. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Charles  Thembani 
floor 
Ntwaagae, chairman of the delegation of the Republic 
of Botswana. 

Mr.  Ntwaagae  (Botswana):  I  congratulate  you, 
Sir,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  on  the  very  effective  manner  in  which 
you  are  presiding  over  its  proceedings.  I  also  pay 
tribute to your predecessor, Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann, 
for  his  leadership  and  commitment  and  for  the  very 
able manner in which he guided us throughout the past 
session.  Under  his  leadership,  a  lot  was  achieved  and 
we also weathered a number of turbulent storms. 

environment 
has 
experienced  many  challenges  since  our  last  session. 
Never  before  has  our  common  goal  of  advancing  the 
purposes and  principles of  the United Nations Charter 
for  the  betterment  of  all  mankind  been  so  tested.  The 
challenges  confronting  humanity  have  since  grown 
tenfold,  both  in  scope  and  magnitude.  The  sheer 
enormity  of  these  fast-evolving  challenges  threatens 
the  very  existence  of  the  human  race  and  the  security 
of our planet. 

I  am  convinced  that  these  challenges  are  neither 
beyond  our  collective  capability  to  address,  nor  are 
they insurmountable. Our moral imperative is to ensure 
economic 
global 
The 
09-53165 

39 
in  order 
and  policies 
It is important to remind ourselves of the decision 
A/64/PV.13

that the United Nations has the requisite resources, the 
tools and the capability to respond to the ever-changing 
environment in a timely, effective and decisive manner 
in  order  to  help  Member  States  address  the  many 
complex and multidimensional challenges. 

we adopted at the World Summit in 2005 to 

“strengthen  the  United  Nations  with  a  view  to 
enhancing its authority and efficiency, as well as 
its  capacity  to  address  effectively  …  the  full 
range of challenges of our time”. (resolution 60/1, 
para. 146) 

In  that  respect,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
progress made in implementing ongoing reforms of the 
United  Nations  with  a  view  to  streamlining  rules, 
mandates 
to  promote 
transparency, coherence and efficiency in the system. 

The  global  economic  crisis  that  has  besieged  us 
has  accentuated  existing  challenges  and  made  them 
more complex. The crisis has been felt more seriously 
in  developing  countries.  Human,  financial  and  other 
resources  are  severely  overstretched  as  countries  seek 
creative  and  innovative  ways  to  mitigate  what  has 
become  the  greatest  economic  threat  of  our  time. The 
crisis  therefore  warrants  a  concerted  effort  involving 
both  developed  and  developing  countries.  We  should 
emerge  from  the  crisis  stronger  and  wiser,  with  new 
thinking about a new global financial architecture. 

In  the  present  circumstances,  poverty  levels  in 
many economies appear to be spiraling out of control. 
Our  poverty  reduction  strategies  therefore  need  to  be 
revised  to  face  the  new  challenges.  That  goes  for  the 
commitments we signed on to at the 1995 Copenhagen 
World Summit on Sustainable Development and at the 
2000  Millennium  Summit.  The  new  strategy  should 
focus  on  raising  the  living  standards  of  all  people  the 
world  over.  In  dealing  with  those  challenges,  we 
should  deploy  all 
resources  of  nature  and 
technology to better life on the planet. But in doing so 
we  should  avoid  any  actions  that  could  endanger  the 
very lives that we want to uplift. 

The  devastating  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  is  among 
the  myriad  challenges 
to  which  we  committed 
ourselves  to  tackle  through  international  cooperation 
and assistance. HIV/AIDS undoubtedly continues to be 
one of the most daunting challenges of our time. 
the 
in 
implementing 
for  universal  access 
in  HIV/AIDS  programmes, 

In June of last year, our leaders gathered in New 
York for the midterm review of the implementation of 
the goals and targets of the Declaration of Commitment 
on HIV/AIDS, which was adopted in 2001. The review 
revealed  that,  despite  heightened  political  momentum 
and  national  and  global  responses  to  HIV/AIDS,  not 
much  progress  had  been  made  towards  mitigating  its 
effects. Only a handful of countries were reported to be 
on  track  to  achieving  some  of  their  commitments, 
while  the  majority  of  countries  were  found  to  be 
lagging  far  behind 
them.  That 
situation underscores the urgent need to accelerate the 
momentum 
to  HIV/AIDS 
prevention, treatment, care and support. 

The  ongoing  global  economic  crisis  has  already 
placed  people  living  with  HIV/AIDS  at  great  risk,  as 
many  countries  have  had  to  cut  down  on  some 
HIV/AIDS  programmes  due  to  budgetary  constraints. 
Budget  reductions 
in 
particular,  in  developing  countries,  will  obviously 
result in increased loss of life, as well as an increase in 
the cost of health care in the future. 

We  need  to  redouble  our  implementation  efforts 
as  we  draw  closer  to  the  2010  deadline  for  achieving 
the  goal  of  ensuring  universal  access  to  HIV/AIDS 
prevention, treatment, care and support. To that end, it 
is  essential 
that  as  Governments  we  renew  our 
commitment  to  put  our  people  first  when  it  comes  to 
the kind of policies and programmes we formulate and 
implement. 

The adverse impact of climate change and global 
warming  is  another  problem  that  requires  our  urgent 
and sustained attention. Our collective response to the 
challenge  of  climate  change  and  global  warming 
necessitates  pragmatism  and  decisive  action.  History 
will judge us harshly if we cannot muster the political 
will and commitment to put in place measures required 
to  save  planet  Earth.  The  Copenhagen  meeting 
scheduled  for  December  of  this  year  provides  an 
opportunity to galvanize the efforts of the international 
community 
the  challenges  of  climate 
change. 

More important, the Copenhagen meeting will be 
a  defining  moment  in  the  negotiations  on  the  global 
commitments  to  be  made  with  regard  to  the  Kyoto 
Protocol after 2012. Botswana is strongly committed to 
those negotiations. We will do everything in our power 
to  ensure  their  successful  and  timely  conclusion.  We 
to  address 
40 

09-53165 


therefore  call  upon  Member  States  to  ensure  that  no 
effort  is  spared  in  giving  the  issues  under  negotiation 
the priority attention that they deserve. 

Turning  to  international  peace  and  security,  my 
delegation is  deeply concerned about the deterioration 
of the global security situation. We are convinced that 
the security of our world is dependent upon the entire 
membership of the United Nations working in unison. 

The number and intensity of conflicts still raging 
in some parts of the world, in particular in Africa, is a 
cause for grave concern. It is sad that Africa appears — 
at least in my estimation — to have experienced more 
incidents  of  civil  strife  and  violent  confrontation  than 
any other part of the world. In that regard, it is worth 
noting  that  the  Security  Council  remains  seized  of 
conflict  situations  and  developments  in  a  number  of 
African  countries  and  regions,  including  Chad,  the 
Central African  Republic,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo, 
the  Great  Lakes  region,  Eritrea  and 
Ethiopia, Somalia and the Sudan, to name but a few. 

Somalia remains the most dangerous place in the 
world,  and  a  blemish  on  the  conscience  of  the 
international 
Incidents  of  violence, 
kidnapping, banditry and piracy abound. Peacekeepers 
have also not been spared that barbarity. We commend 
Burundi  and  Uganda  for  the  courage  and  heroism  of 
their troops in support of the peace effort. International 
support and assistance is urgently required to deploy a 
stabilization  force  to  strengthen  the  African  Union 
Mission in Somalia and to support long-term peace and 
stability in that country. 

With  regard  to  the  situations  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes region, it is 
thanks  to  the  collective  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  and  former  President  Obasanjo  of  Nigeria, 
Special Representative of the Secretary-General for the 
Great  Lakes  Region,  as  well  as  other  international 
initiatives,  that  there  are  now  prospects  for  positive 
developments.  However,  we  should  not  underestimate 
the  gravity  of  the  challenges  that  continue  to  hamper 
the  achievement  of 
lasting  peace,  stability  and 
sustainable development in that region and many more 
in Africa. 

Apart  from  finding  lasting  solutions  to  conflicts, 
we  should  put  in  place  measures  to  deal  with  post-
conflict  situations,  as  there  is  a  danger  that  countries 
emerging  from  conflict  could  easily  relapse  into  it. 
community. 
A/64/PV.13
to  address 
Regional bodies such as the African Union, as well as 
the  United  Nations,  must  stay  focused  on  assisting 
countries  to  deal  with  both  conflict  and  post-conflict 
situations. 

We all know the causes of conflict and instability. 
They are the result of bad governance, mismanagement 
of national resources and the absence of democracy. In 
that  respect,  we  cannot  simply  demand  the  full  and 
active support of the international community in efforts 
to achieve lasting peace and stability. We must do more 
to  consolidate  the  democratic  process,  respect  for 
human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  In  that  way,  we 
would be more deserving and worthy of assistance. 

Botswana  is  disturbed  by  the  emerging  trend  of 
coups  and of  the unconstitutional transfer  of  power in 
Africa and in other parts of the world. We had thought 
that  the  era  of  military  coups  was  now  history.  We 
unreservedly  condemn  the  coups  that  took  place  in 
Mauritania,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Madagascar  and 
Honduras.  We  would  have  been  very  disappointed  if 
one  such  as  Rajoelina,  who  masterminded 
the 
overthrow  of  a  democratically  elected  Government  in 
Madagascar,  had  been  allowed 
this 
Assembly. We therefore applaud the decision taken by 
the General Assembly in that regard.  

The  Southern  Africa  Development  Community 
correctly decided to suspend the regime in Madagascar 
from participating in the councils and structures of the 
subregional organization. Our continental organization, 
the  African  Union,  has  also  maintained  a  principled 
position  of  automatically  suspending  any  regime  that 
comes  into  power  by  overthrowing  the  constitutional 
order.  The  international  community  must  be  united  in 
its determination to isolate the regime in Antananarivo. 
We  must  not  give  it  any  comfort  by  embracing  it  in 
international forums. 

We are also witnessing a disturbing development 
that undermines democracy and subverts the will of the 
people.  There 
to  changing 
constitutions  in  order  to  prolong  the  grip  on  power  of 
leaders and political parties that have lost elections. In 
that regard, Africa, and indeed the world at large, must 
collectively  and 
the  extra-
parliamentary  transfer  of  power  and  isolate  illegal 
regimes  until 
restored. 
Embracing  them  in  any  small  measure  would  be 
immoral  and  would  perpetuate  those  hideous  acts 
throughout the globe. 
is  a  growing  resort 
in  one  voice  reject 
constitutional  order 
is 
09-53165 

41 
that 
they  reflect 
leaders,  we  should  commit 
A/64/PV.13


The  world  can  be  a  better  place  for  us  and  for 
future generations if we persistently nurture democratic 
practices, good governance and respect for the  rule of 
law.  As 
to  building 
fraternity  and  greater  mutual  understanding  among 
peoples  across  cultures  and  faiths.  We  have  the 
responsibility to lead by example. We must desist from 
using inflammatory language that promotes tension and 
conflicts. 

We cannot and must not condone leaders who, for 
their  own  selfish  interests,  change  the  constitutions  of 
their countries in order to ensure their continued stay in 
power.  At  the  same  time,  we  should  ensure  that  our 
elections  are  credible  and 
the 
sovereign  will  of  the  people.  Governments  should  not 
be  allowed  to  conduct  elections  and  then  tamper  with 
the  outcomes  in  order  to  suit  their  interests.  People 
must be allowed to freely choose their leaders. 

Botswana  reiterates  its  position  that  it  is  fully 
committed  to  respecting  the  integrity  and  impartiality 
of the International Criminal Court so that it can freely 
carry  out  its  judicial  mandate. We  equally  support  the 
principle  of  universal  jurisdiction  under  international 
law  and  practice.  However,  we  object  to  situations 
wherein its abuse becomes blatant. 

In conclusion, I wish to reiterate that the daunting 
challenges facing our world today, as stated previously, 
cannot and should not be tackled by any one country or 
by  a  group  of  countries  alone.  They  require  a  strong 
multilateral  approach  that  needs  the  commitment  and 
unyielding support of the international community as a 
whole.  Let  us  join  hands  together  in  an  effort  to 
address 
timely, 
coordinated and effective action will go a long way in 
securing a better future for generations to come. 

Archbishop  Celestino  Migliore,  chairman  of 
delegation of the Observer State of the Holy See. 
Archbishop  Migliore  (Holy  See):  As  you,  Sir, 

assume the presidency of the General Assembly at this 
sixty-fourth  session,  my  delegation  wishes  you  all  the 
best in your endeavours and looks forward to working 
with  you  to  address  the  many  challenges  facing  the 
global community. 

Every  year,  anticipation  surrounds  the  General 
Assembly in the hope that Governments will be able to 
find  points  of  agreement  on  the  persisting  problems 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
the 
those  complex  challenges.  Our 
that  afflict  humankind  and 
to  adopt  a  common 
direction  for  resolving  them  in  a  peaceful  manner  for 
the well-being of all. Understandably, the deliberations 
of the preceding session of the General Assembly were 
dominated  by  preoccupation  with  the  world  financial 
and  economic  crisis.  It  is  only  fitting  that  this  year 
delegations  have  been  asked  to  focus  on  the  theme 
“Effective  responses  to  global  crises:  strengthening 
multilateralism  and  dialogue  among  civilizations  for 
international peace, security and development”. 

In  view  of  a  political  and  cultural  dialogue 
oriented towards the harmonious evolving of the world 
economy  and  of  international  relations,  we  would  do 
well  to  revisit  the  Preamble  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, where it  affirms that “We the peoples 
of  the  United  Nations  determined  …  to  reaffirm  faith 
in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth 
of  the  human  person,  in  the  equal  rights  of  men  and 
women and of nations large and small”.  

The various world crises that have intertwined in 
the past months bring to the discussion presuppositions 
of  thought  and  principles  of  individual,  social  and 
international  behaviour  that  extend  well  beyond  the 
financial  or  economic  fields.  The  idea  of  producing 
resources  and  assets  —  which  is  the  economy  —  and 
strategically  managing  them  —  which  is  politics  — 
without seeking together with the same actions to carry 
out also the good — which is ethics — has been proven 
to  be  a  naive  or  cynical  and  fatal  delusion.  The  more 
solid  and  profound  contribution  that  the  General 
Assembly  must  make  to  the  solution  of  international 
problems lies in promoting the principles contained in 
the  Preamble  and  in  Article  1  of  the  Charter  of  this 
Organization  in  a  manner  that  such  high  human  and 
spiritual  values  serve  to  renovate  the  international 
order from within, where the real crisis lies. 

A  first  element  of  truth  is  found  precisely  in  the 
phrase  “We  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations”.  The 
theme  of  peace  and  development,  in  fact,  coincides 
with that of the relational inclusion of all peoples in the 
unique  community  of 
is 
constructed in solidarity. Evident in the various Group 
of  Eight,  Group  of  20,  regional  and  international 
meetings,  held  in  parallel  with  the  work  of  the 
preceding General Assembly, was the necessity to give 
legitimacy  to  the  political  commitments  assumed  and 
to  confront  them  with  the  thoughts  and  needs  of  the 
entire  international  community  so  that  the  solutions 
devised  would  reflect  the  points  of  view  and  the 
the  human  family 
that 
42 

09-53165 


expectations  of  the  populations  of  all  continents. That 
is why efficacious modes must be found to connect the 
decisions of the various groupings of countries to those 
of  the  United  Nations,  where  every  nation,  with  its 
political and economic weight, can legitimately explain 
itself in a situation of equality with others. 

It is in that context of truth and sincerity that the 
recent  appeal  of  Pope  Benedict  XVI  can  be  seen  in 
perspective. As  he  notes  in  his  encyclical  “Charity  in 
Truth”, in the face of the unrelenting growth of global 
interdependence  there  is  a  strongly  felt  need,  even  in 
the midst of a global recession, for an urgent reform of 
the  United  Nations,  and 
likewise  of  economic 
institutions  and  international  finance,  so  that  the 
concept of the family of nations can acquire real teeth. 
Such reform is urgent in order to find innovative ways 
of implementing the principles of the responsibility to 
protect and of giving poorer nations an effective voice 
in shared decision-making.

Admittedly, building the United Nations as a true 
centre  for  harmonizing  the  actions  of  nations  in  the 
attainment  of  those  common  ends  is  an  extremely 
difficult task. The more the interdependence of peoples 
increases, the more the necessity of the United Nations 
becomes  evident.  The  need  to  have  an  organization 
capable  of  responding  to  the  obstacles  and  increasing 
complexity  of  the  relations  between  peoples  and 
nations thus becomes paramount.

As we consider the nature of development and the 
role of donor and  recipient countries, we must  always 
remember  that  true  development  necessarily  involves 
an  integral  respect  for  human  life,  which  cannot  be 
disconnected 
the  development  of  peoples. 
Unfortunately,  in  some  parts  of  the  world  today, 
development aid seems to be tied rather to the recipient 
countries’  willingness 
that 
discourage  demographic  growth  by  methods  and 
practices disrespectful of human rights and dignity. 

In  that  regard,  it  is  both  cynical  and  unfortunate 
that  frequent  attempts  continue  to  be  made  to  export 
such a mentality to developing countries, as if it were a 
form  of  cultural  progress  or  advancement.  Yet  such  a 
practice  is  by  its  nature  not  one  of  reciprocity  but 
imposition,  and  to  predicate  the  decision  to  give 
development  aid  on  the  acceptance  of  such  policies 
constitutes an abuse of power. 
to  good 

governance, that is, the right to participate in all social 
Every  human  being  has 
to  adopt  programmes 
the  right 
from 
A/64/PV.13
Rights 
exist 
truth 
always 
inseparably 
The  recognition  of 
actions, at the national and international level, whether 
directly  or  indirectly,  as  a  guarantee  for  all  persons  a 
free  and  dignified  life.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  an 
essential  part  of  that  dignity  that  everyone  takes 
responsibility  for  his  actions  and  actively  respects  the 
dignity of others. 

from 
responsibilities  and  duties.  This  applies  to  individual 
men and women and, by analogy, to States, whose true 
progress  and  affirmation  depends  on  their  capacity  to 
establish and maintain responsible relations with other 
States and to express a shared responsibility for world 
problems. 

The  implementation  of  the  principle  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect,  as  formulated  at  the  2005 
World  Summit  and  approved  by 
the  unanimous 
consensus  of  all  United  Nations  Member  States, 
becomes a touchstone of the two enunciated principles 
of 
in 
international  relations  and  of  global 
governance. 

the  core  objective  and 
indispensability  of  the  dignity  of  every  man  and 
woman  ensures  that  Governments  always  undertake 
with  every  means  at  their  disposal  to  prevent  and 
combat  crimes  of  genocide,  ethnic  cleansing  and  any 
other  crimes  against  humanity.  Thus,  by  recognizing 
their interconnected responsibility to protect States will 
realize the importance of accepting the collaboration of 
the  international  community  as  a  means  of  fulfilling 
their role of providing responsible sovereignty. 
The  mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations  for 

addressing  common  security  and  the  prevention  of 
conflicts  were  developed  in  response  to  the  threat  of 
total war and nuclear destruction in the second half of 
the last century, and for this reason alone they deserve 
perennial historical remembrance. Moreover, the work 
of peacekeepers have stabilized and ended innumerable 
local  conflicts  and  have  made  related  reconstruction 
possible. 

Nevertheless, it is well known that the number of 
conflicts  that  the  United  Nations  has  not  been  able  to 
resolve  remains  high  and  that  many  of  them  have 
become  occasions  of  serious  crimes  against  humanity. 
That  is  why  the  acceptance  of  the  principle  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect  and  of  the  underlying  truths 
that  guide  responsible  sovereignty  can  be  the  catalyst 
for  the  reform  of  the  mechanisms,  procedures  and 
representativeness of the Security Council. 
09-53165 

43 
of 
the 
double 
truths 
to  be  at 
Recognition 
A/64/PV.13


In this context, my delegation would like to recall 
here  the  Honduran  people,  who  continue  to  suffer 
frustration  and  hardship  from  the  already  too  long 
political upheaval. Once more, the Holy See urges the 
parties concerned to make every effort to find a prompt 
solution in view of the good of the people of Honduras. 

This session of the General Assembly began with 
the  special  Summit  on  Climate  Change,  and 
in 
December  there  will  be  the  Copenhagen  Climate 
Conference.  The  protection  of 
the  environment 
continues 
the  forefront  of  multilateral 
activities,  because  it  involves,  in  consistent  form,  the 
destiny  of  all  the  nations  and  the  future  of  every 
individual man and woman. 

of 
interdependence and personal dignity also requires that 
environmental  issues  are  taken  as  a  moral  imperative 
and  translated  into  legal  rules,  capable  of  protecting 
our  planet  and  ensuring  future  generations  a  healthy 
and safe environment. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  say  that  in  these 
changing  times  the  international  community  —  “we, 
the  peoples”  —  has 
the  unique  chance  and 
responsibility  to  ensure  full  implementation  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  thus  greater  peace  and 
understanding among nations. 
The  President: We  have  two  requests  for  the 

exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I  would  like  to  remind 
Members that statements in the exercise of the right of 
reply  are  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  statement 
and five for the second one. 

Mr.  Giorgio  (Eritrea):  I  am  grateful  for  the 
opportunity to make a statement in exercise of the right 
of  reply  in  connection  to  the  statement  made  by  the 
distinguished representative of Djibouti. 

The Government of Djibouti has been engaged in 
a public campaign against Eritrea for quite some time. 
That has continued today in the statement made by the 
distinguished  representative  of  Djibouti  in  his  address 
to this Assembly. 

When  those  allegations  were  initially  made, 
Eritrea chose not to respond through a similar intensive 
diplomatic  and  media  campaign,  simply  because 
Eritrea did not want to fall into the trap of escalating a 
crisis  created  by  others  as  part  and  parcel  of  the 
misguided and destabilizing policies and acts found in 
the Horn of Africa. 
spite  of 
that  unwanted 

It  is  strange  to  subject  a  Member  State  to 
condemnation on the basis of incomplete and one-sided 
information,  and  then  request  the  United  Nations 
Secretary-General  to  send  a  United  Nations  fact-
finding mission. 

It raises serious concerns when we see that it has 
become  a  common  practice  to  embroil  countries  in 
endless  crises,  only  in  order  to  control  regions  by 
“managing  these  crises”.  What  is  unfortunate  about 
that  state  of  affairs  is  that  they  represent  attempts  to 
pressure  and  use  the  United  Nations  to  exacerbate 
conflicts  by  the  same  actors  who  fomented  it  in  the 
first  place.  There  are  numerous  contemporary  crises 
that illustrate this trend, among which is, of course, the 
“conflict” that is being instigated between Djibouti and 
Eritrea. 

On  10  June  2008,  Djibouti  went,  unfortunately, 
beyond diplomatic and media hate campaigns to launch 
an unprovoked attack on one of our units on the border. 
In 
and  unnecessary 
development,  it  is  important  to  note  that  through 
patience and restraint, Eritrea has been able to forestall 
and contain the transparent ploy. 

the  restoration  and 
Eritrea’s  desire  remains 
cultivation of good-neighbourly relations with Djibouti 
on the basis of each side’s full respect of the territorial 
integrity and sovereignty of the other. 

The  way  forward  is  for  Djibouti  to  desist  from 
allowing Mount Musa Ali to be occupied and used by 
troops  hostile  to  Eritrea.  Eritrea  does  not  have  any 
territorial ambition and has not occupied any land that 
belongs to Djibouti. 

Miss Hassan (Djibouti) (spoke in French): Thank 
you,  Mr.  President,  for  allowing  my  delegation  to 
exercise its right of reply in response to the statement 
made  by  the  delegation  of  Eritrea.  The  statement  that 
the  members  of  the  Assembly  just  heard  was  an 
expression  of  denial  and  defiance 
the 
international  community,  as  described  earlier  by  our 
head of delegation, Mr. Roble Olhaye, in his statement 
to the Assembly this morning (see A/64/PV.12).  

Without  wishing  to  become  involved  in  a  sterile 
and  futile  discussion,  my  delegation  simply  wishes  to 
refer  to  concrete  facts  that  various  regional  and 
international organizations were able to observe during 
their  fact-finding  missions,  carried  out  since 
the 
beginning of the crisis between my country and Eritrea. 
towards 
44 

09-53165 
I  wish 
Moreover, 


The  conclusions  of  the  United  Nations  fact-finding 
mission  —  to  mention  just  one  —  are  unequivocal. 
Eritrea  has  rejected  all  mediation  and  cooperation 
initiatives  aimed  at  resolving  this  crisis.  In  addition, 
the  adoption  on  14  January  2009  of  Security  Council 
resolution 1862 (2009), which very clearly condemned 
Eritrea’s  occupation  of  Ras  Doumeira  and  Doumeira 
Island  and  demanded  that  it  withdraw  its  military 
forces  to  restore  the  status  quo  ante,  acknowledge  its 
border  dispute  with  Djibouti,  engage  actively 
in 
dialogue  to  diplomatically  resolve  the  conflict  and 
abide  by  its  obligations  as  a  United  Nations  Member, 
shows  that  the  members  of  the  Security  Council  were 
fully aware of the scope of the problem and of the lack 
of cooperation on Eritrea’s part.  
that  Eritrea 

to 
distinguishes itself in our region by the fact that, since 
its  independence,  it  has  been  the  source  of  numerous 
military  aggressions  towards  several  countries  in  the 
region, including Yemen, the Sudan and Ethiopia. The 
latest  deadly  provocation  was  the  attack  perpetrated 
against  my  country  on  10  June  2008.  Since  then,  we 
have  spared  no  effort  to  resolve  this  crisis  through 
dialogue, in vain.  

There  is  a  very  simple  fact  that  cannot  escape 
even  Eritrea:  for  dialogue,  there  must  be  two  parties. 
The  denial  and  distortion  of  facts  cannot  be  an 
acceptable or conceivable response when one claims to 
be  a  responsible  United  Nations  Member.  My  country 
has  always  been  and  remains  convinced  that  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  cannot  take  shortcuts 
regarding international law, nor can they be allowed to 
scorn  it.  Thus,  it  is  high  time  that  resolution  1862 
(2009) be implemented. 

opportunity to offer some clarifications.  

Security  Council  resolution  1862  (2009)  and  the 
relevant  presidential  statements  preceding  it  were 
adopted  before  the  facts  on  the  ground  had  been 
ascertained. As the conflict erupted, there was a desire 
at the highest level on the Eritrean side to address the 
matter quietly. That approach was accepted by Djibouti 
at  the  highest  level,  only  to  be  later  abandoned  and 
internationalized  for  reasons  that  are  best  known  to 
Djibouti. 

Even now, Eritrea still wishes the restoration and 
cultivation of good-neighbourly relations with Djibouti 
(Eritrea):  Let  me 
Mr.  Giorgio 
recall 
take 
this 
A/64/PV.13
that 
on  the  basis  of  full  mutual  respect  for  each  other’s 
territorial integrity and authority.  

Miss  Hassan  (Djibouti)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am 
taking  the  floor  to  respond  to  the  statement  just  made 
by the representative of Eritrea.  

As I just said in my previous statement, in no way 
do I wish to get the Assembly involved in an argument 
today. The facts speak for themselves. I should just like 
to  recall  that  available  United  Nations  documents 
prove  what  I  just  stated:  that  the  United  Nations  fact-
finding  mission  concluded 
there  was  good 
cooperation  on  Djibouti’s  part  and  a 
lack  of 
cooperation  and 
the  Secretary-
General’s good offices on Eritrea’s part.  
Furthermore,  I  am  very  pleased  to  hear  that  the 

Eritrean  delegation  is  speaking  of  calm  and  good-
neighbourly  relations.  I  think  that  perhaps  that  is  the 
beginning  of  a  change  in  position,  which  is  desirable. 
That is why I should like the Members of the General 
Assembly  to  refer  to  the  report  of  the  fact-finding 
mission  (S/2008/602),  which  is  an  official  United 
Nations document.  

the last speaker in exercise of the right of reply. 

As we are now approaching the conclusion of the 
general debate, I should like to make a brief statement. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 
total  rejection  of 


Statement by the President 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  general 
debate  of  the  General  Assembly  has  now  concluded. 
On  behalf  of  the  Assembly,  I  thank  all  speakers  for 
their statements. I have listened carefully to their views 
and suggestions. The breadth and depth of their vision, 
as well as the passion of their convictions, are genuine 
testimony to the importance of this universal body. 

I  had  suggested,  at  the  beginning  of  the  session, 
that  we  reflect  on  “Effective  responses  to  global 
crises —  strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue 
among  civilizations  for  international  peace,  security 
and development” as the main theme for this debate. I 
welcome the fact that that topic has served as a catalyst 
for 
important  policy  discussion.  Throughout  our 
debate,  we  have  heard  a  clear  call  for  dialogue  and 
have seen a willingness to work side by side.  

It is obvious that the greatest challenges facing us 
today span the entire globe and cannot be resolved by a 
09-53165 

45 
to 
A/64/PV.13

single  country,  small  group  or  region.  Our  increasing 
interdependence  calls 
for  concerted  and  united 
responses  to  those  challenges  based  on  common 
understanding,  close 
international  cooperation  and 
shared  responsibilities.  I  welcome  a  new  era  of 
engagement  based  on  mutual  interests,  mutual  respect 
and  a  more  just  and  democratic  world  order  in  which 
sovereign  Member  States  participate  on  an  equal 
footing.  

The  vision  of  nations  uniting  to  face  common 
challenges lies at the heart of the United Nations. I am 
encouraged  by  the  fact  that,  both  inside  and  outside 
this  Hall  and  at  various  meetings  and  events  held  on 
the  sidelines  of  this  debate,  we  have  seen  a  renewed 
commitment 
the  promotion  of  effective  and 
inclusive multilateralism.  

I  shall  work  with  all  Member  States  to  advance 
that  objective.  In  that  context,  we  must  ensure  full 
participation  and  ownership  on  the  part  of  everyone 
and, in particular, take into account the interests of the 
developing  world,  which  comprises  the  vast  majority 
of small- and medium-sized States.  
There  were  also  clear  calls  to  promote  greater 

coherence  and  understanding  among  regional  and 
political  groupings  as  well  as  dialogue  among  faiths, 
cultures  and  civilizations.  I  believe  that  we  need  to 
adopt  this  path  in  order  to  fully  tap  the  opportunities 
that  present 
the  global 
challenges  collectively  and  more  effectively.  The 
General Assembly  is  uniquely  placed  to  synergize  our 
efforts in that regard  and to forge collective strategies 
for the common good.  

There  is  a  widely  shared  concern  about  the 
impact of climate change on our planet and our present 
and  future  generations.  We  have  heard  powerful 
testimony  from  small 
island  States,  whose  very 
survival  is  threatened.  But  no  country  will  be  spared 
the  impact  of  climate  change.  Climate  change  is  a 
growing  global  threat  which  will  have  consequences 
for  the  global  economy,  health  and  safety,  food 
production,  peace  and  security  and  the  realization  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The 
poorest nations, which often contribute the least to the 
phenomenon,  are  the  most  vulnerable  to  climate 
change. 

There  is  a  readiness  by  Member  States  to  agree 
on  a  reduction  in  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and  to 
make  the  upcoming  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
to  address 
themselves 
situation 
Conference  in  Copenhagen  a  success.  We  must  now 
maintain this momentum. 

I  have  heard  calls  for  more  collective  action  to 
prevent  conflicts  and  settle  disputes  that  threaten 
international peace and security. In some areas we have 
taken  small  but  concrete  steps  towards  sustainable 
political  solutions,  as  in  Afghanistan,  Cyprus,  Haiti, 
Iraq, Liberia and Timor-Leste, but much more needs to 
be done, particularly in Africa, including in the Sudan 
and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I have also 
noted  members’  concerns  about  unresolved  conflicts 
that require our urgent attention. 

Of utmost concern to the international community 
is  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  particularly  the 
long-standing issue of Palestine, the core of the Arab-
Israeli  conflict.  The 
is  unsustainable, 
particularly  the  humanitarian  crisis  in  Gaza.  I  am 
encouraged by the efforts of the President of the United 
States  to  promote  a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive 
solution to the conflict in the Middle East. This entails 
full backing of the international community and a more 
effective role of the United Nations. 
The United Nations has unique legitimacy to play 

an active role in international peace and security. There 
has  been  broad  support  for  the  United  Nations  role  in 
peacekeeping,  peacebuilding,  conflict  prevention, 
mediation and protection of civilians. 

Disarmament remains a clear priority for Member 
States.  There  is  also  widely  shared  concern  about  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  as  a 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  We  have 
heard passionate and progressive calls for a world free 
of nuclear arms. I am encouraged by the willingness of 
Member States to engage constructively with respect to 
the Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation 
Treaty.  Let  us  all  work  together  to  ensure  equal 
security for all. 

Member States were unanimous in their view that 
peace and security was intricately linked to sustainable 
development. There is broad agreement on the need for 
a  collective  response  to  the  unprecedented  global 
financial  crisis.  People  in  developing  countries  have 
been  hit  particularly  hard  by 
the  financial  and 
economic crisis, which has exacerbated unemployment, 
poverty,  hunger  and  insecurity.  I  have  noted  the 
international 
suggestions 
economic  system, 
the  Bretton  Woods 
them  more 
institutions,  with  a  view 
strengthening 
including 
to  making 
for 
the 
46 

09-53165 


inclusive, transparent and democratic in their decision-
making. 

We  will  continue  the  follow-up  to  the  high-level 
Conference  on  the  World  Economic  and  Financial 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development.  We  must  not 
allow  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  to  become 
the prime victim of the financial crisis. As was rightly 
noted,  at  the  current  rate  it  will  take  more  than 
100 years  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  Drastic  measures  are 
therefore  needed.  Next  year,  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  will 
provide  us  with  the  opportunity  to  reinvigorate  the 
global partnership to make the MDG’s a reality. I look 
forward  to  the  cooperation  and  support  of  all  for  the 
success of the September 2010 high-level event. 

Some  five  years  after  2005  World  Summit,  our 
joint endeavour to reform the United Nations continues 
energetically.  I  have  heard  urgent  calls  for  reforming 
the Security Council comprehensively, making it more 
representative,  democratic  and  open  and,  hence,  more 
legitimate.  Many  members  have  also  emphasized  the 
need 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  to 
continue 
the  General 
Assembly.  We  shall  pursue  all 
these  objectives 
together. 
the  process  of  revitalizing 
the  review  of 
to  begin 
A/64/PV.13

Through  multilateralism  and  dialogue,  we  can 
collectively  achieve  all  these  goals.  We  will  need  to 
work  efficiently,  with  civility,  discipline  and  a 
readiness to compromise for the greater good. I want to 
assure  all  present  that  I  intend  to  conduct  this  work 
with transparency, fairness and respect for the General 
Assembly’s  central  and  crucial  role  in  the  United 
Nations. 

this spirit as we face our common challenges. 
(spoke in English) 

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 8?  

I  look  forward  to  working  with  all  members  in 
It was so decided. 


Organization of work 
The President: Before adjourning the meeting, I 

would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  document  A/INF/64/3,  which  has  been 
distributed desk to desk. It contains the programme of 
work  of  the  Assembly  and  the  schedule  of  plenary 
meetings  for  the  period  from  October  to  December 
2009.  I  would  also  like  to  inform  Members  that  the 
lists  of  speakers 
in  document 
A/INF/64/3 are now open. 
The meeting rose at 1.50 p.m. 


listed 
items 
for 
09-53165 

47 
