
A/64/PV.33
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

33rd plenary meeting 
Monday, 2 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
still  fighting  the  same  battles  to  secure  sufficient 
funding  as  we  were  back  in  the  1990s,  that  the 
development  side  of  our  mandate  remains  chronically 
underfunded  and  that  we  still  lack  adequate  legal 
authority  to  effectively  do  our  job  of  verification, 
safety and security. 

On  a  more  positive  note,  nuclear  disarmament, 
which failed to make any headway in the two decades 
after the end of the cold war, is now back at the top of 
the  international  agenda,  and  there  is  reason  to  hope 
that  we  may  see  a  breakthrough.  I  will  return  to  that 
subject in a moment.  

First, I will outline some of the main changes in 
the work of the IAEA over the past 12 years and offer 
some thoughts on both the future of the Agency and the 
international environment in which it operates. 

I will start with nuclear power. The world seems 
set  for  a  significant  expansion  in  the  use  of  nuclear 
power,  with  scores  of  countries  expressing  interest  in 
introducing  it  as  part  of  their  energy  mix.  Not 
surprisingly,  most  of  them  are  from  the  developing 
world,  which  urgently  needs  a  dramatic  increase  in 
electricity  supply  if  it  is  to  lift  its  people  out  of 
poverty.  Energy  is  the  engine  of  development.  For 
many  countries,  nuclear  power,  with 
its  good 
performance  and  safety  record,  is  a  way  to  meet  their 
surging  demand  for  energy,  reduce  their  vulnerability 
to  fluctuations  in  the  cost  of  fossil  fuels  and  combat 
climate change. The IAEA has adjusted its priorities to 
focus more on the nuclear power programmes of what 
we call the newcomers. 




The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 




Agenda item 85 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 

  Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/64/257) 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.7) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have  the 

pleasure  to  invite  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director 
General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, to 
introduce the report of the Agency for the year 2008. 
Mr.  ElBaradei  (International  Atomic  Energy 

Agency):  This  will  be  my  last  speech  to  the  General 
Assembly  as  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Since  I  first spoke to 
the  Assembly  in  1998,  the  Agency  has  moved  from 
being  a  relatively  unknown  technical  organization, 
whose work was of interest mainly to specialists in the 
nuclear field, to becoming a major player at the centre 
of  issues  critical  to  international  peace  and  security. 
The  Agency  has  gained  universal  respect  for  its 
independence  and  objectivity  in  nuclear  verification, 
safety  and  security.  We  have  also  made  considerable 
progress  in  bringing  the  benefits  of  peaceful  nuclear 
technology  to  developing  countries,  improving  their 
access to energy, health care, food and clean water. 

While  I  leave  office  after  12  years  with  pride  in 
the  IAEA’s  many  achievements,  I  must  also  express 
some  disappointment  —  disappointment  that  we  are 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-58976 (E) 
*0958976* 



IAEA 
A/64/PV.33 


Nuclear  safety  has  improved  significantly  since 
the  shock  of  Chernobyl  in  1986,  but  the  risk  of 
accidents  can  never  be  eliminated  completely.  It  is  in 
all  our  interests  to  ensure  that  the  highest  safety 
standards  are  upheld  everywhere. 
safety 
standards have become the global benchmark and have 
recently been adopted by the European Union. I would 
like  to  see  the  safety  standards  accepted  by  all 
countries and, ideally, made binding. 

Turning to the development side of our mandate, 
the  Agency  is  the  principal  vehicle  for  multilateral 
nuclear  technology  transfer,  helping  countries  to  use 
nuclear  techniques  in  food  and  agriculture,  human 
health,  water  resources  and  the  environment.  Our 
technical cooperation activities have made a difference. 
For example, induced crop mutations involving nuclear 
techniques  have  produced  salt-tolerant 
rice  and 
drought-resistant  wheat,  providing  better  nutrition  and 
food  security  and  improving  economic  prospects  for 
farmers.  Likewise,  isotope  data  provide  a  unique  tool 
to  determine  the  availability  and  vulnerability  of 
groundwater  systems  over  the  long  term,  so  that 
reliable supplies of fresh  water can be  secured for the 
next generation. 

Our Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy — 
PACT  —  is  bringing  new  hope  to  cancer  patients  and 
their  families  in  developing  countries,  where  the 
incidence  of  cancer  continues  to  rise  inexorably. 
Twenty-seven of the 53 countries in Africa, for example, 
have  no  operating  radiotherapy  services  at  all  —  no 
screening,  no  early  diagnosis,  no  palliative  care 
programmes.  In  other  parts  of  Africa,  there  is  one 
radiotherapy  machine  for  every  70  million  people.  In 
Europe,  by  contrast,  there  is  one  machine  for  every 
250,000 people. 

in  1998,  our  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme totalled a modest $80 million per year. Ten 
years 
the  programme  disbursed 
$96 million  —  a  negligible  increase,  in  my  view, 
considering  inflation  and  the  growth  in  the  Agency 
membership from 127 countries to the present 150, as 
well  as  the  increasing  development  needs  of  member 
States.  We  can  and  should  do  much  more,  but  that 
requires  a  significant  increase  in  funding  —  which, 
regrettably,  has  not  been  made  available  to  us.  I  urge 
donor  States  to  recognize  the  link  between  security, 
which  you  all  seek,  and  development.  Without 
development,  there  can  be  no  security.  The  reverse  is 
also true. 
in  2008, 
Back 
later, 


Improving  life  for  the  2  billion  people  —  one 
third of humanity — who live on less than $2 per day 
is  not  just  the  right  thing  to  do,  it  is  also  the  smart 
thing  to  do.  By  helping  to  address  the  root  causes  of 
instability  and  insecurity,  including  endemic  conflicts, 
poor  governance  and  poverty,  we  make  it  less  likely 
that  countries  will  feel  the  temptation  to  seek  nuclear 
or other weapons of mass destruction. 

The  gravest  threat  the  world  faces  today,  in  my 
opinion, is that extremists could get hold of nuclear or 
radioactive  materials.  In  the  wake  of  the  9/11  attacks, 
the  IAEA  initiated  a  comprehensive  programme  to 
combat the risk of nuclear terrorism. I am proud of the 
speed  and  efficiency  with  which 
the  Agency 
established  an  effective  nuclear  security  programme, 
which has provided $50 million in equipment, training 
and  other  assistance  to  member  States  over  the  last 
three years.  

But  it  is  disconcerting  that  nuclear  security 
continues to  be funded  almost entirely from voluntary 
contributions,  which  come  with  many  conditions 
attached  and  are  both  insufficient  and  unpredictable. 
Much more needs to be done. The number of incidents 
of  illicit  trafficking  and  other  unauthorized  activities 
reported to our Illicit Trafficking Database — over 200 
last  year  —  remains  a  cause  of  grave  concern,  and 
might well be only the tip of the iceberg. 

landscape  has 
changed  radically  over  the  last  two  decades. The  way 
in  which  the  Agency  implements  safeguards  has  also 
undergone  a  metamorphosis.  We  have  moved  beyond 
simple  verification  of  declared  nuclear  material  at 
declared facilities to assessing information on a State’s 
entire  nuclear  programme  and,  most 
importantly, 
verifying  the  absence  of  undeclared  activities.  The 
Model  Additional  Protocol,  which  was  approved  in 
1997, has become an essential verification tool. Within 
the  limited  resources  and  capabilities  available  to  us, 
we  have  made 
the  advanced 
technology critical to verification today, such as remote 
monitoring,  environmental  sampling  and  satellite 
imagery.  

As  I  reported  to  the  Security  Council  summit-
level  meeting  on  nuclear  disarmament  in  September 
(see  S/PV.6191),  our  ability 
to  detect  possible 
clandestine  nuclear  material  and  activities  depends  on 
the  extent  to  which  we  are  given  the  necessary  legal 
authority,  technology  and  resources.  Regrettably,  we 
The  global  non-proliferation 
increasing  use  of 
2 

09-58976 
the 
validate 
environmental 
top-quality  satellite 
if  not  addressed,  could  put 


face  continuing  major  shortcomings  in  all  three  areas, 
which, 
the  entire 
non-proliferation  regime  at  risk.  In  over  90  States, 
either the Agency has no verification authority at all or 
its authority is inadequate because those countries have 
not  concluded  the  necessary  agreements  with  the 
Agency. That means we often cannot verify whether a 
country is engaged in clandestine nuclear activities. 
Our  credibility  depends  on  our  independence. 

Additional  funding 
is  urgently  needed  for  state-
of-the-art  technology  so  that,  for  example,  we  can 
independently 
sampling 
analyses. We also need improved and consistent access 
to 
imagery.  Continuing  with 
budgets  that  fall  far  short  of  our  essential  verification 
needs in the coming years is not a viable option. 
Iraq  and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 

Korea  were 
two  cases  of  suspected  nuclear 
proliferation preoccupying the international community 
when I took office.  

I will always lament the fact that a tragic war was 
launched  in  Iraq,  which  has  cost  the  lives  of  possibly 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  innocent  civilians. This  was 
done  on 
the  basis  of  a  false  pretext,  without 
authorization  from  the  Security  Council,  and  despite 
the  Agency  and 
the  United  Nations  Monitoring, 
Verification  and  Inspection  Commission  having  found 
no evidence that Iraq had  revived its nuclear weapons 
programme or programmes involving other weapons of 
mass  destruction.  It  gives  me  no  consolation  that  the 
Agency’s findings were subsequently vindicated. 

In  the  case  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea, 16 years after the IAEA reported that country 
to  the  Security  Council  for  non-compliance  with  its 
non-proliferation  obligations,  it  has  moved  from  the 
likely possession of undeclared plutonium to acquiring 
nuclear weapons. The on-again-off-again nature of the 
dialogue  between  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
and  the  international  community  has  stymied  the 
resolution of this issue, which is a glaring example of 
the fragility and shortcomings of the non-proliferation 
regime. 
In my view, important lessons need to be learned 

from  Iraq  and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea. The main one is that we must let diplomacy and 
thorough  verification 
their  course,  however 
lengthy and tiresome the process might be. We need to 
carefully assess the veracity of intelligence information. 
take 
A/64/PV.33
the  gun  or  be 
We must engage those with whom we have differences 
in dialogue, rather than seek to isolate them. We must 
act within the framework of international institutions — 
in this case, the IAEA and the Security Council — and 
empower  them,  rather  than  bypass  them  through 
unilateral  action.  The Agency,  for  its  part,  must  draw 
conclusions  justified  by  the  facts  alone.  It  must  not 
jump 
influenced  by  political 
considerations.  Force  should  never  be  used  unless 
every  other  option  has  been  exhausted,  and  then  only 
within  the  bounds  of  international  law,  as  codified  in 
the United Nations Security Council. 

All  of  these  lessons  are  applicable  today  in  the 
case  of  Iran,  whose  nuclear  programme  remains  an 
issue before both the Agency and the Security Council. 
Six  years  have  passed  since  Iran  was  reported  to  the 
IAEA  Board  of  Governors  for  failing  to  declare 
material and activities to the Agency, in violation of its 
safeguards  agreement.  As  a  result  of  difficult  and 
painstaking  work,  the  Agency  has  acquired  a  better 
understanding  of  Iran’s  civil  nuclear  programme. 
Nevertheless,  a  number  of  questions  and  allegations 
relevant  to  the  nature  of  that  programme  are  still 
outstanding  and  need  to  be  clarified  by  Iran  through 
transparency and cooperation with the Agency. 

However,  as  I  have  pointed  out  many  times, 
addressing the concerns of the international community 
about  Iran’s  future  intentions  is  primarily  a  matter  of 
confidence-building,  which  can  only  be  achieved 
through  dialogue.  I  therefore  urge  Iran  to  be  as 
forthcoming  as  possible  in  responding  soon  to  my 
recent  proposal,  based  on  the  initiative  of  the  United 
States, Russia and France, which aimed to engage Iran 
in a series of measures that could build confidence and 
trust  and  open 
the  way  for  comprehensive  and 
substantive dialogue between Iran and the international 
community.  

that  of  mutual 
guarantees  among  the  parties.  I  should  add,  however, 
that  trust-  and  confidence-building  are  an  incremental 
process that requires focusing on the big picture and a 
willingness to take risks for peace. This is a unique and 
fleeting 
from 
confrontation  to  cooperation  and  therefore  should  not 
be missed. 

The  Agency  cannot  do  its  nuclear  verification 
work  in  isolation.  It  depends  on  a  supportive  political 
process,  with  the  Security  Council  at  its  core.  The 
issue  at  stake  remains 
opportunity 
reverse 
course 
The 
to 
09-58976 

3 
uranium 
or 
an 
effective 
enrichment 
to  develop 
A/64/PV.33 

Council  needs 
and 
comprehensive compliance mechanism which does not 
rely  only  on  sanctions,  which  too  often  hurt  the 
vulnerable  and  the  innocent.  It  must  focus  more  on 
conflict prevention and address the insecurities that lie 
behind  many  cases  of  proliferation,  such  as  mistrust 
and unresolved conflict. 

I have in the past drawn the General Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  growing  number  of  States  that  have 
mastered 
plutonium 
reprocessing. Any one of these States has the capacity 
to develop nuclear weapons in a short span of time — a 
margin of security which is too close for comfort. 

To  address  that  challenge,  which  could  be  the 
Achilles heel of the non-proliferation regime, I believe 
that  we  need  to  move  from  national  to  multinational 
control of the nuclear fuel cycle. As a first step, I have 
proposed the establishment of a low enriched uranium 
bank to assure States a guaranteed last-resort supply of 
nuclear  fuel  for  their  reactors  so  that  they  might  not 
need their own enrichment or reprocessing capability. 

A number of complementary proposals have also 
been  made.  There  are  no  technical  or  legal  stumbling 
blocks that could not be overcome. The basic question 
is  one  of  trust-building  between  States.  I  remain 
convinced  that  some  such  mechanism  is  essential  as 
more and more countries introduce nuclear energy. Our 
ultimate goal should be the full multinationalization of 
the  sensitive  part  of  the  fuel  cycle  —  uranium 
enrichment and plutonium reprocessing — as we move 
towards  a  world  free  from  nuclear  weapons.  Such  a 
world  is,  I  believe,  within  our  grasp  following  the 
courageous  initiative  of  President  Obama  and  the 
resumption  of 
serious  disarmament  negotiations 
between the two largest nuclear-weapon States. 

Nuclear  weapons  are,  regrettably,  still  seen  as 
bringing  power  and  prestige  and  providing  an 
insurance  policy  against  possible  attack.  However,  by 
demonstrating 
to 
achieving  a  world  free  from  nuclear  weapons,  the 
weapon  States  can  greatly  enhance  the  value  and 
legitimacy of the non-proliferation regime and gain the 
moral authority to call on the rest of the world to curb 
the proliferation of these inhumane weapons.  

I  do  not  expect  to  see  a  world  free  from  nuclear 
weapons in my lifetime, but I am increasingly hopeful 
that my children may live in such a world, in particular 
in  the  light  of  the  growing  realization  that,  with  the 
commitment 
their 
irreversible 

increase 
in  demand  for 
technology  out  of  the  box  and  an  increasing  risk  of 
nuclear terrorism, the danger of nuclear weapons being 
used  has 
increased  considerably.  The  Security 
Council’s  recent  adoption  of  resolution  1887  (2009), 
pledging  to  create  the  conditions  for  a  world  without 
nuclear  weapons,  is  encouraging.  It  is  vital  that  the 
2010  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  Review 
Conference build on this momentum. 

It  is  clear  that  tremendous  challenges,  but  also 
tremendous opportunities, lie ahead  for the Agency. If 
nuclear disarmament proceeds successfully, as I hope it 
will, 
that  could  create  a  significant  additional 
verification  role  for  the  Agency.  In  50  years’  time, 
there  may  be  several  dozen  additional  countries  with 
nuclear  power  programmes,  mostly  in  what  today  is 
known  as  the  developing  world.  That  will  mean  a 
considerable 
the  IAEA’s 
services in nuclear safety, security and verification. 

The  IAEA’s  dual  mandate  of  security  and 
development  is  unique.  But  we  are  part  of  a  complex 
web of international security mechanisms that need to 
work  in  harmony  if  we  are  to  effectively  serve  the 
people  who  put  their  trust  in  us.  I  do  not  share  the 
prevailing  cynicism  about  international  organizations. 
Like all human endeavours they have their weaknesses, 
but  they  are  capable  of  great  things  if  properly 
resourced  and  empowered  and  competently  led.  We 
live  in  an  increasingly  globalized  world,  and  none  of 
the major problems we face — terrorism, hunger, arms 
control,  climate  change  —  can  be  solved  by  any  one 
country  alone.  We  need  effective 
international 
institutions. 

Ultimately,  we  need  a  new  global  system  of 
collective  security  that  entails  an  overhaul  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and,  above  all,  of  the  Security 
Council:  a  new  system  in  which  no  country  feels  the 
need to rely on nuclear weapons for its security; a new 
system  with  effective  global  mechanisms  for  conflict 
prevention,  peacekeeping 
an 
equitable and inclusive system in which security is not 
perceived as a zero sum game or based on domination 
or on a balance of power; a system that places human 
security  and  human  solidarity  at  its  core,  grasps  our 
shared destiny as one human family and enables all of 
us to live together free from fear and free from want. 

In  conclusion,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
my deep gratitude to the Republic of Austria for being 
a  most  gracious  and  supportive  host  country  for  the 
and  peacemaking; 
4 

09-58976 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 


IAEA.  I  congratulate  my  successor,  Director  General-
elect  Yukiya  Amano,  and  wish  him  every  success.  I 
thank the General Assembly for its support during my 
12  years  as  Director  General.  We  have  come  through 
some challenging times together. It has been an honour 
and a privilege to work with all of you. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly  I  should  like  to  thank  the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  for  presenting  this  valuable  report. As  this  is 
the last time  he addresses  the Assembly in his current 
capacity,  we  express  our  satisfaction  and  appreciation 
to him for the role he has played. 

Malaysia to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.7.  
Mr. Ali (Malaysia): On behalf of my delegation, I 

should like to thank Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), for the introduction of the report of the IAEA 
for  2008  and  for  his  statement,  which  concisely 
depicted  the  various  activities  undertaken  by  the 
Agency  this  year  and  the  challenges  faced  by  the 
Agency in carrying out its tasks. 

In Malaysia’s capacity as Chairman of the IAEA 
Board  of  Governors  and  on  behalf  of  the  sponsors,  I 
have  the  honour  to  introduce  the  draft  resolution 
contained  in  document A/64/L.7  on  the  Report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  We  would  like 
thank all sponsors of this draft resolution, and we invite 
others to join in co-sponsoring it. This draft resolution 
is 
in  Vienna, 
following which, in October 2009, it was unanimously 
adopted by all member States of the IAEA. 

In general, this draft resolution is an update of a 
similar  resolution  adopted  by  consensus  at  the  sixty-
third session of the General Assembly (resolution 63/6). 
It  takes  note  of,  among  other  things,  the  report  of  the 
IAEA  and  the  resolutions  adopted  at  the  fifty-third 
regular session of the  IAEA General Conference, held 
in Vienna from 14 to 18 September 2009. In addition, it 
expresses the Assembly’s appreciation for the 12 years 
of distinguished service by Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei as 
Director  General  of  the  Agency  and  extends  its  best 
wishes  to  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  the  incoming  Director 
General of the Agency. 

As in previous years, the resolution reaffirms the 
Assembly’s strong support for the indispensable role of 
the  product  of  consultations  held 
A/64/PV.33
Allow  me  also 
to 
take 
in  encouraging  and  assisting 
It is my sincerest hope the General Assembly will 
Mr.  Örnéus  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  Agency 
the 
development and practical application of atomic energy 
for peaceful uses, in technology transfer to developing 
countries  and 
in  nuclear  safety,  verification  and 
security.  It  also  appeals  to  Member  States  to  continue 
to support the activities of the Agency. 

adopt this draft resolution by consensus. 

speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 

At the outset, I should like to thank the secretariat 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and 
its Director General, Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, for their 
hard work over the past year. We thank Mr. ElBaradei 
for his report on the activities of the IAEA in 2009.  

to 
this  opportunity 
congratulate Mr. ElBaradei on his successful tenure as 
Director General of the Agency. The last 12 years have 
at times been exceptionally dramatic for the IAEA, and 
it has been well served by having at its helm a person 
with  strong  integrity  and  diplomatic  skill.  The  Nobel 
Peace  Prize  in  2005  was  a  just  recognition  of  the 
achievements  both  of  the  Director  General  and  of  the 
Agency. 

We  also  warmly  welcome  Ambassador  Amano, 
who will take office as the new Director General of the 
Agency in December. The challenges facing the world 
today  in  the  fields  of  non-proliferation  and  nuclear 
safety and security are indeed demanding. The European 
Union  is  convinced  that  Ambassador  Amano  has  the 
experience required to take on the tasks ahead and the 
EU can assure him of its strong support. 

EU member States are among the sponsors of the 
draft resolution on the  report of the  IAEA (A/64/L.7). 
We  praise  the  efforts  by  the  Chairman  of  the  IAEA 
Board  of  Governors  and  sincerely  hope  that  the  draft 
resolution will be adopted by consensus. 
While the EU fully supports the draft resolution, 

this  does  not  imply  support  for  IAEA  resolution 
GC(53)/RES/17, which is mentioned in paragraph 2 of 
the draft resolution. In this regard, the EU recalls that 
when that resolution was adopted by the IAEA General 
Conference,  a  considerable  number  of  States  voted 
against it, among them all EU member States. 

Fifty years ago, the IAEA was set up to promote 
“Atoms  for  Peace”,  with  the  mandate  to  increase  the 
09-58976 

5 

essential  part  of 
A/64/PV.33 

contribution  of  nuclear  energy  to  peace,  health  and 
prosperity,  to  ensure  that  nuclear  activities  are  not 
diverted to military purposes, to spread throughout the 
world  a  culture  of  safety,  as  well  as  rigorous  safety 
standards  and,  more  recently,  to  avert  the  risk  of 
nuclear  terrorism.  Today  the  Agency  is  faced  with  a 
number  of  compelling  challenges,  in  particular  nuclear 
proliferation and compliance issues. 
The international safeguards system of the IAEA 

is 
an 
the  global  nuclear 
non-proliferation regime since its prime objective is to 
detect  and  deter  the  diversion  of  nuclear  materials  for 
use  in  nuclear  weapons.  The  European  Union  is 
working  towards  making  the  Additional  Protocol  a 
condition  for  the  supply  of  nuclear  exports.  All  EU 
member  States  have  had Additional  Protocols  in  force 
since  May  2004.  We  reiterate  that  the  Agency’s 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  and  Additional 
Protocols constitute the current verification standard.  

The EU regrets that there are still a considerable 
number  of  States  that  have  yet  to  bring  into  force 
Additional Protocols. We urge States that have not yet 
done  so  to  sign  and  bring  their  respective  safeguards 
agreements  into  force,  as  well  as  the  Additional 
Protocols to the agreements. 
the 

framework  for  cooperative  efforts 
to  build  and 
strengthen  an  international  safety  and  security  regime 
and have the full support of the European Union in this 
regard. 
The IAEA plays an important role in strengthening 

the  global  nuclear  safety  framework.  The  EU  fully 
supports  the  Agency’s  efforts  in  this  field.  Under  the 
Instrument  for  Nuclear  Safety  Cooperation  and  the 
Instrument  for  Pre-accession Assistance,  the  European 
Union has dedicated some €570 million for the period 
2007-2013  to  assist  countries  to  strengthen  their 
nuclear safety and radiation protection regimes. Under 
these instruments, the EU is cooperating with the IAEA 
to  implement  specific  projects  with  IAEA  member 
States. 

The  EU  recognizes  that  nuclear  security  is  an 
essential programme of the Agency and commends the 
IAEA  for  its  activities  aimed  at  preventing  and 
combating  nuclear 
terrorism.  Through  a  financial 
contribution  of  more  than  €20  million  since  2004,  the 
EU  is  the  major  donor  to  the  IAEA  Nuclear  Security 
IAEA’s  activities  have  established 
The 
adopted  by 
Fund.  We  call  on  all  States  to  commit  themselves  to 
financing the Fund. 

The safety and security of radioactive sources are 
indeed of utmost importance. In this regard, the role of 
the  Code  of  Conduct  on  the  Safety  and  Security  of 
Radioactive  Sources, 
the  General 
Conference  of  the  Agency  in  2003,  is  of  particular 
importance.  The  European  Union  has  made  a 
commitment to respect the Code and urges all States to 
do likewise. 
The  task  of  the  IAEA  to  foster  international 

cooperation for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and 
to  promote  nuclear  safety  and  security  and,  not  least, 
nuclear verification, remains more important than ever 
in today’s world. 

In  concluding,  the  EU  reiterates  its  full  support 
for  the  IAEA  and  is  pleased  to  be  a  sponsor  of  draft 
resolution A/64/L.7,  on  the  report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
appreciation  to  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei  for  the  work 
he  has  done  during  his  12  years  in  office  as  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA). His achievements and the honours he received 
while  in  office  earned  him  universal  acclaim  as  is 
confirmed by the Nobel Peace Prize that was awarded 
to the Agency and to him personally. 

We welcome the appointment of the new Director 
General,  Ambassador  Amano  of  Japan,  and  pledge  to 
him  our  full  support.  We  hope  that  his  activities  will 
assist  in  preserving  the  great  prominence  of  the 
Agency,  whose  work  has  always  been  based  on  the 
principles  of 
the 
interests of all its member States. 

the  global  centre  for 
cooperation  in  the  nuclear  field  for  more  than  half  a 
century.  Under  current  conditions  and  taking  into 
account new challenges and threats encountered by the 
world  community,  the  role  of  the  IAEA  as  the  sole 
international organization with the task of ensuring the 
necessary balance between the development of the safe 
and  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and  the  adherence 
of States to the regime of nuclear non-proliferation has 
become increasingly more important. We commend the 
activities  of  the  IAEA  to  date  and  are  committed  to 
further strengthening the Agency’s potential. 
impartiality  and  objectivity 
The  IAEA  has  been 
in 
6 

09-58976 



In  our  view,  the  main  task  for  the  immediate 
future  is  to  ensure  conditions  under  which  all  IAEA 
member  States  may  take  full  advantage  of  nuclear 
energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime, 
without any impediments. 

Upgrading  the  IAEA’s  potential  in  uncovering 
undeclared nuclear materials and unannounced nuclear 
activities  is  an  important  track  in  strengthening  this 
regime.  The  Agency’s  safeguards  system  plays  an 
important  role  in  ensuring  the  effectiveness  of  the 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  Making  the  system 
universal  will  allow  the  Agency  to  guarantee  with 
reliable  certainty  that  there  are  no  undeclared  nuclear 
materials or activities worldwide.  

We  proceed  from  the  understanding  that  in  the 
future  the  safeguards  agreement  and  the  Additional 
Protocol  to  it  should  become  the  universal  norm  for 
verifying compliance by States parties to the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  with  their 
non-proliferation  obligations,  as  well  as  the  new 
standard  in  the  field  of  arrangements  on  nuclear 
supplies.  We  hope  that  all  countries  that  have  not  yet 
acceded  to  this  most  important  document  and,  above 
all,  those  carrying  out  significant  nuclear  activities, 
will do so as soon as possible. 

With respect to the ever-increasing role of nuclear 
energy  in  the  world  and  the  commission  of  new 
production and energy potentials related to the nuclear 
field, the scope of the IAEA control activities will also 
be growing. In this regard, it is now time to ponder the 
matter  of  making 
technical  control 
capabilities  commensurate  with  the  expanded  number 
of facilities placed under its safeguards. 
In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  work  of  the 

Agency’s secretariat to apply the concept of integrated 
safeguards  in  the  Agency’s  control  activities  on  a 
practical basis. The Russian Federation will continue to 
assist the Agency in reinforcing the safeguards system 
through  the  financing  of  the  national  programme  of 
scientific and technological support for IAEA safeguards. 

To  date,  much  has  been  done  to  create  an 
effective  international  safety  net  to  prevent  nuclear 
weapons  and  nuclear  materials  from  falling  into  the 
hands of terrorists. In that connection, it is necessary to 
stress  the  importance  of  the  IAEA’s  systematic  efforts 
to  strengthen  the  worldwide  nuclear  physical  safety 
IAEA’s 
the 
A/64/PV.33
a 
joint 
adopted 
regime.  We  support  the  adoption  of  a  new  IAEA 
nuclear physical safety plan for 2010-2013.  

As the terrorist threat is international, we deem it 
necessary  to  strengthen  mechanisms  for  multilateral 
and  bilateral  cooperation.  At  the  meeting  in  Moscow 
on 6 July 2009, the Presidents of Russia and the United 
States 
statement  on  nuclear 
cooperation.  In  particular,  the  statement  confirmed 
their commitment to enhancing cooperation to prevent 
the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and  to  suppress 
acts  of  nuclear  terrorism.  The  statement  also  declared 
the intent to broaden and deepen long-term cooperation 
to  further  strengthen  the  security  of  nuclear  facilities 
throughout the world, including by means of continued 
activity  to  return  spent  high  enriched  uranium  fuel  to 
producer States, to develop new types of low enriched 
uranium  fuel,  potentially  to  convert  research  reactor 
cores  in  third  countries,  and  to  minimize  the  use  of 
high  enriched  uranium  in  civilian  applications,  where 
feasible. We invite all Member States to join us in that 
work. 

We would like to report that Russia has adopted a 
principled  decision  to  make,  starting  in  2010,  a 
significant voluntary contribution to the IAEA Nuclear 
Security Fund, amounting to $1.5 million in 2010 and 
$1  million  annually  from  2011  to  2015. We  hope  that 
our  contribution  will  help  to  further  strengthen  the 
nuclear physical safety regime. 

to  Combat  Nuclear 
Initiative 
Terrorism, put forward by the Presidents of Russia and 
of  the  United  States  in  2006,  is  a  another  important 
contribution  to  resolving  that  task.  The  Initiative  is 
acquiring a global dimension, as 76 States have already 
joined  it  as  participating  nations.  Key  international 
instruments,  such  as  the  Convention  on  the  Physical 
Protection  of  Nuclear  Material,  the  2005  Amendment 
to  that  Convention  and  the  International  Convention 
for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism serve 
as a basis for cooperation within the Global Initiative. 

The  implementation  of  the  technical  cooperation 
programme  is  an  important  element  of  the  Agency’s 
activities. The Russian Federation has been paying and 
intends  to  continue  to  pay  in  full  its  voluntary 
contributions  to  the Technical  Cooperation  Fund. This 
year,  we  have  contributed  23.6  million  rubles  to  the 
Fund.  In  addition, 
late  2008,  we  contributed 
240 million rubles to assist the Republic of Armenia in 
The  Global 
in 
09-58976 

7 

site  and  accelerating 
A/64/PV.33 

improving  the  safety  of  the  Armenian  nuclear  power 
plant under the IAEA technical cooperation programme. 

The  Russian  Federation  ensures  the  appropriate 
level  of  safety  regulation  in  its  use  of  nuclear  energy, 
in  compliance  with  international  conventions  and 
IAEA  recommendations.  This  year,  for  the  first  time 
Russia  will  receive  an  IAEA  mission  to  assess  the 
activities  of  the  national  safety  regulation  entities  in 
the use of nuclear energy.  

The  Russian  Federation  has  decided  to  assist 
Ukraine  in  improving  the  safety  of  the  Chernobyl 
nuclear  power  plant 
the 
decommissioning of the facility. In 2009, we allocated 
$10  million  to  that  end,  and  next  year  we  shall 
contribute  an  additional  $7  million  to  the  Chernobyl 
Shelter Fund. 

With  respect  to  current  non-proliferation  and 
environmental  safety  matters,  we  continue  to  work  to 
return  spent  high  enriched  uranium  fuel  to  Russia, 
jointly  with  the  United  States,  the  IAEA  and  partner 
countries  in  technical  cooperation  projects  related  to 
the removal of high enriched uranium fuel from Soviet-
made research reactors. As of 1 September 2009, over 
470 kilos of fresh and 415 kilos, in uranium equivalent, 
of  irradiated  high  enriched  uranium  fuel  had  been 
returned 
including  from 
Romania,  Latvia,  Bulgaria, 
the  Czech  Republic, 
Uzbekistan,  Hungary  and  Kazakhstan. 
In  2009, 
respective  intergovernmental  agreements  were  signed 
with Romania, Serbia and Poland. 
The  development  of  nuclear  energy  in  many 

countries  raises  the  issue  of  a  reliable  supply  of  the 
appropriate  fuel.  From  the  economic  point  of  view, 
creating the capability for nuclear fuel production is a 
very  expensive  process.  We  believe  that  the  most 
effective decision here could be the implementation of 
initiatives  with  respect  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  with 
the  IAEA  playing  a  central  role  and  in  the  framework 
of  multilateral  approaches,  aimed  at  providing  an 
economically feasible and practically viable alternative 
to establishing all its elements at the national level. We 
highly appreciate and support the role of the Agency in 
promoting multilateral approaches to the establishment 
of nuclear fuel cycle services. We are prepared to work 
with  all  interested  countries  on  defining  and  aligning 
initiatives  on  multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear 
fuel cycle, where that is possible and feasible. 
to  Russia  from  abroad, 
energy 
infrastructure, 
the 
the 
Within 
the  framework  of 

initiative  put 
forward  by  the  President  of  Russia  to  create  a  global 
nuclear 
International 
Uranium  Enrichment  Centre  was  established  in  2007, 
in cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the 
premises  of  the  Angarsk  Electrolysis  Chemical  Plant 
open joint-stock company. In 2008, the Centre obtained 
all the necessary permits and licences to begin practical 
activities as a supplier of goods and services. This year, 
Armenia  joined  the  International  Uranium  Enrichment 
Centre,  while  Ukraine’s  membership  process 
is 
currently being finalized.  

We  share  with  IAEA  the  view  that  the  Centre  is 
capable  of  addressing  issues  not  only  of  guaranteed 
access  to  nuclear  fuel  cycle  services,  but  also  of 
guaranteed  deliveries  of  nuclear  fuel  at  the  Agency’s 
request. We continue to develop the initiative to create 
a  guaranteed  reserve  of  low  enriched  uranium  in  a 
volume of two full reactor-core fuelling loads of 1,000 
megawatts installed capacity, with their planned storage 
entrusted  to  the  International  Uranium  Enrichment 
Centre under an arrangement with the IAEA. 

Last  year,  at  the  fifty-second  session  of  the 
General Conference of the IAEA, Russia introduced  a 
proposal  on  the  principle  of  establishing  guaranteed 
reserves.  This  year,  we 
that 
initiative.  It  was  presented  in  detail  at  the  March  and 
June  meetings  of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors.  A 
detailed description of the initiative has been issued as 
an information paper of the Agency. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  Russian 
proposal  is  based  on  article  IX  of  the  Statute  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  The  rights  of 
States  members  of  the Agency  are  not  infringed  upon 
or  derogated  from,  including  with  regard  to  the 
development of their own production capacities within 
the  nuclear  fuel  cycle.  The  right  to  receive  high 
enriched  uranium  from  a  guaranteed  reserve  does  not 
entail  renouncing  the  rights  to  create  and  develop  a 
fuel cycle. We are not proposing such a condition. The 
material  can  be  supplied  to  any  non-nuclear  IAEA 
member  State  that  is  not  in  breach  of  its  safeguards 
agreement  and  has  placed  all  its  nuclear  activities 
under IAEA safeguards. 

The  implementation  of  the  IAEA  International 
Project on Innovative Nuclear Reactors and Fuel Cycles 
(INPRO), initiated by Russia, serves as an example of 
successful international cooperation under the auspices 
further  developed 
8 

09-58976 


of the Agency. At this time, following publication late 
last  year  of  the  methodology  for  assessing  innovative 
nuclear  energy  systems,  developed  by  INPRO,  the 
second  stage  of  the  project’s  implementation  has 
begun.  INPRO  participating  parties  can  now  start 
organizing  practical  joint  work  on  developing  safe 
nuclear technologies. We support the IAEA secretariat’s 
efforts  to  finance  the  project’s  budget  and  call  on  all 
participating parties to initiate its direct financing on a 
shared basis. The Russian Federation has committed to 
long-term financing of the project for the period 2008-
2012 by allocating 23 million rubles annually. 

I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our  support  for  draft 
resolution A/64/L.7, entitled “Report of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency”.  As  a  sponsor  of  the  draft 
resolution, Russia fully endorses the importance of the 
Agency’s work and is confident that it will continue in 
the interests of strengthening international security. 
Mr. Abdulaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I wish 

to  begin  by  welcoming  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), and to thank him for having presented 
the  report  (see  A/64/257)  reviewing  the  important 
activities  undertaken  by  the  Agency  in  2008  in  its 
various spheres of work and its contribution through its 
verification  activities 
international  peace  and 
security.  I  wish  to  reaffirm  our  full  confidence  in  the 
competence of the Agency in fulfilling its noble task of 
promoting equally the three main pillars of its work — 
technology transfer, safety and verification. 

For  over  half  a  century,  the  IAEA  has  made 
tangible contributions to international cooperation in the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy,  promoting  the  highest 
standards of nuclear safety and security throughout the 
world,  and  verifying  that  States  comply  with  their 
non-proliferation  obligations  while  guaranteeing  that 
the  non-nuclear  States  parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) continue 
to enjoy their inalienable right, pursuant to article 4 of 
the Treaty, to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 

is 
becoming  more  pronounced  for  non-nuclear  States 
parties to the NPT at a time when developing countries 
face a growing need for clean and affordable sources of 
energy  to  implement  their  development  plans  and 
advance their social and economic circumstances. This 
need  has  been  accentuated  by  the  financial  and 
economic crisis, which has cast a pall on the ability of 
inalienable  right 
importance  of 
The 
that 
to 
A/64/PV.33
the  NPT 
developing  countries  to  achieve  their  development 
objectives,  including  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  Egypt  therefore  believes  that  the  Agency  will 
continue to play a central role in helping non-nuclear-
weapon  States  members  of 
to  acquire 
technology  to  meet  their  growing  need  for  nuclear 
energy. 

The role of the IAEA in supporting international 
cooperation on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy has 
gained in importance. The inadequate quantitative and 
qualitative  level  of  nuclear  power  technology  transfer 
from  developed 
to  developing  States  has  been 
accentuated by the attempts of some parties to impose 
false  conditions  and  unjustified  restrictions  or  to  raise 
false  pretexts  to  prevent  non-nuclear-weapon  NPT 
member  States  from  acquiring 
the  materials  and 
technology  required  to  develop  their  peaceful  nuclear 
programmes. Furthermore, the Nuclear Suppliers Group 
(NSG)  has  issued  waivers  for  countries  that  are  not 
party  to  the  NPT  and  provided  those  countries  with 
nuclear technology and materials. 

The  2010  Review  Conference  of  the  States 
Parties to the NPT is approaching. It will be a decisive 
moment for the future and fate of the Treaty. We must 
therefore  address  the  imbalance  in  implementing  the 
Treaty in order to guarantee that such NSG exceptions 
will not be repeated. We must push for all the practical 
measures  necessary  to  achieve  the  universalization  of 
the  IAEA’s  comprehensive  safeguards  regime  in  order 
to  address 
the 
implementation  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
nuclear disarmament regime, as well as non-compliance 
with disarmament commitments and with the provisions 
of the Treaty prohibiting cooperation with non-member 
States, with a view to realizing the Treaty’s universality 
and  guaranteeing  its  effectiveness  and  credibility.  We 
must  also  effectively  address  the  phenomenon  of  the 
presence  of  nuclear  weapons  on  the  territories  of 
non-nuclear-weapon  States  members  of  military 
alliances that are under comprehensive safeguards and 
apply the Additional Protocol.  

comprehensive 
that 
safeguards  regime  is  not  universal  and  despite  the 
excessive  shortcomings  in  the  implementation  by 
nuclear-weapon  States  of  their  nuclear  disarmament 
obligations, non-nuclear-weapon States continue to face 
increasing pressure to accept more commitments in the 
safeguards area, in addition to the Additional Protocol. 
This is happening in a context that ignores the right of 
the  exaggerated  politicization  of 
Despite 
fact 
the 
the 
09-58976 

9 

beyond 
commitment 
A/64/PV.33 

every country to accept such an instrument or any other 
additional 
comprehensive 
safeguards.  Priority  should  be  given  to  achieving  the 
universality  of  the  IAEA  comprehensive  safeguards 
regime before additional enhancements to the safeguards 
system are called for in a discriminatory manner. 

Even  when  the  Security  Council  convened  its 
historic summit-level meeting on nuclear disarmament 
and  non-proliferation  on  24  September  this  year,  it 
adopted  resolution  1887  (2009),  which  sought  to 
reinterpret important elements of the IAEA safeguards 
system and the inalienable right to the peaceful uses of 
nuclear energy, pursuing new interpretations that could 
run  contrary  to  the  provisions  and  objectives  of  the 
NPT.  These  are  all  indications  of  the  increased  risks 
posed  by  the  attempts  of  some  to  establish  that 
resolution as a key reference for addressing the issue of 
non-proliferation at the 2010 Review Conference. This 
is unacceptable to a great number of States. 

The IAEA remains the only legitimate multilateral 
forum for the discussion and analysis of the technical, 
legal  and  practical  dimensions  of  a  number  of 
proposals  that  have  been  put  forward  on  multilateral 
approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  and  nuclear  fuel 
assurances. There are, however, discussions that cannot 
be concluded before a consensus is reached that has so 
far  remained  elusive.  While  Egypt  welcomes  the 
exploration  of  supplementary  means  to  provide  for 
nuclear  fuel  assurances  and  to  promote  voluntary 
frameworks for international cooperation in the area of 
fuel production, without requiring States to give up any 
rights, we see no basis for such arrangements resulting 
in  any  form  of  restriction  on  free  national  choices  in 
the nuclear fuel cycle. Such choices are inalienable, not 
subject to restriction, and protected under the NPT for 
all  non-nuclear-weapon  States.  Egypt  believes  that  no 
State  should  give  up  that  right,  even  if  it  has  not  yet 
exercised  it;  otherwise,  future  generations  will  be 
deprived of their rightful option in this regard, which is 
of  concern  given  the  possibility  that  meeting  future 
requirements  and  development  needs  may  potentially 
depend on it. 

All  States  of  the  Middle  East  except  Israel  have 
acknowledged  the  central  importance  of  adhering  to 
the  IAEA’s  comprehensive  safeguards  system.  Israel 
remains  outside 
the  annual 
adoption  at 
the  IAEA  General  Conference  of  a 
resolution entitled “Application of IAEA safeguards in 
the  Middle  East”,  which  demands  that  Israel  join  the 
that  system  despite 
radio 
the 
resources, 
isotopes  and 
comprehensive safeguards regime in order to facilitate 
the  arrangements  required  to  establish  a  nuclear-
weapon-free zone in the Middle East and regional trust, 
peace  and  security.  This  year,  for  the  first  time  since 
1991,  the  General  Conference  adopted  a  resolution 
entitled  “Israeli  nuclear  capabilities”  with  a  view  to 
alerting  the  international  community  to  the  dangers 
represented  by  those  Israeli  capabilities  which  remain 
outside international control in the area of safeguards, 
nuclear  safety  or  security.  Such  capabilities  represent 
significant  motivation  for  nuclear  proliferation  in  the 
Middle East and pose the ultimate threat to the stability 
of  the  region  and  to  broader  international  peace  and 
security. 

I shall now move from the regional dimension to 
address  the  issue  of  technical  cooperation.  Egypt 
reiterates the importance it attaches to IAEA technical 
cooperation  activities  with  other  developing  countries 
that  benefit  from  such  programmes  and  use  nuclear 
technologies  in  the  areas  of  health,  agriculture,  food, 
water 
radiological 
technologies.  We  emphasize 
importance  of 
promoting the role of the Agency in technology transfer 
through increased funding for its technical cooperation 
activities, bearing in mind that such activities represent 
one of the main pillars of the IAEA’s statutory role. 

We  note  the  role  of  the  IAEA  as  the  sole 
international  multilateral  forum  mandated  to  work  to 
apply  the  highest  nuclear  safety  standards  for  nuclear 
reactors and to help developing countries benefit from 
nuclear  energy.  Egypt,  which  is  working  to  make 
nuclear  energy  a  viable  means  for  realizing 
its 
development goals, cooperates with the Agency in this 
area, including on services relating to assessing energy 
requirements and on technical advisory services relating 
to  the  safe  and  effective  development  of  national 
capabilities to use nuclear energy. We look forward to 
the continued support of the Agency in these efforts. 

With  regard  to  IAEA  activities  in  the  area  of 
nuclear security, Egypt welcomes the continued efforts 
of the IAEA  to further develop the Integrated Nuclear 
Security  Support  Plans  and  to  ensure,  to  the  extent 
possible,  all  required  voluntary  contributions  to  the 
Nuclear  Security  Fund.  In  this  context,  Egypt  looks 
forward 
the  Nuclear  Security 
Summit to be convened by the President of the United 
States  in  April  2010,  which  we  hope  will  yield 
consistent results that will help consolidate the IAEA’s 
efforts in this regard. 
to  participating 
in 
10 

09-58976 
the 
and 
important 
this  most 
Ms.  Kolontai  (Belarus)  (spoke 



Finally,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  particularly 
commend  the  balanced  role  played  by  IAEA  Director 
General  ElBaradei  and  his  staff  since  1997,  and  the 
results  his  responsible  leadership  has  produced  in 
developing 
sensitive 
international  body  and  increased  international  trust  in 
his  integrity  and  leadership.  I  would  also  like  to 
congratulate  Ambassador  Amano, 
incoming 
Director General of the Agency, and to confirm that we 
look forward to continued cooperation with him. Egypt 
reiterates its continued support for the Agency in every 
possible way so as to protect its balanced international 
role  and  guarantee  its  contribution  to  world  security, 
stability, scientific progress and well-being. 
in  Russian):

Belarus  greatly  values  the  results  of  the  work  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and 
welcomes the strengthening of the IAEA’s authority as 
the leading international intergovernmental organization 
in the nuclear field. We attach special importance to the 
IAEA’s  efforts  in  such  areas  as  technical  cooperation, 
nuclear energy, nuclear non-proliferation, the adoption 
of  a  safeguards  regime,  and  nuclear  and  radiation 
security. We note the attention that the IAEA has given 
to addressing a  range of issues by providing technical 
assistance to Member States in creating and developing 
the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  power.  The  IAEA’s 
assistance 
in  establishing  a  process  for  creating 
national nuclear power systems is making an important 
contribution  to  strengthening  nuclear  safety  in  the 
energy  sphere  and  promoting  the  adoption  of  atomic 
energy technology for peaceful purposes. 

For  Belarus,  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  in  this 
sphere  is  of  special  significance  in  the  context  of  its 
own  preparations  for  constructing  its  first  nuclear 
power plant. Belarus has made considerable progress in 
building the nuclear energy infrastructure necessary to 
ensure  the  safe  exploitation  of  atomic  power.  We  are 
paying  special  attention  to  the  development  of  atomic 
energy 
to 
establishing an effective regulatory system for nuclear 
and  radiation  safety.  After  an  in-depth,  multilateral 
study,  three  possible  sites  were  chosen  for  the  plant, 
one  of  which  has  been  designated  as  the  primary 
location  and 
this 
connection we note the expert assistance of the IAEA, 
whose specialists visited Belarus twice in 2008. 
In the process of constructing the nuclear facility, 

Belarus  is  giving  significant  attention  to  the  issue  of 
legislation  and  standards,  as  well  as 
two  as  reserves.  In 
the  other 
A/64/PV.33
in 
as  of 
invited 
as  well 
to  participate 
the  Treaty  on 
information.  In  strict  compliance  with 
public 
its 
international  obligations,  Belarus  has  held  public 
hearings for agreement on its report on assessments of 
the  environmental  impact  during  the  nuclear  power 
plant’s  planning  and  construction.  Along  with  the 
public,  countries  that  had  expressed  their  intention  to 
participate  —  Austria,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Poland  and 
Ukraine  —  were 
the 
proceedings.  The  final  version  of  the  environmental 
impact  assessment  documentation  will  be  prepared, 
taking  into  account  comments  received  from  those 
countries and the public. 

The  Republic  of  Belarus  is  a  convinced  and 
consistent  supporter  of  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation, 
strengthening 
the IAEA’s  safeguards  regime.  Our  strict  compliance 
with  our  commitments  under 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  the 
Safeguards  Agreement  confirms  our  support  for  the 
principles of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. 

In  considering  the  processes  of  non-proliferation 
and disarmament as a whole, we should remember that 
one of the most important goals is to guarantee the use 
of  nuclear 
for  exclusively  peaceful 
purposes.  In  this  regard,  it  should  be  stressed  that 
under  the  NPT  and  the  IAEA  Charter,  every  member 
State  has  an  inalienable  right  to  implement  a  peaceful 
nuclear  programme.  Belarus  is  convinced  that  the 
mechanisms  at 
international 
community must promote the equal, non-discriminatory 
access  of  all  interested  countries  to  the  benefits  of 
nuclear energy. 

As a founding member of the IAEA, Belarus is an 
active  supporter  of  strengthening  the  Agency,  the 
leading  international  organization  promoting  the  safe, 
reliable  and  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  the 
purposes  of  sustainable  development.  In  recent  years, 
much  has  been  done  to  achieve  the  IAEA’s  chief  aim, 
“Atoms  for  peace”.  In  this  regard,  Director  General 
Mohamed ElBaradei has rendered us great service. We 
express our sincere gratitude to Mr. ElBaradei, a Nobel 
laureate,  for  his  tireless  efforts  as  Director  General  of 
the  IAEA,  which  have  strengthened  the  Agency’s 
international  authority  as 
the  key  organization 
advocating 
the  broad  use  of  nuclear  power  for 
maintaining peace, health and well-being. 

Belarus  welcomes  the  appointment  as  Director 
General of Mr. Yukiya Amano and is ready to support 
the  disposal  of 
technology 
the 
09-58976 

11 

like 
the  Agency 
The  2008  report  of 
the  IAEA 
in  2008.  I  would  also 
A/64/PV.33 

him in his work. We would also like to emphasize our 
support  for  draft  resolution A/64/L.7  on  the  report  of 
the  IAEA  (see A/64/257).  Belarus  is  a  sponsor  of  the 
draft and a wholehearted support of the Agency’s work 
to  strengthen  international  security  and  sustainable 
development. 

Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran): At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to 
Mr. ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), for his efforts and his 
report  to  the  General Assembly  on  the  main  activities 
of 
to 
congratulate Mr. Amano on his appointment as the new 
Director General of the IAEA. 

is  a  clear 
manifestation  of  the  increasing  and  significant  role  of 
nuclear  technology  in  human  life.  More  than  half  a 
century after the establishment of the IAEA, the scope 
of  its  activities  has  expanded  in  various  areas  due  to 
the growing demand for nuclear power as a renewable, 
clean  source  of  energy.  The  IAEA  report  also 
demonstrates  the  importance  of  nuclear  technology  in 
many  other  areas,  such  as  industry,  medicine,  science 
and  agriculture.  We  are  pleased  that,  according  to  the 
IAEA  report,  our  oil-rich  neighbours  in  the  Persian 
Gulf  region  are  also  pursuing  nuclear  power  as  a  new 
source  of  energy,  with  the  cooperation  of  certain 
European  countries.  It  is  good  to  see  that  those 
countries,  which  once  believed  that  oil-producing 
countries did not need nuclear energy, have now come 
to the conclusion that they need to expand their nuclear 
cooperation with such States. 

the  horizon. 
renaissance 
Therefore,  the  IAEA  bears  the  main  responsibility  for 
playing  its  role  as  the  sole  inclusive  international 
organization  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
technology.  In  this  context,  the  IAEA  should  be  the 
major body to assist States parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  to  fully 
implement  article  IV  of  the  NPT,  according  to  which 
States parties have undertaken  

“to  facilitate  ...  the  fullest  possible  exchange  of 
equipment,  materials 
and 
technological information for the peaceful uses of 
nuclear technology”. 
Based  on 
its  mandate, 
and 
scientific 

strengthen 
assistance, 
its  efforts 
in  particular 
the  Agency  should 
in  nuclear  cooperation  and 
to  developing  countries. 
A  nuclear 
is  on 
Unfortunately, those IAEA activities are lagging behind 
others,  in  particular  verification  activities.  A  few 
countries  consider  the  IAEA  solely  as  a  verification 
tool.  By  applying  this  selective  approach  towards  the 
IAEA  over  the  past  decade,  they  have  attempted  to 
downgrade it to a uni-purpose entity. For example, they 
wrongly call the Agency a watchdog organization. 

Regarding  the  verification  aspect  of  the  IAEA, 
we attach great importance to the Agency’s role as the 
sole  competent  body  for  verification  activities  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  its  statute  and  the 
NPT.  We  also  reaffirm  the  independent  and  technical 
aspect  of  the  IAEA  and,  in  this  regard,  all  member 
States should abide by the provisions of the statute and 
avoid  using  the  Agency  as  a  political  instrument  to 
promote their short-term interests. 

We  also  stress  the  importance  of  protecting  the 
confidential information of member States and express 
our  concern  about  the  continued  illegal  release  of 
sensitive  —  and  confidential 
information.  The 
continuation  of  such  a  trend  will  only  jeopardize  the 
credibility and integrity of the IAEA. 
As  reaffirmed  in  the  NPT,  using  nuclear  energy 

for  peaceful  purposes  is  the  inalienable  right  of  all 
States parties to the Treaty — a right which cannot be 
lawfully  transferred  from  one  State  to  another.  It  is  a 
matter  of  grave  concern  that  certain  nuclear-weapon 
States  and 
the  pretext  of 
non-proliferation,  should  set  various  restrictions  and 
limitations  on 
transferring  nuclear 
material,  equipment  and  technology  to  developing 
countries for peaceful activities. While they are obliged 
under  article  IV  of  the  NPT  to  cooperate  with 
non-nuclear-weapon  States  parties  in  the  field  of 
nuclear  technology,  they  continue  to  expand  and 
impose  new  restrictions  using  export  controls,  nuclear 
security, nuclear terrorism and multilateral approaches 
to the nuclear fuel cycle as their pretexts. 

The  same  countries  claiming  to  be  guardians  of 
the NPT are expanding their cooperation with non-NPT 
parties  and  exempt  them  from  such  restrictions.  The 
nuclear  cooperation  of  a  few  nuclear-weapon  States 
with the Zionist regime is a clear manifestation of their 
non-compliance  with  both  the  letter  and  the  spirit  of 
the  NPT.  This  is  an  example  of  their  paradoxical 
policies  towards  the  NPT.  Such  double  standards  and 
discriminatory  approaches  will  only  undermine  the 
reliability  and  integrity  of  the  NPT  and  IAEA.  In  this 
their  allies,  under 
the  means  of 
12 

09-58976 
the 
Israeli 
the  Middle  East  and 


regard, while we listened carefully today to the speech 
of  Mr.  ElBaradei,  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA, 
we expected him to refer to this important point. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  universality  of  the  NPT  and  IAEA 
safeguards. The recent resolutions of the IAEA General 
the  application  of  Agency 
Conference  regarding 
safeguards 
the  nuclear 
in 
capabilities  of 
regime,  which  were 
reaffirmed by the draft resolutions recently adopted by 
the  First  Committee,  are  strong  messages  from  the 
international community to the Zionist regime. 

That regime, as the only non-party to the NPT in 
the Middle East, is the main obstacle to establishing a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East.  The 
clandestine  nuclear-weapons  programme  of 
that 
regime, which is carried out in its unsafeguarded secret 
facilities,  is  the  most  serious  threat  to  regional  and 
international  peace  and  security.  We  call  upon  all 
Member  States  to  make  concerted  efforts  and  fully 
implement  their  obligations  under  the  NPT  and  the 
1995  resolution  establishing  the  Middle  East  as  a 
nuclear-weapon-free zone. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  as  a  party  to  the  NPT, 
considers  the  development  of  nuclear  technology  for 
peaceful purposes to be an inalienable right of all NPT 
States  parties.  In 
invested 
extensive human and material resources in the field of 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes.  This  policy  is 
based  on  a  well-studied  long-term  plan  aimed  at 
meeting  the  growing  energy  needs  of  the  country  and 
its  rapidly  growing  population.  As  we  have  stressed 
time  and  again,  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  is  and  has 
always been for peaceful purposes. 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Cuba 
thanks  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), for his presentation of the Agency’s report. 

IAEA 
technical cooperation. In developing countries, there is 
a growing need to use nuclear applications in resolving 
our  energy  problems.  The  technical  cooperation  pillar 
of  the  Agency  must  be  strengthened  and  receive  the 
resources  that  it  requires,  unconditionally  and  in 
keeping with its priorities. 
Cuba  attaches  special 
this  regard,  we  have 
importance 
to 
A/64/PV.33
for 
to 
the 
included 
to 
Such 
countries,  we  have 
IAEA 
contributions 
In  2008,  Cuba  continued 

In  Cuba,  the  application  of  nuclear  technologies 
in  vital  areas  of  the  economy  is  greatly  appreciated. 
One  of  our  objectives  is  to  achieve  the  harmonious 
integration  of  technical  cooperation  projects  with  our 
prioritized  development  programmes.  Similarly,  in 
keeping with the priority we place on cooperation with 
developing 
increased  our 
participation in regional cooperation projects, especially 
with  those  that  are  part  of  the  IAEA’s  Regional 
Cooperative  Arrangements 
the  Promotion  of 
Nuclear Science and Technology in Latin America.  
its 

increase 
technical  cooperation 
contributions 
programme. 
the 
participation  of  29  Cuban  experts  in  53  international 
missions  of  the  Agency  and  of  eight  professors  in 
technical  cooperation  activities.  Additionally,  nine 
experts  from  other  countries  carried  out  training 
activities in Cuba. 

Cuba  welcomes  the  Programme  for  Action  for 
Cancer Therapy. We also welcome the launch this past 
May  of  the  World  Health  Organization  and  the  IAEA 
Joint Programme on Cancer Control. 

Our  country  allocates  significant  human  and 
financial  resources  to  comply  with  its  safeguards 
agreements. We are pleased to be among the countries 
in  which  the  IAEA  secretariat  has  found  no  diversion 
of declared nuclear material for activities other than for 
peaceful  purposes  or  any  sign  of  undeclared  nuclear 
activities or materials.  
The  unjust  economic,  commercial  and  financial 

blockade  to  which  Cuba  is  subject  continues  to  affect 
IAEA  procurement  activity  and,  subsequently,  the 
projects that the Agency would like to implement there. 
The  IAEA  secretariat  faces  continuing  and  growing 
difficulties  to  procure  approved  scientific  equipment 
for projects in Cuba due to the fact that United States 
firms, or those that have capital participation from that 
country,  cannot  sell  their  equipment  to  Cuba  without 
facing  the  genuine  possibility  of  being  subject  to 
sanctions. This  situation  makes  the  implementation  of 
our  projects  more  expensive  as  we  have  to  purchase 
equipment from further afield. 
The  IAEA  is  currently  undergoing  analysis  to 

improve 
to  be 
successful,  we  have  to  bear  in  mind  the  major 
differences that exist among the nuclear programmes of 
the countries that make up the Agency. A large number 
its  operation.  For 
this  exercise 
09-58976 

13 
the  crucial  condition 
A/64/PV.33 

of  States  possesses  minimal  amounts  of  nuclear 
material, and many do not even have nuclear facilities 
as  the  concept  is  defined  in  terms  of  safeguards. As  a 
result,  we  cannot  establish  comprehensive  measures 
thinking only about those who have large- or medium-
scale nuclear programmes.  

Furthermore,  we  have  to  guarantee  that  the 
verification  process  would  take  place  in  a  just  and 
impartial  manner  as 
for 
preserving  peace  and  security  in  our  countries.  We 
must  definitively  remove  from  verification  any  undue 
pressure  or  interference  that  would  undermine  the 
efficiency and credibility of the Agency.  

Political manipulation over the so-called question 
of a nuclear Iran should have stopped a long time ago, 
and we have to put an end to double standards, as we 
see with the charges against the Syrian Arab Republic 
and with the unacceptable impossibility of achieving a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East,  which 
has  been  an  ongoing  demand  of  the  international 
community in recent decades. 

We  reaffirm  the  need  to  respect  the  inalienable 
right  of  all  States  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes.  We  stress  that  in  no  case  should  voluntary 
measures  become  obligations  for  States.  Likewise,  we 
insist  that  the  IAEA  is  the  only  authority  with  the 
power to verify compliance with obligations under the 
respective States’ safeguards agreements. We trust that 
the  work  of  the  Agency  will  continue  without  any 
external interference.  
Furthermore, Cuba rejects any attempt to use the 

nuclear fuel supply as a means of economic or political 
coercion  or  as  a  mechanism  to  confirm  the  monopoly 
of a few countries over the distribution of that fuel. 

Cuba  reaffirms  its  conviction  that  only  the  total 
elimination  of  nuclear  weapons  will  help  to  guarantee 
international peace and security. Despite the hopes for 
change, 
that  militaristic  policies 
continue  to  be  developed  and  that  much  more  than  a 
billion dollars is spent every year on the war industry, 
which  includes  the  development  of  weapons  and 
nuclear strategies.  

We  have  the  power  to  reverse  this  situation.  In 
the coming months, we will see new opportunities and 
the  NPT  review  conference  in  2010  will  be  an  ideal 
moment to enable the rationale of multilateral action to 
is  disturbing 
it 

prevail, with a view to establishing a real commitment 
to development, nuclear disarmament and global peace. 

I would like to conclude by reiterating the respect 
and  great  esteem  that  the  Cuban  authorities  have  for 
Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei for his leadership and for his 
management of the Agency. We trust that his legacy of 
professionalism  and  impartiality  will  continue  to  be  a 
source  of  inspiration  for  the  work  of  the  Agency. 
Likewise, we congratulate Ambassador Yukiya Amano 
for his election as the new Director General. We would 
like  to  offer  him  our  full  cooperation  and  wish  him 
every success in his administration. 
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  Let  me  first  express  my 

delegation’s  appreciation  to  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  presenting  the  IAEA  annual 
report.  We  would  also  like  to  express  our  deep 
gratitude  to  Mr.  ElBaradei  for  all  of  his  efforts  to 
manage the affairs of the IAEA in an effective manner 
and  for  his  supportive  contribution  to  international 
peace  and  security.  He  led  the  Agency  with  great 
credibility,  exceptional  professionalism  and  personal 
qualities.  Our  congratulations  also  go  to  Ambassador 
Yukiya Amano on his appointment as the new Director 
General  of  the  IAEA. We  are  confident  that  under  his 
very  able  leadership  the  Agency  will  continue  to 
advance in its role. 

  Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 

The work of the IAEA over the past few years is 
to be lauded. Indonesia commends the IAEA’s activities 
in  supporting  progress  on  nuclear  applications, 
promoting 
through 
technical cooperation, and contributing to world peace 
and  security.  Technical  cooperation  is  one  of  the  best 
ways  to  promote  peaceful  uses  of  atomic  energy  for 
sustainable  development.  We  therefore  hope  that  such 
cooperation  will increase  and be funded properly. The 
IAEA should pursue a more balanced distribution of its 
budget  with  equal  importance  given  to  each  of  the 
three pillars. 

The  issue  of  multilateral  approaches  to  the 
nuclear fuel cycle has been discussed within the IAEA 
in recent years. The creation of a multilateral fuel cycle 
arrangement  is  indeed  crucial  for  strengthening  the 
existing non-proliferation regime. Any proposal in this 
respect  should  not  hinder  the  right  of  all  States  to 
develop  all  aspects  of  nuclear  science  and  technology 
socio-economic  development 

14 

09-58976 
With 
regard 
to  nuclear  security, 
importance 
the  Agency 
is  also  of  paramount 
therefore  support 


for  peaceful  purposes.  We  concur  that  this  complex 
issue requires our thorough consideration to ensure that 
all  associated  technical,  legal,  economic  and  political 
aspects  are  addressed  before  any  final  decision  is 
made.  

Guaranteeing  the  high  level  of  nuclear  safety 
worldwide 
to 
Indonesia.  We 
in 
promoting the acceptance of all IAEA safety standards 
as a global preference for the protection of people and 
the  environment  against  nuclear  accidents  and  the 
harmful  effects  of  radiation  exposure.  The  use  of 
international  safety  standards  and  the  sharing  of 
expertise  on  a  more  regional  basis  can  also  be 
promoted  by  the  establishment  of  regional  safety 
networks,  such  as  the  nuclear  safety  network  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. 

Indonesia 
supports  the  activities  of  the  Agency  and  recognizes 
the risks and potential dangers of illicit trafficking and 
possession  of  nuclear  materials  by  terrorist  groups. 
However,  the  international  community’s  efforts  to 
prevent nuclear terrorism should always be undertaken 
within the existing global legal framework. The IAEA’s 
focus  should  not  be  diverted  from 
its  statutory 
activities, especially its promotional activities. 

We  continue  to  support  the  Agency’s  efforts  to 
enhance 
its 
safeguards  regime.  The  safeguards  system  is  both  a 
fundamental part of the nuclear non-proliferation regime 
and an essential element for nuclear disarmament.  

Indonesia,  as  a  party  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the  South-
East  Asia  nuclear-weapon-free  zone,  has  put  a 
comprehensive safeguards agreement and an Additional 
Protocol  into  force,  and  has,  together  with  the  IAEA, 
implemented  an  integrated  safeguards  regime.  Thus, 
we  are  pleased  with  the  establishment  in  Seoul  last 
April of the Asia-Pacific Safeguards Network and look 
forward  to  its  first  meeting,  to  be  held  next  April  in 
Indonesia.  

nuclear 
proliferation  and  the  urgency  of  providing  it  with  all 
necessary  means 
verification 
responsibilities in an effective and credible manner has 
been  highlighted  by  the  verification  challenges  of  the 
past  few  years.  While  maintaining  a  high  degree  of 
technical  quality  and  credibility,  the  work  to  make 
the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of 
combating 
perform 
The 
IAEA’s 
role 
in 
to 
its 
A/64/PV.33
verification  activities  cost-effective  should  also  be 
pursued.  On  the  question  of  nuclear  verification  in 
some  countries,  such  as  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
Indonesia continues to support all diplomatic efforts to 
resolve  the  nuclear  issues  at  an  early  date.  We  hope 
that all parties involved will exercise patience, restraint 
and  flexibility.  Only  through  substantive  dialogue  and 
consultation  can  we 
truly  find  a  comprehensive, 
peaceful settlement and a lasting one. 

We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  fifty-third 
session of the General Conference of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  held  in  Vienna  this  past 
September, including the adoption of the resolution on 
Israeli  nuclear  capabilities  (GC(53)/RES/17).  In  this 
regard,  Indonesia  expresses  its  deep  concern  over  the 
continued  failure  to  establish  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
zone  in  the  Middle  East.  We  are  perturbed  by  the 
persistent Israeli attitude of refusal to place its nuclear 
installations under IAEA safeguards. Progress will only 
happen  if  Israel  places  all  of  its  nuclear  installations 
under the Agency safeguards and accedes to the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, as it has 
been called upon to do by a number of resolutions of the 
General Assembly and the IAEA General Conference.  

On  that  note,  we  cannot  resist  drawing  a  certain 
parallel. We have witnessed how tremendous pressures 
have been put on other countries in the region to follow 
IAEA  guidelines.  So,  no  country  in  the  Middle  East 
can  be  excepted  from  IAEA  safeguards  nor  escape 
from obligations to comply with IAEA safeguards.  

Finally, as one of its first sponsors, we would like 
to  reiterate  our  support  for  draft  resolution  64/L.7, 
introduced earlier by Malaysia. 
Mr.  Bashir  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 

like,  at  the  outset,  to  thank  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  annual  report,  in  document 
GC(53)/7,  presented  to  the  General  Assembly.  That 
report mentions the programmes and plans drawn up by 
the  Agency  with  a  view  to  developing  technology 
transfer  for  peaceful  purposes  and  to  maintaining  a 
global nuclear security regime, while strengthening the 
security of nuclear facilities. That proves the important 
role that the IAEA has always played and continues to 
play in the area of cooperation in the field of the use of 
energy for peaceful purposes and for development. We 
would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  efforts  of 
09-58976 

15 

to 
in 
in 
technical 
resources 
importance 
the  Agency 
the  efforts  of 
their  relevant  national 
Sudan  attaches  a  great 
A/64/PV.33 

Mr. ElBaradei  and  wish  his  successor,  Mr.  Amano, 
every success in his future endeavours. 

the 
applications  of  nuclear  technology  mentioned  in  the 
report  that  aim  to  strengthen  food  security,  develop 
advanced  techniques  to  fight  disease  and  effectively 
manage  water  and 
the 
development  of  modern  irrigation  systems  as  part  of 
major  agricultural  projects.  Therefore,  strengthening 
the Agency’s  cooperation  with  UNICEF  in  matters  of 
education  and  agriculture,  as  well  as  with  the  World 
Health Organization, is more important today than ever.  
The  assistance  given  to  developing  countries  to 

technical  regimes 
develop 
complements 
the 
implementation  of  technical  cooperation  plans  and 
programmes.  We  hope  that  such  cooperation  will 
develop  within  the  framework  of  programmes  applied 
by the World Health Organization in the area of health, 
to re-launch regional and continental projects aimed at 
fighting  malaria-carrying  bugs  and  other  devastating 
scourges  in  Africa,  so  that  the  African  continent  can 
carry out economic and social development programmes 
and  work 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  fulfilling  the  internationally 
agreed economic agenda. 

Sudan  reaffirms  the  right  of  States  to  develop 
research  and  to  produce  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes,  without  discrimination  and  in  accordance 
with  commitments  to  international  instruments  and 
terms  of  reference.  Our  country’s  delegation  reaffirms 
as  well  the  need  for  States  to  refrain  from  exerting 
pressure on the Agency or interfering with its work or 
activities  so  as  to  safeguard  the  credibility  and  the 
crucial role that it plays. Hence, we call for a just and 
fair  approach  to  deal  with  outstanding  issues  with 
certain States through dialogue and negotiation, so that 
appropriate solutions can be found.  

The delegation of Sudan reaffirms its established 
position  supporting  the  aspirations  of  all  regions  to 
declare themselves nuclear-weapon-free zones, starting 
with  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons,  which  is  one  of  the  fundamental  pillars  of 
international  peace  and  security.  We  are  deeply 
concerned  by  the  fact  that  the  Middle  East  is  still  far 
from achieving that objective because of the objections 
of Israel, which is the only nuclear-weapon State in the 
region,  and 
its  nuclear 
to  subject 
achieving 
its 
refusal 
towards 
to 
professional 
commitment 
programmes to the Agency’s comprehensive safeguards 
regime,  and  by  the  fact  that  it  continues  to  defy  the 
pleas and repeated calls of the international community 
to do so. A commitment on Israel’s part to respect the 
Treaty  and  its  additional  protocol  is  vital  to  the 
elimination of tensions in the region and would help to 
strengthen regional and international peace.  

My  delegation  highly  appreciates  the  Agency’s 
efforts in Africa, and we hope to see an increase in the 
Agency’s  budget,  especially  in  the  field  of  combating 
diseases  and  in  supporting  nuclear  treatment  facilities 
aimed at fighting diseases and poverty in Africa. 
Mr.  Kim  Bonghyun  (Republic  of  Korea):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation  to 
Mr. ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), for his comprehensive 
report  on  the  Agency’s  broad  range  of  activities. 
Taking this opportunity, my delegation also would like 
to  commend  his  12  years  of  distinguished  service  as 
Director General of the IAEA. Mr. ElBaradei’s vision, 
his 
impartiality, 
transparency  and  equitable  cooperation  with  member 
States  will  undoubtedly  leave  a  lasting  legacy  for  the 
IAEA and the international community. 

Turning  to  the  annual  report  of  the  IAEA  for 
2008,  we  are  pleased  to  take  note  of  the  Agency’s 
numerous  and  valuable  accomplishments  in  the  fields 
of  nuclear  energy,  nuclear  applications,  safety  and 
security  and  verification during the  report period. The 
Republic  of  Korea  would 
the 
importance  of  the  IAEA  in  promoting  the  safe,  secure 
and peaceful use of nuclear science and technology and 
to  reiterate  its  commitment  to  cooperate  with  the 
Agency in all areas of its activities. 
My delegation would like to touch upon some of 

the issues that we consider relevant to the future work 
of  the  IAEA.  First,  we  strongly  believe  that  the 
universalization  of  IAEA  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreements  and  additional  protocols  is  essential  for 
improving  the  current  safeguards  and  verification 
regime.  In  particular,  we  believe  that  the  additional 
protocols  are  becoming  an  essential  verification 
standard,  as  recent  events  have  suggested  that  the 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  alone  are  no 
longer  adequate 
to  fully 
implement its mandate. In this light, we call upon those 
States  which  have  not  yet  done  so  to  conclude  such 
agreements and bring them into force without delay. 
to  underline 
the  Agency 
to  enable 
like 
16 

09-58976 



Secondly,  the  Republic  of  Korea  appreciates  the 
Agency’s  guiding  role  in  the  development  of  a  new 
multilateral  framework  for  assuring  the  supply  of 
nuclear  fuel.  We  believe  that  further  constructive 
dialogue  and  elaboration  within  the  IAEA  can  deal 
correctly  with  the  implications  of  the  different  views 
on basic concepts as well as on technical matters. Any 
new  mechanism  for  the  supply  of  nuclear  fuel  should 
meet the basic demands of each member State and the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  expanding 
reliable, economic and equitable access to nuclear fuels 
while  reducing  proliferation  risks. As  a  major  user  of 
nuclear energy, the Republic of Korea will continue to 
participate  in  and  make  positive  contributions  to  the 
relevant discussions on that issue. 
Thirdly,  nuclear  terrorism  is  a  real  threat  to 

international  peace  and  security  in  terms  of  the 
increasing  risk  of  terrorist  attacks  and  the  serious 
consequences of any single accident. Nuclear security-
related  activities  are  one  of  the  core  functions  of  the 
IAEA. While  we  welcome  the Agency’s  achievements 
through  the  implementation  of  the  Nuclear  Security 
Plan  for  2006-2009,  we  encourage  the  Agency  to 
continue to strengthen its efforts  for enhanced nuclear 
security  and  to  work  closely  with  other  international 
initiatives in that area. 

The  extended  use  of  nuclear  energy  calls  for  the 
strengthening  of  nuclear  non-proliferation  and,  more 
than ever, stricter security measures. In that regard, the 
peaceful  resolution  of  the  nuclear  issue  involving  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  vital  to 
securing the lasting peace and prosperity of the Korean 
peninsula and the North-East Asian region. 

Since  the  General  Assembly’s  session  last  year, 
international  efforts  for  verifiable  denuclearization  of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea have faced 
a  series  of  provocative  actions  taken  by  that  country. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
blatantly  violated  the  Six-Party  Talks  agreements  and 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  not  only  by  its 
nuclear  test  last  May,  but  also  by  the  series  of  long-
range  rocket  launches  in  April  and  ballistic  missiles 
tests in July and October. 

The adoption of Security Council resolution 1874 
(2009),  which  condemns  in  the  strongest  terms  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  nuclear  test 
and  reinforces  the  sanctions  regime  already  in  place 
against that country, was a clear reflection of the united 
A/64/PV.33
and  resolute  will  of  the  Council  and  the  international 
community  to  stem  the  nuclear  development  and 
nuclear  proliferation  activities  of 
the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  My  delegation  believes 
that all nations should send an unequivocal message to 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  by  fully 
implementing  the  sanctions  obligations  called  for 
under Security Council resolution 1874 (2009). 

The  resolution  of  the  IAEA  General  Conference, 
adopted  by  consensus  in  September,  is  another  firm 
message from the international community as a whole 
to  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  My 
delegation expects that the resolution will contribute to 
the realization by the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea that its nuclear ambitions will not be tolerated. 

It  is  imperative  that  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  promptly  return  to  the  Six-Party 
Talks, abandon all nuclear weapons and existing nuclear 
programmes  in  a  complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible 
manner,  in  accordance  with  the  Joint  Statement  of 
19 September 2005, and return to the Non-Proliferation 
Treaty  regime,  as  well  as  faithfully  comply  with 
international obligations and all commitments. 

In  complying  with  that  process,  the  role  of  the 
IAEA  is  essential,  and  the  Korean  Government  will 
closely coordinate and cooperate with relevant countries 
and the Agency, with a view to achieving the peaceful 
resolution  of  the  nuclear  issue  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  to  establishing  peace 
and stability in the North-East Asian region and beyond. 

Finally, I wish to congratulate Ambassador Yukiya 
Amano on his election as the new Director General of 
the  IAEA  and  to  assure  him  of  the  full  support  and 
cooperation  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  in  his  new 
endeavour. 
Ms. Sodov (Mongolia): I join other representatives 

in 
thanking  Director  General  Mr.  ElBaradei  for 
introducing the report on the work of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  during  the  past  year. 
On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  Mongolia,  I  wish  to 
take this opportunity to express our profound respect to 
Mr. ElBaradei for his professionalism, his stewardship 
of  the  Agency  and  his  outstanding  contribution  to 
promoting  the  goals  of  the Agency  during  his  12-year 
tenure. The  activities  carried  out  by  him  and  his  team 
in  promoting  and  developing  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy will surely benefit future generations. We wish 
him well in his future endeavours. 
09-58976 

17 

A/64/PV.33 


Allow me also to offer our warm congratulations 
to  the  incoming  Director  General  of  the  Agency, 
Ambassador  Yukiya  Amano.  I  am  sure  that  his  rich 
experience  and  personal  qualities  will  allow  him  to 
perform that high responsibility with talent, efficiency, 
determination and pragmatism. 

My delegation would like to commend the IAEA 
on the impressive gains made during the past year, as is 
evident  from  the  report,  and  on  the  outcome  of  the 
Agency’s  fifty-third  General  Conference,  held 
in 
Vienna in September. We are confident that the Agency 
will  continue  to  play  an  active  role  in  promoting 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  and  wider  nuclear 
applications,  including  in  health,  power  generation, 
food  security  and  water  management,  as  well  as  in 
preventing  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  The 
Government of Mongolia highly appreciates the active 
measures  taken  and  the  valuable  support  provided  by 
the  Agency  to  its  members,  especially  to  developing 
countries. 

Mongolia is beginning a new phase in its nuclear 
activities  for  peaceful  purposes  and  is  taking  concrete 
measures  to  develop  nuclear  energy  and  to  promote 
wider  nuclear  applications,  especially  in  the  areas  of 
health and agriculture. Thus, the Mongolian Parliament 
adopted  this  year  a  policy  and  action  plan  —  the 
Nuclear  Energy  Law  —  on  uranium  utilization  and 
nuclear energy, which took effect in August. The law is 
designed  to  regulate  all  issues  pertaining  to  the 
exploitation of radioactive minerals and nuclear energy 
for peaceful purposes, nuclear and radiation safety, and 
the  protection  of  the  population,  society  and  the 
environment  from  the  negative  impacts  of  ionizing 
radiation. 

To  strengthen  the  country’s  nuclear  regulatory 
functions,  the  Government  of  Mongolia  has  also 
established a nuclear energy agency, under the aegis of 
the  Prime  Minister,  to  serve  as  the  Government’s 
large 
regulatory  agency.  Possessing 
reserves  of 
uranium,  Mongolia 
is  striving 
to  further  expand 
cooperation  with  its  partners  on  uranium  production, 
coupled with assistance from the IAEA. 

As  in  many  other  parts  of  the  world,  cancer 
morbidity  and  mortality  are  on  the  increase  in  my 
country.  It  has  become  the  second  major  cause  of 
mortality  among  the  population.  Bearing  in  mind  the 
need 
treatment 
capacity, as well as to improve quality and accessibility 
its  diagnostic  and 
to  strengthen 
commitment 
to  preventive  and  patient-friendly  cancer  services, 
Mongolia has requested the IAEA, especially the office 
of its Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy (PACT), 
to provide the necessary advice and assistance.  

As  a  follow-up  to  Director  General  ElBaradei’s 
visit to Mongolia last April, PACT integrated missions 
have  visited  the  country  and  will  soon  present  their 
findings  and  recommendations  to  the  Government  of 
Mongolia.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank the Agency and its PACT office for their support 
and help in addressing this challenge of the twenty-first 
century. 
My  delegation  wishes  to  reaffirm  Mongolia’s 

strong 
the  goals  of  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  nuclear  disarmament.  Together 
with other non-nuclear-weapon States, it is working to 
make  the  forthcoming  Review  Conference  of  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT) an important landmark in the common efforts to 
strengthen  the  NPT  regime  and  to  take  practical  steps 
towards a nuclear-weapon-free world. 

With that in mind, Mongolia hosted last April the 
first  meeting  of  focal  points  of  nuclear-weapon-free 
zones, where a statement was adopted as a contribution 
to  the  preparation  of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 
(NPT). I wish to inform interested delegations that we 
have  submitted  the  statement  by  the  Chair  of  the 
Ulaanbaatar  meeting  for 
issuance  as  an  official 
document  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  present 
session. 

The NPT can fulfil its role only if Member States 
are  confident  in  others’  compliance  to  their  Treaty 
obligations. 
the  efficiency  and 
effectiveness of the Agency’s safeguards system are of 
utmost 
comprehensive 
safeguards  agreement  (CSA)  is  not  adequate  to  allay 
suspicions.  Only  integrated  safeguards,  that  is,  the 
CSA  and  additional  protocols  together,  can  make 
safeguards  most  effective.  Today  they  represent  the 
verification  standard.  We  call  on  all  States  that  have 
not  yet  done  so  to  sign  or  ratify  these  two  important 
safeguard and verification instruments. 

My  Government  attaches  great  importance  to 
strengthening  world  peace  and  stability,  especially  in 
North-East  Asia.  We  have  always  advocated  that  the 
Korean  peninsula  should  be  denuclearized,  that  peace 
and  stability  there  should  be  maintained  and  that  the 
importance.  Today 
regard, 
the 
to 
In 
this 
18 

09-58976 


nuclear  issue  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea should be resolved peacefully through dialogue. 
Likewise,  the  Iran  nuclear  issue  should  also  be 
addressed through dialogue. 

In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  express  Mongolia’s 
resolve,  as  a  newly  elected  member  of  the  Agency’s 
Board of Governors, to work in close cooperation with 
the  entire  IAEA  membership  and  secretariat 
in 
promoting the Agency’s noble goals. 
Mr.  Bavaud  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  annual  report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) demonstrates the excellent quality and 
the  scope  of  the  Agency’s  work.  We  offer  the  IAEA 
our  full  support,  and  we  look  forward  to  once  again 
sponsoring the draft resolution on the Agency’s report 
(A/64/L.7).  We  hope  that  the  draft  resolution,  like 
previous such texts, will be adopted without a vote. 

We  would  like  this  year  to  thank  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei,  IAEA  Director  General,  who  leaves  the 
Agency  after  12  years  of  service.  Throughout  his 
tenure  at  the  head  of  the  IAEA,  Mr.  ElBaradei  has 
demonstrated  his 
independence  and  a  sense  of 
responsibility  in  facing  the  difficulties  of  his  mission, 
enhancing the credibility of the Agency and defending 
its  ideals  in  the  area  of  non-proliferation  and  the 
peaceful use of nuclear energy. 
On several occasions Mr. ElBaradei has asked us 

to consider delicate subjects, for example, on proposals 
relating  to  the  multilateralization  of  the  nuclear  fuel 
cycle.  In  doing  so,  he  has  shown  much  political  far-
sightedness.  His  efforts  have  undoubtedly  contributed 
to the promotion of world peace and security. 

Switzerland  greatly  looks  forward  to  working 
with  the  new  IAEA  Director  General,  Mr.  Yukiya 
Amano,  who  is  taking  over  at  a  crucial  time  in  the 
Agency’s history. 

Indeed, with the possibility of real progress in the 
area  of  nuclear  disarmament,  it  could  be  increasingly 
realistic  that  the  IAEA  may  need  to  accept  new 
verification challenges. Switzerland, which has always 
favoured  a  balance  between  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation, 
such  a 
development within the Agency. Recent progress in the 
management  of  the  Agency’s  budget  is  also  to  be 
welcomed, since it could help to ensure that the IAEA 
will  be  able  to  operate  from  a  more  solid  basis  in 
confronting these future challenges. 
support 
is 
ready 
to 
A/64/PV.33
remain 
Switzerland,  which  is  currently  a  member  of  the 
firmly 

IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  will 
committed to supporting the Agency in its mission. 
Mr.  Paschalis  (South  Africa):  South  Africa 

would  like  to  thank  the  Director  General  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency for his insightful 
and comprehensive report on the activities, challenges 
and  achievements  of  the  Agency  during  2008.  My 
delegation has noted with appreciation that the Agency 
has successfully carried out its statutory mandate. 
Our  meeting  takes  place  at  a  time  of  growing 

concern  regarding  the  inability  of  the  international 
community,  more  especially  developing  countries  and 
the  African  continent,  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  This  makes  it  imperative  that  we 
work  together  to  coordinate  our  efforts  in  support  of 
the Millennium Development Goals across the globe. 

In  this  connection,  South  Africa  notes  with 
appreciation the commendable activities undertaken by 
the  Agency  in  strengthening  international  cooperation 
in  nuclear,  radiation,  transport  and  waste  safety,  as 
well as in nuclear science, technology and applications. 
These  activities  have  the  potential  of  improving  our 
prospects  for  achieving  some  of 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

As part of its contribution to the implementation 
of  the  development  aspects  of  the  Agency’s  work, 
South Africa is involved in the following activities. In 
recognition  of  the  importance  of  nuclear  knowledge 
management, South Africa is an active participant in the 
Agency’s  fellowship  and  scientific  visit  programmes, 
both  as  a  provider  and  as  a  recipient.  My  country  has 
established  an  accelerator  facility  for  effective  use  in 
nuclear education and training. As a result, some of our 
institutions  are  now  offering  a  Master  of  Science 
course  in  accelerator  and  nuclear  science  meant  to 
leverage existing experience of facilities to the benefit 
of potential regional partners. 
South Africa will host the ninth World Conference 

on  Neutron  Radiography,  which  is  aimed  at  bringing 
together  researchers,  students  and  fellows  to  share 
information, build networks and strengthen relationships 
between  international  partners  in  research  related  to 
neutron radiography. 

In  collaboration  with  the  Agency,  South  Africa 
will also host the International Conference on Effective 
Nuclear  Regulatory  Systems:  Further  Enhancing  the 
09-58976 

19 

In 
this 
that 
connection, 
A/64/PV.33 

Global  Nuclear  Safety  and  Security  Regime.  The 
conference will, inter alia, emphasize the responsibility 
to be shared by all regulators, operators and vendors in 
maintaining effective global nuclear safety and security 
infrastructure  and  culture.  South  Africa 
remains 
convinced 
this  conference  could  make  a 
contribution in drawing attention to the important role 
regulators  can  play  in  promoting  nuclear  safety  and 
security. 

South Africa views radioactive waste management 
as  an  important  area  in  the  chain  of  use  of  nuclear 
energy. 
radioactive  waste 
management presents an integral part of South Africa’s 
nuclear  energy  policy  and  receives  elaborate  attention 
in  our  radioactive  waste  management  policy  and 
strategy. 

In  January,  our  parliament  passed  the  National 
Radioactive  Waste  Institution Act,  which  provides  for 
the  establishment  of  a  National  Radioactive  Waste 
Disposal Institute in order to manage radioactive waste 
disposal on a national basis. Further progress has been 
made with the installation of the first accelerator mass 
spectrometry  facility  on  the  African  continent  at  the 
iThemba  Laboratory  for  Accelerator-Based  Sciences 
(iThemba  LABS).  In  addition  to  this,  the  EXACT3D 
PET camera that was decommissioned at Hammersmith 
Hospital  in  London  and  donated  to  the  University  of 
Cape Town has been relocated to iThemba LABS. This 
makes iThemba the world’s second operational facility 
in its field. 

the  global  shortage  of 
molybdenum-99  isotopes  and  its  adverse  impact  on 
medical treatment of patients, South Africa is doing all 
it  can  to  meet  the  shortfall,  taking  into  account,  of 
course,  the  operational  limitations  which  we  all  know 
and  understand.  South Africa  is  also  now  represented 
on  a  special  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation 
and Development committee that is looking at ways of 
stabilizing world supplies of this radioisotope. 

Beyond  this,  my  country’s  Pebble  Bed  Modular 
Reactor Company is moving forward with construction 
work  to  commission  a  pebble  bed  modular  reactor  in 
2018.  While  a  change  in  design  from  electricity 
generation to a more versatile concept that could both 
provide  electricity  and  process  heat,  has  resulted  in  a 
delay in the programme, it has broadened its potential 
customer  base.  The  successful  deployment  of  this 
leading-edge  technology  has  the  potential  to  make  a 
to  address 
In  order 
to 
the 
that  a 
local  and 
international 
if  buttressed  with 
South  Africa  believes 
significant  contribution 
energy supplies. 

Furthermore,  South  Africa  continues  to  assign 
high  priority  to  and  participate  in  IAEA  activities 
contributing to agricultural development, especially on 
the African  continent. With regard  to  the  international 
peace  and  security  mandate  of  the  Agency,  South 
Africa  supports  its  activities  undertaken  in  the  period 
under  review  in  the  areas  of  nuclear  safety  and 
verification.  In  this  connection,  my  delegation  is 
pleased to note that the republics of Congo and Kenya 
have  joined  the  many  other  African  countries  that  in 
recent  years  have  been  fulfilling  their  commitments 
under  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT)  by 
concluding safeguards agreements with the Agency. 

strengthened 
safeguards  system  is  an  essential  mechanism  for 
dealing with non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and 
providing  information  about  States’  nuclear  activities. 
Strengthened  safeguards, 
the 
necessary  detection  capability,  would  contribute  to 
establishing  confidence  in  the  peaceful  application  of 
nuclear energy and thus further facilitate the transfer of 
nuclear  technology  and  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  to 
benefit  developing  countries.  It  is  for  this  reason  that 
South  Africa  urges  Member  States  that  have  yet  to 
conclude their safeguards agreements with the Agency, 
in  compliance  with  their  respective  obligations  under 
the NPT, to do so as soon as possible. 

With regard to the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea, we share the concern of other members about 
the 
IAEA’s  monitoring  and 
verification  activities  in  that  country.  South  Africa 
urges  and  encourages 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  allow  the  IAEA  inspectors  to 
carry out their monitoring and verification activities in 
the  country’s  territory.  South  Africa  has  consistently 
called upon the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
to  fully  and  verifiably  terminate  any  nuclear  weapons 
programme, to return to the NPT as soon as possible, to 
sign  and  ratify  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  and  to  place  all  its  nuclear  facilities  and 
material under comprehensive IAEA safeguards. 

the 
increased  cooperation  between  the  IAEA  and  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  urge  Iran  to  fully 
cooperate with the Agency and implement the binding 
resolutions adopted by the Security Council in order to 
Regarding  Iran,  we  are  encouraged  by 
termination  of 
20 

09-58976 
to 
the 
discussions 
socio-economic  development 


resolve  the  matter  —  while,  at  the  same  time,  being 
allowed  to  develop  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
uses in conformity with the letter and the spirit of the 
NPT.  We  also  note  that  there  exists  a  window  of 
opportunity  arising  from  the  readiness  of  the  parties 
concerned to initiate talks, which we hope will lead to 
substantial 
resolve 
issues 
surrounding Iran’s nuclear programme. 

We  are  aware  that  climate  change  is  a  serious 
threat  globally,  especially  for  the  energy  sector.  We 
hope  that  the  Copenhagen  Conference  in  December 
will  take  the  necessary  decisions,  taking  into  account 
the 
imperatives  of 
developing nations. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  place  on  record  South 
Africa’s  highest  regard  for  the  exemplary  work  and 
achievements  of  Mr.  ElBaradei  and  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  over 
the  past  12  years. 
Mr. ElBaradei  has  led  the  Agency  with  great  dignity, 
integrity and impartiality, virtues that have contributed 
to  building  confidence  in  the  work  of  the Agency,  as 
evidenced  by  the  award  of  a  Nobel  Peace  Prize.  We 
wish  Mr.  ElBaradei  every  success  in  future.  South 
Africa  welcomes 
incoming  Director  General, 
Ambassador  Amano  of  Japan,  and  expresses 
its 
commitment  to  working  constructively  with  the  new 
Director General and the secretariat. 

Mr. AlSanad  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in Arabic): Today 
the General Assembly is discussing an agenda item that 
is  important  because  of  its  close  connection  to  the 
principles on which the United Nations was established, 
in  particular  those  concerning  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  and  controlling 
non-peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 
The State of Kuwait has reviewed and welcomes 

the  valuable  and  outstanding  annual  report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for 2008, 
and  it  wishes  to  convey  its  deep  appreciation  and 
gratitude 
the  IAEA, 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  devoting  so  much  of  his 
experience and knowledge to the Agency for more than 
a decade. We wish him well in the future. Kuwait also 
thanks  the  Agency  staff  for  all  their  diligent  efforts 
towards  fulfilling  the  goals  and  aspirations  of  the 
peoples  and  countries  of  the  world  through  their 
consolidation  of  the  principle  of  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear energy for the good and welfare of humanity. 
the  Director  General  of 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.33
in 
its 
to 
to 
in 
Since 
establish 
intention 
accession 
the  firm  belief 
to  cooperate  with  him 

Kuwait  also  conveys  its  congratulations  to  the 
new  Director  General  of  the  IAEA,  His  Excellency 
Ambassador Yukiya Amano,  and  wishes  to  emphasize 
its 
fully  and 
comprehensively  in  his  efforts  to  see  his  mission 
succeed. We also commend the Board of Governors for 
the role it has played. 

the  Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT)  four  decades  ago,  the 
State  of  Kuwait  has  continuously  worked  and 
coordinated  its  efforts  with  the  IAEA’s  Department  of 
Technical  Cooperation 
specialized 
laboratories  for  measuring  radioactive  isotopes  in 
Kuwait’s  water  and  soil.  In  its  eagerness  to  build  its 
own  capabilities  and 
the 
importance  of  training  qualified  national  personnel  in 
nuclear  radiation  and  radioactive  materials  protection, 
my country has taken the initiative of hosting regional 
workshops  in  cooperation  with  the  Agency,  most 
recently a Nuclear Power Planning Workshop, held from 
18 to 29 October at the Kuwait Institute for Scientific 
Research. Moreover, my country has always been eager 
to  send  trainees  to  participate  in  training  courses  held 
at  the  IAEA  headquarters  and  this  year  was  an  active 
participant in the International Symposium on Nuclear 
Security,  held  in Vienna  from  30  March  to  3 April,  to 
help  train  customs  officers  in  the  detection  and  safe 
handling of radioactive materials, as well as in training 
personnel in combating nuclear terrorism. 
technology 

its  nuclear 
programme,  promotes 
the  exchange  of  nuclear 
information  and  knowledge,  as  well  as  conveying  this 
knowledge to Member States, particularly in developing 
countries. This  programme  aims  at  facilitating  the  use 
of  nuclear  science  and  related  technology  in  order  to 
help  States  use  such  technology  to  fulfil  their  social 
and  economic  needs  in  a  sustainable  manner  in  areas 
such as food production, water resources management, 
environmental protection and health care. 
In  this  context,  the  State  of  Kuwait  emphasizes 

the  importance  of  enhancing  the  capacity  of  Member 
to  use  nuclear  applications  for  achieving 
States 
sustainable 
the 
technology  to  address  the  deterioration  of  the  soil, 
increase 
sustainable  agricultural  production  and 
livestock  husbandry,  combat  pests  and  improve  the 
quality  and  safety  of  food  products.  The  State  of 
Kuwait also emphasizes the importance of consolidating 
IAEA  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  food  security, 
food  security,  such  as  applying 
through 
The 
IAEA, 
09-58976 

21 

instructed 
A/64/PV.33 

particularly in the present global food crisis, which is a 
matter of extreme concern for the majority of the States 
in  the  world,  especially  the  poor  and  developing 
countries. 

Inaugurating a new phase in developing relations 
between my country and the IAEA and because of his 
interest in diversifying energy resources, His Highness 
the  Amir  of  Kuwait  has 
the  Kuwaiti 
Government to devise an integrated national strategy to 
benefit  from  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy. 
Furthermore,  the  Council  of  Ministers  decided  in 
March,  on  the  recommendation  of  the  IAEA,  to 
establish  the  High  National  Commission  for  Nuclear 
Energy, headed by His Highness the Prime Minister. 

In  this  context,  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
States,  which  are  seeking  to  use  nuclear  energy  in 
peaceful  pursuits,  will  discuss  during  the  upcoming 
summit of the heads of State, scheduled for December 
in  Kuwait,  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear  training 
centre, in coordination with the IAEA, in order to train 
cadres from the Gulf countries in nuclear energy safety. 

The vitally important role that the IAEA plays in 
averting the use of nuclear energy for military purposes 
and  maximizing  safety  in  its  peaceful  applications 
cannot be fulfilled without unified efforts by all States. 
The Middle East region will not accomplish its aims in 
peace  and  stability  as  long  as  Israel  remains  the  only 
country in the region that refuses to submit its nuclear 
facilities  to  the  Agency’s  comprehensive  safeguards 
regime, which represents a main obstacle to achieving 
the  universality  of  the  NPT  and  causes  a  deep 
imbalance  in  fostering  the  non-proliferation  regime. 
This unnatural situation is an incentive for other States 
to attempt to possess nuclear weapons on the pretext of 
the  international  community’s  laxness  in  dealing  with 
countries that refuse to open their nuclear facilities and 
reactors to international inspectors. 

In  the  face  of  this  Israeli  intransigence,  my 
delegation  calls  on  the  international  community  to 
bring pressure to bear on Israel to join the NPT and to 
submit  all  its  facilities  to  IAEA  safeguards.  We  also 
emphasize  the  right  of  all  the  States  in  the  region  to 
acquire  the  needed  technology  and  knowledge  to  use 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  within 
the 
relevant  international  agreements.  That  will  make  the 
Middle East, including the Gulf region, a region free of 
nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. 

In this regard, my country welcomes the ongoing 
discussions  between  the  friendly  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  and  the  5+1  group  in  Geneva  and  Vienna.  We 
express  our  satisfaction  at  the  positive  spirit  and 
constructive ideas that predominate in the talks, as well 
as  Iran’s  readiness  to  exchange  nuclear  fuel  and  open 
its nuclear facility at Qom for international inspectors. 
That cooperation aims to build the confidence that the 
international  community  needs  to  avoid  any  future 
repercussions. We would also like to reaffirm the need 
for  a  diplomatic  solution  to  any  course  that  may  be 
pursued  in  the  future  vis-à-vis  the  programme.  My 
country’s  delegation  encourages  the  Islamic  Republic 
of Iran to continue its cooperation with the IAEA with 
full  transparency,  to  implement  all  articles  relevant  to 
the  requirements  of  the  Agency  and  international 
resolutions,  so  as  to  promote  and  maintain  peace  and 
security in the Gulf and the Middle East region. 

The  historic  Security  Council  summit  convened 
in  September  (see  S/PV.6191)  and  its  adoption  of 
Council  resolution  1887  (2009),  is  an  important  step 
that  contributes  to  combating  and  preventing  the 
proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  Kuwait  strongly 
supports this initiative and calls on all States to adhere 
to  it  and  adopt  the  idea  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons. 

In  conclusion,  I  cannot  fail  to  express  the  hope 
that  the  international  community  will  continue  to 
support the IAEA and the  non-selective  application of 
all  nuclear  disarmament  conventions  and  all  decisions 
related  to  non-proliferation  and  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear energy. 
Mr.  Takasu  (Japan):  I  would  like  first  of  all  to 

thank the Director General of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for 
presenting  the  annual  report  of  the  IAEA.  Since  this 
will  be  the  last  occasion  on  which  he  appears  at  the 
General  Assembly  in  that  capacity,  I  would  like  to 
express my deep appreciation to him for his 12 years of 
distinguished service and leadership at the helm of the 
IAEA.  I  also  extend  best  wishes  to  the  incoming 
Director General, Mr. Amano. 

The  IAEA  plays  a  crucial  role  in  maintaining 
peace  and  security.  It  disseminates  the  benefits  of 
nuclear 
verifies 
non-proliferation.  It  provides  services  to  developing 
countries.  Those  functions  are  becoming  increasingly 
important. 
technology 
humanity. 
to 
It 
22 

09-58976 



Japan has been making a significant contribution 
as  a  lead  country  in  promoting  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear  technology  for  purposes  of  health,  energy  and 
development.  Japan  will  continue  to  widely  share 
scientific  knowledge  and 
technology  with  many 
developing  countries  through  the  IAEA’s  technical 
cooperation programme. 

Nuclear  energy  provides  great  potential  and 
capacity  for  ensuring  a  clean  energy  supply.  In 
response  to  growing  energy  demand  and  climate 
change,  the  role  of  nuclear  power  generation  is  being 
re-evaluated  and  is  attracting  global  interest.  It  is 
essential  to  pay  utmost  attention  to  what  is  known  as 
the 3S principle: safeguards, safety and security. Japan 
will continue to promote the importance of ensuring 3S 
by  organizing  regional  seminars  in  cooperation  with 
the  IAEA  and  also  by  hosting  an 
international 
conference  on  nuclear  security  for  Asia  next  year  in 
2010. 

Japan  has  been  at  the  forefront  of  international 
efforts towards the elimination of nuclear weapons and 
towards nuclear non-proliferation, adhering to the three 
non-nuclear  principles.  Regrettably,  a  large  number  of 
nuclear  arsenals  still  remain  on  the  globe  and  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  regime  is  strained.  We  therefore  welcome  the 
adoption  of  the  important  Security  Council  resolution 
1887 
(2009),  on  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament, at the Council summit in September (see 
S/PV.6191).  This  year,  Japan  once  again  submitted  a 
draft  resolution  on  the  total  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons to the General Assembly. We are very pleased 
that  the  First  Committee  adopted  the  draft  resolution 
(A/C.1/64/L.36*) by an overwhelming majority only a 
few days ago (see A/C.1/64/PV.21). 

The  2010  NPT  Review  Conference  provides  an 
important  milestone  for  taking  further  concrete  steps. 
To contribute to the success of the Review Conference, 
Japan  and Australia  jointly  launched  the  International 
Commission  on  Nuclear  Non-proliferation 
and 
Disarmament.  We  hope  it  will  propose  ambitious  but 
realistic and practical recommendations that will serve 
as the basis for strengthening the NPT regime. 

Those initiatives will support efforts to strengthen 
the IAEA safeguards system, which is a vital pillar of 
the non-proliferation regime. The most effective way to 
strengthen  the  safeguards  system  of  the  IAEA  is  to 
universalize the additional protocol. Japan will actively 
A/64/PV.33
to 
firmly 
to 
promote  this  by  hosting  Asian  non-proliferation  talks 
and  IAEA  seminars.  We  will  also  contribute  to  the 
safeguards  system  by  sharing  advanced  safeguards 
technology. 

The  nuclear  and  missile  programmes  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  pose  a  grave 
threat to the peace and security of North-East Asia and 
of the international community. Those programmes are 
totally  unacceptable.  All  Member  States  should  work 
together 
implement  Security  Council 
resolutions 1718 (2006) and 1874 (2009). We urge the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
take 
positive  steps,  including  its  immediate  return  to  the 
Six-Party Talks, without any preconditions and to fulfil 
the  commitment  it  made  in  the  Joint  Statement  of  the 
Six-Party  Talks.  Japan  will  seek  to  normalize  its 
relationship with the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  by  comprehensively  resolving  all  outstanding 
issues of concern. 

Iran’s  nuclear  programme  is  a  source  of  concern 
for the international community. In order to remove the 
concern  and  to  build  confidence  internationally,  we 
hope that Iran will fully cooperate with the IAEA and 
faithfully  respond  to  the  requirements  of  the  relevant 
IAEA  Board  decisions  and  United  Nations  Security 
Council  resolutions.  Japan  continues  to  contribute 
towards  a  peaceful  and  diplomatic  resolution  of  that 
issue. 

The  vital  mission  of  the  IAEA  will  continue  to 
grow,  and  I  assure  the  Assembly  that  Japan  will 
continue  to  play  a  leading  role  in  contributing  to  the 
Agency’s work. 
Mr.  Tow  (Singapore): After  more  than  50  years 

of  advancing  the  cause  of  “Atoms  for  Peace”,  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  remains 
relevant  in  today’s  world,  perhaps  more  relevant  than 
ever.  The  Nobel  Prize  awarded  to  the  Agency  and  to 
Director General Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei in 2005 was 
testament  to  the Agency’s  stellar  work  in  meeting  the 
challenges  and  aspirations  of  the  world  in  the  nuclear 
arena. 

Singapore  joins  others  in  the  General  Assembly 
in thanking Mr. ElBaradei and his dedicated staff for a 
comprehensive  report  and  for  their  excellent  work. At 
the 
applauds 
Mr. ElBaradei  as  he  completes  his  mission  this  year. 
We would like to acknowledge that much of the stature 
time,  Singapore  warmly 
same 
09-58976 

23 

In  particular, 
the  success  of 
A/64/PV.33 

of the IAEA is due to his dedicated, visionary and wise 
leadership in steering its work. 

Looking  to  the  future,  Singapore  extends  its 
warmest  congratulations 
to  Ambassador  Yukiya 
Amano,  who  will  soon  be  the  Agency’s  first  Asian 
Director  General.  We  are  confident  that  with  his  vast 
experience  in  the  fields  of  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation,  he  will  also  lead  the  IAEA  with 
distinction. He is in a position to influence the renewed 
impetus  in  the  work  towards  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons. 

the  Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  Review  Conference  in  2010 
could  impart  a  greater  shared  sense  of  purpose  in  our 
deliberations  on  the  future  of  the Agency.  Indeed,  the 
collective  efforts  and  resources  of  all  member  States 
will be needed to empower the Agency and enable it to 
face the challenges and seize the opportunities that lie 
ahead. 

Singapore  continues  to  view  the  Agency’s  three 
pillars  of  work  —  safety  and  security,  safeguards  and 
verification,  and  science  and  technology  —  as  being 
complementary and of equal importance. 

As  nuclear  energy  is  increasingly  viewed  as  an 
option for countries and we see an increase in nuclear 
installations  around  the  world,  nuclear  safety  and 
security 
in  avoiding  any 
catastrophic  fallout.  We  endorse  the  IAEA  work  in 
support  of  States’  efforts 
the  highest 
standards in nuclear safety and security through setting 
relevant  benchmarks  and  through  the  various  IAEA 
instruments,  peer  reviews,  assistance  and  review 
missions. 

Singapore is of the view that as the world enters 
an age of nuclear renaissance, a corresponding culture 
of  nuclear  safety  must  be  established.  Regional  and 
national  efforts  need  to  be  redoubled  to  bolster 
confidence  within  our  societies  for  the  use  of  nuclear 
power  to  be  accepted.  In  that  connection,  we  note  the 
adoption  by  the  European  Union  of  a  directive  on 
nuclear safety as a major step towards a common legal 
framework and a strong culture of safety in Europe. 

In  our  region,  South-East  Asia,  in  view  of 
increasing  energy  needs,  several  countries  have  either 
indicated an interest in or are pursuing nuclear energy 
programmes. Singapore fully supports greater regional 
cooperation to complement and strengthen international 
is  ever  more  crucial 
to  ensure 
and  national  efforts  in  this  area  of  nuclear  safety  and 
security. 

In  March  2009,  the  Energy  Studies  Institute  of 
Singapore organized a one-day regional round table on 
achieving  a  safe  and  sustainable  nuclear  future.  It 
brought together policymakers and regulators from the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and 
international  nuclear  experts  to  engage  in  a  free-
ranging  dialogue  on  the  pursuit  of  civilian  nuclear 
energy and the attendant policy implications, including 
managing public concerns about nuclear safety. 

Beyond  our  own  efforts  among  the  10  members 
of ASEAN, Singapore fully supports the Asian Nuclear 
Safety  Network  in  its  effort  to  ensure  a  high  standard 
of nuclear safety in the Asian region. Singapore joined 
the Network in December  2008 and participated in its 
second meeting on the nuclear safety strategy dialogue 
in April 2009. It is pleased to host the tenth meeting of 
its steering committee this December. 
The  right  of  States  to  use  nuclear  energy  for 

peaceful  purposes  must  also  be  exercised 
in 
compliance  with  States’  non-proliferation  obligations. 
Singapore firmly believes that we must ensure that the 
IAEA  safeguards  and  verification  regime  remains 
capable  of  responding  credibly  and  effectively  to  new 
challenges  within  the  Agency’s  mandate,  in  order  to 
continue to provide safeguards assurances. 

At  the  national  level,  every  State  has  to  play  its 
part.  Singapore  has  steadily  enhanced  its  legislative 
framework  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  Additional 
Protocol  and  the  modified  Small  Quantities  Protocol, 
which  we  ratified  and  concluded  with  the  IAEA  in 
March  2008.  Just  recently,  we  hosted  a  visit  by  IAEA 
safeguards 
the 
mechanism  outlined  in  Article  8  of  the  Additional 
Protocol.  

For  many  years,  the  IAEA  has  had  before  it 
several  verification  cases.  Singapore  would  like  to 
thank  and  commend 
their 
persistence,  often  labouring  in  difficult  situations  in 
pursuing investigations into those cases. In this regard, 
we note that the heads of State and Government of the 
Non-Aligned Movement, in the final document adopted 
at  Sharm  el-Sheikh  this  year,  expressed  their  full 
confidence in IAEA impartiality and professionalism. 

peaceful 
The  Agency’s  quiet  work  in  the  promotion  of 
and 
applications  of  nuclear 
accordance  with 
inspectors, 
science 
team 
in 
the 
IAEA 
for 
24 

09-58976 
and 
the  Agency 
international 


technology  is  the  area  that  no  doubt  has  the  greatest 
impact  on  the  lives  of  many  people  in  the  developing 
world,  contributing  concretely  towards  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Yet  the  international 
news  media  has  grossly  underreported  that  aspect  of 
the  Agency’s  work.  That  should  change,  because  the 
benefits  of  nuclear  applications  are  obvious  and 
myriad.  They  extend  to  human  health  in  medical 
diagnosis  and  treatment,  pest  control  and  various 
industrial applications such as in the petrochemical and 
mining  sectors,  animal  and  agro-industries  and  food 
processing, to name a few. 

While  Singapore  is  pleased  that  the  Agency’s 
technical  cooperation  has  expanded  considerably  in 
recent  years,  in  both  the  scope  and  number  of 
activities, there is still room for the Agency to further 
enhance its work to help developing countries in those 
areas. 

We  commend 
for  establishing 
partnerships  with 
regional 
development organizations to develop greater synergies. 
Singapore remains firmly committed to supporting the 
IAEA  technical  cooperation  programme.  We  look 
forward 
the  Agency, 
through our  memorandum of understanding with it,  in 
outreach efforts to assist other developing countries. 

In conclusion, Singapore would like to express its 
continued support for the important work of the IAEA. 
We  strongly  urge  all  States,  especially  those  with 
outstanding  obligations  and  issues,  to  fully  cooperate 
with the Agency to further strengthen cooperation and 
confidence-building  as  part  of 
international 
community’s  effort 
to  enhance  global  peace  and 
security. 
Mr.  Sergeyev  (Ukraine):  At  the  outset  I  would 

like  to  welcome  the  new  member  States  to  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  —  the 
Kingdom of Cambodia and the Republic of Rwanda — 
and  to  wish  them  every  success  in  their  activities 
within the Agency. Expansion of the IAEA membership 
is additional proof of the Agency’s growing authority. 

We consider the IAEA the leader of international 
efforts to deliver a safe and secure nuclear future, and 
we  highly  appreciate  its  continued  adherence  to  the 
three main pillars of its activity: safety, technology and 
verification. 
to  further  cooperation  with 
the 
A/64/PV.33
into 
At 
to  shore  up 
the 
time  when 
the 
essential  part  of 
time,  existing  challenges 
regime.  Ukraine  considers 

Ukraine associates itself with those who stand for 
further  strengthening  the  Agency  and  its  ability  to 
detect  and  deter  the  diversion  of  nuclear  material  for 
non-peaceful  purposes.  We  therefore  positively  note 
the recent constructive discussions in Vienna within the 
framework of the open-ended process on the future of 
the  Agency  and  the  role  it  should  play  in  2020  and 
beyond. 
The international safeguards system of the IAEA 

the  global  nuclear 
an 
is 
non-proliferation 
that 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements,  together  with 
additional  protocols,  constitute 
the  current  IAEA 
verification  standard.  We  call  upon  all  States  to  bring 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements 
force 
without  delay  and  to  sign,  ratify  and  implement  an 
additional protocol. 

to 
the  same 
non-proliferation efforts have highlighted the need  for 
collective  action 
international 
safeguards  system.  We  note  that  those  challenges  are 
taking  place  at  a 
international 
safeguards  system  is  facing  a  growing  imbalance 
between  the  IAEA  mission  and  available  resources. 
Ukraine  welcomes 
the  United  States’  2008  Next 
Generation  Safeguards  Initiative,  aimed  at  developing 
policies,  concepts,  technologies  and  infrastructure  to 
meet  the  aforementioned  challenges,  and  is  ready  to 
contribute to its realization. 

The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  remains  the  cornerstone  of  the  global 
nuclear 
essential 
foundation for the pursuit of nuclear disarmament and 
the  development  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes. We  were  encouraged  by  the  outcome  of  the 
third  session  of  the  Preparatory  Committee  for  the 
2010  NPT  Review  Conference  and  expect  that  the 
Conference will adopt a set of consensual, concrete and 
effective  measures  aimed  at  stepping  up  international 
efforts  against  the  threat  of  nuclear  proliferation, 
pursuing  nuclear  disarmament  in  accordance  with 
article  VI  of  the  Treaty  and  ensuring  the  responsible 
development  of  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy. 
Ukraine,  as  a  Chair  of  Main  Committee  II  of  the 
Conference,  will  continue  to  actively  contribute  to  all 
NPT-related efforts by helping to make the Conference 
a success. 
non-proliferation 
regime, 
the 
09-58976 

25 

A/64/PV.33 


Ukraine  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to  the 
issue  of  ensuring  nuclear  safety  and  underscores  the 
important role played by the IAEA in strengthening the 
global  nuclear  safety  framework.  It  is  important  that 
any  development  of  nuclear  energy  take  place  under 
the best safety, security and non-proliferation conditions. 
We  are  confident  that  international  cooperation  is 
crucial to achieving those conditions and call upon all 
countries — including those envisaging a civil nuclear 
option  for  the  first  time  —  to  cooperate  with  the 
Agency  and  implement  its  recommendations.  In  that 
context, we believe it essential that member States that 
still have not done so become contracting parties to the 
Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety,  the  conventions  on 
notification and assistance and the Joint Convention. 
Another  programme  of  the  utmost  importance  to 

the  IAEA  is  nuclear  security.  Ukraine  supports  the 
IAEA  activities  in  that  area  and  welcomes  the  newly 
adopted  Nuclear  Security  Plan  2010-2013,  which  sets 
out priorities for the Agency for the years to come. We 
commend  the  Agency  for  the  assistance  provided  to 
Ukraine  for  the  implementation  of  specific  projects, 
and we call on all IAEA member States to continue to 
give  financial  support  to  the  Nuclear  Security  Fund. 
We  also  urge  all  States  to  become  parties  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material and its Amendment. 
We  highly  value  the  results  of  the  IAEA’s 

Technical Cooperation Programme. Noting in its latest 
annual  report  that  interest  in  launching  nuclear  power 
programmes  has  continued  to  grow  among  member 
States,  the Agency  has  rightly  focused  on  developing 
nuclear  power  applications.  At  the  same  time,  it  has 
continued to successfully develop projects in six main 
areas  of  non-nuclear  applications.  In  that  connection, 
we encourage the Agency’s strong support for regional 
cooperation.  

Human  health  remains  the  single  overriding 
priority in all regions, accounting for 27 per cent of the 
IAEA 
the  pressing 
development  needs  of  the  world’s  poorest  countries. 
Let me recall that last year Ukraine hosted 12 regional 
and interregional events in this and other cross-cutting 
thematic areas. 

Of particular importance for Ukraine in this field 
are  the  problems  of  radioactive  waste  management 
experienced  during 
the 
Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant  and  the  conversion  of 
the  decommissioning  of 
for  addressing 
total  budget 
that 
I  would 
like 
to 
take 
In  conclusion, 
to  2016.  We  hope 
the  Shelter  Object  into  an  ecologically  safe  system. 
The Agency has continued to provide assistance in the 
remediation of the territories affected by radionuclides 
in Ukraine. The results of  the IAEA’s recent activities 
in  this  field  —  including  the  holding  of  a  seminar  on 
the  third  decade  of  cooperation  and  actions  aimed  at 
the social and economic rehabilitation of the territories 
that  suffered  from  the  Chernobyl  catastrophe  —  laid 
the  basis  for  the  United  Nations  Action  Plan  on 
Chernobyl 
the  Agency’s 
attention  to  the  Chernobyl  issue  will  not  decrease, 
since it remains a challenge for the entire international 
community. 

this 
opportunity, on behalf of the delegation of Ukraine, to 
congratulate Mr. Yukiya Amano on his appointment as 
Director  General  of  the  IAEA  and  to  wish  him  every 
success  in  managing  the  Agency.  We  want  also  to 
express  Ukraine’s  great  appreciation  for  the  work  of 
the  outgoing  Director  General,  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei, recognized through the Nobel Prize, and of 
the Agency’s secretariat. 

Finally, I wish to state that Ukraine fully supports 
draft  resolution  A/64/L.7,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency”,  and  will 
continue its active involvement in IAEA activities. 
Mr. Midekssa (Ethiopia): It is a profound honour 

and pleasure to address the Assembly on behalf of my 
delegation  on  the  important  agenda  item  before  us.  I 
would  like  at  the  outset  to  express  my  deepest 
appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the  outgoing  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his  informative 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Agency.  Allow  me  also  to 
express  my  sincere  respect  for  his  commendable 
leadership over the past 12 years and his efforts for the 
propagation of the peaceful use of nuclear technologies 
worldwide. 

In  addition,  my  warmest  congratulations  go  to 
Ambassador  Yukiya  Amano  on  his  appointment  as 
incoming  Director  General  of  the  IAEA.  I  would  also 
like to assure him that my country will fully cooperate 
with  and  support  his  efforts  to  attain  the  Agency’s 
objectives  aimed  at  the  promotion  and  transfer  of 
nuclear technologies for safe and peaceful applications. 

As we all know, the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  has  been  working  for  the  realization  of  the 
its 
Atoms 
for  Peace  vision  since 
the  day  of 
26 

09-58976 
human 
through 
its 
techniques 
health,  water 


establishment.  As  a  founding  member  of  the  Agency, 
Ethiopia  has  always  attached  and  will  continue  to 
attach  great  significance  to  the  maintenance  of  global 
peace and security in connection with the specific area 
of the mandate entrusted to the Agency.  

As  regards  the  use  of  nuclear  energy,  I  am 
pleased  to  inform  this  gathering  that  Ethiopia  is 
engaged in a number of national and regional projects 
that  apply  nuclear 
to  address  various 
socio-economic development challenges in the areas of 
agriculture, 
resources 
development  and  energy  planning.  Indeed,  it  is  a 
pleasure  for  me  to  mention  the  fact  that  not  only  has 
the  number  of  active  national  projects  increased  from 
year to year; the content and depth of the projects have 
experienced  a  remarkable  transformation.  Ethiopia  is 
pursuing a focused approach on areas of high relevance 
for 
the  benefit  of  socio-economic  development 
objectives. 

The  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United Nations (FAO) has taken some promising steps 
to enhance the relevance and efficiency of its activities, 
including 
Joint  Division  with 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  which 
is 
important for developing and least developed countries 
in particular. The Joint Division of Nuclear Techniques 
in  Food  and  Agriculture  has  been  especially 
instrumental  in  creating  synergy  between  the  two 
organizations. Ethiopia welcomes the decision of FAO 
to  retain  the  Joint  FAO/IAEA  Division.  We  therefore 
urge  the  strengthening  of  that  useful  partnership 
between the two global organizations. 
that  adequate  and 

predictable  resources  for 
the 
Agency and, more importantly, balanced distribution of 
resources 
the  safeguards,  nuclear  safety  and 
technical  cooperation  activities  of  the Agency  need  to 
be  ensured.  The  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  is 
in  fact  playing  a  crucial  role  as  a  means  of  nuclear 
technology transfer to the developing member States of 
the Agency. 

It  is  known  that  the  ultimate  mission  of  the 
Agency  and  its  member  States  is  to  create  a  nuclear-
weapon-free  world  through  the  implementation  of  all 
relevant  international  guiding  principles  and  treaties. 
The  Pelindaba  Treaty  is  a  clear  manifestation  of  the 
commitment  of 
for  more 
transparency  and  cooperation  among  themselves.  We 
the  African  States 
the  programmes  of 
We  also 
firmly  believe 
to 
A/64/PV.33
to 
therefore  call  upon  all  African  member  States  to 
maintain  that  momentum  through  ratification  of  the 
Pelindaba  Treaty  with  a  view 
its  universal 
application.  

As  a  founding  member  of  the  Agency,  I  would 
like to reaffirm Ethiopia’s commitment to the peaceful 
use  of  nuclear  technologies  and  applications.  In  that 
regard,  it  is  important  to  underscore  that  nuclear 
non-proliferation could eventually lead to a world free 
of nuclear threat if, and only if, it is complemented by 
genuine  disarmament  measures  by  all  nuclear-weapon 
States. 

In conclusion, allow me to reiterate our profound 
thanks  and  appreciation  to  the  IAEA,  particularly  its 
governance  and  leadership,  for  their  dedication  to 
strengthening  crucially  essential  technical  cooperation 
activities between the Agency and my country. I would 
also  like  to  reassure  the  Assembly  that,  apart  from 
abiding  by  its  international  obligations  as  a  member 
State, Ethiopia will continue to do its utmost to further 
enhance  that  positive  spirit  of  cooperation  with  the 
Agency. 
Mr.  Li  Yang  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 

Chinese  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, for his report on the 
work of the IAEA over the past year. We appreciate the 
Agency’s important role in promoting peaceful uses of 
nuclear  energy  and  in  preventing  the  proliferation  of 
nuclear weapons. 
I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute 

to Mr. ElBaradei, who will leave office shortly. For the 
past  12  years,  as  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA, 
Mr. ElBaradei  has  demonstrated  his  outstanding 
leadership  by 
the  mandate 
stipulated  in  the  Statute  of  the  IAEA  with  objectivity, 
impartiality  and  professionalism,  and  has  greatly 
contributed  to  the  promotion  of  nuclear  energy  and  to 
the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Meanwhile, I 
would like to congratulate Ambassador Yukiya Amano 
on  his  election  as  the  new  Director  General  of  the 
Agency.  China  is  looking  forward  to  continuing  its 
close  cooperation  with  the  new  Director  General  and 
the secretariat. 

China  noticed  that  over  the  past  year  the  IAEA 
has  carried  out  much  fruitful  work  in  promoting 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  through  programmes 
on  nuclear  power,  nuclear  applications  and  technical 
faithfully 
fulfilling 
09-58976 

27 
A/64/PV.33 

cooperation.  The  Agency  actively  assisted  member 
States  to  strengthen  their  nuclear  safety  and  security 
and  continued  to  play  an  important  role  in  the 
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  Last  year,  the 
Agency  applied  safeguards  in  163  States.  It  made 
constant efforts in concluding additional protocols with 
more States and in strengthening the effectiveness and 
improving the efficiency of safeguards. The IAEA has 
also  played  a  constructive  role  in  addressing  some 
regional nuclear issues. China would like to express its 
appreciation  for  the Agency’s  efforts  and  achievement 
in those areas. 

Economic  development,  climate  change  and 
energy  needs  have  led  to  an  increasing  number  of 
countries  seeking  to  develop  nuclear  energy.  At  the 
same  time,  strengthening  the  non-proliferation  regime 
and preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons are 
important  issues  that  greatly  concern  the  international 
community. China is of the view that the IAEA should 
adopt  a  balanced  approach  towards  both  categories  of 
activities, with emphasis on the following areas. 

First  is  making  full  use  of  its  expertise  and 
increasing  input  in  technical  cooperation  programmes 
so  as  to  assist  member  States  in  developing  nuclear 
power and nuclear application and to promote relevant 
international  cooperation.  Second  is  taking  concrete 
measures  to  strengthen  the  effectiveness  and  improve 
the  efficiency  of  safeguards  and  to  promote  the 
universality  of  the  additional  protocols  to  earnestly 
prevent  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  The  third 
area is further promoting the nuclear safety culture and 
the  establishment  of  regulations  and  a  safeguards 
system  for  nuclear  safety,  and  continuing  to  assist 
member  States  in  establishing  sound  and  effective 
nuclear  security  systems  to  improve  the  collective 
capability  to  prevent  and  combat  nuclear  terrorism. 
Fourth  is  continuing  to  play  a  constructive  role  in 
promoting  the  resolution  of  regional  nuclear  issues 
facilitating 
through 
discussions  on  multilateral  nuclear 
supply 
assurance in an effort to seek consensus by all sides on 
the issue. 

Last  April,  the  Chinese  Government  and  the 
IAEA  jointly  organized  the  successful  International 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Nuclear  Energy  in  the  21st 
Century,  in  Beijing.  Delegates  shared  experiences  and 
views,  explored  various  future  strategies  and  ideas 
concerning  the  sustainable  development  of  nuclear 
energy and reached broad consensus. 
peaceful  means.  Fifth 
fuel 
is 


China  will,  as  always,  continue  to  support  the 
Agency  and  work  with  other  member  States  and  the 
secretariat to promote further progress in the Agency’s 
work. 
Mr. Tarar (Pakistan): I would like to pay tribute 

to  the  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA), His Excellency Mr. Mohamed 
ElBaradei, who has led the Agency with distinction and 
commitment  throughout  his  tenure.  We  also  warmly 
felicitate  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Yukiya  Amano 
on  his  election  to  the  challenging  post  of  Director 
General. We are confident that his vast experience will 
stand  him  in  good  stead  in  strengthening  the  IAEA’s 
role in promoting the peaceful use of nuclear energy in 
an  impartial  and  professional  manner,  sensitive  to  the 
needs  and  expectations  of  all  Member  States, 
particularly  the  developing  nations  that  have  modest 
programmes. 

The IAEA’s unique role as the world’s focal point 
for  promoting  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  is 
assuming  greater  significance  with  the  increasing 
global  energy  demand,  the  alarming  scarcity  of  fossil 
fuel reserves and the growing awareness of the diverse 
environmental problems that they pose. In view of the 
good  and  safe  performance  of  nuclear  power  plants, 
that  scenario  has  led  to  a  resurgence  of  interest  in 
nuclear  power  after  more  than  two  decades.  It  is 
important to nurture that likely growth lest we miss the 
opportunity. Thus the promise comes with an immense 
challenge not only for the nuclear industry but also for 
the Agency,  as it is expected to play a  guiding role in 
promoting  an  equitable  access  to  nuclear  technology, 
materials and equipment. 

To  afford  every  State  its  right  to  the  peaceful 
applications of nuclear technology, particularly nuclear 
power  generation,  universal  and  non-discriminatory 
criteria 
cooperation  must  be 
developed. In that process, principles should be placed 
above  perceptions.  Such  an  approach  would  also  help 
to  strengthen  the  non-proliferation  regime.  Here,  we 
may  remind  ourselves  of 
the  primary  objective 
enunciated  in  the  Agency’s  mission  statement,  which 
says that the IAEA: 

“assists  its  Member  States,  in  the  context  of 
social  and  economic  goals,  in  planning  for  and 
using nuclear science and technology for various 
peaceful  purposes,  including  the  generation  of 
electricity,  and  facilitates  the  transfer  of  such 
international 
for 
28 

09-58976 


A/64/PV.33
Its  proper 
implementation, 
in  a  sustainable 
the  Agency’s  attention  and 
technology  and  knowledge 
manner to developing Member States”. 

The  IAEA’s  Statute  is  clearly  based  on  the 
concept  that  the  application  of  safeguards  and  safety 
measures  is  an  associated  function  in  promoting  and 
safely  transferring  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes. 
therefore, 
requires  the  maintenance  of  a  balance  between  the 
Agency’s  promotional  activities  and  its  work  on 
verification  and  nuclear  security.  As  circumstances 
would  have  it,  the  latter  seems  to  have  taken  up  the 
better  part  of 
its 
policymaking  organs.  It  is  required  to  ensure  that  that 
trend  does  not  hamper  the  Agency’s  core  statutory 
function of promoting peaceful uses of nuclear energy, 
particularly  because  many  developing  countries  have 
an  ambition  to  start  a  nuclear  power  programme  and 
look towards the Agency. 

The  primary  vehicle  through  which  the  Agency 
fulfils  its  promotional  role is  its  technical  cooperation 
programme,  which  has  brought  tangible  benefits  to 
many  developing  member  States.  IAEA  programmes 
on  human  resource  development,  expert  services, 
fellowships, training courses and equipment supply are 
the  key  components  of  the  technical  cooperation 
activities that ensure impact and sustainability. 

We in Pakistan have greatly benefited from such 
interactions not only in the area of nuclear power, but 
also  in  other  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear  energy, 
including 
and 
industry.  We  strongly  support  and  appreciate  the 
Agency’s  efforts  in  improving  the  quality  of  its 
technical cooperation programmes and in making them 
compatible  with  the  changing  requirements  and  needs 
of  the  Member  States  despite  the  odds  of  resource 
constraints. 

Needless to say, those activities should be further 
strengthened  by  the  provision  of  sufficient  resources 
and  continual  enhancement  of  their  effectiveness.  For 
its part, Pakistan will continue to contribute by sharing 
its  experience,  offering  training  placements  at  its 
educational  and  research  and  development  centres 
whenever  requested  and  by  providing  the  services  of 
experts. 

Pakistan has long been a strong advocate of using 
nuclear technology for progress and prosperity. I would 
like to point out to this audience that Pakistan signed a 
contract  for  the  first  nuclear  power  plant  in  the 
agriculture,  hydrology,  medicine 
the  application  of 
mid-1960s,  when  very  few  developing  countries  had 
even thought of harnessing nuclear energy. That plant, 
which  was  connected  to  the  grid  in  1972,  is  still 
operating,  and  we  take  care  of  all  the  front-end 
requirements of the fuel cycle. 

However,  our  second  plant,  the  300  MW  C-1, 
came with some delay and was commissioned in 2000. 
The Agency played a very supportive role in assessing 
the  design  and  operational  safety  of  this  plant.  Our 
third plant, C-2, is nearing completion. Pakistan looks 
to  the Agency  and  the  developed  world  for  assistance 
as it develops its nuclear power programme so that this 
clean source of electrical power can be exploited in an 
energy-starved country. 

While  nuclear  power  has  been  the  mainstay  of 
our  effort,  Pakistan  has  also  developed  programmes 
around 
ionizing  radiation  and 
radioisotopes in the fields of agriculture and medicine 
for  the  benefit  of  its  population. A  typical  example  is 
the 13 nuclear medical centres that the Pakistan Atomic 
Energy  Commission  is  running  across  the  country, 
where every year about half a million patients receive 
diagnostic and therapeutic  services, most of them  free 
of cost. Five other such centres are under construction. 

Alongside  the  inception  of  its  atomic  energy 
development programme, Pakistan has recognized that 
ensuring  nuclear  safety  and  security 
is  of  vital 
importance.  In  those  areas,  Pakistan  continuously 
strives  to  follow  existing  international  standards  and 
practices and has based its national  regulations on the 
Agency’s  nuclear  safety  standards.  The  Agency’s 
guidance  documents  on  the  physical  protection  of 
facilities  and  materials  and  on  the  safety  and  security 
of  radioactive  sources  are  being  used  as  a  basis  for 
inspection and enforcement. 

its 
obligations  under  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety, 
the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material,  the  Convention  on  Early  Notification  of  a 
Nuclear Accident, and the Convention on Assistance in 
the  Case  of  a  Nuclear  Accident  or  Radiological 
Emergency.  Pakistan  is  actively  participating  in  the 
nuclear  safety  and  security  activities  and  programmes 
of the Agency. 

receiving 
valuable assistance from the IAEA and member States, 
it is also sharing its experience and resources with the 
IAEA and member States. Pakistan is also contributing 
Consequently,  while  Pakistan 
As  a  State  party,  Pakistan 
is  fulfilling 
is 
09-58976 

29 

A/64/PV.33 

to  the  IAEA  databases  such  as  the  Illicit  Trafficking 
Database  (ITDB),  the  Nuclear  and  Radiological  Event 
Scale (INES) and the Incident Reporting System (IRS). 

Here,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Pakistan’s  firm 
commitment to nuclear non-proliferation. Pakistan has 
maintained  a  good  track  record  in Agency  safeguards. 
Following international standards, we are continuously 
improving  controls  over 
the  export  of  goods, 
technologies  and  facilities.  Pakistan  believes  that  the 
global  non-proliferation  regime  must  be  strengthened 
on  the  basis  of  moral,  political  and  international 
commitments. 

As  I  express  our  deep  appreciation  for  the 
valuable  assistance  provided  by  the  Agency  in  the 
fields  of  nuclear  technology,  safety  and  security,  my 
delegation  also  believes  that  the Agency  should  make 
greater  initiatives  to  facilitate  construction  of  nuclear 
power plants in member States on a non-discriminatory 
basis. That would contribute to the economic growth of 
the countries concerned, and economic growth for all is 
truly the catalyst we need to eradicate the menaces we 
face today. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 

30 

09-58976 
