
A/64/PV.56
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

56th plenary meeting 
Friday, 4 December 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 

















Agenda item 76 
Oceans and the law of the sea 
  (a)  Oceans and the law of the sea 



  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/64/66 and 
Add.1 and Add.2) 
  Report on the results of the assessment of 
assessments (A/64/88) 
  Report on the work of the United Nations 
Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on 
Oceans and the Law of the Sea at its tenth 
meeting (A/64/131) 
  Report on the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole to recommend a course of 
action to the General Assembly on the regular 
process for global reporting and assessment of 
the state of the marine environment, including 
socio-economic aspects (A/64/347)  
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.18 and Corr.1) 

  (b)  Sustainable fisheries, including through the 

1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the 
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 
relating to the Conservation and Management 
of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory 
Fish Stocks, and related instruments 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/305) 

that 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.29) 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I give the floor 

to the representative of the United States of America to 
introduce draft resolution A/64/L.29. 
Ms.  Ross  (United  States  of  America):  My 

delegation  has  the  honour  to  be  a  sponsor  of  draft 
resolution A/64/L.18, entitled “Oceans and the Law of 
the  Sea”.  We  also  have  the  honour  to  introduce,  on 
behalf  of  the  sponsors,  draft  resolution A/64/L.29,  on 
sustainable fisheries. 

I should like to begin by expressing appreciation 
for  the  spirit  of  cooperation  exhibited  by  delegations 
involved in crafting both resolutions this year. It is our 
hope 
that  spirit  of  cooperation  will  also 
characterize  our  efforts  to  address  the  numerous  and 
complex issues that lie ahead in the new year. 

The  United  States  is  very  pleased  with  the 
successful  outcome  of  this  year’s  review  in  the 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea. The Process is a useful forum for informing 
policymakers  about  cutting-edge  oceans 
issues, 
including their relationship to sustainable development 
of  the  oceans  and  marine  resources.  Following  this 
year’s  review  of  that  Process  and  agreement  on 
improvements  to  it,  we  look  forward  to  addressing 
capacity-building  in  ocean  affairs  and  the  law  of  the 
sea,  including  marine  science,  in  2010  and  other 
critical oceans-related issues in the years beyond. 

This  year’s  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries 
once  again  contains  important  provisions  to  address 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-63342 (E) 
*0963342* 



on 
conservation 
science-based 
A/64/PV.56 

critical  issues  such  as  better  regulation  of  destructive 
fishing  practices,  control  of  illegal,  unregulated  and 
unreported (IUU) fishing, reduction of fishing capacity, 
emphasis 
and 
management  measures,  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement, 
strengthened 
conservation  and  management  of  sharks,  and  other 
important  matters.  However,  perhaps  the  most  notable 
aspect  of  this  year’s  resolution  is  the  provisions  to 
strengthen  and  enhance  the  regulation  of  bottom-
fishing  activities  and  the  impact  of  such  activities  on 
vulnerable marine ecosystems in areas beyond national 
jurisdiction. 

In 2006, the United States, along with many other 
countries,  successfully sought strong provisions in the 
sustainable  fisheries  resolution  to  address  the  critical 
gap  in  oceans  governance  with  respect  to  bottom 
fisheries.  In  our  view,  the  provisions  contained  in 
resolution  61/105  were  a  landmark  step  forward  for 
sustainable  bottom  fisheries  and  in  protecting  fragile 
and  rare  marine  ecosystems  from  adverse  impacts  of 
fishing activities. 

In the three years since the adoption of resolution 
61/105, 
international  community  has  made 
significant and important progress in implementing the 
calls made in it. This year’s sustainable fisheries draft 
resolution  reviews  the  progress  in  implementing  those 
calls  and  further  refines  recommendations  to  assist 
States and regional fisheries management organizations 
those  provisions. 
with 
Delegations 
regional 
fisheries  management  organizations  and  arrangements 
(RFMOs)  have  taken  important  and  tangible  steps  to 
implement  resolution  61/105,  including  beginning  — 
and,  in  the  case  of  the  South  Pacific,  completing  — 
negotiations  to  establish  two  new  RFMOs  where  they 
do  not  currently  exist.  However,  delegations  also 
expressed  concern 
implementation  has  been 
uneven  and  not  sufficient  in  all  cases.  Therefore, 
delegations  crafted  language  to  strengthen  and  focus 
action where it is urgently needed. 

As a result, the United States is pleased that this 
year’s  sustainable  fisheries  draft  resolution  contains  a 
package  of  provisions  that  clearly  articulates  what 
urgent actions States and RFMOs should take to ensure 
full  implementation  of  resolution  61/105,  and  that  it 
encourages  enhanced  cooperation  among  States  and 
RFMOs in achieving that goal. The United States will 
continue  to  work  with  others  to  advance  this  issue 
implementation  of 
recognized 
that  States  and 
that 
the 
the 

reform 
through the  relevant RFMOs and through negotiations 
to establish new organizations. 

Much  work  remains  if  we  are  to  ensure  the 
sustainability of global fish stocks. RFMOs continue to 
be 
the  best  available  mechanism  for  regulating 
international  fisheries.  Nonetheless,  there  is  much 
room  for  improvement  within  those  organizations  to 
advance  our  common  goals. To  that  end,  a  number  of 
RFMOs have embarked on systematic reviews of their 
performance.  Those  efforts  must  be  recognized  and 
commended.  However,  the  recommendations  of  those 
reviews  must  now  be  implemented  to  bring  about 
much-needed 
and  modernization  within 
RFMOs.  Such  reform  must  also  address  how  States 
implement  and  enforce  the  rules  that  they  adopt  as 
members of such organizations. The United States will 
be  looking  ahead  to  the  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks 
Agreement  Review  Conference,  scheduled  for  May 
2010,  as  a  venue  to  consider  that  and  other  critical 
issues facing international fisheries. 

I  wish  to  thank  all  the  delegations  for  their  hard 
work  in  the  development  of  the  sustainable  fisheries 
draft  resolution.  The  United  States  was  once  again 
proud  to  provide  the  coordinator  for  the  informal 
consultations,  Ms.  Holly  Koehler,  who 
the 
negotiations  to  their  successful  conclusion,  and  we 
greatly thank her for her work to that end. 
Mr.  Lundkvist  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
candidate  countries  Croatia  and  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia, 
the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Armenia  and  Georgia  align 
themselves with this statement. 

This  year,  the  European  Union  has  once  again 
demonstrated  its  commitment  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  to  the  1995 
United  Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  by  actively 
participating  in  the  consultations  that  led  to  the  draft 
resolutions  before  the  General  Assembly  today.  The 
European  Union  believes  that  the  Convention  is  an 
important  instrument  that  promotes  stability,  peace, 
progress  and  economic  and  social  advancement,  in 
accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
United  Nations.  It  therefore  holds  special  significance 
in  a  difficult  international  context.  The  European 
the  countries  of 
led 
2 

09-63342 
the 
integrity  and 
the  Convention’s 
relevant  provisions  of 


Union would like to reiterate the importance it attaches 
to  preserving 
the 
Convention’s  pre-eminent  role  as  the  legal  framework 
for  all  ocean  issues  and  ocean-related  activities.  The 
European  Union  calls  upon  all  States  to  accede  to  the 
Convention  and  to  the  Agreement  relating  to  the 
implementation of Part XI of the Convention. 

The  European  Union  reiterates  the  importance  it 
attaches  to  the  freedom  of  navigation,  the  right  of 
innocent  passage  and  the  right  of  transit  passage  in 
compliance  with 
the 
Convention. The European Union would further like to 
reiterate  its  deep  concern  about  the  continued  acts  of 
piracy,  which  are  detrimental  to  the  safety  of  persons 
and property, whether vessels are attacked or hijacked 
or  prisoners  are  held  for  ransom.  In  view  of  the 
resurgence  of  such  acts,  the  international  community 
has  committed  itself  to  combating  this  scourge  within 
the United Nations framework. In that regard, we note 
the efforts of the Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast 
of Somalia. 

Other  major  challenges  remain,  such  as  the 
declining  quality  of  the  marine  environment  and  the 
destruction  of  natural  marine 
resources.  Marine 
biodiversity  is  being  threatened,  and  time  is  running 
out  if  we  are  to  meet  the  deadlines  set  in  the  2002 
Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation.  The  European 
Union  remains  firmly  committed  to  addressing  those 
challenges. 

The  European  Union  has  repeatedly  and  in 
various forums expressed its concerns over the loss of 
marine  biodiversity  and  has  supported  the  initiative 
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  to  create  an  Ad  Hoc 
Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  on  the  matter. 
The  European  Union  welcomes  that  the  Working 
Group  will  reconvene  in  early  2010  and  that  its 
mandate  has  been  confirmed.  We  also  welcome  that 
States  are  invited  to  further  consider  issues  of  marine 
protected 
assessment 
processes  in  the  context  of  the  Group’s  mandate.  The 
Working  Group  is  in  a  position  to  make  important 
recommendations  to  the  Assembly,  with  a  view  to 
forging ahead on the sensitive issue of the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  biological  diversity  beyond 
areas of national jurisdiction. 

The  draft  omnibus  resolution  notes  the  concerns 
raised in relation to the issue of climate change and its 
effects  on  the  oceans,  seas  and  natural  resources.  In 
environmental 
areas 
and 
A/64/PV.56
as 
the 
such 
At  a 
including 
time  when 
environment, 
eutrophication, 
that regard the EU would have wished to highlight the 
state of the Arctic region as a priority area for research. 
We  would  also  have  wished  to  see  a  reference  to  the 
forthcoming United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change Conference, to be held in Copenhagen 
from 7 to 18 December 2009. To respond to the debates 
within the international community, the draft resolution 
takes  into  account  various  issues  relating  to  climate 
change, 
acidification, 
fertilization,  the  discharge  of  carbon  dioxide  into  the 
atmosphere  and  greenhouse  gases.  The  international 
community  for  the  law  of  the  sea  the  must  take  an 
active  role  in  the  movement  to  prevent  and  combat 
climate change. 

international  scientific 
community  must  inspire  the  work  of  States  and 
international  organizations, 
the  European  Union 
recognizes  the  relevance  of  the  regular  process  for 
global  reporting  and  assessment  of  the  state  of  the 
marine 
socio-economic 
aspects. We welcome the convening of another meeting 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group in 2010, which confirms 
that  the  real  start-up  of  the  first  cycle  of  the  process 
has begun. 

In  1999  the  General  Assembly  created  a  useful 
and  efficient  tool  for  preparing  for  its  debates  on 
oceans and the law of the sea, namely, the Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea. This year, at its ten-year juncture, the focus 
of  discussion  was  on  the  implementation  of  the 
outcome  of  the  Consultative  Process.  A  very  useful 
review of its achievements and shortcomings in its first 
meetings  was  undertaken.  The  review  made  clear  that 
the  Consultative  Process  has  served  and  will  continue 
to  serve  its  purpose.  The  European  Union  looks 
forward  to  the  discussions  at  next  year’s  Consultative 
Process,  the  theme  of  which  will  be  capacity-building 
in  oceans  affairs  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  including 
marine  science.  We  note  the  agreement  of  all  parties 
during 
theme  should 
incorporate the issue of the mitigation of the effects of 
climate  change,  particularly  in  respect  of  developing 
countries. 
The  European  Union  is  concerned  about  the 

substantially increased workload of the Commission on 
the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  and  is  mindful  of 
the need to find a sustainable solution to that problem. 
We  therefore  welcome  the  decision  of  the  Nineteenth 
Meeting of States Parties to the Convention on the Law 
the  negotiations 
that 
this 
09-63342 

3 

to 
the 
resolution 
in 
continue 
the  years 
to  address 
the  Commission 
A/64/PV.56 

of  the  Sea  to  facilitate  an  informal  working  group  to 
continue  consideration  of  how 
that 
important  issue.  In  relation  to  the  Commission’s 
ongoing  work,  the  European  Union  welcomes  the  fact 
that  the  summaries  of  most  recommendations  have 
been made publicly available, thus enabling all parties 
to have a better understanding of the entire process. We 
encourage 
to 
comprehensively reflect its reasoning in the summaries 
of  recommendations,  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of 
procedure  and  the  confidentiality  of  the  information 
provided to the Commission. 

With  its  148  operative  paragraphs,  this  year’s 
draft resolution on sustainable fisheries has reached an 
extent  which  makes  it  difficult  to  manage,  and  the 
European  Union  would  be  in  favour  of  efforts  to 
shorten 
to  come. 
Nevertheless,  this  year  a  crucial  part  of  the  resolution 
consists of the important review of resolution 61/105 in 
relation to the impact of bottom fishing on vulnerable 
marine ecosystems (VMEs), as called for in paragraph 
91 of that resolution. 

Resolution 61/105 represented a real regime shift, 
which the EU fully supported and promoted. In fact, in 
2008  the  EU  implemented  the  calls  made  by  the 
General Assembly with regard to addressing the impact 
of  deep-sea  bottom  fishing  practices  by  its  vessels  in 
the high seas and in European Community waters. The 
EU  will  continue  its  work  with  all  the  relevant 
stakeholders  to  deepen  and  extend  knowledge  and 
protection  of  those  habitats  and  their  ecosystems,  to 
develop  regional  fisheries  management  organizations 
(RFMOs) or arrangements where they do not currently 
exist, and to urge existing ones to implement effective 
protection measures for VMEs as far as they have not 
yet  done  so.  In  that  regard,  the  EU  recognizes  the 
efforts  made  by  States  and  RFMOs 
to  conduct 
scientific surveys and to map VMEs. 

the 
considerable  commitment  shown  at  the  international 
level to ensure the continued urgent implementation of 
measures, in accordance with the Food and Agriculture 
Organization  (FO)  Guidelines  for  the  Management  of 
Deep-sea  Fisheries 
the  High  Seas,  aimed  at 
strengthening 
the 
assessment  prior 
authorization  of  bottom  fishing  activities  and  the 
establishment  of  encounter  protocols,  as  well  as  the 
adoption  of  conservation  and  management  measures 
long-term 
for  deep-sea 
The  EU  welcomes  and  fully  endorses 
in 
impact 
to  ensure 
stocks 
to 
their 
that 
regulation  on 
the  approval  by 
sustainability. The next review, foreseen for 2011, will 
be crucial for the credibility of the commitments made. 

The EU has long advocated the need for a strong 
and binding agreement at the international level on port 
State  control,  based  on  the  requirement  for  prior 
notification by the flag State to the port State to certify 
that  the  fish  a  vessel  is  carrying  have  been  caught 
legally,  under  licence  and  within  quota,  before  that 
vessel  can  be  granted  access  to  the  port  and  its 
facilities. It is that stronger requirement that forms the 
basis  for  the  port  State  control  schemes  recently 
adopted by a number of RFMOs — including the North 
East  Atlantic  Fisheries  Commission,  the  International 
Commission  for  the  Conservation  of  Atlantic  Tunas 
and  the  North  Atlantic  Fisheries  Organization  —  as 
well  as  for  the  port  State  measures  contained  in  the 
European  Union’s  own 
illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing,  which  will  be 
applied from 1 January 2010. 
this  year’s  draft 

The  EU  appreciates 
resolution  underscores 
the  FAO 
Conference of the Agreement on Port State Measures to 
Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and 
Unregulated  Fishing.  Having  already  signed 
the 
agreement  on  22  November  2009,  the  EU  fully 
supports  encouraging  States  to  consider  signing  and 
ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to it, with a 
view to its early entry into force. 

In  relation  to  the  impacts  of  global  climate 
change  on  the  sustainability  of  fish  stocks  and  the 
habitats  that  support  them,  the  draft  resolution  again 
urges  States  to  intensify  efforts  to  assess  and  address 
such impacts. In relation to the possible consequences 
of  climate  change  on  fishery  resources  in  the  Arctic 
Ocean,  the  EU  would,  also  in  the  context  of  the  draft 
resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries,  have  wished  to 
highlight  the  state  of  the  Arctic  region  as  a  specific 
area  where  further  scientific  studies  should  be  carried 
out  due  to  the  particular  implications  that  climate 
change may have on fisheries management in that area 
in the future. 

the  strong 
endorsement  given  by  the  international  community  to 
the  Kobe  process 
streamline 
international management of high-seas tuna fisheries at 
the meeting which took place in San Sebastián, Spain, 
in  July  2009.  The  EU  is  therefore  pleased  to  see  that 
this  year’s  resolution  takes  the  Course  of  Actions 
The  European  Union  welcomes 
improve  and 
to 
4 

09-63342 
Finally, 
to 
reiterates 
the  European  Union 
to  universal  adherence 


agreed  at  that  meeting  into  account,  including  by 
noting  that  global  fishing  capacity  for  tunas  has  to  be 
addressed urgently. 
its 

attachment 
the  United 
Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  and  looks  forward  to 
participating  in  the  work  related  to  the  resumed 
Review Conference, which will take place in 2010. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  Brazil  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/64/L.18. 
Ms. Dunlop (Brazil): It is with great pleasure and 

a  keen  sense  of  responsibility  that  I,  this  year  again, 
have the honour of presenting to the General Assembly 
the draft omnibus resolution on oceans and the law of 
the sea (A/64/L.18). 

It  is  not  fortuitous  that  the  text  before  us  today, 
like its predecessors, is the longest and one of the most 
comprehensive  resolutions  adopted  annually  by  the 
General  Assembly.  As  recognized  in  the  preamble  of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS), the depth and scope of the issues involved 
reflect the awareness that “the problems of ocean space 
are closely interrelated and need to be considered as a 
whole”. 

the 
Convention sets out the legal framework within which 
all activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out. 
UNCLOS  sets  out  the  strategic  framework  within 
which  national, 
regional  and  global  action  and 
cooperation  in  the  marine  sector  unfold.  The  need  to 
maintain 
is  an 
imperative,  as  recognized,  in  particular,  by  the  United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development 
in Chapter 17 of Agenda 21. 
That imperative is even more significant in view 

of 
the  ever-increasing  challenges 
to  sustainable 
development  and  the  full  enjoyment  of  peace  and 
security. Thus the goal of universal participation in the 
the 
Convention  and 
implementation  of 
important 
priorities. 

Capacity-building is a cross-cutting issue in most 
areas  covered  by  the  draft  resolution.  The  availability 
in  all  States,  particularly  in  developing  States,  of 
economic,  legal,  navigational,  scientific  and  technical 
skills  is  crucial  for  the  full  implementation  of  the 
The  universal  and  unified  character  of 
its  Part  XI  remain 
the  agreement 
the 
integrity  of 
the  Convention 
relating 
to 
A/64/PV.56
Convention and for meeting the objectives of the draft 
resolution. 

Capacity-building,  in  particular,  is  required  for 
the  sustainable  development  of  the  oceans  and  seas 
nationally,  regionally  and  globally.  The  interests  and 
needs  of  landlocked  developing  States  must  also  be 
taken into  account in that  respect. Those aspects were 
underscored  during  the  tenth  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea.  The  Process  should,  thus,  intensify  its  focus  on 
that important aspect of international cooperation. 

Capacity-building  is  also  necessary  in  assisting 
developing  States,  especially  the  least  developed  and 
small  island  developing  States  and  coastal  African 
States,  in  the  preparation  of  submissions  to  the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf 
regarding  the  establishment  of  the  outer  limits  of  the 
continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles. 
Some  developing  coastal  States  have  not  been 

able  to  present,  by  the  13  May  2009  deadline,  full 
submissions  on  the  outer  limits  of  their  continental 
shelves beyond 200 nautical miles. It is thus imperative 
to  enhance  cooperation  and  assistance  to  those  States 
in  that  regard.  The  capacity-building  activities  of  the 
Division on Oceans and Law of the Sea of the Office of 
Legal Affairs should be supported by Member States. 
The draft resolution recalls the progress made by 

the  International  Seabed  Authority  at  its  sixteenth 
session  in  advancing  the  consideration  of  regulations 
for  prospecting  and  exploration  for  polymetallic 
sulphides.  It  also  encourages  greater  progress  on  the 
regulations for prospecting and exploration for cobalt-
rich ferromanganese crusts in the Area. 

In  setting  the  normative  framework  for  the 
exploration of the common heritage of humankind, the 
Authority  is  also  preparing,  pursuant  to  article  145  of 
the  Convention,  rules,  regulations  and  procedures  to 
ensure 
the  marine 
environment, including the protection and conservation 
of  the  natural  resources  of  the  Area.  This  important 
role,  as  well  as  the  responsibilities  entrusted  to  the 
Authority  under  article  143  of  the  Convention  with 
research, 
regard 
is  duly 
underscored in the text under consideration. 

As  previously  mentioned,  13  May  of  this  year 
was the deadline for the presentation of submissions by 
coastal States to the Commission on the limits of their 
the  effective  protection  of 
to  marine 
scientific 
09-63342 

5 

to 
the  efforts 
A/64/PV.56 

continental shelf, where it extends beyond 200 nautical 
miles.  Since  2001,  the  Commission  has  received  51 
submissions  and  has  established  subcommissions  for  13 
of them. The Commission has adopted recommendations 
on nine submissions. Despite its best efforts, including in 
refining  its  communication  with  the  coastal  States,  the 
Commission  is  currently  faced  with  several  constraints, 
from  the  number  of  sub-commissions  that  can  be 
established  simultaneously  to  the  limited  time  allocated 
for the two sessions of approximately six weeks each per 
year. 

The  Commission  has  thus  estimated  that,  unless 
options  are  found  to  expedite  the  consideration  of  the 
submissions  without  prejudice 
the  efficiency, 
effectiveness  and  high  level  of  expertise,  it  may  take 
until  2035  to  conclude  consideration  of  the  current 
workload. 
This  is  a  major  cause  of  concern  for  the  States 

parties,  especially  considering 
and 
resources,  both  human  and  financial,  deployed  by  the 
coastal  States,  particularly  developing  ones, 
in 
preparing their submissions. Notwithstanding, the draft 
resolution 
to  article  77, 
paragraph 3, of the Convention, the rights of a coastal 
State  over  the  continental  shelf  do  not  depend  on 
occupation,  effective  or  notional,  or  on  any  express 
proclamation. 

With  a  view  to  addressing  the  issue  of  the 
workload  of  the  Commission,  the  States  parties  have 
established  a  working  group  of  the  whole  to  consider 
ways and means to enable the Commission to expedite 
its work. Utter flexibility must be demonstrated in the 
search  for  adequate  solutions  for  supporting 
the 
Commission  and  its  secretariat  and  the  Division  of 
Oceans  and  Law  of  the  Sea  of  the  Office  of  Legal 
Affairs,  including  by  allocating  resources  that  are 
commensurate  with  the  task  at  hand.  The  integrity  of 
UNCLOS must be duly preserved in the process. 

The legal regimes governing maritime safety and 
maritime  security  may  have  common  and  mutually 
reinforcing objectives, and all actions taken to combat 
threats to maritime security must be in accordance with 
international law, including the principles embodied in 
the Charter and the Convention. 

The  crucial  role  of  international  cooperation 
should  be  recognized,  both  in  combating  threats  to 
maritime security, in accordance with international law, 
transnational  organized  criminal 
and 
that  pursuant 
fighting 
recalls 
in 
It 
ships. 
armed 
against 
robbery 
activities,  within  the  scope  of  the  United  Nations 
instruments  against  illicit  drug  trafficking  and  of  the 
United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime. 

The draft resolution recalls the need for enhanced 
sharing  of  information  among  States  relevant  to  the 
detection,  prevention  and  suppression  of  threats  to 
maritime  security,  the  need  for  the  prosecution  of 
offenders to pay due regard to national legislation, and 
the  need  for  sustained  capacity-building  to  support 
such objectives. 

Regarding  the  continuing  rise  in  the  number  of 
incidents  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea  off  the 
coast of Somalia, the text recognizes the importance of 
a  comprehensive  and  sustainable  settlement  of  the 
situation  in  Somalia  and  the  primary  role  of  the 
Transitional Federal Government in rooting out piracy 
and 
further 
re-emphasizes the need, in particular, to assist Somalia 
and States in the region to strengthen their capacity to 
fight  piracy  and  armed  robbery  against  ships  off  the 
coast of Somalia and bring to justice those involved in 
piracy and armed robbery at sea. 

The  prosecution  of  those  involved  in  acts  of 
piracy  committed  off  the  coast  of  Somalia  commands 
considerable  interest  and  has  been  the  object  of 
deliberations  within  the  Contact  Group  on  Piracy  off 
the Coast of Somalia, established on 14 January 2009, 
following  the  adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1851  (2008).  The  draft  resolution  invites  States,  the 
International  Maritime  Organization 
the 
International Labour Organization to consider possible 
solutions for the seafarers and fishers who are victims 
of pirates. 
The  need  to  ensure  freedom  of  navigation,  the 

safety  of  navigation  and  the  rights  of  transit  passage, 
archipelagic  sea  lanes  passage  and  innocent  passage 
enshrined  in  the  Convention  has  been  consistently 
promoted  by  the  General  Assembly  and  the  draft 
resolution reiterates the appeal to States in that respect. 

Likewise,  it  notes  that  cessation  of  the  transport 
of  radioactive  materials  through  the  regions  of  small 
island  developing  States  is  a  desired  goal  of  small 
island developing States and some other countries. 
The  draft  resolution  highlights  the  work  of  the 

Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change, 
in 
particular its findings on the acidification of oceans. In 
and 
6 

09-63342 
regard,  States  and  competent 
relevant 


international 
that 
organizations  and  other 
institutions  are 
encouraged  to  urgently  pursue  further  research  on 
ocean  acidification  and  to  increase  national,  regional 
and  international  efforts  to  address  levels  of  ocean 
acidity  and  the  negative  impact  of  such  acidity  on 
vulnerable marine ecosystems, particularly coral reefs. 

It  notes  the  need  to  enhance  scientific  activity 
aimed  at  better  understanding  the  effects  of  climate 
change  on 
the  marine  environment  and  marine 
biodiversity  and  at  developing  ways  and  means  of 
adaptation. A note of caution is needed however, given 
the  present  state  of  knowledge,  on  ocean  fertilization 
activities. Other than for legitimate scientific research, 
such  activities  should  not  be  allowed.  Scientific 
research  proposals  should  be  assessed  on  a  case-by-
case  basis.  An  assessment  framework 
to  be 
developed  by  the  scientific  groups  formed  under  the 
London Convention and Protocol. 

The role of the General Assembly relating to the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological 
diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction must be 
emphasized.  Further  discussion  on  the  relevant  legal 
regime  covering  marine  genetic  resources  in  areas 
beyond  national  jurisdiction  in  accordance  with  the 
Convention is also called for. This issue is to be further 
considered in the context of the mandate of the Ad Hoc 
Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group,  which  includes 
the  study  of  issues  relating  to  the  conservation  and 
sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond 
areas of national jurisdiction.  

The Working  Group  will  meet  for  the  third  time 
in  2010.  Progress  on  this  issue  is  needed,  given  the 
abundance  and  diversity  of  marine  genetic  resources 
and  their  value  in  terms  of  the  benefits,  goods  and 
services  they  can  provide.  It  should  be  recalled  that 
2010 will be the International Year of Biodiversity. 

the 
The  section  on  marine  science  stresses 
importance  of  increasing  the  scientific  understanding 
of  the  oceans-atmosphere  interface,  including  through 
participation  in  ocean  observation  programmes  and 
geographic  information  systems.  The  intentional  or 
unintentional  damaging  of  platforms  used  for  ocean 
observation and marine scientific research is a cause of 
concern.  Action  and  cooperation  to  address  such 
damage is called for. 

effect 
The  text  records  the  progress  made  in  giving 
the 
the  recommendation,  contained 
to 
is 
in 
A/64/PV.56
Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation  of  the  World 
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  on 
the 
establishment of a regular process for global reporting 
and assessment of the state of the marine environment, 
including  socio-economic  aspects.  In  that  respect,  the 
report  on  the  results  of  the  assessment  of  assessments 
submitted  by 
the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme  and  the  Intergovernmental  Oceanographic 
Commission, the lead agencies of the process, has been 
an  important  step  and  marked  the  completion  of  the 
start-up phase of the Regular Process. 

An  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  of  the  Whole  was 
established  to  recommend  a  course  of  action  to  the 
General Assembly based on the outcomes of the fourth 
meeting  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Steering  Group,  convened  in 
accordance  with  paragraph  157  of  resolution  63/111. 
The Ad Hoc Working Group of the Whole proposed  a 
framework  for  the  Regular  Process.  By  adopting  the 
text of the draft resolution before it today, the General 
Assembly will endorse the recommendations of the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group,  including  the  request  for  the 
Division  for  Ocean Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  to 
provide support for the Regular Process. 

The Secretary-General is requested to establish a 
voluntary  trust  fund  for  the  purpose  of  supporting  the 
operations  of  the  first  five-year  cycle  of  the  Regular 
Process,  including  the  provision  of  assistance  to 
experts from developing countries, as well as a special 
scholarship  fund  to  support  training  programmes  for 
developing countries. 

It  is  expected  that  the  Regular  Process  will 
strengthen the regular scientific assessment of the state 
of  the  marine  environment  in  order  to  enhance  the 
scientific basis for policymaking. 
Finally,  the  tenth  meeting  of  the  Open-ended 

Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of  the  Sea,  held  in  June  of  the  current  year,  reviewed 
the  mandate, 
and 
shortcomings of the Process in its first nine years. The 
review  recognized  that  the  role  of  the  Consultative 
Process  was  unique 
in  promoting  comprehensive 
discussion  of  issues  related  to  oceans  and  the  law  of 
the sea, consistent with the framework provided by the 
Convention  and  chapter  17  of  Agenda  21.  It  also 
recognized that perspectives based on the three pillars 
of  sustainable  development  should  be 
integrated 
further in the examination of selected topics. 
achievements 
objectives, 
09-63342 

7 
The  need 
improve 

stakeholders 
and 
coordination 
to  strengthen  and 
A/64/PV.56 

the 

efficiency  of 
the  Consultative  Process  was  also 
recognized during the review. It was recommended that 
the Consultative Process devise a transparent, objective 
and  inclusive  process  for  the  selection  of  topics  and 
panellists,  so  as  to  facilitate  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  during  the  informal  consultations  on  the 
annual  draft  resolution  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the 
sea. 

It  is  proposed  that  at  its  eleventh  meeting  the 
Informal  Consultative  Process  focus  on  capacity-
building  in  ocean  affairs  and  the  law  of  the  sea, 
including  marine  science.  With  that  important  topic, 
which reflects the concerns of developing countries, it 
is  hoped  that  the  Informal  Consultative  Process  will 
reinstate its original intent, further promote the sharing 
of  knowledge,  the  exchange  of  views  among  the 
multiple 
among 
competent  agencies,  and  enhance  awareness  of  the 
topics, including emerging issues, while promoting the 
three  pillars  of  sustainable  development.  In 
that 
context,  our  approach  to  climate  change  should  be 
focused on the conservation of blue carbon sinks. 

In  concluding  my  presentation  of  this  important 
draft  resolution,  I  wish  to  recognize  the  efforts  of  all 
the delegations involved in the consultations, the high 
level  of  expertise, 
the 
cooperative spirit that enabled this outcome before the 
General Assembly today. 

The support of the Division for Ocean Affairs and 
the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs was 
also instrumental to the positive results. I wish to thank 
the highly efficient team of that Division through their 
Director, Mr. Serguei Tarassenko. 
the 

comprehensive  text  before  the  General  Assembly  and 
hope that it will be adopted by consensus. 
Mr. Zinsou (Benin) (spoke in French): On behalf 

of  the  African  Group,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
reiterate its pleasure, Mr. President, at seeing you guide 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session and to assure you of its full cooperation for the 
success of your term of office. 

The  Group  would  like  to  thank  in  particular  the 
two coordinators of the draft resolutions on oceans and 
the  law  of  the  sea  (A/64/L.18)  and  on  sustainable 
fisheries  (A/64/L.29),  as  well  as  the  experts  of  the 
the  professionalism  and 
We  are  convinced  of 
the  relevance  of 
the 
resources, 
biodiversity, 
Member States, for the professionalism that they have 
demonstrated,  which  has  facilitated  the  drafting  and 
finalization of the two omnibus draft resolutions. 

The  Group  would  also  like  to  thank  the  United 
Nations Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the 
Sea and its specialized institutions for the key role that 
they  play  in  implementing  the  rules  of  the  law  of  the 
sea and its relevant resolutions. 

The  two  draft  resolutions  before  the  General 
Assembly today, it must be remembered, are part of the 
framework for applying the principles contained in the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
which  was  concluded  after  several  years  of  difficult 
negotiations  among  States  seeking  to  ensure  proper 
ocean  governance  and  promote 
sustainable 
development of its resources. 

The  result  of  painstaking  compromises  among 
Member States, the draft resolutions take into account 
the  various  aspects  of  the  preservation  of  the  marine 
ecosystem and the controlled management of its riches. 
Such aspects include issues related to the environment, 
marine 
coordination, 
cooperation,  the  settlement  of  disputes  and  capacity-
building.  Those  are  also  areas  where  an  agreed 
regulatory  framework  and  a  proper  code  of  conduct 
make it easier to work together. Measures taken in that 
context  help  to  ensure  a  better  preservation  of  the 
oceans. 

Here,  we  confirm  our  full  support  for  the  noble 
principles set out in the draft resolutions and for those 
contained  in  previous  resolutions  on  the  same  topics. 
However,  those  principles  can  only  give  rise  to  a 
sustainable  development  that  is  capable  of  achieving 
the development goals of States if a real effort is made 
to  involve  all  States,  in  particular  developing  ones, 
specifically African coastal States, both in drafting the 
resolutions and in implementing the principles.  
lack  the 

resources  and  qualified 
logistical  and 
personnel,  watch  powerlessly  as  their  maritime  areas 
are illegally and anarchically exploited, including those 
over  which  they  have  sovereignty  under  international 
law. 

The  vessels  and  trawlers  of  the  large  fishing 
companies have abandoned the fishing zones of States 
that  have  the  resources  to  monitor  their  coasts  to 
happily  descend  on  the  African  coast,  where  they 
Indeed,  those  States,  because  they 
technical 
8 

09-63342 
to 
for 
that 
lead 
there 
inevitably 
is  an  urgent  need 


indulge  in  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing, 
thus  overexploiting  Africa’s  maritime  resources.  That 
illegal  fishing,  which  African  States  have  no  way  of 
stopping,  will  eventually  wipe  out  the  efforts  of  the 
international community to protect several endangered 
species. 

Given  that  situation,  the African  Group  strongly 
believes 
the 
international  community  to  pay  greater  attention  to 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing,  so  as  to 
make  all  fishing  practices  comply  with  international 
laws  governing  that  area. That  applies  in  particular  to 
fishing  activities  along  the  African  coast,  so  that  we 
can  preserve  our  fish  stocks  and  protect  them  from 
exploitation,  which  will 
their 
reduction,  and  even  their  disappearance.  For  the 
situation is such that, if nothing is done, the legal and 
institutional  structure  established  under  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea might well 
succumb to the law of the jungle. 

It  is  also  vital  that  the  international  community 
provide the  necessary assistance to developing coastal 
States in order to build up their capacity at the national, 
subregional and regional levels so that they can control 
their  territorial  waters  and  those  beyond  and  prevent 
and fight against crime and other illicit activities, such 
as  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing,  bottom 
sea trawling, piracy, drug trafficking and trafficking in 
persons, and so forth. 
It  is  also  important  that  States  and  relevant 

organizations, 
international  agencies  and  bodies 
cooperate  in  order  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of 
developing  countries  in  the  area  of  marine  sciences, 
monitoring  and evaluation of the marine environment, 
particularly  by  organizing  workshops  and  providing 
necessary  training  and  teaching  materials,  as  well  as 
grants for experts from developing countries. 

Similarly, the African Group would like to call on 
States  and  international  organizations  to  contribute  to 
efforts  aimed  at  ensuring  that  experts  from  African 
countries  can  participate,  especially  in  the  various 
meetings  concerning  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea, 
particularly  by  making 
adequate 
contributions to the trust fund set up to help developing 
countries,  particularly  the  least  developed  countries, 
small 
landlocked 
developing countries. 
island  developing  States  and 
regular 
and 
A/64/PV.56
related 
to 
the 
issue  of 
the 
involved 
in  order 
limits  of 
is  actively 
For  Africa, 
the  protection  of 
implementation  of 
the  African  Group 
The African  Group  attaches  major  importance  to 

issues 
the  marine 
environment,  and  the  preservation  of  the  marine 
ecosystem  and  marine  biodiversity,  from  any  negative 
impact, particularly those due to climate change. In this 
area, 
in 
negotiations  on  draft  resolutions  concerning  fisheries, 
the  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  not  merely  to 
strengthen  action  against 
illegal,  unreported  and 
unregulated fishing, but, above all, to combat practices 
that  might  lead  to  destruction  of  the  ocean  floor  and 
have a deleterious effect on the life of the seabed and 
its  resources.  To  the  same  end,  the  African  Group 
encourages  greater  cooperation  between  the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) 
and  regional  fisheries  organizations, 
to 
promote  effective 
the  FAO 
International  Plan  of  Action  to  Prevent,  Deter,  and 
Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing. 

the 
continental  shelf  is  still  unresolved,  despite  efforts  by 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf 
to  find  appropriate  solutions  to  the  problems  this 
raises. In this context, the African Group welcomes the 
Commission’s  efforts  to  facilitate  implementation  of 
the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea  relating  to  the  delineation  by  coastal 
States  of  the  outer  limits  of  their  continental  shelf,  in 
accordance  with  paragraph  8  of  article  76  of  the 
Convention. 
The  African  Group  would,  however,  like  to 

the 
express 
Commission. It makes scheduling meetings to consider 
reports  submitted  by  coastal  States  a  difficult 
challenge.  This  situation  is  seriously  prejudicial  for 
developing States, especially those that have agreed to 
enormous sacrifices in order to invest in the framework 
of  the  delineation  process.  At  this  rate,  the  African 
Group believes that several developing States have no 
chance of meeting the deadlines set by the Convention 
for  delineating 
the 
200-nautical-mile mark. As a result, in order to comply 
with  the  spirit  and  the  letter  of  the  Convention,  the 
African  Group  strongly  encourages  delegations  to  be 
proactive in seeking practical and realistic solutions to 
this important problem. 

As can be seen, the challenges to be dealt with in 
implementing  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law of the Sea are still huge, and the rather impressive 
the  continental  shelf  beyond 
its  concern  over 
the  workload  of 
09-63342 

9 

A/64/PV.56 

size  of  the  draft  resolution  before  us  (A/64/L.18  and 
Corr.1) gives an idea of the enormous amount of work 
still  to  be  done.  That  cannot  be  achieved  without  the 
effective  solidarity  and  efficient  cooperation  of  every 
State. 
Mr. Wolfe (Jamaica): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  14  member  States  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM):  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  the 
Bahamas,  Barbados,  Belize,  Dominica,  Grenada, 
Guyana,  Haiti,  St.  Kitts  and  Nevis,  St.  Lucia, 
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and 
Tobago, and my own country, Jamaica. 

CARICOM  continues  to  attach  great  importance 
to  our  participation  in  the  annual  debates  in  the 
General Assembly  on  the  item  relating  to  oceans  and 
the law of the sea. In this regard, we welcome the very 
comprehensive  and  detailed  reports  prepared  by  the 
Secretary-General, as contained in documents A/64/66 
and Add.1 and 2. 

It  is  useful  to  recall  that  one  of  the  principal 
objectives  and  guiding  principles  of  the  historic  1982 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
(UNCLOS)  was  the  commitment  by  States  parties  to, 
inter alia, 

“promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  the  seas  and 
oceans,  the  equitable  and  efficient  utilization  of 
their  resources,  and  the  study,  protection  and 
preservation  of 
environment”. 
(UNCLOS, preamble). 
the  marine 
These  cardinal  principles,  together  with  the  main 
provisions of the Convention, remain as relevant today 
as  they  were  27  years  ago,  when  the  Convention  was 
adopted,  and  should  therefore  be  embraced  by  the 
entire international community. 
As  a  group  of  small  and  vulnerable  island 

developing  States,  CARICOM 
highly 
dependent  on  the  Caribbean  Sea  for  its  commercial 
activities  and  economic  livelihood,  including  tourism, 
fishing  and  fisheries,  and  the  exploitation  of  oil  and 
gas resources, as well as for regional and international 
trade, most of which is facilitated by ocean freight and 
international  shipping  arrangements.  Indeed,  as  the 
Secretary-General  has  highlighted 
report, 
maritime transport remains vital to the world economy, 
given  that  more  than  80  percent  of  international  trade 
by volume is carried by sea, and also bearing in mind 
remains 
in  his 
future 
prospects 
and 
in 
challenges 
faced  by 
the 
challenges 
CARICOM 
therefore  welcomes 
that  an  even  higher  percentage  of  developing-country 
trade is carried by ships. 

For those and other reasons, CARICOM member 
States  remain  firmly  committed  to  the  protection  and 
preservation of the Caribbean Sea, with the support of 
the  international  community  and  with  a  view  to 
achieving  sustainable  development.  It  has  long  been 
established  that  the  Caribbean  is  the  most  tourism-
dependent region in the world, relative to its size, and 
the Caribbean Sea, in comparison to other large marine 
ecosystems,  is  surrounded  by  the  largest  number  of 
countries in the world. 

the  renewed 
emphasis on efforts to heighten global awareness of the 
current 
international 
community  in  sustainable  ocean  management  and  on 
the 
the 
implementation  of  the  regime  established  by  the 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  the  protection 
and preservation of the marine environment. 

These issues must be addressed in the context of 
the  current  challenges  faced  by  Caribbean  and  other 
developing countries, as a result of the high degree of 
vulnerability  occasioned  by  climate  change  and  the 
consequent rise in sea level, as well as the increase in 
the frequency and intensity of national disasters caused 
by  hurricanes,  floods  and  drought  that  our  region  has 
experienced in recent years. 

In this regard, we view marine scientific research 
as essential to our efforts to confront the challenges to 
the  marine  environment.  We  therefore  welcome  the 
revision  of  the  guide  on  marine  scientific  research 
prepared  by  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the 
Law  of  the  Sea. This  guide  will  be  useful  in  assisting 
developing countries in examining best practices as we 
strive  to  conduct  research  in  our  respective  maritime 
zones. 
CARICOM reiterates its position that safe, secure 

the 
and  crime-free 
implementation of international rules and standards for 
improving  marine  safety  and  security  must  underpin 
the  core  of  a  comprehensive  programme  aimed  at 
protecting  marine 
in 
accordance  with  international  law,  threats  to  maritime 
security. 

We  therefore  remain  concerned  at  the  alarming 
increase  in  the  number  of  committed  and  attempted 
trade,  and  at  combating, 
for  navigation  and 
routes 
10 

09-63342 
the  potential 
(COFCOR),  held 
to  cause  severe  disruptions 


acts  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery  against  ships, 
reported  to  the  International  Maritime  Organization 
(IMO),  which,  in  the  first  six  months  of  2009  alone, 
totalled  238,  as  compared  with  121  in  the  first  six 
months of 2008, as indicated in the Secretary-General’s 
report  (A/64/66/Add.1).  The  international  community 
must remain resolute in addressing that scourge, which 
has 
to 
maritime commerce. 
At the twelfth meeting of the Council on Foreign 

and  Community  Relations 
in 
Kingston,  Jamaica,  in  May  this  year,  CARICOM 
expressed its concern at that grave phenomenon, which 
affects  Caribbean  countries  that  are  flag  registers, 
while also noting that the Caribbean Sea is recognized 
as a major shipping route and that robbery at sea is not 
unknown  in  the  Caribbean  and  the  South Atlantic  and 
could have a negative impact on CARICOM States. 

As a  result,  CARICOM members have agreed to 
collaborate effectively in relevant international forums 
to share information and strategize jointly so as to have 
a strong voice in the international dialogue on the issue 
of  piracy.  It  was  also  agreed  that  those  CARICOM 
States 
the  IMO  will 
cooperate in drafting domestic legislation to tackle the 
problem  and  would  forward  such  drafts  to  the  Legal 
Committee of the IMO in order to facilitate the drafting 
of  model  legislation  relevant  to  piracy  and  related 
issues. 

CARICOM also continues to face serious security 
threats posed by the maritime traffic in narcotic drugs 
and  psychotropic  substances,  coupled  with  the  illicit 
trade in small arms and light weapons, which continue 
to  pose  serious  challenges  for  Governments  and  law 
enforcement  agencies  in  our  region.  We  have  devised 
regional  strategies  aimed  at  addressing  that  illegal 
trade  and  its  associated  crimes,  which  are  at  variance 
with  the  provisions  of  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  and  the  stipulations  for  peaceful  uses  of  the 
sea,  and  we  are  committed  to  working  with  agencies 
such as the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to confront 
those serious crimes. 

Another  perennial  concern  for  CARICOM  States 
is  the  danger  posed  by  the  transport  of  radioactive 
materials 
the  Caribbean  Sea.  While 
recognizing  the  principles  of  freedom  of  navigation 
enshrined in the relevant provisions of the Convention, 
we  remain  deeply  disturbed  at  the  potential  risk  to 
that  enjoy  membership 
through 
in 
A/64/PV.56
to 
to 
the  guidelines 
established  by 
to  protect  and  preserve 
lives,  health,  and  our  environment  and  economies  in 
the  event  of  an  accident  during  the  transportation  of 
radioactive materials by sea. 

We  wish  to  reiterate  that  States  involved  in  the 
transport  of  such  hazardous  materials  have  a  legal 
obligation 
the  marine 
environment  and  we  call  upon  them  to  continue  to 
adhere 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  and  other 
agencies on the transportation of such materials. 
Turning  to  other  issues  under  our  consideration, 

CARICOM  takes  this  opportunity  to  re-emphasize  its 
support for the work of the Commission on the Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf  (CLCS).  We  are  encouraged 
by the important contribution that the CLCS continues 
to  make  with  respect  to  the  submissions  made  by 
coastal  States  seeking  to  extend  the  limits  of  the 
in 
continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles 
accordance  with  article  76,  paragraph  8,  of 
the 
Convention. 

As  of  12  May  2009,  the  workload  of  the  CLCS 
has  increased  due  to  the  51  submissions  lodged  by 
coastal  States.  The  Chairman  of  the  Commission  has 
reported  that,  given  its  current  workload  and  the 
resource  constraints,  new  strategies  would  have  to  be 
employed 
to  make 
recommendations to coastal States within a reasonable 
time,  so  that  the  submitting  States  can  establish  the 
limits  of  their  continental  shelf  as  provided  under 
article 76. 
We  thus  call  on  Member  States  to  participate  in 

the 
the 
informal  working  group  established  by 
nineteenth  Meeting  of  States  Parties,  which  has  been 
mandated to devise strategies aimed at streamlining the 
work of the Commission. It is our view that States need 
to  commit 
the 
Commission,  including  to  the  Division  for  Ocean 
Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  serves  as  its 
Secretariat, at this critical period, if the Organization is 
to  effectively  discharge  its  mandate.  CARICOM  also 
calls  on  States  that  are  in  a  position  to  do  so  to 
contribute  to  the  Trust  Fund  established  by  General 
Assembly  resolution  55/7  to  assist  members  of  the 
Commission from developing countries in participating 
in the work of the Commission. 

the 
CARICOM  also  wishes 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  the 
important  action  undertaken  to  enhance  the  quality  of 
to  providing  more  resources 
the  Commission 
to  commend 
if 
is 
09-63342 

11 
CARICOM 
towards 
As  part  of 
is  pleased  at 
the  finalization  of 
the  headquarters  of 
A/64/PV.56 

its work with the establishment of a new Chamber for 
Maritime  Delimitation  Disputes,  as  well  as 
the 
modification  of  the  Chamber  for  Fisheries  Disputes 
and the Chamber for Maritime Environment Disputes. 

The pacific settlement of disputes is a hallmark in 
the  international  law  of  the  sea  and  we  urge  States 
parties  to  make  declarations  under  article  287  of  the 
Convention,  accepting  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Tribunal 
in  settling  disputes  concerning  the  interpretation  and 
application of the provisions of the Convention. 
the  CARICOM  family,  Jamaica 

continues to fulfil its legal obligations as host country 
for 
the  International  Seabed 
Authority,  which  has  been  entrusted  with  the  mandate 
to  administer,  organize  and  control  activities  in  the 
international seabed area on behalf of States parties. 

the  considerable 
progress  achieved  by  the Authority  over  the  past  two 
years, 
the  draft  on 
prospecting and exploration for polymetallic sulphides 
in  the  Area.  We  remain  reasonably  confident  that  the 
draft  regulations  can  be  concluded  at  the  upcoming 
sixteenth  session  of  the  Authority,  to  be  held  from 
26 April to 7 May 2010. At that session, the Council of 
the  Authority  will  also  have  before  it  the  draft 
regulations  on  prospecting  and  exploration  for  cobalt-
rich  ferromanganese  crusts  in  the  Area,  which  were 
adopted  by  the  Legal  and  Technical  Commission 
during the fifteenth session. 

CARICOM  therefore  wishes  to  emphasize  the 
urgent  need  for  improvement  in  attendance  at  the 
meetings  of  the  Authority,  particularly  at  this  critical 
juncture when we are in the process of finalizing legal 
codes  for  prospecting  and  exploration  of  mineral 
resources  that  are  part  of  the  common  heritage  of 
humanity.  Improved  attendance  would  also  serve  to 
reemphasize  the  pre-eminent  role  of  the  Authority  as 
the sole legitimate body that has the mandate to act on 
behalf of the international community in this important 
maritime zone. 

It should be noted that the role of the Authority is 
assuming  greater  importance  at  a  time  when  the 
Commission  has  made  recommendations 
to  some 
coastal  States  allowing 
their 
continental  shelf  jurisdiction  beyond  200  nautical 
miles. As  a  result  of  such  action  by  the  Commission, 
the Authority will now have a more definitive position 
as  to  those  areas  where  national  jurisdiction  ends  and 
them 
to  establish 

to 
that  are  not  yet  parties 
those  States  members  of 
where  its  own  mandate  begins,  that  is,  to  manage  the 
international seabed regime. 

An institution as important as the Authority must 
be endowed with competent leadership for it to garner 
confidence among its membership. It is for this reason 
that we are very pleased to welcome the presence in the 
General Assembly this morning of His  Excellency Nii 
Allotey  Odunton,  who  was  elected  Secretary-General 
on  4  June  2008  at  the  Authority’s  fourteenth  session 
and  whose  term  of  office  formally  commenced  in 
January of this year. 

With  more  than  20  years  of  experience  in  the 
international  civil  service,  particularly  in  the  area  of 
marine  mineral  resources  and  marine  resource  policy 
formulation,  Mr.  Odunton  brings  a  wealth  of 
knowledge and experience to his new post. CARICOM 
is  therefore  confident  that  he  will  harness  all  of  his 
multiple  talents  to  enable  the  Authority  to  be  a  true 
custodian  of  our  common  heritage.  In  conclusion, 
CARICOM  urges 
the 
Authority 
the  1994 
Agreement relating to the Implementation of Part XI of 
the  Convention  immediately  to  take  steps  towards 
becoming  parties  so  as  to  remove  the  incongruity  and 
anomaly that currently exist for those States. 

Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela), Vice-President, took the Chair. 

CARICOM  welcomes  the  increasing  number  of 
Member States that have become parties to the United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We  are 
particularly  pleased  that,  as  of  31 August  2009,  there 
were  159  parties  to  the  Convention  representing  an 
increase of three over the previous year. 

Finally,  we  take  this  opportunity  to  once  again 
urge  those  States  that  have  not  yet  become  parties  to 
the  Convention  to  do  so  with  a  view  to  ensuring  its 
universal acceptance. 
Ms. Moses (Nauru): I have to honour to speak on 

behalf  of  the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS)  represented at the  United  Nations, namely, the 
Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Palau, Papua New 
Guinea,  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands,  Samoa, 
Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Tonga, Vanuatu and my own 
country, Nauru. 

To  the  Pacific  SIDS  as  island  nations,  the 
robustness  of  the  international  ocean  governance  is  of 
critical concern. Not only is the ocean an integral part 
12 

09-63342 
to 
the  achievement  of 


of our cultural identity, but we rely on the oceans as a 
major  source  of  our  food.  Negative  impacts  on  the 
health of marine ecosystems threaten the very ability of 
our  people  to  meet  their  nutritional  needs.  Healthy 
ecosystems  are  also  critical  to  tourism,  which  is  a 
major  source  of  revenue  for  many  of  our  islands. The 
sustainable  management  of  our  marine  ecosystem  is 
essential 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

All nations are beneficiaries of the rich resources 
provided  by  the  oceans,  and  all  nations  have  the 
responsibility  to  ensure  the  sustainable  conservation 
and  management  of  marine  resources.  The  Pacific 
regional  waters  compose  10  per  cent  of  the  Earth’s 
surface,  and  much  of  this  falls  within  the  national 
jurisdictions of the small island developing States. We 
take our role as custodians of the precious ecosystems 
seriously.  Our  region  has  a  high  concentration  of 
vulnerable  marine  ecosystems,  including  coral  reefs, 
hydrothermal  vents  and  underwater  seamounts.  The 
Pacific  Ocean  is  also  home  to  fish  stocks  of  global 
importance. 

Our oceans are under threat. The human impacts 
on the health of marine biodiversity are profound. Fish 
stocks  continue to  fall, and scientists warn that global 
fisheries  are 
Illegal,  unregulated  and 
unreported  (IUU)  fishing  is  one  of  the  gravest  threats 
to  the  future  sustainability  of  our  regional  marine 
resources and the marine environment. The rate of IUU 
fishing in the Pacific is higher than in any other region, 
accounting  for  approximately  36  per  cent  of  the  total 
catch. IUU fishing has severe impacts on target species 
and  by-catch,  both  affecting  subsistence  fishing  by 
Pacific  people  and  having  severe  negative  impacts  on 
biodiversity. 

The Pacific SIDS face serious constraints in their 
ability to respond to IUU fishing in our region because 
of  geographic  isolation,  small  populations  and  lack  of 
technical expertise. We call on all countries to continue 
and  increase  their  efforts  to  end  IUU  fishing,  and  we 
welcome the assistance provided to us by our partners, 
particularly  in  relation  to  joint  enforcement  exercises. 
We would like to strengthen these initiatives. 

endangering 
vulnerable ecosystems. We welcome the review of the 
implementation of resolution 61/105 that took place in 
September,  particularly  on 
issue  of  bottom 
trawling.  Progress  was  made  in  strengthening  the 
in  crisis. 
trawling 
the 
A/64/PV.56
measures,  and  we  consider  this  year’s  draft  resolution 
(A/64/L.29)  a  genuine  step  in  the  right  direction 
towards greater conservation and management of deep-
sea  fish  stocks,  habitats  and  ecosystems.  We  strongly 
welcome  the  provisions  calling  upon  flag  States  and 
regional  fisheries  management  organizations  not  to 
authorize  bottom  trawling  until  the  requirements  in 
resolution 61/105 have been met, and we will exercise 
our  own  role  as  participants  in  the  South  Pacific 
Regional  Fisheries  Management  Organization  process 
to  ensure  that  the  high-seas  pockets  enclosed  by  our 
exclusive  economic  zones  in  the  western  tropical 
Pacific are not threatened by bottom trawling. 

We  wish  to  reiterate  the  call  on  those  States 
participating in negotiations to establish a new regional 
fisheries  management  organization  for 
the  North 
Pacific to expedite their negotiations and to ensure that 
there is no gap between the areas covered by the South 
Pacific  Regional  Fisheries  Management  Organization 
and  the  measures  implemented  for  the  North  Pacific. 
We  repeat  our  call  for  a  prohibition  on  destructive 
fishing  practices,  including  bottom  trawling,  where 
there is no regional fisheries management organization 
under  negotiation  or  interim  measures  in  effect,  until 
appropriate  conservation  and  management  measures 
are in place. 

We  wish  to  thank  all  parties  in  the  negotiations 
for  their  constructive  work  in  addressing  the  serious 
threats  of  bottom  trawling,  but  we  remind  them  that 
further  urgent  work  remains  to  be  done  to  ensure  the 
sustainability of our oceans. We look forward to further 
review  of  the  actions  of  States  and  regional  fisheries 
management  organizations  to  implement  resolution 
61/105 and this year’s draft resolution in 2011, and we 
hope  that  improvements  in  implementation  will  be 
reported. 

Climate  change  is  having  severe  impacts  on  our 
oceans,  and  we  regret  that  this  serious  issue  has 
received 
the 
international community. The importance of our oceans 
in  regulating  the  global  atmosphere  has  been  largely 
taken  for  granted.  The  oceans  have  absorbed  over 
50 per cent of all anthropogenic carbon emissions over 
the  past  200  years,  and  thus  have  a  significant  role  to 
play in mitigating climate change. 

Yet the high level of carbon dioxide absorbed by 
our  oceans  is  having  severe  negative  impacts  on  the 
health  and  functioning  of  marine  ecosystems.  Higher 
little  practical  attention 
from 
too 
Bottom 
is 
gravely 
09-63342 

13 

A/64/PV.56 

levels  of  carbon  dioxide  are  causing  acidification, 
affecting  the  growth  and  viability  of  many  marine 
organisms,  and  threatening  acute  changes  in  the  food 
web  and  effects  on  fish  stocks.  Coral  reefs  are 
particularly vulnerable to ocean acidification, as higher 
acid  levels  prevent  coral  growth.  It  is  estimated  that 
corals  around  the  world  will  stop  growing  if  the 
atmospheric  carbon  dioxide  concentration  stabilizes  at 
450  parts  per  million,  with  unknown  but 
likely 
profound negative impacts on dependent species. 

In light of these impacts, we reiterate our call for 
the  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  in 
Copenhagen  to  conclude  with  an  agreement  with 
emission targets that limit atmospheric carbon dioxide 
concentration at 350 parts per million and keep global 
temperature rise well below 1.5 degrees Celsius. 

Finally, the delineation of continental shelves is a 
critical issue for the Pacific SIDS. It is imperative that 
a solution be found for the inadequate resources so that 
the  work  is  able  to  progress  in  a  timely  manner.  The 
current  timeframes  are  severely  disadvantageous  for 
smaller missions relying on external advice to navigate 
the highly technical issues involved. 
Ms.  Negm  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Benin  on 
behalf  of  the  African  Group.  It  also  expresses  its 
appreciation to the coordinators of the draft resolutions 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/64/L.18)  and 
sustainable  fisheries  (A/64/L.29)  for  their  efforts  to 
reach  agreement  on  the  two  drafts  resolutions.  The 
delegation  of  Egypt  attaches  particular  importance  to 
the  role  of  these  drafts  in  promoting  international 
cooperation in matters relating to the seas and oceans, 
the  protection  of  the  marine  environment  and  the 
sustainability  of  fisheries  for  the  benefit  of  humanity, 
in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  international  law 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  of  1982.  Furthermore,  we  thank  the 
Secretary-General and the United Nations Division for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for their efforts 
in preparing the reports before us today. 

From  this  perspective,  the  Egyptian  delegation 
stresses  the  importance  of  strengthening  the  efforts  of 
the  international  community  in  the  field  of  marine 
scientific  research,  particularly  in  the  context  of  the 
International  Seabed  Authority  and  the  study  of  the 
effects of mining activities on the seabed environment. 
It  also  stresses  the  importance  of  following  the  new 
guidelines  to  prevent  the  monopolization  of  mineral 
exploitation  of  those  areas,  as  they  represent  the 
common  heritage  of  humankind.  Similarly, 
the 
Egyptian  delegation  is  deeply  concerned  over  the 
increasing impact of climate change on marine life and 
ecosystems  and  on  shipping  routes  and  the  associated 
increased  costs  of  maritime  transport.  It  also  stresses 
the need to take these issues into account in the current 
negotiations  in  Copenhagen  on  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 

Turning  to  the  safety  and  security  of  navigation, 
the  Egyptian  delegation  further  expresses  its  growing 
concern  at  the  rising  number  of  incidents  involving 
piracy  and  armed  robbery  against  ships,  especially  in 
the waters off the coast of East Africa. Egypt supports 
international  efforts 
this  phenomenon, 
particularly off the  coast of Somalia. In this regard, it 
welcomes the recognition in draft resolution A/64/L.18 
on oceans and the law of the sea of the importance of 
reaching a comprehensive and permanent settlement of 
the situation in Somalia, which is closely linked to the 
spread  of  piracy  in  that  region. Aware  of  the  need  to 
promote international cooperation in this regard, Egypt 
is participating actively in the Contact Group on Piracy 
off  the  Coast  of  Somalia  with  a  view  to  reaching  a 
comprehensive solution to this problem. 
Furthermore, my delegation emphasizes the need 

to implement the Djibouti Code of Conduct concerning 
the  Repression  of  Piracy  and Armed  Robbery  against 
Ships  in  the  Western  Indian  Ocean  and  the  Gulf  of 
Aden,  and  urges  everyone 
improve 
conditions  for  seafarers  and  fishermen  victims  of 
piracy.  Hence,  it  welcomes  the Assembly’s  request  of 
the 
the 
International  Labour  Organization  to  study  ways  to 
achieve this. 

The Egyptian delegation is also closely following 
international  efforts  being  made  with  international 
shipping  companies 
transport  of 
radioactive  materials  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
international  protection  measures  on  the  transfer  of 
such  materials  for  peaceful  purposes  and  medical  use 
and 
the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 

the  Egyptian 
same  perspective, 
delegation  stresses  the  importance  of  providing  the 
necessary  support  to  developing  countries  to  ensure 
International  Maritime  Organization  and 
accordance  with 
the  Treaty  on 
to  allow 
the 
to  work 
to 
to  combat 
in 
From 
the 
14 

09-63342 
fish 
species, 
fight 
endangered 
to 
strengthen 
As 
for  sustainable 
fisheries, 
the  pillars  of 
increased  participation 


their 
in  data  collection 
programmes and exchanges in various fields related to 
marine  and  ocean  sciences.  It  also  deems  it  necessary 
to solve the problem of the increasing workload of the 
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf in 
order to enable it to consider the recent submissions of 
developing countries on an equal footing with the past 
submissions of developed countries. 

With  regard  to  the  United  Nations  Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of  the  Sea,  the  Egyptian  delegation  welcomes  the 
results  of  the  tenth  meeting,  which  emphasized  the 
need 
sustainable 
development  when  considering  topics  consistent  with 
the  legal  framework  of  the  Convention  in  order  to 
achieve the goals of Agenda 21, which established this 
process.  The  Egyptian  delegation  looks  forward  to 
achieving this goal through the future  activities of the 
Consultative Process. 

the  Egyptian 
delegation  emphasizes  the  need  for  greater  efforts  to 
protect 
illegal, 
unregistered  and  unreported  fishing  and  eliminate 
destructive  fishing  practices  affecting  the  seabed.  In 
this  regard,  the  Egyptian  delegation  has  monitored 
taken  by  regional  fishery  management 
measures 
organizations 
in 
implementation  of  resolution  61/105.  However,  we 
note the inadequacy of these measures to ensuring the 
sustainable  use  of  marine  resources  and  habitats, 
including  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems,  and  look 
forward to the enhanced cooperation of States with the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations 
fisheries  management 
organizations  in  creating  a  system  to  manage  seabed 
fishing 
the  marine 
ecosystems. 

international 
Also, 
cooperation  on  sustainable  fisheries,  the  Egyptian 
delegation  proposes  that  the  2010  Review  Conference 
on  the  1995  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  address  the 
that  are  preventing 
problems 
ratification  by  more 
the 
developing  ones,  and  the  establishment  of  effective 
fisheries management mechanisms. 

Finally,  the  Egyptian  delegation  expresses  its 
growing concern over the state of the oceans and seas 
worldwide  and  looks  forward  to  greater  cooperation 
seabed  ecosystems 
in  a  manner 
that  preserves 
in 
the  Agreement 
to  protect 
in  order 
to 
strengthen 
countries, 
especially 
and 
regional 
A/64/PV.56
efforts  by  the  international  community  to  improve 
these conditions and to protect the marine environment 
from  factors 
that  harm  marine  biodiversity  and 
vulnerable marine ecosystems. 
Ms. Picco (Monaco) (spoke in French): We have 

probably  reached  the  maximum  potential  of  capture 
fishing  in  the  planet’s  oceans.  In  2007,  almost  28  per 
cent of fish stocks were overexploited, exhausted or in 
the  process  of  reconstitution.  Migratory  species, 
whales  and  other  cetaceans  are  still  vulnerable  to 
chemical  pollution,  collision  with  ships,  exploitation, 
sound  pollution,  by-catch,  ingestion  of  marine  waste 
and the effects of climate change. 

Marine ecosystems, which scientific research has 
confirmed  as  important  carbon  sinks,  are  suffering 
from  those  devastating  impacts  and  disappearing. 
Ocean acidification due to climate change threatens the 
livelihoods of billions of people throughout the world. 
Acidification  leads  to  erosion  and  jeopardizes  the 
stability  of  coastal  areas.  Its  economic  and  social 
impact, aggravated by extreme climatic phenomena, is 
potentially devastating. 
Although knowledge of marine diversity remains 

insufficient,  as  demonstrated  by  the  fact  that  over 
1,000  species  are  discovered  every  year,  progress  in 
research confirms the essential role of marine life and 
biodiversity  in  preserving  the  world’s  ecosystems  and 
ensuring socio-economic development. Healthy oceans 
are a tool against poverty and hunger, can ensure food 
security and are essential to attaining our common goal 
of sustainable development. 

At  this  moment  when  our  heads  of  State  and 
Government  are  preparing  to  negotiate  a  critical 
political agreement in Copenhagen, it is deplorable that 
no  reference  is  made  to  that  event  in  the  omnibus 
resolution (A/64/L.18), in particular due to the fact that 
the  General  Assembly  is  preparing  to  devote  special 
attention to biodiversity within the context of the 2010 
International Year of Biodiversity. 

In  addition  to  developing  further  methods  to 
adapt to climate change, necessary to strengthening the 
resilience  of  marine  ecosystems,  the  international 
community also has a collective duty to act and to take 
greater  care  in  preserving  and  managing  the  living 
marine resources, pursuant to its obligations under the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
09-63342 

15 

list  of 
the  Appendix  I 
A/64/PV.56 


The  personal  commitment  of  His  Serene 
Highness Prince Albert II is reflected in concrete steps 
to protect fragile ecosystems such as coral reefs, which 
are home to 30 per cent of marine biodiversity and are 
under  unprecedented  stress.  In  that  connection,  I 
should  like  to  announce  that,  from  12  to  15  January 
2010,  Monaco  will  host  the  General  Meeting  of  the 
International Coral Reef Initiative. 

That  commitment  is  also  behind  the  Principality 
of  Monaco’s  efforts  with  regard  to  threatened  species 
such  as  the  bluefin  tuna,  which  is  one  of  the  world’s 
most  exploited  species.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  the 
Principality  has  acted  to  have  the  bluefin  tuna  placed 
on 
the  Convention  on 
International  Trade  in  Endangered  Species  of  Wild 
Fauna  and  Flora  (CITES),  with  a  view  to  banning  the 
international  trade  in  that  species,  preventing  the 
collapse of stocks and avoiding its extinction. 

In our  opinion, the 13,500 ton limit just adopted 
by  the  International  Commission  for  the  Conservation 
of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) for the 2010 fishing season 
will  not  guarantee 
that 
overexploited species, especially in the Mediterranean. 
We  therefore  appeal  to  all  countries  that  share  this 
world  heritage,  in  particular  CITES  States  parties,  to 
fully assume their responsibilities — failing which, the 
industries  that  benefit  from  trade  in  this  species  will 
disappear  with  it.  Moreover,  unreported  and  illegal 
fishing makes it impossible to bring international trade 
back under control. In that regard, we should promote 
active cooperation between ICCAT and CITES. 
recent 

the 
adoption,  during 
the 
Conference  of  the  Food  and Agriculture  Organization, 
of a treaty aimed at prohibiting access to fishing ports 
by  vessels 
illegal,  unreported  or 
unregulated fishing. 

Monaco  also  continues  to  be  very  concerned 
about  large-scale  pelagic  drift-net  fishing,  despite  the 
fact  that  it  was  officially  banned  many  years  ago,  as 
well  as  by  the  devastating  impact  of  bottom  trawling 
on marine ecosystems. 
The  third  meeting  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended 

Informal Working Group to study issues relating to the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological 
diversity  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction  should 
promote  efforts  in  the  areas  of  research,  coordination, 
the  management  of  protected  marine  areas  and 
In  addition,  Monaco  welcomes 
thirty-sixth  session  of 
rehabilitation  of 
involved 
the 
the 
in 
on 
Summit 
impact  assessment  procedures. 
environmental 
Its 
experience  will  continue  to  be  useful  in  improving 
protection for deep-sea and pelagic areas. 
On the eve of the deadline we set ourselves at the 

Johannesburg  World 
Sustainable 
Development  for  putting  in  place  an  ecosystem-based 
approach,  and  in  line  with  our  obligations  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and 
the  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  it  is  crucial 
that we establish representative networks for protected 
marine  areas  so  as  to  preserve  their  ecological  and 
biological  wealth.  Regional 
intergovernmental 
processes must also be strengthened. 

Against  that  backdrop,  and  with  a  view  to  the 
establishment  of  a  regulatory  mechanism,  it  would 
seem  essential  to  develop  both  marine  evaluation 
capabilities  and  capacities  that  are  primarily  based  on 
better scientific understanding. 
Mr. Wetland (Norway): Next week, the attention 

international  community  will  be  directed 
of 
the 
towards 
the  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Conference in Copenhagen. The effects and impacts of 
climate change are evident to all of us, and we need to 
respond  urgently.  We  hope  that  the  Conference  will 
have the necessary momentum and that the parties will 
show the necessary political will and flexibility so that 
concrete results can be achieved. 

The  consequences  of  climate  change  are 
especially visible and measurable in the Arctic. If ice-
melting  continues  and  the  polar  ice  cap  continues  to 
diminish,  new  opportunities  to  exploit  previously 
inaccessible  resources  and  new  shipping  routes  will 
emerge.  We  will  thus  face  the  challenge  of  balancing 
the  protection  of  the  Arctic  environment  with  the 
orderly and sustainable use of its resources. 

The  five Arctic  Ocean  coastal  States  —  Canada, 
Denmark,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  United  States 
and  Norway  —  have  a  special  responsibility  in  that 
last  year’s  Ilulissat  Declaration, 
regard.  In 
they 
their 
expressed 
special 
readiness 
responsibilities  on 
the  extensive 
international legal framework that applies to the Arctic 
Ocean, such as the law of the sea. 

Under  the  Arctic  Council,  negotiations  on  an 
international instrument regarding search and rescue in 
the  Arctic  will  commence  next  month. 
the 
International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO),  we  are 
to 
stand  by 
the  basis  of 
In 
16 

09-63342 
to  strengthen 
the  guidelines 


working 
for  ships 
operating  in  ice-covered  waters  —  the  so-called  polar 
code.  We  attach  great  importance  to  that  work  in  the 
IMO,  and  we  count  on  the  active  support  of  all 
Member  States  to  make  sure  that  a  mandate  for  a 
revision  can  be  agreed  upon  in  the  meeting  of  IMO 
Subcommittee  on  Ship  Design  and  Equipment  in 
February 2010. 

This year’s negotiations on the General Assembly 
draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries  (A/64/L.29) 
included a review of resolution 61/105, of 2006, which, 
inter  alia,  encourages  States  to  take  action  to  protect 
vulnerable marine ecosystems from destructive fishing 
practices.  Norway  has  worked  actively  to  promote 
action  against  the  use  of  fishing  gear  that  may  harm 
marine biodiversity. We have done so in the North East 
Atlantic Fisheries Commission, the Northwest Atlantic 
Fisheries  Organization  and  the  Commission  for  the 
Conservation  of  Antarctic  Marine  Living  Resources. 
We also played an active part in the development of the 
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) International 
Guidelines for the Management of Deep-Sea Fisheries 
in the High Seas. 

This  year’s  review  and  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  on  the  issue  (A/64/305)  show  that  States  have 
taken  significant  measures  to  implement  the  2006 
resolution.  However,  it  is  also  clear  that  considerable 
work  remains  to  be  done  in  order  to  offer  vulnerable 
ecosystems the necessary protection. We are happy that 
both  those  points  are  reflected  in  the  draft  resolution. 
The goals set out are ambitious, and they need to be in 
order  to  prevent  further  damage  from  the  use  of 
destructive  fishing  practices.  States  and  regional 
fisheries management organizations must assume their 
full responsibility in that regard. 

Illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing 
seriously  undermines  efforts  to  conserve  and  manage 
fish  stocks  in  a  sustainable  manner.  It  is  particularly 
harmful to developing countries. Such fishing also has 
severe  negative  effects  on 
security  and 
environmental protection all over the world. 

An important milestone in the global fight against 
IUU  fishing  was  reached  last  August  when,  in  the 
framework  of  FAO,  we  managed  to  finalize  the 
Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter 
and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and  Unregulated 
Fishing.  Those  negotiations  were  initiated  by  Norway 
in 2005 because we saw the need for a global approach 
food 
A/64/PV.56
is  an 
for 
I 
take 
to  become  parties 
to 
the  Commission  and 
to prevent the landing of IUU fish. The agreement was 
approved  by  the  FAO  Conference  and  signed  by 
Norway  on  22  November.  This 
important 
instrument  for  better  global  port-State  control.  We 
encourage  all  States 
the 
Agreement as soon as possible. 

The  establishment  of  the  outer  limits  of  the 
continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles is a central 
element  in  the  implementation  of  the  law  of  the  sea 
regime.  The  delineation  process  clarifies  the  legal 
framework for future shelf activities. Such clarity also 
entails significant positive development implications. 

Norway submitted documentation concerning the 
limits  of  our  continental  shelf  in  the  High  North  in 
2006,  and  received  the  recommendations  from  the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf 
earlier this year. We were impressed by the work of the 
members  of 
this 
opportunity  to  commend  them  for  their  efforts.  The 
Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
(DOALOS) also deserves praise for its contribution to 
the  work  and  functioning  of  the  Commission.  States 
must now work together to secure for the Commission 
and DOALOS the resources they need to continue their 
work in this important field. 
face  particular 

challenges 
their 
submissions.  We  heard  testimony  to  that  effect  from 
my colleague from Nauru earlier today. States with the 
necessary  financial  and 
technical  resources  must 
therefore assist developing countries in the preparation 
of those submissions. 

At  the  eighteenth  Meeting  of  States  Parties,  in 
June  2008,  we  worked  actively  for  the  decision 
contained  in  document  SPLOS/183,  to  the  effect  that 
developing 
preliminary 
information  indicative  of  the  outer  limits  of  their 
continental  shelves.  Norway  has  also  assisted  10 
African States in their preparation of such preliminary 
information  to  be  submitted  to  the  Secretary-General 
before  the  deadline.  In  that  endeavour,  we  had  close 
and  fruitful  cooperation  with  the  Shelf  Programme  of 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme,  as 
represented  by 
the  Global  Resource  Information 
Database  at  Arendal,  Norway,  as  well  as  with  the 
Economic  Community  of  West African  States  and  the 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Somalia.  We  also  received  valuable  advice  from  the 
Many  developing  countries 
in  preparing  documentation 
countries 
can 
submit 
09-63342 

17 

and 
supplies 
humanitarian 
A/64/PV.56 

United  Nations  Office  for  West  Africa.  We  are  now 
studying how we can best provide those African coastal 
States  with  technical  and  financial  assistance  in  order 
to prepare full submissions to the Commission. 

Piracy  and  armed  robbery  off  the  coast  of 
Somalia  and  in  the  Gulf  of Aden  continue  to  threaten 
the people of Somalia, the whole region and a series of 
protective  interests.  Those  interests  include  innocent 
lives, 
international 
commerce  and  navigation.  Some  1,000  Norwegian-
owned ships pass through the Gulf of Aden every year. 
We  are  therefore  directly  affected,  and  are  acting 
accordingly. 

We  co-sponsored  Security  Council  resolution 
1897  (2009)  of  30  November  2009.  We  highly 
appreciate the work of the Contact Group on Piracy off 
the Coast of Somalia, which was established in January 
2009.  Norway  participates  in  the  work  of  the  four 
working  groups  under  the  Contact  Group.  In  January 
2010,  we  will  chair  the  fifth  meeting  of  the  Contact 
Group itself. Norway also contributes, with one frigate, 
to  the  European  Union-led  Operation  Atalanta  in  the 
Gulf  of  Aden.  International  cooperation  to  ensure 
security  for  international  shipping  off  the  coast  of 
Somalia must continue, as must cooperation to improve 
the situation on land in Somalia in order to address the 
root causes of the problem. 
Mr.  Nguyen  Duy  Chien  (Viet  Nam):  At  the 

outset, my delegation wishes to welcome the continued 
consideration  by  the  General Assembly  of  the  agenda 
item relating to developments in ocean  affairs  and the 
law of the sea. We thank the Secretary-General and the 
Secretariat,  and  in  particular  the  Division  for  Ocean 
Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  for  the  reports  on 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  on  sustainable 
fisheries. We also thank the two coordinators for their 
hard  work  in  conducting  the  negotiations  on  the  two 
draft  resolutions  that  have  been  introduced  under  this 
agenda item (A/64/L.18 and A/64/L.29). 

The 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law 
of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  provides  a  comprehensive  and 
sound legal framework for all ocean issues and ocean-
related  activities.  The  nearly  universal  acceptance  of 
UNCLOS  by 
is  a 
reflection  of  our  cherished  goals  of  promoting  the 
optimal  use  of 
in 
conformity  with  the  principles  of  justice  and  equal 
rights.  Every  effort  must  be  made  to  fully  implement 
the  world’s  oceans  and  seas 
international  community 
the 
in 
to 
fulfil 
taken  on 
the  Limits  of 
the  Commission  on 
UNCLOS,  with  due  respect  for  the  delicate  balance 
between the rights and obligations of States contained 
in its provisions. 

Viet  Nam  commends  the  International  Seabed 
Authority, the International Tribunal for the Law of the 
Sea  and 
the 
Continental  Shelf  for  the  great  amount  of  work  they 
have 
the  past  year.  We  note  with 
satisfaction  the  efforts  of  UNCLOS  States  parties, 
especially  developing  countries, 
their 
obligation  to  make  submissions  to  the  Commission  or 
to  inform  the  Commission  of  their  intention  to  make 
submissions  establishing  the  outer  limits  of  their 
continental shelves beyond 200 miles. 

Viet  Nam  is  of  the  view  that  every  submission 
made  to  the  Commission  by  States  parties  should  be 
considered by the Commission in accordance with the 
provisions  of  UNCLOS.  The  Commission  now  has  a 
clearer picture for organizing its working schedules. It 
will  need  stronger  support  from  us  to  accomplish  its 
heavy work load in the years ahead. 

Thanks  to  the  flexibility  shown  by  all  regional 
groups  of  States  parties,  important  decisions  were 
made  at  the  nineteenth  Meeting  of  States  Parties  to 
UNCLOS,  held  in  June  2009,  with  regard  to  the 
allocation  of  seats  on 
the 
Tribunal.  My  delegation  calls  on  all  UNCLOS  States 
parties to adhere strictly to those decisions in the future 
elections to those bodies. 
My delegation recognizes the contribution of the 

to 
Open-ended 
strengthening 
the  General 
Assembly  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  At  the 
tenth  meeting  of  the  Consultative  Process,  Member 
States made great efforts in assessing the achievements 
and  shortcomings  of  the  past  nine  meetings  and  in 
recommending ways to move the Process forward. My 
delegation  fully  supports  the  view  expressed  by  the 
Group  of  77  and  China  that  the  Process  should  be 
carried  out  in  full  accordance  with  UNCLOS,  taking 
into  account  the  agreements  reached  at  the  United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development, 
in particular chapter 17 of Agenda 21. 

Against the backdrop of this assessment of all the 
developments relating to oceans and the law of the sea, 
the  Government  of  Viet  Nam  supports  the  two  draft 
resolutions  on  which  the  General  Assembly  will  take 
action today. 
Informal  Consultative  Process 
the  annual  debate  of 
the  Commission  and 
18 

09-63342 
that 
is  no  secret 
implementation  of 
The  conclusion  and 



As  a  developing  coastal  State  that  borders  the 
South China Sea — which is known to all Vietnamese 
people  as  the  Eastern  Sea  — Viet  Nam  attaches  great 
importance to adopting and implementing policies that 
promote  legitimate  and  sustainable  uses  of  maritime 
space  and  resources  for  economic  development,  as 
provided  for  by  UNCLOS.  It 
that 
maintaining peace and stability in the South China Sea 
not  only  meets  the  interests  of  the  States  adjacent  to 
that  important  sea  area,  but  also  makes  a  valuable 
contribution  to  the  world’s  peace  and  security.  It  is 
therefore essential for all States in the South China Sea 
region to work together more closely in order to reach 
mutual  understandings  so  as  to  make  the  South  China 
Sea a peaceful and stable zone. 
the 

Declaration on the Conduct of the Parties in the South 
China Sea by the member countries of the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  and  China  constitutes  a 
significant  step  in  that  direction.  The  Vietnamese 
Government  strongly  believes 
the  successful 
implementation  of  the  Declaration  and  the  elaboration 
and adoption of a code of conduct in the South China 
Sea that fully respects the legal framework provided by 
UNCLOS, will provide a more conducive environment 
for  peace,  stability  and  economic  development  in  the 
region.  For  its  part,  the  Government  of  Viet  Nam  is 
committed  to  making  every  effort  to  work  with  all 
neighbouring States for the sake of the peace, stability 
and  prosperity  of  all  peoples  sharing  the  South  China 
Sea. 
Mr. Al-Ateeqi (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  am  pleased  to  convey  to  the  President  our 
deep gratitude and appreciation for all the outstanding 
and  effective  efforts  he  is  making  to  conduct  this 
session of the General Assembly. We would also like to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports,  submitted 
in  accordance  with  paragraphs  128  and  173  of 
resolution 63/111, relating to ocean affairs and the law 
of the sea. 

The State of Kuwait welcomes the contents of the 
report of the Secretary-General on oceans and the law 
of the sea (A/64/66). We would like to emphasize that 
the collective patrimony of the seas and oceans belongs 
to humankind as a whole. In addition, friendly relations 
between  all  States  must  include  adherence  to  the 
principles of justice and equality in the enactment of a 
global economic system that is based on protecting the 
marine environment and maintaining the sustainability 
A/64/PV.56
and 
ships, 
of the oceans, so as to achieve progress and prosperity 
for the peoples of the world. 

The State of Kuwait would also like to welcome 
the ongoing increase in the number of States parties to 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
which this year has reached 159 States. That proves the 
importance  of  the  Convention  at  the  global  and 
regional  levels.  In  that  regard,  my  country  calls  on 
States that have not yet joined the Convention to do so 
in  order  to  attain  universal  participation,  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
promote 
international peace and security. 

Acts  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery  against  ships 
continue  to  pose  a  threat  to  trade  and  commercial 
shipping. It also threatens the lives of sailors who work 
onboard those ships. My country’s delegation therefore 
condemns  all  acts  of  piracy,  hijacking  of  commercial 
ships and terrorism that occur on the oceans and seas, 
in  particular  the  acts  of  piracy  that  take  place  in  the 
Gulf  of Aden  and  off  the  Somali  coast. According  to 
the  International  Maritime  Bureau,  the  majority  of 
those  incidents  occurred  off  the  Somali  coast  during 
the first six months of this year. To counter such acts of 
piracy  and  armed 
the 
international community must coordinate all its efforts 
by effectively implementing international law, the law 
of  the  sea  and  all  other  legal  instruments  to  confront 
pirates and to prosecute criminals. 

My  country’s  delegation  commends  the  Security 
Council’s  adoption,  under  Chapter VII  of  the  Charter, 
of  resolution  1846  (2008)  of  2  December  2008.  That 
resolution  emphasizes  the  importance  of  fostering 
international  efforts  to  combat  piracy  off  the  Somali 
coast  by  expanding  the  scope  of  mandates  of  regional 
States and organizations working with Somali officials 
in order to achieve that goal. 
The  State  of  Kuwait  joined  the  United  Nations 

Convention  on 
in  1986. 
Subsequently,  in  2002,  it  acceded  to  the  Agreement 
relating  to  the  implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the 
Convention.  Kuwait  is  also  a  party  to  the  Protocol 
concerning  Marine 
from 
Exploration and Exploitation of the Continental Shelf. 
It is for that reason that the State of Kuwait would like 
to emphasize the need for respecting international law 
for 
and 
relevant 
guaranteeing 
in 
particular  with  regard  to  marine  safety  and  security. 
international  conventions  and 
their 
implementation, 
Pollution  Resulting 
robbery  against 
the  Law  of 
the  Sea 
effective 
09-63342 

19 
and 
environment 
lives  while  also  preserving 
A/64/PV.56 

That should be done by ensuring that flag States fulfil 
their  responsibilities  in  the  course  of  innocent  or 
transient passage, as well as by taking all the measures 
stipulated  under  international  law  to  guarantee  the 
rights of each State. 

In  conclusion,  the  State  of  Kuwait  believes  that 
international  efforts  must  be  intensified  in  order  to 
ensure  understanding  of  the  effects  of  climate  change 
on the marine environment and on marine biodiversity 
and to find appropriate ways and means for adaptation 
to  those  changes.  Those  efforts  must  also  include 
building the capacities of developing countries and the 
transfer  of  technology  to  them,  so  as  to  preserve  the 
marine 
achieve 
sustainable 
development in the oceans and the seas. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  urges  all  Member  States  to 
expand  their  good  offices  with  a  view  to  improving 
people’s 
the  marine 
environment,  its  resources  and  their  optimal  use. That 
can  be  done  by  adhering 
the  provisions  of 
international  conventions  and  rules  that  guarantee  the 
rights  of  peoples  to  use  marine  resources  in  an 
equitable and just fashion, thereby securing for all the 
sustainability  of 
and 
promoting international peace and security. 
Mr.  Budiman  (Indonesia):  At  the  outset,  allow 

me  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General 
for his comprehensive reports on ocean affairs and the 
law  of  the  sea  contained  in  documents  A/64/66  and 
Add.1  and Add.2. We  also  wish  to  thank  the  Division 
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the 
Secretariat 
the 
consideration  of  issues  related  to  the  law  of  the  sea 
during this session. 
Indonesia  continues  to  participate  actively  in  the 

consideration  of  issues  related  to  the  law  of  the  sea, 
including  fisheries,  the  maritime  environment  and 
navigation. There are two main reasons for our interest. 
First, we are the largest archipelagic State in the world, 
occupying  a  position  of  strategic  importance  between 
the Asian and Australian continents and within most of 
the important Asian waters. 
Secondly,  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 

Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  is  one  of  the  most 
important  constitutive instruments in international  law 
regulating the uses of one of the world’s largest set of 
resources. 
their  valuable 
the  marine 
environment 
for 
support 
in 
to 

that 
littoral  States,  continues 
the  authorization  granted  under 

On  the  issue  of  the  safety  of  navigation  and 
maritime  security,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
underline  our  unwavering  commitment  to  suppressing 
armed robbery and piracy on the high seas adjacent to 
waters  within  our  national  jurisdiction.  Indonesia, 
together  with  other 
to 
strengthen  cooperation  in  combating  armed  robbery 
and piracy in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore. We 
are  pleased 
those  concerted  measures  have 
significantly  decreased  incidents  of  piracy  and  armed 
robbery against ships in the region. 

As far as the situation off the coast of Somalia is 
concerned,  Indonesia  notes  the  adoption  of  Security 
Council resolution 1897 (2009) on 30 November 2009. 
In  this  regard,  my  delegation  also  recalls  Council 
resolutions  1816  (2008),  1831  (2008),  1838  (2008), 
1844 (2008), 1846 (2008) and 1851 (2008), which were 
adopted to narrowly address piracy and armed robbery 
committed  against  ships  off  the  coast  of  Somalia. 
Therefore, 
those 
resolutions  does  not  affect  rights  or  obligations  or 
responsibilities  under  international  law,  including  any 
rights or obligations under UNCLOS, and they are not 
considered to establish customary international law. 

The  Government  of  Indonesia  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  work  of  the  Commission  on  the 
Limits of the Continental Shelf. We appreciate that, at 
its 
the  Commission  began 
consideration of our submission with respect to north-
west Sumatra, Indonesia. 

However, Indonesia is concerned about the recent 
work overload that the Commission must be facing in 
view of the large number of submissions it has already 
received,  as  well  as  forthcoming  submissions  that 
could  impact  on  the  Commission’s  projected  work 
timetable. We hope that States actively participating in 
the  ongoing  work  of  the  informal  working  group 
dealing  with  the  issue  of  the  Commission’s  workload 
will contribute constructively. 

to  make 
additional  contributions  to  the  two  voluntary  trust 
funds  established  by  resolution  55/7  with  laudable 
objectives. Those  trust  funds  facilitate  the  preparation 
of  submissions  to  the  Commission  by  developing 
States  and  are  also  used  to  defray  the  cost  of  the 
participation  by  developing  States  members  of  the 
Commission  in  meetings  of  the  Commission  and  its 
subcommissions. 
Furthermore,  we  encourage  States 
twenty-third  session, 
20 

09-63342 
the 
that 
joins 
Indonesia 
the  Law  of 
importance.  For 



Turning  to  fisheries  issues,  Indonesia  is  of  the 
view that the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement is 
of  paramount 
reason,  on 
28 September  2009,  Indonesia  ratified  the  Agreement 
for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United 
Nations  Convention  on 
the  Sea  of  
10  December  1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and 
Management  of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly 
Migratory Fish Stocks. 

Indonesia  believes  that  that  Agreement  sets  out 
principles for the conservation and management of fish 
stocks  and  provides  for  management  based  on  a 
precautionary approach and the best available scientific 
information.  The  Agreement  also  develops 
the 
fundamental  principle  established  in  the  Convention 
that States should cooperate to ensure conservation and 
promote  the  objective  of  optimally  utilizing  fisheries 
resources  both  within  and  beyond  their  exclusive 
economic  zones.  By  ratifying  and  implementing  the 
Agreement, 
international 
community  in  its  efforts  to  sustainably  manage  fish 
stocks and their link to the marine environment. 

We  continue  to  be  very  concerned  about  illegal, 
unregulated  and  unreported  (IUU)  fishing  activities 
that threaten  the sustainability of  fish stock resources. 
Indonesia  is  of  the  view  that  such  fishing  is  a  global 
problem that undercuts responsible fishing activities. It 
undermines  conservation  and  enforcement  efforts  and 
distorts trade and prices in export markets. In the light 
of  that,  Indonesia  welcomes  the  adoption  by  the  Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations on 
22  November  2009  of  the  Agreement  on  Port  State 
Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate  Illegal, 
Unreported and Unregulated Fishing. 

The  Agreement  recognizes  that  States  have  the 
sovereign  right  to  decide  which  foreign  vessels  may 
enter  their  ports,  in  particular  as  regards  vessels  that 
undertake or support IUU fishing activities, building on 
existing  measures  taken  in  some  regional  fisheries 
management organizations. Obviously, the effectiveness 
of  the Agreement  depends  on  its  wide  ratification  and 
implementation. But it is hoped that the agreement will 
help block IUU-caught fish from entering international 
markets,  thereby  removing  an  important  incentive  for 
some fishermen to engage in illicit fishing. 

Issues  related  to  oceans  and  climate  change 
continue  to  be  of  serious  concern  for  coastal  States. 
Indonesia’s unique situation has caused us to undertake 
A/64/PV.56
the  ocean, 
following  on 
Indonesia  supports 
special  initiatives  to  increase  our  awareness  of  the 
impact of climate change in connection with the ocean 
and  of  the  ocean’s  possible  role  in  addressing  the 
challenge  of  climate  change.  That  is  why,  for  the 
second  consecutive  year, 
the 
insertion of a paragraph concerning climate change and 
the oceans in the draft resolution on oceans and the law 
of the sea. 

Indonesia  is  pleased  that  the  draft  resolution  we 
are  about  to  adopt  makes  reference  to  the  need  to 
improve understanding of the impact of climate change 
on 
the  World  Ocean 
Conference,  which  was  held  in  Manado,  Indonesia,  in 
May this year, at which the Manado Ocean Declaration 
was  adopted.  We  believe  that  the  Declaration  will 
contribute to shedding light on the new challenges we 
face  in  promoting  healthier  oceans  for  the  socio-
economic benefit of present and future generations. 

The Declaration also emphasizes the need for the 
international community to work together for improved 
understanding  of  the  impact  of  oceans  on  climate 
change  and  vice  versa,  and  its  effects  on  marine 
ecosystems,  marine 
coastal 
communities. 
The  Declaration  underscores  the  importance  of 

incorporating  ocean-sensitive  policies 
into  climate 
change  policy  at  the  global  level  within  the  existing 
framework  of 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  thereby  making  sure 
that  the  concerns  of  ocean  communities  and  coastal 
countries will be taken into account without necessarily 
creating  new  processes  that  might  duplicate  existing 
ones. 

Lastly,  with  regard  to  consultations,  we  wish  to 
underline  the  importance  and  value  of  the  informal, 
open  and  inclusive  nature  of  the  consultative  process 
for  discussions  on  ocean  affairs  within  the  United 
Nations system. 
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  take  this 

opportunity to thank the coordinators of the law of the 
sea 
resolutions, 
Ambassador  Henrique  Valle  of  Brazil  and  Ms.  Holly 
Koehler of the United States of America, for their able 
leadership  and  excellent  contribution  to  the  work  on 
the two resolutions before us today. 
Mr.  Tladi  (South  Africa):  I  am  grateful  for  the 

opportunity  to  take  the  floor  on  this  very  important 
biodiversity 
sustainable 
fisheries 
and 
and 
the 
09-63342 

21 

A/64/PV.56 

topic, that of oceans and the law of the sea. I am also 
happy to associate myself with the statement delivered 
by the Permanent Representative of Benin, who spoke 
on behalf of the Group of African States.  

This debate gives us an opportunity to reflect on 
our  activities  over  the  sixty-third  session  and  look 
forward  to  forthcoming  activities  at  the  sixty-fourth 
session. We should, as we reflect and look forward, be 
continually  guided  by  the  United  Nations  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS),  which  constitutes 
the framework within which all activities in the oceans 
take place. In reflecting on those activities, we should 
be  ever  mindful  of  the  opportunities,  challenges  and 
prospects in our efforts to create an oceans governance 
system underpinned by sustainable development. 

My  delegation  is  unwavering  in  its  belief  in  the 
universal character of UNCLOS and that large parts of 
it constitute customary international law binding on all 
States,  whether  State  party  or  not. We  are  particularly 
pleased to welcome Chad, the Dominican Republic and 
Switzerland,  which  have,  since  our  last  debate  on  the 
agenda item, become States parties to the Convention, 
thereby  bringing  the  total  number  of  States  parties  to 
160. We hope that in the near future all Member States 
of the United Nations will accede to the Convention so 
that  this  instrument,  the  “Constitution  of  the  oceans”, 
can achieve quantitative universality. 

We hope also that those States parties that are not 
as yet party to the two implementing agreements of the 
Convention,  namely  the  Agreement  relating  to  the 
Implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  and  the 
Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and 
Management  of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly 
Migratory Fish Stocks, will accede to those agreements 
sooner rather than later. 

We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  negotiations  on 
the draft omnibus resolution on oceans and the law of 
the  sea  and  are  proud,  once  again,  to  co-sponsor  the 
resolution.  We  also  welcome  the  fruitful  deliberations 
on the draft fisheries resolution. It was on 8 December 
2006  that  the  General  Assembly  adopted  resolution 
61/105, which contained provisions on bottom fishing. 

In  that  resolution  we  called  on  the  regional 
fisheries  management  organizations  (RFMOs)  and 
arrangements  with  competence  to  regulate  bottom 
fisheries  to  adopt  and  implement  certain  measures  to 
protect vulnerable marine ecosystems. In the resolution 
we  also  called  for  a  review  of  those  measures  at  the 
current session. In his report on actions taken by States 
and  RFMOs  in  the  implementation  of  resolution 
61/105,  contained  in  A/64/305,  the  Secretary-General 
noted 
that,  while  progress  has  been  made, 
implementation of the resolution had been uneven and 
that further efforts were needed.  

We  are  of  the  view  that  more  could  be  done  to 
protect vulnerable marine ecosystems from the damage 
that  can  occur  as  a  result  of  bottom  fishing  than  the 
protective regulations laid out in resolution 61/105. We 
remain optimistic, however, that the approach we have 
taken this year, the result of consensus, will contribute 
to the cultivation of more sustainable fishing practices. 
We  are  particularly  hopefully  that  in  2011,  when  we 
meet  to  yet  again  review  the  measures  we  have 
adopted,  sterner  regulations  will  have  been  adopted 
and wider implementation recorded. 

It will come as no surprise to many here that my 
delegation attaches particular importance to Part XI of 
the Convention. We therefore continue to push for the 
early  implementation  and  operationalization  of  the 
common heritage of humanity principle, as reflected in 
Part  XI.  For  that  reason,  my  delegation  is  an  active 
participant  in  the  deliberations  of  the  International 
Seabed Authority (ISA). 

We are concerned at the apparent inability of the 
Council  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority  to 
finalize  regulations  on  polymetallic  sulphides.  We  are 
encouraged  by  the  fact  that  only  a  few  contentious 
issues,  including  the  question  of  overlapping  claims 
and the anti-monopoly provision, remain. Nonetheless, 
we urge delegations to do their utmost to ensure that a 
consensus is reached on those outstanding issues. 

We  believe  that  the  Convention,  in  particular 
Annex  III,  entitled  “Basic  Conditions  of  Prospecting, 
Exploration  and  Exploitation”,  provides  a  sound  basis 
for  enabling  the  finalization  of  outstanding  issues  at 
the next meeting of the Authority in April 2010. 

the  common  heritage  of  humanity 
principle  is  not  only  an  esoteric  concept,  but  a 
principle of international law. We are thus concerned at 
the  lack  of  its  implementation  and  operationalization 
owing 
to, 
the 
regulations. 
the  non-completion  of 
For  us, 
inter  alia, 
22 

09-63342 
the  significance  of 



Another  factor  having  a  negative  impact  on  the 
full implementation of Part XI of the Convention is the 
difficulty encountered in the establishment of the outer 
limits  of  the  continental  shelf,  as  provided  for  in 
article 76  of  the  Convention.  South  Africa  sent  its 
continental shelf submission to the Commission on the 
Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) in May of this 
year, in accordance with the Convention and yet, owing 
to  the  workload  of  the  Commission,  the  prognosis  is 
that  a  subcommission  to  consider  the  South  African 
submission will only be formed in 2019. 

That  is  a  most  unsatisfactory  situation.  We  have 
no doubt that the only solution to that difficulty will be 
to  have  longer  and/or  more  frequent  sessions  of  the 
Commission. Indeed, there may be legal, technical and 
financial  constraints.  But 
the 
endeavours  to  establish  the  limits  of  the  continental 
shelf  leads  me,  unavoidably,  to  a  cliché,  namely,  that 
“where  there  is  a  will,  there  is  a  way”.  We  therefore 
call on States to consider innovative ways to facilitate 
the  funding  of  such  longer  and/or  more  frequent 
sessions of the CLCS. 

The  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative  Process 
on Oceans and the Law of the Sea (UNICPOLOS) held 
its  review  in  June  of  this  year.  We  are  pleased  that, 
after much discussion, the vast majority of delegations 
that 
in  UNICPOLOS  discussions  were 
supportive  and  saw  it  as  an  important  forum  to 
deliberate, in an informal  manner, issues pertaining to 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  with  a  view  to 
strengthening  coordination  and  contributing  to  the 
deliberations  of  the  General  Assembly  under  the 
agenda item. 

We  were  also  particularly  pleased  that  attendees 
at the meeting recognized the centrality of sustainable 
development  as  the  prism  through  which  those  issues 
ought  to  be  discussed.  My  delegation  wishes  to 
reiterate  its  commitment  to  UNICPOLOS  and  looks 
forward 
to 
strengthen that important forum for the law of the sea. 
We are pleased that in the next session we will have an 
opportunity to discuss an issue that has not been given 
sufficient  follow-up,  namely,  capacity-building 
in 
oceans affairs and the law of the sea, including marine 
scientific research. 

I now wish to make some brief observations on a 
forthcoming  issue  that  is  of  particular  importance  to 
my  delegation.  In  February  2010,  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-
to  working  with  other  delegations 
took  part 
A/64/PV.56
solidarity 
embodied 
in 
is  about 
in 
Some  of 
environment 
accordance  with 
the  key  questions 
ended  Working  Group  to  study  issues  relating  to  the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological 
diversity  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction  will 
meet. That will provide us with an opportunity to make 
progress  on  key  issues  relating  to  marine  biodiversity 
beyond national jurisdiction. 

that  will  be 
confronting us will be how to improve the governance 
of  the  oceans,  so  as  to  ensure  better  protection  of  the 
marine 
the 
Convention.  Another  issue  that  is  sure  to  confront  us 
will be the question of marine genetic resources and, in 
particular,  whether  the  common  heritage  of  humanity 
principle  is  applicable  thereto  —  that  is,  the  “legal 
regime” debate. 
The view of my delegation, which is rooted in the 

call 
sustainable 
for 
development, is well known and can be summed up by 
what we said in 2008 during the last meeting of the Ad 
Hoc Working Group, namely, that the common heritage 
of  mankind  principle  is  not  solely  about  benefit 
sharing.  It  is  just  as  much  about  conservation  and 
preservation.  The  principle 
solidarity; 
solidarity  in  the  preservation  and  conservation  of  a 
good  we  all  share  and  therefore  should  protect. 
Solidarity  also  implies  joint  efforts  to  ensure  that  this 
good, which we all share, is for all our benefit. 
It  is  our  hope  that  the  meeting  of  the  Ad  Hoc 

Working  Group  in  February  will  come  up  concrete 
proposals on how to move issues relating to conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biodiversity  in  areas 
beyond  national 
the 
perspective  of  my  delegation,  it  is  clear  that  moving 
forward  must,  somehow,  involve  discussion  about  an 
implementing  agreement  to  give  expression  to  the  clear 
provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea, namely, that the Area and its resources — not 
just  some  of  its  resources,  but  all  of  them  —  are  the 
common heritage of humanity. 

We  trust  that,  as  we  make  preparations  for  how 
we will participate at this forthcoming meeting, we will 
remember  that  what  is  at  stake  is  not  only  the  narrow 
commercial  interests  of  some.  What  is  at  stake  is  the 
health  of  our  marine  environment  and  the  humanity, 
which  can  only  be  reflected  in  our  solidarity  in 
ensuring equitable access for all. 
Mr.  Muchemi  (Kenya):  Allow  me  to  start  by 

congratulating  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  as 
jurisdiction 
forward.  From 
09-63342 

23 

itself  with 
My  delegation  fully  aligns 
A/64/PV.56 

President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session.  I  also  convey  to  the  other  members  of  the 
Bureau  warm  congratulations  for  their  elections.  My 
delegation  assures  you  of 
its  support  and  full 
cooperation during your tenure. 

the 
statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Benin  on 
behalf of the African States. 

Kenya expresses its appreciation and recognition 
for the key role the United Nations continues to play in 
matters  relating  to  the  law  of  the  sea.  I  would  like  to 
commend  the  good  work  of  the  Secretariat  of  the 
Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
under  the  able  leadership  of  Mr.  Serguei  Tarassenko, 
and to thank them for their support, in particular during 
the recent informal consultations. 

My delegation notes with appreciation the various 
reports  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  subject  of 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea. We  also  appreciate  the 
text of the draft resolution on oceans and the law of the 
sea, resulting from this year’s informal consultations in 
the  General  Assembly,  and  the  draft  on  sustainable 
fisheries,  both  of  which  we  are  pleased  to  sponsor.  I 
now wish to comment on some of the issues that are of 
great concern to my delegation. 

Kenya  is  among  the  many  coastal  States  that 
delivered  their  submissions  on  the  continental  shelf 
beyond  200  nautical  miles  to  the  Commission  on  the 
Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  (CLCS)  within  the 
stipulated deadline of 13 May 2009. This was followed 
by an oral presentation made before the Commission at 
its twenty-fourth session on 3 September 2009. 

At  an  early  stage  in  the  preparation  of  its 
submission,  Kenya  noted  with  concern  the  anticipated 
heavy  workload  of  the  Commission  that  will  be 
occasioned by the considerable number of States filing 
their  submissions  to  the  Commission  in  compliance 
with  the  deadline  set  for  delineation  of  the  extended 
continental  shelf.  Some  51  submissions  have  already 
been  received  and  many  others  are  expected.  The 
Commission will subsequently be faced with the huge 
workload  of  examining  all  the  submissions  within  an 
acceptable 
time  frame.  This  places  a  huge  and 
unprecedented burden on both the Commission and the 
secretariat of the Division. 

During the nineteenth Meeting of States Parties to 
the  Convention,  the  Chairman  of  the  Commission 
in 
and 
their 
by 
our 
that 
problem 
consideration 
submission.  The 
presented to the plenary a tentative timetable detailing 
when  the  51  submissions  already  received  might  be 
considered. The situation as projected would result in a 
considerable  time  lapse  between  the  preparation  of 
submissions 
the 
Commission, a scenario that is obviously unacceptable 
it  will  greatly 
to  my  country,  considering 
jeopardize 
is 
compounded further by difficulties associated with the 
retention of the expertise that was directly responsible 
for  the  preparation  of  the  submission,  including  the 
loss of institutional memory. 

Kenya welcomes the recommendations contained 
in paragraphs 52 and 53 of the omnibus draft resolution 
encouraging  States 
to  participate  actively  and 
constructively  in  the  ongoing  work  of  the  informal 
Working  Group  established  by  States  parties  to  find 
practical  ways  of  resolving  this  matter.  My  country  is 
ready  to  support  proposals  aimed  at  accelerating  the 
work of the Commission, and will forward its views to 
the Working Group before the February 2010 deadline 
for  the  submission  of  comments  and  suggestions.  We 
are  convinced  that  the  outcome  of  the  Meeting  of 
States Parties in June 2010 should be informed by the 
recommendations submitted to the Working Group for 
incorporation into the Secretary-General’s report on the 
problem, which is contained in document SPLOS/157. 

The  issue  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery  against 
ships at sea off the coast of Somalia is of grave concern 
to  my  country.  These  activities  have  greatly  affected 
trade  and  commerce 
the  entire  subregion.  In 
addition, acts of piracy have led to artificial shortages 
of  food  and  other  essential  commodities. This  poses  a 
serious security risk that, if left unchecked, could cause 
a  serious  crisis  and  much  instability  in  the  entire 
region. 

Although efforts by the international community, 
including  the  establishment  of  a  Contact  Group  on 
Piracy  off  the  Coast  of  Somalia,  have  had  some 
deterrent  effect  on  piracy  and  armed  robbery  in  our 
region, more needs to be done. In particular, it appears 
that  apprehended  pirates  are  being  prosecuted  mainly 
in  Kenyan  courts.  This  burden  weighs  heavily  on 
Kenya, 
terms  of  financial  cost  and  security 
exposure,  and  we  call  upon  all  other  nations  to 
participate in this endeavour. 

Capacity-building is an area that is regarded with 
great interest by my country. The lack of capacity and 
in 
24 

09-63342 
reaffirms 
the  preparation  of 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 


technical  know-how  has  immensely  contributed  to  the 
inability of developing countries to  exploit and utilize 
marine  resources,  especially  those  found  within  their 
national  jurisdictions.  Needless  to  say,  this  has  also 
aggravated illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. 
We appreciate the assistance extended to Kenya by the 
Division  and  by  the  Trust  Fund  for  the  purpose  of 
facilitating 
submissions  by 
developing  countries  to  the  Commission.  It  is  of  vital 
importance  to  strengthen  cooperation  to  facilitate  the 
transfer  of  technology  to  developing  nations.  In  this 
regard, we urge States and other relevant international 
organizations and institutions with the ability to do so 
to  increase  funding,  training  opportunities  and  other 
capacity-building-related  activities 
for  developing 
nations. 

its 
commitment  to  the  ideals  enshrined  in  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and 
reassures the President of the General Assembly of its 
support.  We  look  forward  to  the  fruitful  deliberations 
of this body under his able guidance. 
Mr. Gutiérrez García (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

We reaffirm the fundamental importance of the United 
Nations  Convention  on 
in 
maintaining  and  strengthening  peace,  order  and  the 
sustainable development of the oceans and seas. 
Cuba  places  particular  emphasis  on  the  need  to 

strengthen 
all 
stakeholders  participating  in  the  management  of  seas 
and  oceans, 
including  knowledge  exchange  and 
capacity-building,  which  are  of  vital  significance  for 
developing countries. 
For  my  country,  as  an  island  located  in  the 

issues 
delicate  ecosystem  of 
relating  to  the  seas  and  the  oceans  are  of  particular 
interest. Despite the serious economic hardships that it 
faces, Cuba has carried out and continues to carry out 
great  efforts  to  implement  national  strategies  for 
sustainable  development  and  for  the  protection  of  the 
marine  environment,  with  a  view  to  achieving  a 
coherent,  progressive  and  effective  implementation  of 
the Convention’s provisions. 

The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Sea establishes the proper and universally accepted 
legal  framework  within  which  all  of  the  activities  on 
the  oceans  and  seas  must  be  carried  out.  We  are, 
therefore, concerned by policies and initiatives that are 
the  Caribbean  Sea, 
the  Law  of 
international 
cooperation 
the  Sea 
among 
A/64/PV.56
of 
the 
guarantee 
the  Whole 
that  process  must  have 
undermining the regime of the Convention, such as the 
management being assigned to new sustainable uses of 
oceans, including the conservation and management of 
marine biological biodiversity of sea beds beyond areas 
of  national  jurisdiction.  In  this  respect,  States  must 
abide  by  the  principles  established  in  the  Convention, 
which  provides  that  marine  scientific  research  in  such 
areas  must  be  carried  out  exclusively  for  peaceful 
purposes and for the benefit of humanity as a whole. 
We  warmly  welcome  the  work  of  the  Ad  Hoc 

Working  Group 
tasked  with 
recommending  a  course  of  action  to  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  regular  process  for  global  reporting 
and assessment of the state of the marine environment, 
including  socioeconomic  aspects.  We  welcome  in 
particular  the  recommendations  annexed  to  its  report. 
This process must be carried out on the basis of respect 
for  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  aforementioned 
recommendations,  which 
full 
the  process  and  an  equitable 
transparency  of 
geographic participation in all activities of the process. 
Cuba  believes  that,  under  the  supervision  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  in  order  to  ensure  greater 
coherence, 
the  ongoing 
assistance  of  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the 
Law of the Sea. 

Matters  concerning  crime  at  sea  must  be 
addressed  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  They  require 
holistic  solutions  under  international  law  and  strict 
respect  for  national  jurisdictions.  The  Cuban  State  is 
endowed  with  a  solid  institutional  basis  and  national 
legislation when it comes to addressing crime at sea, in 
particular  with  regard  to  the  illicit  traffic  in  narcotic 
drugs  and  psychotropic  substances, 
in 
persons  and  piracy.  Likewise,  intense  work  is  being 
done  to  continue  to  strengthen  bilateral  and  regional 
cooperation,  with  due  respect  for  the  principles  of 
international  law and State sovereignty over territorial 
waters  and  the  management  of  resources  in  their 
exclusive economic zones. 
We would also like to underscore the importance 

of  preserving 
the 
implementation of its provisions as a whole, including 
respect  for  the  right  of  passage  and  the  obligation  of 
States  bordering  straits  to  adopt  laws  and  regulations 
relating to transit passage through straits. 

Oceans  and  seas  today  face  one  of  the  greatest 
challenges  in  history,  namely,  problems  arising  from 
the  Convention’s 
integrity  and 
trafficking 
09-63342 

25 
In 
the 

the  protection  of 
A/64/PV.56 

climate  change  on  an  unprecedented  scale.  Arctic  ice 
thickness continues to decrease. Glaciers are receding. 
The sea level is rising. Small island States run the risk 
of disappearing under water. 

The  interconnected  nature  of  ocean  systems 
leaves no other option but for all States to cooperate to 
ensure 
the  global  marine 
environment.  Either  we  are  all  saved  or  no  one  is. 
Developed  countries  therefore have a  responsibility to 
provide  assistance  to  developing  countries  at  their 
request,  so  as  to  work  together  to  protect  oceans  and 
seas. 

With  regard  to  the  1995  Agreement  for  the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982 relating to the Conservation  and Management  of 
Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks,  Cuba  is  not  a  party  to  the Agreement,  but  we 
comply  in  good  faith  with  its  major  provisions  on 
conservation  and  management.  The  main  reason  that 
has  prevented  Cuba  from  becoming  party  to  the 
Agreement  has  to  do  with  its  concern  about  the 
mechanism  of  visits  and  inspection  aboard  fishing 
vessels, which is provided for in articles 21 and 22 of 
that instrument. 

I do not want to conclude without expressing our 
appreciation  for  the  work  done  by  the  coordinators  of 
the  two  draft  resolutions  to  be  adopted  on  this  topic, 
which  Cuba  will  support.  Likewise,  owing  to  the 
growing importance of the issue of oceans and the law 
of  the  sea,  there  is  a  need  to  provide  full  conference 
and  translation  services  for  informal  meetings  to 
negotiate such draft resolutions. That would contribute 
to  the  quality  of  the  negotiations,  so  that  they  clearly 
reflect  the  interests  of  all  States,  in  particular  of 
developing countries. 
Mr.  Kohona  (Sri  Lanka): We  would  like  to  take 

this  opportunity  to  thank  the  two  coordinators  who 
have  guided  us  in  the  shaping  the  draft  resolutions 
before  us.  We  also  wish  to  thank  the  Division  for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for the support it 
has provided in that task. 
The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 

the Sea is the overarching instrument that provides the 
legal framework for State activities relating to the seas 
and 
the 
exploitation of their resources. It has been said that the 
Convention  provides  the  constitution  for  the  seas  and 
the  oceans  and  for 
the  regulation  of 
of 
issue 
environment.  The 
this  statement,  my  delegation  wishes 
oceans.  All  States  parties,  and  others,  have  a 
fundamental  responsibility  to  protect  the  integrity  of 
the  Convention.  Many  provisions  of  the  Convention 
are  now  considered 
to  be  part  of  customary 
international law. 

to 
address  the  issues  of  fisheries,  climate  change,  the 
continental shelf and piracy. 

In relation to sub-item (b) of agenda item 76, on 
sustainable fisheries, the Convention on the Law of the 
Sea provides for the protection and preservation of the 
marine 
fisheries 
management has assumed much importance. Today, the 
regulation  of  the  exploitation  and  preservation  of  the 
living  resources  of  the  high  seas,  or  the  areas  beyond 
the limits of national jurisdiction, are governed by the 
1995  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  and  other 
international,  regional  and  subregional  arrangements. 
Fishing  activities  have  the  most  significant  impact  on 
marine  biodiversity 
in  areas  within  and  beyond 
national jurisdiction. 

We  are  conscious  of  the  overfishing  of  stocks, 
habitat  degradation  from  destructive  fishing  practices 
and 
incidental  capture  of  non-target  species, 
including endangered species. My delegation welcomes 
the  steps  taken  by  the  United  Nations  and  various 
agencies  —  such  as 
the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization,  the  International  Whaling  Commission 
and  the  Forum  Fisheries  Agency  —  with  regard  to 
those  aspects.  We  encourage  them  to  develop  further 
strategies to that end. 

Fish do not recognize national jurisdictions. As a 
nation that is surrounded by the sea and is substantially 
dependent  upon  the  ocean,  we  would  like  to  see 
fisheries  beyond  the  limits  of  national  jurisdiction 
through  cooperative  means.  The 
better  controlled 
Indian  Ocean  Tuna  Commission 
its 
namesake  region.  However,  there  is  a  need  for  a 
regional 
fisheries  management  organization  or 
arrangement  with  wider  powers  and  the  capacity  to 
effectively  regulate  all  high-seas  fisheries  and  the 
conservation of stocks in that vast expanse of ocean. 
While  we  endorse  the  adoption  of  international 

agreements,  guidelines  and  practices  for  the  better 
regulation of bottom fisheries, we are conscious of the 
need  to  accommodate  the  difficulties  that  developing 
countries  may  face,  especially  owing  to  the  lack  of 
capacity, in enforcing such measures. Accordingly, we 
is  active 
in 
26 

09-63342 
the 
special 
to  realize 
jurisdiction 
Oceans  are 
the  benefits  of 
indivisible  ecosystems 


are pleased that the negotiations led to the adoption of 
paragraph  121  in  draft  resolution  A/64/L.29,  which 
recognizes the special circumstances and requirements 
of  developing  States  and  the  specific  challenges  they 
may face and gives full consideration to the section of 
the  guidelines  on 
requirements  of 
developing countries. 

Sri  Lanka  would  also  like  to  refer  to  the  study 
prepared  by  the  Secretariat,  which  is  contained  in 
document  A/63/342,  with  regard  to  the  assistance 
available  to,  and  measures  that  may  be  taken  by, 
developing  States 
the 
sustainable  and  effective  development  of  marine 
resources  and  the  uses  of  oceans.  The  scope  of  the 
study  has  now  been  extended  to  include  areas  beyond 
national jurisdiction, which include the high seas. 
in  which 

are  products  of  political 
national  boundaries 
expediency.  Therefore,  while 
over 
resources  gives  the  needs  of  developing  States  with 
respect  to  the  sustainable  development  of  maritime 
space  within  national 
jurisdiction  an  urgent  and 
distinctive  dimension,  their  needs  in  maritime  space 
beyond  national  jurisdiction  are  to  be  viewed  in  an 
integrated  manner.  Sri  Lanka  therefore  welcomes  the 
supplemental  inclusive  study  to  include  the  needs  of 
the  developing  States  and  the  potential  assistance 
available to them with respect to the whole ecosystem 
of oceans, as envisaged in the draft resolution. Turning 
to sub-item (a) of agenda item 76 and the Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf:  my  delegation 
considers  that  body  to  be  most  important,  and  we 
believe  that  measures  should  be  taken  immediately  to 
secure  the  effectiveness  of  the  important  work  of  the 
Commission. 

A  matter  of  great  concern  is  the  Commission’s 
workload.  States  were  required  to  submit  their  claims 
to  the  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles  by 
13 May 2009. Many States, at great expense and with 
the  use  of  outside  technical  expertise,  made  these 
submissions  within  the  stipulated  deadline.  Sri  Lanka 
was  one  of  them.  However,  the  workload  of  the 
Commission  and  the  slow  progress  it  has  made  in 
dealing  with 
the  submissions  have  evoked  great 
concern.  It  is  estimated  that  some  claims  already 
lodged may be examined as late as 2040. 

We are, in fact, pleased to have participated in the 
efforts  to  find  practical  solutions  to  this  problem.  We 
A/64/PV.56
to 
threaten 
the  climate  continue 
look  forward 
to  positive  results  and  appropriate 
measures  being  adopted  by  the  twentieth  Meeting  of 
the States Parties to the Law of the Sea Convention in 
2010  and  by  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

Climate  change  continues  to  figure  prominently 
on the international agenda, as human-induced changes 
to 
the  global 
environmental  balance.  The  world’s  oceans  play  a 
critical  role  in  sustaining  life  on  earth  by  generating 
oxygen  and  absorbing  carbon  dioxide  from 
the 
atmosphere,  regulating  climate  and  temperature  and 
providing  essential  resources.  Changes  to  the  climate 
have  a  direct  impact  on  the  oceans  and  lead  to  a 
number  of  critical  threats,  such  as  sea-level  rise  and 
ocean acidification. Such effects also impair the ability 
of  marine  and  coastal  ecosystems  to  provide  food, 
income,  cultural  identity  and  recreation  to  coastal 
residents. Sea coasts are also a major source of tourism 
income for many States. 

Many key climate indicators have already helped 
improve  our  understanding  of  the  patterns  of  natural 
variability  within  which  our  societies  and  economies 
have developed and thrived. Ocean warming appears to 
be approximately 50 per cent greater than what we had 
predicted.  New  estimates  suggest  that  by  2100  sea 
levels could rise by one metre or more. The impacts of 
ocean  acidification  on  some  major  marine  calcifiers 
already  appear  to  be  detectable  and  some  coastal 
waters  have  become  corrosive  to  the  shells  of  various 
bottom-dwelling organisms. The oceans may be losing 
the  ability  to  absorb  carbon  dioxide.  With  unabated 
levels  of  greenhouse-gas  emissions,  many  climate 
trends are likely to accelerate, leading to an increasing 
risk of abrupt or irreversible climate shifts. 

The  adverse  effects  of  climate  change  on  the 
marine  environment  and  marine  biodiversity  are 
matters  of  serious  concern  and  have  to  be  addressed 
with a sense of urgency. Research activities need to be 
enhanced to help us to better understand the effects of 
climate  change  on 
the  marine  environment  and 
biodiversity,  and  to  develop  ways  and  means  of 
adaptation.  Research  on  ocean  acidification  has  to  be 
pursued  to  address  levels  of  ocean  acidity  and  their 
negative  impact  on  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems, 
particularly  coral  reefs.  It  is  necessary,  therefore,  to 
recognize the importance of improved understanding of 
the  impact  of  climate  change  on  the  oceans  and  to 
09-63342 

27 
is  a  party 
to 
recent  years,  Sri  Lanka  has 
A/64/PV.56 

formulate  and  adopt  mitigating  strategies  to  overcome 
them. 

Regarding  piracy,  my  delegation  expresses  its 
grave concern at the increase in the incidence of piracy, 
which  poses  a  threat  to  maritime  security  and  safety. 
This  has  become  a  threat  to  global  trade  and  a  factor, 
for  instance,  in  insurance  costs.  We  welcome  the 
concerted  efforts  made  by  some  States  to  combat 
piracy. All types of vessels have been targeted, often by 
well-armed  criminals  with  rocket-propelled  grenades 
and  automatic  weapons.  More 
than  238  attacks 
occurred  in  the  first  six  months  of  2009  alone.  Sri 
Lanka 
the  Regional  Cooperation 
Agreement  on  Combating  Piracy  and Armed  Robbery 
against  Ships  in  Asia  (ReCAAP),  which,  with  its 
information-sharing,  has  had  positive  effects  in  the 
region. 

In  addition  to  piracy,  another  threat  to  maritime 
security  is  that  posed  by  the  transportation  of  large 
consignments  of  sophisticated  equipment  and  lethal 
cargo  to  provide  logistical  support  to  terrorist  groups. 
In 
experienced 
unprecedented and highly dangerous forms of maritime 
terrorism.  Our  navy  has  successfully  confronted  and 
interdicted 
floating 
warehouses  of  arms  and  ammunition,  posing  a  grave 
threat  to  the  security  and  stability  of  our  country  and 
our  region. At the  global level, this phenomenon  calls 
for  a  revision  of  existing  laws  pertaining  to  boarding 
and  search  of  vessels  in  the  high  seas.  We  need  a 
comprehensive  legal  framework  to  address  all  aspects 
of  safety  and  security  of  maritime  navigation,  going 
beyond  the  current  concerns  with  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. This would make a distinct contribution to 
securing global peace and security. Sri Lanka strongly 
supports  paragraphs  68  to  83  of  the  draft  resolution 
(A/64/L.18 and Corr.1) addressing the issues of piracy 
and armed robbery at sea. 
Finally,  I  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to 

the  United  Nations  Legal 
Ms.  Patricia  O’Brien, 
Counsel,  for  her  undertaking  to  comply  with  the 
assurance  given  by  her  predecessor  that  the  Hamilton 
Shirley Amarasinghe Fellowship on the Law of the Sea 
would  continue  with  the  next  award  in  2010.  The 
Fellowship has acquired much prestige, as it honours a 
prominent  Sri  Lankan  who  guided  the  third  United 
Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  from  its 
very inception and as Chair of the Ad Hoc Committee 
the  movement 
of 
virtual 

on  the  Seabed  and  Ocean  Floor  till  nearly  the  end  of 
the Conference. 
Mr. Gan (Singapore): I have the honour to speak 

on  sub-item  (a)  of  agenda  item  76,  “Oceans  and  the 
law of the sea”. The Straits of Malacca and Singapore 
are  one  of  the  busiest  international  waterways  in  the 
world,  linking  the  Indian  Ocean  to  the  South  China 
Sea. On average, more than 900 ships use the Strait of 
Singapore  every  day,  with  more  than  80  per  cent  of 
these  ships  arriving  and  departing  from  the  port  of 
Singapore.  Maritime  trade  and  freedom  of  navigation 
are therefore of critical importance to our country. We 
also see the United Nations Convention on the Law of 
the  Sea  as  the  principal  international  legal  instrument 
for  dealing  with  all  issues  relating  to  maritime  rights 
and obligations. 

A crucial characteristic of the Convention is that 
it is an indivisible package and as such, it must be read 
as  a  whole  and  fully  complied  with.  When  the 
Convention  was  drafted,  the  negotiators  recognized 
that  there  were  a  number  of  very  contentious  issues 
that  could  be  resolved  only  through  trade-offs  and  by 
accepting the Convention as a package. That meant that 
every  individual  provision  of  the  text  was  agreed  on 
within the context of the whole. This is especially true 
of  the  new  legal  concepts  and  regimes  created  under 
the  Convention,  such  as  exclusive  economic  zones, 
archipelagic States, transit passage and archipelagic sea 
lanes  passage.  We  must,  therefore,  avoid  emphasizing 
parts  of  the  Convention  that  we  like  while  ignoring 
parts that we do not. We should not extract paragraphs 
from the Convention out of context, or  misuse certain 
provisions  in  an  attempt  to  justify  measures  that  are 
inconsistent  with  the  Convention.  All  States  Parties 
have  a  shared  interest  in  maintaining  the  integrity  of 
the Convention. 

A  key  bargain  in  the  Convention  was  balancing 
the aspirations of coastal States to expand the extent of 
their territorial sea from 3 to 12 nautical miles with the 
right of the international community to enjoy free and 
uninterrupted  passage  through  some  of  the  world’s 
critical sea lanes. Coastal States were therefore allowed 
to  expand  the  extent  of  their  territorial  sea  out  to 
12 nautical  miles,  in  exchange  for  accepting  a  special 
regime of passage for ships and aircraft going through 
and  over 
international 
navigation. This special regime, under which a ship or 
aircraft  enjoys  unimpeded  passage  through  the  strait, 
subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Convention,  is  known 
the  116  straits  used  for 
09-63342 
28 

of 
such 
safety 
Singapore 
navigation 
is  pleased 


as  “transit  passage”.  The  coastal  State  may  not 
interfere  with  that  passage,  even  if  the  sea  lane  is 
within its territorial sea. This critical provision ensures 
the  continued  use  of  the  seas  and  oceans  to  facilitate 
global trade, 85 to 90 per cent of which is seaborne. 

It was not easy for the drafters of the Convention 
to  arrive  at  that  crucial  and  delicate  balance  between 
the  claims  of  coastal  States  for  more  rights  over  their 
adjacent seas and the historic rights of user States over 
those  seas.  It  would  thus  be  wise  to  maintain  that 
balance,  as  it  benefits  both  coastal  States  and  user 
States.  With  the  economies  of  the  world  becoming 
more  open  and  interconnected  and  as  trade  flows 
increase, States that used to think in terms of protecting 
their interests as coastal States will find that they have 
significant and growing interests as user States as well. 
It  is,  therefore,  our  firm  belief  that,  within  the 
framework  of  the  Convention,  coastal  States  and  user 
States can work hand in hand to ensure their common 
interests 
and 
environmental protection. 

fruitful 
cooperation  among  the  littoral  States  of  the  Straits  of 
Malacca  and  Singapore as  well as between the littoral 
States,  user  States  and  other  key  stakeholders  in 
ensuring  the  safety  of  navigation  and  environmental 
protection  of  critical  international  waterways  in  our 
region.  The 
the  Cooperative 
Mechanism  on 
and 
environmental protection in the Straits of Malacca and 
Singapore 
landmark 
achievement,  as  it  provides  a  platform  for  the  littoral 
States to engage user States, the shipping industry and 
other 
safety  of 
navigation and protection of the marine environment in 
the  Straits.  We  are  pleased 
the 
Cooperative Mechanism has made good progress in all 
its three pillars, namely the Cooperation Forum, the six 
Straits  projects  under 
the  Project  Coordination 
Committee  and  the Aids  to  Navigation  Fund,  since  its 
inception  two  years  ago.  We  are  encouraged  by  the 
steady  progress  in  the  number  of  countries  and  other 
stakeholders 
the  Cooperative 
Mechanism,  including  Australia,  China,  the  European 
Commission,  Germany,  Greece,  India,  Japan, 
the 
Republic  of  Korea,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  the 
United  States,  the  Malacca  Strait  Council,  the  Middle 
East  Navigation Aids  Service,  the  Nippon  Foundation 
and the Japanese Shipowners’ Association. 
in  September  2007  was  a 
safety  of  navigation 
establishment  of 
in  enhancing 
stakeholders 
contributing 
to  report 
to  note 
that 
the 
the 
the 
as 
to 
A/64/PV.56
is 
to 
the 
into 
force 
More 
forward 
recently, 
from  an 
in  2006, 
look  forward 
Indonesia,  Malaysia 

and 
Singapore  concluded  a  Joint  Technical  Arrangement 
with the International Maritime Organization (IMO) to 
institutionalize an IMO Fund that supports cooperation 
amongst  stakeholders  aimed  at  enhancing  safety  and 
maritime  cooperation  in  the  Straits  of  Malacca  and 
Singapore.  The  Fund  benefited 
initial 
contribution  of  $1  million  from  Greece,  as  well  as  a 
further  pledge  of  $100,000  from  China,  and  marks 
another  major  step 
in  promoting  and 
facilitating  international  cooperation  in  this  important 
international  waterway.  We 
the 
continued participation and support of all stakeholders. 

In the larger Asian region, Singapore is pleased to 
note  the  continued  close  cooperation  between  littoral, 
coastal and user States aimed at combating piracy. The 
Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating Piracy 
and Armed Robbery  against Ships in Asia (ReCAAP), 
which  came 
first 
Government-to-Government  agreement  that  addresses 
the incidence of piracy and armed robbery in the Asian 
region.  Contracting  States  to  the  Agreement  share 
information on incidents of piracy and armed robbery, 
including  reports  on  subsequent 
law  enforcement 
investigations  and 
the 
ReCAAP  Information  Sharing  Centre  (ReCAAP  ISC), 
based  in  Singapore.  The  Information  Sharing  Centre 
makes  publicly  available  regular  updates  and  analyses 
on the piracy and armed robbery situation in the Asian 
region.  The  ReCAAP  ISC  is  now  regarded  as  the 
crucial  source  of  information  on  piracy  and  armed 
robbery in Asia for both the media and the industry. 

Singapore  is  also  heartened  by  the  ongoing 
cooperation  between  ReCAAP  ISC  and  IMO,  where 
IMO  has  held  up  ReCAAP  as  a  model  of 
intergovernmental cooperation against piracy for other 
regions.  Most  recently,  in  November  2009,  ReCAAP 
IMO,  organized 
ISC, 
a 
familiarization  programme  for 
the  Djibouti  Code 
countries in Singapore and facilitated the participation 
of  the  same  countries  in  a  ReCAAP  capacity-building 
workshop in the Philippines. 

the  Agreement  will 
continue  to  play  an  important  role  in  promoting 
maritime  safety  and  security  in  our  region.  The 
continued  decline  in  piracy  in  the  Asian  region  is 
testament  to  the  success  of  the  organization,  together 
with  other  regional  and  national  initiatives  in  the 
We  are  confident 
conjunction  with 
their  outcomes, 
through 
that 
in 
09-63342 

29 
A/64/PV.56 

region  to  fight  piracy  and  armed  robbery,  such  as  the 
Malacca Strait Patrols. 

As  a  major  maritime  nation,  Singapore  is  also 
strongly  committed  to  supporting  the  international 
counter-piracy  efforts  in  the  Gulf  of Aden  and  off  the 
coast  of  Somalia.  In  addition  to  deploying  a  tank-
landing  ship  to  the  Gulf  of  Aden  from  April  to  July 
2009,  Singapore  will  also  be  taking  command  of 
Combined  Task  Force  151  from  January  to  March 
2010.  The  piracy  situation  off  the  Somali  coast  is  a 
complex  and  multifaceted  problem  that  is  beyond  the 
scope  of  any  one  country  to  resolve.  It  requires  a 
coordinated and holistic international response. 

international 
cooperation  in  those  waters,  with  ships  from  various 
nations learning to self-organize into naval patrols and 
to  communicate  with  one  another,  is  a  welcome  

the  development  of 
Therefore, 

development.  Such  efforts,  carried  out  in  accordance 
with international law, demonstrate the important roles 
that  user  States  can  play  to  complement  the  efforts  of 
the littoral States in combating piracy and ensuring the 
safety and freedom of navigation in key sea lanes used 
for international shipping. 

Singapore  fully  supports  the  ongoing  efforts  by 
both the United Nations and IMO to address the urgent 
situation  in  those  waters.  We  would  also  be  happy  to 
share  our  experience  in  working  with  Malaysia  and 
Indonesia,  through  initiatives  such  as  the  Malacca 
Strait  Patrols,  and  our  experience  as  the  host  of 
ReCAAP  ISC,  which  has  contributed  to  successfully 
reducing  piracy 
the  Straits  of  Malacca  and 
Singapore. 


The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. 
in 
30 

09-63342 
