United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

20th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 15 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 

A/64/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Ali Abdussalam Treki. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 







The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 




Agenda item 110 
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs 
  (a)  Election of five non-permanent members of the 
Security Council 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  General 
Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the  election  of  five 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  to 
replace those members whose term of office expires on 
31 December 2009. 

The  five  outgoing  non-permanent  members  are 
the  following:  Burkina  Faso,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  the 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  and  Viet  Nam.  Those  five 
States  cannot  be  re-elected.  Their  names,  therefore, 
should not appear on the ballot papers. 

Apart  from  the  five  permanent  members,  the 
Security  Council  will  include  in  the  year  2010  the 
following  States:  Austria,  Japan,  Mexico,  Turkey  and 
Uganda.  The  names  of  those  States,  therefore,  should 
also not appear on the ballot papers. 

Of  the  five  non-permanent  members  that  will 
remain in office in the year 2010, two are from Africa 
and Asia, one is from Latin America and the Caribbean 
and  two  are  from  Western  European  and  other  States. 
Consequently,  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  of  General 
Assembly resolution 1991 A (XVIII), of 17 December 
1963,  the  five  non-permanent  members  should  be 
elected  according  to  the  following  pattern:  three  from 
Africa  and  Asia,  one  from  Eastern  Europe  and  one 

May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
from  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  ballot 
papers reflect that pattern. 

In  accordance  with  established  practice,  there  is 
an  understanding  to  the  effect  that,  of  the  three  States 
to be elected from Africa and Asia, two should be from 
Africa and one from Asia. 

I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  those 
candidates,  their  number  not  exceeding  the  number  of 
seats  to  be  filled,  receiving  the  greatest  number  of 
votes  and  a  two-thirds  majority  of  those  present  and 
voting,  will  be  declared  elected.  In  the  case  of  a  tie 
vote  for  a  remaining  seat,  there  will  be  a  restricted 
ballot limited to those candidates that have obtained an 
equal number of votes. 

that procedure? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  accordance 

with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, the election shall 
be held by secret ballot and there shall be no nominations. 

Regarding candidatures, I have been informed by 
the  Chairpersons  of  the  respective  regional  groups  of 
the  following.  For  the  three  vacant  seats  from  among 
the African  and Asian States,  there  are  three  endorsed 
candidates,  namely,  Gabon,  Lebanon  and  Nigeria.  For 
the one vacant seat from among the Eastern European 
States, there is one endorsed candidate, namely, Bosnia 
and Herzegovina. For the one vacant seat from among 
the Latin American and Caribbean States, there is one 
endorsed candidate, namely, Brazil.  
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-55962 (E) 
*0955962* 




A/64/PV.20 


In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of 
procedure,  we  shall  now  proceed  to  the  election  by 
secret ballot. 

Before we begin the voting process, I should like 
to  remind  members  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the 
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no 
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a 
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting. 

We shall now begin the voting process. Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected. 

Ballot papers marked “A”, “B” and “C” will now 
be  distributed.  I  request  representatives  to  use  only 
those ballot papers that have been distributed. 

May I ask representatives to write clearly on the 
ballot  papers  marked  “A”,  for  the  African  and  Asian 
States,  the  names  of  the  three  States  for  which  they 
wish to vote; on the ballot papers marked “B”, for the 
Eastern European States, the name of the one State for 
which  they  wish  to  vote;  and  on  the  ballot  papers 
marked  “C”,  for  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States, the names of the one State for which they wish 
to vote. 

A  ballot  will  be  declared  invalid  if  it  contains 
more names of Member States from the relevant region 
than  the  number  of  seats  assigned  to  it. A  ballot  will 
also be declared invalid if all the names of the Member 
States  on  that  ballot  do  not  belong  to  the  relevant 
region.  If  a  ballot  paper  contains  names  of  Member 
States  that  do  not  belong  to  that  region,  the  ballot 
remains  valid,  but  only  the  names  of  the  Member 
States  that  belong  to  the  relevant  region  will  be 
counted.  The  names  of  Member  States  that  do  not 
belong to that region will not be counted at all. 

At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Ms.  Weston 
(Australia), Ms. Del Águila-Castillo (Guatemala), 
Ms. Würtz (Hungary), Ms. Beshimova (Kyrgyzstan), 
Mr.  Blatter 
(Switzerland)  and  Mr.  Chigejo 
(Zimbabwe) acted as tellers. 
  A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
  The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.30  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.30 a.m. 
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 





follows: 































190 
0 
190 
0 
190 
127 
 190 
 0
 190
 7
 183
 122
186 
184 
180 
1 
1 
1 
1 








Nigeria 

Gabon 

Lebanon 

Togo  
Sierra Leone 

Iran (Islamic Republic of)   
Liberia 

Group A — African and Asian States 
Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   
Number of valid ballots: 

Abstentions: 

Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
Number of votes obtained:   












Group B — Eastern European States 
Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   
Number of valid ballots: 

Abstentions: 

Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
Number of votes obtained:  
 183

Group C — Latin American and Caribbean States 
 190 
Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   
 0 
 190 

Number of valid ballots: 
 7 
Abstentions: 

 183 
Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
 122 
Number of votes obtained:   
 182 


 1 

  Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, 
the  following  States  were  elected  members  of  the 
Security  Council  for  a  two-year  term  beginning 
1 January 2010: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, 
Gabon, Lebanon and Nigeria. 
The President: I congratulate the States that have 

been  elected  members  of  the  Security  Council,  and  I 
thank the tellers for their assistance in this election.  

of agenda item 110. 
The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m. 

Brazil  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) 
This concludes our  consideration of sub-item  (a) 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 











2 

09-55962 
