
A/64/PV.57
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

57th plenary meeting 
Friday, 4 December 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Mohamed 
(Maldives), Vice-President, took the Chair. 



  (b)  Sustainable fisheries, including through the 
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the 
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 
relating to the Conservation and Management 
of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory 
Fish Stocks, and related instruments 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/305) 

  Draft resolution (A/64/L.29) 

Mr.  Limeres  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Allow me at the outset to congratulate and thank both 
coordinators,  Ms.  Holly  Koehler  of  the  United  States 
and Ambassador  Henrique  Valle  of  Brazil,  for  having 
led  with  remarkable  professionalism  the  negotiations 
on  the  draft  resolutions  before  the  General  Assembly 
today. We also welcome the presence among us of the 
President  of  the  International  Tribunal  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea,  Judge  José  Luis  Jesus,  and  the  Secretary-
General of the International Seabed Authority, Mr. Nii 
Allotey Odunton. 

The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  is  one  of  the  clearest  contributions  to  the 
strengthening  of  peace,  security,  cooperation  and 
friendly relations among all nations. At the same time, 
it  is  one  of  the  international  instruments  with  the 
greatest economic, strategic and political ramifications. 

The goal of the negotiators of the Convention was 
to settle all issues relating to the law of the sea in one 
single  instrument.  Its  provisions,  therefore,  strike  a 
delicate  balance  between  the  rights  and  duties  of 












  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 



Agenda item 76 (continued) 
Oceans and the law of the sea 
  (a)  Oceans and the law of the sea 



  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/64/66 and 
A/64/66/Add.1 and Add.2) 
  Report on the results of the assessment of 
assessments (A/64/88) 
  Report on the work of the United Nations 
Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on 
Oceans and the Law of the Sea at its tenth 
meeting (A/64/131) 
  Report on the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole to recommend a course of 
action to the General Assembly on the regular 
process for global reporting and assessment of 
the state of the marine environment, including 
socio-economic aspects (A/64/347)  
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.18 and Corr.1) 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-63459 (E) 
*0963459* 


and 
the  draft 
as  members  of 
resolution  on  sustainable 
to  be  adopted  by  consensus 
A/64/PV.57 

States.  That  balance  took  shape  over  nine  years  of 
negotiation  and  must  be  preserved  by  all  States,  both 
individually 
international 
organizations with competence in ocean affairs and of 
organizations of any kind. 

The time elapsed since the Convention’s adoption 
in 1982 has proven that it is a true “constitution of the 
oceans”,  with  a  clearly  universal  character.  In  that 
regard,  we  welcome  its  ratification  by  Chad,  the 
Dominican Republic and Switzerland. 
The Argentine delegation  will, at the appropriate 

time,  make  a  statement  in  explanation  of  our  position 
fisheries 
on 
(A/64/L.29) 
today. 
Nevertheless, we would like to take this opportunity to 
refer  to  some  of  the  issues  dealt  with  in  that  draft 
resolution and in the draft resolution on oceans and the 
law of the sea (A/64/L.18). 
The question of biodiversity beyond the limits of 

national  jurisdiction  is  one  of  the  emerging  issues  of 
the  law  of  the  sea.  In  February  2010,  the  second  next 
meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working 
Group established by resolution 59/24 will be held. In 
that  regard,  Argentina  is  concerned  about  certain 
proposals  put  forward  during  the  negotiations  of  the 
draft  resolution  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  the 
result  of  which  could  have  overburdened  the Working 
Group  at  a  time  when  it  has  not  yet  concluded  an 
extremely  important  debate,  that  on  the  legal  regime 
applicable,  under  the  Convention,  to  genetic  marine 
resources in areas beyond national jurisdiction.  

In  addition,  in  that  connection  my  delegation 
wishes  to  highlight  that  in  recent  years  the  use  of  the 
ambiguous  term  “areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction” 
has led to  a certain level of confusion on how to  deal 
with the conservation and use of those resources in the 
two  maritime  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction  in 
question, namely, the high seas and the Area.  
We would therefore like to recall once again that 

the question of the legal regime is still outstanding, as 
reflected  in  paragraph  142  of  the  draft  resolution  that 
we  are  about  to  adopt  (A/64/L.18).  This  issue  should 
be  addressed  within the context of the  mandate of the 
Working  Group,  with  a  view  to  making  progress.  My 
country  expects  that  in  the  course  of  that  work, 
Member States will take into account the fact that one 
of  the  purposes  of  the  Convention  was  to  develop  the 
principles  embodied  in  resolution  2749  (XXV)  of  17 

that  resolution, 
December  1970.  In 
the  General 
Assembly solemnly declared, inter alia, that the area of 
the  seabed  and  ocean  floor,  and  the  subsoil  thereof, 
beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, as well as its 
resources  “are  the  common  heritage  of  mankind”,  the 
exploration and exploitation of which “shall be carried 
out for the benefit of mankind as a whole”.  

This  year,  at  the  nineteenth  Meeting  of  States 
Parties to the Convention, the possibility of addressing 
a  substantive  issue  was  discussed.  Regardless  of  the 
merit  of  each  issue,  my  country  has  consistently 
maintained  that  the  Meeting  of  States  Parties  is  the 
competent  forum,  under  article  319,  in  which  to 
address  any  issue  relating  to  the  interpretation  and 
application  of  the  Convention.  This  is  also  consistent 
with the general rule of the law of treaties, namely, that 
the authentic interpreters of any treaty are its parties. 

My  country  believes  that  special  consideration 
should be given to the question of the outer limit of the 
continental shelf beyond 200 miles. Argentina made its 
complete submission to the Commission on the Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf  on  21  April  2009.  On 
26 August,  during  the  twenty-fourth  session  of  the 
Commission, my country made its oral presentation. 
The  Commission  has  received  51  submissions 

and  more 
informational 
presentations  to  date.  More  are  to  come  in  the  future. 
Its workload is a matter of the outmost importance, in 
particular  in  the  light  of  the  future  timeline  the 
President  of  the  Commission  presented  at  the  most 
recent Meeting of States Parties. The picture he painted 
for us is frustrating  for most of the  coastal States that 
have made submissions, as we will have to wait a long 
time for the Commission’s recommendations. 
My  delegation  would  therefore  like  to  highlight 

two aspects of this matter. On the one hand, it is urgent 
that  parties  to  the  Convention  consciously  address  the 
question  of  the  Commission’s  workload  so  that  it  can 
fulfil its duties in an expeditious, efficient and effective 
manner.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  now  more  important 
than  ever  to  remind  all  States  that  the  work  of  the 
Commission has to do with drawing the limit, not with 
the  rights  of  coastal  States,  and  that  article  77 
paragraph 3 of the Convention provides that:  


“The  rights  of  the  coastal  State  over  the 
continental  shelf  do  not  depend  on  occupation, 
effective  or  notional,  or  on  any  express 
proclamation.” 
preliminary 
than 
40 
2 

09-63459 
As 
the 
the 
annex) 
regards 
law  of 
(A/64/88, 
assessments 
regular  process 


That reminder is reflected in paragraph 40 of the draft 
resolution  on  oceans  and 
the  sea 
(A/64/L.18). 

for  global 
reporting  and  assessment  of  the  state  of  the  marine 
environment,  including  socio-economic  aspects,  my 
country  participated  actively  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group that considered, in August 2009, the assessment 
of 
and  made 
recommendations  to  the  General  Assembly  in  that 
regard.  Argentina  is  of  the  view  that  all  of  those 
recommendations  are  pertinent  and 
should  be 
implemented  by  the  Assembly.  In  particular,  I  would 
like  to  highlight  that  the  follow-up  to  the  regular 
process should be carried out by an intergovernmental 
forum,  that  equitable  geographic  distribution  in  the 
constitution of the panel of experts should be respected 
and  that  capacity-building  should  be  ensured  for  the 
effective participation of developing countries. Besides 
that,  the  essential  legal  framework  of  the  regular 
process  is  the  Convention.  With  that  in  mind,  the 
Working  Group  also  recommended  that  secretariat 
services  for  the  regular  process  be  provided  by  the 
Office for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the 
Secretariat in New York. 

Another  aspect  of  the  draft  resolutions  that  we 
will  adopt  to  which  my  country  attaches  particular 
importance is the United Nations Open-ended Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea 
established  by  resolution  54/33.  Argentina  supported 
the review of the Process, which took place this year at 
its 
its 
continuation  depends  on  its  being  redirected  back  its 
original  objectives,  which  are  closely 
to 
sustainable development.  

During  the  discussions  at  the  tenth  meeting,  it 
was  clear  that  many  delegations  considered  that  the 
Consultative  Process  should  not  be  a  negotiating 
forum, but one for coordination and exchange of views, 
and  also  that  the  Consultative  Process  is  not  a  forum 
for  the  interpretation  of  the  law  of  the  sea  that  is 
already in force. My country believes that those issues 
should  be  duly  taken  into  account  when  the  General 
Assembly  considers,  at  its  sixty-fifth  session,  the 
renewal of the Consultative Process. 

Another issue that was insistently stressed during 
the review of the Consultative Process was the need to 
adequately incorporate the development prospective in 
the  understanding 
tenth  meeting, 
linked 
that 
in 
A/64/PV.57
the 
that 
first 
area. 
Therefore, 
review  of 
(A/64/L.29), 
conservation 
the  sedentary  resources  of 
the consideration of every topic. Thus we welcome the 
fact that, on the basis of a proposal made by the Group 
of  77  and  China,  the  General  Assembly  decided  that 
the  next  meeting  of  the  Consultative  Process  will  be 
devoted to the topic of capacity-building in oceans and 
the  law  of  the  sea,  including  marine  science.  We 
believe  that  the  consideration  of  the  topic  should  be 
broad  and  should  include  the  transfer  of  technology. 
That issue, to which a whole part of the Convention — 
Part  XIV  —  is  devoted,  is  possibly  the  one  in  which 
there  is  the  greatest  gap  in  the  application  of  the 
Convention and is, at the same time, the main vehicle 
for capacity-building in the field of marine sciences. 
As  regards  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable 

fisheries 
the 
implementation  of  resolution  61/105  took  place  this 
year.  
Already  in  the  sixty-fourth  session,  my  country 

has  recalled 
the 
continental  shelf  are  subject  to  the  sovereignty  rights 
of  the  coastal  States  in  the  whole  extension  of  that 
maritime 
and 
management  of  such  resources  is  under  the  exclusive 
authority  of 
the 
responsibility  of  adopting  the  necessary  measures 
regarding 
associated 
ecosystems  that  could  be  affected  by  fishing  practices 
that  can  have  a  destructive  impact.  We  also  stated  at 
that time that Argentina was taking the necessary steps 
to adopt that  type of measures  for the conservation of 
sedentary  resources  throughout  its  continental  shelf 
and called on other coastal States to exercise the same 
responsibility. 

Without prejudice to that, Argentina considered it 
appropriate, at that moment, to propose the inclusion of 
operative paragraph 104 of resolution 63/112, in order 
to  prevent  any 
that  could  suppose 
ignorance  of  the  exclusiveness  of  the  rights  of  the 
coastal  State  over  the  areas  of  its  continental  shelf 
situated beyond 200 miles. 

However,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/64/305),  in  its  section  III.B.5,  on  actions  taken  by 
States for areas where no competent regional fisheries 
management  organizations  and  arrangement  exists, 
shows  that  in  some  States  and  in  one  regional 
organization there can be confusion as to the measures 
that should be adopted with respect to high seas fishing 
undertaken under the responsibility of the flag State, on 
coastal  States,  which  have 
interpretation 
resources 
their 
such 
and 
09-63459 

3 

in 
and 
that 
expects 
research 
recommended 
A/64/PV.57 

the one hand, and, on the other, the measures related to 
conservation  of  resources  and  vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems in the seabed and subsoil that are subject to 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  coastal  State  when  such  seabed 
and subsoil are part of its continental shelf beyond 200 
miles. 

In  that  context,  the  Argentine  delegation  makes 
express  reservation  regarding  what  is  expressed  in 
paragraphs  178,  179,  180  and  181  of  the  report  in 
document  A/64/305 
future 
contributions of States or international organizations to 
the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  regarding  this 
issue  will  include  all  the  information  needed  to 
examine  whether  the  activities  that  were  undertaken 
are in conformity with international law in force. 
The  application  of  conservation  measures  or  the 

carrying  out  of 
the 
resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly,  in  particular 
resolution  61/105  and  concurrent  resolutions,  have  as 
their  unavoidable  legal  framework  the  international 
law of the sea in force, as reflected in the Convention. 
Thus it is not conceivable that implementation of such 
resolutions  could  be  cited  as  justification  for  denying 
or ignoring the rights established in the Convention. 

Alert  to  that  type  of  situation,  the  General 
Assembly,  in  paragraph  115  of  its  draft  resolution  on 
sustainable  fisheries  (A/64/L.29),  would  remind  all 
States that 

“nothing  in  the  paragraphs  of  its  resolution 
61/105  and  the  present  resolution  addressing  the 
impacts  of  bottom  fishing  on  vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems  prejudices  the  sovereign  rights  of 
coastal  States  over  their  continental  shelf  or  the 
exercise of the jurisdiction of coastal States with 
respect 
shelf  under 
international  law  as  reflected  in  the  Convention, 
in particular article 77”. 

In the same vein, the Assembly, in paragraph 123 
of  the  same  draft  resolution,  when  encouraging  States 
and  international  regional  fisheries  organizations  to 
develop  and  strengthen  procedures  and 
research 
programmes  for  identification  of  vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems,  assessment  of  impacts  and  assessment  of 
fishing  activities  on  target  and  non-target  species, 
would  recall  that  those  activities  must  conform  to  the 
Convention,  including  Part  XII.  Part  XIII  of  the 
Convention,  which  contains  the  regime  for  marine 
continental 
their 
to 
to 
to 
try 
interpret  passages 
interpretations  are  not 
scientific research, provides, in article 246, paragraph 2, 
that  

“(m)arine  scientific  research  in  the  exclusive 
economic zone and on the continental shelf shall 
be  conducted  with  the  consent  of  the  coastal 
State.” 
Also in relation to fisheries, my country wishes to 

highlight  its  concern  about  an  incipient  trend  of  some 
States 
in  Assembly 
resolutions as providing  for the possibility of regional 
fisheries  management  organizations  adopting  some 
type  of  measure  with  respect  to  vessels  whose  flag 
States  neither  are  members  of  such  organizations  nor 
have  expressly  consented  the  application  of  such 
measures to their vessels. My country is convinced that 
such 
in  conformity  with 
international  law  in  force  and  that  nothing  in  the 
resolutions  of  the  General Assembly  can  be  construed 
as to support such interpretations. 

Finally,  as  every  year  when  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on oceans and the law of the sea  is 
considered, Argentina wishes to acknowledge the team 
in  the  Division  for  Ocean Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  for  its  professional  and  devoted  work  and  for  the 
assistance  that  it  spontaneously  provides  to  Member 
States in the matters of its competence. 
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  I  have  the  honour  to 

share  Thailand’s  views  on  agenda  item  76,  on  oceans 
and the law of the sea. 

Thailand  shares  the  growing  concern  of  the 
international  community  over  the  threat  posed  by 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  (IUU)  fishing, 
particularly  to  the  sustainable  management  of  fish 
stocks.  We  therefore  welcome  the  recent  adoption  by 
the  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  Conference  of 
the  Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to  Prevent, 
Deter 
and 
Unregulated Fishing. 
Thailand  respects  the  right  of  coastal  States  to 

enact 
their 
sovereign  rights  to  explore,  exploit,  conserve  and 
manage  living  resources  in  their  Exclusive  Economic 
Zones  (EEZ). At  the  same  time,  measures  taken  by  a 
coastal State to ensure compliance with those laws and 
regulations should be proportionate to and in line with 
the  provisions  of  Article  73  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  relating  to 
laws  and  regulations 
Illegal,  Unreported 
in  exercise  of 
and  Eliminate 
4 

09-63459 


enforcement  of  laws  and  regulations  of  the  coastal 
State,  including  the  fundamental  principle  of  due 
process of law. 

Furthermore, we attach great importance to well-
established  rules  of  customary  international  law  as 
recognized  and  codified  by  the  Convention,  namely, 
the  right  of  innocent  passage  in  territorial  seas,  the 
right of transit passage in straits used for international 
navigation,  and  freedom  of  navigation  in  the  EEZ  of 
another State. Therefore we would like to reaffirm our 
position as stated in the letter dated 18 February 1993 
from 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Thailand 
addressed  to  the  Secretary-General  as  reproduced  in 
document A/48/90, dated 22 February 1993. 

With  respect  to  maritime  safety  and  security, 
Thailand has always supported international efforts and 
initiatives  against  piracy  and  armed  robbery,  both  at 
the regional and international levels. In that regard, we 
note with appreciation the adoption of Security Council 
resolution  1897 
(2009)  on  30 November,  which 
constitutes  a  renewed  basis  for  international  action 
against piracy and armed robbery at sea off the coast of 
Somalia,  with  particular  attention  to  the  investigation 
and prosecution process.  

We  note  with  concern  that  a  growing  number  of 
hijacked  vessels  are  fishing  boats.  Such  vessels  are 
particularly  prone  to  attack,  since  pirates  perceive 
economic  value  in  them,  for  which  the  vessel  owners 
would be willing to pay. Accordingly, special attention 
should  be  paid  to  that  matter,  as  well  as  to  the  safety 
and  security  of 
fishermen.  Here,  Thailand 
commends  the  work  of  the  International  Maritime 
Organization 
in  combating  piracy  by  adopting  a 
number  of  documents  which  provide  guidance  to  the 
individuals and sectors concerned. 
Mr.  Okuda  (Japan):  Let  me  first  join  other 

delegates  in  thanking  the  facilitators  of  the  two  draft 
resolutions, Ambassador  Henrique Valle  of  Brazil  and 
Ms.  Holly  Koehler  of  the  United  States,  for  their 
tremendous  work.  I  also  wish  to  thank  all  Member 
States 
informal 
consultations  on  the  draft  resolutions  in  the  spirit  of 
cooperation.  My  appreciation  also  goes 
the 
Secretariat for its assistance. 

Japan  is  pleased  to  sponsor  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.18, on oceans and the law of the sea. Japan is a 
maritime  country  surrounded  by  sea  and  depends  on 
maritime  transport  for  nearly  all  imports  of  energy 
that  worked 
together 
the 
during 
to 
A/64/PV.57
the  deep  seabed  under 
resources,  including  oil  and  minerals.  As  an  island 
country  with  few  natural  resources,  living  marine 
resources  and  other  natural  resources  located  on  the 
continental  shelf  and 
its 
surrounding  waters  are  crucial  to  Japan  from  an 
economic perspective. Consequently, we have a strong 
interest in the two agenda items and have been actively 
taking part in the discussions on the draft resolutions. 

It  is  Japan’s  continuing  concern  that  acts  of 
piracy are still a serious threat off the coast of Somalia 
and  in  the  Gulf  of Aden.  Japan  takes  the  view  that  a 
multifaceted  approach  that  includes  assistance  for 
maritime  enforcement  capacity-building  and  other 
medium- to long-term efforts in addition to operations 
by naval vessels must be pursued in order to effectively 
suppress piracy. 

Japan  has  dispatched  two  destroyers  and  two  
P-3C  patrol  aircraft  in  the  Gulf  of  Aden  and  off  the 
Coast  of  Somalia.  In  June  this  year  Japan  enacted  the 
Anti-Piracy  Measures  Law,  which  ensures  domestic 
implementation  of  the  provisions  on  piracy  stipulated 
in  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea. In addition, Japan has contributed $13.6 million to 
the International Maritime Organization Djibouti Code 
Trust  Fund  in  an  effort  to  assist  the  development  of 
maritime  enforcement  capacity  in  coastal  countries. 
Through 
support 
implementation  of  the  Djibouti  Code  of  Conduct, 
including  the  launching  of  the  regional  centres  for 
information sharing in Kenya, Tanzania and Yemen and 
a training centre in Djibouti. 

Japan  intends  to  maintain  its  commitment  to 
cooperate  in  the  activities  based  on  the  Regional 
Cooperation  Agreement  on  Combating  Piracy  and 
Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia. 

Regarding  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental  Shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles,  Japan 
fully  recognizes  the  need  to  improve  the  situation 
concerning the Commission’s workload, in view of the 
large  number  of  submissions  made  by  coastal  States. 
Japan,  as  a  State  party  to  the  Convention,  will  work 
together with other States parties in the process of the 
Informal  Working  Group  on  the  workload  of  the 
Commission  by  participating  actively  in  the  efforts  to 
find practical and effective solutions to this issue. 

As regards the International Tribunal for the Law 
of the Sea, Japan highly appreciates the important role 
it  has  played  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  as 
contribution,  we  will 
that 
09-63459 

5 

to 
the 
Turning 
conservation 
is  dedicated 
A/64/PV.57 

well  as  in  the  maintenance  and  development  of  the 
legal  order  of  the  sea.  Japan  will  continue  to  support 
the Tribunal’s valuable work. 

of  marine 
biodiversity  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction,  the 
promotion  of  global  conservation  of  biodiversity  has 
become  more  important  than  ever,  as  the  world  will 
commemorate the International Year of Biodiversity in 
2010.  Japan  recognizes  the  challenges  facing  the 
General  Assembly  in  facilitating  the  protection  of 
marine  biodiversity  beyond  national  jurisdictions  and 
will continue to participate in a constructive way in the 
work  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Informal  Working 
Group to study issues relating to the conservation and 
sustainable use of marine biodiversity in that area. 

As a responsible fishing State and a State party to 
the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the  1995 
Fish  Stocks  Agreement,  Japan 
to 
addressing  the  promotion  of  sustainable  use  through 
the  conservation  and  management  of  living  marine 
resources  and  appropriate  conservation  of  the  marine 
ecosystem  in  cooperation  with  the  parties  concerned, 
through  bilateral  fisheries  agreements,  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  (FAO)  and  regional  fisheries 
management organizations. 

and 
The  problems  of 
unregulated  fishing  activities  and  over-capacity  are  so 
serious  for  the  sustainable  use  of  living  marine 
resources that it is urgent to tackle those problems on a 
global scale. Regarding the discussions in FAO on the 
Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter 
and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and  Unregulated 
Fishing, Japan would like to express its appreciation to 
FAO  and  the  relevant  States  for  their  efforts  that 
brought  about  the  adoption  of  the  draft Agreement  by 
the FAO Conference after only one year of negotiation. 

Japan  continues  to  participate  in  consultations 
with  the  States  and  regions  concerned  regarding  the 
establishment  of  an  international  mechanism  for  the 
management of high seas fisheries in the North Pacific 
Ocean  and  will  take  responsible  actions  based  on  this 
resolution. In May 2010, the Review Conference on the 
1995  Fish  Stocks Agreement  will  take  place,  with  the 
participation  of  all  Contracting  Parties 
the 
Agreement.  Japan  will  continue  its  efforts  towards 
strengthening  the  effectiveness  of  the  Agreement  in 
cooperation with other Contracting Parties. 
illegal,  unreported 
to 
the 
States 
during 
resolutions, 
for  having  helped  develop 

In  concluding,  Japan  expresses  its  hope  that  the 
draft  resolutions  before  us,  which  resulted  from 
intensive  negotiations  and  a  spirit  of  cooperation 
among  Member 
informal 
consultations,  will  be  duly  adopted  at  this  session  of 
the General Assembly. 

Mr. Sullivan (Canada): It gives me great pleasure 
to be here today to talk about Canada’s support for the 
resolutions  on  sustainable  fisheries  (A/64/L.29)  and 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/64/L.18)  and  to 
discuss some of the issues of importance to Canada. 

I should like to begin by thanking Ms. Koehler of 
the  United  States  and  Ambassador  Valle  of  Brazil, 
coordinators of the sustainable fisheries and law of the 
sea 
the 
resolutions we are considering today. 
(spoke in French) 

I should like to thank the United Nations Division 
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  its 
support and excellent work. We also express our thanks 
to those delegates that ensured that the resolutions give 
priority to oceans and fisheries governance. 

In  my  capacity  as  Canada’s  Ambassador  for 
Fisheries Conservation, I have the privilege of working 
closely with our partners across the world towards the 
aim of creating more sustainable fisheries and looking 
after the health of ocean ecosystems. 
(spoke in English) 

The  resolutions  on  sustainable  fisheries  and  on 
oceans and the law of the sea are important to Canada, 
and  we  are  pleased  to  be  sponsoring  them  again  this 
year.  They  acknowledge  both  the  important  work  the 
international  community  has  accomplished  and  the 
challenges that lie ahead. 

Today, I should like to talk about Canada’s three 
key  priorities  for  international  fisheries  and  oceans 
governance. They include ensuring that Member States 
implement  their  commitments,  working  together  to 
identify  gaps 
and  working 
collectively to remedy those gaps. 
the  United  Nations 

Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  as  the  legal 
framework  that  governs  all  oceans  activities.  The 
effective 
the 
Convention and other relevant instruments must guide 
all our actions. Canada takes this seriously. To that end, 
implementation  and  enforcement  of 
implementation 
acknowledge 
We 
in 
all 
6 

09-63459 
to 
that 
that 
needs 
effectively 
to  ensure 
Canada  believes 


as acknowledged in these resolutions, the international 
implement 
community 
commitments  already  made  and  be  prepared 
to 
establish new mechanisms where appropriate. We also 
need 
information  and  scientific 
knowledge are effectively shared and that the particular 
challenges of developing States are considered. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  the  global  community 
has  worked  together  and  has  achieved  significant 
progress  in  making  our  oceans  and  fisheries  healthier 
and more sustainable. But we must continue our efforts 
with  added  resolve  as  new  information  is  developed 
and  new  approaches  identified.  As  we  strive  to  fulfil 
our  obligations,  it  is  important  to  recognize  the 
challenges we face and work together to find solutions. 

individual  States  and 
Regional 
Fisheries  Management  Organizations 
(RFMOs)  play  a  critical  role  in  implementing  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and 
the  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement.  We  are 
pleased  that  States,  both  individually  and  within 
RFMOs,  have  taken  up  the  challenge  to  implement 
modern  fisheries  management  principles.  We  will 
continue  to  encourage  the  use  of  the  best  scientific 
information  available  in  their  decision-making,  as 
RFMOs continue to reform and improve. 

Canada is encouraged by the actions agreed to at 
the second joint meeting of tuna RFMOs for improving 
their  management. We  want  to  continue  our  efforts  to 
strengthen  coordination  and  cooperation  among  all 
tuna  RFMOs.  At 
the 
International  Commission  for  the  Conservation  of 
Atlantic Tunas  (ICCAT)  adopted  stronger  measures  to 
protect and rebuild Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean 
Bluefin  Tuna  stocks,  in  keeping  with  sound  scientific 
advice.  Now 
it  will  be  a  question  of  effective 
implementation and compliance. 

In  the  past,  Canada  has  been  disappointed  that 
scientific advice was not followed by ICCAT members 
and that overfishing continued. Canada will continue to 
press for sustainable management of tuna and tuna-like 
species  within  ICCAT  and  other  RFMOs.  We  want  to 
ensure  that  those  organizations  continue  to  move  in 
that positive direction. We see this as a pivotal example 
of management bodies playing their role — a role that 
needs  to  be  continuously  assessed  and  improved,  as 
with any management process. 
its  recent  annual  meeting, 
A/64/PV.57
to  close 
the  gaps 
strengthen 
sustainable 
Our  efforts 
In  our  view, 
(IUU)  Fishing. 

in  fisheries 
governance  are  exemplified  by  the  recent  adoption  by 
the members of the Food and Agriculture Organization 
(FAO)  of  the  Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to 
Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and 
Unregulated 
that 
Agreement will be an important new tool to tackle the 
problem  of  IUU  fishing  globally,  and  we  hope  for  its 
early entry into force. We also call on FAO members to 
conclude  work  on  improving  flag  State  performance. 
Canada is eager to work with our international partners 
to 
fisheries  and  oceans 
management. We want to work with other countries to 
achieve our shared goal of reducing IUU fishing. 

Now  that  the  review  of  the  implementation  of 
elements of resolution 61/105 has been concluded, we 
note  that  significant  progress  has  also  been  made  to 
implement  our  commitments  to  protect  vulnerable 
marine  ecosystems  while  allowing  responsible  fishing 
to continue. We have identified gaps in some areas and 
recognize  that  urgent  action  is  needed  where  those 
particular  gaps  exist.  Canada  was  instrumental  in 
providing leadership on this issue. Further discussions 
of  technical  aspects  are  planned  at  the  FAO,  and  a 
further review at the United Nations is slated for 2011. 

We believe our commitments in resolution 61/105 
provide  an  effective  framework  for  management.  We 
hope that challenges can continue to be identified and 
addressed in the technical discussions. 

An  example  of  how  we  put  this  into  practice  in 
Canada  was  to  work  closely  with  our  partners  in  the 
Northwest Atlantic  Fisheries  Organization  (NAFO)  to 
ensure their cooperation in managing fisheries in order 
to  protect  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  in  the  NAFO 
Regulatory Area.  

As the Assembly knows, the United Nations Fish 
Stocks Agreement is at the heart of modern governance 
of  high  seas  fisheries.  It  includes  precautionary  and 
ecosystem approaches and gives a predominant role to 
RFMOs.  We  are  pleased  that,  since  we  met  last  year, 
another  five  States  have  become  parties,  namely, 
Mozambique,  Panama, Tuvalu,  Indonesia  and  Nigeria. 
The  Agreement  now  has  77  States  parties,  19  more 
States  parties 
the  Review 
Conference in 2006. 

Canada  looks  forward  to  the  resumption  of  the 
Review  Conference  in  May  2010. At  the  Conference, 
participants  will  examine  the  effectiveness  of  the 
time  of 
than  at 
the 
09-63459 

7 
from  our 
the 
filing  of  a 
fisheries  decisions 
submission  and 
the  Commission.  We  share 
A/64/PV.57 

Agreement  and  seek  new  ways  to  strengthen  its 
implementation.  They  will  also  review  the  progress 
made  on  the  recommendations  made  at  the  2006 
Review Conference. 

Around  the  world,  scientists  are  making  great 
strides  to  help  us  understand  our  ocean  environment. 
Sound  science  must  underpin  all  of  our  decision-
making, 
to  ocean 
management.  Science-based  decision-making  will  not 
only  enhance  our  understanding  of  complex  ocean 
processes,  but  will  also  allow  us  to  build  a  better 
picture of the state of our oceans. That is why we must 
continue  our  work  to  develop  a  global  mechanism,  a 
regular process, to deliver science-based information to 
the public and key decision makers. 

Turning to the law of the sea, we note the current 
efforts of coastal States, including Canada, to delineate 
their continental shelves. Canada is concerned that the 
demands now placed on the Commission on the Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf  will  result  in  lengthy  delays 
its 
between 
consideration  by 
the 
concern of other States Parties that something must be 
done  to  ensure  that  the  Commission  can  continue  to 
perform its work effectively. Achieving this will likely 
mean difficult choices and testing new ideas. 

With respect  to piracy, Canada has demonstrated 
its  commitment  to  international  efforts  to  combat 
piracy  off  the  coast  of  East  Africa.  We  have  sent 
Canadian  warships  to  the  region  three  times  to  take 
part  in  counter-piracy  missions  and  to  escort  ships 
carrying  humanitarian  assistance  to  Somalia.  Canada 
views  the  Contact  Group  on  Piracy  off  the  Coast  of 
Somalia as the primary mechanism for the coordination 
of counter-piracy activities. In that respect, we must be 
careful not to propose projects or initiatives that would 
duplicate work already being conducted by the Contact 
Group  or  in  other  forums.  Canada  strongly  supports 
international  efforts  to  find  long-lasting  solutions  to 
this issue. 
Regarding  the  Informal  Consultative  Process, 

Canada  was  pleased  with 
frank 
discussions  held  this  year.  The  Process  provides  a 
valuable  platform 
experts, 
practitioners,  decision  makers  and  other  stakeholders. 
We  feel  that  that  dialogue  should  continue.  We  look 
forward  to  our  discussions  next  year  on  capacity-
the  open  and 
for  debate 

in 
and 
influencing 
sustainability,  domestically 
building  in  ocean  affairs  and  the  law  of  the  sea, 
including marine science. 
On  the  world  stage,  Canada  is  demonstrating 

the  areas  of  ocean  conservation, 
leadership 
and 
protection 
internationally.  We  are 
international 
priorities,  decisions  and  processes.  But  no  State  can 
work in isolation when it comes to our oceans. 
(spoke in French) 

We  are  encouraged  by  the  recent  progress  made 
to improve fisheries and ocean governance — whether 
through  adopting 
the  Agreement  on  Port  State 
Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate  Illegal, 
Unreported and Unregulated Fishing, the work done to 
implement  General  Assembly  resolution  61/105,  or 
recent  efforts  to  establish  the  regular  process  on  the 
assessment of the state of the marine environment. We 
must  now  build  on  this  momentum  and  focus  on  the 
challenges ahead. 
(spoke in English) 

We must seize this opportunity to turn our words 
into  concrete  action  —  to  protect  our  oceans  and 
marine  environments  for  future  generations.  It  is  our 
global responsibility. 

Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
With  the  advance  of  science  and  technology  and  the 
deepening  of  mankind’s  knowledge  of  the  oceans,  the 
interaction  between  mankind  and  the  oceans  has 
increased  both  in  scope  and  in  depth.  Over  the  past 
several  years,  we  have  consistently  advocated 
establishing  and  maintaining  a  harmonious  marine 
order  through  action  by  the  international  community, 
with  the  aim  of  promoting  sustainable,  long-term 
development of the oceans. 

In  support  of  the  importance  of  a  harmonious 
marine  order,  the  Chinese  delegation  has  taken  an 
active part in this year’s informal consultations on the 
draft resolution under this item (A/64/L.18 and Corr.1). 
Here  I  would  like  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude  to 
Ambassador Valle of Brazil and Ms. Holly Koehler of 
the United States for their contribution as coordinators 
in this area. 

The  Chinese  delegation  has  noted  the  hard  work 
of the members of the Commission on the Limits of the 
Continental  Shelf.  Since 
the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  took 
among 
8 

09-63459 
that 
shelves 
constitute 


effect,  the  work  of  the  Commission  has  attracted 
increasing attention from the international community. 
To  date,  the  Commission  has  received  51  submissions 
and  44  preliminary  information  submissions.  It  has 
been  the  consistent  view  of  the  Chinese  Government 
that  the  division  of  rights  and  interests  in  ocean  areas 
within  and  beyond  national  jurisdictions  should  be 
carried out in a scientific and reasonable manner, so as 
to  enable  coastal  States,  on  the  one  hand,  to  fully 
exercise  their  sovereign  rights  and  jurisdiction  over 
continental 
the  natural 
prolongation of their land territories, and, on the other 
hand, to prevent the international seabed, which is the 
common  heritage  of  mankind, 
from  possible 
encroachment. 
The Commission should  fulfil its  responsibilities 

in  an  impartial  manner  and  abide  strictly  by  the 
Convention on the Law of the Sea as a whole, so as to 
ensure  that  its  work  is  consistent  with  the  letter  and 
spirit  of  the  Convention  and  can  stand  the  tests  of 
science,  law  and  time.  My  Government  believes  that 
the consideration by the Commission of submissions in 
accordance  with  article  76  and  Annex  II  of  the 
Convention  should  not  prejudice  the  application  by 
States  of  other  parts  of  the  Convention.  We  note  that 
the draft resolution also confirms this point. 

The work of the Commission and its results bear 
on  the  implementation  of  the  Convention  as  an 
integrated whole, and thus deserve the serious attention 
of  States  and  the  relevant  international  organizations. 
At  the  same  time,  the  international  community  should 
also focus on the difficulties that complex legal issues 
create  for  the  work  of  the  Commission,  in  order  to 
explore  ways  to  solve  such  issues.  The  Chinese 
Government  will,  as  always,  support  the  work  of  the 
Commission. 

the 
International  Seabed  Authority  on  its  achievements 
over the past year. Substantive progress has been made 
in 
regulations  on  prospecting  and 
exploration  for  polymetallic  sulphides  and  cobalt-rich 
crust.  Although  the  knowledge  of  the  international 
community  about  such  new  seabed  resources  is  still 
very  limited,  the  finalization  of  relevant  regulations 
will  definitely  be  helpful  in  building  a  framework  for 
the  development  and  utilization  of  new  resources, 
facilitating  the  dynamic  work  of  the  Authority  and 
promoting  effective  management  by  the  international 
community of the seabed area and its resources, as well 
The  Chinese  delegation 
congratulates 
formulating 
A/64/PV.57
conservation 
strengthening 
interpretation  and  application  of 
as  ensuring  that  all  countries,  including  developing 
countries,  can  share  in  the  results  derived  from  them. 
We  hope  that  all  parties  will  work  actively  to  seek 
solutions  to  outstanding  issues  and  move  for  the 
adoption of the regulation on polymetallic sulphides at 
the Authority’s sixteenth session. 

The International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea 
is  one  of  the  judicial  organs  that,  in  accordance  with 
to  solve  disputes 
the  Convention,  can  be  used 
concerning 
the 
Convention.  My  Government  has  always  valued  and 
supported  the  important  role  of  the  Tribunal  in  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  maritime  disputes  and  the 
maintenance of international marine order. 

As a responsible fishing country, China has made 
its contribution to sustainable fisheries development by 
committing 
and 
management  measures,  as  well  as  by  participating 
actively in the work of  regional fisheries management 
organizations.  I  wish  to  reiterate  here  that  the  aim  of 
international  fisheries  management  should  be 
to 
regulate  fishing  activities  in  order  to  achieve  rational 
and sustainable utilization of fisheries resources, and at 
the same time to maintain a marine ecological balance 
and  ensure  the  equitable  distribution  of  fisheries 
resources among all countries. 

The  Chinese  Government  pays  great  attention  to 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  from  vessels  and  has  noted 
the work of the International Maritime Organization in 
that regard. We believe that the key to addressing that 
issue  lies  in  upholding  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities,  enshrined  in  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
and  that  emphasis  should  be  put  on  increasing  the 
energy  efficiency  of  ships  and  vessels  by  using 
advanced technology. 
Safeguarding  maritime  security  and  freedom  of 

navigation 
the 
international community and is given importance in the 
Convention. At  present,  rampant  piracy  in  some  areas 
has threatened daily maritime trade and the safety and 
security  of  ships  and  sailors.  Together  with  other 
countries,  China  has  taken  vigorous  measures  to 
address 
In  our  view,  effectively 
combating  piracy  calls  for  action  to  address  both  the 
symptoms and the root causes. While the international 
community  needs  to  take  concerted  actions,  greater 
attention  should  be  paid  to  enhancing  the  capacity-
the  common 
interests  of 
threats. 
such 
to 
is 
in 
09-63459 

9 

international  organizations  will 
A/64/PV.57 

building  of  coastal  States  so  as  to  help  them  to 
eliminate the economic, social and other problems that 
give rise to piracy.  

In  addition,  the  international  community  should 
respect  the  sovereignty  of  coastal  States  and  the 
concerns of States in the region. China will continue to 
cooperate  fully  with  the  international  community, 
including  coastal  States,  in  a  joint  response  to  the 
threat  of  piracy.  We  will  actively  participate 
in 
international  actions  in  that  regard  and  make  our 
contribution  to  the  peace,  security  and  stability  of  the 
oceans. 

Ocean  affairs  are  sensitive  and  complex.  The 
issues  of  the  oceans  are  closely  interrelated.  Only 
through increased coordination and cooperation among 
States  and 
it  be 
possible  to  effectively  protect  the  integrity  of  the 
Convention,  strike  a  reasonable  balance  among  the 
interests of all parties and meet the various challenges 
in  utilizing  and  protecting  the  oceans. We  are  pleased 
to note that the draft resolution has explicitly called for 
improved  coordination  and  cooperation  among  States 
and international organizations. 

Developing  human  society  has  always  been 
closely related to the oceans. In a twenty-first century 
characterized  by  the  pursuit  of  cooperation,  win-win 
results and common development, the oceans represent 
a source of strength and hope for human development 
and  progress.  We  call  on  the  international  community 
to make common efforts to build a harmonious marine 
order  so  that  we  can  continue  sustainable  ocean 
development  and  mankind  can  benefit  from  oceans 
forever. 
Mr.  Kuzmin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  submitting 
the reports on ocean affairs to the General Assembly.  
The  Russian  delegation  advocates  preserving  the 

the 
integrity  and  comprehensively 
provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law of the Sea of 1982, which should be implemented 
in  the  appropriate  manner.  The  activities  of  States  on 
the  world’s  oceans  should  be  carried  out  in  strict 
compliance  with  the  norms  of  the  Convention.  In 
particular, that applies to the freedom of the high seas, 
the  right  of  States  to  transit  passage  through  straits 
used for international navigation, the right of innocent 
archipelagic passage,  the  right  of  fishing  on  the  high 
strengthening 
for 
full 
strive 
should 
seas  and  other  no  less  important  provisions  of  the 
Convention.  We  call  on  the  States  that  have  not  yet 
done so to become parties to the Convention.  

The Russian Federation positively views the work 
of  the  bodies  established  in  accordance  with  the  1982 
Convention:  the  International Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 
the  Sea,  the  International  Seabed  Authority  and  the 
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. We 
note  the  importance  of  making  fuller  use  of  their 
potential. 
We would like to note in particular the role of the 

Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. We 
emphasize  the  importance  of  full  compliance  by 
coastal States with the requirements of article 76 of the 
Convention,  as  well  as  with  other  relevant  norms  of 
international  law,  when  making  their  submissions 
related to delineating the outer limits of the continental 
shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles  to  the  Commission. 
The  Commission 
and 
non-discriminatory  compliance  with  the  requirements 
of the Convention when considering those submissions. 

The  Commission,  being  a  body  comprised  of 
experts  in  geology,  geophysics  and  hydrography,  does 
not  have  the  authority  to  resolve  the  complex  legal 
issues that it sometimes faces in the course of its work. 
That  problem  requires  reflection  and  an  appropriate 
solution.  The  Russian  Federation  recalls  its  proposal 
that the Commission submit a list of such legal issues 
to the States Parties to the Convention. 

Another  challenge  is  the  significant  increase  in 
the  Commission’s  workload.  We  support  efforts  to 
identify  measures  to  optimize  its  work  that  would  be 
feasible in practice and realistic and would not require 
changes  to  the  Convention.  We  also  call  for  more 
active cooperation between the Commission and States 
that  have  made  submissions  to  establish  the  outer 
limits  of  the  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical 
miles. 
The  Russian  Federation  attributes  to  the  General 

Assembly  and  the  Meeting  of  States  Parties  to  the 
Convention  a  central  role  in  discussing  ocean  affairs 
within  the  United  Nations.  One  clear  example  of 
successful  work  by  the  General Assembly  in  that  area 
is  its  contribution  to  the  consideration  of  the  problem 
of piracy. We support further strengthening the role of 
the United Nations in that area. 
10 

09-63459 
of 
activity 
among 
the 
and 
the  Convention.  It  does  not  apply 



We  believe  that  the  discussion  that  took  place  at 
the  tenth  meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea was valuable, including the consideration of 
enhancing 
improving  working  methods 
coordination 
various 
international  bodies  dealing  with  ocean  issues.  That 
reaffirmed  once  again  the  paramount  importance  of 
that  forum  and  its  valuable  practical  contribution  to  a 
deeper  understanding  of  issues  related  to  the  world’s 
oceans.  We  continue  to  believe  that  the  Informal 
Consultative  Process  is  a  useful  format  for  discussing 
ocean  issues,  including  in  relation  to  the  issue  of 
sustainable  development.  We  believe  that  the  practice 
of  holding  informal  consultative  processes  regularly 
should continue. 

With  respect  to  marine  biodiversity  in  areas 
beyond  national  jurisdictions,  we  note  that  the  regime 
governing  the Area’s  deep  sea  resources,  provided  for 
in  the  Convention,  applies  to  the  solid,  liquid  and  gas 
mineral  resources,  including  polymetallic  nodules,  in 
the Area, on the seabed or within its subsoil, as set out 
living 
in 
resources. 
it 
unnecessary for  the  International  Seabed Authority  to 
take  on  additional  functions  to  protect  biological 
resources.  
The  Russian  Federation  has  always  held  the 

position  that  it  is  not  advisable  to  introduce  excessive 
limitations  on  fishing  on  the  high  seas.  The  basic 
mechanisms  in  that  area  should,  in  our  view,  be 
established  by  relevant  regional  fisheries  management 
organizations, based on comprehensive  scientific data, 
including the results of both current and past scientific 
marine research. 
We consider useful the discussion that took place 

on  progress 
the  provisions  of 
resolution  61/105  with  respect  to  bottom  fishing.  The 
Russian  Federation  takes  an  active  part  in  developing 
measures  to  protect  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems,  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  that  resolution  and 
the  international  recommendations  of  the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and in 
the  context  of 
fisheries 
management  organizations,  such  as  the  International 
Council  for  the  Exploration  of  the  Sea,  the  Northwest 
Atlantic  Fisheries  Organization, 
the  North-East 
Atlantic Fisheries Commission and the Commission for 
that  connection,  we  consider 
implementing 
regional 
relevant 
the 
In 
to 
in 
A/64/PV.57
of 
new 
developing 
The  Russian  Federation  supports 
the  Conservation  of  Antarctic  Marine  Living 
Resources, inter alia. 

We are paying particular attention to this issue as 
the 
process 
international 
conventions  on  fishing  in  the  southern  and  northern 
parts  of  the  Pacific  Ocean  proceeds.  We  support  the 
development  of  effective  measures  for  combating 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing.  These 
measures  should  be  adopted  on  a  strong  legal  basis, 
taking into account the views of all concerned parties. 
They should not be discriminatory or protectionist.  

We  once  again  draw  attention  to  the  exclusive 
importance of the Agreement for the Implementation of 
the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to  the 
Conservation  and  Management  of  Straddling  Fish 
Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks  and  we  call 
on  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  consider  the 
possibility of acceding to the Agreement. 

the  draft 
resolutions  on  oceans  affairs  that  have  been  prepared 
for  approval  at the sixty-fourth session of the  General 
Assembly (A/64/L.18 and Corr.1, A/64/L.29). Many of 
their provisions are the result of difficult compromises. 
However,  we  would  like  to  note  that  we  have  a 

few  criticisms 
like  many  other 
delegations,  have  several  times  expressed  concern 
about  the  steady  extension  of  the  scope  of  and  the 
increase  in  the  number  of  themes  covered  by  the 
resolutions on ocean affairs and the law of the sea. One 
of  the  negative  consequences  of  this  trend  is  that  the 
negotiation of resolutions has become a long and tense 
process. In our view, the time has come to think about 
what can be done to improve the situation in this area.  

In  conclusion,  we  express  appreciation  to  the 
coordinators  of  the  informal  consultations  in  the 
preparation  of  the  draft  resolutions  on  sustainable 
fishing (A/64/L.29) and the law of the  sea (A/64/L.18 
and  Corr.1),  Ms.  Holly  Koehler  and  Ambassador 
Henrique  Rodrigues  Valle,  as  well  as  the  Director  of 
the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, 
Mr. Sergei Tarassenko, and his staff for the their highly 
skilled assistance in the work on these drafts. 
Mr.  Sergeyev  (Ukraine):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like to thank the Secretary-General and the Secretariat, 
in  particular  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  for  their  comprehensive  reports  on 
to  make:  we, 
09-63459 

11 
We  believe 
that 
the  ability  of 
to  due 
implementation  and 
to  effectively  address 
the  sea  and  sustainable 
A/64/PV.57 

oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  I  also  wish  to  express 
gratitude to the coordinators of the draft resolutions on 
the 
fisheries, 
Ambassador  Henrique  Valle  of  Brazil  and  Ms.  Holly 
Koehler of the United States of America. Fully aligning 
itself  with  the  statement  of  the  European  Union,  my 
delegation, in its national capacity, would nevertheless 
like to touch upon some issues. 

Ukraine  has  the  honour  to  be  a  sponsor  of  both 
annual General Assembly resolutions. We reaffirm our 
commitment 
strict 
compliance  with  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention 
on the Law of the Sea. Given its comprehensive role in 
the  legal  regime  of  the  world’s  oceans,  universal 
acceptance  of  the  Convention  and  of  all  related 
agreements is highly important. 
international 

community 
the  manifold 
challenges  it  faces  in  ocean  affairs  is  substantially 
enhanced  when  international  and  regional  cooperation 
arrangements  are  in  place.  One  such  challenge  relates 
to piracy and armed robbery at sea. 
Ukraine  welcomes  actions  taken  by  the  Security 

Council  to  date  in  order  to  combat  piracy,  including 
adoption  of  resolutions  1846  (2008)  and  1897  (2009), 
which my country had the honour of co-sponsoring. 
We  also  commend  the  activity  of  the  Contact 

Group  on  Piracy  off  the  Coast  of  Somalia,  as  well  as 
the  valuable  efforts  undertaken  by  individual  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  aimed  at  suppressing 
piracy  and  armed  robbery  against  ships  off  that 
country’s  coast  by  conducting  maritime  military 
operations. Ukraine acknowledges that those measures 
have  greatly  contributed  to  reducing  the  number  of 
successful hijackings in the region. 

We  appreciate  the  significant  decrease  in  the 
number of attacks by pirates and armed robbers in the 
Asian region today and emphasize that that success has 
emanated  from  national  and  multilateral  initiatives  as 
well  as  regional  mechanisms  of  cooperation 
in 
combating and preventing piracy and armed robbery at 
sea. 

Similarly,  Ukraine  welcomes  the  work  of  the 
International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO)  and  other 
international organizations engaged in combating such 
illicit  acts  and  ensuring  safety  at  sea.  Still,  much 
remains to be done in this area, and Ukraine knows it 
law  of 

land  and 
the  suppression  of 
from  its  own  sad  experience.  That  is  why  we  urge 
relevant  organizations  and  States  to  continue  to  give 
priority  to  this  issue  in  order  to  enhance  the  safety  of 
seafarers and of trade in general in affected areas.  

In this respect, we call upon States that have not 
yet done so to become parties to the Convention for the 
Suppression  of  Unlawful  Acts  against  the  Safety  of 
Maritime  Navigation  and  its  Protocol,  as  well  as  the 
Convention against Organized Transnational Crime and 
its  Protocol  against  the  Smuggling  of  Migrants  by 
Land, Sea and Air. 

There  is  also  a  crucial  need  to  promote  the 
development  of  effective  national  criminal  justice 
systems  that  are  able  to  ensure  that  any  person 
involved  in  the  financing,  planning,  preparation  or 
perpetration of acts of piracy or in support of such acts 
is  brought  to  justice.  It  is  clear  that  acts  of  piracy 
should  be  treated  as  serious  criminal  offences  in 
domestic  legislation  and  State  regulations.  However, 
while we cannot deny that the elimination of the roots 
of  piracy  on 
its 
manifestations  at  sea  are  important,  we  still  strongly 
believe that the efforts of the international community 
in this field should also include addressing the impacts 
of piracy, especially with respect to its victims. 

Ranking  fifth  on  the  list  of  countries  with  the 
most  citizens  working  in  the  international  maritime 
fleet, Ukraine is among the States most affected by the 
ramifications  of  piracy.  As  this  meeting  is  unfolding, 
Somali pirates continue to hold 24 Ukrainians hostage  — 
the crew of the Ariana, a vessel captured on 2 May this 
year.  Over  all,  in  the  last  5  years,  15  vessels  with 
Ukrainians on board have been held hostage by pirates. 
Indeed,  Somali  pirates  have  captured  67  Ukrainians, 
one of whom was shot dead and one seriously injured. 

In this dismal context, we regret to report one of 
the  most  recent  cases  of  pirate  attacks,  one  which  led 
to 
the  death  of  another  Ukrainian  seafarer.  On 
24 November,  pirates  attacked  the  Monrovia-flagged 
oil tanker Cancale Star 18 nautical miles off the Benin 
coast,  killing  a  Ukrainian  seaman.  Four  other  crew 
members were wounded. This fact confirms once again 
that the geography of piracy has expanded alarmingly. 

We  believe  that  effective  anti-piracy  measures 
and  the  protection  of  human  rights  are  not  conflicting 
goals,  but  complementary  and  mutually  reinforcing. 
Protecting the rights of victims of piracy attacks should 
12 

09-63459 
that 
took 
including 
those  related 
that,  Ukraine 
Fully  convinced  of 


be  a  matter  of  the  utmost  concern  for  States  and 
international institutions. 

the 
initiative  to  press  for  inclusion  in  the  draft  resolution 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/64/L.18  and 
Corr.1)  of  a  provision 
invites  States  and 
international  organizations,  namely,  the  International 
Maritime  Organization  and  the  International  Labour 
Organization  (ILO),  to  consider  possible  solutions  for 
seafarers and fishermen who are victims of piracy. 
We would like to express our sincere gratitude to 

the  delegations  involved  in  drafting  that  proposal. We 
are looking forward to practical implementation of that 
initiative in the framework of the IMO and the ILO, as 
well  as  on  the  national  level.  In  our  view,  possible 
solutions  for  the  victims  of  pirate  attacks  and  their 
families  could  include  such  short-term  and  long-term 
measures  as  adequate  compensation,  rehabilitation  for 
survivors  of  attacks  and  the  comprehensive  review  of 
standards, 
the  rights, 
livelihoods and social security of maritime workers.  

Strongly convinced of the necessity to strengthen 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  countering  and 
preventing  piracy,  Ukraine  convened  an  interactive 
discussion  on  1  December  2009  on  strengthening  the 
contribution  of  the  United  Nations  to  countering 
maritime piracy, in connection with General Assembly 
agenda item 76 (a) entitled Oceans and the law of the 
sea. That event brought together the delegations of the 
more 
regional 
organizations  that  play  a  key  role  in  international 
anti-piracy efforts, as well as senior representatives and 
experts  of  the  organizations  of  the  United  Nations 
and 
family, 
Secretariat 
non-governmental  organizations  dealing  with 
this 
challenge. 

The  issue  of  protecting  seafarers  before,  during 
and after pirate attacks was high on the agenda of the 
meeting, probably for the first time within these walls. 
Furthermore,  one  of  the  conclusions  of  the  discussion 
was that the General Assembly does have a role to play 
in dealing with piracy. In our view, one of its areas of 
involvement could be promoting the protection of and 
compensation  for  seafarers  and  fishers  who  are 
survivors  of  pirate  attacks.  We 
to 
concrete  follow-up 
the  General 
idea 
Assembly.  It  should  not  be  allowed  to  go  unnoticed 
while piracy continues taking a human toll. 
than  30  Member  States 
look  forward 
in 
the  United  Nations 
and 
to 
to 
this 
A/64/PV.57
the 

The interactive discussion of 1 December proved 
to be a  useful exercise  and merited, in the view of its 
participants, a relevant follow-up. Given the scope and 
magnitude of the piracy problem, it was suggested that 
the  General  Assembly  hold  a  thematic,  expert  and 
result-oriented  debate  on 
topic.  I 
invite  all 
delegations to carefully consider this idea. 

Piracy  on  the  high  seas  cannot  be  fought  by  any 
one  country  alone.  Universal  cooperation  is  urgently 
needed to tackle it effectively. Ukraine stands ready to 
do its part. 

Mr.  Shin  Boonam  (Republic  of  Korea):  First  of 
all, my delegation thanks the Secretary-General for his 
comprehensive report on oceans and the law of the sea 
(A/64/66  and  Add.1  and  Add.2).  We  also  commend 
Mr. Serguei  Tarassenko,  Director  of  the  Division  for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, and his staff for 
their  dedicated  work  and  invaluable  assistance  to 
Member  States.  In  addition,  we  would  like  to  thank 
Ambassador  Henrique  Valle  of  Brazil  and  Ms.  Holly 
Koehler of the United States for their excellent work in 
coordinating the two draft resolutions before us. 
This  year  marks  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the 

entry  into  force  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). We extend our heartfelt 
appreciation to those who have endeavoured to realize 
the  ideals  of  UNCLOS  over  the  past  15  years.  Given 
the  centrality  of  UNCLOS  as 
legal 
framework for the governance of the oceans and seas, 
it is important that all activities in the oceans and seas 
be  carried  out  within  that  framework  and  that  the 
integrity of the Convention be maintained. 
The implementing mechanisms of the Convention — 

the  International  Seabed  Authority,  the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the Commission on 
the Limits of the Continental Shelf — have all played 
important 
and 
contributions of Member States are required to address 
the  difficulties  that  these  implementing  bodies  might 
encounter  in  carrying  out  their  work. The  Republic  of 
Korea has been actively participating in their work and 
will  do  its  utmost  to  continue  contributing  to  these 
entities. 

We cannot adequately stress the importance of the 
oceans  and  seas  as  a  source  of  marine  living  and 
non-living 
for 
transportation. However, it is regrettable to witness the 
ongoing  prevalence  of  piracy  and  the  degradation  of 
roles.  The 
the  global 
concerted 
resources 
a  vital 
avenue 
efforts 
and 
09-63459 

13 

to  achieve 
international  cooperation  by 
A/64/PV.57 

marine  resources.  Collaborative  efforts  at  subregional, 
regional  and  international  levels  are  necessary  to 
adequately  address  those  problems.  In  this  regard,  the 
Government of the Republic of Korea hosted the Seoul 
High-Level Meeting on Piracy off the Coast of Somalia 
in June.  

More attention must be focused on the oceans and 
seas  as  invaluable  assets  for  the  welfare  of  humanity. 
The Republic of Korea is pleased to note that the tenth 
meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea 
this year was timely in reviewing the achievements and 
shortcomings of its first nine meetings. 

Marine science and technology are pivotal to the 
fulfilment  of  our  common  objectives  in  all  aspects  of 
the oceans and seas. A variety of cooperative scientific 
and  technical  endeavours  in  ocean  affairs,  a  healthy 
exchange  of  information  and  the  design  of  joint 
research  activities  are  needed 
the 
conservation  and  sustainable  development  of  marine 
resources.  The  Republic  of  Korea  is  doing  its  part  to 
enhance 
transferring 
marine technology to developing countries through the 
Korea International Cooperation Agency’s funding and 
internship programmes. 

According to the report of the Secretary-General, 
research  continues  to  show  that  marine  life  and 
biodiversity  are  important  for  maintaining  a  healthy 
global  ecosystem  and  climate  and  for  sustaining 
socio-economic  development.  The  Republic  of  Korea 
also attaches great importance to the conservation and 
sustainability of marine biodiversity. We are pleased to 
international 
note 
community  will  have  a  valuable  opportunity 
to 
contemplate  the  importance  of  marine  biodiversity  as 
the  General  Assembly,  in  resolution  61/203,  declared 
2010 the International Year of Biodiversity. 

As a responsible fishing State and a State party to 
UNCLOS,  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  deeply  concerned 
about 
(IUU) 
fishing.  Preventing,  deterring  and  eliminating  IUU 
fishing  activities 
the 
conservation,  management  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine  living  resources.  Our  Government  has  put  in 
place  a  framework 
the  operation  of 
sub-standard  vessels  and  to  exercise  effective  control 
over vessels flying its flag in order to prevent and deter 
them  from  engaging  in  IUU  fishing.  The  Republic  of 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
the  coming  year 
to  achieving 
is  essential 
to  prevent 
that 
the 
in 
(El 
Salvador), 
implementation  of 
Korea  will  also  continue  to  work  with  other  States 
parties  to  take  effective  measures  in  combating  IUU 
fishing activities. 

Mrs.  Gallardo  Hernández 
Vice-President,  took the Chair. 

In conclusion, we reiterate the willingness of our 
Government  to  extend  its  full  cooperation  for  the 
effective 
the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We  also  wish  to 
assure the Assembly of our Government’s commitment 
to  the  promotion  of  an  orderly  and  stable  oceans 
regime  in  the  spirit  of  mutual  understanding  and 
cooperation enshrined in the Convention. 
Ms.  Rovirosa  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Mexico  wishes  to  thank  the  coordinators  of  draft 
resolutions  A/64/L.18  and  A/64/L.29,  Ambassador 
Henrique Valle of Brazil and Ms. Holly Koehler of the 
United  States,  respectively,  for  their  work  during  the 
current  session.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for 
preparing the meetings and reports throughout the year. 

The  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  identify 
certain advances that have been made in protecting the 
marine environment as well as the ongoing signs of its 
deterioration. Mexico therefore appeals to all States to 
redouble 
their 
commitments  under  the  international  maritime  law 
regime. 
Through  cooperation  and  coordination  at  all 

levels, 
interdisciplinary 
approaches  to  ocean  policy  and  the  recognition  of  the 
judicial  bodies  competent  to  resolve  disputes,  we  can 
guarantee the efficiency of the tools at the disposal of 
the  international  community,  particularly  the  1982 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

I should like to comment on some aspects of draft 
resolution A/64/L.18, “Oceans and the law of the sea”. 
With  regard  to  the  work  of  the  Commission  on  the 
Limits  of 
the  Continental  Shelf,  designing  and 
implementing 
the 
Commission  to  better  address  its  heavy  workload  is  a 
matter  of  urgency.  With  the  adoption  of  this  draft 
resolution, the General Assembly will have made a first 
step  to  that  end,  but  it  will  be  the  informal  working 
group  established  by  the  Meeting  of  States  Parties  to 
the Convention that will provide substantive and long-
term solutions to this issue. 
concrete  measures 
comply  with 
establishment 
efforts 
allow 
their 
the 
to 
to 
of 
14 

09-63459 
effective 
it  more 



On  the  subject  of  climate  change,  we  must 
acknowledge  that  this  phenomenon  affects  the  vast 
majority  of  human  activities  and  our  environment. 
Mexico  therefore  considers  of  particular  importance 
the  paragraphs  in  draft  resolution A/64/L.18  on  ocean 
acidification, as well as the call for increased scientific 
research  to  achieve  a  better  understanding  of  the 
effects  of  climate  change  on  the  marine  environment 
and marine biodiversity. 

Regarding  marine  biodiversity  beyond  areas  of 
national jurisdiction, we welcome the course of action 
drafted  by  the Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Informal  Working 
Group.  We  hope  that,  at  its  next  meeting  in  February 
2010,  it  will  make  specific  recommendations  to  the 
General Assembly that will allow it in future to better 
frame  the  subject  of  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  marine  biodiversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction. 

As  for  the  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative 
Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  we  hope 
that  the  eleventh  meeting  will  allow  us  to  strengthen 
and  make 
the 
comprehensive  review  undertaken  this  year.  We  also 
welcome  the  fact  that  the  discussions  of  the  next 
meeting  will  focus  on  capacity-building  in  ocean 
affairs  and  law  of  the  sea,  including  marine  science. 
This  issue  is  of  special  interest  and  relevance  to 
developing countries. 

With  regard  to  the  “assessment  of  assessments”, 
my  delegation  welcomes  the  fact  that  the  General 
Assembly  endorses  the  recommendations  of  the  Ad 
Hoc Working Group of the Whole at its last meeting in 
September, 
the 
establishment  of  a  framework  for  the  Regular  Process 
beginning with the sixty-fifth session of the Assembly. 

Moving on to draft resolution A/64/L.29, we wish 
to highlight the following aspects. 

Mexico is fully committed to sustainable fisheries 
and is in compliance with all the substantive provisions 
of 
is  of  great 
importance to my country, and we therefore participate 
in  the  search  for  mechanisms  aimed  at  achieving 
universal  participation.  One  such  mechanism 
is 
genuine  dialogue  that  takes  into  consideration  the 
concerns  of  States 
the 
Agreement,  as  recognized  by 
the  2006  Review 
Conference.  Mexico  hopes  that  such  dialogue,  in 
the 
addition 
the  1995  Agreement.  This 
that  are  not  parties 
to  promoting  wider 
ratification  of 
especially 
following 
regarding 
those 
issue 
to 
A/64/PV.57
that 
fishing  contributes 
they  are  consistent  with 
Agreement,  will  serve  to  promote  cooperation  in 
implementing  conservation  and  management  measures 
at  the  national  level  that  will  in  turn  ensure  the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  straddling  and 
highly  migratory  fish  stocks.  We  will  give  special 
attention to the two events to be held next year in New 
York, in particular the Review Conference. 

Furthermore,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  that 
responsible international trade is an essential factor in 
ensuring 
to  sustainable 
development. A key mechanism for guaranteeing this is 
the use of certification and ecolabelling plans, provided 
law. 
that 
international 
Effective  market  access  must  be  managed 
in  a 
non-discriminatory  manner,  without  unnecessary 
barriers  or  trade  distortions,  and  must  adhere  to  the 
principles  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  for  Responsible 
Fisheries. 

As  regards  the  effects  of  fishing  on  vulnerable 
marine  ecosystems,  Mexico  recognizes  the  need  to 
continue implementing the measures agreed to in 2006 
in  order  to  address  this  issue  effectively,  particularly 
with regard to deep-sea fishing. The application of the 
precautionary 
avoiding 
irreversible  damage  to  ecosystems  and  preventing 
losses 
long-term  and  difficult 
recovery efforts, and must therefore be applied to deep-
sea  fishing.  The  fact  that  technological  developments 
now  allow  for  the  exploitation  of  seabed  resources  by 
other,  less  destructive  methods,  should  also  be  taken 
into consideration. 

For  these  reasons,  we  call  for  the  series  of 
measures  proposed  in  the  draft  resolution  to  be 
implemented  on  a  priority  basis  and  in  the  manner 
established 
the  special 
circumstances  and  challenges  that  developing  States 
face in this connection. 
illegal 
its  possible 

connections 
transnational  organized  crime,  as 
reflected  in  paragraph  61  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
Assembly  has  proposed  a  cautious  approach.  In  our 
view, such a connection can be made only once States 
have launched a serious dialogue on the subject, using 
as  reference  points  solid  and  comprehensive  studies 
that facilitate an understanding of the issues. It is also 
essential  to  bear  in  mind  the  variety  of  legal  regimes 
applicable 
in  accordance  with 
international  law. This  is  a  subject  on  which  we  must 
Concerning 
to 
to  both  activities, 
in  recognition  of 
fishing  and 
that  may 
approach 
therein, 
require 
aimed 
is 
at 
09-63459 

15 

ocean 
the 
the  Members  of 
to  continue  working 
is  clear  evidence  of 
of 
A/64/PV.57 

move forward firmly but gradually, without jumping to 
conclusions. 
The wide range of topics covered by the two draft 

strategic 
resolutions 
importance 
affairs  worldwide.  The 
productivity of the oceans depends on their being used 
in  a  sustainable  manner,  and  on  recognition  by  the 
international  community  that  the  problems  of  the 
oceans are closely interlinked and should be considered 
as  a  whole.  Mexico  supports  the  draft  resolutions  and 
hopes 
in  a  committed  and 
responsible  manner  with 
the 
Organization  to  meet  the  challenges  faced  by  the 
international community with regard to the oceans. 

Mr.  Borg  (Malta):  Malta  wishes  to  align  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Sweden on behalf of the European Union. 

My delegation notes with appreciation the report 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  submitted  to  this 
Assembly  by  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/66),  which 
provides  a  comprehensive  overview  of  the  latest 
developments  and  issues  relating  to  ocean  affairs  and 
the  law  of  the  sea.  Malta  particularly  welcomes  the 
large  number  of  wide-ranging  topics  covered  by  the 
report, ranging from maritime space to climate change. 

It will be recalled that 42 years ago, Malta called 
upon  United  Nations  Member  States  in  this Assembly 
Hall to undertake a reform of the law of the sea, which 
culminated  in  the  adoption  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  on  10  December 
1982. On 16 November of this year, we celebrated the 
fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Convention, described as the constitution for regulating 
humankind’s activities in the oceans. 

As  stated  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Malta  in  his 
address  to  the  General  Assembly  on  24  September 
2009,  Malta  feels  that  “[i]t  is…  necessary  to  see  the 
1982  Convention 
light  of  some  pressing 
contemporary  problems  which  are  either  being 
addressed  inadequately  or  not  being  addressed  at  all” 
(A/64/PV.6).  Malta  therefore  feels  that  the  time  has 
come  for  the  General  Assembly  to  examine  possible 
approaches  to  a  review  of  the  1982  law  of  the  sea 
Convention.  For  example,  among  its  limitations,  one 
could note the provisions dealing with piracy, the illicit 
traffic in narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, the 
rules relating to the protection and preservation of the 
the  rules  dealing  with 
marine  environment,  and 
in 
the 
16 

to  continue 
submarine cables and pipelines. A number of issues are 
also  not  dealt  with  in  the  Convention,  such  as  the 
trafficking of human beings, the safety and security of 
navigation,  the  transportation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, and climate change.  

For all those reasons, the Prime Minister of Malta 
has  proposed  that  the  General  Assembly,  through  its 
relevant  bodies,  undertake  appropriate  consultations 
among  its  member  States  to  revise  the  Convention  in 
view of the passage of time and the emergence of new 
and critical issues over the years. In that context, Malta 
intends 
its  consultations  with  other 
interested  Member  States  in  order  to  consider  how  to 
advance that proposal further. 

For  centuries,  pirates  have  been  considered  the 
enemies  of  mankind.  International  law  has  recognized 
that  characteristic  by  covering  piracy  through  the 
doctrine  of  universal  jurisdiction.  To  a  large  extent, 
that  is  reflected  in  articles  100  to  107  of  the  1982 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea. 
However,  since  the  adoption  of  those  articles,  the 
international  community has seen the  re-emergence of 
a problem that threatens vital sea routes. In the light of 
experiences  in  certain  regions  of  the  oceans,  it  has 
become  apparent  that  the  provisions  require  revision, 
particularly  with  respect  to  the  definition  of  piracy  in 
article 101, the issue of seizing a pirate ship or aircraft, 
which  is  currently  limited  to  the  high  seas,  and  the 
prosecution  of  pirates,  particularly  as  problems  of 
evidence  and  jurisdiction  are  encountered  once  the 
pirates are arrested. 

Another issue of concern to Malta is the question 
of  illegal  fishing,  especially  in  the  Mediterranean.  In 
that  regard,  Malta  welcomes  the  Agreement  on  Port 
State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, 
Unreported  and  Unregulated  Fishing,  which  was 
adopted  by  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of 
the  United  Nations  (FAO)  on  25  November  this  year 
and which aims to close fishing ports to ships involved 
in  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing.  Malta 
participated actively in the technical discussions on the 
port State measures held at FAO headquarters in Rome. 
In that context, it is relevant to note that the European 
Union, on behalf of its member States, was among the 
first signatories to sign the Agreement. 
With reference to paragraphs 117 and 118 of draft 

resolution  A/64/L.18,  which  Malta 
supports 
wholeheartedly,  my  delegation  wishes  to  encourage 
09-63459 


States to join the regional agreements and support their 
work  to  ensure  a  better  protection  of  the  marine  and 
coastal environments. Indeed, Malta is proud to be the 
host  country  of 
the  Regional  Marine  Pollution 
Emergency Response Centre for the Mediterranean Sea 
(REMPEC),  a  Regional  Activity  Centre  of 
the 
Mediterranean Action Plan and the first Regional Seas 
Programme,  established  by 
the  United  Nations 
Environment Programme in 1976.  

Such  Centres  and  regional  cooperation  schemes 
have  proved  to  be  very  useful  tools  for  assisting 
countries  by  enhancing  at  the  regional  level  the 
enforcement of multilateral treaties on the protection of 
the  marine  environment.  Since 
its  establishment, 
REMPEC  has  assisted  more  than  13  Mediterranean 
coastal  States  in  drafting  their  national  contingency 
plans  and  has  also  facilitated 
the  conclusion  of 
subregional  response  agreements.  In  such  a  politically 
diverse  geographical  area,  Regional  Seas  Programmes 
and technical cooperation  assist in achieving the main 
goals  of  the  Organization,  namely,  to  maintain  peace 
and ensure better livelihoods for our citizens. 

As the Secretary-General points out in his report, 
the  perilous  journeys  by  sea  undertaken  by  people  to 
clandestinely  cross  borders  continue  to  result  in  the 
loss of life. In the Mediterranean, the sinking of small 
boats  crowded  beyond  their  capacity  with  illegal 
immigrants has become an all too frequent occurrence 
resulting  in  the  considerable  loss  of  lives  of  women, 
children  and  men.  That  is  a  human  tragedy  that  we 
must  all,  without  exception,  try  to  avoid  and  resolve. 
The  number  of  those  who  risk  their  lives  crossing  the 
Mediterranean,  with  grave  consequences,  requires 
urgent regional and international attention.  

Last  year,  a  record  number  of  2,775  irregular 
migrants  were  rescued  by  the Armed  Forces  of  Malta 
or  landed  in  Malta.  The  number  so  far  recorded  this 
year is 1,475. For an island State with a surface area of 
316  square  kilometres  and  one  of 
the  highest 
population densities in the world, the magnitude of the 
problem  takes  on  a  completely  different  dimension. 
Notwithstanding  those  severe  difficulties,  Malta  has 
continued to honour its international obligations vis-à-
vis  genuine  refugees  and  persons  qualifying  for 
humanitarian protection and, indeed, is cited as one of 
the  countries,  in  proportion  to  its  size  and  population, 
that  has  awarded  asylum  to  the  highest  number  of 
asylum-seekers. 
A/64/PV.57
the 
IMLI 
has 
become 
in 
their  disposal  experts 

My  delegation  is  pleased  to  place  on  record  in 
this Assembly  the  fact  that  this  year  the  International 
Maritime  Law  Institute  (IMLI)  is  commemorating  its 
twentieth  anniversary  in  the  service  of  the  rule  of 
international  maritime  law.  IMLI  was  established  in 
Malta to provide States, particularly developing States, 
with the facility to train their legal officials in the field 
of  international  maritime  law.  As  pointed  out  by  the 
International  Maritime 
Secretary-General  of 
Organization 
(IMO), 
an 
indispensable part of IMO for it allows Governments to 
have  at 
the  field  of 
international  maritime  law  whom  Governments  can 
consult  on  compliance  with  international  maritime 
treaties.  
Another  important  and  unique  aspect  of  training 

at  IMLI  is  the  emphasis  given  to  the  drafting  of 
legislation.  Government  legal  officials  are  trained  to 
draft  domestic  laws  that  incorporate  the  international 
obligations  found  in  international  maritime  treaties. 
This enables Governments to enforce treaty provisions 
through their courts, thereby ensuring that international 
treaties are implemented and enforced. 

To  date,  IMLI  has  trained  517  lawyers  from  115 
States. Given this valuable training, States are advised 
to communicate with the Institute if they wish to send 
their 
the  academic 
programmes.  IMLI’s  main  course  is  the  Master  of 
Laws  degree  in  international  maritime  law,  and  each 
year  35  participants  undertake  an  intensive  course  for 
one  academic  year.  The  activities  of  IMLI  have  been 
recognized  as  a  valid  and  resourceful  contribution  to 
capacity-building. As  noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report,  

judicial  officials 
“Capacity-building is particularly vital in order to 
assist States in need to efficiently and effectively 
implement their obligations under the Convention 
and  other  relevant 
instruments  and  receive 
benefits  from  the  regime  contained  therein”. 
(A/64/66/Add.1, para. 400). 
Malta  endorses 
the  statement  made  by 

the 
Secretary-General in his report that “[t]he international 
community  has  a  collective  duty  to  constructively 
address the multifaceted challenges facing the world’s 
oceans  and  seas”  (ibid.,  para.  398).  Malta’s  initiative 
in 1967 was precisely to bring to the fore and initiate a 
process  which  then  saw  its  vision  of  an  international 
regime for the oceans and the seabed become a reality 
to  attend 
09-63459 

17 

and  management  of 
its  strengthening  would  enhance 
A/64/PV.57 

15  years  later.  This  universal  treaty  of  law  and  order 
pertaining to the common heritage of mankind has and 
will continue to have far-reaching implications for the 
preservation 
the  oceans. 
Furthermore, 
its 
relevance to present-day needs and the needs of future 
generations. 

Finally, my delegation would like to indicate that 
again this year, Malta is one of the sponsors of the two 
draft  resolutions  under  this  agenda  item,  which  are 
before the Assembly for consideration and approval. 
Mr. Al-Sheikh (Yemen) (spoke in Arabic): Allow 

me  on  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen  to  thank  the 
President for his excellent stewardship of this meeting 
of  the  Assembly  devoted  to  the  discussion  of  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
(UNCLOS).  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  neglected  to  thank 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his reports on this 
issue (A/64/66 and Add.1 and Add.2).  

Given  its  geographic  location,  the  Republic  of 
Yemen  considers  all  issues  related  to  oceans  and  seas 
of  particular  importance.  We  have  been  working  to 
implement  UNCLOS  provisions  in  a  coordinated  and 
effective manner despite the dire economic difficulties 
we  face.  We  are  convinced  that  the  Convention  has 
established  a  comprehensive  system  for  all  of  the 
oceans and seas worldwide. In that connection, we pay 
tribute  to  all  of  the  important  mechanisms  established 
to  implement  UNCLOS  —  the  International  Seabed 
Authority,  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental Shelf and the International Tribunal for the 
Law of the Sea.  

As a coastal and least developed country, Yemen 
is plagued by limited financial and technical resources 
and 
fishing 
activities that have caused  harm to our coast. We  also 
suffer from the effects of bottom trawling and stress in 
that  connection  that  those  practices  have  depleted  the 
fish  stocks  in  our  exclusive  economic  zone  and 
devastated  the  livelihoods  of  our  fishermen,  thus 
exacerbating the food security crisis and poverty in my 
country. These practices have also damaged our marine 
ecosystems and their biodiversity. We therefore call on 
all  States  to  implement  effective  measures  to  manage 
sustainable  fisheries  and  control  all  fishing  vessels  in 
order to protect living marine resources and the marine 
environment. 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
the 
report  on 

We  believe  that  the  work  of  the  Commission  on 
the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  is  of  primary 
importance  in  facilitating  the  exercise  by  coastal 
countries  of  full  sovereignty  over  their  continental 
shelf. For that reason, we welcome the draft resolution 
on oceans and the law of the sea (A/64/L.18). We have 
submitted  our 
limitation  of  our 
continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles south-east 
of Socotra Island, in implementation of paragraph 8 of 
article  76  of  UNCLOS,  thus  meeting  the  deadline  of 
13 May 2009. 

My  country  notes  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
Chairman of the Commission at the nineteenth Meeting 
of States Parties to UNCLOS, at which he informed my 
delegation that the Commission will consider Yemen’s 
submission in 2012 and will issue its recommendation 
on  our  continental  shelf  in  2015,  according  to  its 
programme of work. 

Yemen  shares  the  concern  of  other  States  with 
regard  to  the  Commission’s  workload  and  funding.  In 
this  context,  we  stress  the  importance  of  providing 
funding to the Commission in order enhance its ability 
to handle the increasing number of submissions and to 
overcome its limitations, as well as to enable it to study 
in  a  serious,  practical  and  precise  manner  all  of  the 
submissions  and  to  present  its  recommendations  in  a 
time manner. 

We  are  confident  that  the  Contact  Group  on  the 
Commission’s  work  will  achieve  satisfactory  results 
and  we  pay  tribute  to  the  support  given  to  the 
Commission, its subsidiary bodies and the Division for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea. 

My  country  is  increasingly  concerned  by  the 
growing phenomenon of piracy in the territorial waters 
and  high  seas  off  the  coast  of  Somalia.  We  stress  the 
importance  of  safety  for  fishing  and  navigation  in  all 
international  waters  and  call 
the  vigorous 
condemnation of  all  acts of piracy  and  armed  robbery 
wherever they occur.  

Yemen,  itself  a  victim  of  piracy,  has  contributed 
to  all  international  efforts  to  combat  that  scourge. 
Pirates  have  constantly  attacked  our  fishing  vessels, 
and many Yemeni fishermen whose livelihoods depend 
on fishing have been exposed to attacks by naval forces 
patrolling  international  waters,  in  the  course  of  which 
some have been killed or injured.  
for 
18 

09-63459 



We welcome paragraph 74 of the draft resolution 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  which  invites  all 
States, the International Maritime Organization and the 
International Labour Organization to consider possible 
solutions for the seafarers and fishers who are victims 
of  pirates.  We  call  upon  all  international  maritime 
forces  to  unify  their  activities  in  order  to  protect  the 
fishermen and their livelihoods.  

We  stress  the  importance  of  cooperation  and 
coordination of efforts at the international and regional 
levels  to  combat  piracy.  All  efforts  to  combat  piracy 
should  be  in  line  with  relevant  international  rules  and 
should  respect  the  sovereignty  of  the  State  over  its 
territorial waters. We also stress that we stand ready to 
cooperate with all stakeholders in order to bring about 
security  and  stability  in  the Arabian  Sea,  the  Red  Sea 
and the Gulf of Aden. 

We support the efforts being made by the United 
Nations and the International Maritime Organization in 
order to combat piracy and armed robbery off the coast 
of  Somalia. We  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  Djibouti 
Code of Conduct to combat piracy and armed robbery 
of vessels in the Western Indian Ocean and the Gulf of 
Aden. We also welcome its entry into force in January 
of this year. 

We  are  also  appreciative  of  the  establishment  of 
three  regional  centres  in  Yemen,  Kenya  and  Tanzania 
to  share  relevant  information  on  piracy  and  armed 
robbery. We also believe that the four working groups 
on  piracy  are  an  effective  means  of  international 
cooperation  to  combat  piracy.  We  wish  to  stress  that 
piracy  is  a  natural  outcome  of  the  deterioration  of  the 
political situation in Somalia and the lack of stability in 
that country for two decades. It will only be overcome 
if  the  international  community  succeeds  in  finding  a 
comprehensive political solution to all the problems of 
Somalia  and  assist  all  Somali  factions  to  form  a 
national unity government so as to bring about security 
and stability in its land, sea and air. 
Ms.  Medina-Carrasco  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of Venezuela  wishes  to  take  this  opportunity 
to reaffirm the importance it attaches to the subject of 
the oceans and the law of the sea. We cannot ignore the 
role played by the oceans and seas in meeting our food 
needs. Nor can we ignore the fact that they constitute a 
central  component  in  the  world  system  for  sustaining 
(spoke 
A/64/PV.57
and 
events 
at 
that  connection, 
that  contributes 
to 
to  developments 
life  and  a  valuable  resource 
achieving sustainable development. 

For that reason, the use of the oceans and seas is 
dealt  with  as  a  matter  of  public  policy  in  our  country 
and  given  priority  attention,  as  is  amply  reflected  in 
our national legislation and the plans and programmes 
designed  and  implemented  in  accordance  with  criteria 
and  principles  regarding  the  conservation  and  use  of 
marine resources. 
the  Republic  has  been 

In 
the 
attentive 
international  level  during  the  course  of  this  year 
regarding  the  subject  of  the  oceans  and  the  seas.  We 
attach particular importance to the tenth meeting of the 
United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative 
Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea, held from 
17  to  19  June  2009  here  at  the  United  Nations 
headquarters.  
Venezuela  believes,  as  it  stated  during  those 

discussions,  that  the  Consultative  Process  is  a  forum 
for political and technical consultation that involves all 
States  and  other  parties  interested  in  assessing  the 
condition  of  the  marine  environment  worldwide.  We 
believe that it is essential to maintain the Process as a 
permanent  forum  within  the  United  Nations,  since  it 
allows  for  synergy  among  the  major  international 
instruments  related  to  the  environment,  which  will,  in 
turn,  eventually  lead  to  consistency  in  matters  related 
to  the  oceans  and  seas  and  will  make  it  possible  to 
remedy the legal gaps in the law of the sea. 
that 

approaches  to  the  oceans  and  the  seas  should  stay 
within 
framework  of  sustainable 
development.  In  that  regard,  it  is  necessary,  for 
example,  to  examine  further  the  role  of  the  oceans  in 
matters  relating  to  the  eradication  of  poverty,  food 
security  and  the  interrelationship  between  oceans  and 
climate change.  
On  that  subject,  we  share  the  concern  about  and 

the interest expressed in gaining further knowledge of 
the scope of that interrelationship and, in particular, the 
importance  of  promoting  at  the  international  level  an 
awareness  regarding  the  impact  of  climate  change  on 
marine  ecosystems  and,  in  particular,  on  low-lying 
coastal  areas  and  coastal  States,  with  full  respect  for 
the  standards  and  principles  laid  down  in  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  of  Climate  Change 
and its Kyoto Protocol. 
should  be  pointed  out 
the  conceptual 
Moreover, 
it 
09-63459 

19 
A/64/PV.57 


It  is  timely  and  necessary  to  point  out  in  the 
context of our debate on the oceans and the law of the 
sea  that  we  continue  to  be  concerned  at  the  existing 
deficiencies in the implementation of the international 
legal  framework  on  the  management  and  conservation 
of  genetic  resources  beyond  national  jurisdiction. 
Therefore,  in  my  delegation’s  view,  this  forum  should 
also deal on a permanent basis with all the conventions 
relating to the subject, in particular the United Nations 
Convention on Biological Diversity. 

In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  state  that  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela does not accept that 
the  management  of  such  resources  should  be  decided 
through  a  legal  regime  that  seeks  to  exclude  some 
parties.  My  delegation  also  believes  it  is  necessary  to 
engage in further research with a view to arriving at the 
scientific  certainty  needed  to  guide  the  international 
community  in  adopting  the  best  possible  decisions  in 
that connection. 

The  complex  reality  we  face  today  convincingly 
demonstrates  that  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  does  not 
incorporate,  neither  in  its  text  nor  in  its  additional 
Agreement,  any  full  treatment  of  all  aspects  and 
subjects 
international 
community with regard to the oceans and seas.  

the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  draws  attention  to  the  key  role  of  other 
international  instruments  in  dealing  with  marine  and 
coastal 
national 
jurisdiction, as reflected in decision IX/20 of the ninth 
meeting  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  which  was  held 
from 19 to 30 May 2008 in Bonn, Germany.  
Regarding  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable 

fisheries and the Agreement for the Implementation of 
the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to  the 
Conservation  and  the  Management  of  Straddling  Fish 
Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks  and 
associated  instruments,  my  delegation  would  also  like 
to emphasize that that is a highly sensitive matter and 
constitutes  an  area  of  priority  importance  for  our 
country.  Hence,  we  have  undertaken  significant  and 
far-reaching  initiatives  to  promote  and  implement 
programmes  for 
the  conservation,  protection  and 
management of marine biological resources. 
to  be  dealt  with  by 
that  basis, 
biological 
diversity 
beyond 
the 
On 

level, 
to 
for 
transparency.  At 
regional 
follow-up 

In  our  legislation  on  fisheries  and  aquaculture, 
penalties  have  been  established  for  imposition  on 
vessels  flying  the  national  flag  that  engage  in  illegal 
activities relating to the extraction of resources without 
due  authorization  by  the  State  and  also  for  incursions 
into  waters  under  the  State’s  jurisdiction  without  the 
submission  of 
the  requisite  documentation.  Such 
situations  are  then  reported  to  the  flag  State  of  the 
vessel. With respect to highly migratory fish stocks, we 
maintain  a  register  of  vessels,  which  is  regularly 
fisheries  management 
transmitted 
organizations 
in  accordance  with 
regulations  on  enhancing 
the 
international 
the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela has implemented the principles of the Code 
of  Conduct  for  Responsible  Fisheries  of  the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), 
and of chapter 17 of Agenda 21 adopted at the United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development, 
which  was  held  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  1992.  Likewise, 
we  actively  participate  in  regional  and  other  fisheries 
organizations, such as the FAO Committee on Fisheries 
and its subsidiary bodies, the Western Central Atlantic 
Fishery  Commission,  the  Latin  American  Fisheries 
Development Organization, the Commission for Inland 
Fisheries  of  Latin  America, 
International 
Commission  for  the  Conservation  of  Atlantic  Tunas 
and the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission.  

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  considers 
it  vital  to  participate  in  initiatives  to  combat  illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing.  Our  Government 
has  adopted  the  measures  necessary  to  tackle  that 
problem through ongoing reporting of the position and 
legal status of vessels flying the Venezuelan flag on the 
high  seas 
the  regional  fisheries  management 
organizations  of  which  we  are  a  part.  Moreover, 
Venezuelan  law  provides  for  the  installation  of  global 
positioning  satellite  equipment  and  devices  in  fishing 
vessels  of  over  ten  gross  register  tons.  Also,  it  made 
significant contributions, in its national capacity, to the 
legally  binding  Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to 
Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and 
Unregulated  Fishing,  adopted  in  the  framework  of 
technical consultations by FAO. 

Our  delegation  demonstrated  the  commitment  of 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela to cooperate with 
multilateral  efforts  and  initiatives  seeking  to  promote 
the sustainable development of oceans and seas. Since 
the  oceans  and  the  seas  are  a  universal  heritage,  we 
the 
to 
20 

09-63459 
that 
regulate 
in  various 
it  has  maintained 


advocate  applying  an  international  judicial  framework 
that  would  incorporate  all  regional  and  international 
agreements 
the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of marine resources. 
Lastly,  Venezuela  reiterates  its  historic  position, 

which 
international 
forums, namely that the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea is not the only source of the law of 
the  sea.  For  that  reason,  we  object  to  the  proposition 
that  it  is  the  sole  source.  It  should  be  recalled  that  it 
does  not  enjoy  global  acceptance,  inasmuch  as  a 
significant number of States are not parties to it. 
Mr. Mohamed (Maldives): The ocean is integral 

to all aspects of Maldivian life. There are few nations 
in the world whose well-being and future development 
are  so  intricately  linked  to  their  marine  and  coastal 
ecosystems.  While  this  interrelationship  has  enhanced 
our culture and lifestyle for centuries, it has also made 
us  particularly  vulnerable  to  the  ocean’s  fragility.  We 
recognize  that  within  our  borders  we  have  primary 
responsibility  for  protecting  this  vital  resource  and  all 
that  flows  from  it,  and  we  continue  in  our  efforts  to 
meet 
the  challenges, 
however,  require  international  cooperation  before  one 
State can make a difference.  
I 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  applaud  the 
efforts  of  those  Member  States  working  towards 
implementing  and  refining  the  law  of  the  sea.  My 
delegation  also  welcomes  the  report  by  the  Secretary 
General,  submitted  pursuant  to  General  Assembly 
resolution  63/111,  detailing  the  developments  and 
issues  relating  to  ocean  affairs  and  the  law  of  the  sea 
(A/64/66). 
The  precarious  state  of  the  world’s  oceans  is 

unmistakable,  and 
the 
consequences of the problem through economic, social 
and ecological signals. The last few decades have seen 
the  continued  overexploitation  of  fisheries,  with  only 
20 per cent of stocks considered moderately exploited 
or underexploited. Sustainable fisheries management is 
a  key  concern  of  the  Maldivian  community.  Fisheries, 
along  with  tourism,  are  the  two  mainstays  of  our 
economy, accounting for 90 per cent of gross domestic 
product  and  three  quarters  of  all  jobs.  Dependence, 
however,  on  transboundary  stocks  such  as  the  tuna, 
which constitutes 90 per cent of our commercial catch, 
represents a key vulnerability. Our efforts alone cannot 
protect  this  species;  further  international  cooperation, 
these  obligations.  Many  of 
the  Maldives  experiences 
Because  of 
that, 
A/64/PV.57
a 
remains 
pressing 
the  need 
countries,  but 
to  develop 
practices 
research and management efforts are required to ensure 
that fishery’s lasting viability. 

Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in our 
waters 
concern.  Despite 
considerable  efforts, which include  creating additional 
reserves and introducing new legislative measures, the 
Maldives’  struggles  to  make  significant  headway. 
Policing an exclusive economic zone of 859,000 square 
kilometres  and  over  1,100  islands,  of  which  just  194 
are  inhabited,  would  present  challenges  even  to  the 
more  developed 
is  particularly 
problematic  given  the  Maldives’  development  status 
and  limited  capacity.  Illegal  fishing  jeopardizes  food 
security  for  our  people  and  undermines  our  efforts  to 
manage our fisheries so that we can sustainably exploit 
their  economic  potential  and  protect 
them  from 
degradation. 
All  efforts  taken  by  the  Secretary-General  to 

island  developing  States  and  other 
assist  small 
sound  marine 
developing  countries 
are 
greatly 
ecosystem  management 
appreciated.  We  also  note 
to  continue 
increasing  international  cooperation  on  policing  and 
prosecuting  illegal  fishing.  Again,  these  are  global 
issues,  and  we  are  bound  together  in  the  search  for 
lasting solutions. 

Any  threat  to  the  biodiversity  of  our  marine 
ecosystems is a threat to our sustainable development. 
Healthy fisheries aside, the genetic material contained 
in that biodiversity is a potential and unexplored source 
of  economic  opportunity:  our  atolls  form  by  far  the 
largest  group  of  coral  reefs  in  the  Indian  Ocean,  with 
over 250 species of coral and over 1,100 species of reef 
fishes.  Our  tourism  industry  is  dependent  on  healthy 
and  flourishing  reef  ecosystems.  A  functioning  reef 
system  also  provides  a  very  necessary  buffer  from 
extreme weather events, in which the erosive power of 
the  sea  reduces  our  land  area.  This  has  unimaginable 
consequences to island States such as the Maldives, as 
a shrinking land area affects the limits of our exclusive 
economic  zone,  thereby  impacting  on  our  territory  as 
an independent and sovereign nation. 

The  catastrophic  impact  of  climate  change  on 
marine 
be 
overemphasized.  Coral  reefs  are  considered  amongst 
the most vulnerable ecosystems. Their susceptibility to 
the  consequences  of  climate  change,  including  rising 
ocean  temperatures  and  acidity  and  rising  sea  levels, 
ecosystem 
resilience 
cannot 
09-63459 

21 
A/64/PV.57 

has led to projections that such reefs will be wiped out 
within 50 to 100 years. We cannot begin to describe the 
tragedy that that would represent for our country. One 
need  only  look  at  the  1998  El  Niño  episode  alone,  in 
which  certain  species  of  coral  saw  a  99  per  cent 
decline,  with  an  economic 
loss  estimated  at  
$91  million,  to  grasp  the  consequences  of  a  more 
sustained warming. 

Combating  such  impacts  will  place  an  enormous 
burden  on  small  island  developing  States  and  threaten 
to  undermine  ongoing  development  efforts.  We  are 
proud  that  the  Maldives  is  taking  an  active  leadership 
role  in  this  area,  with  President  Mohamed  Nasheed 
announcing  earlier  this  year  that  the  Maldives  will 
strive 
to  be  carbon  neutral  by  2020.  Pursuing 
innovative  approaches  to  adaptation  options  for  reefs 
and  developing  ways  to  decrease  other  environmental 
stresses  to  maximize  reef  resilience  are  key  issues  for 
small  island  developing  States  such  as  the  Maldives. 
However,  such  efforts  need  broader 
international 
support,  through  capacity  building  and  technology 
transfer. We also emphasize the need for more stringent 
emissions  abatement  by  all  large  emitters  for  the 
benefit  of  oceans  globally  and  given  the  limits  to 
possible  adaptation  at  the  social,  biophysical  and 
economic levels. This underscores the need for greater 
integration between a new international climate regime 
and the law of the sea, given that the success of one is 
inexorably linked to the other. 

Our  geographic  isolation,  along  with  our  narrow 
economic  base,  requires  us  to  import  nearly  all  our 
supplies. Thus, the Maldives is extremely vulnerable to 
all  the  external  shocks  impacting  the  global  economy. 
We refer here particularly to the devastating impact on 
our  domestic  economy  of  any  rise  in  oil  prices,  the 
recent global financial crisis and the terrorist attacks of 
11 September 2001. Other threats to shipping, such as 
the  recent  increase  in  piracy  off  the  coast  of  East 
Africa,  are  also  of  particular  concern.  Our  ability  to 
combat  the  rising  cost  of  living  for  our  people  and  to 
assist  them  in  satisfying  even  their  basic  needs,  let 
alone 
through 
sustainable  development,  is  intricately  tied  to  shocks 
over which we have little or no control. 

The  issues  we  have  raised  need  to  be  tackled  at 
multiple levels. As for many of the global problems we 
face,  truly  international  responses  are  required  and 
must  be  supported  by  regional  and  local  action.  The 
small  island  developing  States,  through  their  own 
their  quality  of 
improving 
life 

call  upon 
domestic  legal  frameworks  and  cooperatively  through 
instruments  such  as  the  Barbados  Programme  of 
Action,  are  directing  considerable  time  and  resources 
to  discharging  our  responsibilities  to  the  best  of  our 
abilities.  However,  we  do  not  have  the  capacity  to 
succeed in this work alone. 

Recognizing  this  fact,  we  applaud  the  continued 
efforts of the General Assembly to secure international 
cooperation and coordination on these matters and are 
truly grateful for the assistance that has already been so 
generously  provided.  But  we 
the 
international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts  to 
support,  promote  and  strengthen  capacity-building 
activities  associated  with  the  sustainable  development 
of  our  ocean  resources,  including  the  building  of 
scientific research capacity and enhanced technologies 
and  capacities  for  responding  to  threats  to  maritime 
security  and  safety,  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
development  and  use  of  marine 
resources,  and 
ecosystem  and  fisheries  management  approaches  as  a 
whole.  

We  must  also  be  prepared  to  think  creatively 
about  how  we  tackle  these  problems  and  how  we 
integrate existing law of the sea obligations with other 
multilateral environmental agreements. Importantly, as 
scientific  understanding  evolves  and  we  enter  the 
uncertain  world  of  climate  change,  we  must  also  be 
flexible  enough  in  our  legal  frameworks  to  respond 
quickly  and  decisively  to  new  challenges  as  they 
emerge. 
Mr. Goledzinowski (Australia): Australia has the 

honour  this  afternoon  to  co-sponsor  both  of  the  draft 
resolutions before us today (A/64/L.18 and A/64/L.29). 
These drafts resolutions continue to raise issues of key 
importance  to  Australia,  including  bottom  fisheries, 
high  seas  governance  and 
the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf.  I 
will briefly touch upon each of these issues. 

Australia  supports  the  outcomes  of  this  year’s 
sustainable  fisheries  draft  resolution  and  was  pleased 
to  participate  in  the  informal  consultations  on  it, 
particularly  the  review  of  the  implementation  of  the 
bottom  fishing  provisions  in  resolution  61/105.  This 
draft  resolution  recognizes  the  immense  importance 
and value of deep-sea ecosystems and the biodiversity 
they  contain,  and  was  an  important  step  forward  in 
regulating bottom fishing and managing the impacts of 
fishing  on  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems.  Australia 
the  workload  of 
22 

09-63459 
(RFMOs) 


reaffirms  its  strong  commitment  to  regulating  bottom 
fisheries  in  accordance  with  resolution  61/105  and 
welcomes  all  efforts  made  thus  far  to  adopt  and 
implement such measures. We encourage further efforts 
to meet the objectives of resolution 61/105.  
Australia  encourages  all  States  and  regional 

fisheries  management  organizations 
to 
ensure  that  areas  where  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems 
are  known  to  occur  or  likely  to  occur  are  closed  to 
bottom  fishing  activities,  and 
that  activities  are 
authorized  to  proceed  only  if  management  measures 
are  in  place  to  prevent  significant  adverse  impacts  in 
accordance with resolution 61/105. 

We are also pleased to see the 2008 International 
Guidelines  on  the  Management  of  Deep-sea  Fisheries 
in  the  High  Seas,  issued  by  the  Food  and Agriculture 
Organization  (FAO),  recognized  for  the  guidance  they 
provide  in  implementing  measures  in  accordance  with 
resolution  61/105.  We  note  that  the  FAO  Guidelines 
provide a minimum standard of response to the need to 
improve the conservation and management of deep-sea 
fisheries,  and  in  this  respect  should  complement  and 
further  inform  existing  efforts  and  measures  adopted 
by  RFMOs,  such  as  the  standards  already  agreed 
through  the  Commission  for  the  Conservation  of 
Antarctic Marine Living Resources. 

We  are  pleased  that  this  year’s  draft  resolution 
welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Conservation  and  Management  of  High  Seas  Fishery 
the  South  Pacific  Ocean,  which 
Resources 
establishes  a  South  Pacific  RFMO.  When 
the 
Convention enters into force, the gap that exists in the 
international 
of 
non-highly  migratory  fisheries  and  the  protection  of 
biodiversity 
jurisdiction 
extending  from  the  most  easterly  part  of  the  southern 
Indian Ocean through the Pacific towards the exclusive 
economic  zones  of  South America  will  be  closed.  We 
look forward to the entry into force of the Convention 
and  to  working  with  others  in  this  important  new 
RFMO. 

Australia also continues to implore all States that 
have  yet  to  do  so  to  ratify  the  1995  Fish  Stocks 
Agreement  and 
fisheries 
management  organization  or  arrangement  where  they 
have an interest. 
Australia  is  a  strong  supporter  of  the  United 

Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We  have 
in  areas  beyond  national 
and  management 
conservation 
join  each 
regional 
in 
to 
A/64/PV.57
the 
issues 
relating 
Australia 
acknowledges 
adopted  measures  on  the  safety  of  navigation  and  the 
protection of the marine environment in a manner that 
is  consistent  with  international  law,  including  the 
Convention. 

considerable 
workload  faced  by  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of 
the  Continental  Shelf  and  notes  the  importance  of 
submissions  being  examined  within  a  reasonable  time 
frame,  including  to  ensure  the  continued  engagement 
of  relevant  expertise.  Australia  supports  the  informal 
working  group  and  encourages  States  to  actively 
contribute to its work. 

Finally,  Australia  welcomes  the  reconvening  of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  to 
study 
the  conservation  and 
sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond 
areas  of  national  jurisdiction.  We  understand  that  the 
Working  Group  will  convene  in  February  2010.  It  is 
important  that  adequate  arrangements  and  governance 
structures  be  in  place  to  ensure  the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of marine biodiversity beyond national 
jurisdiction. Australia looks forward to further progress 
on these issues in February. 
Mr.  Pramanik  (Bangladesh):  At  the  outset,  I 

congratulate President Ali Abdussalam Treki and other 
members  of  the  Bureau  on  their  election  to  their  high 
posts  in  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session. My delegation is confident that, under his able 
leadership,  the  session  will  be  a  great  success.  My 
full 
delegation 
cooperation 
the 
Secretary-General and the Secretariat, and in particular 
the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea 
for  its  reports  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea 
(A/64/66 and Add.1 and 2) which have been submitted 
to  this  Assembly  for  consideration.  We  express  our 
deep  appreciation  to  the  coordinators  for  their  hard 
work  in  conducting  the  negotiations  on  the  two  draft 
resolutions (A/64/L.18 and A/64/L.29). 

The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Sea is the fundamental document that provides the 
legal  framework  for  States’  rights  and  obligations 
relating  to  the  use  of  ocean  space.  The  Convention 
further regulates the exploration and exploitation of the 
resources therein. 
The  resources  of  the  oceans  and  seas  can  make 

the  achievement  of 
significant  contributions 
sustainable  development.  In  this  regard,  we  strongly 
to  extend 
its 
the  President, 
is  always 
to  him.  I 
ready 
thank 
to 
to 
09-63459 

23 
the 
that 

to  ensure 
recognizes 
Bangladesh 
the 
forum 
in  particular 
in  draft  resolution  A/64/L.18 
A/64/PV.57 

emphasize the essential need for cooperation, including 
through  capacity-building  and  the  transfer  of  marine 
that  all  States,  especially 
technology, 
developing  countries  and 
least-
island  developing 
developed  countries  and  small 
States,  are  able 
to  benefit  from 
the  sustainable 
development of the oceans and seas. 
Informal 

that 
Consultative  Process,  a  unique 
the 
for 
comprehensive  discussion  of  issues  related  to  oceans 
and the law of the sea, must take into consideration the 
true  perspective  of  the  three  pillars  of  sustainable 
development.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  decision 
contained 
the 
Consultative Process at its eleventh meeting will focus 
its  discussions  on  capacity-building  in  ocean  affairs 
and the law of the sea, including marine science. 

The  proven  impacts  of  climate  change  are  being 
seen  with  greater  severity  and  frequency,  and  new 
estimates  are  being  established.  One  such  estimate  is 
that  by  2100,  the  rise  in  sea  level  could  be  more  than 
one  metre,  which  would  inundate  some  15  to  17  per 
cent  of  the  low-lying  costal  areas  of  Bangladesh, 
displacing 
people. 
Bangladesh  is  thus  deeply  concerned  over  the  current 
and projected adverse effects of climate change on the 
costal  population  of  millions  worldwide,  including  on 
their  livelihoods.  We  will  need  to  find  appropriate 
ways  and  means  to  identify  adaptation  measures 
required  to  redress  the  sea-level  rise.  We  therefore 
emphasize  the  urgency  of  addressing  the  climate 
change  issue  under  the  agenda  item  “Oceans  and  the 
law of the sea”. 

The Commission on the Limits of the Continental 
Shelf  is  now  overloaded  with  submissions.  There  are 
potentially  99  submissions  —  50  actual  submissions 
plus  49  filings  of  preliminary  information  —  in  the 
Commission’s  queue.  Assuming  the  current  rate  of 
progress,  as  outlined  by 
the 
Commission  before  the  nineteenth  Meeting  of  States 
Parties,  it  could  be  50  years  or  more  before  the 
Commission  will  have  examined  all  the  submissions. 
This 
that  all  sorts  of  continental  shelf 
delimitation  issues,  at  least  for  areas  beyond  200 
nautical  miles,  will  effectively  have  to  be  put  on  hold 
until the Commission has dealt with the submissions of 
affected areas and States. 
the  Chairman  of 
approximately 
20  million 
implies 
to 
In 
call  upon  States 
the  Trust  Fund  established 

Bangladesh is deeply concerned by the workload 
of  the  Commission.  We  need  to  find  creative  and 
practical  solutions  to  redress  this  problem.  States 
parties to the Convention need to address this situation 
with  the  utmost  urgency  and  take  the  necessary 
measures,  including  interim  measures,  to  enable  the 
Commission  to  discharge  its  functions  in  a  timely 
manner  by  holding 
lengthier  and  more  frequent 
sessions. 
the 
regard,  we  welcome 
this 
recommendations contained in paragraphs 52 and 53 of 
the  draft  resolution  encouraging  States  to  participate 
actively  and  contribute  constructively  to  the  ongoing 
work of the informal working group of the Bureau. We 
to  make  voluntary 
further 
contributions 
for 
payments of emoluments of the Commission members, 
particularly those from developing States. 

Bangladesh  should  like  to  reaffirm  its  strong 
position  that,  in  accordance  with  article  77,  paragraph 
3,  of  the  Convention,  “the  rights  of  the  coastal  State 
over the continental shelf do not depend on occupation, 
effective or notional, or any express proclamation”. In 
this regard, Bangladesh strongly endorses the inclusion 
of  this  fundamental  continental  shelf  doctrine  in  the 
draft  resolution  on  oceans  and  law  of  the  sea  that  the 
Assembly  will  consider  later  today  in  order  to  clarify 
ambiguities  that  might  exist  concerning  costal  States’ 
entitlements  and  rights  over  the  continental  shelf 
beyond  200  nautical  miles,  based  on  natural 
prolongation. 

In  essence,  article  76  and  the  Statement  of 
Understanding prescribe procedures whereby qualified 
coastal States must define the extents of their exclusive 
continental  shelf  entitlements  beyond  200  nautical 
miles.  With  individual  States  seeking  to  define  their 
perceived  entitlements,  it  is  to  be  expected  that 
differing interpretations will arise concerning the areas 
where  these  entitlements  apply,  leading  inevitably  to 
situations  in  which  adjacent  or  opposite  States  will 
claim entitlements to the  same portions of the seabed. 
Such  overlaps  could  be  bilateral  and  involve  just  two 
States,  or  they  could  be  multilateral  and  involve  three 
or more States. A good example of the latter case is the 
Bay of Bengal, where Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka and 
Myanmar 
overlapping 
continental shelf areas. 

recalls  with 
satisfaction  that  States  parties  to  the  Convention  may 
submit to, inter  alia, the International Tribunal  for the 
regard,  Bangladesh 
jurisdiction 
claim 
over 
this 
In 
24 

09-63459 
to  an  arbitral 
recently  submitted 
to  Annex  VII  of 


Law of the Sea or the International Court of Justice any 
dispute concerning matters relating to maritime affairs, 
including boundary delimitation. Bearing that in mind, 
Bangladesh  has 
its  maritime 
boundary  dispute  matters 
tribunal 
pursuant 
the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

There  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  partitioning  of 
outer  continental  shelves  offers  coastal  States  a 
tremendous  opportunity  for  engaging  in  substantive 
dialogue  that  leads  ultimately  to  cooperation  and 
harmonious  relations.  The  Commission  on  the  Limits 
of the Continental Shelf will not intervene in situations 
where coastal States object to the proposed outer shelf 
limits  of  their  neighbours,  leaving  it  to  the  affected 
States  to  seek  a  solution  through  direct  negotiation  or 
through  established  mechanisms  for  arbitration.  To 
achieve  success  in  this  arena,  my  delegation  is  of  the 
view  that  it  is  essential  to  develop  early  on  a  positive 
relationship with neighbour States that fosters a climate 
of  trust  and  good  will  and  facilitates  increasing  levels 
of  collaboration  in  activities  aimed  at  achieving  an 
equitable solution. 
Mr.  Mahiga  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for his comprehensive report on oceans and the law of 
the 
in  document  A/64/66  and 
Addendums  1  and  2.  The  report  provides  us  with  a 
useful  basis  for  the  consideration  of  this  agenda  item. 
We  commend  the  Secretariat  for  its  continued  hard 
work  in  following  up  various  matters  relating  to  the 
law  of  the  sea,  which  continues  to  be  the  subject  of 
growing attention in the General Assembly. We further 
congratulate the coordinators, Ms. Holly Koehler of the 
United  States  and  Ambassador  Henrique  Valle  of 
Brazil,  for  their  professional  conduct  of  the  informal 
consultations  on  the  two  draft  resolutions  before  the 
Assembly  (A/64/L.18  and  A/64/L.29).  We  also  thank 
the delegations that made valuable contributions to the 
consultations. 

specific aspects of the report before the Assembly.  

First,  on  the  subject  of  maritime  safety  and 
security,  it  is  not  arguable  that  piracy  and  armed 
robbery  against  ships  are  among  the  major  menacing 
problems 
international  regime  of 
maritime trade and security of navigation. The number 
of reported incidents — not even including unreported 
My  delegation  would  like  to  focus  on  some 
sea,  contained 
threatening 
the 
A/64/PV.57
this 
in  responding 
is  yet  another  reason  why 
it  strikes.  We  must  continue 
ones — as indicated in the report is alarming. Figures 
indicate  that  the  number  of  incidents  of  piracy  and 
armed  robbery,  especially  in  the  Indian  Ocean,  is  on 
the increase despite the current international efforts to 
check it. We believe that this is a time to translate our 
collective  concern  into  tangible  efforts  to  contain  the 
problem  and  to  ensure  that  it  is  progressively  dealt 
with. 

The  statistics  indicated  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  clearly  break  with  the  assumption 
that  this  problem  is  limited  to  a  specific  region. 
Although  statistics  show  that  incidents  of  piracy  are 
high  in  specific  areas,  it  is  also  evident  that  they  are 
not  uncommon  in  other  parts  of  the  world.  To  my 
delegation, 
the 
international  community  should  be  urged  to  come  up 
with mechanisms to combat this crisis wherever in the 
world 
to  enhance 
cooperation  among  States  to  ensure  the  safety  and 
security  of  navigation  and  improve  prevention  and 
response  capabilities 
to  new  and 
emerging threats to maritime security. States should be 
highly encouraged in particular to patrol and ensure the 
safety of maritime waters for navigational purposes in 
a concerted manner. 
Concerted  efforts  should  also  be  extended  to 

fighting 
impunity.  My  delegation  strongly  urges 
Member  States  to  continue  exploring  the  available 
means of prosecuting suspected pirates, particularly by 
exercising jurisdiction as provided for in article 105 of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
We  further  recommend  that,  in  the  future,  we  open  a 
debate  to  explore  the  possibility  of  expanding  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  to 
include the crime of piracy.  

There  may  also  be  a  need  for  an  urgent 
international  conference  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United  Nations  to  re-examine  the  resurgence  of  this 
age-old  problem  of  piracy,  and  to  review  the  efficacy 
and relevance of existing conventions in responding to 
the  new  challenge.  The  conference  would  also  rally 
international  political  will  and  obligations  in  dealing 
with the problem of piracy under the leadership of the 
United  Nations, 
regional 
organizations 
the 
in 
international community. 

the 
Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  my  delegation  is 
in  partnership  with 
stakeholders 
the  Commission  on 
Secondly,  regarding 
and 
other 
09-63459 

25 
increasing 
in  order 
these 
to  enable 
information 
the  capacity  of 
it  examine 
A/64/PV.57 

pleased  by  the  many  States  that  have  complied  with 
their  obligation  under  the  Charter  to  complete  their 
submissions in accordance with article 4 of annex II of 
the  Convention  and  preliminary 
in 
accordance  with  paragraph  1 
(a)  of  document 
SPLOS/183.  

However,  we  wish  to  join  other  delegations  that 
have expressed their concern on the challenge that the 
Commission  is  now  facing  in  examining  the  large 
number  of  submissions.  My  delegation  is  concerned 
with  the  timeline  for  examining  such  submissions.  In 
this  respect,  we  request  the  General  Assembly  to 
consider  the  proposals  of  Member  States  to  facilitate 
submissions, 
the  prompt  examination  of 
the 
particularly  by 
Commission 
the 
submissions in the shortest possible time frame so that 
we  do  not  defeat  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

Thirdly,  regarding  the  conservation  of  marine 
fisheries resources, my delegation is deeply concerned 
about  reckless  illegal  fishing  activities,  which  have 
adverse effects and lead to the overexploitation of fish 
species  and  the  marine  environment,  particularly  for 
developing  coastal  States.  We  strongly  urge 
the 
international  community  to  continue  its  efforts  to 
provide the necessary assistance to build the capacities 
of and  equip  developing coastal States  to monitor and 
protect  their  marine  resources.  Regional  cooperation 
and efforts to develop joint patrol programmes are also 
very  effective  ways  of  curbing  this  problem.  We 
welcome the efforts to develop a comprehensive global 
record on fishing vessels and refrigerated transport and 
supply vessels. While addressing this problem, related 
security problems in the high seas can also be met or at 
least better understood. 

Fourthly, the adverse impact of climate change is 
throwing  up  new  challenges  to  marine  ecology,  from 
threats to the very existence of some island States and 
the displacement of coastal populations to the possible 
extinction of some marine animal and plant species in 
various  parts  of  the  world  due  to  the  destruction  of 
their  habitat  and  ecosystems.  The  legal  and  socio-
economic implications of these changes will now be far 
better  understood  and  responded  to  in  a  manner 
proportionate  to  the  threat.  As  already  mentioned,  at 
the  forthcoming  Copenhagen  Conference  on  Climate 
Change,  the  legal  dimensions  of  such  future  changes 
need to be recognized, addressed or at least flagged for 

follow-up  action  after  the  Conference.  Again,  on  this 
issue,  we  continue  to  count  on  the  leadership  of  the 
United Nations. 

In conclusion, we welcome the ratification of the 
Convention  by  Switzerland,  the  Dominican  Republic 
and,  recently,  Chad,  and  urge  those  States  that  still 
have  not  ratified  the  Convention  to  consider  doing  so 
in  order  to  achieve  the  ultimate  goal  of  universal 
participation. 
Mr.  Manjeev  Singh  Puri  (India):  First  of  all,  I 

would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Assembly  for  convening  this  debate. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  excellent  report  (A/64/66  and  Add.1 
and Add.2) on issues relating to oceans and the law of 
the sea. 

We  appreciate  the  presentation  of  the  report 
(A/64/347) on the work of the Ad Hoc Working Group 
of the Whole, established pursuant to paragraph 157 of 
resolution  63/111,  on  the  regular  process  for  global 
reporting  and  assessment  of  the  state  of  the  marine 
environment,  including  socio-economic  aspects.  We 
are  happy  to  note  that  the  regular  process  would  be 
guided  by  international  law,  including  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) 
and other applicable international instruments, and that 
capacity-building, sharing of data, information and the 
transfer of technology would be crucial elements of the 
framework for the regular process. 

The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Sea provides the basic framework for carrying out 
any activity in the oceans and seas, for the use of their 
resources  and  for  national,  regional  and  international 
action  and  cooperation 
threats  and 
challenges to the marine environment. We need to take 
concerted action and to adopt integrated approaches to 
preserve  oceans  for  future  generations.  The  draft 
omnibus resolution (A/64/L.18) rightly recognizes that 
the  problems  of  ocean  space  are  closely  interrelated 
and  need  to  be  considered  as  a  whole  through  an 
integrated, interdisciplinary and intersectoral approach. 
We thank the coordinator, Ambassador Henrique Valle, 
for his efforts in coordinating this year’s draft omnibus 
resolution. 

India  attaches  high  priority  to  the  effective 
functioning  of  the  institutions  established  under  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
the 
namely, 
International  Seabed  Authority, 
to  counter 
the 
26 

09-63459 
the  work  of  all 


International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf. 
These  institutions  have  made  considerable  progress  in 
their  respective  areas  of  work  over  the  past  year.  We 
closely  follow 
these  subsidiary 
institutions. 

We congratulate the Chairman of the Commission 
on the Limits of Continental Shelf for the considerable 
progress  made  by  the  Commission  in  undertaking  its 
consideration  of  the  submissions.  However,  we  note 
that  since  a  considerable  number  of  States  have  made 
their  submissions,  it  will  take  a  long  time  for  the 
Commission to consider those submissions. 

We fully share the concerns expressed in the draft 
omnibus  resolution  regarding  the  projected  timetable 
of  the  work  of  the  Commission  on  the  submissions 
already received by it and those yet to be received and 
the significant inequities and difficulties that may arise 
for  States  as  a  result  of  the  projected  timetable, 
including with respect to retaining expertise when there 
is  a  considerable  delay  between  the  preparation  of  a 
submission and its consideration by the Commission. 
informal  working  group 

engaged  in  examining  this  issue  will  consider  and 
suggest  short-,  medium-  and  long-term  measures  to 
address  this  problem  with  a  view  to  shortening  this 
time  frame  in  a  practical  and  realistic  manner.  This 
would  enable  the  forthcoming  Meeting  of  the  States 
Parties  to  consider  this  issue  in  a  holistic  manner  and 
suggest  practical  solutions  to  address  this  important 
issue. 

We support the efforts made by the Secretariat to 
strengthen  the  capacity  of  the  Division  for  Ocean 
Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  serves  as  the 
secretariat  of  the  Commission,  in  order  to  ensure 
enhanced support and assistance to the Commission in 
its consideration of submissions. 

We  are  committed  to  the  goal  of  the  protection 
and preservation of marine biodiversity, in particular in 
areas beyond national jurisdiction. Marine biodiversity 
in areas beyond national jurisdiction is threatened by a 
number of causes such as destructive fishing activities, 
overexploitation  in  vulnerable  marine  environments, 
open, unregulated access to fisheries, bottom trawling, 
biological  prospecting,  geo-engineering  activities  and 
pollution  of  the  marine  environment  from  various 
sources, just to name a few. Coordinated and combined 
We  hope 
that 
the 
A/64/PV.57
We 
the  need 
information 
jurisdiction.  However, 
the  overall  framework  of 
efforts are required to minimize the harmful effects of 
those activities on the marine environment. 

recognize 
to  consider  new 
approaches  within 
the 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  to  promote 
international  cooperation  aimed  at  conservation, 
sustainable use of the living resources of the high seas 
and  benefit-sharing  of  seabed  resources  located  in 
areas  beyond  national 
the 
participation  of  developing  countries  in  devising  and 
adopting  such  approaches  greatly  depends  on  the 
scientific 
technical  know-how 
available to them. Promoting the flow of scientific data 
and  information  and  the  transfer  of  technology  that 
results  from  marine  scientific  research,  especially  to 
developing States, is therefore essential to achieve that 
objective. 

Marine  scientific  research  can  lead  to  better 
understanding  and  utilization  of  almost  all  aspects  of 
the oceans and their resources. The research that aims 
at  exploring  the  biodiversity  of  the  deep  seabed  for 
commercially  valuable  genetic  and  biochemical 
resources should be carried out in accordance with the 
general  principles  of  marine  scientific 
research, 
namely, those set out in articles 140, paragraph 1, and 
241 of the Convention. 

In the area of maritime navigation, we would like 
to  express  our  serious  concern  over  piracy  and  armed 
robbery  at  sea,  particularly  off  the  coast  of  Somalia. 
Piracy not only threatens freedom of the seas, maritime 
trade  and  maritime  shipping  security,  but  also 
endangers  the  lives  of  seafarers,  affects  national 
security  and  territorial  integrity  and  hampers  the 
economic development of countries in the region. 
India  is  actively  cooperating  in  international 

efforts to combat piracy and armed robbery at sea. We 
support  joint  and  concerted  efforts  taken  by  the 
international  community 
that  regard.  As  past 
incidents  have  shown,  that  threat  persists,  especially 
off the coast of Somalia. There is a growing need for a 
well-considered,  coordinated  course  of  action 
in 
accordance  with  international  law.  There  is  also  a 
continuing  need  to  assist  developing  coastal  States 
through  capacity-building,  including  training  of  law 
enforcement officials, transfer of equipment, et cetera, 
to  enhance  their  capacities,  thus  enabling  them  take 
effective action against the threats to maritime security. 
and 
in 
09-63459 

27 

the 
importance  of 
We  also  emphasize 
laws  should  be  enforced 
A/64/PV.57 


the 
principle  of  the  freedom  of  navigation,  including  the 
right  of  innocent  passage  and  transit  passage  through 
straits  used  for  international  navigation.  We  reaffirm 
our  view  that  States  bordering  straits  may  adopt  laws 
or  regulations  relating  to  transit  passage  through  the 
straits,  but  such 
in  a 
non-discriminatory manner that is fully consistent with 
article 42 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

Speaking of fisheries, we take this opportunity to 
thank  Ms.  Holly  Koehler  of  the  United  States  of 
America  for  her  skilful  and  professional  coordination 
of the informal consultations on the draft resolution on 
sustainable  fisheries  (A/64/L.29).  The  fisheries  sector 
occupies  an  important  place  in  the  socio-economic 
development of India. We support increased adherence 
to and stronger implementation of the 1995 Fish Stocks 
Agreement. 

implementation  of  measures 
proposed  in  resolution  61/105  to  combat  adverse 
impacts  of  bottom  fishing  on  vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems was an area of particular interest during the 
negotiations  on  the  fisheries  resolution  this  year.  We 
hope  that  the  additional  measures  agreed  to  —  which 
include, 
identification  of  vulnerable 
ecosystems, assessment of the impact of bottom fishing 
on  such  ecosystems,  exchange  of  best  scientific 
information  and  adoption  of  conservation  and 
management  measures  to  prevent  adverse  impacts  on 
such  ecosystems  —  will  help  towards  regulating 
bottom fishing in areas beyond national jurisdiction.  

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
We are pleased to note that the draft resolution on 

the  special 
sustainable 
circumstances  and  requirements  of  developing  States 
and the specific challenges they may face in giving full 
effect to their obligations under that resolution. 
The  effective 
fisheries  duly 
inter  alia, 
recognizes 
financial 
international 

The  most  important  task  before  the  developing 
countries in the development of their fisheries sector is 
to  develop  and  enhance  their  capacity-building.  For 
that  purpose  they  require  access  to  and  sharing  of 
scientific  knowledge,  resources,  technology  transfer 
and  development  of  skills.  In 
that  context  we 
particularly  support  operative  paragraph  27  of  the 
sustainable  fisheries  resolution,  which  invites  States 
and 
and 
organizations 
to 
developing  States  to  enable  them  to  develop  their 
national  capacity 
resources, 
including developing their domestically flagged fishing 
fleets,  value-added  processing  and  the  expansion  of 
their economic bases within the fishing industry. 
The  Acting  President: We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  76  and  its 
sub-items (a) and (b) for this meeting. The next plenary 
meeting will begin immediately following adjournment 
of this one. 
inter-alia,  provide  assistance 
to  exploit 
institutions 
fisheries 
to, 


Programme of work  

The  Acting  President: Before  concluding  the 
meeting, I should like to consult members regarding an 
extension for the work of the Second Committee.  

Members  will  recall  that  at  its  49th  plenary 
meeting,  held  on  20  November  2009,  the  General 
Assembly  agreed  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Second 
Committee until Friday, 4 December 2009. However, I 
have been informed by the Chairperson of the Second 
Committee  that  due  to  ongoing  negotiations,  the 
Bureau would like to request an additional extension of 
the  Committee’s  work  until  Wednesday,  9  December. 
May  I  therefore  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees  to 
extend  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee  until 
Wednesday, 9 December 2009? 



It was so decided.  
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.  
28 

09-63459 
