
A/64/PV.8
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

8th plenary meeting 
Friday, 25 September 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 






In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Saudabayev 
(Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 

to 
Address by Mr. Boris Tadić, President of the 
Republic of Serbia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Serbia. 

Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Tadić: The United Nations is the only 

universal  institution  that  unites  us  all  as  a  global 
community of independent States. At the very heart of 
this  indispensable  Organization  stands  the  General 
Assembly,  the  only  place  in  the  world  where  the 
sovereign  voices  of  all  countries  are  given  an  equal, 
legitimate say in the future course of mankind. 

Safeguarding the principles of the United Nations 
Charter remains much more important than the policies 
of  any  single  nation,  especially  during  transformative 
periods such as this. The international system seems to 
be undergoing a paradigm shift that, in many ways, is 
comparable in scope to those that occurred in 1945 and 
1989. 

No  one  is  yet  able  to  reliably  predict  how  deep 
the  change  will  turn  out  to  be.  What  is  becoming 
evident is that interrelated factors — the most recent of 
which is the global economic crisis — have caused the 
arrival  of  a  new  set  of  circumstances  on  the  world 
stage. A broad repositioning appears to be taking place. 
The  global  balance  of  power  is  shifting  as  new 
financial  models  compete  for  primacy.  All  in  all, 
international relations are becoming less predictable.  

Achieving  consensus  on  fundamental  issues  that 
affect us all has never been more important. As United 
Nations  Member  States,  it  is  incumbent  upon  us  to 
work  more  closely  together  to  reaffirm  the  rules  that 
govern  the  international  system,  to  reinforce  the 
territorial  integrity  of  Member  States,  to  entrench 
interdependence  and  to  complete  the  transition  from 
the  old  order,  based  on  political  and  economic 
domination, 
equitable 
cooperation among all nations. 

That  is  the  only  way  to  build  a  future  of  global 
peace,  stability  and  prosperity.  It  is  the  only  way  to 
enhance  the  dialogue  among  civilizations,  to  make 
multilateralism  more  effective  and  to  provide  for 
sustainable  development 
eradicate  poverty 
throughout  the  world.  And  it  is  the  only  way  to 
effectively  fight  terrorism  and  cross-border  organized 
crime and to promote nuclear disarmament. 
We  must  also  work  more  in  concert  with  one 

another  to  combat  the  effects  of  climate  change.  That 
established 
one 
and 
on 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52470 (E) 
*0952470* 

emissions 
on 
a 
and, 
of 
As  a 
that  will 
secure 
spread  of 
reduction 
new 
two-year  presidency  of 
scheme 
comprehensive 
A/64/PV.8 

will  continue  to  be  strongly  emphasized  over  the 
course  of  Serbia’s 
the 
Governing  Council 
the  United  Nations 
Environmental  Programme. As  part  of  our  efforts,  we 
have  proposed  the  establishment  of  a  regional  climate 
change centre in Belgrade, Serbia. 

responsible  global  citizen,  we  have 
underlined  the  necessity  of  agreeing  on  a  fair  and 
in 
balanced 
particular, 
climate 
agreement — one 
eco-friendly 
investments,  stimulate  innovation  and  facilitate  the 
global 
technologies,  knowledge  and 
experience.  

In  short,  working  towards  a  “green  economy” 
will  decisively  contribute  to  placing  the  whole  world 
firmly on the path towards a cleaner, more sustainable 
path. 
How  we  conduct  ourselves  at  this  time  of  great 

transformation  will  constitute  a  precedent  with  far-
reaching consequences for generations to come. Simply 
put,  we  are  at  a  point  of  decision:  will  we  choose  a 
world in which there are no rules as exceptions become 
the  new  norms,  devoid  of  any  meaning  except  “might 
makes right”? Or will we opt to solidify the great gains 
achieved  when 
the  principles  of  an  equitable 
international  order  were  embodied  in  the  United 
Nations Charter? 

I believe that only the latter alternative provides a 
future that all United Nations Member States can work 
in  concert  to  bring  about.  The  starting  point  remains 
universal  respect  for  international  law.  No  one  should 
be above it, no one should stand beyond its reach and 
no one should feel at liberty to declare an exception to 
its  jurisdiction  and  scope.  And  yet  that  is  precisely 
what was recently attempted. 

I come before the Assembly as the President of a 
country that is trapped at the centre of one of the most 
dangerous  challenges 
the 
international  system  since  the  founding  of  the  United 
Nations. I speak of UDI — the unilateral declaration of 
independence  by  the  ethnic  Albanian  authorities  of 
Serbia’s  southern  province  of  Kosovo  and  Metohija. 
This  attempt  at  secession  stands  in  direct  violation  of 
Serbia’s  democratic  Constitution,  as  well  as  the  basic 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  the  Helsinki 
Final Act and Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). 
the  universality  of 

We  will  continue 
restraint.  Serbia  opted 

Some  say  Kosovo’s  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence  is  a  unique  case.  But  in  truth  it  is  an 
attempt  to  forcibly  partition  a  Member  State  of  the 
United  Nations  against  its  will  and  without  regard  for 
the  firm  opposition  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is  an 
attempt  to  impose  a  nineteenth-century  outcome  on  a 
twenty-first century challenge. Serbia will never, under 
any  circumstances,  implicitly  or  explicitly,  recognize 
the unilateral declaration of independence of the ethnic 
Albanian authorities of our southern province. 

to  vigorously  defend  our 
integrity  in  a  non-confrontational  manner,  using  all 
peaceful means at our disposal. That is why, at the very 
outset  of  this  grave  crisis,  Serbia  ruled  out  the  use  of 
force. We chose to respond to Kosovo with the utmost 
responsibility  and 
for  a 
diplomatic approach, the result of which is that a vast 
majority  of  United  Nations  Member  States  have 
refrained from recognizing the unilateral declaration of 
independence  in  Kosovo  and  have  continued  to  abide 
by  their  Charter  obligation  to  respect  the  sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of my country. On behalf of the 
Republic  of  Serbia,  allow  me  once  again  to  sincerely 
thank  these  countries  for  their  adherence  to  the 
principles of international law. 

rejecting  violence  and 
unilateralism,  Serbia  has  been  equally  emphatic  in 
demanding that justice be delivered through the proper 
legal  means  at  the  disposal  of  any  United  Nations 
Member  State.  As  part  of  our  constructive  approach, 
we decided to contest the issue of Kosovo’s unilateral 
declaration  of 
the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  which  was 
tasked  by  General 
Assembly  resolution  63/3  with  issuing  an  advisory 
opinion  on  whether  that  declaration  is  in  accordance 
with  international  law.  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to inform the Member States that the Court 
has  concluded  the  preliminary,  written  phase  of  its 
proceedings in the case. Public hearings are scheduled 
to begin on 1 December, with a decision by the Court 
expected sometime next year. 

Let  me  express  my  sincere  gratitude  to  all  those 
countries that have chosen to actively support Serbia’s 
strategic  choice  to  transfer  the  Kosovo  issue  to  the 
judicial  arena.  The  case  marks  the  first  time  in  the 
history of the Court that it has been asked to consider 
the  legality  of  an  attempt  at  secession  by  an  ethnic 
group  from  a  United  Nations  Member  State.  There  is 
independence  before 
While  categorically 
to 
2 

09-52470 
legal 
the 
precedent,  with 


no doubt that the Court’s conclusions will constitute a 
powerful 
overarching 
consequences  for  the  United  Nations  system.  The 
outcome  will  either  strongly  deter  other  separatist 
movements  from  attempting  to  secede,  or  produce  a 
result  that  could  encourage  them  to  act  in  a  similar 
fashion.  Plainly  stated,  should  Kosovo’s  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  be  allowed  to  stand,  a 
door  would  open  for  challenging 
territorial 
integrity of any United Nations Member State. 

The  uniquely  important  nature  of  this  case  has 
been acknowledged by the international community. As 
we  know,  all  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  have  confirmed  their  participation  in  the 
public  hearings  before  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. It is in this context that I appeal to all Member 
States to respect the fact that the Court continues to be 
actively engaged on the issue. Its deliberations should 
not be prejudged and its work should not be obstructed. 
The  Court’s  proceedings  have  to  be  allowed  to  run 
their  course  without  political  pressure,  such  as  any 
further  recognition  of  Kosovo’s  unilateral  declaration 
of independence. On behalf of the Republic of Serbia, I 
encourage  all  non-recognizing  Member  States  to  stay 
the  course.  By  maintaining  respect  for  my  country’s 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  together  we  will 
help ensure that international law continues to close in 
on the issue of unilateral declarations of independence. 

Serbia’s  decision  to  turn  to  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  to  contest  the  Kosovo  issue  has  been 
complemented by a policy of constructive engagement 
with all legitimate actors on the ground in Kosovo. We 
maintain  support  for  a  reconfigured  United  Nations 
Interim  Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK) 
and  its  continuing  indispensability.  We  have  also 
welcomed  a  status-neutral  European  Union  Rule  of 
Law  Mission  in  Kosovo  (EULEX),  working  in  our 
southern  province  on  the  basis  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1244  (1999),  which  continues  to  operate 
under the overall authority of the United Nations. I call 
on all responsible stakeholders invested in the future of 
Kosovo to work more closely with the Government of 
Serbia on implementing in full the Secretary-General’s 
six-point  plan  (S/2008/354,  annex  I),  which  was 
welcomed by the Security Council in November 2008. 

This  is  a  time  for  leadership  and  working 
together, not for increasing the divide. We all have our 
constraints, and they should be respected. Let us create 
new  opportunities  for  achieving  practical  results,  by 
09-52470 

A/64/PV.8
engaging  with  one  another  on  a  host  of  concrete 
questions  for  the  benefit  of  all  residents  of  Kosovo 
province,  including  the  Serbs  —  the  community  most 
at risk in all of Europe. 
(spoke in French) 

Democracy  in  Serbia  is  sound;  our  society  rests 
on  a  solid  foundation  and  our  values  have  been 
strongly  confirmed  by  law.  The  basis  of  our  strategic 
approach  to  national  development  is  the  call  for  all 
European  nations  to  share  their  common  destiny.  On 
many  occasions  our  actions, 
in  very  difficult 
circumstances,  have  proved  our  determination 
to 
become  a  member  of  the  European  Union  (EU). 
Despite  setbacks,  our  core  strategic  priority  remains 
that  of  attaining  EU  membership,  not  merely  on 
grounds of geography, heritage or economic prosperity, 
but also because of the essential values that we share. 
These  are  values  that  proclaim  soft  power  in  foreign 
policy  and  the  primacy  of  law  in  domestic  affairs; 
achieving  consensus  in  Brussels  and  standards  of 
human rights throughout the EU. These are values that 
proclaim  freedom  of  movement  for  all  citizens  of 
Serbia in the Schengen area, the tangible result of our 
process  of  entry  into  the  EU,  which  we  hope  to  see 
implemented  on  1  January  2010.  This  will  bring  us 
closer to Europe, for the right to travel without a visa is 
to the citizens of Serbia the expression of what the EU 
means on a daily basis. 

But  these  are  also  values  that  have  led  us  to 
modernize  our  administration,  to  adopt  exemplary 
legislation in areas such as anti-discrimination and the 
protection  of  minorities,  and  to  redouble  our  efforts 
towards  regional  reconciliation.  That  is  an  important 
reason  why  Serbia  will  shortly  complete  its  full 
cooperation  with  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia:  it  is  a  legal  and  moral 
obligation  towards  victims,  towards  ourselves  and, 
above all, towards future generations.  

As  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  fall  of  the 
Berlin  wall  approaches,  we  must  not  forget  that  the 
objective of uniting all the nations of Europe under the 
same  roof  has not yet been attained. Much remains to 
be done. Expansion fatigue must not emerge as a new 
reality  in  Europe.  Solidarity  must  remain  a  high 
priority.  It  will  never  be  time  to  consider  an  exit 
strategy with regard to the Western Balkans. 
Permit  me  to  stress  that  the  facts  are  clear.  All 

benefit from expansion: old and new members, as well 
3 
A/64/PV.8 

as potential members of the EU. This goes beyond our 
wildest dreams, even at a time of economic challenges 
and political demoralization. That is because the values 
that unite us are strong and just. 
(spoke in English) 

In that context, let me underline the necessity of 
strengthening  regional  cooperation.  In  June,  Serbia 
hosted  15  heads  of  State  during  the  Central  European 
Summit, whose main topic was the interdependence of 
the  economy,  EU 
integration  and  energy.  That 
demonstrated our commitment to acting constructively 
and  working  closely 
together  with  neighbouring 
countries to ensure that regional peace is consolidated. 

With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia is 
a guarantor of the Dayton Agreement. Let there be no 
doubt that we will remain committed to the sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of that neighbouring country, as 
we  will  to  those  of  all  other  United  Nations  Member 
States in the region and across the world. 

In short, as the strategic anchor of stability in the 
Western Balkans, Serbia will invest even greater efforts 
in  completing  the  democratic  transformation  of  our 
part of Europe. 

Serbia’s robust European vision is complemented 
by  our  strong  determination  to  pursue  a  carefully 
balanced,  artfully  executed  and  active  foreign  policy 
aimed  at  engagement  with  nations  throughout  the 
world,  near  and  far.  That  is  in  our  long-term  interest 
and  will  not  change.  Therefore,  our  engagement  with 
Brussels, Moscow, Washington and Beijing — the four 
enduring  pillars  of  Serbia’s  foreign  policy  —  will 
continue to be strengthened in the time ahead. 

In  conclusion,  I  want  to  emphasize  another 
important dimension of our foreign policy. Serbia will 
continue  to  deepen  ties  with  proud  nations  across  the 
globe, many of which are members of the Non-Aligned 
Movement (NAM). My country is the largest successor 
to  a  founding  member  of  the  Movement.  Serbia’s 
capital,  Belgrade,  was  the  site  of  the  first  NAM 
summit, held in 1961. That is why I have proposed that 
the fiftieth anniversary of the Non-Aligned Movement 
in  Belgrade  with  an  extraordinary 
be  celebrated 
summit  under 
the  Egyptian 
chairmanship. 

Let  me  emphasize  that  Serbia  will  continue  to 
engage  with  NAM  countries,  not  only  to  honour  a 
traditional 
legacy 
the  past  and 
auspices  of 
renew 
the 
from 
to 

friendships,  but  also  because  we  believe 
that 
international  stability  and  prosperity  cannot  be 
consolidated  without  taking  into  account  the  views  of 
the majority in the global family of nations. 

I  close  by  saying  that  the  time  for  anyone  to 
procrastinate,  to  try  half-measures  or  to  delay  and 
discourage  is  coming  to  a  close.  In  its  place,  we  are 
entering  a  period  in  which  only  results  matter  —  a 
period  of  consequence  and  momentous  choice.  Now 
comes our time of testing. 

Our vision is simple: the universal application of 
the principles contained in the United Nations Charter, 
the strengthening of international law and human rights 
in  an  increasingly  interdependent  world,  the  equitable 
development of the global economy and the sustainable 
management of the environment throughout the world. 
Let us all have the courage to see that vision through to 
its rapid and noble completion.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Serbia for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  from  the  General Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by Mr. Emanuel Mori, President of the 
Federated States of Micronesia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Federated States of Micronesia. 

Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  of  the  Federated 
States  of  Micronesia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Emanuel Mori, President of the Federated States of 
Micronesia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Mori:  I  wish  to  offer  my  warm 

congratulations  to  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fourth  session.  We  are  confident  that  he  will 
live  up  to  the  high  standards  set  by  his  esteemed 
predecessor. 
Allow me to begin my remarks today by thanking 

members  of  the  General  Assembly  for  their  positive 
to 
4 

09-52470 


action this past June in adopting resolution 63/281, on 
climate  change  and  its  possible  security  implications. 
Developed  and  developing  countries  alike  worked 
together  with  the  smallest  and  most  vulnerable  to  do 
something that would have been unthinkable just a few 
years ago. It is now becoming all the more compelling 
that  we  work  together,  as  we  did  in  adopting  that 
resolution, to act decisively in confronting this threat. 

The importance of this groundbreaking resolution 
cannot  be  overstated.  Its  message  is  clear:  climate 
change  is  a  threat  to  international  peace  and  security. 
The  resolution  is  a  historic  milestone  for  this  body. 
Climate  change,  including  its  far-reaching  effects  and 
its  security  implications,  is  the  defining  issue  for  the 
world  today  —  an  issue  that  should  command  the 
attention and support of everyone. 

When we met here last year, the world  economy 
was  going  through  a  time  of  unprecedented  crisis. 
Fearing  that  the  global  economy  was  heading  for 
collapse,  the  world  stood  together  and,  with  strong 
determination  and  swiftness,  adopted  difficult  but 
concrete  measures  aimed  at  averting 
that  global 
disaster. In keeping with the spirit of cooperation, it is 
indispensable  for  the  international  community  to  be 
steadfast  and  bold  enough  to  take  equally  difficult 
decisions  to  address  the  climate  change  crisis  without 
delay.  Accelerating  action  by  and  cooperation  among 
Governments,  the  private  sector  and  civil  society  is 
imperative  in  order  to  meet  the  challenge  posed  by 
climate change.  

Given  the  critical  importance  of  climate  change 
to  my  country,  allow  me  to  address  that  issue  here 
again. I thank the Secretary-General for bringing more 
attention to climate change and for convening the high-
level  Summit  on  Climate  Change  on  22  September 
2009. 

For  us  Micronesians  and  our  fellow  Pacific 
islanders,  including  those  of  other  parts  of  the  world, 
climate  change  is  a  matter  of  survival  as  peoples, 
cultures  and  nations.  For  centuries,  the  people  of 
Micronesia have lived on their small islands, many less 
than a metre above sea level. They have enjoyed a life 
dependent  on  the  bounties  of  the  sea  and  the  harvest 
from  the  land.  They  have  developed  a  culture  of 
respect for nature and have lived in harmony with their 
natural  surroundings.  They  built  outrigger  canoes  and 
rigged  them  with  sails  from  pandanus  leaves.  Long 
before  Magellan,  they  sailed  the  vast  expanse  of  the 
A/64/PV.8
coastal 
cities 
further, 
endangering 
including 
ice  sheets  and  glaciers  were 
Pacific Ocean, aided only by an intimate understanding 
of the stars and ocean currents.  

Sadly,  today’s  disregard  for  our  planet  is  slowly 
making the ocean that has always nurtured us the very 
instrument  of  our  destruction.  Micronesia  is  already 
experiencing  the  brunt  of  the  negative  impacts  of 
climate  change.  The  sea-level  rise,  changing  weather 
patterns and an increase in the frequency and intensity 
of  natural  disasters,  such  as 
typhoons,  are  all 
undermining  our  development  efforts. The  years  of  El 
Niño  have  brought  more  droughts  and  increased 
rainfall,  causing  substantial  damage  to  staple  crops. 
Our taro patches and arable lands are limited to begin 
with. Compounding the problem is the intrusion of salt 
water,  damaging  basic  crops, 
taro  and 
coconut trees — our tree of life. What if the melting of 
to  reach  an 
polar 
irreversible  point?  The  outcome 
is  crystal-clear: 
Micronesia  and  all  low-lying  islands  would  disappear 
from  the  face  of  the  Earth.  But  the  effects  would  go 
much 
and 
communities all over the world, including Manhattan. 

Our  vulnerability  compels  us  to  take  proactive 
concerted action in seeking fast-track solutions. In that 
regard,  I  am  pleased  to  share  two  specific  mitigation 
measures taken by my Government. 
The first action taken by Micronesia is a proposal 

to 
the  United  Nations 
that  has  been  submitted 
Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change 
(UNFCCC).  The  aim  of  the  proposal  is  to  make  a 
modest  beginning 
to  evaluating  rapid  mitigation 
strategies  by  establishing  a  four-year  programme  for 
experts  to  report  on  ways  to  achieve  rapid  mitigation 
by dealing with short-lived non-carbon dioxide agents, 
including  black  carbon,  under 
the  auspices  of 
UNFCCC. 

This  year,  Micronesia  and  Mauritius  proposed  a 
two-part amendment to the Montreal Protocol to phase 
down  the  production  and  use  of  hydrofluorocarbons 
(HFCs).  Secondly,  our  proposal  would  expand  efforts 
to destroy so-called banks of discarded refrigerants that 
are  harmful  to  climate.  Our  proposal,  with  additional 
sponsors,  has  started  a  global  dialogue  on 
the 
demonstrated  versatility  of  the  Montreal  Protocol  as  a 
treaty for early climate protection. 

I want to commend the North American countries 
for their strong support and action on HFCs. Recently, 
the  United  States,  Canada  and  Mexico  added  their 
09-52470 

5 
in  our 
subregion 
to  meet 
A/64/PV.8 

support to the proposal to use the Montreal Protocol to 
phase  down  HFCs. That  kind  of  cooperation,  between 
developed  and  developing  countries,  is  what  we  need. 
We  therefore  urge  the  North  American  countries  and 
others  to  support  the  second  part  of  the  amendment 
proposed by Micronesia and Mauritius. 

The  bottom  line  is  that  Micronesia  has  already 
suffered  the  effects  of  climate  change.  We  therefore 
seek  to  draw  the  attention  of  the  world  to  any  and  all 
possibilities  for rapid mitigation action  that could  buy 
us  more  time  while  the  long-term  war  against  carbon 
dioxide proceeds. 

Allow  me  now  to  briefly  focus  on  several  other 
areas of priority to my country. To effectively manage 
and  conserve  our  biodiversity  and  limited  natural 
resources,  Micronesia  continues  to  work  with  other 
Governments 
the 
commitments of the Micronesia Challenge, which calls 
for the conservation of at least 30 per cent of the area’s 
marine resources and 20 per cent of its land resources 
by  2020.  We  acknowledge  the  support  of  our  friends 
and  development  partners  who  have  helped  us 
implement that initiative. 

As  part  of  our  national  development  agenda, 
especially in the priority areas of health, education and 
private  sector  development,  we  are  seeking  to  acquire 
comprehensive 
capacity 
through undersea fibre-optic cable. That will enable us 
to  meet  the  objectives  of  the  World  Summit  on  the 
Information  Society  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  We  are  also  taking  the  necessary 
measures 
for 
telecommunications  services 
to  promote 
competition and to put in place an appropriate national 
information and communications technology plan.  

To achieve those objectives, we look to the United 
Nations  system,  the  International  Telecommunication 
Union  and  our  development  partners  for  their  support 
and guidance.  

Micronesia  is  indeed  undertaking  a  wide  variety 
of  tasks  as  it  strives  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  recognize  that  some  of  the 
Goals can be especially difficult for us to sustain, even 
though  we  may  be  on  track  to  achieve  them.  Progress 
towards  the  MDGs  is  inherently  threatened  by  the 
nature of our vulnerability to climate change. 
environment 
connectivity 
broadband 
in  order 
to 
liberalize 
the 

to  successfully 
increasingly  dependent  on 

As an island State with a large excusive economic 
zone abundant with marine and fisheries resources, we 
are  naturally  concerned  about  unsustainable  fishing 
practices.  We  are  also  concerned  about  the  unabated 
incidence  of  illegal,  unreported  unregulated  fishing, 
which only robs the coastal island nations of their most 
precious resource, which is fish. 

At  a  time  when  the  world  food  market  is  deeply 
affected  by  the  food  crisis  and  economic  turmoil, 
Micronesians  are 
the 
bounties  of  the  sea  to  provide  their  nourishment  and 
their economic development. That is precisely why we 
remain  concerned  about  the  collateral  catches  and 
discards  in  commercial  fisheries,  as  they  deprive  our 
people  of  the  critical  resources  that  they  depend  upon 
for  their  subsistence  living  and  that  are  of  cultural 
importance. The international community must help us 
to  find  ways  to  minimize  and  eliminate  that  wasteful 
harvesting  of  resources.  Economic  resources  are 
critical 
implementing  our  nation-
building efforts. 

Micronesia has a genuine interest in the reform of 
the  Security  Council  —  a  Council  that  must  embrace 
an  expansion  in  both  of  its  membership  categories,  to 
be  more  inclusive  and  broadly  representative  and  to 
reflect  the  present  realities  of  the  world  in  the  new 
century. We urge the President of the Assembly to carry 
forward  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  that  were 
begun  during  its  sixty-third  session.  I  reiterate  our 
support  for 
the  candidacies  of  Japan,  India  and 
Germany for permanent membership on the Council. 

December  is  around  the  corner  and  the  world 
needs to seal the deal in Copenhagen. The task will not 
be  easy,  but  we  must  not  fail.  Millions  of  lives  are  at 
risk and our homelands are in peril. 

Micronesia is a member of the Alliance of Small 
Island States and our position is well known. We have 
repeatedly  called  for  a  strong  agreement  that  must 
leave  no  island  behind.  Our  collective  failure  to  meet 
this  challenge  now  will  lead  us  towards  colossal  and 
irreversible damage to our Mother Earth. 

When the health of our planet needs remedy and 
the  lives  of  millions  depend  on  our  action,  we  must 
respond  and  take  appropriate  and  swift  action.  I  am 
aware that different States have different ideas of what 
a  strong  deal  means,  but  mistrust  between  countries 
cannot  become  a  reason  for  failure,  nor  can  economic 
considerations become an excuse for inaction. 
6 

09-52470 


Throughout the history of humankind, there have 

been  examples  of  nations 
that  disagreed  coming 
together  for  their  own  survival  during  a  crisis,  be  it 
during  a  time  of  war,  economic  hardship  or  epidemic. 
Today, that crisis is climate change. There is simply no 
more time to waste, and I will therefore stop here. Talk 
is  cheap;  action  speaks  louder  than  words.  And  we 
need action. Let us go to Copenhagen to seal the deal. 
We will all meet again in Copenhagen. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Federated States of Micronesia for the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  of  the  Federated 
States  of  Micronesia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Denis Sassou Nguesso, President of 
the Republic of the Congo. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Congo.  

Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  Sassou  Nguesso  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would  like  at  the  outset  to  welcome  the  election  of 
Mr. Ali  Treki 
the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  which  is  taking 
place at a time when major challenges continue to test 
the  effectiveness  of  our  Organization.  From 
this 
rostrum,  I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  and  to 
his  courageous  and  energetic  actions  throughout  his 
term. I also thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for 
his exceptional work at the head of our Organization at 
a  time  in  history  when  important  reforms  are  being 
undertaken. 

I  wish  to  emphasize  the  extent  to  which,  now 
more than ever, the United Nations symbolizes hope in 
the face of the major challenges threatening our planet, 
the  presidency  of 
to 
A/64/PV.8
than  a  dollar  a  day  and 
which no nation can meet alone. People have never had 
such need of that hope.  

The Summit on Climate Change, held recently at 
the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-General,  called  once 
again  upon  the  collective  conscience  of  all  nations 
large  and  small,  united  and  stirred  by  a  common 
resolve to work to build the better world of which the 
founding  fathers  of  our  Organization  dreamed.  In  this 
village that our world has become, we Members of the 
United Nations are the guarantors of people’s liberties 
and rights, their security and their future, their dignity 
and the promise of world peace. 

Mr. Hackett  (Barbados), Vice-President,  took the 
chair. 
I know what solidarity owes to the dedication of 

the United Nations, and what peace owes to its actions, 
commitment and determination. And I foresee what the 
future  will  owe  it.  It  is  here  that  are  forged  freedom 
and human rights, solidarity and universal justice — in 
a word, the destiny of humankind. The men and women 
here know that more than a billion people still live on 
less 
that  children  die 
unnecessarily  of  hunger  and  disease.  All  of  us  here 
know  how  climate  change  is  abetting  these  scourges 
and how the countries least responsible for it suffer the 
most  from  its  effects.  Producing  only  3.8  per  cent  of 
greenhouse  gas  emissions,  our  continent  is  the  most 
affected  by  global  warming.  Poor  populations  are  its 
main victims. The agriculture, fauna and infrastructure 
of coastal regions are on the front line. 
The Brundtland report of the World Commission 

on  Environment  and  Development  (A/42/427,  annex), 
submitted  to  the  General Assembly  in  1987,  gave  us, 
more  than  20  years  ago,  the  following  definition  of 
sustainable development:  “development that meets the 
needs of the  present without compromising the  ability 
of  future  generations 
their  own  needs” 
(Ibid., p. 54).  
Sustainable  development  is  not  a  concept,  as  we 

have  all  learned  at  our  own  expense;  it  is  an  issue 
fraught  with  genuine  responsibilities.  The  balance  of 
ecosystems  has  never  been  so  threatened.  Urgent 
measures  are  required  in  Africa  and  in  all  nations  to 
guarantee 
and 
desertification,  and  restore  natural  ecosystems.  Such 
measures 
the  mobilization  of  significant 
resources.  
combat  drought 
to  meet 
security, 
food 
require 

09-52470 

7 

A/64/PV.8 


the  1990s, 
Mr.  Hackett  (Barbados),  Vice-President  took  the 
chair.  

When one’s main resource is the forest, one bears 
an  immense  responsibility.  We  represent  the  Earth’s 
second  most  important  environmental  lung,  after  the 
Amazon.  Together  with  our  Latin  American  brothers, 
we  are  aware  of  our  responsibility  as  guardians  of 
forests  that  represent  an  essential  treasure  for  all 
humankind. 

the  Congo  has  worked 
Since 
continuously  with  the  international  community  to 
combat  global  warming  and  to  implement  a  policy  of 
forest  protection.  Today,  our  action  is  more  essential 
than  ever.  Our  forests  represent  vast  carbon  sinks  of 
global  importance  for  regulating  the  greenhouse-gas 
effect.  They  are  our  common  salvation  and  home  to 
400  species  of  mammals,  more  than  1,000  species  of 
birds and more than 10,000 species of plants, 3,000 of 
which  are  endemic.  Gorillas, 
forest  buffaloes, 
chimpanzees,  bonobos  and  forest  elephants  —  these 
are  what  must  inspire  our  action,  as  they  help  to 
maintain the ecological functions of natural systems. 
In  1999,  the  countries  of  the  Congo  basin 

launched a unique forestry experiment by proclaiming 
their common resolve to preserve their biodiversity and 
promote the sustainable and joint management of their 
forest  ecosystems,  as  well  as  by  ensuring  the  use  of 
resources  for  Central  Africa’s  economic  and  social 
development. The resulting plan is one of the strategic 
components  of 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development.  It  represents  a  significant  contribution 
by Central Africa to the effort to address the problems 
related  to  global  warming.  Unfortunately,  the  funds 
necessary for the programme’s implementation are still 
lacking.  

The  countries  of  the  region  have  nonetheless 
made  great  progress  in  forest  preservation.  Today, 
Africa  requests  that  the  forthcoming  Copenhagen 
Conference  consider  mechanisms 
for  adaptation, 
mitigation,  capacity-building,  technology  transfer  and 
financing  based  on 
In 
Copenhagen,  we  must  take  earnest  account  of  the 
forests,  which  represent  carbon  sinks  of  global 
importance  for  regulating  and  stabilizing  our  planet’s 
climate.  

The economic and financial crisis, whose effects 
we  continue  to  feel,  is  the  most  serious  economic 
recession  that  the  world  has  experienced  since  the 
the  principle  of  equity. 
Great Depression of the 1930s. This crisis should help 
to  raise  our  awareness.  It  justifies  an  overhaul  of  the 
international  financial  architecture  and  can  enable  us, 
through  new  commitments,  to  realize  the  vision  of  a 
more unified and equitable world. But time is running 
out, in Africa more than elsewhere, and the adoption of 
decisive measures can wait no longer. 

Halfway  towards  the  deadline  for  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  our  success  will 
depend  on  the  international  community’s  new  choices 
and  on  the  effective  implementation  of  announced 
measures.  The  commitments  undertaken  at  the  April 
2009  London  summit  of  the  Group  of  20  must  be 
honoured,  and  we  hope  that  the  meeting  to  be  held  in 
Pittsburgh will fulfil all our expectations.  

In  its  capacity  as  African  Union  co-mediator, 
together with Libya, of the crisis between Chad and the 
Sudan,  the  Republic  of  the  Congo  welcomes  the 
willingness,  expressed  by  both  parties  at  the  African 
Union  summit,  to  relaunch  negotiations  based  on  the 
Doha  Agreement  of  3  May  2009.  We  also  note  with 
satisfaction that the tripartite initiative aimed at a joint 
settlement  in  the  subregion,  with  the  assistance  of  the 
United  Nations  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  in  the 
Central  African  Republic,  the  General  Secretariat  of 
the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States, 
the  Commission  of  the  Central African  Economic  and 
Monetary  Community  and  the  General  Secretariat  of 
the  Community  of  Sahelo-Saharan  States,  should 
enable  us  to  curb  the  insecurity  on  the  borders  of 
Cameroon, the Central African Republic and Chad for 
the long term.  

the  significant  progress  seen 
recently  in  relations  among  the  countries  of  the  Great 
Lakes  region  on  our  continent.  The  warming  of 
relations  between  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo and Rwanda, the revitalization of the Economic 
Community  of  the  Great  Lakes  Countries,  and  the 
normalization  of  relations  between  Uganda  and  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo reflect the common 
will  of 
to 
consolidate peace.  

With  respect  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  crisis,  we 
encourage any initiative to promote sustained dialogue 
between  the  parties  in  the  quest  for  a  definitive  and 
equitable solution to the crisis. 
the  unanimous  adoption,  on 

24 September  2009  at  the  historic  Security  Council 
the  Great  Lakes  countries 
We  welcome 
We  welcome 
to  work 
8 

09-52470 
the  Congo 
to  modernization 


summit  (see  S/PV.6191),  of  resolution  1887  (2009), 
which  reflects  the  determination  of  the  international 
community  to  work  towards  disarmament  and  nuclear 
non-proliferation for a safer world. 

In the light of these many challenges, we call for 
strict  compliance  with  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty  in  all  its  aspects,  including  the  right  of  all 
countries  to  develop  nuclear  technologies  for  civilian 
purposes. 

The  Congolese  people  renewed  their  confidence 
in me last July. That confidence is based on the concept 
that we call the “path of the future”. That path proposes 
opening 
and 
industrialization,  to  the  pursuit  of  peacebuilding,  the 
strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, to the 
promotion of good governance and to the protection of 
human rights. We have pledged to open a new path to 
the  future  and  to  mark  it  with  proper  behaviour  and 
clean technologies. We have pledged in my country to 
never sit on our hands and watch the Earth suffer. That 
is a promise which I repeat here. 

Our African storytellers have often said that men 
were  the  dream  of  the  Earth.  I  solemnly  promise  that 
not only will Africans do everything in their power to 
never become its nightmare; they will, on the contrary, 
open up a gateway to the future for all of us. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of the Congo for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by King Mswati III, Head of State of the 
Kingdom of Swaziland 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of 
the Kingdom of Swaziland. 

King Mswati III, Head of State of the Kingdom of 
Swaziland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of State of 
the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 
into 
A/64/PV.8
King  Mswati  III:  It  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to 

address  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session.  Our  coming  here  as  leaders  gives  us  the 
opportunity  to  debate  global  challenges  as  per  our 
objectives and goals as enshrined in the United Nations 
Charter. 

The United Nations is a forum where we all come 
together  to  share  ideas,  review  progress  and  come  up 
with strategies to deal with world issues that need our 
attention  and  input. The  founders  of  this  Organization 
had  a  noble  idea  of  addressing  world  issues  amicably 
with  a  view  to  avoiding  confrontation.  Therefore,  we 
are supposed to meet as equal partners to debate issues 
that  affect  us  as  the  world  community,  in  a  forum 
where we are guided by the principles of trust, respect 
and natural justice. The aim of the United Nations is to 
bring joy and peace to the nations of the world. Let us 
make sure that people develop confidence in the United 
Nations  so  that  they  can  approach  the  Organization 
when they have problems. 

We  note  that  Africa  has  multiple  problems  that 
seriously hinder its progress in the areas of health, the 
economy,  poverty  and  social  welfare,  which  all  come 
under the Millennium Development Goals. It is our aim 
as  the  African  continent  to  evolve  from  being  third 
world  countries  to  a  first  world  status.  That  calls  on 
us — Africa in general and Swaziland in particular — 
to work harder and smarter in order to realize that goal 
and  generate  a  strong  economy  for  the  betterment  of 
the lives of all our peoples. 

However,  we  realize  that  we  cannot  effectively 
deal  with  the  challenges  confronting  us  alone,  mainly 
because  our  resources  are  limited.  It  is  through  the 
United  Nations  that  we  continue  to  forge  partnerships 
with  different  countries  so  that  we  work  together  to 
grow  our  economies.  We  appeal  to  the  developed 
nations to recognize our hard work and to increase our 
access to soft loans and grants to support development 
programmes  and  poverty-reduction  strategies.  We  call 
on  the  United  Nations  to  continue  supporting  national 
initiatives  aimed  at  eventually 
transforming  our 
economies to first world economies. 

However, the global financial and economic crisis 
has  made 
for 
developing countries. It restrains us from achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

hard  on  developing  economies, 
The secondary effects of the crisis are now hitting 
the 
the  situation  difficult,  especially 
that  of 
like 
09-52470 

9 

like 
A/64/PV.8 

Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  whose  export  trade  is  largely 
dependent  on  performance 
in  developed  global 
markets. In our case, several Government interventions 
have been undertaken to rescue sectors such as the pulp 
and  textile  industries.  Added  to  this  is  the  need  to 
mobilize  resources  and  promote  financial  inclusion  in 
order  to  stimulate  economic  growth  at  the  grassroots 
level.  In  that  regard,  financial  inclusion  remains  an 
important stimulus for poverty alleviation programmes 
in  developing  countries 
the  Kingdom  of 
Swaziland.  

We are encouraged by signs of recovery from the 
crisis,  and  we  are  confident  that  the  United  Nations 
will  continue  to  play  its  leading  role  in  the  efforts  to 
find a speedy resolution to the situation so that we may 
all  focus  on  development  issues  for  the  benefit  of  all 
our peoples. 

It is most unfortunate that while we do our level 
best  to  improve  our  economies,  we  continue  to  be 
confronted  by  disturbances  and  conflicts  that  include 
wars and coups. We condemn those acts, as they lead to 
untold suffering for millions of our peoples. As nations 
of the world, let us  come  together  and  make sure that 
such  acts  are  not  supported  or  encouraged.  We  call 
upon all nations of the world to isolate and discourage 
the  sympathizers  and  sponsors.  Where 
there  are 
problems, the peoples of the world must know that they 
can address the challenges that they encounter through 
peaceful engagement and dialogue.  

If  we  want  to  achieve  peace  in  the  world,  it  is 
important  that  we  reduce  and  eventually  eradicate 
nuclear  arms,  which  pose  a  threat  to  our  planet.  We 
need  to  encourage  nations  that  are  at  the  stage  of 
developing,  and  those  that  already  possess,  nuclear 
capability  to  utilize  it  for  power  generation  that 
supports  and  stimulates  economic  growth.  Therefore, 
we encourage the International Atomic Energy Agency 
to  continue  to  monitor  countries  that  are  developing 
nuclear arms so that they may be stopped. It must also 
ensure 
that  already  have  nuclear 
capability reduce and eventually eradicate their nuclear 
arms so that they become a thing of the past. In order 
to  accelerate  the  eradication  of  nuclear  arms,  the 
United  Nations  must  set  targets  and  timelines  for 
compliance. 

Another issue of concern is the continuing delay 
of  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Many  nations 
have  come 
the  Council 
the  conclusion 
that  countries 
that 
to 
membership  needs  to  be  expanded  so  that  it  is  more 
representative,  so  that  its  decisions  may  be  owned  by 
all Member States. 

Africa  has  adopted  firm  and  clear  resolutions  on 
the Council composition they would like to see. Those 
decisions were further affirmed at the recent summit of 
the Non-Aligned Movement. Regrettably, we still have 
not  seen  meaningful  progress  on  that  matter.  We 
therefore  would  like  to  call  on  all  members  of  the 
Security Council to address that issue with the urgency 
that it deserves. 

We  are  encouraged  by  the  call  made  by  fellow 
leaders  for  us  to  open  a  new  page  in  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  by  approaching  global  matters 
collectively.  It  is  imperative  that  the  United  Nations 
take  the  lead  in  all  issues  that  affect  mankind.  The 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  one  such  area  that 
could clearly demonstrate the new approach to issues. 
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  reiterates  its  support 

for the efforts deployed by the international community 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  towards  a 
political  solution  to  the  issue  of  Western  Sahara.  We 
reaffirm that the initiative by the Kingdom of Morocco 
for  considerable  autonomy  for  Western  Sahara  is  the 
beginning  of  a  realistic  and  credible  move.  The 
Kingdom of Swaziland calls upon all parties to join the 
process 
implement  Security  Council 
resolutions 1813 (2008) and 1871 (2009).  

The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  continues  to  support 
efforts  to  bring  lasting  peace  to  the  situation  in  the 
Darfur region, Somalia, Madagascar and other parts of 
our continent. 

I take this opportunity to express my appreciation 
for  the  support  and  assistance  being  extended  to  the 
Inclusive  Government  and  the  people  of  the  Republic 
of  Zimbabwe  by  the  nations  of  the  world  and  by 
international organizations. I also wish to echo the call 
and  appeal  of  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community for the immediate removal of all sanctions 
against  Zimbabwe,  in  order  to  ensure  the  speedy 
recovery of the economy of that country for the benefit 
of its long-suffering people. 

As we gather here, we also wait with anticipation 
for  the  outcome  of  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  peace 
efforts.  We  have  seen  the  two  parties  enter  into 
promising  peace  agreements 
that, 
regrettably,  faltered  along  the  way.  We  call  upon  the 
the  past 
in  order 
to 
in 

10 

09-52470 
It 
in 
the 
that 
resulted 
is  encouraging 
they  are  critical 


two parties to continue to pursue peace to avoid loss of 
life and to live in harmony. 

We  are  happy  to  acknowledge  the  improvements 
in  the  relations  between  the  Republic  of  China  on 
Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China. That new 
development  has 
international 
community  responding  positively  to  the  request  of 
Taiwan  to  be  involved  in  United  Nations  agencies,  as 
evidenced  by  the  granting  of  observer  status  in  the 
World  Health  Assembly.  We  look  forward  to  seeing 
Taiwan  being  allowed  to  fully  contribute  to  humanity 
by  being  given  adequate  participation  in  other  United 
Nations specialized agencies. 

this  year’s  General 
Assembly  was  preceded  by  the  Summit  on  Climate 
Change, where issues of environmental protection were 
given  priority,  as 
to  all  our 
development  strategies.  The  Summit  noted  that  some 
developed  countries  pollute  the  environment,  mainly 
through  gas  emissions,  despite  all  the  protocols  in 
place to protect it. 
I  am  confident  that  the  Summit  was  able  to 

the 
mobilize  adequate  political  support 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in  Copenhagen 
in  December,  where  developed 
countries will be able to share their experiences and the 
challenges that they faced. This will inform the agenda 
that will lead to the transfer of skills and technology so 
that, as developing countries pursue their growth, they 
can avoid the mistakes of the past.  

We cannot overemphasize the need to protect the 
environment,  as  it  is  a  precious  gift  from  God  to 
humanity  and  must  be  preserved  for  generations  to 
come.  We  support  the  call  for  the  establishment  of  a 
major  fund  to  cater  to  all  projects  related  to  climate 
change. We are hopeful that Copenhagen will come up 
with solutions for funding climate-change projects that 
will  be  predictable,  accessible  and  incremental.  The 
Kingdom of Swaziland is determined to work harder to 
meet the targets set by the United Nations. 

In  conclusion  let  me  say  that  the  Kingdom  of 
Swaziland  appreciates  the  good  work  of  the  United 
Nations and its related agencies, which remain the only 
hope  for  overcoming  the  many  complex  challenges 
facing  the  world  today.  We  therefore  take  pride  in 
reaffirming  our  commitment  to  the  principles  and 
ideals contained in the United Nations Charter.  
to  guide 
A/64/PV.8
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  King  of  Swaziland  for 
the statement he has just made. 

His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of State of the 
Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President 
of Mongolia 

hear an address by the President of Mongolia. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
join  others 
President  Tsakhia:  Let  me 
Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia,  President  of  Mongolia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia, 
President of Mongolia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
in 

extending  our  sincere  congratulations  to  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki on his unanimous election to preside 
over  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  am 
confident  that  under  his  able  stewardship  this  session 
will  mark  an  important  milestone  in  meeting  the 
formidable challenges of our times. 
And  the  challenges  we  face  as  a  human  family 

are  unprecedented  indeed.  No  nation,  no  country  is 
immune to the ruthless grip of the multitude of global 
crises:  economy  and  finance,  fuel  and  food,  flu 
pandemics and climate change. These and other global 
challenges  require  global  solutions  underpinned  by  a 
new  multilateralism.  Multilateralism  that  is  effective, 
proactive  and  commensurate  with  today’s  demands. 
Never 
effective 
multilateralism  as  much  as  we  do  now;  as 
the 
Secretary-General  has  rightly  put  it,  “This  is  the 
ultimate multilateral moment” (A/64/1, para. 4). 
Mongolia highly commends the strong leadership 

of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  the  effort  to 
make 
the  new 
multilateralism.  We  also  applaud  his  unwavering 
commitment  to  mobilizing  broad  political  support  to 
address  today’s  pressing  challenges.  Thanks  to  his 
initiative,  on  the  22nd  of  this  month  we  witnessed  an 
unprecedented  gathering  of  world  leaders.  That  has 
provided 
for 
Copenhagen, and I was both humbled and honoured to 
this  Organization 
the  centre  of 
the  world 
necessary 
political 
impetus 
needed 
has 
the 
an 
09-52470 

11 

A/64/PV.8 

serve as one of the co-chairs of the round tables. As a 
result, we have all agreed that in Copenhagen we must 
reach  the  long-awaited  agreement.  The  political  will 
was  clearly  displayed.  The  deal  must  be  within  our 
grasp. 

Climate change poses a truly existential threat to 
humanity. As  a  country  intimately  affected  by  climate 
change,  Mongolia  deems  it  important  to  complement 
global  efforts  with  those  at  regional  and  subregional 
levels.  With  that  in  mind,  we  have  proposed  a 
North-east Asia  Summit  on  Climate  Change. A  series 
of  preparatory  meetings  have  been  held  over  the  last 
two years, including meetings with experts and young 
people,  and  with  senior  officials  and  ministers,  in 
March and May respectively. 

It has become increasingly evident that extensive 
effects  of  climate  change  have  already  appeared  in 
most  parts  of  the  subregion,  which  has  become  more 
exposed  to  drought;  desertification;  reduced  water 
resources;  land  degradation;  increased  occurrence  of 
natural  disasters  and  melting  of  permafrost,  glaciers 
and snow cover. The resulting poverty, food shortages 
and spread of infectious disease will have an increasing 
effect  on the  sustainable development of the  countries 
in the region. Hence the urgent need for joint efforts to 
redress  the  situation,  mitigate  risks  and  enhance those 
countries’  adaptive  capacity.  We  remain  hopeful  that 
they  will  continue  their  active  engagement  in  the 
preparations for the Summit next year. 

Allow me to share briefly our views on issues we 
deem  important  as  we  collectively  seek  to  identify 
effective  responses  to  the  global  crises.  First,  my 
delegation  believes  that  the  multiple  nature  of  the 
crises has to  be taken into account in order to find  an 
adequate response at the global level. This in itself is a 
daunting  task,  requiring  of  us  the  courage  to  rise 
beyond  mere  national  or  group  interests  in  order  to 
survive  collectively  in  our  one  —  global  —  human 
village. 
Secondly, in all our policies and actions we need 

to  focus  on  people  —  on 
the  human  costs  of 
overcoming  the  dire  consequences  of  multiple  crises. 
According  to  the  World  Bank’s  latest  report,  released 
last week, the ongoing global economic, financial and 
food  crises  have  plunged  hundreds  of  millions  more 
people 
iron  grip  of  poverty,  hunger, 
unemployment, illiteracy and ill-health. 
into 
the 
developing 
country  with 
increase  support  and  assistance 

Despite  this  grim  situation  we  are  nonetheless 
encouraged  by  a  broadly  shared  recognition  that  the 
vulnerable  countries,  including  landlocked  developing 
countries  (LLDCs)  ought  to  be  assisted  to  withstand 
the harsh impact of the  crises.  In this regard, we look 
forward  to  the  Group  of  20  meeting  in  Pittsburgh  to 
substantially 
to 
vulnerable and low-income countries. 
Every  sixth  Member  of  the  United  Nations  is  a 

landlocked 
inherent 
development  handicaps.  Indeed,  lack  of  territorial 
access  to  the  sea,  remoteness  from  world  markets  and 
the  consequent  high  transportation  costs  and  undue 
delays  are  major  impediments  for  LLDCs.  Hence, 
Mongolia,  together  with  other  like-minded  countries, 
has endeavoured to promote the common position and 
interests  of  the  Group  of  LLDCs  at  both  the  United 
Nations and the World Trade Organization. The recent 
establishment of an international think tank for LLDCs 
in  Ulaanbaatar  will, 
in  our  view,  enhance  our 
coordinated efforts for the effective implementation of 
the Almaty  Programme  of Action  and  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

inadequate 
representation  of  the  developing  world  in  global 
decision-making  constitute  another  drawback  to  the 
strength of the new multilateralism. Hence the need for 
a  reformed  global  governance  structure.  Mongolia 
believes 
impartiality  and  universal 
legitimacy,  the  United  Nations  is  uniquely  placed  to 
serve  as  the  centre  of  the  new  multilateralism.  Our 
world  Organization  has  embarked  on  a  process  of 
reform  in  order  to  better  respond  to  multifaceted 
challenges.  Important  progress  has  been  made  in 
several  reform  areas,  yet  more  efforts  are  needed  to 
adapt the United Nations to the realities of the twenty-
first century. 

We expect the General Assembly negotiations on 
Security  Council  reform  to  make  meaningful  progress 
at 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  to  expand 
the  Council 
the 
non-permanent  categories.  A 
revitalized  General 
Assembly,  a  greater  role  for  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  in  global  economic  governance  and  enhanced 
United  Nations  capacity  in  building  democracy  and 
peacebuilding are also needed. Mongolia fully supports 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon’s  efforts  to  improve 
this  session  by  meeting 
the  marginalization  and 
the  permanent  and 
the  demand  of 
Thirdly, 
that,  with 
its 
in  both 
12 

09-52470 
in  order 


the  management,  efficiency  and  internal  cohesion  of 
the United Nations system.  

With  a  view  to  making  our  humble  contribution 
to promoting effective international cooperation in the 
economic,  social  and  related  fields,  Mongolia  has 
proposed  its  candidature  for  consideration  at  the 
election  next  month  for  membership  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  for  2010-2012.  We  are  deeply 
grateful to our fellow members of the Asian Group for 
their endorsement of our candidature and look forward 
to  the  kind  support  of  the  broader  membership  of  the 
United Nations. 

Fourthly,  in  order  to  find  effective  solutions  to 
global  crises  we  need  to  do  away  with  the  triple 
deficit — a deficit of political will and commitment; a 
deficit of implementation; and a deficit of resources — 
that  all  too  often  has  impeded  the  pursuit  of  our 
common  efforts.  Those  are  some  of  the  issues  that  in 
our view warrant the consideration of the international 
community 
to  formulate  our  collective 
approach to the pressing challenges at hand. 
Mongolia  has  continuously  based  its  foreign 

in  multilateral 
policy  on 
cooperation 
the  United  Nations.  Our 
engagement  has  ranged  from  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament to promoting democracy and literacy and 
from  addressing  the  special  needs  of  LLDCs  to 
responding  to  climate  change  and  contributing  to 
peacekeeping operations, programmes and funds. 

an 
a  North-East  Asian  nation  with 
internationally  recognized  nuclear-weapon-free  status, 
Mongolia  stands  for  a  nuclear-weapon-free  Korean 
peninsula. Achieving  a  comprehensive  solution  to  the 
nuclear issue through dialogue is of utmost importance. 
We  hope  that  all  countries  concerned  will  look  to  the 
future  in  the  interest  of  peace  and  stability  in  the 
region. We stand ready to contribute to this effort. 

Yesterday the international community witnessed 
another  strong  signal  of  strengthened  multilateralism, 
particularly  in  the  area  of  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation.  The  Security  Council 
summit 
chaired  by  President  Obama 
(see  S/PV.6191) 
confirmed  the  path  towards  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons 
resolution 
by 
1887 (2009). 

Next  year  will  mark  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
renowned  Brahimi  report  (A/55/305),  which  charted  a 
active  participation 
through 
adopting 
historic 
the 
As 
A/64/PV.8
top  20 
its  peacekeeping  operations 
renewed  vision  for  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations. We are proud that Mongolia has joined the 
ranks  of  active  members  of 
the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  family.  With  its  latest  deployment  of  a 
battalion to the United Nations Mission in the Central 
African  Republic  and  Chad,  we  have  become  one  of 
the 
troop  contributors.  Mongolia  stands 
committed  to  enhancing  its  contribution,  including 
through  hosting  training  for  civil  police  and  medical 
personnel  at 
training 
centre. 

Later  this  year  we  will  observe  the  twentieth 
anniversary of the start of the democratic evolution in 
my home country. Mongolia is proud of  its successful 
democratic  transition  and  major  gains  in  the  political, 
economic,  social  and  spiritual  areas  of  the  life  of  our 
society. Yet, as a young democracy, my country is also 
intimately  aware  of  the  complex  challenges  faced  by 
countries  in  transition.  Democracy  and  respect  for 
human  rights  are,  in  our  view,  inherently  woven  into 
the  MDGs.  Proceeding  from  this  premise,  Mongolia 
was  the  first  country  to  adopt,  in  2005,  its  own  ninth 
fostering 
MDG,  on  strengthening  human 
democratic  governance 
to 
corruption. 

international  cooperation  and 
support  for  democratization  efforts.  In  this  regard, 
Mongolia  applauds  the  increased  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  fostering  democracy  and  good  governance. 
The  United  Nations  Democracy  Fund  is  a  notable 
example  and  Mongolia  is  proud  to  serve  on  its 
Advisory Board. The United Nations has also been an 
important  stakeholder  in  the  success  of  the  new  or 
restored democracies process. 

Over  the  past  nearly  five  decades  of  Mongolia’s 
membership  in  the  United  Nations,  our  multifaceted 
cooperation  has  made  a  valuable  contribution  to  our 
development.  I  am  pleased  to  underscore  that  this 
received a considerable boost from the official visit to 
Mongolia of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon last July. 
We will closely work with the United Nations to ensure 
effective follow-up to the visit. 

In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  Mongolia’s  strong 
resolve 
in 
multilateral  cooperation.  We  will  spare  no  effort  to 
ensure that the world Organization remains a centre for 
coordination of the efforts of the community of nations 
towards peace and development in the years to come. 
its  active  participation 
to  continue 
We  believe 
tolerance 
in 
rights, 
and 
zero 
09-52470 

13 
A/64/PV.8 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  Mongolia 
for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia,  President  of  Mongolia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 



into 
Address by Mr. Paul Biya, President of the Republic 
of Cameroon 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon. 

Mr.  Paul  Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, President of the 
Republic of Cameroon, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President Biya (spoke in French): I would like to 

begin by extending my congratulations to Mr. Ali Treki 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  this  sixty-fourth  session  and  by  wishing 
him  every  success  in  the  execution  of  his  term  of 
office.  Allow  me  also  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his tireless work and for the 
remarkable  devotion  that  he  has  demonstrated  at  the 
helm of our Organization. 

Like  each  year,  we  are  asked  during  this  session 
to  look  at  the  state  of  the  world,  to  consider  together 
the  current  problems  and  to  recommend  appropriate 
solutions  to  them.  In  that  regard,  as  we  know,  the 
international community remains under the impact of a 
global financial and economic crisis that has spared no 
country. 

The extraordinary mobilization that it has aroused 
reflects  its  scope  and  extent,  as  well  as  the  gravity  of 
the  threat  that  it  poses  to  the  stability  of  the  global 
economy.  We  must  welcome  that  strong  mobilization, 
led  by  the  major  industrialized  countries.  It  was 
prompt,  resolute  and  consistent.  Without  doubt,  it  has 
demonstrated the international community’s capacity to 
respond fully when it is driven and underpinned by real 
political resolve. 

That is certainly a good example of solidarity, the 
kind  of  international  solidarity  that  we  seek  and  that 
we  would  like  also  to  see  in  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
in  our  common 
concern  to  narrow  the  gap  between  the  North  and  the 
South, and in our daily struggle against poverty, hunger 
and pandemics. 

In other words, if we have been able to mobilize 
ourselves  so  vigorously  to  contain  the  effects  of  the 
financial  crisis,  we  can  do  the  same  to  address  the 
other  challenges  confronting  us,  namely  the  poverty 
and underdevelopment in which so many human beings 
throughout the world still live. For, while the crisis has 
spared  no  continent,  there  is  no  doubt  that  its  effects 
vary  depending  on  the  country,  region  and  level  of 
development. 

Africa, in particular, which in no way contributed 
to  the  unleashing  of  the  crisis,  today,  paradoxically, 
finds  itself  among  the  worst  affected  victims. Among 
the  most  alarming  effects,  we  therefore  condemn  the 
decrease  in  remittances  to  our  countries;  the  severe 
drop  in  the  prices  of  our  products;  the  marked  fall  in 
investment;  worsening  budget  deficits;  and 
the 
slowdown in economic activity — all of which, among 
other  things,  also  have  severe  social  consequences, 
such as a rise in unemployment. Furthermore, there is 
reason  to  fear  that  the  continuation  of  the  crisis  will 
only increase the debt of developing countries. 

We  find  ourselves  facing  new  difficulties  just  as 
we  are  emerging  from  lengthy  years  of  economic 
recovery  efforts  under  rigorous  structural  adjustment 
programmes,  resolutely  implemented  by  our  States  in 
cooperation  with 
financial 
institutions. Neither our efforts nor our sacrifices have 
been in vain, and we believe that our gains, which are 
the  fruit  of  the  commendable  efforts  of  our  peoples, 
must unquestionably be preserved and supported. 
The President took the Chair. 


That  is  why  we  believe  that,  faced  with  the 
harmful effects of the crisis, it is important that we all 
work  together  towards  a  global,  coordinated  and 
significant  response  for  the  benefit  of  the  weakest 
economies.  In  our  view,  that  response  should  lead  to 
the provision of substantial financial resources free, as 
far  as  possible,  of  conditionality  and  aimed  at 
mitigating or even compensating for the consequences 
of a crisis that we could not avert. 

Without  such  support,  our  developing  countries 
run the risk of seeing their economic activity decrease 
international 
the 
14 

09-52470 
true 
for 


and the signs of the revival that they could reasonably 
hope  for  disappear.  It  is  evident  that,  over  and  above 
development and improved living conditions, the peace 
and  stability  of  our  countries  depend  on  it.  That  also 
holds 
international  peace  and  security, 
inasmuch  as  the  numerous  problems  confronting  the 
world today — be it, for example, illegal immigration 
or trafficking of every kind — arise partly from a real 
lack  of  cooperation  and  solidarity,  and  thus  call  for 
greater justice in international relations. 

In  that  connection,  I  welcome  the  fortuitous 
decision taken in London in April by the Group of 20 
to  recommend  that  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF)  support  the  weakest  economies  through  more 
and  softer  loans,  possibly  with  less  conditionality. 
Moreover,  in  that  context,  my  country,  Cameroon, 
benefited  from  substantial  financial  support  from  the 
IMF  under  the  Exogenous  Shocks  Facility.  I  welcome 
that  support,  and  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
International  Monetary  Fund  officials.  That  timely 
support  will  strengthen  the  anticyclical  measures  that 
we have adopted at the national and subregional levels, 
fully  aware  that  foreign  aid  is  merely  a  buttress  that 
should not replace our own efforts.  

Accordingly,  in  Cameroon,  we  have,  inter  alia, 
strengthened the productive sectors and taken action to 
reduce  the  prices  of  basic  commodities  and  improve 
the  business  climate.  In 
the  subregion,  member 
the  Central  African  Economic  and 
countries  of 
Monetary  Community  have  agreed 
tax 
incentives  and  to  establish  a  support  fund  for  the 
sectors  most  affected  by  the  crisis.  Thus,  while 
welcoming 
international 
community, we are aware that it can bear fruit only if 
based  on  stringent  management  and  good  governance 
centred on the primacy of the public interest.  
Moreover,  it  was  in  that  spirit  that  a  few  years 

back 
the 
establishment  within  the  United  Nations  of  a  global 
ethics committee, for it is a combination of moral drift 
and serious ethical deviations that is at the root of the 
current global financial crisis. We trust that, in the near 
future,  we  will  surmount  the  crisis  through  collective 
awareness and mobilization.  

financial  and 
economic  crisis,  we  are  concerned  about  other 
important  matters.  The  food  crisis  is  still  ravaging 
many  developing  countries.  The  poverty  reduction 
However,  alongside  with 
recommended 
assistance 
to  adopt 
from 
this 
rostrum 
I 
from 
the 
the 
A/64/PV.8
struggle  is  far  from  being  won.  Global  peace  and 
security  are  still  threatened  worldwide,  particularly  in 
Africa.  Climate  change 
is  each  day  becoming 
increasingly  worrisome,  with  visible  consequences  in 
every country.  

Regarding  climate  change  in  particular,  Africa, 
like other continents, has been hard hit despite its low 
level of greenhouse gas emissions. Global warming, its 
most  salient  feature,  affects  many  socio-economic 
sectors, including energy, health, agriculture, livestock 
production,  ecosystems  and  rapid  desertification.  In 
this regard, the spectacular drying up of Lake Chad, the 
surface  of  which  has  shrunk  from  26,000  square 
kilometres  in  the  1960s  to  1,500  square  kilometres 
today,  clearly  requires  significant  collective  action  of 
the Central African States which, in our opinion, needs 
strong  support  from  the  international  community.  One 
thing is certain: African countries are individually and 
collectively  pulling  their  full  weight  in  the  activity 
necessary at the national, subregional and global levels 
to  provide  concrete  solutions  to  the  challenge  of 
climate change.  

Such participation is significant. In Cameroon, it 
has taken the form of numerous actions, including the 
establishment of a national environmental management 
plan  and  the  adoption  at  the  subregional  level  of  a 
convergence  plan  for  the  sustainable  management  of 
the Congo basin forest which, we are all aware, is the 
world’s second largest. 
The implementation of all these measures is very 

costly,  especially 
terms  of  acquiring  adapted 
technologies,  and  requires  our  people  to  accept  huge 
sacrifices.  Furthermore,  without  denying  the  fact  that 
the  fate  and  future  of  the  planet  are  everyone’s 
business, it seems legitimate, in my opinion, to ask that 
the  peoples  of  Africa  be  duly  compensated  by  the 
international community for their efforts and sacrifices. 
In  this  regard,  we  hope  that  the  Copenhagen  climate 
conference  scheduled  for  December  will  provide 
satisfactory answers to the particular case of Africa. 

Regarding  world  peace  and  security,  we  continue 
to  deplore  the  persistence  of  numerous  conflicts  or 
hotbeds  of  tension,  despite  significant  progress  towards 
a  return  to  calm.  I  refer  to  the  situations  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Darfur and Somalia, 
among  others.  Cameroon  is  playing  an  active  role, 
including  by  dispatching  Cameroonian  contingents,  in 
in 
09-52470 

15 
in  order 
effective, 
to  ensure 
the  United  Nations 
A/64/PV.8 

the  efforts  to  find  lasting  solutions  to  these  conflicts, 
which have lasted too long. 

In  this  respect,  I  wish  to  hail  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations,  which  is  making  tireless  efforts  to 
stabilize  all  these  situations.  However,  if  it  is  to  be 
more 
requires 
commensurate human, financial and material resources. 
Furthermore,  the  United  Nations  should  be  able  to 
reflect  the  common  will  of  all  its  Members,  large  and 
small, 
its  effectiveness  and 
credibility.  It  must  more  clearly  assert  and  further 
strengthen  its  role  as  the  crucible  par  excellence  of 
multilateralism,  that  is,  a  forum  for  the  exchange  of 
ideas,  solidarity,  equity  and  equality  where  all  the 
voices  and  opinions  of  developed  and  developing 
countries alike are expressed and taken into account. 

These  values  go  hand  in  hand  with  the  dialogue 
of  civilizations  proposed  for  our  consideration  at  this 
session. Such a dialogue should not ignore differences, 
but rather promote diversity so as to foster knowledge 
and  mutual  understanding  among  peoples.  From  this 
perspective,  the  dialogue  of  civilizations  or  cultures 
advocates  tolerance  and  mutual  respect  and  rejects  all 
forms  of  fanaticism  that  threaten  international  peace 
and security. 

That  is  the  dual  role  that  the  United  Nations,  a 
proving ground for multilateralism and crucible of the 
dialogue  of  civilizations,  must  assume  if  it  seeks  to 
embody 
the  noblest  and  deepest  aspirations  of 
humankind  and  satisfy  our  peoples’  expectations  with 
comprehensive and relevant solutions. 

But  the  question  is,  how  can  the  United  Nations 
fulfil this role if it does not adapt to the current trends 
and  changes  in  international  relations?  That  is  the 
purpose of the recommendations we have been making 
the 
for 
revitalization  of 
the 
strengthening of the means of action of the Secretary-
General.  We  therefore  need  to  fast-track  the  overhaul 
of  an  Organization  that,  through  its  universal  nature, 
symbolizes  our  common  destiny  and  seeks  to  be  our 
common  abode.  For  only  a  renewed  United  Nations 
that  is  more  democratic,  more  credible  and  more 
efficient  will  be  able  to  inspire  peoples’  hopes  and 
trust. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Security  Council, 
the  General  Assembly  and 
reform  of 
the 

the Republic of Cameroon for the statement he has just 
made. 

Mr.  Paul  Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
from 


(spoke 
Address by Mr. Nguyen Minh Triet, President of the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Socialist  Republic  of 
Viet Nam. 

Mr. Nguyen Minh Triet, President of the Socialist 
Republic  of  Viet  Nam,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
President  Nguyen  Minh  Triet 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nguyen  Minh  Triet, 
President of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.  

in 
Vietnamese;  English  interpretation  provided  by  the 
delegation): On behalf of the Vietnamese delegation, I 
wish to congratulate you, Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, on 
your  election  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fourth  session.  I  believe  that  with  your  rich 
experience, you will lead the Assembly at this session 
to great success. Viet Nam commends you, Sir, for the 
theme you proposed for this high-level general debate, 
namely,  effective 
to  global  crises  — 
strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations  for 
international  peace,  security  and 
development.

I further wish to express our high appreciation to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  for 
his contributions to the work of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-third session. 

The year since the Assembly’s sixty-third session 
has  not  been  a  long  span  of  time,  yet  it  has  been 
characterized by the many challenges it brought to the 
entire international community. Every part of the world 
has  suffered  from 
the  negative  and  far-reaching 
impacts  of  the  global  financial  crisis  and  economic 
downturn.  That  further  aggravates  the  challenges  in 
terms  of  food  security,  energy  security  and  climate 
change facing developing countries in particular. In the 
meantime,  tension  and  conflicts  persist  in  various 
regions, and the threats of the proliferation of weapons 
responses 
16 

09-52470 
the  part  of 


of  mass  destruction  and  of  international  terrorism 
continue to demand effective responses. 

Because  of  all  this,  the  past  year  has  also 
witnessed  enormous  efforts  on 
the 
international  community,  both  in  thinking  and  in 
action, not only to address the immediate problems but 
also  to  create  a  more  sustainable  foundation  for 
common  peace  and  prosperity.  In  due  course,  nations 
have been able to draw valuable lessons on governance 
over  domestic  development  and  to  gain  a  fuller 
understanding  of 
the  meaning  of  multilateral 
cooperation.  It  is  evident  that  no  single  country  could 
respond to the financial and economic crisis and to the 
series of current global challenges. It is equally evident 
that policies and measures of imposition and unilateral 
use  of  force  to  address  international  security  and 
political  issues  would  only  result  in  more  tension, 
confrontation and impasse. 

Given  the  many  difficulties  at  the  present  time, 
we  are  encouraged  by  recent  positive  —  although  not 
solid  —  signals  from  the  world  economy.  The  first 
the  Security  Council  on  nuclear 
summit  of 
non-proliferation 
and  nuclear  disarmament  has 
highlighted 
the 
international  agenda.  Viet  Nam  recognizes  the  active 
contributions of the United Nations and the Secretary-
General in the furtherance of discussions on and direct 
support for the implementation of concrete measures in 
relation  to  issues  of  international  concern.  In  this 
connection,  Viet  Nam  hopes  that  this  Assembly  will 
focus its deliberations on the following issues. 

fundamental  principles  of 
international  law  and  the  United  Nations  Charter  in 
international  relations  is  the  determining  factor  for 
peace  and  security  and  a  prerequisite  for  all  the 
activities  undertaken  by  the  international  community. 
On  that  basis,  the  United  Nations  should  continue  to 
make  active  contributions 
tension  and 
peacefully resolving outstanding disputes and conflicts, 
including  those  relating  to  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea and Iran.  
It is Viet  Nam’s hope that early progress will be 

made 
peaceful, 
comprehensive, just and lasting solution in the Middle 
East on the basis of ensuring the fundamental national 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  the  legitimate 
interests of all parties concerned. We fully support the 
national  reconciliation  and  reconstruction  process  in 
the  question  of  disarmament  on 
negotiations 
to  easing 
the 
Respect 
for 
the 
in 
for 
a 
A/64/PV.8
immediately  ending 
Afghanistan  and  Iraq  and  strongly  condemn  terrorist 
acts  against  civilians  in  those  countries  and  in  other 
places  in  the  world.  We  oppose  the  unilateral  use  of 
economic  sanctions  against  developing  countries  and 
support  the  General  Assembly  resolutions  on  the 
necessity  of 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  against 
Cuba. 

An  effective  and  comprehensive  response  to 
today’s economic and financial crisis is the top concern 
of the international community. In the immediate term, 
that  includes  urgent  measures  to  curb  the  pace  of  the 
downturn,  encourage  an  early  recovery  of  the  world 
economy  and  minimize  the  negative  impacts  of  the 
crisis, particularly on the realization of the Millennium 
Development Goals in developing countries.  

In  the  long  run,  the  response  will  embrace 
considerations  of  development  paradigms  suitable  for 
individual  nations  and  reforms  of  the  international 
system  of  economic  relations,  which  has  for  quite  a 
while shown  many irrationalities.  It is also imperative 
to promote the role of the United Nations in designing 
international strategies and mechanisms to address the 
energy and food crisis, pandemics and climate change, 
including issues to be discussed at the Climate Change 
Conference in Copenhagen this December. 

The  United  Nations  reform  process  should  also 
continue to meet the emerging, complex requirements. 
Viet Nam shares the common view that reform should 
be  undertaken  in  all  United  Nations  agencies,  with 
Security Council reform conducted in such a way as to 
broaden  its  representation  and  render  its  operational 
methodology more democratic and transparent. Efforts 
to  reform  the  machinery  should  go  hand  in  hand  with 
efforts to renew content and to pay due attention to the 
balance  among  the  fields  of  activity  of  the  United 
Nations.  United  Nations  operations  should  also  be 
provided with sufficient resources. 

Next year, Member States will commemorate the 
sixty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  while 
also  reviewing  the  Organization’s  activities  and  the 
10-year 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  To  prepare  the  ground 
for recommendations to be submitted to the leaders of 
Member  States  at  the  sixty-fifth  session,  we  need  to 
discuss  what  lessons  can  be  drawn  from  United 
Nations activities in all spheres, what activities should 
be prioritized and what conditions are necessary for the 
implementation 
of 
09-52470 

17 
and 
to 
contributor 
responsible 
A/64/PV.8 

Organization  fully  to  carry  out  its  mandates  and 
functions in the interest of all nations. 

In  the  recent  past,  Viet  Nam  has  continued  to 
record  major  achievements  in  the  process  of  renewal, 
in general, and initial positive gains in response to the 
impact  of  the  global  economic  and  financial  crisis,  in 
particular. We have also been successful in our foreign 
policy,  which  is  based  on  openness  and  strives  to 
diversify  and  ensure  the  multilateral  character  of  our 
external  relations  in  the  spirit  of  being  a  friend  and 
reliable  partner  of  all  nations  and  an  active, 
constructive,  cooperative  and  responsible  member  of 
the international community. 

As  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council, we  have been  an active participant in and  an 
effective 
the 
maintenance  of  world  peace  and  security. As  a  peace-
loving  nation, Viet  Nam  always  strongly  supports  and 
contributes  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes  and  conflicts,  the  fight  against  transnational 
crime and international terrorism, and the promotion of 
disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction.  As  a  country 
that  experienced 
decades  of  war  with  devastating  consequences, 
including  the  long-term  effects  of  the  Agent  Orange 
toxic  chemical,  and  as  a  country  that  has  made 
important achievements in development, Viet Nam has 
always  striven  towards  the  effective  Security  Council 
action in supporting reconstruction efforts in countries 
emerging from conflict. 

its  work,  Viet  Nam  sets  high  store  by 
consultation  and  cooperation  with  other  members  of 
the Security Council and the United Nations, as shown 
by our initiative to consult Member States on the latest 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council.  I  would  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  sincere  gratitude 
and  appreciation  to  all  Member  States  for  their 
cooperation,  without  which Viet  Nam  would  not  have 
accomplished this undertaking. 

In  the  future,  Viet  Nam  will  continue  to  work 
actively  for  world  peace,  stability,  cooperation  and 
development, thus contributing to efforts of the United 
Nations 
in 
accelerating  the  resolution  of  social  issues  and  global 
challenges,  as  well  as 
implementation  of 
development  programmes  and  the  Delivering  as  One 
initiative. 
international 
community 
and 
the 

can  we, 
cooperation 
leaders,  meet 

This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  taking 
place at a crucial juncture. During 2009, the world has 
witnessed  many  significant  changes,  which  have 
demanded  corresponding  policy  decisions  from  us.  I 
believe  that  only  by  standing  shoulder  to  shoulder  to 
enhance  multilateral 
as 
responsible 
the  expectations  and 
aspirations  of  our  peoples  and  map  out  a  path  for  the 
long-term  development  of  the  United  Nations.  Viet 
Nam  will  always  be  a  supportive,  active  and 
responsible participant in this noble mission. 

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Socialist 
Republic  of  Viet  Nam  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr. Nguyen Minh Triet, President of the Socialist 
Republic  of  Viet  Nam,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Mr.  Mwamba  (Democratic  Republic  of 
Address by Mr. Andry Nirina Rajoelina, President 
of the High Transitional Authority of the Republic 
of Madagascar 
The  President: The  General Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina, 
President  of  the  High  Transitional  Authority  of  the 
Republic of Madagascar. 
I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs 

of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on a point of 
order.

the 
Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am  taking  the  floor  on 
behalf  of 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community  (SADC),  comprising  Angola,  Botswana, 
Lesotho,  Malawi,  Mauritius,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Seychelles,  South  Africa,  Swaziland, 
the  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Zambia,  Zimbabwe  and  my 
country,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  The 
Comoros associates itself with the present motion on a 
point of order. 

Under  rule  71  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the 
General  Assembly,  SADC  would  like  to  express  its 
strong  protest  at  the  decision  to  invite  Mr.  Andry 
Nirina  Rajoelina  to  take  the  floor  during  the  general 
debate  of  the Assembly  and  to  invite  the  Republic  of 
Madagascar  to  participate  in  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. 
In 
the 
18 

09-52470 
SADC 
is  making 
efforts 
to 



With  respect  to  Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina,  I 
should like to remind the Assembly of the decision of 
the heads of State and Government of SADC, who met 
at  a  summit  in  Kinshasa  on  8  September  2009.  They, 
first,  noted  with  concern  the  attempt  to  damage  the 
agreements  signed  by  all  of  the  Malagasy  political 
movements  in  Maputo  on  9  August  2009.  Secondly, 
they  rejected  and  condemned  in  strong  terms  any 
unilateral decision which would violate the spirit of the 
Maputo Accords.  The  heads  of  State  and  Government 
also  reiterated  their  decision  to  suspend  Madagascar 
from SADC until constitutional order is restored in the 
country.  Thirdly,  they  further  reiterated  their  support 
for  the  ongoing  political  dialogue  in  Madagascar  and 
urged  all  political  actors  to  fully  respect  the  Maputo 
Accords. 

re-establish 
constitutional  order  in  that  country.  To  achieve  this 
end,  it  has  placed  its  full  trust  in  His  Excellency 
President  Joaquim  Chissano,  an  eminent  figure  and 
mediator for political dialogue in Madagascar. 

With respect to the Republic of Madagascar as a 
country,  I  should  like  to  recall  that  in  March  2009, 
SADC  decided  not  to  recognize  the  self-proclaimed 
Malagasy  Government.  SADC 
a 
mediation  process  aimed  at  returning  constitutional 
order  to  the  country.  As  long  as  that  constitutional 
order is not re-established, SADC will never recognize 
the current Government of Madagascar.  

For  the  same  reasons  that  motivated  SADC’s 
position,  the African  Union,  which  is  chaired  by  your 
country,  Mr.  President,  has  suspended  Madagascar 
from  participation  in  the  work  of  the  African  Union 
since  March  2009.  This  was  done  in  accordance  with 
the relevant provisions of the Union’s Constitutive Act, 
which  condemn  and  reject  anti-constitutional  changes 
of government. The African Union therefore called on 
the international community as a whole to support the 
application  of  this  decision.  It  called  for  a  return  to 
constitutional  legality  by  means  of  subjecting  the 
leaders  of  Madagascar,  including  Mr.  Andry  Nirina 
Rajoelina, who is present here, to sanctions. Moreover, 
during 
in  Sharm 
el-Sheikh, the Non-Aligned Movement refused to give 
the floor to Madagascar. 

Madagascar  is  represented  at  this  session  of  the 
Assembly  by  persons  who  are  without  standing,  who 
gained power through a coup. SADC therefore calls on 
its  most  recent  summit,  held 
rather  began 
09-52470 

A/64/PV.8
that  as  President 
the  Credentials  Committee  to  meet  at  the  earliest 
opportunity and take a decision on this matter. 

SADC  calls  on  all  members  of  the  General 
Assembly  who  share  our  values  to  provide  us  their 
invaluable  support.  We  ask  them  to  take  a  stand 
immediately  on  the  procedural  motion  which  aims  to 
prevent  the  Malagasy  delegation  led  by  Mr.  Andry 
Nirina  Rajoelina  from  participating  in  the  general 
debate at the sixty-fourth session of the Assembly. But 
if the floor is nonetheless given to him, we would like 
to urge all Member States to continue to manifest their 
support for us by rising and exiting the room. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I should like to 
inform the Assembly of the following. I was contacted 
yesterday  by  the  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
countries  of 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community  (SADC),  who  requested  me  to  prohibit 
Mr. Rajoelina from taking the floor. A representative of 
the  Legal  Counsel  was  present  at  that  meeting.  The 
response  of  the  representative  of  the  Legal  Counsel 
was 
I  could  defer  giving 
Mr. Rajoelina  the  floor  for  a  time,  but  could  not 
prohibit him from taking the floor altogether. 

There  was  certainly  no  contact  with  SADC. 
SADC  did  not  contact  the  Secretariat  in  advance  to 
draw  attention  to  the  fact  that  Mr.  Rajoelina  was  not 
recognized  by  their  organization.  Because  the African 
Union  had  taken  a  decision  to  freeze  Madagascar’s 
membership  and  had  not  endorsed  either  the  previous 
regime  or  the  new  regime,  Madagascar’s  seat  in  the 
African Union had remained empty.  

Following  this  discussion,  there  was  a  decision, 
and  my  brothers  from  SADC  proposed  a  solution:  to 
defer Mr. Rajoelina’s statement to the end of the list of 
speakers who are at the heads of State level, and that, 
before he took the floor, the Chairperson of SADC, the 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, or someone else, would raise a 
point  of  order  with  respect  to  this  subject. That  is  the 
agreement we came to.  

In  the  light  of  this,  I  had  three  meetings  with 
Mr. Rajoelina, and for my part I tried to convince him 
to distribute the text of his address and perhaps not to 
take  the  floor,  because  I  did  not  want  there  to  be  any 
split among Africans or for African subjects to be dealt 
with  by  others. A  contact  group  was  duly  established. 
The  African  Union  supported  SADC.  The  group  has 
met  regularly  and  tried  to  find  a  solution  to  this 
19 

that 
that 
informed  by 
the  Secretariat 
the  General  Assembly 
A/64/PV.8 

problem by inviting the concerned parties to meet and 
agree on a solution. We did the same thing with respect 
to both Mauritania and Guinea.  

The position of the African Union with respect to 
military  coups  is  clear:  we  automatically  freeze  any 
regime  that  comes  to  power  through  a  military  coup. 
But in the past we did not contact the United Nations to 
suggest  that  it  follow  a  similar  course  of  action: 
directly  prohibiting  any  delegation.  Guinea  is  still 
present with us, and Mauritania was with us at the time 
when Africa had stopped its contact with that country.  

My brothers from SADC, the United Republic of 
Tanzania and Zambia requested in an unsigned letter to 
the  President  of 
the 
Credentials  Committee  meet  today,  25  September.  I 
have  been 
the 
Credentials  Committee  may  meet  tomorrow  to  take  a 
decision  on  this  request.  In  accordance  with  the 
practice  followed  in  the  United  Nations,  when  the 
Assembly is meeting for the general debate, it usually 
does  not  consider  other  subjects.  That  means  that  the 
General  Assembly  may  not  meet  upon  submission  of 
the  report  of  the  Credentials  Committee  unless  this 
occurred after the end of the general debate.  

Thus,  any  recommendation,  be  it  positive  or 
negative,  by  the  Credentials  Committee  would  be 
presented for discussion in the General Assembly only 
following the general debate.  The decision to be taken 
by  the  General  Assembly  will  be  carried  out  with 
respect  to  Madagascar  as  a  delegation  as  well  as 
Madagascar’s  presence  within  the  United  Nations  for 
the time being. That is the legal situation at the present 
moment. 

The  Office  of  Legal  Affairs  has  made  a 
recommendation.  Let  me  read  out  the  notes  submitted 
to me by the Legal Counsel of the United Nations: 
(spoke in English) 


“During  the  discussion  of  any  matter,  a 
representative  may  rise  to  a  point  of  order,  and 
the  point  of  order  shall  be  immediately  decided 
by  the  President  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of 
procedure.” 

The notes then make reference to rules 29 and 35 
of the rules of procedure. There are a number of other 
references here as well.  
Mr.  Mwamba  (Democratic  Republic  of 
I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs 

Following rule 29 of the rules of the procedure, it 
is  my  understanding  that  His  Excellency  Mr.  Andry 
Nirina  Rajoelina  may  be  given  the  floor.  That  is  also 
my  ruling.  If  any  Member  State  wishes  to  appeal  that 
ruling, then they should indicate that now and it will be 
put to the vote.  

of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

the 
Congo) (spoke in French): I had invoked rule 71 of the 
same  document,  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  have 
taken  note  of  your  decision, 
Mr. President,  and  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community  (SADC)  has  taken  note  of  your  decision. 
SADC  continues  to  believe,  for  the  reasons  that  we 
outlined,  that  the  delegation  led  by  Mr.  Rajoelina 
should not participate in the general debate. 

Also,  in  accordance  with  rule  71  of  the  rules  of 
procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  appeal  your 
decision  and  ask  that  our  motion  to  prevent  the 
delegation  of  Madagascar  led  by  Mr.  Rajoelina  from 
participating in the general debate be put to the vote. I 
invite members of SADC and those who support us to 
speak out if you, Mr. President, maintain your intention 
to give the floor to Mr. Rajoelina. This approach is in 
line with the rules of procedure.  

I  give 
representative of Guinea-Bissau on a point of order. 

Mr. Cabral (Guinea-Bissau) (spoke in French): I 
should  like  to  say  with  great  emphasis  that,  without 
prejudice 
the 
representative  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  I  was  astonished  to  hear  rule  71  be  invoked. 
What  is  the  matter  we  are  discussing  here?  Is  the 
representation  of  Madagascar  on  the  agenda?  That  is 
the  question  I  pose.  Rule  71  is  very  clear.  Rule  71 
stipulates that, I should like to recall, it comes into play 
“During the discussion of any matter”. Is the matter the 
representation  of  Madagascar  on  the  agenda?  Are  we 
now  considering  the  question  of  the  representation  of 
Madagascar? That is the first question that needs to be 
dealt with before any decision is taken. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  think  the 
situation  is  clear.  We  are  presented  with  a  problem.  I 
have  explained  our  position  very  clearly.  There  has 
been a divergence of views, and we are now faced with 
a situation.  
the  arguments  presented  by 
The  President: 
floor 
the 
to 
the 
to 
20 

09-52470 
Mr.  Shaaban
(Under-Secretary-General 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 



The  United  Nations  invited  the  representative  of 
Madagascar. The Legal Counsel holds the view that the 
delegation  of  Madagascar  should  be  given  the  floor, 
and I am of the view that what the Legal Counsel has 
suggested  is  the  preferable  course  of  action.  We  are 
awaiting  the  view  of  the  Credentials  Committee.  The 
General Assembly will continue its work on this when 
it has received the recommendation of that Committee. 
But  for  the  time  being,  we  must  give  the  speaker  the 
opportunity to proceed with his address.  

I  shall  now  put  to  the  vote  the  question  of 
whether  or  not  Mr.  Rajoelina  should  proceed  with  his 
address,  now  that  we  have  heard  the  position  of  the 
Southern African Development Community. 

Secretariat. 

for 
General Assembly  and  Conference  Management): The 
Assembly is now voting on the ruling by the President 
to give the floor to the representative of Madagascar. 

floor 
representative of Jamaica on a point of order.  

Mr. Wolfe (Jamaica): Many of us were waiting to 
hear  exactly  how  the  motion  would  be  put.  There  is 
usually a pause, when the motion is put very clearly, so 
that  we  know  what  we  are  voting  for,  against  or 
abstaining  from.  And  I  am  afraid  that  my  delegation 
was  waiting  for  the  Secretariat  to  pause  and  repeat 
what the motion was. I am not sure what it is that we 
are  voting  on.  I  am  totally  confused,  and  I  note  that 
many delegations have not yet voted. 
The  President:  As  the  representative  of  the 

Secretariat said, there is a challenge to the ruling by the 
President  to  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Madagascar. 

In favour:  

Against:  
Denmark, Ecuador, Madagascar, Malaysia. 
A recorded vote was taken.
The  President:
I  give 
the 
Angola,  Argentina,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State 
of),  Botswana,  Brazil,  Canada,  Congo, 
Democratic  Republic  of 
India, 
Jamaica, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, 
Nicaragua,  Seychelles,  South  Africa,  Suriname, 
Swaziland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
the  Congo, 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.8
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Zambia, 
Zimbabwe. 
Abstaining: 


from 
Cameroon,  Lebanon,  Liechtenstein,  Mali, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Vanuatu. 
The  ruling  of  the  President was  rejected  by  23 
votes to 4, with 6 abstentions. 
[Subsequently, the delegation of Ecuador advised 
the  Secretariat  that  it  had  intended  to  vote 
against.] 
The  President:  The  matter  is  now  clear.  The 

majority is silent. 
I give the floor to the representative of Algeria. 

Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): My 

delegation  was  awaiting  clarification 
the 
Secretariat with regard to the question that was put to 
us.  Were  delegations  asked  to  cast  a  vote  on  your 
decision or were they asked to decide on the proposal 
to  oppose  your  decision,  as  put  forward  by  the 
representative  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo on behalf of the Southern African Development 
Community?  When  this  matter  has  been  clarified,  I 
think  Member  States  will  be  in  a  better  position  to 
decide  for  one  of  these  two  options.  I  would  ask  you, 
Mr. President, please to tell us exactly what we are to 
decide upon or upon what we have actually missed the 
opportunity to give our opinion. 
The  President:  The  ruling  of  the  President  was 

based on a recommendation from the Secretariat Legal 
Counsel.  

the  Assembly  must  pronounce 
themselves  on  what  we  are  going  to  do:  are  we  going 
to start again, or are we going to accept the vote? The 
legal  officer  will  consult  his  Chief  and  come  back  to 
us, and that will take some time.  

of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  
the 

Congo) (spoke in French): All of us present in this Hall 
are  jurists.  The  vote  was  very  clear.  There  were  23 
votes cast against your proposal. That means that there 
are  23  countries  that  reject  Madagascar  taking  the 
floor.  There  are  only  four  countries  that  accept  that 
Madagascar  should  take  the  floor.  And  six  countries 
abstained.  The  vote  has  ended,  so  let  us  accept  the 
I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
Mr.  Mwamba  (Democratic  Republic  of 
Members  of 
09-52470 

21 

A/64/PV.8 

conclusion  of  the  vote:  Mr.  Rajoelina  may  not  speak, 
since  the  majority  has  expressed  its  will  that  he  not 
speak. 
The  President:  I  agree  with  the  Minister  for 

Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. I think the decision has been made. I think we 
will now close this discussion for today. 

The  meeting  was  suspended  at  6  p.m.  and 
resumed at 6.05 p.m. 

Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 




the 
the 
  Address by Mr. Ramdien Sardjoe, Vice-
President of the Republic of Suriname 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Suriname. 

Mr.  Ramdien  Sardjoe,  Vice-President  of 
Republic  of  Suriname,  was  escorted 
to 
rostrum. 
The  President: 
I  have  great  pleasure 
in 

welcoming His Excellency Mr. Ramdien Sardjoe, Vice-
President  of  the  Republic  of  Suriname,  and  inviting 
him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Sardjoe  (Suriname):  On  behalf  of  my 

delegation I congratulate Mr. Ali Treki on his election 
as President  of the sixty-fourth session of the  General 
Assembly.  I  am  sure  that  his  wisdom  and  experience 
will  guide  us  as  we  address  the  challenges  on  the 
global  agenda.  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
important  work  of  your  predecessor  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann.  He  led  the  Assembly’s  sixty-
third 
through  complex  discussions  and 
extensive investigations in a spirit of responsibility and 
good faith. I also take this opportunity to commend the 
Secretary-General  and  his  staff  for  their  continued 
dedication 
the  ongoing  efforts  for 
improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Organization 
and its interaction with Member States. 

The  world  continues  to  face  many  challenges, 
both traditional and new. Whilst traditional challenges 
to  international  peace  and  security  persist,  we  also 
have  to  cope  with  non-traditional  threats  such  as 
pervasive 
increased 
intensity  of  natural  disasters  and 
frequency  and 
environmental  degradation. Added  to  those  challenges 
in  overseeing 
diseases, 
poverty, 
session 
deadly 
the  understanding 
the  realization  of 
are the energy, food, financial and economic crises, all 
of  which  are  hampering 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  the  target  date  of 
2015. 
Our  growing  interdependence  in  today’s  world 

only  strengthens 
that  current 
challenges  transcend  national  borders  and  therefore 
require  concerted  action  and  responses  from 
the 
international community. The United Nations therefore 
remains the central forum for addressing global issues, 
and  we  continue  to  advocate  effective  multilateralism 
not as an option but as a necessity. 

In  this  regard  we  deem  it  indispensable  for  the 
United  Nations  to  continue  its  reform  efforts.  This 
should  include  meaningful  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  to  make  it  more  effective  and  responsive  to 
today’s  challenging  world.  Of  equal  importance  is 
strengthened  cooperation  within  and  between  regional 
groups.  We  should  continue  to  promote  and  pursue 
intensified  channels  of  political  dialogue  between 
regional groups in reaffirming our shared commitment 
to multilateralism. 
In this spirit, my country participates in regional 

and  interregional  endeavours  to  strengthen  political, 
economic,  cultural  and 
social  cooperation  and 
integration. I would like to highlight the importance of 
the  United  Nations  as  an  effective  agent  in  advancing 
multilateralism  and  emphasize  the  need  for  it  to 
strengthen  its  role  of  consultation  and  coordination 
with regional organizations. 
The  urgency  of  the  threat  posed  by  climate 

change  requires 
the  same  degree  of  multilateral 
engagement as has been demonstrated in areas ranging 
from the fight against the uncontrolled spread of illicit 
small  arms  and  light  weapons,  the  fight  against 
international 
to  control 
HIV/AIDS,  on  the  one  hand,  and  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding,  the  advancement  of  women  and  the 
protection of human rights, on the other. 

We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  convening  the  recent  Summit  on  Climate 
Change  to  garner  the  necessary  political  support  to 
“seal  the  deal”  in  Copenhagen.  Suriname  expects  an 
agreement  in  Copenhagen  with  ambitious  mitigation 
and  adaptation  targets.  We  expect  the  commitments 
necessary  to  reduce  emissions  of  greenhouse  gases  in 
appropriate  quantities  and  to  support  adaptation  in 
developing  countries.  Countries  that  are  historically 
terrorism  and 
the  effort 
22 

09-52470 
A/64/PV.8
the 
look 
forward 


responsible  for  the  current  emissions  of  greenhouse 
gases  in  the  atmosphere  should  take  the  lead  in  this 
area. 

Mr. Shaheed (Maldives), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 
In 
forest  carbon-mitigation 
the  spirit  of  common  but  differentiated 

to  appropriate 
responsibilities,  we 
mitigation  efforts  by  developing  countries. As  a  high-
forest  low-deforestation  (HFLD)  country,  Suriname 
will  continue  with  its  efforts  to  manage  its  forests 
sustainably.  In  this  way  we  aim  to  keep  and  improve 
the climate-stabilizing capacity of our standing forests. 
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  establishment  of  a 
future 
regime  providing 
positive  incentives  to  HFLD  countries.  In  this  regard 
we  call  your  attention  to  the  report  of  the  Informal 
Working  Group  on  Interim  Finance  for  Reducing 
Emissions  from  Deforestation  and  Forest  Degradation 
(REDD).  This  report  estimates  that,  if  financing  of 
€15 billion  to  €25  billion  is  available  for  the  2010-
2015  period,  a  25  per  cent  reduction  in  annual  global 
deforestation  rates  will  be  achievable  by  2015.  In  this 
regard  we  call  upon  institutions  and  fellow  Member 
States  to  support  United  Nations  REDD+  efforts  in 
recognition  of  the  beneficial  potential  of  tropical 
forests in mitigating climate change.

Suriname  has  emphasized  its  support  for  the 
promotion  of  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  the 
culture  of  peace  in  various  international  forums, 
especially  through  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Global Agenda and Programme of Action for Dialogue 
among  Civilizations,  as  well  as  the  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace 
(resolutions 56/6 and 53/243, respectively). 
Our  democracy  serves  as  an  illustration  of  our 

quest  for  peace,  security  and  development.  Various 
ethnic groups with different multicultural backgrounds 
and  religious  traditions  have  come  a  long  way  in 
coexisting  and  cooperating 
in  a  harmonious  and 
peaceful  way.  This  engagement  is  reflected  in  the 
political  representation  of  our  administration.  It  is 
within  this  atmosphere  of  democratic  values,  of  high 
levels  of  religious  and  ethnic  tolerance,  that  we  are 
building a society that can prosper and engage with the 
region  and  the  world  beyond.  In  order  to  achieve 
international  peace, 
and  development, 
cooperation  should  be  based  upon  constructive  and 
respectful dialogue. This dialogue should be guided by 
security 

advances. 
technological 
a  spirit  of  tolerance,  acceptance  and  trust  among 
religions, peoples and cultures. Only with mutual trust 
and  understanding  will  we  be  able  to  overcome 
international tensions. 

The  Secretary-General  recently  emphasized  the 
importance  of  education  for  development.  Education 
has  always  been 
foundation  of  economic 
opportunity  and  prosperity.  Knowledge  and  advanced 
skills  are  critical  tools  for  enhancing  every  country’s 
economic potential, growth and standard of living. This 
is  why  we  have  to  join  our  efforts  to  improve  the 
capacity  of  countries 
to  adopt,  disseminate  and 
maximize 
Improved 
international  cooperation  aimed  at  creating  better 
educational  systems  will  help  developing  countries 
progress  faster  towards  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  particularly  those  related  to  all 
levels of education, health and gender equality. 

The promotion and protection of human rights are 
among  the  most  effective  strategies  for  eliminating 
inequalities  between  social  groups  and  within  and 
between  countries,  and  Suriname  therefore  remains 
committed  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  all 
human rights.  
the  supreme 

of 
international 
namely, 
aggression —  Suriname  expresses 
that  a 
decision  on  the  elements  of  crime  will  be  taken  very 
soon.  The  upcoming  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court, to be held in 
Uganda  next  year,  should  therefore  address  this  issue 
seriously. 

For  more  than  60  years  the  United  Nations  has 
been  able  to  build  confidence  and  understanding 
between  Member  States  and  help  keep  global  peace. 
to 
My 
development, 
and 
international  peace  and  security.  We  will  continue  to 
engage  in  constructive  dialogue  aimed  at  contributing 
to a better future for all. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of 
Suriname for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Ramdien  Sardjoe,  Vice-President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Suriname,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
reiterates 
for 
its 
human 
With  regard 
commitment 
to  what 
is  called 
crime  — 
the 
crime 
the  hope 
delegation 
respect 
rights 
09-52470 

23 

A/64/PV.8 



  Address by Mr. Joseph Boakai, Vice-President 
of the Republic of Liberia 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of Liberia. 

Mr.  Joseph  Boakai,  Vice-President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Joseph  Boakai,  Vice-
President of the Republic of Liberia,  and inviting him 
to address the Assembly. 

Mr.  Boakai  (Liberia):  My  delegation  and  I  are 
honoured,  for  the  second  time,  to  address  the  General 
Assembly on behalf of President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf 
and  the  Government  and  people  of  Liberia.  We 
congratulate Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki and his country, 
the  Socialist  People’s  Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya,  on  his 
election as President of the Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session.  We  are  convinced  that,  as  a  consummate 
diplomat, Mr. Treki will bring his wealth of experience 
into  play  as  we  tackle  the  complex  issues  on  the 
current session’s agenda, while entertaining hopes for a 
resounding success. In this context, my delegation and 
I assure the President of our full cooperation. 

Permit  me,  therefore,  to  seize  the  opportunity  to 
pay a well-deserved tribute to the preceding President, 
His Excellency Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann of the 
Republic of Nicaragua, for the very able and effective 
manner 
the 
Assembly’s  sixty-third  session.  His  sound  and  shrewd 
leadership  was  critical  in  steadying  the  turbulence 
occasioned  by 
the  severe  global  economic  and 
financial crisis. Likewise, we commend the Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, a visionary 
statesman,  for  the  unfaltering  efforts  with  which  he 
continues to administer the affairs of this Organization. 
His  renewed  dynamism  and  sense  of  purpose  serve  as 
an 
the 
attainment of global peace, security and development. 
Liberia  continues  to  make  steady  progress  under 

the 
excellent, 
leadership  of  Her 
Excellency  President  Ellen  Johnson  Sirleaf.  Since  her 
inauguration 
first 
democratically  elected  woman  head  of  State  of  an 
African  country,  the  Government  has  undertaken  a 
number  of  important  initiatives  aimed  at  enhancing 
national dialogue and reconciliation.  
to  our  collective  aspirations  for 
in  which  he  steered 
the  affairs  of 
indefatigable 
impetus 
January 
2006 
the 
as 
in 
of 
the 
the 
two  members 
implementation  of 

On  30  June  2009,  the  Truth  and  Reconciliation 
Commission  submitted  an  unedited  report,  which  did 
not  gain  the  unanimous  consent  of  the  Commission, 
since 
issued  dissenting  views. 
Nonetheless,  since  its  release  the  report  has  spurred 
national  debate,  and  the  President  has  committed 
herself  to  working  with  all  stakeholders  towards 
implementation  of  the  recommendations,  which  must 
be in consonance with the Commission’s mandate, the 
wishes  of  the  Liberian  people  and  the  laws  of  our 
country. 

In  order  to  protect  the  fundamental  rights  of  the 
Liberian  people,  the  President  has  also  nominated  the 
members 
Independent  Human  Rights 
Commission,  which  will  have  the  responsibility  of 
monitoring 
the  Truth  and 
Reconciliation Commission report. Under the Liberian 
Constitution,  the  nominees  must  meet  the  consent  of 
the Liberian Senate, and that process is currently under 
way.  We  have  also  established  the  Land  Commission, 
and its Commissioners have been appointed to address 
the  explosive  issues  of  land  disputes  and  the  need  for 
land reform. 

We note with satisfaction the achievement of the 
national  disarmament,  demobilization,  rehabilitation 
and 
in 
conjunction with the United Nations Mission in Liberia 
(UNMIL).  That 
successfully 
concluded 
this  year.  However,  high 
unemployment, especially among the youth, remains a 
major challenge.  

Liberia  is  pleased  with  the  progress  being  made 
in  the  reconstitution  of  its  armed  forces,  which 
includes the training of the 2,000-strong army with the 
assistance of our development partners, particularly the 
United  States  of  America.  We  continue  to  encourage 
gender sensitivity in this important area of our national 
endeavours,  considering  that  at  present  there  are  only 
58 women in the new force. 

Improvements  have  also  been  registered  in  the 
performance of the reorganized Liberia National Police 
force,  with  the  establishment  of  an  emergency  unit. 
The  police,  however,  continue  to  face  difficulties  in 
achieving  full  operational  capability  in  the  areas  of 
infrastructure, 
other 
requirements.  Two  weeks  ago,  successful  partnership 
consultations  were 
at  United  Nations 
Headquarters  here  in  New  York  on  the  strategic  plan 
programme  was 
reintegration 
in  July  of 
programme, 
equipment, 
logistics 
carried 
held 
and 
out 
24 

09-52470 
in 
and 
Post-conflict 
to  report 
significant 
justice.  Concomitantly, 
We  are  pleased 
to  make 


for  the  Liberia  National  Police.  The  responses  of  our 
partners,  especially  India,  were  encouraging.  The 
objective  of  the  strategic  plan  is  to  introduce  an 
integrated  programme  that  would  ensure  a  consistent 
doctrine and training philosophy to enhance continuity. 
A similar strategic plan is also required for the Bureau 
of  Immigration  and  Naturalization  to  improve  its 
efficiency and effectiveness in border control. 
that  Liberia  has 

continued 
strides 
the 
administration  of  justice  and  rule  of  law,  in  spite  of 
daunting  obstacles.  We  have  established  a  special 
sexual  and  gender-based  violent  crimes  court,  which 
has  begun  hearing  cases  and  encouraging  victims  to 
come  forth  and  report  on  those  crimes  in  the  spirit  of 
confidentiality 
the 
Government  has  further  adopted  several  gender-
sensitive  policies  and  frameworks  in  pursuance  of 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000). 

reconstruction  and  development 
require  all  Liberians  to  participate  in  the  ongoing 
recovery  and  sustainable  development  efforts.  The 
Government  is  therefore  promoting  and  encouraging 
women’s involvement at the leadership level and in all 
other  spectrums  of  society,  with  emphasis  on  the 
education of the girl child.  

the 
International  Colloquium  on  Women’s  Empowerment, 
Leadership  Development,  International  Peace  and 
Security,  which  was  co-convened  by  the  President  of 
Liberia, Her Excellency Madam Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, 
and  the  President  of  Finland,  Her  Excellency  Madam 
Tarja Halonen, in Monrovia on 7 and 8 March 2009. At 
that  event,  the  Monrovia  Declaration  was  adopted, 
calling for action on resolution 1325 (2000) on women, 
peace and security, and on climate change and gender. 
We  want  to  thank  all  our  partners  and  friends  of  the 
international  community,  including  the  institutions  of 
the  United  Nations  system  and  UNMIL,  who 
contributed to the success of the programme. 

In  that  regard,  we  reaffirm  that  resolution  1325 
(2000)  on  women,  peace  and  security  recognizes  that 
women, as civilians in conflict situations, are not only 
victims  but  also  powerful  agents  for  peace  and  the 
security for their communities. 

that  Security  Council 
resolution  1820  (2008)  is  an  important  component  of 
resolution 1325 (2000) with regard to rape and sexual 
this  connection,  I  wish 
We  also 
recognize 
In 
to  refer 
to 
A/64/PV.8
to 
to 
that 
support 
violence  against  women  and  girls.  Therefore,  we 
recommend 
the  Secretary-General  appoint  a 
special  envoy  on  women,  peace  and  security  who 
would  galvanize  Member  States 
implement 
resolution  1325  (2000)  and  ensure  that  the  path 
towards  its  tenth  anniversary  is  well  prepared  in  a 
coherent manner. 

As  a  follow-up  to  the  Monrovia  extraordinary 
meeting, a side event to this sixty-fourth session of the 
General  Assembly  was  jointly  hosted  yesterday  by 
those  two  exemplary  women  leaders,  here  at  United 
Nations  Headquarters,  to  focus  on  the  implementation 
of  resolution  1325  (2000)  and  climate  change.  In 
commending them for their excellent work, we join in 
their  appeal  to  all  Member  States,  Governments  and 
non-governmental  organizations 
the 
Monrovia  Declaration.  Liberia  wishes  to  thank  all  the 
participants  at  that  historic  event  for  renewing  their 
support of the Government of Liberia and for reform of 
the  United  Nations  system,  including  the  urgent  need 
for gender equality in its organs and related agencies. 

Liberia’s economic revitalization is shaping up to 
become  a  post-conflict  success  story,  due  to  the 
combination  of  the  disciplined  leadership  and  prudent 
policies  of  Her  Excellency  President  Ellen  Johnson-
Sirleaf  and  the  very  constructive  partnership  with  the 
international  community.  We  remain  cognizant  of  the 
fact that no amount of foreign assistance can transform 
a nation in the absence of sound moral leadership and 
technical  competencies  and  of  the  commitment  to 
improve the well-being of its citizens. It is out of this 
realization 
the  Government’s 
poverty  reduction  strategy  and  have  cultivated  a 
strategic  partnership  with  friendly  countries  and 
organizations within the international community. 

The  country  experienced  7  per  cent  growth  in 
2008  and  is  expected  to  register  5  per  cent  this  year, 
largely as a result of the negative impact of the global 
economic  meltdown  on  demand 
for  our  major 
commodities  and  decreased  capital  inflows.  National 
revenue  collection  rose  by  25  per  cent  last  year.  We 
have improved our business and investment climate by 
establishing  the  “One  Stop  Shop”  concept  to  spur 
private sector growth and create jobs.  

We  have  rehabilitated  a  total  of  674  miles  of 
primary  and  secondary  roads  to  link  communities  that 
were isolated from the central administration as a result 
of the 14-year civil crisis. A robust and comprehensive 
that  we  formulated 
09-52470 

25 
is 
investment  climate  as  well  as 
A/64/PV.8 

civil  service  reform  strategy  has  been  instituted  as  a 
critical  component  of 
the  public  sector  reform. 
Moreover,  the  President  has  promulgated  a  policy  of 
mandatory  free  and  compulsory  primary  education, 
with a special emphasis on girls, who are often victims 
of institutionalized bias and abuse. 

We  have  undertaken  several  economic  reform 
initiatives and have set up the Liberia Anti-Corruption 
Commission  to  create  a  transparent  and  predictable 
business  and 
to 
encourage greater foreign direct investment. 

Liberia  has  also  made  noticeable  progress 
towards  reaching  the  targets  for  relief  under  the 
Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative. 
Qualifying under this process will open up the country 
to borrowing on the international financial markets and 
accepting loans. 

While  Liberia  has  made  and  continues  to  make 
impressive  progress  towards  consolidating  peace,  the 
gains remain fragile. In post-conflict situations such as 
ours,  stability 
to  development.  Weak 
institutional  capacity  in  the  area  of  the  rule  of  law, 
coupled with the absence of employment opportunities, 
especially for the youth, continue to threaten sustained 
progress.  

As  we  expect  to  hold  general  elections  in  2011, 
successful  conduct  of  these  undertakings  will  set  the 
nation firmly on the path of stability and democracy. It 
is  therefore  envisioned  that  continued,  sustainable 
socio-economic development will serve as the catalyst 
for a smooth electoral process. 

The  Mano  River  Union  countries  of  Liberia, 
Sierra  Leone,  Guinea  and  Côte  d’Ivoire  continue  to 
host significant numbers of each other’s refugees in the 
subregion.  For  instance,  more  than  65,000  Liberian 
refugees are reportedly spread throughout West Africa, 
posing  humanitarian  challenges  that  require  urgent 
action  for  cross-border  movements.  This  is  why  we 
continue to urge the fast-tracking and relaxation of the 
stringent  conditions  for  development  assistance,  if 
Liberia  is  to  truly  remain  a  model  for  post-conflict 
reconstruction and democracy. 

In  this  connection,  Liberia  requires  the  empathy 
and  support  of  the  international  community  for  its 
young  democracy  as  it  improves  the  human  rights 
situation, 
transparency,  anti-corruption  and  good 
linked 

the 
the  United  Nations  and 
governance,  which  are  important  priorities  of  the 
Government. 

In  this  vein,  we  wish  to  express  the  heartfelt 
gratitude  of  the  Government  and  people  of  Liberia  to 
the  Security  Council  for  extending  the  mandate  of 
UNMIL  for  another  year  and  further  requesting  it  to 
provide  a  conducive  security  environment  for  the 
holding  of  general  and  presidential  elections  in  2011. 
The crucial nature of this democratic transition cannot 
be  overemphasized  as  we  commend  the  gallant  men 
and  women  of  UNMIL  for  their  courageous  and 
sacrificial services in keeping the peace. 

The  issue  of  cross-border  movement  mentioned 
above  demonstrates  that  the  security  and  stability  of 
the  countries  of  the  Mano  River  Union  subregion  are 
inextricably  linked  and  that  progress  in  one  country 
cannot  be  divorced  from  progress  in  any  one  of  the 
member  States.  Elections  are  soon  to  be  held  in 
Côte d’Ivoire and Guinea. As Chair of the Mano River 
Union  and  a  member  of  the  International  Contact 
Group  on  Guinea,  President  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf  is 
urging 
international 
community to stay constructively engaged with Guinea 
while urging adherence to the original agreement so as 
to ensure a smooth transition to democratic rule in that 
country. 

Cross-border  movements  among  the  Mano  River 
Union  countries  have  become  more  complex  and 
problematic  due  to  the  growing  number  of  cases 
involving illicit drug trafficking, human trafficking and 
other organized transnational crime in the West African 
subregion and beyond. These problems necessitate the 
urgent need for collective international action to tackle 
these  criminal  activities,  which  are  a  menace  to 
regional peace and security. 

Liberia supports the decision of the leaders of the 
Southern  African  Development  Community  on  the 
lifting of United Nations sanctions  against Zimbabwe. 
We  are  encouraged  that  the  power-sharing  agreement 
between  the  parties  continues  to  hold  as  the  country 
tries to recover. 

As  regards  Somalia,  we  note  with  regret  the 
continuing deterioration of the situation in that country. 
In view of the unfortunate state of affairs there, Liberia 
calls  for  renewed  commitment  by  the  international 
community  to  provide  logistical  and  financial  support 
to the African Union peacekeeping initiatives to restore 
peace  in  that  country.  Liberia,  as  a  beneficiary  of 
26 

09-52470 
its 
into 
registers 
operations, 
strong 
the  recent  barbaric  killings  of 


peacekeeping 
condemnation  of 
17 African Union peacekeepers in Somalia.  

On  Darfur,  we  are  heartened  by  the  expressed 
willingness  of  all  the  parties  to  end  armed  hostilities 
and to find a political solution to the problem that will 
ensure lasting peace for all people in that region. 

Liberia  welcomes  the  just-ended  Summit  on 
Climate  Change  convened  by  the  Secretary-General. 
We  firmly  believe  that  urgent  action  is  needed  to 
reduce  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and  to  help  all 
Member  States,  particularly  developing  countries, 
adequately respond to the harmful effects of this global 
phenomenon. 
Liberia  continues  to  join  in  the  call  for  a 

democratic  Security  Council  that  reflects  the  realities 
of  the  twenty-first  century.  The  world  today  is  far 
different  from  and  more  complex  than  that  of  the 
1940s, when this Organization came into being. 

Liberia  supports  peacekeeping  operations  to  put 
out the flames of war. However, we wish to underscore 
the  benefits  of  establishing  an  early  warning 
mechanism  that  will  deal  with  potentially  explosive 
situations  before 
full  blown 
conflagrations that present only ghastly choices. 

Additionally, it is important that the international 
community 
and 
dispensation  to  post-conflict  countries  to  shield  them 
from  shocks  in  the  worldwide  system,  such  as  the 
current global financial crisis. These upsets often have 
the  effect  of  reversing  the  gains  made  in  restoring 
peace to countries emerging from conflict. 

That  is  why  Liberia  welcomes  the  empathy  and 
support of the international community in rebuilding its 
institutions  destroyed  by  protracted  civil  conflict. The 
current  global  financial  crisis  is  impregnated  with  the 
potential  to  undermine  donor  support  to  our  national 
renewal agenda, thus threatening much needed foreign 
direct investment and delivery of social services. 

The  result  of  the  Government’s  inability  to 
provide  these  basic  services  to  its  people  has  the 
propensity 
to  provide  fertile  ground  for  acts  of 
destabilization from internal and external sources. It is 
cheaper to prevent these risks than to have to mobilize 
already  diminishing  resources  at  much  higher  cost, 
sometimes 
lives  and  enormous 
resources, to react to them. 
involving  human 
they  escalate 
assistance 
provides 
special 
A/64/PV.8

In  conclusion,  we  pledge  our  unstinting  support 
to your leadership and entertain the hope that together, 
we  can  advance  the  cause  of  humanity  and  make  the 
world truly a better place to live. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Liberia for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Joseph  Boakai,  Vice-President  of 
the 

Republic  of  Liberia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 


I 
like 
should 
(Kenya): 
Mr.  Odinga
Address by The Right Honourable Raila Amollo 
Odinga, Prime Minister of the Republic of Kenya 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Kenya. 

The  Right  Honourable  Raila  Amollo  Odinga, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Kenya,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  The  Right  Honourable 
Raila Amollo  Odinga,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of  Kenya,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
to 

congratulate  the  President  on  the  singular  honour  of 
having  been  chosen  for  the  presidency  of  the  United 
Nations General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. I 
would  like  to  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s  fullest 
support as he undertakes his momentous responsibility 
to  unite  Member  States  in  pursuing  the  common  goal 
of  a  more  humane,  secure,  united  and  prosperous 
world. 

There was a time recently when that elusive goal 
finally  appeared  within  reach,  but  multiple  new 
challenges have coalesced to render the goal even more 
distant. It is therefore most encouraging that the world 
is  turning  to  the  United  Nations  to  find  a  common, 
global path to resolving the most intractable difficulties 
facing humanity. There is a clear recognition emerging 
that together we can all rise, but that separately, we can 
only sink. 

There  was  a  time  when  the  powerful  disdained 
this institution’s ability to be a unifying player. That is 
now  changing,  and  in  this  regard,  I  would  like  to 
commend the President of the United States, who holds 
09-52470 

27 

A/64/PV.8 

a very special place in the hearts of Africans, Kenyans 
in  particular,  for  having  on  Wednesday  so  eloquently 
indicated  the  centrality  of  the  United  Nations  in 
charting common solutions. 

In  order  to  better  equip  the  United  Nations  for 
meeting  these  challenges,  we  must  continue  to  press 
for  reform  in  the  Organization.  The  Security  Council, 
in  particular,  must  be  enlarged  and  made  more 
democratic  and  representative  of  current  day  reality. 
Part of the enlargement must include permanent, veto-
bearing seats for Africa. 

The world can no longer continue to marginalize 
a  continent  that  is  home  to  nearly  one  billion  people. 
That is wrong in principle, but even more, it is wrong 
in practice. We cannot find sustainable solutions to our 
challenges when such a large part of humanity is given 
so little voice and role in that quest for peace. 

The world is now acutely aware that the quest for 
peace  begins  with  ensuring  the  survival  of  the  planet. 
I would,  therefore,  like  to  thank  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon  for  having  convened 
the  high-level 
meeting  on  climate  change,  which  has  put  that  issue 
squarely  onto  the  world’s  centre  stage.  There  is  no 
issue that so clearly unites the population of the entire 
world as climate change does. 
Regrettably,  the  far-sighted  decision  at  the  2005 

the 
United  Nations  World  Summit 
possibility  of  a  more  coherent  institutional  framework 
for  international  environmental  governance  has  not 
borne  any  fruit. This  is  particularly  unacceptable  now 
when  climate  change  is  indeed  the  most  pressing 
challenge  of  our  times.  We  therefore  call  for  the 
upgrading  of 
the  United  Nations  Environmental 
Programme  (UNEP)  in  Nairobi,  so  that  it  can  become 
the  central  environmental  institution  handling  the 
numerous conventions. 

We  have  noted  with  regret  the  emergence  of 
multiple  centres  dealing  with  environmental  issues. 
That dissipates their impact and sometimes even leads 
to contradictory actions. The United Nations Office in 
Nairobi  should  now  be  elevated  to  the  same  level 
United Nations Offices in Geneva and Vienna to enable 
it  to  provide  comprehensive  support  to  all  Member 
States  and  organizations  struggling  to  adjust  to  a  new 
paradigm of a sustainable and dynamic green economy. 

lives  of  billions  will  be 
imperilled.  Already,  as  the  Secretary-General  pointed 
to  explore 
Without 
that, 
the 
the 
rise  — 
temperatures 
out on Wednesday, another 100 million people may fall 
below  the  poverty  line  this  year  owing  to  climate 
change  setbacks.  Markets  may  be  bouncing  back,  but 
incomes  and  jobs  are  not. These  developments  do  not 
augur well for the future. 

I regret to say that my own country is emblematic 
of the woes unleashed by years of rampant excesses in 
the  global  and 
local  mismanagement  of  our 
environment.  The  melting  of  the  famed  ice  caps  of 
Mt. Kenya and nearby Mt. Kilimanjaro, the destruction 
of vast swathes of our once beautiful forests, the drying 
of  fast-flowing  rivers, 
intensifying  cycles  of 
drought  and  floods,  the  spread  of  malaria  to  highland 
regions  as 
these  are  all 
consequences  of  human  action  within  and  outside  our 
borders.  And  so  the  solution  also  must  also  entail 
action on both fronts. 

The  greater  challenge  for  us,  I  am  afraid,  is  the 
external one. We, like the rest of Africa, produce only a 
tiny  proportion  of  the  emissions  that  are  rapidly 
warming  the  planet  and  wreaking  havoc  with  our 
capacity  to  produce  adequate  amounts  of  food  and 
energy  and  husband  sustainable  water  supplies.  Our 
economies are in disarray. We are victims of the richer 
world’s  acts  and  omissions,  and  therefore  we  need 
large amounts of funds in assistance and private-sector 
investment  to  reverse  the  course  of  events. The  world 
community  must  agree  on  concrete  actions 
in 
Copenhagen. 

But we in Kenya are not interested in playing the 
blame  game  or  waiting  for  international  action  to 
materialize. We have already begun to make very tough 
political  decisions 
ravages.  Our 
immediate  goal  is  to  fully  restore  our  largest  water 
tower,  the  famed  Mau  Forest  complex,  as  well  as 
Kenya’s other four water towers, and are embarking on 
a  huge  reforestation  drive  to  plant  seven  billion  trees, 
which  will  restore  the  carbon-taming  sinks  that  once 
made us self-sufficient in food and energy. We are also 
undertaking  a  crash  programme  designed  to  rapidly 
shift  energy  production  to  green  technologies  that  use 
assets in which we are naturally rich — wind and sun, 
but  most  important  of  all,  geothermal  energy,  which 
could more than double our current energy production 
within the next four years. 

For  all  of  these  programmes,  we  are  mobilizing 
local resources, but we will need significant assistance 
and  investment  to  succeed  in  our  goal  of  achieving 
reverse 
the 
to 
28 

09-52470 
in  quickly 


self-sufficiency  in  a  green  way. The  rich  nations  have 
recognized  that  their  own  self-interest  is  served  in 
promoting  such  green  commitments  in  developing 
countries,  but  the  existing  mechanisms  through  which 
they  can  support  such  programmes  need  to  be  refined 
and  made  more  effective 
releasing 
resources. 

We  therefore  support  British  Prime  Minister 
Gordon  Brown’s  proposal  for  a  $100  billion  facility, 
and at the same time urge that the $20 billion pledged 
by  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  for  enhanced  food 
production  be  speedily  mobilized  and  disbursed.  We 
need  immediate  assistance  in  feeding  the  10  million 
Kenyans  who  are  now  living  in  hunger  and  will 
otherwise  face  starvation  shortly.  Just  last  week  we 
declared  this  situation  a  national  disaster  requiring 
$500 million to rectify, of  which $250  million will be 
mobilized  from  our  own  resources,  while  we  urgently 
appeal to our development partners to furnish the other 
$250 million. 

Tens of thousands of livestock animals have died. 
This  devastation  is  the  result  primarily  of  climate 
change.  We  have  had  droughts  before,  but  they  now 
recur  much  more  frequently  and  with  greater  severity. 
One drought year is difficult enough, but the rains have 
now  failed  us  for  the  past  four  consecutive  seasons. 
I appeal to our well-wishers, who are many, to assist us 
in  this  dire  emergency.  To  mitigate  the  suffering,  we 
have carried out a massive mobilization — including of 
the  military  —  in  providing  relief  and  in  drilling 
boreholes and transporting water to areas in acute need. 

I  am  very  proud  to  say  that  despite  the  terrible 
post-election  violence  and  the  subsequent  multiple 
reverses  that  made  reconciliation  and  reconstruction 
even  more  difficult,  our  people  have  shown  an 
extraordinary  maturity  and  resilience  in  rising  to 
unprecedented  challenges.  We  were  able  to  overcome 
the bitterness over the election with an accord that we 
signed  with  the  help  of  the  African  Union  and  the 
mediation of Kofi Annan, as well as with the support of 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  personally 
visited  Kenya  at  the  height  of  the  crisis  —  for  which 
we are deeply grateful. 

Let me now turn to an area where peace does not 
prevail  and  which  is  a  source  of  immense  concern  to 
the  entire  international  community  —  and  that  is 
Somalia. As  its  immediate  neighbour  and  with  a  large 
population  of  Kenyan  Somalis,  we  have  done  more 
A/64/PV.8
international  community 
than any other country to assist Somalia in overcoming 
its  divisions  and  conflicts.  No  one  is  more  eager  than 
we  are  to  help  defeat  the  forces  of  extremism  in 
Somalia, which have so much sway because of the help 
of  external  elements.  The  continuing 
inflow  of 
refugees,  small  arms  and  light  weapons  from  Somalia 
is the major source of insecurity in our country. 

The latest setback resulting from that insecurity is 
disruption through piracy against international trade in 
one of the busiest sea routes in the world. Despite the 
risks incurred by doing so, Kenya has offered facilities 
for the detention and prosecution of suspected pirates, 
as  part  of  our  international  obligation  to  promote 
peace. We have also offered to host a United Nations-
organized  conference  in  Kenya  on  how  to  coordinate 
and more effectively deal with the scourge of piracy. In 
return,  we  ask 
to 
recognize our many  sacrifices and assist us in dealing 
with our major refugee and security burdens. 

The Intergovernmental Authority on Development 
(IGAD)  and  the  African  Union  have  recommended  to 
the United Nations Security Council that it impose a no-
fly zone and a blockade of airports and seaports held by 
insurgents  so  as  to  prevent  the  influx  of  arms.  Kenya 
fully  supports  their  position.  It  is  now  incumbent  upon 
the  United  Nations  Security  Council  to  take  decisive 
action to forestall further anarchy in Somalia. 

To succeed in the quest for peace in Somalia, we 
must recognize that the present focus primarily on the 
use  of  force  has  not  led  to  any  curbing  of  extremism. 
Indeed, the security and humanitarian crises are worse 
than 
a  more 
comprehensive  approach  in  tackling  the  extremists  — 
an approach that includes encouraging the Transitional 
Federal Government to much more aggressively pursue 
its  commitment  to  a  more  inclusive  political  process, 
by bringing into the Government all forces that eschew 
violence.  Such  outreach  to  all  moderates  can  succeed 
only  with  much  greater  international  support.  It  is 
regrettable  that  many  pledges  made  at  the  Brussels 
donors conference have yet to be honoured. I call upon 
all those who have not honoured their pledges to do so 
immediately. 

Turning  back  to  the  global  economic  crisis,  it  is 
now  recognized  that  one  of  its  principal  causes  is  the 
weakness  of  the  international  financial  system.  We 
should strengthen and promote effective  multilateralism 
with the United Nations at the centre. We need to reform 
ever.  We  must 
the 
therefore 
take 
09-52470 

29 

A/64/PV.8 

the  international  financial  governance  institutions,  so 
that  they  can  prevent  crises  and  develop more  effective 
and equitable responses to them. 

The  ideals  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
are,  today  more  than  ever,  the  surest  hope  for  a  more 
prosperous and equitable world. Multilateralism in this 
globalized  age  is  the  only  sure  way  to  ensure  that 
peace,  development  and  unity  prevail  at  a  time  when 
the  world  is  riven  with  so  many  divisions. We  need  a 
genuine partnership among all nations and peoples, so 
that  everyone  feels  that  he  or  she  is  a  critical 
stakeholder  in  national  and  international  decision-
making. 

Mr.  Martínez  (El  Salvador),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

Finally, within democratic nations, each person’s 
vote is  equal  to those of all others, regardless of their 
power or wealth. That is the principle that must finally 
be  applied  to  the  workings  of  the  entire  international 
system. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Kenya for the statement he 
has just made. 

The  Right  Honourable  Raila  Amollo  Odinga, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Kenya,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 


Address by The Honourable John Key, Prime 
Minister of New Zealand 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of New Zealand. 

The  Honourable  John  Key,  Prime  Minister  of 
New Zealand, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency John Key, 
Prime  Minister  of  New  Zealand,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Key (New Zealand) (spoke in Maori; English 

text provided by the delegation): To the powers, to the 
voices, to the four winds: I greet you all. 


(spoke in English) 

I have addressed the Assembly in Te Reo Maori, 
the  indigenous  language  of  New  Zealand,  and  I  bring 
warm Pacific greetings from all New Zealanders. 

I  am  deeply  honoured  to  lead  New  Zealand’s 
delegation  to  the  General Assembly  for  the  first  time. 
Like every New Zealand Prime Minister since 1945, I 
stand here today to reaffirm my country’s commitment 
to the United Nations and the United Nations Charter. 

The  founding  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
gathered  in  San  Francisco  in  1945  to  create  this 
Organization  out  of  the  ashes  of  the  most  destructive 
war  and  the  most  debilitating  depression  in  modern 
history. They believed in the larger freedom of a world 
where  collective  action  might  avert  common  crises. 
They  believed  in  the  rule  of  law,  by  which  all  States 
would  be  held  to  a  universal  standard,  and  in  a  world 
where  all  peoples,  faiths  and  cultures  could  flourish. 
They believed in a future in which every human being 
would be free from want and free from fear. And they 
wanted  an  international  Organization  and  architecture 
that could deliver those benefits.  
New  Zealand  was  active  among  those  founding 

Members 
in  San  Francisco.  And,  as  a  small, 
independent  and  diverse  country  in  the  Pacific,  New 
Zealand still has a stake in the United Nations — this 
great meeting place for all States. 

I have benefited personally from efforts to secure 
those ideals. My family fled persecution in Europe, and 
I  was  privileged  to  grow  up  in  a  new  world  where  a 
child of immigrants is now accorded the extraordinary 
privilege  of  leading  his  country  and  addressing  this 
Assembly on its behalf. 
We  meet  at  a  time  of  many  challenges.  With 

130 heads  of  State  and  Government  assembled  here 
this week, the present session of the General Assembly 
represents  our  greatest  opportunity  since  the  2005 
World Summit to reaffirm our collective resolve. New 
Zealand embraces that opportunity. Today, I will focus 
on  some  of  the  most  pressing  issues  demanding 
collective responses from us. 
The  crisis  in  the  global  economy  continues.  We 

must  remain  resolute  in  our  efforts  to  stabilize  the 
global  economy 
to 
sustainable growth. New Zealand welcomes the actions 
of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  over  the  past  year.  But,  in 
commending those efforts, we call on the G-20 to heed 
to  permit  a  return 
in  order 
30 

09-52470 
that 
reduces 


the  voices  of  the  world’s  small  economies  and  to 
ensure  that  they  are  also  heard  in  global  decision-
making. 

Free and fair trade will be the principal engine for 
driving  developing  countries  out  of  poverty  and 
bringing  greater  prosperity 
to  all.  An  essential 
component  in  our  response  to  the  global  economic 
crisis  must  therefore  be  a  balanced  and  ambitious 
conclusion  to  the  Doha  Round  of  world  trade  talks. A 
genuinely  global  agreement 
tariffs, 
eliminates export subsidies, reduces domestic subsidies 
and  increases  market  access  will  see  benefits  flow  to 
all  States.  At  a  time  when  all  countries  are  suffering 
from  the  brunt  of  the  current  economic  crisis,  further 
delay is inexcusable. 

As one of the world’s first truly open economies, 
New Zealand has an unwavering commitment to trade 
liberalization  and  to  the  pursuit  of  bilateral,  regional 
and  global  free  trade  agreements.  We  support  the  call 
of the Secretary-General for the immediate suspension 
of  price  controls  and  other  agricultural 
trade 
restrictions, in order to reduce soaring food prices and 
help  millions  cope  with  the  highest  food  prices  in 
30 years. 

Therefore, I call on all those States and groupings 
that  have  broken  their  undertakings  and  reintroduced 
protectionist measures to reconsider. Those actions are 
as harmful as they are unacceptable. Agriculture, which 
is so important for developing countries in particular, is 
one of the sectors most affected. 
The  escalation  of  poverty  is  a  result  of  the 

economic  crisis.  New  Zealand  is,  naturally,  proud  of 
the  efforts  of 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme to strengthen its focus as the largest United 
Nations  development  agency  on  poverty  and  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.  

For its part, New Zealand pledges to continue to 
increase  its  official  development  assistance,  with  a 
clear  focus  on 
the  Pacific  Islands  region.  Aid 
effectiveness is just as important as the quantum of aid. 
That  is  why,  last  month,  we  committed  to  the  Cairns 
Compact,  which  will 
development 
coordination in the Pacific islands. 

The  major  focus  of  the  General  Assembly  this 
year  must  be  on  the  challenge  of  climate  change. 
Climate  change  demands  innovation  and  a  global 
response.  The  world  cannot  afford  to  contemplate 
strengthen 
A/64/PV.8
that 
that  reflects  our 
failure  at  Copenhagen.  Political  leadership  is  needed, 
and it is on display.  

At  the  Summit  on  climate  change  this  week,  the 
leaders of the world’s three biggest economies showed 
their determination both to make Copenhagen a success 
and to take action themselves. All countries must take 
action 
individual  circumstances, 
responsibilities and capabilities. 

For  our  part,  New  Zealand  is  committed  to 
securing  a  durable  and  meaningful  agreement  on 
climate  change  —  an  agreement 
is  both 
environmentally effective and economically efficient. I 
have  set  a  target  for  New  Zealand  of  reducing 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  10  to  20  per  cent  below 
1990 levels by 2020, if there is a comprehensive global 
agreement. That amounts to a per capita drop of 35 to 
42 per cent since 1990. 

New  Zealand  is  acutely  conscious  that  most  of 
our  greenhouse  gas  emissions  come  from  livestock 
methane  emissions,  which  so  far  no  technology  can 
reduce. At the same time we are proud of our role as a 
food producer to the world and the contribution we can 
make to assuring food security for the world’s people. 

Our challenge is to find a way to balance growth 
in  agricultural  production  with  the  need  to  reduce 
emissions and reach climate change targets.  

That is not just a challenge for New Zealand, but 
one  for  the  world.  Agricultural  emissions  make  up 
14 per cent of all emissions worldwide. As demand for 
food rises, so will those emissions. Yet so far the only 
known  way  to  achieve  emission  reductions  from 
agriculture  is  through  reductions  in  output,  which  is 
not  an  acceptable  response  —  not  for  New  Zealand, 
and  not  for  a  growing  world  that  seeks  freedom  from 
hunger. 

A better response to this challenge must be found. 
In my view, the response must draw on the power and 
possibility of science. Just as New Zealand is proud of 
its agricultural producers, so are we proud of our  role 
in  agricultural  research.  This  research  has  resulted  in 
scientific  and 
that  have 
improved  production  and  fed  virtually  millions  of 
people. 

But  advancing  research  in  the  area  of  emission 
reduction  requires  a  commitment  so  broad  that  it  is 
beyond  the  capacity  of  any  one  individual  country. 
technological  advances 
09-52470 

31 

high-level  Security  Council  meeting 
A/64/PV.8 

That is a challenge that requires collective action, and 
it is collective action that I call for today. 

New  Zealand  has  developed  a  proposal  for  a 
global  alliance  on 
the  reduction  of  agricultural 
emissions. This alliance would undertake international 
research  and  investment  into  new  technologies  and 
practices  to  help  reduce  agriculture-related  emissions 
and  would  seek  to  achieve  greater  coordination  of 
existing efforts. 

Through  a  global  alliance  we  can  find  solutions 
faster, make better use of the money that is being spent 
around  the  world  and  encourage  all  countries  and 
companies  to  do  more.  We  have  been  delighted  with 
the  interest  that  our  proposal  has  received  so  far,  and 
we  will  continue  working  with  others  to  explore  the 
concept. Today, my call to other agricultural producers 
of  the  world  is  to  rise  to  this  challenge  and  join  New 
Zealand in this research effort.  
I now want to address some of the security crises 

that we confront. Yesterday I had the honour to observe 
the 
on 
disarmament and non-proliferation. As a country with a 
proud  record  of  promoting  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation,  I  was  heartened  by  the  expressions 
of  support  for  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  We 
must all take full advantage of this historic moment to 
advance the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation 
agenda. We owe it to our generation and to those who 
follow  us  to  move  our  vision  for  a  world  free  from 
nuclear  weapons  forward.  As  a  proudly  nuclear-free 
nation  and  a  country  that  has  been  at  the  forefront  of 
that debate since the 1970s, New Zealand stands ready 
to play its part.  

the  prospects  for 
progress.  Last  week,  New  Zealand  presided  over  the 
General Conference of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  in  Vienna,  Austria.  Preventing  the  spread  of 
nuclear  weapons 
implementation  of 
safeguards under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty 
is a fundamental pillar of the Agency’s work. Next year 
sees the quinquennial review conference of the Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation Treaty. 
New  Zealand  will  actively  work  with  our  New 

Agenda Coalition partners for a meaningful outcome at 
that  conference  to  bring  us  closer  to  a  truly  secure 
world.  
We  are  optimistic  about 
through 
the 
32 

09-52470 
takes 
second 
review  conference  of 

We will also continue to address the humanitarian 
harm  caused  by  conventional  weapons.  We  will  work 
for a robust, action-oriented outcome later this year at 
the 
the  Ottawa 
Convention on Landmines. 

Looking  back,  I  am  proud  of  the  role  that  New 
Zealand  was  able  to  play  in  the  negotiation  of  the 
Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions.  The  Government 
attaches  priority  to  passing  legislation  to  enable  us  to 
ratify  this  very  significant  treaty.  New  Zealand  also 
continues to play its part in maintaining and promoting 
international peace and security. 

Peacekeeping  remains  one  of  this  Organization’s 
most essential tasks and most solemn responsibilities to 
its  Members.  While  United  Nations  peacekeeping  has 
been  significantly  strengthened  since  the  testing  it 
underwent in the 1990s, the demands now being placed 
on it are severe. 
I want to express my profound gratitude to those 

civilians and military personnel who place their lives at 
risk  to  support  peace  and  live  up  to  the  ideals  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Ensuring  that  United 
Nations peacekeeping is as effective and responsive as 
possible  must 
the 
remain 
Organization’s most urgent priorities. 

The United Nations provides the legal mandate — 
and  often  the  operational  effectiveness  —  for  our  joint 
efforts to achieve and maintain peace and security. New 
Zealand  is  firmly  committed  to  supporting  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  —  both  its  own  operations  and 
others  that  it  has  mandated,  such  as  those  in  which  we 
are  involved  in  Afghanistan,  the  Solomon  Islands  and 
Timor-Leste. 

All  too  often,  however,  the  United  Nations  has 
found itself unable to respond to emerging crises. New 
Zealand  therefore  strongly  supports  the  concept  of 
responsibility  to  protect.  I  am  pleased  at  the  solid 
foundation  that  the  General Assembly’s  recent  debate 
on that responsibility has laid for its implementation. 

the 
International Criminal Court (ICC). It is a fundamental 
tenet  of  our  domestic  legal  systems  that  wrongdoers 
must be brought to justice. The ICC is the mechanism 
for applying that same principle to persons accused of 
the most serious international crimes. 
its 

very 
responsibilities for creating and maintaining peace and 
New  Zealand 
New  Zealand 
therefore 
seriously 
also 
strongly 
supports 
one 
of 
to  be  held 
in  2014.  In  advancing 


security  in  its  region  and  in  the  world.  I  am  therefore 
pleased  to  confirm  New  Zealand’s  candidature  for  the 
United  Nations  Security  Council  for  2015-2016  in  the 
elections 
its 
candidature, New Zealand does so as a State committed 
to  upholding  the  international  rule  of  law  and  to 
providing  a  strong  and  principled  Pacific  voice  on 
behalf of small States like ourselves with an interest in 
a fairer and more secure world. 

We  all  have  a  stake  in  a  world  where  peace  and 
the rule of law prevail, where all States are secure and 
can  prosper  and  where  all  people  are  guaranteed  the 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  promised 
them in the Charter.  

But we also  know that solutions to the problems 
we collectively face do not lie with inspirational goals 
and  promises  that  can  be  —  and  far  too  often  are  — 
quickly  and  quietly  forgotten  and  ignored.  Hard, 
pragmatic  decisions  must  be  made.  Enforceable 
solutions must be implemented. 

We  know  that  effective,  collective  action  is  in 
every  country’s  long-term,  national  interest.  That  is 
what  New  Zealand  believed  in  1945,  and  I  recommit 
now  to  taking  action  to  live  up  to  the  ideals  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  here,  in  this  great  Hall,  this 
evening. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  New  Zealand  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

The  Honourable  John  Key,  Prime  Minister  of 
New Zealand, was escorted from the rostrum. 


Address by Mr. Milo Dukanović, Prime Minister 
of Montenegro 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Montenegro. 

The Honourable Milo Dukanović, Prime Minister 
of Montenegro, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Milo 
Dukanović,  Prime  Minister  of  Montenegro,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
in 

Montenegrin;  English  interpretation  provided  by  the 
Mr.  Dukanović
(Montenegro) 
(spoke 
A/64/PV.8
the  outset,  please  allow  me 
delegation):  At 
to 
congratulate Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on his election 
as President of the United Nations General Assembly at 
its  sixty-fourth  session.  We  wish  him  success  in  his 
work  and  assure  him  of  Montenegro’s  unwavering 
support. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  former  President, 
Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for  his  endeavours  and 
personal  contribution  in  discharging  this  challenging 
post. 
At the same time I would like to pay my tribute to 

the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his 
outstanding efforts in leading the Organization in these 
trying times. 
As we have heard from the statements of previous 

distinguished  speakers,  given  the  impact  of  the  world 
economic  and  financial  crisis  and  related  food  and 
energy crises, climate change and the flu pandemic on 
the  economic  and  social  growth  and  development, 
politics and global relations, including achievement of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and other 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  only  a 
coordinated  and  a  concerted  global  effort  can  yield 
positive results. 

requires, 
Response 
therefore, that we pool all capacities and resources, as 
well  as  a  strong  political  will  from  us  all.  In  this,  the 
key  role  belongs  to  the  United  Nations,  the  world’s 
most important multilateral forum. 

Montenegro,  as  a  country  that  advocates  the 
equality  of  peoples  and  nations 
international 
relations,  is  fully  committed  to  active  participation  in 
efforts  to  work  out  a  global  response  to  present-day 
challenges.  Preserving  peace  and  security  through 
activities 
creating  positive  political, 
economic,  social  and  cultural  environments  for  the 
implementation  and  respect  of  international  law,  the 
rule  of  law  and  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
fundamental  human  rights  and  freedoms  are  the  main 
principles and bases of the Montenegrin foreign policy 
priorities. 

In  that  regard,  Montenegro  remains  strongly 
committed to the fundamental principles and purposes 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  which  imply  peaceful 
resolution  of  disputes  and  non-interference  in  the 
internal affairs of States. 
challenges 
current 
aimed 
to 
in 
at 
09-52470 

33 

are 
financial  markets 
A/64/PV.8 


Strong  cooperation  with  neighbouring  countries 
and  regional  stability  are  the  underlying  principles  of 
the  foreign  policy  of  Montenegro  and  a  precondition 
for progress in its broader integration processes. Since 
the  previous  General  Assembly  session,  we  have 
moved  to  a  new  and  more  demanding  phase  of 
European  and  Euro-Atlantic 
integration.  We  feel 
the  dynamic  progress 
particularly  encouraged  by 
Montenegro  has  made  towards  membership  in  the 
European  Union  (EU)  and  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
Organization (NATO). We expect that in the near future 
the  European  Commission  will  issue  an  opinion  on 
Montenegro’s  preparedness  for  EU  membership,  and 
we  also  expect  an  invitation  to  join  in  the  NATO 
Membership  Action  Plan,  which  will  open  additional 
opportunities  for  those  two  integration  processes  to 
gain momentum. 

Taking into consideration the strong impact of the 
world  economic  and  financial  crisis  on  overall  socio-
economic  development,  the  most  recent  reports  from 
the  global 
encouraging, 
indicating an end to the global crisis even earlier than 
to  ensure  sustained 
expected.  However, 
economic 
and 
implementation 
the 
achievement of international solidarity is imperative in 
addressing  the  needs  of  the  world’s  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable. 

Given  that  the  recovery  is  going  to  be  long  and 
gradual,  all  countries,  led  by  the  United  Nations, 
should be committed to the implementation of policies 
and  measures  initiated  in  the  various  international 
forums,  including  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the world economic and financial crisis and its impact 
on  development,  the  G-20,  World  Bank  and  the 
International Monetary Fund. 

Bearing  in  mind  the  nature  of  the  Montenegrin 
economy as a small and open system, we have not been 
able 
turbulent  global 
developments.  In  that  regard,  the  Government  of 
Montenegro has adopted a package of economic policy 
measures  aimed  at  maintaining  macroeconomic 
stability,  improving  productivity  and  preserving  a 
favourable economic environment. 
The  harmful  consequences  of  climate  change, 

increasing 
growing 
dependence  on  imported  fossil  fuels,  along  with  their 
negative  impacts  on  the  environment  and  standards  of 
development, 
trade 
increased 
agreements 
consumption 
to  remain 
aid 
and 
in  order 
immune 
energy 
and 
the 
of 
to 
a 
for 
call 
change 
living,  are  issues  causing  profound  concern  among  us 
all. The Summit on Climate Change held on the eve of 
the  general  debate  is,  in  our  view,  a  significant  step 
forward  in  Member  States’  political  support  for  the 
process  of  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  in  this 
field. 

We believe that both the character and the effects 
of 
climate 
comprehensive 
international  response  based  on  the  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change (UNFCCC), which would facilitate sustainable 
economic  development  of  society  in  accordance  with 
the guidelines of the 2007 Bali Action Plan. 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express 

Montenegro’s  strong  support  for 
the  negotiation 
process on a new post-2012 climate framework and for 
calls to “seal the deal” in Copenhagen in December. 

We believe that further efforts need to be made to 
promote  a  green  recovery  and  to  build  up  national 
capacities  for  adaptation  and  mitigation  of  the  impact 
of  climate  change,  while  simultaneously  stimulating 
innovation  and  economic  growth,  contributing 
to 
poverty  reduction  and  ensuring  access  to  sustainable 
energy sources. 

In  that  regard,  we  underline  the  importance  of 
regional  cooperation,  which  enables  us  to  implement 
adaptation  and  mitigation  measures  in  a  regional 
context, which promotes political dialogue and leads to 
more  effective  action  by  States  in  the  talks  within  the 
UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol frameworks. 

the  efforts  being 
undertaken  at  the  national  and  international  levels  in 
addressing  the  impact  of  climate  change  on  the 
environment  and  economic  development  and 
in 
reaching a successful deal in Copenhagen, Montenegro 
will organize a regional conference on climate change 
and sustainable development for the Mediterranean and 
South-East  European  countries  in  Budva,  on  16  and 
17 October. 

The Millennium Development Goals require each 
and  every  one  of  us  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  reduce 
poverty,  improve health  and education,  promote peace 
and 
sustainable 
development.  We  are  aware  that  it  is  the  primary 
responsibility  of  States  to  take  measures  aimed  at 
improving 
the  poor  and 
vulnerable segments of society and alleviating the most 
the  social  security  of 
to  contribute 
In  order 
achieve 
human 
rights, 
and 
to 
34 

09-52470 
aimed 
including 
the  MDGs, 
documents  — 


severe  consequences  of  poverty.  In  this  context  we 
strongly  welcome  the  convening  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) review summit in 2010. 

Montenegro  strongly  supports  and  is  committed 
to  fulfilment  of  the  MDGs  and  implementation  of  all 
United  Nations 
the 
Millennium  Declaration  —  related  to  development 
issues and the special needs of Africa, as a pre-emptive 
action  aimed  at  creating  a  safer  world.  As  a  country 
moving towards European integration, we welcome the 
European  Union-Africa  partnership  and  the  efforts 
currently  under  way  to  find  solutions  to  development 
needs and to root out poverty on the African continent.  
In  this  regard,  we  support  the  message  of  the 

2008  Yokohama  Declaration 
at  giving 
momentum  to  current  development  issues,  including 
education,  health  and  sanitary  measures  within  the 
framework  of 
the  development  of 
agriculture  to  improve  food  security,  measures  to 
tackle  climate  change,  as  well  as  establishing  and 
maintaining  peace  as  a  prerequisite  for  economic 
growth. 
We  emphasize  the  crucial  importance  of  the 

debate  on  the  concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect, 
and  we  fully  support  the  activities  of  the  Secretary-
General  and  the  assessments  outlined  in  his  latest 
report. We believe that an upsurge of internal conflicts 
and serious violations of human rights in the 1990s has 
spurred  a  discussion  on  the  need  for  the  protection  of 
civilians  in  armed  conflict,  which  has  unquestionably 
led  to  further  deliberations  on  and  analyses  of  the 
primary  obligation of  each State to protect its  citizens 
from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and 
crimes against humanity, as well as to consideration of 
the  international  community’s  responsibility  in  the 
event  that  countries  fail  to  act.  In  this  context,  we 
underline the importance of reaching an agreement on 
an  appropriate  concept  and  instruments  within  the 
framework of the United Nations and international law, 
based on a broad consensus of all actors. 

In  supporting  peacekeeping  missions  as  efficient 
and  dynamic  instruments  for  monitoring  respect  of 
human  rights  and  building  sustainable  institutions  in 
conflict  areas,  we  have  established  legal  prerequisites 
within  our  security  policy  in  order  to  be  able  to 
contribute our military and police troops to the United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions,  including  missions  to 
A/64/PV.8
(IDPs)  and 
and 
the  need 
for 
the 
importance  of 
Given 
the  problems  of 
the  Organization 
Montenegro  stresses 
internally  displaced  persons 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
Liberia,  Afghanistan  and  Cyprus  and  the  European 
Union peace operation in Somalia.  

the  Balkan  region, 
Montenegro  attaches  particular  importance  to  a  policy 
that  addresses  the  needs  of  refugees,  asylum-seekers 
and 
is 
conducting extensive activities aimed at finding lasting 
solutions  for  the  refugees  and  IDPs  from  the  territory 
of  the  former  Yugoslavia.  As  part  of  those  efforts,  a 
renewed registration procedure supported by the Office 
of 
for 
Refugees  (UNHCR)  is  under  way  for  refugees  and 
IDPs living in Montenegro to resolve their final status, 
in  accordance  with  the  highest  international  standards 
and international law instruments. 
In  this  regard  we  highlight  the  importance  of  a 

comprehensive  approach  and 
the 
cooperation  of  all  actors,  primarily  UNHCR,  the 
European  Commission  and 
for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe. 

the 
promotion  of  and  the  respect  for  international  law  in 
the development of international relations today. In this 
context,  the  rule  of  law  and  the  protection  of  human 
rights  have  an  irreplaceable  role  in  the  fight  against 
international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of 
mass destruction and organized crime. 

the 
coordinated  efforts  of  the  global  community  can  take 
on  international  terrorism.  Montenegro  supports  the 
implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy,  as  well  as  measures  to  fight 
corruption,  organized  crime,  drug 
trafficking  and 
human trafficking, and we further underscore the need 
for  cooperation  among  all  the  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  in  particular  the  committees  of  the 
Security  Council 
the  Counter-Terrorism 
Committee.  
Montenegro attaches particular importance to the 

fulfilment  of  the  obligations  stipulated  by  the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime  and  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Illicit  Traffic  in  Narcotic  Drugs  and  Psychotropic 
Substances  and  it  actively  participates  in  projects  of 
the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, which 
contribute to regional peace and stability, strengthening 
of  the  judiciary  and  a  more  efficient  fight  against  all 
forms of organized crime. 
firmly  convinced 
We  are 
that  only 
09-52470 

35 

that  decision 
In  our  view, 
A/64/PV.8 


In  view  of  all  of  the  above,  it  is  clear  that  the 
responsibility of the United Nations is only increasing. 
We therefore welcome the reform process of the world 
Organization  and  hope  that  it  will  result  in  a  more 
democratic  and  representative  United  Nations.  We 
attach  particular  importance  to  strengthening  the  role 
and  efficiency  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  main 
bodies,  and  fully  support  intergovernmental  talks  on 
Security  Council  reform.  These  negotiations  offer  an 
opportunity  for  small  States  to  express  their  interests, 
in  addition  to  providing  a  vision  for  an  improved  and 
more  transparent  functioning  of  the  most  important 
United Nations organ. 
As  the  Assembly  may  know,  this  past  June  the 

United  Nations  Development  Group 
identified 
Montenegro as a country eligible for implementation of 
the  Delivering  as  One  pilot  initiative  launched  within 
the  framework  of  the  overall  reform  process  aimed  at 
improving  the  efficiency,  coherence  and  coordination 
of  United  Nations  development  programmes  on  the 
ground. 
recognizes 
Montenegro’s  strong  commitment  to  United  Nations 
standards  and  values  and  provides  an  endorsement  of 
the highly successful joint efforts of the United Nations 
team and the Montenegrin Government. 

Given the myriad of challenges and their negative 
effects  on  the  environment,  as  well  as  the  potential 
increase  in  social,  religious  and  cultural  tensions 
leading to political instability, only the coordinated and 
comprehensive 
international 
stakeholders,  including  civil  society  and  the  private 
sector,  can  create  the  preconditions  for  efficiently 
addressing  the  consequences  of  the  ongoing  crises.  In 
this  regard,  the  United  Nations  has  a  decisive  role  to 
play in coordinating efforts towards the achievement of 
concrete results. 

Convinced  of  the  great  potential  of  the  United 
Nations,  if  supported  by  the  active  participation  of 
Member States, we reiterate Montenegro’s commitment 
to  building  a  responsible  international  community 
ready to meet the needs of all of its members. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of Montenegro for the statement he has 
just made. 

Mr. Milo Dukanović, Prime Minister of Montenegro, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 
response 
of 
all 

36 


Address by Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, Prime 
Minister of the Central African Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Central African Republic. 

Mr.  Faustin  Archange  Touadera,  Prime  Minister 
of the Central African Republic, was escorted to 
the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, Prime  Minister of the 
Central African  Republic,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the General Assembly. 
Mr. Touadera (Central African Republic) (spoke 

in French): May I begin by congratulating Mr. Treki on 
his unanimous election to preside over the work of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  His 
election  to  that  position  is  an  honour  to  the  entire 
African  continent  and  a  worthy  tribute  to  the  Great 
Socialist  People’s  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  whose 
devotion to the African cause goes without saying. 
Furthermore  and  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency 

General  François  Bozizé,  President  of  the  Republic, 
who  wishes  him  every  success  in  his  work,  I  assure 
him of the support of the Central African delegation in 
achieving  the  full  success  of  his  lofty  task  this  year. 
His demonstrated knowledge of the United Nations and 
of  world  problems  will  ensure  the  success  of  the 
present session. I also wish to congratulate Mr. Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann  of  Nicaragua  on  his  excellent 
contribution  to  the  previous  session  in  his  capacity  as 
President. 

However,  before  delivering  my  assessment  the 
state of the world in the face of the new challenges of 
the  twenty-first  century  and  my  country’s  perspective 
on  the  main  issues  to  be  addressed  at  this  session,  I 
should  also  like  to  commend  the  tireless  work  of  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  spares  no 
effort  in  promoting  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
United Nations. To him, I once again express the deep 
gratitude of the people of the Central African Republic 
for  his  notable  contributions  with  regard 
the 
situation  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and  his 
support  within  the  framework  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission.  
In  fact,  in  March  this  year,  pursuant  to  my 

Government’s  request,  a  country  configuration  of  the 
to 
09-52470 
regarding 
demobilization 
from  8 
in  particular 
and 
rise 
that  can  be  addressed  only 


Peacebuilding  Commission  was  established  under  the 
Belgian  presidency.  The  Commission 
is  working 
together with Central African authorities to strengthen 
the  achievements  of  peace  and  make  it  possible  to 
implement  the  recommendations  resulting  from  the 
to 
inclusive  political  dialogue  held 
20 December  2008, 
the 
reintegration 
disarmament, 
programme,  security  sector  reform  and  the  process 
leading up to the 2010 general elections. 

My country welcomes this session because of the 
items  on  our  agenda,  which  are  true  matters  of  global 
concern.  Indeed,  it  should  be  recalled  that  we  have 
several  challenges  to  meet:  development,  peace  and 
security,  climate  change  and  its  effects,  terrorism  and 
necessary United Nations reform. The choice of theme 
for this debate — “Effective responses to global crises, 
strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations  for 
international  peace,  security  and 
development” — is inspired. In fact, the changes in the 
to  new 
world’s  configuration  have  given 
challenges 
through 
international  cooperation.  Thus,  multilateralism  now 
appears  to  be  the  only  way  to  resolve  the  world’s 
problems. 

In  this  era  of  globalization  and  technological 
advances,  forums  for  cooperation  —  even  the  most 
firmly established ones — must address new demands 
calling for appropriate and united responses.  

I am grateful for the honour shown to the Central 
African  Republic,  and  I  should  like  to  stress  the 
correlation  among  some  of  the  issues  raised  since  the 
beginning  of  this  general  debate.  With  regard  to  the 
world  situation,  this  session  is  being  held  in  a 
particularly  worrisome  context.  This  is  a  critical  time 
for addressing global political issues at all levels — a 
time that requires us, as nations, to seek solutions in a 
spirit  of  dialogue,  cooperation  and  openness.  The 
current world scene poses major challenges in the areas 
of  peace  and  security,  economic  development  and 
social progress, and human rights and the rule of law. 

issues  are 
concerned,  the  world  economic  and  financial  crisis 
remains an unprecedented event in terms of its impact 
and  the  upheavals  in  the  world’s  economic  and 
financial  systems.  It  requires  a  reorganization  leading 
to a new world order in this area. Besides that option, 
however, other ways to emerge from the present crisis 
far  as  crucial  development 
As 
A/64/PV.8
The 
of 
requires 
regional 
that  we  promote 
could be to develop production capacity, to strengthen 
trade  capacity  for  the  benefit  of  developing  countries 
and  to  implement  strategic  partnerships  among  the 
various  regions  to  which  the  Organization’s  Members 
belong.  

The  food  crisis,  which  was  caused  by  rising 
prices  and  whose  harmful  effects  continue  to  keep  a 
large  part  of  the  world  in  conditions  of  famine  and 
abject  poverty, 
the 
agricultural  sector,  industry  and  the  utilization  of 
mining resources. The rise in food prices has caused a 
significant  deterioration  in  the  terms  of  trade  among 
countries  in  the  most  affected  regions,  including  the 
African  continent  generally  and,  in  particular,  the 
Central African  Republic. That  situation  could  lead  to 
greater 
inflationary  pressure  and  a  deteriorating 
balance  of  payments. The  impact  is  being  felt  both  at 
the  macroeconomic  level  and  in  terms  of  household 
income and food security.  

contributions 
economic 
communities  and  United  Nations  agencies  such  as  the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations, the World Food Programme, the International 
Fund  for  Agricultural  Development  and  the  World 
Bank, will be invaluable in the quest for a coordinated 
solution to this crisis. Agricultural development should 
be  encouraged  with  a  view  to  ensuring  sustainable 
growth  and 
in  people’s  means  of 
subsistence,  based  on 
the  sound  management  of 
environmental and natural resources.  

Programmes  and  activities  to  promote  long-term 
growth should, of course, be carried out in accordance 
with  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  In 
2000,  when  we  committed  ourselves  to  achieving  the 
Goals  by  2015,  we  aroused 
legitimate  hopes 
throughout  the  developing  world.  We  do  not  have  the 
right  to  dash  those  hopes,  which  would  worsen  the 
North-South  fracture  and  further  deepen  the  divisions 
within our own societies, with incalculable risks for the 
governance and stability of States.  

A little more than nine years after the Millennium 
Summit, it is indisputable that significant progress has 
been  made,  but  we  must  acknowledge  that,  in  many 
countries  in Africa  and  elsewhere,  a  large  majority  of 
the population lives in abject poverty. The Millennium 
Development  Goals  are  the  surest  way  to  speed  the 
progress  of  African  peoples  towards  well-being.  The 
development projects in the MDG sectors need stable, 
improvements 
09-52470 

37 

At 
the 
the  marginalization 
A/64/PV.8 

sufficient  and  predictable  long-term  funding.  We  thus 
regard  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  as  an 
opportunity  to  raise  the  awareness  of  all  international 
development  financing  institutions,  without  exception, 
and  lead  them  to  effectively  pledge  to  mobilize  and 
transfer  the  financial  resources  necessary  to  achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals.  

Likewise, the Programme of Action for the Least 
Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010, aimed 
at  significantly  improving  the  living  conditions  of  the 
more than 600 million people living in those countries, 
is concluding and thus should be reviewed in order to 
and 
address 
new 
socio-economic  challenges  facing 
least  developed 
countries.  

Climate  change  joins  the  challenges  confronting 
our world, because the  economy, the environment  and 
the  way  of  life  of  every  nation  represented  here  are 
threatened.  

the  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Conference  held  in  Bali,  Indonesia,  in  2007,  world 
leaders  decided  to  negotiate  a  new  agreement  on 
climate change to succeed the Kyoto Protocol in 2012. 
In the Bali Road Map, States defined spheres of action 
and  agreed  to  take  them  into  account  during  the  post-
Kyoto negotiations. The working meeting of the heads 
of  State  of  the  G8+5  in  L’Aquila  on  9  July  2009 
examined 
issue  of  reducing  greenhouse  gas 
emissions. 
My  country  is  committed  to  the  global  fight 

its 
against  climate  change,  as  demonstrated  by 
ratification  of  several  international  instruments  on 
climate  issues.  I  am  referring  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
Kyoto Protocol. 

For  the  Central  African  Republic,  the  challenge 
of  climate  change  relates  to  not  only  mitigation, 
namely  reductions  in  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  but 
also to adaptation to the harmful effects of that change. 
However,  for vulnerable States, with  a  weak  economy 
like  ours,  the  cost  of  adaptation,  calculated  at  several 
tens  of  billions  of  dollars  a  year,  puts  a  still  greater 
strain  on  our  limited  resources  and  increases  poverty. 
This is an opportunity for me to express the wish that 
assistance  in  combating  climate  change  not  replace 
official development assistance. 
the 
to 
that, 
the  Bali  Road  Map 

We have not come to this sixty-fourth session of 
the General Assembly to point an accusing finger at the 
States  responsible  for  global  warming,  but  rather,  like 
the brother countries of Africa, to convey a message to 
the leaders of the world. Africa will continue its efforts 
to preserve its forest ecosystems, but the rich countries 
must  assume  their  responsibilities  to  reach  concrete 
proposals for post-Kyoto. 

We  support  France’s  proposal  at  the  summit  on 
climate  change,  held  on  22  September  2009,  for  the 
establishment of a world environment organization, the 
implementation  of 
through 
technology  transfers  to  developing  countries,  and  the 
reduce  greenhouse  gas 
financing  of  efforts 
emissions.  However,  we  strongly  hope 
in 
Copenhagen  next  December,  the  common  position  of 
the countries of Central Africa, which share the forests 
of the Congo basin, will be taken into account. 

Allow  me  here  to  recall  that  the  countries  of 
Central  Africa,  members  of  the  Commission  for  the 
Forests  of  Central  Africa  (COMIFAC),  signed  a 
declaration in Bangui on 11 September 2008 in which 
they  call  on  the  institutions  of  the  United  Nations 
system, 
International 
Organization of la Francophonie, the Secretariat of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  and  the 
high-level  panel  of  experts  to  support  them  in  their 
effort,  inter  alia,  to  include  issues  relating  to  the 
management  of  tropical  forests  in  the  post-Kyoto 
arrangements.  

The forests of the Congo basin, the second largest 
forest system in the world, play a key role in regulating 
the  global  climate.  The  efforts 
to  conserve  and 
sustainably  manage  the  forests  of  that  natural  space 
agreed  to  by  the  member  countries  of  COMIFAC 
should be encouraged as part of the process of reducing 
emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in 
developing countries. In Copenhagen, we must reach a 
fair  agreement,  based  on  win-win  partnerships  that 
enable  developing 
the 
preservation  of  natural  resources  with  economic 
development. 

The  Central  African  Republic  fully  supports  the 
statement  made  by  the  Chairperson  of  the  African 
Union Commission at its recent special session on the 
consideration and resolution of conflicts in Africa, held 
in  Tripoli,  Libya,  on  31  August  2009.  It  shares  the 
conviction 
that  economic  growth  and  sustainable 
the  European  Union, 
countries 
reconcile 
the 
to 
38 

09-52470 
in 
is 
respect 


development  are  intertwined  with  the  status  of  and 
trends in world peace and security.  

In view of the proliferation of arms of  all kinds, 
disarmament  is  a  pressing  issue.  The  United  Nations 
Disarmament  Commission  must  promote  resolutions 
that  encourage  multilateralism 
the  area  of 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation,  the  reduction  of 
military  budgets  and 
for  environmental 
standards  in  the  drawing  up  and  implementation  of 
disarmament  agreements.  An  effort  is  also  needed  to 
overcome  the  current  impasse  and  to  achieve  nuclear 
disarmament  and  nuclear  non-proliferation  in  all  their 
forms.  The  strategic  doctrine  adopted  by  nuclear-
weapon States that justifies the use of  or threat of the 
use  of  atomic  weapons  is  as  dangerous  as  uranium 
enrichment for weapons purposes and should simply be 
discarded.  

On  the  other  hand,  a  national  security  concept 
based  on  the  promotion  and  development  of  military 
alliances  and  nuclear  deterrence  policies  seems  better 
suited to the ideals that we pursue. The Central African 
Republic  welcomes  the  initiative  of  United  States 
President  Obama  in  convening  a  meeting  of  the 
Security  Council  on  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
nuclear disarmament. 

the  most  flagrant  violation  of 
international  law.  It  prevents  people  from  enjoying 
their  basic  freedoms  and  destabilizes  legitimately 
established  Governments.  For  those  reasons,  it  must 
not  be  tolerated  by  or  associated  with  any  religion, 
civilization, ethnic group or claim, however legitimate 
it may seem. My country resolutely condemns terrorist 
acts  and  aligns  itself  with  the  fight  against  terrorism 
being carried out by the committees established by the 
United Nations Security Council. 

The issue of the control of conventional weapons 
at the regional level is all the more relevant in view of 
the  fact  that  it  is  the  most  effective  way  to  tackle  the 
illegal proliferation of  armed groups and transnational 
crime.  The  peace  and  security  of  Central  Africa  are 
hampered  by  that  recurrent  problem.  Armed  groups 
threaten  the  stability  of  the  national  institutions  of 
some  of  our  States.  Along 
the 
comprehensive peace agreement signed at Libreville in 
neighbouring  Gabon  on  21  June  2008  enabled  the 
Central  African  Republic  to  thwart  an  ill-intentioned 
plot to seize power. 
Terrorism 
lines, 
those 
A/64/PV.8
the 
entire 
nearly 

However, its concern, like that of other States of 
Africa’s  Great  Lakes  region,  such  as  the  Sudan,  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda, is with 
the  criminal  activities  of  the  uprising  of  the  so-called 
Lord’s  Resistance  Army,  which  has  become  a 
transnational  criminal  organization,  causing  death  and 
destruction  as  far  as  the  Central African  Republic.  Its 
destructive  capacity  goes  beyond  the  territory  of  the 
Republic  of  Uganda  and  is  becoming  a  regional 
problem, for which an agreed solution is essential. The 
affected  States  are  striving  to  achieve  that  with  the 
limited resources that they have. 

I  am  convinced  that  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  international  law  continue  to  be  essential 
instruments  and  the  pillars  of  the  preservation  and 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security. 
Representing 
international 
community,  the  United  Nations  has  well-established 
international  legitimacy  and  is  the  best  forum  for 
finding a lasting solution to problems of that kind.  

The  United  Nations  remains  the  primary  and 
fundamental  forum  for  addressing  world  issues  and 
seeking  consensus.  That  is  why  we  Member  States 
attach  great  importance  to  strengthening  its  role  and 
believe that reform is necessary in order to develop its 
full  potential. The  reform  must  be  comprehensive  and 
cover all areas, while respecting its political nature and 
its intergovernmental and universal character. 

However,  adjustments  to  two  organs  of  our 
Organization  seem  to  be  a  priority  in  that  reform:  the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  The 
General  Assembly  must  be  invigorated  by  giving 
greater  weight  to  its  role  and  to  its  authority  as  the 
main  deliberative  and  representative  organ  of  the 
Member  States.  The  General  Assembly’s  prerogatives 
as the chief oversight body of the United Nations, even 
in the area of peacekeeping, must be respected. 

As for reform of the Security Council, it must be 
directed  at  achieving  transparency  and  balance  within 
that  body. 
Its  enlargement  will  enable  better 
representation  of  all  regions  in  order  to  allow  us  to 
debate  new  approaches 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  This  is  an  African 
position  that  has  been  advocated  during  this  general 
debate  by  the  Leader  of  the  Great  Socialist  People’s 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (see A/64/PV.3), and it is one 
that the Central African Republic supports. My country 
hopes  that  reform  of  the  United  Nations  system  will 
to 
09-52470 

39 

impact  on 
the  development  of 
A/64/PV.8 

have  a  positive 
multilateral cooperation in our ever-changing world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the Central African Republic for the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Faustin  Archange  Touadera,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Central  African  Republic,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum. 


Address by The Honourable Edward Nipake 
Natapei, Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu. 

The  Honourable  Edward  Nipake  Natapei,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted 
to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  The 
Honourable Edward Nipake Natapei, Prime Minister of 
the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the General Assembly. 
Mr. Natapei (Vanuatu): I begin by joining others 

in  congratulating  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on 
assuming  the  noble  and  high  responsibility  of  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session. Let me wish him well in his leadership as the 
United  Nations  makes  its  way  through  the  myriad 
evolving  challenges  on  the  global  agenda.  I  also  take 
this opportunity to commend the Secretary-General for 
his vision and for the initiatives that he has resolutely 
pursued in the interests of all humanity. 

The  theme  of  the  sixty-fourth  General Assembly 
session  will  serve  to  focus  the  attention  of  the 
international  community  on  the  critical  importance  of 
building  partnerships 
and 
sustainable  development.  My  delegation  shares  the 
belief that sustainable development is the responsibility 
of  everyone,  and  that  its  realization  requires  strong 
partnerships  at  all  levels.  I  firmly  believe  that  equity 
and  sustainable  development  are  mutually  reinforcing 
goals,  for  it  would  be  difficult  to  support  peace, 
security and growth in any process of development that 
left much of humanity behind.  
for  more 
equitable 
and 
years, 
the 
and 
We 
in 
One  of 
resources 
economic 
effectively 
frameworks 
the  Pacific  are  grateful 

the  major  goals  of  my  country’s 
comprehensive  reform  programme,  introduced  during 
the  mid-1990s,  is  to  promote  social  equity,  especially 
in  terms  of  integrating  the  needs  of  our  culturally 
diverse people and geographically remote communities 
into  our  national  development  priorities.  I  am  glad  to 
say  that  we  are  still  pursuing  our  nationwide  policy 
consultation  processes,  aimed  at  developing  and 
maintaining  sound  policies  and 
for 
delivering  services  to  our  people  at  the  grass-roots 
level. 

to  all  our 
development  partners  for  their  continuing  support  and 
their  commitment  to  working  closely  with  us  in 
developing mechanisms for strengthening development 
coordination,  improving  development  outcomes,  using 
available 
ensuring 
inclusiveness in our approach to development. 

We  are  very  much  aware  of  the  fact  that  despite 
continued  high  levels  of  development  assistance  over 
many 
development 
performance  of  island  States  in  the  Pacific  region 
remains weak. Many countries in our region, including 
Vanuatu, are not on track to achieve all the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015.  Vanuatu  will 
therefore remain firmly committed to the principles of 
the  Cairns  Compact  on  Strengthening  Development 
Coordination  in  the  Pacific.  We  are  committed  to 
working  closely  with 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
Secretariat  and  other  multilateral  agencies  to  ensure 
that  all  resources  made  available  to  the  region  are 
focused on the aim of achieving real progress towards 
the  MDGs.  We  are  also  committed  to  work  with  our 
individual  donor  partners  to  ensure  that  they  support 
our  national  development  priorities  that  are  linked  to 
our overall efforts to achieve the MDGs. 

However, Vanuatu  is  aware  that  commitments  to 
strengthening  development  coordination  in  the  Pacific 
region  are  being  made  against  the  backdrop  of  the 
global economic crisis. My delegation therefore wishes 
to renew our call to international financial institutions 
to  assist  Pacific  island  countries  in  responding  to  the 
international  economic  crisis.  Vanuatu 
is  very 
its  recent  high  economic  growth 
concerned 
performance,  which  rose  above  6  per  cent  between 
2006  and  2007,  will  fall  sharply  as  a  result  of  the 
global  economic  recession.  International  Monetary 
Fund  and  Asian  Development  Bank  growth  estimates 
forecast that Vanuatu’s economy will grow at a slower 
that 
40 

09-52470 


pace in 2008 and 2009, averaging between 3 and 4 per 
cent.  Growth  prospects  for  the  future  continue  to  be 
uncertain.  Maintaining  strong  economic  growth  over 
the  next  few  years  will  be  critical  if  Vanuatu  is  to 
succeed in sustained delivery of such basic services as 
education, health and infrastructure development to its 
80 scattered islands. 

In the light of these concerns Vanuatu is pleased 
that  in  February  2010  it  will  be  hosting  a  Pacific-
United Nations Conference on The Human Face of the 
Global  Economic  Crisis  in  the  Pacific.  Discussions  of 
the  organizational  arrangements  for  this  important 
event  are under way between my Government, United 
Nations  specialized  agencies  actively  engaged  in  the 
Pacific  region  and  Pacific  regional  organizations.  We 
all  look  forward  to  the  outcome  of  the  conference, 
especially  in  terms  of  guidance  and  support  for 
building Pacific regional partnerships that can assist us 
in  addressing  the  impacts  of  this  and  future  global 
economic crises on the livelihoods of our people. 
The  complex  and  challenging  circumstances  in 

international  condemnation  and 
Fiji  have 
pressure  for  early  elections 
to  be  held.  Further 
international  pressure has  been brought  to bear on the 
Government  of  Fiji 
recent 
developments.  While  Vanuatu  is  part  of  the  Pacific-
wide regional calls for an early return of democracy in 
Fiji,  my  Government  believes 
continued 
engagement  of 
the 
international  community  will  be  critical.  Under 
Vanuatu’s  chairmanship,  the  Melanesian  Spearhead 
Group  has  continued  to  maintain  high-level  dialogue 
with the Government of Fiji, primarily to ascertain that 
Government’s views and to put forward the concerns of 
neighbouring States. 

Vanuatu  welcomes  the  recent  establishment  of  a 
full-fledged department to  oversee the implementation 
of the framework for change that the Fiji Government 
introduced  recently  and  to  facilitate  a  nationwide 
process  of  reconciliation  and  dialogue. As  the  closest 
neighbouring  island  State,  Vanuatu  continues  to  plead 
that  the  process  of  returning  Fiji  to  democracy  and 
parliamentary legitimacy should be driven by peaceful 
dialogue  and  genuine  concern  for  the  socio-economic 
well-being of the people of Fiji. Any punitive measures 
would not be in the economic and social interest of the 
good  people  of  Fiji  or  the  region  of  the  Pacific  as  a 
whole.  We  are  all  too  aware  of  the  unprecedented 
challenges  that  small  island  developing  States  like 
the  Fiji  Government  by 
in  view  of  more 
led 
to 
that 
09-52470 

A/64/PV.8
and  often  have  grave 
Vanuatu have come to be faced with today. Man-made 
or  linked  with  such  phenomena  as  climate  change, 
these challenges pose unacceptable implications for the 
social,  economic  and  political  structures  of  our  small 
island  States 
security 
implications. 

Vanuatu  would  like  at  this  juncture  cordially  to 
applaud  the  tireless  and  collective  efforts  of  all  the 
island  nations,  large  and  small,  in  cooperating  and 
working together towards the adoption by the General 
Assembly  this  past  June  of  resolution  63/281  on 
climate  change  and  its  possible  security  implications. 
This  is  indeed  a  historical  milestone  for  Pacific  small 
island  developing  States,  such  as  my  own  country, 
because  for  the  first  time  the  security  implications  of 
climate  change  were  brought  to  the  attention  of  the 
international  community.  Over  the  years  differing  and 
conflicting  views  have  stalled  the  strenuous  efforts  of 
the small island countries in convincing the world that 
the impact of climate change was irreversible. Inherent 
in many of the arguments that needed to be overcome 
was the idea that there was still time. 

At  this  point  I  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
must  be  the  principal  forum  for  addressing  climate 
change.  Given  our  vulnerabilities  and  geographic 
realities, we in the Pacific region have been among the 
first fully to accept the security implications of climate 
change.  I  would  like  to  stress  here  that  no  country, 
small or large, developed or developing, will be able to 
avoid  the  security  implications  of  climate  change, 
which  are  already  affecting  the  livelihoods  of  our 
people,  as  the  international  community  struggles  to 
come to terms with the idea that climate change poses 
a real threat to the future survival of mankind. Unless 
all the relevant organs of the United Nations intensify 
their  efforts  to  consider  and  address  the  issue  of 
climate  change,  no  word  will  be  more  appropriate  to 
the global situation under this particular crisis than the 
word  “doomed”.  The  momentum  seen  today  forces 
upon  us  the  realization  that  these  threats  are  real  and 
therefore require urgent attention. 

In  preparations  for  the  coming  conference  in 
Copenhagen,  leaders  of  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island 
States  have  agreed  this  week  that  more  action  is 
required from members of the international community 
in living up to their commitments. While globalization 
and  interdependency  have  brought  with  them  both 
opportunities  and  challenges  for  the  small  island 
41 

A/64/PV.8 

States,  the  challenges  predominate  and  are  ominous. 
The  gathering  of  world  leaders  at  the  Summit  on 
Climate Change at this year’s General Assembly was a 
reaffirmation  that  climate  change  presents  a  security 
threat to all our nations and peoples. 

Consisting of volcanic and coral islands, Vanuatu 
is one of the smaller island nations in the South Pacific 
region and in the world. Because of Vanuatu’s rapidly 
growing  young  population  and  low  economic  growth 
rate,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP)  assessment,  until  very  recently,  ranked  it  as 
one  of  the  poorest  countries  in  the  South  Pacific 
region.  This  degree  of  underdevelopment  drastically 
limits its capacity to effectively curb threats associated 
with the adverse impacts of climate change. 

More  than  80  per  cent  of  the  people  of  Vanuatu 
live  off  the  land  through  subsistence  farming,  which 
constitutes  their  contribution  to  the  national  economy. 
Vanuatuan  traditional  farming  practices  have  been 
shaped  by  farmers’  subsistence  needs  and  climatic 
conditions.  Land  has  always  been  precious  to  the 
Ni-Vanuatu;  rights  to  its  ownership  and  use  form  a 
central part of their culture and traditional governance. 
The  rapidly  growing  population  of  Vanuatu  places 
increasing  pressure  on  access  to  a  finite  amount  of 
farmland.  This  issue  is  likely  to  be  compounded  by 
probable  losses  of  arable  land  owing  to  the  adverse 
effects  of  climate  change.  Such  possible  losses  raise 
serious  economic,  political  and  security  implications 
for Vanuatu. 

Not  only  is  Vanuatu  among  the  least  developed 
countries, but it remains one of the most disaster-prone 
nations  among  the  small  island  States.  It  is  highly 
susceptible to cyclones, coastal erosion, river flooding, 
earthquakes, 
and  volcanic 
eruptions. 

Without  doubt  these  are  challenging  times.  We 
followed  with  great  interest  the  recent  Conference  on 
the  World  Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its 
Impact  on  Development. Vanuatu  is  deeply  concerned 
that  the  world  financial  crisis,  like  climate  change,  is 
caused  by  external  forces  beyond  our  control,  and  yet 
its  rippling  effects  are  quickly  reaching  our  nation’s 
most  vulnerable  populations.  Children,  women,  the 
disabled  and  the  working  poor  will  be  the  hardest  hit 
and the least able to cope with dramatic changes. 
Vanuatu  is  indeed  being  hurt  by  a  variety  of 

economic  realities,  such  as  decreasing  trade,  erratic 
landslides, 
tsunamis 
this  downturn 
is 
fair  and  comprehensive  global  deal 
commodity  prices,  increased  borrowing  costs  and 
strains  on  official  development  assistance.  One  of  the 
reasons  for 
that  we  are  quite 
dependent  on  external  financing,  in  the  form  of  both 
aid  and 
trade.  Furthermore  our  foreign-exchange 
earnings  and  our  Government  revenue  rely  on  a  small 
number  of  commodities.  However,  we  are  confident 
that we will be able to counteract those weaknesses in 
our  economic  situation  by  introducing  progressive 
microeconomic 
policy  mechanisms, 
improving 
Government  structures  and  striving 
to  maintain 
political  stability. This  plan  is  in  line  with  working  to 
implement  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to 
achieve country targets by the year 2015. 

Vanuatu emphatically concurs with the premise of 
the  upcoming  Copenhagen  conference  that  climate 
change is one of the most fundamental challenges ever 
to confront humanity. No issue is more fundamental to 
long-term  global  prosperity,  and  no  issue  is  more 
essential  to  our  survival  as  a  species.  I  strongly  feel 
that  a 
in 
Copenhagen will represent a step forward for all us, for 
nations  small  or  large,  developing  or  developed. 
Mutual  cooperation,  respect  and  trust  will  be  the  key 
political  driving  forces  for  a  successful  deal 
in 
Copenhagen. 

While  we  commend  recent  efforts  to  reform  the 
United Nations, Vanuatu shares the view of many other 
countries  that  to  ensure  a  stronger  and  more  effective 
Organization we need to reconsider the membership of 
the  Security  Council  sooner  rather  than  later.  If  the 
Council’s  membership  better  reflected  the  world’s 
geography 
currently 
underrepresented  groups,  the  United  Nations  would 
build  a  stronger  sense  of  common  responsibility  and 
collective 
representative 
Council would bring openness and transparency, create 
confidence 
and 
cooperation. 
Still,  any  reform  must  be  implemented  in  a  way 

that  does  not  affect  the  authority  of  the  Council.  Of 
course there are diverse vested interests among us. But 
our  common  interests  and  the  United  Nations  role  in 
furthering them must continue to hold a central place to 
ensure 
legal 
framework.  Negotiations  must  therefore  be  conducted 
in an atmosphere of inclusion and through constructive 
dialogue  and  positive  engagement.  Diatribes  offer  no 
solutions.  We  must  remain  resolute  in  our  defence  of 
responsiveness.  A  more 
the  continuity  of 
understanding 
the 
international 
and 
ameliorate 
and 
better 
represented 
42 

09-52470 
for 
The 
direct 
blueprint 
including 
exploring 
On  a  more  administrative 


the  United  Nations;  the  necessity  of  this  Organization 
is  continuously  made  clear  by  the  horrors  that  the 
scourges  of  armed  conflict,  disease  and  famine  inflict 
on people, especially women and children. 

the  highly 
level, 
bureaucratic  procedures  and  accession  mechanisms 
established  by  the  United  Nations  system  for  much 
needed  funds  have  placed  unnecessary  strain  on  local 
capacities. As  the  burgeoning  climate  crisis  looms  on 
the  horizon  we  need  to  identify  ways  of  simplifying 
procedures, such as those for accessing climate change 
mitigation  funds,  and  to  consider  revising  delivery 
modalities, 
access 
possibilities. 
international 
cooperation may be in place but it must be followed up 
by action. 

Finally,  my  delegation  welcomes  Security 
Council resolution 1887 (2009) on non-proliferation of 
nuclear weapons and disarmament. The presence of all 
the  leaders  of  the  Permanent  Five  at  the  meeting  (see 
S/PV.6191)  demonstrates  a  commitment  to  control  the 
spread  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  will  always  remain 
humanity’s greatest challenge, and there is hope. 

Despite all our differences and diversities, human 
security for all is our main objective. We recognize the 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  commend  the 
manner  in  which  he  has  pursued  the  mobilization  of 
political momentum for Copenhagen with the  relevant 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations.  Saving  the  Earth  and 
humanity remains our ultimate goal. 

to  Copenhagen  with 
optimism.  The  future  is  in  our  hands.  Let  us  not 
deprive  future  generations  of  their  right  to  live  in  a 
world of peace and stability. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

The Honourable Edward Natapei, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted from the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Asselborn,  Deputy 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Immigration of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. 
In  conclusion,  we  go 
A/64/PV.8
and 
security, 
Mr. Asselborn (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): 

I  believe  it  is  fair  to  say  that  we  have  just  come 
through  an  annus  horribilis:  a  year  marked  by  the 
worldwide  financial  and  economic  crisis,  the  worst 
since the Great Depression of  1929; by  an increase in 
hunger  and  poverty  —  we  are  speaking  about  some 
100 million  more  people  sinking  into  hunger  and 
chronic  poverty  due  to  the  crisis,  and  more  than 
1 billion people suffering from hunger in 2009; by the 
dramatic  rise  in  unemployment  —  the  International 
Labour  Organization  (ILO)  indicates  that  50  million 
workers are at risk of losing or have already lost their 
jobs;  by  set-backs  in  the  hard-won  progress  towards 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals;  and  by 
the 
outbreak  of  a  pandemic.  It  was  also  a  year  during 
which  questions  about  the  relevance  of  the  United 
Nations  and  calls  for  an  overhaul  of  international 
governance grew ever louder. 

Accordingly,  we  see  the  need  to  take  stock  and 
draw  lessons,  namely,  to  review  the  major  challenges 
the international community is confronting in terms of 
development,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law, 
peacekeeping 
and 
non-proliferation and the fight against climate change. 
And what better forum to discuss these issues than the 
General Assembly of the United Nations? 

The economic crisis that hit the world a year ago 
was  even  more  devastating,  as  it  took  place  while  we 
were  still  struggling  to  cope  with,  without  having 
overcome them, the food and energy crises, as well as 
the acceleration, obviously, of climate change. 

I  have  just  mentioned  the  particularly  negative 
impact  of  the  crisis  on  the  poorest.  To  face  those 
challenges, we need concerted action, coherent action, 
global 
for 
development,  based  on  the  shared  responsibilities  of 
donors and recipients. 

My  country  will  continue  to  assume  its  share  of 
responsibility  by  maintaining  its  efforts  in  terms  of 
official  development  assistance  (ODA).  Having  spent 
0.95  per  cent  of  its  gross  national  income  on  ODA  in 
2008,  the  Government  that  was  elected  in  June  2009 
has  not  only  confirmed 
the 
quantitative  target  of  1  per  cent  of  its  gross  national 
income,  but  will  also  continue  to  insist  on  the 
qualitative  improvement  of  Luxembourg’s cooperation 
in  order  to  further  increase  efficiency,  all  of  it  in  the 
true  global  partnership 
it  maintains 
disarmament 
action, 
that 
a 
09-52470 

43 
in 
this 
has 

integrating 
this  forum 
in  June  at 
As  I  stated 
A/64/PV.8 

context  of 
sustainable  development 
economic, social and environmental issues. 

Luxembourg calls on all Member States to make 
the necessary efforts to keep all the commitments that 
were  made  together  in  this  forum  and  that  we  have 
reiterated at the Millennium Summit in Monterrey and 
more recently in Doha. 

We must, however, learn the lessons provided by 
this  multidimensional  crisis  and  contemplate  a  more 
systemic  reform  of  the  existing  multilateral  system, 
including the financial and economic architecture, and 
adapt  it  to  the  current  political  and  socio-economic 
realities. 

the 
Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development,  the  United 
Nations  and  its  principal  organs  must  be  at  the  centre 
of such a reflection. The Economic and Social Council, 
which  is  the  central  mechanism  for  coordination  and 
the  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations  responsible 
for economic and social issues, will have a particularly 
important role to play in this regard. 
Luxembourg,  which  chairs  the  Economic  and 

Social  Council 
its 
responsibilities  in  that  regard  and  is  working  towards 
full  implementation  of  the  various  mandates  entrusted 
to the Council by Member States in the framework of 
the international Conference. 

All  these  actions  require  a  strong  multilateral 
framework based on sound legal rules that are binding 
on  all  Member  States.  In  times  of  crisis,  unilateral 
tendencies  unfortunately  tend  to  recur.  While  it  is 
important  that  representatives  of  the  major  economies 
of  the  world  meet  to  discuss  common  problems, 
particularly the economic  and financial crisis we have 
experienced in recent months, such forums should not 
and  must  not  substitute  for  multilateral  structures  and 
existing intergovernmental mandates. 

In order to retain the relevance of our multilateral 
structures, they must be based on trust and cooperation: 
trust  between  the  citizen  and  the  State,  trust  among 
States themselves, whether they are from the North or 
the South, rich or poor, and confidence of States in the 
United Nations, which is our common good. 

It lies in our hands to assume our responsibilities, 
to  overcome  our  divisions,  to  move  the  thinking  and 
ensure 
the 
decision-making 
assumed 
year, 
forward, 
and 
to 
consistency.  It  lies  in  our  hands  to  undertake  the 
necessary  reform  efforts  required  for  a  Security 
Council  that  reflects,  at  last,  the  geopolitical  realities 
of  today,  and  which  is  more  representative,  efficient 
and  transparent;  for  a  revitalized  General  Assembly, 
and  for  a  stronger  and  more  effective  Economic  and 
Social Council. It lies in our hands to demonstrate the 
continued  relevance  of  our  Organization  and 
its 
capacity to act and to formulate joint responses, global 
responses and legitimate responses. 
In our globalized world, there is no turning away. 


We  are  all  concerned,  and  the  challenges  we  are 
facing  are  of  an  ever-increasing  complexity,  including 
in  matters  of  peace  and  security.  Yesterday,  we 
commemorated  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA),  an  anniversary 
that one would somehow have preferred not to have to 
celebrate,  for  while  it  allowed  us  to  express  our 
gratitude for the outstanding work done by that United 
Nations agency in the service of the Palestinian people 
on a daily basis, it is true, it is also synonymous with 
failure.  Sixty  years  later,  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East remains unresolved. 

While  we  welcome  that  the  new  Administration 
in  the  United  States  is  determined  to  seek  a  solution 
based  on 
two  States  and  a 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East, and while we, 
together  with  our  European  Union  partners,  are 
committed  to  working  actively  with  the  United  States 
and  other  Quartet  members,  including,  obviously,  the 
United Nations, to achieve this goal,  at  the same  time 
we  deeply  regret  that  Israel  persists  in  its  policy  of 
colonization. 

Mr. Shaheed (Maldives), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

It  cannot  be  repeated  too  often:  the  settlement 
activity is not only illegal under international law, but 
it is also an obstacle to peace. To continue colonization 
is 
in 
dominating  the  Palestinian  people.  Without  the  clear 
signal of an end to this policy, it is unlikely that serious 
negotiations can resume. 

We fully support the intention of the President of 
the  United  States  to  engage  in  negotiations,  and  we 
will  support  him  in  this  endeavour. Annapolis  showed 
that  Israelis  and  Palestinians,  when  they  are  alone 
the  coexistence  of 
the  Palestinians, 
in  humiliating 
to  persist 

44 

09-52470 
to 
in 
terms  of 
commitment 
to  shoulder 
commensurate  with 
We  call  on  all  parties 


around  the  negotiating  table,  are  not  able  to  show  a 
level  of 
the 
fundamental problems, namely, Jerusalem, the question 
of  refugees  and  their  right  to  return,  security  and  the 
issue of borders. 

their 
responsibilities  and,  through  their  actions,  to  establish 
an  environment  conducive 
the  resumption  of 
negotiations 
to  resolve  the  conflict.  The  end  of 
divisions  among  Palestinians  and  the  intra-Palestinian 
reconciliation  that  is  centred  on  President  Mahmoud 
Abbas,  who  has  demonstrated  in  the  West  Bank  that 
substantial  progress 
security  and 
governance is possible, are just as much a part of this 
as  the  adoption  of  confidence-building  measures  by 
Israel  and  Arab  countries  or  the  simultaneous  search 
for solutions to the conflicts between, on the one hand, 
Israel  and  the  Syrian Arab  Republic  and,  on  the  other 
hand, Israel and Lebanon. 

In  that  context,  I  would  also  like  to  stress  just 
how  urgent  it  is  to  find  a  sustainable  solution  to  the 
crisis  in  Gaza  through  the  full  implementation  of 
Security Council resolution 1860 (2009). An end must 
be  put  to  the  untenable  situation  of  1.5  million 
Palestinians  living  in  a  prison.  Giving  hope  and 
motivation  to  the  Palestinian  people  is  a  basic  human 
obligation.  Light  must  also  be  shed  on  the  events  in 
Gaza, including the events following the release of the 
United Nations fact-finding mission’s report, which has 
just  been  published  and  which  has  brought  shocking 
acts to light. The credibility of the United Nations is at 
stake in this matter. 

The  credibility  of  the  international  community 
too  is  at  stake  in  a  number  of  respects  with  regard  to 
the situation in Afghanistan. It is at stake as far as the 
establishment and maintenance of peace and security is 
concerned,  but  also  in  terms  of  preserving  the  rule  of 
law  and  respect  for  our  fundamental  values,  ensuring 
the  economic  and  social  development  of  the  country 
and combating poverty. That was the mandate given to 
the  United  Nations  back  in  2001.  It  has  become  clear 
that, eight years after the adoption of that mandate, the 
progress  made  is  still  not  enough.  In  the  light  of  the 
increasing number of bloody attacks carried out across 
the  country, 
recent 
presidential elections and the alarming figures in terms 
of development objectives, public opinion is beginning 
to  wonder  whether 
in  fact  we  are  not  moving 
backwards. 
the  events  surrounding 
the 
A/64/PV.8
the 
and 
authorities 

There is no easy solution, but there is certainly no 
alternative to our continued engagement in the country. 
I would like to stress that, together with our European 
Union  and  NATO  partners,  we  will  remain  engaged 
alongside 
the  people  of 
Afghanistan.  There  can  be  no  question  of  abandoning 
the  people,  who  have  been  devastated  by  decades  of 
conflict  and  violations  of  their  most  basic  rights.  The 
goal  must  be  a  stable  and  democratic  State  where  all 
forces, including the Taliban, recognize and respect the 
rule of law and basic human rights. 

Another conflict area that has long been a source 
of concern and where our hopes of lasting peace were 
once  again  called  into  question  in  the  past  year  is  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  Once  again  it  is 
civilians  who  must  suffer  the  consequences.  We  are 
seriously  concerned  about 
the  crimes  committed 
against civilians, especially women and children. 

In that context I would like to welcome the draft 
Security  Council  resolution  that  provides  for  concrete 
follow-up  to  resolution  1820  (2008),  on  women  and 
peace  and  security.  Luxembourg  fully  supports  that 
text.  I  also  welcome  the  personal  commitment  of  the 
Secretary-General in the fight against sexual violence. 
It  is  important  that  the  United  Nations  system  as  a 
whole  address  the  phenomenon  of  sexual  violence, 
which  is  used  increasingly  as  a  weapon  of  war  in 
armed  conflict  even  after  hostilities  have  ended.  It  is 
essential to strengthen efforts to prevent such acts from 
happening  and  to  bring  to  justice  those  who  commit 
those horrible crimes. 

the 
challenges  in  terms  of  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security, especially in the context of the current debate 
on  the  future  of  peacekeeping  operations  —  a  debate 
that  I  applaud  —  allow  me  to  dwell  for  a  moment  on 
the  current  encouraging  developments  in  the  field  of 
disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation. 

I welcome President Obama’s initiative to engage 
the  Security  Council  in  a  broader  discussion  of  issues 
pertaining 
to  non-proliferation  and  disarmament, 
beyond the specific area of issues related to sanctions. 
As we are only a few months from the eighth Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  it  is 
important  that  we  demonstrate  our  determination  to 
carry  out  that  task  as  regards  the  three  pillars  of  the 
While  much  remains 
to  be  said  about 
09-52470 

45 
lead  others 
A/64/PV.8 

NPT,  the  ultimate  goal  being  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons. 

The  same  goes  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT),  the  other  cornerstone  of  the 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  As  I  said  yesterday 
during  the  meeting  of  States  that  have  ratified  the 
CTBT,  the  call  of  the  Security  Council  to  sign  and 
ratify  the  CTBT  and  the  commitment  of  President 
Obama to do everything possible to ensure ratification 
in the United States are crucial. The Treaty must at last 
enter  into  force.  We  hope  that  those  encouraging 
developments  will 
to  adopt  a  more 
constructive  attitude,  with  full  respect  for 
their 
international obligations. 

Beyond  non-proliferation  issues,  however,  we 
must  not  overlook  disarmament  itself.  In  that  regard, 
we certainly welcome the decision of the United States 
and  the  Russian  Federation  to  conduct  negotiations  to 
conclude  a  new  comprehensive  agreement  following 
the expiry of the START II Treaty next December. 

Allow  me  as  well  to  say  a  few  words  about  an 
issue  that  is  also  relevant  in  terms  of  security  and 
defence.  I am referring to the welcome  decision — in 
my  opinion,  at 
the  United  States 
Administration  to  abandon  the  effort  to  put  in  place  a 
missile defence shield. It always seemed to me that the 
way forward in that regard was not to adopt unilateral 
measures, but to engage in discussion and cooperation 
with our Russian partners with a view to ensuring our 
common security. 
I  cannot  conclude  without  saying  a  few  words 

about  climate  change,  which  is  perhaps  the  greatest 
challenge to world prosperity in the long term. I would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  once  again  for  convening  the  summit  of 
22 September. That resulted in political mobilization at 
the highest level, which is crucial if we want to make 
the  Copenhagen  Conference  a  success  and  set  a  new 
course  towards  sustainable  development  and  green 
growth that reduces carbon emissions. 

The scientific evidence exists. It is now up to us 
to  respond  with  determination  in  facing  those  facts. 
Developed  countries  will  have  to  set  the  example  by 
agreeing  to  ambitious  and  higher  than  average  targets 
to reduce carbon dioxide by 2050. They must do so by 
entering into binding legal commitments, including for 
the  medium  term,  in  the  context  of  an  effective  and 
least  —  by 

to  which  countries 
international  regime 
universal 
contribute on the basis of their capacity. 

Moreover,  the  issue  of  adaptation  to  climate 
change  —  including  also  the  financing  of  related 
efforts, which will necessarily constitute  an additional 
expense  —  should  be 
treated  as  a  priority  at 
Copenhagen.  Allow  me  to  note  in  passing  that  the 
disarmament  efforts  that  I  have  just  described  should 
free  up  financial  resources  that  could  be  put  to  better 
use in this regard. 
Meanwhile,  together  with  its  partners  in  the 

European  Union,  Luxembourg  has  already  committed 
itself to reach the so-called 20-20-20 goal of increasing 
energy  efficiency  in  the  European  Union  by  20  per 
cent,  increasing  renewable  energy  by  20  per  cent  of 
total energy consumption and reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions  by  20  per  cent  compared  to  1990  levels. 
Beginning  several  years  ago,  Luxembourg  began  to 
systematically  incorporate  the  issue  of  adaptation  to 
climate change in its development programmes. 

Climate change, however, will have an impact not 
only on development, but also on the full enjoyment of 
human  rights  and  on  the  security  of  countries.  I 
therefore  very  much  welcome  the  report  produced  by 
the  Secretary-General  following  the  initiative  taken  in 
that  regard  by  Pacific  small  island  developing  States, 
which addresses the full scope of the problem. 

Luxembourg  remains  firmly  convinced  of  the 
relevance  of  a  multilateral  approach  in  which  the 
United  Nations  is  at  the  centre.  We  will  continue  to 
base  our  policies  and  make  our  contributions  with  a 
view  to  creating  a  world  that  is  more  just,  more 
peaceful  and  more  prosperous,  as  enshrined  in  our 
founding  Charter.  It  is  also  because  of  this  passionate 
motivation  to  work  towards  a  strong  and  effective 
multilateralism  that  Luxembourg,  a  founding  Member 
of  the  United  Nations,  aspires  to  become,  for  the  first 
time, a non-permanent member of the Security Council 
in 2013-2014. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Theodore  Brent  Symonette,  Deputy 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Bahamas. 
Mr.  Symonette  (Bahamas):  On  behalf  of  the 

Government  and  people  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Bahamas,  I  convey  my  sincere  congratulations  on 
Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki’s election to preside over the 
46 

09-52470 
on 
are 
for 
The 
fallout 
the  worst  since 
d’Escoto  Brockmann, 
the  High-Level  Event  on 


General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  My 
delegation wishes to assure him of its full cooperation 
and  support  throughout  this  session.  I  would  also  like 
to take this opportunity to congratulate his predecessor, 
Father  Miguel 
his 
stewardship of the sixty-third session. 

The current global financial and economic crisis, 
possibly 
the  Great  Depression, 
threatens  to  negate  all  that  we  have  achieved  thus  far 
on  our  development  agenda,  at  both  the  national  and 
the international levels. This threat was acknowledged 
at 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  September  2008.  The 
scenario is no better today. 

the  Bahamas  has  been 
considerable. Ours is a very small, open economy that 
is closely linked to the performance of most developed 
economies.  Tourism  matters  in  the  Bahamas;  it  is  our 
primary industry and it affects all aspects of economic 
life in our country. We are in the midst of arguably one 
of the most difficult tourism seasons on record. Visitor 
arrivals  are  down,  hotel  occupancies  are  down  and 
revenues 
down. 
Unemployment  has  sharply  increased.  The  continued 
economic  uncertainty  means  that  unemployment  will 
pose  a  problem  until  the  global  economy  is  stabilized 
and returns to growth. In this regard, we are heartened 
by some of the signs of global economic recovery. 
The Government of the Bahamas acted quickly to 

soften 
international  economic 
downturn on our population. We took appropriate steps 
to ensure the continued integrity of our domestic fiscal 
and  financial  system;  we  accelerated  planned  capital 
works to generate  employment and economic activity; 
and  we  increased  targeted  social  relief  for  those  most 
disadvantaged  by  the  crisis.  In  implementing  these 
policies  and  programmes,  the  Government  exercised 
appropriate 
ensure 
sustainability  in  the  long  term  as  well  as  the  medium 
term  and  to  encourage  and  ensure  that  the  economy 
would be well placed to respond swiftly to any upturn 
in the global economy. The Bahamas believes that it is 
critically  important  to  global  financial  health  that 
actions taken at the national level be complemented by 
appropriate international responses. 

This year the General Assembly will consider the 
scale  of  assessments  for  the  apportionment  of  the 
expenses  of  the  United  Nations  for  the  period  2010-
impact  of 
restraint, 
tourism 
earned 
fiscal 
from 
the 
the 
so 
as 
to 
A/64/PV.8
in 
by 
our 
than 
required 
the  case  of 
the  development  objectives  of 
2012,  as  well  as  the  scale  of  assessments  for  the 
apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  The  Bahamas  takes  this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  its  long-standing  position  that 
per  capita  gross  national  income  (GNI)  should  not  be 
given undue weight in determining capacity to pay, as 
it often leads to distortions. Nowhere is this distortion 
more  visible 
the  scale  of 
assessments  for  peacekeeping  operations.  The  current 
scales  place  the  Bahamas,  a  small  developing  island 
nation,  in  the  same  category  as  the  most  developed 
economies  in  the  world,  with  the  exception  of  the 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council.  This 
unjust formula creates an onerous burden, and we call 
upon this body to address the inequity, which seriously 
undermines 
the 
Bahamas, as well as other developing countries. 

Clearly  the  GNI  criterion  does  not  properly 
reflect  either  the  vulnerability  of  our  economy  or  the 
extraordinary  costs  associated  with  the  duplication  of 
infrastructure 
archipelagic 
configuration. Yet, despite our vulnerabilities, we have 
never wavered in our responsibilities as a fully fledged 
member  of  the  international  community  and  will 
continue to meet our obligations to the United Nations 
in  the  manner  prescribed  and  agreed.  While  my 
Government  is  committed  to  paying  its  assessed 
contributions  in  a  full  and  timely  manner,  we  believe 
that  the  proposed  scale  of  assessments  is  unfair  and 
unduly burdensome to countries such as the Bahamas, 
and  should  therefore  be  reconsidered  and  adjusted, 
taking into account those considerations that reflect our 
vulnerabilities. 

Climate  change  presents  acute  challenges  for 
small  island  developing  States  such  as  the  Bahamas, 
and  we  are  certainly  vulnerable  to  its  impact.  One  of 
the  major  consequences  of  climate  change  for  the 
Bahamas  has  been 
the  number, 
frequency  and  ferocity  of  the  hurricanes  affecting  our 
country  and  region  over 
two  decades. 
Restoration and recovery efforts required as a result of 
these  extreme  events  have  taken  a  toll  amounting  to 
hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  over  the  past  decade 
alone,  diverting  scarce  resources  from  other  critically 
important  national  development  programmes  and 
compromising our efforts at sustainable development. 

Hence,  we  have  a  special  interest  not  only  in 
actions taken to mitigate the adverse impacts of climate 
change  but  also  in  measures  designed  to  slow  — 
increase 
last 
the 
the 
in 
09-52470 

47 

supposedly  well-intentioned 
A/64/PV.8 

indeed,  to  reverse  —  actions  that  negatively  affect 
climate.  As  a  founding  member  of  the  Alliance  of 
Small Island States, the Bahamas has joined with many 
like-minded States in our region and around the world 
in calling for a global agreement in Copenhagen, with 
legally  binding  targets,  that  will  permit  us  to  achieve 
the  ultimate  objectives  of 
the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 

The Bahamas is cognizant  that the responsibility 
for  climate  change  does  not  rest  with  developed 
countries  alone.  Within  our  limited  capabilities,  we 
have  undertaken  a  number  of  appropriate  actions, 
highlighted  during  the  High-Level  Event,  in  order  to 
increase  our  resistance  to  the  adverse  impacts  of 
climate change. But it is also important that initiatives 
undertaken  in  the  quest  for  environmental  protection 
do not cause greater harm than good. For example, the 
introduction  of  an  air-passenger  levy  will  damage  our 
already weakened tourism industry, the industry that is 
our economic lifeline. The proposed marine bunkering 
levies  or  taxes  are  likely  to  have  a  similar  negative 
impact on our maritime registry’s cost competitiveness. 
Such 
environmental 
initiatives come at a time when resources available for 
adaptation  are  not  readily  available  to  small  island 
developing States like the Bahamas. 

As  an  archipelagic  nation,  the  Bahamas  faces 
particular challenges in the area of maritime safety and 
security.  My  Government  has  committed  tremendous 
financial  and  technical  resources  to  combat  illicit 
trafficking  of  drugs  and  weapons;  illegal,  unreported 
and  unregulated  fishing  and  human  smuggling,  and 
underscores  the  need  for  effective  cooperation  and 
coordination among States, as well as the development 
of  innovative  approaches  to  resolve  those  issues  and 
complement  national  efforts.  The  Bahamas  welcomes 
the constructive engagement of the United Nations and 
the  International  Maritime  Organization  in  addressing 
the  issue  of  piracy.  As  the  country  with  the  world’s 
third largest ship registry, the Bahamas will continue to 
engage with its partners in the international community 
to  ensure  the  safety  and  security  of  international 
shipping. 
Haiti  is  a  near  neighbour  and  a  member  of  our 

Caribbean Community (CARICOM). The Bahamas and 
the  Caribbean  Community  States  are  committed  to 
Haiti’s  stabilization  and  to  its  political  and  economic 
development  in  the  short  and  long  terms.  This  cannot 
the 
be  achieved  without  sustained  support  from 
implement  national  and 
international  community.  The  Bahamas  is  therefore 
heartened  by  the  United  Nations  active  and  sustained 
engagement in Haiti over the past four and a half years, 
through  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti. We  share  the  hope  of  the  Secretary-
General  that  Haiti  is  moving  away  from  a  history  of 
conflict  towards  a  future  of  peaceful  and  sustainable 
development. 
We call on the Security Council to further extend 

the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
the  mandate  of 
Mission 
in  Haiti  beyond  15  October  2009,  as 
recommended  by  the  Secretary-General.  We  are  also 
hopeful  that  the  recent  appointment  of  former  United 
States President Bill Clinton as the Secretary-General’s 
Special  Envoy  for  Haiti  will  help  to  keep  the  issues 
affecting  Haiti  at  the  forefront  of  the  agenda  of  the 
national  and  international  community.  The  Security 
Council  meeting  on  Haiti  earlier  this  month  was 
certainly most welcome in this regard. 

An increased level of criminal activity is creating 
new  challenges  for  the  Bahamas  —  a  phenomenon 
shared with other countries in our region. We continue 
to 
regional  anti-crime 
initiatives  to  combat  this  scourge,  which  undermines 
our economies and, indeed, affects our social stability. 

Illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and small arms 
and light weapons are major contributing factors to this 
phenomenon. The Bahamas — as many are aware — is 
not a producer of illicit drugs; neither the Bahamas nor 
the  other  States  members  of  CARICOM  are 
manufacturers  or  suppliers  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons. Yet,  illicit  drugs  and  light  weapons  account 
overwhelmingly  for  the  amount  of  crime  in  our 
societies.  A  disproportionate  amount  of  our  scarce 
budgetary  resources  are  dedicated  to  fighting  illicit 
drug  and  light  arms  trafficking  through  our  territory 
and 
in  our 
communities. 

The  Bahamas  is  fully  committed  to  enhancing 
regional  and  international  cooperation  in  the  area  of 
peace  and  security.  We  are  pleased  that  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  has  agreed  to 
re-engage  with  the  Caribbean  region  to  support  the 
fight against the crime and violence that today mar our 
societies. 

In closing, my delegation wishes to state that the 
current  economic  crisis  dramatically  demonstrates  the 
interdependence of the economies of the world. This in 
terrible  fallout 
in  dealing  with 
the 
48 

09-52470 
to 
to 
I  now 
important 
the  critically 
its  commitment 
find  collective  solutions 
The  Acting  President: 


turn  shows 
role  which 
organizations  like  the  United  Nations  can  play  in 
facilitating  dialogue  and  crafting  creative  solutions  to 
global  problems.  As  we  continue 
these 
to  face 
unprecedented  global 
the  Bahamas 
challenges, 
reaffirms 
to  engaging  fully  and 
constructively  with  its  partners  in  the  international 
community 
the 
challenges which confront all of us. 
call  on 

His Excellency The Honourable Fredrick Fono, Deputy 
Prime Minister of Solomon Islands. 
Mr.  Fono  (Solomon  Islands):  I  bring  warm 

greetings  to  the  Assembly  from  the  happy  isles  and 
convey  my  Government  and  people’s  profound 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Treki  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session. We are confident that, under his leadership, we 
will harvest the opportunities the global agenda has to 
offer. 

My  delegation  further  takes  this  opportunity  to 
commend  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann. He indeed provided exemplary leadership 
and  inspired  us  to  realize  our  unique  collective 
strength.  Throughout  his  tenure  in  office,  he  kept  the 
most vulnerable people at the front, centre and back of 
all of our engagements. We wish him God’s blessing in 
his future endeavours. 

The  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  has 
presented  immense  challenges  to  the  international 
community.  Simply  put,  the  effects  of  the  crisis  are 
impacting  all  members  of  the  United  Nations  family. 
Consequently, Solomon Islands’ economy has been hit 
by  low  commodity  prices,  declining  revenues  and 
widening budgetary deficits. My country has responded 
by  freezing  all  Government  recruitment  and  reducing 
national  recurrent  and  development  expenditures  by 
35 per  cent.  Between  2008  and  2009,  our  economic 
growth  has  taken  a  negative  dive  from  6  per  cent  to 
1 per cent, which is affecting the delivery of services to 
our people. 

The  world  has  taken  measures  to  address  the 
systematic  fragilities  of  the  international  financial 
system.  To  this  end,  Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the 
outcome of the June 2009 Conference on the financial 
crisis, calling for greater cooperation by all, including 
the  reform  of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions.  We 
remain  hopeful  that  the  stimulus  packages  dished  out 
A/64/PV.8
to 
fully 
to 
are 
threat 
islands 
Islands 
achieve 
subscribes 
Frequent  natural  disasters 
reach  the  poorest  of  the  poor,  as  many  will  be  under 
stress for a long time to come. 

threatening 
development  across  the  world  and  climate  change 
continues to affect the lives of our people, creating new 
pockets  of  poverty  while  continuing  to  increase  as 
threats.  Unless  an  ambitious  outcome  emanates  from 
Copenhagen, we will find that we are fighting a losing 
battle. I join the call for urgent action, particularly for 
small  island  developing  States  and  least  developed 
countries.  For  us,  climate  change  poses  the  most 
serious 
to  our  survival  and  viability,  and 
undermines  our  efforts 
sustainable 
development. 

the 
Solomon 
declaration  issued  this  week  by  the Alliance  of  Small 
Islands  Developing  States.  The  benchmark  for  the 
negotiations  must  be  founded  on  the  vulnerability  of 
the  small  island  developing  States  and  the  least 
developed countries. Science tells us that the future of 
low-lying 
is  uncertain  unless  deep  and 
ambitious  cuts  to  harmful  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
are  undertaken  by Annex  1  countries  at  levels  greater 
than 45 per cent of 1990 levels by 2020 and more than 
95  per  cent  of  1990  levels  by  2050.  We  call  for  the 
global  average  temperature  to  increase  well  below 
1.5 degrees  Celsius 
the 
acidification  of  our  oceans  from  threatening  our  very 
existence. 

Deforestation  and  forest  degradation  contribute 
nearly  20  per  cent  of  greenhouse  gas  emissions. 
Solomon  Islands  agrees  that  this  should  be  one  of  the 
mitigating  solutions  for  protecting  the  health  of  our 
environment. We further urge that this be considered as 
an  outcome  in  Copenhagen.  My  country  is  currently 
carrying  out  an  inventory  of  its  forests  and  intends  to 
participate  in  the  carbon  market.  We  also  hope  that 
multilateral 
financial  mechanisms  will  become 
available to the most vulnerable States in ensuring that 
appropriate  technology  transfer  for  renewable  energy 
receives the attention it deserves. 

Solomon  Islands  is  a  peace-loving  country  and 
believes  that  we  need  to  seriously  seek  a  stable 
international  system.  This  can  be  achieved  by  calling 
for global restraint on all military spending and making 
a  firm  commitment  to  begin  holistic  multilateral 
disarmament  negotiations.  This  is  an  issue  that  has 
been  stalled  for  years  on  end  and  continues  to  be 
if  we  are 
to  prevent 
09-52470 

49 
Solomon 
islands, 
indicating 
that  change 
Islands  emerged 
from  one  of  assistance 
A/64/PV.8 

weakly addressed through  piecemeal multilateral  arms 
agreements. 

from  a  conflict 
situation  11  years  ago.  This  year  marks  the  sixth 
anniversary  of  our  partnership  with  the  Regional 
Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands, commonly 
referred  to  as  RAMSI.  Under  the  partnership,  State 
institutions  have  been  strengthened  and  political 
stability  has  allowed  our  Parliament  to  enact  some 
30 laws  in  less  than  24  months.  Public  services  are 
reaching  out  to  the  scattered  populations  on  our 
hundreds  of 
is 
happening. 
This  year,  our  relationship  with  RAMSI  has 

progressed 
to  one  of 
partnership, providing for  a framework  of cooperation 
between  the  two  parties,  with  clearly  defined  joint 
strategic  goals,  distinct  roles  and  commitments,  with 
the  overall  objective  of  creating  a  secure,  stable  and 
self-sustaining socio-economic and political system for 
all  Solomon 
Islanders.  The  Foreign  Relations 
Committee  of  our  national  Parliament  has  completed 
its  review  of  the  facilitation  of  the  International 
Assistance Act and will submit its report to the national 
legislature  in  November.  I  take  this  moment  to  thank 
my Pacific neighbours for their continued support and 
contribution  to  the  Regional  Mission.  It  is  our  fervent 
hope that this partnership can increase its international 
visibility and interact more with the United Nations, as 
provided for under the relevant chapter of the Charter. 

As  part  of  our  nation-building  and  healing 
process,  Solomon  Islands  instituted  its  Truth  and 
Reconciliation Commission in April. Officiating at the 
launch  of  the  Commission  was  Nobel  laureate  and 
Archbishop  Emeritus  Desmond  Tutu  of  South  Africa. 
The Commission allows Solomon Islands to revisit one 
of the darkest chapters of its history, and we do so with 
courage,  perseverance  and  a  desire  to  seek  a  just  and 
permanent  peace  within  our  growing  nation.  To  this 
end,  we 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP)  and  all  our  partners  for  their 
support. 

The time frame for the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) is fast drawing to a close. The Solomon 
Islands  supports  the  proposal  to  convene  a  review 
summit  next  year,  and  hopes  that  the  forthcoming 
gathering  will  reinvigorate  our  global  partnership  and 
enable it to realize the Millennium Development Goals 
thank 

for 
the  given 
the  decision  of 
time  frame.  My  country  also 
within 
welcomes 
the  General  Assembly 
(resolution  63/227)  to  convene  the  Fourth  United 
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries 
in  2011.  Similarly,  we  welcome  the  review  of  the 
Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further  Implementation  of 
the  Programme  of  Action 
the  Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States, 
scheduled for next year. Both review processes should 
strengthen  the  global  partnerships  and  commitments 
undertaken  within  agreed  international  cooperative 
frameworks. 

Eighty five per cent of the population of Solomon 
Islands  resides  in  rural  areas.  Therefore,  we  have 
adopted  a  rural-focused  development  approach  in  our 
efforts to meet the MDGs. Solomon Islands is poised to 
make  gains  in  achieving  some  of  these  goals  through 
various  partnerships.  In  this  regard,  I  am  pleased  to 
acknowledge  that,  with  the  support  of  New  Zealand 
and the Republic of China, the Solomon Islands is now 
offering  free  basic  education  for  its  children  through 
the  third  form.  Work  has  also  begun  on  eliminating 
malaria, the number-one killer in the Solomon Islands, 
with  the  launch  of  the  programme  in  one  of  our  nine 
provinces.  My  Government  thanks  Australia  for  its 
support  and  contribution  to  that  end.  I  also  wish  to 
thank the Republic of China, the European Union and 
other development partners for their contribution to the 
advancement  of  the  Government’s  rural  development 
policy. 

Human development remains a key ingredient of 
our  fight  against  poverty.  Solomon  Islands  opened  a 
school of tourism this year. We have shifted resources 
towards  developing  our  tourism  industry  in  order  to 
offset  the  projected  revenue  loss  resulting  from  the 
reduced  harvesting  of  our  natural  forests.  The  same 
policy  also  applies  to  the  agriculture,  fisheries  and 
mining sectors. 
South-South  cooperation  continues  to  invest  in 

the  education  of 
our  people; 
50 students  studying  in  Cuba,  and  my  country  thanks 
Cuba  for  the  gesture.  Solomon  Islands  also  thanks  its 
Melanesian  neighbour  Papua  New  Guinea  for  its 
ongoing bilateral assistance by increasing our presence 
in  Port  Moresby  and  offering  scholarships  to  our 
students studying in Papua New Guinea. 

Global  dynamics  have  changed  since  the  United 
Nations was established 64 years ago. The membership 
it  has  guaranteed 
50 

09-52470 
its 
role 
strengthen 


then  numbered  only  51.  Reform  of  the  Security 
Council  has  eluded  us  for  the  past  15  years.  We 
therefore  need  to  increase  the  legitimacy  of  our 
Council  and 
in  preserving 
international  peace.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  was 
pleased  to  see  the  debate  on  Security  Council  reform 
progress  into  informal  intergovernmental  negotiations 
at  the  previous  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We 
are  equally  pleased  to  note  that  three  rounds  of 
negotiations  have  occurred  in  the  past  eight  months, 
signifying  that  the  multilateral  seed  of  reform  of  our 
institutions has been sowed. We need to ensure that  it 
takes root at this session. 

The  relations  of  the  Secretariat  with  Member 
States  are  important.  The  interaction  of  Solomon 
Islands  with  our  Organization  has  grown  and  matured 
over  time.  Our  Government  is  now  finalizing  the 
allocation  of  land  to  give  the  United  Nations  a 
permanent  home  in  our  capital.  We  hope  that  the 
Secretariat  will  reciprocate  this  gesture  and  seriously 
consider  maintaining  a  fully  fledged  country  presence 
in  Solomon  Islands.  Comparatively  speaking,  despite 
the  fact  that  my  nation  has  one  of  the  largest 
subregional country programmes, relations continue to 
be  micromanaged  from  abroad.  My  delegation  takes 
this  opportunity  once  again  to  renew  our  call  to 
upgrade  the  UNDP  country  presence  in  Solomon 
Islands  from  Deputy  Resident  Representative  level  to 
Resident Representative. 

Here  it  would  be  remiss  of  me  not  to  welcome 
UNDP’s new Administrator, Ms. Helen Clark. We wish 
her  every  success  in  her  tenure  in  office  and  are 
confident  that  she  will  look  at  all  issues  with  fresh 
eyes.  Development  is,  after  all,  one  of  the  highest 
callings  of  our  Organization.  Solomon  Islands  also 
encourages  the  Secretariat  to  ensure  that  its  staff 
represents the diversity of its membership, in particular 
that of States that have yet to fulfil their quota. 

Over  the  past  couple  of  months,  coastal  States 
with  continental  shelves  have  made  submissions  to 
extend  their  respective  territorial  claims  beyond  their 
200-mile  exclusive  economic  zones.  I  am  pleased  to 
inform 
that  Solomon  Islands  has 
submitted  a  number  of  claims  and  looks  forward  to 
working  with  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental Shelf. 

While extending an exclusive economic zone is a 
sovereign  decision,  we  are  mindful  of  our  global 
this  Assembly 
A/64/PV.8
that  all  human 
environmental responsibilities. Solomon Islands is one 
of  the  six  countries  of  the  Coral  Triangle  Initiative. 
Three  months  ago,  leaders  from  the  Philippines, 
Malaysia,  Indonesia,  Timor-Leste,  Papua  New  Guinea 
and  Solomon  Islands  met  in  Indonesia  and  agreed  to 
work  collaboratively  across  political  boundaries  to 
conserve  75  per  cent  of  the  world’s  coral  species, 
40 per cent of the world’s reef fish species and 51 per 
cent of the world’s mangrove species. Our populations 
rely  on our  marine resources  for survival and income. 
We hope to keep it that way for generations to come. 

Good  information  and  data  are  vital  to  allowing 
national  and  international  systems  to  make  informed 
decisions.  In  this  connection,  we  would  like  to  see 
United Nations support for our national statistics office 
for the collation of data in real time and its distribution 
to all decision makers. 

To  foster  a  vibrant  economy,  investment  in 
infrastructure  is  needed.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  we 
have  finally  enacted  a  law  that  will  open  up  our 
telecommunications industry to competition. 
On  the  issue  of  human  rights,  Solomon  Islands 

rights  are  universal, 
recognizes 
indivisible,  interrelated,  interdependent  and  mutually 
reinforcing. All human rights must be treated in a fair 
and  equal  manner,  on  the  same  footing  and  with  the 
same  emphasis.  That  is  one  of  the  principles  of  the 
newly established Human Rights Council. 
the 

Council’s 
principles. 
Unfortunately,  within  the  Third  Committee  issues  of 
human  rights  continue 
to  be  heavily  politicized, 
divisive  and  country-specific,  in  disregard  of  the 
universal  principles  of  cooperation  and  dialogue.  My 
delegation  would  like  to  see  the  universal  periodic 
review  be  the  reference  point  for  assessing  countries’ 
human rights situations. 

Before I say anything about Taiwan’s cross-Strait 
relations,  Solomon  Islands  conveys  its  sympathy  and 
embraces  the  pain  and  suffering  of  all  those  impacted 
by  typhoon  Morakot.  We  also  acknowledge  the  spirit 
and  strength  of  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Republic  of  China  in  rising  above  that  tragedy  with 
resilience  to  rebuild  their  lives  and  recover  from  the 
natural catastrophe. 

to  follow  cross-Strait 
developments with deep interest. A new era of relations 
My  country  continues 
Islands  continues 
internationally 
Solomon 
to  support 
agreed 
09-52470 

51 

On 
the  question  of 
A/64/PV.8 

is  emerging  between  the  Republic  of  China  and  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China.  Relations  have  been 
marked  by  an  increased  series  of  engagements.  Direct 
flights, shipping, postal cooperation and exchanges on 
food safety, inter alia, have been initiated. This people-
centred  approach  continues  to  build  bridges  of  trust, 
tolerance  and  confidence.  We  wish 
this  positive 
interaction every success. 

Earlier  this  year,  my  delegation  was  encouraged 
to  witness  Taiwan’s  admission  as  an  observer  to  the 
World Health Assembly. We hope with all sincerity that 
similar  overtures  will  be  accorded  to Taiwan  by  other 
specialized entities within the United Nations system. 

the  Middle  East,  my 
delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statement  of 
Finland’s former President, Nobel Peace Prize recipient 
Mr. Martti Ahtisaari, when he said “All conflicts can be 
settled,  and  there  are  no  excuses  for  allowing  them  to 
become eternal”. To find a lasting and just peace in the 
region,  the  determination  of  all  Members  is  required. 
For 62 years, the matter has been discussed within this 
Assembly.  Solomon  Islands  believes  that,  in  the  right 
conditions,  a  politically  negotiated  two-State  solution 
can  be  reached. We  support  all  international  efforts  in 
finding a lasting and permanent solution. 

In our effort to create a better world, dialogue and 
cooperation between religions and cultures are needed. 
Stereotypes  created  by  a  few  must  be  overcome. 
Extremists  thrive  on  mistrust,  fear  and  suspicion  and 
use them to their advantage. They must be isolated. My 
delegation acknowledges the initiative of Saudi Arabia 
to  bring  together  leaders  from  the  East  and  West  in 
promoting  a  global  culture  of  peace.  This  initiative 
presents  a  new  beginning  that  we  should  all  build 
upon. 

the 
international  system,  which  means  that  those  with 
power must not victimize the weak by interfering with 
the 
it  for 
ideological, political or security reasons. Unilateral and 
regional  economic  blockades  and  punitive  action  by 
States  and  intergovernmental  institutions  must  and 
should  be  replaced  with  genuine  cooperation  and 
sincere  dialogue.  In  this  regard,  we  call  on  the  entire 
international  community  to  fully  engage  with  Fiji. As 
its  Melanesian  neighbour,  Solomon  Islands  continues 
to do so at all political levels. 
latter’s  health  and  social  needs,  be 
We  must  all  work 
towards  stabilizing 
(spoke 
(Kazakhstan) 
Mr.  Saudabayev

In closing, in view of the many challenges we are 
confronting  today,  the  words  of  Abraham  Lincoln  in 
1862 still holds true:  

“The  dogmas  of  the  quiet  past  are  inadequate  to 
the  stormy  present.  The  occasion  is  piled  high 
with  difficulty,  and  we  must  rise  with 
the 
occasion. As  our  case  is  new,  so  we  must  think 
anew, and act anew”. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Kanat  Saudabayev,  Secretary  of  State 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Kazakhstan. 
in 

Russian):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Mr. Treki on his election to the high post of President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session and 
wish him every success as he presides over the session.  

Eight years ago, on 11 September, Ms. Zhannetta 
Tsoy,  a  citizen  of  Kazakhstan,  having  kissed  her 
daughter and husband, left for her first day at a new job 
in  New  York’s  tallest  building.  Two  hours  later,  she 
perished,  along  with  3,000 Americans  and  citizens  of 
other 91 countries. She was buried under the debris of 
what  had  once  been  the  World  Trade  Centre’s  Twin 
Towers.  On  that  day,  as  Kazakhstan’s  ambassador  in 
Washington D.C., along with all Americans and others, 
I 
and 
interdependent our world had become. This terrorist act 
and the world’s unity in its strict condemnation showed 
that  only  together  can  we  make  our  present  and  our 
future  safer  and  better.  Indeed, 
the 
successful  resolution  of  today’s  most  acute  problems 
lies precisely in the world’s unity and understanding. 

President  Nursultan  Nazarbayev  of  Kazakhstan 
and  our  entire  people  have  supported  the  global  fight 
against terrorism from the start by assisting the efforts 
of the international coalition in Afghanistan. However, 
there  has  never  been  and  there  will  never  be  a  purely 
military solution to the Afghan problem. We note with 
satisfaction  that  coalition  members  have  begun  to  pay 
more attention to non-military aspects of security. 

To  the  best  of  its  ability,  Kazakhstan  is  also 
assisting 
rehabilitate 
Afghanistan. We provide considerable humanitarian aid 
to  that  country.  Moreover,  we  are  developing  a  long-
term  educational  programme  to  train  qualified Afghan 
international  efforts 
vulnerable 
the  key 
fragile, 
felt 
acutely 
how 
to 
the 
to 
52 

09-52470 
to 
site, 
tackle 
testing 
second-largest  nuclear 


specialists,  and  are  also  considering  other  forms  of 
assistance to that country. 

Long-term  stability  in Afghanistan  is  impossible 
without  effective  measures 
illicit  drug 
trafficking. The Central Asia Regional Information and 
Coordination  Centre  has  been  established  in  Almaty, 
with  the  support  of  the  United  Nations,  to  fight  illicit 
drug  trafficking.  As  the  Chairperson-in-Office  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE)  in  2010,  I  intend  to  make  the  stabilization  of 
the situation in Afghanistan — a regional neighbour of 
the  OSCE  —  one  of  the  organization’s  greatest 
priorities. 

The  prospect  of  the  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons,  along  with  the  risk  of  their  acquisition  and 
use by terrorist organizations, remains one of the most 
serious  threats  to  mankind.  As  a  country  that  has 
experienced the horrors of nuclear tests, shut down the 
world’s 
at 
Semipalatinsk,  and  voluntarily  renounced  the  world’s 
fourth-largest  nuclear  and  missile  arsenal,  Kazakhstan 
has  an  absolute  moral  right  to  call  for  more  decisive 
action  in  the  area  of  disarmament  and  for  the  radical 
strengthening  of  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  regime.  In  particular,  Kazakhstan 
deems it important to ensure the soonest possible entry 
into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty.  We  welcome  the  efforts  of  United  States 
President  Barack  Obama  to  give  new  impetus  to  the 
non-proliferation  process  and  to  eliminate  the  nuclear 
threat. 
Kazakhstan  is  in  favour  of  strengthening  and 

ensuring 
the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We must 
recognize  that  the  Treaty  is  asymmetric  in  that  it 
provides  for  sanctions  only  against  non-nuclear-
weapon States, whereas the nuclear Powers themselves 
should  set  the  example  of  reducing  and  renouncing 
their  nuclear  arsenals.  In  this  regard,  Kazakhstan 
welcomed 
the  unanimous  adoption  yesterday  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1887  (2009)  and  believes 
that 
in 
humankind’s  efforts  to  create  a  world  without  nuclear 
weapons.  It  is  gratifying  that  the  measures  being 
undertaken  today  by  the  international  community 
reflects 
that  President 
Nazarbayev  has  expressed  more  than  once  from  this 
rostrum  and  in  bilateral  meetings  with  heads  of 
this  historic  decision  opens  a  new  era 
the  principled  position 
the  universality  of 
the  Treaty  on 
A/64/PV.8
of 
a 
treaty 
vertical 
universal 
and 
new 
horizontal 
nuclear-weapon  States  and  of  States  with  nuclear 
ambitions. 

It  is  necessary  now  more  than  ever  to  take  even 
more decisive actions. Our President has proposed the 
on 
development 
comprehensive 
nuclear 
non-proliferation.  The  configuration  of  the  new  treaty 
and its contents will largely depend on the proposals of 
all interested States. An effective measure to strengthen 
the non-proliferation regime could be the establishment 
of an international nuclear fuel bank under the auspices 
of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Commission. 
Kazakhstan  is  ready  to  consider  the  possibility  of 
locating it on our territory. 

One  important  contribution  made  by  Kazakhstan 
and other States of Central Asia to the implementation 
of  the  NPT  was  the  entry  into  force  in  March  of  the 
Treaty  on  a  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  in  Central 
Asia.  The  peculiarity  of  the  Zone  is  that  it  is  located 
between two of the world’s largest nuclear Powers. The 
Zone could play a large practical role in preventing the 
uncontrolled  proliferation  of  nuclear  materials  and  in 
countering  nuclear  terrorism. We  count  on  support  for 
the  Central  Asian  Zone,  above  all  from  the  nuclear 
Powers,  including  their  possible  extension  of  negative 
security  guarantees.  We  support  the  United  States  of 
America’s 
to  convene  a  global  nuclear 
security summit next year. 

I  wish  to  draw  the  attention  of  the  General 
Assembly to a proposal of the President of Kazakhstan 
on  declaring  29  August  international  day  for  a  world 
free of nuclear weapons. That date has deep symbolical 
meaning.  On  that  day  in  1949,  the  Soviet  Union 
conducted its first nuclear test at the Semipalatinsk test 
site  in  Kazakhstan,  and  on  the  same  day  in  1991  the 
test  site  was  shut  down  forever  by  decree  of  our 
Government. We  hope  that  the  General Assembly  will 
support this initiative. 

the  most 
serious global financial and economic crisis in decades. 
According 
International  Monetary  Fund, 
approximately 50 States have edged to the brink of an 
economic  catastrophe.  At  the  same  time,  the  present 
crisis was largely inevitable. Unfortunately, the world’s 
economic  development  and  the  great  leap  forward  in 
technology over the past 60 years could not solve such 
eternal  problems  as  poverty  and  hunger.  The  gap 
between the rich and the poor continues to grow. More 
Today,  humankind 
is  experiencing 
initiative 
the 
to 
09-52470 

53 
the 
danger 
of 
A/64/PV.8 

than a billion people live on less than $1 a day. Despite 
our  exceptional  achievements  in  modern  science  and 
medicine,  almost  10  million  children  under  five  die 
every  year  of  curable  diseases.  More  than  30  million 
people worldwide live with HIV, while only 3 million 
of those have access to antiretroviral therapy. 

The economic crisis has forced us to rethink and 
revisit many conceptual approaches that earlier seemed 
etched  in  stone.  It  has  demonstrated  once  again  the 
urgency  of  unifying  all  States’  efforts  in  addressing 
modern  challenges.  The  leader  of  our  country  was 
among the first to share his vision for the world’s post-
crisis  development.  He  proposed  drafting 
an 
international  law  on  a  single  world  currency,  and  the 
eventual  establishment  of  a  world  emissions  centre,  a 
world  anti-monopoly  currency  committee  and  a  world 
committee  on  market  freedom.  The  United  Nations 
with  its  structural  bodies  and  specialized  agencies  is 
the only global organization capable of addressing such 
large-scale issues. 
time  of  acute  social  and  economic 

At  a 
and 
breakdowns, 
inter-religious 
considerably. 
Located  at  the  confluence  of  Asia  and  Europe  and 
having maintained peace and harmony in a multi-ethnic 
and  multireligious  country  throughout  its  years  of 
independence, Kazakhstan is ready to act as a bridge of 
mutual  understanding  and  tolerance  between  the  East 
and the West. 

As  Chair  of  the  OSCE  in  2010  and  of  the  2011 
ministerial  conference  of  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  Kazakhstan  is  eager  fully  to  use 
this  unique  opportunity  to  strengthen  constructive 
cooperation  between  diverse  cultures  and  civilizations 
and 
issue. 
Furthermore,  since  2003  our  country  has  hosted  three 
Congresses  of  Leaders  of  World  and  Traditional 
Religions, supported by the United Nations. 

At Kazakhstan’s initiative, the General Assembly 
adopted  resolution  62/90  at  its  sixty-second  session, 
declaring  2010 
the 
Rapprochement of Cultures. We call on United Nations 
Member States to participate actively in celebrating the 
Year.  Kazakhstan  fully  supports  the  goals  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  calls  on  all  Member 
States  and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system  to 
contribute 
tolerance  and  mutual 
understanding in the world. 
take  concrete  measures  on 
International  Year 
to  strengthening 
inter-ethnic 
increases 
conflicts 
this 
the 
for 
to 
54 


the 
effectiveness 
organization’s 

In  the  current  circumstances,  the  regional  aspect 
of solving global problems takes on added importance. 
Our  country  is  firmly  committed  to  the  consistent 
strengthening  of  regional  cooperation  for  security  and 
development 
in  Central  Asia.  A  unique  security 
architecture  is  being  created  in  Eurasia,  its  most 
important  elements  being  organizations  such  as  the 
OSCE, the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-
building  Measures  in  Asia  (CICA),  the  Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization, 
the  Collective  Security 
Treaty Organization and NATO. In that regard, CICA, 
convened  as  a  result  of  an  initiative  introduced  by 
President  Nazarbayev  from  this  rostrum  in  1992,  has 
become  an  effective  mechanism  for  strengthening 
regional  security  and  cooperation.  In  2010,  as  our 
country  takes  up  the  chairmanship  of  the  OSCE,  we 
intend to work for the good of all its member States to 
strengthen 
in 
addressing  new  challenges  and  threats,  as  well  as  to 
further  strengthen  confidence-building  and  security 
measures in the Euro-Atlantic community. 

In today’s rapidly changing world, the adaptation 
of  the  United  Nations  to  modern  realities  is  an 
important  task  for  all  Member  States.  Kazakhstan 
supports the reform process for the United Nations and 
its main bodies based on the principled position of the 
need  to  increase  the  effectiveness,  authority  and 
relevance  of  our  global  Organization.  We  are 
convinced  that  there  is  no  alternative  to  the  United 
Nations in the modern world, and there never will be. 
We  support 
tracks: 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  coherence  of  the 
United Nations system. 


Fifty years ago, Martin Luther King Junior said: 
“Men  often  hate  each  other  because  they  fear 
each  other;  they  fear  each  other  because  they  do 
not know each other; they do not know each other 
because  they  cannot  communicate;  they  cannot 
communicate because they are separated.” 
three  principal 
reforms  on 
Regrettably, those words are often true today, but they 
should not be so tomorrow. In an  age of globalization 
and unprecedented interdependence in the world, there 
should  no  longer  be  mistrust,  fear  and  hatred,  but  the 
principles  of  trust,  understanding  and  cooperation 
should triumph. Only together can we properly address 
the  difficult  challenges  facing  humankind  today  and 
make our world safer and better. 
09-52470 
hinder 
humankind 
and 
threaten 
I  now 
The  Acting  President: 



call  on 
His Excellency  Mr.  Jean-Marie  Ehouzou,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Benin. 
Mr. Ehouzou (Benin) (spoke in French): I should 

like  at  the  outset  to  express  my  pleasure  at  seeing 
Mr. Treki  so  brilliantly  execute  the  lofty  tasks  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of 
Africa.  I  offer  him  my  warmest  congratulations  and 
wish  him  every  success  in  that  office.  I  also  take  this 
opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  the  sincere  commitment  that  he  has 
shown. 

The path laid down by the founding fathers of the 
United Nations for the achievement of its goals is that 
of  dialogue  and  multilateralism.  The  United  Nations 
was created to harness the energies of the international 
community  to  that  end.  Soon,  we  will  have  been  at  it 
for  seven  decades.  Where  are  we  today?  Painful 
fractures 
to 
considerably  weaken  our  capacity  for  common  action. 
The  multifaceted  crises  that  have  shaken  the  global 
economy  have  been  caused  by 
its  accelerated 
globalization without agreed global governance. These 
crises  have  mightily  stricken  the  most  vulnerable. 
Furthermore,  they  have  exposed  the  planet  to  grave 
dangers, the signs of which are undeniably evident. 

time  for 
assumptions  has  passed.  The  time  has  come  for 
proactive  anticipation,  as  we  now  know  the  cost  of 
indifference, inertia and passivity. We must restore the 
capacity of the United Nations to fulfil its calling in the 
pursuit  of  solutions 
the  global  problems  of 
humankind.  Through  the  dialogue  of  civilizations,  we 
should  reconcile  the  specificities  connected  with  the 
diversity  of  our  cultural  heritage  with  the  universal 
standards  that  arise  from  the  inviolability  of  human 
dignity. 

The dialogue of civilizations is without doubt an 
essential 
strengthening 
multilateralism. 
the 
fundamental  values  of  respect  for  life  and  for  nature, 
awareness of our common destiny, the quest for mutual 
benefit,  and  the  sense  of  permanence,  sharing  and 
honouring 
future 
generations.  If  we  wish  to  reverse  the  dismal  trends 
and  outlook  that  scientists  have  described,  we  must 
conclude a new alliance between man and nature — a 
new  common  agreement.  That  is  how  we  can  regain 
for 
It  can  help  us 
We  should  accept 
the  facts.  The 
responsibilities 
precondition 
return 
to 
to 
our 
towards 
A/64/PV.8
The 
revitalizing 
conference  on 
independent  Commission 
control  of  the  natural  and  anthropogenic  phenomena 
that  affect  our  existence  on  Earth.  The  Copenhagen 
Conference 
in  December  will  be  an  excellent 
opportunity that we must not squander. 

Above all, we should create conditions to ensure 
the responsible contribution of all to fully realizing the 
potential of humankind. To that end, we must eliminate 
all  obstacles  to  its  development. The  State  and  public 
authorities have a vital role to play in that regard. They 
must  at  all  times  engage  with  social  partners  working 
in the service of freedom and progress. 

on  Legal 
Empowerment of the Poor has shown us the virtues of 
gradually  eliminating  old  practices  that  violate  the 
integrity of the individual both as a living being and as 
a  legal  and  social  entity.  That  is  a  fundamental 
precondition to guaranteeing the  responsible access of 
all  to  the  benefits  of  modernity  and  shared  prosperity. 
That  is  why  Benin  has  committed  to  organizing  the 
regional 
the  major 
recommendations of the independent Commission. 

To  that  end  also,  my  country  has  declared  a 
resolute  war  on  female  genital  mutilation  through  an 
awareness campaign, the retraining of practitioners and 
the  vigilant  enforcement  of  unambiguous  legislation, 
bolstered  by  a  new  family  code  that  establishes  the 
equal  rights  of  men  and  women.  That  is  also  why 
Benin  worked  for  the  proclamation  of  2009  as  the 
International  Year  of  Human  Rights  Learning.  The 
main objective of the Year is to promote the necessary 
change  in  thinking  to  ensure  that  humankind  moves 
towards  full  and  complete  adherence  to  the  universal 
values enshrined in the United Nations Charter. 

The  United  Nations  must  be  more  effective  in 
supporting  national  policies  to  achieve  international 
standards.  The  Beninese  Government  has  decided  to 
entrust  the  rationalization  of  its  efforts  in  favour  of 
women to a recently established women’s institute. To 
that end, we are very pleased to welcome the imminent 
establishment  and  operationalization  of  a  composite 
entity  within  the  United  Nations  system  for  the 
advancement  of  gender  equality.  It  will  make  it 
possible to ensure the coherent and efficient support of 
the  United  Nations  system  for  the  efforts  of  Member 
States. 
In the context of Africa’s resolute march towards 

the  Beninese  Government  has 
a  new  beginning, 
adopted strategic measures based on the elimination of 
09-52470 

55 

although 
economically 
A/64/PV.8 

poverty  and  on  reinvigorated  economic  growth  that 
will  make  Benin  an  emerging  country  by  2025.  The 
challenges to be met are huge since nearly one third of 
the  population  of  Benin  currently  lives  below  the 
poverty  line  in  a  country  vulnerable  to  the  threats  of 
natural  disasters  and  where  food  security  is  not  fully 
guaranteed. 

The  measures  implemented  in  particular  by  the 
Government  of  Mr.  Boni  Yayi,  in  place  since  April 
2006 thanks to scrupulous respect for our Constitution, 
mark  our  resolve  to  move  forward.  Our  economic 
performance in 2006 and 2007 proved that our strategic 
choices  were  correct.  These  measures 
included 
promoting  microfinancing  as  an  effective  means  of 
fighting poverty and social exclusion, especially that of 
women,  by  granting  microcredit  to  the  poorest  — 
especially women, who are the most important pillar of 
society 
disadvantaged; 
promoting  entrepreneurship  and  youth  employment; 
and  the  launching  of  multiple  training  programmes  in 
order  to  integrate  young  people  into  the  fabric  of  our 
socio-economic  structure.  We  are  also  working  on 
mechanizing  agriculture,  promoting  education  by 
offering  free  and  mandatory  primary  education,  and 
making  free  Caesarean  sections  available  as  a  better 
approach to reproductive health. 
These  social  measures  were  implemented  at  the 

that  major  work  was  begun  on 
same 
infrastructure.  However, 
economic 
recession  and  the  worsening  harmful  consequences  of 
climate  change  threaten  to  seriously  jeopardize  the 
considerable  progress  made 
this 
pivotal national project. 

Only  one  year  ago,  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  predicted  that  the  gross  domestic  product  of 
sub-Saharan  African  countries  would 
increase  by 
6.7 per cent on average in  2009. Those forecasts were 
revised  downward  a  few  months  later  to  5.1  per  cent, 
then  to  3.5  per  cent  and  last  March  to  3.25  per  cent, 
and  nothing  guarantees  that  the  growth  rate  will  not 
decline further. 

This decline in the growth rate has aggravated the 
danger  of  serious  budgetary  difficulties.  We  must 
maintain our rate of progress despite being subjected to 
the gruelling external shocks of the successive crises of 
the  world  economy  in  full  recession.  We  are  making 
considerable efforts to mobilize our internal resources. 
We  welcome  the  good  work  done  by  the  United 
the  ongoing 
implementing 
time 
in 
to 
achieve 
resources 
is  among 
the  deal.  Benin 
to  mobilize  additional 
Nations 
from 
development  partners  in  order  to  help  pilot  countries, 
including  Benin, 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. These decisions were taken in the 
context of implementing the commitments made by the 
Group  of  Eight  at  Gleneagles, 
the  Millennium 
Declaration,  the  2001  Brussels  Declaration  on  least 
developed  countries,  and  all  of  the  statements  that  we 
warmly welcomed and applauded at the recent Summit 
on  Climate  Change  convened  here  by  the  Secretary-
General. 
The consequences of climate change considerably 

complicate 
the  most 
vulnerable  countries  and  those  least  equipped  to 
address  climate  change.  In  addition  to  torrential  rains 
that  are  concentrated  in  just  a  few  weeks  of  the  year, 
coastal  erosion due mainly to the rise in sea level has 
already  been  observed  in  Benin  and  neighbouring 
countries.  We  also  have  long  and  recurrent  droughts 
and  other  natural  disasters  that  are  affecting  our 
peoples. Scientists predict that, among other events, the 
coastal areas of West Africa will be submerged due to 
the  rise  in  sea  level  of  the  Atlantic  Ocean,  whereas 
northern countries have already gained land along their 
coastlines. 

the 
technologies  and  means  necessary  to  combat  coastal 
erosion  because  we  cannot  sit  idly  by  while  this 
disaster unfolds. In order to counter the coastal erosion 
already  engulfing  our  cities  and  coastal  lands,  major 
work  on  infrastructure  is  crucial. Actions  to  be  taken 
will be effective only if undertaken at the level of the 
entire  subregion  so  as  to  ensure  that  all  of  the  West 
African  coastline  is  protected.  To  that  end,  we  must 
mobilize  vast  resources.  Perhaps  we  should  consider 
establishing  a  multilateral  investment  fund,  under  the 
auspices of the United Nations and the African Union, 
to  finance  the  major  construction  work  that  will  be 
needed. 
We need a United Nations able to coordinate the 

response to these major development challenges,  raise 
the  necessary  resources  to  respond  to  the  financial 
needs,  and  supervise  the  transfer  of  resources  to  be 
used  by  the  international  community  to  help  the  most 
vulnerable countries, including the least developed. We 
need  a  United  Nations  with  the  moral  authority  to 
involve the affluent countries in thorough reform of the 
architecture  of  governance  and  of  economic  and 
financial globalization in order to improve the capacity 
therefore  need  help 
acquire 
We 
to 
56 

09-52470 
the 
to  promote 
in  order 
to  achieve 
international  financial  system 


of 
equitable development in all regions of the world. 

The  initiatives  of  the  Group  of  Twenty  in  this 
area  are  laudable  and  must  continue  to  ensure  a 
thorough  reform  of  the  international  economic  system 
that  will  allow  all  countries  to  be  integrated  into  the 
virtuous  cycle  of  economic  growth  and  sustainable 
development.  We  need  a  United  Nations  able  to  help 
emerging  countries  fully  to  shoulder  the  international 
commitments linked to their new status  and to exploit 
their  strengths  to  promote  South-South  and  triangular 
cooperation 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  to  better  adapt  to  climate 
change.  Convinced  that  another  name  for  peace  is 
development  and  that  peace  and  development  are 
essential  to  our  survival  on  Earth,  we  must  find  the 
essential  means  to  promote  peace  through  and  for 
development. 

We  need  a  United  Nations  able  to  assure  the 
effective prevention of armed conflict, if necessary by 
fielding  robust  peace  or  development  missions  to 
conduct  operations  for  economic  stabilization  and  the 
elimination  of  extreme  poverty.  We  need  a  United 
Nations  that  makes  full  use  of  the  opportunities  for 
cooperation  with 
that 
connection,  Benin  calls  for  consistent  implementation 
of the proposals made in the Prodi report (S/2008/813, 
annex) on cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union on modalities for support to African 
Union peacekeeping operations. 

We  need  a  United  Nations  with  strengthened 
capacities  to  contribute  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes, 
the 
promotion  of  judicial  settlements.  We  need  a  United 
Nations capable of rising to the challenges involved in 
settling 
definitively; 
promoting  disarmament  and  the  regulation  of  the 
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction; 
promoting 
the  national  and 
international  levels;  promoting  fair  trade;  countering 
terrorism and organized transnational crime; exercising 
the  responsibility  to  protect;  fighting  impunity  by 
strengthening 
justice;  and  protecting 
civilians, in particular children, women and the elderly 
in situations of armed conflict; and so on. 

without  hesitation 
effectiveness, 
United  Nations  reform  must  be  undertaken 
its 
legitimacy  and  credibility.  Security 
through  mediation  and 
regional  organizations. 
international 
the  rule  of 
law  at 
in  order 
to 
strengthen 
inter  alia, 
In 
the 
Palestinian 
question 
A/64/PV.8
is  ready 
Council reform through expansion in both categories of 
membership  is,  among  other  things,  an  unavoidable 
necessity of our times, as the Chairman of the African 
Union affirmed from this rostrum a few days ago. 

The  time  has  come  to  grant  all  peoples  of  the 
Earth  their  due  place  in  the  concert  of  free  and 
prosperous  nations.  Benin 
to  cooperate 
without  reservation  in  finding  the  most  appropriate 
ways  to  redress  the  injustices  of  the  past  and  to 
establish  a  new  world  order  in  the  Security  Council. 
Such  an  order  must  enable  humankind  to  forge  its 
common  destiny  in  our  common  house,  namely,  the 
Earth. We have a sacred duty towards our planet, which 
includes  behaving  in  a  manner  that  serves  to  preserve 
its habitability for current and future generations. Yes, 
we  need  a  United  Nations  that  is  more  just  and  better 
able to respond to today’s urgent needs as well as to the 
aspirations of the world’s most vulnerable people. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Alberto  Gatmaitan  Romulo,  Secretary 
of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines.  
Mr.  Romulo  (Philippines)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Allow me to warmly congratulate Mr. Ali Abdussalam 
Treki on his well-deserved election to preside over the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I  assure 
him  of  the  full  cooperation  of  the  Philippines  as  he 
discharges the duties of his high office. 

We are gathered here today, in this parliament of 
nations,  to  find  meaningful  solutions  to  the  conflicts 
and  crises  facing  our  world  today. Although  there  are 
signs  of  global  recovery,  now  is  neither  the  time  for 
complacency nor for a return to business as usual. Our 
drive  to  enhance  global  development  has  clearly 
slowed,  while  the  challenges  to  peace  remain  starkly 
before us. 

Through  globalization,  we  have  witnessed 
unprecedented  material  progress  and  record  poverty 
alleviation. Yet  the  poorest  40  per  cent  of  the  world’s 
population still live on less than $2 per day. Nor have 
we  resolved  the  climate  change  and  food  crises  that 
oppress hundreds of millions of human beings. 

A  large  part  of  global  development  has  been  the 
result  of  labour,  including  that  of  migrant  workers. 
However,  despite  their  contributions  to  the  global 
economy,  many  migrants 
to 
exploitation  and  abuse.  Moreover,  the  peace  dividend 
expected  from 
the  cold  war  never 
the  end  of 
exposed 
remain 
09-52470 

57 
to 
justice, 
commitment 
A/64/PV.8 

materialized,  while  we  continue  to  confront  nuclear 
proliferation  and  violent  conflict.  The  shortage  of  aid 
resources  and  instability  in  trade  and  investment  are 
generating  a  global  development  emergency.  Many 
nations  will  not  attain  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). Development gains are being tragically 
lost. 

Our  march  of  progress  must  not  stall  —  not  on 
our  watch  and  not  while  we  have  the  will,  the  vision 
and  the  means  to  build  a  better  world  inspired  by  a 
shared 
fairness, 
non-discrimination,  progress  and  peace. We  should  do 
so by focusing on the five great challenges of our time.  
The first challenge pertains to promoting nuclear 

disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  The 
second 
involves  managing  the  global  crisis  to  encourage 
equitable  recovery,  fairer  globalization  and  faster 
poverty  alleviation.  The  third  entails  protecting  and 
promoting  the  rights  of  migrants,  who  continue  to 
contribute to global development and the well-being of 
our  societies.  The  fourth  has  to  do  with  the  taking  of 
urgent  measures  to  effectively  address  the  adverse 
effects  of  climate  change  without  further  delay.  And 
the  fifth  has  to  do  with  reducing  the  number  of 
conflicts  and  expanding  mutual  understanding  and 
respect 
and 
inter-civilizational dialogue. 
(spoke in English) 

Nuclear  weapons  and  their  technology  are  a 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security,  and  the 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation Treaty  (NPT)  is  our  central 
mechanism  to  contain,  and  eventually  eliminate,  that 
threat.  The  May  2010  NPT  Review  Conference,  over 
which  the  Philippines  will  preside,  will  be  the  next 
opportunity  for  all  of  us  to  act  on  that  matter  in  a 
concerted  manner.  We  can  be  encouraged  by  certain 
recent developments on that front.  

A  constructive  atmosphere  prevailed  during  the 
meetings of the Preparatory Committee for the Review 
Conference.  President  Obama  has  announced  that  he 
will lead the United States to ratify the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), which is another key 
pillar  of  the  global  disarmament  and  NPT  system.  In 
addition,  the  United  States  and  Russia  are  making 
headway,  under  the  Strategic  Arms  Reduction  Treaty, 
to reduce their deployed nuclear warheads and delivery 
systems  beyond  the  Treaty’s  upcoming  expiry  in 
December.  In  addition,  the  South-East  Asia  Nuclear-
interfaith 
through 
greater 

to 
stimulus 
the  Review  Conference 
Weapon-Free-Zone and other regional nuclear-weapon- 
free zones are continuing to reinforce the NPT system. 
Those positive developments inspire the Philippines in 
steering 
conduct 
negotiations  and  consultations 
in  an  open  and 
transparent manner. In that spirit, we reiterate our call 
for the few remaining countries that have not yet done 
so to accede both to the CTBT and the NPT, in order to 
give greater hope for lasting peace and security for our 
world. 

The  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  is 
placing intolerable strain on the poorest of the poor and 
undermining  years  of  efforts  to  attain  internationally 
agreed development goals, including the MDGs, and to 
combat  ill-health  and  hunger.  The  crisis  has  been 
accompanied  by  increases  in  unemployment,  with 
incomes  and  demand.  The 
concomitant  declining 
International  Labour  Organization  estimates 
that 
unemployment  could  rise  by  50  million  by  the  end  of 
2009,  thereby  bringing  the  global  unemployment  rate 
to more than 7 per cent. 
The  Philippines  and  many  other  nations  are 

implementing 
accelerated 
employment-generation  programmes  and  enhanced 
social  safety  nets.  In 
the  Philippines  we  have 
strengthened  our  banking  sector  and  fiscal  position 
through tough reforms that have blunted the full force 
of  the  global  crisis. The  Philippines  is  one  of  the  few 
economies that continues to have positive growth in its 
gross domestic product. However, we cannot ignore the 
impact  of 
in  our 
interdependent  world.  The  Philippines  therefore  joins 
other nations in the General Assembly in calling for a 
united  effort  in  the  United  Nations  to  act  for  the 
common good of all our peoples. 

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development,  which  was  held  in  this  very  Hall  last 
June, presented Member States with lines of action that 
we  must  take  now  to  stimulate  the  global  economy, 
improve 
reform 
processes and institutions to prevent any recurrence of 
the crisis. 

We view the Global Jobs Pact put forward by the 
International Labour Organization, which was endorsed 
by the Economic and Social Council this past July,  as 
another  important  step  towards  recovering  from  the 
crisis.  We  reiterate  our  call  on  all  countries  to  resist 
regulation  and  monitoring  and 
the  global  crisis  elsewhere 
packages, 
58 

09-52470 
fully  heard 
in 


protectionism in order to expand trade and investment 
flows.  We  also  call  on  developed  nations  to  maintain 
their commitments with regard to official development 
assistance.  Furthermore,  the  voice  of  the  developing 
world  must  now  be 
reforming 
international  financial  and development  institutions so 
that  we  can  forge  a  more  equitable  and  stable  global 
economic system to avoid future crises. 

Global  migrants  are  among  the  groups  most 
adversely  affected  by  the  crisis.  The  international 
community  therefore  has  a  shared  responsibility  to 
ensure  their  protection,  taking  into  full  account  the 
special  vulnerabilities  of 
the  gender  and  family 
dimensions of the issue. The second Global Forum on 
Migration and Development, which the Philippines was 
privileged to chair in Manila, reinforced that important 
message  by  focusing  on  the  human  face  of  migration 
and  on 
the  human  rights  and  empowerment  of 
migrants.  We  urge  all  nations  to  accede  to  the 
International  Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the 
Rights  of All  Migrant Workers  and  Members  of Their 
Families, and to avoid unfair restrictions on, and unfair 
treatment of, migrants. 

We  must  carry  the  momentum  of  the  Summit  on 
Climate  Change,  held  here  in  New York,  forward  into 
the  negotiations  under  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  on 
to 
Copenhagen this December. The world expects nothing 
less  from  us.  The  Philippines  therefore  calls  on  the 
developed  countries  concerned  to  present  their  firm 
post-Kyoto  greenhouse  gas  emission  targets,  taking 
into account the ideal levels suggested by the scientific 
community. They must also assist developing countries 
to  mitigate  and  adapt  to  worsening  climate  change  by 
fulfilling  their  Framework  Convention  obligations  to 
provide  technological  and  financial  support.  As  a 
coordinator  of  the  G-77  in  the  talks,  the  Philippines 
will continue to work with all parties to help to ensure 
a positive outcome in Copenhagen. 
The  Philippines  is  doing  its  part  to  advance  that 

vital  global  agenda.  We  recently  enacted  a  landmark 
law to promote the development and use of renewable 
energy  resources,  especially  biofuels.  Earlier 
this 
month,  the  Philippines  also  hosted  the  International 
Conference  on  Green  Industry  in  Asia.  The  Manila 
Declaration  on  Green  Industry 
the 
Framework  of  Action  adopted  at  the  Conference 
promote  the  integration  of  sustainable  development 
into industrial development processes for the transition 
in  Asia  and 
the  road 
A/64/PV.8
resolution  calling 
to  resource-efficient  and  low-carbon  industries.  We 
hope  that  elements  of  the  Manila  Declaration  will 
provide input for Copenhagen as well. 

The  international  community  must  also  focus  on 
the  urgent  need  to  reduce  tension  and  conflict  fuelled 
by  perceived  differences  between  religions,  faiths  and 
civilizations.  If  left  unattended,  such  conflict  can 
fester,  causing  greater  tension  and  untold  human 
suffering  and  violence,  which  extremists  can  exploit. 
The urgency of the matter has prompted the Philippines 
and many partner nations and organizations to promote 
greater  interfaith  dialogue,  both  within  the  United 
Nations  system  as  well  as  at  regional  and  national 
levels.  By  building  bridges  of  understanding,  that 
global advocacy enhances peace and development. 
Every  year,  the  Philippines  has  submitted  to  the 

United  Nations  a  draft 
for 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding 
and  cooperation  for  peace. The  General Assembly  has 
always  adopted  it  unanimously.  Also  at  the  United 
Nations,  we  initiated  the  holding  of  the  Ministerial 
Meeting  on  Interfaith  Dialogue  and  Cooperation  for 
Peace,  which  includes  countries  from  every  region  of 
the  world.  In  2006,  we  also  launched  the  global 
Tripartite  Forum  on  Interfaith  Cooperation  for  Peace, 
which is headquartered in New York and made up of 54 
Governments,  15  United  Nations  agencies  and  110 
religious  non-governmental  organizations  represented 
at  the  United  Nations.  To  reinforce  that  effort,  the 
Philippines  will  host  the  first  special  Non-Aligned 
Movement  (NAM)  ministerial  meeting  on  interfaith 
dialogue and cooperation for peace and development in 
Manila  this  December.  We  are  pleased  to  invite  all 
United  Nations  Members  and  other  interested  nations 
to that important seminal meeting. 
(spoke in Spanish) 
The spirit of multilateralism and prudent realism 

also 
requires 
support  United  Nations 
peacekeeping efforts. In crises and emergencies around 
the  world,  we  must  do  more  collectively  to  alleviate 
suffering  and  to  help  nations  and  communities  to 
achieve  self-sustaining  peace.  The  Philippines  will 
continue to be active in United Nations peacekeeping. 
Indeed,  the  Philippines  has  become  one  of  the  largest 
contributors  of  individual  police  officers  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations. More than 600 of our 
peacekeepers  are  serving  with  distinction  around  the 
world. Next month, we will send a battalion in support 
that  we 
09-52470 

59 
in 
lasting 
speakers 
legacy  of  a  world  of  greater 
A/64/PV.8 

of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force, 
in the Golan Heights. 

We stand on the cusp of history. It is in our hands, 
here  at  the  United  Nations,  to  shape  the  changes  and 
trends necessary to bequeath to succeeding generations 
a 
justice, 
compassion  and  well-being. The  Philippines  is  deeply 
honoured to assist and cooperate with all nations in the 
task  of  building  a  future  where  peace  and  prosperity 
reign unceasingly for the benefit of all humankind. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Elmar  Maharram 
oglu 
Mammadyarov,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Azerbaijan. 
Mr. Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan): I would like to 

join  previous 
congratulating  His 
Excellency  Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  of  Libya  on  his 
election  to  the  post  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. I wish him every 
success.  I  should  also  like  to  thank  his  predecessor, 
Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, for his work. I would 
like to express my profound respect and appreciation to 
the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, 
the 
international  community  to  make  our  world  a  better 
place to live. 
We  all  recognize  that  the  security  of  every  State 

of the world can be better promoted and ensured with a 
multilateral  security  system.  That  paradigm  was  a 
principal  reason  behind  the  creation  of  the  collective 
security system that has the United Nations at its core. 
Yet, after more than 60 years since the founding of the 
United  Nations,  the  question  remains  of  whether  the 
contemporary 
is 
addressing  effectively  and  in  a  timely  manner  the 
multifaceted and interconnected challenges and threats 
confronting our world today.  

The  global  character  of  today’s  challenges  and 
threats  makes  geographic  distance  irrelevant  when  it 
comes to the  formulation of security policy, as threats 
as we know them today transcend national borders and 
entire  continents.  The  indirect  repercussions  of  these 
threats  may  be  as  devastating  and  as  costly  as  their 
direct  impact.  The  interconnected  and  intertwined 
nature of current threats requires that we reconsider the 
very  concept  of  security  in  broader  terms  that  are  not 
confined  to  the  traditional  military  aspect  of  security, 
international  security  architecture 
in  mobilizing 
leadership 
for  his 

include 
to  fulfil 
its  political,  economic,  energy, 
but  also 
cultural, information and other dimensions. 

The  security  of  each  State  and,  more  broadly, 
international  peace  and  security  will  depend  upon 
whether  States  follow  the  norms  and  principles  of 
international  law  and  use  them  as  a  guiding  tool  for 
shaping their foreign and security policies. Following a 
common  set  of  norms  and  rules  on  the  international 
arena contributes to the transparency and predictability 
of State behaviour and hence consolidates international 
peace and security. 
Unfortunately, the unlawful use of force has still 

not  been  eliminated  from 
international  relations. 
Civilian  populations  are  still  suffering  today  in  many 
places around the world due to the manifest failure of 
individual  States 
their  most  basic  and 
compelling  responsibilities.  Armed  conflict,  military 
aggression  and  foreign  occupation  involving  the  most 
serious  international  crimes  are  but  a  few  vivid 
examples  from  our  recent  history  of 
the  bitter 
consequences  of  non-compliance  by  individual  States 
with  the  norms  and  principles  of  international  law. 
Governments that fail to obey the rules of international 
conduct  will 
individual 
liberties  and  freedoms  at  home,  thus  undermining 
democratic development. 

The  most  vivid  example  of  misconduct  when  it 
comes to the norms and principles of international law 
is  the  almost  two-decades-long,  and  still  unresolved, 
Armenia-Azerbaijan  Nagorny-Karabakh 
conflict, 
which also stands out as a major threat to international 
and  regional  peace  and  security.  As  a  result  of  the 
aggression carried out by Armenia, almost one-fifth of 
territory  of  Azerbaijan  has  been  occupied, 
the 
approximately 
cleansed 
Azerbaijanis have become internally displaced persons 
or  refugees  and  thousands  of  Azerbaijan’s  historical 
and  cultural  heritage  artifacts  have  been  destroyed  or 
looted.  

In its four resolutions on the conflict, the Security 
Council  has  reaffirmed  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  of  Azerbaijan  and  the  inadmissibility  of  the 
use of force to acquire the territory of the other States. 
It  has  also  recognized  Nagorny-Karabakh  as  a  part  of 
Azerbaijan and called for an immediate, complete and 
unconditional withdrawal of the occupying forces from 
all  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan.  The  General 
Assembly — in resolution 62/243, which was adopted 
infringe  upon 
1  million 
inevitably 
ethnically 
60 

09-52470 
its 


on 14 March 2008 and which is entitled “The situation 
in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan” — expressed 
respect  and  support  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  of  Azerbaijan  within 
internationally 
recognized borders. 

As reflected in those resolutions, the approach of 
the General Assembly and the Security Council is fully 
consistent with the position of Azerbaijan, which from 
the  beginning  advocated  a  step-by-step  approach  to 
settling the conflict as the only viable option. A number 
of  important  steps  have  to  be  taken,  starting  with  the 
withdrawal  of Armenian  forces  from  all  the  occupied 
territories,  the  rehabilitation  of  those  territories,  the 
return of internally displaced persons to their homes in 
and  around  the  Nagorny-Karabakh  region  and  the 
opening  of  all  communications  channels  for  mutual 
use.  That  will  make  it  possible  to  eliminate  the 
consequences of the conflict, and will pave the way for 
the establishment of a durable peace and stability in the 
region  that  is  conducive  to  the  establishment  of  the 
legal  status  of  the  Nagorny-Karabakh  region  within 
Azerbaijan,  with  due  account  taken  of,  and  an  equal 
hearing for, the voices of the Azerbaijani and Armenian 
communities of the region. 

The  current  settlement  process  offers  some  hope 
of  breaking  the  stalemate  in  the  process  of  resolution 
of the conflict. The acceptance by Armenia of the step-
by-step approach to a settlement to the conflict on the 
basis  of  the  principles  and  norms  of  international  law 
and  the  decisions  and  documents  adopted  in  that 
framework, as reflected in the joint declaration signed 
in  Moscow  in  November  2008  by  the  Presidents  of 
Azerbaijan, Armenia  and  the  Russian  Federation,  is  a 
positive sign. Azerbaijan is ready to continue talks with 
Armenia’s  leadership  for  a  secure  and  stable  South 
Caucasus  region  and  beyond,  which  will  make  it 
possible  to  take  advantage  of  the  existing  ample 
regional opportunities for the benefit of all. 

the  negative 
developments in the region to which I have referred, let 
me  briefly  share  some  information  about  the  positive 
economic performance of my country.  

Azerbaijan  has  minimized  the  impact  of  the 
global  economic  downturn  on 
its  economy  and 
managed  to  sustain  growth.  Having  maintained  its 
dynamism  in  2009,  as  of  today  our  gross  domestic 
product (GDP) growth stands at almost 4 per cent. We 
have  recorded  a  drop  in  the  poverty  rate  since  2003, 
the  background  of 
Against 
A/64/PV.8
improved 
in  an  effort 
implementation  of  such 
into  an  energy  hub  of 
from  44  per  cent  to  13  per  cent.  The  Government  of 
Azerbaijan  has  substantially 
trade  and 
to  strengthen 
investment  conditions 
national  competitiveness  and 
spur  private-sector 
development,  especially  in  the  non-oil  sector.  Non-oil 
GDP growth is at almost 16 per cent, the highest rate in 
5  years.  In  recognition  of  its  results-oriented  reforms 
and  thought-out  economic  policy,  Azerbaijan  was 
qualified by the World Bank as one of the world’s top 
reformers. 

Azerbaijan — a strategically located country with 
a  young  and  skilled  population,  great  resources  and  a 
dynamic economy — is inevitably taking a leading role 
in  the  region  and  increasingly  becoming  a  pivotal 
player  and  credible  actor  beyond  the  region.  The 
successful 
infrastructure 
projects  as  the  Baku-Supsa  and  Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan 
oil-exporting  pipelines  and  the  Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum 
gas pipeline have not only boosted our  economy, they 
have  also  contributed 
the  development  of 
neighbouring  States.  A  modern  energy  infrastructure 
coupled  with  vast  energy  resources  have  transformed 
Azerbaijan 
international 
importance.  Azerbaijan  has  proven  itself  a  reliable 
partner and an indispensable and secure energy source 
for Europe and beyond. 

Azerbaijan’s  location  at  the  crossroads  of  major 
East-West  and  North-South  transport  corridors  and  its 
rapidly 
transportation 
infrastructure, which is connected to regional highway 
and 
strategic 
importance  of  my  country.  The  completion  of  the 
construction  of  the  Baku-Tbilisi-Kars  railroad  and  the 
commissioning  of  the  brand  new  seaport  at  Alat,  on 
Azerbaijan’s  coast  on  the  Caspian  Sea,  will  increase 
the role of Azerbaijan as a communications hub linking 
Europe with Asia. 

Azerbaijan  has  also  put  forward  an  initiative  to 
establish  a  Trans-Eurasian  information  superhighway, 
which  is  expected  to  serve  as  a  major  element  of  the 
East-West 
the 
provision  of  Internet  service, 
telecommunications 
systems,  e-information  resources  and  e-economies  to 
20 countries of the region. 

Today  we  are  living  at  a  time  of  heightened 
religious  and  ethnic  awareness,  which  in  certain 
instances  has 
is 
sometimes  maliciously  exploited  to  fuel  conflicts  on 
railroad  networks,  highlights 
transport  corridor  and 
taken  exaggerated 
forms  and 
developing 
national 
to 
the 
facilitate 
09-52470 

61 
in  maintaining 
A/64/PV.8 

ethnic,  religious  or  cultural  grounds.  The  broad 
recognition  by  the  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations of the role of the dialogue among civilizations, 
and  specifically  of  inter-cultural  and  inter-religious 
harmony 
international  peace  and 
security, can only be praised. 

We  fully  support  the  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  importance  of  increasing 
educational  efforts 
to  eliminate  hate  messages, 
distortion,  prejudice  and  negative  bias  from  textbooks 
and  other  educational  media  and  to  ensure  a  basic 
knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  world’s  main 
cultures, civilizations and religions. 

As  a  country  where  long-standing  traditions  of 
tolerance  and  peaceful  coexistence  of  different 
religions and ethnic groups over centuries have become 
an  inseparable  part  of  the  culture,  Azerbaijan  has 
repeatedly  demonstrated  its  determination  to  act  as  a 
natural  bridge  bringing  together  different  continents, 
cultures  and  civilizations  through  the  promotion  of 
inter-religious  and  intercultural  dialogue  based  on 
mutual  respect  and  understanding  among  peoples  of 
different cultures and religions. 

Azerbaijan  was  among  the  first  countries  to  join 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  an  initiative  by  Turkey 
and  Spain.  Azerbaijan  has  hosted  a  number  of 
important  events  in  recent  years,  with  a  view  to 
translating  into  concrete  actions  the  recommendations 
contained in the Alliance of Civilizations report of the 
High-level  Group  appointed  by the  Secretary-General. 
Most  recently,  we  held  the  Baku  International  Forum 
on  Expanding  the  Role  of  Women  in  Cross-cultural 
Dialogue, which we believe will raise awareness about 
the  role  of  women  in  that  regard.  In  December  2008, 
we  hosted  a  conference  of  culture  ministers  from 
Council of Europe member States. For the first time in 
the  history  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  ministers  from 
member  States  of  the  Islamic  Educational,  Scientific 
and  Cultural  Organization  and 
the  Arab  League 
Educational,  Cultural  and  Scientific  Organization 
joined  the  event. The  Baku  declaration  adopted  at  the 
conference  envisages, 
intercultural 
dialogue between European and neighbouring States. 

the  fifth  Islamic  Conference  of  Culture 
Ministers,  Azerbaijan’s  capital  of  Baku  was  declared 
the  Islamic  culture  capital  for  2009.  This  autumn  we 
will  be  hosting  the  sixth  Conference  of  Ministers  of 
Culture of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, 
inter  alia,  an 
At 

the 
through 
implementation  of 
where  we  will  continue  discussions  of  our  future 
actions in fostering dialogue among civilizations. 

The multilateral system, with the United Nations 
at its heart, is undergoing serious changes that will test 
its  strength,  viability  and  credibility.  This  requires 
more  dedicated  efforts  aimed  at  strengthening  the 
United Nations and promoting the effectiveness of the 
Organization 
its 
decisions  and  resolutions. Azerbaijan  believes  that,  as 
the  only  truly  global  organization,  the  United  Nations 
has to be stronger and capable of engaging on a range 
of pressing global issues in every part of the world, as 
well as addressing the aspirations and concerns of each 
Member  State.  We  continue  to  support  reform  of  the 
Organization so that it may be renewed and revitalized 
and made more responsive. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Paul Toungui, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs,  Cooperation,  la  Francophonie  and  Regional 
Integration of Gabon.  
Mr. Toungui (Gabon) (spoke in French): First, I 

would like to warmly congratulate Mr. Ali Abdussalam 
Treki  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. I would also like 
to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  to  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann, President of the Assembly at its 
sixty-third  session,  for  the  work  he  accomplished 
during his mandate. And I reaffirm the confidence and 
support of my country for the Secretary-General as he 
continues his efforts as the leader of this Organization. 

Gabon has just gone through a critical phase in its 
history  as  a  nation.  With  the  loss  of  President  Omar 
Bongo Ondimba on 8 June, our country saw the start of 
a  delicate  period  of  political  transition,  during  which 
we  had  to  dig  deep  to  find  the  strength  necessary  to 
confront  our  destiny.  Under  the  relevant  provisions  of 
our  founding  laws  and  the  leadership  of  interim 
President  Rose  Francine  Rogombé,  we  were  able  to 
bring our  electoral process to a successful conclusion, 
culminating in a vote on 30 August. As a result of this 
unprecedented  election,  Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba  was 
officially  proclaimed  the  elected  President  of  the 
Republic by the Constitutional Court, which under the 
law has a month to examine claims or appeals resulting 
from  the  election  before  the  elected  President  takes 
office,  given  that  nine  unsuccessful  candidates  have 
appealed to the high court. 
62 

09-52470 



As  members  know,  ensuring  such  an  important 
democratic  transition  in  the  brief  time  allocated  under 
the law was very challenging for our country, and I am 
proud to say that we have met it, considering what was 
at  stake  and  what  we  knew  had  to  be  done.  I  submit 
here  my  own  tribute  to  the  people  of  Gabon,  the 
majority  of  whom  have  proclaimed  their  support  for 
the values of peace and democracy. I would also like to 
thank the peoples of Africa and of the entire world, as 
well  as  the  representatives  of  States  and  international 
and  civil  society  organizations  who  came  to  observe 
the  elections  in  Gabon  and  to  nourish  our  democratic 
process with their experience. As we open a new page 
in  our  march  towards  progress  and  development,  we 
know we can rely on the international community and 
on the friends of Gabon all over the world to confront 
the challenges of today and tomorrow. 

As  regards  those  challenges,  we  are  determined, 
today  more  than  ever  before,  to  spare  no  effort  to 
establish  good  political  and  economic  governance  and 
to consolidate our gains and our legacy in the areas of 
stability, peace and democracy. We are also motivated 
by  our  determination  to  pursue  our  endeavours  in 
maintaining  regional  and 
international  peace,  by 
strengthening our links of solidarity and fraternity with 
all our neighbouring countries. 

The sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly 
is  opening  its  deliberations in  an  international  context 
marked  by  a  number  of  successive  crises:  economic 
and  financial,  food,  energy  and  environmental.  We 
must  bring  urgent  and  lasting  responses  to  these 
various  crises  by  acting  collectively  to  curb  them  and 
ensuring that our peoples achieve the development they 
desire  with  all 
their  heart.  The  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development,  held  in  New 
York  from  24  to  30  June,  was  an  important  initiative, 
enabling  us  to  express  our  concerns  and  declare  our 
commitment to fighting the crisis and its repercussions 
for our countries. 

The unity we reached on measures to be taken to 
deal  with  the  crisis  will  require  the  complete  and 
unified  participation  of  our  countries  in  developing 
appropriate  solutions.  Beyond  the  specifics  relating  to 
each  country,  we  must  make  sure  together  that  the 
measures  and  actions  taken  to  fight  the  crisis  be 
proportional in scope to its gravity and intensity. 
A/64/PV.8
The  challenge  of 
the  focus  of 
two 
The  food  crisis  was  at 
the  sixty-third  session  of 
the  centre  of  our 

the 
discussions  during 
Assembly  and  was 
important 
declarations, one adopted at the High-level Conference 
on World Food Security, held in Rome from 3 to 5 June 
2008, and one adopted at the thirteenth African Union 
Conference of Heads of State and Government, held in 
Sirte in July. We must now implement the declarations 
and  measures  adopted  as  a  result  of  meetings  held  at 
the international and regional levels. It is only through 
strict  adherence  to  our  commitments  that  we  will  be 
able  to  identify  the  adverse  effects  of  such  crisis 
situations on the development of our respective States. 

feeding  a  planet  whose 
population  is  growing  is  intimately  linked  to  the 
questions of the environment and climate change. The 
harmful  effects  of  global  warming  on  our  ability  to 
increase  agricultural  production  in  such  a  way  as  to 
bring about a lasting solution to the food crisis are no 
longer  in  doubt.  I  am  pleased  once  again  that  this 
question  was  chosen  as  a  theme  for  the  recent  high-
level  dialogue  organized  by  the  Secretary-General  on 
the sidelines of the current session, with a view to the 
forthcoming  Copenhagen  Climate  Conference 
in 
December.  In  this  regard,  we  reaffirm  our  support  for 
Africa’s  common  position  on  climate  change,  adopted 
in  Addis  Ababa  in  August  by  the  heads  of  State  or 
Government of the African Union. 

My  country,  Gabon,  whose  forests  are  among 
those that make up the great Congo basin, has adhered 
unreservedly  to  the  various  international  conventions 
concerning the struggle against climate catastrophe and 
the  protection  of  biodiversity.  We  have  resolved  to 
assume our share of responsibility by dedicating 11 per 
cent  of  our  territory  to  humanity,  by  creating,  among 
other things, 13 national parks. 

the 
international  community  faces  highlights,  now  more 
than  ever  before,  the  need  to  breathe  new  life  into 
efforts  to  ensure  international  peace  and  security,  but 
also to conduct collective action at the global level. It 
is  with  this  conviction  that  Gabon  has  submitted  its 
candidacy  for  a  non-permanent  seat  in  the  Security 
Council  for  the  period  2010-2011,  for  which  it  was 
endorsed  by 
thirteenth 
Conference of Heads of State and Government, held at 
Sirte in July. 
the  African  Union  at 
its 
The 
interdependence 
of 
the 
crises 
09-52470 

63 
My  country 
that 

is  also  convinced 
A/64/PV.8 


this 
Organization cannot remain frozen, but must evolve in 
order  to  enable  it  to  adapt  better  to  the  current 
international  context.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  world 
leaders, 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution 55/2) and the 2005 World Summit Outcome 
(resolution 60/1), reaffirmed the need to strengthen the 
United  Nations  to  allow  it  to  fulfil  its  principal 
missions more effectively.  
through 

In that regard, my country welcomes the progress 
made since the 2005 World Summit in implementing a 
great  many  of  the  important  recommendations  of  the 
Outcome  Document  in  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations  reform  process.  While  pleased  with  these 
major advances, we must continue our efforts to bring 
these reforms to completion. Building a more just and 
secure  world  capable  of  responding  to  its  peoples’ 
profound aspirations depends on it. 
The meeting rose at 10.30 p.m. 





64 

09-52470 
