
A/64/PV.6
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

6th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 24 September 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Address by Mr. Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías, President 
of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 

Mr.  Hugo  Rafael  Chávez  Frías,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías, 
President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Chávez  Frías  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

greet  all  the  citizens  of  the  world  who  have  come 
here —  as  they  do  every  year  —  for  this  gathering  of 
such great importance for the world. I am very pleased 
to  be  back  in  New  York  and  at  the  United  Nations 
following a few years’ absence. I am very grateful for 
all  the  cooperation  and  the  manner  in  which  our 
delegation has been received.  

Last night we visited Lincoln Center to see a film 
made by Oliver Stone during the past year. The title of 
the film already stirs your thoughts. It is called “South 
of the Border”. In this film, you can see President Evo 
Morales  chewing  coca  leaves,  together  with  Oliver 
Stone. And, as President Morales says, coca is not the 
same as cocaine. You can see Cristina, the President of 
Argentina,  and  the  automobile  of  General  Perón. You 
can  hear  what  she  has  to  say  about  events  in  South 
America, in Latin America. And you can see Lula, the 
President of Brazil, in the Guajira region of Venezuela, 
working  with  us  to  help  the  indigenous  peoples,  who 
were  exploited  for  centuries,  through  core  industrial 
projects.  You  will  see  President  Fernando  Lugo,  a 
bishop  and  liberation  theologian,  living  today  in  the 
residence occupied for many years by Stroessner. And 
you can see how a bishop became a president.  
You can also see Rafael Correa, the President of 

Ecuador,  in  Havana  with  President  Raúl  Castro.  You 
can  see  Fidel.  You  can  even  see  Obama,  in  Trinidad, 
chatting with a group of us, with his hand held out to 
us and an open smile. 

I  think  it  is  an  interesting  film,  one  of  the  many 
made  by  this  great  filmmaker  of  the  United  States, 
Oliver  Stone.  He  had  already  made  two  films  about 
Fidel,  “Looking  for  Fidel”  and  “El  Comandante”. 
There  is  a  lot  in  this  film,  many  messages  that  could 
help us to decipher the enigmas of the times in which 
we live.  

We  stayed  behind  after  the  film  was  over  last 
night, chatting with a group of people from the United 
States  and  other  parts  of  the  world.  And  this  contact 
was  very  instructive  and  very  symptomatic  of  the 
importance of what Fidel calls “the battle of ideas”. A 
lady in her fifties  came up to me  and said “I am very 
happy”.  She  was  a  North  American,  very  white;  a 
typical  United  States  citizen,  born  in  this  country,  but 
she  spoke  some  Spanish.  She  told  me,  “I  am  very 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52425 (E) 
*0952425* 


A/64/PV.6 

happy”.  And  I  asked  her  why.  “Because,  now  having 
seen this movie, I realize  what you are. I thought you 
were a very bad person”.  

This  person  was  a  victim  of  the  hostile  media 
bombardment,  the  ideological  bombardment,  of  the 
United States and of the entire world, whose aim is to 
turn  reality  inside  out  and  to  turn  the  world  upside 
down, as Eduardo Galeano put it. 

The film is called “South of the Border” and I am 
taking  advantage  of  this  opportunity  and  that  title  to 
tell you that, south of the border, a revolution is under 
way.  A  revolution  is  under  way  in  South  America.  A 
revolution  is  under  way  in  Latin America.  There  is  a 
revolution in the Caribbean. The world must see this, it 
must  truly  realize  this  and  accept  it,  because  it  is  a 
reality and it is not going to change. What is more, this 
is  a  revolution  that  goes  beyond  ideology.  It  is  a 
geographical and geopolitical revolution. It is a historic 
revolution;  it  is  part  of  our  times.  It  has  very  deep 
roots. It is a total, moral and spiritual revolution. And 
we  believe  that  it  is  a  necessary  revolution.  This 
revolution is great in both spirit and magnitude, and it 
is going to keep growing as the days, months and years 
go  by. And  why  is  it  great?  It  is  great  because  it  has 
been a long time coming: centuries of history have led 
up  to  this  moment  in  time.  It  is  great  in  terms  of  the 
space that it covers. 

than  
Mr. Al-Qadhafi. Al-Qadhafi  has  said  everything  there 
is  to  say.  This  applause  is  for  Al-Qadhafi  and  his 
speech. But nor will I speak any less than Mr. Obama, 
or Lula.  

I  was  explaining  why  this  revolution  is  great. 
First,  because  of  time,  the  accumulated  time  that  has 
gone  by.  It  is  centuries,  centuries  of  battles,  of 
struggles,  of  hopes,  of  suffering  of  millions  and 
millions  of  human  beings  in  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean.  This  revolution  is  great  in  the  area  it 
covers.  This  revolution  is  great  in  the  depth  of  its 
foundations.  This  revolution  is  great  in  the  masses  of 
people that are joining it. No one seeks to slow it down 
and no one will be able to. 
Yesterday, it  was said  by  President Morales here 

(see  A/64/PV.5),  by 
this  great  companion  and 
indigenous leader of the Aymara, Evo Morales. He also 
said it in the film, which you should not miss, “South 
of  the  Border”.  Oliver  Stone  told  me  last  night  that 
pressure  is  already  being  exerted  to  prevent  the 
I  am  not  going 
to  speak  any 
longer 
2 

Two  hundred  years 
American  people  from  seeing  it.  Where  is  their 
freedom  of  expression?  It  is  just  a  movie.  How  can 
they be afraid of a movie? But there is already pressure 
from  the  monopolies  that  run  the  film  industry,  that 
operate  the  theatres  —  these  are  all  monopolies  and 
they  are  putting  on  pressure.  But  the  movie  will  be 
shown  elsewhere.  Fortunately,  we  are  in  the  age  of 
computers  and  telecommunications.  We  no  longer 
depend on movie theatres run by monopolies.  

In  the  film,  Evo,  speaking  with  Oliver  Stone, 
recalls  a  phrase  pronounced  by  a  great  leader  of  the 
Aymara, an ancestor of his who was murdered, just one 
of  the  many  millions  that  were  murdered  by  the 
Spanish,  Portuguese  and  English  invasion,  by  the 
European  invasion  of  our  continent.  I  know  that  all 
present are aware that when the European ships arrived 
at  the  American  shores  there  were  approximately 
90 million indigenous people living here.  

later  only  four  million 
survived.  This  is  one  of  the  greatest  genocides  in 
history  —  the  genocide  of  the  continent  itself,  of  the 
Abya Yala, as our indigenous people call it. So Evo in 
the  movie  repeats  the  sentence  uttered  by  this  great 
Aymara  leader,  who  was  drawn  and  quartered  —  he 
was tied to four horses by the arms and legs and he was 
torn  apart,  and  as  he  died  the  Indian  uttered  a 
prophesy:  “Today  I  die,”  said  Túpac  Katari,  “today  I 
die, but one day I will return as millions.” Túpac Katari 
has returned, and we are millions. We are millions. 

Nothing and no one can hold back the great South 
American, Latin American, Caribbean  revolution. And 
I  think  the  world  should  support  it. The  United  States 
should  support  it.  Europe  should  support  it,  because 
this  revolution  —  some  brothers  and  sisters  may  not 
have noticed — is the start of the road to salvation for 
this  planet,  and  to  salvation  for  the  human  race, 
threatened  as  it  is  by  capitalism,  imperialism,  hunger 
and war. This is the necessary revolution. For centuries 
this  has  been  called  “the  New  World”.  Now  we  can 
truly call it “a new world”. 

Years  ago  —  as  we  recalled  last  night  —  I  was 
invited to a conversation — a large group of important 
leaders. They were important in their own right. They 
were  trade  union  leaders  here  in  the  United  States. 
Some  workers  were  complaining  about  a  biscuit 
factory  that  was  not  paying  them. They  were  striking, 
and  one  of  them  asked  me,  “Why  don’t  you  buy  that 
factory?” And I said, “I’ll see. Maybe we can make it a 
09-52425 


socialist biscuit factory, if Obama gives me permission. 
Maybe  we  could  do  that  —  buy  it,  give  it  to  the 
workers,  let  them  make  the  crackers  and  distribute 
them. Why  should  there  just  be  one  or  two  capitalists 
exploiting a lot of people?” That is socialism and that 
is the path to salvation for this planet. 

Yesterday  a  journalist  asked  me  —  after  the 
movie  there  was  forum  at  which  he  asked  me  —  “Do 
you  defend  socialism  even  though  the  Soviet  Union 
failed?”  The  reply  is  very  simple.  The  Soviet  Union 
lost its way early on. There was never real socialism in 
the  Soviet  Union.  But  this  century,  the  twenty-first 
century,  will  be  the  century  of  socialism  —  the 
socialism of the human race.  

I’m  sure  everyone  listening  to  me  has  read 
Einstein.  Albert  Einstein  convinced  the  American 
President  to  build  the  atomic  bomb  —  to  begin  the 
research  before  the  Nazis  did.  Then  later  he  regretted 
what  he  had  done  when  he  saw  the  disaster  of 
Hiroshima  and  the  disaster  of  Nagasaki.  But  Albert 
Einstein, after all his years of study, the great scientist, 
among  the  greatest  scientists  ever  to  have  walked  the 
Earth, came to the conclusion — and this is written in 
his  own  hand  —  “Why  socialism?”  Einstein  came  to 
the conclusion that the only way for the human race to 
live on this planet is socialism. Capitalism is the road 
to  extinction  of  the  human  species.  We  as  a  species 
have  only  been  around  for  what?  This  is  Castro 
territory, he knows these figures. But, whereas life first 
appeared  here  at  least  three  billion  years  ago,  we  the 
human species only appeared maybe less than 300,000 
years ago, hardly 0.01 per cent of the time that life has 
existed on this planet. So we appear after so long and 
we’re going to wipe out life on this planet? 

We’ve heard it from everybody — Obama, Lula, 
Cristina  Fernández,  Al-Qadhafi,  Sarkozy  —  everyone 
said  the  same  thing.  They  have  all  clamoured  for 
change. And what is the change? Capitalism allows no 
change.  Let  us  not  fool  ourselves.  It’s  only  through 
socialism that we can bring about genuine change. And 
the  revolution  in  Latin America  has  it  all  and  it  has  a 
strong  socialist  element.  As  Mariátequi,  the  great 
Peruvian 
is  an  Indian-American 
socialism.  It  is  our  own  socialism.  It  is  a  Bolivarian 
socialism.  It  is  a  José  Martí  socialism.  It  is  a  new 
socialism.  It  has  not  been  copied  from  anybody  else. 
There are no manuals for socialism, said Mariátequi. It 
is a heroic creation that has to be constantly reinvented. 
thinker  said, 
it 
A/64/PV.6

Yesterday  we  were  remembering  what  a  North 
American  President,  that  is  to  say  a  United  States 
President, said shortly before he was assassinated, and 
this  is  on  the  record,  in  a  speech  before  the  United 
States  Congress.  John  Kennedy  spoke  of  a  revolution 
in  the  South,  saying  that  the  principal  cause  was 
hunger.  Only  a  few  days  later  he  was  assassinated. 
John  Kennedy  was  not  a  revolutionary,  but  he  was  an 
intelligent  man,  just  as  I  think  President  Obama  is  an 
intelligent man. And I hope God protects Obama from 
the bullets that killed  Kennedy. I hope  Obama will be 
able to look and see — genuinely see — what has to be 
seen.  It  does  not  smell  of  sulphur  here  anymore. That 
smell has gone. It smells of something else — it smells 
of hope. And you have to have hope in your heart and 
believe in the hope.  

We  cannot  destroy  this  planet.  What  about  our 
children?  What  about  future  generations?  Come,  let’s 
take  on  the  challenge.  Lula  was  saying  yesterday  that 
there was no political will. Those words were whips. I 
know  Lula’s  will.  I  am  deeply  aware  of  his  humane 
attitude. He is a true brother of mine, and he was right 
to  say  what  he  said.  But  I  would  not  exactly  say  that 
there is no political will. I would say rather that some 
political  will  is  lacking,  because  Lula  has  it  and  we 
have it, but it has to be increased. It has to continue to 
grow  in  the  leaders,  in  society,  among  the  people, 
among  the  youth  —  particularly  in  the  hearts  of  the 
young — and the workers, everywhere in the world.  

Kennedy  said  it:  there  is  a  revolution  in  the 
South.  And  he  added,  “Those  who  make  peaceful 
revolution  impossible  will  make  violent  revolution 
inevitable”. Jack Kennedy said that. You can find it on 
the Internet; you can find everything on the Internet. 

My  dear  Maria  Fernanda  Espinosa,  once 
ambassador  from  fraternal  Ecuador,  whom  I  have  not 
seen  for  days.  We’d  like  to  say  hello  to  President 
Correa.  The  ambassador  was  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  at  the  beginning  of  the  citizens’  revolution, 
with Correa leading the people of Ecuador, the people 
of  Manuela  Saenz  and  Bolivar  and  Eloy  Alfaro,  the 
noble and great people in Bolivia and that whole area. 

Some are trying to block the path to our peaceful 
revolution. And  there’s  another  brave  woman,  Patricia 
Rodas,  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Honduras;  please,  a 
hand for this brave Central American woman, from the 
people  of  Morazán.  Long  live  Honduras!  Long  live 
Morazán! And long live the dignity of the people!  
09-52425 

3 

A/64/PV.6 


At  1  p.m.  exactly,  I  was  jotting  down  these 
notes — I don’t have much farther to go, Mr. President; 
don’t anybody throw a shoe at me. The Cuban Minister 
has taken off his shoe to throw it at me. He had some 
rubber  shoes  —  if  you  are  going  to  throw  me  a  shoe, 
throw one of those. I spoke to Manuel Zelaya at 1 p.m. 
sharp; I remember it was 1 p.m. sharp — we started at 
1 and finished at 1.13. 

While we are here, comrades of the world, there 
is a President, firm, dignified, who with a small group 
of  people,  almost  martyrs,  was  able  to  escape  those 
trying  to  carry  out  a  coup  d’état.  The  perpetrators  of 
the coup had brought repression to the Plaza Morazán 
in Tegucigalpa  and  had  taken  every  single  road. They 
had  an  entire  army;  it  was  as  if  they  had  invaded 
Honduras  with  their  own  army  —  what  an  indignity. 
From  here  I  make  an  appeal  —  I,  who  am  a 
revolutionary soldier — to the soldiers of Honduras, to 
the  sons  of  Morazán  to  not  continue  to  repress  an 
innocent people. 

While we are here, Manuel Zelaya, the President 
of  Honduras,  is  in  the  Brazilian  embassy,  which  has 
given him refuge. According to what the President has 
told me, there are more than 200  soldiers surrounding 
the  embassy  in  the  most  brutal  fashion.  Were  they 
trying to go back to the Stone Age? It will not work. Is 
that  what  the  perpetrators  of  the  coup  d’état  had  in 
mind? They will be swept away by the wind of the new 
age. The  coup  cannot  succeed,  these  regressive  forces 
cannot have their way, not in Honduras, not in any of 
the countries of the Americas. These people have been 
out  in  the  streets  for  90  days,  resisting,  resisting, 
resisting. 

So,  there  we  have  a  President,  firm  in  his 
conviction, with a group of compatriots, with his wife, 
the  First  Lady.  Apparently  they  are  not  letting  food 
through;  the  water  is  cut  off  every  now  and  then. 
Luckily there is a cistern with water. This morning they 
were able to get some of the most up-to-date telephone 
interception equipment, which the President told me is 
an  Israeli  brand.  Israel  has  recognized  the  coup  d’état 
Government; I think it is the only country in the world 
that  has.  They  have  all  kinds  of  equipment  to  block 
signals  and  jam  communications,  and  they  are  also 
trying to create panic among the few people inside the 
Brazilian  embassy,  threatening  them  with  incursion 
into  the  embassy.  Does  the  Assembly  realize  how 
retrograde this is? It is like some kind of trolls or dark 
including 
there 
is  some 
friction  between 
the  resolution  of 
the  bourgeois  State 
giants  or  magicians,  something  from  the  age  of  the 
cavemen. But they will not return. 

The  people  are  in  the  street,  protesting.  The 
airport is closed now. Who is behind the coup d’état? It 
is the Honduran bourgeoisie; the State is taken over by 
the  bourgeoisie,  by  the  rich.  Four  or  five  wealthy, 
powerful  families  own  the  State.  I  think  we  have  to 
pull out our copies of Lenin, his State and Revolution, 
where he talks about the bourgeois State, the control of 
everything  by 
the 
national congress, the judiciary, the army. 

The  people  are  in  the  street,  but  they  are  being 
fired on. Yesterday the President told me that he knows 
of at least three people in the vicinity of the Brazilian 
embassy who were killed. And the President is asking 
for dialogue, so as to return to the road to democracy. 
So let us send the expression of our strongest solidarity 
to the people of Honduras and President Zelaya, and let 
us  ask  that  the  United  Nations  resolution  be  complied 
with,  and 
the  Organization  of 
American States. 

The  United  States  Government  —  and  this  is 
strange — has  not  recognized  that  a  military  coup 
d’état  has  occurred.  President  Zelaya  told  me  today 
that 
the  State 
Department and the Pentagon. Yesterday I was reading 
Pentagonism,  a  book  by  the  great  Dominican  author 
Juan Bosch, who was overthrown by imperialism. The 
Pentagon  is  the  imperial  cave.  They  do  not  want 
Obama.  They  do  not  want  change.  They  want  to 
dominate  the  world  with  their  military  bases,  with  all 
their threats, their bombs, their soldiers and bases. 

The  Pentagon  is  behind  the  coup  in  Honduras. 
President  Zelaya  was  dragged  out  of  his  home,  out  of 
his bed, at dawn on 28 June, taken to a plane, bundled 
up  by  Honduran  soldiers  under  command  from  the 
United States base there, in Palmerola. The plane took 
off from Tegucigalpa and landed at the Palmerola base. 
They held the Honduran President there for some time. 
Then  they  decided  to  take  him  to  Costa  Rica.  The 
American  military  in  Honduras  knew  about  the  coup; 
they  supported 
the  Honduran 
military.  Hence  the  contradictions  that  Obama  has  to 
face. 

At  times  we  wonder  if  are  there  two  Obamas  — 
the  one  who  spoke  here  yesterday  and  the  other  —  a 
double?  The  one  who  supports,  or  allows  his  military 
to  support,  the  coup  on  Honduras?  I  want  to  present 
it.  They  supported 
4 

09-52425 


this  question  for  thought.  Is  there  one  Obama,  or  are 
there two? Let us hope the one we heard yesterday will 
prevail. That is what the world needs; that is what the 
world is calling for. 

What is the backdrop of the coup in Honduras? It 
has to do with everything we are talking about here — 
it  is  the  revolution  of  the  South.  It  is  not  the  kind  of 
revolution  where  there  are  columns  of  guerrillas, 
heroes such as in the Sierra Maestra, heroes of the high 
mountains of Bolivia, where Ernesto Che Guevara was. 

But  this  is  not  that  kind  of  revolution.  This 
revolution  is  different.  It  does  not  break  out  in  the 
mountains  with  guerrilla  groups.  No,  it  starts  in  the 
towns among the masses. It is a mass revolution, but it 
is  peaceful  and  wants  to  remain  peaceful.  It  is 
democratic, deeply democratic. 

Do  not  be  afraid  of  democracy.  Here,  I  am 
paraphrasing  Noam  Chomsky  in  another  wonderful 
work  that  I  did  not  know  until  I  obtained  the  book  in 
Madrid  a  few  days  ago.  I  went  to  visit  my  friend,  the 
King  of  Spain,  mainly  because  an  Ibero-American 
summit  was  coming  up  in  Portugal,  and  I  said  that  I 
would go if he did not tell me to shut up. He told me 
that  he  would  not.  So,  I  am  going.  King  Juan  Carlos 
and  I  are  great  friends.  I  went  to  a  recommended 
bookshop — La Casa del Libro — in Madrid, and I got 
Chomsky’s  book  Fear  of  Democracy.  We  should  all 
read that book, Fear of Democracy.  

The elite are afraid of the people. They are afraid 
of  true  democracy,  which  Abraham  Lincoln,  another 
martyr, defined very clearly in three ideas: democracy 
is government of the people, by the people and for the 
people.  It  is  not  government  of  the  bourgeoisie  or  of 
the  elite  when  the  people  rise  up  and  the  thugs  are 
pushed  out.  That  happened  in  Honduras,  and  in 
Venezuela  in  2002.  It  happened  in  Brazil  with  João 
Goulart, and in the Dominican Republic. Why were the 
peoples  of  Latin  America  and  of  the  Caribbean  not 
allowed  to  build  their  own  future  in  the  twentieth 
century? They did not let them.  

This  century  is  ours.  This  century,  in  Latin 
America  and  in  the  Caribbean  we  will  build  our  own 
way  and  no  one  can  stop  it.  No  one  can  stop  it. 
Imperialism  must  end.  At  times,  one  wonders.  I  was 
once  asking  Lula  what  America,  our  Latin  America, 
would be today if the Governments of the United States 
had  not  dug  their  claws  into  our America  to  impose  a 
A/64/PV.6
that  manufactures  and 
model  by  violently  cutting  off  the  hope  and  the 
struggle of millions of people, extinguishing the dawn. 

I  was  born  in  1954.  Fidel  was  already  in  prison, 
and  they  were  dropping  bombs  in  Guatemala.  They 
invaded the Guatemala of Jacobo Árbenz Guzmán; and 
then  the  Bay  of  Pigs,  although  they  failed  there;  then 
this revolutionary Cuba — admirable, but blockaded.  

I  call  on  Obama  to  lift  the  blockade  on  Cuba. 
What  is  he  waiting  for?  Let  him  do  what  he  says.  Or 
are  there  two  Obamas?  Yesterday,  Obama  said,  and  I 
noted it — here, I noted down Lula, who spoke before 
Obama,  and  then  I  noted  Obama’s  words  —  that  a 
political system cannot be imposed on any people and 
that each people and its sovereignty must be respected. 
Then what is President Obama waiting for to order the 
lifting of the brutal and murderous blockade on Cuba? 
Does  anyone  have  doubts  about  that?  Does  anyone 
think  that  it  is  rhetorical?  No.  There  is  persecution 
against businesses in any part of the world that provide 
even food to Cuba, and now also to Venezuela.  

Not  long  ago,  Fidel  Castro  mentioned  in  one  of 
his  reflections  that  a  company  known  throughout  the 
world 
supplies  medical 
equipment  did  not  meet 
the 
Governments of Cuba or of Venezuela this past year or 
the  one  before.  They  did  not  send  the  spare  parts  for 
hundreds  of  pieces  of  medical  equipment  that  the  two 
Governments  had  bought  to  bring  free  quality  health 
care to our peoples. These include 64-row CT scanners 
and  electrocardiogram  machines  that  are  now  in  the 
poor  areas  of  Caracas.  Where  the  indigenous  people 
live,  there  are  medical  facilities.  We  have  30,000 
Cuban  doctors  there  and  a  free,  good  health-care 
system for the people. We tried to quietly find solutions 
with  the  company  —  Philips  —  but  the  company  has 
refused  to  send  the  spare  parts  for  that  high-tech 
equipment.  Why?  Under  pressure  from  whom?  From 
the Government of the United States? Is it this Obama 
or  another  Obama?  Is  it  Obama  one  or  Obama  two? 
Who are you, Obama? Who are you? I want to believe 
in  yesterday’s  Obama,  whom  I  saw  here,  but  these 
things  keep  happening,  and  they  affect  the  lives  of 
millions of human beings. Why? In whose name? Why 
does the United States continue to do that? 

It  is  fear  of  democracy,  just  as  happened  in 
Honduras.  It  is  the  fear  of  the  Bolivarian Alliance  for 
the  Americas  that  rises  up  as  a  new  and  innovative 
mechanism of solidarity, and we have brought into line 
its  obligations 
to 
09-52425 

5 
Obama’s 
the 
is  going 
to  establish 
second  pillar  — 
A/64/PV.6 

the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our Americas 
and  the  Governments  and  the  countries  of  Cuba, 
Nicaragua,  Honduras,  Venezuela,  Ecuador,  Bolivia, 
Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica and Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines. They attack us and try to stop us, but 
they  will  not  succeed.  The  Common  Market  of  the 
South  and  the  Union  of  South  American  Nations  are 
being set up and are all part of the great historic Latin 
American geographic and geopolitical revolution.  
Along the same lines are the seven military bases 

that 
the  United  States 
in 
Colombia. Yesterday,  Obama  spoke  —  I  have  it  noted 
here  —  about  four  pillars.  Everyone  remembers  that. 
So  let  us  accomplish  that.  I  take  him  at  his  word. We 
take  the  President  of  the  United  States  at  his  word: 
nuclear non-proliferation, agreed? They could begin by 
destroying  all  the  nuclear  weapons  that  they  have. 
Then go ahead and destroy them.  

first  was 
non-proliferation  —  is  the  pursuit  of  peace.  So, 
President  Obama,  let  us  pursue  peace  in  Colombia,  in 
dear sister Colombia. There is a civil war in Colombia. 
That  some  do  not  want  to  acknowledge  it  is  another 
matter.  There  is  a  long-standing,  historical  conflict  in 
Colombia.  The  United  Nations  must  acknowledge  it 
and  consider  it,  and  we  all  should  extend  a  hand  to 
Colombia,  while  of  course  respecting  its  sovereignty, 
to pull it from and help it out of that tragedy that that 
brother people is experiencing. 

I remember that I mentioned that peace to Obama 
in front of Lula in Trinidad and Tobago at the Summit 
of  the  Americas.  Let  us  seek  peace  in  Colombia.  If 
only  peace  were  achieved  in  Central  America,  in 
Guatemala.  When  I  was  an  active  soldier,  I  was  in 
Guatemala.  That  was  war.  It  was  war,  with  thousands 
and 
thousands  dead  and  disappeared.  Look  at 
El Salvador and Nicaragua. And now Daniel Ortega is 
back  in  Government  after  almost  20  years.  The 
Sandinista people brought him back. 

What is good for the goose is good for the gander. 
Farabundo Martí and the people of El Salvador brought 
President  Funés 
that  sister 
republic.  Peace  was  achieved  —  I  know  President 
Arias  is  here  —  and  if  peace  was  achieved  in  Central 
America,  my  God,  why  can  peace  not  be  achieved  in 
Colombia?  This  is  one  of  the  greatest  desires  of  my 
life.  I  am  Venezuelan,  but  I  feel  like  a  Colombian  — 
to 
the  presidency  of 

the Colombia of Bolivar, the Colombia of Miranda, our 
Colombia.  

Is President Obama thinking of seeking peace — 
his second pillar — with seven more military bases in 
Colombia? These seven bases are a threat, not only for 
the possible peace in Colombia but for peace in South 
America. We are right — we the Governments of South 
America — to have said, each in our own way and in 
our  own  degree  of  intensity,  how  concerned  we  are 
about the installation of these seven American military 
bases on Colombian territory. I would like to denounce 
it and point it out. I ask President Obama to think about 
it and that he apply his pillars. 

Let us promote peace. The United Nations could 
set up a peace commission in Colombia or Venezuela. 
Naturally, we would cooperate, I am sure, all countries 
that want peace. We do not want any more war among 
ourselves. 
I will skip some pages. There is another topic that 

Fidel touches upon in his 21 September thoughts. It has 
to do with climate change. I am going to take another 
two  minutes,  Mr.  President,  to  insist  on  this  point. 
Some people think this is a metaphysical concern, it is 
for intellectuals. No, we are destroying our planet. As a 
reputable Venezuelan journalist has said, this rocket we 
are travelling on — because this planet is like a rocket 
ship — we are destroying it.  

Fidel  says,  in  his  piece  entitled  “A  species  in 
danger  of  extinction”,  from  21  September  2009,  “At 
the international environmental conference held by the 
United Nations in Rio de Janeiro” — that was in 1992; 
I  remember  because  I  was  in  jail  at  the  time  —  “I 
stated, as the then head of the Cuban State, ‘A species 
is  in  danger  of  extinction  —  man’”.  Fidel  goes  on  to 
say:  


“When I uttered and backed up those words, 
received  and  applauded  by  the  heads  of  State  in 
attendance  —  including  the  President  of  the 
United  States,  a  Bush  less  dismal  than  his  son 
George  W.  —  they  still  believed  that  they  had 
several  centuries  to  confront  the  problem.  I 
myself” — Fidel — “did not envision a date any 
closer than 60 or 80 years. 

truly 
imminent  danger  and  its  effects  are  already 
visible. 
“Today  we  are  dealing  with  a 

6 

09-52425 




the 
“Average 
increased 
temperatures  have 

0.8 degrees centigrade since 1980.” 

That  is  scientific  data,  according  to  the  NASA 
Institute  for  Space  Studies  —  0.8  degrees  in  the  last 
almost 30 years. Fidel continues,  


“The  last  two  decades  of  the  twentieth 
century  were  the  warmest  in  hundreds  of  years. 
The  temperatures  in  Alaska,  the  Canadian  west 
and  eastern  Russia  have  gone  up  at  a  pace  that 
doubles  the  world  average.  Arctic  ice  has  been 
quickly  disappearing  and 
region  can 
experience its first completely ice-free summer as 
soon  as  the  year  2040. The  effects  are  visible  in 
the  2-kilometre-high  masses  of  ice  melting  in 
Greenland,  the  South  American  glaciers,  from 
Ecuador  all  the  way  to  Cape  Horn,  fundamental 
sources  of  water,  and  the  gigantic  ice  cap 
covering the extensive area of Antarctica.  
“Current  carbon  dioxide  concentrations 

have  reached  the  equivalent  of  380  parts  per 
million,  a  figure  surpassing  the  natural  range  of 
the last 650,000 years.” 

We are destroying our planet. We must be aware 
of  this,  and  we  must  act,  as  Lula  stated  at  the  3rd 
meeting  yesterday.  With  respect  to  climate  change, 
Lula  said  there  is  no  will.  The  most  developed 
countries  do  not  want  to  take  decisions.  But  Obama 
says they do. But we are told that the United States is 
going to take some decisions. Please do, Mr. President, 
do that. But now is time to move from words to action. 
Let us save this planet. Let us save the human race.  

Let  us  hope  that  the  summit  in  Denmark  in 
December  will  produce  decisions,  truly  forceful  ones. 
those  decisions. 
Venezuela 
Venezuela  calls  on  everyone 
take  decisions 
proportionate to the extent of their responsibility.  
is 
this 

Now,  what 
the  basic  cause  of 
contamination?  It 
is  hyper-consumption.  We  are 
exhausting  the  petroleum,  gas  and  other  fossil  fuel 
reserves.  Reserves  that  accumulated  over  millions  of 
years are being burned in a single century, in less than 
a century.  

And that of course has to do with the economy. I 
shall  not  read  this  document,  Mr.  President;  I  shall 
merely  refer  to  it.  It  is  the  Stiglitz  report.  I  invite  the 
Assembly  to  analyse  it.  Yesterday  the  President  of 
France  also  invited  the  Assembly  to  analyse  it.  It  is 
is  willing 
to  accept 
to 
A/64/PV.6
the 
that 
to  him 
report  of 
Delegates  know 
thanks 
the  Stiglitz 
Commission exists. But it is nothing more than a mere 
gesture.  

The  report  contains  12  recommendations  of  the 
Stiglitz  Commission.  Let  us  assess  them.  I  think  that 
they  address  the  substance,  although  they  do  not 
question the capitalist model. We socialists do question 
that  model,  but  let  us  talk  about  it,  let  us  find 
consensus solutions for the circumstances and later for 
the medium and long terms.  
In  its  recommendations,  the  Stiglitz  report  says, 

first,  that  we  should  look  at  income  and  consumption 
to  assess  material  well-being.  Second,  it  recommends 
prioritizing  the  family  perspective;  third,  taking  into 
account the heritage; fourth, giving more importance to 
redistribution  of  income  beyond  the  average.  Fifth,  it 
recommends  expanding  indicators  of  non-commercial 
activities.  For  example,  certain  services  such  as  child 
care,  bricklaying,  plumbing  and  carpentry  appear  in 
national  accounts  only  if  they  are  carried  out  by  a 
salaried person.  

to  do  with 
accounting  for  gross  domestic  product  (GDP).  These 
are  merely  capitalist  mechanisms.  According  to  the 
report,  the  following  is  certain:  the  GDP  rises  with 
traffic,  while  the  anxiety  of  the  people  also  rises,  just 
as  the  unhappiness  of  passers-by  and  passengers  in 
traffic rises as they lost precious time in the traffic.  
The  GDP  rises.  Why  is  it  rising?  It  is  rising 

because  more  gasoline 
is  consumed.  Moreover, 
pollution increases. We know why. The capitalist world 
has  created  measuring  methods  for  the  economy  that 
are  destructive. That  is  why  I  think  the  Stiglitz  report 
offers  important  considerations.  Here,  in  its  second 
point,  it  says  that  we  should  establish  a  battery  of 
indicators for the environment and for climate change. 
Turning  to  the  economy,  this  report  is  very 

timely.  Let  us  now  adopt 
it,  and  above  all, 
Governments,  particularly  Governments  of  the  most 
developed  countries  —  I  think  they  are  meeting  in 
Pittsburgh  today,  not  as  the  Pittsburgh  Pirates,  but  as 
Presidents  of  the  Group  of  20  —  should  discuss  it. 
Tomorrow I will ask Lula and Cristina how the meeting 
went, because they are coming to Caracas on their way 
to  Margarita  Island  for  the  Africa-South  American 
summit.  
this  has 
that 
09-52425 

7 

that 
truly  serves  human  beings.  It 
A/64/PV.6 


The economy, the economy, the economy. We are 
in  favour  of  socialism,  but  let  us  discuss  it  and  talk 
about indicators and methods and modes of production. 
As President Obama said yesterday with regards to his 
fourth  pillar,  we  need  an  economy  that  serves  human 
beings. Well, President Obama, that is called socialism. 
Come over to the side of socialism, President Obama, 
come  join  the  axis  of  evil  and  we  will  build  an 
economy 
is 
impossible to do that with capitalism. Capitalism only 
benefits a minority and excludes the majority. Besides, 
it destroys the environment and destroys lives. That is 
capitalism. 

Finally — and I think I have now been speaking 
for my allotted 10 minutes — I will end with a phrase 
of  Lula’s.  He  was  the  first  speaker  in  the  Assembly 
yesterday.  He  said  there  is  no  political  will.  I  have 
already  commented  on  that,  and  I  would  add  to  it 
because I know Lula and I know exactly what he said 
to us. He is calling upon all of us to strengthen political 
will. 

Unlike other Governments elsewhere, which have 
doubts  and  do  not  want  to  change  despite  the  terrible 
crisis  in  which  we  are  living,  we  in  southern America 
have  a  lot  of  political  will  —  here  I  am  speaking  for 
Venezuela  and,  I  know,  also  for  South  America,  for 
Latin America  —  a  tremendous  political  will  for  true 
change.  

I  recommend  this  book  by  István  Mészáros,  a 
great Hungarian philosopher and thinker who has been 
a professor at various universities in London for many 
years: Beyond Capital: Toward a Theory of Transition. 
I  think  the  book  is  among  the  greatest  writings  of  the 
twentieth century. It is a complete renewal of socialist 
theory.  In  one  of  the  interesting  chapters  Mészáros 
quotes  another  great  person,  Karl  Marx.  We  must  not 
be  afraid  of  Karl  Marx  —  he  was  the  Einstein  of 
politics.  Yes,  he  was  demonized,  but  Karl  Marx  was 
right about so many things. 

Quoting  Marx,  Mészáros  says  in  this  book  that 
crises act as a general threat and thus urgently lead us 
beyond  presuppositions 
towards  a  new  historic 
paradigm. We need a new historic paradigm. For years 
we  have  been  hearing  about  a  new  world,  but  what 
actually exists is this old, moribund order. We need the 
new  order  to  be  born,  the  new  historic  paradigm,  the 
new  political  paradigm,  a  new  global  paradigm. 
Yesterday  Al-Qadhafi  said  here  that  we  need  a  new 
institutionalism,  a  new  economy,  a  new  society,  but 
truly new — a world that is new.  

Now,  I  think  Lula  said  yesterday  —  he  finished 
speaking  at  10:10  in  the  morning  —  that  we  must 
become  the  midwives  of  history.  I  agree.  I  would  add 
to  what  Lula  said.  Has  the  birth  already  started?  The 
birth  is  not  a  future  event;  it  is  here.  Let  us  be,  as 
Comrade  Lula  said,  midwives  of  the  new  history, 
prevailing  over  those  who  would  bury  it.  Let  us 
struggle on the planet for the birth of this new history, 
this  new  time,  this  new  multi-polar,  free  world,  this 
economy at the service of all people, not of minorities, 
this world of peace.  

I  am  a  Christian.  One  day  Christ  said,  “My 
kingdom  is  not  of  this  world.”  It  is  of  a  future  world, 
the reign of love among us, where we can truly live as 
brothers and sisters. 

Last Sunday in Havana — and I will put my little 
books away and I will wind up now — on the Plaza de 
la  Revolución  there  was  a  great  concert,  the  “Concert 
for  Peace”,  with  Miguel  Bosé,  Juanes,  Olga Tañó  and 
Cuban singers. Silvio Rodríguez was there — the Great 
Silvio  —  and  they  sang  to  the  whole  world.  Some 
people  in  Miami  went  crazy  and  tried  to  destroy 
Juanes’  CDs  —  that  great  Colombian  —  just  because 
he  had  gone  to  sing  on  the  Plaza  of  the  Revolution. 
How  crazy  can  you  get?  Fortunately  they  are  a 
minority. Silvio was there with his guitar, and I am sure 
he sang, “This era is giving birth to a heart”. He ends 
his song, Cita Con Angeles, like this: “Let us be a tiny 
bit better and a little less selfish.” 
Cheers! 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Hugo  Chávez  Frías,  President  of 
the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Danilo Türk, President of the 
Republic of Slovenia  
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Slovenia. 
8 

09-52425 



Mr.  Danilo  Türk,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Danilo  Türk, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Slovenia,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Türk:  Yesterday  and  today  we  have 

heard many inspiring words. We heard powerful words, 
words  of  hope.  A  few  moments  ago  we  heard  words 
about  salvation. Although  most  of  us  would  not  agree 
that  salvation  is  around  the  corner,  at  the  same  time  I 
believe  all  of  us  will  agree  that  improvement  is 
possible and that the reason we are here is to make that 
improvement a reality. But in order to do that, we must 
do  what  the  peoples  of  the  world  legitimately  expect 
from  us  as  representatives  of  United  Nations  Member 
States:  to  make  this  institution,  the  United  Nations, 
effective  and  to  work  for  it  with  a  sense  of  common 
purpose, truly as united nations.  

I  express  full  confidence  in  your  experience  and 
wisdom,  Mr. President,  congratulate  you  on  your 
election  and  wish  you  every  success  in  your  work  for 
the improvement of humankind’s situation. 

At  the  same  time,  I  would  not  wish  to  miss  the 
opportunity  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at 
its  sixty-third  session,  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  who  guided  this Assembly  with 
great  determination  and  an  ethical  commitment  to 
fairness and justice. 

I  also  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  our  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  guidance  in  these 
trying times. 

In the past few days, many of us were engaged in 
an  effort,  spearheaded  by  the  Secretary-General,  to 
generate the necessary political will to seal the deal in 
Copenhagen.  We  all  appreciate 
this  example  of 
international leadership. Humankind must take resolute 
steps  towards  a  new  and  effective  system  to  mitigate 
the  effects  of  global  warming  and  to  ensure  our 
necessary adaptation.  

and 
differentiated.  Today,  we  understand  that  each  of  the 
Member States of the United Nations must do its share 
and  that,  together  as  united  nations,  we  can  save  the 
responsibilities 
common 
Our 
are 
A/64/PV.6
for 
this  needed 
planet. Let the Copenhagen Conference be the turning 
point. 

We  also  need  to  broaden  the  front  and  fully 
include  civil  society  and  the  business  sector  in  broad 
action 
technological  and  social 
transformation.  Action  starting  now  to  mitigate  the 
consequences  of  climate  change  will  have  to  lead  to 
profound  societal  change  —  a  change  in  the  way  we 
produce, the way we consume and the way we live. Let 
us  not  be  afraid  of  these  changes. These  changes  may 
not amount to a revolution, of which President Chávez 
Frías of Venezuela spoke, but they will have to be real 
and,  if  guided  in  a  wise  and  timely  manner,  they  can 
improve our common future. 

Now the world needs a comprehensive strategy in 
order  to  fulfil  this  task.  Such  a  strategy  needs  to 
address  all  the  main  challenges  of  our  time  in  a 
consistent manner. The food crisis, climate change, the 
energy  crisis,  the  spreading  of  infectious  diseases  and 
other  problems  may  have  different  roots,  but  they 
produce  a  single,  communicative  effect.  They  hobble 
global  development  and  make  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  only  a  distant 
possibility. Therefore, clear responses are called for. 

Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
And what is the role of the United Nations in this 

context?  Some  of  the  answers  have  already  been 
provided.  They  are  enshrined, 
the 
Outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
World Financial and Economic Crisis and its Impact on 
Development,  which  was  held  in  New  York  in  June. 
Results  of 
that  Conference 
further 
elaborated.  Specific  priority 
for  global 
development must soon be defined. 

These  days,  many  expectations  are  linked  to  the 
G-20 summit meeting in Pittsburgh. Much needs to be 
done  to  bring  greater  discipline  and  responsibility  to 
the  global  financial  system.  This  is  an  important  and 
immediate  priority.  Moreover, 
to 
increase  resources  and  to  adjust  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  with  a  view  to  the  proper  maintenance  of 
global financial stability and of development financing. 
The restarting of global trade negotiations has become 
an urgent priority. 

the 
improvement of official development assistance, with a 
should  be 
tasks 
But  even  more 
is  necessary 
is  needed, 
inter  alia, 
in 
it 
including 
09-52425 

9 

A/64/PV.6 

particular priority on development in Africa. Issues  of 
global development represent a large part of the agenda 
of the current session of the General Assembly. 

However,  we  must  also  think  about  the  fate  of 
human  rights  in  current  global  circumstances.  Human 
rights  and  development  are  closely  connected.  The 
current recession has already increased global levels of 
poverty. Unemployment is growing. The faith of many 
young  people  is  becoming  ever  more  uncertain.  All 
these  are  serious  challenges  to  global  social  stability 
and  may  turn  into  the  serious  security  concerns  of 
tomorrow if left unattended. 

I welcome the efforts of the International Labour 
Organization and the Global Jobs Pact adopted in June. 
Today,  there  is  no  challenge  to  human  rights  more 
pervasive,  more  strategic  and  more  pressing  than  the 
challenge of poverty and unemployment. Policymakers 
need to ensure that economic policies and human rights 
policies alike are coordinated and that mechanisms are 
put into place at the national and international levels. 

Slovenia  was  one  of  the  first  Member  States  to 
sign  today  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the  International 
Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights. 
The  Protocol  will  give  individuals  an  additional  and 
potentially  significant 
implementation  mechanism. 
This  is  a  small  step,  but  one  which  demonstrates  our 
awareness  of  the  problem  and  our  commitment  to 
action. 

We are also looking to the Human Rights Council 
as  the  main  body  of  the  United  Nations  to  devise 
strategies for human rights. Slovenia has been an active 
member of the Council and we remain optimistic. The 
progress achieved so far in developing new methods of 
work  in  the  Council  is  encouraging,  albeit  not  yet 
sufficient.  We  welcome  the  election  of  the  United 
States to the Council and believe that only an inclusive 
forum  for  human  rights  can  be  an  effective  forum  for 
human  rights.  Members  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
must  realize  that  they  bear  a  special  responsibility  to 
lead. 

the 
potential  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  itself.  The 
failures  to  protect  human  beings  from  mass  atrocities 
and  from  gross  and  systematic  violations  of  human 
rights should  not be  repeated. We still have  not found 
the  right  tools  to  respond  in  a  timely  and  effective 
manner  to  such  situations.  I  therefore  welcome  the 
debate  on  the  responsibility  to  protect  that  took  place 
there  are  problems  which  exceed 
But 
is 
so 
in 
in  the  General Assembly  in  July  this  year.  Continued 
engagement  of  the  General  Assembly  on  this  subject 
has  proved  to  be  necessary,  and  I  hope  that  this 
discussion will yield results. 

Issues  of  environment,  development  and  human 
rights  represent  today  the  bulk  of  the  current  United 
Nations agenda, but it is in the area of the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  that  some  of  the 
most  urgent  thinking  and  action  are  necessary.  Four 
areas of work are of special importance. 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  long 

overdue and progress made at the sixty-third session of 
the  General  Assembly 
insufficient.  However, 
negotiations 
far  have  generated  a  positive 
momentum.  It  is  apparent  that  the  expansion  of  the 
Security Council in the permanent and  non-permanent 
categories  of  membership  has  gained  broad  support 
among  United  Nations  Member  States.  Exactly  a  year 
ago from this rostrum, I suggested a specific model for 
Security  Council  expansion.  It  was  one  of  many 
proposals  that  were  made.  Now  the  time  is  right  for 
that and other proposals to be put on the table and to be 
addressed head on. 

In addition to structural change, such as Security 
Council  reform,  we  need  to  strengthen  the  United 
the  maintenance  of 
Nations  practical 
international  peace  and  security.  I  welcome 
the 
thinking  expressed  in  the  report  of  the  Department  of 
Peacekeeping  Operations  entitled  “A  New  Partnership 
Agenda:  Charting  a  New  Horizon  for  United  Nations 
Peacekeeping”, published in July this year. The report 
highlights many of the most pressing and subtle needs 
for  improvement.  Member  States  must  give  careful 
consideration  to  the  report  and  to  such  concepts  as 
expanding  the  peacekeeping  partnership,  the  purpose 
of  which  is  to  strengthen  the  operational  capacity  and 
political sophistication of United Nations peacekeeping. 

Let  us  not  overlook  the  fact  that  progress  in 
peacekeeping  would  strengthen  all  other  United 
Nations  activities 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  including  preventive 
diplomacy and post-conflict peacebuilding. 
The  third  area  which  needs  to  be  addressed  is 

disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms  control, 
where  we  have  come  up  against  far 
too  many 
stumbling  blocks  in  the  past.  United  Nations  action 
needs to be energized now, and the forthcoming review 
linked 
role 
to 
10 

09-52425 


of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons has to be a step forward.  

Fourthly,  the  United  Nations  will  continue  to  be 
an  indispensable  forum  for  political  consultation  and 
policy advice. The experience of the United Nations is 
irreplaceable. The situation in Afghanistan can be cited 
as  a  case  in  point.  For  three  decades  now,  the  United 
Nations  has  been  seized  with  a  variety  of  problems 
affecting Afghanistan, a Member State. No one should 
doubt  that Afghanistan  belongs  to  the Afghans  or  that 
the  Afghanization  of  security  is  the  only  real  path 
towards  security  in  the  country.  There  can  be  no 
military  solution  to  the  country’s  variety  of  problems. 
It is becoming ever more apparent that the international 
community will have to assist in an Afghan process of 
transition  that  will  decrease  and  eventually  phase  out 
the international military presence in the country. 

Let me emphasize the role of the United Nations 
in  that  context.  Sometimes,  matters  such  as  the 
situation  in  and  around  Afghanistan  are  discussed  at 
specialized  international  conferences,  but  wisdom  and 
common  sense  suggest  that  the  experience  of  the 
United  Nations  be  put  to  use.  Let  us  not  forget  the 
unique  success  of  the  United  Nations,  of  the  United 
Nations-led  2001  Bonn  Conference  and  of 
the 
subsequent  Constitutional  Loya  Jirga.  The  time  has 
come  for  a  broad  look  at  the  entire  experience  since 
that period, an assessment of what exactly went wrong 
and  why,  a  sober  assessment  of  the  current  situation, 
and  the  careful  definition  of  further  steps  that  will 
and 
make 
administrative  assistance  more  effective  and 
the 
international  military  presence  no  longer  needed.  The 
assistance  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly will be valuable in that regard.  

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  something  very 
obvious.  The  agenda  of  the  United  Nations  today  is 
heavy,  but  that  is  not  news.  The  United  Nations  has 
always been the forum for addressing the world’s most 
intractable  problems.  At  the  same  time,  however,  the 
United  Nations  has  always  represented  hope  and 
promise  to  the  world.  Let  us  live  up  to  that  hope  and 
that  promise.  Let  us  make  this  the  era  of  the  United 
Nations and the Organization’s finest hour. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Slovenia for the statement 
he has just made. 
international 
economic 
political, 
A/64/PV.6

Mr.  Danilo  Türk,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 


to 
Address by Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the 
Republic of Guyana 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Guyana. 

Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  
Mr.  Bharrat  Jagdeo,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guyana, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  Jagdeo:  I  extend  our  gratitude  to  the 
Secretary-General for continuing to spearhead the work 
of the United Nations at a time when our membership 
is beset by historic challenges. 
I  am  told  that  it  is  only  what  one  says  from  the 

rostrum that is reflected in the record of the meeting. I 
hope  that  perhaps  in  the  future,  we  can  change  the 
system.  If  we  do  so,  we  may  be  able  to  say  more 
without spending a lot of time at the rostrum. So I shall 
circulate the  full text of my speech and focus on only 
two  areas  that  I  think  are  important  at  this  point  in 
time. The first has to do with the financial crisis and its 
impact on the Caribbean, and the second concerns the 
climate change crisis.  

In  the  case  of  the  prevailing  financial  crisis,  the 
small, vulnerable economies of the Caribbean have had 
to  bear  the  brunt  of  global  recession.  That  has 
manifested  itself  both  through  depressed  prices  for 
primary  exported  commodities,  such  as  bauxite,  and 
through  depressed  demand  for  services,  such  as 
tourism.  The  result  has  been  losses  in  export  and 
foreign currency earnings, with attendant dislocation of 
exchange rates and Government revenues, exacerbating 
an  already  tenuous  fiscal  and  debt  situation  and 
causing  the  loss  of  jobs  and  welfare  and  a  reversal  of 
gains previously made against poverty. 

Even  as  we  seek  long-term  solutions  to  bolster 
the resilience of our economies, the need for relief and 
support  is  immediate.  The  capacity  of  the  small 
respond  with 
countries  of 
the  Caribbean 
to 
09-52425 

11 

injections  of 
A/64/PV.6 

countercyclical measures is virtually non-existent, with 
no  available  fiscal  space  and  levels  of  indebtedness 
that  are  among  the  highest  in  the  world.  The  case  is 
therefore  compelling  for  the  global  community  to 
relieve  and  restructure  the  debt  of  these  heavily 
indebted  vulnerable  small  countries,  including  those 
that  were  not  previously  considered  for  debt  relief 
because  of  their  income  levels,  but  whose  debt  ratios 
are clearly unsustainable by any standard. 

The case is equally compelling for new additional 
flows  of  development  assistance  to  be  delivered  to 
these  countries  by  both  multilateral  and  bilateral 
development  partners.  Despite 
large 
amounts  of  additional  resources  into  some  of  the 
multilateral  institutions  and  the  approval  of  new 
facilities  by  those  institutions,  very  little  has  actually 
materialized in terms of additionality in disbursements 
to smaller States. This needs to be corrected urgently if 
we are to avoid the perception that there is an absence 
of concern at the global level for the needs of smaller 
countries. 

My  fear  is  that,  as  the  crisis  abates,  so  too  will 
the  will  to  change  the  global  financial  architecture. 
Therefore, we are advocating urgent action in this area, 
and  we  are  also  saying  that  this  solution  —  a  new 
global  financial  architecture  —  must  involve  smaller 
countries  in  its  articulation.  Our  fear  is  that,  if  we 
continue  along  the  same  path,  we  will  have  a  new 
architecture that caters only to the concerns of the large 
countries — now expanded to the Group of 20 — and 
that  the  smaller  countries  will  not  see  their  concerns 
reflected in it. That is why, last year, I called for a new 
Bretton  Woods-type  conference  at  which  all 
the 
countries  in  this  Hall  would  help  to  create  that 
architecture.  

The second crisis that I wish to mention is that of 
climate  change.  This  week,  there  has  been  much  talk 
about  the  urgency  of  tackling  climate  change.  Thanks 
to  the  vision  exhibited  by  the  Secretary-General  and 
the work of leaders and citizens from countries across 
the  world,  the  level  of  understanding  about  the  nature 
of the climate challenge is increasingly clear. 

simply 
to  move  beyond 
understanding  the  challenge.  We  need  to  work  as  a 
global  community  to  shape  a  solution  that  is  in  the 
interests  of  all  countries,  and  many  of  the  building 
blocks  that  will  enable  us  to  do  this  have  been 
identified. The  challenge  for  the  Copenhagen  meeting 
But  we  need 
and 
institutional 
the 
considerations. 
question  whether 
the  developed  world  are  also 
is to turn these building blocks into an agreement that 
can start to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 

In doing so, we should be guided by science and 
by the need for solutions that treat all countries fairly. 
But we also need to recognize that the challenge now is 
as  much  about  political  will  as  it  is  about  scientific, 
economic 
In 
addressing the politics, we need to recognize that in all 
countries  —  developed  and  developing  —  there  are 
concerns  about  the  commitment  of  others  to  the  long-
term  global  partnership  we  need.  Many  developing 
countries 
international 
community  will  commit  to  the  scale  of  financial 
transfers  that  all  major  analyses  agree  are  needed. 
Others  are  worried  that  acting  on  climate  change  now 
will  stymie  their  national  development,  precisely  at  a 
time  when  many  are  poised  for  historic  levels  of 
economic growth and social advances. 

On the other hand, many developed countries are 
worried  that  the  financial  transfers  needed  will  be  an 
excessive  burden  on  their  budgets  during  extremely 
challenging  economic  times.  Domestic  constituencies 
in 
fearful  about 
transferring  significant  sums  of  money  abroad,  and 
they worry that jobs or investment will be driven away 
from  their  economies.  There  are  also  fears  from 
individual countries that they will be expected to carry 
a  greater  burden  than  other  developed  nations.  These 
political concerns could be a recipe for a stalemate that 
the world cannot afford. Failure to overcome them now 
will  mean  misery  for  future  generations,  and  the 
eventual costs of tackling climate change will be even 
greater than they are now.  

We  therefore  need  to  find  a  way  through.  This 
will require leadership from all nations. I welcome the 
proposals laid out by Gordon Brown, and subsequently 
supported by the European Union, to generate funding 
in excess of $100 billion per annum to address climate 
change  in  the  developing  world.  For  the  first  time, 
there  is  a  proposal  that  starts  to  square  up  to  the 
magnitude  of  funding  that  is  required  for  adaptation 
and mitigation. 

Having  spoken  with  many  of  my  fellow  leaders 
this  week,  I  am  confident  that,  with  the  right  signal 
from  the  developed  world,  developing  countries  are 
ready  to  play  their  part.  Of  particular  urgency  will  be 
finding  ways  to  work  together  to  address  the  17  per 
cent  of  greenhouse  gas  emissions  that  result  from 
12 

09-52425 


tropical  deforestation  and  forest  degradation  globally. 
As  with  climate  change  in  general,  we  now  have  a 
large degree of clarity around the nature of this specific 
problem. We  know  that  it  causes  more  emissions  than 
the  entire  European  Union,  and  we  know  that  this  is 
because  the  world  economy  makes  trees  worth  more 
dead than alive. We also know that the only sustainable 
way to address the problem is national-scale action  in 
forest  countries  coupled  with  international  incentives 
that  place  a  value  on  trees  to  make  them  worth  more 
alive than dead. 

We  now  need  to  rapidly  move  from  constantly 
rearticulating  this  problem  towards  putting  in  place 
workable  solutions.  In  Guyana,  we  remain  ready  to 
play  our  part,  and  we  have  launched  our  low-carbon 
development strategy, which sets out how we can place 
our  entire  forest  under  long-term  protection,  not  only 
to  provide  the  world  with  badly  needed  climate 
services,  but  also  to  move  our  economy  onto  a  long-
term, sustainable low-carbon development path, where 
jobs  are  created  across  our  country  in  sectors  that  do 
not threaten our trees. 

Thanks  to  the  visionary  leadership  of  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Norway,  our  two  countries  are  also 
working  together  to  provide  a  functioning  model  of 
how  low-deforestation  and  low-carbon  economies  can 
be created in countries such as ours. 

In  parallel,  Guyana  continues  to  play  its  part  in 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  (UNFCCC)  process,  which  must  provide  the 
long-term 
forest-based 
emissions  through  the  United  Nations  Collaborative 
Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation 
and  Forest  Degradation 
in  Developing  Countries 
(REDD)  or  the  REDD+  Programme.  But  we  also 
believe that the world can move quickly to slow down 
deforestation  starting  now,  not  in  2013.  Guyana  was 
pleased  to  participate  in  the  April  G-20  side  meeting 
that  addressed  how  this  can  happen.  We  support  the 
proposals  made  by  the  informal  working  group  on 
interim financing for REDD, which was set up after the 
G-20  side  meeting.  We  support  its  report,  which  lays 
out how the world can achieve a 25 per cent reduction 
in  global  deforestation 
rates  by  2015  with  an 
investment of less than €25 billion in total.  

Using  highly  conservative  estimates  of  forest 
carbon, this could lead to seven gigatons of greenhouse 
gas emissions being avoided between now and 2015. If 
for  combating 
framework 
A/64/PV.6
it  would  be 
and  other 
it  can  preserve 
this  occurred, 
the  single  biggest 
contribution  to  averting  climate  catastrophe  over  this 
period.  And  it  can  be  done.  Rainforest  countries 
representing  the  vast  majority  of  the  world’s  tropical 
forests  have  worked  with  the  informal  working  group 
and  are  willing  to  act.  The  question  now  is:  Will  the 
developed  world  understand  the  enormous  potential 
this  offers  our  world,  and  will  it  act  to  generate  the 
finances that are needed? 

The sum of money needed for this interim period 
may  seem  large,  but  it  does  not  only  represent  a  very 
good  value  for  money  abatement  solution;  it  can  also 
generate  significant  financial  flows  for  developing 
countries,  it  can  create  alternative  livelihoods  for 
forest-dependent 
indigenous  peoples 
communities,  and 
the  enormous 
biodiversity present in the world’s forests. 

five  years 
Twenty-five  billion  euros  over 
represent  less  than  1.5  cents  per  citizen  per  day  in 
developed countries. It is a fraction of what the world 
has  generated  to  save  the  financial  system  from 
collapse,  it  provides  a  bridge  to  a  long-term  REDD+ 
solution  under  the  UNFCCC,  and  it  buys  the  world 
badly needed time in the race to defeat climate change. 
To  turn  away  from  making  this  proposal  a  reality 
would be a mistake of historic proportions. 

I  have  just  said  to  President  Chávez  Frías  that  I 
wish I could conclude by singing, but I do not have his 
wonderful  voice.  Instead,  I  will  confine  myself  to 
saying  that  we  all  have  an  important  role  to  play  in 
solving this crisis, but the developed world has a moral 
obligation  to  play  a  greater  part  in  solving  both  the 
financial crisis and the climate change crisis, because it 
is due to its actions that we are in this situation. I hope 
that the developed world recognizes this obligation and 
the urgency to act upon it now. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Guyana for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 

09-52425 

13 

to 
in 
infinitely  different 
A/64/PV.6 

Address by Mr. Óscar Arias Sánchez, President of 
the Republic of Costa Rica 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Costa Rica.

Mr.  Óscar  Arias  Sánchez,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Óscar Arias Sánchez, President of the Republic of 
Costa Rica, and to invite him to address the Assembly.

President Arias Sánchez (spoke in Spanish): Let 
me  begin  by  sending  a  warm  greeting  to  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  President  of  the  Assembly,  on 
behalf  of  a  country  35  times  smaller  than  his  native 
Libya  and 
scenery  and 
geography.  Instead  of  desert  sandstorms  we  have 
torrential  rains.  We  know  not  the  waves  of  the 
Mediterranean,  but 
the 
Caribbean.  Its  dunes  are  our  forests,  its  mosques  our 
cathedrals. But I believe that such differences are at the 
very heart of the United Nations. Aristotle posited that 
things  are  distinguished  by  what  they  look  like.  Here, 
within this haven, nations  are similar precisely in that 
they  are  distinct,  because  each  is  irreplaceable  in  the 
vast  catalogue  of  the  planet.  From  the  far  reaches  of 
this  variety  that  makes  us  brothers,  I  wish  him  the 
greatest success in this Assembly. 

Twenty-three years ago, I spoke for the first time 
at  this  rostrum  —  a  rock  of  reason  amidst  seas  of 
insanity. At that time, I came here bearing the cries of 
millions  of  Central Americans  who  sought  a  peaceful 
solution  to  the  civil  wars  that  were  lacerating  our 
region. I came to ask powerful nations to stop the flow 
of  arms  fuelling  the  procession  of  coffins  in  our 
territories,  and  I  came  to  defend  the  right  of  the 
peoples  of  Latin  America  to  build  their  own  destiny 
freely and democratically. 

The  second  time  I  visited  this  Hall,  I  came 
seeking  support  for  the  peace  plan  that  the  Presidents 
of  Central America  had  signed.  In  those  days,  no  one 
thought  that  little  Central  America  would  defy  the 
world and choose life in the face of all threats. No one 
thought that we would have the strength to confront the 
Powers of the cold war and find our own solution to all 
the  capricious 
tides  of 

the  nightmares 
our problems. No one thought that we would be able to 
sow the seeds of democracy in our lands and go on to 
work  for  the  human  development  of  our  peoples.  We 
gave  the  pessimists  and  the  sceptics  a  lesson.  We 
refuted  with  dreams 
that  many 
prophesied for us. Today, I come here to recognize the 
distance  we  have  travelled  and  to  warn  of  the  risk  of 
backsliding. 

Since the last time I spoke before this Assembly, 
a  Central American  nation  has  seen  the  demon  of  the 
coup  d’état  awaken  once  again.  Our  region’s  armies 
have  received  nearly  $60  billion  to  combat  imaginary 
enemies,  while  our  peoples  have  struggled  empty-
handed against the economic crisis. Some leaders have 
defied democratic rules in the most imaginative ways, 
while everything that was wrong with our continent has 
carried on the same, or worse. Poverty has continued to 
afflict  more  than  a  third  of  our  inhabitants.  One  in 
three  young  Latin  Americans  still  has  never  seen  a 
high-school  classroom.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of 
people  have  died  of  preventable  diseases.  The  toll  of 
violent  death  in  some  of  our  countries  has  exceeded 
those of countries at war, despite the fact that, with the 
exception of Colombia, there are no armed conflicts in 
our  region. And  millions  of  trees  have  been  felled  in 
territories responsible among them for two thirds of the 
worldwide forest cover loss in the twenty-first century. 

This scenario is not a hopeful one. For those of us 
from  Latin America,  it  is  difficult  not  to  feel  that  we 
are always rescuing our future from the clutches of our 
past,  and  that  we  are  always  trying  to  take  off  on  a 
runway  where  some  foolish  person  spilled  oil,  long 
ago.  We  have  not  achieved  greater  development.  We 
have  not  made  our  democracy  stronger.  We  have  not 
driven  from  our  reality  the  shadow  of  militarism  and 
oppression.  These  problems  recur  endemically,  to 
varying  degrees, 
the  majority  of  developing 
nations —  the  very  nations  that  will  to  a  large  extent 
bear the weight of the course of humanity over the next 
50 years. 

It is the developing nations that will shoulder the 
worst of the struggle against global warming, that will 
carry the heaviest burden of population growth on the 
planet, and that will be responsible for accelerating the 
growth  of  a  global  economy  to  which  the  rich  cannot 
contribute  much  more  than  they  already  generate.  We 
do  not  yet  know  how  the  leading  role  we  have  been 
given will play out. Our success or failure will depend 
on  whether  we  have  the  courage  to  take  on  at  least 
in 
14 

09-52425 
In  our 
race 
to  emulate 


three fundamental challenges: the strengthening of our 
democracies, the encouragement of human development 
for  our  peoples  through  the  reduction  of  military 
spending  and  cross-border  arms  trafficking,  and  the 
creation of a new international order for the transfer of 
aid,  information  and  technology  to  combat  climate 
change. 

Developing  nations,  and  middle-income  nations 
in  particular,  live  simultaneously  in  the  medieval  and 
postmodern  eras. 
the 
experiences  of  developed  countries,  we  have  skipped 
past  fundamental  steps.  There  is  no  doubt  that  one  of 
these  steps  is  the  patient  construction  of  democratic 
institutions,  on  which  developed  countries  have  spent 
centuries, while we, if we have been lucky, have spent 
decades.  

As  a  result,  beyond  superficial  appearances,  we 
lack a true civic culture. We have democratic structures 
that in many cases are no more than empty shells. We 
have  free  elections,  but  lack  the  open  social  forum  to 
allow all citizens freely to make political or ideological 
contribution. We have formal separation of powers, but 
in  many  places  power  remains  a  single  monopoly 
disguised  in  multiple  public  entities.  We  have  rule  of 
law,  but  the  reach  of  the  law  is  tested  every  day  by 
Governments  incapable  of  applying  it,  when  not 
determined  actually  to  weaken  it.  We  have  political 
constitutions and international treaties that reaffirm our 
belief in democratic values, but populations still prone 
to toss those values aside for material gain. 

Paraphrasing  the  great  Argentinean  writer  Jorge 
Luis  Borges,  we  can  say  that  most  inhabitants  of 
developing  countries  do  not  identify  with  the  State, 
which  seems  to  them  an  abstract  concept,  removed 
from their immediate concerns. That is why they allow 
a  Government  to  end  before  its  constitutional  period 
has elapsed or to continue in power beyond that period. 
That is why they expect the Government to offer social 
welfare  and  public  services,  but  do  not  recognize  the 
reciprocal obligations of citizens.  

That  is  why  they  prefer  caudillos  to  political 
parties,  messianic  leaders  to  democratic  institutions. 
That is why they boycott the approval of new taxes in 
countries  whose  tax  burden  is  half  or  even  a  third  of 
that of developed countries. That is why they so easily 
fall  for  a  discourse  that  blames  national  problems  on 
others instead of assuming responsibility for designing 
mechanisms  that  confront  them.  And  this  is  the  best-
A/64/PV.6
fuelled  by 
case  scenario,  because  in  the  worst  there  is  no 
democracy at all. 

As long as we continue on this path, placing our 
hopes in developing nations will be like pouring water 
into  a  sack.  As  long  as  we  fail  to  dedicate  more 
international  attention,  and  more  international  aid,  to 
strengthening and perfecting democracies in this world, 
we  will  watch  again  and  again  as  our  countries  try  to 
take off on a slippery runway. 

This challenge is even more urgent in the face of 
an  arms  race  that,  year  by  year,  moves  $1.3  trillion 
globally.  The  combination  of  strong  armies  and  weak 
democracies has proved harmful in every corner of the 
planet,  and  above  all  in  Latin America,  which,  during 
the  second  half  of  the  twentieth  century  was  a 
showcase  of  dictatorial  horrors, 
the 
existence  of  an  omnipresent  military  apparatus.  I  will 
never  tire  of  repeating  it:  in  Latin  America,  and  in  a 
substantial  portion  of  the  developing  world,  armies 
have  served  no  purpose  other  than  to  carry  out  coups 
d’état.  They  have  not  protected  the  people;  they  have 
oppressed  them.  They  have  not  safeguarded  liberties; 
they have trampled on them. They have not guaranteed 
respect for the will of the people; they have mocked it. 

What  is  the  threat  to  our  nations?  What,  for 
example,  is  the  great  enemy  of  Latin  America  that 
compels it to waste $165 million a day on weapons and 
soldiers? I assure the Assembly that such threats are far 
less  significant  than  that  posed  by  the  mosquito  that 
carries  malaria,  for  instance.  They  are  less  significant 
than  the  threat  posed  by  the  lack  of  opportunity  that 
pushes  our  young  people  into  crime.  They  are  less 
significant than the threat posed by the drug cartels and 
street  gangs  that  survive  thanks  to  an  unrestricted 
market for small arms and light weapons. 

And so what we have to do is order our priorities. 
Costa Rica was the first country to abolish its army and 
declare  peace  on  the  world.  Thanks  to  that  visionary 
decision, thanks to the liberating  army of Commander 
José  Figueres,  who  renounced  arms  forever,  we  have 
the opportunity today to invest our resources in things 
that matter. And while we know that not every nation is 
ready  to  take  such  a  radical  step,  we  believe  that  a 
gradual and progressive reduction in military spending 
is not only a good strategy for allocating resources, but 
also a moral imperative for developing nations. 

make 
For this reason I ask the Assembly once more to 
the  Costa  Rica  Consensus  a  reality.  This 
09-52425 

15 

than 
A/64/PV.6 

initiative  would  create  mechanisms  for  forgiving 
foreign debt and using international financial resources 
to  support  those  poor  and  middle-income  developing 
countries  that  are  investing  more  in  environmental 
protection,  education,  health,  housing  and  sustainable 
development  for  their  people  and  less  in  arms  and 
soldiers.  And  I  also  ask  the  Assembly  to  approve  an 
arms trade treaty, which is known to this Organization, 
and  which  seeks  to  prohibit  the  transfer  of  arms  to 
States,  groups  or  individuals  when  sufficient  reason 
exists  to  believe  that  those  arms  will  be  used  to 
undermine  human  rights  or  international  law.  I  assure 
members  that  these  two  initiatives  will  make  us  safer, 
and  certainly  more  developed, 
the  costly 
machinery  of  death 
that  currently  consumes  our 
budgets. 

What  is  more,  spending  on  arms  deprives  us  not 
only  of  economic  resources. Above  all,  it  deprives  us 
of  human  resources.  At  this  moment,  the  greatest 
arsenal  of  genius  in  the  world  is  working  on  refining 
the  weaponry  and  defence  systems  of  a  few  nations. 
That is not where this genius should be. Its place is in 
the laboratories where medicines are being created that 
will be accessible to all humankind. Its place is in the 
classrooms  where  the  leaders  of  tomorrow  are  being 
formed. Its place is in the Governments that need help 
in  protecting  their  harvests,  their  cities  and  their 
populations from the effects of global warming. 

We have included sustainable development in the 
Costa  Rica  Consensus  because  we  believe  there  is  a 
connection  between  arms  and  the  protection  of  the 
environment.  This  is,  first,  because  arms  and  wars 
generate more environmental devastation and pollution 
than any productive activity; and secondly, because the 
very existence of military spending constitutes, in and 
of  itself,  a  negation  of  resources  available  to  combat 
global  warming.  Every  armoured  helicopter,  every 
tank,  every  nuclear  submarine  represents,  in  practice, 
forests that are not protected, technologies that are not 
becoming less costly and adaptations that are not being 
made. 
Only  a  few  weeks  remain  before  the  Climate 

Change  Conference 
in  Copenhagen,  where  every 
country  will  have  to  undertake  commitments  much 
greater than today’s. My small nation, Costa Rica, will 
attend the conference with its head held high, because 
unilaterally,  and  at  great  sacrifice,  we  have  set 
ourselves  goals  that  are  ever  more  challenging.  We 
have  launched  an  initiative  called  Peace  with  Nature, 
through  which  we  propose,  among  other  things,  to 
become  a  carbon-neutral  country  by  the  year  2021. 
This is possible, in large part, thanks to the nearly four 
decades  we  have  spent  protecting  our  land,  replanting 
our forests and safeguarding our natural species — and 
also  because,  at  the  same  time  that  we  abolished  our 
army, we created pioneering institutions devoted to the 
search for renewable energy sources. Today, more than 
95  per  cent  of  our  electricity  comes  from  water  or 
wind,  from  the  depths  of  the  Earth  or  the  rays  of  the 
sun. 

Infinite  challenges  remain,  for  Costa  Rica  as  for 
any  other  middle-income  country.  The  world’s  rich 
nations,  which  developed  in  the  most  unsustainable 
way  possible,  cannot  now  place  limits  that  choke  the 
development  expectations  of  every  other  country. 
Efforts  must  be  directed  instead  at  forming  a  global 
platform  that  allows  us  to  transfer  international  aid, 
information and technology efficiently from one nation 
to another; a platform that will only make sense if the 
member  States  of  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  increase  their  official 
development  aid,  which  today  stands  at  $120  billion 
per  year.  When  it  comes  to  mitigating  and  adapting 
ourselves to global warming the world must share, not 
compete. 
strengthening 

and 
democracies, 
cooperating  to  confront  climate  change  —  perhaps 
constitute  the  most  ambitious  agenda  humanity  has 
ever had to take on. Neither I, nor my Government, nor 
Costa Rica, will ignore this historic call; for we simply 
cannot  fail.  We  cannot  falter.  We  cannot  turn  back 
when  we  are  standing  at  the  vanguard  of  6.8  billion 
human beings.  

Like  Adam  and  Eve,  we  are  still  living  in  a 
heavenly  Paradise  minutes  before  being  expelled  due 
to our own arrogance. Our sense of responsibility, our 
humility  and  our  courage  will  determine  whether  we 
waste  our  opportunity  on  Earth  and  squander  the 
miracle of life that has brought us heartbreak and pain 
yet  has  also  allowed  us  to  know  happiness.  The 
greatest of the Costa Rican poets, Jorge Debravo, said 
that hope is as strong as bone and more powerful than 
imagination  or  memory.  May  that  still-present  hope 
give us the strength to embark on the last journey of an 
unsustainable civilization and the first of a civilization 
that will survive and outlast us all. 
reducing  military 
challenges  — 
spending 
These 
three 
16 

09-52425 


The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  Costa  Rica  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Óscar  Arias  Sánchez,  President  of  Costa 
Rica,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 


to 
to 
for  me 
Address by Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of 
the United Republic of Tanzania 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the United Republic of Tanzania. 

Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President Kikwete: It is indeed an honour and a 

pleasure 
extend  my  very  warm 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his 
well-deserved  election  to  the  presidency  at  the  sixty-
fourth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  hope  that 
during  his  presidency  he  will  help  advance 
the 
the  General  Assembly,  reinforce 
revitalization  of 
multilateralism 
and 
among 
civilizations. 
I  promise  Mr.  Treki  my  personal 
cooperation as well as that of the Tanzanian delegation 
in the discharge of his responsibilities. 
Allow  me  also  to  use  this  opportunity  to  pay 

tribute  to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Father 
Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, for a job very well done. 
I thank him for the honour he recently bestowed upon 
the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the founder President 
and Father of the Tanzanian nation. 

Our deep appreciation also goes to our illustrious 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  diligent 
service  to  the  United  Nations  and  to  humankind.  His 
exemplary  leadership  and  commitment  to  action  in 
addressing  the  global  challenges  we  are  facing  are 
appreciated by many of us. We wish him and his entire 
team great success in the future. 
dialogue 
promote 
A/64/PV.6
For over five years now, a number of countries in 

Eastern  Africa, 
including  Tanzania,  have  been 
experiencing  unprecedented  drought.  We  have  never 
seen  anything  like  this  before.  Maybe  the  effects  of 
climate  change  are  taking  a  toll.  As  a  result  of  this, 
agricultural  production  has  been  affected  severely 
causing  acute  food  shortages.  There  is  an  acute 
shortage  of  pasture  and  water  for  our  livestock  and 
wildlife in the game parks that is resulting in the deaths 
of  many  of  our  animals.  Rivers  have  been  drying  up 
frequently  thus  causing  interruptions  in  hydropower 
generation.  

The  effects  of  the  drought  are  threatening  to 
reach  catastrophic  proportions  if  the  shortage  of  rain 
continues for the next few years. It is important for the 
United Nations to be aware of this growing danger and 
to look into ways of assisting us. We should not wait to 
act  until  graphic  pictures  of  emaciated  and  dying 
children dominate TV screens and newspapers. 

History  has  taught  us  that  the  greatest  successes 
in  the  development  of  nations  began  with  agriculture. 
No  doubt,  therefore,  the  low  levels  of  development  in 
Africa today are indicative of the underdevelopment of 
our  agriculture. 
is 
backward  and  productivity  is  low.  It  needs  to  be 
transformed,  it  needs  to  be  modernized.  The  African 
green revolution has taken too long to happen. 
Concerted  efforts  by  African  Governments  and 

Africa’s 
required. 
Unfortunately, there is not as much interest on the part 
of  our  development  partners  to  support  agricultural 
transformation  in  Africa  as  there  is  for  other  sectors. 
This  is  an  unfortunate  omission  which  needs  to  be 
corrected.  We  look  to  the  United  Nations  to  take  the 
lead in this regard. 

Allow  me  to  pay  tribute  to  President  Barack 
Obama for demonstrating keen interest in assisting the 
transformation 
of  Africa’s 
agriculture.  African  leaders  were  humbled  by  his 
commitment  at  the  meeting  he  held  with  leaders  from 
sub-Saharan  Africa  on  22  September  of  this  year.  I 
appeal to other leaders to emulate his example. 
Another  issue  that  I  would  like  to  raise  for 

discussion  and  action 
the  problem  of  youth 
unemployment  in  Africa.  Africa  faces  one  of  the 
biggest  unemployment  challenges  on 
the  planet. 
African youth make up 37 per cent of the working age 
population  in  Africa,  but  they  are  60  per  cent  of  the 
Indeed,  African  agriculture 
and  modernization 
development 
partners 
are 
is 
09-52425 

17 
task 
A/64/PV.6 

unemployed.  In  some  nations  youth  unemployment  is 
up  to  80  per  cent. Africa  has  the  fastest-growing  and 
most  youthful  population  in  the  world.  Over  20  per 
cent  of Africa’s  population  is  between  the  ages  of  15 
and  24.  As  a  result,  a  constantly  rising  number  of 
young Africans has been entering, and will continue to 
enter, a labour market that has not been fast-growing. 

Beyond  economic  costs,  high  rates  of  youth 
unemployment have had negative consequences in our 
continent. We have seen how some youths with no job 
prospects, and little hope of getting any, have become 
the  fuel  being  added  to  the  raging  fires  of  conflict  in 
many  parts  of  our  continent. They  simply  fall  prey  to 
the  machinations  of  war  lords,  criminal  gangs  and 
political  manipulators,  to  the  detriment  of  peace  and 
stability in their countries. 
Creating job opportunities for Africa’s youth is an 

enormous 
that  Governments  of  our  poor 
economies cannot carry out alone. Friends of Africa in 
the  international  community,  both  from  Government 
and the private sector, have an important role to play in 
that  regard.  Allow  me 
the  Danish 
Government  for  showing  the  way.  In  April  2008,  it 
formed  the  Danish  Commission  for  Africa  to  address 
youth unemployment challenges on the  continent. The 
Commission,  on  which  I  was  fortunate  to  serve,  came 
up  with  five  bold  initiatives  that  I  believe,  if  strong 
international  partnership  can  be  forged  to  implement 
them, can turn the large youth unemployment problem 
from a challenge into an opportunity. I humbly ask this 
body  for  the  opportunity  for  the  Commission’s  report 
to  be  presented  to  the  General Assembly. At  the  same 
time, I propose that the Assembly consider declaring a 
decade  to  focus  on  youth  employment  in  Africa, 
possibly 2011 to 2020.  

Two  days  ago,  we  held  the  fruitful  high-level 
Climate  Change  Summit.  I  would  like  to  thank 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and commend him for 
his  leadership  on  this  important  and  challenging  issue 
of  our  time.  The  event  will  go  a  long  way  towards 
paving  the  way  for  a  comprehensive  agreement  in 
Copenhagen in December 2009. 

It  was  heart-warming  indeed  to  hear  President 
Barack  Obama  assure  this  world  body  that  the  United 
States will join other nations in the joint endeavour to 
save our common planet. We are also happy that, under 
the leadership of Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the 
United  Kingdom,  consensus  has  been  emerging  on 
to  commend 

resources  available 
International  Development.  At 
making  additional 
to  assist 
developing  nations  in  their  efforts  at  adaptation, 
mitigation and the pursuit of clean development. 

Allow me now to talk about three side events that 
have  taken  place  during  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 
The  first  one  was  the  panel  discussion  on 

accelerating  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals  (MDGs), which was organized by 
Ms. Helen Clark, the new Administrator of the United 
Nations  Development  Programme, 
together  with 
Mr. Douglas Alexander, the United Kingdom’s Secretary 
for 
that  meeting, 
important impressions were made about successes and 
shortcomings with regard to the implementation of the 
MDGs  to  date.  The  meeting  was  a  curtain-raiser  for 
next  year’s  MDG  summit.  I  hope  all  of  us  will  take 
seriously  the  observations  and  conclusions  that  were 
made, so that there will be no default come 2015. 

The  second  was  the  meeting  on  maternal  and 
child  health  convened  by  Prime  Minister  Gordon 
Brown  with  the  support  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  and  World  Bank  President  Robert  Zoellick. 
The meeting was a great success. I was impressed and 
encouraged  by 
the  commitment  made  by  Prime 
Minister Brown and by the support of the World Bank 
to  save  the  lives  of  millions  of  innocent  mothers  and 
children  who  die  of  causes  that  can  be  prevented. 
While  I  applaud  and  thank  Prime  Minister  Brown  for 
his leadership, I appeal for unqualified support for the 
outcome of the meeting, for the sake of saving the lives 
of  many  women  and  children  in Africa  and  elsewhere 
in the developing world. 

The  third  was  yesterday’s  launch  of  the African 
Leaders  Malaria Alliance.  That  was  a  landmark  event 
at  which  African 
leaders  made  an  unequivocal 
declaration  of  commitment  to  end  malaria  in  their 
respective  countries.  The  Alliance  provides 
the 
mechanism for advocacy, collective action and follow-
up  on  measures  to  build  capacities  to  eliminate  the 
number  one  killer  disease  in  Africa.  Malaria  can  be 
prevented,  cured,  controlled  and  eliminated  in Africa. 
Many countries in the world have done so; why not us 
in  Africa?  I  would  like  the  General  Assembly  to 
acknowledge  that  historic  event  and  render  support  to 
the  work  of  the  African  Leaders  Alliance  against 
malaria.  Once  again,  I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Ray 
Chambers,  the  Secretary-General’s  Special  Envoy  for 
18 

09-52425 
there  are  more 


Malaria, for successfully organizing that event. I would 
also  like  to  thank  all African  leaders  for  their  support 
and commitment. 

The  gains  made  in  the  area  of  development  can 
easily  be  eroded  if  the  foundations  of  peace  and 
stability are threatened. It is a matter of great comfort 
and  pride  that  peace  reigns  in  most  parts  of  Africa, 
except  for  one  or  two  hot  spots  —  Somalia  in 
particular and, to some extent, Darfur. There is calm in 
the  eastern  part  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. Burundi is enjoying peace after many years of 
civil  war  and  instability,  which  has  facilitated  the 
return  of  many  Burundi  refugees  from  Tanzania. 
However, 
than  160,000  Burundi 
refugees  who  have  chosen  to  remain  in  Tanzania  and 
are applying to become Tanzanian citizens.  

We  have  in  principle  accepted  their  request  and 
are  now  finalizing  the  procedures  to  grant  them 
citizenship. However, I want this body to know that my 
Government has decided that, if accepted, they will be 
moved from the refugee camps in which they reside at 
the  moment  and  will  be  resettled  in  various  places  in 
the  country.  We  do  not  want  them  to  remain  with  the 
refugee  mentality. We  also  do  not  want Tanzanians  to 
continue to consider them refugees. That is going to be 
a very expensive exercise for which the support of the 
United Nations and other friends will be necessary. 

Tanzania  remains  committed  to  contribute  to 
peace  in Africa  and  the  world.  I  promise  that  we  will 
continue  to  play  that  historic  role  to  the  best  of  our 
ability. In that regard, we are making good progress on 
our  promise  to  scale  up  our  participation  in  United 
have 
Nations 
peacekeepers 
in 
Lebanon,  and  we  are  ready  to  increase  their  number. 
We  are  also  in  the  final  preparations  of  deploying  a 
battalion  of  peacekeepers  in  Darfur.  We  are  going  to 
honour the request made by the United Nations to work 
with  the  United  Nations  Organization  Mission  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUC)  in  the 
training of the armed forces of that country, under the 
Mission’s  security  sector  reforms  for  the  country.  My 
message  today  is  that  we  are  ready  to  do  more 
whenever requested. 

Let me add my voice in support of the two-State 
solution  for  an  Israel  and  a  Palestine  living  together 
side  by  side  at  peace  with  one  another. Tanzania  is  of 
the  United  Nations  mission 
operations.  We 
peacekeeping 
in 
A/64/PV.6
incomplete  without 
the  strong  opinion  that  that  is  the  best  way  to 
sustainable peace in the Middle East.  

With regard to Western Sahara, we call upon the 
Security Council to expedite the process of giving the 
people of Western Sahara the opportunity to decide on 
their future status. That matter has dragged on for too 
long, namely, since 1975. The time has come to end the 
impasse. 
I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the  reform  of  the 

United  Nations  will  be 
the 
structural reform of the Security Council. That reform 
should  include  Africa’s  attainment  of  two  permanent 
seats  in  the  Council.  Giving  seats  to  Africa  is  not  a 
matter  of  favour;  it  is  a  matter  of  correcting  the 
historical injustice against the continent and its people. 

Let  me  conclude  by  echoing  Africa’s  appeal  to 
the United Nations and the international community to 
support Africa’s position with regard to unconstitutional 
changes  of  Government  in Africa.  In  recent  years,  the 
ghosts of unconstitutional changes of Government have 
again  haunted  Africa  —  through  military  coups  and 
so-called  mass 
insatiable 
demagogic  politicians.  There  are  people  who  want  to 
get  into  leadership  by  using  undemocratic  shortcuts. 
The African  Union  has  taken  a  strong  position,  which 
is  enshrined  in  its  Constitutive  Act,  not  to  recognize 
such  Governments  and 
from 
membership  of  the  organization  until  democracy  is 
restored.  
Such  decisions  of  the  African  Union  would 

from,  and  actually  would  be 
benefit  so  much 
strengthened  by, 
international 
community and in particular the United Nations. Africa 
has  young  polities,  and  its  democracy  is  still  fragile. 
What the African Union is trying to do is to entrench a 
culture  of  democratic  values  and  governance.  The 
support  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community is very critical in that regard. A decision to 
the  contrary  would  undermine  the  African  Union’s 
good  intentions.  Africa  needs  the  United  Nations  to 
support that historic position. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  for  the 
statement he has just made.  
the  support  of 
instigated  by 
to  suspend 
action 
them 
the 
09-52425 

19 
A/64/PV.6 



Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall. 


to 
I  wish 
President  Zatlers: 
Address by Mr. Valdis Zatlers, President of the 
Republic of Latvia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Latvia. 

Mr.  Valdis  Zatlers,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Valdis Zatlers, President of the Republic of Latvia, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
to  begin  by 

congratulating  the  President  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency  at  this  session  of  the  General Assembly.  I 
pledge Latvia’s full support to him. 
This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  a 

unique  peaceful  demonstration,  namely,  the  Baltic 
Way.  On  23 August  1989,  more  than  1  million  people 
joined  hands  in  a  600-kilometre-long  human  chain 
across the three Baltic countries of Estonia, Latvia and 
Lithuania.  That  event  was  dedicated  to  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  Molotov-Ribbentrop  Pact  between 
the Stalinist Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. The Pact 
was  another  mile marker leading to the Second World 
War and the occupation of the three Baltic States. 

The  Baltic  Way  served  as  a  powerful  symbol  of 
the  drive  for  democracy  and  freedom  in  our  three 
States.  The  importance  of  the  Baltic  Way  was  so 
substantial 
the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  added  it  to  the 
Memory  of  the  World  Register.  The  message  of  the 
Baltic  Way  is  very  clear,  namely,  that  if  people  and 
countries  truly  commit  to  a  common  goal,  and  if  they 
join their efforts, even the most difficult challenge can 
be met successfully. 
A look at today’s world reveals that never before 

has international cooperation been so important. Never 
before have we faced such a multitude of simultaneous 
critical challenges of global significance. Many phrases 
have been coined to describe the most severe problems: 
the  “three  Es”  crisis,  for  energy,  economy  and 
that 
environment,  and  the  “three  Fs”  crisis,  for  finance, 
food  and  fuel.  But  no  matter  what  name  we  use  we 
must remember that those global issues require urgent 
and concerted action at the global level. 

Since  we  met  here  last  year,  the  financial  crisis 
has  turned  into  a  global  economic  crisis.  It  has  struck 
the  world  with  its  full  strength.  Consequences  are 
being felt by every State and by every economy. They 
have  an  effect  on  international  policy  and  make  us 
reconsider  domestic  policies  as  well.  Latvia  has 
undertaken  painful  but  necessary  adjustments  to  the 
downturn. We have learned our lessons. I am confident 
that  our  economy  and  the  entire  global  economic 
system will come out of the crisis stronger than before. 

Current  realities  are  serving  to  underline  the 
values of inclusiveness, tolerance and compassion, not 
only domestically but also in the international arena. It 
is  self-evident  that  we  can  tackle  the  challenges  only 
by  joint  efforts. We  should  use  the  crisis  as  a  catalyst 
for  looking  beyond  our  individual  gains.  We  should 
therefore use it to look at how we can promote an open 
international  trade  system.  We  hope  for  the  prompt 
conclusion  of  the  long-overdue  round  of  talks  on  the 
Doha Development Agenda. 

times  of  crisis. 
Developing countries are particularly severely affected 
by its negative effects. We are well aware of the risk of 
jeopardizing  what  has  been  done  in  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals. We must not give up. 
Latvia  is  honouring  its  commitments  to  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

Climate change is a global challenge that needs to 
be  tackled  at  the  global  level.  The  United  Nations 
Summit on Climate Change has demonstrated that it is 
important to reach a comprehensive and fair agreement 
on  future  global  climate  policy  at  the  Copenhagen 
Conference, to be held in December of this year. Such 
an  agreement  should  follow  the  principle  of  common 
but  differentiated 
responsibilities.  Every  country 
should  contribute  according  to  its  capabilities,  but  the 
political will of every nation is what matters most. 

The stability and security situation in a number of 
countries  and  regions  of  the  world  is  of  particular 
concern  to  the  global  community.  Afghanistan  is 
certainly  one  of  them.  The  holding  of  presidential 
elections 
fragile  security  situation  was  a 
significant  achievement  by  the  Afghan  people.  It  is 
crucial to pursue balanced international involvement in 
Development 
is  hard 
in  a 
in 
20 

09-52425 
to  upgrading 


Afghanistan,  which  should  include  both  a  civilian 
surge  and  military  efforts.  We  must  continue  our 
assistance  to  Afghanistan  and  other  countries  in  the 
region  in  order  to  prevent  the  threat  of  festering 
terrorism.  It  is  important  to  understand  that  the  value 
of  local  knowledge  of  the  situation  and  of  regional 
involvement  cannot  be  overestimated.  We  remain 
committed  to  the  rebuilding  process  in  Afghanistan 
while  paying  special  attention 
its 
infrastructure  and  strengthening  its  economy.  Latvia 
has contributed both military and civilian assistance to 
the development of Afghanistan. 

Achieving  peace  in  the  Middle  East  is  another 
issue  that  remains  at  the  top  of  the  international 
agenda. The two-State idea will become a reality only 
when the  Israeli Government sincerely  works to make 
it  one.  It  will  become  a  sustainable  reality  only  when 
Palestinian  leaders  settle  their  own  differences  in  the 
interests  of  their  people.  This  year,  Latvia  provided  a 
rehabilitation  programme  for  18  Palestinian  boys  and 
girls.  They  came  to  Latvia  to  participate  in  our 
rehabilitation  programme  for 
traumatized  children 
from the Gaza Strip. Those children came to overcome 
the  psychological 
they 
experienced earlier this year. 

Latvia would like to reiterate its firm support for 
the  security  and  stability  of  Georgia,  which  must  be 
based  on 
the  principles  of 
independence,  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  as 
recognized by international law. The security situation 
in  and  around  Georgia  is  still  very  fragile.  We  regret 
that  the  Security  Council  failed  to  agree  on  the 
continuation  of  the  United  Nations  Observer  Mission 
in Georgia. Unfortunately, despite all the efforts by the 
international community, the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) was forced to close 
its Mission in Georgia. 

As  a  result,  this  year  we  lost  two  important 
international  instruments  for  promoting  stability  and 
peaceful conflict resolution in Georgia. Latvia strongly 
believes 
international  community  should 
continue  to  look  for  a  solution.  We  should  work  to 
secure  a  full  and  effective  United  Nations  and  OSCE 
presence in Georgia, including in Abkhazia  and South 
Ossetia.  Meanwhile,  it  is  ever  more  important  to 
strengthen  the  only  remaining  international  mission, 
namely,  the  European  Union  Monitoring  Mission  in 
Georgia, which has convincingly proven its pivotal role 
in  stabilizing  the  situation  on  the  ground.  We  would 
the  conflict 
impact  of 
respect 
that 
full 
the 
for 
A/64/PV.6
is 
the 
that 
in 
that 
Choosing 
leadership 
right  and 
it  will  promote 
that  process.  Latvia 
also  like  to  stress  the  importance  of  the  resolution  on 
the status of internally displaced persons and refugees 
from  the  Georgian  regions  of  Abkhazia  and  South 
Ossetia.  The  resolution  is  an  important  show  of 
commitment to fundamental humanitarian principles. 

the 
responsibility of the people. We recently witnessed the 
post-electoral  crisis  in  Iran.  We  are  concerned  about 
the deteriorating human rights situation and the violent 
crackdowns  there.  If  the  Iranian  Government  seeks 
recognition as the representative of its people, it should 
respect human rights. If the Iranian Government seeks 
the  respect  of  the  international  community,  it  should 
comply  with  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council.  By  doing  so,  Iran  could  become  a  genuine 
contributor to peace and stability in the whole region. 
Latvia  has  been  steadfast  in  the  global  efforts  to 

the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
combat 
destruction.  We  are  sure 
the  2010  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  will  be  an 
important  milestone 
is 
convinced 
the  aims  of 
non-proliferation,  disarmament  and  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy for exclusively peaceful purposes. 

sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  four  Geneva  Conventions.  The 
character of armed conflict is constantly changing, and 
new  challenges,  such  as  terrorism,  arise.  Still,  the 
of 
Geneva  Conventions 
international  humanitarian 
the 
political  will  to  fully  implement  the  Conventions 
remains insufficient. Violations of the provisions of the 
Conventions  and  the  norms  of  human  rights  law  still 
occur. 
the 

strongly 
International  Criminal  Court.  It 
is  a  mechanism 
designed to fight impunity and to promote compliance 
with the norms of international law. Latvia commends 
the  work  of  the  Court.  We  also  call  on  all  States  to 
fully cooperate with it.  

Mr. Gomes (Guinea-Bissau), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

The  concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  was 
agreed  upon  at  the  2005  World  Summit.  Latvia 
supports  that  concept.  It  is  important  to  work  towards 
its implementation. It would help us to create a world 
bedrock 
law.  Unfortunately, 
fall  we  will  celebrate 
therefore 
supports 
remain 
the 
This 
the 
Latvia 
09-52425 

21 
the  Commission  on 
Statistical  Commission,  and 
Sustainable Development. 

The  United  Nations  is  the  only  truly  universal 
forum  for  dialogue  and  action.  All  States,  big  and 
small,  have  the  responsibility  to  contribute  to  the 
fruitful work of the United Nations. Let me assure the 
President that Latvia is ready to work closely with him 
and all Member States to make the sixty-fourth session 
of the General Assembly a successful one. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Latvia for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Valdis  Zatlers,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 



in 
that  area  with 
A/64/PV.6 

order  where  inactivity  in  the  face  of  mass  atrocities 
becomes a thing of the past. 

Three  years  ago,  the  General  Assembly  decided 
to  establish  the  Human  Rights  Council.  The  Council 
has  already  achieved  some  results.  The  Universal 
Periodic Review mechanism is one of its most notable 
successes.  However,  we  believe  that  that  process  can 
be further improved to avoid abuse of its shortcomings 
in  methodology  and  practice.  The  Human  Rights 
Council will undergo a review in 2011. We believe that 
the Council can become even more credible, as well as 
an  effective  body  for  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights. 

Latvia  has  a  long-standing  commitment  and 
experience with promoting human rights. We are ready 
to  share  our  experience 
the 
international  community.  Latvia  has  therefore  put 
forward  its  candidacy  for  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for the year 2014. 

Latvia has always supported the strengthening of 
the  United  Nations.  The  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  aimed  at  enhancing  the  effectiveness  and 
legitimacy  of  its  work,  is  an  important  part  of  the 
overall reform of the United Nations. The composition 
of  the  Security  Council  must  reflect  the  realities  and 
dynamics  of  today’s  world.  Latvia  welcomes  the 
beginning  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  We  also  emphasize  the 
importance of continued progress in that area. 

We  note  with  concern  that,  at  a  time  of  global 
recession,  the  United  Nations  budget  is  increasing 
considerably. It is important to prioritize activities and 
to  continue  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
would also like to see more transparency and budgetary 
discipline  in  the  process  of  budget  planning  and 
implementation. 

Latvia  is  a  candidate  for  next  year’s  elections  to 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  We  are  willing  to 
share  our  experience  in  addressing  global  challenges, 
such  as  sustainable  development,  poverty  eradication, 
the implementation of good governance and the rule of 
law, fundamental freedoms and environmental stability.  

Latvia is already building up its expertise on the 
functional  commissions  and  activities  related  to  the 
mandate of the Council. We are an active participant in 
the United Nations Forum on Forests, the Commission 
on  Science  and  Technology  for  Development,  the 
to 
the 
the 
Address by Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of 
the Republic of Malawi 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Malawi. 

Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of the Republic of 
Malawi, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Mutharika: I wish to add my voice to 

those  who  have  spoken  before  me  on  the  need  for 
effective 
for 
strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations  for 
international  peace,  security  and 
development.  

I  believe  that  there  is  no  longer  an  excuse  for 
world  leaders  to  be  reluctant  to  move  closer  together 
and  stimulate  debate  on  how  multilateralism  and 
dialogue could be strengthened. We need to strengthen 
collaboration  so  that  the  international  community 
responds  effectively  to  such  global  challenges  as 
climate change, the financial and economic crisis, food 
and  energy  crises,  armed  conflicts,  terrorism  and, 
above all, poverty reduction. 
to  global 
responses 
crises 
and 
22 

09-52425 
the  concerns  only  of 



The first item on the multilateralism agenda is to 
reach  a  global  consensus  on  reforming  multilateral 
institutions, including the United Nations, to ensure the 
equitable and geographical representation of developed 
and  developing  countries  alike.  It  is  imperative  that 
developing  nations  have  an  effective  voice  on  matters 
that  concern  them.  Therefore,  the  United  Nations 
should promote dialogue that ensures the inclusiveness, 
transparency  and  accountability  that  are  needed  to 
attain genuine global peace, security and development. 

The  Security  Council  must  be  made  flexible  to 
allow the countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America and 
the  Middle  East  to  have  fair  representation  in  that 
body.  The  continued  monopoly  of  that  body  by  the 
super-Powers  is  no  longer  justifiable.  Developing 
nations  cannot  continue  to  be  silent  spectators  in 
matters  that  affect  them.  Every  sovereign  nation  is  an 
integral  part  of  the  global  village.  Gone  are  the  days 
when  conflicts,  wars  and  economic  crises  in  Africa, 
South-East  Asia,  the  Middle  East  and  Latin  America 
were 
the  peoples  and 
Governments in those areas. 

The second agenda item for multilateral dialogue 
is 
the  attainment  of  world  food  security.  Food 
shortages  threaten  the  foundations  of  democracy  and 
good governance. The United Nations cannot sustain a 
world system where huge populations live permanently 
with hunger and starvation. This world body must find 
a formula whereby the world can produce enough food 
for all at affordable prices. I believe that it is possible 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  to  achieve 
global food security. 

agricultural 
Malawi  has 
development  strategy  and  can  contribute  to  United 
Nations  efforts  in  this  matter.  Malawi  has,  within  a 
short  period  of  time,  transformed  itself  from  being  a 
food-deficit  and  hungry  nation  to  a  food-surplus 
nation.  Malawi  now  produces  enough  food  for  all  its 
people,  and  we  are  able  to  export  to  neighbouring 
countries. 

The  key  factor  behind  this  success  story  is  that 
Malawi  has  allocated  huge  budgetary  resources  and 
heavy  investment  to  the  agricultural  sector.  We  have 
also  successfully 
input 
subsidy  programme  that  enables  poor  and  low-income 
households  to  buy  fertilizer,  seeds  and  chemicals  at  a 
heavily subsidized price. As a result, poor smallholder 
farmers  have  become  more  productive.  At  the  same 
introduced  an  agricultural 
a  well-organized 
A/64/PV.6
introduced 
time,  there  are  visible  signs  of  improvements  in  the 
standard  of  living  of  the  people,  particularly  in  rural 
areas. 

The third agenda item for multilateral dialogue is 
to  manage  climate  change.  Malawi  is  happy  that  this 
matter  will  be  fully  discussed  at  the  Copenhagen 
Conference  later  this  year.  At  the  national  level, 
Malawi  is  responding  to  the  challenge  of  climate 
change  through  intensive  irrigation  farming  and  by 
moving away from dependence on rain-fed agriculture. 
The  Government  has 
the  Green  Belt 
programme that will irrigate up to 1 million hectares of 
land  for  small-,  medium-  and  large-scale  farmers  by 
harnessing  water  sources  from  the  rivers  and  lakes  to 
provide  extensive  irrigation.  We  shall  grow  a  broad 
range of food crops, such as rice, wheat, maize, beans 
and  lentils,  as  our  way  to  contribute  to  resolving  the 
world food crisis. 

The threat of climate change is real. I believe that 
the price of complacency will be much higher if we fail 
to  act  today.  For  Africa  and  developing  countries 
elsewhere,  we need to adequately address the issue of 
deforestation, 
and 
agricultural productivity. We need to act now. 

Let  me  conclude  by  stating  that  we  also  need  a 
global  dialogue  on  democracy,  good  governance, 
human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  the  fight  against 
terrorism in all its manifestations. We also need a new 
understanding  of  how  developing  nations  can  cope 
with 
the  shocks  of  global  financial  crises  and 
escalating fuel prices. 

I believe that, working together, all nations of the 
world,  rich  or  poor,  powerful  or  powerless,  can 
strengthen  multilateralism  and  dialogue  for  lasting 
international peace, security and development. We live 
in one world. We have the same destiny. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic  of Malawi for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
environmental 
degradation 

09-52425 

23 

to 
A/64/PV.6 

Address by Mr. Jalal Talabani, President of the 
Republic of Iraq 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Iraq. 

Mr.  Jalal  Talabani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Iraq,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Jalal  Talabani,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Iraq, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Talabani (spoke in Arabic): Permit me 

to  congratulate  our  brother  and  friend  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki on his assumption of the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. Let 
me  assure  him  of  our  delegation’s  assistance  and 
support  as  he  discharges  his  task.  Given  his  wisdom 
and experience, we are certain that he will successfully 
fulfil  the  tasks  assigned  to  him  and  further  the 
objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  I  would  like  also  to 
thank his predecessor, Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, 
for his presidency of the General Assembly during the 
previous session. 

The  current  political  process  in  Iraq,  ongoing 
since  the  collapse  of  the  former  regime  in  2003,  has 
produced  radical  political  change,  pushing  towards 
building a unified, independent and democratic federal 
Iraq  with 
institutions. 
Realizing  these  objectives  has  not  been  easy  and  has 
not  been  without  challenges,  chief  among  which  were 
domestic and regional forces attempting to return Iraq 
to  the  period  prior  to  the  change.  These  forces  have 
used  various  means  to  attain  that  goal,  including 
committing  the  worst  of  crimes,  allying  themselves 
with  organized  crime  and  joining  with  networks  of 
international  terrorism  to  disrupt  the  security  and 
stability of Iraq. 

Significant developments have taken place in Iraq 
since  I  stood  here  last  year.  The  most  important  of 
them  were  the  signing  of  the  agreement  with  the 
its 
United  States  on 
troops, 
organization  of 
temporary 
presence  in  Iraq  and  the  signing  of  the  Strategic 
Framework  Agreement  with  the  United  States.  Based 
on that agreement, United States troops withdrew from 
the  withdrawal  of 
forces’ 
the  American 
respected 
constitutional 

Iraqi  cities  at  the  end  of  last  June,  and  Iraqi  forces 
assumed  responsibility  for  security  throughout  Iraq. 
The  security  situation  has  greatly  improved  under  the 
Government  of  National  Unity,  thanks  to  its  tireless 
endeavours  towards  national  dialogue  and  national 
reconciliation projects. These efforts seek to include all 
political parties and social  groups,  within the political 
process  and  outside  it,  that  believe  in  the  peaceful 
transfer  of  power.  The  Iraqi  Government  is  also 
continuing  its  policy  of  imposing  law  and  order  in 
confronting 
terrorist  groups,  armed  militias  and 
outlaws,  including  those  working  to  sabotage  the 
political  process  and  undermine  security  and  stability 
in Iraq and the region. 

The year’s  great successes for Iraq have brought 
progress  in  its  external  relations.  This  year  witnessed 
high-level  visits  from  Arab,  regional  and  other 
international  Powers,  many  of  which  reopened  their 
embassies in Baghdad. This has taken place within the 
framework of the Iraqi Government’s efforts to restore 
its  international  standing.  The  Iraqi  Government  will 
continue  to  deepen  its  good-neighbour  policy  of 
friendship and cooperation in order to restore its role in 
the Arab,  regional  and  international  communities,  and 
to promote security and stability in the region. 

The  economic  situation  also  saw  significant 
improvement  through  a  number  of  economic  and 
financial laws enacted by the Iraqi Government, which 
led  to  increased  personal  income,  purchasing  power 
and  social  welfare  services  for  our  citizens.  The  Iraqi 
Government  prepared  an  ambitious  budget  for  this 
year,  aiming  not  only  at  reconstruction,  but  also  at 
building  a  sound  and  healthy  economy  to  promote 
progress and general prosperity. The Iraqi Government 
has reviewed this budget and its economic programmes 
in the light of the financial crisis facing the world. 

the  economic  sphere  have 
encouraged  a  significant  number  of  internally  and 
externally  displaced  Iraqis  to  voluntarily  return  to  the 
country.  The  Iraqi  Government  has  taken  a  series  of 
practical  measures  and  decisions  aimed  at  facilitating 
the  voluntary  return  of  displaced  Iraqis  because  it 
believes  that  the  best  solution  for  them  is  to  return  to 
their  homeland. We  therefore  call  upon  States  hosting 
Iraqi  refugees  and  on  international  and  civil  society 
organizations aiding refugees to help promote a culture 
of  voluntary  return,  because  Iraq  needs  the  capacities 
of all Iraqis to help build the future of their country. 
Improvements 
in 
24 

09-52425 
regime’s  basis 
the  current  political 



The most important challenge we face in the near 
future  is  the  round  of  legislative  elections  scheduled 
for  January  2010,  for  which  the  political  parties  have 
already  started  preparations.  Successful  elections  will 
solidify 
in 
democracy,  pluralism  and  the  peaceful  transfer  of 
power.  Successful  elections  will  move  the  political 
process  forward  from  this  initial  stage  to  one  of 
permanence and stability and will promote stability and 
security  in  Iraq. They  will  also  help  us  build  national 
institutions  strong  enough  to  support  a  State  that  is 
based  on  law  and  order,  that  is  at  peace  with  its  own 
people and its neighbours  and that is  a  solid force for 
security  and  stability  in  the  region.  This  in  turn  will 
improve  Iraq’s Arab,  regional  and  world  relations  and 
foster its active return to the international community. 

The  real  danger  currently  facing  Iraq  is  outside 
interference  in  its  internal  affairs.  The  forces  of  such 
interference  have  committed  the  worst  crimes  against 
innocent Iraqis from many segments of society — men, 
women, children and the elderly. In an attempt to derail 
the security and stability achieved in Iraq during 2008 
and  2009,  they  have  recently  engaged  in  a  series  of 
criminal  bombings  and  terrorist  attacks,  the  most 
recent  of  which  were 
the  Bloody  Wednesday 
explosions of 19 August 2009, which targeted the Iraqi 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Finance — 
sovereign  institutions  of  the  country.  These  attacks 
killed  many 
including  many 
Government 
foreign 
administrators and diplomats.  
These criminal acts claiming such large numbers 

of  victims  have  reached  the  level  of  genocide  and 
crimes  against  humanity,  which  are  subject 
to 
punishment  under  international  law.  We  believe  that 
acts  at  this  level  of  organization,  complexity  and 
magnitude  could  not  have  been  planned,  funded  and 
implemented without the support of external forces and 
parties. 
and 
evidence indicate the involvement of external parties in 
these attacks. 

Therefore,  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Iraq  wishes  to  place  this  important  matter  before  the 
Secretary-General. Because of the nature and scope of 
the  crimes  committed,  which  require  an  investigation 
beyond  Iraq’s  jurisdiction,  we  request  the  Security 
Council 
independent 
investigation  commission  to  refer  those  responsible  to 
international  criminal  court.  The  Iraqi 
a  special 
innocent  victims, 
employees, 
Indeed,  preliminary 
investigations 
international 
as  well 
an 
as 
A/64/PV.6
to 
and 
stop 
to  protect 
its  people 
the  United  Nations 
Government  found  itself  obliged  to  turn  to  the  United 
Nations 
the 
haemorrhaging  of  innocent  Iraqi  lives.  We  seek  the 
international  community’s  support  and  assistance  in 
establishing  an  independent  international  commission 
to investigate the crimes of terrorism against the Iraqi 
people and to label those crimes as genocide. 

We  look  forward  to  improved  cooperation  and 
coordination  with  neighbouring  countries  and  other 
concerned  States  to  protect  Iraq’s  borders,  exchange 
information,  coordinate  efforts,  and  to  thwart  groups 
that support terrorism and work against Iraq under any 
cover. 

We  are currently working  towards the settlement 
of issues regarding Iraq vis-à-vis the Security Council; 
these were inherited from the former regime and led to 
commitments  which  we  are  attempting  to  meet.  Iraq 
will  continue  to  work  with  relevant  parties  and 
stakeholders  at 
reach  a 
settlement  satisfactory  to  all  parties  and  without 
prejudice  to  our  obligations  under  Security  Council 
resolutions. 
As  a  result  of  major  positive  developments  that 

have  taken  place  in  Iraq  since  the  fall  of  the  former 
regime and the removal of the dictatorship, the current 
situation  is  fundamentally  different  from  the  situation 
that  existed  when 
the  Security  Council  adopted 
resolution 661 (1990). 

Along  with  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 1859 (2008) and the report of the Secretary-
General  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  that  resolution 
(S/2009/385), this shows that the time has come for the 
Security  Council  to  act  in  response  to  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  pursuant 
the  aforementioned 
resolution, and on the basis of its responsibility for the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  It 
should  review  resolutions  relevant  to  Iraq  adopted 
under Chapter VII, starting with resolution 661 (1990), 
with a view to restoring Iraq’s international standing. 

Here,  I  must  point  out  that  since  the  collapse  of 
the  former  regime  in  2003,  Iraq  has  been  eager  to 
respect  international  legitimacy  and  to  deal  with 
Security Council resolutions relevant to Iraq and to the 
situation  between  Iraq  and  brotherly  Kuwait  with  the 
highest degree of responsibility and respect. 

The  current  Iraqi  Government  inherited  political 
and  financial  burdens  and  difficult  commitments  from 
to 
to 
form 
09-52425 

25 

because 
Therefore, 
the 
the  adoption  of 
A/64/PV.6 

the former regime through dozens of resolutions issued 
against  the  former  regime  because  of  its  domestic 
practices and foreign policies. The Iraqi people are still 
bearing the consequences. After more than six years of 
hard and continuous work with the United Nations and 
its agencies, and within the framework of international 
and bilateral cooperation, Iraq has proven its desire and 
determination to return to the international community 
with all its resources and capabilities. 
situation  which 

necessitated 
the  aforementioned 
resolutions  no  longer  exists,  we  request  a  clear 
resolution  by  the  Security  Council  to  terminate  all 
resolutions  issued  under  Chapter  VII  which  affected 
the  sovereignty  of  Iraq  and  gave  rise  to  financial 
obligations that are still binding on Iraq. 

We and the  Iraqi people look forward to the day 
when  Iraq  is  released  from  Chapter  VII  sanctions.  In 
this  regard,  I  must  point  to  the  positive  role  of  the 
United  Nations Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq  (UNAMI) 
in  providing  advice  and  assistance.  The  promotion  of 
mutual  endeavours  and  cooperation  between  Iraq  and 
the  United  Nations,  and  improved  results  of  that 
cooperation  in  many  fields,  pursuant  to  Security 
Council  resolution  1770  (2007)  and  other  resolutions, 
require 
the  United  Nations  agencies  and 
institutions  step  up  their  presence  in  Iraq,  undertake 
field activities and re-open their offices in Baghdad, as 
other diplomatic missions have done. 
The Iraqi Constitution sets the basic principles of 

Iraq’s 
focus  on  good-
neighbourliness, non-interference in the internal affairs 
of  other  countries,  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
and  establishing 
international  relations  based  on 
common  interests  and  respect  of  Iraq’s  international 
obligations.  These  are  the  established  principles  of 
Iraq’s foreign policy. 
On  this  basis,  we  seek  to  establish  the  best 

possible 
Islamic 
countries  and  are  committed  to  the  decisions  of  the 
League  of  Arab  States  and  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference.  Accordingly,  we  endorse  and 
support the struggle of the Palestinian people to uphold 
their inalienable rights, including the right to establish 
the State of Palestine on the land of Palestine. 
We are also working to implement the legitimate 

the  return  of 
international  resolutions  concerning 
occupied  Arab  land.  We  consider  the  Arab  Peace 
relations  with  other  Arab  and 
foreign  policy,  which 
that 

the 
the 
second 
seek 
Iraq.  The 
towards  convening 
the  greatest  degree  of 
International  Compact  with 
the  first  review  conference,  held 
Initiative  to  be  a  practical  step  in  the  right  direction 
towards  resolving  the Arab-Israeli  conflict  in  order  to 
achieve security, peace and stability in the Middle East. 
We call for the Middle East to be made a zone free of 
nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  so  as  to  promote  opportunities  to  achieve 
peace and security in the region. 

In this  context, we  call upon all States  that have 
not  yet  acceded  to  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty  to  do  so  and  to  be  bound  by  its  provisions. 
Following  years  of  isolation  during  the  previous 
regime, Iraq seeks to form a new integrated economic 
partnership  with  the  international  community  through 
the 
Iraqi 
Government, in cooperation with the United Nations, is 
working 
review 
conference, to be held in Baghdad next November. We 
will 
international 
participation  at  the  conference,  following  on  from  the 
success  of 
in 
Stockholm last year. 

The  current  political  process  in  Iraq  is  aimed  at 
building  a  federal,  democratic  and  unified  Iraq  where 
the Iraqi people work under constitutional institutions, 
the  rule  of  law,  protection  of  human  rights  and  full 
respect  for  all  segments  of  society.  We  attach  key 
importance  to  our  ability  and  potential,  as  a  country 
rich  in  natural  and  human  resources,  to  achieve  these 
goals. 
However,  at  this  most  critical  stage,  we  need 

political  and  economic  support  and 
international 
cooperation to gain firm footing that will enable us to 
move towards a future where we will be able not only 
to  develop  our  country  and  our  people  but  also  to 
cooperate  with 
in 
achieving peace, security and sustainable development 
for all peoples. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Iraq  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Jalal  Talabani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Iraq,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
international  community 
26 

09-52425 

to 


Address by Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh, President of the 
Republic of the Gambia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Gambia. 

Al  Hadji  Yahya  Jammeh,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  
Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh,  President of the Republic  of 
the Gambia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Jammeh:  I  would  like  first  of  all  to 

thank  almighty  Allah  for  granting  us  yet  another 
opportunity  for  a  gathering  of  world  leaders.  My 
delegation  would  like  to  thank  President  Obama,  the 
Government  and  people  of  the  United  States  of 
America, and the leadership of the United Nations for 
their  warm  welcome  and  the  facilities  placed  at  our 
disposal since our arrival. 
Permit  me  also  to  congratulate  Mr.  Miguel 

d’Escoto Brockmann on his inspiring leadership and on 
conducting the affairs of the sixty-third session so well. 
By  the  same  token,  I  extend  warm  felicitations  to 
Mr. Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at  this  important 
sixty-fourth  session.  He  has  the  full  support  of  my 
delegation. Our special thanks go to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his stewardship and the commitment 
he  has  shown  to  the  welfare  of  humanity,  particularly 
of Africa. 

crises: 
strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations  for 
international  peace,  security  and 
development”,  the  theme  adopted  for  this  year’s 
session,  is  indeed  apt  and  relevant.  It  calls  on  every 
nation,  big  or  small,  to  adopt  multilateralism  and 
dialogue  in  fostering  international  partnership  on  all 
matters  of  common  concern  surrounding  global  peace 
and development. 
The  complexities  of  today’s  world  are  such  that 

no nation can successfully  confront them alone. Some 
issues  cannot  even  be  resolved  by  regional  groups 
acting independently. Much can be achieved only when 
we  all  collaborate  and  work  together  within  the 
framework  of  multilateralism  based  on  mutual 
“Effective 
responses 
global 
to 
A/64/PV.6
race 
in  full 
religion 
to  achieve 
circumstances, 
their  geopolitical  size, 
understanding, respect and, above all, sincerity, strong 
commitment and universal justice under the same rule 
of law and equity. 

Our  global  body,  the  United  Nations,  has  indeed 
adopted  countless  resolutions,  which,  if  implemented 
to the letter, would have made this world a better place 
for  all  humankind  and  indeed  other  creatures  on  our 
planet.  Unfortunately,  there  are  some  Member  States 
that  block  well-meaning  resolutions  necessary  for  the 
maintenance  of  world  peace  and  even  question  or 
disregard  with  impunity  resolutions  adopted  by  this 
body.  

As  long  as  this  continues  to  be  the  order  of  the 
day,  the  United  Nations  will  remain  united  in  name 
only,  unable 
the  fundamental 
objectives  for  which  it  was  established.  The  modus 
operandi  of  the  Organization  therefore  needs  urgent 
reforms to ensure that such impunity is eliminated and 
that  the  principle  of  equality  among  nation  States, 
irrespective  of 
location, 
economic 
is 
safeguarded.  Double  standards  have  no  place  in  the 
United Nations. 

There cannot be peace and security in the absence 
of justice for all. There cannot be justice in the face of 
abject  poverty  characterized  by  hunger,  starvation, 
disease and a lack of basic social services as a result of 
exploitation.  There  cannot  be 
is 
merciless  exploitation, 
suppression  and  criminal 
invasion of sovereign States. There cannot be peace if 
there is no development as a result of marginalization, 
injustice  and  racism.  Unfortunately,  injustice,  racism, 
merciless  exploitation  and  marginalization,  especially 
as 
inflicted  on  developing  nations  by  developed 
nations, are the order of the day. 

Africa  and Africans  are  the  poorest  of  the  poor, 
despite the fact that the African continent is the world’s 
richest in terms of mineral and other natural resources. 
The  sad  truth  is  that,  despite  the  fact  that  the African 
continent  is  the  source  of  90  per  cent  of  the  precious 
minerals, gemstones and strategic raw materials for the 
industrialized North, we Africans are the poorest of the 
poor. 

It  is  no  fault  of  ours  if  we  Africans  are  poor 
today.  This  situation  has  been  brought  about  by  the 
perennial invasions of the  locusts and their permanent 
presence  in  Africa.  They  devour  90  per  cent  of  our 
useful resources, from agricultural and mineral to flora 
justice 
or 
if 
there 
09-52425 

27 

The 
I  am 
locusts 
talking  about  are 
A/64/PV.6 

and fauna. These locusts are present in all resource-rich 
African  countries  today.  This  devastating  permanent 
invasion 
is  exacerbated  by  another  destructive 
phenomenon  — the permanent drought  that affects  all 
African  countries  without  exception.  We  cannot  do 
anything  about  these  two  deadly  scourges  of  the 
African  continent.  In  the  case  of  the  locusts,  they  are 
protected  by  a  one-sided  international  treaty  imposed 
on all third-world countries, not only Africa. As for the 
drought, it is even worse, since no irrigation system in 
Africa can eradicate it. 
the 

multinational  Western  companies 
that  exploit  our 
natural  resources  and  agricultural  produce,  taking 
95 per cent of their financial value and leaving us, the 
owners of the resources, with 5 per cent or less at most. 
Is it not interesting that, with respect to the mining of 
African mineral resources, only four African countries 
receive  more  than  a  3  per  cent  royalty  from  these 
multinational mining companies? The rest receive only 
a  3  per  cent  royalty  or  even  less.  In  the  case  of 
petroleum  exploitation,  few  African  countries  receive 
above a 15 per cent royalty. 

There  is  nothing African  countries  can  do  about 
this  because  these  locusts  have  an  absolute  monopoly 
of  the  technologies  used  in  the  extractive  industries. 
The  treaty  that  makes  it  impossible  for  us  to  do 
anything  about it is  called globalization, which means 
the  exploitation  of  poor 
third-world  countries’ 
resources  by  the  rich  first-world  countries.  With 
regards  to  the  drought  —  that  is,  the  debt  burden  — 
very  few  rich  countries  have  cancelled  the  debt  owed 
them  by 
third-world  countries.  This  excruciating 
burden of debt consumes 80 per cent of the 3 to 5 per 
cent left by the multinational companies. 

Our agricultural produce, such as tea, coffee and 
cocoa, is bought at prices fixed by the buyers, in most 
cases at an average price of less than $1 per kilo. The 
same  produce  is  then  sold  at  more  than  $15  per  kilo 
when  processed.  Thus,  for  every  kilogram  of  our 
agricultural produce worth $15 on the Western market, 
we  get  only  $1.  How  can Africa  develop  and  emerge 
from this abject poverty? 

African  resources  have  been  looted  continuously 
from the eleventh century to date. Everything in Africa 
that  the  locusts  set  their  eyes  on  is  looted  even  today. 
Even dead bodies have not been spared by the locusts. 
Graves  were  and  are  being  desecrated  and  human 
bodies  called  mummies  have  been  stolen  from Africa. 
In such a situation, where even Africans in their graves 
are not spared by these  rampaging locusts, who in his 
right  mind  could  expect  us  in  Africa  to  develop  and 
become rich? In Africa, “R.I.P.” on a tombstone, which 
normally  means  “Rest  In  Peace”,  has  never  been 
respected. “R.I.P.” really means “Respected If Poor” — 
that is, the body in the tomb will rest only if it was not 
buried with any precious jewellery. 

The  United  Nations  must  come  to  the  rescue  of 
Africa. Otherwise, we Africans stand ready to liberate 
ourselves  from this eternal bondage  at any cost. From 
now on, the African Union will work towards ensuring 
that  African  nations  and  our  farmers  receive  their 
rightful share of our God-given natural and agricultural 
resources.  We  will  no  longer  accept  less  than  65  per 
cent of the proceeds from our natural resources. 

We Africans  have  been  suffering  for  too  long  at 
the hands of Westerners and we will put an end to this. 
It  is African  sweat,  blood,  tears  and  natural  resources 
that  have  built  the  North  throughout  almost  five 
centuries  of  merciless  and  racist  exploitation  that 
continues  today.  Enough  is  enough.  Instead  of  being 
respected,  we  are  being  called  all  sorts  of  names  and 
given all sorts of unsolicited titles — dictators, corrupt 
leaders, failed States and even rogue States.  

We,  the  new  generation  of  African  leaders,  will 
seek  to  put  an  end  to  this  humiliating,  degrading  and 
racist  treatment  by  any  means  necessary.  The  world 
will  not  live  in  peace  and  security  as  long  as  this 
dehumanizing and racist status quo continues to prevail 
with regard to the continent of Africa and to Africans. 
We have been forced to endure this for far too long and 
now we are going to put an end to it, as we have ended 
apartheid  in  South  Africa,  by  force  if  necessary.  We 
will  defend  our  humanity,  our  dignity,  our  resources, 
our 
this  moment 
forward. 

HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis  are  killer 
diseases.  While 
reiterate  my 
delegation’s support for the work of the Global Fund in 
fighting  these  diseases,  I  wish  to  call  for  concerted 
efforts  to  mobilize  resources  to  support  international 
research on traditional medicine and alternative disease 
treatment programmes. These traditional systems are in 
most instances more cost-effective, yet they have been 
abandoned due to the sort of criticism that come from 
multinationals 
traditional 
interests  and  our  culture  from 
that  certain 
threatened 
I  would 
like 
to 
28 

09-52425 
international  cooperation  and  dialogue 


breakthroughs  would  be  detrimental  to  their  corporate 
existence  and  interests.  These  multinationals  value 
their  monetary  gains  more  than  human  life.  They 
should  not  be  allowed  to  hold  humanity  to  ransom. 
Their insatiable appetite for massive wealth at any cost 
has pushed them to the point of blindness, insensitivity 
to  human  suffering  and  the  loss  of  human  life  in  the 
developing world, especially in Africa. 

With  regard  to  international  peace  and  security, 
my  delegation  calls  once  again  for  stronger  and  more 
honest 
in 
addressing  conflict  prevention,  the  peaceful  resolution 
of  disputes  and  respect  for  the  cultural  values,  norms 
and ways of life of others. We must respect the fact that 
humanity was created to be diverse, just as planet Earth 
has  different  regions,  each  with  its  own  diverse 
climatic  and  ecological  system.  Therefore,  there  is 
bound  to  be  diversity  in  the  colour  of  our  skin, 
diversity  in  the  way  we  live  and  differences  in  our 
beliefs. Diverse as we may be, we are part  and parcel 
of  the  one  human  family  created  by  the  one  and  only 
God, Allah.  If  we  accept  the  principle  that  we  are  all 
human  beings  equal  before  the  only  God  that  created 
us,  and  that  differences  in  religion  and  skin  colour  do 
not make one person less human than another, then we 
will all live in perfect peace and harmony in this global 
village called the world. 
The  problem  is  that  some  play  God  and  believe 

that,  by  virtue  of  the  colour  of  their  skin,  they  are 
better  than  the  rest  of  humanity  and  therefore  should 
dictate  to  them  how  they  should  live  and  how  they 
should worship God. They impose their value systems 
on the rest of humanity. This unacceptable dictatorship 
is  the  source  of  all  the  world’s  major  conflicts  and  a 
contributing factor to persistent threats to world peace. 

Racism is on the rise. Extremist hate-mongers are 
increasing  in  number  and  rising  in  rank.  Instead  of 
being  condemned  as  criminals  and  terrorists,  they  are 
labelled  the  far  right,  neo-Nazis  or  supremacists,  and 
tolerated and even encouraged by the same Powers that 
would  happily  bomb  them  back  to  the  Stone  Age  if 
they were Muslim, black African or Asian. As long as 
this  status  quo  persists,  peace  and  security  will 
continue to be an elusive dream as people, rich or poor, 
Muslim  or  non-Muslim,  black  or Asian,  are  bound  to 
defend their human dignity at any price. 

My  delegation  therefore  calls  for  a  united  front 
against  this  dictatorship  of  a  few  over  the  rest  of 
A/64/PV.6
exploitation 
humanity. And in the interest of our collective security, 
the  United  Nations  should  see  to  the  total  elimination 
of  racism  and  hatred  in  all  their  forms,  whatever  it 
takes,  so  that  we  can  bequeath  to  the  generations  of 
humanity  yet  unborn  a  very  peaceful  and  prosperous 
world  devoid  of  destitution, 
and 
marginalization. 

In this context, my delegation would like to see a 
speedy resolution of the plight of the Palestinians. We 
call  on  the  State  of  Israel  to  accept  and  respect  the 
two-State solution that the international community has 
so  clearly  articulated  without  preconditions.  We  also 
urge the Security Council to ensure that its resolutions 
are  respected  by  all  States  and  enforced  to  the  letter 
and  spirit  by  the  United  Nations,  and  not  to  allow 
certain  States  to  choose  not  only  to  ignore  these 
resolutions,  but  to  violate  them  with  impunity,  while 
other States face drastic and devastating military action 
if  such  resolutions  are  adopted  against  them  and  they 
so much as ask for clarification. 

The  State  of  Israel  has  ignored  and  violated  all 
United  Nations  resolutions  and  conventions  with 
regard to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, not only with 
impunity,  but  also  with  the  support  and  protection  of 
certain world Powers, while other countries have paid a 
very  high  price  merely  for  not  having  fully  complied 
with a Security Council resolution. The Council should 
stop  employing  these  unfortunate  double  standards. 
The United Nations must not be turned into an “animal 
farm”. 

Secondly,  there  is  also  the  lingering  issue  of  the 
Republic of China on Taiwan. My delegation holds the 
position that Taiwan should be invited to participate in 
all  meetings  and  activities  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
International Civil Aviation Organization, among other 
bodies.  Taiwan  has  a 
full 
membership of all United Nations specialized agencies, 
since even non-governmental organizations have either 
full  membership  or  observer  status  in  those  agencies. 
Taiwan,  a  democratic  State  with  a  population  of 
23 million,  is  still  being  denied  this  fundamental 
human right, which the United Nations is supposed to 
uphold and protect in the first place.  

My  delegation  also  hereby  calls  on  the  United 
Nations  to  urge  the  United  States  of  America  to 
immediately  and  unconditionally  lift  its  embargo  on 
Cuba,  in  accordance  with  the  wishes  of  more  than 
to 
legitimate 
right 
09-52425 

29 

that 
the  proposal  of 
A/64/PV.6 

98 per cent of the membership of this body. That trade 
embargo continues to hurt Cuban women and children. 
The Cuban children born into those extreme hardships 
have  committed  no  crime.  The  punishment  of  women 
and  children  because  of  political  differences  is  a  very 
serious violation of their rights. 

Thirdly, my delegation renews its full support for 
the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Kingdom 
of Morocco. On the question of the Moroccan Sahara, 
we  remain  convinced 
the 
Moroccan  Government  to  grant  substantive  autonomy 
to  the  Saharan  region  on  the  basis  of  the  negotiations 
initiated  by  the  Security  Council  and  conducted  and 
agreed  by  the  parties  would  lead  to  a  lasting  and 
peaceful resolution of the conflict. 

Finally, my delegation has been following keenly, 
but  with  deep  dismay,  the  protracted  negotiations  on 
reform  of 
the  Security  Council  and  a  seeming 
connivance  to  prevent  such  reform. Africa  would  like 
to  see  Council  reform  undertaken,  with  balanced 
representation  of  all  continents  in  the  Council.  My 
delegation therefore urges the President of the General 
Assembly to make more effort on the issue during the 
sixty-fourth session and to ensure that the continent of 
Africa has at least two permanent seats on the Security 
Council  with  full  veto  powers;  if  it  does  not,  any 
resolution  adopted  by  the  Council  will  not  be  binding 
on Africa  or  any African  Union  member  State  by  the 
end  of  2010.  Africa,  a  continent  10  times  the  size  of 
Europe,  does  not  have  a  single  permanent  seat  on  the 
Security Council, while Europe has more than one. 

Africa  has  been  subjected  to  discrimination, 
marginalization, exploitation and humiliation for a very 
long  time.  We Africans  are  no  longer  going  to  accept 
that  status  quo.  We  will  put  an  end  to  it  very  soon. 
Members should take my words seriously. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Gambia  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Al  Hadji  Yahya  Jammeh,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  

30 


to 
Address by Mr. Fernando Lugo Méndez, President of 
the Republic of Paraguay 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Paraguay. 

Mr.  Fernando  Lugo  Méndez,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Fernando Lugo Méndez, President of the Republic 
of Paraguay, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Lugo  Méndez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

should  like  at  the  outset  to  express  my  sincerest 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his 
election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session.  I  also  wish  to  express  the  thanks 
of  the  delegation  of  Paraguay  to  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, President of the Assembly at its sixty-third 
session, for the progress made during his tenure.  
I  wish  to  begin  by  discussing  what  is  most 

important:  life.  I  cannot  forget  that,  while  the  first 
paragraph of the preamble of the Charter of the United 
Nations  states  that  our  peoples,  gathered  together,  are 
determined  to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the 
scourge of war, the murderous onslaught of warplanes 
has continued to kill, mutilate and traumatize children 
in  many  civilian  populations;  in  national  coffers, 
amounts  allocated  to  the  death  budget,  glibly  labelled 
“defence  expenditures”,  continue  to  swell;  and  the 
military 
the  world’s  most  powerful 
countries  continue  to  reap  the  most  lucrative  benefits 
without  any  questions  from  politicians  or  any  outrage 
on  the  part  of  the  international  news  networks,  in  a 
game  of  perverse  hypocrisy  that  is  undermining  our 
future with lies disguised as imposed truths. 

We  are  very  rigorous  in  estimating  the  high 
global costs  of containing and providing public health 
insurance  for  pandemics  such  as  H1N1  influenza.  But 
we  forget  that  our  “defence  expenditures”,  promoted 
by  the  great  weapons  industries  from  high,  snow-
covered summits of complacency, end up exchanging a 
container of vaccine for a rifle or a significant part of 
the public health budget for a warplane.  
The  United  Nations  was  born  to  promote  peace 

and to eradicate war. However, the voracious traffic in 
industries  of 
09-52425 
their 
future 
income  on 


arms  continues  to  pass  through  our  countries  with  its 
convoys  of  machine  guns,  missiles  and  grenades. 
Select regions of the world continue to be opportunistic 
enclaves  for  the  trade  of  the  merchants  of  death. 
Conflicts that mutilate, destroy and kill neighbours and 
condemn them forever to disgrace are at the same time 
opportunities  for  those  who  profit  by,  foment,  create 
and manage the business of war. 

Who  questions  the  bloodstained  bank  notes  that 
lie untouched in the vaults of the most powerful bank? 
We  are  face  to  face  in  this  Hall,  but  truly  we,  the 
Governments  of  the  countries  of  the  world,  rich,  poor 
and very poor, are face to face with history. If we could 
just  for  one  minute  believe  in  the  great  tenets  of 
equality  and  the  shared  rights  of  the  human  race,  it 
would  be  time  enough  to  ask  ourselves  the  question: 
How  much  longer  will  the  warlords  continue  to 
maximize 
the  physical 
elimination of human beings? 

My  country,  Paraguay,  declares  before  the  world 
that  we  are  absolutely  committed  to  peace.  My 
Government is not prepared to spend the cost of a loaf 
of  bread  on  weapons  or  war  machinery.  Any 
investment  in  defence  must  be  the  bare  minimum 
compared 
the 
Government. Paraguay will not pawn its daily bread to 
dance the blind waltz of the warlords.  

We  believe  that,  in  the  context  of  globalization, 
there should  be a call for  the creation  of a new world 
economic  order  capable  of  eliminating  the  sharp 
contrasts of the present and the clearly unequal access 
to  the  benefits  of  contemporary  development.  In  that 
respect,  I  should  like  to  describe  the  reality  of  life  in 
Paraguay  today.  Our  situation  is  essentially  very 
similar  to  that  of  other  countries  that  are  also  at  the 
mercy of serious socio-economic problems.  
A little more than a year ago, a historic transition 

occurred 
in 
tatters —  with  backward  and  obsolete  production 
mechanisms,  weak  democratic  institutions  rife  with 
corruption,  barely  credible  political  parties  and  a  lack 
of 
the 
decision-making process. Society was riven by serious 
contrasts, including about 40 per cent of the population 
living  in  poverty,  tens  of  thousands  of  unemployed, 
high  levels  of  migration,  and  unscrupulous  minorities 
who 
their 
illegitimate privileges.  
lived  well  and  sought 
left  our  economy 
expenditures  of 
in  Paraguay 
that 
to  perpetuate 
participation 
to 
the 
social 
in 
channels 
for 
civic 
A/64/PV.6

Those  traits  are  shared  by  the  majority  of 
countries represented here, which, over and above their 
individual  circumstances,  like  Paraguay  are  facing  the 
threefold  challenge  of  modernizing  their  economies, 
strengthening 
their  participatory  democracies,  and 
eliminating  serious  and  severe  social  inequities. As  in 
Paraguay,  in  all  poor  countries  the  causes  of  the 
scourges  we  have  suffered  can  be  traced  to  the 
entrenchment  of  systems  without  justice  or  equality 
that  ultimately  widen  the  gaps  between  the  rich 
countries and the poor. 

We have sought in vain to mask the failures of the 
policies  of  recent  decades  with  ostensibly  technical 
terms  that  do  little  to  describe  the  pathetic  global 
reality.  For  example,  we  speak  of  least  developed 
countries,  middle-income  countries  and  developing 
countries when the simple fact is that today we live in 
a world where there are countries that benefit until they 
can benefit no longer from world growth, while others 
are left behind and condemned to poverty. 

Since  the  United  Nations  was  established,  our 
unavoidable  obligation  has  been  to  proceed  fearlessly 
to change that reality. We must give serious thought to 
a  new  world  economic  order  with  simple  and  specific 
aims.  First,  we  must  promote  and  strengthen  small 
economies based on the fair and equitable distribution 
of  the  benefits  of  the  production  of  wealth.  We  must 
put  an  end  to  inequitable  trade  relationships  and 
develop  effective  policies  of  solidarity  with  those 
countries  that  endure  adverse  geographical  or  climate 
conditions.  

Secondly,  we  must  promote  the  healthy  political 
development of all nations of the world and ensure that 
the  most  powerful  countries  do  not  interfere  in  local 
affairs,  above  all  when  these  interventions  seek  to 
destabilize genuine democratic processes. I would like 
to  clearly  reaffirm  my  concern  over  events  in  the 
brotherly  Republic  of  Honduras  following  the  savage 
coup d’état that opened a gaping wound in the heart of 
our regional democracy. 

Thirdly,  we  must  promote  peaceful  solutions  to 
international  conflicts,  firmly  resolved  to  reduce  the 
alarming levels of militarization and armament.  

Fourthly, we must advocate an end to the harmful 
criminal  attacks  on  the  environment,  including  global 
warming  and  the  natural  disasters  that  occur  with 
increasing frequency. We the peoples of the South  are 
social, 
paying 
and  unsustainable 
the  growing 
09-52425 

31 

those  States 
A/64/PV.6 

environmental and financial costs of climate change. In 
the  meantime, 
that  bear  greatest 
responsibility  for  global  warming  are  not  shouldering 
their  obligations  or  the  growing  socio-environmental 
debt  that  they  generate.  They  are  perpetuating  and 
aggravating  a  clearly  unjust  situation  that  must  be 
reversed. As  a  matter  of  justice  and  urgency,  we  must 
heed  the  calls  of  the  most  vulnerable  people  on  the 
planet.  

Fifthly  and  finally,  we  must  promote  gender 
equality  and  put  an  end  to  discrimination  of  all  kinds 
based on sexual, political or ideological preferences or 
racial,  ethnic  or  religious  differences.  In  sum,  it  is  a 
matter of developing a better and more humane world 
on the way towards a kinder living environment that is 
more  supportive  and  much  more  in  keeping  with  the 
future of humankind.  

I  am  fully  aware  of  the  scope  of  the  challenge 
that I am suggesting. I am also completely aware of the 
difficulties that we will encounter in this epic fight, but 
in  the  twenty-first  century  we  cannot  continue  to 
overlook  an  in-depth  and  open  debate  on  realities  of 
concern. 

I  do  not  in  any  way  underestimate  the  relevant 
role that the United Nations has played in its relatively 
short existence in promoting world peace and equitable 
social  development,  but  we  must  not  ignore  the 
decades  of  failure  with  regard  to  comprehensive 
modernization,  much 
to  creatively  and 
resolutely  make  use  of  the  greatest  world  forum  of 
today. 

There  is  no  time  to  lose.  Historical  justice  and 
redress of the rich countries to the poor ones must be a 
priority on the agenda of the United Nations. In order 
for the United Nations to meet that important goal, we 
must  support  the  General Assembly’s  adoption  of  the 
necessary reforms, so as to reaffirm its inherent nature 
as a representative, democratic and equitable organ. We 
must  uphold  the  precedence  of  its  bodies  over  other 
internal  organs  of  the  Organization,  such  as  the 
Security Council, in order to underscore the processes 
that will help build that greatly desired social justice. 
The Security Council, as the organ entrusted with 

the  maintenance  of  world  peace,  must  also  be 
reformed,  not  only  so  as  to  give  it  greater  legitimacy 
by  increasing  its  representativeness,  but  also  so  as  to 
adopt  new  working  methods 
reflect  a  new 
multi-centred  world  order,  founded  on  relations  of 
less  fail 
to 
in  which 
cooperation,  solidarity  and  peace, 
the 
community  and  human  dignity  are  at  the  centre  of 
every decision.  

It is difficult  to say this in such a hallowed Hall 
but  it  is  worth  recalling  that,  at  this  very  moment, 
thousands  of  people  are  dying  of  hunger  in  the  world 
that  we  shape.  The  ease  with  which  television  news 
switches  between  pictures  of  pitiful 
children 
overpowered  by  appalling  hunger  and  figures  for  the 
brutal  arms  business  of  the  industrialized  countries 
exposes human indifference.  

Once  and  for  all,  we  must  believe  in  —  and 
create  —  a  different  planet  that  is  able  to  retrieve  its 
vast  natural  wealth,  having  put  an  end  to  the  terrible 
havoc wrought by petty interests. We must believe in a 
fairer  and  more  balanced 
international  economic 
system, in which the huge discrepancies are a thing of 
the  past.  I  believe  in  the  great  solidarity  of  human 
beings.  I  believe  in  the  dreams  of  great  leaders  who 
defiantly changed the world. I believe in Jesus Christ, 
in Gandhi and in Martin Luther King. 

Before ending my comments, I would like to take 
this  opportunity  to  set  out  some  clear  positions  on 
pressing matters that affect us. 

First, I would like to say that the economic crisis 
that  began  in  the  major  Powers  and  spread  worldwide 
has  had  serious  consequences  in  all  countries.  It  has 
brought  about  a  rapid  destruction  of  accumulated 
wealth.  Unemployment  has  risen  to  unprecedented 
levels.  The  number  of  poor  has  increased.  The  crisis 
has 
jeopardized  dozens  of  democratic  political 
processes.  

Secondly, I would like to resolutely state that the 
violent 
in 
Honduras 
the 
re-democratization  of  Latin  America.  Those  involved 
in  the  coup  who  dealt  a  resounding  blow  to  the 
honourable  face  of  the  continent’s  democracy  are 
responsible 
the 
tremendous  social  unrest  that  is  taking  place.  I  would 
like  to  state  my  explicit  solidarity  and  that  of  my 
people  with  Manuel  Zelaya  and 
the  people  of 
Honduras, who are bravely standing up to the effects of 
the coup. 

the 
Governments  represented  here  to  vigorously  condemn 
the  trade  embargo  that  the  largest  economy  in  the 
the  constitutional  process 
tremendous 
Thirdly,  I  would  ask 
the  peoples  and 
sacrifices  and 
for 
the  human 
setback 
for 
rupture 
is 
in 
a 
32 

09-52425 


world imposes on Cuba — another intolerable chapter 
that,  while  it  lasts,  undermines  the  credibility  of  any 
discussion  on  pluralism,  tolerance  and  humanism  in 
these  forums. We have  complete faith in a new vision 
that  breaks  with  the  past  and  its  uncompromising 
divisions. We  believe  that  the  hopes  of  Latin America 
and  the  Caribbean  with  regard  to  the  humanistic 
approach  towards  Cuba  of  the  new  leadership  of  the 
most  powerful  country  on  Earth  will  be  met  sooner 
than later. 

Fourthly  and  lastly,  I  would  like  to  state  open 
concern about the sinister currents circling in the world 
with  the  unbridled  arms  race  that  can  in  no  way  be 
justified and can only be welcomed by the industries of 
death  and  barbarity.  We  must  defuse  the  tensions  that 
foster  that  interest  in  weapons  and  we  must  urgently 
clarify the elements that obscure the prospect for peace 
throughout the world.  

I  reaffirm  the  commitment  of  my  small  and 
humble  country  to  supporting  any  and  all  initiatives 
that seek to build a better world for future generations.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Paraguay for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Fernando  Lugo  Méndez,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Mohamed Nasheed, President of the 
Republic of Maldives  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Maldives. 

Mr. Mohamed Nasheed, President of the Republic 
of  Maldives,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mohamed  Nasheed,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Maldives, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Nasheed:  I  should  like  to  begin  by 

extending to His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki 
my  delegation’s  warmest  congratulations  on  his 
election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
to 
A/64/PV.6
inspiring 
leadership  and  dedication 
sixty-fourth  session.  I  assure  him  of  the  full  support 
and  cooperation  of  my  delegation.  I  also  take  this 
opportunity to express our most profound appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for  the  exemplary  manner  in 
which he guided our work at the sixty-third session. 

I  should  also  like  to  record  my  delegation’s 
heartfelt  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his 
in 
promoting  the  noble  principles  and  ideals  of  this 
Organization. 

This  is  the  first  time  the  General  Assembly  has 
been  addressed  by  a  democratically  elected  President 
of  the  Maldives.  I  am  extremely  pleased  to  be  here.  I 
have spent many of the past General Assembly sessions 
locked  in  a  hot,  humid,  damp  cell  with  my  hands 
shackled  and  my  feet  bound,  imprisoned  for  my 
conviction  that  the  300,000  people  of  the  Maldives 
should  be  free  from  fear,  free  from  want  and  free  to 
live their lives in liberty and in dignity. 

I would like to thank the international community 
for  its  invaluable  support  in  securing  our  democratic 
transition.  Reformers  in  the  Maldives  and  our  friends 
in the United Nations should feel justifiably proud that 
our  island  home  was  able  to  mark  last  year’s  first 
International  Day  of  Democracy  in  the  best  possible 
way:  by  throwing  off  a  30-year-old  autocracy  and 
securing a smooth, peaceful and democratic transfer of 
power. 

Just as the international community played a key 
role  in  securing  the  Maldives’  democratic  transition, 
so, I hope, will it play a role in the even more difficult 
task  of  making  sure  our  democracy  becomes  a 
permanent feature rather than a passing illusion. All of 
us  who  care  about  the  Maldives  and  believe  in 
democracy  bear  an  enormous  responsibility  to  ensure 
that  the  beliefs  we  fought  for  are  set  in  stone  rather 
than written in sand. 
There are three areas in which the Maldives seeks 

the  help  of  the  international  community.  The  first  is 
continued  collaboration  in  democracy-building.  We 
must work together to strengthen the various pillars of 
a  democratic  society,  namely  protection  of  human 
rights, good governance, independent oversight bodies, 
a  free  press  and  civil  society. The  Maldives  has  made 
enormous  progress  on  all  of  those  pillars,  but  much 
remains  to  be  done.  My  sense  is  that  the  necessary 
foundations are now in place. The separation of powers 
09-52425 

33 

A/64/PV.6 

has been established by constitutional reform. A range 
of  independent  agencies  and  commissions  have  now 
been  set  up.  We  have  a  thriving  independent  media. 
Nevertheless,  several  crucial  challenges  still  remain, 
and we look forward to the support of the international 
community  as  we  move  to  meet  these  challenges.  In 
particular,  I  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of 
ensuring  the  equality  of  women  and  men,  not  just  in 
name, but in practice. 

The  second  way  in  which  the  international 
community  can  help  consolidate  democracy  and  the 
rule  of  law  in  the  Maldives  is  by  promoting  a 
conducive  economic  environment.  As  a  small,  open 
market  economy  that  is  heavily  dependent  on  tourism 
and  fishery  exports,  the  Maldives  has  suffered  badly 
from  the  current  global  recession.  Moreover,  since 
assuming  office,  we  have  come  to  understand  that,  in 
the  run-up  to  last  year’s  election,  the  former  regime 
engaged  in  highly  irresponsible  economic  policies  in 
the  hope  of  buying  their  way  to  victory.  Add  to  this 
picture our continued efforts to recovery from the 2004 
tsunami,  our  impending  graduation  from  the  least 
developed  country  category  and  the  high  oil  and  food 
prices  of  recent  years,  and  the  scale  of  the  economic 
challenge  facing  the  new  Government  becomes  very 
apparent. 

The  new  Government  is  determined  to  confront 
this  challenge  with  honesty  and  with  vigour.  In 
consultation  with  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF)  and  the  World  Bank,  we  have  embarked  on  a 
programme  of  major  economic  reform  designed  to 
reduce  the  bloated  public  sector,  privatize  public 
utilities  and  promote  private  enterprise  and  trade.  Yet 
the  scale  of  the  problems  we  face  means  we  cannot 
succeed  on  our  own. We  therefore  look  to  our  friends 
in the international  community to help us get back on 
our feet. We are very grateful for the support extended 
to us by the IMF and the Indian Government, to name 
but  two  of  our  partners.  However,  more  is  needed  if 
democracy  and  human  rights  are  to  coexist  with 
economic stability and prosperity. 

international 
in  which 
community can and must help the Maldives consolidate 
democracy  and  establish  a  secure,  prosperous  and 
equitable  society  is  by  taking  urgent  and  effective 
action  to  tackle  climate  change.  The  threats  posed  to 
the  Maldives  from  climate  change  are  well  known. 
Every  beach  lost  to  rising  seas,  every  house  lost  to 
storm  surges,  every  reef  lost  to  increasingly  warm 
third  way 
The 
the 
to 
for 
sign  a  death  warrant 
just  about  save  ourselves 
waters, every job lost as fish stocks dwindle and every 
life  lost to more frequent  extreme  weather events  will 
make it harder and harder to govern the country, until a 
point  is  reached  when  we  must  consider  abandoning 
our homeland. 

I  therefore  call  on  you,  the  leaders  of  the  world, 
to  protect  the  future  of  frontline  countries  like  the 
Maldives  by  reaching  an  ambitious  and  effective 
agreement  at  December’s  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) conference 
in  Copenhagen  which  seeks  to  limit  average  global 
temperature  increases  to  less  than  1.5  centigrade 
degrees  above  pre-industrial  levels.  To  do  otherwise 
would  be 
the 
300,000 Maldivians.  

But  the  Maldives  is  determined  to  do  what  we 
can to survive. We are going to be the first country to 
go carbon neutral, in 10 years’ time. In order to do that, 
we  are  determined  to  formulate  a  survival  kit:  a 
carbon-neutral  manual  that  would  enable  others  to 
replicate  our  actions,  in  order  that  all  of  us  together 
might 
from  climate 
catastrophe. 

As part of our efforts to achieve a unified voice, I 
will  be  inviting  some  of  the  most  vulnerable  States 
affected  by  climate  change  to  the  Maldives.  We  hope 
that 
reinforce  our 
determination to leave no stone unturned to ensure our 
survival.  

I should now like to touch on a number of other 
important issues which are of enormous concern to us. 
The  Maldives  abhors  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  is 
determined  to  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder  with  all 
countries in facing down this menace. Events over the 
past  year  in  Afghanistan,  Pakistan  and  India,  our 
neighbours  and  partners  in  South  Asia,  show  us  that 
victory  in  this  fight  will  not  be  easy  to  achieve. They 
also  show  us  that  to  effectively  tackle  terrorism  we 
must  reaffirm  and  not  dilute  our  commitments  to 
human  rights,  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  good 
governance. 

While  we  applaud  recent  efforts  to  reform  and 
revitalize  the  United  Nations,  we  believe  that  such 
reforms  cannot  be  successful  or  complete  without  the 
much-anticipated  and  much-needed  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  We  strongly  believe  that  the  third 
round  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  must  produce  tangible  results.  I  call 
that  November  summit  will 
34 

09-52425 
A/64/PV.6
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Maldives for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr. Mohamed Nasheed, President of the Republic 
of  Maldives,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 


to  use 


upon  the  Assembly  to  complete  this  task  during  the 
sixty-fourth  session  and  come 
to  agreement  on 
increases  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
membership  of  the  Council.  In  terms  of  composition, 
we  believe  that  the  geo-political  realities  of  the 
contemporary  world  must  be  duly  reflected  in  the 
membership of the Council. Therefore, we support the 
inclusion of India and Japan as permanent members. 

The  new  Government  of  Maldives  is  determined 
to  pursue  friendly  and  mutually  respectful  relations 
with  every  country  represented  in  this  Hall.  However, 
any  friendship  must  include  a  willingness  to  be  frank 
with  one  another  and  to  object  to  behaviour  not 
befitting a sovereign State. 

We believe dialogue and constructive engagement 
serve  the  cause  of  peace  better  than  ostracism  and 
isolation. The  new  Government  in  Maldives  will  look 
to  renew  relations  with  Israel  and 
the 
relationship to reiterate our support for an independent 
and  sovereign  Palestinian  homeland,  in  conformity 
with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. 

Maldives is seeking election to the Human Rights 
Council  during  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly because we firmly believe in the universality 
of  human  rights  and  their  critical  importance  to 
achieving  the  noble  goals  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter. 

Standing  at  this  rostrum,  I  must  admit how,  as  a 
prisoner,  I  was  inspired  by  the  courage  and  vision  of 
Aung  San  Suu  Kyi  of  Burma.  Today  I  would  like  to 
echo 
the  Secretary-General  for  her 
immediate  and  unconditional  release  along  with  all 
other  political  prisoners.  I  also  reiterate  my  strident 
support for the work assigned to Mr. Ibrahim Gambari, 
the United Nations Special Envoy to Burma, and say a 
prayer for political prisoners everywhere. 

In  conclusion,  I  must  say  that  the  most  critical 
test  so  far  of  the  resoluteness  of  the  international 
community to save itself will come during Mr. Treki’s 
watch  as  President  of  this Assembly:  the  Copenhagen 
meeting  in  December.  We  must  prime  ourselves  to 
succeed at that conference. Between now and then, we 
must all use every opportunity, every debate, and every 
encounter to achieve that goal. It is imperative that we 
succeed.  If  we  want  to  save  the  world,  I  suggest  that 
saving Maldives is a very good starting point. 
the  call  of 
to 
Address by Mr. Álvaro Colom Caballeros, President 
of the Republic of Guatemala 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Guatemala. 

Mr.  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  
Mr.  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
President Colom Caballeros (spoke in Spanish): 

At the outset, I would like to salute Mr. Ali Treki, our 
President  and  a  distinguished  diplomat.  I  wish  him 
much  success  in  leading  the  deliberations  of  this 
session. At the same time, I would like to express our 
admiration  and  respect  for  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, who led the Assembly at its last session. 
to 

My  presence  highlights  our  commitment 
multilateralism in general and to the United Nations in 
particular. I salute Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and 
reiterate  to  him  our  appreciation  for  his  management. 
Allow  me 
the  Guatemalan  people 
appreciate  and  value  the  presence  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  try  to  reciprocate,  in  part  with  our 
participation in various peacekeeping operations. 
I would like to touch briefly on some topics that 

are  at  the  heart  of  our  concerns  but  that  at  the  same 
time have an important international dimension. 

First,  like  the  other  countries  of  our  region, 
Guatemala  has  been  strongly 
the 
international economic and financial crisis. This fact is 
reflected in the value and volume of our exports, in the 
level  of  family remittances and  especially  in  the  level 
of  economic  activity,  employment  and  tax  collection. 
impacted  by 
to  say  how 
09-52425 

35 

the  aforementioned  effects  of 
A/64/PV.6 

In  more  general  terms,  the  crisis  has  made  it  more 
difficult  for  us  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

To make matters worse, our efforts to mitigate the 
impact of the crisis have been partially annulled by an 
irregular  climatic  event,  as  we  are  suffering  the  worst 
drought  in  the  last  thirty  years. This  phenomenon  has 
affected  the  harvest  of  basic  grains  and  has  had  a 
serious  impact  on  the  poorest  regions  of  our  country. 
Because  of  this,  I  decided  to  declare  a  state  of 
emergency.  The  disaster  is  not  just  because  of  the 
drought,  but  also  an  historic  disaster,  striking  the 
poorest  people  in  our  country,  whom  our  Government 
is aiming to lift from extreme poverty. 

This  situation  illustrates  one  of  the  manifold 
manifestations  of  climate  change  occurring  in  diverse 
regions,  and  it  comes  on  top  of  the  burden  of  the 
regressive  effects  we  experienced  during  the  first  half 
of  2008,  in  the  double  crises  of  energy  and  food, 
followed  by 
the 
economic  crisis.  Unfortunately,  the  adverse  effects  of 
this situation disproportionately affect those sectors of 
the population with less capacity and less income. The 
picture is complicated by the fact that the imperative of 
the  State  to  address  the  people’s  needs  is  severely 
restricted by fiscal considerations. 

Nevertheless, we are not sitting on our hands, far 
from  it.  We  have  surged  forward  with  a  dynamic  and 
strong  social  cohesion  programme.  Today,  more  than 
half  a  million  families  are  covered  by  programmes  in 
the  poorest  and  most  excluded  regions  of  the  country. 
Today,  I  note  with  real  satisfaction  that  in  only 
18 months  since  our Administration  began,  our  health 
indicators  —  all  of  the  health  indicators  —  have 
improved to an extraordinary extent. 

improved.  For 
indicators  have 
example, this year enrolment increased by 37 per cent 
in  secondary  education,  by  9  per  cent  in  primary 
education  and  by  27  per  cent  in  preschool.  Now  we 
have the problem of schools that cannot cope with the 
number of children, but we prefer that  problem to not 
having  children  in  school. This  means  that  there  is  an 
urgent need to build more than 14,400 classrooms over 
the  next  14  months,  but  we  prefer  that  to  having 
children on the streets or working. 

that  we  have 
received in this effort is important, and we would like 
to  recognize  here  the  support  of  the  Inter-American 
Education 
The 
international  cooperation 
36 

Development  Bank,  the  World  Bank  and  the  Central 
American Bank for  Economic Integration, which  have 
helped us with our efforts to build social cohesion and 
to  support  the  indigenous  people  who  constitute  our 
population. 

I  wish  to  sincerely  express  our  total  conviction 
with regard to the change that we all must make. It is a 
change of attitude, a change of will, as President Lula 
said  yesterday.  It  is  important  that  we  see  the  birth  of 
this  new  international  order,  this  new  order  of  justice 
and equity.  

The  drought  in  Guatemala  exacerbated  abject 
poverty,  but  a  solution  to  drought  will  not  resolve  the 
poverty situation in the country, because it is structural 
and  historical,  resulting  from  50  years  of  neglect  of 
rural populations and our indigenous peoples.  

We  will  follow  with  interest  the  deliberations  of 
the  Group  of  20,  which  is  meeting  this  very  day  in 
Pittsburgh. We trust that that exclusive forum will also 
take into account the concerns of countries with small 
and  medium-sized  economies.  In  addition,  we  support 
the  efforts  being  promoted  within  the  multilateral 
international  financial 
the  United 
Nations  to  improve  their  capacity  to  help  developing 
countries  and  to  address  the  crisis.  That  is  why  our 
country is seriously promoting the capitalization of the 
Inter-American  Development  Bank  and  our  regional 
financial  organization,  the  Central American  Bank  for 
Economic Integration.  
I  should  like  to  mention  the  lack  of  security  in 

is  being  assaulted  by 
our  country.  Our  country 
organized crime, and our Government, within the space 
of a year and a half, has begun a merciless war against 
it. In this forum, I wish to express my appreciation for 
the  magnificent  cooperation  and  support  that  we  have 
received,  particularly  from  Colombia,  Panama  and 
Mexico,  to  attack  and  staunch  the  scourge  of  drug 
trafficking and to begin a process of eliminating it.  
I  also  wish  to  inform  the  Assembly  with  great 

satisfaction that, in terms of seizures of cocaine alone, 
we  have  seen  a  700  per  cent  increase  compared  with 
the  same  period  under  the  previous  Government; 
seizures of marijuana have risen fifteenfold, and poppy 
eradication  has  increased  by  300  per  cent  during  the 
same  period.  Our  efforts  against  drug  trafficking  are 
definitive  and  resolute,  but  we  recognize  that  it  is  a 
phenomenon  that  must  be  attacked  at  the  regional 
level.  That  is  why  we  are  working  closely  with  the 
institutions  and 
09-52425 


fraternal country of Mexico and our Central American 
brothers to address it directly and regionally. 

The problem of drug trafficking has had a serious 
impact  on  Guatemala.  For  more  than  eight  years,  the 
country  was  handed  over  to  organized  crime  — 
specifically,  drug  trafficking  —  leaving  territories  and 
trafficking  corridors  more  unprotected 
than  ever 
before.  The  national  army  was  reduced  beyond  the 
level  mandated  by  peace  agreements,  and  territorial 
control  was  suspended.  The  National  Civilian  Police 
were  seriously  compromised  by  drug 
traffickers, 
becoming corrupt and dishonest.  

However,  thanks  to  the  United  Nations  and  the 
presence  of  the  International  Commission  against 
Impunity in Guatemala — a United Nations exercise in 
Guatemala,  unique  in  the  world  —  we  have  support 
and advice for our Public Ministry, and our prosecutors 
and are making significant progress. For the first time 
in  Guatemala’s  history,  one  of  the  drug-trafficking 
bosses is a fugitive, and we will capture him very soon. 
The  notorious  drug-trafficking  families  have  never 
been sent such a strong message.  
We  have  also  imprisoned  10  murder  suspects 

connected to the 10 May crisis. I take this opportunity 
to  thank  this  forum,  the  United  Nations,  for  the 
unrestricted  support  provided 
to  my  Government 
during the crisis. I am confident that the efforts of the 
International  Commission 
in 
Guatemala  will 
that 
despicable  crime  and  that  the  truth  will  be  found  and 
justice done. What could have become a technical coup 
d’état  has  become  a  genuine  example  of  justice  and 
truth.  I  am  sure  that  my  Government,  which  has 
ensured  the  total  independence  of  this  investigation, 
will get to the heart of the matter and that the truth will 
soon be found. 

We  have  worked  hard  on  the  security  of  our 
citizens,  and  I  recognize  that  it  is  a  long  and 
complicated  process.  Here  again,  the  assistance  of  the 
International  Commission  is  essential,  and  we  believe 
that  this  experience  will  be  effectively  used  by  our 
Public  Ministry,  which  has  already  begun  the  process 
of re-engineering and restructuring itself.  

I  should  like  to  mention  the  case  of  Honduras, 
our  fraternal  neighbouring  country.  From  the  very 
beginning,  Guatemala  has  supported  a  return 
to 
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  in  Honduras.  Nowhere 
in  the  world,  much  less  in  Central America  —  where 
Impunity 
the  masterminds  of 
against 
reach 
A/64/PV.6
democracy  has  cost  us  so  many  lives  and  where  so 
many deaths and, in the case of Guatemala, massacres, 
have  affected  us  —  can  we  allow  a  President  to  be 
deposed  at  gunpoint  and  fail  to  use  democratic  and 
legal mechanisms. We will accept nothing less than the 
return  of  President  Zelaya  to  power  so  that  the 
elections  in  Honduras  can  be  carried  out  legitimately 
and our Honduran brothers can soon live in peace and 
tranquillity. Our Government has been unsparing in its 
support for President Zelaya, and I am sure that we will 
see  Central  America  return  to  its  natural  rhythm  of 
integration,  democratic  development  and  democratic 
security. 

I  should  also  like  to  highlight  our  adherence  to 
nearly  all  human  rights  mechanisms,  principles  and 
norms  within  and  outside  Guatemala.  We  are  a 
multi-ethnic, pluri-cultural and multilingual nation. We 
have  a  beautiful  108,000-square-kilometre  country 
with  23  cultures  and  23  peoples  sharing  the  blessed 
land that God gave us. That is why we are committed 
to  promoting  the  strengthening  of  the  participation  of 
all the indigenous peoples of Guatemala in terms of our 
daily life, development, peace and security. 

We  have  adopted  a  law  on  free  access  to 
information,  with  very  few  problems,  which  has 
guaranteed  free  access  to  all  State  information  except 
that  related  to  security  matters  and  foreign  relations. 
That  is  why  we  wish  to  stress  the  need  to  strengthen 
the  mechanisms  for  human  rights  and  arms  control.  I 
believe 
to  arm 
themselves  for  defence,  but  I  do  not  agree  that  our 
countries  should  be  arms-trafficking  corridors.  I  also 
believe  that  countries  exporting  armaments  should  be 
more  careful  and  have  more  controls  and  standards 
with  regard  to  the  entire  weapons  trade.  Our  country, 
my  Government,  has  increased  its  seizures  of  illegal 
weapons  almost  tenfold,  but  we  still  have  much  work 
ahead  of  us.  Meanwhile,  many  innocent  people  are 
dying  as  a  result  of  drug  trafficking,  smuggling  and 
organized crime.  

Let  us  make  progress  in  the  definition  of  the 
concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  our  respective 
populations  from  genocide  and  war  crimes,  which  we 
have  already  endured;  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes 
against  humanity,  from  which  Guatemala  suffered 
greatly for 36 years.  

I  wish  to  express  my  total  conviction  that  the 
United  Nations  must  be  constantly  renewed  and 
that  countries  have 
the  freedom 
09-52425 

37 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
to 



A/64/PV.6 

adapted to today’s needs. Our civilization is changing. 
This is a crisis not just of energy or finance or climate; 
it is a crisis of values, of principles. The financial crisis 
is a crisis of values and principles, and we are paying 
for  it  with  the  poverty  of  our  people. That  is  why  we 
need  better  adaptation  of 
the  United  Nations 
mechanisms  so  we  can  really  get  to  the  bottom  —  al 
grano,  as  we  say  in  Guatemala  —  of  the  problems  of 
poverty  and  inequality,  to  strengthen  democracy  and 
the rule of law. 

I have the honour to be familiar with the Mayan 
cosmic  vision,  and  I  am  quite  sure  that  in  2012,  the 
transformation of civilization it prophesied will begin. 
This is a very ancient prophecy and it will be fulfilled, 
just as all the others have been. We will enter an era of 
great humanity and great human strength. And America 
is  also  changing.  If  you  look  at  the  Americas  today, 
they  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  way  they  were 
10 years  ago.  Democracy,  although  it  has  problems, 
has improved and been strengthened, thank heaven. 

We  support  United  Nations  and  Organization  of 
American  States  (OAS)  resolutions  with  regard  to 
Honduras, and I am also happy to affirm that we have 
made very concrete progress in honourably ending our 
historical dispute with our brother nation of Belize. In 
December,  under  the  good  offices  of  the  OAS,  both 
Governments signed a special agreement, which, prior 
to  complying  with  the  domestic  ratification  processes 
of  our  Congresses,  commits  us  to  seek  a  juridical 
settlement  through  the  International  Court  of  Justice. 
We  hope  that,  through  these  internal  procedures,  we 
will be able to proceed to plebiscites in both countries, 
in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the  dispute  with  our  brother 
country of Belize. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  with  some  very  brief 
reflections  on  our  Organization  and  its  agenda  for  the 
future. I would like it to continue to give priority to the 
poor,  those  with  limited  incomes,  children,  young 
people living in the mountains of our countries who do 
not  have  access  to  health  care,  education  or  drinking 
water. The drought and the malnutrition we are seeing 
among  our  children  in  Guatemala  are  nothing  more 
than  the  product  of  historical  injustice.  If  all  of  us  in 
the United Nations share in this fight to help those who 
have  so  little,  I  am  sure  that  we  will  have  more  for 
everyone.  The  more  we  support  those  who  have  less, 
the  more  we  will  all  have  in  the  end.  I  hope  that  this 
Assembly session reaches a fruitful conclusion. 
to 
to  convey  my  congratulations 
Address by Mr. René Préval, President of the 
Republic of Haiti 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Haiti. 

Mr.  René  Préval,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. René  Préval,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Haiti, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Préval (spoke in French): Allow me at 

the  outset 
the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  wish  him 
very fruitful work. 
Can  you  imagine  a  General Assembly  where  the 

representatives of States and Governments who follow 
one another on this rostrum would bring us only good 
news, inform us that our world is doing better and that 
most  development  indicators  are  at  their  best  level 
ever? We are very far indeed from such an ideal. 

It would even seem that, in addition to numerous 
crises  of  all  kinds  —  food,  energy,  financial  and  so 
forth  —  that  are  already  exacting  a  very  high  toll  on 
our  populations,  some  of  us  must  now  get  used  to 
recurrent  upheavals  resulting  from  natural  disasters. 
Each  time,  we  have  to  rebuild  the  same  ruined 
infrastructure;  we  have  to  restore  the  same  productive 
capacities that have been swept away by cyclones and 
floods.  And,  for  lack  of  sufficient  resources,  the 
reconstruction  process  is  never  launched  in  time.  We 
find  we  are  having  to  prepare  for  the  return  of  these 
disasters even before our  communities have recovered 
from the previous ones. This, evidently, is the new life 
cycle  that  vulnerable  countries  such  as  ours  must  be 
prepared for. With, of  course, insufficient resources  at 
their disposal. 
38 

09-52425 
irresponsibly, 



This  situation  is  no  accident.  It  is  the  direct 
consequence  of  a  development  and  governance  model 
that  nations  recognized  as  powerful  have  imposed  on 
the rest of the world for centuries: a development and 
governance  model  that  is  largely  concerned  with  the 
welfare  of  money  and  too  little  with  the  welfare  of 
people;  a  development  model  that,  even  in  very  rich 
countries,  imposes  a  precarious  existence  on  major 
sections  of  the  population,  which  lack  health  care, 
decent housing and even a good education. 

Why should the whole of  humankind accept that 
half the inhabitants of our planet should live with these 
privations,  in  hunger  and  misery,  with  no  prospect  of 
improvement in their situation? Why should the whole 
that  our  planet  should  be 
of  humankind  accept 
endangered 
that  species  should  be 
condemned  to  extinction  or  that,  through  climate 
change,  our  populations 
should  become  more 
vulnerable  to  natural  disasters  merely  because  of 
selfish  economic  choices  by  a  small  minority  of 
polluters? 

What  substance  can  we  give  to  our  membership 
in this human community that the United Nations seeks 
to  champion? To  paraphrase  George  Orwell,  beyond  a 
certain  level  of  inequality,  there  is  no  common  world 
anymore. The glaring inequalities that characterize our 
countries’ situations are an obstacle to the formation of 
the great family that the United Nations should be. 

The time has come to oppose the globalization of 
profit  at  any  price,  which  has  become  the  new  credo, 
and  to  replace  it  with  the  globalization  of  solidarity, 
which  alone  will  ensure  the  eradication  of  poverty,  as 
required by this Assembly.  

Here,  I  should  reiterate  to  members  that  the  true 
vehicle for peace, stability and security is development. 
The  aid  received  by  our  countries  will  be  ineffective 
and  a  source  of  great  frustration  for  donors  and 
beneficiaries  unless  it  is  part  of  a  plan  to  create  and 
develop the productive potential of our countries. That 
is  the  only  way  to  put  an  end  to  the  cycle  of  poverty 
and dependence. 

Haitians,  like  many  other  peoples  of  the  South, 
are  a  hardworking,  clever  and  entrepreneurial  people 
equipped  with  great  resilience  forged  by  dealing  with 
daily  setbacks  and  able  to  utilize  to  the  extreme  and 
optimize  the  scant  resources  made  available  to  them. 
Our  peoples  yearn  to  mobilize  that  potential  and  that 
capacity to take the path of sustainable development.  
A/64/PV.6
the 

Developing  our  countries  is  thus  a  possible 
endeavour.  However,  all  the  efforts  under  way  could 
remain ineffective unless we are able to develop a new 
paradigm  for  international  cooperation  —  a  paradigm 
requiring  that  we  transcend  the  logic  of  human 
assistance  and  recognize  the  capacity  of  poor  peoples 
to  engage  in  business  and  produce  wealth,  using  the 
means  and  opportunities  afforded  them  to  strengthen 
their  productive  capacity.  Without  such  a  new  vision, 
which  breaks  with 
culture  of  perpetual 
humanitarian  assistance,  peace  and  stability  will 
remain precarious and fleeting achievements.  

Permit  me  to  add  a  few  words  about  Haiti, 
because my country is the focus of particular attention 
by  the  Security  Council.  Over  the  past  three  years, 
despite  the  negative  effects  of  numerous  international 
crises  on  our  economy,  significant  progress  has  been 
made, in particular in the areas of security, respect for 
human  rights,  the  investment  climate,  eliminating 
corruption  and  building  a  friendly  society  in  which 
dialogue  occupies  a  central  place,  supported  and 
reported  on  by  totally  free  and  independent  media. 
That progress must be deepened and expanded. That is 
why United Nations support is necessary for us.  

the 
Secretary-General  recommended  that  the  mandate  of 
the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti 
(MINUSTAH)  be  extended  for  another  year.  That 
proposal is most welcome, and we fully endorse it. We 
are convinced that the right balance among its military, 
police  and  administrative  components  will  best  place 
MINUSTAH  to  assist  our  country  more  effectively  in 
consolidating  an  atmosphere  of  peace  and  stability, 
without making it indifferent to our struggle to rebuild 
and  to  reduce  poverty  and  vulnerability.  I  thank  the 
Secretary-General for having chosen Bill Clinton as his 
Special  Envoy  to  our  country.  I  also  thank  the  former 
President,  a  friend  of  Haiti,  for  having  agreed  to  help 
us.  
Many  summits  organized  under  United  Nations 

auspices produce resolutions and commitments that are 
consigned  to  oblivion  or  indifference  when  the  time 
comes 
shared 
responsibility to work to ensure that this general debate 
is not pure ritual in which, from this lofty rostrum, we 
use 
ideas  about  major 
international issues, express our good intentions, make 
tempting  promises  and  leave  again  without  any  real 
the  Security  Council, 
share  our 
In  his  report 
to 
rhetoric 
to 
is  our 
to 
implement 
them. 
It 
09-52425 

39 

A/64/PV.6 

desire  to  take  appropriate  measures  to  keep  our 
commitments.  

For  example,  will  we  accept  the  fact  that  the 
President  of  Honduras, 
José  Manuel  Zelaya, 
legitimately elected by his people, has been deposed by 
the  military  and  that  the  many  resolutions  adopted  by 
various  regional  organizations  condemning  that  coup 
d’état  remain  dead  letters?  Similarly,  every  year  for 
more  than  15  years  now,  the  General  Assembly  has 
adopted  a  resolution  condemning  the  embargo  against 
the  Cuban  people.  The  continuation  of  that  embargo 
runs counter to all the values that we promote to make 
international  trade  a  tool  for  human  development. 
When will rhetoric be replaced by action? 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Haiti for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr.  René  Préval,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.  


to 
Address by Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the 
Republic of Senegal 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Senegal. 

Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of 
Senegal, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Abdoulaye  Wade,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Wade  (spoke  in  French):  We  are 

meeting  once  again,  but  this  time  at  a  moment  when 
humankind  is  facing  many  problems,  each  as  difficult 
as the others, as if they had been planned to coincide: 
the agriculture crisis, the financial and economic crisis, 
environmental peril and tenacious, deadly diseases. Be 
that  as  it  may,  we  are  destined  to  prevail.  There  is 
simply no other option. We must and we can succeed. 
The numerous deliberations about these problems at all 
levels 
the 
dangers to us and succeeding generations. 
increasing  awareness  of 
illustrate  our 
tribute 
I  also  pay 
its  capacity  for 
Believing fundamentally as I do in the genius of 

humankind  and 
imagination  and 
creativity  in  extricating  itself  from  the  most  difficult 
situations, I am both optimistic and aware of the price 
that will have to be paid. This is what we are called on 
to do here and elsewhere. The only question is how to 
coordinate the numerous elements required to expedite 
the rescue mission. 

Before  going  any  further,  however,  I  should  like 
warmly to congratulate Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, who 
has  been  charged  with  guiding  the  work  of  this  sixty-
fourth session of the General Assembly. I have known 
Mr. Treki for a long time, and Senegal is delighted by 
his election and expresses its confidence in his human 
and  professional  qualities,  which  will  bolster  the 
success of his mission.  

to  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third session, for his contributions to the effort to 
revitalize 
the  Assembly.  His  commitment  and 
dynamism  are  well  known.  I  have  admired  his 
intelligence, his lively wit and the sensitivity he shows 
in  his  relations  with  others. To  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon, Senegal reiterates its support for his delicate 
task  in  the  face  of  the  many  and  urgent  issues  facing 
the Organization. 

This sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly 
has  begun  at  a  time  of  multifaceted  turmoil.  The 
economic  and  financial  crisis,  the  scale  of  which  has 
the 
surprised  many  observers,  reveals  above  all 
deadlock 
theory. 
In 
highlighting  the  inadequacy  of  our  analytical  and 
predictive  abilities,  it  calls  for  a  broader  sense  of 
shared  responsibility  both  for  the  management  of  its 
immediate  effects  and  for  the  search  for  long-term 
responses. In seeking solutions, let us be careful not to 
make  the  mistake  of  falling  back  on  received  wisdom 
and  ready-made  answers.  Be  it  in  the  sphere  of  the 
environment,  political  and  economic  governance  or 
development,  the  world  must  find  a  new  way  of 
thinking  and  acting,  and  thereby  address  the  need  to 
change our outlook. 

Having myself argued, often strongly, for the full 
participation  of  Africa  in  the  conversation  on  world 
governance,  I  welcome  the  progressively  expanded 
cooperative  framework  of  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8) 
and  the  Group  of  20  (G-20).  I  only  regret  that  my 
proposal  to  establish  a  shadow  G-20,  made  up  of  the 
in  contemporary  economic 
40 

09-52425 


world’s greatest experts but open to all those who bring 
new ideas, has not yet been put into practice. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


Clearly, the world’s heads of State, elected on the 
basis  of  political  criteria,  cannot  miraculously 
transform  themselves  into  universal  polymaths.  They 
must hold to their political and even strategic role, and 
rely on the superior knowledge of experts. It is through 
dialogue  open  to  all  that  we  will  be  able  to  grasp  the 
diversity  of  our  respective  situations  and  apply  real-
world  answers  to  real-world  problems.  It  is  therefore 
fitting that the theme of this sixty-fourth session should 
be “Effective responses to global crises: strengthening 
multilateralism  and  dialogue  among  civilizations  for 
international peace, security and development”. 

The current challenges, both complex and global 
in  nature,  call  strongly  for  innovative  and  concerted 
solutions  if  we  are  to  succeed.  That  is  especially  true 
for problems of agriculture and food security. If we are 
to achieve on schedule Millennium Development Goal 1, 
to halve by 2015 the number of people suffering from 
hunger, we must put into practice a different approach 
to  international  cooperation,  one  based  on  support  for 
agriculture instead of food assistance, which should be 
used  only  as  an  emergency  response  to  exceptional 
circumstances.  
to  promote 

sustainable food security in Africa necessarily involves 
water  management,  the  availability  of  equipment, 
producers’ access to inputs and a sound organization of 
chains  of  production,  storage,  processing  and  sales  of 
agricultural  products.  That  is  why  Senegal  hopes  that 
these  essential  questions  —  and  others,  such  as  the 
regulation  of  agricultural  markets  and  scientific 
research  to 
increase  productivity  —  will  take  a 
prominent  place  on  the  agenda  of  the  Summit  of  the 
World’s  Regions  on  Food  Security,  to  be  held  in 
January  2010  in  Dakar,  and  of  the  Global  Partnership 
for Agriculture and Food Security proposed by the G-8. 

Once the right conditions are in place, there is no 
reason why Africa should not be able to ensure its own 
food  security.  Better  yet,  its  enormous  land  and  water 
resources  predispose  the  continent  to  become  the 
world’s  breadbasket.  To  that  end,  however,  we  must 
avoid  the  vicious  trap  of  ceding  land  to  foreigners 
bearing  millions  of  dollars.  The  G-8  quite  rightly 
expressed its concern on this subject at its most recent 
summit in Italy. According to recent estimates, between 
The  development  of  agriculture 
A/64/PV.6
15  and  20  million  hectares  have  changed  hands  over 
the  past  three  years,  primarily  in Africa.  We Africans 
should make  it our vocation to become  farmers tilling 
our  own  land  rather  than  being  agricultural  labourers 
working for capital-rich foreign planters. 

For its part, Senegal, as I have often said, cannot 
accept  such  a  course,  which  would  without  doubt 
empty our countryside of newly impoverished millions, 
who would swell our slums and the ranks of those ripe 
for illegal emigration. On the other hand, if we exploit 
our mutually complementary circumstances, we of the 
North  and 
the  South  can  promote  a  win-win 
partnership  in  which  investors  and  local  communities 
join  to  develop  African  land  without  dispossession. 
Senegal  has  succeeded,  in  record  time,  in  responding 
positively  to  the  food  crisis.  For  the  second  year  in  a 
row,  our  home-grown  agricultural  campaign  for  food 
and  abundance,  known  as  GOANA,  has  rewarded  us 
with excellent results. 

We intend to strengthen this food self-sufficiency 
option with the unionization of rural producers, on the 
model of Québec. To this end, we are currently setting 
up  a  green  bank  for  farmers,  fishers  and  livestock 
farmers, which will support financing of these sectors. 
This  is  a  bold  innovation,  a  green  revolution  that  we 
want very much to see succeed. 

At  the  global  level,  I  believe  that,  beyond  its 
adverse  impacts,  the  current  crisis  has  a  silver  lining 
insofar  as  it  stimulates  creativity,  initiative  and  a 
fighting  spirit.  If 
the  Secretary-General  had  not 
launched  his  emotional  appeal  at  World  Food  Day  in 
Rome two years ago, I might not have felt a challenge 
so  great  as  to  demand  the  invention  of  GOANA. And 
because  the  fate  of  our  people  is  at  stake,  it  is  our 
primary  responsibility  to  establish  on  our  own  the 
conditions necessary for a brighter future. 

Internal efforts will continue to be futile without 
a  healthy  global  environment  rid  of  the  speculative 
practices of the virtual economy and unjust asymmetric 
programmes,  such  as  subsidies  and  other  inequitable 
practices.  In  this  context,  non-oil-producing  African 
countries continue to feel the full brunt of the increase 
in  oil  prices  resulting  from  speculative  practices  that 
we cannot mitigate because they are controlled by the 
oil  oligarchy.  Economies  such  as  ours,  which  had 
hitherto posted average growth rates of 5 per cent, have 
been brutally weakened by imported inflation. 
09-52425 

41 

to 
The 
fund 
climate 
fight  poverty 
in  different  ways, 
summit  meeting  on 
A/64/PV.6 


For that reason, Senegal supports and encourages 
the  dialogue  between  producers  and  consumers 
initiated by the International Energy Forum to improve 
transparency  in  the  oil  market  and  take  effective 
measures  against  speculative  practices  that  devastate 
the economies of importing States. 

In implementing the “Wade formula”, I proposed 
a 
funded  by  voluntary 
contributions from African oil-producing States and oil 
companies working in Africa, based on the principle of 
shared  social  responsibility.  The  fund  could  be 
managed  collectively  or  entrusted  to  the  World  Bank. 
Similarly,  I  welcome  the  extension  of  the  Exogenous 
Shocks Facility to countries benefiting from the Policy 
Support Instrument. 

change 
confirmed  a  broadly  shared  conclusion.  If  we  do  not 
change  our  methods  of  production  and  consumption, 
the  future  of  mankind  itself  will  be  in  peril. We  must 
admit  that  we  have  not  taken  sufficient  action  to 
reverse these negative trends. Nature subjects us daily 
to the adverse consequences of our own attacks against 
it 
including  floods,  droughts, 
desertification  and  coastal  erosion.  These  upheavals 
foreshadow 
even  more  devastating  phenomena. 
International consensus is therefore urgently needed to 
save  the  planet.  In  order  to  survive,  each  of  us  must 
strive 
the 
environment  and 
to  create  a  world  with  fewer 
greenhouse  gas  emissions.  According  to  the  hopeful 
statement  of  the  Secretary-General,  we  now  find 
ourselves on  the threshold  of a new era  — that of the 
green  economy.  Let  us  have  the  courage  to  cross  the 
threshold for ourselves and for succeeding generations. 

Africa  for  its  part  wishes  to  assume  its  share  of 
responsibility  in  this  necessary  environmental  rebirth. 
That is the essence of the Great Green Wall project that 
runs from Dakar to Djibouti. Shared by all countries it 
runs through, the Great Green Wall is 7,000 kilometres 
long  and  15  kilometres  wide,  and  Senegal  has  the 
responsibility  of  coordinating  it  on  behalf  of  the 
African Union.  

With  the  assistance  of  experts  from  all  over  the 
world,  we  have  selected  plants  adapted  to  the  fairly 
arid  conditions  prevailing  in  the  Sahelian-Saharan 
zone.  At  the  same  time,  we  have  decided  to  build 
water-collection  basins  along  the  entire  length  of  the 
Great  Green  Wall,  based  on  the  model  that  we  have 
to  behave  more 
respectfully 
towards 
tribute 
transcending 
troops.  Here,  I  pay 
implemented  in  Senegal  with  some  250  basins.  Every 
African State involved in the construction of the Great 
Green  Wall  organizes  its  implementation  at  the  local 
level  through  a  national  agency.  At  the  continental 
level,  national  agencies  are  coordinated  by  a  pan-
African Great Green Wall agency under the auspices of 
the African Union. 

I  cherish  the  hope  that  the  United  Nations  will 
become  involved  in  this  project,  which  contributes  to 
protecting the global environment, by mobilizing what 
might  be  called  anti-desert  soldiers  along  the  lines  of 
peacekeeping 
the 
participation  of  Ivorian  boys  and  girls  who,  although 
not  directly 
impacted  by  desertification  —  Côte 
d’Ivoire  being  a  country  of  forests  —  spontaneously 
participated  in  building  the  Senegalese  section  of  the 
Great Green Wall in Senegal. They worked voluntarily, 
side  by  side  with  their  comrades  from  Senegal. These 
young  people, 
the  artificial  borders 
created by colonization, are using self-determination to 
take ownership of the struggle for Africa’s future. This 
experience could serve as a prelude to the creation of a 
broad movement of “youth without borders” that unites 
young  Africans  from  throughout  the  continent.  They 
could be the heralds of various causes, such as the fight 
against  HIV/AIDS,  early  marriage  and 
female 
circumcision, as they in Senegal. 
While  we  await  foreign  assistance,  Senegal  has 

already built nearly 527 kilometres of the Great Green 
Wall. The project is also under way in Mali, and Chad 
will follow in the near future. 
the 

Saharan  ecosystem, 
the  Great  Green  Wall  will 
contribute through greenhouse gas sequestration to the 
global  fight  against  global  warming.  I  thank  the 
European Union for its pledged support, and I welcome 
in particular President Sarkozy’s initiative to deploy to 
this front — the only worthy front — soldiers to plant 
trees  and  build  water-collection  basins.  I  cherish  the 
hope  that  this  initiative  will  serve  to  inspire  other 
States with the necessary human and material resources 
to support the Great Green Wall. 

severity  of 
the 
environmental 
in  my  opinion,  should  be 
considered a threat to international peace and security. 
it  were,  we  might  consider  allocating  new 
If 
international  missions 
the 
manner  of  peacekeeping  operations,  Senegal  proposes 
to  national  armies.  In 
the  progressive 
restoration  of 
situation, 
Through 
threat, 
Given 
the 
to 
the 
42 

09-52425 
to 
In 
an 
for 
assist 
specific  periods 


the  creation  of  a  mechanism  to  save  and  restore  the 
environment  based  on  the  voluntary  commitment  of 
armies through modalities to be determined. 

the  framework  of  civilian  and  military 
activities,  countries  wishing  to  do  so  could  mobilize 
contingents 
in 
implementing  major  environmental  projects,  such  as 
the Great Green Wall, or what is referred to in Senegal 
as the Atlantic wall against coastal erosion. 

In  Senegal,  we  are  currently  creating  along  our 
coastline  a  concrete  wall  3  to  4  metres  deep  and 
40 centimetres  wide  built  on 
impermeable 
foundation  to  stop  the  maritime  erosion  that  threatens 
many African countries. Its effectiveness is guaranteed. 
The  only  problem  is  the  cost  —  $1.5  million  per 
kilometre.  From  Casablanca  to  Cotonou,  representing 
some  5,000  kilometres  of  vulnerable  coastline,  the 
overall  cost  would  be  $7.5  billion.  Compared  to 
expenditures often seen at the global level, it certainly 
is  not  much.  Moreover,  if  mankind  were  to  stop 
building  lethal  weapons  for  only  three  months  and 
allocate the money thus saved to building the Atlantic 
wall,  the  threat  to  that  part  of  Africa  would  be 
permanently removed.  

For  16  years  now,  Security  Council  reform  has 
been an important item on our agenda. It is a paradox 
that  an  Organization,  universal  in  its  mission,  should 
remain  deadlocked  64  years  after  its  creation  by  the 
elitist  nature  of 
leader 
Al-Qadhafi summarized our position on that issue (see 
A/64/PV.3).  As  Africa  is  the  only  continent  not 
represented among the permanent members, despite the 
fact  that  it’s  the  focus  of  70  per  cent  of  the  Council’s 
work,  that  historic  injustice  must  be  corrected  by 
granting  the  continent  here  and  now,  outside  the 
context  of  overall  reform,  one  seat  with  the  right  of 
veto  that  could  be  held  by  the  Chairman-in-Office  of 
the African Union. Let us ensure that this session is the 
one  at  which  we  finally  solve  the  issue  of  Security 
Council  reform  so  that  we  can  focus  our  efforts  on 
other important issues.  

Those important issues still unfortunately include 
the  tragic  situation  in  the  Middle  East.  While  it 
recognizes  the  Israeli  people’s  right  to  live  in  peace 
within  secure  and  internationally  recognized  borders, 
Senegal  resolutely  supports  the  just  and  legitimate 
claim  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  a  viable,  free  and 
its  principal  body.  The 
A/64/PV.6
to 
I 
In 
on 
Turning 
territory 
activities 
Palestinian 
two  States, 
the  vision  of 
independent  State.  That  claim  is  morally  consonant 
with the right of peoples to self-determination.  

However,  in  general,  Senegal  rejects  violence  in 
all  its  forms,  whatever  its  origin.  Israel’s  pursuit  of 
illegal 
is 
counterproductive.  The  settlement,  expropriation  and 
lockdown of the territories are a serious obstacle to the 
negotiations process and delay the prospects of an era 
of  peace  for  all  peoples  of  the  subregion.  Senegal 
supports 
Israeli  and 
Palestinian,  as  recalled  here  yesterday  by  President 
Barack Obama (see A/64/PV.3). 

in  Africa,  Senegal 
the  situation 
welcomes  the  considerable  progress  made  in  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  in  the  integration 
process  towards  establishing  the  United  States  of 
Africa.  The  accomplishment  of  African  unity  is  the 
only  viable  answer  to  the  challenges  of  globalization, 
the  creation of large groupings and the redefinition  of 
the rules of governance. It is also an essential condition 
for  the  establishment  of  lasting  peace  and  stability  on 
the continent. 
Senegal  continues to contribute to the settlement 

of disputes in Africa on the basis of that ideal of peace. 
I therefore welcome the normalization  of the situation 
in  our  sister  Republic  of  Mauritania  following  the 
Dakar Accord of June 2009. We should remember that 
the  Accord  was  concluded  with  the  support  of  the 
International Contact Group throughout the negotiation 
process. 
reiterate  my  congratulations  and  my 
appreciation to all. 

the  sister  Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  I 
welcome  the  gradual  return  to  stability  after  the 
presidential  elections,  recognized  and  acknowledged 
by all as free and transparent. As a neighbour, Senegal 
reiterates  its  call  for  the  convening  of  a  donor 
conference  in  support  of  the  courageous  stabilization 
and  development  efforts  of  the  people  of  Guinea-
Bissau, through their new authorities. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  situation  in  the  Republic 
of  Guinea  seems  to  me  of  greater  concern.  That 
country  merits  our  full  attention  because  it  could  fall 
into  violence  at  any  time.  Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf, 
President of Liberia, and I, in our capacity as goodwill 
neighbours,  were  in  Conakry  only  two  weeks  ago.  I 
reported back to the African Union, stressing the need 
for an ongoing presence in the field and for a dialogue 
with all stakeholders, including the army. In my view, 
09-52425 

43 


I 
reiterate  once  again 
A/64/PV.6 

that  is  the  only  way  to  help  restore  the  constitutional 
order in Guinea. 

The  ideal  of  peace,  the  primary  raison  d’être  of 
our  Organization,  remains  seriously  threatened  by 
extremism  of  all  stripes,  fuelled  and  perpetuated  by 
ignorance,  mistrust  and  the  manipulation  of  religion. 
The  need 
for  dialogue  between  cultures  and 
civilizations is all the more urgent on that account. The 
challenge  today,  in  particular  for  the  three  revealed 
religions  that  share  the  same  God,  is  to  build  on  that 
common monotheistic pedestal a bridge of brotherhood 
that  brings  us  closer  and  teaches  us  to  live  together 
again by sharing our common values and with respect 
for our differences. 

As Chairman-in-Office of the Organization of the 
Islamic  Conference, 
the 
dedication  of  the  Islamic  ummah  to  dialogue  for  the 
mutual  understanding  and  peaceful  coexistence  of 
peoples because Islam, in letter and spirit, is a religion 
of the happy  medium and of peace that  teaches, in all 
things,  knowledge,  moderation,  reasonableness  and 
respect for the freedom of worship. 
Let  us  all  agree  to  strive  to  learn  to  better 

understand each other, overcome mistrust and fight the 
obscurantist  ideas  that  give  rise  to  tensions  and 
confrontation. A  world  living  in  peace  in  the  twenty-
first century will be one in which all peoples enjoy an 
equally dignified existence. 

In  that  spirit,  Senegal  will  host  the  Third  World 
Festival  of  Negro Arts  from  1  to  15  December  2010. 
That artistic and intellectual event, with Brazil as guest 
of honour, will provide the opportunity for Africa and 
its  diaspora  to  celebrate  the  values  of  culture  and 
civilization of the black world. For us, that is a way to 
fight  the  prejudices  that  still  haunt  some  malicious 
minds and fuel the re-emergence of revisionist ideas. 
Africa  is  ready  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the 

twenty-first  century 
in  a  spirit  of  openness  and 
dialogue  with  all  peoples  for  a  world  of  peace  and 
human brotherhood. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Senegal  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of 
Senegal, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 
begin 
Address by Ms. Tarja Halonen, President of the 
Republic of Finland 

address by the President of the Republic of Finland. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
President  Halonen:  Let  me 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President 
of the Republic of Finland, and to invite her to address 
the Assembly. 
by 

congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President 
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  assure  you  of  our  full 
support in your important functions. 

As many colleagues have already underlined, the 
international climate negotiations are at a crucial stage. 
The  Copenhagen  Conference  is  a  real  possibility  for 
change. We need political determination and solidarity 
to  reach  a  new  climate  agreement  that  is  global, 
effective  and  fair.  The  responsibility  lies  with  all  of 
us —  industrial  countries,  emerging  economies  and 
developing countries alike — to take the decisions that 
will so profoundly shape the future of humankind. 
I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  convening  the 

Summit  on  Climate  Change  at  the  beginning  of  the 
current  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  had  a 
good  discussion  on  issues  that  still  need  to  be 
addressed  before  December.  The  meeting  delivered  a 
clear  message  that  we  are  committed  to  working  hard 
to seal the deal. 

A global climate agreement is a precondition for 
comprehensive  sustainable  development.  The  poorest 
are  the  most  vulnerable  when  struggling  with  the 
adverse effects of climate change. The new agreement 
must  include  elements  of  solidarity  and  international 
support in coping with the needs of adaptation. Climate 
change  will  affect  especially  seriously  the  lives  and 
livelihoods  of  women,  but  women  are  also  powerful 
actors  in  combating  it.  We  need  to  ensure  their  full 
the  negotiations 
participation 
the 
implementation of the new agreement. 

Gender,  food  production  and  climate  change  are 
all interlinked. We know that 70 per cent of the world’s 
poor  are  women  and  girls.  We  also  know  that  the 
in 
and 
in 
44 

09-52425 
the  current 


majority  of  agricultural  labourers  are  women.  If  we 
really  want  to  combat  climate  change  and  avoid  a 
global food crisis, we need to pay close attention to the 
role of women, especially in least developed countries. 

While  the  negative  consequences  of  climate 
change  are  universal,  their  impact  on  small  island 
developing States and countries with low-lying coastal 
areas 
is  particularly  grave.  Those  countries  are 
threatened  by  the  rise  of  sea  levels  and  by  extreme 
weather conditions. They need particular attention and 
assistance. 

In September 2000, we committed ourselves here 
to a new global partnership to reduce extreme poverty 
and  to  reach  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We 
reiterated that pledge at the 2005 World Summit. Now, 
in 2009, we have to demonstrate our resolve to live up 
to  that  commitment  when  faced  with  a  contracting 
world economy as well.  
financial  and 

The  solution  of 
economic crisis should be based on the concept of fair 
globalization.  Our  action,  while  striving  to  achieve 
sustainable economic growth, must address the goal of 
decent work for all. It is really essential that we honour 
our commitments to development in spite of our budget 
constraints. 

In  the  world  economy,  the  tectonic  plates  are  in 
motion  and  new  actors  are  emerging.  We  need  to 
develop  a  new  global  consensus  on  business  ethics, 
integrity  and  sustainable  economic  growth.  We  must 
work  together  so  that  trust  in  international  financial 
institutions  can  be  re-established.  Let  us  make  them 
more transparent, accountable and sustainable. 

I sincerely hope that the Pittsburgh summit of the 
Group of 20 will agree on further measures for global 
recovery.  But  we  should  also  make  full  use  of  the 
United  Nations  to  promote  inclusive  and  equitable 
cooperation on issues that are truly global. 

While  climate  change  and  the  global  economic 
downturn  cause  problems  in  many  parts  of  the  world, 
Africa  is  the  continent  that  suffers  the  most.  The 
international  community  must  remain  attentive  to 
Africa’s  needs.  I  am  glad  to  note  that  positive 
developments  have  also  taken  place  in Africa.  During 
this  decade,  the  number  of  conflicts  in  Africa  has 
decreased.  The  African  Union 
to 
strengthening  the  organization’s  capacity  in  conflict 
prevention.  Finland  is  contributing  to  that  important 
is  committed 
A/64/PV.6
the 
the  peace 
region  are  committed 
effort  by  supporting 
the  build-up  of 
mediation structures of the African Union. 

The latest developments in the Middle East peace 
process  provide  a  reason  for  cautious  optimism.  It 
seems  that  the  parties  are  willing  to  take  some  steps. 
Countries  outside 
to 
supporting those efforts. It is my belief that, with that 
broadening  consensus,  we  can  reactivate  the  peace 
process soon. 

Finland values highly the United Nations Charter 
and the central role given to the Security Council. We 
actively  participate  in  efforts  to  make  that  body  more 
representative  and  efficient.  Finland  is  a  candidate  to 
become  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council for the period 2013 to 2014. At the same time, 
we  hope  that  progress  on  the  Council’s  reform  can  be 
made during this session of the General Assembly. 

Security  Council  resolutions  1325  (2000)  and 
1820  (2008)  on  women,  peace  and  security  were 
important  achievements.  Their  implementation  in  all 
countries  and  in  all  situations  is  urgently  needed. The 
international  colloquium  on  women’s  empowerment, 
leadership  development  and  international  peace  and 
security,  which  was  held  last  March  in  Monrovia, 
adopted a call to action on resolution 1325 (2000) and 
a  call  for  action  on  gender  and  climate  change.  As  a 
follow-up  to  the  colloquium,  Finland  and  Liberia 
convened  a  side  event  today  here  at  the  United 
Nations.  In  a  word,  it  was  a  success.  I  hope  that  the 
next  success  will  be  in  Copenhagen,  and  that  women 
will make a contribution to it.  

Security Council resolution 1820 (2008) strongly 
condemns  sexual  violence  in  conflicts.  We  must  treat 
systematic rape as a forbidden weapon of war. Victims 
of  rape  and  sexual  abuse  must  have  access  to  legal 
processes,  and 
rapists  must  be  prosecuted  and 
condemned.  In  our  view,  the  appointment  of  a  special 
representative of the Secretary-General on women and 
armed  conflict  would  enhance  the  implementation  of 
those resolutions. We hope that all Member States will 
support  that  proposal.  I  want  to  thank  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  bringing  up  the  question  of 
violence  against  women  in  his  opening  address  to  the 
General Assembly yesterday. 

Civilian  populations  need  protection  in  conflict 
situations.  At  the  United  Nations  World  Summit  in 
2005,  the  responsibility  to  protect  was  accepted  as  a 
general principle applicable to genocide, crimes against 
09-52425 

45 

A/64/PV.6 

humanity,  ethnic  cleansing  and  war  crimes.  Further 
efforts  are  urgently  needed  to  save  civilians  from 
violence. 

This morning, the Security Council held a debate 
on  nuclear  security  issues.  I  am  sure  that  we  are  all 
pleased  that  disarmament  is  now  strongly  returning  to 
the international agenda. I sincerely hope that that will 
lead to real progress. 

Finally, I would like to underline that we have to 
try  to  find  things  that  unite  us  —  and  not  things  that 
divide  us  —  if  we  want  to  be  midwives  of  the  future 
and  not  guardians  of  the  past.  Lasting  peace  can  be 
built only through open dialogue between cultural and 
religious communities, in our countries and worldwide. 
Finland supports all initiatives, such as the Alliance of 
Civilizations, to stimulate intercultural communication. 
I  wish  those  efforts  the  best  of  success  in  promoting 
mutual understanding and peace. I promise that Finland 
will support them. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Finland for the statement she has just made.  

Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


into 
Address by Mr. Rupiah Bwezani Banda, President of 
the Republic of Zambia 

address by the President of the Republic of Zambia. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr.  Rupiah  Bwezani  Banda,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Zambia,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, 
to  welcome  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Rupiah  Bwezani  Banda,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Zambia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
President Banda: Let me join previous speakers 

in  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  assumption  of  the 
presidency  at  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  should  also  like  to  extend  Zambia’s 
sincere  appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann for his able leadership during the 
sixty-third session. 
the  honour 
I  have 
to 
to 
those 
evaluate 
challenges,  which 
The  theme  for  this  session  provides  us  with  an 

opportunity 
existing  multilateral 
approaches  to  address  the  challenges  arising  from 
globalization. Those include threats to socio-economic 
development  and  international  peace  and  security. 
There  is  a  need  to  develop  innovative  approaches  and 
responses 
include 
HIV/AIDS  and  influenza A(H1N1),  terrorism,  climate 
change, nuclear weapons and, more recently, the global 
economic  and  financial  crisis.  In  this  globalized  and 
interdependent world, no  country, however wealthy or 
powerful it is, can resolve  all those challenges single-
handedly.  Common  solutions  are  therefore  required 
through a strong United Nations. 

This session is taking place against the backdrop 
of  the  adverse  effects  of  the  recent  global  economic 
and  financial  crisis,  which  has  spared  no  one.  In  my 
own country of Zambia and in other African countries, 
the  economic  growth  achieved  from  2000  to  2007  is 
now  declining  as  a  result  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis.  We  are  faced  with  serious  financial 
constraints, lower commodity prices and weak external 
and  domestic  demand  for  our  products,  high  inflation 
and 
and 
construction  activities  have  also  slackened. As  copper 
accounts for about 70 per cent of Zambia’s exports, the 
effect of the collapse of international copper prices — 
from $8,985 per metric tonne in August 2008 to $2,902 
at the end of 2008 — has, among other things, resulted 
in greatly reduced revenue collections. 

the  recent  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis  is  a  timely  reminder  of 
the  consequences  of  overdependence  on  a  single 
economic  sector.  My  Government  has 
therefore 
developed  a  diversification  plan  to  shift  the  economy 
from  dependence  on  copper.  That  is  being  done 
through policy interventions in the agriculture, tourism 
and  manufacturing  sectors,  coupled  with  programmes 
aimed  at  improving  the  business  environment  in 
Zambia. 

For those efforts to succeed, however, there must 
be  an  expeditious  conclusion  to  the  World  Trade 
Organization’s  Doha  Round  of  negotiations.  Zambia 
considers 
the 
negotiations as critical, as it will develop our country’s 
capacity 
to  overcome  supply-side  constraints  and 
encourage value addition in its commodities. 
unemployment.  Manufacturing 
Zambia’s  experience  from 
component  of 
aid-for-trade 
rising 
the 
46 

09-52425 



Zambia’s  response  to  the  global  economic  crisis 
needs  the  support  of  its  international  development 
partners.  We  appreciate  that  our  cooperating  partners 
have also been affected by the global economic crisis. 
Nonetheless,  we  urge  them  to  fulfil  their  pledge  to 
increase  their  contributions  to  official  development 
assistance  to  0.71  per  cent  of  gross  national  income. 
That  is  necessary  if  the  global  development  agenda  is 
to  help  vulnerable  economies,  such  as  Zambia’s,  meet 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. 

Zambia  believes  that  there  is  a  need  to  reform 
international  financial  governance  systems  in  order  to 
avoid  future  global  financial  crises.  The  changes, 
which  must  be  inclusive,  should  respond  to  the  needs 
and  concerns  of  all  nations,  regardless  of  status.  It  is 
essential  that  there  be  an  increase  in  the  voice  and 
power  of  developing  countries  at  the World  Bank  and 
the  International  Monetary  Fund.  The  reform  process 
should  aim  to  improve  the  predictability  of  aid  flows 
and emphasize reforms that promote faster aid delivery 
and fewer conditionalities. 

Zambia  roundly  applauds  the  leadership  that  the 
United Nations provides in tackling climate change, as 
was illustrated only two days ago by the hosting of the 
high-level  Summit  on  Climate  Change.  Our  efforts  to 
raise the standards of living for the world’s poor people 
in  order  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
are being frustrated by the effects of climate change.  

Scientists  have  spoken.  We  have  seen  with  our 
own  eyes,  in  just  one  generation,  how  great  an  effect 
climate change has had on our environment. On the eve 
of  the  Climate  Change  Summit,  just  a  few  days  ago, 
unprecedented  floods  hit  the  state  of  Georgia  in  this 
country,  as  if  to  rebuke  any  of  us  who  still  doubt  the 
evidence.  Let  us  just  look  around  us. We  do  not  need 
science  to  tell  us  that  deserts  have  expanded,  that 
forests  have  drastically  shrunk,  that  rivers  have  dried 
up  and  that  it  rains  less  and  less  in  many  places,  and 
yet so much more in others. Nature has lost its balance 
and humankind has lost its footing. 

In  our  own  short  lifespan,  in  my  own  country,  I 
remember  a  time  when  forests  were  within  a  child’s 
walking distance, teeming with a profusion of animals, 
birds,  plants, 
fruits.  Today  my 
grandchildren  would  be  lucky  to  name  the  indigenous 
fruits  of  our  country  on  the  fingers  of  one  hand.  So 
many  species  of  our  countries’  flora  and  fauna  have 
insects 
and 
A/64/PV.6
the  world 
substantial 
to  ensure  a 
should  be  based  on 
to  make  more  speeches 
become extinct — forever lost to the world — in such 
a short time.  

Our  children  have  spoken.  Our  citizens  have 
spoken. If we go to Copenhagen to question the science 
yet  again,  or 
justifying 
inaction,  if  we  still  believe  that  we  can  only  act  after 
our competitors act, then we as leaders will have failed 
our  peoples  and  consigned 
to  utter 
destruction.  Copenhagen  is  the  precipice,  either  we 
step  back  and  let  live  or  tip  over  into  the  abyss.  We 
must act, and act now. 
With  regard  to  mitigation,  Zambia’s  view  is  that 

the 
shared  vision 
shared 
responsibilities  for  climate  change;  and  that  there  must 
be an equitable burden-sharing mechanism that requires 
developed countries to commit to reducing emissions to 
legally  binding  levels,  while  developing  countries  take 
actions 
reduction 
from 
environment-degrading development programmes. 

As  the  Copenhagen  Climate  Change  Conference 
draws  near,  Zambia  expects  an  agreement  that  will 
balance  climate  change  concerns  with  development. 
The  Copenhagen  agreement  must  provide  increased 
and  predictable  support  for  the  implementation  of  the 
adaptation  programme,  which  must  be  established 
within  a  binding  legal  instrument  under  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention. 

Speaking  in  my  capacity  as  the  Chairman  of  the 
International Conference on Great Lakes Region, I am 
happy  to  report  to  the Assembly  that  the  Great  Lakes 
region of Africa is now more stable and peaceful than 
it  has  ever  been  in  the  past  15  years,  albeit  with 
challenges.  The 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Rwanda,  and 
their  joint  efforts  to  tackle  the  problem  of  negative 
forces in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo,  has  opened  up  opportunities  for  achieving 
sustainable peace and stability in the region. 
However, the region is still faced with the threat 

posed  by  the  continued  presence  of  illegal  armed 
groups  and  negative  forces,  namely, 
the  Forces 
démocratiques  de 
libération  du  Rwanda  (FDLR)/ 
ex-Forces  armées  rwandaises/Interahamwe,  the  Lord’s 
Resistance  Army  (LRA)  and  the  Allied  Democratic 
Forces.  Although  the  recent  joint  military  operations 
between  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and 
Rwanda succeeded in dislodging FDLR elements from 
most  of  their  strongholds,  the  continued  atrocities 
improved 
relations  between 
09-52425 

47 

the 
the 
role  of 
We  applaud 
A/64/PV.6 

committed  by  the  remnants  of  that  group  against 
civilians remains a great source of concern. 

international 
community  through  the  United  Nations  Organization 
Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in 
providing  support  for  the  Government  of  that  country 
in its efforts to build military capacity to neutralize the 
negative  forces  in  the  eastern  part  of  its  territory. The 
international community needs to exert more sustained 
pressure  on  the  leadership  of  those  negative  forces 
living  within  and  outside  the  region,  so  that  they  are 
brought to justice. 

The  Lord’s  Resistance  Army,  which  fled  to  the 
north-eastern  part  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo and the Central African Republic after the Juba 
talks failed, continues to commit atrocities against the 
innocent  civilian  population.  The  Great  Lakes 
mechanisms  allowed  for  a  joint  military  operation 
against  the  LRA,  which,  challenges  notwithstanding, 
achieved some progress in dislodging rebel forces. 

There  is  a  need  for  sustained  military  and 
diplomatic  pressure  to  bring  Joseph  Kony  back  to  the 
negotiating  table.  There  is  also  a  need  for  more 
logistical support from the international community to 
protect  the  civilian  population  and,  at  the  same  time, 
put  an  end  to  the  atrocities  and  brutality  committed 
with impunity by the LRA. 

The  Great  Lakes  region  is  organizing  a  round 
table  conference  in  Bujumbura,  Burundi,  to  be  held 
from  5  to  6  November  2009,  at  which  we  expect 
renewed  support  from  the  Group  of  Friends  and  other 
partners  to  finance  the  Pact  on  Security,  Stability  and 
Development in the Great Lakes Region. 

Prior to the global economic downturn, Zambia’s 
economic growth was on course to meet all but one of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  namely,  ensuring 
environmental sustainability. However, the effect of the 
global financial and economic crisis, coupled with the 
effects  of  climate  change,  threaten  the  prospects  of 
meeting 
the  MDGs  on  poverty,  agriculture  and 
environmental sustainability. 

The United Nations remains the central principal 
organ  for  coordinating  international  cooperation  in 
socio-economic  development,  peace,  security,  human 
rights and the rule of law. There is a need to reform the 
United Nations in order to make it more effective and 
efficient. Zambia believes that the reform of the United 
to 
to  be  acceptable 
Nations  will  not  be  complete  without  meaningful 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Making  the  Council 
more representative, democratic and accountable to all 
Member States, irrespective of status, is essential if its 
decisions  are 
the  entire 
international  community.  The  Security  Council  must 
adapt  to  the  realities  of  the  new  geopolitical  situation 
that characterize the world. 

Given  that  Africa  constitutes  the  second  largest 
bloc  of  United  Nations  membership,  proposals  to 
reform  the  Security  Council  should  heed Africa’s  call 
for  two  permanent  seats  with  veto  power  and  two 
additional non-permanent seats. That would address the 
historical  injustice  against Africa  while  responding  to 
the need to democratize the Security Council. Equally 
important  in  that  regard  is  the  need  to  reform  the 
working  methods  of  that  important  United  Nations 
body. 

Human rights issues are an important component 
in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  stability  in  any 
country.  I  wish  to  inform  the  Assembly  that,  since 
Zambia  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  in  2006,  it  has  continued  to  advocate  for  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  In  May 
2008,  Zambia  extended  an  open  invitation  to  all 
mandate  holders  on  special  areas  of  focus  relating  to 
issues of human rights to visit and evaluate the extent 
to  which  Zambia  observes  its  obligations  under  the 
various  United  Nations  conventions.  We  urge  other 
countries to follow suit. 

Even in the post-cold-war era, nuclear arms pose 
a threat to international peace and security and the very 
existence  of  humankind.  It  is  for  that  reason  that 
Zambia  stands  for  general  and  complete  disarmament 
in  a 
include  biological, 
chemical,  nuclear  and  radiological  weapons.  The 
demand  of  the  time  is  that  we  compete  for  peace,  not 
war, for development and not armaments.  

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  United  Nations 
continues to be the only multilateral institution capable 
of  addressing  the  challenges  of  our  one  world.  This 
session’s theme attests to that fact. The world looks up 
to this body to encourage dialogue among civilizations 
on all global  challenges in an inclusive  manner  as the 
only  practical  way  to  ensure  meaningful  and  effective 
international cooperation. 
Allow me to conclude by quoting Jonathan Rauch 

in the January 2001 issue of The Atlantic magazine, in 
time-bound  manner, 
to 
48 

09-52425 
the  secret 
Thus  human 
ingenuity  holds 


his  article  entitled  “The  New  Old  Economy:  Oil, 
Computers  and  the  Reinvention  of  the  Earth”,  as 
quoted by R. A. Bisson and Jay Lehr in the preface to 
their  book  entitled  Modern  Groundwater  Exploration. 
In  the  article,  which  looked  at  future  oil  supply, 
Mr. Rauch predicted that demand for oil will peter out 
well  before  supply  runs  out  because,  he  argued, 
something cheaper and cleaner would come along. He 
concluded  by  stating  that  “knowledge,  not  petroleum, 
is  becoming  the  critical  resource  in  the  oil  business” 
and that, although the supply of oil is fixed, the supply 
of knowledge is boundless. 

to 
resolving  problems  confronting  humankind.  So  it  is 
with all the issues facing us and this United Nations of 
ours  today. The  resolution  of  our  problems  of  climate 
change,  the  economic  and  financial  crisis,  peace  and 
security  and  human  rights  and  democracy  depends 
upon  human  ingenuity.  The  United  Nations  must 
therefore first — and most important — work to create 
an  environment  where  ingenuity  can  indeed  flourish, 
that is, a peaceful world where all feel they belong and 
are treated with dignity. 

Before  I  conclude  my  remarks,  let  me  just  say  a 
word or two about the embargo that has been imposed 
on the people and Government of Cuba since 1959 by 
the  United  States  of  America.  Those  unfair  and 
unjustified  sanctions  have  greatly  hurt  the  people  of 
Cuba.  The  time  has  come  for  those  sanctions  to  be 
lifted.  I  join  those  who  are  calling  for  the  lifting  of 
sanctions. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zambia for the inspiring statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Rupiah  Bwezani  Banda,  President  of  the 

Republic  of  Zambia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by Stjepan Mesić, President of the Republic 
of Croatia 

address by the President of the Republic of Croatia. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr.  Stjepan  Mesić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
A/64/PV.6
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Stjepan  Mesić,  President 
of the Republic of Croatia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
President  Mesić  (spoke  in  Croatian;  English 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  We  have 
assembled  once  again  to  discuss  the  situation  in  the 
world,  outline  the  problems  our  countries  face  and 
present  our  views  on  the  world  we  live  in.  The 
President of the General Assembly has offered a topic 
for  discussion,  one  which,  I  would  say,  perfectly 
reflects  current  circumstances  and  the  tasks  arising 
from them. 

What  kind  of  world  are  we  discussing  here?  A 
globalized world? By all means. An interconnected and 
interdependent  world?  Without  any  doubt. A  world  of 
great  discrepancies  and  major  threats?  Certainly.  In 
brief,  our  world  is  such  that  there  are  practically  no 
longer  regional  problems  and  crises,  since  each  and 
every  issue,  no  matter  how  much  it  may  appear  to  be 
regional,  reveals  itself  as  global  in  terms  of  its 
consequences. 

Our  world  is  still  dominated  by  developed  and 
most  developed  countries;  while  developing  countries 
are desperately lagging behind, struggling with hunger, 
the  inability  to  educate  their  citizens  and  the  lack  of 
even  the  most  basic  health  care.  Can  we  be  content 
with  such  a  world?  Without  any  hesitation,  I  respond 
that, no, we cannot. 

Mr.  Viinanen  (Finland),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

In  our  world  there  are  many  States  as  well  as 
groups that are united in their inclination to use terror 
as  a  means  of  action  and  to  resort  to  force  to  achieve 
their  goals.  Admittedly,  confrontation  between  the 
blocs  no  longer  exists.  A  balance  of  fear  between 
super-Powers is non-existent, but our world has hardly 
become  more  secure,  while  peace  has  hardly  become 
more  stable.  Can  we  be  content  with  such  a  world? 
Again,  without  any  hesitation,  I  respond  that,  no,  we 
cannot. 

Our  world  is  ultimately  still  dominated  by  an 
economic  model  that  is  self-evidently  exhausted  and 
has  now  reached  a  stage  where  it  is  itself  generating 
crises  and  causing  hardship  to  millions  of  people.  If 
one attempts to save that already obsolete model at any 
cost, and if one stubbornly defends a system based on 
greed  and  devoid  of  any  social  value  worth 
09-52425 

49 

A/64/PV.6 

mentioning, there can be only one result: social unrest 
harbouring the potential to erupt into social insurgence 
on a global scale. 

Can we accept such prospects? I respond with the 
utmost resolution that, no, we cannot, and must not. It 
is up to us to embark now upon the enormous task  of 
creating a new world order — not returning to anything 
that  existed  before,  but  creating  something  new:  an 
order  that  will  in  the  end  provide  a  life  worthy  of 
humankind  for  each  person  and  equal  chances  for  all, 
and not one that writes off those who are in dire need 
through no fault of their own and those who at the end 
of  their  lives  are  viewed  as  useless  and  therefore 
unworthy of any support. 

It is up to us to dispel prejudices more resolutely 
than  ever  before,  to  stand  up  to  discrimination  on 
whatever  grounds,  to  say  no  to  intolerance  and  to 
promote  not  only  the  idea  but  also  the  practice  of 
multilateralism and dialogue among civilizations. That 
is the only way towards building global peace, security 
and development as vital preconditions for lasting and 
stable peace. 
the  world  has  emerged  from  a 

potentially very dangerous period of unipolarism and is 
now  on  a  path  towards  multipolarism.  However,  the 
world  is  still  in  the  process  of  learning  that  only 
dialogue  can  help  us  to  build  mutual  trust  and 
understanding. It is not yet ready to face the fact that it 
is not a crime to be different and that our future can be 
found  only  in  unity  through  diversity  —  of  course, 
under 
the  condition  of  full  equality  and  strict 
observance of human rights and in line with the United 
Nations conventions.  

With the simultaneous drift from unipolarism and 
a  shift  towards  multipolarism,  we  have  to  understand 
and  accept  that  though  we  have  established  a  set  of 
universal  values,  we  have  not,  will  not  and  cannot 
establish  a  single  model  of  social  and  economic 
relations  applicable  to  all.  The  specific  features  of 
individual nations and civilizations must be respected, 
since  there  is  no  reason  why  anyone  should  renounce 
something  that  is  part  of  his  cultural  or  traditional 
heritage. 
Finally,  a  world  characterized  by  international 

peace,  security  and  development 
is  not  possible 
without disarmament, in particular without renouncing 
nuclear  weapons. This  was  the  topic  of  my  address  in 
the  Security  Council  this  morning.  I  would  like  to 
Fortunately, 
mention in addition the notorious fact that problems of 
development  would  become  minor  if  the  huge  funds 
currently allocated for armament were channelled into 
development. 

I reiterate: the task before us is enormous. Let us 
show courage and political will to grapple with it. The 
Republic of Croatia, although a small country, is ready 
to make its contribution. Although my ten-year term is 
nearing  its  end  and  this  is  the  last  time  I  stand  at  this 
rostrum, I will just say that I shall continue to place my 
skills at the service of achieving this noble goal. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Croatia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Stjepan  Mesić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.


Address by Mr. Litokwa Tomeing, President of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the President of the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands. 

Mr.  Litokwa  Tomeing,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Litokwa  Tomeing, 
President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Tomeing:  I  bring  the  greetings  and 

best  wishes  of  the  people  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Marshall  Islands.  I  congratulate  the  President  on  his 
election  to  chair  the Assembly  at  this  session.  He  has 
our confidence and support.  

I offer my gratitude to the United Nations for its 
continuing role in coordinating and leading the world’s 
efforts to meet challenges affecting the interests of all 
nations.  The  United  Nations  Joint  Presence  Office  in 
the  Marshall  Islands  has  brought  the  ideals  of  the 
Organization  closer  to  our  people  and  country.  Our 
hope is that other United Nations agencies — including 
the  World  Health  Organization,  the  United  Nations 
Development  Fund  for  Women  (UNIFEM),  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
50 

09-52425 
the 
that 
the  hope 
We  cherish 


Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific — will follow suit and make their presence felt 
more  prominently,  producing  concrete  results  on  the 
ground. 

I  wish  to  acknowledge  the  personal  commitment 
of  the  Secretary-General  to  meeting  the  challenges  of 
climate  change.  His  reminder  to  take  our  best  to  the 
table  in  Copenhagen  in  service  of  a  higher  calling  to 
save the planet is well noted. His call for a clear moral 
imperative for bold and decisive urgent action and his 
recognition  of  the  duty  of  the  larger  economies  to  the 
most  vulnerable  have  not  gone  unnoticed  by  us  small 
island  States.  Although  some  may  consider  as 
insufficient  the  Group  of  8  commitment  in  Italy  this 
year, I believe it is an encouraging and a necessary step 
forward. 

increasing 
participation  of  the  United  States  in  debates  on  issues 
relating to climate change is a signal of its intention to 
take its rightful place at the forefront of the global war 
against  climate  change.  Likewise,  we  are  encouraged 
by  Japan’s  bold  and  new  commitment  to  address  the 
adverse effects of climate change. 

Let me express my appreciation to the Alliance of 
Small  Island  States  (AOSIS)  for  its  leadership  in 
assisting  small  island  developing  countries  to  prepare 
for  negotiations  in  Copenhagen.  We  assure AOSIS  of 
our unwavering support. 

Full  of  expectation,  the  world  has  its  eyes  on 
Copenhagen. It will be an event of historic significance 
where, despite our differences, everyone can now view 
the entire planet through a common perspective. 

Now, a few weeks away from Copenhagen, I feel 
moved to ask what it is that we want to see happening 
in  there.  What  kind  of  outcome  do  we  expect?  How 
should we and future generations judge the success of 
Copenhagen? 

The  answer,  it  seems  to  me,  is  a  matter  of 
perspective.  Major  economies  will  no  doubt  be 
watchful  that  Copenhagen  does  not  disturb  too  much 
an  established  way  of  life  and  all  its  benefits.  I  ask 
these nations to consider the implicit moral obligation 
that comes with their privileged and affluent status. 

For the small island States, however, the question 
is whether Copenhagen will diminish or enhance their 
security  and  their  chances  of  survival,  whether  the 
populations  of  the  Marshall  Islands,  Tuvalu,  Tokelau 
A/64/PV.6
to 
the 
leaders 
Therefore,  our  message 
and others should make haste to evacuate and head to 
safer  regions,  as  foreshadowed  in  a  recent  warning 
from  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees. 

in 
Copenhagen is clear: we appeal to them to strive with 
every  fibre  of  their  being  to  increase  their  level  of 
commitment to combating climate change, to show the 
world by their deeds — not words — their unbending 
commitment  to  secure  an  effective  post-Kyoto  global 
agreement. We appeal to them to be as unrestrained as 
the  wind  and  set  the  limit  on  the  increase  in  global 
average temperature above the pre-industrial period  at 
a level that will ensure our survival. We appeal to them 
to  be  fair-minded  and  to  act  with  determination  to 
reduce  global  emissions  from  1990  levels  by  at  least 
85 per cent by 2050. We appeal to them to ensure that 
global  emissions  peak  no  later  than  2015.  Finally,  we 
appeal  to  the  leaders  of  all  nations  to  construct  in 
Copenhagen  the  ark  of  salvation  in  which  all  nations 
and peoples will find shelter. 

I believe that the success of Copenhagen will be 
ultimately  judged  by  the  extent  to  which  small,  low-
lying island States — the most vulnerable — will feel a 
sense  of  guaranteed  safety  and  security.  For,  in  our 
interdependent  global  community,  the  moral  duty  of 
the  collective  must  always  be  the  protection  of  the 
weak and the most vulnerable. 

Short  of  that,  however,  Copenhagen  will  be  no 
more than the continuation of the law of the jungle, the 
survival  of  the  strongest.  It  will  be  a  moral  and 
political 
is  not  about 
mathematics.  It  is  not  about  raw  power;  it  is  not 
competition  for  the  survival  of  the  few.  It  is  about 
unleashing the moral and political forces and synergies 
inherent in the collective body of nations for the good 
of all. What else does political will mean but this? 
Failure  in  Copenhagen  will  make  a  mockery  of 

the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
their 
achievement  will  be  beyond  our  capacity  to  attain.  It 
will  question  the  ability  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations to safeguard our pre-existing sovereign rights. 
In short, the world and the most vulnerable in it cannot 
afford the cost of failure.  

Closer to home, even though the rate of emission 
of  the  Marshall  Islands  is  insignificant  in  relative 
terms,  we  have  set  for  ourselves  a  reduction  target  of 
40  per  cent  by  2020.  Over  the  years,  and  subject  to 
failure.  For  Copenhagen 
for 
09-52425 

51 
it 
the 

from 
such  as 
in  accessing 
A/64/PV.6 

accessibility  of  funding,  we  have  been  pursuing  a 
systematic  programme  of  solar  power  use.  Nearly  40 
per cent of the households in our outer islands are now 
drawing on that power as one of their main sources of 
energy. We  intend  to  pursue  this  initiative  until  all  33 
islands  in  our  country  are  fully  covered.  On  the 
Micronesian subregional front, we are committed to the 
goals of the Micronesia Challenge. 

Our  efforts  to  adapt  continue  to  suffer  from  the 
lack  of  adequate  funding,  compounded  by  the  sheer 
complexity 
sources. 
Simplifying  the  process  by  direct  access  to  those 
sources  could  enable  us  to  fast-track  some  of  our 
adaptation  priorities, 
seawalls,  coastal 
management and safe water projects. 

I  now  turn  to  a  matter  that  is  very  dear  to  the 
heart of every Marshallese. We are deeply encouraged 
by  the  Security  Council  meeting  today,  moderated  by 
President  Obama,  on  the  use  and  testing  of  nuclear 
weapons.  

Nuclear  weapon  testing  was  conducted  on  our 
islands  between  1946  and  1958,  at  the  time  when  we 
were a ward of the United Nations trusteeship system. 
Our first-hand experience as victims of nuclear weapon 
testing  on  our  islands,  and  the  painful  memories  that 
continue  to  haunt  us  after  six  decades,  are  nightmares 
we  would  not  wish  on  anyone.  The  toll  in  human 
suffering  and  environmental  damage  has  been 
devastating.  Now,  sixty  years  since  the  detonation  of 
some  67  nuclear  bombs,  the  Marshall  Islands  is  still 
grappling  with  the  after-effects.  Complete  recovery  in 
terms  of  restoring  affected  islands  to  full  economic 
productivity and adequate compensation of the victims 
remains uncertain. 
We  have  not  come  here  to  condemn  or  to  point 

fingers. However, we are compelled by our moral duty 
to  humanity  to  raise  our  voice  in  gatherings  such  as 
this  and  to  appeal  to  the  conscience  of  the  world 
community.  We  call  for  the  formulation  of  a  new 
perspective by which the spectre of war and of the use 
of nuclear weapons may forever be dismissed from the 
surface of the Earth.  
Banning  nuclear  weapons  will  not  by  itself 

remove the root cause of war. Important as it may be, it 
does  not  exert  an  enduring  influence.  People  are  too 
ingenious  not  to  invent  still  other  forms  of  warfare. 
Political  agreements  or  good  intentions  alone  are  not 
enough. The world craves something much more deep-
to 
seated  than  pure  pragmatism.  It  yearns  for  permanent 
peace  that  springs  from  an  inner  state  supported  by  a 
moral attitude. 

There  is  no  lack  of  recognition  by  national 
leaders  of  the  nature  of  the  problem,  but  there  is  a 
paralysis  of  will. The  stark  realities  of  the  experience 
of  the  people  of  the  Marshall  Islands  have  deepened 
our  profound  conviction  that,  in  a  world  irreversibly 
moving towards a global society, it becomes imperative 
that  we  recast  our  perspective,  a  perspective  in  which 
national  impulses  and  interests  will  find  their  fullest 
expression  when  subordinated 
the  needs  and 
interests  of  the  planet,  our  collective  homeland,  a 
perspective  that  does  not  regard  that  subordination  as 
being disloyal to the nation. 

Amid  our  deepening  economic  and  financial 
woes, the Republic of the Marshall Islands continues to 
remain  buoyant  through  the  generous  support  of  our 
friends  and  partners.  Our  special  relationship  with  the 
United States within the framework of the Compact of 
Free Association  provides  a  unique  partnership  that  is 
enduring and stable. 
We express our firm support for the efforts of the 

United States and its allies in combating terrorism, and 
we  are  proud  of  our  young  Marshallese  men  and 
women  serving  in  the  armed  forces  of  the  United 
States.  The  support  also  provided  by  Japan,  the 
Republic  of  China  (Taiwan),  the  European  Union, 
Australia  and  our  other  donor  partners  is  sincerely 
acknowledged. 
The increasing complexity of the management of 

evolving global affairs demands a reconstitution of the 
membership  of 
Japan’s 
distinguished  leadership  and  achievements  in  the  area 
of  human  security  match  its  aspirations  to  seek  a 
permanent  seat  on  the  Council  and  thus  deserve 
favourable  consideration.  Evidence  of  progress  in  the 
confidence-building  process  between  China  and  the 
Republic  of  China  (Taiwan)  deserves  praise  and 
encouragement  from 
international  community. 
Taiwan’s  membership 
the  United  Nations 
specialized  agencies  will  enable  its  23  million  people 
to  play  an  active  part  in  the  affairs  of  the  family  of 
nations. 

Not a single nation can escape the powerful grip 
of the challenges of climate change. Its deadly virus is 
here  already.  The  remedy  is  clear:  collective  and 
resolute  action,  now  more  than  ever.  The  choice  is 
the  Security  Council. 
the 
in 
52 

09-52425 


ours. We implore Almighty God to give us courage and 
wisdom. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Litokwa  Tomeing,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 



  Address by Mr. Lawrence Gonzi, Prime 
Minister of Malta 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of Malta. 

Mr.  Lawrence  Gonzi,  Prime  Minister  of  Malta, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming His Excellency Mr. Lawrence Gonzi, Prime 
Minister  of  Malta,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr.  Gonzi  (Malta):  I  would  like  to  congratulate 

Mr. Ali Treki on his unanimous election to preside over 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  His 
election  is  a  deserved  tribute  to  his  personal  qualities 
as  a  seasoned  politician  and  diplomat  and  also  to  his 
country,  Libya,  with  which  Malta  has  long-standing 
ties of friendship and cooperation. I am sure that under 
his  wise 
this  august 
Assembly  will  be  guided  throughout  his  term  to  a 
successful and fruitful outcome. 
My  delegation’s  thanks  and  appreciation  are 

extended 
to  his  distinguished  predecessor,  Father 
Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, for the dedicated manner 
in which he presided over the work and activities of the 
sixty-third session. 

Malta  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend  and  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
unstinting  efforts  in  guiding  our  Organization  in  the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  stability 
worldwide.  Under  his  leadership  the  United  Nations 
has made important strides in raising awareness and in 
many  instances  responding  effectively  to  the  critical 
situation  of  the  poor  and  more  vulnerable.  It  was 
leadership  and  experience 
A/64/PV.6
to 
this 
renew 
today,  on 
therefore  of  great  satisfaction  to  my  Government  and 
the  Maltese  people  that  we  had  the  honour  and 
privilege to welcome him to Malta last April. 

This  year  Malta  is  marking  three  important 
anniversaries. The first is the forty-fifth anniversary of 
our  country’s  independence,  on  21  September  1964; 
the  second  is  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  coming 
into  force  on  21  March  1994  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change;  and  the 
third  is  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  coming  into 
force  on  16  November  1994  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

Over the past 45 years, Malta has made good on 
the pledge it made when it joined this Organization. In 
this  regard,  I  would  like  to  avail  myself  of  this 
opportunity 
forty-fifth 
anniversary  of  Malta’s  United  Nations  membership, 
our  pledge  and  our  unwavering  faith  and  trust  in  the 
ideals  and  purposes  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. 

One of the issues which in the coming weeks will 
be  at  the  top  of  the  international  agenda  is  the 
Copenhagen  Summit.  Two  days  ago, 
this  Hall 
witnessed  one  of  the  largest-ever  gatherings  of  Heads 
of State and Heads of Government to debate the future 
of our planet Earth. During this unique summit we all 
agreed  that  the  challenges  posed  by  climate  change 
have  become  the  most  urgent  and  critical  faced  by 
humankind. 

It will be recalled that in 1988, when Malta took 
the  initiative  to  formally  submit  the  issue  of  climate 
change  as  a  political  item  on  the  agenda  of  the  forty-
third session of the General Assembly, few of us would 
have  thought  at  that  time  that  this  issue  of  climate 
change would become in the span of two decades one 
the 
of 
international  environmental  concerns  of 
this  new 
century. Throughout these 20 years, Malta has been in 
the  forefront  of  those  ensuring  that  climate  change 
continues  to  be  one  of  the  top-priority  issues  of  our 
times.  Our  commitment  of  20  years  ago  remains 
steadfast  and  as  strong  as  ever.  As  we  have  heard 
during 
the 
Copenhagen Summit must signal a turning point. Malta 
strongly  believes  that  it  is  the  duty  of  all  countries, 
large  and  small,  rich  and  poor,  to  contribute  their  fair 
share to this concerted effort, which must be global if it 
is to succeed. 
the  principal  critical 
the  past  few  days, 
issues  dominating 
the  outcome  of 
09-52425 

53 

for 
A/64/PV.6 


On 16 November of this year, Member States will 
commemorate  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  coming 
into  force  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea,  which  has  been  described  as  the 
constitution 
regulating  humankind’s  activities 
relating to the oceans. It was 42 years ago that, in this 
Hall,  Malta  once  again  called  on  Member  States  to 
undertake  a  reform  of  the  law  of  the  sea,  which 
eventually  culminated  in  the  adoption  of  the  current 
Convention on 10 December 1982. 

It is also necessary to see the 1982 convention in 
the light of some pressing and contemporary problems 
which  are  either  being  addressed  inadequately  or  not 
being  addressed  at  all.  Among  these  deficiencies  are 
the  provisions  dealing  with  piracy,  illicit  traffic  in 
narcotic  drugs  and  psychotropic  substances,  the  rules 
relating  to  the  protection  and  preservation  of  the 
marine  environment  and 
the  rules  dealing  with 
submarine cables and pipelines. Examples of omissions 
are  the  trafficking  of  human  beings,  the  safety  and 
security of navigation, the transportation of weapons of 
mass destruction, and climate change. 

In  the  light  of  the  issues  I  have  just  mentioned, 
Malta  feels  that  the  time  has  come  for  the  General 
Assembly to examine possible approaches to a review 
of the 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea. In this 
context,  Malta  would  like  to  propose  that  the  General 
Assembly, 
its  relevant  bodies,  undertake 
appropriate  consultations  among  its  Member  States  to 
revise  the  Convention  in  view  of  the  passage  of  time 
and  the  emergence  of  new  and  critical  issues  over  the 
years.  My  delegation  will  be  ready  to  enter  into 
consultations  with  other  interested  Member  States  to 
advance this proposal further. 

Just as it was necessary in 1948 to recognize the 
need  for  a  universal  declaration  of  human  rights  as  a 
fundamental  condition  for  the  enjoyment  of  freedom, 
justice  and  peace  for  all  men  and  women  around  the 
world,  so 
to  have  a 
concomitant declaration on human duties of the present 
towards 
generation, 
future  generations.  We  have 
task  of 
conserving  the  human  species  in  the  sacredness  of  its 
life  and  in  its  continuity,  as  well  as  of  preserving  the 
environment,  in all its manifestations. We believe that 
such  a  declaration  emanates  naturally  from 
that 
doctrine  of  the  common  heritage  of  mankind,  which 
my country first mooted before this Assembly in 1967 
including  our  responsibilities 
the  overall 
it  has  become  vital  now 
through 
to 
search 
and  which  eventually  led  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

Malta  believes  that  human  duties  are  intrinsic  to 
the  personality,  oneness  and  uniqueness  of  the  human 
being,  and  are  as  inalienable  as  human  rights.  Those 
duties  do  not  arise  from  laws  or  obligations  but  are 
inherent  to  the  human  being.  Such  duties  relate  to 
human  beings  themselves  and  to  their  fellow  beings, 
and  in  a  special  manner  to  their  family,  to  the 
community at all levels and to the natural and cultural 
environment in which their life evolves. The envisaged 
declaration,  strengthening  and  fulfilling  the  thrust  of 
the 1948 universal instrument, should mark the work of 
this  Assembly  as  a  consummate  service 
the 
international community. It should stand out as a major 
achievement of the United Nations at the beginning of 
the third millennium of our era. It is in this spirit that 
Malta  proposes  that  consideration  be  given  to  the 
drafting  of  such  a  declaration  on  human  duties  and 
responsibilities. 

Conflicts  around  the  world  have  continued  to 
affect  the  political,  economic  and  social  development 
of many countries and a large part of our societies. It is 
tragic  that  in  the  past  decade  more  than  two  million 
innocent children were killed and six million seriously 
injured  in  conflicts. The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
preventive  diplomacy  and  support  to  peace  processes 
must  enjoy  strong  and  sustainable  political  backing 
from Member States. 

from  Somalia  and 
Afghanistan to the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and 
to  challenge  our 
collective 
long-lasting 
solutions  for  these  war-torn  countries  and  regions. 
Malta 
our  Organization’s 
engagement  through  its  peacekeeping  missions  and 
peacebuilding  mechanisms  to  foster  political  dialogue 
and  reconciliation  among  the  warring  parties.  We 
believe that assisting countries emerging from conflict 
in the rebuilding of the lives of their populations would 
contribute  in  no  small  way  to  providing  the  necessary 
support to nationally driven efforts in the achievement 
of sustainable peace and development. 

One  of  the  long-standing  issues  of  which  the 
United  Nations  has  been  seized  since  its  inception  is 
the  question  of  the  Middle  East.  Indeed,  peace  in  the 
Middle  East  continues  to  evade  our  ongoing  efforts. 
Malta reiterates its vision of a two-State solution, with 
the  Middle  East,  continue 
A  number  of  hotspots, 
therefore  welcomes 
for  peaceful  and 
54 

09-52425 
in 
in 
location 
Malta’s  strategic  geographic 


both  States  living  in  secure  and  guaranteed  frontiers, 
each recognizing the other’s sovereignty, and the right 
to  peaceful  coexistence.  Malta  calls  in  both  parties  to 
engage  fully  in  resumed  negotiations  to  this  end, 
resulting  in  a  viable  Palestinian  State  on  the  basis  of 
the  June  1967  borders.  This  is  not  a  view  which  we 
have adopted today. It is a vision that has been ours for 
decades,  believing  as  we  do  that  peace  in  the  Middle 
East  determines  peace 
the  Mediterranean  and 
beyond. 

the 
Mediterranean  has  placed  it  in  the  privileged  yet 
responsible  position  of  building  bridges  between  the 
two continents. In fact, Malta’s vocation towards peace 
and security in the Mediterranean continues to occupy 
an important place of my Government’s foreign policy 
priorities.  During  the  past  12  months,  Malta  has 
continued to build on the achievements made so far by 
enhancing  the  dialogue  between  countries  in  the 
Mediterranean region and the European Union and also 
with  the  League  of  Arab  States.  It  is  with  a  strong 
sense of political commitment and direction that we in 
Malta  bear  the  responsibility  of  hosting  the  liaison 
office aimed at strengthening cooperation between the 
European  Union  and  League  of Arab  States,  which  is 
due to be opened this coming October. Malta believes 
that the liaison office will render a major contribution 
to  deepening  mutual  understanding  through  practical 
cooperation  between  Europe  and  the  Arab  world,  as 
well as enhancing intercultural dialogue. 

Members  will  recall  that  last  year  I  raised  the 
issue of the influx of illegal immigrants who risk their 
lives  in  crossing  the  Mediterranean  to  seek  a  new 
beginning.  I  had  indicated  that  our  size  and  our 
financial and human resources, which are very limited, 
make it extremely difficult for Malta to cope with the 
large  number  of  these  unfortunate  people  arriving  on 
our shores on their way to mainland Europe. Malta has 
always  dealt  with 
situation  with  great 
responsibility,  humanity  and  benevolence,  paying  due 
respect  to  every  human  being  without  any  exception. 
And  we  will  continue  to  do  so. At  the  same  time,  the 
problem  of  illegal  immigration  is  an  international 
phenomenon  driven  by  external  factors  which  cannot 
always be prevented or even mitigated by the countries 
directly affected by the problem. We therefore strongly 
feel that the United Nations should address the issue of 
illegal  immigration  in  a  holistic  way  so  as  to  find 
solutions  to  a  humanitarian  problem  that  Malta  and 
this 
A/64/PV.6
to  assist 
other  like  us,  especially  in  the  Mediterranean,  are 
currently facing. Much more needs to be done, and all 
of  us,  including  countries  of  origin  and  countries  of 
transit, need to step up our efforts in order to deal with 
this challenge. 

My  Government  is  deeply  appreciative  of  those 
countries that have come forward to assist us in coping 
with  this  phenomenon,  including  the  United  States  of 
America,  France,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Portugal, 
Slovenia and Slovakia. My Government also hopes that 
other  countries  will  come  forward 
in 
alleviating the burden which Malta carries — a burden 
so acutely disproportionate to the country’s population, 
wealth and land area. 

In his report on the work of the Organization, the 
Secretary-General  has  laid  emphasis  on  the  need  to 
embark on a multilateral effort of immense magnitude 
“that draws upon the strengths and contributions of all 
the  countries  of  the  world,  as  well  as  their  citizens” 
(A/64/1,  para.  4).  Malta  believes  that  such  an  effort 
must find its foundations in this Organization where all 
Member  States  are  equal  and  where 
the  many 
challenges  facing  humankind  can  be  addressed  in  a 
cohesive  and  coherent  manner.  The  global  challenges 
which the United Nations faces are our challenges. We, 
as  Member  States,  have  an  obligation  and 
the 
responsibility  to  ensure  that  our  Organization  lives  up 
to the commitments and decisions that we, as heads of 
State  and  Government, 
to 
implement  in  the  best  interests  of  our  constituencies 
and societies. 

Allow  me  to  conclude  by  stating  that  Malta 
continues to strongly believe that together, as Members 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  can  and  should  continue  to 
support the Organization, our Secretary-General and all 
those  who  contribute  to  making  our  world  a  better 
place  for  present  and  future  generations.  I  know  that 
Malta intends to do so. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Malta for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Lawrence  Gonzi,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Malta,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum.
solemnly  undertake 
from 

09-52425 

55 
A/64/PV.6 




  Address by Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President 
of Georgia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the President of Georgia. 

Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of  Georgia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili, 
President  of  Georgia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  Saakashvili:  I  am  grateful  for  the 

opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth session. 

Each  year,  we  gather  here  to  confront  our 
common  challenges  and  to  express  our  vision  for  the 
world  we  share,  the  world  for  which  we  are  common 
stewards. And each year we promise to do more and to 
do  better  to  live  up  to  and  defend  the  principles 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. 

This  year,  we  meet  on  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  the  most  successful  triumph  of  those  principles. 
Twenty years have passed since Europe and the rest of 
the  world  were  liberated  from  one  of  the  cruellest 
episodes in modern history. The fall of the Berlin Wall 
brought  an  end  to  an  artificial  line  that  separated 
nations,  divided  families,  strangled  freedom  and 
imprisoned millions. Remarkably, that formidable wall 
crumbled  without  a  single  shot  being  fired.  It  yielded 
to  the  will  of  those  millions  who  yearned  for  liberty 
and it yielded to the determination of a united West. 

Twenty  years  ago,  a  universally  feared  military 
force was defeated by the force of a universal truth — 
the  call  for  freedom  and  the  simple  desire  to  live  a 
dignified  life.  When  the  Berlin  Wall  was  dismantled 
20 years ago, it did more than free the captive nations 
of  the  Warsaw  Pact.  It  unleashed  the  hopes,  dreams, 
aspirations  and  talents  of  millions  of  citizens  living 
under the tyranny of the Soviet Union — including my 
own nation’s people. 

Today, these citizens make up more than a dozen 
diverse nations, linked together by the common desires 
and  ambitions  to  live  in  a  world  free  from  spheres  of 
influence  —  free  from  external  control  —  and  to  be 
able  to  choose  their  own  destiny.  Today,  as  we  look 
back at that historic chapter and the impact it has had 
And 
the  moment 
on  our  world,  we  can  rightly  be  proud  of  what  was 
achieved, the tremendous progress that has been made, 
and the prosperity that a lasting peace has brought. 

But  if  we  are  to  evaluate  the  past  honestly,  we 
must  admit  that  the  present  remains  bittersweet.  For 
there  is  a  real  danger  that,  rather  than  build  on  this 
great  chapter  of  idealism  and  progress,  States  and 
leaders will allow a return of the dull complacency and 
cynical power politics that led to so many of the worst 
moments of the past 100 years. 
is  bittersweet  because, 

regrettably,  not  everyone  drew  the  same  lessons  of 
hope  and  inspiration  when  that  wall  came  down. 
Indeed, 20 years ago, when freedom’s spirit swept that 
wall  away,  few  imagined  the  repression  and  threats  it 
represented would so soon reappear and that the hopes 
unleashed in 1989 would so quickly founder. Yet today, 
a  Europe  that  is  whole,  free,  and  at  peace  remains  a 
goal  still 
to  be  achieved  —  a  project  not  yet 
accomplished and a challenge, unfortunately, unmet. 

Today,  I  stand  before  the  Assembly  as  the 
democratically elected leader of a proud and sovereign 
nation.  But,  tragically,  Georgia  today,  like  Germany  a 
generation ago, is a nation with a deep wound running 
through  it. As  Václav  Havel  and  other  leading  voices  
of  Europe’s  conscience  declared  earlier  this  week, 
Europe  is  today  divided  by  a  new  wall  built  by  an 
outside force — a wall that runs through the middle of 
Georgia. 

This wall has been built by the same people who 
miss  the  Berlin  Wall,  who  regret  its  fall,  who  did 
everything  so  that  the  wall  would  not  fall.  This  wall 
cuts  off  one  fifth  of  our  territory  and,  once  again, 
divides  Europe  from  itself,  creating  new  lines  of 
repression  and  fear,  artificial  dividing  lines  inside  the 
internationally  recognized  borders  of  a  European 
nation. 

It  may  be  unpopular,  but  I  am  obliged  to  speak 
the  truth.  And  the  truth  is  that  this  wall’s  existence 
mocks the progress we seemed to have made since that 
bright,  shining  day  in  Berlin  20  years  ago.  This  new 
wall  tells  us  that,  once  again,  the  rule  of  force  has 
trumped the rule of law and the rule of reason. 

I see no irony — only tragedy — in the fact that 
this wall is being built by the very people whose ideas 
were  collectively  and  decisively  defeated  and  rejected 
just  20  years  ago.  I  take  no  comfort  in  the  fact  that 
56 

09-52425 
Today, 


those who thought the wall’s destruction was the single 
greatest  tragedy  of  the  twentieth  century  now  lead 
these deplorable efforts. 

One  year  ago,  my  country  was  invaded.  Tanks, 
warplanes,  warships,  bombs  and  State-directed  cyber-
hackers  descended  upon  our  towns,  villages,  cities, 
infrastructure  and  economy.  Hundreds  of  our  people 
were killed within days and thousands were wounded. 
Tens of thousands of innocent civilians were forced to 
flee in the face of ethnic cleansing, which independent 
human  rights  organizations  have  documented  very 
well. 

these  acts  of  brutality  have  gone 
unaddressed,  in  direct  contravention  of  international 
law,  the  norms  of  this  institution  and  internationally 
signed  agreements  designed  to  reverse  these  wrongs. 
These  are  the  facts  that  confront  us  as  we  gather  here 
today, and these facts have a name: armed aggression, 
ethnic  cleansing,  mass  violation  of  human  rights  and 
continuing illegal occupation. 

Those who unleashed war in our region and in my 
country and led ethnic cleansing campaigns in Georgia 
said  yesterday  —  in  this  very  Hall,  from  this  very 
rostrum  —  that  they  had  to  do  it  to  “implement  the 
principle  of  the  indivisibility  of  security”  in  order  to 
“move beyond the legacy of the past” (A/64/PV.4). This 
is  la  langue  de  bois  —  very  classical  langue  de  bois
from the old days. 

The  only  thing  that  they  stepped  over  in  reality 
was our sovereign border. They said they had to do it, 
just  as  their  predecessors  had  to  invade  Poland  — 
because  of  Poland’s  reckless  desire  to  be  free  —  in 
1939,  Finland 
1956, 
Czechoslovakia in 1968, and Afghanistan in 1979. The 
same  people  had  to  erase  a  capital  of  400,000 
inhabitants  —  Grozny  —  to  destroy  and  exterminate 
the proud Chechen nation and kill tens of thousands of 
innocent women and children. And I am saying on the 
record  that  the  clock  is  ticking,  and  they  will  have  to 
do  it  again,  and  they  will  do  it  again  unless  they  are 
stopped  by  all  of  us.  Recent  history  indeed  is  a 
powerful  guide  to  understanding  what  kind  of  actions 
these leaders undertake in order to bring what they call 
security and stability to my nation. 

But I want to say clearly today that the people of 
Georgia cannot and will not accept a new dividing line 
in  our  country.  That  is  an  unchangeable  commitment. 
Under  these  daily  menaces,  military  provocations  and 
1940,  Hungary 
in 
in 
A/64/PV.6
all kinds of lies directed against us from many different 
sources, my nation will not crumble and we will never 
surrender to this brutal force. 

The wall across Europe is not a matter of concern 
to Georgia alone. Indeed, in this matter the very values 
of  this  institution  are  under  threat.  The  protection  of 
human rights, respect for the dignity and equality of all 
persons, the inadmissibility of ethnic cleansing and the 
recognition of the inviolability of sovereign borders — 
all  these  are  values  that  form  the  bedrock  of  this 
institution.  

We certainly did not choose this course of action, 
but it is up to us to recognize and reverse its illegality. 
As  a  community  of  responsible  nations,  it  is  our 
collective  responsibility  to  uphold  international  law 
and  to  insist  that  borders  cannot  and  will  not  be 
changed through the use of force. It is up to us to tear 
down  this  new  wall  peacefully  with  the  power  of  our 
ideas  and  the  strength  of  our  convictions.  I  want  the 
world to understand clearly how we view this new wall 
and our strategy for tearing it down. 

To start with, let me state outright that we do not 
expect it to disappear overnight. We understand that it 
is  a  very,  very  hard  process,  but  the  history  of  the 
Berlin  Wall  teaches  us  that  patience  must  never  be 
passive. We should never become resigned to the idea 
that this situation should be accepted or tolerated. The 
Berlin  Wall  fell  only  because  passionate,  disciplined, 
energetic partisans of freedom, both behind and outside 
that  wall,  worked  with  focus,  discipline,  courage  and 
determination  to  remind  the  world  community  of  the 
illegitimacy  and  illegality  of  that  wall,  and  to  take 
action to hasten its demise. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
those  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  for  their 
votes  recognizing  the  right  of  return  for  all  who  have 
been  displaced  and  for  all  the  victims  of  ethnic 
cleansing. I would like to thank all those nations across 
the globe that resisted illegal pressure — and in many 
cases  attempts  at  bribery  —  by  standing  firm  in  their 
non-recognition  of  those  territories  of  Georgia  now 
occupied  by  a  foreign  force.  I  want  to  thank  all  those 
nations  that  have  been  so  generous  in  pledging  and 
providing  the  vital  economic  support  that  has  proved 
invaluable  in  helping  to  build  shelters  for  and  rebuild 
the dreams of those the invasion has made refugees and 
internally  displaced  persons.  On  behalf  of  all  my 
fellow  citizens,  I  wish 
their 
them  for 
thank 
to 
09-52425 

57 

refugee 
A/64/PV.6 

generosity,  especially  at  a  time  of  such  extreme 
hardship around the world. 

Beyond  the  comfort  provided  by  their  material 
support,  I  want  to  thank  all  of  Georgia’s  friends  who 
have  defended  not  only  our  sovereignty,  but  our  right 
to forge our own path in the world, to choose our own 
alliances and to reject the nineteenth-century notion of 
spheres  of  influence,  which  led  to  so  much  warfare, 
repression  and  hardship  in  the  world’s  history.  I  want 
to  thank  those  nations  and  leaders  of  the  European 
Union  who  today  have  committed  their  monitors  to 
Georgia  for  the  promotion  of  peace.  The  Georgian 
people  are  also  grateful  to  United  States  President 
Obama  for  his  unyielding  words  and  very  strong 
declarations  of  support  for  our  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity, as well as to Vice President Biden 
for visiting Georgia this summer and for underscoring, 
in  meeting  with 
children,  America’s 
commitment to our democracy and our right to choose 
our  own  future.  In  particular,  I  want  to  thank  the 
United Nations for more than 16 years of contributions 
to peace on the ground in Georgia through its presence 
in  our  country  —  a  presence  recently  and  abruptly 
halted  by  the  unilateral  actions  of  one  single  Member 
State. 

Our  future  depends  on  us,  and  so  today  I  also 
want  to  report  to  the  United  Nations  on  the  progress 
Georgia has made, through our own efforts, in the year 
since  we  suffered  Europe’s  first  invasion  in  the  post-
cold  war  era.  One  year  after  losing  hundreds  of  our 
sons  and  daughters  and  after  seeing  hundreds  of 
thousands of our people displaced, the Georgian people 
have regrouped and made real progress down the path 
of peace, freedom and individual liberty. 

I would like to pay tribute to their courage. Just a 
few days ago, in a refugee camp outside Tbilisi, I saw 
young children demonstrating their unstoppable will to 
have a normal and free life. These were children of all 
ethnic backgrounds. Indeed, most of the refugees from 
South Ossetia are ethnic Ossetians, and they fled from 
so-called  liberators  or  were  forced  out. The  children  I 
saw in that refugee camp were seizing the opportunity 
to learn how to compete in the modern age using new 
computers,  mastering  English  and  advancing  their 
pursuit of knowledge, despite the odds. These children 
are the future of my country. These children symbolize 
the path Georgia took after the invasion. 
license 
individual 

We are following through on the promises I made 
at  this  rostrum  last  year  to  strengthen  our  democracy, 
foster  pluralism  and  expand 
liberties. 
Already, we have set reforms in motion that within the 
next  year  will  advance  the  progress  of  the  Rose 
Revolution  and  irreversibly  deepen  our  identity  as  the 
freest  State  in  our  region. Already,  we  have  permitted 
nearly  three  months  of  opposition  protests  to  proceed 
unhindered,  even  though  they  closed  down  the  main 
streets  of  our  capital  and  paralysed  Government 
buildings. Our actions reflect our deep commitment to 
pluralism  and  our  respect  for  dissent  and  freedom  of 
speech.  

In  a  situation  where  enemy  troops  are  just  two 
dozen  kilometres  from  the  capital,  with  their  artillery 
pointed  at  the  city  centre,  we  have  already  given 
opposition-controlled  broadcast  stations 
to 
transmit  across  the  nation.  Already,  we  have  brought 
opposition  parties  into  the  meetings  of  our  national 
security  council,  basically  keeping  no  secrets  from 
them and giving full access to all State information, so 
as to ensure that our security policies reflect the unified 
will  of  the  nation,  beyond  faction  and  beyond  party. 
Already,  we  have  committed  to  the  direct  election  of 
all mayors in a few months’ time, and  we have begun 
the  development  of  new  electoral  rules,  based  on 
consensus  and  the  agreement  of  different  political 
parties, 
the  greatest  possible 
local,  parliamentary  and 
legitimacy  of 
presidential elections. 

Along with all these efforts and our commitment 
to democratic reforms, our biggest imperative today is 
to  continue  to  integrate  all  different  political  interests 
and groups in promoting a better everyday life for our 
citizens.  We  are  also  doing  everything  we  can  to 
rebuild our economy. 

The  Georgian  people  are  skilled  and  hard-
working, but they are enduring the double punishment 
of  the  global  economic  downturn  and  the  economic 
consequences  of  last  summer’s  invasion.  Our  biggest 
imperative at home is to create more employment, and 
we  are  pursuing  that  goal  every  day.  Indeed,  we  are 
heartened  and  proud  that  the  World  Bank  recently 
ranked Georgia as the eleventh most attractive country 
in the world for doing business, when only a few years 
ago we ranked 122nd. We also rank first in Eastern and 
Central  Europe,  just  one  year  after  the  invasion. And 
we  will  continue  to  take  steps  to  strengthen  our 
economy and create more employment. 
to  ensure 
in  order 
the  next 
58 

09-52425 
Abkhazia 
is 



We  are  resolutely  committed  to  our  vision  of  a 
sovereign  and  unified  Georgia.  Together  with  all  of 
Georgia’s diverse ethnic groups and religions, we will 
prevail  over  the  illegal  occupation  and  reverse  the 
results of ethnic cleansing. 

the  birthplace  of  Georgian 
civilization.  Since  the  days  of  the  ancient  kingdom  of 
Colchida  —  which  was  the  birthplace  of  one  of  the 
most 
interesting  and  ancient  European  cultures, 
beginning with Jason and the Argonauts — it has been 
a  valuable  and  vibrant  part  of  our  journey  through 
history. Just a few years ago, it remained a very vibrant 
part  of  Georgia. And  that  most  vibrant  and  successful 
part  of  Georgia  has  now  been  emptied  of  more  than 
three  quarters  of  its  population.  Gardens,  hotels, 
theatres and restaurants have been replaced by military 
bases, minefields and graveyards. It will take time, but 
I  am  sure  that  Abkhazia  will  once  again  be  what  it 
was — the most wonderful part of Georgia — and that 
the occupation will be merely a part of history.  

I  came  here  today  to  deliver  a  simple  message. 
We believe that Georgia is winning the peace, and here 
is  how  the  Assembly  can  measure  our  commitment. 
Did we crumble in the face of the brutal invasion? No. 
Did  we  crack  down  on  dissent?  No.  Did  we  reduce 
freedom in the face of recession? No. Even in the face 
of adversity, we continue to contribute to the common 
goals  established  by  our  friends  and  the  international 
community at large. 

I am proud to say that Georgia is in the vanguard 
of the battle  against  climate change, producing 85 per 
cent  of  its  electricity  from  green  and  renewable 
sources.  That  percentage  is  growing,  and  within  the 
next  three  years  we  will  cover  100  per  cent  of  our 
needs.  Meanwhile,  we  are  on  the  front  lines  in 
confronting  terrorism  throughout  the  world  with  our 
allies, including in Afghanistan, where our troops will 
serve side by side with others from around the world. 

We are winning the peace because, every day, the 
nations  of  our  region  become  more  and  more 
independent  from  our  common  imperial  legacy.  Every 
day, regional States increasingly reject the tremendous 
pressure generated by our common past. Every day, the 
idea 
is 
spreading further, and every day the arc of independent 
nations  —  from  Ukraine 
to  Moldova  and  from 
Uzbekistan  and  Kyrgyzstan  to  Mongolia  —  is  telling 
that  we  can  resist  revanchist 
tendencies 
A/64/PV.6
the  world  that  spheres  of  influence  are  a  thing  of  the 
past.  

Georgia  is  not  only  a  country;  the  new  wall  that 
cuts  across  our  territory  has  transformed  Georgia  into 
an  idea  and  a  test.  It  is  an  idea  of  freedom  and 
independence and a test for the world — a test that the 
world  must  not  fail.  If  the  world  passes  the  test,  then 
everyone will be amazed at how quickly the region will 
develop  its  tremendous  potential.  An  active,  patient 
victory  over  this  new  wall  would  be  a  crucial  step  in 
the effort to build energy security for free nations and a 
united front against lawlessness and terrorism. Georgia 
is  a  place  where  all  cultures,  influences,  religions  and 
traditions meet, providing an antidote to the threat of a 
clash of civilizations. 

Yesterday, President Obama said clearly that new 
walls  should  not  divide  us,  that  the  future  belongs  to 
those who build and not to those who destroy, and that 
cooperation  and  values  must  prevail  against  division 
and  cynicism.  Today,  I  want  to  stress  how  much  we 
share  that  vision  and  how  vital  that  vision  is  to  my 
country, my region and beyond. 
Twenty years ago, the velvet revolutions opened a 

new  era  of  international  relations  and  a  new  journey 
began  towards  a  free  and  cooperative  world.  I  am 
confident that we will prevail on that journey, but only 
if  we  are  not  complacent  or  passive  and  only  if  we 
support  and  defend  our  deeply  held  values.  After  all, 
only  this  week,  the  clarion  voice  of  those  velvet 
revolutions  two  decades  ago  —  the  voice  of  Václav 
Havel  —  offered  us  a  solemn  reminder  about  the 
dangers that we have yet to overcome. Speaking about 
the  new  wall  that  now  divides  Georgia,  he  wrote, 
together with other prominent Europeans, that 
“the failure of western democracies to respond to 
the  dismemberment  of  a  friendly  nation,  albeit  a 
small  one,  can  have  very  serious  global 
consequences  …  The  European  Union  was  built 
against  the  temptation  of  Munich  and  the  iron 
curtain. It would be utterly disastrous if we were 
to  appear  in  any  way  to  condone  the  kind  of 
practices that plunged our continent into war and 
division  for  most  of  the  last  century. At  stake  is 
nothing less than the fate of the project to which 
we  continue  to  dedicate  our  lives:  the  peaceful 
and  democratic  reunification  of  the  European 
continent”. 
09-52425 

59 

A/64/PV.6 


We  must  not  fail  to  hear  Václav  Havel’s  call, 
President  Obama’s  call  and  the  call  of  one  of  my 
personal heroes from Russia, Anna Politkovskaya, who 
was so brutally silenced.  I remember my conversation 
with Ms. Politkovskaya just a few days before she was 
murdered.  She  was  my  friend  and  my  hero,  and  I 
remember  the  hopes  that  she  expressed.  Their  calls 
echo  across  two  decades  of  progress  —  progress  that 
has  inspired  the  greatest  hopes  but  that  remains  very 
fragile. Today and together, we must provide answers. 
Today  and  together,  we  must  show  leadership  and 
vision.  Today  and  together,  we  must  demonstrate  our  

common resolve. And most of  all, today and together, 
we  must  provide  an  example,  showing  that  the  power 
of  our  values  and  ideals  will  finally  unleash  the 
tremendous human potential within all of us.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Georgia for 
the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of  Georgia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
The meeting rose at 10.10 p.m. 

60 

09-52425 
