
A/64/PV.9
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

9th plenary meeting 
Saturday, 26 September 2009, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m. 

Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 



  Address by Mr. Gabriel Ntisezerana, Second 
Vice-President of the Republic of Burundi 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the Second Vice-President 
of the Republic of Burundi. 

Mr.  Gabriel  Ntisezerana,  Second  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Burundi,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gabriel 
Ntisezerana, Second Vice-President of the Republic of 
Burundi,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr. Ntisezerana (Burundi) (spoke in French): It 

is an honour to take the floor at the sixty-fourth session 
of the General Assembly.  

At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Pierre  Nkurunziza,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Burundi,  and  our  entire  delegation,  we  join  preceding 
speakers 
in  warmly  congratulating  you,  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session. 
Your  election  is  a  tribute  to  you  and  to  your  country. 
My delegation and I personally wish you every success 
in  your  noble  mission.  Our  congratulations  go  also  to 
today’s  world.  We  hail  him 
the  other  members  of  the  Bureau.  We  also  take  this 
opportunity  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  to  your 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, for his commitment and for the quality of 
the work accomplished during his mandate.  

Here,  we  wish  to  reaffirm  our  support  for  His 
Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon.  Once 
again,  we  wish  him  every  success  and  assure  him  of 
the  full  cooperation  of  the  Republic  of  Burundi  in 
seeking  peaceful  and  courageous  solutions  to  the 
problems  facing 
in 
particular  for  his  devotion  to  the  cause  of  peace  and 
development,  which  he  has  continued  to  demonstrate 
for the world in general and for Burundi in particular.  

Finally,  our  gratitude  goes  to  the  international 
community, the Peacebuilding Commission, the United 
Nations  Integrated  Office  in  Burundi,  the  European 
Union,  the  Regional  Initiative  for  Burundi  and  the 
Republic  of  South  Africa  for  their  efforts  to  restore 
peace, which is now a reality and which we hope will 
be  irreversible  in  Burundi.  We  urge  all  States  in  the 
Great  Lakes  region  to  continue  to  engage  in  dialogue 
and  cooperation  to  ensure  comprehensive  political 
stability  and  development  in  the  region.  We  take  this 
opportunity  to  request  that  consultative  status  in  the 
General  Assembly  be  granted  at  this  session  to  the 
International Conference on the Great Lakes Region. 

The  present  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
taking  place  at  a  time  when  the  Burundian  people  are 
welcoming  the  progress  made  on  the  path  of  peace. 
Indeed, the war in Burundi is now over. The last rebel 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52586 (E) 
*0952586* 

the 
institutions, 
reintegration  of 
the  Burundian  people 
A/64/PV.9 

movement, the Forces nationales de liberation, has laid 
down its weapons and has become a political party that 
is  actively  participating  in  the  country’s  democratic 
life. The movement’s top leaders have been appointed 
to  posts  in  the  area  of  public  administration.  Some 
former combatants have joined the army or the police, 
and 
the  others  have  been  demobilized  and  are 
benefiting  from  the  process  of  reintegrating  into 
normal  socio-economic  life.  We  wish  to  thank  all  our 
partners  for  their  support  for  Burundi’s  considerable 
peacebuilding and democratization efforts.  
With  the  return  of  peace  and  democratically 

elected 
are 
beginning to regain confidence in the institutions of the 
Republic.  Internally  displaced  persons  (IDPs)  are 
returning  to  their  former  villages,  and  Burundian 
refugees  who  were  in  neighbouring  countries  have 
returned.  However, 
former 
combatants,  IDPs  and  refugees  is  not  taking  place 
without difficulties or constraints.  

Indeed,  Burundi,  as  an African  country  with  one 
of  the  highest  population  growth  rates,  has  an  acute 
land-shortage  problem,  which  has  given  rise 
to 
property disputes. In order to preserve social harmony, 
a  commission  for  land  and  other  assets  has  been 
established  to  resolve  all  disputes  arising  between 
repatriated persons and their fellow  citizens who have 
remained  in  the  hills,  where  land  is  considered  a 
unique treasure. 

Burundi  is  facing  the  problem  of  financing  the 
professional reintegration of thousands of men, women 
and even children who have served as combatants. The 
international  community’s  support  is  thus  essential  to 
assist  us  in  the  process  of  socially  reintegrating  those 
sectors  of  the  needy  population  so  that  the  gains  of 
peacebuilding will not be undermined.  

the  Burundian  Government 
recognizes  that  illegal  firearms  in  the  hands  of  the 
civilian population constitute a serious threat to peace. 
In  order  to  address  that  problem,  the  Government  has 
established  a  commission  to  encourage  people  to 
voluntarily  turn  in  their  weapons. As  the  commission 
has  a 
the  Government  has 
launched  a  large-scale  programme  to  recover  all 
weapons  and  clamp  down  on  crime  linked  to  firearm 
use. A  decree  regulating  legal  firearms  possession  has 
just been signed by the President.  
time-bound  mandate, 
Furthermore, 

and 
in  a 
justice 
combat 
Judicial  reform  is  being  carried  out  to  ensure 

equitable 
impunity.  The 
Government welcomes the support of the international 
community  in  this  area.  To  further  consolidate  the 
peace  dividend,  we  must  meet  the  challenges  of 
knowing  the  truth  so  that  we  can  achieve  national 
reconciliation.  It  is  imperative  that  the  Burundian 
people succeed in the transitional justice process. That 
will  enable  them  to  bury  the  hatchet  of  war  and  build 
their future on a solid foundation of peace and mutual 
trust. 
Mindful of the fact that it would not enjoy peace 

for 
troubled  Africa,  our  country  has 
long 
responded  positively  to  the  international  community’s 
appeal  to  contribute  to  peacekeeping  in  countries  at 
war.  Thus,  Burundi  is  participating  in  the  United 
Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire, to restore peace to 
Côte  d’Ivoire; 
the  United  Nations  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  in  the  Central  African  Republic,  in 
Chad and the Central African Republic; and the African 
Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur,  in 
Darfur  and  Somalia.  Unfortunately,  our  contingent 
deployed  in  Somalia  as  part  of  the  African  Union 
Mission  in  Somalia  (AMISOM)  has,  over  a  two-year 
period,  been  the  target  of  three  suicide  attacks  that 
have claimed the lives of 25 soldiers and left 35 others 
wounded. To that grisly toll, we must add three victims 
of the crash of an Ilyushin aircraft into Lake Victoria in 
March this year. 

Those facts show that Burundi is paying a heavy 
price  in  the  international  mission  to  contribute  to  the 
quest for peace in Somalia. Because of this loss of life, 
some in Burundi are calling for a troop withdrawal. We 
believe  that,  in  its  current  configuration,  the  Mission 
can continue and be completed only with considerable 
efforts by the international community.  

To that end, the Government of Burundi believes 
that AMISOM’s  mandate  should  be  changed  to  allow 
contingents 
themselves  against  deadly 
attacks and to take the offensive or pursue aggressors, 
if  necessary,  in  accordance  with  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter. We believe that contingents must be equipped 
with  sufficient  resources  in  terms  of  quality  and 
quantity.  We  believe  that  strike  helicopters  and  funds 
for  information-gathering  on  the  ground  must  be 
provided. We also believe that additional troops should 
be  deployed  without  delay  in  order  to  make  the 
Mission truly continental in character. And we believe 
that  the  long-promised  sanctions  against  countries, 
to  protect 
2 

09-52586 


organizations  and  individuals  who  support  Islamist 
groups should at last become a reality.  

The Government of Burundi remains steadfast to 
its  commitments  vis-à-vis  AMISOM.  However,  we 
would like to see the international community respond 
as  soon  as  possible  to  the  concerns  that  I  have 
expressed  here,  which  are  well-known  to  all  partners 
who  wish  to  see  the  return  of  peace  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa.  

This meeting is taking place a few months before 
the holding of general elections in my country aimed at 
reinvigorating  institutions  at  every  level.  I  would  like 
to  underscore  here  that  the  Government  is  committed 
to making sure that those elections are transparent and 
that  they  are  held  in  an  atmosphere  of  calm.  An 
independent national electoral commission has already 
been  put  in  place,  based  on  a  political  compromise 
between 
the  various  parties.  In  addition,  a  new 
electoral law  has just been promulgated. The Ministry 
of  the  Interior  has  also  been  strengthened  in  order  to 
support  the  commission.  The  partnership  between  the 
electoral commission, the Government and donors has 
just been formalized through an agreement between the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
Government of Burundi on a project to provide support 
for the elections.  

In  that  regard,  the  Government  will  provide  the 
independent national electoral commission a $7 million 
package  for  the  entire  endeavour. We  are  counting  on 
the  varied  support  of  the  international  community  to 
mobilize  all  the  necessary  resources  to  make  the 
electoral  process  a 
the 
willingness  expressed  by  the  Secretary-General  to 
bring  BINUB’s  mandate  in  line  with  the  electoral 
environment.  I  need  not  recall  that  BINUB’s  mandate 
should  be  agreed  between  now  and  the  end  of 
December  of  this  year.  A  successful  outcome  to  the 
elections  will  enable  us,  in  coordination  with  the 
Secretary-General,  to  redefine  the  mission  of  the 
United Nations in Burundi by focusing major attention 
on programmes aimed at lasting development. 

Burundi  must  make  a  success  of  its  electoral 
process  if  it  is  to  be  able  to  pursue  its  economic 
development.  Our  strategic  framework 
to  combat 
poverty,  which  is  the  point  of  reference  for  all  efforts 
in 
the  process  of 
implementation  since  2007.  An  assessment  of  that 
effort  over  the  past  two  years  reveals  satisfactory 
success.  We  welcome 
regard,  has  been 
that 
in 
A/64/PV.9
issues 
to  Burundi, 
the  potential 
those  of 
tourism, 
technical  and  policy 
results  overall,  despite  the  fact  that  the  performance 
indicators we wanted to achieve with regard to certain 
macroeconomic policies have not yet been realized. 
In  an  effort  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  the 

assistance  provided 
the  Government, 
working in partnership with donors, has put in place a 
partners’ coordination group that provides a forum for 
discussion 
in  which  development  partners  are 
consulted  on  all 
in 
connection  with  the  implementation  of  our  national 
strategy  on  development  and  peacebuilding.  Today, 
genuine  dialogue  and  active  partnership  take  place 
throughout the process, from the planning to the results 
assessment stages. 

With  the  support  of  the  World  Bank,  Burundi 
hopes to hold a meeting of the Ad Hoc Advisory Group 
on  Burundi  next  month  in  Paris,  with  a  view  to 
mobilizing  funds  destined  for  sectors  that  have  been 
identified  as  having 
for  quickly 
to  economic  growth  and  playing  a 
contributing 
the  energy, 
catalysing  role  —  namely, 
agricultural,  private 
sector, 
information 
technology  and  communication  infrastructure  sectors. 
We  count  on  the  existing  partnership  to  provide  the 
necessary financing. 

The Government has come to understand that, in 
order  to  fully  restart  economic  growth,  it  needs  to 
promote good governance in the management of public 
affairs  and  further  improve  the  business  environment. 
To  that  end,  the  Government,  with  the  support  of  its 
partners,  has  begun  a  series  of  reforms  aimed  at 
improving  public  finance  management  and  facilitating 
private domestic and foreign investment in our country. 
A new investment law has therefore been promulgated, 
which  the  Government  has  adapted  to  bring  it  in  line 
with  the  East  African  Community’s  model.  A  value 
added tax is already in place and an agency to promote 
investment will soon become operational.  

Burundi  aims  to  meet  the  challenge  set  at  the 
international 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  as  underscored  in  the  Outcome 
adopted at the September 2005 World Summit of heads 
of  State  or  Government  (resolution  60/1).  We  are 
pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that,  thanks  to  our 
policy  of  free  primary  education  and  health  care  for 
children  under  the  age  of  five  and  pregnant  women, 
Burundi  is  achieving  results  that  merit  support.  For 
instance, thanks to that policy, the number of pregnant 
level 
to 
achieve 
09-52586 

3 
A/64/PV.9 

women  giving  birth  in  hospitals  or  health  centres 
increased from 22.9 per cent in 2005 to 56.3 per cent in 
2008. 

In July 2009, the Government of Burundi decided 
to provide free malaria treatment and mosquito nets for 
its entire population. The Government has also decided 
to  take  responsibility  for  the  medical  treatment  and 
follow-up  for  women  beginning  in  the  first  month  of 
pregnancy,  with  a  view  to  better  protecting  the  health 
of  mothers  and  children.  That  policy  includes  an 
information campaign aimed at curbing the number of 
births.  A  national  body  will  soon  be  established  that 
will  be  responsible  for  providing  health  insurance  for 
people living in rural areas or working in the informal 
sector.  

Education  for  all  is  another  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  that  the  people  of  Burundi  are 
working to achieve. Thanks to community development 
efforts,  our  people  built  more  than  700  schools  and 
health centres in the course of 2008, so as to allow all 
school-age  children  to  benefit  from  free  primary 
education,  as  decided 
in  2005  by  our  country’s 
President. However, we still face the ongoing problem 
of providing the necessary financial resources to equip 
those  schools  and  health  centres,  provide  them  with 
drinking water and pay their staff. I need not point out 
that 
to 
contribute  to  our  country’s  progress  in  the  run-up  to 
2015. 
Moreover,  the  Government  would  like  donors  to 

mobilize 
the 
sustainability  of  our  achievements.  We  would  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  heartily  thank  partners  that 
have  already  supported  the  implementation  of  our 
policy  to  provide  free  primary  education  and  health 
services  for  pregnant  women  and  children  under  the 
age of five. We appeal to those who are still hesitant to 
come to our assistance in order to help us to overcome 
the numerous challenges to which I have referred here. 

The  global  financial  crisis  has  not  spared 
Burundi. While  the  cost  of  raw  materials  has  dropped 
in  general,  the  decrease  has  been  especially  sharp  in 
the price of coffee, which  is our main  export product. 
The Assembly will of course understand that, when our 
economy’s 
gross 
macroeconomic 
they 
undermine  the  social  protection  efforts  undertaken  by 
the Government.  
these  exceptional  steps  have  been 
indicators  perform  poorly, 
additional 
resources 
domestic 
to 
ensure 
taken 
product 
and 
our 

to 
those  pertaining 

The  volatile  market  for  petroleum  products  also 
has a destabilizing impact on Burundi’s economy, as it 
produces  external  shocks  that  are  difficult  to  bear. 
Despite  the  economic  policy  interventions  that  have 
been  taken  to  counteract  the  negative  effects  of 
disturbances in international markets, the economies of 
developing  countries  must  nevertheless  reiterate  the 
appeal  for  restoring  order  with  regard  to  such  current 
issues  as 
the  stability  of 
international  financial  markets,  the  implementation  of 
trade agreements, technology transfers and the need to 
increase assistance and investment in Africa.  

Given the situation, we would like once again to 
invite  developed  countries  and  the  Group  of  Eight  in 
particular to translate into action the commitment they 
undertook  to  raise  official  development  assistance 
contributions to 0.7 per cent of GDP by 2015, as well 
as to honour the promise made in Scotland to increase 
development  aid  by  $50  billion  per  year  starting  in 
2010, with half of this sum allocated to Africa. 

Climate  change  constitutes  a  threat  to  peace  and 
food  security  in  Africa  and  around  the  world.  We 
therefore call for the adoption of courageous measures 
to  limit  the  production  of  greenhouse  gases  and  for 
incentives  to  encourage  reforestation  policies,  the 
protection  of  equatorial 
responsible 
management  of  water  and  energy  resources,  and  the 
use of clean and renewable energies. Burundi endorses 
the common African Union position that was set out by 
the  Prime  Minister  of  Ethiopia  and  will  be  reaffirmed 
at the Copenhagen Conference. We welcome measures 
announced  by  President  Barack  Obama,  the  European 
Union  and  Japan  to  considerably  reduce  greenhouse 
gas  emissions,  manage  toxic  waste  responsibly  and 
provide  financial  and  technological  resources  to  least-
developed and landlocked countries. 

Burundi  renews  its  pledge  to  the  United  Nations 
to  continue  working  to  ensure  that  the  peoples  of  the 
entire world  cooperate in peace and defend the values 
of freedom, solidarity and tolerance. These values must 
guide  the  international  community  in  resolving  the 
bloody conflicts that threaten some parts of Africa, the 
Middle East, Iraq and Afghanistan, and will help us to 
fight  terrorism  and  other  forms  of  transnational  crime 
effectively.  

I cannot conclude my address without reaffirming 
the  commitment  of  my  country  to  multilateralism, 
forests, 
the 
4 

09-52586 


which represents our single best hope for responding to 
all threats to peace and security in the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Second 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Burundi  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Gabriel  Ntisezerana,  Second  Vice-President 
of the Republic of Burundi, was escorted from the 
rostrum. 



to 
our 
to 
you,  Mr.  President, 
  Address by His Excellency Mr. Abhisit 
Vejjajiva, Prime Minister of the Kingdom  
of Thailand 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Thailand. 

Mr.  Abhisit  Vejjajiva,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President: 
I  have  great  pleasure 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Abhisit  Vejjajiva,  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Vejjajiva  (Thailand):  On  behalf  of  the 

delegation of the Kingdom of Thailand, I should like to 
extend 
sincere 
congratulations  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  You 
may rest assured of the full support and cooperation of 
my delegation. 

We  live  in  one  of  the  most  challenging  times  in 
our history. As in the period before the founding of the 
United  Nations  more  than  60  years  ago,  the  world  is 
again  facing  great  challenges.  Conflicts  and  tensions 
remain  in  many  parts  of  the  world;  terrorists  attack; 
poverty,  disease  and  hunger  still  affect  many;  our 
supply  of  traditional  sources  of  energy  is  dwindling; 
and  climate  change 
the  very 
environment in which we all live. Added to this set of 
issues,  the  current  global  financial  crisis  makes  for  a 
future  that  seems  bleak.  But,  like  our  forebears  more 
than  60  years  ago,  we  also  live  in  hope  for  a  better 
future. And  a  large  part  of  this  hope  today  rests  upon 
the United Nations. 

Despite  criticism,  we  must  never  doubt  the  fact 
that  the  world  has  been  better  off  with  the  United 
transforming 
A/64/PV.9
Nations  than  it  would  have  been  without  it.  I  say  this 
because overcoming the challenges we have faced and 
are  facing  demands  multilateral  cooperation.  The 
United  Nations  has  been 
the  bedrock  of  such 
multilateral cooperation, as well as what the great poet 
Lord Tennyson termed a “parliament of man”. And it is 
this  parliament  of  man  which  provides  a  forum  in 
which  we  can  meet  and  discuss  remedies  to  common 
challenges,  as  well  as  respond  to  the  concerns  of  our 
constituents — the citizens of the world. 

In  the  interdependent  and  interconnected  world, 
no  one  nation,  not  even  the  biggest  and  the  most 
powerful,  can  go  it  alone.  But  at  the  same  time,  no 
single  nation  should  be  left  behind  in  our  pursuit  of 
peace,  prosperity  and  the  protection  of  human  rights. 
Just  as  we  join  hands  to  face  common  challenges,  we 
must also extend our hand to those less fortunate, pull 
them  towards  a  brighter  future  and  give  them  the 
opportunity to enjoy the fruits of globalization.  

Thailand  stands  ready  to  extend  a  helping  hand. 
We  stand  ready  to  share  our  experiences  and  the 
lessons we have learned from our own financial crisis 
in  1997. We  believe  that  our  nation’s  remedies  to  our 
problems  can  be  shared  and  should  contribute  to  the 
formulation  of  international  remedies  to  common 
global  challenges.  Central  to  our  belief  is  that  peace, 
security, development and human rights are intertwined 
and  must  reinforce  each  other  so  that  all  three  pillars 
are sustainable. This view is also central to the United 
Nations. 

Thailand  believes  that  moderation  is  the  key  to 
sustainability.  We  want  to  see  moderation  instead  of 
excessive  greed,  which  is  the  cause  of  the  economic 
crisis;  we  want 
instead  of 
overconsumption, which is the cause of environmental 
degradation; and we want to see moderation instead of 
extremism  and  selfishness,  which  are  the  causes  of 
conflicts around the world. We must therefore curb our 
excesses, live within our means and use our resources 
wisely. 

This idea of moderation is an important pillar of 
the  “sufficiency  economy”  philosophy  of  His  Majesty 
the King. This philosophy should not be understood or 
misunderstood  as  advocating  an 
inward-looking 
approach.  Rather, 
that  economic 
teaches  us 
development  and  modernization  must  be  better 
balanced  and  take  into  account  the  well-being  of  the 
people  and 
their  economic,  social,  political  and 
to  see  moderation 
it 
is 
09-52586 

5 

the  storm 
to  weather 
A/64/PV.9 

environmental  needs,  so  that  the  country  is  resilient 
and protected from both external and internal shocks. 

His Majesty himself has applied his philosophy in 
practice,  initiating  numerous  royal  projects  for  the 
betterment of his people and country. His Majesty has 
been  rightly  regarded  by  the  international  community 
as  the  “development  King”.  His  Majesty  received  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  Human 
Development  Lifetime  Achievement  Award 
in 
recognition  of  his  achievements  as  well  as  of  his 
sufficiency  economy  philosophy,  which  has  gained 
increasing  resonance  worldwide.  And  many  of  His 
Majesty’s projects are being replicated in many parts of 
the world. 

The  recent  global  financial  crisis  has  shown  that 
sufficiency  economy  is  not  merely  a  philosophy,  but 
can also be translated into concrete action. Due to the 
lessons  learned  from  the  1997  Asian  financial  crisis, 
most  of  Thailand’s  financial  institutions  have  escaped 
the  direct  impact  of  the  current  crisis,  thanks  to  their 
more  prudent  style  of  investment.  Entrepreneurs  have 
managed 
through  rational 
decision-making  and  more  careful  risk  management, 
two  of  the  key  principles  advocated  by  His  Majesty’s 
philosophy. 

is 
guided  by  His  Majesty’s  philosophy,  which  has  been 
incorporated  into  our  national  economic  and  social 
development plan. Development for us is not just about 
the  rate  of  growth,  but  also  about  the  quality  of  that 
growth.  Not  only  have  we  boosted  Government 
spending and investment to jumpstart the economy, but 
we  have  also  set  up  social  safety  nets,  made 
educational  reform  a  priority  and  upgraded  our  health 
and welfare services. 

We  have  prioritized  investment  programmes  and 
action plan to increase strength and to provide greater 
economic opportunities for people at grass-roots level. 
We have also laid the foundation for long-term growth 
and  competitiveness  in  Thailand’s  various  sectors, 
including  agriculture,  health  care,  education  and 
tourism. 
short,  we  have  made  Thailand’s 
development a people-centred approach and Thailand’s 
economy more immune from external shocks. 

As  the  Chair  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  Thailand  has  led  regional 
efforts to address today’s financial crisis and to create 
immunity for East Asia as a whole. We are expediting 
My  Government’s  socio-economic  policy 
In 
the  multilateralization  process  of  the  Chiang  Mai 
Initiative, under the ASEAN+3 framework, comprising 
ASEAN member States, China, Japan and the Republic 
of Korea. The aim of this exercise is to build regional 
financial  stability  through  a  region-wide  self-help 
substantive  reserve  pooling  arrangement.  This  will 
come into effect very soon. As a region, we have also 
continued  to  liberalize  trade  and  reject  all  forms  of 
protectionism.  We  believe  that  these  efforts  can  serve 
as examples for other regions to follow. 

Today’s financial woes affect not only a nation’s 
economy  but  also  the  development  and  welfare  of  its 
people.  This  crisis  exacerbates  the  problems  that 
already  exist,  such  as  poverty,  hunger  and  energy 
shortages.  Nowhere  is  this  more  strongly  felt  than  in 
the  developing  world,  and  Thailand  is  no  exception. 
Although  we  have  already  attained  the  Millennium 
Development Goals in hunger and poverty alleviation, 
much  remains  to  be  done.  Thailand  understands  well 
the  challenges  developing  countries  are  facing  and  is 
prepared  to  share  with  others  our  experiences  in 
managing and overcoming these challenges. 

As a major agricultural economy, Thailand stands 
ready  to  contribute  to  the  solution  of  the  world  food 
and  energy  crises.  We  are  a  major  food  exporter  with 
strong  experience  and  capability 
in  developing 
alternative energy, especially biodiesel and ethanol. We 
aim  to  ensure  a  balance  between  growing  energy  and 
food  crops  so 
that  both  needs  are  sufficiently 
addressed. 

that  can  only  be 
successfully  tackled  through  global  cooperation  is 
climate change. My Government is convinced that the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  is  the  core  for  international  negotiations  and 
cooperation  in  this  area,  guided  by  the  principles  of 
common  but  differentiated 
and 
respective capabilities. 

In  this  connection,  Thailand  is  honoured  to  host 
the  United  Nations  climate  change  talks  which  will 
take  place  next  week  in  Bangkok.  We  will  spare  no 
effort  in  ensuring  that  this  round  of  negotiations  will 
make 
successful 
Copenhagen Climate Change Conference in December. 

the  Secretary-General 
convened the Summit on Climate Change. We welcome 
the commitments expressed by major economies during 
the  Summit,  in  particular  in  setting  clear  goals  and 
Another  pressing  concern 
tangible  progress 
responsibilities 
this  week, 
Earlier 
towards 
a 
6 

09-52586 


targets  for  their  action.  I  am  also  pleased  to  see  the 
Group  of  20  pledging  itself  to  spare  no  effort  to 
achieve a successful outcome in Copenhagen. 

For  its  part,  my  Government  has  vigorously 
pursued  environmentally  friendly  growth. That  is  why 
we  have  announced  alternative  energy  as  our  national 
agenda and invested significantly to boost development 
in this field, including in energy crops. Moreover, one 
of Thailand’s hallmarks is its strong biodiversity, from 
which Thailand and its local communities have drawn 
benefits  through  innovative  economic  activities  and 
products. While we seek to benefit fully from our rich 
biodiversity  and  natural  resources,  we  also  aim  to 
ensure  that  they  are  sustainable,  regenerated  and 
replenished. 

It is not enough to ensure that the economic needs 
of the people are met. Their political needs are just as 
important. And there is no better political system than 
democracy to ensure the people’s freedoms and rights. 
It is my Government’s clear policy to sow the seeds of 
sustainable democracy by strengthening our democratic 
institutions,  engaging  civil  society,  ensuring  human 
rights and promoting good governance and the rule of 
law. Democracy is not just about majority rule, but also 
about respect for minority rights. 

level,  under  Thailand’s 
chairmanship, ASEAN  has  made  great  strides  towards 
making  people 
the  organization’s 
development,  as  enshrined  in  the  ASEAN  Charter. 
Human  rights  issues  are  now  at  the  forefront  of 
ASEAN’s  agenda.  Collectively,  we  have  played  an 
active  role  to  create  the  ASEAN  Intergovernmental 
Commission  on  Human  Rights,  which  becomes  active 
this October. We are committed to doing our utmost to 
ensure that that body fully lives up to expectations. 
the 

empowerment  of  women  are  also 
to 
Thailand.  Besides  our  national  effort  on  this  matter,  I 
am pleased to add that ASEAN is also in the process of 
establishing  an ASEAN  commission  on  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  the  rights  of  women  and  children. 
This  mechanism  will  play  an 
in 
enhancing and strengthening the ASEAN human rights 
framework as a whole. 

At  the  international  level,  Thailand  is  party  to 
core  international  human  rights  conventions,  and  we 
are  strongly  committed  to  the  principles  enshrined  in 
the  1948  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights. 
the  centre  of 
important  part 
Promotion 
important 
regional 
equality 
At 
the 
of 
gender 
and 
A/64/PV.9
to 
to 
human 
enhance 
commitment 
Sustainable  economic,  political  and 
Thailand’s candidature for a seat on the Human Rights 
Council for the 2010-2013 term is further testament to 
our 
rights 
internationally. 

Thailand  has  consistently  rendered  humanitarian 
assistance to those in plight wherever they may be. We 
have  steadfastly  contributed 
the  World  Food 
Programme. We have offered our helping hand to those 
in  need.  Our  humanitarian  commitment  was  clearly 
evident during Cyclone Nargis that befell Myanmar, as 
Thailand  became  the  logistics  hub  for  the  massive 
international relief effort for that country. 

social 
development  is  not  a  mere  goal  in  itself.  It  ultimately 
ensures  long-lasting  peace  and  security.  That  is  why 
ASEAN  is  moving  towards  becoming  not  only  a 
political-security community but also an economic and 
sociocultural one by 2015. These three pillars reinforce 
each  other.  Within  this  political-security  community, 
Thailand and its fellow ASEAN members are ready to 
enhance  cooperation,  from  dispute  settlement 
to 
conflict  resolution  and  from  peacekeeping  to  post-
conflict  peacebuilding,  especially  with  regard 
to 
cooperation  on  training  for  emergency  preparedness 
and humanitarian assistance. We hope that our regional 
efforts  will  help  contribute  to  peace  and  security  not 
only regionally, but also internationally. 

Thailand  itself  has  played  a  significant  role  in 
peacekeeping  operations  worldwide.  In  the  past  two 
decades, Thailand has provided nearly 20,000 military 
troops,  police  officers  and  civilian  staff  in  support  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  on 
all 
continents  around  the  globe,  including  Cambodia, 
Timor-Leste,  Burundi  and,  soon,  Darfur.  We  will 
continue 
to  do  so  where  our  contributions  can 
strengthen the overall capacity of the United Nations. 

As  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
Thailand  also  strongly  believes  in  building  the  right 
socio-economic and political conditions for sustainable 
peace in countries emerging from conflict and internal 
strife.  We  can  play  a  greater  role 
in  ensuring 
international peace and security. That is why Thailand 
has presented its candidature for a non-permanent seat 
on the Security Council for the period 2017-2018. As a 
medium-sized developing country, we can represent the 
interests and concerns of developing countries not only 
in Asia, but worldwide. 
09-52586 

7 

Over 
the  past 
the  United  Nations  —  a  symbol  of 
A/64/PV.9 


four  days,  we  have  heard 
statements,  one  after  another,  which  seem  to  point 
towards one conclusion, that is, that we are living in a 
“challenging  period”.  And  perhaps  it  is  a  period  in 
which  multilateralism  is  once  again  being  put  to  the 
test. But we also have before us a historic opportunity 
to act together to right our past wrongs and to make the 
right  decisions  for  the  future.  How  we  act  today  is 
purely  our  choice  —  a  choice  that  will  be  judged  by 
our  children  tomorrow  and  our  grandchildren  in  years 
to come. 

Our  forefathers  chose  to  establish  the  United 
Nations over six decades ago. We must now make sure 
that 
true 
multilateralism  —  continues  to  be  relevant,  efficient 
and effective in responding to the evolving challenges 
as  well  as  in  ensuring  development,  freedom,  human 
rights,  and  peace  for  all.  In  that  regard,  we  support 
United  Nations  reform  that  will  lead  us  towards  those 
goals. 

Let us use our gathering here to remind ourselves 
of what the United Nations stands for. And let us seize 
this  opportunity  together  to  lay  down  a  stronger 
foundation  for  a  new  era  of  peace  and  prosperity  for 
humankind. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Abhisit  Vejjajiva,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 



  Address by Mr. Jan Peter Balkenende, Prime 
Minister and Minister for General Affairs of the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address by the Prime Minister and Minister for General 
Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 

Mr.  Jan  Peter  Balkenende,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  General  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of 
the Netherlands, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 
I  have  great  pleasure 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Peter  Balkenende, 
Prime Minister and Minister for General Affairs of the 
Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly.  
the 
resolve 
Mr.  Balkenende  (Netherlands):  A  few  weeks 

ago, the Empire State Building was lit up in orange, the 
national  colour  of  the  Netherlands.  The  reason  was 
that,  precisely  400  years  ago,  the  Dutch  East  India 
Company  commissioned  Henry  Hudson  to  find  a 
shorter  sea  route  to Asia  via  the  north. After  a  brutal 
voyage  filled  with  hardships,  Hudson  decided  to 
change course. He never found his shortcut to Asia, but 
he did become the first person to map the area around 
the  river  that  would  one  day  bear  his  name,  including 
the place where we are gathered today. Ever since then, 
the  origin  of  the  great  city  of  New  York  has  been 
closely  linked  with  the  courage  and  resolve  of  Henry 
Hudson. Today  more  than  ever  before,  we  must  make 
those qualities our own.  
In  the  past  year,  we  have  faced  the  harsh  reality 

of  a  financial  and  economic  system  on  the  brink. The 
crisis has been so severe and so rapid that courage and 
resolve  are  now  required  of  us  all  —  the  courage  to 
place  shared  values  and  interests  above  narrow  self-
interest, 
to  adapt  existing  global 
governance structures to a new reality and the courage 
to  make  decisive  choices  that  take  account  of  all 
interests,  especially  those  of  the  world’s  weakest  and 
poorest  people.  That  is  my  clear  message  to  the 
General Assembly. 

The  Dutch  Government  has  no  doubt  that  a 
strong,  decisive  and  efficient  United  Nations  will  be 
vital 
integrated  global 
approach  will  deliver  the  stability,  solidarity  and 
sustainability  that  the  world  needs  so  badly.  The  last 
few days in New York and Pittsburgh have shown that 
there  is  a  clear  realization  that  the  world  has  changed 
and that we must work together more closely than ever 
before.  Our 
interdependency  gives  us  a  shared 
responsibility.  We  can  see  now  that  the  problems  we 
face are too big for any single nation.  

There  is  therefore  strong  will  to  address  the 
underlying  causes  of  the  economic  crisis,  to  work  on 
systemic imbalances and to once again make finance a 
tool  for  growth.  The  agreement  we  reached 
in 
Pittsburgh  on  a  framework  for  strong,  sustainable  and 
balanced  growth  is  a  big  step  forward.  It  shows  that 
there is a widely shared conviction that we have much 
to gain from stability, solidarity and sustainability, both 
as individual countries and collectively. I would like to 
say a few words about each of those core concepts. 
that  process.  Only  an 
to 
8 

09-52586 



The  current  crisis  offers  clear  proof  that  in  a 
globalized  world  instability  anywhere  is  a  threat  to 
stability everywhere. The international policy response 
has  shown  that  that  is  widely  understood  in  the 
financial and economic context. That is a positive sign, 
even  if  there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go. The  Pittsburgh 
agreement  on  compensation  systems  should  end  a 
bonus culture that has grown out of control. We cannot 
allow the greed of a few to endanger the jobs of many. 
We must therefore prevent that kind of crisis from ever 
happening again. 

Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela), Vice-President, took the Chair. 

Institutional  reform  should  not  stop  with  the 
financial and economic sector. There is a clear need for 
new arrangements that will allow us to manage a range 
of  global  governance  issues  at  the  same  time.  In  the 
long term, the greatest threat to a stable world order is 
to  allow  the  crisis  to  push  the  world’s  other  great 
problems  into  the  background:  climate  change,  for 
example,  the  energy  and  food  crisis  or  the  pressing 
issues of peace and security, poverty and human rights. 
We  cannot  let  that  happen.  In  some  cases,  we  simply 
have  to  honour  commitments  that  we  have  already 
made,  such  as  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In 
others, we need the courage to see beyond this crisis to 
the world of tomorrow, as we must show at the climate 
summit to be held in Copenhagen.  

In  any  event,  the  current  situation  demands  that 
we  place  our  common  global  values  and  interests 
above  our  acute  domestic  problems,  however  serious 
they may be. Therefore, now more than ever, we need a 
strong, decisive and efficient United Nations. We need 
it  here  in  New York,  but  we  especially  need  it  on  the 
ground.  In  that  context,  I  would  highlight  the  vital 
importance of the One United Nations Initiative, which 
needs follow-up, and soon. 

Stability  cannot  be  achieved  without  respect  for 
human rights. As friends of the Iranian people, we are 
concerned  about  the  worsening  human  rights  situation 
and  the  violent  crackdown  on  popular  protests.  The 
Iranian  nuclear  issue  represents  a  major  challenge  to 
international  peace  and  security,  to  regional  stability 
and 
the  non-proliferation  regime.  The  recent 
revelation of a nuclear facility that was long kept secret 
is  additional  reason  for  great  concern.  It  calls  for  a 
strong reaction by the international community and for 
total transparency by Iran. Iran must regain the trust of 
to 
A/64/PV.9
fully  supported 
the  international  community,  comply  with  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  contribute  to  peace 
and stability in the Middle East. 

In  June  of  this  year,  the  United  Nations  showed 
leadership by holding a major conference here in New 
York  on  the  effects  of  the  crisis  for  developing 
countries.  The  Netherlands 
that 
initiative,  as 
there  can  be  no  stability  without 
solidarity. After all, there is nothing more destabilizing 
than  poverty,  hunger  and  a  future  without  hope.  The 
economic  crisis  and  rising  food  prices  are  threatening 
to  sweep  away  a  great  deal  of  hard-won  progress.  In 
2009 alone, the number of people forced to live on less 
than $1.25 a day will grow by at least 55 million. 

There is a real danger that those who had no part 
in causing the crisis will be the people who suffer most 
deeply.  In  rich  countries  the  crisis  means  the  loss  of 
jobs and assets. In developing countries it means rising 
child  mortality  and  rising  hunger.  Therefore,  in  rich 
countries the crisis is serious; in poor countries it is a 
matter of life and death. 

Let  the  donor  countries  honour  an  old  promise 
and  set  aside  at  least  0.7  per  cent  of  their  national 
income  every  year  for  development  aid;  and  let  the 
current crisis also inspire recipient countries to use the 
funds  as  effectively  as  possible.  Now  more  than  ever, 
public  support  for  development  aid  depends  on 
transparency,  good  governance  and  an  effective  fight 
against corruption.  

I  would  also  add  that  international  solidarity  is 
not  simply  a  question  of  development  budgets.  It  also 
concerns the private sector. More and more businesses 
now  recognize  the  importance  of  corporate  social 
responsibility. I believe there is still a world to be won 
in  that  regard,  not  only  for  society  but  also  for 
companies  themselves.  Corporate  social  responsibility 
makes good business sense. 

My  third  subject,  sustainability,  is  essentially 
about  making  choices  and  sacrifices,  not  for  our  own 
sake  but  for  future  generations.  This  session  of  the 
General Assembly is our last major stop on the road to 
Copenhagen. We should be aware that the progress we 
make  there  will  affect  the  lives  of  our  children,  our 
children’s  children  and  so  on,  down  through  the 
generations. That must be our main motive for seeking 
a radical change in the way we live. 
09-52586 

9 

those 
is  why 
that  need  help 
A/64/PV.9 


In Copenhagen we must  reach  an ambitious, fair 
and  comprehensive  agreement.  We  must  be  ambitious 
and  set  our  sights  high. Therefore,  at  Copenhagen  the 
Netherlands  will  call  for  worldwide  carbon  dioxide 
emissions to  be halved from 1990 levels by 2050. We 
should  be  fair  to  developing  countries.  Every  country 
should contribute to the common goal according to its 
means. Every country will be expected to play its part. 
But 
in  designing  and 
implementing  sound  adaptation  policies  must  receive 
it.  That 
the  Netherlands  has  set  aside 
€500 million to promote the use of renewable energy in 
developing countries. 

Comprehensive  also  means  that  we  should  not 
simply  pave  the  road  ahead  with  good  intentions,  but 
with  concrete  agreements  —  for  example,  agreements 
on  developing  the  global  carbon  market,  on  sharing 
knowledge  and  on  financial  arrangements.  We  simply 
cannot fail at Copenhagen.  

The world is much smaller than it was in the days 
of  Henry  Hudson,  but  it  is  far  more  complex  as  a 
result.  Any  solution  to  the  issues  I  have  raised  today 
starts  with  recognizing  our  mutual  dependence  and 
responsibility.  Within 
stability, 
solidarity  and  sustainability  we  will  find  the  shared 
values  and  interests  that  should  guide  us  on  the  road 
ahead.  It  is  a  road  that  requires  courage.  But  to  echo 
the words I heard recently from the Italian Nobel Prize 
winner  and  senator  for  life  Rita  Levi-Montalcini,  on 
her  one-hundredth  birthday,  “Don’t  fear  difficult 
moments.  The  best  comes  from  them.”  Let  us  go 
forward in that spirit. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister and Minister for General Affairs of the 
Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  Jan  Peter  Balkenende,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  General  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of 
the Netherlands, was escorted from the rostrum. 
  Address by Mr. Igor V. Chudinov, Prime 
Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic. 

Mr.  Igor  V.  Chudinov,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kyrgyz Republic, was escorted to the rostrum. 
the  concepts  of 


an 
further 
to 
strengthening  of 
efficient  mechanism 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Igor 
V.  Chudinov,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Chudinov  (Kyrgyz  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express  our 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his 
election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly.  We 
wish him the best for his work in leading the Assembly 
at its sixty-fourth session. 
Given  the  sweeping  changes  occurring  at  all 

levels  of  global  development,  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations as a universal international forum is difficult to 
overstate.  The  contribution  of  all  Member  States  to 
increasing the effectiveness of the United Nations  can 
considerably  contribute  to  strengthening  international 
peace  and  security,  development,  human 
rights, 
environmental protection and sustainable development. 

We  believe  continuing  United  Nations  reform  to 
establish 
address 
contemporary  challenges  and  threats  is  important  for 
the  Organization’s 
the 
capacities  and  credibility.  We  call 
for  broader 
representation 
for 
improvement  in  its  working  methods.  We  propose 
expanding  the  number  of  permanent  members  of  the 
Council by giving seats to Asia, Africa, Latin America 
and the Caribbean. 

I  would  like  to  confirm  that  my  country,  being 
cognizant  of  our  full  responsibilities,  is  for  the  first 
time nominating itself as a candidate to become one of 
the  non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council, 
for  the  period  2012  to  2013.  The  Kyrgyz  Republic, 
located in the heart of Central Asia, is taking an active 
part  in  maintaining  peace  and  security,  economic 
cooperation  and  environmental  stability  at  both  the 
global  and  regional 
to 
contribute  as  much  as  we  can  to  the  work  of  that  key 
body of the United Nations. 
The  election  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  to  the 

the 
Human  Rights  Council 
international 
our 
achievements in building a developed society. I should 
like to take this opportunity to thank Member States for 
their support of the candidacy of the Kyrgyz Republic. 
I  assure  them  that  Kyrgyzstan  stands  ready  to  make 
every effort to promote issues related to the protection 
of  human  rights  and  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and 
the  Security  Council  and 
levels.  We  are  prepared 
illustrated 
of 
community’s 
recognition 
in  2009 
in 
10 

09-52586 
A/64/PV.9
the 
in 
respects, 
place 
In  many 
taking 
sectors,  which  will 
politico-anthropological 


international  law,  as  well  as  other  issues  on  the 
Council’s agenda. 

The  Kyrgyz  Republic  welcomes  the  decision  of 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  to  visit  the  Central 
Asian countries. We look forward to great results from 
that visit. 
The  overall  situation  in  Central  Asia  remains 

it  depends  on 
complicated. 
developments 
neighbouring 
Afghanistan. No one would today dispute the fact that 
there  is  a  need  to  work  out  and  apply  fundamentally 
new  comprehensive  and  viable  approaches  in  the 
and 
humanitarian, 
socio-economic 
ultimately 
contribute  to  the  building  of  a  strong  and  prosperous 
Afghan  State.  It  does  not  appear  to  be  possible  to 
achieve  a 
stabilization  of 
final  and  complete 
Afghanistan by military means alone. 
On  4  March  2009,  President  Kurmanbek  Bakiev 

of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  announced  an  initiative  to 
establish at Bishkek, capital of the Kyrgyz Republic, a 
permanent  forum  and  centre  for  hosting  international 
conferences  on  security  and  stability  in  Afghanistan 
and  Central  Asia.  This  was  called  the  “Bishkek 
this  “Bishkek 
initiative”.  We  are  convinced 
initiative”  will  become  a 
forum  of  practical 
cooperation in the area of security, with priority on the 
problems of jointly bringing about peace, security and 
stability in the region, combating terrorism, separatism 
and  extremism  and  countering  illegal  drug  trafficking 
and cross-border organized crime. 

Along  with  global  challenges,  every  country 
faces its own specific problems. Addressing them will 
ensure that we move steadily towards the achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals. 

At  the  same  time,  in  this  era  of  globalization, 
existing  problems  have  proven  to  be  very  closely 
interrelated.  The  Kyrgyz  Republic,  as  a  landlocked 
mountainous  country  and  one  of 
the  world’s 
developing nations, believes that the world community, 
under  the  leadership  of  the  United  Nations,  can  and 
must  more  actively  assist  in  using  the  foreign-debt-
swap mechanism to achieve sustainable development. 

With  respect  to  Kyrgyzstan,  given  the  global 
economic  crisis,  we  propose  considering  several 
options,  namely,  a  swap  of  the  Republic’s  debt  for 
providing  assistance  to  Afghanistan  in  pursuit  of  its 
that 
of 
for 
development 
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  calls 
socio-economic  development,  and  a  debt  swap  for  the 
sustainable 
poor  mountainous 
countries  and  the  rehabilitation  of  uranium  tailing 
ponds. 

the  active 
involvement in Afghanistan’s recovery of neighbouring 
States  that  possess  relevant  scientific,  industrial  and 
agricultural capacities. Kyrgyzstan stands ready to take 
part in the restoration of communications, construction 
and 
training  of  medical,  educational  and 
agricultural  specialists.  We  are  pleased  to  inform  the 
Assembly  that  our  country  and  the  Organization  for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) signed an 
agreement  on  the  development  of  a  customs  centre  in 
the city of Bishkek for training Afghan specialists. 

The  General Assembly  has  adopted  a  number  of 
resolutions  on  mountainous  countries  that  contain 
analyses  of 
their  socio-economic  situations  and 
recommendations to international financial institutions, 
relevant United Nations agencies and Governments on 
how  to  assist  them  in  overcoming  obstacles  to  their 
sustainable development. The delegation of the Kyrgyz 
Republic, one of the initiators of a draft resolution on 
sustainable  mountain  development,  would  be  grateful 
for support for that draft at the sixty-fourth session of 
the General Assembly. 

to  planetary 
climate change at the high-level Summit of the General 
Assembly.  Kyrgyzstan 
that 
environmental  and  ecological  security  problems  are 
posing  new  challenges  and  risks  in  the  twenty-first 
century. Kyrgyzstan will give highest priority to active 
preventive  measures  in  the  sphere  of  environmental 
protection  as  a 
sustainable 
development  and  to  maintain  the  balance  between 
human  rights,  society,  nature  and  the  preservation  of 
unique natural sites for our descendants. 

The  numerous  uranium  tailing  dumps  containing 
large volumes of the toxic waste of uranium production 
and  other  harmful  technological  wastes  are  of  great 
concern to our region. They pose a grave danger to the 
health  of 
the  cleanliness  of 
transboundary river basins and arable lands. 

tirelessly  with  other 
countries  of  Central  Asia  to  draft  international  legal 
documents  on  the  prevention  of  radiation  pollution  in 
Central  Asia.  Two  framework  documents  have  been 
adopted  within  the  framework  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
We  discussed  problems  related 
the  people  and 
foundation  of 
the  opinion 
shares 
Kyrgyzstan 
is  working 
its 
to 
09-52586 

11 
for 

that 
system, 
to  note 
to  sign 
I  am  pleased 
A/64/PV.9 

Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  —  one  on  the 
environmental danger of tailing dumps and the other on 
the  creation  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  Central 
Asia.  I  would  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia 
entered into force on 21 March 2009, and we appeal to 
nuclear Powers to support this Central Asian initiative 
and 
the  protocol  on  negative  security 
assurances. 
the  High-Level 

International  Forum  held 
in  Geneva  on  uranium 
tailings  in  Central Asia  demonstrated  a  new  model  of 
effective  regional  cooperation  aimed  at  practical 
resolution  of  this  urgent  issue.  The  great  interest  and 
concern  expressed  by  all  participants  —  including 
representatives  of  Central  Asian  and  other  States, 
international  organizations  and  donors  at  the  national, 
regional  and  international  levels  —  give  us  cause  for 
optimism. I take this opportunity once again to express 
my  gratitude  to  all  our  partners  at  the  Forum,  the 
United  Nations 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  the  International  Atomic 
the 
Energy  Agency, 
the  European  Commission, 
Eurasian  Economic  Community,  OSCE  and 
the 
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 

In  furtherance  of  the  Forum  agreement,  the 
countries of Central Asia shall submit a draft resolution 
for consideration by the General Assembly on the role 
of the international community in the prevention of the 
radiation  threat  in  Central  Asia.  We  hope  for  timely 
action on the part of our international partners, donors 
and international organizations to address the problem 
of  uranium  tailing  dumps  and  to  provide  sufficient 
financial, technical and other assistance to the region. 

The  challenges  facing  the  United  Nations  are 
complex  and  demand  consolidated  efforts  from  all 
States.  The  representatives  of  the  United  Nations 
provide broad assistance to countries on a wide variety 
of issues. We appreciate their constructive cooperation 
on  and  support  for  Members’  initiatives.  The  United 
Nations Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for 
Central  Asia,  established  in  Ashgabat  in  December 
2007,  has  already  proven  itself  in  a  short  period  of 
time. The issues raised by the Centre are relevant and 
require  prompt  responses. We  support  the  intention  of 
the Centre to expand its representation in each country 
of Central Asia and request the appropriate committees 
take our views into consideration. 


long-term 
countries  pay 
Central  Asian 

considerable 
attention  to  water  and  energy  problems.  Despite  the 
activities  to  increase  the  effectiveness  of  water  and 
energy  regulation  in  Central Asia,  pursued  within  the 
framework  of  integration  organizations  and  regional 
structures, rallying countries around this issue remains 
the most pressing problem in our region.  
We  believe  that  mutually  beneficial  cooperation 

is 
intergovernmental 
the  basis 
cooperation  in  the  water  and  energy  spheres.  It  is 
essential  to  create  conditions  to  improve  incentives  to 
store water in reservoirs during the winter and then to 
make it available for irrigating fields in the summer. If 
this  proposal  were  pursued,  the  largest  reservoir  in 
Central Asia,  on  the  Naryn  and  Syr  Darya  Rivers,  the 
largest  watershed  of  the  region,  would  have  the 
required  stocks  of  water  in  times  of  drought  and  be 
able  to  provide  water  at  least  to  maintain  food  and 
energy security for all the countries of Central Asia. 

If decisions are taken only for short-term benefit, 
and water is depleted and regulating capacities are lost, 
that would inevitably have dangerous consequences for 
the  entire  region. These  strategic  issues  can  be  solved 
only by merging the irrigation and energy schedules for 
supplying  water  and  providing  compensation  fuel 
deliveries 
of 
intergovernmental  cooperation  among  stakeholders. 
Water  conservation 
technologies  should  also  be 
exploited.  

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
adherence  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  to  the  goals  and 
objectives  of  the  United  Nations  aimed  at  ensuring 
peace  and  security  and  the  welfare  of  all  nations  and 
peoples on the Earth. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Igor  V.  Chudinov,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kyrgyz Republic, was escorted from the rostrum. 
  Address by The Honourable Apisai Ielemia, 
Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs 
and Labour of Tuvalu 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and Labour of 
Tuvalu. 
the  Kyrgyz  Republic  for 
subject 
should 
that 
be 
the 
12 

09-52586 



speakers 
The  Honourable  Apisai  Ielemia,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  Labour  of 
Tuvalu, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Apisai 
Ielemia,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Labour  of  Tuvalu,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Ielemia  (Tuvalu):  I  am  greatly  honoured  to 

have this opportunity to speak in this body on behalf of 
the  people  and  the  Government  of  Tuvalu,  who  wish 
me  first  of  all  to  convey  their  warmest  greetings  and 
felicitations to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session. 
At  the  outset,  let  me  associate  myself  with 

previous 
special 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his 
election as President of the Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session,  as  well  as  to  reassure  him  of  our  support 
during  his  presidency.  I  also  wish  to  highly  commend 
his  predecessor  for  his  exemplary  leadership  and 
dedication  to  the  work  of  the  Assembly  during  his 
presidency over the past year. 

As  we  begin  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the 
Assembly,  the  effects  of  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  loom  over  our  heads.  For  a  small 
island  economy 
is  highly 
dependent on the import of products from overseas, the 
impact of the global financial and economic crisis has 
been  severe.  The  price  of  basic  food  items  has  risen 
dramatically. My people are suffering from events that 
are  not  of  our  making.  The  financial  and  economic 
crisis  and 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is 
a  global  crisis  that  requires  the  cooperation  of  all 
countries.  Unfortunately,  as  is  always  the  case,  it  will 
be  poor  small  countries  such  as Tuvalu  that  will  have 
to bear the burden. 
Globalization has also left its mark in the context 

of  swine  flu.  Tuvalu  has  not  been  immune  to  that 
pandemic.  We  are  grateful  that  the  World  Health 
Organization has issued a call to action to help poorer 
countries  respond 
the  outbreak  of  swine  flu. 
Outbreaks  such  as  this  highlight  the  need  for  trade 
reforms  with  respect  to  access  to  medicines.  In  that 
context,  the  right  to  health  and  access  to  affordable 
medicines  should  not  be  a  right  for  rich  nations  only. 
Every human being has the right to a healthy life. 
impact  on  development  and 
like  Tuvalu’s,  which 
its 
in 
extending 
our 
to 
A/64/PV.9

This year is a special one for the people and the 
Government  of Tuvalu,  not  because  of  something  that 
we  have  achieved  and  are  proud  to  celebrate  but, 
strangely  enough,  because  of  something  that  has 
happened  for  the  very  first  time  in  the  history  of  my 
country and that we strongly condemn. This has to do 
with the actions of pirates off the coast of Somalia. For 
four  long  months,  12  Tuvaluan  seafarers  were  held 
captive  by  Somali  pirates  aboard  a  German-registered 
ship.  Those  brave  Tuvaluan  seamen  were  subject  to 
various  privations  and  will  suffer  the  effects  of  that 
unlawful imprisonment for a long time. 

The  international  shipping  community  cannot  be 
held  hostage  to  the  demands  of  such  thieves  and 
criminals.  This  scourge  must  end.  We  strongly 
condemn  that  inhumane  form  of  organized  crime  and 
strongly urge the United  Nations  and the international 
community  to  bring  the  pirates  to  justice  through  the 
application of the principle of universal jurisdiction, as 
well as to take immediate action to tackle the problem 
head-on.  We  also  call  on  the  United  Nations  to 
establish  a  special  task  force  to  address  the  issue  of 
piracy. 

The  year  2009  will  hopefully  be  a  watershed  in 
the  global  fight  against  climate  change.  In  a  few 
months,  we  will  meet  at  Copenhagen  to  seal  the  deal 
on climate change. As the leader of one of the countries 
of the world most vulnerable to the impacts of climate 
change, I hold out great faith for that Conference. But 
my  faith  will  be  diminished  if  key  milestones  are  not 
achieved.  Allow  me 
those 
milestones.  

First,  the  international  community  must  commit 
to  a  rapid  course  of  action  to  reduce  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  so  that  global  temperatures  do  not  increase 
by  more  than  1.5  degrees  Celsius  above  pre-industrial 
levels. Anything higher would be disastrous for Tuvalu. 
Global  emissions  must  peak  by  2015,  and  decline 
dramatically thereafter. 

Secondly,  while  we  work  to  develop  a  new 
climate change agreement in Copenhagen, we must not 
abandon the Kyoto Protocol, which is a cornerstone of 
action  to  address  climate  change.  Let  me  repeat:  we 
must not abandon the Kyoto Protocol. I fear that some 
countries  are  hoping  that  the  Kyoto  Protocol  will 
disappear  so  that  they  can  make  weaker  emissions-
reduction commitments. I hope that will not happen, as 
it would certainly be a significant step backwards. 
to  some  of 
to  refer 
09-52586 

13 

A/64/PV.9 


Thirdly,  we  need  serious  commitments  from  key 
greenhouse-gas-producing countries. The United States 
must  take  a  leadership  role  and  drastically  reduce  its 
emissions.  I  strongly  appeal  to  President  Obama  to 
deliver  a  significant  commitment  on  emissions 
reductions. We also call on key developing countries to 
dramatically  reduce  their  emissions.  Since  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
was developed, in 1992, the economies of a number of 
developing  countries  have  grown  rapidly.  They  must 
now contribute their fair share to emissions reductions. 

Fourthly, we need a strong commitment in terms 
of financing and resources to help vulnerable countries 
build their resilience to the impacts of climate change. 
That means that we need a commitment to new money. 
It  would  be  foolhardy  to  simply  reshuffle  existing 
overseas  development  assistance  to  support  actions  to 
address  climate  change.  This  is  a  new  threat,  and  we 
must find new money to address it. 

Fifthly,  we  need  to  reduce  emissions  resulting 
from  deforestation  and  forest  degradation,  but  in  a 
coherent  way.  In  that  regard,  carbon  markets  will  not 
deliver  climate  change  outcomes.  We  must  develop 
new  funds  to  carefully  build  the  capacity  of  forested 
developing  countries  to  reduce  their  deforestation 
rates.  Whatever  actions  we  take,  we  must  ensure  that 
the rights of indigenous peoples are properly protected. 

The  possible  security  implications  of  climate 
change  on  the  livelihoods  and  well-being  of  the  most 
vulnerable 
island 
developing  States  such  as  my  own  country  of Tuvalu, 
cannot  be  ignored.  Instead,  they  should  be  recognized 
and addressed vigorously by the United Nations as part 
of the collective efforts by all its appropriate subsidiary 
bodies.  

Despite the concerns expressed by some Member 
States  on  the  engagement  of  the  Security  Council  on 
the  issue  of  the  security  implications  of  climate 
change,  I  am  pleased  to  note  that  the  Assembly’s 
resolution  on  the  possible  security  implications  of 
climate change (resolution 63/281), which was initiated 
by  Pacific  small  island  developing  States  more  than  a 
year ago, was finally adopted by consensus at a plenary 
meeting  of  the Assembly  in  June  of  this  year.  Tuvalu 
looks forward to the Secretary-General’s report on the 
possible  security  implications  of  climate  change,  as 
required under that resolution. 
especially 
countries, 
small 
taken 
including 
it  seriously 

Globalization has made Tuvalu a very vulnerable 
country.  It  is  vulnerable  to  global  economic  shocks, 
highly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and, 
not  least,  vulnerable  to  disease  outbreaks.  However, 
despite  the  wide  recognition  given  and  reiterated  with 
regard  to  our  vulnerability  in  many  different  United 
Nations  forums,  such  as  the  Rio,  Barbados,  Mauritius 
and  Johannesburg  conferences  and  in  several  major 
United  Nations  events, 
the  Millennium 
Summit, the General Assembly and the Economic  and 
Social  Council  have  not 
into 
consideration when addressing the question of Tuvalu’s 
graduation from least developed country (LDC) status. 

We  strongly  believe  that  Tuvalu’s  economic  and 
environmental vulnerability, like that of any other LDC 
and  small  island  developing  State  (SIDS),  cannot  be 
totally ignored, especially in view of the impact of the 
current  economic  global  crisis.  Although  we  are 
pleased  to  welcome  the  latest  decision  of  the  United 
Nations  Committee  for  Development  Policy  not  to 
recommend Tuvalu for graduation from LDC status for 
the  next  three  years,  we  continue  to  appeal  to  this 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  our 
development  partners 
to  carefully  reconsider  and 
review  the  criteria  and  graduation  rules  for  LDC 
graduation.  We  strongly  believe  that  no  LDC  that  is 
recognized  as  highly  vulnerable  should  be  forced  to 
lose its LDC status. 

One  of  the  priority  areas  highlighted  in  the 
President’s statement at the opening of the sixty-fourth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  United  Nations 
reform and democratization. We could not agree more, 
especially  on  the  necessity  and  importance  of  the 
reform and revitalization of the General Assembly and 
the Security Council to enable them to fulfil their roles 
comprehensively. 

the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other  related 
matters. We fully recognize the need to restructure and 
expand  the  Security  Council  to  reflect  a  fair  and 
balanced  representation  of  all  regions.  In  this  context, 
we  believe  that  small  island  developing  States  should 
be allocated a seat on the Security Council. 

As a full Member of the  Organization, Tuvalu is 
proud  to  be  part  of  the  United  Nations  family  and 
enjoys a sense of ownership through the establishment 
commend 
progress 
increase 
in 
We 
the 
of 
14 

09-52586 
it 
of 
bureaucracy 
is  certainly  a 


of a long-overdue United Nations joint presence office 
in Tuvalu in May this year. Although we appreciate its 
establishment,  we  hope  that  it  will  not  create  another 
layer 
among  United  Nations 
implementing  agencies,  but  that  it  will  be  more 
responsive to the aspirations and needs of Tuvalu in a 
more  coherent,  efficient  and  effective  manner.  More 
importantly,  it  is  crucial  that  the  office  focus  on  the 
establishment  of  more  concrete  development  projects 
on  the  ground  for  the  benefit  of  the  people  of Tuvalu 
rather than mostly on enabling activities. 

I  am  compelled  again  to  draw  the  attention  of 
United  Nations  Member  States  to  the  plight  of  the 
people  and  Government  of Taiwan. As  a  proud  nation 
of 23 million people, Taiwan must be given the right to 
self-determination  —  a  principle  that  must  be  upheld 
by  the  United  Nations.  Taiwan  also  has  all  of  the 
hallmarks of nationhood. It has a democratic system of 
Government  and 
responsible 
international  player  in  world  trade,  development  and 
diplomatic  relations;  not  least,  Taiwan  has  a  clearly 
defined territory. 

Although  Tuvalu  appreciates  the  long-overdue 
courtesy finally accorded to the Government of Taiwan 
to  participate  as  an  observer  to  the  World  Health 
Organization’s  (WHO)  World  Health  Assembly  this 
year, Tuvalu strongly believes that Taiwan deserves to 
participate more fully as a member of WHO and other 
United  Nations  specialized  agencies.  Tuvalu  therefore 
reiterates its strong appeal for Taiwan’s aspirations and 
desire to participate meaningfully as a full member of 
the  specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  to  be 
given the proper and urgent attention they deserve. 

In  conclusion,  my  Government  acknowledges 
with full confidence that globalization and its impact in 
every corner of the globe cannot be denied. This makes 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  even  more  important. 
However,  we  need  to  conclude  the  long-overdue 
reforms of the United Nations, especially the Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  to  enable  the 
Organization 
in  a  more 
transparent, coherent, efficient and effective manner. 

We  must  work  together  to  rebuild  the  global 
economy.  We  must  work  together  to  combat  climate 
change, with special recognition given to the plight of 
the most vulnerable countries, especially the LDCs and 
SIDS. Not least, we must work together to ensure that 
everyone  enjoys  a  healthy  life.  We  will  continue  to 
its  services 
to  deliver 
A/64/PV.9
support  the  United  Nations  and  sincerely  hope  that  it 
will not abandon the concerns of a small island country 
like Tuvalu.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Labour of Tuvalu for the statement he has just made. 

The  Honourable  Apisai  Ielemia,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  Labour  of 
Tuvalu, was escorted from the rostrum. 



Mr.  Manning
(Trinidad  and  Tobago): 
  Address by The Honourable Patrick Manning, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Trinidad  
and Tobago 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. 

The  Honourable  Patrick  Manning,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
great  pleasure 
Mr. Patrick  Manning,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Trinidad and Tobago, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly. 
In 

circumstances  like  these,  I  would  normally  speak  for 
about an hour, but I would like to assure you, Sir, and 
the Assembly that the quality of mercy  is not strained 
and that I will be considerably briefer than that. Today, 
I propose to stay within the time allotted to me. 

its  sincerest 
congratulations to the President on his ascension to the 
stewardship of this sixty-fourth session of the General 
Assembly.  We  know  that  his  vast  experience  and 
leadership  qualities  will  ensure  very  successful 
deliberations.  We  also  pay  tribute  to  his  predecessor, 
Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann of Nicaragua, for his 
vision  and  fearless  discharge  of  his  responsibilities  as 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-third session. 

We  convey  our  very  best  wishes  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, whom we welcomed to Port of 
Spain  earlier  this  year  when  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
hosted  the  fifth  Summit  of  the  Americas.  We  assure 
him  of  our  continuing  support  as  he  pursues  his 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  extends 
09-52586 

15 

in 
leading 
adventurousness 
that  contributed  very  significantly 
A/64/PV.9 

mission  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  meets  the 
new challenges of the twenty-first century. 

We meet at a time of very serious challenges for 
the  world  economy.  We  are  now  beginning  to  emerge 
from  a  global  recession  caused  by  a  near  collapse  of 
the international financial system, but there is no room 
for complacency. Unemployment continues to grow in 
almost  every  country,  credit  remains  contracted  and 
consumer confidence, that most critical factor, persists 
at very low levels. Additionally, there is no certainty of 
a  steady  upward  trajectory  for  the  global  economy. 
Valued opinion on this matter points to the possibility 
of further recessionary trends before the present green 
shoots produce flourishing green fields. 

We  clearly  cannot  take  our  eye  off  the  ball.  We 
must  not  return  to  business  as  usual.  We  should  not 
countenance  the  resurfacing  of  discredited  patterns  on 
financial  streets  and  capitals. We  must  be  wary  of  the 
level  of 
financial 
institutions 
to 
driving the world to the edge of an economic precipice 
from  which  we  are  just  starting  to  pull  back. There  is 
justification  for  concern  about  this  situation  in  every 
country  on  this  planet.  In  the  globalized  economy,  we 
are  all  affected  by  policies  or  actions  that  direct  the 
international financial system. 

We  of  the  smaller  countries  and  the  developing 
world  have  always  been  the  most  vulnerable  and  the 
worst affected. It is happening again. Especially in the 
southern  hemisphere,  the  prospects  have  grown  for 
increased poverty, unemployment and general slippage 
in the development process. How much longer will this 
acute  vulnerability  of  so  many  nations  persist?  How 
many more dreams must now, once again, be deferred? 

The  trust  of  the  world  in  the  totally  unregulated 
market  has  been  entirely  misplaced.  We  must  now 
capitalize on the opportunity of this crisis and, without 
delay,  reform  our  international  economic  system.  The 
global  architecture  must  be  transformed  to  take  the 
new  realities  into  account. Among  these  are  new  and 
emerging  centres  of  economic  power  and  the  now 
indispensable  need  to  deliberately  generate  growth  in 
the  developing  world  if  the  global  economy  is  to 
achieve resurgence and sustainability. In this extremely 
interconnected  world,  it  is  our  collective  resources, 
ingenuity,  productivity,  markets  and  technology  that 
will keep all of us afloat. 
that 
It 
is 
therefore  ensure 
that  new  voices, 

Let this General Assembly therefore play its part 
in  ensuring  that  we  leave  behind  the  old  approaches 
that suffocated development of the many for the benefit 
of  the  few.  Let  it  call  for  greater  recognition  of  the 
absolute  need  to  bring  into  the  global  mainstream  the 
entire  productive  and  purchasing  capacity  of  this 
planet, our collective home. 

We are heartened by developments and decisions 
among  the  countries  of  the  Group  of  20,  but  we  must 
ensure  that  there  is  absolutely  no  reversal  of  the  new 
approach; no dimming of the new light that the present 
crisis  has  generated;  and  no  diminution  of 
the 
acceptance  that  we  are  all  in  this  together  and  that 
development  everywhere  translates  into  prosperity  for 
all.  Let  us 
the  reform  of 
international  financial  institutions  does  indeed  take 
place;  that  we  entrench  greater  sensitivity  to  the 
varying  needs  of  countries  at  differing  levels  of 
development; 
respecting  and 
representing  more  of  humanity,  are  in  the  decision-
making  process;  and  that  resource  flows  for  trade  and 
investment are in fact realized and activated. 

The  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  has  not 
been  spared  the  debilitating  effects  of  the  current 
global economic situation. Most CARICOM States are 
now  experiencing  economic  contraction  and  rising 
their 
levels  of  debt  and  unemployment,  with 
challenging  social  consequences. 
therefore 
regrettable that some middle-income countries, such as 
many  in  CARICOM,  may  not  be  eligible  for  funding 
under  some  of 
the  World  Bank’s  facilities  for 
international development assistance.  

vulnerabilities,  middle-income 
countries’  need  for  access  to  concessionary  financing 
must  not  be  underestimated.  This  was  highlighted  in 
2008  at  the  Third  Ministerial  Conference  of  Middle-
in  Namibia,  which  called  for 
Income  Countries 
enhanced 
levels 
of 
development 
assistance  and  noted  that  the  current  categorization 
does not accurately reflect the particularities and needs 
of  these  nations.  This  General  Assembly  must  take 
steps to advance the cause of middle-income countries 
in this matter. 

The situation in Haiti is one of grave concern. We 
are  encouraged  by  the  diverse  United  Nations-related 
initiatives  aimed  at  promoting  peace  and  security  in 
that  country,  but  greater  attention  is  required  by  the 
international  community.  Arising  out  of  the  Fifth 
international 
Given 
their 
16 

09-52586 


Summit  of  the  Americas,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  has 
advanced  a  proposal  for 
the  establishment  of  a 
hemispheric  development  fund  for  Haiti,  to  which  all 
western  hemisphere  countries  would  be  expected  to 
contribute.  Haiti  is  first  and  foremost  a  western 
hemisphere challenge, and we see this fund as essential 
to the re-establishment of proper standards of living in 
that  country.  We  bring  this  matter  before  the  General 
Assembly for its support. 

One  of  the  very  significant  problems  facing  the 
global  community  is  transnational  organized  crime  of 
increasing strength, which includes terrorist activity as 
well  as  the  illegal  traffic  in  drugs,  arms  and  persons. 
The  Caribbean  is  particularly  plagued  by  the  illegal 
drug  trade,  which  uses  our  region  as  a  trans-shipment 
route for its pernicious cargo headed northwards. This 
activity  has  a  corrosive  effect  on  our  small  societies, 
fuelling,  for  example,  trafficking  in  small  arms  and 
light weapons, with troubling consequences.  

In  CARICOM,  we  have  been  pooling  our 
resources  for  this  fight.  There  is  now  unprecedented 
cooperation  among  the  legal  and  security  systems  of 
our  countries,  but  we  need  more  resources  in  our 
struggle with this menace. We will continue to engage 
in the various processes of the United Nations aimed at 
addressing  this  problem. We  encourage  those  Member 
States  that  have  not  been  supportive  of  the  initiative 
aimed at negotiating a legally binding arms trade treaty 
to join those States working to ensure that it becomes a 
reality. 

But the security situation has been aggravated by 
the  deteriorating  economic  situation  in  many  of  our 
countries, weakened by the loss of preferential markets 
for bananas and sugar. The situation is exacerbated by 
the  new  paradigm  of  reciprocity  in  trade,  and  by  the 
fact  that  both  the  tourism  industry  and  the  financial 
services  sector, 
to 
supplement  their  economic  development,  have  not 
produced 
returns.  The  economic 
situation of these countries has therefore become even 
more critical, with severe consequences for the security 
and prosperity of our region, given the inextricable link 
between security and socio-economic development. 

Climate  change  is  one  of  the  major  challenges 
facing  our  civilization  today.  The  Secretary-General 
must  be  highly  commended  for  his  commitment  to 
dealing with this issue, which he declared as a priority 
at  the  start  of  his  tenure.  In  this  regard,  we  add  our 
to  which  many  have 
the  anticipated 
turned 
A/64/PV.9
to  a 
voices  to  those  that  have  praised  highly  the  United 
Nations  Summit  on  Climate  Change,  which  has  just 
concluded. This General Assembly must promote more 
meaningful  action  directed  towards  an  internationally 
acceptable  formula  for 
the  reduction  of  carbon 
emissions. 

Trinidad and Tobago wishes to make it absolutely 
clear that we do not accept the per capita basis for the 
determination  of  levels  of  carbon  emissions.  It  is 
manifestly  unfair 
small,  energy-producing 
developing  country  like  ours  with  a  small  population. 
We consider the method of absolute emissions to be a 
more 
just  method  of  determining  a  country’s 
contribution to global warming, since it is affected not 
by  per  capita  emissions,  but  by  absolute  levels.  The 
question of population size, in this context, has nothing 
to do with the matter whatsoever. 

We also assure the Assembly that our country has 
already  voluntarily  embarked  on  reducing  emissions 
through  a  programme  that  includes  the  pursuit  of 
renewable  sources  of  supply.  We  will  also  be  hosting 
the  53  Commonwealth  heads  of  Government  at  a 
meeting in Port of Spain in November of this year. This 
will  be  the  last  major  summit  before  the  Copenhagen 
Climate  Change  Summit  in  December.  We  propose  to 
use the opportunity to attempt to forge a consensus that 
would 
the 
Commonwealth,  comprising  as  it  does  both  high 
greenhouse-gas  emitters  and  some  of  the  countries 
most threatened by climate change. We are determined 
to  do  all  in  our  power  to  ensure  agreement  in 
Copenhagen. 
We are firmly of the view that non-communicable 

diseases  demand 
the 
international  community  at  this  time.  It  has  been 
forecast that  by 2020 non-communicable diseases will 
account for approximately 73 per cent of global deaths 
and  60  per  cent  of  the  global  burden  of  disease.  We 
join  the  call  for  indicators  on  non-communicable 
diseases  and  injuries  to  be  integrated  into  the  core 
monitoring  and  evaluation  system  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  have  taken  this  matter  on 
board at the level of the Caribbean Community. Indeed, 
we held a special regional summit in Port of Spain on 
chronic  non-communicable  diseases  in  2007.  I  now 
propose  that  this Assembly  convene  a  special  summit 
meeting  of  the  United  Nations  on  non-communicable 
diseases at the earliest opportunity. 
the  heightened  attention  of 
common 
reflect 
the 
views 
of 
09-52586 

17 

important  organ  of 
A/64/PV.9 


The  year  2015  is  fast  approaching,  but  there  has 
been,  sadly,  no  encouraging  progress  towards  our 
Millennium Development Goal of food security for all 
by  that  date.  Indeed,  we  have  fallen  behind  in  our 
schedule,  with  an  increase  in  deaths  from  hunger  and 
malnutrition  in  the  developing  world. A  much  greater 
sense  of  urgency  is  needed  in  our  approach  to  this 
situation. All countries must honour their commitments 
made  at  the  2008  High-Level  Conference  on  World 
Food  Security.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  therefore  looks 
forward  to  the  next  World  Summit  on  Food  Security, 
scheduled for November in Rome, with the expectation 
that the results will aid the international community in 
achieving  the  revised  target  set  by  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  to 
eradicate hunger by 2025. 

My country is committed to an international order 
based on peace, security and the  right to development 
of  all  countries.  We  believe  that  democracy  and 
representation  are  key  to  achieving  meaningful  and 
effective  multilateralism.  We  therefore  wish  again  to 
support efforts to reform the Security Council. Reform 
of 
the  United  Nations, 
responsible  for the maintenance of international peace 
and  security,  must  include  efforts  aimed  at  making  its 
composition 
global 
geopolitical realities since the end of the Second World 
War. 

In  this  new  century,  the  United  Nations  must 
become  an  even  more  effective  voice  for  all  of 
mankind. We have very important work ahead of us at 
a  very  challenging  time  in  our  history.  Let  us  never 
lose  sight  of  our  main  purpose,  which  is  the  security 
and  development  of  the  people  of  the  world.  Let  us 
renew our focus on this main objective. 

Let us therefore support the reign of fundamental 
freedoms  and  human  rights  in  every  country.  Let  us 
strive  for  the  individual  empowerment  of  citizens  in 
every  nation;  let  there  be  opportunity  and  upward 
mobility  for  all;  let  none  be  marginalized  on  the 
periphery;  and let the  abundant talent  and potential  of 
humanity  flower  everywhere,  serving  as  inspiration, 
guidance  and  example 
future 
generations. 

Let us therefore join our strengths for the benefit 
of  all.  Let  us  indeed  build  a  global  community  where 
there  is  increasing  and  intensified  cooperation  and 
communication  among  our  nations,  where  no  country 
to  present  and 
reflect  more 
closely 
that 
the 
lags behind, and where all nations and their peoples are 
on the international road to development. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

The  Honourable  Patrick  Manning,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by The Honourable Tuilaepa 
Lupesoliai Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime Minister 
of the Independent State of Samoa 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Independent State of Samoa. 

The  Honourable  Tuilaepa  Lupesoliai  Sailele 
Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Independent 
State of Samoa, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Tuilaepa  Lupesoliai  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Independent  State  of  Samoa,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Malielegaoi  (Samoa):  The  value  of  the 

United  Nations  to  humanity  has  not  diminished  with 
the  passing  of  time.  Our  Organization  remains  as 
relevant today as when it was established 64 years ago. 
Its  status  as  the  world’s  pre-eminent  body  will  be 
diminished if we as leaders do not accord it the respect 
our Organization deserves and observe its etiquette. 

Recent  crises  have  not  only  validated  our  global 
sustainability,  but  highlighted  our  interconnectedness 
and  interdependence. These  crises,  from  those  in  food 
and  energy  security  to  the  global  recession  and 
pandemic,  have  adversely  affected  all  Member  States 
to  varying  degrees. Although  they  have  resulted  from 
the decisions and actions of a few, the crises have not 
differentiated 
impact  between  developed  and 
developing countries or between the rich and the poor. 
The  costs  of  these  crises  in  terms  of  human  suffering 
and  social  upheaval  have  been  considerable,  and 
justifiably required the collective and concerted global 
action  that  now  seems  to  be  working  with  a  good 
degree of success. 
in 
18 

09-52586 



These  crises  are  eminently  solvable  and  short-
term  when  compared  to  the  great  and  grave  threat  the 
world  faces  from  environmental  degradation  and 
climate change. This week’s summit of the Alliance of 
Small  Island  States  and  the  Secretary-General’s  high-
level  meeting  both  underscored  the  predominance  and 
urgency  of  the  climate  change  challenge.  Their  core 
messages  were  unambiguous.  Climate  change  is  not  a 
future phenomenon; it is real and already occurring in 
Pacific countries and low-lying islands elsewhere. It is 
no longer a question of when, but rather of how severe 
the  magnitude  of  its  impact  will  be.  The  full  cost 
society  must  bear  is  becoming  a  stark  reality  that  we 
can no longer ignore today. 

Climate  change  is  not  a  concern  of  small  island 
developing  States  alone.  Our  vulnerability  to  climate 
change  should  not  absolve  those  responsible  for  its 
causes in the past or now, nor should it be used to shift 
the burden of leadership and responsibility away from 
the  main  carbon  emitters.  Developed  and  emerging 
economies  will  all  be  affected  one  way  or  another. 
Sadly,  the  human  and  financial  costs  will  be  borne 
disproportionately by small island developing States. 

A Copenhagen climate pact is therefore a must. It 
requires  a  new  brand  of  cooperation  and  a  broad 
outlook.  The  narrow  pursuit  of  self-interests  and  the 
use  of  economic  and  political  expediencies  should  be 
set aside and must not be allowed to derail the goal of 
concluding  an  ambitious  and  binding  agreement. 
Climate  change 
job.  While 
acknowledging  historical  responsibility  is  legitimate, 
allowing  it  to  get  in  the  way  of  making  decisions  to 
reach  a  comprehensive  agreement  would  be  a  grave 
mistake.  Reaching  a  climate  change  agreement  is 
therefore a test of multilateral solidarity.  

Time  is  running  out.  The  impacts  of  climate 
change are getting worse daily. Playing the blame-and-
shame game, or waiting to be led but not being willing 
to lead, are no longer options. For no single nation, no 
single group of nations and no single organization can 
win  the  war  against  climate  change  on  its  own.  The 
divergent  yet  inextricably  linked  interests  of  Member 
States demand that we seal a deal in Copenhagen. 

The  cost  of  adaptation  and  mitigation  at  the 
national  level  can  be  prohibitive  because  most  of  our 
people  and  infrastructure  are  found  along  the  coastal 
areas.  Relocating  them  inland  would  be  costly  due  to 
our rough and rugged terrain and the number of people 
is  also  everyone’s 
A/64/PV.9
involved. However, that has not deterred us. Using our 
resources  and  by  partnering  with  the  international 
community, we continue to support the global effort to 
build  our  resilience  against  climate  change.  Our 
plantation  access  roads  programme 
is  one  such 
initiative.  It  facilitates  relocation  and  helps  boost 
agricultural  production  as  a  response  measure  to 
climate change and to food security. 

The  shadow  of  the  financial  crisis  envelops  us 
still. As with climate change, most developing nations 
are  victims  forcibly  drawn  into  the  maelstrom  of  the 
crisis  through  its  consequential  impact  on  the  global 
economy. Although  remote  from  the  epicentres  of  the 
crises, our small and vulnerable island economies have 
not been spared. Indeed, it has been acknowledged by 
the  Group  of  20  that  the  global  recession  impacts  the 
vulnerable  and  poorest  countries  disproportionately. 
International acceptance of the collective responsibility 
to  provide  assistance  to  help  those  countries  mitigate 
the  impact  of  the  global  recession  has  also  been  very 
important. 

That  undertaking  to  provide  assistance  is  simply 
critical  for  small  and  open  economies  like  that  of  my 
country. The global recession has contracted our small 
economy,  and  our  narrow  Government  revenue  base 
has taken some hard hits that have made it impossible 
to  provide  on  our  own  the  kind  of  stimulus  package 
that  would  meaningfully  mitigate  the  impacts  of  the 
recession, let alone reignite growth in the economy.  

In  the  circumstances,  the  effective  assistance 
needed by our economy at this time is direct budgetary 
support,  which  should  be  necessary  only  for  the  short 
term to sustain expenditure, allow us breathing space to 
rebalance our finances, and put the economy back onto 
the path of growth. We acknowledge with appreciation 
the  readiness  of  our  development  partners  and  of 
international  financial  institutions,  such  as  the  World 
Bank 
the  Asian  Development  Bank, 
to 
sympathetically consider our requests in that regard. 
Samoa  will  graduate  from  the  list  of  least 

developed 
in  December  2010.  The 
intervention  of  the  financial  crisis  was  unanticipated 
and not taken into account when the decision was made 
to  advance  our  country  to  the  transitional  period.  An 
extension  of  the  transitional  period  is  therefore  both 
necessary and justified. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 

will be reviewed next year. Our scorecard on all eight 
countries 
and 
09-52586 

19 

tranquillity 
A/64/PV.9 

Goals  gives  us  guarded  optimism,  although  meeting 
every one of them in the time frame allowed remains a 
challenge. Our needs are not matched by the resources 
at our disposal. Hence, central to our efforts to realize 
the  MDGs  is  the  implementation  of  Goal  8  on 
achieving durable global partnerships for development. 
But  some  aid  donors  either  take  their  time  to  respond 
or do not do so at all. That is cause for justifiable alarm 
because  if  they  are  not  forthcoming  with  relatively 
modest  resources  to  help  us  achieve  the  MDGs,  then 
the  prospects  for  an  effective  global  response  to 
climate change will all but vanish. 

The Pacific is a region of relative peace. We have 
been  spared  the  scars  of  war  and  conflict,  and  nature 
has gifted us the sea and land for our livelihood. While 
we  have  challenges  and  differences,  they  tend  to  be 
localized.  Our  development  needs,  individually  and 
regionally,  are  modest  by  world  standards.  However, 
belying 
that 
is  our  acute  economic 
vulnerability. 

Given  our  credentials  as  a  region  of  relative 
stability  with  needs  that  are  not  as  large  as  those  of 
other  parts  of  the  world,  one  would  expect  the 
international  donor  community  to  be  jostling  for 
opportunities to assist our development efforts. On the 
contrary,  that  has  not  been  borne  out  in  the  general 
experience  of  the  region.  Some  development  partners 
seem  unconcerned  as 
their 
development  aid  is  spent;  whether  it  is  in  war-torn, 
devastated and unstable regions or as a front to support 
military-related industries at home appears to be of no 
consequence.  Then,  there  are  those  who  engage  in 
posturing  and  rhetoric  that  are  devoid  of  tangible  or 
real action on the ground. 

Sustainable  partnership  is  based  on  mutual  trust 
and  respect. That  has  been  the  foundation  of  Samoa’s 
relationship  with  our  main  development  partners: 
Australia, China, the European Union, Japan and New 
Zealand. All have supported us and continue to do so at 
every  step  of  our  development  journey.  Italy,  Austria 
and  Turkey  are  our  newest  partners,  assisting  in  the 
renewable  energy  field,  and  we  would  like  to  engage 
countries  at  the  cutting  edge  of  renewable  energy 
technology,  such  as  China,  Germany,  Japan  and  the 
United States, to assist us in that key sector.  

The  One  United  Nations  Initiative  is  a  timely 
project  that  reduces  the  costs  and  improves  the 
efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  aid  delivery  by  the 
to  where  and  how 
should 
always 
be 
United  Nations  system.  Resources  saved  through  that 
Initiative should flow back to benefit Member States. 

A  permanent  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict  continues  to  be  an  elusive  goal,  and  seems  a 
lost  cause.  President  Obama’s  relaunching  afresh  this 
week  of  the  stalled  Middle  East  peace  talks  will 
hopefully  be  the  catalyst  that  brings  about  renewed 
impetus  in  achieving  a  secure  State  of  Israel  living 
alongside a Palestinian State. 

Mr.  Christian  (Ghana),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
International  terrorism  is  a  global  menace.  It 

creates  an  atmosphere  of  collective 
fear  and 
intolerance.  It  preys  on  the  innocent,  vulnerable  and 
defenceless  and  disrupts  any  progress  towards  peace 
and  development.  Terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations 
condemned 
unreservedly.  Individual  actions  by  States  cannot  in 
and  of 
themselves  provide  a  solution.  We  must 
shoulder  our  responsibility  to  act  together  to  meet  the 
threat  through  concerted  multilateral  action,  which 
underpins the spirit of our Organization. 
Wars are futile and serve no useful purpose. They 

will 
nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  illicit  small  arms  and  light 
weapons are  brought  under effective  control. The task 
of  building  peace  lies  with  every  nation.  That  is  why 
we welcome the decision by the United States to move 
forward  with  the  ratification  of  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  We  remain  hopeful  that  the 
Treaty will enter into force soon. 

The  United  Nations  cannot  survive  unless  it 
constantly adjusts and adapts to changing times. After 
18  years,  Security  Council  reform  has  finally  entered 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiating  process.  Samoa 
continues to support the expansion of the membership 
of 
and 
non-permanent  categories.  Countries  such  as  Japan 
have  the  credentials  to  assume  permanent  member 
status. 

United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  around 
the  world  have  brought  relief  and  hope  to  victims  in 
conflict  areas.  Samoan  civilian  police  officers  are 
currently  serving  in  three  peacekeeping  missions  side 
by side with officers from other Member States. In our 
own  region,  Samoa  is  a  contributor  to  the  Regional 
the  permanent 
the  Council 
disarmament, 
in  both 
not 
end 
unless 
20 

09-52586 


Assistance  Mission  to  the  Solomon  Islands  under  the 
umbrella of the Pacific Islands Forum. 

Let me conclude by wishing the President well in 
the formidable challenges facing his presidency. When 
nations stand united and firm in pursuit of the goals of 
the  Organization’s  Charter,  the  world  can  look  to  the 
future with confidence. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime Minister 
of the Independent State of Samoa, was escorted 
from the rostrum. 



  Address by The Honourable Sheikh Hasina, 
Prime Minister of the People’s Republic  
of Bangladesh 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister  of the People’s 
Republic of Bangladesh. 

The  Honourable  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 

Sheikh  Hasina
text  provided  by 
in  Bangla;  English 
(Bangladesh):  With 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  Her  Excellency  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  and 
inviting her to address the General Assembly. 
your 

permission,  Sir,  I  would  like  to  speak  in  Bangla,  my 
mother tongue.  
(spoke 
delegation)  

I would like to warmly congratulate the President 
on  his  well-deserved  election  to  preside  over  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I  am 
confident  that  his  wise  and  able  leadership  will  guide 
the  Assembly’s  deliberations 
successful 
conclusion.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my  deep 
appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third  session, 
in 
successfully  steering  the  Assembly’s  work  during  his 
tenure.  I  should  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
for  his  sound 
leadership 
to 
a 
A/64/PV.9
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless  and  dedicated 
efforts to reinvigorate the United Nations. 

Thirty-five years ago, the father of our nation and 
my  father,  Bangabandhu  Sheikh  Mujibur  Rahman,  in 
his  first  address  to  the  General  Assembly  from  this 
rostrum,  expressed  his  gratitude  to  all  who  supported 
our  struggle  for  independence.  He  also  declared  his 
commitment  to  democracy,  good  governance,  human 
rights and the rule of law. It is also my proud privilege 
and great honour to extend the same commitment here 
today on behalf of our country. 

As members may know, for many years following 
the  brutal  assassination  of  Bangabandhu  and  18  other 
members  of  our  family,  on  15  August  1975,  by 
misguided  armed  mutineers,  Bangladesh  was  ruled  by 
dictators  and  quasi-dictators.  Aside  from  a  period  in 
the  1990s,  the  country  continued  to  suffer  from 
unconstitutional  rule,  particularly  in  the  most  recent 
years. Even I was sent into forced exile. But the will of 
the  people  of  Bangladesh  and  the  good  will  of  the 
international community permitted my return home and 
the  holding  of  nation-wide  elections  on  29  December 
2008. 

Universally  acclaimed  as  free,  fair  and  credible, 
and  carried  out  under  the  supervision  of  United 
Nations  and  international  observers,  the  elections 
heralded  democracy  in  Bangladesh.  The  resounding 
victory  of  my  party,  the Awami  League,  reflected  the 
people’s  preference  for  democratic  ideals,  secularism 
and  an  outright  denial  of  all  forms  of  extremism. The 
elections  included  record  high  participation  by  young 
voters and women. 

The  huge  mandate  given  by  the  voters  to  my 
Government  also  entrusted  it  with  an  equally  huge 
responsibility  for  delivering  on  people’s  expectations. 
Consequently,  my  Government  has  embarked  on 
achieving  a  digital  Bangladesh  by  implementing  its 
Vision  2021  election  manifesto.  Our  goal 
to 
transform Bangladesh into “Sonar Bangla” or “Bengal 
of  Gold”,  as  envisioned  by  Bangabandhu  Sheikh 
Mujibur Rahman. 

Despite  all  odds,  Bangladesh  is  making  great 
strides  in  its  socio-economic  development.  Education, 
particularly  for  girls,  is  a  priority  of  our  Government, 
receiving the largest single share of our annual budget. 
Our  Government  has  pledged  to  ensure  100  per  cent 
student  enrolment  at  the  primary  level  by  2010. 
Accordingly, primary education has been made free — 
is 
21 
the 
09-52586 

Health 
for 

As  for 
A/64/PV.9 

with  free  books  —  and  compulsory  for  all  children. 
Provision has been made for free education for girls up 
to the twelfth grade, and stipends are provided for girls 
in rural secondary schools.  

the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
Bangladesh  has  been  successful  in  removing  gender 
disparities  in  the  net  enrolment  of  boys  and  girls  in 
primary  and  secondary  schools.  Our  Government  is 
now  planning  to  provide  free  tuition  for  girls  up 
through the secondary level.  
Since  children  are  our  future,  our  Government 

runs  a  food-for-education/cash-for-education  programme 
providing food rations to poor primary school children 
in  rural  areas.  Our  aim  is  to  achieve  full  literacy  by 
2014. 

is  another  major  sector  where  our 
Government  is  striving  to  make  progress.  During  our 
last  period  in  power,  we  formulated  a  national  health 
policy  whose  main  thrust  was  to  ensure  basic  health 
care for all without discrimination. A national strategy 
for  maternal  health  has  also  been  adopted,  which 
provides  quality 
safe  motherhood. 
Regarding  infant  mortality,  our  plan  is  to  reduce  the 
infant mortality rate from 54 per thousand live births to 
15  per  thousand.  Our  plan  is  also  to  extend  child 
immunization programmes to reach 100 per cent of the 
population during our present term.  

During  our  last  period  in  power,  we  initiated 
programmes  to  establish  one  community  health-care 
centre for every 6,000 people, in order to bring primary 
health-care  services  to  people’s  homes.  Only  4,000  of 
the first phase of 18,000 could be completed during the 
period  we  were  in  power  prior  to  the  changeover  of 
government,  and  the  programme  was  terminated.  We 
are now reactivating the programme. 

Bangladesh  is  often  cited  for  its  social  safety 
programmes. A wide range of safety nets have been put 
in  place,  such  as  cash  and  food  transfer  programmes, 
micro-credit  and  other  special  poverty  alleviation 
programmes,  and  special  programmes  for  minorities, 
the  marginalized, 
the  physically 
challenged  and  the  underprivileged.  In  our  earlier 
period in power, I had introduced an old age pension, a 
pension  for  distressed  women,  Shanti  Nibash  or  old 
people’s  homes,  a  Karmasangsthan  Bank  to  provide 
earnings  to  unemployed  youth  through  productive  job 
creation,  and  Ashrayan  or  homes  on  Government-
the  disabled, 
services 
An 
agricultural 
innovative  programme 
owned land for homeless people, as well as sustainable 
jobs.  

instituted  by  my 
current Government seeks to provide employment to at 
least one member of each family. Currently, over a half 
of  our  budgetary  resources  are  allocated  to  reducing 
the  poverty  level  from  45  per  cent  to  15  per  cent  by 
2021. 

Food security has always been our Government’s 
prime  concern.  During  our  earlier  term  in  power,  my 
Government’s 
programmes  made 
Bangladesh  self-sufficient  in  food,  for  which  the 
United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
presented us with its prestigious Ceres Award. After the 
change in government, Bangladesh returned to being in 
food  deficit.  This  time  around,  our  Government  has 
adopted a national food policy to ensure sustained food 
security  for  all,  enhance  people’s  access  to  food, 
particularly  for  children,  women  and  the  elderly, 
reduce  food  prices, 
increase  food  production  by 
reducing the price of fuel, fertilizer and irrigation, and 
ensure supply of farm inputs. 
On  the  international  level,  at  the  World  Summit 

on  Food  Security  to  be  held  in  Rome  in  November 
2009,  Bangladesh  will  be  seeking  a  global  agreement 
for  the  development  of  agriculture  and  the  attainment 
of  food  self-sufficiency 
in  developing  countries, 
particularly  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs). 
Substantial  financial  contributions  from  developed 
countries,  an  agreement  on  sustainable  agricultural 
policies,  the  transfer  of  technology,  equitable  and  fair 
trade  rules  for  food  and  agricultural  products  with 
special  preferential 
the 
removal  of  agricultural  subsidies  in  the  developed 
world  will  also  be  sought,  in  order  to  address  the 
challenges  we  face  in  ensuring  the  food  security 
critical for advancing our development agenda. 

For  some  time  now,  climate  change  has  been 
adversely impacting our low-lying, deltaic, monsoonal 
country.  Although  Bangladesh’s  own  contribution  to 
climate  change  is  negligible,  it  is  one  of  its  worst 
victims.  Erratic 
floods,  cyclones,  droughts  and 
earthquakes  have  been  disrupting  our  agriculture  and 
challenging our water resources, as well as our health, 
energy  and  urban  planning.  In  particular,  cyclones 
battering  the  coastal  areas  have  taken  countless  lives, 
and  sudden  floods  have  uprooted  families  by  the 
thousands and continue to do so every year. River bank 
treatment  for  LDCs,  and 
22 

09-52586 
flood  damage, 
reduce 
land  and  keep 


erosion,  landslides,  soil  degradation  and  deforestation 
are  causing  millions  of  climate-change  refugees. They 
already greatly affect our densely populated cities. It is 
alarming  that  a  metre’s  rise  in  the  sea  level  would 
inundate  18  per  cent  of  our  land  mass,  directly 
impacting  11  per  cent  of  our  people.  Scientific 
estimates indicate that, of the 1 billion people expected 
to  be  displaced  worldwide  by  2050  as  a  result  of 
climate-change  factors,  one  in  every  45  people  in  the 
world and one in every seven in Bangladesh, would be 
a victim. 

Bangladesh  has  therefore  decided  to  take  some 
measures  immediately.  Dredging  all  major  rivers  is  at 
the top of the agenda for adaptation to climate change. 
Capital  dredging  projects  will  keep  rivers  in  their 
natural  course,  deepen  them  to  hold  more  water, 
restrict 
reclaim 
flooding, 
inundated  arable 
them  navigable. 
Maintenance dredging would then ensure the sustained 
regulated flow of the rivers. With the rise in sea level, 
the  excavated  silt  could  build,  raise  and  fortify 
embankments,  increase  green  belts  and  help  create 
elevated  flat  ground  for  the  homes  of  the  displaced, 
thereby  discouraging  them  from  moving  to  cities. 
Meanwhile,  14,000  cyclone  shelters  have  been 
constructed, and more are on the way.  

Those  activities  would  obviously  entail  huge 
costs. A climate-change trust fund has been established 
with our own resources, but in order to implement the 
projects  the  assistance  of  the  international  community 
is imperative. 

Rapid  and  unplanned  urbanization,  occupational 
dislocation  and  lack  of  food,  water  and  land  security 
are  some  of  the  consequences  of  climate  change.  The 
affected communities would not only lose their homes. 
They would also stand to lose their identity, nationality 
and  their  very  existence  and,  in  some  cases,  their 
countries.  In  December  this  year,  we  will  meet  in 
Copenhagen for the fifteenth session of the Conference 
of  the  Parties  and,  therefore,  it  is  critical  that  the 
outcome  of  the  Conference  reflect  a  commitment  to 
assured,  adequate  and  easily  accessible  funding  for 
adaptation  and  to  affordable,  eco-friendly  technology 
transfer  to  developing  countries,  particularly  to  the 
LDCs, as well as specific commitments to deeper cuts 
in greenhouse emissions. Bangladesh would, of course, 
make a strong call at the Conference to consider a new 
legal  regime  to  protect  climate  migrants  under  the 
Kyoto  Protocol  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
A/64/PV.9
to  support 
Convention on Climate Change that ensures the social, 
cultural  and  economic  rehabilitation  of  migrants 
displaced through climate change. 

On  the  vital  issue  of  climate  change,  the  recent 
bold  and  courageous  proposal  of  Prime  Minister 
Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom  has caught the 
imagination  of  States  at  the  forefront  of  dealing  with 
climate  change.  Among  his  proposals,  the  proposed 
fund 
the  adaptation  and  mitigation 
programmes  of  countries  affected  by  climate  change 
has,  in  particular,  won  our  support.  It  could  be  the 
beginning  of  a  systematic  flow  of  funds  towards 
the  adversely  changing  environmental 
improving 
conditions  around 
the  globe.  The  Copenhagen 
Conference should seriously consider his proposal. The 
Conference  must  also  be  aware  that  climate-change 
mitigation does not restrict the steps taken to alleviate 
energy  poverty,  and  that  the  post-2012  agreement 
should  incorporate  predictable  and  legally  binding 
commitments  to  address  the  adaptation  needs  of  low-
lying coastal States, small island countries and LDCs. 

The world is caught in an economic recession, the 
likes  of  which  has  not  been  seen  since  the  Great 
Depression of the 1930s. The economically vulnerable 
countries, such as the LDCs, which are not responsible 
for 
its  worst  victims. 
Bangladesh is faced with a sharp reduction in exports, 
falling  prices  for  primary  commodities,  declining 
remittances  and  a  severe  credit  crunch,  leading  to  the 
contraction 
rising 
unemployment and poverty.  

The crisis is due to years of neglect of equity and 
justice,  including  a  fundamentally  unfair  international 
financial structure that never changed with the needs of 
the  times.  The  need  of  the  hour  is  the  immediate 
restructuring  of  the  global  financial  and  economic 
system.  The  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  namely,  the 
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, must 
accommodate  a  stronger  presence  of  developing 
countries, especially the LDCs. Indeed, a voting weight 
proportionate  to  share  capital  has  proved  unsuited  to 
the Bretton Woods system. 

Surely,  fiscal  stimulus  packages  would  help 
support  global  demand  and  aid  recovery.  However, 
liberal trade concessions by developed countries, such 
as  duty-  and  quota-free  market  access  and  trade 
capacity-building for developing countries, particularly 
LDCs,  would  rescue  them  from  dire  straits. The  early 
the  crisis,  have  become 
growth, 
of 
our 
economic 
09-52586 

23 
to 
the 
their  gross  domestic 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
to  fulfil 
A/64/PV.9 

conclusion  of  the  Doha  Development  Round  of  the 
World Trade Organization trade negotiations would be 
an  important  collective  stimulus  package  for  our 
economies. 
It  is  also  the  time  for  the  countries  of  the 

and 
Organization 
Development 
their  official  development 
assistance  commitments  to  contribute  0.7  per  cent  of 
their gross national income to developing countries and 
0.2  per  cent  specifically 
least  developed 
countries  by  2010,  as  reaffirmed  in  the  Brussels 
Programme of Action. 

The  economic  turmoil  has  adversely  affected 
employment  at  the  national  level  and  worldwide.  The 
worst affected are the LDCs, both domestically and in 
terms of employment abroad. Remittances constitute a 
significant  part  of 
income. 
However,  recent  restrictions  on  new  admissions  of 
migrant  workers  and,  even  worse,  their  repatriation  to 
their  home  countries  have  resulted  in  socio-economic 
instability  in  many  countries.  Therefore,  recovery 
measures  should  be  designed  in  such  a  manner  so  as 
not  to  adversely  affect  employment  opportunities  of 
immigrant workers from developing countries. 

Bangladesh  is  proud  of  its  outstanding  role  as  a 
major  troop-contributing  country  serving  the  United 
Nations  in  maintaining  peace  and  security  worldwide. 
Since  1988,  Bangladesh  has  been 
in 
32 United  Nations 
in 
24 different  countries,  contributing  approximately 
83,000 personnel. Today, Bangladesh is ranked second 
with  9,567  peacekeepers  serving  in  various  United 
Nations missions. 

With pride I say that, throughout the years, 84 of 
our valiant peacekeepers have laid down their lives for 
the  cause  of  peace  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations.  Sadly,  despite  our 
and 
sacrifices,  Bangladesh  does  not  have  proportionate 
representation  in  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping 
Operations, nor does it have a say in the planning and 
strategy design of peacekeeping missions. Indeed, this 
situation  calls  for  rectification  on 
the  basis  of 
proportional representation in all fairness.  

As  a  peaceful  nation  involved  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  efforts,  Bangladesh  is  naturally  opposed 
to  terrorism.  Bangladesh  is  a  party  to  all  terrorism-
related  United  Nations  Conventions,  which 
is  a 
testament  to  our  commitment  to  fighting  that  scourge. 
involved 
operations 
peacekeeping 
contributions 

We  categorically  reject  the  claims  of  those  who  cloak 
themselves in the rhetoric of Islam or any other faith to 
justify  violence.  Nationwide,  we  have  taken  stern 
measures against militant groups and their leaders. We 
are  firmly  opposed  to  violence  and  terrorism;  instead, 
we  promote  peace  across  the  world.  Bangladesh,  in 
sessions of the General Assembly, has spearheaded the 
flagship  resolution  on  the  culture  of  peace.  At  last 
year’s session of the General Assembly, the resolution 
was sponsored by 124 nations.  

The  International  Mother  Language  Day  was 
adopted  by  UNESCO,  at  the  initiative  of  Bangladesh, 
in  recognition  of  21  February  1952,  when  language 
martyrs  died  for  their  mother  tongue  Bangla.  Now 
every  year  on 
that  day  UNESCO  celebrates  all 
languages of the world. The Bangla language is spoken 
by  over  250  million  people  worldwide,  primarily  in 
Bangladesh  and  the  Indian  state  of  West  Bengal.  The 
Bangladesh  Parliament  therefore  recently  adopted  a 
resolution  requesting  the  United  Nations  to  declare 
Bangla as one of its official languages. Given the rich 
heritage of the Bangla language and its  singular place 
as a symbol of people’s faith in the power of languages 
to sustain cultures and indeed the identity of nations, I 
seek  the  support  of  the  membership  of  the  United 
Nations  General  Assembly  for  its  acceptance  as  an 
official language of the United Nations. 
At  present  we  are  witnessing  a  rapidly  changing 

world as a result of climate change, economic turmoil 
and  terrorism.  It  is  crystal  clear  to  those  who  wish  to 
open  their  eyes  that  we  all  belong  to  a  global  village 
where we must live and work together. I therefore call 
upon  all  States  to  discard  short-sighted  discords  and 
adopt  a  common  resolve  in  facing  today’s  grim 
challenges.  Let  us  share  each  other’s  responsibilities, 
burdens  and  prosperity.  After  all,  at  stake  is  our 
common  and  shared  future.  In  reaching  out  to  one 
another,  we  will  leave  a  harmonious  world  for  our 
children and future generations thereafter. 

United Nations! 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh for the statement she 
has just made. 

May  Bangladesh  live  forever!  Long  live  the 
The  Honourable  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  People’s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
24 

09-52586 




  Address by The Honourable Denzil Douglas, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, Minister of National Security and 
Immigration, Minister of Sustainable 
Development and Minister of Tourism, Sports 
and Culture of Saint Kitts and Nevis 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs,  Minister  of  National  Security  and 
Immigration, Minister of Sustainable Development and 
Minister of Tourism, Sports and Culture of Saint Kitts 
and Nevis. 

The Honourable Denzil Douglas, Prime Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Minister  of 
National  Security  and  Immigration,  Minister  of 
Sustainable  Development  and  Minister  of 
Tourism,  Sports  and  Culture  of  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis, was escorted to the rostrum.  
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming His Excellency Mr. Denzil Douglas, Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs,  Minister  of 
National  Security  and 
Immigration,  Minister  of 
Sustainable  Development  and  Minister  of  Tourism, 
Sports  and  Culture  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Douglas (Saint Kitts and Nevis): It is indeed 

an honour to address the General Assembly at its sixty-
fourth  session.  Today,  we  converge  in  this  Hall  to 
outline  how,  from  the  perspective  of  our  respective 
nations, this esteemed body might uphold the rights of 
all mankind, secure world peace and indeed, ensure the 
very survival of planet Earth. 

We  converge  here  in  order  to  arrive  at  some 
collective insight regarding the interests of the world’s 
various  peoples  as  well  as  the  interests  of  humankind 
itself.  We  have  come  here  not  only  to  be  heard,  but 
more  importantly  to  listen  and  ultimately  to  commit 
ourselves,  both  as  a  body  and  as 
independent, 
sovereign States, to constructive, ameliorative action. 

I congratulate the President on his election to the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session  and  assure  him  of  my  Government’s  full 
support;  and 
thank  his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann  of  Nicaragua  for  his  leadership  during  his 
presidency of the sixty-third session. 
through  him 
if  I  may, 
A/64/PV.9
is 
in 
require 
that  Governments 
that  multilateralism 

Our  world  is  defined  by  issues  of  politics,  the 
environment, trade and finance at the global level. Last 
year’s  financial  crisis,  which  continues  to  reverberate 
throughout the world, stands as a sobering reminder of 
the  interconnectedness  of  our  economies  and  the 
knowledge 
indispensable. 
Whether we are speaking about global trade, monetary 
and fiscal policies, human rights protection, health and 
public  security  or  protecting  the  environment,  these 
issues  have  become  interlinked. And  their  complexity 
means that no country can act alone. 

The  circumstances  that  precipitated  the  virtual 
collapse  of  several  financial  institutions  were  not 
created by small States such as St. Kitts and Nevis. Yet, 
as  in  the  case  of  climate  change,  their  consequences 
have  been  forced  upon  us  and  we  are  left  to  fend  for 
ourselves.  But,  if  we  are  to  learn  anything  from  the 
crises we face today, it should be that collective action 
and  partnership  are  necessary  not  only 
the 
management of conflicts but also in building effective, 
comprehensive and sustainable infrastructure to protect 
future.  The  ever-changing  global 
our  citizens’ 
landscape  will 
and 
institutions  work  to  establish  common  regimes  and 
international  regulatory  frameworks  for  some  time  to 
come. 

To  that  end,  my  Government  will  support  an 
enhanced  role  for  political  forums  such  as  the  United 
Nations  to  strengthen  multilateralism.  We  owe  this 
much to the citizens around the world, who still look to 
the United Nations for hope — rooted in the belief that 
through our efforts their aspirations will be realized.  

times,  and  unexpected 
developments  challenge  our  resolve  daily.  But  we 
cannot and must not relent. We must double our efforts 
and use the convening power and political authority of 
this  Organization  and  others  like  it  to  find  common 
ground,  even  in  the  face  of  strident  and  sometimes 
divergent  views.  That 
that 
indispensable  architecture  so  as  to  create  a  legacy 
worthy of future generations. And that is no small feat; 
it  is,  in  fact,  a  monumental  task.  But  the  Government 
of St. Kitts and Nevis is confident that the President’s 
central  role  in  the  coming  year  will  help  us  to  craft  a 
template for collective action. 

I would like this General Assembly to be able to 
see the world from the perspective of  a  small middle-
income  heavily  indebted  country.  The  country  that  I 
is  how  we  build 
in  complex 
We 
live 
09-52586 

25 

A/64/PV.9 

have  the  honour  of  leading  is  a  small  one  —  the 
smallest nation in the Western hemisphere. Despite the 
recent downturn, small economies like ours continue to 
display resilience and to make the sacrifices necessary 
to sustain ourselves.  
As  far  as  our  access  to  capital  is  concerned,  our 

hard  work  and 
sound  management  have  had 
unexpected,  harsh  and  destabilizing  implications,  with 
unwelcome  restrictions  vis-à-vis  debt  relief  and  other 
key  matters.  The  international  economic  crisis  has 
made  clear  the  urgent  need  for  the  restructuring  and 
repair  of  the  global  economic  system.  As  this  moves 
forward,  I  urge  that  the  very  real  vulnerabilities  of 
small States that happen to have high per capita gross 
domestic  product  be  more  clearly  considered  and 
reflected  in  multilateral  policies,  deliberations  and 
procedures.  

We  seek  support  for  a  new  debt  forgiveness 
initiative  within  the  framework  of  the  reform  of  the 
international  financial  institutions  and  through  the 
materialization  of  a  concept  of  middle-income  highly 
indebted  countries, 
in  which  peculiarities  and 
vulnerabilities  no  longer  trigger  punitive  actions  such 
as premature graduation from concessionary financing. 

In  addition,  the  global  economic  crisis,  which 
began far beyond our shores, has nonetheless made its 
way  to  us  and  made  it  necessary  for  my  country  to 
develop  and  introduce  its  own  stimulus  package,  thus 
forcing us to sacrifice urgently needed tax revenues in 
the  interest  of  protecting  employment  and  to  find  the 
means to shore up and advance the viability of our own 
private sector. 

Nevertheless,  we  are  continuing  to  invest  in  our 
people  through  education  and  retraining  programmes 
and  by  working  to  attract  international  investments  in 
critical  sectors  to  generate  employment  and  other 
business  opportunities.  By  doing  this,  we  hope  to 
prepare  for  the  future,  when  the  global  economy 
eventually rebounds. 

It  is  no  secret  that  our  efforts  can  sometimes 
amount to very little, because, through no fault of our 
own,  it  is  a  fact  that  when  global  crises  occur,  small 
vulnerable economies tend to pay a disproportionately 
high  price.  But  under  my  leadership,  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis will not play victim or assign blame. We prefer 
instead to work vigorously at the national level and to 
collaborate  actively  internationally  so  as  to  introduce 
26 

intend 
measures and systems that transform our economy and 
improve the lives of our citizens. 

Going  forward,  we  want  our  voices  and  ideas  to 
inform  whatever  new  architecture  is  developed,  so  as 
to  avoid  the  mistakes  of  the  past.  Therefore,  we  will 
support the measures established to follow up on issues 
pertaining  to  recovery  from  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crises.  And  we 
to  participate 
enthusiastically  in  the  process  to  ensure  that  the 
recovery is comprehensive. 
We  have  common  challenges  and  a  shared 

responsibility to tackle them. We in the Caribbean have 
repeatedly  called  on  the  international  community  to 
recognize  the  special  circumstances  attending  the 
realities  of  small  island  developing  States,  not  as  a 
favour  to  us,  but  as  a  practical  way  of  addressing  the 
multifaceted  and  complex  issues  that  we  face.  For 
instance, on the issue of environmental protection, the 
Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis has always urged 
a multilateral approach. 

The  interconnectedness  of  our  planet,  then,  is 
indeed real, and nowhere is it more so than on the issue 
of  climate  change.  Whereas  small  countries  such  as 
Saint Kitts and Nevis have tiny carbon footprints with 
negative  environmental  impact,  global  warming  and 
climate change, with their effects, do not discriminate. 
We  can  all  agree  that  the  incidence  of  catastrophic 
climatic  events,  such  as  hurricanes,  floods  and 
mudslides,  continue  to  cause  more  destruction  and 
claim more and more lives each year. 
The  geography  of  our  small  islands  is  changing. 

Sea  levels  are  rising,  and  the  marine  life  on  which 
many of our citizens depend for their livelihoods is fast 
diminishing.  Our  coastlines  are  being  affected.  Our 
reefs  are  paying  a  high  price.  The 
long-term 
implications  for  food  production  are  dire  indeed. 
Again,  though  those  changes  began  far  beyond  our 
shores,  climate  change  has  been  inflicting  a  massive 
and  disproportionate  blow  on  nations  such  as  mine, 
causing us now to urge, in the strongest possible terms, 
timely and effective action. Saint Kitts and Nevis is not 
interested 
in  stale  debates  about  blame;  we  are 
interested in action, and we want to play our own part. 

In  the  interest  of  advancing  global  stability, 
therefore, we urge unrelenting commitment to emission 
targets  by  industrialized  nations.  We  urge  that  the 
major global emitters take the lead in ensuring that the 
resources  are  in  place  so  that  small  island  developing 
09-52586 
As 
translated 
the  expiration  of 
the  measures  needed 
into  concrete  results  on 


States can meet our adaptation, mitigation, technology 
transfer and capacity-building goals. And we urge that 
the  emitters  embrace 
to 
compensate for the risks and the losses resulting from 
climate change. 

We continue to collaborate regionally and to work 
towards  efforts  in  the  areas  of  disaster  preparedness, 
reduction  and  mitigation.  We  recognize  that  high 
dependence  on  fossil  fuels  is  untenable.  Therefore, 
with support from the Organization of American States 
and  private  enterprise,  we  are  exploring  renewable 
sources of energy, including geothermal energy, in the 
Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis. 

the  Kyoto  Protocol 
approaches,  my  Government  welcomes  the  recent 
commitments  by  some  industrialized  countries  to  do 
more  to  address  harmful  emissions.  I  hope  that  that 
will  be 
the 
environment  and  climate  change  at  the  Copenhagen 
summit later this year. 

I  also  wish  to  urge  the  United  Nations  to 
strengthen  the  Small  Island  Developing  States  Unit 
with  additional  resources  to  make  it  more  effective  in 
addressing  the  concerns  of  Member  States.  I  look 
forward  to  the  Unit’s  assistance  as  we  work  towards 
the  five-year  review  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the 
Further  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action 
for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island 
Developing States at the current sixty-fourth session. I 
urge Member States to ensure that the agreed goals of 
the Mauritius Strategy and the commitments made are 
implemented and to support initiatives proposed during 
the review exercise. 

In  multilateralism,  constructive  partnership  is  an 
effective  strategy.  In  such  an  approach,  we  are  forced 
to  appreciate  the  value  of  belonging:  the  need  for  all 
peoples  of  the  world  to  be  embraced  within  the 
fraternity of nations and to be allowed to contribute to 
the common good. The Republic of China on Taiwan, a 
constructive partner to a range of countries around the 
world  for  so  long,  has  a  great  deal  to  contribute  to 
specialized  agencies  and  programmes  of  the  United 
Nations,  such  as 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the  International 
Civil Aviation Organization, given that climate change 
and aviation safety affect its own development, as well 
as the well-being of all mankind. 
A/64/PV.9

The  issue  of  security  continues  to  be  prominent 
on  the  international  agenda,  and  the  global  anti-crime 
campaign  intensifies,  as  concern  heightens  in  the  face 
of emerging threats to our citizens and to society. This 
development is the result of a new wave of crime and 
violence, especially among the youth population. In the 
hemisphere, there is increased focus on human security 
in relation to the transnational nature of the categories 
of  crime  —  especially  illicit  trafficking  in  drugs  and 
firearms  —  that  are  linked  to  anti-social  behaviour, 
particularly among our youth.  

An emerging trend in the global analysis of crime 
points  to  a  new  variable:  young  people  as  victims  of 
crime.  Studies  show  that,  in  increasing  numbers,  the 
victims and perpetrators of crime  are young men. The 
reality of coexisting in a global village, the prevalence 
and sophistication of modern technology, the enhanced 
communication  infrastructure  and  the  free  movement 
of  capital  and  people  have  given 
rise 
to  an 
unprecedented escalation in crime and violence. 

Youth  alienation,  youth  rage  and  youth  brutality 
are  troubling  global  phenomena  in  urgent  need  of 
global  analysis  and  action.  And  so,  this  moment 
demands that this body, with its unique capacities and 
capabilities  and  as  part  of  its  quest  for  international 
societal  stability,  marshal  all  available  resources  to 
better  identify  the  underlying  causative  factors  and 
come to a clear agreement as to how, individually and 
collectively,  we can halt and reverse this destabilizing 
trajectory. 

public-policy 
challenge.  It  spans  several  areas,  including  public 
security,  governance,  development  and  public  health. 
The  human,  social  and  financial  costs  of  violence  are 
unacceptably  high.  In  addition  to  physical  injury  and 
death,  violence  has  a  serious  and  lifelong  impact  on 
mental 
including 
non-communicable  diseases  and  HIV/AIDS,  and 
damages 
to  unsafe 
communities. Ultimately, violence slows economic and 
social  development  in  those  countries  that  can  least 
afford  it.  However,  scientific  evidence  amassed  in 
recent years clearly demonstrates that violence and its 
consequences  can  be  successfully  prevented.  But,  at 
present, an integrated approach to violence prevention 
is lacking. 

An  attempt  to  define  a  regional  response  to  the 
problem  was  made  at  a  recent  two-day  regional 
a  multisectoral 
Violence 
physical 
leading 
health, 
and 
is 
the 
social 
fabric, 
09-52586 

27 
Within 
A/64/PV.9 

symposium, held on 22 and 23 June 2009 in Saint Kitts 
and  Nevis,  on  the  theme  “Confronting  the  challenges 
of  youth  crime  and  violence:  Defining  a  multisectoral 
response”. We  would  like  to  call  upon  Member  States 
to  join  us  today  in  submitting  a  draft  resolution  in 
support  of  an  integrated  approach  and  multisectoral 
response to violence prevention, which we would wish 
to place on the agenda of the sixty-fifth session of the 
General Assembly. 

My  Government  strongly  condemns  all  forms  of 
violence,  including  transnational  organized  crime  and 
terrorism. And while we commend the United Nations 
for  its  continued  assistance  to  Member  States  in  our 
crime-fighting efforts, we urge that it extend its support 
by  reopening,  in  the  spirit  of  developing  an  effective 
multilateral  approach,  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs and Crime regional office in the Caribbean. 

The  challenges  we  must  meet  are  vast.  The 
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  today  and  a 
world free of nuclear weapons tomorrow should be the 
goals of us all. 

the  Pan-Caribbean  Partnership,  we 
continue  to  develop  and  expand  regional  responses  to 
the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic.  The  problems  posed  by  the 
HIV/AIDS pandemic are a real and growing threat, not 
only in terms of loss of life and livelihood, but also to 
the  extent 
the  most 
productive  groups  in  our  society  and  demands  outlays 
of  capital 
to 
economic  and  social  development.  The  Caribbean 
Community,  through  the  Pan-Caribbean  Partnership, 
has  made  gains  in  tackling  the  medical  aspects  of  the 
disease. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


But we need to do much more to fight stigma and 
discrimination  and  to  increase  access  to  inexpensive 
antiretroviral  drugs  and  treatment  for  those  infected 
with  the  disease.  With  the  help  of  the  international 
community,  we  can  reconcile  the  objective  need  of 
pharmaceutical 
proper 
compensation  for  their  research,  development  and 
investment  without  prejudice  to  those  who  are  in 
urgent need of care and without politicizing the issue. 

We, too, are very concerned about the challenges 
that non-communicable chronic diseases pose to small 
countries  like  ours  and  to  mankind  in  general.  In  this 
regard, we join with the Prime Minister of Trinidad and 
that  would  otherwise  be  allocated 
the  disease  eliminates 
companies 
to 
receive 

special 
Tobago in calling on the United Nations to convene at 
the  earliest  opportunity  a 
summit  on 
non-communicable chronic disease. 

In  conclusion,  Mr.  President,  my  Government 
applauds  your  initiative  to  pursue  effective  responses 
to  global  crises  and  strengthen  multilateralism.  For 
Saint Kitts and Nevis, multilateralism is a sine qua non 
and  the  only  effective  approach  to  lasting  peace, 
effective  security  and  sustainable  development.  We 
have seen the fallout from unilateral action. Many of us 
have paid the price for the decisions and actions made 
in isolation by a few. 

I emphasize that it is the fundamental right of all 
humankind  to  choose  its  own  destiny.  At  the  same 
time, we have a collective duty to act responsibly and 
to work in the interest of the common good. That is the 
premise  of  multilateralism. That  is  the  promise  of  my 
Government, and, Mr. President, my delegation stands 
prepared and willing to support you in this cause. 

I  recall  that  it  was  Hubert  H.  Humphrey,  former 
Vice-President  of  the  United  States  of  America,  who 
felt it necessary to emphasize to individuals, like those 
of  us  in  this  Hall  today,  our  responsibility  to  ensure 
that  the  United  Nations  is  a  force  for  verifiable, 
constructive change in the world. In reminding us and 
those who will come after us of what is expected of us, 
he said:  

“The  heroes  of  the  world  community  are  not 
those  who  withdraw  when  difficulties  ensue,  not 
those  who  can  envision  neither  the  prospect  of 
success  nor  the  consequence  of  failure  —  but 
those  who  stand  the  heat  of  battle,  the  fight  for 
world peace through the United Nations.” 
This we must do today and forever.  
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Minister  of  National 
Security  and  Immigration,  Minister  of  Sustainable 
Development  and  Minister  of  Tourism,  Sports  and 
Culture  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

The Honourable Denzil Douglas, Prime Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Minister  of 
National  Security  and  Immigration,  Minister  of 
Sustainable  Development  and  Minister  of 
Tourism,  Sports  and  Culture  of  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis, was escorted from the rostrum. 
that 
28 

09-52586 




  Address by The Right Honourable Pakalitha 
Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister and Minister 
for Defence and Public Service of the Kingdom 
of Lesotho 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho. 

The  Right  Honourable  Pakalitha  Bethuel 
Mosisili,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for 
Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 
I  have  great  pleasure 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel 
Mosisili, Prime Minister and Minister for Defence and 
Public Service of the Kingdom of Lesotho, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Mosisili (Lesotho): Mr. President, the theme 

that  you  have  chosen  for  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  —  “Effective  responses  to  global  crises: 
strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations  for 
international  peace,  security  and 
development” — is both timely and relevant.  

We  meet  against  the  backdrop  of  some  of  the 
most  serious  challenges  mankind  has  confronted  in  a 
long  time.  The  financial  and  economic  crisis,  climate 
change  and  issues  of  international  peace  and  security 
are but some of these challenges. No other organization 
is  better  placed  than  the  United  Nations  to  find 
solutions to them. 
June,  your  predecessor,  Mr.  President, 

the  World 
convened  a  high-level  Conference  on 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis.  We  all  had 
the 
opportunity  then  to  identify  and  agree  on  the  causes 
and  effects  of  and  solutions  to  this  crisis.  I  shall  not 
revisit  the  deliberations  of  that  Conference.  Suffice  it 
to  say  that  it  seems  obvious  that  Governments  can  no 
longer  abdicate  their  responsibility  of  oversight  and 
regulation  of  the  global  financial  systems  to  financial 
institutions. 

The  least  developed  and  developing  countries 
have been the hardest hit by the financial crisis. Their 
exports  have  been  severely  reduced  and  their  capital 
flows  choked.  The  impact  of  the  crisis  is  felt  in  all 
aspects of life, be it in the increase in unemployment, 
illiteracy  or  the  incidence  of  HIV-  and  AIDS-related 
In 
A/64/PV.9
to  complete 
deaths  due  to  the  unavailability  or  unaffordability  of 
drugs. 

Lesotho, as a small economy, is highly vulnerable 
to  external  shocks  and  is  therefore  one  of  those 
adversely  affected  by  the  financial  crisis.  Demand  for 
textile  exports  has  dropped  dramatically,  resulting  in 
unprecedented  loss  of  livelihoods  and  erosion  of  the 
gains we had made in eradicating poverty. 

However, all is not lost. I note in this regard the 
efforts  of  the  Group  of  Eight,  which  has  pledged  a 
stimulus  package  of  $1.1  trillion,  the  major  part  of 
which will be made available to developing countries. 
My concern is that this initiative seems to have stalled 
and  it  is  unclear  how  the  funds  will  be  distributed.  It 
will be fair only if the disbursement is informed by the 
needs of individual countries, and I hasten to add that 
the  disbursement  should  be  free  of  quotas  and 
conditions.  While  I  remain  optimistic  that  the  pledge 
will see the light of day, I appeal for the fulfilment of 
commitments  that  have  been  made  regarding  overseas 
development  aid.  I  further  appeal  for  the  requisite 
political  will 
the  Doha  Round  of 
negotiations as a matter of urgency. These negotiations 
are  the  anchor  of  our  hope  for  the  dawn  of  a  fair  and 
equitable international trade regime. 

on 
convening  the  just-ended  Summit  on Climate  Change, 
at  which  we  were  unanimous  in  our  belief  that  the 
challenges  posed  by  climate  change  are  beyond  the 
capacity  of  any  individual  country  to  deal  with  alone. 
Response to the impact of climate change must be a top 
priority  for the whole of mankind, for at stake here is 
the  preservation  of  the  very  elements  responsible  for 
the sustenance of human life on our planet. 
the  Copenhagen 

Conference  will  usher  in  a  new  global  agreement  that 
will  result 
the  reduction  of  greenhouse  gas 
emissions. We must never forget that at the forefront of 
those  most  affected  by  the  impact  of  climate  change 
are  the  poor  and  the  innocent.  Our  call  for  the 
industrialized  nations  to  help  improve  developing 
countries’  capacity  for  mitigation  and  adaptation  is 
therefore not misplaced. Those who are responsible for 
causing  pollution  of 
the 
responsibility to make cuts in harmful emissions and to 
help  those  adversely  affected.  We  acknowledge  that 
climate change may not be our collective fault, but it is 
surely our collective responsibility. 
the  environment  have 
Secretary-General 
congratulate 
that 
Lesotho 
is  hopeful 
I 
the 
in 
09-52586 

29 
the 
thereby 
A/64/PV.9 


Another  challenge  confronting  us  is  that  of 
international  peace  and  security.  This  challenge  is  a 
matter  of  utmost  interest  to  my  delegation,  for  it 
reminds  Governments  of  their  obligation  to  protect 
their peoples from mass atrocities, including genocide, 
ethnic  cleansing,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity.  I  am  referring  here  to  the  principle  of  the 
responsibility to protect. 

The Rwanda genocide is still fresh in our minds. 
Though the wounds may have healed, the scars remain 
pronounced  and  serve  as  a  painful  reminder  of  man’s 
inhumanity to man. They also serve as a sad reminder 
of how the international community can  fail  a people. 
Beyond Rwanda, and I dare say even post-Rwanda, we 
have  witnessed  mass  atrocities  committed  with 
impunity  against  the  most  innocent  and  vulnerable 
populations. And sadly, the Security Council, in whose 
purview  the  power  to  act  is  centralized,  has  failed  to 
act, 
incapacitating 
international 
community’s ability to act also. 

In our resolve never to fail any population again, 
we adopted the principle of the responsibility to protect 
at  our  2005  World  Summit.  This  principle  seeks  to 
restore  the  confidence  of  populations  in  the  United 
Nations  system.  In  July,  the  General Assembly  held  a 
debate 
on 
implementing  the  responsibility  to  protect  (A/63/677). 
Lesotho  welcomes  that  balanced  report,  especially  the 
proposed practical measures for its implementation. We 
view the report as a good basis for negotiations in the 
General Assembly on how to implement the principle. 
It is true that the scope of the principle is narrow and 
limited  to  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and 
crimes  against  humanity. 
I  would  nonetheless 
discourage any reopening of the debates on paragraphs 
138 and 139 of the World Summit Outcome Document 
(resolution 60/1). 
I  find  a  linkage  between  this  principle  and  other 

critical 
feature  on  our 
international  agenda.  Among  these  are  reform  of  the 
United  Nations,  especially 
the  Security  Council, 
disarmament  and  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
Needless  to  say,  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to 
protect  is  meaningful  only  if  it  is  grounded 
in 
multilateralism 
the 
international  community.  The  forums  through  which 
the  responsibility  to  protect  may  be  achievable  is  the 
Security  Council  and,  beyond 
the  General 
Assembly.  Unfortunately,  the  Council,  as  presently 
the  Secretary-General’s 
that  continue 
collective 
action 
report 
issues 
that, 
and 
on 
to 
by 

the  Council 
the  United  Nations. 
intents  and  purposes, 
composed,  is  not  capable  of  exercising  effective 
leadership in this area. 

The  Security  Council  reflects  the  situation  that 
obtained 64 years ago. It is not a true reflection of the 
current  membership  of 
Its 
composition  is  therefore  irrelevant  and  undemocratic. 
For  all 
lacks 
legitimacy.  For  as  long  as  it  remains  undemocratic,  it 
will continue to fail the vulnerable and defenceless. It 
will continue to use double standards and remain a tool 
of  the  foreign  policies  of  certain  States.  The  desired 
multilateral  path  will  continue  to  give  way  to  the 
unilateral one. It is imperative, therefore, to hasten the 
United Nations reform process. The intergovernmental 
negotiations  that  were  held  during  the  sixty-third 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  have  advanced  the 
reform  process  a  step  or  two.  However,  more  still 
needs to be done and rather urgently. 

The  United  Nations  was  formed  on  the  ashes  of 
the two World Wars. Its main purpose  was and  still  is 
to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of 
war,  which  twice  in  our  lifetime  has  brought  untold 
misery to mankind. But the continuing possession and 
development of nuclear weapons cast doubt on whether 
this  objective  can  indeed  be  realized. At  a  time  when 
the  world  is  hungering  for  nuclear  disarmament,  why 
should  some  countries  be  testing,  modernizing  and 
producing new generations of nuclear weapons? 

international 
community  to  strive  for  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons.  We  remain  disappointed  in  those  countries 
that are engaged in the testing of nuclear weapons. We 
must,  however,  reiterate  the  right  of  every  country  to 
the  development  and  use  of  nuclear  technology  for 
peaceful  purposes.  The  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
technology can be beneficial to all mankind. 
We  are  delighted  that  the  third  session  of  the 

Preparatory  Committee 
the  2010  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has adopted the 
agenda for the 2010 Review Conference. This historic 
achievement  strengthens  our  optimism 
that  our 
commitment  to  the  disarmament  process  will  gain 
renewed momentum and enthusiasm. 

In 1998, the Statute establishing the International 
Criminal  Court  was  adopted  in  Rome.  The  Court  is, 
inter alia, an answer to war crimes and crimes against 
the 
humanity.  It  safeguards 
is  our  obligation  as 
the  rule  of 
law 
the 
for 
in 
It 
30 

09-52586 
A/64/PV.9
that 
We  also  hope 
decolonization  and  sovereignty  of  nations.  Both  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  have 
recognized the inalienable rights of the Saharan people 
to  self-determination  and  independence.  We  urge  the 
Saharan  Arab  Democratic  Republic  and  the  Kingdom 
of  Morocco  to  continue  with  their  negotiations  on  an 
equal 
footing  and  without  any  conditions.  The 
aspirations of the Saharan people to self-determination 
must take paramount priority in these negotiations. 

the  positive  signals  of 
engagement  between  the  Republic  of  Cuba  and  the 
United  States  of  America  will  bring  an  end  to  the 
unfortunate  financial  and  economic  embargo  imposed 
on  the  Republic  of  Cuba.  Lesotho  shall  continue  to 
support the call for the lifting of the economic embargo 
against the people of Cuba as a matter of principle and 
of urgency. 

I wish to conclude by saying that no obstacle can 
beat the might of the United Nations. We must continue 
to pursue and indeed to cherish the purposes that have 
brought  us  together.  The  responsibility  to  secure  the 
future of mankind relies heavily on our ability to use a 
collective  approach  to  resolving  the  challenges  of  the 
world.  We  cannot  ignore  our  responsibility  to  build  a 
better  and  more  united  world, 
future 
generations. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Lesotho  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

The  Right  Honourable  Pakalitha  Bethuel 
Mosisili,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for 
Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
for 
the 
it  erodes 


international  arena  and  is  therefore  well  placed  to 
complement the implementation of the principle of the 
responsibility  to  protect.  Consequently,  we  should,  as 
the  international  community,  unconditionally  extend 
our support to the Court. We must preserve its integrity 
and independence. There should be no State or organ of 
the  United  Nations  that  interferes  with  the  Court’s 
processes. Most importantly, the Court must uphold the 
highest standards of impartiality, integrity and fairness. 
Lesotho supports the principle of universal jurisdiction. 
However,  we  reject  selective  application  of  that  noble 
principle  because 
its  acceptability  and 
credibility. 

During  the  past  year,  we  witnessed  a  resurgence 
of  piracy  off  the  coast  of  Somalia.  This  development 
has  had  a  negative  impact  on  maritime  security  and 
safety. There is a need for the international community 
to  adopt  a  comprehensive  approach  to  tackling  the 
phenomenon  of  piracy  off  the  coast  of  Somalia  and 
beyond. In this regard, Lesotho joins the voices of the 
heads of State and Government of the African Union in 
calling for the convening of an international conference 
to  discuss  the  adoption  of  an  international  convention 
on the phenomenon of maritime piracy and to eradicate 
its underlying causes. 

I would be remiss not to refer to the plight of the 
peoples  of  the  State  of  Palestine,  the  Saharan  Arab 
Democratic Republic and the Republic of Cuba. These 
are  peoples  who  continue 
to  experience  untold 
suffering, ranging from war to political, economic and 
social  injustices.  We  call  on  Israel  to  cease  all 
settlement  activities,  including  the  so-called  natural 
growth  in  the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem.  By  the 
same  token,  we  call  on  both  sides  to  cease  all  acts  of 
hostility  and  attacks.  In  particular,  Palestine  must  halt 
the  indiscriminate  launching  of  rockets  on  Israeli 
civilians,  while  Israel  must  desist  from  the  use  of 
disproportionate force against Palestinian civilians.  

We welcome the intensified efforts of the Quartet, 
the  Arab  League  and  other  members  involved  in 
brokering peace in the Middle East. We are mindful of 
the  fact  that  the  quest  for  peace  in  the  Middle  East 
should be the responsibility of all of us. We express our 
solidarity  with  the  people  of  Palestine.  At  the  same 
time,  we  reiterate  the  inviolability  and,  indeed,  the 
right to exist of the State of Israel. 

The  struggle  of  the  Saharan  people  is  a  struggle 
for  self-determination  based  on  the  principles  of 



  Address by The Right Honourable Madhav 
Kumar Nepal, Prime Minister of the Federal 
Democratic Republic of Nepal 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
the  Federal 
the  Prime  Minister  of 

address  by 
Democratic Republic of Nepal. 

The  Right  Honourable  Madhav  Kumar  Nepal, 
Prime  Minister  of 
the  Federal  Democratic 
Republic of Nepal, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 
in 

welcoming His Excellency Mr. Madhav Kumar Nepal, 
I  have  great  pleasure 
09-52586 

31 

for 
I 
thank 
the 
to  address 
inviting  him 
Secretary-General 
A/64/PV.9 

Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of 
Nepal,  and 
the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Nepal  (Nepal):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

extending  my  warm  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on 
your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the Assembly  at  its 
current  session.  As  an  incumbent  Vice-President,  I 
assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  full  cooperation  in  the 
discharge  of  your  responsibilities.  I  also  take  this 
opportunity  to  place  on  record  our  appreciation  for 
Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, the outgoing President, 
for  his  exemplary  leadership  during  the  sixty-third 
session.  

his 
comprehensive report on the work of the Organization 
(A/64/1).  We  appreciate  his  efficient  stewardship  on 
various issues of critical global significance and on the 
reform  of  the  United  Nations.  He  also  deserves  our 
thanks  for  supporting  the  nationally  driven  peace 
process of Nepal. 

I  bring  greetings  and  good  wishes  from  the 
people  and  Government  of  Nepal,  a  country  that 
expresses unswerving commitment to the ideals of the 
United Nations. We look to the Organization as a true 
advocate and upholder of the universal values of peace, 
justice,  equality,  freedom  and  human  dignity.  As  was 
so  aptly  recognized  in  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2),  the  United  Nations  is  indeed  the 
indispensable  common  house  of  the  entire  human 
family. A more efficient and stronger United Nations is 
obviously in the interest of us all. 
Sovereign  equality,  territorial  integrity,  political 

independence,  non-interference  and 
the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes  have  become  the 
bedrock  of  inter-State  relations.  These  principles, 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter more than six 
decades  ago, 
ideals  of 
contemporary  international  relations.  They  have  stood 
the  test  of  time  and  proved  to  be  timeless  and 
universal.  They  provide  the  basis  for  the  smooth  and 
harmonious  conduct  of  international  relations  among 
and 
States 
sovereign, 
interconnected.  As  we  march 
increasing 
interdependence  through  globalization,  these  well-
established  principles  and  norms  of 
inter-State 
relations assume even greater relevance for us. 
History  stands  testimony  to  the  fact  that  human 

civilization  has  no  linear  progression.  We  live  in 
independent 
towards 
the  highest 
represent 
that 
are 
It 
is  only  with  principled 
changing times. Today, the nature, speed and scope of 
such  changes  are  astounding.  New  opportunities  and 
unforeseen  challenges  always  await  us  along  our  way 
to  peace,  progress  and  prosperity.  We  often  find 
ourselves  at  the  crossroads  of  stability  and  peace,  on 
the  one  hand,  and  conflict  and  domination,  on  the 
other. 
stands  and 
determination  that  we  have  moved  towards  peace  and 
development  throughout  history.  Whenever  we  have 
digressed from these principles, perils and catastrophes 
have visited us. International solidarity and a true spirit 
of  global  partnership  are  therefore  indispensable,  and 
multilateralism  offers  the  best  means  and  opportunity 
to address the global problems of our times. 

Nepal is currently in the midst of a great political 
transition.  With  the  signing  of  the  Comprehensive 
Peace  Accord  in  November  2006,  our  decade-long 
armed  conflict  ended  and  a  nationally  driven  peace 
process is now in progress. The Constituent Assembly, 
consisting  of  601  members  elected  through  a  mixed-
proportional 
system,  has  been  writing  a  new, 
democratic and republican constitution. It is one of the 
most inclusive and representative elected bodies in the 
history  of  Nepal. Almost  one  third  of  the  Constituent 
Assembly  members  are  women,  and  a  fair  number 
represent 
the  country’s  various  ethnic  minorities. 
Thematic  committees  on  various  aspects  of  the  new 
constitution  have  been  preparing 
their  respective 
reports following a process of broad consultations with 
the Nepali people. We are determined to take the peace 
process  to  a  positive  and  meaningful  conclusion,  as 
envisaged  in  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Accord,  by 
building consensus among the political parties through 
dialogue and consultations. 

and 
multireligious country. As we have opted for a Federal 
Democratic  Republic,  we  are  now  restructuring  the 
State by organizing it into federal units, as desired by 
the  people  of  Nepal.  We  believe  democracy  is  more 
meaningful when it is closer to the people. We believe 
that  reconfiguring  the  State  into  federal  units  is  one 
such  significant  step  towards  deepening  the  roots  of 
democracy in our country. 
My  Government  has  four  major  tasks  at  hand: 

taking the peace process to its positive and meaningful 
conclusion,  writing  a  new  democratic  constitution 
through the Constituent Assembly within the stipulated 
time  frame,  speeding  up  the  country’s  economic 
development to lift it up from poverty, and meeting the 
a  multi-ethnic,  multilingual 
We 
are 
32 

09-52586 
in  order 
to 


rising  expectations  of  our  people  in  a  new  democratic 
environment.  We  have  been  doing  our  best 
to 
accomplish these tasks through dialogue, consultations 
and  consensus  among  the  country’s  major  political 
parties. 

Looking  at  the  overall  progress  we  have  made 
over the past three years, there is reason to be forward-
looking  and  optimistic  about  Nepal’s  peace  process. 
We  have  come  a  long  way  in  terms  of  our  transition 
from  the  decade-long  violent  conflict.  As  in  every 
post-conflict situation, there have been ups and downs 
along the way. Managing the legacy of the violent past 
with  justice  and  reconciliation  and  mainstreaming  all 
the  forces  involved  into  a  democratic  order  are  the 
major challenges before us. 

We are  for democratic order, peace and  stability. 
There is no place either for extremism or for permanent 
instability in  Nepal. The Government is  doing its best 
to  ensure  moderation 
institutionalize 
democratic  rules  and  ideals  and  to  leave  conflict 
permanently behind. I am sure that there is a common 
understanding  on  this  issue  within  the  country  and 
among our friends in the international community. The 
desire to avoid a relapse into conflict  and to fulfil the 
hopes  and  aspirations  of  the  people  has  constantly 
prodded us to move  forward with dialogue,  consensus 
and unity of purpose. We know that we still have far to 
go, and we are determined to reach our destination — a 
peaceful, prosperous and stable Nepal. 

In  achieving  that,  we  know  we  must  be  alert  to 
the  desire  of  our  people  for  both  freedom  and 
development.  Freedom  rings  hollow  when  there  is  no 
development.  Development  loses  its  soul  if  it  is  not 
accompanied  by  freedom.  These  are  our  twin  goals, 
and  my  Government  is  committed  to  pursuing  them 
with clear vision and commitment. 
I  am  confident  that  we  will  have  the  continuous 

support 
international 
community  in  achieving  these  goals.  Needless  to  say, 
any  failure  to  address  the  rising  expectations  of  our 
people and to provide peace dividends to those affected 
by  the  conflict  at  the  grass-roots  level,  may  have 
unintended consequences that challenge the peace  and 
democratization  processes  in  Nepal  and  elsewhere. 
Therefore,  to  promote  the  positive  conclusion  of  the 
peace  process  and  to  institutionalize  our  hard-won 
democracy,  the  Nepali  people  deserve  support  for 
rehabilitation, compensation and reconstruction arising 
cooperation 
and 
of 
the 
A/64/PV.9
transitional 
from  the  damage  that  occurred  during  the  conflict.  I 
request  special  support  from  development  partners  in 
addressing our post-conflict development challenges. 

We  are  fully  committed  to  the  protection  and 
promotion  of  human  rights.  Since  the  end  of  the 
decade-long  armed  conflict  and  the  beginning  of  the 
peace process in 2006, the human rights situation in the 
country has improved significantly. The Government is 
determined  to  establish  a  truth  and  reconciliation 
commission and a disappearance commission as part of 
ensuring 
justice  and  restoring  social 
harmony  and  peace.  We  already  have  our  National 
Human  Rights  Commission,  which  is  a  constitutional 
body with full autonomy in its area of work. 

We  appreciate  the  continued  support  of  the 
United  Nations  to  Nepal’s  ongoing  peace  process 
through  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Nepal.  We  are 
determined to bring the peace process to a positive and 
meaningful  conclusion  as  early  as  possible.  As  we 
ourselves are now undergoing a post-conflict situation, 
we  understand  the  importance  of  peacebuilding  in 
post-conflict societies. Nepal is pleased to contribute to 
the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  as  a  new 
member  of  its  Organizational  Committee  starting  this 
year.  We  understand  that  a  review  of  the  activities  of 
the Commission is slated for 2010. That would provide 
an  opportunity  to  assess  its  activities  and  also  to 
explore  ways  to  make  peacebuilding  a  more  effective 
and innovative mechanism. 

Whether  it  concerns  issues  of  peace,  conflict, 
terrorism,  climate  change,  the  financial  crisis,  food 
security, development challenges or other vulnerabilities, 
we  are  so  interconnected  that  no  country  can  escape 
their impacts. The global village has become a palpable 
reality  before  us.  Global  problems  thus  require  global 
solutions.  In  that  context,  I  welcome  the  selection  of 
the 
to  global  crises: 
strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations  for 
international  peace,  security  and 
development” for this year’s general debate. 

The  economic  and  financial  crisis  that  swept  the 
world within a relatively short span of time is the most 
recent  reminder  of  the  vulnerability  inherent  in  the 
process of globalization and its global implications. If 
we  look  around,  we  will  see  that  climate  change  is 
another  issue  staring  at  us.  Regional  conflicts  are  yet 
another global issue of concern to us all. 
theme  “Effective  responses 
09-52586 

33 
The 

the 
in 
the  same 
time, 
least  developed  countries 
the  fight  against  poverty 
the  outcome  document  of 
A/64/PV.9 


(LDCs)  and 
landlocked developing countries, among others, are the 
most  vulnerable  with  regard  to  all  those  issues.  Their 
special  needs  call  for  more  specific  and  an  enhanced 
level of international support in terms of their concerns 
and  challenges.  At 
the  outcome 
document  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
World Financial and Economic Crisis and its Impact on 
Development  (resolution  63/303,  annex),  held  here  in 
New York in June this year, should be implemented in 
all earnestness. We also stress the early implementation 
of 
International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  (resolution 
63/239, annex), held in Doha last year. 

While  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis 
wreaked havoc on the already fragile economic health 
of  the  least  developed  countries,  that  unanticipated 
shock  has  also  brought  into  sharper  relief  the  urgent 
need for an enhanced level of understanding, resources 
and  a  policy  space  for  the  developing  countries  to 
mitigate its impact and to avoid its recurrence. 
The global crises have posed a serious challenge 

to 
the  LDCs.  The 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  can  still  be 
achieved if all of us in the international community act 
together,  and  act  urgently.  The  proposed  review  of 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  should 
provide  us  a  renewed  opportunity  to  reinvigorate  our 
development agenda. We urge the developed countries 
not to let the economic and financial crisis become an 
excuse  for  curtailing  their  aid  commitments  with 
regard  to  the  MDGs  and  other  internationally  agreed 
development agendas. 

Indeed, as recognized at the Group of 20 Summit 
in  London  earlier  this  year  and  as  so  consistently 
emphasized  by  our  Secretary-General,  the  people  of 
developing  countries,  especially  the  LDCs,  need  their 
own  international  financial  rescue  package  to  ensure 
that  we  do  not  backtrack  on  programmes  towards 
achievement of the MDGs. 

Nepal  is  a  country  with  young  mountains  and  a 
fragile  ecosystem.  Global  warming,  one  of  the  most 
ruthless 
to 
unprecedented  melting  of  the  Himalayan  snow.  Nepal 
experienced  an  annual 
increase  of 
0.06  Celsius  degrees  between  1977  and  2000.  With 
that, the threat of glacial lake outbursts has increased. 
Flash  floods  have  become  more  frequent  and  more 
signs  of  climate  change,  has 
led 
temperature 
the 
jeopardize 
focusing  on 
destructive.  Delayed  and 
insufficient  rainfall  has 
affected  crop  production.  The  poorest  of  the  poor 
farmers have suffered the worst from all those effects. 
Agriculture,  health,  livelihoods  and  infrastructure  are 
all being affected by them. 
Nepal  recently  hosted  a  high-level  regional 

conference  on  climate  change 
the 
Himalayan region in order to highlight the seriousness 
of  the  problem  of  global  warming  and  its  impacts  on 
the Himalayan range. The unprecedented snow melt in 
the  Himalayas  could 
lives  and 
livelihoods of over 700 million people downstream and 
in  the  coastal  regions.  The  conference  produced  a 
10-point  understanding  that  emphasizes,  among  other 
factors,  the  need  to  put  into  practice  the  principles  of 
common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  and  the 
respective  capabilities  and  historical  responsibility  of 
the  developed  countries,  as  envisaged  in  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, as 
well  as  a  financing  mechanism  on  adaptation  and 
transfer of technologies to sufficiently meet the urgent 
and  immediate  financial  needs  of  the  region  in  a 
predictable, easy and direct manner. 

Concrete actions that match the level of the threat 
are needed. The other day, we had a fruitful discussion 
at  the  Summit  on  Climate  Change,  convened  by  the 
Secretary-General. While I thank the Secretary-General 
for that important initiative, I urge all to continue that 
spirit  of  positive  thinking  and  to  work  together  to 
converge  all  our  efforts  to  find  a  just  and  effective 
solution  to  the  ever-increasing  problem  of  climate 
change. 

The  Copenhagen  Climate  Change  Conference 
should  be  able  to  seal  the  deal  and  work  out  a  new 
global  compact  to  address  the  problem  of  climate 
change  beyond  2012  in  keeping  with  the  principle  of 
responsibilities,  with 
common  but  differentiated 
special  consideration  given 
to 
the  characteristics, 
vulnerabilities  and  weaknesses  of  the  least  developed 
and other developing countries. 

The  LDCs  have  particular  vulnerabilities 
associated  with  their  structural  constraints,  systemic 
deficiencies and historical socio-economic factors. The 
bottom  half  billion  people  face  the  daunting  task  of 
improving  their  living  standards  despite  persistent 
efforts  and  commitment.  Their  plight 
is  further 
exacerbated  by  the  global  problems  that  affect  them 
disproportionately  because  they  do  not  have  cushions 
34 

09-52586 
for 


or alternatives. Therefore, their plight deserves special 
consideration by the international community. 

As  we  prepare  for  the  fourth  United  Nations 
Conference on the Least Developed Countries, we need 
to  seriously  consider  the  implementation  status  of  the 
Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed 
Countries for the Decade 2001-2010, and endeavour to 
tackle  all  existing  obstacles  in  our  way  through  a 
committed  and  collaborative  partnership.  We  would 
also emphasize the need for full implementation of the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
landlocked 
developing countries. 

Nuclear  non-proliferation,  nuclear  disarmament 
and  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  are  matters  of 
global  concern.  We  welcome  Security  Council 
resolution 1887 (2009), adopted on 24 September 2009, 
which  seeks  to  contain  proliferation,  ban  nuclear  tests 
and bring about further cuts in nuclear weapons.  
Disarmament  being  a  comprehensive  issue,  we 

are  of  the  view  that  promoting  regional  discourse  on 
disarmament would help build confidence and prepare 
the  groundwork  necessary  for  realizing  our  eventual 
goal  of  general  and  complete  disarmament.  In  this 
context,  we  see  an  important  role  for  the  United 
Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  which  has  been  operating  from 
Kathmandu since last year. We urge Member States to 
be  generous  in  extending  financial  support  to  the 
Centre for conducting its programmes and activities. 
In spite of sustained and concerted efforts on the 

terrorism 
part  of 
continues to pose a serious threat to international peace 
and security. Nepal strongly condemns terrorism in all 
its  forms  and  calls  for  early  conclusion  of  a 
comprehensive  convention  against 
terrorism.  We 
reiterate  our  commitment  to  combating  international 
terrorism, including through the implementation of the 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  (see  resolution 
60/288)  adopted  on  8  September  2006  and  of  various 
Security Council resolutions, such as resolutions 1373 
(2001) and 1540 (2004). 

After more than 60 years, there is no denying that 
the  United  Nations  needs  institutional  reform  and 
reinvigoration  to  maintain  continued  relevance  and 
effectiveness.  In 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  started  by  the  General 
Assembly can lead to significant reform of the United 
Nations  system  —  including  the  Security  Council,  by 
international  community, 
this  context,  we  hope 
that 
the 
A/64/PV.9
adding new members in a fair and equitable manner in 
such  a  way  as  to  reflect  the  current  realities  of  the 
contemporary world. 

In  an  increasingly  globalized  and  interconnected 
world,  the  issue  of  migrant  workers  has  become 
prominent. Remittances have become one of the major 
sources  of  earned  foreign  currency  for  almost  all  the 
least  developed  and  other  developing  countries.  We 
therefore  urge  the  international  community  to  adopt  a 
comprehensive approach and policy towards migration, 
including regarding protection of the rights of migrant 
workers in the face of the current economic crisis. 

We  are  concerned  about  the  continued  deadlock 
in  the World Trade  Organization’s  Doha  Development 
Agenda  negotiations,  as  well  as  about  the  new  waves 
of protectionism that are built into the inward-looking 
stimulus  packages  being  adopted  to  deal  with  the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis.  Given 
the 
exceptional  vulnerabilities  of  the  least  developed  and 
landlocked  developing  countries,  developed  countries, 
in  accordance  with 
international  compacts  and 
commitments  such  as  the  2002  Monterrey  Consensus, 
should  immediately  make  available  to  them  duty-free 
entry  for  their  exports,  debt-relief  packages  and  other 
capacity-building  measures.  Such  resources  are  very 
important to the fight against poverty, hunger, illiteracy 
and  disease  in  all  the  least  developed  countries, 
particularly those affected by conflict, which encounter 
huge development challenges in post-conflict recovery. 

While  peacekeeping  remains  one  of  the  core 
activities  of  the  United  Nations,  its  multidimensional 
nature  has  posed  new  managerial  and 
logistical 
challenges  in  recent  years.  Peacekeeping  evolved  out 
of necessity, and it has to be adapted to match the new 
and 
today’s 
increasingly  complex  peacekeeping  missions.  In  this 
context, we appreciate the Secretariat’s “New Horizon” 
non-paper,  aimed  at  engaging  and  ensuring  broader 
support  from  Member  States  and  troop-contributing 
countries.  Let  me  recall  here  that  Nepal  has  been  one 
of  the  longest-standing  continuing  partners  in  United 
Nations peacekeeping missions. Today, we are the fifth 
largest troop-contributing country. Our commitment to 
international  peace  remains  as  strong  as  ever,  and  our 
support  for  the  United  Nations  in  its  peacekeeping 
activities will continue unabated. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Nepal’s 
abiding  faith  in  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
challenges 
emerging 
inherent 
in 
09-52586 

35 

A/64/PV.9 

United  Nations  Charter.  We  stress 
the  need  for 
introducing  timely  reforms  in  the  United  Nations  and 
its  operational  mechanisms,  in  order  to  enhance  the 
Organization’s role and relevance in the emerging new 
global  order  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Nepal  is 
always willing to contribute in whatever ways it can to 
the  attainment  of  the  noble  objectives  of  international 
peace, security, development and prosperity for all. 

As a least developed country, engaged in a peace 
process  and  in  rebuilding  post-conflict,  Nepal  has 
many  challenges  to  face.  My  Government  is  making 
every  effort  to  meet  these  challenges  and  appreciates 
the  support  extended  by  the  United  Nations.  At  the 
same time, we would like the international community 
to  be  more  generous  in  assisting  us  in  our  national 
endeavour  to  institutionalize  peace  and  democracy, 
rebuild  our  infrastructure  and  enhance  our  economic 
growth. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Nepal 
the 
statement he has just made. 

The  Right  Honourable  Madhav  Kumar  Nepal, 
the  Federal  Democratic 
Prime  Minister  of 
Republic  of  Nepal,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
from 
for 



  Address by The Honourable Feleti Vaka’uta 
Sevele, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Tonga 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga. 

The  Honourable  Feleti  Vaka’uta  Sevele,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of Tonga,  was  escorted 
to the rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Feleti Vaka’uta Sevele, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Tonga, and inviting 
him to address the Assembly. 
Mr.  Sevele  (Tonga):  Like  previous  speakers,  I 

offer  you,  Sir,  my  warmest  congratulations  on  your 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly for 
this session. I also wish to pay tribute to the Secretary-
General  for  his  excellent  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization 
continuing 
leadership during these unprecedented and challenging 
the  Secretary-General’s 
times.  A 
I  have  great  pleasure 
testament 
for  his 
(A/64/1) 
and 
to 
leadership  has  been  his  persistent  efforts  to  convene 
the Summit on Climate Change held earlier this week. 
For those of us who are also members of the Alliance 
of  Small  Island  States,  our  own  Summit,  held 
immediately  beforehand,  was  a  timely  exercise  in 
focusing on the critical issues at stake in the run-up to 
the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference to be held 
in December. 

Climate change has taken its rightful place at the 
forefront of many of the statements we have heard this 
week. In the case of small island developing States like 
ours, we all need to reach beyond our narrow national 
interests  and  embrace  our  collective  responsibility  to 
one  another  as  nation  States  and  to  those  most 
vulnerable and least able to address the adverse effects 
of  climate  change.  At  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  the 
issue of climate change and the type of collective effort 
it requires has been at the forefront of the meetings of 
Pacific  leaders,  most  recently  in  Cairns  under  the 
chairmanship  of  Prime  Minister  Kevin  Rudd  of 
Australia. Such efforts resulted, earlier this year, in the 
General  Assembly’s  adoption  by  consensus  of 
resolution  63/281,  on  climate  change  and  its  security 
implications. 

It has been heartening to hear in this Hall words 
of  action  —  a  determination  to  move  away  from  the 
rhetoric  of  climate  change  to  the  reality  of  action: 
action  to  mitigate  the  effects  of  climate  change  and 
action  to  stop  the  waste  of  our  energy  resources.  But 
the  words  of  Presidents  and  Prime  Ministers  are  not 
enough.  They  must  be  matched  by  action.  Our 
determination  and  our  understanding  of  the  truth  of 
climate  change  must  be  propelled  by  honest  efforts  to 
mitigate  and  change  the  wasteful  energy  habits  of  a 
lifetime into the productive energy habits of the future. 

The  lessons  of  the  past  year  have  reinforced  our 
support  for  reform  of 
international  financial 
institutions.  In  particular,  we  look  forward  to  the 
outcome of the just-concluded meeting of the Group of 
20 in Pittsburgh as further crucial and concerted action 
following  the  measures  taken  in  Washington  and 
London. 

the  uncertain  global  economic  and 
financial  climate,  we  remain  committed  to  making 
further  progress 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  remain  a  core 
component  of  our  national  development  planning. 
Much  of  that  progress  has  been  reliant  on  our  own 
achieving 
Despite 
the 
in 
36 

09-52586 
as 
such 


domestic  efforts,  but  it  has  also  been  assisted  by  our 
development  partners.  In  that  regard,  we  support  the 
Secretary-General’s  convening  of  a  special  summit  on 
the  MDGs  in  2010  as  a  final  push  towards  2015. 
Further, the high-level review of the Mauritius Strategy 
for  the  Further  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action  for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
Island  Developing  States,  to  be  carried  out  the  same 
year,  offers  us,  as  small  island  developing  States,  a 
fresh  opportunity  to  take  stock  of  progress  and  areas 
for  improvement.  We  also  welcome  the  renewed 
interest  and  engagement  of  the  United  States  of 
America regarding the Pacific islands. 

Earlier  this  year,  my  country,  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga,  in  compliance  with  its  obligations  under  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
lodged a partial submission for the consideration of the 
Commission  on  the  Outer  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf.  This  was  a  significant  exercise  made  possible 
through  our  own  efforts,  with  the  technical  assistance 
of  organizations 
the  Commonwealth 
Secretariat.  As  we  are  an  island  nation,  the  living 
marine  resources  of  our  maritime  zones  and  the 
potential  of  non-living  ones  remain  critical  to  our 
future.  

We  continue  to  follow  the  meandering  course  of 
the discussions on reform of the Security Council. We 
maintain our support for such reform and hold the view 
that 
the 
permanent 
the  non-permanent  membership 
categories. 

Since  100  per  cent  of  our  power  generation  is 
fuelled by imported fossil fuels, our economic potential 
has been adversely affected by rising fuel prices, which 
has forced us to investigate feasible renewable sources 
of  energy.  We  thus  have  set  the  target  of  achieving 
50  per  cent  of  our  electricity  generation  utilizing 
renewable energy sources by the year 2012. 

We have reviewed donor funding provided by our 
development partners to see how best we could achieve 
that  ambitious  goal  and  also  fulfil  our  wish  to  reduce 
greenhouse  gas  emissions.  At  the  conclusion  of  the 
regional  Pacific  Energy  Ministers  Meeting  hosted  in 
Tonga earlier this year, we discussed those issues with 
our  development  partners.  It  very  quickly  became 
apparent  that  a  new  model  for  doing  business  was 
needed. And  so  it  was  that  the  concept  for  the  Tonga 
Renewable Energy Road Map was born. 
there  should  be  an  expansion 
in  both 
and 
A/64/PV.9
all 
agreed 
rights, 
the  European  Union, 
The  development  partners 
the 
responsibilities, 

to 
collaborate, under the coordination of the World Bank, 
to  assess  the  current  infrastructure  of  on-grid  and 
off-grid  electrification  throughout  the  Kingdom.  The 
World  Bank, 
the  Asian 
Development Bank, Australia, New Zealand and Japan 
readily accepted this opportunity to actively participate 
in  the  development  of  our  Energy  Road  Map.  Those 
efforts  were  recently  boosted  by  strong  support  from 
the  Government  of  the  United Arab  Emirates  and  the 
International  Renewable  Energy  Agency,  which  was 
reaffirmed at bilateral meetings held in New York this 
week. 

Tonga’s  cultural  and  constitutional  roots  are 
innately  enduring.  We  are  proud  of  our  134-year-old 
written  Constitution,  which  is  one  of  the  oldest  in  the 
world  and  is  still  in  force.  Our  Constitution  enshrined 
basic  human  rights  and  freedoms  that  today  are  the 
subject of international treaties. The Tongan way of life 
is  not  based  solely  on  the  rights,  responsibilities, 
individual,  but 
freedoms  and  obligations  of 
emphasizes 
freedoms  and 
obligations  attaching  to  the  extended  family  and  the 
whole community. While the values underlying human 
rights  may  be  expressed  differently  from  Tongan 
customary  and  traditional  values,  and  while  both 
reflect  similar  aspirations, Tonga’s  strength  lies  in  the 
binding links of collective group values and individual 
obligations and responsibilities. 

Our parliament recently considered ratification of 
the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination  against  Women  (CEDAW).  Parliament 
voted  not  to  ratify  CEDAW,  because  to  do  so  would 
conflict with the cultural and social heritage that makes 
up  the  unique  Tongan  way  of  life.  We  take  the 
ratification  of  international  treaties  very  seriously. We 
did  not  want  to  ratify  CEDAW  as  a  matter  of 
international  convenience. We  would  rather  be  judged 
by  our  actions 
than  by  a 
ratification of convenience. And we make no apologies 
for  our  stance.  We  admit  that  there  are  issues  to  be 
addressed. But, rather than ratify CEDAW, we prefer to 
address  those  specific  areas  of  concern  to  women  in 
our own way. We maintain that our women are among 
the  most  highly  cherished,  elevated  and  respected  in 
the world. 

Finally, this month marks the tenth anniversary of 
Tonga’s admission as a Member of the United Nations. 
We  reaffirm  the  rights  and  responsibilities  bestowed 
to  empower  women 
09-52586 

37 

(spoke 
in  Lao;  English 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  forum  for  united  action  and  given 
A/64/PV.9 

upon us by the United Nations Charter, and we pledge 
to  continue  to  participate  constructively  in  addressing 
our  common  challenges.  Those  challenges  will  be 
overcome by our action. Given that the United Nations 
is 
the 
commitments made by leaders to such action, we may 
just awake to the fact that  it is the good in the world, 
not the evil, that surpasses all explanation. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Tonga for the statement he has just made. 

The  Honourable  Feleti  Vaka’uta  Sevele,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of Tonga,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Thongloun  Sisoulith,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic. 
Mr.  Sisoulith
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 

interpretation 
Republic) 
provided by the delegation): At the outset, on behalf of 
the  Lao  delegation,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  you, 
Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session.  I  trust  that,  under  your  able  presidency,  our 
session will be guided to a successful outcome. Let me 
also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  deepest 
appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  who  presided  over  the  sixty-third  session 
with  dedication  and  distinction.  By  the  same  token,  I 
convey  our  great  appreciation  to  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his leadership and his commitment to 
the work of the Organization at a time when our world 
is facing numerous grave challenges. 

In  recent  years,  the  international  situation  has 
undergone rapid changes and faced various challenges. 
The  United  Nations,  a  unique  world  body,  has  been 
playing  an  increasingly  important  role  in  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  and  promoting  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and 
international 
cooperation  for  development.  In  this  rapidly  changing 
world,  it  is  our  common  duty  and  responsibility  as 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  the 
Organization  carry  out its  mandate effectively. To this 
end,  United  Nations  reform  is  crucial  and  should  be 
comprehensive,  transparent  and  balanced,  while  the 
Organization  should  maintain  its  intergovernmental, 
the 
to 
to  contribute 
The  revitalization  of 
universal and democratic character, consistent with the 
Charter. 

the  General  Assembly, 
reform of the Security Council and the strengthening of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  specialized 
agencies  should  be  guided  by 
the  principles  of 
democracy,  transparency  and  accountability  with  a 
view to making this universal Organization a body that 
truly represents the interests of all Member States and 
seeks  their  benefit.  In  this  context,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic  welcomes 
launching  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  and  will  continue 
these 
important  efforts  in  this  new  phase  of  the  Security 
Council reform process. 
The  ongoing  impasse  within  the  multilateral 

disarmament  machinery  continues 
to  undermine 
international  peace  and  security.  The  existence  of 
nuclear weapons remains a grave threat to the existence 
of  all  humankind.  It  is  therefore  vital  to  reaffirm  the 
importance  of  States  honouring 
their  nuclear 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  obligations.  The 
upcoming  2010  Review  Conference  will  be  a  great 
opportunity  for  the  States  parties  to  the Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  demonstrate 
strong  political  commitment  by  making  a  collective 
effort 
the 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament  agenda.  In  this 
regard,  it  is  encouraging  that  the  third  session  of  the 
Preparatory  Committee 
the  2010  Review 
Conference  successfully  adopted  the  agenda  and  all 
significant 
decisions,  which  will 
undoubtedly 
for  a 
productive and successful Review Conference in 2010. 

In  conjunction  with  arms  reduction  and  nuclear 
disarmament,  the  issue  of  explosive  remnants  of  war, 
including  cluster  munitions  and  unexploded  ordnance 
(UXO),  continues 
threaten  and  pose  serious 
obstacles  to  socio-economic  development  and  poverty 
eradication efforts in more than 80 countries across the 
world.  Among  these,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  is  the  most  affected.  The  victims  of  cluster 
munitions in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic — 
where  approximately  300  victims  have  been  recorded 
every  year  for  the  30  years  since  the  war  ended  — 
account  for  50  per  cent  of  the  global  total  of  cluster 
munitions  victims.  This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  37  per 
cent  of  national  territory  remains  contaminated  by 
UXO.  Enormous  financial  resources  would  be  needed 
the  current  stalemate  on 
procedural 
lay  an 
foundation 
important 
to 
resolve 
for 
to 
38 

09-52586 
to 
the 
support 
light  of 
importance 
the  adverse 
In  order 
of 
for 
to  prepare 
the  Convention, 


to  resolve  this  problem,  and  it  would  take  a  great 
length of time to clear UXOs from those areas needed 
most for development and the everyday livelihoods of 
communities. However, a precise estimate has yet to be 
made as to how many hundreds of years it would take 
to  clear  all  UXO-contaminated  areas  across 
the 
country. 

In 
impact  of  cluster 
munitions,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
attaches  great 
the  Convention  on 
banning  and  eradicating  cluster  munitions.  In  this 
context,  we  welcome  and  commend  those  countries 
that have signed and ratified the Convention, and hope 
that  other  countries  that  have  not  done  so  will  follow 
suit so that Convention may enter into force as soon as 
possible. 
future 
implementation 
the  Lao 
Government has offered to host the first conference of 
States  parties  to  the  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions 
after  it  enters  into  force.  We  hope  that  our  offer  will 
receive  broad 
from  all  countries  and 
international organizations. 

Despite  the  fact  that  peace,  development  and 
cooperation  are  the  lodestars  of  our  times,  tensions, 
conflicts,  violence,  terrorism  and  threats  to  security 
persist in various parts of the world. The Lao People’s 
Democratic  Republic 
the 
prolonged conflict in the Middle East, which continues 
to  inflict  immense  suffering  on  millions  of  people  in 
the  region,  in  particular  the  Palestinian  people,  who 
have  been  struggling  to  exercise  their  legitimate  and 
inalienable  rights  to  self-determination  and  statehood. 
Although  we  have  heard  in  the  course  of  our  general 
debate  many  expressions  of  encouragement  and 
renewed hope for addressing the Middle East problem, 
this  can  be  realized  only  if  all  parties  concerned 
demonstrate 
the 
impasse  with  a  view  to  realizing  the  vision  of  two 
States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace 
and  security  within  recognized  borders,  in  accordance 
with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. 

We also remain concerned over the decades-long 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
on  the  Republic  of  Cuba.  It  is  now  time  to  end  these 
sanctions. 

to  be  a  pressing 
concern  and  to  pose  enormous  challenges  to  the 
survival  of  humankind.  Against  this  backdrop,  global 
Climate  change  continues 
is  deeply  dismayed  by 
their  commitment 
to  addressing 
A/64/PV.9
to 
in 
In 
the 
the 
through 
Summit 
including 
integration  of 
on  Climate  Change 
this  context,  we  highly  commend 
measures that conform to the principle of common but 
differentiated  responsibility  are  urgently  required.  To 
this  end, 
three  pillars  of 
sustainable  development  —  economic  development, 
social  development  and  environmental  protection  — 
should  be  enhanced  with  a  view 
to  effectively 
implementing the Bali Action Plan.  

the 
Secretary-General  for  his  initiative  to  convene  the 
high-level 
on 
22 September  2009,  at  which  world  leaders  had  the 
opportunity to discuss concrete measures and potential 
solutions  to  the  consequences  of  climate  change,  as 
well as to prepare for the Climate Change Conference 
to  be  held  in  Copenhagen,  Denmark.  Furthermore, 
world leaders have made strong commitments to taking 
reduce  greenhouse  gas 
the  necessary  action 
emissions,  promote 
the  green  economy,  provide 
mitigation  and  adaptation  assistance,  and  generate 
alternative  energy, 
technology 
transfer  from  developed  to  developing  countries,  in 
order to enable the latter to adapt to the consequences 
and impacts of climate change. 

The Lao People’s Democratic Republic welcomes 
and  supports  the  recommendation  to  launch  a  new 
Global  Compact  entailing  a  green  New  Deal,  which 
would  no  doubt  provide  an  excellent  platform  for 
addressing  the  current  global  challenges,  promoting 
investment 
the 
foundations  to  deal  with  the  crucial  long-term  issues, 
and  helping  to  create  a  future  based  on  a  low-carbon 
economy, renewable energy and energy efficiency. 

the 
The  multiple  global  crises,  especially 
financial and economic crises, have had many adverse 
effects  on  developing  countries,  in  particular  on  the 
most  vulnerable  groups.  This  is  due  primarily  to  the 
lack  of  basic 
to  markets, 
resources  and  modern  technology,  and  to  the  fact  that 
capacity  to  provide  financing  and  investment  remains 
low.  In  response,  various  forms  of  consultation  and 
approach  have  been  undertaken  in  an  attempt  to 
mitigate  the  long-term  impacts  of  the  crisis.  In  this 
regard,  we  welcome  the  initiatives  of  the  Group  of 
Eight,  the  Group  of  20  and  other  international  forums 
to  build  a  mechanism  that  will  help  find  solutions  to 
the crisis, including the recommendations of the high-
level Conference on the World Financial and Economic 
Crisis held here in June this year. 
the  green  economy, 
infrastructure,  access 
laying 
09-52586 

39 
it 
is 
to 

to 
review 
its 
address 
important 
conditions 
responsibilities 
A/64/PV.9 


As  one  of  the  most  vulnerable  countries  in  the 
world, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic is of the 
view that all initiatives and measures undertaken must 
be implemented effectively and in a timely manner. In 
particular, 
the 
unpredictability  and  vulnerability  of  commodity 
markets,  provide  preferential  treatment  to  goods  from 
developing  countries,  especially  those  from  the  most 
vulnerable  ones,  ensure  the  smooth  resolution  of  debt 
issues,  improve  technology  transfer  mechanism  and 
reform the international financial system.  

The  fourth  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
Least  Developed  Countries,  to  be  held  in  early  2011, 
will  provide  a  good  opportunity  for  the  international 
community 
and 
commitments pledged to the least developed countries, 
as well as to identify obstacles and constraints and seek 
possible solutions to them, particularly in the wake of 
such a profound economic and financial crisis. 

The solid political stability and social order in the 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  have  provided 
economic 
favourable 
for 
development.  Nevertheless, 
People’s 
Democratic  Republic  has  also  been  adversely  affected 
at  a  certain  level  by  the  recent  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis.  The  crisis  has  caused  a  slowdown  in 
economic  development,  with  growth  of  the  main 
economic  sectors  such  as 
industry,  services  and 
agriculture  decreasing  by  2  to  3  per  cent.  The  trade 
sector  was  also  affected,  with  exports  dropping  by 
28 per cent.  

Against  this  backdrop,  the  Lao  Government  has 
undertaken urgent action by identifying eight measures 
and  80  priority  areas  to  address.  As  a  result  of  such 
action, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has been 
able  to  mitigate  the  adverse  impact  of  the  crisis  to  a 
certain  degree.  However,  owing  to  the  uncertainty  of 
today’s  global  economy,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  like  other  developing  countries,  remains 
vulnerable  and still needs the support and cooperation 
from  the  international  community  to  respond  to  the 
crisis,  with  a  view  to  preventing  long-term  impacts, 
which  may  occur  at  any  time,  and  to  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  our  ultimate 
national  goal  of  being  removed  from  the  list  of  least 
developed countries by 2020. 

international 
community  has  the  responsibility,  as  well  as  the 
national 
the  Lao 
Today,  more 
than  ever, 
the 
reiterates 
Our  session 
opportunity, 
to  promote  solidarity  and  strengthen 
international  cooperation  in  jointly  addressing  these 
global  problems,  as  no  country  can  weather  alone  the 
threats and challenges confronting it. In this spirit, the 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
its 
unshakable  commitment  to  continue  full  cooperation 
with the international community in pursuit of a world 
free  from  fear  and  want,  rooted  in  a  new,  just  and 
equitable order. I believe that, with great solidarity, we 
will be able to achieve the aforementioned goals. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr. Ahmed Aboul  Gheit,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Arab Republic of Egypt. 
Mr.  Aboul  Gheit  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Mr. President, on behalf of the African continent, allow 
me  at  the  outset  to  congratulate  our  sisterly  country, 
Libya,  and  you  personally,  on  your  assumption  of  the 
presidency of the General Assembly, and to express our 
confidence  that  your  leadership  will  lead  to  achieving 
the  success  to  which  we  aspire.  I  would  also  like  to 
reaffirm the full support of Egypt and the Non-Aligned 
Movement for you in the fulfilment of your mission. 
the 

backdrop of international crises unprecedented in their 
nature and scope. The list of global challenges we are 
facing, such as climate change, the food crisis and the 
crises  in  international  peace,  is  supplemented  by 
additional  emerging  global  challenges  that  make  it 
essential for us to redouble our efforts in a coordinated 
and collective manner.  
The  global  financial  crisis,  together  with  the 

spread  of  diseases,  such  as  the  H1N1  virus,  threatens 
public  health  worldwide.  Meeting 
this  challenge 
requires a high degree of conscientious collective work 
and a shared awareness of the effect that such a crisis 
could have in many of our countries on stability in the 
economic,  social,  even  political,  and  perhaps  security 
spheres. 
the 

international level, we should not overlook the fact that 
the current international structures designed to manage 
the  realities  of  the  global  economy  must  reflect  a 
balance  between  the  present  and  future.  Therefore, 
those  structures  must  be  subject  to  change,  so  as  to 
become more compatible with current reality.  

The  change  I  refer  to  here  is  a  gradual  and 
strategic  shift,  one  which  would  make  membership  in 
this  year  convenes  against 
collective  work  on 
regard 
With 
to 
40 

09-52586 
issues, 
that  would  allow 


such  structures  accessible  to  a  larger  number  of 
developing  countries  and  would  grant  them  a  stronger 
and  more  effective  voice  in  determining  the  course  of 
the world economic order and its future. 

A  few  days  ago,  we  all  took  part  in  the  climate 
change  summit,  convened  upon  the  initiative  of  the 
Secretary-General, and listened to all the pledges made 
and  the  concerns  expressed.  While  Egypt  is  aware  of 
the seriousness of the phenomenon in question and the 
gravity  of  the  challenges  that  climate  change  is 
imposing on all of us, we believe in the possibility that 
collective  work  could  provide  new  opportunities  for 
advancing  development  in  developing  societies  in  a 
manner 
the  agreed  sustainable 
development  principles  to  be  fulfilled.  In  this  respect, 
we  look  forward,  as  was  stated  by  President  Mubarak 
at  the  L’Aquila  summit  in  Italy  in  July  2009,  to 
arriving  at  a  fair  and  balanced  deal  at  the  upcoming 
Copenhagen  conference  in  December  that  would  take 
into  consideration 
the  aspirations  and  rights  of 
developing countries and, at the same time, address all 
crucial 
including  mitigation,  adaptation, 
financing and technology transfer.  

A fair and balanced deal should further ensure the 
fulfilment of commitments by developed countries, and 
enable  our  developing  countries  to  implement  their 
voluntary  commitments  within 
the  framework  of 
honest  application  of  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibility. 

The world financial crisis did not originate in, nor 
was it caused by, developing countries. However, they 
are  all  suffering  from  its  consequences  in  different 
forms and at different levels as a result of the decrease 
in  the  volume  of  international  trade,  the  tightening  of 
international  credit  terms  and  the  decline  in  tourist 
inflows and monetary remittances.  

The current international economic recession has 
no  doubt  negatively  affected  most  States.  However, 
States of the South remain the most affected, due to the 
negative  repercussions  of  the  recession  on  public 
spending  in  health  care,  education  and  sustainable 
development 
in  general.  The  parallel  economic, 
financial  and  food  crises  that  we  are  still  confronting 
undoubtedly  compound  the  hardships  faced  by  the 
countries  of 
in  particular,  and  place 
enormous  burdens  on  us  in  terms  of  preserving 
economic and social security in our countries.  
the  South 
A/64/PV.9
the  World  Trade  Organization 

To confront such challenges, serious and genuine 
international support and solidarity are required, based 
on  enhancing  agricultural  development  with  a  view  to 
increasing  production  and  productivity.  Furthermore, 
there  is  an  urgent  need  to  launch  an  international 
dialogue between exporting and importing countries in 
the developing and developed worlds alike, in order to 
agree on an international strategy to confront the crisis, 
and  to  formulate  an  international  code  of  conduct  to 
review  the  policies  that  govern  the  use  of  biofuels.  In 
addition,  we  must  reach  an  agreement  under  the 
umbrella  of 
that 
eliminates agricultural subsidy programmes that are in 
operation in some developed countries. 

To  confront  the  energy  crisis,  it  is  important  to 
have  a  genuine,  broad  dialogue  among  the  relevant 
parties  to  identify  the  best  available  options.  The 
situation  requires  securing 
increased  development 
assistance  and  further  investments  in  the  markets  of 
energy-producing  developing  countries,  as  well  as 
confronting  irresponsible  speculation  on  international 
markets. 

In  this  context,  Egypt  hopes  that  the  2010  high-
level  meeting  to  follow  up  on  the  implementation  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  will 
expedite  renewal  of  international  commitment  and 
solidarity 
the  Goals.  A 
comprehensive  assessment  of  what  has  been  achieved 
thus  far  in  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  must  be 
carried  out  and  a  mechanism  established  to  follow  up 
on 
full 
implementation  by  2015,  particularly  in Africa,  which 
is witnessing low implementation rates, an issue which 
needs to be effectively addressed. 

Undoubtedly,  all  of  these  challenges  oblige  the 
countries  of 
strengthen  mutual 
cooperation.  As  current  Chair  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  Egypt  will  work  to  enhance  South-South 
cooperation  in  coordination  with  the  Group  of  77  and 
China. We look forward to a successful United Nations 
conference  on  South-South  cooperation,  to  be  held  in 
Kenya  later  this  year,  aimed  at  further  strengthening 
this cooperation. 

Having spoken of the interlinked crises facing the 
world today, I would like to address an important issue 
related  to  the  human  rights  architecture  of  the  United 
Nations  system.  Despite  the  radical  reform  ushered  in 
by  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
implementation.  This 
the  South 
achieving 
towards 
should 
lead 
to 
to 
09-52586 

41 

respect 
to 
of 
human 
to  underscore 
this  freedom  as  an 
freedom  of  expression, 
is  still  dissatisfied  with 
rights 
A/64/PV.9 

the 
Egypt 
politicization 
issues.  This 
politicization weakens the potential to reach consensus 
on  a  variety  of  issues  that  should  not  be  subject  to 
differences  as  they  are  of  concern  to  us  all  and  affect 
the credibility of the work of the United Nations in this 
vital  field.  Hence,  Egypt  is  determined  to  exert  its 
utmost  effort  to  engage  with  other  States  in  order  to 
bring  divergent  views  closer  together  and  to  establish 
common  ground  to  restore  the  international  consensus 
that binds us all, which forms the basis for our actions 
in this important area in the Human Rights Council and 
in the General Assembly. 

In that context, we look forward to a greater role 
for the Human Rights Council. Every one of us should 
address  the  issue  of  the  incitement  of  religious  hatred 
and racism under the pretext of freedom of expression. 
We look forward to, and in fact have already begun to 
seek, commonly agreed language for a draft resolution 
on 
the 
importance  of 
indispensable 
cornerstone  of  any  democratic  society,  while  avoiding 
the  depiction  of  acts  of  incitement  to  religious,  racial 
and other forms of hatred as legitimate acts of freedom 
of expression. We categorically reject such a depiction. 

Turning  to  issues  of  international  peace  and 
security, I will begin with disarmament. Egypt attaches 
great importance to a successful conclusion of the 2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  in  the 
hope 
the  nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime  will  be  put  back  on  the  right 
track. This will depend on dealing effectively with the 
decisions  and  the  resolutions  of  the  1995  and  2000 
Review Conferences, in particular the resolution on the 
Middle East.  

It is crucial that the international community as a 
whole  support  the  current  active  momentum  in  the 
international  arena  with  regard  to  disarmament  issues, 
especially in the light of developments in the positions 
of  the  main  nuclear-weapon  States,  in  particular  the 
United States. We have listened to their statements, in 
particular  the  address  by  President  Obama  to  the 
Assembly  on  23  September  (see  A/64/PV.3),  and  we 
hope  that  these  evolving  positions  will  provide  an 
opportunity for making historic progress in this regard. 

In the same context, it is necessary to effectively 
deal  with  the  issues  of  regional  stability  and  security, 
that  nuclear  disarmament  and 
mainly  through  eliminating  the  incomprehensible  and 
unjustified lassitude in dealing with the issue of Israeli 
nuclear capabilities and the persistent threat they pose 
to  security  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East.  This  is 
especially  true  in  the  context  of  intensified  efforts  to 
expand  the  commitments  of  the  non-nuclear  States 
parties to the NPT, without due regard for the need to 
achieve  the Treaty’s  universality  —  and  if  there  is  no 
commitment, there should be no universality — and to 
subject  all  nuclear  facilities  in  the  Middle  East  to  the 
comprehensive  safeguards  regime  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Egypt will continue its 
diligent  work  to  address  this  situation  in  all  relevant 
international forums and to highlight the risks, with the 
aim of effecting changes in the situation. 
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  region  is  still 

dominated by considerable tension, a tendency towards 
confrontation and lack of stability. Notwithstanding the 
tireless  efforts  exerted  to  stabilize  the  situation,  many 
parties  still  consider  it  beneficial  to  exacerbate  that 
tension. 

The  question  of  Palestine  clearly  remains  far 
from being resolved, despite international concern and 
all  the  serious  efforts,  pressure,  contacts,  visits  and 
meetings. Since I questioned in this Assembly last year 
(see  A/63/PV.13)  the  existence  of  genuine  Israeli 
determination 
the 
justified  our 
Palestinians,  events  have 
scepticism.  

Throughout  this  year,  Israel  has  shown  a  lack  of 
the  political  will  necessary  to  engage  in  serious  and 
credible  negotiations  that  aim  at  reaching  a  final 
settlement 
the  conflict,  a  settlement  which 
encompasses  all  the  elements,  tracks  and  topics  and 
which  leads  to  the  establishment  of  an  independent 
Palestinian  State  on  the  complete  Palestinian  national 
territory,  occupied  since  1967,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital. 

In  this  respect,  I  would  like  to  sum  up  the 
Egyptian  view  of  the  situation  with  the  following 
elements, including what we hope to achieve.  

First, intensive work during the coming period is 
necessary in order to resume the negotiating process as 
soon  as  possible. The  international  community  should 
put  forward  a  formula  for  a  final  settlement  to  the 
conflict — the so-called end game — cognizant of the 
need  to  waste  no  more  time  in  studying  details  that 
just  peace  with 
to  achieve  a 
thus 
far 
to 
42 

09-52586 
is  contrary 


everyone  knows  will  not  help  to  realize  the  desired 
settlement. 

Secondly,  Israel’s  commitment  to  completely 
freeze  settlement  activity  in  all  occupied  Palestinian 
territories,  including  East  Jerusalem,  must  be  secured, 
not  only  because  such  activity 
to 
international  law  and  should  be  halted,  but  also  in 
order  to  build  a  climate  of  trust  between  the  two 
parties,  thus  allowing  final-status  negotiations  to  bear 
fruit. Such Israeli commitment would pave the way to 
restoring lost credibility in efforts to achieve peace. On 
the  other  hand,  any  retreat  from  that  commitment 
would inflict severe harm on the prospects for peace in 
the coming period. 

Thirdly,  the  freeze  of  Israeli  settlement  activity 
should  occur  simultaneously  and  in  parallel  with  the 
negotiations,  in  order  to  bolster  Palestinian  trust  in 
Israeli intentions.  
Fourthly,  if  an  agreement  is  reached  on  the  final 

borders of the State to be established on the Palestinian 
national  soil  occupied  in  1967,  on  the  understanding 
that the State’s borders are essentially those of 1967, as 
had  been  agreed  by  both  parties  during  the  2008 
negotiations with the participation of the United States, 
that  agreement  could  be  gradually  implemented  at  a 
pace  to  be  agreed  upon  by  both  parties  and  within  a 
time-bound framework.  

Fifthly,  East  Jerusalem  is  an  integral  part  of  the 
occupied Palestinian territories. As one of the issues to 
be included in final status negotiations, it should under 
no  circumstances  be  excluded 
future 
negotiations. 

serious, 
Sixthly, 
credible,  clear  and  time-bound  negotiating  process 
would  restore  the  situation  on  other  issues  to  that 
which  prevailed  in  the  1990s  in  terms  of  Arab 
interaction  with  Israel,  with  a  view  to  enhancing 
mutual trust and thus boosting negotiating efforts as a 
whole. 

Egypt is closely following the situation in sisterly 
Sudan  with  the  same  high  level  of  interest,  not  only 
because  of  the  historical  bonds  between  our  two 
peoples  and  nations  but  also  out  of  concern  for  the 
Sudan’s future, stability and territorial integrity and our 
awareness  of  the  numerous  threats  facing  it.  Egypt  is 
working  earnestly  with  all  Sudanese  parties,  foremost 
among  which  is  the  Sudanese  Government,  and  in 
Israel’s  engagement 
from  any 
in  a 
A/64/PV.9
coordination with influential regional and international 
stakeholders  to  resolve  existing  problems.  Our  sons 
take  part in the United Nations forces in South Sudan 
and in Darfur, and we contribute — out of our limited 
resources  —  to  efforts  to  support  development  and 
provide  health  care  to  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  the 
south  and  west  of  the  Sudan.  We  hope  that  the 
Sudanese people, in their wisdom and with the support 
they  receive  from  their  neighbours  and  international 
partners, will be able to weather the upcoming critical 
phase,  so  that  the  Sudan’s  unity  can  withstand  all 
future tests and so that unity becomes the first and the 
most  attractive  option  for  all  Sudanese.  This  is  an 
important objective, which Egypt is working diligently 
to achieve. 
We cannot conclude our comments on the Middle 

East  without  referring  to  security  in  the  Arab  Gulf 
region,  which  is  among  Egypt’s  main  interests  and  at 
the top of its foreign policy priorities. This focus is not 
only based on the strong bonds that connect us with the 
member  States  of 
the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
(GCC),  but  also  on  our  firm  conviction  that  Egypt 
represents a strategic asset for its Arab brothers in the 
Gulf area. For this reason, Egypt will work with GCC 
countries to ensure Arab regional security and that any 
security  arrangements  that  are  being  contemplated  by 
international  or  regional  parties  will  correspond  fully 
to the needs and concerns of the Arab Gulf States. 

In  conclusion,  the  fifteenth  Summit  Conference 
of  Heads  of  State  or  Government  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries,  held  in  Sharm  el-Sheikh,  Egypt,  on  15  and 
16 July 2009, adopted four main declarations. The first 
is the Sharm el-Sheikh Declaration, which contains our 
member States’ clear vision on the most critical current 
issues that constitute a priority for our work within the 
United  Nations.  These  include  in  particular  the  issues 
of 
security, 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding,  human  rights  and 
democracy,  the  right  of  peoples  to  self-determination, 
the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  Palestinian 
question,  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  unilateral 
sanctions,  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
food 
internationally 
security,  Africa’s 
and 
pandemics,  the  role  of  civil  society,  climate  change, 
energy,  human  trafficking,  international  terrorism  and 
dialogue among civilizations and religions. The second 
declaration is on the necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
agreed  development  goals, 
special  needs,  diseases 
disarmament 
international 
and 
09-52586 

43 

A/64/PV.9 

United States of America against Cuba. The third is on 
designating  18  July  as  International  Nelson  Mandela 
Day.  The  fourth  is  a  declaration  on  Palestine.  These 
declarations will be issued as official documents of the 
United Nations. 

Last  July,  following  the  chairmanship  of  the 
friendly country of Cuba, Egypt assumed leadership of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  for  the  next  three  years. 
We are determined to implement the provisions of the 
Summit’s final document according to the priorities set 
out  in  those  declarations. We  shall  put  forward  at  this 
session the pertinent draft resolutions and decisions to 
implement  those  documents.  The  delegation  of  Egypt 
will  be  pleased  to  work  with  all  Member  States  in  a 
spirit  of  openness  and  determination  to  make  this 
session a success. We extend a hand to all States with 
an open mind and the resolve to achieve success on the 
international agenda before us. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor to Mr. Nasser Judeh, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. 
Mr.  Judeh  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First  of 

all, I would like very warmly to congratulate you, Sir, 
on your election to preside over the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I  am  certain  that,  thanks  to 
your  recognized  experience  and  wisdom,  you  will  be 
able 
to  enrich  our  discussions  and  provide  an 
appropriate framework for our deliberations. That will 
ensure  that,  through  our  joint  efforts,  this  session  is  a 
productive and special one that strengthens the role and 
improves the work of the Organization as the principal 
international  body  for  multilateral  action  and  the 
fulcrum  of  our  joint  efforts.  I  should  also  like  to 
commend  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, for his efforts during the previous session, 
which  we  appreciate.  I  also  thank  and  commend  His 
Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. 

We  are  pleased  to  see  concrete  trends  towards 
enhancing  multilateralism  in  the  United  Nations.  We 
are  convinced  that  such  a  course  of  action  is  the  best 
and most effective way to reach agreement and take up 
the  complex  international  challenges  we  face.  These 
challenges cannot be confronted by one country on its 
own,  because  they  are  transnational  and  complex  in 
nature and require concerted international action under 
the  auspices  of  a  single  international  organization  in 
which all participate. Although some have doubted the 
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  ability  to 
and 
future 
there 
is  no  doubt 
that,  because  of 
challenges 
as 
such 
revolution,  and 
the 
addressing  present 
instead  of  helping 
the  Organization,  as  well  as 
address the challenges and problems of the twenty-first 
century, 
the 
universality  of  its  membership,  it  remains  the  ideal 
forum to address the current challenges facing peoples 
and  Governments,  of  which  we  are  all  aware.  As  we 
are  all  aware,  the  current  tendency  to  marginalize 
multilateral  efforts  —  particularly  those  of  the  United 
Nations  —  has  negative  effects 
that  only  make 
problems  more  complex, 
to 
overcome or resolve them. 

The  United  Nations  and  its  subsidiary  organs 
require  reform,  including  financial  and  administrative 
reform, so that the Organization can be fully effective 
in 
international 
challenges.  Such  challenges  have  arisen  as  a  result  of 
structural and systemic changes since the establishment 
technological 
of 
information 
advancements, 
and 
communications 
the  well-known 
effects of globalization. All of this has made the world 
a global village in which everybody feels the negative 
effects  of  problems 
as 
desertification,  climate  change, 
terrorism,  poverty, 
pandemics  and  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  

Among  the  major  achievements  of  the  United 
Nations  is  its  pioneering  role  in  seeking  to  eliminate 
colonization and occupation in order to ensure the right 
of  all  peoples  to  self-determination.  Although  the 
Organization  has  assumed  ongoing  responsibility  for 
the  question  of  Palestine,  Israel  has,  unfortunately, 
been  occupying  Palestinian  and  Arab  territories  since 
1967 to prevent the Palestinian people from exercising 
their 
to  self-determination  by  creating  an 
independent  State  on  their  national  soil  in  the  West 
Bank  and  Gaza,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  on 
the  basis  of  the  line  of  4  June  1967.  Israel  continues 
also  to  occupy  the  Syrian  Golan  and  some  Lebanese 
territory.  For  their  part,  the  Arabs  adopted  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative  at  the  2002  Beirut  Summit  and  have 
reaffirmed 
its  principles  at  all  subsequent  Arab 
summits, including that held in Doha last spring. 

Discussions  continue  on  the  two-State  solution 
and on a comprehensive peace, which would permit the 
establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State  and 
enable  Syria  and  Lebanon  to  recover  their  occupied 
territories.  That  would  provide  a  just  and  agreed 
solution  to  the  question  of  Palestinian  refugees  in 
accordance with the provisions of resolution 194 (III), 
and 
such 
right 
44 

09-52586 
for 
the 
the  Palestinians  — 


which  would  ensure  peace  and 
security,  with 
recognition  of  Israel  by  all  Arab  States.  Israel 
continues to reject the Arab and international option of 
a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  and  a  two-State 
solution under the international terms of reference and 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  Therefore,  a  good-faith 
response  reflecting  genuine  and  positive  political  will 
must be forthcoming. 

There  has  been  unprecedented  support  in  the 
international  community  —  including  in  the  Arab 
world  and  among 
the 
considerable and sincere efforts being made by United 
States President Barack Obama and his Administration 
with  a  view  to  the  holding  of  serious  negotiations 
leading to the two-State solution and the establishment 
of  a  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East,  which 
would be in the interest of the United States, Palestine, 
the  Arabs,  the  Israelis  and  the  entire  world.  We  in 
Jordan,  under 
auspices  of  His  Majesty 
King Abdullah Bin Al Hussein, son of His late Majesty 
King Hussein, continue to strive tirelessly to attain that 
noble objective, which our people deserve. 

The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan fully supports 
the statement made by United States President Barack 
Obama on 23 September (see A/64/PV.3). It provided a 
clear  vision  of  a  definitive  solution  and  of  terms  of 
reference that would end the 1967 Israeli occupation in 
order 
the  establishment  of  a  viable, 
independent Palestinian State with contiguous territory, 
living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security  with  Israel, 
and  achieve  peace  among  Syria,  Lebanon  and  Israel. 
With  regard  to  the  political  terms  of  reference  for 
negotiations  between  the  Palestinians  and  the  Israelis, 
President  Obama  stated  that  the  final-status  issues  of 
security for Israelis and Palestinians, borders, refugees 
and Jerusalem were key to successful negotiations. We 
appreciate  the  importance  of  his  comments  regarding 
the illegality of the settlements.  
Thus, President Obama has demonstrated his firm 

a 
commitment 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East. Since his first 
day  in  office,  he  has  continued  to  seek  to  create  a 
constructive  atmosphere  conducive 
the  swift 
resumption of serious negotiations, on all issues and on 
all tracks. 

The  international  community  as  a  whole  must 
also  shoulder  its  responsibility  to  ensure  the  swift 
resumption  of  negotiations  and  their  success.  In  that 
to  permit 
solution 
to 
a 
two-State 
and 
to 
A/64/PV.9
fundamental  Palestinian 
connection, I wish to express our appreciation and full 
support  to  His  Excellency  President  Mahmoud Abbas 
to  peace  based  on  genuine 
for  his  commitment 
partnership, 
and  Arab 
principles  and  the  international  framework,  as  well  as 
his  sincere  engagement  on  behalf  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority in all efforts to achieve a two-State solution, 
which  was  demonstrated  once  again  at  the  tripartite 
meeting organized by President Obama in New York at 
the beginning of this week. 

This constructive and appropriate atmosphere has 
been marred by the actions of Israel, which refuses to 
halt its settlement activities, including in occupied East 
Jerusalem, where it continues to take unilateral action. 
Its excavations continue under and around the Al-Aqsa 
mosque and other areas that are part of the Islamic and 
Christian cultural heritage. It continues to demolish the 
homes of Arabs and to expel them. Israel is doing this 
in  order  to  alter  the  demographic  character  of  East 
Jerusalem,  which  has  an Arab  religious  and  historical 
identity. It is at the heart of the occupied territories and 
is  inextricable  from  them.  The  Security  Council  and 
the  General  Assembly  have  declared  those  Israeli 
actions null and void.  

From  this  rostrum  today,  we  ask  Israel  to  return 
to the peace process that everyone supports and to put 
an end to its  illegal measures, including its settlement 
activities,  in  order  to  create  an  atmosphere  conducive 
to  the  resumption  of  serious  and  productive  peace 
negotiations  on  all  tracks,  in  particular  on  such  issues 
as monitoring mechanisms that include clear timetables 
and  benchmarks  for  assessing  the  status  of  mutual 
implementation once negotiations have ended.  

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  United  Nations 
has a direct role and an obligation in this regard, given 
its  permanent  responsibility  for 
the  question  of 
Palestine,  alongside  the  role  of  the  Quartet,  which  we 
fully  support.  The  Organization  could  also  play  a 
bigger  part 
the  negotiations  and  verification 
mechanisms, as well as on other crucial issues.  

We  reaffirm  the  importance  of  the  role  of  the 
members  of  the  Quartet  —  the  European  Union,  the 
Russian  Federation,  the  United  States  and  the  United 
Nations.  The  blockade  on  Gaza  must  be  lifted.  Every 
day, our people there are suffering tragically, and they 
lack  basic  commodities.  It 
is  unacceptable  and 
unreasonable  that  the  siege  should  continue  and  the 
in 
09-52586 

45 

rights  and 
fundamental 
to  establish 
international  efforts 
A/64/PV.9 

situation  persist.  The  inhumane  blockade  must  be 
ended and Gaza must be rehabilitated.  

We hope that Palestinian reconciliation efforts are 
successful, and we fully support Egypt’s efforts in that 
regard. We should pay particular attention to the report 
of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza Conflict (A/HRC/12/48), and we hope that it will 
promote the necessary follow-up.  

The  United  Nations  has  played  a  central  role  in 
establishing  an  international  human  rights  protection 
system  and  international  mechanisms  for  promoting 
human 
freedoms.  The 
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  is  honoured  to  have 
been  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  twice 
since its establishment. We appreciate the international 
recognition of our policies on the protection of human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  adopted  by  my 
country under King Abdullah II.  
In  addition,  the  United  Nations  provided  the 

the 
impetus  for 
International  Criminal  Court 
a  permanent 
international  judicial  body  to  try  cases  of  war  crimes, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  flagrant  violations  of 
human rights. Jordan actively participated in the Rome 
Diplomatic Conference that brought about the adoption 
of the Court’s Statute. We had the privilege of chairing 
the first meeting of States members of the Court.  

The United Nations has also played a significant 
role  in  codifying  international  humanitarian  law:  its 
Charter  prohibits  recourse  to  the  use  or  the  threat  of 
use  of 
relations.  The 
Organization  subsequently  supported  the  adoption  of 
the  major  international  conventions  on  that  issue,  in 
particular  the  four  Geneva  Conventions,  of  which  we 
are  marking  the  sixtieth  anniversary,  as  well  as  the 
1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural 
Property in the Event of Armed Conflict.  

The  United  Nations  has  made  great  progress  on 
the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
in  particular  nuclear  weapons,  through  the  unlimited 
extension 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  Here, 
we  call  for  compliance  with  the  other  decisions 
accompanying  the  decision  to  extend  the  NPT  from 
1995 and for recognition of the Middle East region as a 
zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of 
mass destruction. 
international 
the  Treaty 
force 
1995 
on 
as 
in 
in 
of 
in 
into 
force 
efforts 
to  bring 
the  fight  against 

We  affirm  our  country’s  commitment  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
while  also  reaffirming  our  legitimate  right  to  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and  to  strengthening 
control  mechanisms 
that  would  prevent  peaceful 
programmes  from  being  used  as  a  cover  for  military 
ones. We are resolved to make peaceful use of nuclear 
energy,  and  we  have  adopted  all  the  agreements, 
documents  and  verification  mechanisms  of 
the 
International Atomic Energy Agency. 

The  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  supports  all 
international 
the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  We  encourage 
countries to  adopt and ratify the Treaty  so that it may 
enter into force as soon as possible, which would be a 
step forward towards nuclear disarmament. We call for 
adherence to Security Council resolution 1887 (2009), 
adopted on 24 September.  

My  country  has  always  been  and  will  remain  at 
the  forefront 
terrorism  and 
extremism  and  in  working  to  bring  religions  and 
civilizations  closer together, as well as in transmitting 
the  true  and  admirable  essence  of  Islam  and  its  noble 
human  values.  We  have  therefore  adopted  important 
initiatives,  including  the  Amman  Message  issued  by 
His Majesty the King, and its accompanying document, 
the Good Word.  

national 
reconciliation  in  Iraq  among  all  segments  of  the 
population,  with  no  exception.  It  supports  efforts  to 
consolidate peace and security in Iraq in all spheres so 
as  to  ensure  civil  peace,  territorial  integrity,  political 
independence  and  sovereignty  and  to  stop  all  external 
interference  in  its  internal  affairs  so  that  that  brother 
country can fully recover its place in the region and in 
the world at large.  
Finally,  Jordan  is  committed  to  international 

peace  and  security.  We  participate  actively 
in 
peacekeeping operations. The number of personnel that 
we  contribute  to  the  various  peacekeeping  operations 
in  which  we  are  taking  part  is  growing  and  becoming 
geographically  broader. This  demonstrates  that  we  are 
truly  playing  an  active  role  in  the  United  Nations, 
because  we  are  backing  up  our  words  with  action.  It 
also  shows  our  clear  political  resolve  to  contribute  to 
serious  multilateral  action  within  the  United  Nations 
system. 
comprehensive 
supports 
Jordan 
46 

09-52586 
to 
let  me  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on 


I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  we  will  do  what  is 

necessary,  and  more, 
strengthen  multilateral 
international  action  for  efforts  to  implement  a  two-
State  solution  and  to  achieve  comprehensive  peace  in 
the  Middle  East,  and  for  anything  that  contributes  to 
international  cooperation  and  to  bringing  together 
diverse  civilizations,  which  would  enrich  the  lives  of 
our societies in the world that we share. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčak,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Slovak Republic. 
Mr. Lajčak (Slovakia): It is a great privilege and 

honour  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly,  to 
which  people  of  the  world  look  with  high  hopes  and 
expectations to find effective solutions to the multitude 
of challenges and threats that spare no one.  

the 
assumption  of  your  duties  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  the  sixty-fourth  session  and  also  express 
my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  your  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for  his 
work during the sixty-third session. 

Slovakia fully associates itself with the statement 
delivered  earlier  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Sweden  on 
behalf  of  the  European  Union.  I  would  like  to 
contribute to this debate with some additional remarks. 

in  effective 
multilateralism  and  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  that  regard.  We  therefore  greatly  welcome 
the main theme of our deliberations during this general 
debate,  with  a  focus  on  achieving  tangible  results  on 
the  three  pillars  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations: 
peace and security, human rights and development. 
We  welcome  the  attention  that  the  Organization 

has  paid  to  the  issue  of  climate  change,  as  well  as  to 
increasing  food  security  and  eliminating  the  negative 
effects of the financial and economic crisis, especially 
in the most vulnerable States and populations. Slovakia 
calls 
reaching  an  ambitious,  balanced  and 
comprehensive  agreement  on  climate  change 
in 
Copenhagen  at  the  end  of  2009  that  will  replace  the 
Kyoto  Protocol. Also,  we  need  to  elaborate  an  action 
plan  and  strengthen  global  strategies  for  food  security 
in  the  world.  It  is  essential  not  to  lose  sight  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  maintain  our 
efforts to achieve them by the year 2015. 
is  a  keen  believer 
Slovakia 
First, 
for 
A/64/PV.9
in  elaborating  and 
We  have  in  recent  years  invested  considerable 

effort 
implementing  our  own 
concept  of  official  development  assistance,  through  a 
number  of  bilateral  and  multilateral  projects.  The 
western Balkans, Central Asia, Afghanistan and Africa 
have been among our priority geographic areas in this 
regard. 

Slovakia’s commitment to the issues of economic 
and  social  development  prompted  us  to  present  our 
candidature  for  membership  of  the  United  Nations 
Economic  and  Social  Council  at  the  elections  to  be 
held  in  the  General  Assembly  later  this  year.  We 
appreciate  the  endorsement  of  our  candidature  by  the 
Group  of  Eastern  European  and  other  States  and  will 
do  our  best  to  gain  the  trust  and  support  of  all  of  the 
Organization’s  Member  States.  Slovakia  is  committed 
to  serving  as  an  active  and  engaged  member  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  and  would  like  to 
contribute  tangibly  to  making  that  important  United 
Nations organ as relevant and as effective as possible. 
The  United  Nations  has  achieved  remarkable 

results 
in  peacekeeping  over  past  decades.  We 
recognize  its  continued  efforts  to  adapt  peacekeeping 
so  that  it  can  respond  better  to  current  and  future 
challenges.  More  emphasis  should  be  put  on  ensuring 
that  peacekeepers  and  other  United  Nations  actors  on 
the  ground  are  properly  equipped  and 
trained, 
the  so-called  critical 
including 
capabilities.  It  is  our  belief  that  preventive  diplomacy 
should  be  used  whenever  possible  in  order  to  avoid 
conflicts in the first place. 
Slovakia  continues  to  be  actively  engaged  in 

numerous  peace  and  security  endeavours  of 
the 
international community. We are currently participating 
in  international  crisis-management  operations  under 
United Nations command or Security Council mandate 
in  Afghanistan,  Cyprus,  Kosovo,  Bosnia 
and 
Herzegovina  and  the  Middle  East.  We  are  doing  our 
best  to  contribute  to  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding, 
stabilization and reconstruction efforts in those parts of 
the world and will continue to do so in the future. 

In addition, Slovakia remains actively engaged in 
the  area  of  security  sector  reform,  an  issue  that  we 
began promoting within the United Nations during our 
non-permanent  membership  in  the  Security  Council. 
Slovakia,  as  the  initiator  and  chair  of  the  United 
Nations  Group  of  Friends  of  Security  Sector  Reform, 
will  continue  working  to  ensure  that  the  United 
the  area  of 
in 
09-52586 

47 
in 
two  other 
conflict 
has 
prevention 
recently 
diplomacy, 
support.  This 
A/64/PV.9 

Nations  system  is  able  to  react  in  an  adequate,  timely 
and systematic manner to the needs of  Member States 
relating  to  security  sector  reform.  After  a  useful 
African  regional  workshop,  held  in  Cape  Town  as  a 
joint  South African  and  Slovak  project,  we  have  now 
teamed  up  with  key  partners,  namely,  Argentina  and 
Indonesia, 
important  regions,  Latin 
America  and  South-East  Asia.  The  Buenos  Aires 
workshop will be held just a few days from now. 
As I have  already mentioned, we are glad to see 

in 
that  significant  progress  has  been  achieved 
and 
preventive 
mediation 
been 
demonstrated,  for  example,  in  the  role  played  by 
United  Nations  mediation  teams  in  helping  to  find 
peaceful  and  negotiated  solutions  to  crises  in  Kenya, 
Zimbabwe,  Madagascar  and  elsewhere.  Slovakia  will 
contribute further to that work. We are, in this regard, 
very  pleased  that  the  first  United  Nations  Regional 
Centre  for  Preventive  Diplomacy,  located  in  Central 
Asia  and led  by a Slovak  representative, has  achieved 
good  results  so  far  and  has  fully  proved  itself  as  a 
meaningful  and  necessary  project.  We  are  convinced 
that  issues  such  as  conflict  prevention  cannot  be  seen 
in  isolation.  They  are  connected  with  respect  for 
human  rights,  protection  of  civilians,  gender  equality, 
protection  of  children  in  armed  conflict  and  so  forth. 
As  a  serving  member  of  the  United  Nations  Human 
Rights  Council,  Slovakia  works  to  promote  universal 
the  protection  of  human  rights  and 
respect  for 
fundamental 
freedoms 
for  all,  at  national  and 
international levels. 

Among the key tools that the United Nations has 
at  its  disposal  for  protecting  those  who  are  most 
endangered  and  vulnerable 
the  concept  of 
responsibility  to  protect,  one  of  the  most  important 
achievements  of  the  2005  World  Summit.  We  believe 
the international community should focus more on the 
protection  of  civilian  populations  from  genocide,  war 
crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity. 
Nor  can  we  forget  our  obligation,  under  international 
law,  to  prevent  the  incitement  of  those  most  serious 
crimes,  which  should  be  referred  to  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  established  for  the  purpose  of  ending 
impunity for perpetrators of such crimes. 

Much  of  the  Organization’s  ability  to  deal  with 
current threats and challenges depends  on the existing 
institutional  framework.  The  United  Nations  Security 
Council is at the centre of that framework. Slovakia is 

towards 
to  work  with  all  partners 
a long-term advocate of enlarging the Security Council 
in both of its membership categories. The composition 
of  an  enlarged  Security  Council  should  better  reflect 
new global realities. Appropriate attention must also be 
paid to the Council’s working methods. We are pleased 
that the intergovernmental negotiations have begun and 
believe that things will move forward in the interest of 
making  the  Security  Council  a  truly  relevant  and 
efficient body. 

The  old  saying  “If  you  seek  peace,  prepare  for 
war”  has  resulted  in  an  unprecedented  arms  race, 
which  in  itself  has  become  a  source  of  fear  and 
insecurity. Slovakia is particularly concerned about the 
risk of weapons of mass destruction and their means of 
delivery  falling  into  the  hands  of  non-State  actors, 
especially terrorist groups. In this connection, Slovakia 
is  ready 
the 
successful outcome of the 2010 Review Conference of 
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons, which should result in an enhanced 
international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  Our 
priority  is  to  outlaw  nuclear  testing  and  see  the 
Comprehensive  Test-Ban  Treaty  come 
into  force. 
Slovakia  also  calls  for  an  early  start  to  substantive 
negotiations on an arms trade treaty, which is essential 
for  reducing  the  unacceptable  human  cost  resulting 
from the proliferation of conventional arms. 
Slovakia, together with the other members of the 

European  Union,  is  deeply  concerned  about  Iran’s 
continued defiance despite its international obligations, 
including  the  Security  Council’s  demands  that  it 
suspend  its  nuclear  activities.  We  note  that  Iran  has 
agreed  to  continue  talks  with  the  P5+1  group  of  the 
five  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  plus 
Germany, and we call on Iran to commit to diplomatic 
negotiations  in  order  to  restore  the  trust  of  the 
international  community  and  make  real  and  urgently 
needed  progress.  The  deteriorating  human  rights 
situation  and  the  violent  suppression  of  the  popular 
protests that erupted in Iran after the elections in June 
is a cause of much concern to Slovakia. We have also 
repeatedly and strongly condemned the nuclear test and 
missile 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. We call on North Korea to 
reverse its position on the Non-Proliferation Treaty and 
join the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  some  regional  issues  that 
Slovakia  pays  particular  attention  to.  As  a  matter  of 
following 
priority,  Slovakia  has  been 
launches  carried  out  by 
closely 
is 
48 

09-52586 


developments  in  the  western  Balkans.  We  continue  to 
promote full respect for international law, including the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States  within 
their  internationally  recognized  borders.  At  the  same 
time,  we  welcome  and  support  a  peaceful  and 
constructive approach to seeking solutions to disputes. 
We  believe  that  the  future  of  the  entire  region  and  its 
people  lies  in  the  European  perspective  and  that  there 
is no meaningful alternative to that. 

Promotion  of  full  respect  for  international  law 
and  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States 
within  their  internationally  recognized  borders  is  also 
the  principle  that  guides  us  in  the  case  of  Georgia. 
Slovakia was very disappointed when, earlier this year, 
the Security Council was unable to agree on extending 
the mandate of the United Nations Observer Mission in 
Georgia.  The  termination  of  the  Mission  complicates 
the already unstable situation in the region, as well as 
the  security  conditions  for  civilians  in  the  conflict 
zone. We firmly support a peaceful and lasting solution 
to  the  conflict  in  Georgia  and  hope  that  the  Geneva 
talks will yield positive results. 

In addition to participating in the United Nations 
Peacekeeping  Force  in  Cyprus  operation  on  a  long-
term  basis,  Slovakia  has  been  actively  engaged  for 
more than 20 years in the confidence-building process 
between 
the  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot 
political  leaders,  and  we  are  committed  to  continuing 
our active  engagement. A  combination  of military  and 
development  aid activities  characterizes  our long-term 
active  engagement  in  Afghanistan.  Slovakia,  as  a 
member of the International Security Assistance Force 
operation,  is  helping  to  establish  a  secure  and  stable 
environment in Afghanistan. 

In conclusion, Slovakia hopes that the last year of 
the  first  decade  of  this  millennium  will  bring  all  the 
States of the international community closer together in 
order  to  overcome  the  negative  consequences  of  the 
financial and economic crisis, among others. 

This represents a basic step towards the possible 
settlement  of  many  other  conflicts  and  problems  that 
the international community is facing. In our view, we 
have  to  intensify  our  efforts,  in  this  regard,  and  adopt 
appropriate measures on the local, regional and global 
levels 
the  spirit  of  solidarity  and  common 
responsibility.  We  strongly  believe  that  the  United 
Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  must  be  directly 
in 
A/64/PV.9
engaged  in  this  process  and  guide  the  world  for  the 
welfare of this generation and of those of the future. 

I  should  like  once  again  to  reaffirm  Slovakia’s 
support  for  your  work,  which,  through  pursuing  the 
priorities  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session,  will  address  the  main  ills  that  pain  the 
international community today. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Taib  Fassi  Fihri,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco. 
Mr.  Fihri  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of  the 

Kingdom of Morocco, I should like to congratulate you 
warmly,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General-Assembly  of  the  United  Nations  at  its  sixty-
fourth session. We are proud to see a son of a brotherly 
country  from  our  region  at  the  helm  of  this  universal 
body.  You  may  rest  assured  that  our  delegation  is 
prepared  fully  to  support  your  endeavours  aimed  at 
ensuring a greater role for our Organization in meeting 
the challenges of today’s world. 

I  wish  also  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  express 
our  appreciation  and  support 
to  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his tireless efforts 
not  only  to  realize  the  objectives  for  which  our 
Organization  was  created,  but  also  to  enable  the 
Organization to fulfil the aspirations of the peoples of 
the world in the course of this third millennium. 

their  universal 
impact,  multifaceted  nature  and  wide  implications, 
have  given  additional  impetus  to  our  collective  action 
and  strengthened  coordination  among  the  different 
constituents of this universal body. Today, the world is 
facing recurrent and unprecedented crises in the fields 
of  economics,  finance,  food  and  energy  that  have 
shaken the foundations of universal governance. These 
crises have also adversely affected the socio-economic 
and  environmental  systems  of  all  States,  especially  in 
developing countries. 
As  the  most  representative  Organization  in  the 

world, 
living 
conscience of the international community. As such, it 
is  the  most  appropriate  forum  for  coordinated  joint 
action  and  for  the  reactivation  of  collective  initiatives 
in  order  to  analyse  the  root  causes  of  such  crises  and 
contain  their  impact  through  the  adoption  of  agreed 
solutions likely to mitigate their effects. Effective  and 
the  United  Nations  embodies 
the 
The  global  crises,  owing 
to 
09-52586 

49 

for 
time 
frame 
to  build 
thus  require  us 
is  dependent  on 
for  Development  as  well  as 
A/64/PV.9 

fair  economic  governance 
the 
revitalization  of  the  multilateral  system  based  on 
realism,  efficiency  and  innovation  as  a  means  of 
finding solutions that reflect the aspirations and hopes 
of present and future generations. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
were  adopted  as  a  common  platform  for  action  with 
clear  objectives  and  a 
their 
implementation,  with  a  view  to  achieving  human 
development  in  the  world.  Much  progress  has  been 
achieved  in  many  States  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  the 
international community since the Millennium Summit. 
However,  the  progress  made  towards  those  goals  has 
not  been  consistent  or  steady  within  States  or  among 
States  in  general.  The  negative  implications  of  the 
current  economic  crisis  may  exacerbate 
those 
disparities,  especially  in  Africa.  The  few  years  that 
to  adopt  a 
remain  before  2015 
coordinated  global  approach  and 
real 
partnerships  in  order  to  mobilize  additional  financial 
resources  in  line  with  the  commitments  made  in  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha  Declaration  on 
Financing 
the 
declarations of the Group of Eight and the Group of 20. 

In  this  context,  Morocco  hopes  that  the  fourth 
high-level meeting on financing for development, to be 
held in November 2009 in New York, will yield results 
commensurate with the expectations of the developing 
countries,  thus  giving  new  impetus  to  efforts  to  attain 
the Millennium Development Goals, thus leading to the 
formation  of  an  international  alliance  for  African 
development  in  the  framework  of  coordinated  efforts 
and  initiatives  aimed  at  achieving  the  Goals  within 
specific  time  frames.  We  also  hope  that  the  United 
Nations  agencies  that  are  active  in  the  area  of 
development  will  mainstream 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  use  them  as  the  main  and 
appropriate framework for their action. In this context, 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP) 
in  particular  should  use  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  as  practical  and  comprehensively  agreed  upon 
indicators  when  drafting 
report  on  human 
development.  The  MDGs  provide  a  practical  and 
qualitative,  not  only  quantitative,  way  to  measure 
living  that  better  reflects  the  ever-evolving  concept  of 
development. 

In keeping with this vision, the National Initiative 
for Human Development, launched in May 2005 by His 
Majesty  Mohammed  VI,  constitutes  a  pillar  of 
its 
in 
it  made  at 
the  proposal 
Moroccan  social  policy.  The  initiative  is  based  on  an 
integrated approach to development in all its aspects — 
political, economic, social, environmental and cultural. 
By  building  roads,  providing  energy  services  and 
encouraging income-generating activities, the Initiative 
has  achieved  concrete  results  in  fighting  poverty  and 
exclusion, improving infrastructure and de-marginalizing 
rural areas. 

Collective efforts in the field of development will 
remain  insufficient  unless  they  are  accompanied  by 
daring  and  effective  policies  for  the  protection  of  the 
environment  and  concrete  measures  to  mitigate  the 
impact of climate change, which now more than ever is 
threatening  the  future  of  mankind.  In  that  connection, 
Morocco  is  convinced  that  the  conference  on  climate 
change  to  be  held  in  Copenhagen  in  December  will 
undoubtedly  constitute  an  important  step  towards  an 
international  agreement  on  climate.  In  that  regard, 
Morocco  reiterates 
the 
conference held at Poznan, Poland, in December 2008 
for the creation of a multilateral fund for the transfer of 
technology  to  the  developing  countries  in  order  to 
enable  them  to  deal  with  the  grave  implications  of 
climate change. 

to  operationalize 
concrete  measures  to  protect  the  environment  and 
contain  the  negative  impact  of  climate  change,  His 
Majesty  Mohammed  VI  instructed  the  Government  to 
draft  swiftly  a  comprehensive  national  environmental 
charter,  with  the  aim  of  protecting  national  resources 
and  reserves  as  part  of  a  sustainable  development 
policy. The environment should be considered a shared 
national  heritage  whose  protection  is  the  collective 
duty  of  current  and  future  generations.  Likewise, 
Morocco  will  reactivate  its  national  energy  strategy 
aimed at the development of renewable energy sources 
and the recycling of waste water. 

Convinced  that  the  peace  process  is  the  only 
viable  option  in  the  Middle  East,  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco 
and 
responsibly 
international 
community  to  relaunch  the  peace  process  on  solid 
foundations.  That  means  that  the  process  must  be  in 
accordance  with  resolutions  of  international  legality, 
the  previous  relevant  agreements  and  commitments 
among  the  parties  concerned,  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  which  as  a  realistic  option  reflects  the 
collective  Arab  will 
just  and 
comprehensive solution that guarantees the right of the 
in  all  efforts  of 
to  arrive  at  a 
the  necessity 
constructively 
Mindful  of 
participated 
has 
the 
50 

09-52586 
its 
expresses 
from  all  occupied  Arab 
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
illegal  practices,  which  prevent 


Palestinian  people  to  create  their  own  independent 
State,  with Al-Quds Al-Sharif  as  its  capital,  an  Israeli 
withdrawal 
territories, 
including Syrian and Lebanese territories, and a stable, 
secure  and  peaceful  existence  for  all  peoples  of  the 
region. 

its 
appreciation to the United States Administration for its 
efforts  and  for  the  encouraging  positions  taken  by 
President  Obama.  We  hope  that  it  will  persevere  in 
order  to  overcome  obstacles  to  a  resumption  of 
negotiations. We  also  commend  all  other  international 
efforts, including European efforts, to that end.  
Those  efforts  will  be  productive  only  if  Israel 

halts 
the 
achievement of peace. Those practices, in particular the 
building  of  settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories and the unjust blockade against our brotherly 
Palestinian  people,  run  counter  to  the  peace  option. 
The  settlement  activities  and  the  expulsions  taking 
place  in  Al-Quds,  aimed  at  altering  the  legal  and 
demographic  status  of  that  holy  city,  are  flagrant 
violations  of  international  instruments  and  require 
urgent action on the part of all peace-loving countries.  

In that regard, His Majesty Mohammed VI, in his 
capacity  as  Chairman  of  the Al-Quds  Committee,  has 
always warned the international community against the 
risks  associated  with  altering  the  legal  status  of 
Al-Quds.  He  has  also  been  urging  the  influential 
international  Powers 
the 
requirements  of  international  legitimacy  in  order  to 
preserve the religious, cultural and spiritual features of 
the  holy  city  in  such  a  way  as  to  create  appropriate 
conditions  conducive  to  the  resumption  of  the  peace 
process. 

The  achievement  of  peace  through  the  peaceful 
resolution  of  conflicts  is  the  essence  of  the  historical 
mandate  of  the  United  Nations.  It  should  be  based  on 
the principles of equality among States and respect for 
their 
in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. In 
addition,  there  is  a  need  to  eliminate  all  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  and  to  combat  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms and manifestations.  

As  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
Morocco will continue its relevant activities, including 
by  mobilizing  efforts  in  support  of African  countries. 
Such  efforts  are  being  made  within  the  framework  of 
independence  and 
implement 
territorial 
integrity, 
swiftly 
to 
A/64/PV.9
reason 
the  entry 
levels  for 
into  force  of 
South-South  cooperation,  with  concrete  projects, 
defined goals and shared benefits and in keeping with 
the priorities of Moroccan foreign policy as determined 
by  His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI.  As  one  of  the 
first active participants in United Nations peacekeeping 
missions, Morocco has always taken a keen interest in 
United  Nations  efforts  to  enhance  such  operations  as 
part  of  the  new  partnership  proposed  to  adapt  to 
international  developments  and  the  requirements  for 
lasting peace. 

Furthermore,  recent  developments  in  the  area  of 
disarmament  provide 
for  optimism.  The 
positions  expressed  and  the  statements  made  at  the 
highest levels augur well and maintain the momentum 
for disarmament and non-proliferation efforts. We hope 
that  efforts  will  be  made  at  the  international  and 
regional 
the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  given  the 
outcome  of  the  meeting  on  article  14  of  the  Treaty, 
which I had the honour to co-chair last Thursday with 
my  colleague,  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
France.  

Since  its  establishment,  the  United  Nations  has 
endeavoured  to  promote  international  and  regional 
cooperation  to  uphold  the  principles  of  coexistence, 
peace, good-neighbourliness and consultation at a time 
when  regional  economic  gatherings  are  playing  a 
pivotal  role  in  addressing  economic,  security  and 
environmental issues. Convinced of that role, Morocco 
has 
in  promoting  good-
neighbourly  relations  in  nearby African,  Maghreb  and 
Mediterranean  regions.  Likewise,  Morocco  supports 
the Mediterranean Union as a promising framework for 
increasing  dialogue  and  cooperation  between  the  two 
sides  of  the  Mediterranean.  Moreover,  on  4  August 
2009,  mindful  of  the  important  role  of  the  Atlantic 
Ocean  and  the  opportunities  it  provides  for  collective 
action,  Morocco 
initiative  aimed  at 
cooperation  among  African  countries  bordering  the 
Atlantic  as  the  basis  for  a  broader  partnership  with 
other coastal countries in that geo-strategic region.  

His  Majesty  King  Mohammad VI  has  reaffirmed 
Morocco’s strong and enduring resolve to contribute in 
good  faith  to  the  consolidation  of  the  Arab  Maghreb 
Union,  the  reactivation  of  its  structures  and  the 
strengthening  of 
its  members, 
including brotherly Algeria. Indeed, that regional body 
could  play  a  central 
fruitful 
partnerships  and  in  ensuring  security  and  stability  in 
relations  among 
taken  a  keen 
launched  an 
in  building 
interest 
role 
09-52586 

51 
that 
In 
that 

regard,  Morocco  has 
A/64/PV.9 

Africa,  the  Middle  East  and  the  Mediterranean.  Our 
belief 
the  Arab  Maghreb  project  must  be 
reactivated  as  an  embodiment  of  our  peoples’  hopes 
and aspirations is in keeping with our sincere desire to 
work  to  remove  all  obstacles  to  the  realization  of  our 
peoples’  expectations  and 
the  consolidation  of 
brotherly relations among its five members.  

responded 
responsibly  and  in  good  faith  to  the  appeals  of  the 
Security  Council  for  efforts  to  find  a  political,  lasting 
and negotiated solution to the regional dispute over the 
Moroccan Sahara. A bold autonomy initiative, regarded 
as serious and credible by the international community, 
has been proposed as a promising and realistic basis for 
a lasting solution to that artificial conflict. 

responsibility, 
Morocco, with the support of the Security Council, has 
been  engaged  in  the  new  dynamic  resulting  from  its 
initiative  aimed  at  negotiations  under  United  Nations 
supervision.  In  its  resolutions  1813  (2008)  and  1871 
(2009),  the  Council  called  for  serious  and  intense 
negotiations in a spirit of compromise and realism with 
a  view  to  finding  a  political,  lasting  and  negotiated 
solution  that  is  in  keeping  with  the  principle  of 
self-determination  and  that  cannot  be  monopolized  by 
anyone or selectively interpreted to conceal undeclared 
objectives and a hidden agenda. Morocco will continue 
its full cooperation with the Secretary-General and his  
resolve  and 
the  same 
With 
Personal  Envoy  to  find  a  definitive  solution  to  this 
regional dispute that fully respects the sovereignty and 
territorial  integrity  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  and 
grants  autonomous  status  to  the  population  of  the 
Sahara  provinces,  which  is  likely  to  ensure  their 
progress  and  well-being  and  enable  them  to  manage 
their domestic affairs in a democratic manner. 

The Kingdom of Morocco has always been at the 
forefront of international and regional initiatives aimed 
at  promoting  the  values  of  dialogue,  tolerance  and 
openness  to  others,  especially  as  they  relate  to  the 
necessary dialogue between Islam and the West and to 
respecting  universal  human 
rights  standards,  as 
prevalent as they are all over the world. 

those  convictions,  Morocco  will 
continue 
its  fruitful  cooperation  and 
positive  dialogue  at  the  bilateral,  regional  and  global 
levels.  Motivated  by  the  same  spirit  of  commitment, 
the Kingdom of Morocco will assume its responsibility 
and  will  play  its  role  fully  within  the  main  United 
Nations  bodies,  with  a  view 
the 
Organization’s efficiency, credibility and contribution. 

May  the  blessings,  peace  and  mercy  of Allah  be 
upon all participants. 
The meeting rose at 2.55 p.m. 
to  reinforcing 
to  promote 
Based  on 
52 

09-52586 
