
A/64/PV.49
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

49th plenary meeting 
Friday, 20 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 



The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 




take  action  on 
Agenda item 52 
Follow-up to and implementation of the outcome of 
the 2002 International Conference on Financing for 
Development and the 2008 Review Conference 
  Report of the Second Committee (A/64/419) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  If  there  is  no 

proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, may I 
take it that the General Assembly decides not to discuss 
the  report  of  the  Second  Committee  that  is  before  the 
Assembly today? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now 
the  draft  decision 
recommended by the Second Committee in paragraph 9 
of its report. The Second Committee adopted the draft 
decision. May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do 
the same?  
The draft decision was adopted. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  Sweden,  who  wishes  to 
speak  in  explanation  of  position  on  the  decision  just 
adopted. 
Mr.  Lidén  (Sweden):  The  European  Union  was 

able to go along with the decision just adopted, but not 
without some regrets. We think it is highly unfortunate 
that  we  are  put  in  a  situation  where  we  have  to 
postpone  a  high-level  event  at  such  short  notice,  and 

we think that this is not good for the credibility of the 
United  Nations.  We  understand  that  we  have  been 
promised a written explanation from the Secretariat on 
what went wrong in preparing for the event. That will 
certainly help our capitals to better understand why the 
high-level dialogue had to be postponed. 

We would also like to underline the importance of 
not  ending  up  in  the  same  situation  once  more.  The 
European Union is ready to engage in consultations on 
new dates for the dialogue, but we have to prepare this 
decision on new dates carefully so as to ensure the high 
quality of the meeting and its preparations. 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 52. 





Agenda items 10 and 108 
Report of the Peacebuilding Commission (A/64/341)  
Report of the Secretary-General on the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/64/217)  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/881)  

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Members  will 

recall  that  the  General  Assembly,  by  its  decision 
63/517  of  14  September  2009,  deferred  to  the  sixty-
fourth  session  its  consideration  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  peacebuilding  in  the  immediate 
aftermath  of  conflict  (A/63/881)  under  the  agenda 
items 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission” and “Report of the Secretary-General on 
the Peacebuilding Fund”.  
“Report 
entitled 
of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-61513 (E) 
*0961513* 




A/64/PV.49 


In  recent  years,  peacebuilding  has  come  to  be 
recognized as an essential and integral component of a 
comprehensive  approach  to  peace  and  development. 
The  challenge  of  assisting  countries  emerging  from 
conflict  to  move  towards  sustainable  peace  and  the 
imperative  of  preventing  a  relapse  into  conflict  was 
duly  acknowledged  by  the  2005  World  Summit.  The 
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  as  the  new  United  Nations 
institutional  architecture  was  a 
logical  outcome, 
responding  to  the  need  for  a  more  coherent  system-
wide approach and strengthened capacity for successful 
peacebuilding. 

This joint debate, now in its fourth year, provides 
a  useful  opportunity  to  the  general  membership  to 
assess  the  performance  of  the  new  peacebuilding 
architecture  and 
to  suggest  ways  and  means  of 
improving it further. We need to reflect deeply on how 
and  to  what  extent  the  vision  and  objectives  of 
peacebuilding  have  been  put  into  practice.  We  should 
always  keep  in  mind  that  for  the  millions  of  people 
struggling  to  win  back  their  future  from  a  past 
shattered  by  conflict  and  devastation,  what  matters 
most  is  the  tangible  benefits  on  the  ground  and  the 
improvement  in  their  daily  lives  brought  about  by 
peacebuilding. These people are the best judges of their 
priorities  and  interests.  Their  voices  should  be  heard 
first and foremost. That is why the principle of national 
ownership 
the  cornerstone  of  an  effective 
peacebuilding partnership.  

Such a partnership must also address the complex 
underlying issues — the interlinked military, political, 
development,  humanitarian  and  other  dimensions  of 
conflict  situations.  Sustained 
integrated  strategies 
backed  by  adequate  resources  are  required  to  respond 
to  these  challenges.  Such  strategies  also  entail  a  more 
effective 
between 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  activities.  It  is  a 
serious  undertaking,  and  its  success  depends  on  the 
commitment  and  collective  political  will  of  Member 
States.  

It  is  this  commitment  and  support  that  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  must  continue  to  enjoy, 
given  its  important  mandate,  which  it  has  carried  out 
quite  admirably  since  2006.  The  upcoming  review  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  mandated  by 
the 
founding  resolutions  —  Assembly  resolution  60/180 
and  Security  Council  1645  (2005)  —  will,  I  hope, 
to  renew  our 
provide  an  opportunity  not  only 
operational 
interface 
and 
is 
to 
the 
floor 
I  now  give 
commitment  to  the  cause  of  peacebuilding  but  also  to 
ensure that the peacebuilding architecture is adequately 
equipped and adapted to perform its core mandates.  

I have been in consultation with the President of 
the  Security  Council  regarding  the  process  for  this 
review.  We  have  agreed  that  the  review  needs  to  be 
conducted  in  an  open  and  inclusive  manner.  To  that 
end, I intend to appoint two facilitators. 

I  hope  this  review  will  prioritize  the  effective 
delivery of political and economic support to countries 
emerging  from  conflict  and  that  Member  States  will 
combine their energies to reach an outcome that meets 
the  high  expectations  of  people  around  the  world  for 
more  responsive,  effective  and  efficient  peacebuilding 
by the United Nations. 

the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Chile  to  the  United  Nations,  who  is 
also the Chairman of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Mr. Muñoz (Chile): On behalf of the members of 

the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC), I am pleased to 
present  the  report  of  the  Commission  on  its  third 
session (A/64/341).  

The  annual  debates  on  peacebuilding  in  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  not  only 
provide a platform for reviewing and guiding the work 
of 
its  parent  organs.  Most 
important, they provide for broader engagement of the 
United  Nations  membership  in  addressing  the  critical 
challenge of post-conflict peacebuilding.  
This year, the General Assembly and the Security 

Council  were  also  presented  with  an  additional  report 
by  the  Secretary-General  on  peacebuilding  in  the 
immediate  aftermath  of  a  conflict  (A/63/881).  The 
report, which received significant input from the PBC, 
highlighted  the  increasing  emphasis  that  the  United 
Nations 
is  placing  on  securing  a  coherent  and 
integrated  global  response  to  the  challenges  in  post-
conflict situations.  

that 
report,  while  it  is  not  the  only  actor  in  post-conflict 
situations, the United Nations is increasingly expected 
to  play  a  leadership  role  in  the  field,  facilitating 
engagement  between  national  and  international  actors 
and among international actors. The PBC is the central 
intergovernmental  body  of  the  United  Nations  that  is 
mandated to ensure that the Organization indeed leads 
the  Secretary-General  mentioned 
the  Commission  by 
As 
in 
2 

09-61513 
(PBSO), 
to  highlight 
suffering  of 
Support  Office 
towards  alleviating 


the  way 
the 
populations in post-conflict situations.  

Along with the Peacebuilding Fund (PBF) and the 
Peacebuilding 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  continues  to  promote  the 
nexus  between  security  and  development  and  a 
strategic vision for sustaining and consolidating peace, 
avoiding a relapse into violence, strengthening the rule 
of  law  and  ensuring  respect  and  promotion  of  human 
rights.  
With  its  unique  membership  and  its  flexible 

approach to engaging assisting and potential actors and 
partners,  the  Commission  continues  to  be  a  viable 
instrument  to  improve  the  United  Nations  response  to 
the needs and priorities of post-conflict countries.  

The  report  of  the  PBC  on  its  third  session 
represents  a  collective  effort  by  the  members  of  the 
Organizational  Committee 
the  most 
important  facts  and  analysis  pertinent  to  the  activities 
undertaken  by 
its  various  configurations.  It  also 
provides observations on the possible way forward.  

The report reflects the ongoing progress made by 
the  PBC  in  engaging  the  countries  on  its  agenda. 
Moreover,  the  Commission  addressed  a  number  of 
critical  policy  questions  and 
learned  of 
particular  relevance  to  its  overarching  mandate  as  an 
institutional  mechanism  dedicated  to  addressing  the 
special needs of post–conflict countries. 

As  indicated  in  the  conclusions  of  the  report  on 
its  third  session,  the  Commission  has  consolidated  its 
core advisory role and demonstrated increasing support 
for  the  countries  on  its  agenda.  In  doing  so,  the 
Commission  has  continued  to  broaden  and  deepen  its 
partnership with critical actors. This is an essential step 
forward  as  the  Commission  strives  to  ensure  the 
operational  relevance  of  its  advice  and  promote  the 
coherence of peacebuilding strategies. 

to 
strengthen  its  linkage  with  the  General Assembly,  the 
Security  Council  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council.  Indeed,  the  reporting  period  witnessed  an 
important  breakthrough 
the 
relationship  with  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
through the participation of the PBC Chairperson in the 
Council’s 2009 substantive session and an exchange of 
views  with  Council  members  on  the  important  nexus 
between 
and 
First  and  foremost, 
the  PBC  continued 
to  deepen 
in  efforts 
recovery 
security, 
conflict 
lessons 
from 
A/64/PV.49
to 
financial 
testimony 
international 
development.  In  addition,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and the PBC jointly organized a special event, 
in  collaboration  with  the  World  Food  Programme,  on 
the food and economic crisis in post-conflict countries. 
The  event  was 
the  Commission’s 
continued concern with the challenge of providing for 
the  basic  needs  and  economic  needs  of  populations 
emerging from conflict. 

The  Chair  of  the  Commission  also  met  with  the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
and  sixty-fourth  sessions  in  order  to  apprise  the 
Assembly  of  the  most  important  developments  in  the 
activities  of  the  Commission.  The  engagement  of  the 
wider  membership  through  the Assembly  is  crucial  to 
ensure broader ownership and contribution of Member 
States  with  respect  to  the  evolving  United  Nations 
peacebuilding agenda.  

The  PBC  also  continued  to  expand  partnerships 
with  numerous  national,  regional  and  international 
actors,  including  United  Nations  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes, 
institutions, 
regional  organizations,  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society. 
for 

peacebuilding, 
recently 
concluded visit to African Union headquarters in Addis 
Ababa, in which I was accompanied by my colleagues 
the  Vice-Chair,  the  Chairs  of  the  country-specific 
configurations and the Chair of the Working Group on 
Lessons  Learned,  and supported by the PBSO and the 
United Nations Liaison Office to the African Union. 
I paid similar outreach visits to the Organization 

of  American  States, 
financial 
institutions headquartered in Washington, D.C., and the 
European  Commission’s  headquarters 
in  Brussels. 
These 
and 
strengthening  dialogue  with  those  key  regional  and 
international partners, whose contributions and support 
to  peacebuilding  in  countries  on  the  Commission’s 
agenda, and globally, are crucial. 

With  regard  to  the  activities  of  the  various 
configurations of the PBC, it is important to underscore 
that  the  Organizational  Committee,  representing  the 
core  group  of  PBC  members,  continued  to  address 
possible  approaches  to  enhancing  its  capacity  to 
implement  its  core  mandates  and  adapt  to  prevailing 
global  realities  and  evolving  approaches  to  critical 
peacebuilding  priorities.  To  this  end,  the  Committee 
essential 
to  highlight 
In  mentioning 
international 
partnerships 
contributed 
deepening 
I  wish 
visits 
the 
the 
to 
09-61513 

3 
in 
for 
countries; 
review  of 
architecture 
post-conflict 
In  addition, 
the  Chair  of 
seminars,  workshops, 
this  end,  our  participation 
A/64/PV.49 

convened a number of meetings and discussions, which 
are enumerated in the report. 

I  wish  to  underscore  the  important  discussions 
that 
the  Committee  convened  on 
the  following 
subjects: enhancing the capacity of the PBC to fulfil its 
resource  mobilization  mandate;  employment  and 
sector 
income  generation,  as  well  as  private 
development 
the 
implications  of 
the  financial  crisis  on  countries 
emerging from conflict; the United Nations rule of law 
coordination  strategy 
in  countries  emerging  from 
conflict;  and,  most  recently,  the  prospects  for  the 
the  United  Nations 
mandated  2010 
peacebuilding 
and 
improving 
engagement  with  countries  seeking  the  Commission’s 
advice. 

the  Commission 
undertook  a  number  of  activities  to  raise  global 
awareness of the challenges facing countries emerging 
from  conflict.  To 
in 
numerous 
public  media 
interviews  and  special  events  served  as  an  important 
platform for advocacy on behalf of the countries on the 
PBC agenda and on general peacebuilding challenges. 

Recently,  these  activities  resulted,  among  other 
things,  in  a  unique  contribution  to  the  PBF  from 
proceeds  of  a  commemorative  digital  version  of  John 
Lennon  and  Yoko  Ono’s  classic  song  “Give  Peace  a 
Chance”. I invite members to download it from iTunes, 
because this will support peacebuilding activities. 
The  linkage  of  United  Nations  peacebuilding 

activities  to  the  world  of  celebrities  is  deemed  to  be 
important 
raising  awareness  and  encouraging 
contributions  to  noble  United  Nations  causes  at  the 
level of the general public. To that end, the PBC is also 
working 
for 
peacebuilding from among a number of possible sports 
and  arts  celebrities.  In  addition,  the  country-specific 
configurations  continued 
the  design  and 
monitoring of the progress in the implementation of the 
strategic  frameworks  for  peacebuilding  in  the  four 
countries on the PBC agenda.  
the  Central  African  Republic, 

Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone, the Chairs of the four 
configurations  regularly  visit  the  four  countries  and 
interact with high-level national officials, civil society, 
partners  and  senior  United  Nations  officials  at  the 
the  PBC 
country 
four  countries, 
On  Burundi, 
ambassador 
appointing 
level. 
In 
the 
in 
on 
an 
to 
lead 

of 
the 
and 
system 
national 
continues 
ownership 
reintegration, 
collectively 
and 
the  Commission’s  configurations, 
to  promote 
membership 
inclusiveness 
the 
peacebuilding  processes.  While  facing  a  number  of 
country-specific  challenges  in  the  areas  of  resources, 
capacity,  political  commitment  and  coherence,  the 
Commission  provided  a  viable  political  platform  to 
address these challenges and seek the partnerships that 
are needed to help drive the coherence of activities and 
deliver tangible dividends on the ground. 

Finally,  the  Working  Group  on  Lessons  Learned 
continued  to  provide  an  informal  platform  for  the 
Peacebuilding Commission to draw on the expertise of 
practitioners  from  within  and  outside  the  United 
Nations  system,  as  well  from  countries  with  certain 
experience in post-conflict peacebuilding. The Working 
Group also continued to seek useful ties with the work 
the  United 
of 
Nations 
larger  peacebuilding 
community. To this end, the discussions on rule of law 
assistance, 
regional 
sustainable 
approaches 
to  disarmament,  demobilization  and 
reintegration,  and  the  role  of  national  dialogue  in 
peacebuilding  address  critical  priorities  for  one  or 
more countries on the PBC agenda. 

Throughout  its  various  configurations,  the  PBC 
received  substantive  support  from  the  PBSO.  The 
Office  continues  to  provide  the  PBC  with  essential 
linkage with the operational entities within and outside 
the  United  Nations  system.  The  PBSO  continued  to 
give  regular  quarterly  briefings  to  the  Organizational 
Committee on the activities and operations of the PBF. 
These  briefings  continued  to  deepen  the  strategic 
linkage  between  the  Commission  and  the  PBF  and 
provided the Commission with regular opportunities to 
provide overall policy guidance on the use of the Fund 
in  support  of  the  strategic  objectives  of  peacebuilding 
in the countries under PBC consideration. The synergy 
between  the  PBC  and  the  PBF  is  something  to 
strengthen even more. 
As the United Nations peacebuilding agenda and 

its  ties  with  other  peacebuilding  actors  expand,  the 
Office’s  scope  and  areas  of  support  will  continue  to 
expand  as  well.  The  Office’s  human  and  substantive 
resources will thus need to be further enhanced. 

The recent appointment by the Secretary-General 
of Judy Cheng-Hopkins as Assistant Secretary-General 
and  head  of  the  PBSO  brings  capable  leadership  with 
significant  field  experience  to  manage  the  support 
4 

09-61513 
response 
remains, 
is  daunting.  Likewise, 
the  nexus  among  security,  rule  of 


provided  to  the  PBC  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
operations of the PBF on the other. 

Three  years  since  the  operationalization  of  the 
milestone  decision  of  the  2005  World  Summit  to 
establish the PBC, the PBF and the PBSO, the United 
Nations  peacebuilding  agenda  is  expanding  in  scope 
and depth. Peacebuilding is an area that may contribute 
to further defining the image of the Organization in the 
coming years. Peacebuilding is unique in that it serves 
as 
law  and 
development  while  it  supports  the  laying  of  the 
foundation  for  sustainable  peace  and  development. 
That is, undoubtedly, its primary strength. 

At  the  same  time,  with  multiple  actors  involved 
in  a  range  of  humanitarian,  security  and  development 
activities,  the  challenge  of  ensuring  a  coherent  and 
integrated 
the 
principles  of  national  ownership  and  inclusiveness 
have  been  pivotal  in  the  work  of  the  Commission 
during these past years.  

While we can certainly identify initial progress in 
linking  up  the  advisory  role  of  the  Commission  with 
the United Nations and non-United Nations operational 
entities, 
in  my  view, 
underutilized. The Commission combines a unique link 
to  the  three  principle  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  a 
unique  composition  of  membership  and  a  unique 
degree of flexibility to engage non-United Nations and 
non-governmental actors. Thus, the Commission could, 
in  particular,  promote  a  seamless  transition  from 
humanitarian  to  early  recovery  assistance,  synergy 
between peacekeeping and peacebuilding mandates and 
national capacity development in critical peacebuilding 
priorities.  
As  indicated  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his 

report on peacebuilding in the immediate aftermath of 
conflict (A/63/881), the Commission has a critical role 
to  play  in  championing  and  promoting  the  agenda 
outlined  in  the  report.  The  Commission  is  certainly 
positioned  to  help  realize  a  number  of  important 
actions recommended by the Secretary-General in that 
report. 
In  addition,  the  envisioned  2010  review  of  the 

Commission’s  founding  resolutions  will  provide  a 
prime  opportunity  to  further  build  on  the  experiences 
gained,  define  its  potential  role  in  support  of  an 
expanded  United  Nations  peacebuilding  agenda  and 
the  Commission 
A/64/PV.49
its  support 
to  countries  emerging  from 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 
enhance 
conflict. 

In taking the lead in the 2010 review, the General 
Assembly and the Security Council will be charting an 
important course for the future relevance of the United 
Nations  in  tackling  post-conflict  situations.  That  will 
be  a  challenging  task  for  our  collective  capacity  to 
deliver  on  the  promises  and  ideals  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  to  respond  to  the  needs  of  the 
most vulnerable people of the world. 

today on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of 

Macedonia,  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro, Serbia, Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova 
and Armenia align themselves with this statement. 

Supporting countries emerging from conflict is a 
moral obligation and responsibility of the international 
community.  We  must  not  fail  to  meet  that  challenge. 
The  United  Nations,  with  its  global  legitimacy  and 
broad  range  of  tools,  has  a  central  role  and  a  clear 
added  value  in  supporting  countries  emerging  from 
violent conflict to build sustainable peace. 

That  is  why  the  European  Union  has  actively 
engaged in the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC) since 
its establishment in 2005. We remain firmly committed 
to  working  with  all  stakeholders 
the 
peacebuilding architecture a success. The 2010 review 
is  a  timely  opportunity  to  reinvigorate  the  vision 
behind 
the  Commission  and  generate  a  common 
understanding on the way forward. 

The  Commission  is  mandated  to  bring  together 
all  relevant  actors,  marshal  resources  and  to  provide 
advice  based  on  integrated  strategies.  This  makes  the 
Commission  a  forum  for  policy  coordination  at  the 
strategic  level  among  key  international  actors.  The 
Commission  can  further  play  a  central  role 
in 
addressing  critical  gaps  in  peacebuilding  efforts  and 
contribute  to  increased  coherence  between  security, 
development and humanitarian actors. 

The  Commission  is  also  becoming  an  important 
framework for mutual accountability, under which host 
Governments  and  the  international  community  can  be 
held to account mutually against agreed commitments. 
The  membership  of 
the  Commission  provides 
international legitimacy to deliver effectively on those 
roles. 
in  making 
09-61513 

5 
facilitate 
the  advisory 
the  early 
A/64/PV.49 


In  order  for  the  Commission  to  deliver  on  its 
potential, a higher level of commitment and ownership 
of  the  PBC  agenda  by  its  members  is  central.  As 
members of the Commission, we must ensure that our 
commitments  translate  into  policies  and  actions  in  the 
countries  on  the  PBC  agenda  as  well  as  in  relevant 
multilateral organizations. 

The  European  Union  would  welcome  a  more 
structured relationship, including increased interaction, 
between  the  Commission  and  the  Security  Council. 
role  of 
That  would 
the 
Commission  and  promote 
inclusion  of 
peacebuilding  perspectives 
in  Security  Council 
considerations and decisions. A central challenge is to 
making  better  use  of  synergies  between  peacebuilding 
and peacekeeping. 

Effective support to post-conflict countries builds 
on  national  ownership.  Therefore,  the  EU  encourages 
the  Commission  to  be  flexible  in  its  engagement, 
focusing on a limited set of priorities while building on 
existing capacities and strategies at the country level. 

The  success  of  the  international  community’s 
support for peacebuilding is determined by our ability 
to  support  national  efforts  on  the  ground.  In  that 
regard,  we  call  for  urgent  implementation  of  the 
recommendations  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
peacebuilding  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict 
(A/63/881). 

Enhanced United Nations leadership in country is 
needed to gather international support behind early and 
prioritized 
strengthened 
operational  capacity  in  core  peacebuilding  sectors  is 
required, 
timely 
deployment of civilian capacities. 

Financing  for  peacebuilding  and  early  recovery 
efforts  needs  to  be  predictable,  timely,  flexible  and 
well-coordinated.  That  requires  political  courage  as 
investing 
involves  risks. 
Donor practices and mechanisms need to be improved 
to better manage such risks. 

The  Peacebuilding  Fund,  with  the  potential  to 
disburse quick and flexible funding, should play a key 
role  in  complementing  existing  funding  mechanisms. 
As committed contributors to the Peacebuilding Fund, 
we look forward to the Fund reaching its full potential. 

Let me take this opportunity to warmly welcome 
Assistant  Secretary-General  Ms.  Judy  Cheng-Hopkins 
in  post-conflict  contexts 
strategies.  Furthermore, 
improved 
including 
and 
by 

solid 
input 
in  providing 
the  multiple  arduous 
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  It 
the  caucus  of  countries  of 
as head of the Peacebuilding Support Office. A strong 
Support  Office  will  play  a  key  role  in  bringing  the 
United  Nations  system  together  on  peacebuilding 
issues  and 
to  PBC 
deliberations. 

We  look  to  the  Secretary-General  for  strong 
leadership  in  advancing  the  peacebuilding  agenda  in 
the  United  Nations  and  beyond.  The  European  Union 
will continue to actively support efforts to better assist 
countries in building sustainable peace. 

is  my  honour  as 
coordinator  of 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  that  are  members  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  to  address  the 
General Assembly  on  behalf  of  NAM  on  the  occasion 
of the Commission’s third annual report as contained in 
document A/64/341. 

The  third  annual  report  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  reviews  activities  of  the  Commission  for 
the period 23 June 2008 to 30 June 2009 and, like the 
two  previous  annual  reports  on  the  work  of  the 
Commission,  reflects 
tasks 
undertaken by the Commission to confront and address 
the many challenges faced over the period. 

The  report  is  indeed  a  very  comprehensive 
document  and  presents  an  accurate  assessment  and  a 
genuine  record  of  the  Commission’s  work  over  the 
period  in  question.  The  report  makes  it  clear  that 
efforts  aimed  at  consolidating  peace  and  laying  the 
foundations  for  rehabilitation,  sustained  economic 
recovery  and  development  must  be  done  in  a  holistic 
manner.  During  the  review  period,  the  Commission 
was  able  to  build  on  the  notable  progress  achieved 
during  its  two  previous  sessions.  It  remained  focused 
on  fulfilling  its  mandate  in  key  areas;  in  others, 
however, serious consideration will have to be given to 
implementing  new  strategies  and  approaches  aimed  at 
enhancing  the  Commission’s  capacity  to  keep  abreast 
of  prevailing  global  realities  crucial  to  peacebuilding 
priorities  in  post-conflict  societies,  particularly  those 
on its immediate agenda. 

tasks  remain  arduous  and  quite 
challenging, the Commission, with the assistance of the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  has  indeed  produced 
promising and positive achievements in its operations, 
as  confirmed  in  the  overall  assessments  by  Member 
States.  We  are  also  encouraged  by  the  concrete  steps 
taken to consolidate post-conflict recovery and towards 
While 
the 
6 

09-61513 
the  Commission  and 
increased 
the  Chair  of 
the  foundations  for  socio-economic 


strengthening 
development in the countries under consideration. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  remains 
convinced  that  the  Organizational  Committee  must 
play the central role in steering and providing guidance 
for  the  overall  work  of  the  Commission,  and  in  this 
regard  we  welcome  the  increased  frequency  of  the 
Committee’s meetings over the period. Those meetings 
yielded  tremendous  added  value,  including  building 
and strengthening partnerships, which are so crucial for 
the  Commission’s  work,  as  well  as  creating  a  very 
useful platform for the ongoing appraisal and review of 
strategies  addressing  approaches  to  confronting  and 
implementing its mandates, and for the development of 
the Commission’s work programme. We also welcome 
the  convening  of  several  discussions  that  resulted  in 
important  recommendations  aimed  at  improving  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Commission  and  the  activities 
undertaken by the Chair on its behalf. 
interaction  and  collaboration 

The 
between 
the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  is 
indeed  a  very  welcome  step  in  the  right  direction. 
However,  the  NAM  takes  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
its previous request that this interaction be expanded to 
include  the  wider  membership  of  the  Commission, 
including the country-specific configurations. We have 
reason  to  believe  that  our  call  has  not  fallen  on  deaf 
ears, as we have already seen progress in that direction. 
Our desire, therefore, is to emphasize the need for the 
trend  to  continue,  throughout  and  beyond  the  fourth 
session,  and  become  a  feature  of  the  Commission’s 
working methods. 

At  the  same  time,  the  NAM  endorses  and  fully 
supports the various activities undertaken by the Chair 
on behalf of the Commission in an effort to strengthen 
the  relationship  between  the  relevant  actors.  This  is 
line  with 
improve 
coordination  of  all  relevant  actors  on  the  ground  in 
peacebuilding  efforts  within  and  outside  the  United 
Nations system, regional and subregional organizations 
and international financial institutions. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  is  of  the  opinion 
that,  during  the  period  under  review,  while  ongoing 
efforts  to  increase  public  awareness  and  visibility  of 
the  Commission  were  satisfactory,  the  target  audience 
seemed  to  be  more  academics  and  less  the  average 
the  Commission’s  mandate 
to 
A/64/PV.49
takes 
including 
to  call  for 
the  development  of 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
person. The NAM is of the view that peacebuilding and 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  are  everybody’s 
business, and in that light, every possible effort should 
be made to take its mandate and activities to the wider 
public  domain, 
the  mainstream  media, 
globally. 

We  nevertheless  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
Chairman,  who,  with  the  assistance  of  a  range  of 
existing and potential actors, stakeholders and partners, 
took  the  message  of  the  Commission,  as  part  of  the 
outreach  and  advocacy  strategy,  to  raise  awareness 
about  it  during  the  review  period.  Additionally,  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  sees  the  decision  to  appoint 
goodwill  ambassadors  as  a  positive,  innovative  step 
that  could  well  result  in  heightened  awareness  and 
appreciation of the important work and activities of the 
Commission. 
this 

opportunity 
the 
Commission’s  own  rules  of  procedure  and  working 
methods. We are confident that clearly defined rules in 
these  areas  will contribute  to the efficacy, consistency 
and  transparency  of  the  work  of  the  Commission. 
Every  effort  should  therefore  be  made  to  address  this 
anomaly  in  the  fourth  session.  At  the  same  time,  the 
findings  of  the  Commission’s  Working  Group  on 
Lessons  Learned,  ably  chaired  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of El Salvador, must at this juncture be 
incorporated into the overall strategy and policy of the 
Commission’s  work.  It  is  not  enough  only  to  discuss 
lessons  learned;  the  findings  must  also  positively 
impact the work of the Commission. 

The Non-Aligned Movement continues to lament 
the  seeming  scant  regard  for,  or  lack  of  sufficient 
attention 
to, 
of 
dimension 
peacebuilding 
country-specific 
configurations  of  the  Commission.  Greater  emphasis 
needs  to  be  placed  on  areas  such  as  education  and 
infrastructural 
training, 
development, 
reform 
and 
development —  with  an  emphasis  on  job  creation  and 
funding to  facilitate enhanced investment activities  — 
if countries are not to relapse into conflict. 

The Non-Aligned Movement looks forward to the 
2010 review of the work of the Commission. This will 
be  an  opportunity  not  only  to  take  stock  of  the 
Commission’s  work  but,  equally  important,  to  make 
efforts  to  improve  the  pursuit  and  accomplishment  of 
development 
the 
the 
efforts 
rural 
agricultural 
and 
in 
private 
sector 
09-61513 

7 

to 
that 
looks 
forward 
they  will  address 
the  Fund,  hoping 
A/64/PV.49 

its  core  mandate.  The  NAM  intends  to  participate 
actively  in  the  consultation  and  review  processes. 
Those  processes  should  continue  to  be  based  on  the 
principle  of  national  ownership  of  the  peacebuilding 
process by the countries on the Commission’s agenda, 
and  should  also  include  countries  potentially  on  that 
agenda, as well as other stakeholders. Preparations for 
the  2010  review  process  should  begin  as  early  as 
possible,  so  as  to  facilitate  input  from  all  concerned 
parties. 

Among  the  undoubted  highlights  of  the  period 
under  review  was  the  General Assembly’s  adoption  in 
June of resolution 63/282, approving the revision of the 
terms  of  reference  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  (PBF), 
the  aim  of  which  is  to  serve  as  a  flexible,  responsive 
and  focused  resource  for  peacebuilding  support.  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement 
the 
immediate application of the revised terms of reference 
of 
the 
management,  operational  and  procedural  challenges 
encountered  during  the  initial  phase  of  the  Fund’s 
operation. This will help to provide a solid foundation 
to  ensure  that  post-conflict  countries  benefit  from 
funds  approved  for  disbursement  by  the  Fund  in  a 
timely manner. The quarterly briefings provided by the 
Support Office on the operation, utilization and project 
earmarks of the Fund have undoubtedly been a helpful 
addition  to  the  Commission’s  activities  during  the 
period, keeping the Commission informed of activities 
relating  to  the  Fund.  The  NAM  looks  forward  to  the 
continuation of such useful briefings. 
this 

opportunity  to  express  its  appreciation  to  Mr.  Heraldo 
Muñoz, the Permanent Representative of Chile, for his 
very  active  tenure  as  Chair  of  the  Commission  during 
its 
the 
Commission consolidated its position and enhanced its 
profile  within 
international  community  and 
developed  new  avenues  for  future  growth.  We  also 
thank  him  for  his  report  this  morning.  Permit  me  also 
on  behalf  of  the  Movement  to  express  appreciation  to 
the 
country-specific 
configurations, and the Chair of the Working Group on 
Lessons Learned, for their commitment and leadership, 
and  to  the  dedicated  and  hardworking  staff  of  the 
Peacebuilding Support Office. 

Ms. Juul (Norway): It is my pleasure to speak on 
behalf  of  the  Nordic  countries,  Denmark,  Finland, 
Iceland, Norway and Sweden. 
session.  Under  his  chairmanship 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
various  Chairs 
takes 
third 
the 
of 
the 
to 
support 
the  United  Nations 

Support  for  countries  emerging  from  violent 
conflict and the prevention of relapse into conflict is a 
key  international  responsibility.  Upon  establishing  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC),  the  international 
community agreed on the need to strengthen the ability 
of 
sustainable 
democratic development in the aftermath of conflict.  

The Nordic countries remain strong supporters of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  Now  well  into  its 
fourth session, the Commission is still very much in its 
infancy.  The  Nordic  countries  are  pleased  to  see  how 
the  Commission  has  been  able  to  adapt  to  and  learn 
from  new  experiences.  The  upcoming  2010  review 
process presents an important opportunity to take stock 
of  the  progress  made  so  far  and  plan  the  next  steps 
needed to strengthen our ability to deliver on the vision 
behind the Commission’s creation. 

Let me take this occasion to focus on four topics: 
national ownership, the importance of coordination and 
coherence, the responsibility of Member States, and the 
role of women in peacebuilding. 

First, our yardstick of success must be the degree 
to which the Commission helps prevent countries on its 
agenda from relapsing into violent conflict. That means 
that it will be especially important for the PBC to build 
engagement  for  national  priorities  and  be  receptive  to 
feedback  from  national  authorities  and  local  and 
international  organizations  in  the  field.  Supporting 
civilian  capacities  in  fragile  States  is  equally  vital  to 
consolidating  peace  and  promoting  genuine  national 
ownership.  We  would 
the 
Commission’s Sierra Leone configuration for the agile 
and  speedy  adoption  of  the Agenda  for  Change  of  the 
Government  of  Sierra  Leone  as  the  core  strategy 
guiding 
international 
development  efforts.  The  Nordic  countries  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  highlight  the  need  for 
ensuring that experiences and lessons from the field are 
incorporated into the upcoming review of the PBC. 

Our  second  point,  which  is  intimately  connected 
to  the  first,  is  that  the  PBC  must  take  care  not  to 
duplicate  work  already  done  by  other  organizations, 
agencies and actors. The strength of the PBC lies in its 
ability  to  bring  together  relevant  actors,  marshal 
resources  and  support  the  development  of  integrated 
strategies. The Commission’s country-specific strategic 
frameworks  must  not  produce  new  sets  of  priorities, 
but  should  primarily  help  to  ensure  that  existing 
commend 
national 
future 
like 
and 
all 
to 
8 

09-61513 
the  Security  Council  and 


frameworks  and  agreed  upon  priorities 
receive 
adequate  international  attention  and  are  adhered  to  by 
international and national actors.  

The  PBC  should  act  as  a  focal  point  for  all 
interested parties engaged in peacebuilding in order to 
ensure  coordination  among  all  relevant  actors.  It 
should  also  seek  to  further  improve  its  coordinated 
headquarters  approach  to  peacebuilding  in  order  to 
ensure greater coherence between the political mandate 
given  by 
the  many 
development  and  humanitarian  mandates  of  United 
Nations agencies. 

Thirdly, as Member States, we need to take a hard 
look  at  ourselves,  too.  For  the  PBC  to  be  able  to 
contribute  to  coherence,  Member  States  themselves 
need  to  have  coherent  peacebuilding  policies.  That 
means that we must maintain a consistent approach in 
our bilateral and multilateral actions. We cannot expect 
the  PBC  to  be  able  to  promote  coordination  if  we  are 
not  able  or  willing  to  be  coherent.  In  essence,  we 
cannot expect the PBC to be an institutional quick fix 
to what is essentially a problem of inadequate political 
will  and  attention.  We,  the  Member  States,  must  also 
ensure that we mobilize and maintain the political will 
that  is  needed  to  agree  on  and  implement  a  truly 
coordinated peacebuilding approach. 

to 
highlight  the  importance  of  adequately  reflecting  the 
key  role  of  women  in  delivering  sustainable  peace  as 
we renew our efforts together. The condition of women 
and  girls  is  often  a  clear  indication  of  how  far 
peacebuilding efforts have come. In the past few years, 
we  have 
the 
seen  a  growing 
international  community  of 
importance  of 
providing  women  with  the  opportunity  to  take  part  in 
their  countries’  peacebuilding  efforts,  thereby  laying 
the  foundation  for  a  more  realistic  and  representative 
perspective of what the population in question requires 
in  order  to  be  able  to  return  to  a  peaceful  existence. 
Through  the  integration  of  gender  language  in  the 
Peacebuilding Commission’s formative resolutions and 
continuous 
has 
reinforced  the  formal  status  of  the  “women  and  peace 
and  security”  norm.  Moreover,  the  recently  adopted 
Security  Council  resolution  1889  (2009)  requires  that 
steps  be  taken  to  ensure  sufficient  funding  to  meet 
women’s  needs  in  post-conflict  situations  and  to 
address  the  participation  of  women  in  post-conflict 
planning. These  are  important  steps  that  re-emphasize 
recognition  by 
the 
the  Nordic  countries  would 
the  Commission 
deliberations, 
Lastly, 
like 
A/64/PV.49
to 
to 
like 
to 
take 
ensure 
the  PBSO 
the  new  head  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
the  message  of  Council  resolution  1325  (2000):  the 
place for women is not at the margins, but in the centre 
of decision-making forums. 

Mr.  Christian  (Ghana),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
In  conclusion,  we  would 

this 
opportunity  to  welcome  Assistant  Secretary-General 
Judy  Cheng-Hopkins  as 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
(PBSO).  She  has 
important  and  difficult  challenges  ahead.  The  recent 
evaluation of the Peacebuilding Fund and the  revision 
of  the  terms  of  reference  for  the  Fund  identified 
important  challenges  that  required  the  attention  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
full 
implementation  of  the  Fund’s  mandate.  Let  me  assure 
the Assembly that the PBSO will have our full support 
in addressing these issues. In this regard, we welcome 
as  an  early  example  of  renewed  efforts  to  play  a 
catalytic  role  the  recent  decision  to  make  a  large 
disbursement  by 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo for the purposes of 
combating  sexual  violence.  Ms.  Cheng-Hopkins  also 
proved  her  commitment  to  addressing  the  important 
role  of 
in  promoting  and  enhancing 
communication  between  field  level  and  headquarters 
by visiting the field immediately after being appointed. 
The Nordic countries commend her for that and assure 
her of our continued support in her work.  
We  also  welcome  the  strong  leadership  of  the 

Secretary-General 
the  peacebuilding 
agenda  as  we  enter  a  process  aiming  to  further 
strengthen  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  deliver 
in 
this  field.  The  Nordic  countries  reaffirm  our 
continued  commitment  to  a  strong  United  Nations  in 
delivering on an ambitious peacebuilding vision. 

Mr.  Srivali  (Thailand):  Thailand  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Jamaica on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
the 

of 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  (A/64/341)  and 
commends  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Chile  for 
his leadership in guiding the work of the Commission. 
We 
the  country-specific 
configurations  and  the  Working  Group  on  Lessons 
Learned  and  the  head  of  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office  (PBSO)  for 
their  active  and  constructive 
engagement with all stakeholders to advance the cause 
of peacebuilding. 
Thailand  welcomes 
the  Chairs  of 
in  advancing 
the 
report 
thank 
09-61513 

9 

to 
that 
that 
the  Fund’s  contributions 
A/64/PV.49 


Thailand  also  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for 
his report on the Peacebuilding Fund (PBF) (A/64/217) 
and  welcomes 
the 
advancement  of  peace,  security  and  development 
worldwide.  As  one  of  the  contributors,  Thailand  is 
pleased that the Fund, currently active in 12 countries, 
has been instrumental in laying a foundation for peace 
in  countries  that  have  recently  emerged  from  conflict 
and 
in  preventing  many  fragile  situations  from 
relapsing.  Since  its  establishment  three  years  ago,  the 
Commission, with the assistance of the Support Office, 
has  made  commendable  progress. 
It  has  been 
consolidating  its  core  advisory  role  and  support  for 
countries  on  its  agenda  and  providing  lessons  learned 
that will benefit many more countries. 
As  a  member  of  the  Commission,  Thailand  has 

consistently supported the Commission in its efforts to 
give priority to national ownership, strengthen national 
capacity  and  promote  inclusive  dialogue  among  the 
stakeholders.  We  believe 
inclusive  and 
nationally owned approach, with strong and consistent 
support  from  the  international  community,  will  help 
sustain  peace,  security  and  development  in  post-
conflict societies in the long term. 

Thailand  believes  that  security  and  development 
are closely intertwined and mutually dependent. In the 
pursuit  of  durable  peace,  therefore,  the  Commission 
should seek to advance both security and development 
in parallel. We agree that disarmament, demobilization 
and reintegration and security sector reform should be 
urgently  carried  out  in  any  peacebuilding  process.  At 
the same time, we strongly believe that issues such as 
employment, 
needs, 
education  and  developing  livelihoods  should  be  given 
no  less  attention  as  an  integral  part  of  post-conflict 
reintegration and rehabilitation. 

that  regard,  youth  and  women  have  an 
important  role  to  play  in  peacebuilding.  Successfully 
meeting  their  needs  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of 
conflict  presents  both  opportunity  and  challenge  for 
peacebuilding  programmes.  Youth,  if  exploited  or 
neglected,  can  be  a  destabilizing  factor  in  society. 
Women,  meanwhile,  are  often  highly  vulnerable  in 
conflict  and  post-conflict  situations.  Yet  both  groups 
have the potential to re-energize their economy and to 
heal the social fabric. That potential should be brought 
out  and  developed  to  encourage  greater  ownership  in 
the peacebuilding process. 
generation, 
income 
basic 
In 
in 
In 
the 
the 
that 
ensure 
between 
transition 
coherence 
importance  of 
the  Commission 
Thailand  believes 
their  early  presence  on 

from 
peacekeeping to peacebuilding should be seamless and 
their  roles  complementary.  Peacekeepers  should  build 
upon 
the  ground  and 
background  knowledge  about  the  relevant  actors  and 
the  conflict.  In  doing  so,  they  can  serve  as  early 
peacebuilders, provided they have a clear mandate and 
adequate resources. 

We  agree  with  the  recommendation  that  the 
Security  Council  should  more  actively  utilize  the 
the  Council’s 
advice  of 
consideration  of  post-conflict  situations. 
that 
connection,  Thailand  welcomes 
the  presidential 
statement  of  the  Security  Council  adopted  on  22  July 
2009  (S/PRST/2009/23),  under 
the  presidency  of 
Uganda, which recognizes the importance of launching 
peacebuilding  assistance  at  the  earliest  possible  stage. 
We  are  pleased  that  the  Council  has  affirmed,  in  its 
own  deliberations, 
the  early 
consideration of peacebuilding and that it has pledged 
to 
peacemaking, 
peacekeeping, peacebuilding and development in order 
to  achieve  an  early  and  effective  response  to  post-
conflict situations. 

In any post-conflict situation it is natural to have 
high expectations and a great sense of optimism about 
the  future. Thus,  it  is  vital  to  ensure  that  stakeholders 
in  society  benefit  equitably 
from  quick  peace 
dividends.  That  is  essential  for  continued  stability, 
which is a necessary condition for the revitalization of 
the political, economic and social life of a post-conflict 
society. 

In that context, Thailand fully supports enhancing 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  to  make  it  more  effective  and 
responsive  to  urgent  needs  on  the  ground.  We  also 
welcome its revised terms of reference, as endorsed by 
General  Assembly  resolution  63/282.  We  cannot 
emphasize enough the importance of a  quick response 
and  the  need  for  timely  and  predictable  funding  to 
support  peacebuilding  work.  We  therefore  encourage 
further  efforts  to  build  and  strengthen  the  partnership 
between  the  Fund  and  other  sources  of  funding,  so  as 
to  bridge  financial  gaps  and  allow  funding  flexibility 
for  urgent  situations.  Funding  peace  is  not  easy,  but 
allowing  hard-won  peace  to  relapse  into  conflict  is 
much more costly on so many levels. 

In that connection, Thailand encourages Member 
States,  especially  those  that  have  not  yet  done  so,  to 
10 

09-61513 
the 
same 
identified  by 


extend their support to the Fund. In-kind contributions 
and technical assistance through both North-South and 
South-South cooperation would be of immense value in 
assisting  ongoing  peacebuilding  efforts,  especially  in 
the light of declining financial aid owing to the global 
economic and financial crisis. We also support targeted 
disbursement  of  the  Fund,  which  would  enhance  its 
effectiveness  and  usefulness  as  a  catalyst  for  key 
peacebuilding  priorities 
recipient 
countries. Wherever possible, efforts should be made to 
maximize  the  synergy  between  the  Fund  and  the 
Commission. 
Synergy  also  needs  to  be  cultivated  among 

various  peacebuilding  efforts.  Efforts  within 
the 
framework  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  are  critically  important  in 
coordinating  and  mobilizing  system-wide  assistance 
for  post-conflict  countries.  At 
time, 
complementary  efforts  by  other  actors,  individual  and 
regional, should also be welcomed. Better coordination 
among  those  multiple  efforts  would  allow  for  more 
efficient resource allocation. The ultimate beneficiaries 
would  be  the  people  of  the  post-conflict  societies  that 
we are trying to help. 

While  the  Commission  has  made  significant 
progress, there is always room for improvement in any 
complicated endeavour such as this. Areas that deserve 
special  attention  include  strengthening  coordination 
with  partners,  developing  integrated  peacebuilding 
strategies,  addressing  funding  gaps  for  peacebuilding 
priorities in countries on its agenda and raising public 
awareness about the role of the Commission. 

In  that  regard,  we  look  forward  to  constructive 
consultations leading to a review of the Commission’s 
arrangements  in  2010.  Our  goal  is  to  build  on  the 
experience  that  the  Commission  has  gained  and  to 
further  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  its  support  for 
countries emerging from conflict. As a  member of the 
Commission’s  Organizational  Committee,  Thailand 
will continue to work closely with our partners in order 
to further improve and to strengthen the Commission. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I would 

like 
to 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  for  its  valuable 
report on its work during the past year (A/64/341) and 
to the Secretary-General  for his report on the work of 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  (A/64/217).  We  would  like  to 
express  our  thanks  to  His  Excellency  the  Permanent 
express  Egypt’s 
appreciation 
to 
A/64/PV.49
In 
that 
look 
forward 
regard,  we 
Representative of Chile for the report that he presented 
today  and  for  the  important  role  that  he  is  playing  in 
leading  the  work  of  the  Commission,  in  parallel  with 
the chairmanships of the regional groups. I would like 
to  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered  by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Egypt gave its full support to the establishment of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  2005,  based  on  its 
firm  belief  in  the  important  role  that  it  plays  in 
preventing  countries  emerging  from  conflict  from 
relapsing  back  into  conflict.  Furthermore,  since  2005, 
as a member of the Organizational Committee, we have 
supported  the  establishment  and  the  consolidation  of 
the concrete foundations needed for the Commission’s 
work.  We  also  contributed  to  the  review  of  the 
Peacebuilding Fund in 2009, in addition to the creation 
of  the  four  country-specific  configurations  within  the 
Commission,  all  of  which  resulted  in  the  reactivation 
and  reorganization  of 
its  mandate  and  working 
methods. 
to 
participating in the review process of the Commission 
in  2010  in  implementation  of  the  General  Assembly 
resolution adopted for that purpose. 

The  Commission  has  played  an  increasingly 
important role in recent years by initiating discussions, 
for example on the effectiveness of the United Nations 
in  conflict-resolution,  peacekeeping  and  post-conflict 
peacebuilding,  and  the  degree  of  coordination  and 
synchronization  required  among  the  three  phases,  as 
well  as  the  role  of  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations  in  comprehensively  addressing  post-conflict 
situations,  based  on  the  full  implementation  of  the 
provisions contained in the resolutions establishing the 
Peacebuilding  Commission, 
namely,  Assembly 
resolution 60/180 and Security Council resolution 1645 
(2005). 

Despite  the  controversy  that  arose  during  the 
negotiations  on  General  Assembly  resolution  60/180 
regarding 
synchronizing 
peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping  operations,  recent 
views  advocate  the  need  to  start  both  operations 
simultaneously.  Egypt  believes  that  such  views  merit 
careful  consideration  and  recognizes  the  need  to 
comprehensively  study  that  approach  with  a  view  to 
strengthening the essential link between peacekeeping, 
peacebuilding and overall development. The success of 
a  peacekeeping  operation  depends  primarily  on 
establishing  a  comprehensive  peace  agreement  to 
possibility 
the 
of 
09-61513 

11 

A/64/PV.49 

which all the parties involved are committed in order to 
create  the  enabling  environment  needed  to  launch  a 
peacebuilding  process 
to  develop  key 
building blocks for overall development, in accordance 
with the mandate of the Peacebuilding Commission, as 
stated 
in  paragraph  2  (b)  of  General  Assembly 
resolution 60/180:  
that  aims 
“To  focus  attention  on  the  reconstruction 

institution-building  efforts  necessary  for 
and 
recovery  from  conflict  and 
the 
development  of  integrated  strategies  in  order  to 
lay the foundation for sustainable development” 
to  support 
the 
foundations 
aimed at reaching the goals that we all wish to achieve, 
and to provide the necessary funding, which is an area 
of utmost importance for us. Taking into consideration 
the two reports by the Commission and the Secretary-
General,  Egypt  would  like  to  make  a  number  of 
observations  with  a  view  to  enabling  the  Commission 
to further achieve its objectives in the future. 

First,  we  need  to  ensure  that  the  Commission 
continues  to  effectively  provide  advice  and  proposals, 
based on in-depth studies, and in coordination with all 
influential  actors,  with  a  view  to  formulating  and 
implementing  comprehensive  and  integrated  strategies 
lay 
for  peacebuilding 
that 
for 
sustainable  development 
in  States  emerging  from 
conflict. 

Second,  we  need  to  develop  the  means  for  the 
Commission  to  interact  with  countries  on  its  agenda, 
through the increase of field visits by the Commission 
in  order  to  create  a  direct  channel  of  communication 
with  all  relevant  parties  and  the  States  concerned,  as 
well  as  to  provide  the  needed  financial  resources  to 
implement  such  visits  so  as  to  be  fully  aware  of  the 
situation on the ground. 

to 
develop its institutional relationships with the General 
Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social Council. Those relationships still require further 
clarification  and  specification,  in  full  respect  of  the 
institutional  balance  and 
the 
respective  competence  of  each  of  them  as  defined  by 
the Charter. 

Fourth, we need to re-evaluate the initial rules of 
procedure developed for the Commission in light of the 
developments and accumulated experiences during the 
first  years  of  its  operations,  so  as  to  ensure  that  those 
the  Commission  should  continue 
in  accordance  with 
Third, 
from 
in 
all 
terms  of 
any  political  or 
institutional  rules  are  clear  and  that  the  cases  under 
consideration  by 
the  Commission  are  dealt  with 
according  to  specific  and  objective  standards  and 
free 
criteria, 
financial 
considerations. 

In  addition,  we  need  to  enhance  coordination 
among the different structures of the Commission so as 
to  ensure  the  integration  and  harmonization  of  those 
efforts  when  it  develops  comprehensive  strategies  for 
peacebuilding.  Putting  to  use  the  recommendations  of 
the  Working  Group  on  Lessons  Learned  is  also 
required. 

Fifth,  we  need  to  reemphasize  the  principles  of 
national  ownership  with  regards  to  the  planning  and 
implementation  of  country-specific  strategies,  as  well 
as 
the  planning,  coordination  and 
termination  of  the  work  of  the  Commission  through  a 
national and sovereign decision and in accordance with 
specific  political,  economic,  social  and  developmental 
criteria  that  are  clear  and  not  subject  to  any  external 
pressure. 

Sixth,  there  is  also  a  need  to  maximize  the 
Commission’s  benefits  from  the  current  capacities  of 
the  United  Nations,  international  financial  institutions 
and  the  donor  community  in  support  of  peacebuilding 
efforts.  There  is  also  the  importance  of  establishing  a 
to  ensure 
monitoring  and 
implementation 
and 
international  obligations  relating 
to  peacebuilding 
priorities agreed between the Commission and the State 
concerned. 

Seventh,  we  need  to  ensure  that  the  role  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  is  not  diluted  into  a  mere 
trusteeship  role  over  countries  emerging  from  conflict 
or  into  a  facilitator  bringing  donor  and  recipient 
countries 
the 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  We  need  to 
strengthen  the  central  role  and  responsibilities  of 
non-donor  members  of  the  Organizational  Committee. 
That 
comprehensive 
assessment  of  the  functions  of  the  country-specific 
configurations  and 
the  development  of  common 
standards  and  criteria,  in  accordance  with  which  the 
country-specific  configurations  would  carry  out  the 
responsibilities  of  reviewing  and  approving  projects 
that fall within the priority plan of the State concerned, 
without  any  conditionality  and  in  full  respect  of  the 
follow-up  mechanism 
of 
the  supervision  of 
together  under 
in-depth 
relevant 
national 
requires 
an 
and 
12 

09-61513 
require 
Eighth, 
the  secretariat  of 
While  we  welcome 


sovereignty and independence of the political decisions 
of the Member State concerned. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  requires  our  continued  support  and  the 
necessary financial and human resources enabling it to 
play  its  expected  role  in  supporting  the  Commission’s 
meetings as well as the country-specific configurations 
meetings.  Those  meetings 
simultaneous 
interpretation services, a staff increase and an increase 
in  the  coordination  and  cooperation  between  existing 
staff of the Peacebuilding Support Office and the new 
head  of 
the  Support  Office,  Assistant  Secretary-
General  Ms.  Cheng-Hopkins,  whom  we  congratulate 
on her appointment. 

Egypt welcomes the results of the review process 
of the Peacebuilding Fund and the pledges made by the 
donor community amounting to $312.9 million, which 
allows the Fund to expand its operations to 52 projects 
in  12  countries.  That  reflects  the  commitment  of 
Member  States  to  continue  supporting  the  Fund  to 
achieve its desired objectives. 

is, 
however,  an  urgent  need  to  clarify  our  vision  with 
respect  to  the  relationship  between  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  Despite  the 
independence  of  the  Fund,  under  the  authority  of  the 
Secretary-General,  further  improvements  are  required 
regarding  the  coordination  and  coherence  between  its 
activities and the funding programmes for the projects 
being 
the 
Commission’s agenda, as well as regarding the role of 
the  Commission  in  providing  guidance  for  Fund 
policies,  which  are  to  be  implemented  under  the 
supervision of the administrative agent. 
Egypt is looking forward to the start of the 2010 

review  process  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  a 
process  which  we  trust  will  be  completed  effectively 
and in full cooperation with all Member States, taking 
into consideration lessons learned and the accumulated 
experiences  from  the  first  years  of  the  Commission’s 
work, with a view to fully implement the provisions of 
its  mandate  and  enhance  its  capacity  to  deal  with 
peacebuilding  issues,  thus  building  on  the  success  of 
peacekeeping efforts and laying the foundations for the 
launch of sustainable development processes with their 
varied dimensions. 
Mr. Hoang Chi Trung (Viet Nam): On behalf of 

the Vietnamese delegation, I would like to express our 
countries  on 
those  efforts, 
implemented 
there 
in 
the 
A/64/PV.49
on 
through 
the  past 
three  years  and, 
integrated  approach 
appreciation  for  the  presentation  of  the  report  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission (PBC) and the report of the 
Secretary-General 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
in  documents  A/64/341  and  A/64/217, 
contained 
respectively. 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of Jamaica on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). 
Out  of  the  desire  to  establish  a  coordinated, 

coherent  and 
to  post-conflict 
peacebuilding, the 2005 World Summit operationalized 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund  and  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office.  Those 
organizations  were  created  to  help  address  the  special 
needs  of  countries  emerging  from  conflict  towards 
recovery and reconstruction. 
We commend the action taken by the Commission 

over 
the 
Organizational  Committee  and  its  country-specific 
configurations,  the  implementation  of  its  mandate  and 
core  functions,  as  stipulated  by  General  Assembly 
resolution 60/180 and Security Council resolution 1645 
(2005). 

The Commission has delivered tangible results in 
its  activities  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
principal  organs,  agencies,  funds  and  programmes,  as 
well  as  with  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
and international financial institutions. It has enhanced 
public  awareness  and  outreach,  capacity-building  and 
policy guidance on peacebuilding, as well as improving 
procedures and working methods. 

We  are  also  heartened  to  note  that,  during  the 
period  from  July  2008  to  June  2009,  given  its  revised 
terms  of  reference,  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  now  has 
one  of  the  broadest  donor  bases  of  any  multi-donor 
trust  fund  administered  by  the  United  Nations,  with  a 
portfolio  of  more  than  $312  million  from  45  donors, 
and  is  operating  87  peacebuilding  projects  in  12 
countries.  Some  of  the  results  of  the  Commission’s 
continued  commitment  and  contributions  can  be  seen 
in  the  achievements  in  reconciliation,  reconstruction 
and  reintegration  by  Burundi,  the  Central  African 
Republic,  Guinea-Bissau,  Sierra  Leone  and  other 
countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda,  even  though 
their  levels  of  progress  are  not  yet  equal  nor  as 
sustained as we could wish. 
09-61513 

13 
affected 
by 
a  view 
to 
Now 
that 
protracted 
achieving  better 
A/64/PV.49 


the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture  is  in  place  and  taking  on  an  extensive 
workload,  the  challenge  is  how  to  consolidate  the 
achievements  made  thus  far  and  generate  added  value 
in  the  period  ahead.  As  the  Commission  enters  its 
fourth  year  of  operation,  much  remains  to  be  done  to 
enable the Commission to truly become one of the key 
international  instruments  coordinating  peacebuilding 
activities.  In  order  to  achieve  this,  the  Commission 
should  redouble  its  efforts  to  improve  its  working 
methods  and  provisional  rules  of  procedure.  It  should 
rationalize  its  institutional  relationships  with  other 
United Nations bodies and non-United Nations entities 
with 
coherence, 
complementarity  and  division  of  labour.  It  should 
ensure that its work is closely linked to and driven by 
the  best  interests  of  recipient  countries,  particularly 
those  most 
conflict, 
underdevelopment or marginalization. 
In  view  of  current  constraints  on  global 

resources, the Peacebuilding Fund has the difficult task 
of bridging funding gaps, expanding the pool of donors 
and recipients and accommodating local Governments’ 
financial  and 
institutional  absorptive  capabilities. 
Efforts should also be made to strengthen the catalytic 
focus of the Fund in the four designated priority areas: 
support  for  peace  agreements; 
the  promotion  of 
coexistence  and  peaceful  resolution  of  conflict;  early 
economic  recovery  and  immediate  peace  dividends; 
and 
the  establishment  of  essential  administrative 
services  and  capacity-building.  The  Commission  may 
become  involved  in  various  activities  within  different 
post-conflict  contexts,  and  thus  a  comprehensive, 
is 
cross-cutting 
essential. 
It 
further 
improvements  in  the  development  agenda  will  help 
address 
root  causes  of  conflicts,  nurture 
autonomous  capacity  and  create  a  foundation  for 
lasting  peace  and  development. 
for 
peacebuilding  to  yield  concrete  and  sustained  results, 
the  local  people  should  be  empowered  and  fully 
involved in all related phases and activities. 

We  look  forward  to  next  year’s  review  of  the 
Commission’s activities, as established in its founding 
resolutions,  namely,  Assembly  resolution  60/180  and 
Security  Council  resolution  1645  (2005).  The  review 
will  provide  a  good  opportunity  for  Member  States  to 
take  stock,  encourage  new  momentum  and  fine-tune 
the working methods and direction of the Commission. 
country-specific 
firm  belief 
approach 
that 
and 
is  our 
In  order 

the 
to  assess 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
Along  these  lines,  we  welcome  the  Commission’s 
efforts 
its  work  and  come  up  with 
recommendations  for  how  it  can  best  participate  and 
play an advisory role in post-conflict situations. 

We  hope  that  throughout  this  entire  process, 
Member States will have opportunities to deepen their 
interactions  with  the  Commission,  and  that  valuable 
lessons, practices and synergies will be developed, thus 
helping  not  only  to  prevent  the  countries  concerned 
from  relapsing  into  conflict,  but  also  to  reinforce  the 
early-warning  capacity 
for  anticipating  potential 
conflicts and to engage the international community in 
addressing them in a timely and more effective manner. 
Mrs.  Wahab  (Indonesia):  Our  appreciation  goes 

to  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  for  its  report 
(A/64/341), as well as to the Secretary-General for his 
report  on 
(A/64/217). 
Indonesia associates itself with the statement delivered 
by Jamaica on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Indonesia  is  pleased  to  see  the  Commission 
continue  to  strive  to  achieve  the  goals  of  its  founding 
mandate. The efforts of the Organizational Committee 
and 
configurations 
four 
demonstrate 
the  Commission’s  hard  work  and 
dedication  not  only  to  bring  improvements  to  the 
countries  on  its  agenda  but  also  to  enhance  global 
attention and  support  for peacebuilding  as  a key issue 
of  our  time.  We  are  also  pleased  to  note  that  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  is  now  generating  benefits  in  12 
countries  and  has  the  broadest  donor  base  of  any 
United Nations multi-donor trust fund. This signals the 
Fund’s international importance, as well as its ability to 
fulfil  expectations 
to 
producing rapid peace dividends. 
There  are  some  important  points  in  the  reports 

that  we  deem  necessary  to  highlight  and  that  we 
believe  need  more  support.  Both  reports  point  to  the 
necessity for a comprehensive approach from an early 
stage.  Indeed,  there  should  be  an  appropriate  mix  of 
security  and  development,  since  focusing  on  only  one 
such aspect cannot enable lasting peace. To encourage 
an even more comprehensive approach, my delegation 
supports  the  emphasis  on  the  four  priority  areas 
identified  by  the  Secretary-General.  We  hope  that  the 
Fund’s  disbursement  in  the  area  of  early  economic 
recovery  and  immediate  peace  dividends,  which  at 
present  has  the  lowest  priority  of  the  four,  will  be 
increased  in  future  in  line  with  Governments’  priority 
to  contribute  effectively 
country-specific 
the 
14 

09-61513 
and 
international 
requirements 
the  national 
simplify  monitoring 
frameworks,  and  could  help 


plans. The majority of regions affected by conflict tend 
to  fall  into  the  lowest  income  category,  with  scarce 
resources.  The  reports  correctly  recognize  national 
ownership as a key guiding principle in the work of the 
Commission  and 
the  Fund.  The  voice  of  a 
democratically  elected  Government  that  can  be  held 
accountable through a vote should be the bedrock of a 
nationally  owned  process.  No  matter  how  well-
intentioned  international  initiatives  are,  the  needs 
identified  by  national  Governments 
should  be 
considered the blueprint for all interventions. 

We welcome the Commission’s acknowledgement 
that  there  should  be  a  single  national  peacebuilding 
strategy,  developed  through  a  consultative  process 
among all relevant partners at the country level. Where 
such  a  strategy  significantly  facilitates  coordination 
actors 
between 
concerned, 
and 
documentation 
post-conflict 
Governments.  This  single  strategy  could  help  the 
Commission  develop  expeditious  and  more  focused 
engagement 
launch 
country support early on. 

We also welcome the Commission’s commitment 
to  mobilizing  financial  and technical  resources,  which 
remains  a  core  feature  of 
is  very 
encouraging  that  during  the  period  under  review  the 
two  Chairpersons  and 
the  Commission  members 
undertook  outreach  to  a  variety  of  traditional  and 
non-traditional  stakeholders.  Broadening  the  range  of 
ways to generate resources is also important, in view of 
the 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund has yet to demonstrate its catalytic 
value in terms of attracting additional resources. 

In this context, Indonesia, during its membership 
of  the  Commission  last  year,  had  the  privilege  of 
facilitating the first ever PBC Task Force on the private 
sector’s 
in  post-conflict  peacebuilding.  We 
appreciate the various initiatives by the Commission to 
address  critical  resource  gaps  in  the  agenda  countries, 
including seeking greater engagement with the private 
sector, 
philanthropists.  Those 
initiatives are also encouraging and vital continuations 
of the Commission’s previous work, and we hope they 
will be further concretized. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  two  other  important  issues 
that  should  also  be  addressed  by  the  Commission  and 
United Nations Member States, namely, follow-through 
Secretary-General’s 
its  work.  It 
foundations 
and 
observation 
that 
it  will 
for 
role 
A/64/PV.49
on  the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General  in 
his report on peacebuilding in the immediate aftermath 
of  conflict  (A/63/881)  and  next  year’s  obligatory 
review of the Commission, as called for in its founding 
resolutions,  namely,  Security  Council  resolution  1645 
(2005) and General Assembly resolution 60/180. 

The  report  emphasizes  the  need  for  the  United 
Nations  to  have  rapidly  deployable  civilian  capacities 
and  to  strengthen  national  and  regional  capacities.  It 
recommends  that  those  capacities  should  come  from 
the South and neighbouring regions. We should chart a 
detailed  policy  on  the  recruitment  modalities  for  this 
United Nations civilian capacity and its operational and 
financial aspects through an intergovernmental process. 
The  role  of  the  Commission  in  this  respect  would  be 
very important and needs to be clarified. 

We note that some areas of this civilian capacity, 
especially  relating  to  the  rule  of  law  and  security 
institutions,  have  been  developed  in  certain  United 
Nations  departments.  A  pertinent  question  would  be 
how  these  existing  mechanisms  will  accord  with  the 
report’s  recommendations.  Moreover,  given  that  in 
some crucial areas, such as economic recovery, civilian 
capacities  are  not  directly  covered  by  the  Department 
of  Peacekeeping  Operations  or  the  Department  of 
Political Affairs,  we  should  have  clear  information  as 
to whether there will be recruitment for new specialist 
cadres  or  whether  staff  would  be  drawn  from  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  other 
relevant United Nations agencies. 

regional 
organizations —  inter  alia  by  taking  advantage  of  the 
best  civilian  capacities  in  the  South  and  regional 
lessons  —  will  also  be  very  useful.  While  the  United 
Nations  should  make  use  of  regional  expertise,  it  is 
critical  that  the  United  Nations  also  support  national 
and 
in 
comprehensive  peacebuilding  aspects,  particularly 
where  those  capacities  are  lacking.  For  its  part, 
Indonesia  continues  to  raise  awareness  about  those 
issues in its region and to explore how the countries of 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  can 
contribute  further  in  the  area  of  global  post-conflict 
peacebuilding.  Indonesia  plans  to  convene  a  regional 
workshop  on  multidimensional  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding to be co-hosted with Slovakia early next 
year. 
to  enhance  capabilities 
regional  efforts 
Engagement 
pertinent 
with 
09-61513 

15 
the 
review 
and 
its 

report  of 
Ms.  Dunlop
links  between 
A/64/PV.49 


Regarding  the  General  Assembly’s  upcoming 
review of the Commission as mandated in its founding 
resolutions, this event will indeed be a vital juncture to 
make use of the experience of the Commission, United 
Nations  Member  States  as  a  whole  and  the  relevant 
United  Nations  system  agencies  to  further  streamline 
and  institute  ways  to  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Commission. The review should include exploration of 
a wider range of tangible methods to support the aims 
of  the  Commission  and  its  configurations.  We  see 
important 
the 
implementation  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
peacebuilding in the immediate aftermath of conflict. 

Finally,  the  outcome  of  the  review  must  enable 
the  Commission  to  increase  its  global  relevance  in 
making comprehensive recommendations in the area of 
its mandate. We hope that it would also be supported in 
devising and promoting ways to ensure more seamless 
transitions  from  the  peacekeeping  to  peacebuilding 
stages of United Nations operations. 
the 
(Brazil):  The 

third  session 
Peacebuilding  Commission  on 
(A/64/341)  provides  an  accurate  account  of 
the 
activities undertaken by the Peacebuilding Commission 
(PBC)  under  its  various  configurations.  Brazil  is 
pleased  to  notice  that  much  progress  has  been  made 
since  the  establishment  of  the  Commission  in  2006. 
The  same  applies  to  the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund. 

I wish to express our appreciation to the Chair of 
the  PBC  Organizational  Committee,  Ambassador 
Heraldo  Muñoz,  for  his  dedicated  efforts  to  promote 
the work and visibility of the Commission over the past 
months. 
Brazil welcomes the achievements highlighted in 

the  report,  particularly  on  the  improvement  in  the 
working methods of the Commission and its interaction 
with  United  Nations  principal  organs,  international 
financial 
institutions  and  other  United  Nations 
agencies.  We  also  praise  the  initiatives  to  involve 
actors  such  as  philanthropists  and  foundations  in 
peacebuilding efforts. It is our view that the role of the 
private  sector 
in  peacebuilding  could  be  further 
enhanced,  especially  in  light  of  the  Commission’s 
mandate to mobilize resources. 

Today’s  debate  comes  at  a  crucial  time,  as  we 
consider the implementation of the Secretary-General’s 
report on peacebuilding in the immediate aftermath of 
16 

conflict  (A/63/881)  and  begin  our  reflection  on  the 
2010 review process. 

A  number  of  useful  recommendations  have  been 
made, and it is our task now to envision how they can 
best  contribute  to  strengthening  the  United  Nations 
capacity  to  tackle  peacebuilding  challenges  in  an 
expeditious, coherent and cost-effective manner. Brazil 
supports 
the  creation  of  high-level  coordination 
mechanisms,  the  definition  of  clear  mandates  for  the 
various actors and the consideration of innovative and 
flexible funding instruments.  

That  last  aspect  is  essential.  We  all  know  how 
difficult  it  is  to  ensure  adequate  funding,  given  the 
many  uncertainties  associated  with  post-conflict 
scenarios.  We  therefore  appreciate  the  support  of  the 
Peacebuilding Fund, which has been instrumental in its 
catalytic  and  complementary  role  in  critical  priority 
areas.  The  Fund’s  new  terms  of  reference  must  be 
applied in a manner that allows for greater synergy and 
coordination  with  the  Commission.  More  needs  to  be 
done  to  enhance  the  performance  of  the  Fund  in 
supporting early recovery in post-conflict countries. 
Ideas  related  to  the  establishment  of  civilian 

rosters  or  the  early  deployment  of  civilian  personnel 
are  worth  exploring,  provided  that  they  not  only  take 
into  consideration  existing  local  capacities  but  also 
help  to  build  them.  Tapping  into  the  capacity  of 
neighbouring  countries  and  others  in  the  global  South 
is also critical. 
Brazil  welcomes  the  focus  of  the  Secretary-

immediate  aftermath  of 
General’s  report  on 
conflict,  as  an  attempt  to  fully  explore  the  window  of 
opportunity to consolidate peace and avoid the relapse 
into conflict. Such a focus reveals the linkages between 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  If  peacebuilding 
efforts are to be successful, they must start as early as 
possible, in recognition of the fact that peace, security 
and  development  are  different  variables  in  the  same 
equation. 

At  the  same  time,  attention  should  be  given  to 
those  countries  where  conflict  ended  many  years  ago 
but  which  nevertheless  suffer  from  donor  fatigue  or 
have  never  been  able  to  garner  international  support. 
The  Commission  has  been  playing  a  relevant  role  in 
some of these countries. 

In  the  case  of  the  Guinea-Bissau  configuration, 
chaired  by  Brazil,  the  Commission  has  been  able  to 
the 
09-61513 
in 
its  capacity 
the  priorities  set  forth 


address 
the  strategic 
framework adopted last year, despite the tragic political 
developments  and  the  many  challenges  ahead. We  are 
now engaged in a process of reviewing that strategy to 
assess the progress achieved and define the next steps 
for  our  engagement  in  the  short  term.  This  exercise 
will inform a second allocation of Peacebuilding Fund 
funding, in a demonstration of the synergy between the 
Fund and the Commission. 

The  2010  review  process  will  be  a  valuable 
opportunity  to  gauge  the  Commission’s  performance 
and see where there is room for improvement. It is fair 
to say that the PBC has yet to reach its full potential, as 
outlined  in  its  founding  resolutions.  But  instead  of 
reducing the scope of its ambitious mandate, we should 
think  of  ways  of  strengthening 
to 
effectively deliver on its tasks. 

The  work  on  strategic  frameworks,  for  instance, 
could be enriched through more regular and systematic 
interaction  with  the  international  financial  institutions 
and  a  more  thorough  review  of  existing  strategies,  so 
that  the  Commission  can  focus  on  areas  where  its 
added  value  is  most  welcome.  The  engagement  of 
regional actors in that process is also crucial, given the 
transformational  nature  of  many  peacebuilding 
challenges. 

Coordination  between  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office  and  other  departments  of  the  Secretariat  and 
other  agencies  is  key.  The  Commission  itself  would 
benefit from more regular interaction with other United 
Nations  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  involved  in 
peacebuilding.  The  suggested 
tiered  approach,  or 
lighter  touch,  could  also  be  considered,  provided  that 
we do not lose sight of the interconnection between the 
political,  security  and  development  dimensions  of 
peacebuilding. 

Strengthening  United  Nations  capacity  on  the 
ground  is  also  indispensable  for  the  PBC.  We  should 
conceive  ways  of  automatically  enhancing  the  local 
capacity of the United Nations once a given country is 
included on the agenda of the Commission. In the case 
of Guinea-Bissau, we welcome the decision to upgrade 
the United Nations Peacebuilding Support Office to an 
integrated peacebuilding mission, and we look forward 
to its positive consideration in the Fifth Committee. 

A  strengthened  United  Nations  presence  on  the 
ground  would  also  be  important  to  narrow  the  gap 
between  New York  and  the  country  concerned.  It  is  a 
A/64/PV.49
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  by 
fact that peacebuilding must be done locally, given the 
overriding principle of national ownership. But it is up 
to  us  here  to  support  the  Governments  concerned  and 
to  mobilize  resources  for  the  full  implementation  of 
peacebuilding  strategies.  In  combining  efforts  at  all 
levels,  we  will  succeed  in  our  ultimate  objective, 
namely,  the  delivery  of  concrete  peace  dividends  to 
populations in war-torn societies. 
Mr.  Le  Roux  (South  Africa):  May  I  begin  by 

associating South Africa with the statement read out on 
behalf  of 
the 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica. 

As  part  of  reforming  the  United  Nations,  and  as 
one of the follow-up actions to the 2005 World Summit 
Outcome,  the  General  Assembly  adopted  resolution 
60/180,  which  established 
the  new  Peacebuilding 
Commission  (PBC). According  to  the  resolutions  that 
created the PBC, its primary role is to “bring together 
all  relevant  actors  to  marshal  resources  and  to  advise 
on  and  propose  integrated  strategies  for  post-conflict 
peacebuilding  and  recovery”  (resolution  60/180  and 
Security  Council  resolution  1645  (2005),  paragraph 
2 (a)). 

South Africa welcomes the third annual report of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (A/64/341),  as  well  as 
the 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/64/217). South Africa has noted 
with  satisfaction  that  during  the  past  three  years,  the 
PBC  has  played  a  significant  role  in  consolidating  its 
core  advisory  role  and  in  responding  positively  to 
countries  emerging  from  conflict,  although  much 
remains to be done. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  expansion  of  the 
Commission’s activities over the past three years. The 
PBC  focused  its  early  years  on  Burundi  and  Sierra 
Leone,  and  today  it  includes  Guinea-Bissau  and  the 
Central  African  Republic.  That  is  an  indication  that 
significant strides have been made in the resolution of 
conflicts 
those 
achievements 
through 
peacebuilding and post-conflict reconstruction efforts. 

South  Africa  believes  that  the  priorities  in  the 
post-conflict  environment  should  centre  around  the 
important  pillars  of  post-conflict 
reconstruction, 
namely,  security,  social  and  economic  development, 
justice  and  reconciliation,  good  governance,  and 
participation. In our view, the development of national 
integrated  peacebuilding  strategies  based  on  national 
in  Africa.  We  have  seen 
the  Secretary-General  on 
report  of 
that 
have 
been 
enhanced 
09-61513 

17 

to 
in  order 
reiterated 
to  effectively  contribute 
activities.  South  Africa 
A/64/PV.49 

ownership,  mutual  accountability  and 
sustained 
partnership  has  provided  the  platform  for  donors  to 
engage and to coordinate their support around national 
priorities. Similarly, the integrated strategic framework 
could increasingly direct the coordination and focus of 
United  Nations  agencies 
to  particular  priorities 
identified  by  the  national  Governments  concerned. 
South  Africa  therefore  welcomes  the  significant  role 
played  by  the  international  community  in  assisting 
post-conflict countries overcome their challenges. 

My delegation regards close cooperation between 
the PBC and regional and subregional organizations as 
critical  to  ensuring  the  coordination  of  post-conflict 
peacebuilding 
therefore 
welcomes the meeting between the Peace and Security 
Council of the African  Union and the delegation  from 
the PBC dispatched to Addis Ababa in November 2009. 
The  Peace  and  Security  Council 
its 
encouragement  to  the  PBC  to  pursue  and  intensify  its 
efforts 
the 
consolidation  of  peace  in  Africa  and  the  recovery  of 
countries emerging from conflict. 

South Africa recognizes the detrimental impact of 
the current financial crisis on countries emerging from 
conflict.  The  role  of  the  PBC  in  marshalling  and 
mobilizing resources is therefore critical. South Africa 
is  pleased  that  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  has  not  only 
assisted countries on the Commission’s agenda but has 
also  provided  support  to  eight  countries  in  similar 
circumstance,  as  designated  by  the  Secretary-General. 
We  therefore  encourage  Member  States  to  contribute 
generously to the Fund. That will allow for the timely 
and quick injection of resources in countries emerging 
from conflict. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  revised  terms  of 
reference  for  transforming  the  Peacebuilding  Fund’s 
three-window  architecture  into  two  facilities.  In  our 
the  Fund’s  performance 
view, 
through  greater  operational 
and 
increased  efficiency. The  success  of  the  PBC  must  be 
determined by the impact it has on the lives of ordinary 
citizens 
their  safety,  security,  and 
development. 

South Africa recognizes that the PBC still means 
different  things  to  different  people.  The  lack  of 
understanding  of  its  role  underscores  the  need  for 
greater  visibility  and  more  outreach.  The  upcoming 
2010 review process of the Peacebuilding Commission 
responsiveness 
terms  of 
that  will 
improve 
in 
in 
to 
the  work  of 
the  Chair  of 
their  supportive 
In  conclusion,  I  wish 
will  provide  an  opportunity  for  all  of  us  to  take  stock 
and  measure  the  impact  of  the  implementation  of  the 
PBC’s mandate. We believe that that process will also 
draw  from  lessons  learned  by  the  PBC  in  previous 
years,  while  paying  attention  to  critical  peacebuilding 
priorities, gaps and  achievements. South Africa stands 
ready  to  assist  in  any  way  possible  to  ensure  that  the 
objectives  of  the  PBC  emanating  from  the  review 
process are implemented appropriately. 
to  express  our  deep 

appreciation 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  Chairs  of  the  country-specific 
configurations  and  to  the  working  groups  on  lessons 
learned for their sterling work and contributions to the 
PBC.  I  also  wish  to  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
tribute to the staff of the Peacebuilding Support Office 
for 
the 
role 
Peacebuilding Commission. 
Mr.  Gutiérrez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

report  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  on  its  third 
session  (A/64/341)  and  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  (A/64/217)  enable 
us to evaluate the important work done to restore peace 
and  build  sustainable  stability  in  countries  that  have 
emerged from conflict. 

With regard to the Peacebuilding Commission, it 
is  essential  to  point  out  that  its  work  transcends  mere 
coordination. The Commission’s true importance lies in 
its  objective  of  adopting  integrated  peacebuilding 
strategies  that  coordinate  efforts  of  national,  regional 
and  international  actors  in  countries  recovering  from 
conflict. 
With  regard  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  my 

delegation 
the 
achievements  by  several  countries  in  implementing 
projects.  The 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  in  Burundi,  where  the 
project  implementation  rate  has  reached  75  per  cent, 
should be highlighted. Another  example  is the  case of 
the  Central  African  Republic,  where  the  Fund  has 
contributed 
reintegration 
activities  and  where  the  development  of  the  United 
Nations integrated strategic framework was completed 
last  May,  opening  a  window  of  opportunity  for 
evaluating  a  second  tranche  under  the  Fund  for  that 
African country. 
There  are  several  other  examples  in  the  Fund’s 

report,  but  the  important  point  my  delegation  would 
timely  assistance  provided  by 
closely  monitoring 
to  demobilization 
been 
and 
has 
18 

09-61513 
In 
sector 
security 


like  to  emphasize  is  that  the  report  gives  tangible 
examples  of  how  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  —  to  which 
Peru  contributes  —  has  a  genuine  relevance  that 
strengthens peacebuilding processes, as indicated in the 
Secretary-General’s  report. The  implementation  of  the 
various  projects  listed  and  explained  in  the  report  has 
led to positive results in the areas of administrative and 
policy management, justice and human rights, the fight 
against  corruption, 
reform  and, 
especially,  the  empowerment  of  women  and  civil 
society. 

The  lack  of  a  culture  of  peace,  violence  and 
arbitrariness in the use of power, the marginalization of 
the most vulnerable and of minorities and in general a 
tendency  to  act  solely  with  a  focus  on  survival  are 
characteristics  that  become  permanent  and  structural 
features  in  the  context  of  prolonged  conflicts.  To 
counteract  that  situation,  we  need  to  reconstruct  the 
social  fabric  and  generate  democratic  values  of 
tolerance and participation that confirm in the mind of 
the people the idea that only in peace can security and 
quality of life truly take root. 

the 
importance  of  supporting  the  implementation  of  the 
peace  agreements,  encouraging  coexistence  and 
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts,  promoting  early 
economic  recovery,  reaping  the  benefits  of  peace, 
rebuilding  infrastructures  and  recovering  technical 
capacity, which are the general features that have made 
possible  the  efforts  to  develop  projects  that  contribute 
to  peacebuilding.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation 
wishes 
the  critical 
importance  of  the  interdependence  of  the  concepts  of 
development and security. 

Another no less relevant aspect to bear in mind is 
the  ongoing  coordination  and  interaction  that  the 
Commission and the Fund must maintain with the other 
United  Nations  organs.  The  synergy  between  the 
Commission  and  the  Fund  extends  to  the  necessary 
interrelation  and  interaction  with  international  and 
regional  bodies.  That  requires  convergence  of  actions 
and an additional coordination of efforts that should be 
even further strengthened. 

the 
Peacebuilding Commission’s first three years of efforts 
is  that,  immediately  after  a  conflict  ends,  there  is 
always greater pressure from the population to receive 
the  dividends  of  peace,  and  that  situation  arises  in  a 
the  aforementioned  reports,  we  see 
that  can  be  drawn  from 
to  emphasize 
A  conclusion 
in  particular 
A/64/PV.49
leads 
in 
in 
in 
jobs  and 
the 
the  delay 
also  promote 
in  project  financing 
the  real  protagonists 
the  view  of  my  delegation, 
context where capacities and resources are scarce. That 
reality, 
to 
identifying  the  fight  against  poverty  as  the  primary 
objective that every peacebuilding process must bear in 
mind,  since  poverty  is  the  most  severe  problem 
afflicting  any  country  that  has  recently  suffered  a 
conflict. 

Therefore  we  believe  that  the  transition  from 
peacebuilding  to  State  building  is  of  the  highest 
importance,  and  that  is  why  an  effective  campaign 
against  the  strategic  gap  between  weak  institutional 
capacity  and 
is 
indispensable.  Moreover,  improving  the  institutional 
capacity  of  Governments  is  a  priority,  since  the 
national  actors  are 
the 
implementation  of 
development  of 
peacebuilding processes. 

In  the  same  way,  those  processes  need  designs 
that improve the division of labour in order to promote 
effective  management  of  project  implementation  and 
greater  involvement  by  women  as  important  actors  in 
every  process.  They  must 
the 
decentralization  of  decision-making  among  staff  of 
cooperating  organizations  in  such  a  way  that  the 
project implementation rate is more effective. 

Thus  we  believe  that  in  the  final  analysis,  there 
are  three  vital  areas  that  must  be  worked  on  in  a 
holistic  manner 
in  any  peacebuilding  process: 
development,  security,  and  governance.  We  must 
refrain from giving pre-eminence to any one area over 
another, for they are all closely linked. 

international  cooperation,  my 
delegation  believes  that  priority  should  be  given  to 
strengthening  the  political  system,  training  civilian 
staff  and  designing  and  implementing  projects  that 
have  rapid  social  impact,  which  is  crucial  to  winning 
the  support  of 
local  population.  Financial 
institutions — including the World Bank, a natural ally 
in peacebuilding efforts — are essential to the success 
of projects. 

those 
For  a 
peacebuilding  projects,  it  must  remain  clear  that 
international 
towards 
strengthening  the  exercise  of  its  sovereignty,  with  full 
respect  for  international  law  and  the  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  However,  such  cooperation 
must  have  a  timeframe  and  follow  a  programme  with 
In  areas  of 
cooperation 
involved 
society 
to  be 
is 
oriented 
the 
09-61513 

19 
to 
social 
security 
inclusion 
occasions, 
democracy, 
development, 
General  Assembly 
the  Commission’s  work  with 
A/64/PV.49 

clearly defined objectives and definite goals that make 
it viable. 

resolution  63/282,  which 
approved the revision of the terms of reference for the 
Peacebuilding Fund to make it more flexible, adaptable 
and more responsive to urgent needs, and the upcoming 
review  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  which  will 
seek to define the Commission’s rules of procedure and 
working methods, both open an extraordinary window 
of  opportunity  to  impart  greater  effectiveness  and 
efficiency 
the 
indispensable  interrelation  between  the  Fund  and  the 
Peacebuilding Support Office. 

There is no lasting peace if it is not accompanied 
from  an  early  phase  by  policies  of  sustainable 
development, 
and 
institutional  soundness.  As  my  country  has  stated  on 
various 
and 
governance  are  closely  related.  That  is  the  spirit 
inspiring  my  country  in  its  firm  commitment  to 
strengthen  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding  structure 
with constructive initiatives. 
My country wishes to thank Ambassador Heraldo 

Muñoz for his work on the Peacebuilding Commission. 
I  believe  it  is  an  example  of  how  Latin  America  is 
seriously  focusing  on  the  work  in  this  undertaking  of 
the United Nations.  
With that conviction Peru, which is unwaveringly 

committed 
strengthening  multilateralism  and 
peacekeeping, hopes in the near future to contribute as 
an active member of the  Organizational Committee  of 
the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would like to thank the President for having organized 
this debate so that together we can consider the various 
aspects  of  work  carried  out  by  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission during its third year of existence. 

We fully align ourselves with the statement made 
by the Permanent Representative of Jamaica on behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  My  delegation  would 
like to offer a few additional comments. 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission,  three  years  old 

now,  is  increasingly  becoming  a  major  partner  and  a 
dynamic  actor  in  guiding,  in  support  of  national 
mechanisms,  strategies  to  support  countries  emerging 
from conflict.  
to 

Muñoz, 
Heraldo 
the  national  authorities  of 

As  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
Algeria  appreciates  the  work  done  to  develop  and 
implement  strategic  frameworks  for  peacebuilding  in 
the  four  countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda  by 
using targeted priorities and commitments adapted with 
a  view  to  peacebuilding  in  those  countries. The  credit 
for drawing up those strategic documents goes first to 
the  resolve  of 
those 
countries,  but  also  to  the  exemplary  work  of  the 
Chairmen  of  the  four  country  configurations,  each  of 
whom has managed to build a relationship of trust with 
all the national actors, to establish a process that brings 
them together and to lay the foundations for a strategy 
that unites their efforts. 
The Chairman of the Peacebuilding Commission, 

Permanent 
Ambassador 
Representative  of  Chile  —  whom  I  would  like  to 
commend for his leadership and imaginative actions — 
has  just  presented  to  us  the  main  points  of  the  report 
we  are  considering  (A/64/341).  Of  course,  it  is  an 
interim  assessment  of  the  work  done  by  the  young 
Peacebuilding  Commission  with  the  steadfast  support 
of the Peacebuilding Support Office. In reading it, one 
gets  a  sense  of  the  strong  commitment  of  its  member 
States  not 
institutional 
bureaucracy,  but  rather  to  progressively  set  up  a 
multidimensional  strategy  designed  to  respond  to  the 
political,  security,  humanitarian  and  development 
challenges  that  interlock  and  overlap  in  the  various 
contexts,  forming  a  complex  whole.  Basically,  the 
report  describes  the  positive  developments  in  the 
Commission’s  work,  while 
the 
existence of certain difficulties.  

its  main 
advisory activities and enjoys the broad support of the 
countries on its agenda. The international community is 
also  paying  more  attention  to  the  countries  on  its 
agenda.  One  notes  too  that  the  United  Nations  system 
and  the  regional  organizations  and  the  international 
financial institutions have begun to align themselves by 
adapting 
post-conflict 
peacebuilding. 

On the other hand, one gets a better sense of the 
challenges  to  the  potential  work  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission.  Indeed,  after  the  tragic  experiences  in 
Burundi and Guinea-Bissau, the Commission is now in 
a position to draw lessons to prevent those same events 
from  happening  again.  That  has  highlighted 
the 
The  Commission  has  strengthened 
to  strengthening  a  new 
acknowledging 
support 
tools 
their 
to 
20 

09-61513 
the  early 


importance of the role played by the Working Group on 
Lessons Learned, chaired by El Salvador.  

I  also  believe  it  important  to  acknowledge  the 
report of the Secretary-General on peacebuilding in the 
immediate  aftermath  of  conflict  (A/63/881),  which  is 
the  first  comprehensive  analysis  of  peacebuilding  in 
post-conflict  situations  since  the  establishment  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  It  also  has  the  merit  of 
calling  for 
integration  of  post-conflict 
reconstruction in the entry strategies, realizing that that 
is a structural aspect that is crucial to strengthening the 
factors  of  peace  as  a  country  emerges  from  conflict. 
Moreover,  I  am  pleased  that  that  report  inspired  the 
negotiations that led to the review of the Peacebuilding 
Fund’s terms of the reference, in order to improve the 
efficiency  of  its management and its  ability to  rapidly 
produce  results  on  the  ground,  in  accordance  with  the 
intended goals. 

However, the direction of the Commission and its 
work  are  not  exempt  from  criticism.  In  that  regard,  I 
believe  that  the  perception  of  the  problems  and  the 
obstacles remains very mixed and calls for correction.  

The  security  approach  having  precedence  over 
in 
the 
development 
implementing 
and 
reintegration programmes, is a leading example of that. 
While  they  go  hand  in  hand  to  make  it  possible  to 
establish  lasting  stability  and  to  start  a  return  to 
normalcy,  one  sees  differences  in  views  within  the 
Commission  on  how  to  implement  those  programmes, 
sometimes  giving 
there  are 
contradictory  or  competing  elements.  Also,  we 
consider it necessary to have an in-depth debate with a 
view  to  developing  an  integrated  approach  on  that 
issue,  an  approach  that  would  combine  the  security 
requirements  with  regard  to  the  duty  to  disarm  and 
demobilize the ex-combatants with the socio-economic 
aspect of their reintegration. 

Another  inadequacy  observed  that  merits  our 
urgent  attention  is  the  Commission’s  unwieldiness.  In 
fact it needs fewer meetings, but better prepared ones. 
With  regard  to  that  aspect  of  the  Commission’s  work, 
my  delegation  noted  with  interest  the  informal  paper 
produced  by  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  to 
generate joint thinking on how to make the work of the 
country configurations even more effective.  
the 

Commission’s agenda is inseparable from its ability to 
issue  of  adding  new  countries 
demobilization 
disarmament, 
dimension, 
impression 
particular 
The 
that 
the 
in 
to 
A/64/PV.49
it 
to 
First, 
regard 
intends 
strengthen 
is  necessary 
in  particular  with 
thoroughly  and  effectively  deal  with  the  situations  on 
its  agenda.  In  2010,  Algeria 
to  actively 
participate  in  the  consideration  of  that  issue  and  all 
other  aspects,  including  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  with 
an open mind by suggesting, however, that it is part of 
a  comprehensive  approach  aimed  at  improving  the 
Commission’s  working  methods  and 
its  reporting 
cycle.  

In  that  regard,  in  order  to  prepare  well  for  the 
comprehensive  review  of  the  Commission’s  working 
methods  and  work  in  2010,  my  delegation  would  like 
to make the following suggestions.  

the 
to 
Peacebuilding Commission’s visibility and its ability to 
motivate  and  influence.  Communication  efforts  are 
needed, 
regional 
organizations.  One  could  be  envisage  some  of  the 
Commission’s  meetings  being  held  somewhere  other 
than New York, as was the case when the Chairman of 
the  Commission  and  the  Chairs  of  the  four  country 
configurations went to Africa. 

Secondly, we should encourage the efforts of the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  under  the  leadership  of 
Ms.  Cheng-Hopkins,  to  strengthen  its  own  capacity  to 
act in support of the Commission.  
the  Commission’s  work  should  be 

in 
integrated  as  early  as  possible 
particular  those  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
institutional  actors,  to  strengthen  the  coherence  of  the 
Organization as a whole. 

Fourthly, together with the Peacebuilding Support 
Office, the Peacebuilding Fund is an important tool to 
ensure 
the  Commission’s  work  focuses  on 
immediate  priorities,  fills  gaps  and  produces  tangible 
results.  In  that  context,  it  is  essential  to  broaden  the 
Fund’s operations so as to provide strategic assistance 
to  other  countries  needing  urgent  peacebuilding 
support. 

Fifthly, there is a need to open up the approaches 
to  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding  and  development  so 
that  effective  action  can  be  taken  in  the  immediate 
aftermath  of  a  conflict.  In  that  regard,  there  must  be 
greater support for countries emerging from conflict in 
order to address the food, economic, financial and any 
other  crises  that  seriously  jeopardize  the  general 
process  of  stabilizing  conflicts  by  exploring 
the 
the  Peacebuilding 
possibility  of 
in  strategies, 
transferring 
Thirdly, 
that 
to 
09-61513 

21 

laid 
that 
The 
review 
its 
the 
reached 
recognize 
the  resources 
the  peacekeeping 
instruments  developed  after 
A/64/PV.49 

Commission 
operations have at their disposal in the exit phase. 

Sixthly  and  lastly,  it  is  essential  to  maintain  the 
basic infrastructures, to protect against the inability of 
countries  emerging  from  conflict  to  pay  their  armed 
forces and police, and to invest in job creation projects, 
thereby  helping  to  ensure  greater  support  for  United 
Nations activities from the local populations. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

Five  years  ago,  we 
the  foundation  for  a 
peacebuilding  structure  within  the  United  Nations 
system.  Today,  it  is  clear  that  building  peace  is  as 
important  a  task  as  that  of  keeping  it.  United  Nations 
limits,  while  we 
peacekeeping  has 
increasingly 
significance 
of 
strengthening  our  efforts  to  prevent  conflicts  and  to 
support  communities  that  are  struggling  to  build  a 
sustainable peace.  
the  Peacebuilding 

2010 
Commission will be a good opportunity to ensure that 
the 
the  2005  World 
Summit  are  being  used  to  their  full  potential.  It  will 
also  be  an  opportunity  to  determine  how  those  same 
instruments  could  be  better  adapted  to  respond  to  the 
more  complex 
today.  The 
September  2010  high-level  meeting  would  seem  to  be 
the  proper  venue  to  decide  on  the  next  steps  to  be 
taken. 
substantial 
Peacebuilding 
commitment  as  much 
terms  of  political  and 
institutional  investment  as  financial.  It  must  be  given 
its  rightful  position  among  our  highest  priorities  and 
we must not allow it to be reduced to an easy and less 
costly alternative to peacekeeping. 

the  Secretary-General  on 
peacebuilding  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict 
(A/63/881)  is  leading  us  in  the  right  direction.  We 
welcome  the  recommendations  and  support  the  steps 
taken  by 
their 
implementation. We  look  forward  to  a  progress  report 
next year. We also welcome the intensive and inclusive 
consultations  prompted  by  the  preparation  of  the 
report.  This  process  was  exemplary  and  should  guide 
us in the preparations for the 2010 review. 

One  of  the  main  challenges  identified  in  the 
Secretary-General’s report and highlighted in the work 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  its  country-
specific  meetings,  is  the  need  for  a  joint  approach  to 
conflict situations. The report also highlights the need 
the  Secretary-General 
situations  prevailing 
report  of 
to  ensure 
requires 
The 
of 
a 
in 
for 
the 
Joint 
success. 
ensuring 
international 
for more effective, coherent and coordinated action by 
the  United  Nations, 
financial 
institutions  and  Member  States.  To  that  end,  we  are 
convinced  that  United  Nations  leadership  must  be 
strengthened,  in  particular  the  authority  of  Resident 
Coordinators  as  the  uncontested  heads  of  United 
Nations country teams. We therefore call on the heads 
of  the  funds,  programmes  and  specialized  agencies  to 
fully  support  the  expanded  authority  of  Resident 
Coordinators  vis-à-vis  the  country  teams,  and  to 
swiftly formalize this authority through an appropriate 
decision by the Chief Executives Board. 

We  are  also  convinced  that  the  potential  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  should  be  more  fully 
exploited.  In  our  view,  its  added  value  resides  in  its 
representative membership, its convening power for all 
stakeholders  and  its  capacity  to  serve  as  a  political 
interface  between  the  actors  on  the  ground  and  the 
various  stakeholders  at  United  Nations  Headquarters. 
These characteristics are essential to creating effective 
partnerships  for  peace.  Mutual  accountability  is  a  key 
principle 
strategic 
frameworks  are  useful  instruments  in  this  regard 
because  they  help  develop  and  reinforce  national 
ownership and also have the potential to build trust and 
mutual  understanding  among  all  actors  involved  and 
committed 
objectives.  Ultimately, 
improvements  must  be  measured  by  their  positive 
impact in the field. 

the 
We  believe 
Peacebuilding  Commission  will  provide  it  with  an 
opportunity  to  fulfil  its  potential  and  to  help  the 
peacebuilding  architecture  to  better  respond  to  new 
challenges  and  needs.  It  should  also  help  us  to 
overcome the stumbling blocks of 2005 and to achieve 
peace and sustainable development with full respect for 
human rights. 

Numerous  initiatives  are  currently  under  way  in 
that  regard,  and  we  welcome  them.  Nevertheless,  we 
also  believe  that  there  is  merit  in  conducting  a  more 
structured 
all 
stakeholders.  We  therefore  call  on  the  Secretary-
General  to  present,  by  the  end  of  April  2010,  a 
forward-looking report with specific recommendations 
to the General Assembly that would serve as the basis 
for the review process. The report could, for example, 
take  stock  of  the  challenges  identified  in  the  2004 
report  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges 
and Change (A/59/565) and identify new challenges. It 
review  of 
the  2010 
inclusive 
common 
dialogue 
among 
that 
and 
to 
22 

09-61513 
including 


could  also  highlight  the  complementarity  of  efforts 
towards  mediation,  conflict  prevention,  peacebuilding 
and  peacekeeping,  and  operational  activities 
for 
development.  

In addition, it could reflect on the relevant reform 
processes now under way with a view to linking these 
areas more strategically to ensure that the contributions 
of  the  entire  United  Nations  system,  including  the 
Bretton  Woods  institutions,  will  be  more  effective  as 
part of the efforts to achieve sustainable peace. Finally, 
it  could  also  make  specific  recommendations  on  the 
basis  of  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission, 
its  country-
specific  meetings.  Such  a  report  by  the  Secretary-
General would provide a sound foundation for adopting 
a  new  consensus  on  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  at 
the highest political level on the occasion of the high-
level meeting in September 2010. 

One  or  two  high-level  political  figures  could, 
following  the  model  established  by  the  Prodi  report 
(see A/63/666) on the relationship between the United 
Nations  and  the  African  Union,  give  stature  and 
authority  to  this  kind  of  response  and  thus  help  to 
orient our debates. 
Mr.  Ney  (Germany):  Let  me  start  by  thanking 

Ambassador  Muñoz  for  his  leadership  as  the  Chair  of 
the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC), and the Swedish 
European Union presidency for its statement on behalf 
of  the  European  Union.  We  concur  with  and  support 
everything that was said by Ambassador Lidén. 
Germany  supported  the  setting  up  of  the  PBC 

since the very beginning. The PBC is an important part 
of United Nations peacebuilding architecture, which is 
and  remains  of  high  relevance.  The  PBC  has  so  far 
achieved  encouraging  results  in  the  countries  on  its 
agenda,  in  particular  in  Sierra  Leone  and  Burundi, 
where its work is already advanced. 

At  the  end  of  the  day,  the  PBC’s  success  in  the 
countries on its agenda will be measured alongside its 
capability  to  achieve  tangible  and  sustainable  results 
for the people on the ground. This is the essence of my 
personal experience from the time when I served as the 
Senior  Deputy  High  Representative  in  Bosnia.  If  the 
people  on 
the  ground  do  not  see  and  feel  an 
improvement in their everyday lives, we will lose them 
in the process of post-conflict peacebuilding.  
A/64/PV.49
and 
accountability.  Governments 
Secondly,  the  PBC  should  play  the  central  role  
security, 
First, the PBC has to fulfil its role as the platform 
international 
in  post-conflict  countries  among  key 

The  upcoming  2010  review  process  will  provide 
an excellent opportunity to identify ways and means to 
enhance  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the  PBC’s 
work.  For  the  2010  review,  we  view  the  following 
seven  points  as  the  most  important  to  improve  our 
common  peacebuilding  efforts  and  the  work  of  the 
PBC.  

for  strategic  policy  coordination  for 
engagement 
international actors.  

in  creating  cohesion  among  political, 
development and humanitarian actors.  
Thirdly, the PBC should become a framework for 

mutual 
the 
international community should be held accountable to 
agreed  commitments.  Donors  should  orient 
their 
activities  along  the  priorities  identified  by  the  PBC  in 
cooperation  with  the  host  country  and  fulfil  the 
commitments undertaken by the PBC. 

Fourthly,  we  should  achieve  a  more  structured 
relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
PBC, including increased interaction. We should try to 
make  better  use  of  synergies  between  peacekeeping 
and peacebuilding.  

Fifthly, the analysis of a specific situation by the 
PBC should result in the identification of a clear set of 
a  limited  number  of  priorities  and  the  direction  of 
resources for their implementation. 

Sixthly,  best  practices,  relevant  knowledge  and 
lessons  learned  within  country-specific  meetings,  as 
well  as  in  the  wider  United  Nations  system  and 
beyond,  need  to  be  cross-fertilized.  In  this  regard,  the 
role  of  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  in  bringing 
together,  convening 
the  United  Nations  system 
expertise 
to  PBC 
deliberations should be strengthened. 

Finally,  the  coordinating  role  of  the  United 
Nations  on  the  ground  still  needs  to  be  strengthened. 
Strengthening  the  One  United  Nations  concept  would 
be 
the 
Organization’s  activities  and  might  also  facilitate 
coordination among donors. 

Ms.  Rovirosa  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation  warmly  welcomes  the  opportunity  for  this 
and  providing 
a 
step 
towards  better 
coherence  of 
solid 
input 
09-61513 

23 
to 
disarmament, 
demobilization 
the  report  of 
its 
A/64/PV.49 

the 
Assembly 
jointly  consider 
Peacebuilding  Commission  on 
third  session 
(A/64/341),  pursuant  to  resolution  60/180,  and  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund  (A/64/217).  Mexico  acknowledges  the  efforts  of 
the  Chairperson  of 
the  Commission,  Ambassador 
Heraldo  Muñoz  of  Chile,  for  his  promotional  efforts, 
undertaken in fulfilling his mandate, to raise awareness 
and bring visibility to the work of the Commission. We 
also  commend  the  work  of Ambassador Yukio Takasu 
of Japan and the progress achieved by the Commission 
during his chairmanship. 

My  delegation  also  wishes  to  praise  the  work  of 
the  Chairs  of  the  country-specific  configurations  for 
Burundi,  Guinea-Bissau,  the  Central African  Republic 
and Sierra Leone. Their dedication and leadership have 
helped  the  national  authorities  of  the  countries  on  the 
Commission’s  agenda  to  make  progress  in  setting  up 
implementing  programmes  and  strategies  for 
and 
security, 
and 
reintegration.  
One  of  the  great  merits  of  the  country-specific 

configurations  and 
their  use  of 
innovative working methods, including field visits and 
video  conferences  with  national  authorities,  making  it 
possible 
the 
development of national societies in various areas. We 
also welcome the coordinated meetings of the Working 
Group on Lessons Learned on matters related to issues 
critical to recovery. 

Mexico  welcomes  the  Commission’s  progress  in 
implementing and consolidating its mandate in its three 
years  of  existence  as  an  advisory  body  supporting  the 
countries  on  its  agenda,  as  well  as  in  contributing  to 
formulating  various  peace  strategies.  Its  work  in 
mobilizing  resources  is  also  one  of  its  most  laudable 
aspects. 
importance  of 
involving  the  private  sector  and  civil  society  in 
gathering and mobilizing resources, a contribution that 
is  not 
financial  area  but  also 
encompasses human capital — a powerful complement 
to the efforts of Governments at the local, regional and 
international  levels,  and  of  the  United  Nations  system 
itself. 
My delegation appreciates the efforts of the Chair 

of 
the  Commission 
to  encourage  and  strengthen 
relations  with  non-traditional  donors  and  to  forge 
closer links with the international financial institutions 
It  has  demonstrated 
to  obtain  first-hand 
information  on 
their  Chairs 
is 
the 
limited 
to 
the 

and  regional  and  subregional  entities,  particularly  in 
light  of  the  challenges  created  by  the  world  economic 
crisis,  in  a  broader  framework  linking  security  and 
development in the transition from conflict to peace. 

Next year will see the review of the mandates set 
forth in the Commission’s founding resolutions, with a 
focus on its nature and the definition of its programme. 
My  delegation  is  firmly  determined  to  participate 
actively  in  the  consultation  process,  which  we  trust 
will  be  flexible,  inclusive,  transparent  and  integrative. 
This  is  an  ideal  time  to  begin  considering  how  to 
improve  the  Commission’s  working  methods.  Such  an 
exercise  should  be  conducted  in  the  framework  of  a 
consultative and inclusive process. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  stress  that  it  is  vital,  in 
drawing  up  the  various  peace  strategies  in  which  the 
Commission  participates,  to  take  into  account  the 
external  factors  that  may  determine  the  success  or 
failure of the peacebuilding process in a given country, 
since they may either originate in an area outside that 
country  or  have  a  purpose  or  benefit  that  extends 
beyond  it.  A  specific  example  of  this  situation  is  the 
exploitation by organized crime and drug traffickers of 
countries where peacebuilding is taking place. 

Furthermore, we must recall that responsibility is 
to  be  shared  by  all  national,  regional  or  international 
actors,  not  only  by  those  directly  involved  in  the 
reconstruction  process.  Hence, 
there  must  be  a 
collective  commitment  to  halting  or  controlling  the 
illegal trade in arms and munitions that reach countries 
in  the  delicate  stage  of  transition  from  a  situation  of 
war to one of peacebuilding. 

With  regard  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  Mexico 
welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  intention,  reflected 
in his report (A/64/217), to take measures to strengthen 
the  catalytic  nature  of  the  Fund  and  to  ensure  that  it 
provides  financing  at  the  right  time.  With  the  recent 
review and evaluation of the terms of reference for the 
use  of  the  Fund’s  resources,  Mexico  hopes  that  the 
Fund  will  be  more  flexible,  efficient  and  effective  in 
tackling  its  two  key  objectives  of  identifying  and 
financing in a timely manner the most immediate needs 
of  post-conflict 
that 
financing  to  the  countries  it  supports  in  a  more 
sustainable fashion. In this context, Mexico hopes that 
the  Commission  will  play  a  prominent  role  in  the 
the  Fund’s 
strategic  direction  and  application  of 
resources.  We  also  appreciate 
in 
societies,  and  channelling 
the  exercise 
24 

09-61513 
by 
the 
for 
regularly 
demonstrated 
the  work  of 
fight  against  drug 


transparency 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  Support  Office  through  its 
formal meetings held to present information to donors 
on the Fund’s financial situation and performance. 

It is vitally important that the Fund count on the 
resources  it  needs  to  comply  with  its  mandate.  My 
country has supported the Fund for the past two years, 
and will make a third contribution for 2009-2010. My 
delegation also hopes that, in the first quarter of 2010, 
the  cooperation  programmes  that  Mexico  has  offered 
Guinea-Bissau  and  Burundi  in  the  areas  of  electoral 
process, 
trafficking  and 
economic development will be implemented. 
The  international  community  continues  to  have 

very  high  expectations 
the 
Commission.  The  coming  year  will  be  crucial  for 
cementing the scope and potential of this body. We will 
work  together  to  give  the  peacebuilding  architecture 
the necessary tools to make the difference between the 
chaos  unleashed  by  war  and  the  stability  offered  by 
peaceful societies. 
Mr.  Çorman  (Turkey):  At  the  outset,  I  should 

like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  his  able  leadership  in  guiding 
our discussions on issues related to international peace 
and  security,  one  of  which  is  the  basis  for  our 
deliberations today.  

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (A/64/341)  and  the  report 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
(A/64/217),  the  two  main  instruments  set  up  by  the 
Assembly pursuant to the call by the Security Council 
to respond to the challenges and complexities of post-
conflict  situations.  We  have  noted  with  interest  the 
conclusions  and  recommendations  contained  in  these 
reports. 

Since the Assembly established the Peacebuilding 
Commission (PBC) when it adopted resolution 60/180 
in  December  2005,  we  have  noted  with  pleasure  that 
the Commission has consolidated its core advisory role 
and  demonstrated  increasing  support  for  the  post-
conflict  countries  on  its  agenda  by  helping  channel 
resources 
to  critical  peacebuilding  priorities  and 
supporting  the  strengthening  of  national  capacities.  It 
can be briefly stated that, though it is a relatively new 
instrument, the Commission is playing an essential role 
in the promotion of the goals inherent in its mandate. 
examined 
report 
have 
We 
the 
of 
A/64/PV.49
the 
process, 
reconstruction 

On the other hand, the Peacebuilding Fund — the 
largest multi-donor trust fund under the administration 
of 
the  United  Nations,  with  47  donor  countries 
contributing  to  its  work  and  pledges  totalling  more 
than  $310  million  —  continues 
to  stand  as  an 
indispensable  instrument  for  ensuring  the  immediate 
release  of  resources  needed  to  launch  peacebuilding 
activities and for the provision of appropriate financing 
for recovery, despite the financial constraints it faces.  

In  this  respect,  it  would  not  be  wrong  to  define 
the  progress  achieved  over  the  past  four  years  of  the 
Commission’s  and  Fund’s  operations  as  positive  and 
promising.  Yet,  the  increased  complexity  of  the  post-
conflict 
evolving 
approaches  to  critical  peacebuilding  priorities  and  the 
need to adapt to prevailing global realities call for the 
continuous review of these two instruments and the re-
evaluation  of  their  means  of  operation  on  the  basis  of 
lessons learned. 

With this in mind, we are pleased to see that the 
Commission  has  already  engaged  in  a  process  of 
discussions on how to improve its work, maximize its 
impact  and  mobilize  sustained  international  attention. 
We are also pleased that the new terms of reference are 
in  place  for  the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  believe  that 
these  ongoing  processes  will  be  further  advanced  by 
the  Commission’s  founding 
the  2010  review  of 
resolutions, 
the 
recommendations  on  how  its  role  can  be  further 
enhanced. 

Peacebuilding, though embedded in the principle 
of  national  ownership,  is  mainly  a  collective  effort 
undertaken  by  many  actors  and  comprising  many 
aspects of peace efforts, including conflict prevention, 
peacemaking,  peacekeeping,  humanitarian  aid  and 
development assistance. Indeed, as is often mentioned, 
the  challenge  is  as  much  about  winning  the  peace  as 
stopping the war. 

There  are  many  challenging  areas  in  which  the 
responses  should  be  as  multifaceted  as  the  problems 
themselves,  from  supporting  political  processes  and 
reconciliation  to  creating  safety  and  security;  from 
enshrining the rule of law to providing basic services, 
such  as  water,  health  and  education,  and  revitalizing 
economies destroyed by war. Nevertheless, the success 
of  these  responses  depends  on  the  manner  in  which 
they are applied, since such a broad agenda inevitably 
and  we 
forward 
look 
to 
09-61513 

25 
A/64/PV.49 

requires  a  coherent,  coordinated  and  integrated  effort 
from the international community.  

There is no doubt that, if a peacebuilding project 
is  to  be  successful,  various  stakeholders  from  the 
international  community  should  act  in  unison  with  a 
view  to  empowering  the  post-conflict  country  and  its 
citizens  to  start  rebuilding  both  the  structures  of  their 
State  and  their  lives.  The  United  Nations  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  —  as  the  institutional 
linchpin  of 
the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture,  together  with  the  two  other  pillars,  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  and  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office — undoubtedly have a significant role to play in 
this regard. 

The  efficient  functioning  of  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding architecture rests on its ability to deliver 
as one the common vision based on an agreed strategy 
that  is  well  supported  by  financial  resources  and 
technical  expertise  and  matches  the  needs  of  the 
country.  In  this  belief,  we  agree  with  the  five-point 
agenda set out by the Secretary-General to facilitate an 
earlier  and  more  coherent  response  from  the  United 
Nations and the wider international community, which 
reflects these core elements. 

I  should  like  to  underline  a  few  points  that  we 
deem important elements to be taken into consideration 
during 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission.  

First, we believe that priority should be given to 
the  issue  of  building  national  institutions  with  a  view 
to  strengthening 
the 
peacebuilding  process.  In  this  framework,  the  focus 
should  be  on  the  identification  and  reinforcement  of 
existing 
transfer  of 
expertise  rather  than  dependence  upon  it. To  this  end, 
in  collaboration  with  the  national  authorities  and 
international  actors,  a  system  ought  to  be  built  for 
deploying “blue suits” and not only Blue Helmets. 
Secondly,  the  transition  from  peacekeeping  to 

peacebuilding is an area that deserves greater attention. 
As  was  also  pointed  out  in  the  thematic  debate  held 
during Turkey’s  presidency  of  the  Security  Council  in 
June  2009,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  are 
integral parts of a whole and success can come only if 
we treat them as such. The first two years after the end 
of a conflict are the most critical period, when we can 
sow the seeds of a lasting peace. 
the  national  ownership  of 
local  capacities  and  on 
the  work  of 
the  2010 
review  of 

Fourthly, 
the  PBC  entrusts 

Thirdly,  the  gender  perspective  should  be  an 
inseparable  element  of  the  work  of  the  Commission. 
The  existing  mandate  of 
the 
Commission with integrating a gender perspective into 
all  its  work.  The  important  role  of  women  in  the 
prevention and resolution of conflicts and the need for 
their  full  involvement  in  all  efforts  to  maintain  and 
promote  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  in  decision-
making  processes,  should  continue  to  be  stressed 
within the work of the Commission. 

the  harmonization  of  policies  and 
procedures  to  deliver  as  one  should  be  reinforced. As 
Member  States,  we  should  encourage  United  Nations 
entities  to  implement  system-wide  coherence  in  post-
conflict  settings.  In  this  regard,  the  capacity  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  should  be  strengthened 
in order to make it integral to United Nations efforts to 
promote  a  more  integrated  and  strategic  response  in 
post-conflict countries. 

Last  but  not  least,  we  believe  that  the  financing 
mechanism  in  support  of  peacebuilding  efforts  should 
be  made  more  predictable,  sustainable,  transparent, 
accountable  and  flexible.  We  should  explore  creative 
ways to provide budget support in post-conflict settings 
on the basis of the needs of the country in question and 
look  for  ways  to  maximize  the  Peacebuilding  Fund’s 
impact,  including  by  setting  up  new  partnerships  or 
extending existing ones.  

Turkey  stands  fully  behind  its  commitments  to 
the  Fund  and  makes  its  contributions  to  it  without 
caveat.  The  Fund  has  the  potential  to  fill  a  unique 
peacebuilding niche in the post-conflict arena, and we 
hope that the revised terms of reference will allow the 
Fund  to  improve  its  efficiency,  responsiveness  and 
effectiveness  in  order  to  ensure  that  post-conflict 
countries  benefit  from  the  sustained  attention  and 
support of the international community. 

The  momentum  the  Commission  has  gathered  in 
terms  of  advancing  the  peacebuilding  agenda  within 
the  United  Nations  and  its  success  in  promoting  a 
convergence  of  views  among  the  Member  States 
constitute  its  most  important  added  value.  We  believe 
that  the  upcoming  mandate  review,  which  will  draw 
upon  lessons  learned  in  previous  years,  will  be  useful 
in  charting  the  course  for  the  future  work  of  the 
Commission. 
Turkey is ready to share with the members of the 

Commission and the Secretariat the vast experiences it 
the 
26 

09-61513 
review  process.  For  Canada, 


has  gained  through  its  active  involvement  in  and 
support of the recovery efforts of various post-conflict 
countries,  from  the  Balkans  to  the  Middle  East  and 
from  Afghanistan  to  Africa,  and  is  committed  to 
continuing  its  support  for  the  enhancement  of  United 
Nations peacebuilding efforts in every possible way. 
Mr. Husain (Canada) (spoke in French): Today’s 

debate  on  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  and 
the Peacebuilding Fund is an important opportunity to 
reflect  on  the  incremental  successes  of  the  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture  and  to  consider 
what improvements can be made as we embark on the 
2010  PCB 
the 
fundamental  rationale  behind  the  creation  of  this 
architecture remains clear. The United Nations needs a 
body  mandated  to  work  in  partnership  with  post-
conflict  countries  to  help  them  to  bridge  the  security 
and development aspects of peacebuilding with a view 
to building durable peace. 

As the Peacebuilding Commission’s annual report 
(A/64/341)  attests,  important  progress  has  been  made. 
The Commission has made significant improvements in 
such  key  areas  as  delivering  strategic  peacebuilding 
advice,  developing  adaptable  and  efficient  working 
awareness.  The 
methods, 
raising 
Commission  played  an 
the 
development  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
peacebuilding  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict 
(A/63/881),  notably  by  underlining  that  peacebuilding 
is  a  fundamentally  political  activity  that  requires  a 
careful 
the  spheres  of 
mediation,  peacekeeping,  humanitarian  assistance, 
early recovery and development.  

Significantly,  the  PBC  is  interacting  more  and 
more  frequently  with  external  actors,  including  the 
International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Bank,  the 
African  Union,  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African  States,  the  Organization  of  American  States, 
the  private  sector  and  civil  society.  Canada  welcomes 
these 
the 
Commission’s growing impact. 

the 
strategies,  procedures  and  working  methods  of  the 
Commission  are  particularly  promising.  To  cite  one 
the  Sierra  Leone  configuration  under 
example, 
Canadian 
chairmanship 
its 
engagement  with  the  Government  of  Sierra  Leone’s 
new  national  strategy,  the Agenda  for  Change. At  the 
developments,  which 
integration  of  efforts 
public 
important 
streamlining 
underscore 
towards 
decided 
Recent 
strides 
align 
role 
and 
to 
in 
in 
A/64/PV.49
a 
in 
and 
step 
adopted 
reflected 
endorsed 
for  Change 
High-level  Special  Session  in  June,  the  configuration 
formally 
short  outcome  document 
(PBC/3/SLE/6) in which it committed itself to focusing 
on  three  key  threats  to  peacebuilding  identified  in  the 
Agenda 
the 
complementary  United  Nations  joint  vision  for  Sierra 
Leone.  This 
the  Commission’s 
willingness to adapt its engagement to the context and 
recognized that the needs of post-conflict countries are 
not  static.  Canada  strongly  supports  this  approach. 
Embracing  locally  produced  strategic  visions  affirms 
national  ownership,  holds  Governments  accountable 
for their own commitments, and fulfils the principles of 
the  Paris  Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness  and  the 
Accra Agenda for Action. 
Another  success  over  the  past  year  was  the 

revision to the terms of reference of the Peacebuilding 
Fund.  The  Fund  will  now  be  able  to  better  fulfil  two 
functions:  providing  rapid  financing  for  small,  high-
impact projects in direct support of early recovery, and 
providing funding to larger, more complex programmes 
that  support  peacebuilding  in  areas  not  covered  by 
other  donors.  The  Fund  must  continue  to  do  better  to 
align  each  project  with  a  sound  strategic  vision  and 
improve the quality of project implementation and the 
speed  of  disbursements.  Canada  is  encouraged  by  the 
development  of  new  operational  guidelines  for  the 
Fund in this regard and welcomes the revised strategic 
direction 
the  Assistant 
Secretary-General. 
(spoke in English) 

The  peacebuilding  architecture  has  come  far,  yet 
much  more  work  remains.  The  forthcoming  review 
process  must  be  inclusive,  transparent  and  focused  on 
the  practical  needs  of  post-conflict  countries.  For  this 
reason, it should begin with a careful stocktaking of the 
record  to  date.  At  this  early  stage,  Canada  would 
propose three key issues for potential consideration. 

First,  the  PBC  must  expand  its  engagement  by 
getting  involved  at  an  earlier  stage  of  post-conflict 
recovery,  as  called  for  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report. The  Commission  needs  to  consider  how  it  can 
better support a wider range of post-conflict countries, 
while 
engagement  with 
countries  presently  on  its  agenda.  To  do  so,  the  PBC 
will  need  to  adapt  its  working  methods  and  more 
clearly 
to  existing 
peacekeeping efforts. 
recently  articulated  by 
continuing  meaningful 
the  value 
it  adds 
identify 
09-61513 

27 

the 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
A/64/PV.49 

Secondly,  the  PBC  should  adopt  a  multitiered 

levels  of 
agenda.  This  would  permit  differing 
engagement  depending  on 
stage  of  peace 
consolidation.  Not  all  circumstances  will  warrant  the 
intensive  involvement  that  currently  takes  place  with 
respect  to  strategic  frameworks.  The  Commission’s 
role  may  be  one  of  monitoring  or  helping  a  country 
move  from  peacebuilding  to  a  sound  development 
footing. 

Thirdly,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  must 
improve its treatment of thematic issues and integration 
of  lessons  learned.  It  should  be  the  central  United 
Nations  forum  for  discussing  the  strategic  challenges 
and policy dilemmas that peacebuilding presents. This 
will  require  closer  cooperation  with  the  Security 
Council, the General Assembly and the Economic and 
Social  Council,  as  well  as  the  World  Bank,  the 
International  Network on Conflict and  Fragility of the 
Organization 
and 
Development, and others outside United Nations walls. 
It  demands  a  stronger  Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
(PBSO),  capable  of  serving  as  both  a  centre  of 
expertise  and a clearinghouse for knowledge. There is 
an  important  role  for  the  PBC  and  PBSO  to  play  in 
cultivating  meaningful  partnerships  between  external 
and  internal  peacebuilding  actors  that  is  essential  to 
long-term sustainability. 
The  2010  review  comes  at  a  time  when  the 

United  Nations  system  is  reforming  its  approach  to 
peacebuilding and the Peacebuilding Commission must 
follow  up  on  the  recommendations  outlined  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  peacebuilding.  Canada 
looks  forward  to  the  further  clarification  of  roles  and 
responsibilities, 
of  mutual 
accountability  measures  for  senior  United  Nations 
leadership  teams,  and  greater  integration  of  United 
Nations  efforts  in  the  field.  We  also  await  with  great 
interest the forthcoming report on civilian capacity. 

The  time  is  now.  The  recent  report  on  the 
Peacebuilding Commission’s work has shown not only 
the fledgling progress that we have made, but also the 
promise  that  needs  to  be  realized. The  2010  review  is 
an  opportunity  to  realize  the  full  ambition  of  the 
Commission’s original vision. It is time for the PBC to 
take  a  hard  look  at  its  business  methods,  build  on 
successes,  maintain  its  adaptability  and  prove  its 
worth.  Together,  let  us  craft  the  mandate  and  develop 
the tools that can make the Peacebuilding Commission 
development 
the 
the  United  Nations 
an  effective  partner  for  countries  seeking  a  brighter 
future. 
Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  Since 

their establishment a few years ago, the Peacebuilding 
Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  have 
followed  an  interesting  and  encouraging  path.  The 
reports of the work of those two elements of the United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture  that  are  before  us 
today (A/64/341 and A/64/217) are proof of that. That 
direction  would  not  have  been  possible  without  the 
highly  appreciated  contribution  of  the  Secretariat  and 
of many Member States. 

Belgium  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Sweden on behalf of the 
European Union. That statement described the point of 
departure of the European contribution to the five-year 
review 
peacebuilding 
of 
architecture. 
I  would  like  to  make  a  few  brief  remarks  in  my 

national  capacity,  bearing  in  mind  my  experience  as 
Chair of the Central African Republic configuration of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  Consideration  of  the 
Commission’s achievements and future with a view to 
the five-year review of the Peacebuilding Commission, 
less  than  a  year  away,  has  only  just  begun.  Belgium 
intends  to  become  involved  in  that  collective  review 
process on the basis of three guiding principles.  

First, we must draw on the vision that was at the 
root of the Peacebuilding  Commission’s establishment 
in  2006.  That  vision  was  clear:  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  was 
for 
coordinating,  channelling  and  mobilizing  international 
efforts  on  behalf  of  countries  emerging  from  conflict. 
We  will  make  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  an 
essential  tool  for  international  engagement  in  post-
conflict situations only if we are all ready to strengthen 
our  coordination  and  mobilization  efforts.  In  that 
regard, 
the  Secretary-General  on 
peacebuilding  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict 
(A/63/881) 
worthwhile 
recommendations,  such  as  the  strengthening  of  high-
level  United  Nations  posts  on  the  ground,  the  rapid 
deployment  of  civilian  capacities  and  an  improved 
coordination role for the Peacebuilding Commission. 

Secondly, the Commission’s work evolves and is 
dynamic.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  made 
great progress since its establishment barely four years 
ago.  In  the  country-specific  configurations,  we  are 
a  platform 
to  become 
report  of 
the 
contains 
very 
28 

09-61513 


almost  constantly  reviewing  our  working  methods, 
seeking  to  adapt  them  to  the  challenges  encountered 
both  in  New  York  and  in  the  field.  We  should  act 
without dogmas by adopting a flexible approach and by 
tailoring  our  actions  since  the  reality  in  the  countries 
on the Commission’s agenda varies greatly. In thinking 
about the direction of our work, let us keep in mind its 
evolving nature and take into consideration the lessons 
already  drawn  from  our  past  experience.  In  any  case, 
that  is  what  we  are  trying  to  do  within  the  Central 
African  Republic  configuration,  the  latest  country  to 
have  been  put  on  the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
agenda. 

Thirdly, we should see the Commission’s work as 
part of a whole, in particular by taking into account the 
developments  in  recent  years  in  the  context  of  other 
United Nations reforms. I am thinking especially of the 
link  between  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping,  two 
worlds that to date are still too far apart but that must 
be  brought  closer  together.  I  am  also  thinking  of 
system-wide  coherence  and  the  One  United  Nations 
concept,  two  objectives  to  which  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission can substantially contribute.  
Lastly,  I  am  thinking  of  cooperation  efforts 

between 
regional  and 
subregional  organizations.  Within  our  Central African 
Republic configuration, we have for example helped to 
strengthen 
the  United  Nations 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  in  the  Central  African 
Republic, the United Nations Development Programme 
(UNDP),  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  the  Central 
African Republic and Chad, the Economic Community 
of Central African States, the European Union and the 
African Union so as to implement both security sector 
reform and process of the disarmament, demobilization 
and reintegration of ex-rebels, which has now become 
truly  urgent.  We  have  also  worked  closely  with  the 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Children and Armed Conflict and with UNICEF to find 
solutions to the problem of child soldiers. 
It  is  also  necessary  to  consider  the  formal  and 

informal  procedures  whereby 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  interacts  with  the  Security  Council,  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. The Commission’s advisory role vis-à-vis the 
Security  Council  can  without  doubt  be  developed 
further,  for  example  by  consulting  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission in the immediate aftermath of a conflict or 
when  the  Security  Council  is  preparing  documents 
the  United  Nations  and 
links  among 
the 
A/64/PV.49
the 
and 
Lastly, 
I  wish 
cooperation 
South-South 
to  say  a  word  about 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
relating  to  countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda. 
Belgium  also  calls  for  strengthening  the  relationship 
between 
the 
General Assembly, for example by organizing a second 
annual  debate  on  peacebuilding  in  this  forum  in 
addition to the debate on the annual report. 

At  our  five-year  review,  we  must  consider  the 
developments beyond the United Nations system, with 
a  view  to  improving  the  dialogue  between  fragile 
international  community,  such  as 
States  and 
through 
the 
implementation of the Paris Principles. In that regard, I 
wish  to  stress  that  the  Central  African  Republic 
configuration works extremely well with the European 
Commission, the World Bank and UNDP. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Fund.  My  delegation  notes  with 
satisfaction  the  efforts  of  the  Secretariat,  in  particular 
of  the  new  Assistant  Secretary-General,  Ms.  Cheng-
Hopkins, seeking to make the Fund an instrument that 
can  act  more  rapidly  and  more  as  a  catalyst.  In  fact, 
those  are  the  characteristics  that  will  enable  the  Fund 
to stand out.  
It is necessary to continue to improve 
the synergies between the Peacebuilding Fund and the 
efforts  of  bilateral  partners  and  of  other  funds  in  the 
recipient  countries,  as  well  as  with  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission.  However,  overall,  Belgium  believes  that 
the  revisions  and  the  adjustments  that  the  Fund  has 
made this past year are promising. 

For  my  part  and  speaking  in  my  capacity  as 
Permanent  Representative  of  Belgium,  I  wish  to 
reiterate here that Belgium will continue its active and 
resolute  commitment  in  support  of  peacebuilding, 
including  through  its  various  contributions  to  the 
United Nations peacebuilding architecture. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November 
2002,  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Theo-Ben 
Gurirab,  President  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
and  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-
fourth session.  
Mr. Gurirab  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  I 

would  be  remiss  if,  on  this  happy  occasion,  I  did  not 
convey to my dear brother the President of the General 
Assembly  how  very  pleased  I  was 
to  see  him 
occupying the post that I once occupied, at the turn of 
the century. The Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) is at 
09-61513 

29 

the 
the  heart  of 
the  mandate  of 
the  Assembly  on  behalf  of 
A/64/PV.49 

his service and will offer all the help it can. I wish him 
well. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  back  in  this  Hall  and  to 
address 
Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  as  it  reviews  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  The  promotion  of  peace 
lies  at 
the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union.  Our  organization  is  founded  on 
the notion that parliaments and their members have an 
essential  contribution  to  make  in  building  peace  and 
social  stability.  It  is  in  parliament  that  the  competing 
and  sometimes  conflicting  interests  in  society  are 
debated.  It  is  there  that  agreements  are  forged  on 
public  policy  and  national  priorities.  A 
fully 
representative parliament that has the requisite powers 
to  legislate  and  hold  Government  to  account  is,  in 
many ways, the best antidote to conflict. 

As  a  melting  pot  of  the  diverse  components  of 
society, parliament has a determining role to play in the 
process  of  national  reconciliation,  political  tolerance 
and peacebuilding in the aftermath of conflict. Despite 
the  undeniable  progress  made  over  the  past  couple  of 
decades,  many  parliaments  in  developing  countries, 
and  those  in  post-conflict  countries  in  particular, 
continue  to  face  daunting  challenges.  Their  capacities 
and  resources  are  far  too  limited  to  enable  them  to 
function effectively and to promote democracy. 

In  the  IPU,  we  are  working  to  assist  these 
parliaments  by  giving  them  sustained  and  practical 
their 
support 
and 
long-term 
development 
institutions  — 
institutions that can help build consensus and serve as 
a  platform  for  open  and  frank  debate,  which  can  also 
contribute to healing the scars of conflict and averting 
the danger of a return to instability and discord.  

We  are  working  closely  with  the  United  Nations 
in  the  field  of  conflict  resolution.  We  have  a  shared 
interest  in  seeing  vibrant  parliaments  take  root.  They 
are  essential  to  achieving  the  local  ownership  that  is 
critical  to  the  success  of  international  operations  in 
post-conflict societies. 
I am pleased  that the Peacebuilding Commission 

the  needs  of 
is  paying 
parliaments in embattled countries where it is working. 
I  warmly  welcome  the  growing  cooperation  between 
the IPU and the Peacebuilding Commission. 
into  more  credible 
increasing  attention 
thereby  promote 
to 
the 
in 
from 
to 
conflict 
emerging 
parliament 
in 
opposition 
In  our  experience,  in  order  for  parliaments  in 

countries 
function 
effectively,  dialogue  is  absolutely  indispensable.  This 
holds  true  for  majority  and  opposition  parties  alike:  it 
is  necessary  for  them  to  be  able  to  work  together.  In 
this  way,  they  will  be  able  to  form  a  common  vision 
based  on  shared  confidence  and  mutual  respect.  For 
this reason, the IPU is engaged in a long-term effort to 
help the parliament in Burundi create a framework for 
ongoing  dialogue,  consensus-building  and  inclusive 
decision-making. 

Similarly, we are helping the parliament of Sierra 
Leone  to  play  a  robust  role  in  the  process  of  national 
reconciliation and forging a new beginning. Currently, 
the  development  of  a  code 
we  are  assisting 
regulating 
and 
encouraging  parliamentarians  on  both  sides  of  the 
political divide to work together for the common good. 

In Kenya, we are working with the parliament to 
ensure that it is at the forefront of efforts being made to 
ensure  long-term  stability  and  development  in  that 
country.  We  have  facilitated 
the  finalization  by 
parliament  of  an  action  plan  to  implement  the  overall 
political  agreement.  Furthermore,  we  are  now 
accompanying  the  parliament  as  it  implements  all 
stages of the plan. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  parliament  in  the 
Central  African  Republic.  Early  next  year,  we  will 
conduct  a  mission  to  that  country  in  the  context  of  a 
Peacebuilding  Commission  mission  with  a  view  to 
assessing 
the  parliament’s  needs  and  devising  a 
strategy  for  supporting  its  long-term  development  and 
consolidation efforts. 
As  we  debate  how  best  to  bring  peace  and 

stability  to  countries  affected  by  conflict,  we  must 
remember 
this  cannot  be  achieved  without 
goodwill and reconciliation, and that such efforts must 
be  a  home-grown  affair  in  all  respects.  This  process 
requires  the  participation  of  all  parties,  and  that 
necessarily means the participation of parliament. 

I  should  therefore  like  to  conclude  by  urging  all 
members of the Assembly to give their full support to 
the  parliaments  in  those  countries  —  to  respect  their 
sovereignty  while  giving  them  the  means  to  become 
truly 
accountable, 
accessible and effective institutions. That is one of the 
most vital investments the international community can 
in  discussions  with 
Moreover,  we  are 
representative, 
transparent, 
that 
30 

09-61513 


make in building peace and reconstruction. This is one 
of  the  important  contributions  we  in  the  IPU  are 
making to peace and development in a growing number 
of countries, and I urge the Assembly to join us in this 
exercise in building a better common future. 


Programme of work 

The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  consult 
members  regarding  an  extension  for  the  work  of  the 
Second Committee. Members will recall that at its 2nd 
plenary  meeting,  on  18  September  2009,  the  General 
Assembly  approved 
the 
General  Committee  that  the  Second  Committee  would 
complete  its  work  by  Tuesday,  24  November  2009. 
However, I have been informed by the Chairperson of 
the  Second  Committee 
to  ongoing 
negotiations, the Chairperson would like to request an 
extension  of 
the  Committee’s  work  until  Friday,  

recommendation  of 
that,  due 
the 
A/64/PV.49
that  consideration  of  agenda 
4 December  2009.  May  I  therefore  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the 
Second Committee until Friday, 4 December 2009? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting President: I would like now to make 

an  announcement  concerning  changes  in  the  schedule 
of  the  work  of  the  Assembly.  First,  members  are 
advised 
item  114, 
the  Millennium 
“Follow-up 
Summit”, 
on 
development,  scheduled  for Wednesday,  25  November 
2009,  as  well  as  consideration  of  agenda  item  14, 
entitled  “Protracted  conflicts  in  the  GUAM  area  and 
their implications for international peace, security  and 
development”,  and  agenda  item  18,  entitled  “The 
situation  in  the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan”, 
scheduled  for  Thursday,  3  December  2009,  are 
postponed to a later date to be announced. 
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. 
the  outcome  of 
specific  meetings 
focused 
to 
and 
09-61513 

31 
