
A/64/PV.12
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

12th plenary meeting 
Monday, 28 September 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 




Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Naha  Mint  Mouknass,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of 
the  Islamic 
Republic of Mauritania. 
Ms.  Mint  Mouknass  (Mauritania)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  I  should  like  at  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania  as well  as on my own 
account,  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to 
preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session and to wish you every possible success in your 
serious  and  noble  mission.  I  have  a  great  deal  of 
confidence  that  your  efforts  will  bear  fruit  and  enable 
the  Organization  to  continue  to  achieve  the  success 
attained  under  the  presidency  of  your  predecessor, 
Father Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann. 

I  should  also  like  to  convey  my  gratitude  and 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the 
efforts  he  has  devoted  to  consolidating  peace  and 
security 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  promoting  the 
fight against climate change. 

This  session  is  being  held  at  a  time  when  my 
country  is  extricating  itself  from  a  political  and 
institutional crisis that lasted for a few months and was 
resolved,  with 
the 
International  Contact  Group  on  Mauritania,  through  a 

the  efforts  of 
the  help  of 
to  achieving 
the  world, 
throughout 
reached  by 
consensus 
the  political  parties  of 
Mauritania  and  enshrined  in  the  Dakar  Accord.  This 
agreement provided for the elaboration of an electoral 
agenda  supervised  by  a  Government  of  national  unity 
in  which  minority  parties  in  Parliament  enjoy  half  of 
the  number  of  seats,  including  among  the  sovereign 
ministries,  such  as  the  Ministries  of  Home  Affairs, 
Information, Defence and others. 

The  normalization  of  the  constitutional  process 
led to the election of Mr. Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz as 
President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania.  He 
received 53 per cent of the votes during the first round 
of  the  elections  held  on  18  July  and  all  national  and 
international observers attested to the transparency and 
fairness of this election. 

On behalf of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, 
I  convey  my  special  gratitude  to  the  International 
Contact  Group,  and  especially  to  the  President  of  the 
African Union, the Leader Muammar Al-Qadhafi, who 
was one of the first to call for a domestic solution, thus 
enabling  Mauritanian  stakeholders  to  normalize  the 
political  situation  in  their  country.  I  also  convey  my 
gratitude to His Excellency Abdoulaye Wade, President 
of the brotherly country of Senegal, who accompanied 
the  signing  of  the  Dakar  Accord  and  ensured  its 
follow-up implementation. 

under 
of 
Mr. Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  is  determined  to 
consolidate democracy and institutions and uphold the 
rule  of  law  in  a  spirit  of  calm  and  stability,  thereby 
Mauritania, 
presidency 
the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52604 (E) 
*0952604* 




to 
its  attachment 
A/64/PV.12 

providing for the progress and well-being of the people 
of Mauritania. 

Aware of the need to integrate peoples and States, 
Mauritania  reiterates 
the  Arab 
Maghreb Union as a strategic choice for the people of 
the region. It also affirms its attachment to joint work 
within the framework of the League of Arab States, as 
well  as  its  commitment  to  the  African  Union  and  to 
United Nations purposes and principles, 

We  reiterate  our  support  for  efforts  aimed  at 
reforming the United Nations, especially the expansion 
of the Security Council, where a permanent seat should 
be granted to the African  continent and another to the 
Arab Group,  whose people make up more than 11 per 
cent of the world population. 
The  tremendous  efforts  undertaken  during  the 

sixty-third  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  are 
praiseworthy,  whether  we  are  referring  to  the  Doha 
Review  Conference  or  the  conference  on  the  world 
financial  and  economic  crisis  and  its  impact  on 
development.  Despite  these  commendable  efforts,  the 
world  continues  to  be  wracked  by  a  stifling  financial 
crisis 
that  has  undermined  development  efforts, 
especially in the least developed countries (LDCs). The 
impact  of  the  financial  crisis  on  the  economies  of  the 
LDCs  is  disastrous.  While  the  rich  countries  of  the 
North  have  achieved  economic  and  social  progress 
during  these  past  few  years,  the  least  developed 
countries  will  face  many  obstacles  that  will  have  an 
impact  on  programmes  aimed  at  achieving 
their 
Millennium Development Goals. 
The  international  community  must  act  rapidly  to 

confront 
the  global 
economic order. It must take concrete measures aimed 
at  restoring  confidence,  achieving  economic  progress 
and  creating  jobs.  Commerce,  trade  and  investment 
must be revitalized to provide the necessary financing 
to  poor  countries  and  to  maintain  achievements  made 
thus 
in 
in 
strengthening 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  in  countering  the  economic 
crisis and its adverse impact on development. 
In this respect, we urge rich countries to fulfil the 

commitments  made  in  London  in  early  April  towards 
financing  development  in  developing  countries,  and 
their  pledges  to  allocate  $1  trillion  to  revitalize  the 
global  economy,  including  $50  billion  devoted  to  the 
fight  against  poverty  and 
role  of 
this  disaster 
threatens 
the 
the 
that 
far 
The 
and 
limit 
social 
economic, 
to  be  held 
in  December 
low income countries. I pay tribute to all of those steps 
from this rostrum. 

environmental 
dimensions of development are all closely interlinked. 
For  that  reason  we  call  upon  all  countries  to  fight 
against  climate  change.  My  country  is  one  of  the  ten 
countries  most  affected  by  global  warming,  which 
could lead to a rise in sea level. Here, we request that 
industrialized  States 
their  greenhouse  gas 
emissions.  We  also  welcome  the  meeting  on  climate 
change  that  was  convened  by  the  Secretary-General 
and  await  the  outcome  of  the  international  conference 
on  climate  change 
in 
Copenhagen, with great interest. 

My  country  follows  the  issue  of  the  Western 
Sahara with great interest and reaffirms its backing for 
the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special 
Envoy  aimed  at  finding  a  final  solution  to  this  issue, 
which  would  strengthen  security  and  stability  in  the 
region. 

The Arab-Israeli  conflict  is  a  source  of  ongoing 
tension and a threat to international peace and security 
in  a  sensitive  and  vital  region  of  the  world.  For  that 
reason,  we  support  peace  efforts  aimed  at  finding  a 
solution  to  the  conflict  that  will,  on  the  one  hand, 
guarantee  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people  all  of  their 
rights,  including  the  establishment  of  an  independent 
Palestinian  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
and the right to live in peace and security side by side 
with  Israel;  and  on  the  other  hand,  will  restore  all 
occupied  Arab  territories,  including  the  Syrian  Golan 
and the Lebanese Sheba'a farms. 

Turning  to  the  situation  in  the  Sudan,  we  wish 
here  to  underscore  our  categorical  rejection  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court’s  arrest  warrant  for  the 
Sudanese  President,  because 
it  undermines  peace 
efforts  under  way  in  that  country  and  runs  counter  to 
international norms.  
The  culture  of  peace,  tolerance,  justice  and 

respect for peoples and civilizations is the best possible 
international  peace  and  security. 
way 
Outstanding 
issues  are  still  without  an  available 
solution; the chasm between the rich and the poor and 
the 
infrastructure 
have  led  to  tension,  extremism  and  terrorism.  Here  I 
reaffirm that the Islamic Republic of Mauritania rejects 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations  and 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  Islamic  values,  which 
international  economic 
to  uphold 
turbulent 
2 

09-52604 
Mr. 
Power
(Ireland):  Let  me 


reject  violence  and  extremism  and  call  for  tolerance 
and  fraternity.  We  believe  that  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
international  community  to  consider  seriously  the 
causes  of  this  phenomenon  and  to  devise  ways  to 
confront it and eradicate it once and for all.  

Fulfilling  the  commitments  that  the  international 
community  made  in  creating  this  Organization  will 
only  be  possible  if  all  peoples  and  all  countries  share 
the  available  resources  and  possibilities  for  successful 
development, and if the policies of the countries of the 
North are rooted in a vision of dignified, free and equal 
existence  for  all.  In  my  view  this  is  the  only  way  to 
reach the objectives that this Organization was created 
for. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Peter  Power,  Minister  of  State  for  Overseas 
Development of Ireland. 
begin, 

Mr. President,  by  warmly  congratulating  you  on  your 
election  and  extending  the  best  wishes  of  the  Irish 
Government and the Irish people for a successful term 
in office. 

It  is  indeed  a  very  great  honour  to  participate  in 
this  general  debate  and  to  share  this  unique  global 
platform.  Ireland  cherishes  its  membership  in  the 
United  Nations.  We  believe  strongly  in  the  purposes, 
the  principles  and  the  potential  of  this  great  global 
Organization of ours. And we are proud of the role we 
have ourselves played in developing that potential over 
the  past  five  decades.  We  are  determined  to  maintain 
this role and to remain steadfastly at the service of the 
United Nations. 

Rarely  have  the  challenges  facing  the  global 
community been as formidable, or as pressing, as those 
of  today.  And  rarely  has  the  need  been  greater  for 
collective action and for the facilitating framework that 
is  uniquely  provided  by  the  United  Nations.  Our 
discussions  in  New  York  over  the  past  week  have 
highlighted  some  of  the  most  urgent  issues  on  the 
Organization’s  agenda  at  present,  including  climate 
change,  global  poverty  and  hunger,  and  nuclear 
disarmament and non-proliferation. 

We  are  also  confronted  with  the  global  financial 
and economic crisis — the most severe in a generation — 
which  is  leaving  its  mark  on  every  family  and 
community across the world. Governments everywhere 
are facing a daunting task, as they work to mitigate the 
A/64/PV.12
threat 
effects  of  global  recession  and  economic  turbulence 
and to limit the impact of the crisis on those in greatest 
need.  Once  again,  the  United  Nations  provides  a 
framework for the development of collective responses 
and solutions. 

The summit of world leaders hosted by Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  New  York  last  week  on 
climate  change  displayed  the  strength  of  international 
commitment  on  this  issue.  The  Secretary-General  has 
been a powerful advocate of collective action to tackle 
this  major 
to  our  planet  and  our  future 
generations.  It  now  falls  to  us,  the  Member  States,  to 
redouble our efforts to ensure a successful outcome to 
the Copenhagen Conference in December. 

The promise that the United Nations embodies to 
tackle  all  these  global  threats  can  only  be  realized 
through continuing efforts to make this a stronger and 
more  effective  Organization.  Ireland  has  played,  and 
will continue to play, an active role in championing the 
reform agenda at the United Nations. 

In the area of system-wide coherence, the reform 
agenda  is  already  producing  good  results  and  helping 
to  deliver  a  more  effective  and  relevant  United 
Nations.  The  One  United  Nations 
is 
delivering  improved  development  performance  at  the 
individual country level. Ireland warmly welcomes the 
progress  being  made  in  the  General Assembly  and,  in 
particular, the recent decision to establish a new gender 
entity  to  promote  gender  equality.  I  encourage  early 
action  to  make  the  new  entity  operational  during  the 
Assembly’s current session. 

The  need  for  greater  progress  on  other  parts  of 
the  United  Nations  reform  agenda  still  remains.  A 
positive  start  has  been  made  to  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  But  more 
urgency  is  required  in  transforming  the  Council  to 
make  it  more  representative  and  reflective  of  twenty-
first  century  realities,  as  well  as  to  improve  its 
functioning and increase its transparency. 

I  would  like  to  devote  some  time  today  to 
discussing  the  critical  issue  —  indeed  the  scandal  — 
that  is  hunger  in  our  world  today.  Tonight,  over  one 
billion people will go to bed hungry and malnourished. 
That is one in seven people inhabiting the planet today. 
This  scandal  represents  perhaps  the  biggest  collective 
failure of mankind. In the last few days — during the 
past  week  in  the  General  Assembly  —  world  leaders 
have  come  together  to  discuss  the  most  complex  and 
Initiative 
09-52604 

3 

A/64/PV.12 

daunting  of  global  challenges, 
including  climate 
change and non-proliferation. Yet, the simple challenge 
of  putting  food  into  the  mouths  of  everybody  on  the 
planet still remains beyond us.  

I  speak  today  as  the  representative  of  a  country 
that  has  experienced  famine  and  hunger  and  whose 
population  was  decimated  by  the  Great  Famine  in 
Ireland  in  1847. A  year  ago  this  week  I  accompanied 
our  Prime  Minister  —  our  Taoiseach  —  here  to  the 
United  Nations  Headquarters  to  present  to  Secretary-
General Ban the report of our Hunger Task Force. The 
key recommendation in that report was a call for global 
leadership  to  tackle  hunger.  I  was  therefore  greatly 
encouraged  last  Saturday  to  see  such  leadership  by 
Secretary-General  Ban  and  United  States  Secretary  of 
State  Clinton  aimed  at  constructing  a  road  map  to 
translate  rhetoric  and  commitment on hunger into real 
action  —  and  real  action  on  the  ground.  The  Global 
Partnership for Agriculture and Food Security initiative 
holds the promise of contributing to a world free from 
chronic hunger. 

It  is  clear  what  we  must  do.  We  must  tackle 
hunger  in  a  comprehensive  way  and  address  the 
fundamental  causes  of  hunger.  We  need  to  invest  in 
agriculture and agricultural research and, in particular, 
to  support  women  farmers. We  need  to  invest  in  rural 
infrastructure,  enhance  nutrition  and  support  national 
and  regional  plans.  Ireland  has  placed  food  security 
and  related  sectors  as  a  cornerstone  of  our  aid 
programme. By 2012 we will ensure that 20 per cent of 
our aid programme is hunger-focused. We  are well  on 
our  way  to  meeting  this  objective.  But  above  all  we 
need, at a global level, to summon the political will to 
end  this  scandal.  Nothing  short  of  the  complete 
eradication of hunger on the planet should satisfy us.  

of 
international  peace  and  security  have  always  been 
central  to  the  role  of  the  United  Nations.  Ireland  is 
deeply proud of the long-standing contribution that we 
have made to United Nations peacekeeping operations 
across  the  world.  For  over  half  a  century,  there  has 
been  a  continuous  tradition  of  Irish  peacekeepers 
serving  the  cause  of  peace  under  the  United  Nations 
blue  flag  somewhere  in  the  world.  This  goes  to  the 
very  heart  of  our  commitment  to  the  United  Nations 
and the values it represents — a commitment that is, I 
should  say,  an  integral  part  of  our  foreign  policy  and 
that helps to define us as a nation. 
the  maintenance 
Peacekeeping 
and 

It  is  clear,  however,  that  both  the  Organization 
and contributing countries are being severely stretched 
in terms of the demands made by a steadily escalating 
number of peace support operations around the world. 
The  Secretary-General’s  paper,  “A  New  Partnership 
Agenda:  Charting  a  New  Horizon  for  United  Nations 
Peacekeeping”,  is  therefore  a  very  welcome  initiative, 
and  we  look  forward  to  contributing  to  its  early 
consideration by the General Assembly. 

Regional  organizations,  such  as  the  European 
Union  and  the  African  Union,  play  a  vital  role  in 
helping  the  United  Nations  to  fulfil  its  peacekeeping 
responsibilities. As  the  Secretary-General  acknowledged 
when  he  visited  Dublin  last  July,  without  the  unique 
contributions  of  regional  organizations  such  as  the 
European Union, United Nations operations would not 
be  able  to  achieve  their  goals  and  could,  in  fact,  fail 
entirely. The successful transition earlier this year from 
the European Union-led force in Chad and the Central 
African  Republic  (EUFOR)  to  the  United  Nations 
Mission  there  shows  how  important  and  effective  this 
partnership  has  become,  as  does 
the  similarly 
successful  transition  to  the  European  Union  Rule  of 
Law Mission in Kosovo. 

In Ireland we have known the terrible human cost 
of conflict. The Irish Government has been developing 
over the past years a focus on conflict resolution work, 
building  on  our  own  practical  experiences  with  the 
Northern Ireland peace process. 

Complementing the work of others, especially the 
United Nations, we hope that we may be able to make 
a  distinctive  contribution  to  conflict  resolution  efforts 
in  other  parts  of  the  world.  As  one  example,  we  are 
engaging  actively 
lessons 
derived  from  our  own  peace  process  to  help  increase 
confidence  in  policing  and  security  arrangements  in 
that  country.  I  am  also  proud  that,  in  relation  to 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  the  Irish 
Government  is  sponsoring  a  major  lessons-learned 
exercise  involving  interactions  between  women  from 
Timor-Leste, Liberia and Northern Ireland. 

Building  peace  and  ending  conflict  cannot  be 
accomplished without also removing the very means of 
conflict.  Last  year,  Ireland  was  proud  to  host  the 
diplomatic conference that  adopted the Convention on 
Cluster  Munitions,  a  historic  agreement  aimed  at 
these  most 
banning 
destructive  of  weapons.  I  warmly  welcome 
the 
the  production  and  use  of 
in  Timor-Leste,  using 
4 

09-52604 
the 
towards  a 


considerable  progress  that  has  been  made  this  year 
towards  the  Convention’s  entry  into  force.  We  now 
need fewer than 10 further ratifications to achieve this, 
and  I  urge  all  Governments  that  have  not  yet  signed 
and  ratified  the  Convention  to  do  so  at  the  earliest 
opportunity. 

Ireland  has  always  been  strongly  supportive  of 
the  leading  role  played  by  the  United  Nations  in 
working  to  promote  non-proliferation  and  remove  the 
threat  posed  by  nuclear  weapons.  Indeed,  Ireland  was 
the  first  country  to  sign  and  ratify  the  Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty.  Next 
year’s  Review 
Conference will be of critical importance for efforts to 
help  strengthen 
international  non-proliferation 
system, at a time when the threats it faces have perhaps 
never been greater. We encourage all Member States to 
work  actively  and  constructively 
to  achieve  a 
successful  outcome,  and  Ireland  will  engage  fully  in 
that  effort  itself.  Ireland  also  applauds  and  welcomes 
the  renewed  focus  on  nuclear  disarmament.  We 
encourage the United States and Russia particularly as 
they  work 
legally  binding  follow-on 
arrangement  to  the  Strategic  Arms  Reduction  Treaty, 
which expires at the end of this year. 

Ireland  would  like  to  see  the  active  engagement 
of  the  United  Nations  in  monitoring  human  rights 
situations 
and 
strengthened.  The  Human  Rights  Council  and  other 
human  rights  mechanisms  must  be  enabled  to  address 
the  most  difficult  human  rights  situations  in  a  timely 
and  effective  manner.  Continued  support  will  also  be 
needed  for  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
international  tribunals  in  their  efforts  to  promote 
justice  and  combat  impunity.  Ireland  urges  the  fullest 
cooperation by all Member States in this regard. 

the  Assembly 
endorsed the important concept of the responsibility to 
protect. It is now imperative to take that work forward 
to  put  this  concept  into  practical  effect,  based  on  the 
consensus  resolution  at  the  end  of  the  sixty-third 
session (resolution 63/308). 

Let me turn now for a moment to the situation in 
the  Middle  East.  Ireland  very  much  welcomes  and 
supports  the  renewed  international  efforts  made  in 
recent  months  to  reinvigorate  the  Middle  East  peace 
process with a view to bringing about a comprehensive 
and lasting peace settlement. Particular praise is due to 
the  United  States  Administration  and  to  the  United 
the  2005  World  Summit, 
the  world  maintained 
around 
At 
A/64/PV.12
at 
aimed 
achieving 
engagement 
States  Middle  East  envoy,  George  Mitchell,  for  their 
intensive 
the 
resumption  of  peace  negotiations  between  Israel  and 
the  Palestinian Authority,  as  well  as  the  promotion  of 
peace between Israel and all of its neighbours. We are 
of course fortunate in Ireland to have had the benefit of 
first-hand  experience  of  George  Mitchell’s  formidable 
skills,  patience  and  tenacity  as  a  peacemaker,  and  we 
hope he can bring these unique skills to this particular 
process. 

With  our  European  Union  (EU)  partners,  we 
stand  ready  to  work  closely  with  our  Israeli  and 
Palestinian  partners  and  to  support  the  United  States 
and  the  Quartet  in  their  efforts.  It  is  vitally  important 
that  all  parties  contribute  to  confidence-building  by 
fully  honouring  their  commitments  and  obligations 
under the Road Map. This must include real efforts to 
halt  all  settlement  activities  and  improve  the  living 
conditions of civilians on the ground in the Palestinian 
territories. Ordinary people must see in their daily lives 
the  benefits  that  will  derive  from  peace  and  must  be 
encouraged to take risks for peace. 

Nowhere  is  this  more  urgent  than  in  Gaza.  We 
wish to see all border crossings fully and immediately 
opened to normal commercial and humanitarian traffic. 
We  have  all  been  shocked  by  the  violence  and 
widespread  civilian  casualties  that  took  place  during 
the conflict in Gaza at the start of this year. There must 
be  some  form  of  accountability  for  the  most  serious 
violations  of  international  law  that  occurred  at  that 
time.  The  Human  Rights  Council  is  now  addressing 
this  issue  in  considering  the  comprehensive  report 
prepared  by 
team 
(A/HRC/12/48). 

Like many others in the international community, 
Ireland  has  followed  recent  events 
in  Iran  with 
mounting  concern. We  urge  Iran  to  comply  fully  with 
all  of  its  obligations  and  commitments  in  terms  of 
protecting the basic human rights of its own citizens. It 
is  equally  urgent  that  Iran  respond  to  the  demands  of 
the 
to  cease  uranium 
enrichment  and  to  answer  satisfactorily  all  questions 
regarding its nuclear activities, particularly in the light 
of  the  latest  revelations  regarding  the  previously 
undisclosed  nuclear  site  at  Qom.  The  international 
community is ready to engage with Iran and has made 
generous  offers  to  do  so.  It  is  for  Iran  now  to  decide 
whether it wishes to pursue the path of engagement or 
to opt for increasing isolation. We very much hope that 
Justice  Goldstone  and  his 
international  community 
09-52604 

5 

to 
tribute 
to  pay 
issues  of 
the  major 
A/64/PV.12 

the  forthcoming  discussions  with  Iran,  to  begin  on 
1 October,  will  mark  the  start  of  a  constructive 
engagement  on 
international 
concern. 

The  continuing  humanitarian  tragedy  of  Darfur 
horrifies world opinion and simply cannot be ignored. I 
want 
the  United  Nations  and 
international  humanitarian  staff,  who  are  working 
tirelessly  and  selflessly  under  the  most  difficult  of 
circumstances. I think in particular of Sharon Commins 
and  Hilda  Kuwuki,  two  brave  and  dedicated  aid 
workers  with  the  Irish  agency  GOAL,  who  were 
kidnapped in Darfur on 3 July. The Irish Government is 
grateful  for  all  the  assistance  we  have  received  from 
the  United  Nations  and  others  in  our  efforts  to  secure 
the release of these two women. We fervently hope that 
the  day  of  their  release  from  captivity  is  not  far  off. 
The  people  of  Darfur  and  of  all  Sudan  richly  deserve 
peace.  We  must  all  collectively  continue  working  to 
promote  the  United  Nations-African  Union  mediation 
in  Darfur,  to  support  full  implementation  of  the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  and  to  ensure  that 
justice  and  the  defence  of  human  rights  prevail 
throughout Sudan. 

In Burma/Myanmar, Ireland condemns the recent 
conviction of Aung San Suu Kyi and again calls for her 
immediate release and that of all political prisoners and 
for  the  launching  of  a  genuine,  inclusive  political 
dialogue.  International  pressure  is  needed  on  Burma’s 
leaders,  notably  from  other  countries  in  the  region,  to 
change course and move to democracy. 

In  Sri  Lanka,  there  remains  an  urgent  need  to 
improve the humanitarian situation of those fleeing the 
recent  violence  in  the  Tamil  areas.  The  Sri  Lankan 
Government  must  cooperate  fully  with  the  United 
Nations to alleviate the plight of those affected. It must 
also  work  for  a  political  settlement  which  meets  the 
aspirations of all communities in Sri Lanka. 

Let me say in conclusion that, as the international 
community  faces  a  formidable  array  of  challenges, 
there  has  never  been  a  greater  need  for  the  United 
Nations  itself.  With  each  new  challenge  that  appears, 
the  value  of  common  action  to  address  it  at  a  global 
level  becomes  ever  more  apparent.  There  is  a  much 
clearer  appreciation  of  this  Organization’s  potential  to 
deliver an effective response to these challenges. Let us 
seize the moment and work together to ensure that the 
this  unique  voice  of 
opportunity we have at present is transformed into real 
achievement on the ground. 

We  can  all  be  justly  proud  of  the  record  of  the 
United  Nations  over 
the  past  half  century.  The 
challenge for us, the Member States, is whether we can 
mobilize  the  political  will  needed  in  order  to  ensure 
that  the  United  Nations  can  deliver  even  more  in  the 
future.  Ireland,  for  its  part,  commits  itself  to  doing 
everything  in  its  power  to  realize  the  full  potential  of 
the  United  Nations, 
the 
international  community,  in  the  pursuit  of  a  much 
better and a much safer world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Abubakr  Al-Qirbi,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Yemen. 
Mr. Al-Qirbi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in Arabic): At  the 

outset, Mr. Treki, permit me on behalf of Yemen and on 
my  own  account  to  congratulate  you  on  your  well-
deserved  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I  am  confident 
that your long experience  in the area of diplomacy, in 
particular  Arab  and  African  diplomacy,  will  ensure 
your  skilful  and  able  conduct  of  our  proceedings.  I 
wish  you  every  success  in  carrying  out  your  noble 
mission.  I  also  wish  to  congratulate  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session,  on  his  efforts, 
which  ensured 
the  various  Main 
Committees  of  the Assembly.  In  addition,  I  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his tireless efforts to consolidate 
international peace and security and advance the work 
of the Organization. 

The Republic of Yemen is facing complex socio-
political  and  development  challenges,  to  which  a 
number  of  factors  have  contributed,  including  the 
world  financial  crisis  and  its  impact  on  Yemen’s 
economy, as well as an acute shortage of resources as a 
result  of  declining  oil  production  and  low  prices  on 
international  markets.  We  also 
face  a  growing 
population, combined with water shortages and limited 
commitments  by  our  development  partners  to  help  us 
combat 
employment 
opportunities  and  decent  livelihoods  for  the  Yemeni 
population.  Despite  those  difficulties,  the  Yemeni 
citizen  has  the  smallest  share  of  official  development 
assistance  when  compared  with  citizens  of  other  least 
developed 
of 
development  and  rising  unemployment  and  poverty 
countries.  Undoubtedly, 
the  success  of 
providing 
poverty 
lack 
by 
6 

09-52604 
limited 
fighting 
its 
towards 
resources  allocated 


rates have created many challenges and difficulties for 
our Government.  

The  Government  also  faces  other  challenges, 
including,  in  particular,  the  rebellion  by  the Al-Hothi 
elements  in  the  Sa´ada  governorate,  who  abandoned 
the Zaidi doctrine, which is the second most prevalent 
religious  sect  in Yemen,  to  embrace  the  beliefs  of  the 
Shi´ite Twelvers sect. Although they had the right to do 
so as Yemenis, they exploited it to gain Shi´ite support 
and  sympathy  after  they  had  carried  out  an  armed 
rebellion  against  the  Government.  These  subversive 
groups  have  committed  terrorist  and  violent  acts 
against citizens, targeted State institutions and facilities 
and  hampered  the  work  of  local  councils,  calling  for 
changes  in  our  democratic  republican  system  in  order 
to  return  Yemen  to  the  days  before  the  26  September 
revolution.  The  Government  has  been  compelled  to 
deal  with  these  destructive  groups,  channelling  a 
portion  of 
for 
the  saboteurs  and 
development 
re-establishing  governmental  authority  and  the  rule  of 
law throughout Yemen. The destructive acts carried out 
by  these  rebellious  groups  before  the  recent  military 
operations  against  them  caused  the  displacement  of 
tens  of  thousands  of  citizens  from  areas  affected  by 
violence,  which  has  recently  increased  as  a  result  of 
military clashes.  
As  a  result  of  its  concern  about  the  situation  of 

internally  displaced  persons 
the  Yemeni 
Government  has  addressed  that  humanitarian  situation 
responsibly  and  in  cooperation  and  coordination  with 
international  and  civil  society  humanitarian  relief 
organizations, providing secure camps and meeting the 
needs of IDPs for food and health care. Here, I wish to 
recall that our Government has declared two cessations 
of  hostilities  during 
recent  military 
operations, the second of which was in response to the 
appeal  made 
and 
humanitarian  and  international  organizations  for  the 
opening of safe corridors for the provision of relief to 
refugees.  However, 
that 
ceasefire  by  increasing  their  attacks  on  our  military 
forces, cutting off roads, planting mines and spreading 
false  rumours  about  Government  forces  attacking  the 
IDPs. The Government has established a committee to 
investigate the situation, although it is aware that there 
was no IDP camp in the area but rather a camp used as 
a  supply  centre  and  meeting  place  by  the  saboteurs, 
the  saboteurs  exploited 
Secretary-General 
the  most 
(IDPs), 
the 
by 
A/64/PV.12
among 
security 
coordination 
who  have  violated  five  previous  agreements  and 
returned to violent actions.  

I  wish  to  highlight  our  commitment  to  the 
principles  of  guaranteeing  human  rights,  protecting 
civilians  from  the  effects  of  military  operations  and 
upholding  the  sovereignty  of  the  Constitution  and  the 
rule of law in dealing with an internal situation caused 
by a group that is committing violent and terrorist acts 
in violation of the law and the Constitution. 

This  challenge  is  growing,  as  can  be  seen  from 
the activities of Al-Qaida elements in Yemen and their 
attempts to consolidate their presence in Yemen and to 
target  our  country  and  other  States  in  the  region. 
Al-Qaida is supporting the saboteurs in Sa´ada, seeking 
to  make  their  acts  of  violence  and  rebellion  serve  the 
interests  of Al-Qaida  in Yemen  and  to  spread  anarchy 
and  instability.  This  highlights  the  need  for  continued 
Yemeni  efforts  to  uproot  terrorism  and  for  continued 
international 
and 
intelligence  organs,  so  that  extremism  and  terrorism 
can be defeated. 

Meanwhile,  a  number  of  separatist  elements  are 
exploiting  the  atmosphere  of  democracy  and  freedom 
of  thought  and  expression,  the  Government’s  respect 
for  human  rights,  and  economic  difficulties  and  a  low 
standard of living to promote their separatist agenda — 
which was rejected by the Yemeni people in 1994 — in 
an  invitation  to  reject  constitutional  legitimacy  and  to 
conspire  against  the  unity,  security  and  stability  of 
Yemen.  
level  of  expenditure  required  for  our 

The 
Government  to  impose  the  rule  of  law  and  combat 
terrorism  has  reduced  the  number  of  employment 
opportunities,  decent 
livelihoods  and  educational 
opportunities  for  our  young  people  and  the  chance  to 
fight  poverty.  Therefore,  we  urge  the  international 
international 
community, 
organizations  and  Yemen’s  partners 
to 
join  an 
international alliance to combat terrorism. Once again, 
we call upon them to shoulder their responsibilities and 
provide  generous  support 
to 
strengthen  our  development  programmes  to  combat 
since 
poverty 
development  and  economic  growth  are 
important 
elements 
reducing 
terrorism, 
unemployment  and  achieving  development.  From  this 
rostrum,  we  call  on  Yemen’s  partners  and  donors  to 
job  opportunities, 
and  provide 
to  Yemen 
combating 
countries, 
in  order 
donor 
in 
09-52604 

7 

its  part, 
The  difficult  humanitarian  situation  of 
A/64/PV.12 

fulfil the pledges that they made at the November 2006 
London conference in support of development. 

The  Republic  of  Yemen  continues  to  strengthen 
the  democratic  principles  of  its  political  system, 
reflected  in  political  pluralism,  the  peaceful  handover 
of authority, freedom of expression, respect for human 
rights,  growing  decentralization,  building 
local 
government  with  broad  powers, 
electoral 
and 
constitutional  reform  and  improving  partnerships  with 
civil society organizations. Those involved in political 
work  in  Yemen  agreed  to  postpone  for  two  years  the 
parliamentary elections that were to be held next April 
in  order  to  reform  the  election  law  and  to  introduce 
some  constitutional  changes  with  a  view  to  reforming 
the  Government  has 
governance.  For 
introduced  a  system  of  broad 
local  government 
involving  the  election  rather  than  the  appointment  of 
governors  with  a  view  to  bringing  about  further 
decentralization of authority.  

the 
Palestinian  people  under  Israeli  occupation  should 
remind all in this Hall that the international community 
has  failed  to  secure  the  legitimate  demands  of  the 
Palestinian  people  and  to  assist  it  in  establishing  its 
own State,  and that it has ignored the suffering  of the 
Palestinian  people,  the  systematic  violation  of  their 
human  rights  and  the  increase  in  illegal  settlement 
activities  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories.  The 
unjust  blockade  imposed  on  the  Palestinians  in  Gaza 
makes life a tragedy for the entire population of Gaza 
owing to the complete disregard of the practices of the 
Israeli  occupation 
relevant 
international  resolutions  and  instruments,  and  in  the 
light  of 
the  Israeli 
Government and its rejection of all initiatives aimed at 
moving  the  peace  process  forward,  in  particular  with 
regard  to  the  course  adopted  by  the  United  States 
Administration to resolve the Arab-Israeli conflict. We 
call  upon  our  Palestinian  brothers  to  show  a  spirit  of 
national  responsibility  towards  their  people  living 
under  the  yoke  of  occupation  by  unifying  and  putting 
an  end  to  their  differences  so  as  to  benefit  the 
Palestinian issue and achieve their goals. 
the 

international  community 
take  more  effective 
measures to achieve peace and security  and to rebuild 
the  institutions  of  the  Somali  State  by  urging  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  to  act  in  such  a  way 
as  to  contribute  to  the  strengthening  of  peace  and 
the  recalcitrance  shown  by 
in  violation  of 
in  Somalia 
calls 
the 
The 
situation 
for 
to 
to  extend 
stability  in  the  Horn  of Africa.  Here,  we  welcome  the 
efforts  of  the  Transitional  Federal  Government  to 
secure  peace  and 
its  administration 
throughout Somali territory. However, it urgently needs 
further support to enable it to serve the Somali people. 
We call on all Somali parties without exception to end 
their differences, to participate in national dialogue and 
to  achieve  reconciliation,  putting  the  interests  of  the 
Somali people above all else.  

We call on the external parties to stop interfering 
in  Somalia’s  internal  affairs.  Instability  in  Somalia  is 
adversely  affecting  all  States  of  the  region.  The 
phenomenon  of  piracy  and  the  increasing  flow  of 
refugees  to  neighbouring  States,  resulting  from  the 
instability in Somalia, are creating socio-economic and 
health difficulties for Yemen, as it bears the burden of 
caring for hundreds of thousands of those refugees. We 
call on the international community to help the Somali 
coast  guard  to  protect  the  coasts  and  international 
maritime trade. 

With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Sudan  and  in 
Darfur,  we  welcome  the  mediation  efforts  of  Qatar, 
Libya  and  Egypt  to  achieve  peace  in  the  Sudan.  We 
support  the  efforts  of  the  international  community  in 
bringing  about  the  reconciliation  of  all  opposing 
factions,  and  we  reiterate  our  call  for  the  decision  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  with  regard 
to 
President  Omer Al-Bashir  to  be  overturned  as  it  does 
not  respect  the  sovereignty  of  the  Sudan  and  hinders 
the efforts for peace in the Sudan.  

Yemen  condemns  all  acts  of  terrorism  to  which 
the Iraqi people are subjected, and we call on them to 
overcome  their  differences  and  to  strengthen  their 
national unity.  
Yemen  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-

General 
the  Organization.  We 
reaffirm  our  position  that  the  United  Nations  and  its 
system  should  be  reformed 
to  achieve 
equitable  representation  and  a  better  decision-making 
process 
required  emphasis  on 
development,  fighting  pandemics,  easing  poverty  and 
addressing  environmental  issues,  which  have  a  direct 
impact on the standard of living of millions of people. 
We must strive to bolster the Security Council’s role in 
the maintenance of international peace and security; at 
the same time we must reform the Council and expand 
it  to  make  it  more  representative,  ensure  that  its 
deliberations  are  more  transparent  and  rationalize  the 
towards  reforming 
that  places 
in  order 
the 
8 

09-52604 


use  of  the  veto  so  as  to  avoid  its  abuse  and  double 
standards. 

In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  of 
Yemen, I would like to extend our appreciation for the 
good  work  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  in 
managing this Organization and in improving its work. 
I  reiterate  my  congratulations  to  you,  Mr.  President, 
and wish you every success. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Vladimir Norov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Uzbekistan. 
Mr.  Norov  (Uzbekistan):  This  session  is  being 

held at a time of unprecedented efforts made by States 
and  international  institutions  to  overcome  the  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis.  Unfortunately, 
the 
present  state  of  regional  and  national  anti-crisis 
programmes and the huge cost of their implementation 
do  not  yet  guarantee  the  stabilization  of  the  world 
financial market, growth of demand and the revival of 
economic activity in the industrial sphere. 

In our opinion, effectively overcoming the global 
crisis  and  mitigating  its  consequences  largely  depend 
on  the  effectiveness  and  coordination  of  measures 
taken  within  individual  States  and  by  the  world 
community  as  a  whole  —  as  well  as,  in  particular,  on 
the  development  of  new  rules  to  regulate  financial 
markets 
that  meet  modern  requirements,  and  on 
ensuring  stricter  control  over  the  efficient  use  of 
enormous  State  and  corporate  financial  assets  by 
transnational and national banking institutions in order 
to avoid a new wave of inflation and economic bubbles 
and a collapse in the commodities and stock markets. 
I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  about  the 

measures 
to  mitigate  and 
neutralize  the  impact  of  the  world  financial  and 
economic  crisis.  Our  own  model  of  transition  from  a 
centralized  plan  and  ideological  system  to  a  free 
market, which is based on five well-known principles, 
has played a key role in those measures and in ensuring 
stability  during  the  1990s  as  well  as  the  balanced 
development  of  Uzbekistan’s  economy.  Another 
element  of  success 
is  our  2009-2012  anti-crisis 
programme, which is being carried out at this time. 

Thanks  to  the  measures  taken,  macroeconomic 
stability,  steady  annual  rates  of  economic  growth 
averaging  8  to  9  per  cent,  low  rates  of  inflation,  the 
wide-scale  attraction  of  foreign  investments  and  an 
in  Uzbekistan 
taken 
A/64/PV.12
increase  in  the  real  level  of  income  of  the  population 
have  been  ensured  in  the  country  in  recent  years.  For 
the first half of 2009 and continuing throughout, gross 
domestic product growth amounted to 8.2 per cent. 

From  this  high  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  speak 
briefly about problems related to the growing threats to 
environmental  security.  Those  include  not  only  the 
threats  arising  from  global  warming,  but  also  the 
serious  problems  of  possible  technological  accidents 
and risks posed by gigantic hydropower installations in 
the region, which could seriously undermine the fragile 
ecological balance of Central Asia. 

We  speak  of  these  problems  while  keeping  in 
mind the human-caused accidents at the world’s largest 
hydropower stations and hydraulic installations caused 
by  their  inadequate  design  and  operation  —  for 
example,  the  accident  at  the  Sayano-Shushenskaya 
hydropower  station  in  Russia. We  who  live  in  Central 
Asia are seriously concerned about similar large hydro-
installations  operating  today  in  watersheds  of  the 
largest transboundary rivers — the Amu-Darya and the 
Syr-Darya — and providing water to the populations of 
all of the countries of the region. 

The  active  manipulation  of  public  opinion  and 
attempts  to  attract  wide-scale  investments  to  build  the 
two newest and largest hydropower stations — Rogun 
on 
the 
Syr-Darya river — are occurring today  without taking 
into account the fact that the glaciers on the Pamir and 
Tian  Shan  mountains,  which  are  the  basic  sources  of 
water  for  these  rivers,  are  shrinking  every  year.  In 
addition, and of particular importance — even without 
considering 
tragic  consequences  of 
potential technological accidents at these installations — 
is  the  knowledge  that  these  territories  have  seismic 
ratings  ranging  from  9  to  10  on  the  Richter  scale  and 
are more prone to strong earthquakes. 

In  this  regard,  Uzbekistan  will  continue  to  insist 
that  all  planned  construction  of  large  hydropower 
installations in Central Asia be implemented only after 
impartial evaluation by international experts under the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations  in  order  to  avoid 
possible  catastrophic  consequences.  There  is  also  an 
urgent  need 
large 
hydropower stations on the Amu-Darya and Syr-Darya 
rivers that were constructed in the Soviet period. 
The  war  in  Afghanistan,  where  tensions  are 

currently  growing,  is  one  of  the  main  sources  of 
the  Amu-Darya  river  and  Kambarata  on 
the  existing 
the  possible 
to 
re-evaluate 
09-52604 

9 

to 
to 
resolve 
involved 
today  and 
the  world  community 
A/64/PV.12 

concern 
in 
particular  of  security  threats  in  Central  Asia.  This 
problem  and  ways 
it  are,  without 
exaggeration,  the  focus  of  attention  of  the  world’s 
largest Powers and the international community today. 
It is no longer a secret that the Afghan problem, which 
began  30  years  ago,  has  no  military  solution.  The 
overwhelming  majority  of  countries 
in 
settling the conflict agree on this. 

It  is  impossible  to  improve  and  radically  change 
the situation in the country without solving such urgent 
issues as the reconstruction of Afghanistan’s economy, 
communications and social infrastructure destroyed by 
war;  without  involving  the  Afghan  people  in  this 
process; without a thoroughly considered and seriously 
organized  negotiation  process  and  the  achievement  of 
consensus between the conflicting parties; and without 
strengthening the vertical power structure. 

It is extremely important to pay full respect to the 
deep  historical  and  ethno-demographic  roots  of  the 
multinational  people  of  Afghanistan,  including  the 
traditional  values  of  Islam  and  of  all  confessions, 
which  should  be  the  main  condition  and  guarantee  of 
the negotiating process. 

The  settlement  of  the  Afghan  problem  could  be 
facilitated by the creation of the six plus three contact 
group  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  with 
the  participation  of  the  plenipotentiary  representatives 
of the States neighbouring Afghanistan plus Russia, the 
United  States  and  NATO.  The  President  of 
the 
Republic of Uzbekistan, Islam Karimov, has repeatedly 
emphasized  that  the  implementation  of  this  initiative 
involving  neighbouring  countries  would  allow  the 
achievement  of  an  accord  both 
in  and  around 
Afghanistan. 

interdependence  of  regional  and  global 
problems  necessitates  close  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  such  regional  structures  as  the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization.  In  its  capacity  as 
the  current  Chair  of 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
intensify 
Organization,  Uzbekistan 
interaction  between 
the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  by  turning  the 
cooperation into a real partnership.  

In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Christian 
(Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
the  United  Nations  and 
intends 
The 
to 
like 
I  would 
In  conclusion, 
the  United  Nations  and 

In  our  opinion,  interaction  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
should  develop  in  such  priority  areas  as  security  and 
stability  and  economic,  social  and  humanitarian 
development,  as  well  as  other  spheres  of  mutual 
interest.  We  believe  that  the  effective  combination  of 
the  United  Nations  great  experience  and  the  Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization’s  potential  will  strengthen 
regional  and 
international  security  and  promote 
sustainable development in the countries of the region. 
In  this  regard,  we  call  upon  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  to  support  a  draft  resolution  on  cooperation 
between 
the  Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization, to be considered during the 
sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly. 
to  confirm 

Uzbekistan’s  commitment  to  developing  constructive 
multilateral  cooperation  within  the  framework  of  the 
United  Nations  for  solving  the  most  topical  issues  on 
the international agenda. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Oldemiro  Marques  Balói,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Mozambique. 
Mr. Balói (Mozambique): It is a great honour for 

me  to  have  this  opportunity  to  address  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session to share the views 
and  offer 
the  Republic  of 
Mozambique  on  some  of  the  challenges  facing  the 
world today. 

I  would  like,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  to 
congratulate His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki 
on his unanimous election to preside over this session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  assure  him  of  the  full 
support  and  collaboration  of  Mozambique  for  the 
successful discharge of his noble mission. 

We pay tribute to his predecessor, Father Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann  —  a  great  sponsor  of  popular 
liberation  —  for  the  resolute  manner  in  which  he 
presided  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session,  and  for  his  tireless  efforts  in  favour  of  and 
devotion to the poorest and most disadvantaged. Father 
Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann’s  engagement  as  an 
advocate 
the  Palestinian 
territories  and  his  strong  leadership,  demonstrated  by 
bringing together the 192 Member States of the United 
Nations  to  address  the  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
have given us a vivid example of how commitment and 
generosity,  combined  with  vision  and  resolve,  can 
the  contribution  of 
those  suffering 
for 
in 
10 

09-52604 
the 
has 
steady 
recorded 
in  bringing 


make  a  difference 
international 
community  together  in  the  search  for  solutions  to 
current global problems. 

I  wish  to  convey  to  this  gathering  the  warmest 
greetings of His Excellency President Armando Emílio 
Guebuza,  who  could  not  be  present  today  due  to 
pressing national commitments. Indeed, on 28 October 
this  year,  Mozambique  will  hold  its  fourth  general 
election.  There  will  also  be  elections  for  provincial 
parliaments  for  the  first  time  in  the  country’s  history. 
These  elections  attest  to  our  strong  political  will  and 
commitment to further strengthening democracy in the 
country,  where  the  rule  of  law  and  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  the  human  rights  of  all  Mozambicans 
unite  us  in  our  fight  against  absolute  poverty  and  for 
peace, stability and sustainable development. 
As a result of this enabling political environment, 

Mozambique 
economic 
performance and signals of economic stability over the 
past five years, with an average gross domestic product 
growth  rate  of  7.8  per  cent.  Poverty  levels  decreased 
from 69.4 per cent in 1997 to 54.1 per cent in 2003. As 
a  result  of  our  discernible  progress  in  education, 
health,  water  and  sanitation,  we  expect  to  reduce 
poverty  to  45  per  cent  by  the  end  of  the  current  year. 
However,  the  current  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis is constraining our progress towards that goal; it 
was  recently  forecast  that  our  economic  growth  may 
slow to 4.3 per cent in 2009. 

In  this  context,  the  Government’s  focus  is  to 
ensure  that  the  effects  of  the  crisis,  combined  with 
cyclical  natural  disasters,  as  well  as  diseases  like 
pandemic  HIV/AIDS  and  endemic  malaria  and 
tuberculosis,  are  not  deepened  and  do  not  create 
conditions 
the 
economic  and 
just  described. 
Mozambique  welcomes  the  launching,  here  at  the 
United  Nations  on  23  September  2009,  of  the African 
Leaders Malaria Alliance, and pledges to play an active 
role  in  support  of  this  new  mechanism  aimed  at 
coordinating our responses to the scourge of malaria. 

Climate  change  is  another  pressing  challenge. 
Therefore,  we  cannot  afford  to  fail  to  seal  the  deal  in 
December at the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change,  in  Copenhagen.  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
commitments  made  during  the  Summit  on  Climate 
that  would  prevent  our  return 
social  growth 
to 
I 
A/64/PV.12
regional 
economic 
integration, 
in  many  areas 
Change,  held  on  22  September,  will  inspire  the 
deliberations in Copenhagen. 

In  southern  Africa,  we  continue  our  efforts 
towards 
the 
consolidation  of  democracy,  good  governance  and 
political  stability.  It  is  within  this  framework  that 
progress  has  been  made  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Free Trade Area in the Southern African Development 
Community  (SADC),  and  that  free  and  fair  elections 
have been held in a number of countries in the region.  

In  spite  of  these  advances,  we  continue  to  face 
challenges 
that  still  demand  our 
attention,  in  particular  those  of  peace,  security  and 
stability. In this regard, Mozambique, in its capacity as 
chair  of  the  SADC  Organ  on  Politics,  Defence  and 
Security Cooperation, will strive to ensure the success 
of the common regional efforts to eradicate pockets of 
instability so as to enable our countries to concentrate 
on  achieving  the  social  and  economic  development 
goals that our peoples are longing for. 

We  are  encouraged  by  the  progress  made  in  the 
implementation  of  the  Global  Political  Agreement  in 
Zimbabwe,  which  is  enabling  the  country  to  move 
towards an atmosphere of political and social stability 
conducive  to  permanent  dialogue,  reconstruction  and 
economic  recovery.  The  economic  challenges  facing 
Zimbabwe,  associated  with 
the  current  global 
economic crisis and the continued sanctions applied by 
some  international  development  partners,  make  the 
desired  rapid  economic  recovery  hard  to  achieve.  We 
therefore reiterate the SADC call for the removal of all 
sanctions against Zimbabwe. 

We  are  concerned  by  the  attempts  to  undermine 
the  agreements  signed  in  Maputo  by  all  Malagasy 
political  movements  on  9  August  2009,  and  we 
condemn any unilateral decision that violates the spirit 
of  the  agreements.  We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the 
ongoing  political  dialogue  in  Madagascar  and  urge  all 
political  stakeholders  to  fully  implement  the  Maputo 
agreements. 

In  addition  to  the  subregional  efforts  to  address 
the  current  situation  of  conflicts  in  Africa,  a  special 
session  of  the African  Union  was  convened  in August 
in Tripoli to consider a wide range of conflicts with a 
view to finding solutions and establishing consolidated 
and  sustainable  peace,  security  and  stability  on  the 
continent.  It 
that  Mozambique 
commends  and  supports  the  ongoing  initiatives  at  the 
this  spirit 
in 
is 
09-52604 

11 
as 
as  well 
A/64/PV.12 

regional  and  continental  levels  aimed  at  promoting 
durable  and  sustainable  peace  and  stability  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Darfur  and 
Somalia, among other areas. 

With  regard  to  the  Middle  East,  Mozambique  is 
encouraged  by  the  prospects  for  an  effective,  viable 
and durable two-State solution for the Palestinians and 
Israelis, 
for  broader  Arab-Israeli 
normalization as a result of the commitments made by 
relevant stakeholders during this general debate. 
The  time  has  come  for  us  to  act  together  at  the 

national, regional and international levels to ensure the 
speedy  and  full  implementation  of  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. We reiterate our recognition of the 
vital role played by the United Nations in coordinating 
international  efforts  in  the  search  for  sustainable 
responses to the problems facing the world today.  
In  this  regard,  it  is  worth  recalling  the  urgent 

need  to  accelerate  the  ongoing  reform  of  the  United 
Nations, including the reform of the Security Council, 
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  the 
process  of  reforming  the  United  Nations  system  to 
make it more effective, efficient and coherent and thus 
more 
the  development  needs  of 
developing countries. Indeed, as one of the eight pilot 
countries  testing  the  Delivering  as  One  initiative, 
Mozambique  is  fully  engaged  in  the  reform  of  the 
United Nations system at the country level. 

Mozambique strongly believes in multilateralism, 
and  that  the  United  Nations  is  at  the  centre  of  it.  We 
also believe that the United Nations is a special forum 
that  brings  together  the  universal  aspirations  for  a 
peaceful,  secure,  stable  and  prosperous  world,  where 
the  values  of  tolerance,  respect  for  human  rights  and 
international cooperation for development are upheld. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  Mozambique’s 
commitment  to  continuing  to  engage  in  international 
efforts to address issues of global concern, in particular 
the  fight  against  poverty,  the  negative  impact  of 
climate  change,  and  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
development. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Edward  Nalbandyan,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Armenia. 
Mr.  Nalbandyan  (Armenia):  I  should  like  to 

warmly  congratulate  Mr.  Treki  on  his  election  as 
responsive 
to 

to 
for  us 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session. We express our readiness to work with him to 
achieve  the  ambitious  agenda  ahead  of  us  during  this 
session.  I  should  also  like  to  extend  our  thanks  to 
outgoing President Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann for his 
hard work during the previous session. 

Each  new  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
provides  an  opportunity 
share  our 
achievements and concerns with each other, and to join 
our  efforts  in  moving  the  global  agenda  forward.  We 
are  going  through  a  truly  challenging  period.  In  the 
past year, we were all devastated by the impact of the 
financial  crisis.  The  crisis  left  no  corner  of  the  world 
and  no  economic  sector  untouched.  Many  countries 
experienced  unprecedented  economic  decline,  which 
seriously  challenged  their  hard-earned  advances  and 
prospects  for  attaining  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  by  2015. Armenia  was  not  spared  the  dramatic 
effects  of  the  ongoing  financial  crisis.  However,  the 
Armenian  Government  has  done  best  to  safeguard  the 
socially vulnerable. No budget cuts have been made in 
the social sector. 

We  believe  that  our  endeavours  must  be  guided 
first  and  foremost  by  the  need  to  mitigate  the  human 
costs  of 
to  avoid  serious 
consequences  for  human  security.  We  believe  that  an 
equitable global recovery requires the full participation 
of  all  countries,  irrespective  of  their  size  and  level  of 
development,  in  shaping  appropriate  responses  to  the 
crisis.  And  we  have  to  come  together  here,  in  this 
universal  body,  to  take  decisions  that  will  help  us 
overcome  the  past  and  build  for  the  future,  because 
there are still painful gaps separating the dreams of our 
people and their prospects. 

In accordance with their respective mandates, the 
United  Nations  funds,  programmes  and  agencies  have 
an important role to play in advancing development in 
accordance  with  national  strategies  and  priorities,  and 
in  assisting  countries  in  achieving  the  internationally 
agreed Millennium Development Goals. We understand 
that  achieving  these  goals,  the  deadline  for  which  is 
2015,  will  require  enormous  efforts.  The  General 
Assembly will continue to address this issue during its 
sixty-fourth session, and Armenia is ready to contribute 
to the preparatory process for a high-level meeting on 
this topic in September 2010. 

We  have  embarked  on  the  process  of  United 
Nations  reform  in  order  to  ensure  that  this  forum  can 
the  crisis 
in  order 
12 

09-52604 


better  reflect  present-day  realities  and  to  enhance  its 
capabilities  and  effectiveness  in  addressing  modern 
challenges.  Armenia  commits  itself  to  strengthening 
the  institutional  capacities  of  the  United  Nations, 
supports  the  process  of  United  Nations  reform  and  is 
ready to make its contribution. 

We  have  successfully  agreed  on  several  vital 
decisions,  including  the  creation  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission and the Human Rights Council. We aspire 
to  further  advance  the  protection  of  human  rights,  in 
conformity with the obligations of Member States, and 
we  see  honest  discussion  within  the  Human  Rights 
Council  on  outstanding  issues  and  the  sharing  of 
experiences on how to overcome them as the true path 
to success in this respect. 

We  regard  the  prevention  of  genocide  and  the 
responsibility  to  protect  as  the  key  principles  and 
cornerstones  of  the  overall  human  security  system.  In 
this  respect,  we  commend  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  implementing  the  responsibility  to  protect 
(A/63/677),  which  charts  a  course  for  the  United 
Nations  to  prevent  genocide,  war  crimes  and  ethnic 
cleansing  by  bolstering 
the 
Organization.  

As  is  rightly  stated  in  the  report,  genocide  does 
not  happen  all  of  a  sudden.  The  instigators  propagate 
intolerance  and  hatred,  preparing  the  ground  for 
violence.  As  survivors  of  genocide,  we  Armenians 
welcome  all  efforts  to  prevent  and  combat  racist  and 
xenophobic attitudes. We have done and will continue 
to do all we can to provide for continuous advocacy in 
favour of the prevention of genocide. The international 
community  must  be  vigilant  to  the  development  of 
such  situations  and  events,  and  demonstrate  its  ability 
to act in a timely fashion to prevent future tragedies. 

We  consider  achieving  the  goals  of  disarmament 
and  non-proliferation  to  be  major  elements  of  global 
and  regional  security  systems.  We  must  shoulder  our 
responsibilities 
only 
non-proliferation  and 
the  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons,  but  also  the  elimination  of  the  militaristic 
aspirations  of  some  States.  It  is  totally  unacceptable 
that  threats  to  resolve  disputes  by  military  means  are 
made  at  the  highest  level,  and  that  they  are  left 
unchallenged by the international community. 

The  Nagorny  Karabakh  peace  process,  which  is 
mediated  by  the  co-chairs  of  the  Minsk  Group  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
the  capacities  of 
and  work 
towards 
not 
A/64/PV.12
the  parties  should  commit 
is  moving  forward.  The  Presidents  and 
(OSCE), 
Ministers 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Armenia  and 
Azerbaijan meet regularly to discuss the principles of a 
comprehensive  resolution  of  the  conflict.  Armenia  is 
convinced  that,  in  order  to  create  an  opportunity  for 
progress  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  Nagorny 
Karabakh  conflict, 
to 
that  could  hamper 
taking  steps 
refraining  from 
dialogue and the peace process.  

Azerbaijan consistently misrepresents the essence 
of  the  Nagorny  Karabakh  problem  in  the  international 
arena,  as  it  did  two  days  ago  in  this  forum,  trying  to 
downplay  ethnic  cleansing  and  its  policy  of  violence 
against 
the  people  of  Nagorny  Karabakh.  The 
international  community  will  recall Azerbaijan’s  open 
aggression,  large-scale  hostilities  and  war  against 
Nagorny  Karabakh,  in  which  it  was  also  aided  by 
mercenaries  closely  linked  to  terrorist  organizations. 
These  events  ultimately  claimed  lives  of  tens  of 
thousands of civilians. 

We  believe  that  there  is  a  serious  basis  for  the 
settlement  of  the  Nagorny  Karabakh  problem  if  the 
provisions  contained  in  the  declaration  signed  by  the 
Presidents  of  Armenia,  Azerbaijan  and  Russia  in 
November  2008;  the  declaration  of  the  Ministers  for 
Foreign Affairs of the co-chair  countries of the  OSCE 
Minsk  Group;  and  the  declaration  adopted  by  the 
Ministers  for  Foreign Affairs  of  all  56  OSCE  member 
States  in  Helsinki  in  December,  are  met.  Pursuant  to 
these  documents,  the  parties  must  commit  themselves 
to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  problem  through 
negotiations  based  on  the  Madrid  principles  of  the 
co-chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group. 

The  basic  principles  around  which  negotiations 
are  currently  being  held  are  anchored  in  benchmark 
codes  of  international  law  as  incorporated  in  the 
Charter of this Organization, the Helsinki Final Act and 
other 
The 
international  principles  of  the  non-use  and  non-threat 
of  use  of  force,  of  the  self-determination  of  peoples 
and of territorial integrity are equally viable.  

Some  have  long  attempted  to  downplay  the 
importance  of  the  notion  of  the  self-determination  of 
peoples  as  a  second-rate  principle  in  the  system  of 
international  law  and  as  inferior  to  that  of  territorial 
integrity.  I have to disappoint the advocates of double 
standards.  The  right 
is  an 
unconditional  clause  of  international  law;  it  is  a 
to  self-determination 
international 
documents. 
relevant 
09-52604 

13 
A/64/PV.12 

principle of liberty and of the freedom of any people to 
choose its  future and fate,  and to defend its collective 
rights  whenever  those  rights  and  that  future  are 
jeopardized.  If  self-determination  were  a  principle 
inferior  to  territorial  integrity,  there  would  have  been 
only 52 Member States of  the United Nations, instead 
of the current 192. 

Trust  and  accountability  among  neighbouring 
States  are  guarantees  of  sustainable  cooperation  and 
durable  security  in  any  region.  We  in  the  South 
Caucasus have yet to witness that. Our region, in fact, 
is  among  the  most  sensitive  hot  spots  on  the  world’s 
political  map,  overloaded  with  a  plethora  of  security 
threats  and  challenges.  The  region  is  devastated  by 
conflicts  and  inter-State  tensions,  dividing  lines  and 
economic  blockades.  Closed  borders  and  ruptured  ties 
have become the norm of life.  

However,  a  courageous  act  and  a  courageous 
response hold the promise of changing the situation for 
the  better.  The  process  of 
the  normalization  of 
Armenian-Turkish  relations  was  begun  in  September 
by  the  President  of  Armenia,  Serzh  Sargsyan.  That 
initiative  on  his  part  —  known  as 
football 
diplomacy —  promises 
to  bear  fruit  despite  all 
difficulties.  Over  the  past  year,  with  the  help  of  our 
Swiss  mediators  and  other  international  partners,  we 
have  made  progress  towards  opening  our  shared 
border,  one  of  the  last  closed  borders  in  Europe,  and 
the  normalization  of  our 
relations  with  no 
preconditions. We trust that the necessary political will 
shall  finally  overcome  the  mentality  of  the  past  and 
that  the  wisdom  and  courage  necessary  to  taking  the 
last decisive steps will prevail.  

We have been most encouraged by the support of 
the international community. We are well aware of the 
fundamental 
the 
normalization of Armenian-Turkish relations and of the 
opening  of  the  border  for  the  security  and  stability  of 
the region. 

We  must  reinforce  the  bridges  between  United 
Nations  Member  States,  working  out  mutually 
beneficial and comprehensive security and cooperation 
plans. Our common objective should be the shaping of 
an  environment  that  is  safe  and  prosperous  for  all. To 
meet the political, economic, environmental and social 
challenges,  we  have  to  jointly  muster  our  efforts, 
resources  and  political  determination.  Only  together 
implications  of 
and  positive 

can we successfully confront these challenges and push 
forward the international development agenda. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Maxine  Pamela  Ometa  McClean, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Foreign  Trade  of 
Barbados. 
Ms.  McClean  (Barbados):  On  behalf  of  my 

delegation, I am pleased to join the speakers who have 
preceded  me  in  congratulating  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam 
Treki  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  He  may  rest 
assured of the full support and cooperation of Barbados 
as  he  carries  out  his  important  duties.  I  wish  also  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  appreciation  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for  his 
leadership of the sixty-third session. 

We meet at a pivotal moment in the history of the 
United  Nations.  Never  since  the  founding  of  this 
Organization has our community of nations been tested 
by  a  confluence  of  so  many  devastating  crises  as  we 
have witnessed in the recent past. It is therefore with a 
sense  of  honour,  fully  recognizing  the  responsibility 
entrusted to me and to all of us here, that I address this 
General Assembly for the  first time in  my capacity  as 
Minister  responsible  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Foreign 
Trade of Barbados. 
Barbados  commends  Mr.  Treki  for  his  choice  of 

theme for this year’s general debate, given the myriad 
crises  that  we  face  and  the  need  for  effective  global 
responses. Indeed, the world is facing major economic, 
political  and  social  upheaval.  The  threat  of  food  and 
fuel scarcity, the worst economic and financial crisis in 
decades,  the  challenge  of  climate  change  and  the 
influenza pandemics have all assumed an international 
and  multidimensional  character.  Together,  these  have 
undermined  the  very  foundations  of  our  multilateral 
system, exacerbating already existing disparities. 

The approach of the developed economies to this 
crisis has been to create national stimulus packages and 
to bail out their failing industries — in short, to turn to 
policies  which  address  their  domestic  interests  almost 
exclusively.  Developing  countries  are  suffering  the 
brunt  of  the  effects  of  the  financial  crisis  created  by 
greed  and  poor  regulation  in  developed  countries. 
Faced with stagnating or falling economic growth due 
to factors beyond our  control, we  are now left to deal 
with declining economic activity and a resulting rise in 
unemployment  along  with  its  resulting  problems  at  a 
09-52604 
14 

trade  and  foreign 
their  economies  and 


time when we are forced to battle increasing debt and 
decreasing  external 
investment 
revenues. 

While we welcome the initiatives to create rescue 
packages  for  the  least  developed  countries,  there  is  a 
clearly demonstrated need to expand these initiatives to 
include  a  wider  group  of  developing  countries. 
Barbados  is  one  of  a  small  group  classified  as  small, 
highly  indebted  middle-income  countries,  which  has 
been  overlooked,  but  which 
is  deserving  of 
international  attention  and  assistance  from  bilateral 
partners  and  the  multilateral  institutions  alike.  As  we 
discuss  the  effects  of  the  global  crisis  and  propose 
assistance  for  affected  countries,  there  is  a  need  to 
ensure  that  countries  like  Barbados  are  recognized 
within 
the  broad  category  of  small  vulnerable 
economies. 

Multilateral  agencies  such  as  the  World  Bank 
have  established  through  empirical  research  and  their 
ongoing interventions that these countries are unique in 
the  openness  of 
their 
susceptibility  to  external  shocks.  However,  this  group 
continues to be excluded from concessionary financing 
and  debt  relief.  Focus  continues  to  be  placed  on  per 
capita  income  data,  which  is  a  poor  indicator  of 
economic sustainability and national vulnerability. Our 
countries are in need of adequate support mechanisms 
with  revised  eligibility  criteria  in  order  to  prevent  the 
derailment of our development processes. 

the 
developed  economies  and  the  international  financial 
institutions 
the  existing  failures  and 
shortcomings of the current financial system. The time 
is  right  for  the  crafting  of  a  new,  more  transparent 
architecture 
supportive  of  development 
objectives. 

Barbados,  for  its  part,  is  extremely  proud  that 
despite  its  handicaps  it  has  managed  —  through  good 
governance  and 
the  observance  of  democratic 
principles,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  —  to 
provide  an  adequate  standard  of  living  for  its  people. 
However, 
inherent 
vulnerabilities,  our  limited  resources  or  our  restricted 
capacity  to  respond  to  the  vagaries  of  the  economic 
environment. 
One  of  the  major  positive  consequences  of  the 

in  South-South 
current  crisis 
cooperation,  which  has  played  a  quiet  but  important 
This  crisis  presents  an  opportunity  for 
this  does  not  negate  our 
to  address 
increase 
in 
that 
is 
is 
the 
A/64/PV.12
Recent  world  events  have  highlighted 
role  over  the  years  in  promoting  trade  and  investment 
among  developing  countries.  This  has  served 
to 
enhance  the  value  of  such  cooperation  and  presents 
great potential for future growth and development. 

At the national level, an important lesson learned 
is that development requires the active involvement of 
communities,  the  public  and  private  sectors  and  civil 
society.  This  has  been  clearly  demonstrated  in  the 
implementation of our social partnership agreements, a 
strategy that has been very successful in the Barbadian 
context  since  the  early  1990s  and  has  been  used  as  a 
model in other developing countries. 

the 
importance of taking a multilateral approach to solving 
global  problems.  The  United  Nations  is  perhaps  the 
institution  best  suited  to  the  task  of  mobilizing  global 
responses.  Regrettably,  over  the  past  year  the  United 
Nations has been relegated to a subordinate role in the 
search  for  solutions  to  the  ongoing  economic  and 
financial crisis. 

Barbados  will  not  be  complicit  in  any  effort  to 
marginalize  the  United  Nations,  which  has  a  unique 
and  legitimate  role  in  global  economic  decision-
making  and  rule-setting. We  will  not  join  the  sceptics 
in questioning the relevance or legitimacy of this vital 
multilateral organization. However, we will continue to 
be at the forefront of calls for its reform to ensure that 
it  is  fully  equipped  and  empowered  to  assist  Member 
States in confronting global challenges. 

To date, efforts to reform the United Nations have 
been piecemeal in nature, largely uncoordinated and at 
times  even  conflicting.  The  extraordinary  challenges 
we  face  demand  comprehensive  reform.  This  will 
require a level of transformation that equips the United 
Nations  for  the  twenty-first  century.  At  this  session, 
priority  needs  to  be  given  to  securing  commitment  at 
the highest level to finalizing the reform agenda. 

Security  Council  reform  must  be  prioritized  if 
effective change within the United Nations system is to 
be  achieved. 
the  structure, 
composition  and  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council fail to reflect current global realities. Barbados 
believes  that  membership  in  the  Security  Council 
should  be  expanded  in  both  the  permanent  and  the 
non-permanent categories. Our goal must be to ensure 
that the Council is more representative, democratic and 
accountable  to  the  full  membership  of  the  United 
Nations without placing its effectiveness in jeopardy. 
is  evident 
that 
It 
09-52604 

15 

the 
and 
create 
purpose, 
A/64/PV.12 


The  reality  of  global  interdependence  is  that  our 
destinies  are  inextricably  linked.  We  cannot  retreat  to 
isolationism  or  radicalism.  We  must,  with  a  sense  of 
urgency 
the  multilateral 
infrastructure  necessary  to  manage  a  complex  and 
interdependent  world. This  new  quest  for  a  better  and 
more  effective  multilateralism  must  be  shared  by  all. 
Our collective effort must also seek to restore the role 
of the United Nations envisaged by its founders: “to be 
a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations”. 

In  his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third  session,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Barbados 
(see  A/63/PV.12),  The  Honourable  David  Thompson, 
reaffirmed  his  belief  in  the  positive  role  that  small 
States can play in advancing the cause of international 
peace  and  equitable social and  economic development 
and  emphasized 
importance  of  building  an 
international  system  that  operates  on  the  principle  of 
multilateralism and that respects the sovereign equality 
of States and the tenets of genuine non-alignment. 

Barbados  is  concerned  by  the  growing  tendency 
of  limited-membership  groups  to  assume  decision-
making  powers  on 
the  entire 
international  community  without 
the  consent  or 
involvement  of that community. We stand to squander 
the  opportunities  to  create  a  fair  and  more  equitable 
system of global governance if responsibility for rule- 
and  decision-making 
limited-
membership  groupings  which  are  accountable  only  to 
themselves. No exclusive group of countries, no matter 
how  big,  powerful  or  rich,  has  a  monopoly  on 
solutions. 

The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Sea, the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate  Change  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
were all championed by some of the smallest members 
of  the  United  Nations  and  represent  just  a  few 
examples  of  the  invaluable  contribution  that  small 
States  have  made  to  strengthening  multilateralism  and 
providing solutions to complex global problems. Small 
States can be effective partners in the search for global 
solutions  to  the  ongoing  crises,  and  those  countries 
must have a seat at the table when decisions are being 
made on issues of global concern. 

In  this  regard,  the  targeting  of  small  offshore 
jurisdictions  in  the  wake  of  the  global  financial  crisis 
on  the  pretext  that  these  jurisdictions  in  some  way 
contributed to the crisis represents an injustice worthy 
issues  affecting 
remains  vested 
in 
Small  democratic  States 
the  Committee  of  Experts  on 
of the strongest possible condemnation. For those who 
would  wish  to  rewrite  history,  we  must  recall  that  the 
financial  crisis  had  its  origins  in  the  developed  world 
and  resulted  from  excessive  risk-taking,  corruption, 
fraud and ineffective regulatory controls and oversight 
in those countries. 

Barbados fully supports the proposal of the States 
members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) to 
build  upon  the  existing  programme  already  in  place 
within  the  United  Nations  to  address  issues  related  to 
international  financial  services.  Specifically,  we  call 
for 
International 
Cooperation on Tax Matters to be transformed into an 
intergovernmental  subsidiary  body  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council.  The  central  goal  of  the  proposed 
intergovernmental  committee  would  be 
to  give 
developing countries an effective voice when issues of 
cooperation  on  tax  matters  are  being  decided  by  the 
international community. 

like  my  own  are 
convinced  of  the  need  to  ensure  adherence  to  the  rule 
of  law  and  respect  for  constitutional  norms.  We  are 
therefore compelled to register our deep concern at any 
interruption  of 
the  constitutional  order  of  any 
sovereign State and the dangerous precedent this could 
create 
international 
community.  Barbados  fully  supports  the  position  of 
CARICOM  and  the  Organization  of  American  States, 
which calls for the immediate reinstatement to office of 
the legally elected President of Honduras. 

Barbados  is  equally  concerned  to  ensure  that,  in 
our  hemisphere,  the  relics  of  a  past  cold  war  era  give 
way  to  a  new  spirit  of  regional  partnership,  in  which 
diverse  political  systems  can  coexist  in  harmony.  We 
are  therefore  heartened  by  the  positive  developments 
with respect to the reintegration of our sister Republic 
of Cuba into the mainstream of hemispheric affairs. We 
are  hopeful  that  the  renewed  dialogue  between  the 
United States and Cuba will lead in the  near future to 
the  complete  removal  of 
the 
normalization of relations between those two countries. 
Barbados  welcomes  the  support  provided  by  the 

in  Haiti 
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission 
(MINUSTAH),  which  has  been  a  vital 
tool  for 
capacity-building 
the  key  areas  of 
governance,  the  strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law,  and 
human  rights.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  Security 
Council to extend the mandate of MINUSTAH so that 
left  unchallenged  by 
the  embargo  and 
in  Haiti 
the 
in 
if 
16 

09-52604 


the  international  community  can  continue  to  provide 
support  to  the  people  of  Haiti  in  their  quest  for 
sustainable peace and development. 

As a small island, Barbados is aware of the grave 
dangers posed by climate change. The damage done to 
our  coastline  and  coral  reefs  illustrates  the  potential 
threats  that  flow  from  the  phenomenon  of  global 
warming.  Such  threats  are  not  peculiar  to  Barbados, 
but  are  posed  in  myriad  ways  to  nations  across  the 
globe, both developed and developing. 
In  three  months  we  will  meet  in  Copenhagen  to 

decide  on  a  course  of  action  to  address  this  global 
threat  of  unprecedented  proportions.  We  know  the 
catastrophic  consequences  of  failing  to  reduce  global 
greenhouse  gas  emissions.  What  is  required  is  a 
massive transformation of the way energy is generated 
and used to propel economic growth and development. 

In  Barbados  we  have  committed  to  reducing  our 
dependence  on  imported  oil  and  have  significantly 
increased  our  use  of  renewable  energy.  Furthermore, 
we have identified transitioning to a green economy as 
a  national  priority.  We  have  established  a  number  of 
key  milestones  and  indicators  to  assess  progress 
towards 
that  goal.  We  have 
undertaken those activities with minimal support from 
the 
international  community,  utilizing  our  own 
resources. We have  been forced to divert an increased 
share  of  our  national  budget  to  finance  adaptation 
measures. According to World Bank estimates, the total 
annual  impact  of  potential  climate  change  on  all 
CARICOM  countries  is  estimated  at  $9.9  billion  a 
year, or around 11.3 per cent of the total annual gross 
domestic product of all CARICOM member States and 
associate members. 
The  international  community  has  a  moral  and 

ethical  responsibility  to  support  urgent  and  ambitious 
global  action  to  provide  adaptation  funding  for  small 
island  developing  States.  In  the  Caribbean,  our  ability 
to address climate change has been severely hampered 
by  the  effects  of  the  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis. An essential measure of success at Copenhagen, 
therefore, will be the extent to which the decisions that 
we  take  serve  to  ensure  the  survival  and  continued 
viability of small island developing States. 

Before  closing,  permit  me  to  seek  the  support  of 
the General Assembly on an issue that has emerged as a 
crucial  health  challenge  for  many  countries,  including 
those  of  the  Caribbean.  Chronic  non-communicable 
the  achievement  of 
A/64/PV.12
diseases  have  become  one  of  the  major  causes  of 
morbidity. We  believe that  that issue must be included 
in the global discussions on development. We therefore 
support the call made by the Prime Minister of Trinidad 
and  Tobago  for  a  special  session  of  the  General 
Assembly on that issue (see A/64/PV.5). 

Finally, in these difficult times we have a number 
of  challenging  issues  before  us  for  consideration. 
Despite  our  various  agendas  and  differing  priorities, 
we  share  an  ultimate  common  goal:  to  achieve  peace, 
security  and  development  for  all  the  peoples  of  the 
world. Until that becomes a reality, no country is truly 
secure.  I  reaffirm  Barbados’  commitment  to  working 
with other Member States to attain that goal. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Moussa  Faki  Mahamat,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Chad. 
Mr.  Mahamat  (Chad)  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf of my delegation and in my own name, I would 
like to offer the President our warmest congratulations 
on  his  brilliant  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  It  would 
be remiss not to express our pride and our pleasure at 
the  election  of  the  representative  of  a  neighbour 
country,  brother  and  friend  of  Chad.  I  am  referring  to 
the  brother  Ali  Treki  of  the  great  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya.  With  his  qualities  and  his  long  and  rich 
diplomatic  experience, he  will find it easy to lead  our 
work  with  tact.  Through  me,  the  Chadian  delegation 
assures  him  of  its  full  cooperation  in  discharging  his 
difficult but very lofty task. 

I  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  his 
predecessor  for  having  led  the  work  of  the  sixty-third 
session with skill and perception. Allow me also to pay 
due  tribute  to  our  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Ban Ki-moon, for his tireless commitment to the work 
of  defending  and  promoting 
ideals  of  our 
Organization. 
From  this  rostrum,  delegations  at  the  sixty-third 

session  deplored  the  food,  energy  and  financial  crises 
that  had  struck  our  countries,  the  consequences  of 
which were felt differently according to each country’s 
level  of  development.  What  conclusions  should  we 
draw  after  a  year  of  intense  mobilization,  cooperation 
and work to overcome those crises? 

For  us  poor  States,  those  crises  remain  genuine 
obstacles  to  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
the 
09-52604 

17 

in 
the 
official 
particular 
the  focus  of 
implementation  of 
A/64/PV.12 

Goals to which we all committed, in particular for the 
financing  of  our  development  strategies.  Despite  the 
great international mobilization, there is a risk that the 
poor countries will fail to meet the 2015 deadline. That 
is  all  the  more  worrying  as  the  situation  persists  and 
remains 
international  debates.  The 
situation  continues  to  also  generate  consequences  that 
endanger 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus, 
development 
assistance, commercial trade, the debt of the countries 
of the South and world trade.  

We  cannot  say  it  often  enough:  the  developing 
countries  will  continue  to  pay  dearly  for  an  economic 
crisis  that  they  did  not  cause.  The  international 
community  must  therefore  urgently  step  up  its  efforts 
to alleviate the difficulties that those countries face. 

Another  major  issue  of  concern,  one  no  less 
significant,  is  the  negative  impacts  of  climate  change 
on the world in general and on developing countries, in 
particular the most vulnerable. There too our countries 
are  victims  of  a  phenomenon  caused  by  the  major 
greenhouse gas producers, which are the industrialized 
countries.  We  feel  those  effects  daily  as  the  greatest 
disaster  for  our  environment,  our  agriculture,  our 
livestock  farming  —  in  short,  for  the  life  of  our 
populations  in  the  form  of  famines  and  all  kinds  of 
illnesses. 
The  most  significant  example  is  the  risk  of  the 

complete  disappearance  of  Lake  Chad 
the 
international community does not resolutely commit to 
helping  us  save  its  world  heritage.  In  40  years,  the 
surface  area  of  Lake  Chad  has  shrunk  from  25,000  to 
less than 3,000 square kilometres. The countries of the 
Lake Chad Basin Commission expect the international 
community to come to the support of their plan to save 
the  lake,  including  by  implementing  the  project  to 
divert the waters of the Oubangui River in the Central 
African Republic to feed Lake Chad.  

At  the  initiative  of  His  Excellency  the  President 
of the Republic, the Head of State, Chad has committed 
to  planting  10  million 
fight 
desertification.  That  programme,  which  is  part  of  the 
transcontinental  project  of  the  Green  Great  Wall 
initiated  by  the  Community  of  Sahelo-Saharan  States, 
needs the international community’s support. 

Turning to the issue of the settlement of disputes, 
while  we  welcome  the  progress  made  here  and  there, 
that  is  unfortunately  not  the  case  for  the  situation 
trees  a  year 
to 
if 
to 
resolve 
its  efforts 
towards  backing 
The  new  approach 
the  commitment  of 
two  sovereign  States, 
prevailing in Darfur, which is of serious concern to my 
Government.  Regarding  the  African  continent,  we 
reaffirm our support and our readiness to contribute to 
all  joint  actions  of  the African  Union  and  the  United 
Nations for the peaceful and lasting settlement of those 
conflicts.  Indeed,  we  welcome  the  initiative  recently 
undertaken  by  the  Leader  of  the  Libyan  Revolution, 
President of the African Union, to convene in Tripoli a 
special  meeting  devoted  to  the  consideration  and 
settlement of conflicts in Africa. 

With respect to the question of Palestine, we urge 
and  encourage  our  Organization  to  continue  with 
greater 
the 
conclusion  of  a  peace  agreement  providing  for  the 
peaceful  coexistence  of 
in 
accordance with the principles of international law and 
of the United Nations Charter. This is an opportunity to 
welcome 
the  new  American 
Administration,  under  the  leadership  of  President 
Barack  Obama,  to  restoring  peace  to  that  region  long 
torn by war. 

international  relations 
adopted  by  the  American  Administration  should  also 
lead  to  a  new  attitude  towards  Cuba,  burdened  for 
decades  by  an  economic,  trade  and  financial  embargo 
that  is  no  longer  justified  today.  That  is  why  Chad 
wishes the United States of America to rapidly lift the 
embargo,  which  runs  counter  to  the  new  vision  of  the 
world  and  to  the  great  principles  championed  by  our 
Organization.  

Turning  now  to  the  crisis  in  Darfur  and  our 
relations with the Sudan, we would again like to draw 
the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the  seriousness  of  the 
situation, which hangs over the security of our borders 
and 
regional  peace  and  security.  The 
repercussions of that crisis for security in the camps for 
refugees  and  displaced  persons  in  the  east  of  my 
country, 
is  already 
vulnerable in that part of the country in particular, and, 
in general, for the social and economic development of 
my country are quite evident. 

The  other  consequence  of  that  crisis,  and  not  a 
minor  one,  is  the  phenomenon  of  child  soldiers,  who 
are  very  often  recruited  against  their  will  by  the 
various  armed  groups  that  hold  sway  in  the  region. 
During  its  various  campaigns,  the  Chadian  national 
army  succeeded  in  freeing  hundreds  of  such  children 
and entrusted them to UNICEF for care and reinsertion 
the  environment,  which 
threatens 
for 
18 

09-52604 
ensuring 
effective 
security 
for 
in  N’Djamena 


into  civilian  life. An  inspection  and  awareness-raising 
campaign  has  been  undertaken  in  varying  barracks 
throughout the country in collaboration with UNICEF, 
the  United  Nations  and  a  number  of  diplomatic 
missions  present 
this 
to  prevent 
phenomenon and curb it where is already exists.  

These are the reasons that lead Chad to cooperate 
closely  with  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  to  find  a  solution  to  that  situation,  which 
has lasted much too long. At the same time, this shows 
how  wrong  it  is  to  believe  that  my  country  fuels  the 
war  in  Darfur  by  giving  support  to  Sudanese  rebels 
there. 

Additionally,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
complete  availability  to  cooperate  with  the  United 
Nations  Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
Chad  (MINURCAT)  for  the  fulfilment  of  its  mandate 
in the east of our country. We condemn the delays in its 
full deployment in the field and the ensuing difficulties 
in 
vulnerable 
populations  such  as  refugees,  displaced  persons  and 
humanitarian  workers.  It 
that  parties 
involved  in  this  Mission  step  up  their  efforts  to  make 
up  for  those  delays,  whose  prolongation  means  daily 
danger  for  the  populations  that  all  of  us  must  protect. 
We  are  very  concerned  by  the  uncertain  future  of 
the  national 
MINURCAT,  and  we  wonder  what 
capacities  might  be 
the  situation  by 
strengthening the operations for maintaining order and 
security in zones covered by its mandate. 

the 
efforts of my country to improve the security of camps 
for 
refugees  and  displaced  persons,  a  genuine 
settlement of the Darfur crisis can be only political in 
order to enable refugees and the displaced to return to 
their ancestral homelands. 

That  is  why  my  country  welcomes  all  initiatives 
undertaken  by  the  international  community  in  this 
regard.  My  Government  has  backed,  and  continues  to 
back,  the  Qatar  process  and  welcomes  the  untiring 
efforts  by  brother-leader  Muammar  Al-Qadhafi  to 
secure  a  political  settlement  of  the  crisis  and,  more 
recently, to relaunch the Doha process. Along the same 
line,  we  also  welcome  the  recent  American  and 
Egyptian initiatives. 

The  efforts  of  the  international  community  to 
normalize relations between our country and the Sudan 
are also welcome. A great many agreements have been 
Regardless  of  MINURCAT’s  efforts,  or 
is  essential 
to  remedy 
A/64/PV.12
representatives  of 
signed by my country and the Sudan. All that remains 
now is to implement them. 

The fact that we have welcomed refugees fleeing 
the  war  in  Darfur  and  have  facilitated  actions  of  the 
international  community  to  assist  them  should  not  be 
used  as  an  alibi  by  our  neighbour  in  any  attempt  to 
destabilize us. 
At the national level, the Government of Chad, on 

the 
impetus  provided  by  Mr.  Idriss  Deby  Itno, 
President  of  the  Republic,  Head  of  State,  continues 
political  dialogue  with  the  democratic  opposition  on 
the  basis  of  the  13  August  2007  agreement.  In  this 
climate  of  shared  trust  we  have  just  concluded  a 
population  census  with  a  view  to  organizing  free  and 
transparent  elections. A  national  independent  electoral 
commission  composed  of 
the 
Government  and  the  opposition  has  just  been  formed 
and has already started its work. 
Despite  repeated  attacks  by  mercenaries  and 

armed  movements  with  support  from  abroad  against 
our  territorial  integrity  and  the  democratically  elected 
institutions,  the  Government  continues  to  advocate 
reconciliation and national understanding. A number of 
armed  groups  have  regained  legal  status  through 
implementing the Sirte Agreement of 25 October 2007. 
A great many others have committed themselves to this 
path, which we welcome. 

In conclusion, I would like to express the support 
of  my  country  for  the  appeal  to  this Assembly  by  the 
President  of  the  African  Union  for  a  just  and  fair 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  a  reform  that  would 
take  into  account  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the 
African  continent  and  the  evolution  of  the  history  of 
relations among States. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Alexandre  Cécé  Loua,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Guineans  Living  Abroad  of  the 
Republic of Guinea. 

Mr.  Loua  (Guinea)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  on  behalf  of  the  Guinean  delegation,  which  I 
have the honour of leading, I would like to pass on to 
the  President,  Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki,  Secretary  of 
African  Union  Affairs  of  the  Great  Socialist  People’s 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  the  congratulations  of  the 
Guinean  people  and  Government  on  his  brilliant 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its sixty-fourth session. I would also like to convey the 
09-52604 

19 
(El 
Salvador), 
is  convinced 
My  delegation 
A/64/PV.12 

congratulations  of  Captain  Moussa  Dadis  Camara, 
President  of  the  Republic,  Head  of  State,  President  of 
the National Council for Democracy and Development 
and Commander-in-Chief of the Guinean armed forces. 

that  because 
Mr. Treki  is  a  seasoned  diplomat,  our  work  will  be 
crowned  with  success.  We  assure  him  of  our  full 
cooperation.  I  would  also  like  to  tell  his  predecessor, 
Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  how  much  my 
delegation  appreciates  his  wisdom  and  the  devotion 
with  which  he  led  the  work  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third session. The Republic of Guinea salutes the 
remarkable  work  that  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
has  accomplished  at  the  helm  of  our  Organization  in 
favour  of  peace,  development  and  prosperity  in  the 
world. 

Mrs.  Gallardo  Hernández 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
On  23  December  2008,  all  the  people  of  Guinea 

enthusiastically  welcomed  the  arrival  of  the  National 
Council for Democracy and Development, the CNDD. 
Guinean  armed  forces  decided  to  take  the  destiny  of 
the country into their hands after the death of President 
Lansana Conté on 22 December 2008 in order to avoid 
the  social  implosion  that  would  have  damaged  peace, 
security,  stability,  unity  and  harmonious  development 
in the country. 
Poor  political  and  economic  governance  and  its 

the 
impunity, 
corruption, 
related 
of 
in  drugs, 
the 
consumption  of  and 
trafficking 
light  weapons, 
proliferation  of  small  arms  and 
organized  crime  and  the  abdication  of  republican 
institutions had considerably weakened the authority of 
the  State.  The  National  Council  for  Democracy  and 
Development, 
its  commitments,  has 
undertaken  specific  actions,  the  results  of  which  are 
encouraging. 

Such actions include, inter alia, the preparation of 
a timetable for transition, designed and accepted by all 
parties  involved  on  the  basis  of  a  participatory  and 
inclusive  dialogue,  which  should  lead  to  democratic, 
free and transparent elections with a view to returning 
to  constitutional  order.  There  is  also  the  fight  against 
drugs  and  narcotics,  against  the  embezzlement  of 
public  funds,  organized  crime  and  other  social  ills. 
Additionally,  there  will  be  a  special  programme  to 
meet the basic needs of the population, including water 
faithful 
effects 
to 

In 
this  context, 
recent  discovery  of 
the  National  Council 
and  electricity,  as  well  as  the  beginning  of  reform  of 
the security and defence sectors. 

for 
Democracy  and  Development  enjoys  a  close  working 
relationship with national stakeholders. This synergy of 
activities  has  allowed  for  the  establishment  of  an  ad 
hoc  committee  that  has  evaluated  and  revised  the 
transition  timetable.  Following  the  new  timetable,  the 
presidential elections will be held in January 2010 and 
the  legislative  elections  in  March  of  that  year.  In 
parallel,  a  relationship  of  trust  and  cooperation  has 
been  established  with  the  International  Contact  Group 
on Guinea, whose mission is to accompany this process 
of transition. 

The CNDD and the Government attach particular 
importance  to  the  fight  against  drugs  and  narcotics  in 
our  country,  which,  unfortunately,  in  recent  years  has 
become  one  of  the  hubs  of  this  trade  in  West Africa. 
The 
toxic  substances  and 
underground  laboratories  in  certain  towns  of  our 
country illustrates the seriousness of the situation. The 
bold operations undertaken by the new authorities have 
led  to  arrests  within  the  highest  echelons  of  the 
security and defence forces and the civil service. 

The Republic of Guinea is seeking the support of 
the international community in this stabilization effort. 
We call for the application of the Political Declaration 
and  Plan  of  Action  on  International  Cooperation 
towards  an  Integrated  and  Balanced  Strategy 
to 
Counter  the  World  Drug  Problem  adopted  by  the 
Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs  at  its  fifty-second 
session, held in Vienna in March 2009. 

The  Guinean  Government  has  also  carried  out 
activities  to  bring  ethical  management  to  the  handling 
of  public  finances.  In  this  area,  audits  have  revealed 
many cases of financial misappropriation at high levels 
within the State. The funds recovered so far have been 
used  to  partially  finance  the  programme  to  provide 
water and electricity for all, launched by the CNDD to 
improve  the  living  conditions  of  the  population.  My 
delegation  renews  its  call  to  development  partners  for 
increased  material,  financial  and  technical  support 
during the period of transition in Guinea. 

On behalf of the CNDD and the President of the 
Republic,  His  Excellency  Captain  Moussa  Dadis 
Camara, 
its 
profound  gratitude  to  all  those  who  support  its  efforts 
in  the  framework  of  a  peaceful,  consensual  and 
the  Guinean  Government  expresses 
20 

09-52604 
solidarity 
and 
they  have  done 


successful  transition.  The  Guinean  authorities  wish  to 
thank  all  those  who  have  shown  their  goodwill,  in 
particular the leader of the Libyan Revolution and His 
Majesty  the  King  of  Morocco,  as  well  as  Their 
Excellencies  the  Presidents  of  Senegal,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Burkina  Faso,  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and  Mali,  for 
everything 
in  favour  of  unity, 
reconciliation  and  stability  in  Guinea.  The  Guinean 
authorities also express their thanks to all leaders from 
Africa  and  elsewhere  who  have  been  prepared  to 
provide various kinds of help to ensure the historic and 
exemplary  success  of  the  transition  process  in  our 
country. 

The  agenda  of  the  Assembly’s  present  session 
includes several recurrent questions, real challenges to 
the  construction  of  a  new  world  order  founded  on 
justice, 
sustainable  development. 
Realizing  these  aspirations  remains  dependent  on  the 
international  community  fulfilling  its  commitments  to 
developing  countries,  which  are  bearing  the  brunt  of 
the  global  economic  and  financial  crisis.  This  is  yet 
more  necessary  because,  despite  the  progress  that  has 
been  made  in  the  fight  against  pandemics,  illiteracy 
and  extreme  poverty,  immense  efforts  are  still  needed 
for  the  full  and  harmonious  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
Therefore, the establishment of a partnership that 

through 
prioritizes 
substantial  increases  in  aid  and  investment  flows  is 
clearly  indispensable.  The  question  of  foreign  debt, 
which  seriously  compromises  our  efforts  to  eradicate 
poverty,  merits  particular  attention.  Furthermore,  the 
low prices we receive for  basic commodities, together 
with the unpredictability of nature, the harmful effects 
of  human  activity  on  the  environment  and  climate 
change,  all  contribute  to  rendering African  economies 
fragile  and  lead  to  precarious  agricultural  and  food 
production. 
With  regard  to  peace  and  security,  significant 

the  prevention  and 
progress  has  been  made 
resolution  of  conflicts.  However,  areas  of  tension  still 
exist here and there, with the associated loss of human 
life, unspeakable suffering, destruction of property and 
flows of refugees and displaced persons. 
In Africa,  the  peace  and  reconciliation  process  at 

the  national 
to 
concerted  actions  on the part  of  the African  Union  and 
subregional organizations, supported by the international 
the  development  of  Africa 
is  making  progress, 
in 
level 
thanks 
A/64/PV.12
the  continent, 
the  success  of 
community,  despite  human  rights  violations  and  bad 
economic  and  political  governance.  In  the  Mano  River 
basin, 
the  vigorous  peacebuilding 
measures in Sierra Leone and Liberia gives us cause for 
comfort  and  hope.  Through  the  implementation  of  the 
Ouagadougou  Political  Agreement,  Côte  d’Ivoire  is 
consolidating  its  reunification  and  is  in  the  process  of 
organizing  free  elections.  The  Republic  of  Guinea 
supports this process. 

the  successful 
Elsewhere  on 
holding of presidential elections in Guinea-Bissau and 
Mauritania  augurs  well  for  a  new  era,  conducive  to 
national reconciliation, peace, stability and progress. In 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  United 
Nations, the African Union and neighbouring countries 
are engaged in a dialogue that will without a doubt lead 
to  the  re-establishment  of  peace  in  the  east  of  the 
country, which is a yardstick for stability, security and 
development in the Great Lakes region.  

With  regard  to  Somalia  and  the  situation  in 
Darfur,  the  international  community  must  step  up  its 
efforts  alongside  the  African  Union  in  order  to  bring 
about a rapid and durable political solution. 

Regarding the Western Sahara, while we welcome 
the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special 
Envoy,  my  country  welcomes  the  Moroccan  initiative 
for  the  negotiation  of  an  autonomous  status  for  the 
Sahara region. We urge the parties concerned to find a 
mutually acceptable political outcome to this dispute. 

With  regard  to  the  Middle  East,  Guinea  remains 
convinced  that  solving  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
necessarily requires a comprehensive solution, leading 
to the creation of an independent, sovereign and viable 
Palestinian State living side by side and in peace with 
Israel  within  secure  and  internationally  recognized 
borders, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of 
the Security Council and the road map of the Quartet. 
The international community has a duty to ensure that 
this comes about. 

In Asia,  Guinea  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the 
principle of one China and to the peaceful reunification 
of the Korean peninsula. 

Terrorist  acts  are  proliferating  throughout  the 
world,  indiscriminately  affecting  innocent  victims, 
including  women,  children  and  the  elderly.  Those 
forms of barbarism and intolerance must be condemned 
in  no  uncertain  terms.  My  delegation  welcomes  the 
09-52604 

21 

and 
hope 
for 
this 
against 
terrorism 
issue  with 
A/64/PV.12 

adoption  by  the  United  Nations  of  the  United  Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  We  remain  in 
favour  of  developing  a  comprehensive  international 
convention 
that 
consultations  on  this  issue  will  continue  in  a  spirit  of 
full cooperation.  

My  country  continues  to  pay  great  attention  to 
international  efforts  in  the  area  of  disarmament  and 
weapons  control.  We  express  our  support  for  the 
banning and total destruction of nuclear, biological and 
chemical  weapons,  as  well  as  the  eradication  of  the 
trade  in  fissile  materials.  In  Africa,  the  illicit  and 
uncontrolled  circulation  of  small  arms  and 
light 
weapons  is  a  source  of  instability  for  States  and  of 
insecurity 
the  population.  The  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  has  adopted  a 
convention  on 
the  objective  of 
establishing  a  climate  of  peace  through  a  framework 
for  cooperation  between  member  States  for 
the 
systematic  control  and  elimination  of  these  weapons, 
which  fuel  civil  wars. The  success  of  this  programme 
requires the commitment of all member States and the 
support of bilateral and multilateral partners. 

itself  facing  a  grave  and 
unprecedented  financial  and  economic  crisis.  Africa 
has not been spared the contagious effects of this crisis. 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  details  how  our 
continent  has  seen  setbacks  in  such  crucial  areas  as 
economic  growth,  agricultural  development, 
the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

The  time  has  come  to  rethink  the  international 
financial architecture in order to adapt it to the realities 
of the twenty-first century in terms of its representation 
of Member States and its working methods, as well as 
the equitable distribution of resources. 

Innovative initiatives are essential in the areas of 
trade, official development assistance, debt alleviation, 
technology 
transfer  and  financing  for  developing 
countries  in  general  and  least  developed  countries  in 
particular to enable them to benefit as much as possible 
from  globalization.  In  that  context,  the  commitments 
made  at  Monterrey,  Johannesburg,  Doha,  London  and 
Pittsburgh within the framework of the Group of 20 are 
grounds for hope. It is important that the Doha Round 
negotiations swiftly lead to an agreement on measures 
to  promote  development  and  put  an  end  to  abject 
poverty. 
The  world  finds 
and 
to  strengthen 
the  continent 
Guinea  welcomes 
the  progress  made 
My  country  attaches  the  greatest  importance  to 

increasing 
improving  official  development 
assistance  and  making  it  more  predictable  and  more 
aligned with national priorities, in accordance with the 
Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness.  

in 
implementing the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Debt 
Initiative.  Given  the  debt  burden,  we  urge  donors  to 
work 
resources  and  national  and 
international capacities to support the strategies put in 
place  to  make  the  requirements  for  reaching  its 
completion point more flexible. 

The  international  community  must  fully  support 
the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development,  which  commits 
to 
developing infrastructure and promoting human rights, 
the rule of law, democracy and the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
The  problems  related  to  climate  change  have 

drawn  the  attention  of  all  States  because  of  the  threat 
that  phenomenon  poses  to  humanity.  Guinea,  which 
occupies  a  central  place  in  the  implementation  of 
policies and strategies for sustainable development and 
the restoration of ecological balances in West Africa, is 
aware of the seriousness of the situation and the urgent 
need  for  action.  My  delegation  strongly  calls  for 
concerted and courageous international action to put an 
end  to  the  paradox  wherein  countries  and  populations 
that  have  contributed  least  to  global  warming  are 
suffering  its  most  serious  consequences. We  hope  that 
the  forthcoming  Copenhagen  summit  will  meet  the 
great expectations of humanity.  

In addition, particular attention must be accorded 
the problems  related to migratory flows and the many 
issues  underlying  them.  It  is  only  by  promoting 
effective  solidarity  that  we  will  be  able  to  manage 
migratory flows. 
Today’s  world  is  beset  by  swift,  complex  and 

the 
profound  changes.  Peace,  development  and 
interdependence of nations remain undeniable realities 
and  factors  essential  for  a  prosperous  world  of 
solidarity. Therefore, multilateralism is the only viable 
alternative  for  addressing  the  global  challenges  facing 
humanity.  My  delegation  remains  convinced  that  the 
present session will further strengthen the role and the 
activities  of  our  universal  Organization  in  the  defence 
of just causes. 
22 

09-52604 
When  developing  countries  agreed 


The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rufus  George  Bousquet, 
Minister  for  External  Affairs,  International  Trade  and 
Investment of Saint Lucia. 
Mr. Bousquet (Saint Lucia): I wish to express the 

warm  congratulations of the delegation  of Saint Lucia 
to Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on his election to serve as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session.  With  his  vast  diplomatic  experience,  we  are 
most  confident  that  this  session  will  yield  significant 
results  in  advancing  the  agenda  of  the  international 
community through this most universal of institutions, 
the  General  Assembly,  which  has  been 
rightly 
described  by  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  as  the  “Group  of  192”.  We  express  our 
appreciation for the work of Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann, 
who  succeeded  in  further  elevating  the  Assembly  so 
that it could regain its rightful place as the parliament 
of the world. We pledge to work with Mr. Treki in the 
furtherance of that approach. We also thank Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his tireless efforts on behalf 
of us all. 

the 
ambitious  but  necessary  Millennium  Development 
Goals 
agreed 
development goals, few, if any, foresaw that the winds 
would  be  contrary,  the  storms  fierce  and  the  course 
ahead so challenging. We are more than halfway to the 
the  Millennium 
2015  deadline 
for 
Development  Goals, 
the 
developing  world  are  still  struggling  to  meet  their 
objectives.  That  situation,  of  course,  is  the  result  of 
developing  countries  facing  unforeseen  economic 
hardship  as  a  result  of  crisis  after  crisis  that  for  the 
most  part  are  not  of  our  own  making.  While  the 
developed  world  appears  to  be  in  the  infant  stages  of 
recovery, the developing countries are still in the wake 
of this crisis and are struggling to find calmer waters. 
In  that  connection,  it  is  important  that  the  Doha 

reshaped  as  a 
Round  of 
development  round,  with  emphasis  on  substantially 
reducing  the  tariff  and  non-tariff  barriers  that  have 
been 
imposed  by  developed  countries,  especially 
regarding agricultural products. 

The matter of substantive debt relief to permit the 
developing  countries  to  utilize  their  limited  resources 
for  national  development  must  also  be  given  the  most 
serious  consideration.  The  MDGs  are  still  achievable, 
achieving 
and  Governments 
trade  negotiations  be 
internationally 
(MDGs) 
and 
the 
to 
in 
A/64/PV.12
and 
promoting  maternal 
but  the  developed  countries  must  meet  their  agreed 
commitments if those objectives are to be attained in a 
manner consistent with the global timetable. 

While  all  of  the  MDGs  are  relevant  to  the 
development  aspirations  of  the  people  of  my  country 
and  of  the  region,  we  believe  that  education,  poverty 
alleviation  and  the  strengthening  of  institutions  for 
good  governance  are  pivotal  to  this  process.  These 
must  form  the  bedrock  for  overall  development.  So, 
despite sluggish advancement towards the achievement 
of all the Goals, we have made significant progress in 
the  areas  of  poverty  and  hunger,  universal  education 
and  gender  equality.  My  own  country  boasts  gender 
parity  in  wage  employment  in  the  non-agricultural 
sector, a long-standing problem in our region.  

Despite such progress, continued improvement is 
required  in  the  other  priority  areas  of  reducing  child 
mortality 
health. 
Unfortunately,  as  I  speak  here,  my  Government  is 
grappling  with  the  loss  of  a  hospital  on  the  southern 
part  of  the  island  that  burned  down  two  weeks  ago, 
with  loss  of  life.  We  have  launched  an  appeal  for 
assistance and hope that those most able to do so will 
help generously. 

We  in  Saint  Lucia  are  observing  the  current 
global  state  of  affairs  through  bifocal  lenses;  we  see 
both  challenges  and  opportunity  —  an  opportunity  to 
take  bold  new  steps  and  think  outside  the  box  in 
tackling  the  issues  that  confront  us.  The  right  mix  of 
appropriate  policy  interventions,  strong  political  will 
and  strategic  partnerships  supported  by  development 
stakeholders  is  certain  to  help  countries  such  as  Saint 
Lucia achieve the Millennium Development Goals in a 
timely manner. Therefore, hope is not completely lost.  

Higher  prices  for  food,  fuel  and  other  essentials 
forced  most  Governments  of  developing  countries  to 
divert  already  scarce  resources  in  order  to  subsidize 
those commodities for the poorest in our societies. That 
then  put  pressure  on  their  ability  to  repay  debts  and, 
together  with  mismanagement  within 
the  world 
financial  sector, 
triggered  a  global  financial  and 
economic crisis. 
The world conference held here at United Nations 

Headquarters  last  June  to  assess  the  worst  global 
economic  downturn  since 
the  Great  Depression 
succeeded  in  identifying  immediate  and  long-term 
measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis, especially 
on  developing  countries,  and  to  begin  the  necessary 
09-52604 

23 
the  Caribbean  Community  welcomed 
A/64/PV.12 

international  deliberations  on  the  restructuring  of  the 
international financial architecture. Saint Lucia and the 
rest  of 
the 
initiative, and we participated fully in the deliberations.  

Saint  Lucia  therefore  supports  the  measures 
called for in the outcome document (resolution 63/303, 
annex) to sustain the initiative while also providing the 
machinery  necessary  for  the  continued  monitoring  of 
the  world  economy.  To  that  end,  we  emphasize  the 
importance of strengthening the capacity, effectiveness 
and efficiency of the United Nations and of making the 
international financial institutions more compassionate 
in  their  responses  and  their  assistance  to  national 
development  strategies.  We  look  forward  to  analysing 
the report of the ad hoc open-ended working group of 
the Assembly on the implementation of the mandate, as 
well  as  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
global  food  security  crisis,  the  International  Labour 
Organization  report  on  the  Global  Jobs  Pact  and  the 
contributions  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  to  the 
new development financing agenda.  

The  most  pressing  issue  and  challenge  facing 
Saint Lucia, and indeed the rest of the world, is climate 
change. 
serious 
developmental  challenge  facing  mankind  today  — 
hence, the demands for collective action and an urgent 
response. We are extremely concerned that the adverse 
effects of climate change are constantly altering access 
to  basic  resources  such  as  land,  water  and  food. 
Decreased  accessibility  threatens  social  security,  a 
daily reality for many of us around the world. We may 
not disappear, as the Maldives will, if nothing is done, 
but it will certainly be expensive to survive. 

On  21  September  2009,  heads  of  member  States 
of  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island  Developing  States 
(AOSIS) adopted a declaration on climate change that 
spelled out some of the pressing issues that need to be 
addressed  by  all  States.  Before  that  we  had  the  1994 
Barbados Programme of Action; the final communiqué 
of the 1999 AOSIS Heads of Government Meeting; the 
outcome  document  of  the  General Assembly’s  special 
session held in 1999 to review and assess the Barbados 
Programme  (resolution  S-22/2),  and  the  adoption  in 
2005  of 
for  Further 
Implementation.  All  represented  extensive  legislative 
authority for concerted international action and clearly 
set forth the position of the most vulnerable States.  
the  Mauritius  Strategy 
It  has  emerged  as 
the  most 


That  extensive  mandate  provides  the  framework 
for  a  strategy  to  arrest  the  impact  of  climate  change 
that  can  lead  to  the  emergence  of  a  sustainable  world 
for present and future generations. The 2007 high-level 
event on climate change, held to discuss “The future in 
our  hands:  addressing  the  leadership  challenge  of 
climate change”, was also instructive in reinforcing the 
mandates of earlier sessions. Alas, it seems the rest of 
the world has not seen the urgency for action. 

For  our  part,  Saint  Lucia  and  other  Caribbean 
States  have  pledged  to  take  voluntary  mitigation 
measures  to  ensure  our  collective  survival.  We  are 
working  assiduously  to  formulate  policies  and  review 
legislation  to  develop  our  renewable  energy  potential 
in wind, solar and geothermal power. We will intensify 
efforts  to  preserve  our  limited  forest  cover,  which 
serves to protect our water supply and biodiversity and 
is  an  important  factor  in  carbon  sequestration.  For  us 
these are critical survival measures. 

Saint  Lucia  has  joined  with  other  CARICOM 
member  States  to  establish  early-warning  systems  for 
predicting  disasters  such  as  floods  and  hurricanes. 
CARICOM  heads  of  Government  have  also  adopted 
the  Liliendaal  Declaration  on  Climate  Change  and 
Development,  which  expressed  the  commitment  to 
protect  the  region’s  marine  resources  and  ecosystems 
and  work 
the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change objectives. 
While  these  sustainable  development  practices 

have 
long-term  benefits, 
investment 
required  to  support  them  is  very  onerous  for  small 
island  developing  States.  We  have  indicated  that  our 
Governments  have  been  proactive;  however,  the  small 
island developing States still need financial support to 
enhance their capacity to respond to challenges brought 
on  by  climate  change.  Let  me  reiterate  that  these 
problems are not of our doing. Lack of access to cost-
effective,  affordable  and  environmentally 
sound 
technologies  significantly  threatens  to  stall  or  reverse 
progress already made. Nor will mitigation be enough 
if not supported by adaptation measures. We therefore 
urge States to fulfil their commitment to the Adaptation 
Fund, which will help us cope with changes that have 
made life difficult for many peoples. 

We  the  small  island  developing  States  and  least 
developed  countries  have  joined  together  to  demand, 
appeal  and  even  beg,  if  necessary,  that  the  new 
Copenhagen  climate  agreement 
temperature 
towards  fulfilling 
the  financial 
limit 
24 

09-52604 
countries 
Middle-income 


increases to the attainable level of 1.5 degrees Celsius, 
as  it  is  possible  that  anything  above  that  will  be 
devastating  to  our  very  existence.  We  urge  other 
inhabitants  of  planet  Earth  to  be  understanding  and 
cooperative as we work to seal the deal in Copenhagen. 
If  we  cannot  reverse  or  slow  the  effects  of  climate 
change,  all  other  activities,  as  noble  as  they  may  be, 
will be useless to mankind. 

Our  efforts  to  advance  our  own  development 
progress  are  sometimes  derailed  because  of  a  lack  of 
resources  and  a  peculiar  grouping  that  excludes  many 
States from access to certain types of aid, loans and/or 
development  assistance  currently  available  only  to 
least  developed  States  —  ironically,  because  of  our 
success  in  managing  our  affairs.  It  would  appear  that 
we  are  being  punished  for  being  prudent  in  the 
management of our limited resources. 

like  Saint  Lucia 
continue  to  face  significant  challenges  in  reducing 
poverty,  servicing  debt  and  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. My Government is pleased to note 
that  the  United  Nations  and  the  international  financial 
institutions  have  recognized  that  there  is  a  need  to 
address  the  development  needs  of  middle-income 
countries  and  to  reinforce  global  support  for  their 
development  efforts. We  are  cognizant  that  this  group 
of  countries  is  not  homogeneous  and  that  individual 
economic and social circumstances must be taken into 
account.  However,  as  a  group,  we  deserve  greater 
attention  from  the  donor  community  and  the  United 
Nations system. We hope our pleas do not fall on deaf 
ears, and that assistance will not come too late. 

While  we  bemoan  the  slow  pace  of  assistance 
from  the  North,  we  appreciate  the  efforts  of  our 
traditional  friends  —  the  United  Kingdom,  the  United 
States, Canada, France, the European Union, Japan, to 
name  a  few  —  to  meet  their  official  development 
assistance  targets  and  agreed  commitments.  However, 
the  significance  of  cooperation  among  developing 
countries 
South-South 
cooperation has become an effective tool for economic 
development and foreign policy and constitutes one of 
international 
the  most 
cooperation 
the 
context of globalization and liberalization. South-South 
cooperation  is  also  an  imperative  to  complement 
North-South 
the 
institutional capacities of the countries of the South to 
engage in sustainable development practices. An ever-
important  dimensions  of 
for  development,  particularly 
overlooked. 
cooperation 
strengthen 
cannot 
and 
be 
in 
A/64/PV.12
from 
the  Kuwaiti 
international  medical 
changing  global  landscape  has  impelled  developing 
countries to take initiatives to safeguard one another’s 
common  interests,  since  they  possess  diverse  assets 
that can nonetheless be complementary. 

That  has  been  our  goal  within  CARICOM,  and 
we  thank  the  Government  of Trinidad  and Tobago  for 
so  often  leading  the  way  on  such  matters.  The 
Government  of  Saint  Lucia  also  wishes  to  express  its 
gratitude for the assistance provided by the Republic of 
Cuba,  whose 
assistance 
programme  has  served  the  people  of  the  region,  the 
wider  hemisphere  and  beyond.  And  we  express  our 
appreciation  for  the  support  we  have  received  from 
other  countries  in  our  region,  including  the  Latin 
American  States  of  Brazil,  Mexico  and  Venezuela,  to 
name a few. 

The  historic  cultural  ties  between Africa  and  the 
Caribbean  are  well  known,  and  cooperation  between 
our  two  regions  is  being  strengthened  through  recent 
developments  such  as  the  African  Union  Diaspora 
Initiative  and  the  Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean 
States  Secretariat.  We  in  Saint  Lucia  have  received 
support 
in 
infrastructure  development.  In  short,  we  are  reaching 
out  to  the  world  for  cooperation  and  collaboration  in 
the advancement of our development efforts, within the 
framework  of 
for 
humankind. 
That is why the Government of Saint Lucia joins 

with  other  delegations 
in  extending  our  deep 
condolences  to  the  Government  and  people  of Taiwan 
following the devastation and loss of life caused by the 
disastrous  Typhoon  Morakot  in  August.  Taiwan  has 
assisted  Saint  Lucia 
the  areas  of  education, 
agriculture,  health  and  other  fields  critical  to  our 
development  efforts.  Their  assistance  in  agriculture, 
especially,  has  enabled  us  to  improve  our  output  and 
position  ourselves  for  breaking  into  the  food  export 
market.  Taiwan  has  extended  a  helping  hand  to  all 
those who have requested it. It seeks only to be part of 
the  family  of  nations  and  to  share  its  knowledge  and 
expertise  with  the  rest  of  the  world.  That  is  not  too 
much to ask. We are pleased to note that some positive 
steps have been taken in this respect, and we hope they 
will continue, with other agencies opening their doors 
to participation and thus to enable 23 million people to 
make  their  contribution  to  their  fellow  human  beings 
and to realize their aspirations, as we in Saint Lucia did 
30 years ago. 
for  each  other  and 
to  assist 
respect 
funds 
in 
09-52604 

25 

to 
We 
also 
concern 
profound 
sympathies 
extend  our 
Economic  diversification  for  small  States 
A/64/PV.12 


the 
Government and people of the Philippines for the loss 
of  life  and  destruction  caused  by  Typhoon  Ketsana 
three days ago. 
Saint Lucia joins with other CARICOM countries 

in 
expressing 
deep 
disappointment with the decision by the Administering 
Power  to  dissolve  the  Government  and  legislature  in 
the  non-self-governing  territory  of  the  Turks  and 
Caicos  Islands,  an  associate  member  of  CARICOM. 
We call for a speedy return to democratic governance, 
without  which  the  territory’s  participation  in  the 
regional integration process will be in jeopardy. 

is 
critical to their ability to remain competitive in an ever 
more globalized economy, and many small States have 
developed vibrant financial service industries that have 
evolved  as  clean,  competitive  industries  in  a  world 
economy  increasingly  dependent  on  services.  Clearly, 
the  competitiveness  of  tax  rates  and  international  tax 
compensation  are  fundamental  tools  of  globalization 
and represent one of the few areas where small States 
have  been  able  to  enter  this  new  economy  from  a 
competitive  position.  To  this  end  Saint  Lucia  joined 
with  other  CARICOM  States  last  July  in  adopting  the 
Liliendaal Declaration on the Financial Sector: A New 
Framework  for  Financial  Regulation  and  Supervision 
in the Region. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  the  regional  policy 
contains  provisions  for  continued  improvement  in 
standards  for  disclosure,  transparency  and  corporate 
governance  for  both  public  and  private  companies. 
However,  despite  our  best  efforts, 
international 
financial  centres  in  the  Caribbean  and  elsewhere  have 
recently  been  under  intense  pressure  from  high-tax 
nations.  Saint  Lucia  joins  our  regional  partners  in 
continuing 
the 
strengthening of regulatory frameworks. We stand with 
our  CARICOM  colleagues  in  calling  for  equitable 
treatment in accord with that granted to the developed 
countries and other preferential jurisdictions. 

It matters little if we are rich if we are insecure in 
our  homes  and  our  country. And  that  is  why  in  recent 
years  the  issue  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  has 
emerged  as  a  major  source  of  concern  to  us.  Small 
developing  States  like  Saint  Lucia  continue  to  be 
threatened by the disturbing spread of small arms. The 
illicit introduction of those weapons into our societies 
transparency 
enhance 
to 
by 
and 
has  created  a  heavy  burden  in  our  region,  which  has 
seen  the  emergence  of  an  unacceptable  level  of  gun 
violence, worsened by the social distress caused by the 
economic and financial crisis. Saint Lucia reiterates its 
support  for  the  implementation  of  relevant  General 
Assembly  resolutions  addressing  the  illicit  trade  of 
small  arms  and  light  weapons  in  all  its  aspects,  most 
recently  resolution  63/72  of  2  December  2008.  Saint 
Lucia wishes  also to express its  continued support  for 
the full implementation of the international instruments 
to enable States to identify and trace illicit small arms 
and light weapons in a timely and reliable manner.  

On top of all our financial problems it seems we 
are asked to bear an unfair burden in relation to world 
peace and security. While ensuring an effective funding 
mechanism  is  the  collective  responsibility  of  the 
membership,  we  concur  that  the  future  scale  of 
assessment should be constant, simple and transparent. 
We  fully  support  the  view  of  the  Committee  on 
Contributions  that  the  scale  should  be  based  on  gross 
national  income  data,  as  that  is  the  most  accurate 
reflection of one’s capacity to pay. 

In  the  face  of  all  the  challenges  outlined  above 
and in this present state of world affairs, it is no longer 
pragmatic  to  utilize  attenuated  financial  and  technical 
assistance  schemes  designed  many  years  ago.  They 
have  given  way  to  development  challenges  that  are 
often  of  astronomical  size  as  well  as  nebulous, 
necessitating 
In 
short, the world is in crisis-management mode, and that 
is  seriously  affecting 
the  ability  of  developing 
countries to move forward and onward to progress. 

However, crisis management must be undertaken 
with  sustainable  development  in  mind  and  integrated 
into  the  policymaking  processes  by  both  donor  and 
recipient  countries.  Coordination  and  collaboration, 
therefore, 
among 
Governments, organizations and local communities if a 
sustainable  and  forward-looking  approach  is  to  be 
achieved. 
We  chose  as  our  theme  for  this  session  of  the 

Assembly  “Effective 
to  global  crises: 
strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations  for 
international  peace,  security  and 
development”.  I  hope  that  this  body,  made  up  of  a 
diverse group of countries, will work together towards 
achieving the goals to which we all aspire. 
long-term,  cumulative 
essential  within 
responses. 
responses 
and 
are 
26 

09-52604 
his 
in 
determination 
democratizing 
Mr.  Falconi  (Ecuador)  (spoke 



Like Jason in his good ship the Argo, fair Helen — 
Saint Lucia — will brave the seas, chart a new course 
and take our people to the heights of development and 
dignity  that  befit  a  country  that  has  produced  two 
Nobel Laureates. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Fander  Falconi,  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Foreign  Trade  and  Integration  of 
the Republic of Ecuador. 
in  Spanish): 

Ecuador hails the choice of Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session.  We  believe  his  broad  experience  in  the 
international  scene  augurs  success  in  the  work  of  this 
Assembly.  Ecuador  wishes  especially  to  commend  the 
former President, Father Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, 
for 
this 
Organization  and  for  his  unswerving  commitment  to 
the poor and the voiceless of this planet. 

The  central  theme  of  this  general  debate  — 
strengthening multilateralism — is the very purpose of 
the  United  Nations.  This  Organization  is  called  on  to 
be 
the  expression  of  horizontal,  democratic  and 
respectful  relations  among  the  countries  of  the  world, 
under the strictest observance of the principle of equal 
sovereignty among States.  
and 

its 
operations,  the  Organization  has  not  been  able  to 
respond  to  the  great  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  For  that  reason,  it  is  urgent  to  strengthen  its 
structural  reform. The  Security  Council  must  be  more 
representative,  democratic  and  efficient.  To  achieve 
that,  we  call  on  all  Member  States  to  make  a 
commitment to achieve true substantial transformation 
this year in the Council’s composition and its working 
methods.  Likewise,  our  country  believes  that  the 
General  Assembly,  as 
the  most  democratic  and 
universally representative body, must fully assume the 
role established for it in the United Nations Charter. It 
is essential to move forward on substantial agreements 
that can lead us to a real revitalization of the Assembly. 
Along  the  same  lines,  Ecuador  is  committed  to 

regional 
integration  processes  as  mechanisms  of 
coordination,  cooperation  and 
solidarity  among 
peoples. We therefore take on with great dedication and 
enthusiasm the pro tempore presidency of the Union of 
South American Nations (UNASUR), as an opportunity 
through  a  welcome 
to  contribute 
However,  with 
integration 
structure 
current 
to 
A/64/PV.12
and 
and 
process 
Latin  America 
cooperation.  That 
to  promote  democracy  and  collective 
mechanism 
welfare in a coordinated and consensual manner. 

the  Caribbean  have 
understood that the best way to face today’s challenges 
is  through  effective  multilateral  action.  Our  region  is 
undergoing  an  intense  process  of  integration  based  on 
solidarity 
is 
demonstrated  in  such  vital  regional  forums  as  the  Rio 
Group,  UNASUR,  the  Bolivian  Alternative  for  the 
Americas  (ALBA)  and  the  Caribbean  Community. 
Those groups engender the most diverse proposals and 
initiatives  designed  to  construct  common  agendas  on 
social,  cultural,  political  and  economic  matters,  in 
order to build a new development strategy that is more 
inclusive and less predatory. 

Every  integration  effort  requires  the  recognition 
of the principles of equality and sovereignty of States. 
Therefore  my  country  applauds  the  reversal  of  the 
unfair  exclusion  of  our  sister  Republic  of  Cuba  from 
the  Organization  of American  States  (OAS).  We  have 
settled  part  of  Cuba’s  debt,  but  despite  repeated  calls 
on the part of this Assembly over the past 17 years, the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  that  brother 
country  remains  in  place.  The  blockade  is  contrary  to 
the  great  principles  of  international  law,  and  its 
continuance  is  still  severely  affecting  the  well-being 
and dignity of the Cuban people. 
Latin America and the whole world have taken a 

stand  with 
historic  General  Assembly 
pronouncement  (resolution  63/301)  condemning  the 
coup  d’état  against  the  legitimate  Government  of  the 
Republic  of  Honduras.  The  international  community 
has  categorically  and  unanimously  rejected  this  attack 
against  democracy  and  against  all  the  practices  of 
peaceful  coexistence  between  peoples.  We  therefore 
insist on the immediate restitution of President Zelaya, 
as well as on the protection of his physical person and 
an  immediate  end  to  the  repression  of  the  Honduran 
people. We echo the resolutions of the United Nations, 
the  OAS,  the  Rio  Group,  UNASUR,  the  European 
Union,  ALBA  and 
international 
organizations  that  have  made  decisive  statements  on 
this subject. 

I would also like to mention the declaration made 
by  the  61  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  South 
America  and  Africa  who  met  on  Margarita  Island, 
Venezuela,  on  26  and  27  September,  in  which  we 
the  many  other 
the 
09-52604 

27 
are 
facing 
a 

systemic 
Today,  we 
A/64/PV.12 

condemned  the  coup  d’état  in  Honduras.  In  that 
document, we also express our support for the Security 
Council  meeting  held  on  25  September  2009,  which 
highlighted  the  issue  of  the  security  of  the  Brazilian 
embassy in Tegucigalpa, where President José Manuel 
Zelaya  has  legitimately  been  taking  refuge  since 
21 September  and  which  has  been  subject  to  an 
unjustifiable military and police barricade. 

We  call  on  the  international  community  to  act 
together  to  adopt  strong  measures  that  guarantee  the 
restitution of democratic order in Honduras in order to 
promote  an  election  process  of  some  kind  and 
recognize the authorities that are elected as a result of 
such a process. 

and 
multidimensional  crisis  that  jeopardizes  not  only  the 
balance  of  an  economic  system  but  also  the  very 
survival  of  human  beings. The  food  crisis,  the  energy 
crisis  and  the  scandalous  financial  crisis  are  clear 
symptoms of the fact that the system does not work and 
must be re-invented. 

One  of  the  most  obvious  facets  of  the  overall 
crisis  is  the  economic  and  financial  crisis.  Although 
this crisis originated in the main speculative markets of 
the  rich  countries  of  the  North,  that  is,  the  casino 
economy, 
its  effects  have  been  multiplying  and 
expanding in developing countries.  

Nevertheless, the current financial crisis is only a 
symptom of a larger crisis — the crisis of a system that 
favours the financial and speculative economy over the 
real  economy.  It  is  also  the  result  of  an  international 
financial architecture that is unequal, non-inclusive and 
inefficient and that must be reformed urgently. Ecuador 
proposes  that  the  crisis  does  not  require  merely 
technocratic  reform  but  a  profound  change  of  our 
economic model. 

reason,  my  Government  strongly 
supported  the  decision  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
hold,  this  past  June,  the  high-level  Conference  on  the 
World Financial and Economic Crisis and its Impact on 
Development.  At 
the  Conference,  Rafael  Correa, 
President of the Republic of Ecuador, became the main 
voice  of  the  countries  of  the  South  advocating  for  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  current  world  economic 
order, which jeopardizes the life and the well-being of 
millions of people around the planet. President Correa 
also  proposed 
the 
international financial architecture. 
to  democratize  and 
redefine 
For 
that 
in 
this 
international 

At that Conference, important steps were taken in 
recognizing the fundamental role of the United Nations 
in the reform of the international financial system and 
architecture. We welcome the fact that the Conference 
acknowledged  regional  and  subregional  agreements  as 
integral  parts  of  multilateral  responses  to  the  current 
crisis.  
I  have  the  honour  of  announcing  one  such 

response 
forum.  This  past  Saturday, 
26 September,  at  the  South  American  and  African 
summit  that  took  place  on  Margarita  Island,  our 
countries signed the constitutive act of the Bank of the 
South,  which  will  start  out  with  a  declared  capital  of 
$20 billion and a subscribed capital of $7 billion. The 
Bank  will  be  a  multilateral  financial  entity  aimed  at 
supporting human development in South America. This 
agreement  was  reached  at 
the  summit  of  South 
American  and African  countries. This  important  event 
was part of the proposal put forward by my country on 
the  creation  of  a  new 
financial 
architecture based on a series of regional responses. 

In addition to this achievement, we must mention 
initiatives  such  as  the  creation  of  a  common  Latin 
American  reserve  fund, the  establishment  of  a regional 
system  of  payments  as  a  prelude  to  the  creation  of  a 
regional central bank and the consolidation of a common 
monetary system that will create an electronic currency 
to  facilitate  our  trade.  The  good  news  is  that  we  have 
begun to take fundamental steps in the establishment of 
the  Centralized  Payment  Compensation  System,  called 
SUCRE, which will soon enter into force within ALBA. 

We  reiterate  our  reservations  concerning  the 
actions  undertaken  by  international  credit  institutions 
such as the International Monetary Fund and the World 
Bank,  since  they  have  collaborated  actively  to  take 
strong economic and political measures against certain 
nations. We also reject, on the basis of the principle of 
sovereignty,  the  relationship  between  the  World  Bank 
and arbitration centres such as the International Centre 
for Settlement of Investment Disputes, which has only 
served to pass judgment on and penalize certain parties 
and  to  benefit  transnational  interests  over  national 
interests. 

For  our  countries,  the  restructuring  and  relief  of 
our external  debt is more  urgent than ever. We cannot 
continue  to  give  higher  priority  to  paying  off  external 
debt  than  to  financing  a  recovery  in  production  and 
development. 
28 

09-52604 



We  have  an  enormous  task  ahead  of  us  with 
respect  to  the  effects  of  the  crisis.  The  General 
Assembly working group on the financial crisis will be 
the ideal mechanism through which to follow up on the 
implementation  of  the  commitments  and  tasks  that 
arose out of the Conference last June. 

This  crisis  has  shown  that  capitalism  as  a  model 
for  economic  and  social  relations  is  not  viable.  It  has 
also  highlighted  the  imbalances  in  the  relationships 
between  society,  nature  and  the  economy.  One  of  the 
most  obvious  examples  of  this  is  the  imbalances  that 
are  to  be  found  in  the  way  that  the  issue  of  climate 
change is dealt with. 

This  past  week,  a  high-level  Summit  on  Climate 
Change was held in this very Hall. I must frankly state 
that  it  was  a  great  disappointment.  Empty  rhetoric 
abounded, and no commitments were undertaken, with 
few  exceptions. As  a  result,  our  response  to  the  issue 
has  been  nothing  more  than  inadequate  and,  at  times, 
irresponsible.  Even  worse,  we  heard  repeatedly  last 
week  that  the  major  challenge  is  how  to  maintain 
economic growth without affecting the environment — 
that is, how to preserve the current system, with a few 
cosmetic  adjustments.  We  believe,  however,  that  we 
need to completely transform the means of production 
and  consumption  and  not  simply  promote  further 
growth without stopping to take stock of where we are. 

The  principle  of  shared  but  differentiated 
responsibilities,  as  contained 
the  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  recognizes  that  rich 
nations  and  the  elites  who  consume  too  much  are  the 
major  causes  of  this  scourge  and  that  they  must 
therefore  assume  a  large  proportion  of  the  costs  of 
reducing  emissions.  Wealthy  countries  must  make 
additional  efforts  to  decrease  their  greenhouse  gas 
emissions,  beyond  the  reductions  already  brought 
about by the economic crisis.  

Reducing  emissions  is  urgent  but  not  sufficient. 
Adaptation  measures  must  be  identified,  in  particular 
in  vulnerable  countries  and  countries  that  lack  the 
economic resources to deal with the impacts of climate 
change. We are not speaking about donations or credit 
being  offered  for  adaptation  efforts.  Reparations  must 
be  made  that  recognize  the  ecological  debt  and  take 
into  account 
the 
excessive emissions of the past several decades, when 
the  greenhouse  effect  was  already  recognized.  Serious 
studies on the subject estimate that this would amount 
responsibility 
the  historic 
for 
in 
A/64/PV.12
in 
the 
is 
and 
transfer 
four 
initiatives 
(Yasuni 
ITT) 
the  Yasuni 
the  context  of 
significant  proof  of 
regarding  measures 
development 
their 
to  at  least  $50  billion  dollars  a  year  over  20  or 
30 years. 

We  demand  that  the  countries  of  the  North 
comply  with  and  strengthen  the  commitments  they 
undertook 
the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change and Kyoto 
for  adaptation  and 
Protocol 
mitigation, 
of 
technologies  and 
financing.  However,  we 
recognize  that  we  have  a  shared  responsibility  to 
provide responses to the climate crisis. For this reason, 
Ecuador  has  offered 
its 
commitment  to  this  issue.  I  would  like  to  briefly 
mention 
that  my  country  has 
undertaken. 

The first initiative, and the one that provides the 
guidelines  and  foundation  for  Ecuador’s  international 
environmental  policy, 
Ishpingo-
Tambococha-Tiputini 
initiative,  an 
innovative  project  that  was  introduced  by  President 
Rafael  Correa  at  the  2007  United  Nations  Climate 
Change  Conference  and  that  breaks  with  traditional 
discredited approaches. Ecuador has decided to keep a 
considerable  amount  of 
reserves 
underground  —  about  850  million  barrels  of  crude  — 
in order to pursue three important goals. The first goal 
is  to  prevent  the  pollution  that  would  result  from  the 
emission of 410 million tons of carbon dioxide into the 
atmosphere.  The  second  is  to  protect  the  indigenous 
peoples  who  live  in  the  Yasuni  National  Park,  the 
Taromenane  and  Tagaeri  peoples.  The  third  goal  is  to 
preserve 
an 
international  trust  fund  will  be  established  in  the 
coming weeks as a financial mechanism to enable us to 
receive  international  contributions  and  invest  them  in 
conservation  and  sustainable  development  initiatives 
for the country, in line with the development goals laid 
out in our national development plan. 
The  second  initiative  is  the  Forest  Partners 

that  provides 
Programme,  which 
economic  incentives  to  indigenous  peoples  and  rural 
farmers  to  protect  our  forest.  This  will  enable  us  to 
protect  20  per  cent  of  our  total  forest  areas  until  the 
year 2015. 

The  third  initiative  is  a  programme  to  transform 
the  energy  grid,  aimed  at  ensuring  that  the  main 
sources  of  energy  used  in  the  country  are  renewable 
and  sustainable.  One  of  the  projects  undertaken  under 
its  proven  oil 
is  an 
initiative 
connection, 
biodiversity. 
In 
that 
09-52604 

29 
first  put 
revenue 
from 
Ecuador  believes 
A/64/PV.12 

this  programme  is  being  carried  out  in  the  Galapagos 
Islands,  a  world  heritage  site  for  humankind,  with  the 
goal of achieving 100 per cent clean energy sources on 
the archipelago by 2015. 

Our  fourth  initiative  would  take  place  in  the 
context  of  the  Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries (OPEC) and proposes the introduction of an 
eco-tax  of  approximately  3  per  cent  on  oil  prices,  in 
order to bring about a decrease in demand and thereby 
a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. This proposal 
was 
forward  by  Herman  Daly,  an 
environmental  economist,  and  subsequently  taken  up 
and  presented  to  OPEC  by  President  Rafael  Correa. 
The 
the  proposed  eco-tax  would 
facilitate,  under  the  administration  of  a  body  such  as 
the United Nations, projects to facilitate the conversion 
of the energy grid to using renewable energy. 

time  of  crisis 
represents an opportunity to make radical changes that 
will  allow  us  to  transform  our  societies  from  their 
current  model,  which  is  based  on  competition  and  on 
irrational and unsustainable habits of consumption that 
prioritize merchandise over people, into societies based 
on  human  beings  living  in  harmony  with  themselves, 
with their fellow human beings and with nature. 

For us, land, nature and the physical environment 
are  essential  components  of  the  fundamental  principle 
of our constitutional ordering of well-being, or “sumak 
kawsay”.  This  principle  of  well-being  implies  living 
with  dignity  according  to  our  cultural  values  and  in 
harmony  with  nature  and 
the 
economical and social policies that my Government is 
embracing in order to overcome social inequalities. 

We  would  also  like  to  highlight,  once  again,  the 
gravity  of  the  food  crisis.  In  an  era  where  the 
technology  to  produce  sufficient  food  exists,  there  is 
hunger in the world. This is due to the fact that access 
to  food 
transnational 
agricultural  companies  that  control  the  global  market. 
In  addition,  subsidies  and  other  distortions  on  trade 
have a serious impact on agriculture in countries of the 
South. 
We  firmly  support  the  convening  of  the  World 

Summit  on  Food  Security,  which  will  take  place  in 
Rome  during  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  is  aimed  at  reaching  agreements  on 
assigning  priority  to  the  right  to  food  security  and 
is  dominated  by 
the  basis  for 
the 
large 
that 
this 
is 

(MDGs)  as 
sovereignty  over  the  pursuit  of  profit  and  the  drive  to 
maximize gains. 

In  order  to  achieve  the  targets  defined  by  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
the 
minimum  required  for  survival  and  well-being,  those 
Goals must be complemented by decisive support from 
the  countries  of the North  aimed  at increasing official 
development  assistance  and  international  cooperation 
without imposing any kind of conditions. 

Review  of  the  progress  made  in  achieving  the 
MDGs will take place in the year 2010, as mandated by 
the Assembly, and must serve to lay the foundation for 
efforts  to  correct  the  errors  and  omissions  of  these 
Goals.  They  include,  in  particular,  the  failure  to 
consider the structural causes of the problems, the lack 
of  attention  paid  to  human  rights,  the  absence  of  any 
goal  dealing  with 
the  generation  of  valuable 
employment,  the  exclusion  of  our  ancestral  peoples 
from the process of drawing up public policies and the 
absence  of  a  multicultural  approach  in  defining  the 
Goals.  

At  this  session,  the  General  Assembly  will  be 
taking important strategic decisions regarding Ecuador. 
We are sure that all Member States will strive to make 
the  Organization’s  efforts  more  effective 
the 
promotion  and  defence  of  the  rights  of  differently 
abled  persons,  the  recognition  and  implementation  of 
the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples,  gender  equality,  and 
efforts  to  combat  human  trafficking,  among  other 
important issues. 
I  would  like  to  refer  in  particular  here  to  my 

country’s  commitment  to  combating  the  scourge  of 
illegal  human  trafficking.  We  firmly  support  the  need 
for  a  global  plan  of  action,  and  we  offer  to  the 
Organization our national experience in terms of legal 
and control issues. 

Another  subject  we  consider  essential  for  the 
agenda  of  this  Assembly  is  that  of  international 
migration. In the current Ecuadorian Constitution, one 
of  our  most  transformative  principles  is  based  on  the 
recognition of universal citizenship. We do not impose 
any restrictions on the freedom of movement of people 
around the world. We believe we are all citizens of the 
world. There is no such thing as illegal human beings. 
There are, however, such things as illegal and immoral 
practices of exclusion and exploitation. In this twenty-
first century, merchandise and capital are not bound by 
any  borders,  but  walls  are  being  built  to  restrict  the 
in 
30 

09-52604 


movement  of  human  beings.  Ecuador  will  continue  to 
work  towards  a  constructive  multilateral  dialogue  on 
migration  and 
the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive 
approach on the issue of the human rights of migrants 
and their families, in accordance with the mandate set 
by  the  heads  of  State  in  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome. 

As  a  country  that  prioritizes  respect  for  and  the 
guarantee  of  all  human  rights,  Ecuador  currently 
receives  more  refugees  than  any  other  country  in  the 
Western  Hemisphere.  Without  belittling  the  support 
that  we  receive  from 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees,  we  must  stress  that  we 
have allocated significant economic resources to assist 
people who are in need of international protection. We 
have  implemented  pioneering  measures  and  policies 
with respect to the protection of refugees. We have one 
of the most advanced programmes in terms of refugee 
management,  namely, 
the  Expanded  Registration 
programme. 

Ecuador,  as  a  founding  member  of  the  United 
Nations, accords priority to dialogue  and international 
cooperation  in  the  resolution  of  conflicts  and  believes 
that  military  action  alone  cannot  bring  about  lasting 
and sustainable peace in any conflict zone in the world.  
The  commitment  of  Ecuador  to  the  stabilization 

process 
is 
internationally  recognized.  Because  of  this,  since  the 
beginning of the Haitian crisis in February of 2004, we 
have  actively  participated 
the  United  Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti,  in  terms  of  a  mostly 
civil  contingent.  This  endeavour  was  undertaken  in 
accordance with our foreign policy of complete support 
for  and  attention  to  humanitarian  crises  and  the 
peaceful resolution of conflicts.  

statement  without 
this 
mentioning Ecuador’s satisfaction at having renounced, 
a few days ago, any solution that is not in accordance 
with international law. We hope to achieve very shortly 
a  normalization  of  diplomatic  relations  with 
the 
brotherly Republic of Colombia, which will be of great 
benefit for both of our peoples. This was made possible 
thanks  to  the  opportunity  for  dialogue  and  meetings 
offered by the General Assembly each year. 

Finally,  I  extend  once  again  the  affectionate  and 
hope-filled  greetings  of  the  Ecuadorian  people,  the 
revolutionary  citizenry  of  my  country,  and  my 
the  brotherly  Republic  of  Haiti 
I  cannot  conclude 
in 
in 
A/64/PV.12
to 
take 
this 
in 
important  opportunity 
Mr.  Anjos  (Angola)  (spoke 
President,  Rafael  Correa,  to  the  rest  of  the  world’s 
people and to their representatives here. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  Mr. Assunção Afonso  dos Anjos,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Angola. 
in  Portuguese; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  First  of  all, 
allow  me 
to 
congratulate  Mr.  Ali  Treki  on  his  election  to  preside 
over the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. I 
would  like  to  assure  him  of  the  unconditional  support 
of  the  Republic  of  Angola  in  fulfilling  his  important 
mission.  The  delegation  of  Angola 
is  absolutely 
positive that under his auspicious leadership, the sixty-
fourth  session  will  reaffirm  the  importance  of  the 
General  Assembly 
the  search  for  consensual 
solutions  to  the  burning  issues  affecting  humanity, 
thereby greatly contributing to creating an increasingly 
safe, free and fair world. 

I would also like to express my delegation’s deep 
appreciation  to  Mr.  Treki’s  predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann, for the high degree of efficiency 
and  vast  expertise  with  which  he  conducted  the  work 
of the presidency. 

Guided  by  the  most  elementary  sense  of  justice, 
on  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  I  express  my 
deepest appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon,  for  the  excellence  with  which  he  has 
managed 
the 
fulfilment  of  the  decisions  of  the  Millennium  Summit 
and other major United Nations conferences, as well as 
for  the  commitment  that  he  has  consistently  shown  in 
placing  the  needs  and  development  of  Africa  at  the 
centre of the international agenda. I would also like to 
praise the Secretary-General for his timely initiative to 
convene the high-level meeting on climate change. 

The  Assembly’s  sixty-fourth  session  is  taking 
place  in  a  political,  social  and  economic  context  of 
enormous complexity. Ensuring international peace and 
security,  fighting  poverty,  protecting  the  environment, 
ensuring  a  better  future  for  generations  to  come, 
ensuring  the  rule  of  law  in  relations  among  the 
members  of 
and 
promoting  and  safeguarding  human  rights  —  all  of 
these  issues  are  clearly  among  the  major  challenges 
confronting  us.  Combating  organized  crime  and  the 
implementation of the Anti-Terrorism Strategy are also 
factors  of  extreme  importance  that  require  the  steady 
to  consolidate  reforms  and  ensure 
international 
community 
the 
09-52604 

31 

A/64/PV.12 

attention  of  the  United  Nations  as  it  calls  for  more 
effective measures and a greater commitment from the 
international community. 

These  challenges  must  be  added  to  the  list  of 
others  to  which  our  Organization  must  also  devote 
great  attention,  especially  the  lack  of  decisions  on 
disarmament,  the  persistence  of  armed  conflicts  and 
the  consequences  of  these  conflicts  for  the  lives  of 
people,  and  finally,  the  issue  on  the  agenda  for  all 
Member  States  —  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
of the United Nations. 

We  live  in  a  more  globalized  world,  one  that  is 
increasingly characterized by substantial economic and 
social  inequality.  Hunger  and  poverty,  aggravated  by 
the  fact  that  they  are  linked  to  endemic  diseases  such 
as  malaria  and  tuberculosis,  cause  millions  of  deaths 
every  year  and  in  Africa  are  devastating  an  entire 
generation,  dramatically  jeopardizing  the  development 
and progress of our continent. It is therefore urgent that 
we  reverse  this  situation,  which  is  consuming  our 
people,  putting  men  and  women  at  the  mercy  of 
inducements that inevitably lead to violence and crime 
and,  to  some  extent,  are  the  cause  of  some  of  the 
serious problems that humanity currently faces. 

Food  security  thus  seems  to  be  one  of  the  main 
concerns of the African continent, due to its importance 
to health, productivity, social and political stability and 
economic growth. Angola believes that it is possible to 
substantially  reduce the food security deficit in Africa 
if  the  international  community  comes  together  around 
the following fundamental issues. 

for 
emergency  aid  and  for  people  in  need  should  be 
maintained. Secondly, national and regional integrated 
strategies  and  programmes 
trade, 
transport,  water  and  vocational  training  —  which  can 
be implemented with the support and experience of the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization,  the  International 
Fund  for  Agricultural  Development  and  other  United 
Nations specialized agencies — should be adopted. 
Action  plans  within  the  framework  of  regional 

initiatives  are  also  extremely 
important  and  can 
contribute  to  reducing  food  shortages  and  combating 
disease.  Among  other  initiatives,  I  would  like  to 
highlight 
for  Africa’s 
Development,  the  2004  Ouagadougou  Declaration  and 
Plan  of Action  on  employment  and  the  eradication  of 
extreme poverty, the Maputo Declaration proposing the 
food  and  medicines 
in  agriculture, 
reserves  of 
Partnership 
the  New 
First, 
the 
and 
rural 
liberalization,  and  we  support 
allocation  of  10  per  cent  of  public  expenditure  to 
the  Sirte 
agriculture 
development, 
Declaration  on  agriculture  and  water, 
the  Abuja 
Resolution  on  food  safety,  and  the Abuja  and  Maputo 
Declarations  on  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis,  malaria  and 
other related diseases. 

The  economic  and  financial  crisis,  though  of 
exogenous origin, has also been seriously affecting the 
growth  of  African  economies,  due,  among  other 
reasons,  to  the  reduction  in  asset  values  and  financial 
assets  held  abroad,  and  mainly  due  to  a  marked 
decrease in the price of raw materials that are exported 
by  countries  on  the  continent.  Rather  than  finding 
interim  solutions  in  order  to  overcome  immediate 
problems,  the  entire  current  economic  and  financial 
system  should  be  reviewed. We  need  to  identify  ways 
of restructuring the world so that it serves the interests 
of all peoples and countries from a global perspective. 

My  Government  welcomes  the  initiatives  that, 
though  insufficient,  have  been  taken  in  the  context  of 
trade 
idea  of 
reforming  the  regulatory  institutions  of  the  financial 
and  economic  world.  We  also  call  for  greater  fluidity 
and  transparency  in  the  transfer  of  capital  to  less 
developed countries. 

Similarly, Angola welcomes the various multilateral 
initiatives,  emphasizing  the  Forum  on  China-Africa 
Cooperation,  the  Africa-South  America  Conference,  the 
Tokyo International Conference on African Development, 
the  Africa-Europe  summit,  the  India-Africa  Forum,  the 
South  Korea-Africa  summit,  and,  more  recently,  the 
Turkey-Africa 
summit.  The  Angolan  Government 
considers  that  all  of  these  initiatives  are  of  fundamental 
importance  for  the  development  of  the  least  developed 
countries,  which  include  most  countries  in  Africa,  and 
Angola in particular. 
The  Secretary-General  presented  an  important 

report 
the  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development  needs  (A/63/130),  particularly  on  the 
implementation  of  commitments  made  by  partners  of 
the African continent, which took place on the margins 
of  the  Assembly’s  sixty-third  session.  Angola  shares 
the  relevant  concerns  raised  by  the  Secretary-General 
in 
the 
importance  and  urgency  of  moving 
from  mere 
expressions of political will to concrete actions, with a 
comprehensive  and  vigorous  pursuit  of  the  goals 
envisaged. 
that  report,  especially 
the  references 
to 
to 
32 

09-52604 
aid 
and 
levels 
reduction  of 


The Secretary-General gave conclusive examples: 

a 
commitments; 
cancellation  of  the  foreign  debt  of  African  countries, 
which  is  taking  a  long  time  to  materialize;  and  the 
negative effects arising from the failure to complete the 
World Trade Organization round of negotiations, which 
will  result  in  fewer  opportunities  for  the  African 
continent.  Angola  shares  all  those  concerns.  As  we 
conclude  from  all  the  eloquent  statements  by  the 
speakers  before  me,  there  are  no  magic  solutions  or 
one-size-fits-all  models  to  enable  the  least  developed 
countries  to  find  easy  and  immediate  answers  to 
development overnight. 

As  the  President  is  certainly  aware,  economic 
growth  in  Angola  has  been  quite  encouraging.  The 
invitation to my country to participate in the summit of 
the Group of Eight, held in L’Aquila, Italy, on 10 July — 
which  greatly  honoured  the  Angolan  Government  and 
people — was unquestionable proof of the international 
community’s recognition that Angola is on the right path 
towards  promoting  sustainable  development.  Between 
2004  and  2007,  the  national  economy  accumulated 
growth  of  92.4  per  cent  in  real  terms.  In  barely  four 
years,  the  value  of  the  gross  domestic  product  almost 
doubled,  with  an  average  annual  real  growth  of 
approximately  17.8  per  cent.  In  that  same  period,  the 
country  saw  a  sharp  rise  in  the  level  of  public  and 
private investments, which generated a large number of 
jobs, in particular in the agricultural sector. 

to  achieving 
universal  education,  as  demonstrated  by  the  fact  that 
we  have  tripled  the  number  of  students  in  our 
education  system.  In  2005,  as  a  result  of 
the 
investments  that  the  Government  directed  towards  the 
social  sector,  Angola  moved  up  five  positions  in  the 
United  Nations  human  development  index  ranking. 
And  the  country  is  committed  to  efforts  towards 
achieving the eight Millennium Development Goals. In 
the  area  of  sports,  Angola  recently  won  its  tenth 
African  basketball  championship,  and  next  January  it 
will  host the African Cup  of Nations, having built the 
necessary  infrastructure  for  that  significant  event  for 
our continent. 
Those major accomplishments, achieved in such a 

short  time,  fill  all Angolans  with  pride  and  strengthen 
their  confidence 
future.  However,  such 
achievements  are  possible  only  in  peace  and  social 
harmony  and  when  States  themselves  take  on  the 
firmly  committed 
Angola 
the 
is 
in 
A/64/PV.12
of 
and 
good 
governance 
primary  responsibility  for  the  development,  progress 
and well-being of their populations. 

Despite  the  progress  already  made  in  Africa  in 
the 
areas 
the 
institutionalization of the organs of the African Union, 
as  well  as 
in  growth  and  economic  and  social 
development, we must be aware of the difficulties and 
the long way still to go. I am referring, for example, to 
the  burning  issue  of  promoting  peace  and  security, 
essential conditions for the development and promotion 
of human rights. 

In  that  regard,  it  is  important  to  add  that  it  is 
essential  that  the  Security  Council  continue  to  fund 
operations  for  peace  and  security  in  Africa  and  to 
support  the  efforts  of  African  States  to  combat  drug 
trafficking, the illicit arms trade, piracy and terrorism. 
In addition, I believe it important to emphasize that the 
strategy  of  conflict  prevention  and  resolution,  in 
particular  the  mandates  of  peacekeeping  missions, 
cannot be separate from measures to combat organized 
and  transnational  crime  and  the  relationship  between 
the  illegal  exploitation  of  natural  resources  and  the 
illegal  trade  in  small  arms.  Moreover,  the  conflict 
prevention 
should  be 
complemented by measures to combat the financing of 
terrorists,  another  major  challenge  facing  the  entire 
international community. 

Speaking  for  a  country  that  has  chaired  the 
United  Nations  Peacebuilding  Commission,  I  am 
particularly  pleased  to  note  the  progress  in  the  peace 
processes  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Burundi, Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia and Sierra Leone. The 
inclusion  of  Guinea-Bissau  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  is  also  very  important.  In 
that regard, without false modesty I stress here the role 
played by Angola, not only in the negotiations that led 
to the holding of free and fair elections in that country, 
but also in consolidating peace and political, economic 
and social stability of that brother country. 

The  active  participation  of  Angola  in  resolving 
the  conflicts  that  have  plagued  several  countries  in 
various  regions  of  Africa  has  clearly  raised 
the 
expectations  of  the  entire  international  community,  in 
particular the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
and  the  Chairman  of  the  African  Union  Commission. 
Allow me to reaffirm my Government’s commitment to 
continuing  to  work  within  the  African  Union  and  the 
resolution 
strategy 
and 
09-52604 

33 
that  have 
already 
taken  place, 

is  unquestionably 
The  United  Nations 
A/64/PV.12 

United  Nations  in  the  search  for  lasting  solutions  for 
peacebuilding and national reconciliation. 

It is fitting to refer here to another issue of utmost 
importance  that  is  a  consequence  of  armed  conflict. 
That  is  the  humanitarian  situation  —  the  maintenance 
and  protection  of  refugee  camps  and  identifying 
durable  solutions  for  the  millions  of  refugees  whose 
rights must be protected and respected. 

the 
principal  forum  of  multilateralism,  and  its  credibility 
should constantly and increasingly be enhanced by the 
adoption  of  effective,  creative  and  practical  measures. 
Thus,  the  Government  of  Angola  welcomes  the  new 
format  and  functions  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, especially the Annual Ministerial Review and 
the  Development  Cooperation  Forum.  Among  the 
reforms 
the 
establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission and of 
the Human Rights Council should also be highlighted.  

My country’s Government, despite welcoming the 
progress in the evolution and functioning of the United 
Nations  system,  cannot  help  note  that  the  United 
Nations  was  created  a  long  time  ago  —  over  half  a 
century ago — at a particular time in the international 
community’s  history  that  we  all  hope  will  never 
reoccur. 
The  world  today  is  substantially  different.  The 

industrial, economic and social development of a large 
number of countries has narrowed the gap between the 
most  developed  countries  and  the  least  developed 
countries. Communications have advanced; technology 
has  progressed;  transport  is  much  more  sophisticated; 
and  Internet  surfing  occurs  throughout  the  world. 
Given  this  new  reality,  the  Government  of  Angola 
believes  that  the  structure  of  the  Organization,  which 
brings  together  people  from  around  the  world,  cannot 
remain  indifferent  to  those  developments  and  should, 
therefore, adapt to the modern world. 
Specifically, the Government of Angola considers 

that  the  fact  that  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
particularly  aspects  related  to  its  composition  and  the 
democratization of its decision-making mechanism, has 
not evolved since 2005 suggests that this is a situation 
that must be corrected with urgency. 

In  that  context,  my  Government  hopes  that  the 
process  of  ongoing  negotiations  within  the  General 
Assembly will be conclusive. 

Furthermore, the Government of Angola attaches 
great importance to the effort led by the United Nations 
to  implement  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons,  and  disarmament  in  general,  and 
recognizes  that  it  deserves  the  utmost  attention  of  all 
its Members. 

Angola  also  believes  that  the  United  Nations 
should strengthen its monitoring of the implementation 
of its Programme of Action on Small Arms and develop 
initiatives  to  promote  the  universalization  of  the 
Ottawa Convention on Landmines. 

At the end of my statement, I would like to avail 
myself  of  this  golden  opportunity  to  launch  an  appeal 
for  the  lifting  of  the  economic,  trade  and  financial 
embargo  on  Cuba.  It  is  fair  and  imperative  to  abolish 
that  embargo,  because  it  violates  the  principles  of 
international  law,  in  particular Articles  1  and  2  of  the 
United Nations Charter. 
Angola is fully convinced that the United Nations 

will not refrain from once again taking a clear and fair 
position  on  that  embargo,  a  position  that  is  also 
consistent with the principles of the Charter. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  my  conviction 
that  with  effort  and  determination,  our  Organization 
will  be  in  a  position  to  correct  asymmetries  and 
provide  solutions  to  problems  that  still  exist  in  the 
international community in order to build a world that 
is  more  fair,  stable,  and  secure  and  able  to  provide 
current and future generations with a standard of living 
consistent with human dignity. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Zacarias Albano  da  Costa, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Timor-Leste. 
Mr.  Da  Costa:  Let  me  start  by  expressing  my 

sincere congratulations to Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on 
his assumption to the presidency of the United Nations 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. 
This year marks important milestones for Timor-

Leste. Ten years ago, the United Nations sponsored the 
popular  referendum  held  in  my  country,  marking  the 
transition  to  full  independence.  Seven  years  ago,  we 
attained  full  sovereignty  with  the  restoration  of  our 
independence  and  began,  for  the  first  time  in  the 
history  of  our  nation,  the  challenging  process  of 
nation-building. 
34 

09-52604 



We  have  been  assisted  by  successive  United 
Nations  missions,  which  began  by  exercising,  for  the 
first  time  in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations,  full 
administrative powers in Timor-Leste. This process has 
been undertaken a very limited number of times in this 
new millennium. 

Naturally, there are always failures and successes 
in decisions taken and policies adopted, and those form 
part of our collective challenge on the nation-building 
road.  This  is  true  for  both  established  and  newly 
established  States.  Timor-Leste  has  been  both 
showcased as a success story of the United Nations and 
hastily characterized by some as a failed State. 

I stand here today, not to argue on behalf of one 
view or another, much less to duel over the past. I am 
here  to  describe  what  Timor-Leste  is  today,  what  we 
have  been  able  to  do,  our  modest  achievements  and 
remaining  challenges,  but  most  importantly,  how  we, 
as  a  new  and  small  nation-State,  situate  ourselves  in 
the community of nations. 

We  also  want  to  be  part  of  the  solutions  to  the 
unprecedented challenges  facing humanity in this new 
millennium. Today we talk about global problems that 
are  the  responsibility  of  all  of  us,  requiring  concerted 
and  collective  action,  and  Timor-Leste  is  ready  to 
assume its part of that responsibility. 
Let me also stress, however, that I am able to be 

here  today  because  it  was  through  the  United  Nations 
that a solution was found to what was then termed the 
“Question  of  East  Timor”.  It  was  the  United  Nations 
that  shouldered  the  responsibility  of  finding  a  just 
solution 
indeed, 
successful in doing so. 

The  decision  to  engage  with  the  United  Nations 
was  a  wise  one,  taken  by  the  then  leaders  of  the 
resistance,  who  are  today  our  elder  statesmen,  our 
esteemed  President  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  José  Ramos-
Horta,  and  the  Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Kay  Rala  Xanana 
Gusmão. 

The  underlining  policy  of  seeking  to  resolve 
conflict through peaceful means and of deferring to the 
United Nations Charter so as to enable the exercise of 
the  universal 
is  a 
fundamental principle embraced by the new generation 
of Timorese  leaders. The  engagement  with  the  United 
Nations  continues  to  be  the  policy  of  Timor-Leste 
today. 
that  question  and 
that  was, 
to 
right 
to 
self-determination 
A/64/PV.12
Timor-Leste  has  benefited  greatly  from 

this 
engagement, through the dedicated work of successive 
United Nations missions and through the presence and 
work  of  various  United  Nations  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes. The United Nations administrative role in 
Timor-Leste  under  the  capable  leadership  of  our  dear 
friend,  the  late  Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello,  was  without 
precedence. Could the United Nations have done things 
differently  in  those  earlier  and  subsequent  years  and 
how can we best use this partnership to move forward? 

Without a doubt the most valuable contribution of 
Timor-Leste to lessons learned and how to apply those 
lessons  for  future  situations  involved  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  One  of  the  most 
important lessons is that it takes time to build national 
capacities and sustainable institutions. 

Young  nations  like  ours  have  to  evaluate  and 
balance  many  priorities  among  various  pressing 
socio-economic  requirements,  including  the  provision 
of basic social services, building State institutions and 
developing capacities. We have to balance justice with 
peace  and  reconciliation.  This  involves  prioritizing 
many  urgent  demands  and  sequencing  actions.  There 
are no quick fixes or short-term solutions. 
Timor-Leste has been the subject of a staggering 

number  of  evaluations  and  studies,  about 
three 
thousand in number, including some on United Nations 
work in the country. As our contribution to the lessons 
learned  for  the  United  Nations,  I  have  proposed  that 
Timor-Leste, as the beneficiary of what has been done 
and  in  order  to  provide  a  country-based  perspective, 
should itself conduct an evaluation of all that has been 
done  in  the  country  by  the  international  community, 
and of how the benefits of these actions, or otherwise, 
have  been  experienced  and  felt  in  the  country  by  the 
Timorese themselves. 

The  experience  of  the  United  Nations  Integrated 
Mission in Timor-Leste (UNMIT) has shown the need 
for  a  longer  term  engagement  by  the  United  Nations. 
The  crisis  in  Timor-Leste  in  2006  was  an  unfortunate 
reminder  of 
fragility  of  peace  when  State 
institutions  are  still  weak,  capacities  still  need  to  be 
strengthened,  and  all  competing  social,  economic  and 
political needs cannot be met. The cost of dealing with 
the regression to violence in 2006 has been high for the 
international community, including the United Nations 
and  our  development  partners,  as  well  as  for  the 
Timorese Government itself. UNMIT’s mandate to help 
the 
09-52604 

35 
peacefully 
the 
security 
into 
are 
reintegrated 
forces 
A/64/PV.12 

reconstruct our security forces and provide support for 
our  justice  system  is  central,  and  the  Mission  is  still 
needed  to  ensure  long-term  peace  and  stability  in  our 
country. 

The Government of Timor-Leste has continued to 
make  significant  achievements,  although  we  still  face 
challenges. Some of the main problems from the 2006 
crisis have been resolved. Internally displaced persons 
their 
have 
been 
communities, 
being 
reconstituted,  although  they  still  require  capacity-
building and strengthening, and gang violence has been 
stopped.  Our  State  institutions  are  fully  functioning, 
and  the  Government  can  now  concentrate  more  on 
development. 

I  wish  to  emphasize  the  importance  that  we 
continue  to  place  on  relations  with  Indonesia,  where 
we  have  taken  a  pragmatic  approach  and  base  our 
relations on reconciliation and the principle of looking 
forward. We cannot deny, or undo, what has happened 
in  the  past  we  share,  but  we  are  determined  to  be 
reconciled  with  that  past,  because  we  know  we  can 
progress and do much for the future. I am part of a new 
generation  of  leaders  in  Timor-Leste,  and  neither  we 
collectively nor I personally have been spared the grief 
and 
loss  experienced  by  most  of  Timor-Leste’s 
population.  But  I  know  that  my  responsibility  is  to 
prevent what happened in Timor-Leste in the past from 
ever  happening  again.  Timor-Leste  and  Indonesia  are 
both countries in transition, and we should be allowed 
to  search  for  our  own  path,  as  President  Obama  has 
said, conscious that our path may not be perfect. 

that  requires  a 
Timorese  solution.  I  am  sure  that  other  countries  that 
have  been  in  conflict  have  appreciated  the  long-term 
support of the international community as they tackled 
the same problems that we are facing. Timor-Leste has 
not  in  any  way  turned  its  back  on  justice.  Our 
Constitution  enshrines  the  rule  of  law  in  our  country, 
and the Government’s policy is to fully strengthen the 
justice  system.  We  are  being  aided  in  this  by  the 
international  community,  and  we  are  fully  cognizant 
that we will continue to need its assistance in years to 
come.  Our  Government  has  been  severely  criticized, 
both  internationally  and  nationally,  on  some  positions 
that  we  have  adopted  and  some  decisions  that  have 
been taken. However, they were taken in the conviction 
that we need to be reconciled with our past and ensure 
is  a  complex  process 

from 
As  part  of 
peace for current and future generations, and we stand 
by those decisions. 

Timor-Leste today has its  own set of  challenges, 
which  may  appear  distant 
the  emerging 
challenges  facing humankind in general and presented 
at  this  forum.  Timor-Leste  continues  to  be  concerned 
with  alleviating  and  reducing  poverty  and  high 
unemployment,  addressing  the  needs  of  the  rural 
population  and  establishing  and  consolidating  State 
institutions  so  they  can  better  respond  to  the  needs  of 
all  of  our  people.  But  that  does  not  mean  that Timor-
Leste has its head in the sand and is unaware of other 
challenges. Our young nation will need time to address 
and overcome all of these challenges. 

the  community  of  nations  and 
humankind, Timor-Leste is also concerned with all that 
threatens  life  on  this  planet,  and  has  expressed  its 
views.  In  fact,  as  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations, 
Timor-Leste  has  expressed  its  position  in  the  General 
Assembly on a number of important issues. We wish to 
reiterate  our  opposition  to  the  economic  sanctions 
imposed on Cuba by the United States, and we reaffirm 
our  support  for  the  General  Assembly  resolutions  of 
the past 17 years that have called on the United States 
to lift those sanctions. 

It  is  not  Timor-Leste’s  intention  to  develop 
nuclear  capacity  or  become  a  nuclear  power,  and  we 
have therefore ratified the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We 
counsel  caution  in  the  development  of  and  use  of 
nuclear capacity. With regard to climate change, Timor-
Leste,  although  an  island  State,  is  fortunate  not  to  be 
immediately  threatened  by  rising  sea  levels,  nor  is  it 
responsible  for  large  carbon  emissions.  But  we  are 
affected  by  changing  weather  patterns  and  we  are 
following  the  climate-change  debate.  At  the  national 
level, we are naturally concerned with the preservation 
of  our  environment  and  consider  reforestation  and 
protection of the environment important issues. 

As  far  as  the  financial  and  economic  crisis  is 
concerned,  Timor-Leste  has  been  fortunate  to  have 
experienced only partial impact. However, we are also 
concerned  with  the  causes  of  the  crisis,  and  we  are 
looking  to  learn  the  lessons  about  what  to  avoid  in 
building our financial systems and institutions. In light 
of  this,  we  support  the  decisions  taken  at  the  recent 
meeting of the G-20 in Pittsburgh on taking preventive 
measures for the future. 
This 
36 

09-52604 
international  partners  for 



In  conclusion,  allow  me,  on  behalf  of  our 
Government,  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  United 
Nations  and  our 
their 
continued support of Timor-Leste. We stand resolutely 
with  you  to  contribute  to  solutions  to  our  collective 
challenges, and we are resolved to find solutions to our 
own national challenges. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Datuk  Anifah  Aman,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Malaysia. 
Mr. Aman  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  take  this 

opportunity to congratulate Mr. Treki on his presidency 
and to assure him of Malaysia’s full support. 

There is a difference in the General Assembly this 
year.  In  light  of  some  of  the  greatest  challenges  ever 
faced  by  any  generation,  we  have  resolved  to  work 
more  closely  together,  to  strengthen  the  ties  that  bind 
us  as  members  of  a  human  family,  to  fulfil  our 
responsibilities  and  to  overcome  distrust  and  discord. 
Malaysia will continue to do its part in this cooperative 
endeavour. We do so knowing that we are a country in 
the middle, not too large nor too small, not too rich nor 
too poor, not too strong nor too weak. We do our part 
knowing 
that  our  actions  have  consequences  for 
ourselves and our children. We do so in the belief that 
hope will triumph over adversity. 
I believe that the developing world is not shirking 

its  responsibilities  to  address  the  entire  spectrum  of 
challenges  facing  us.  But  our  efforts  will  be  far  more 
effective  if  done  in  tandem  with  the  developed  world. 
So  allow  me  to  say  this  on  behalf  of  the  developing 
world — give us fair  terms and we will seal the deal. 
Give  us  the  tools  and  we  will  help  to  finish  the  job. 
Invest in our common future, and all our children and 
humanity henceforth will reap the rewards. 

A  few  days  ago  we  deliberated  on  the  issue  of 
climate  change,  among  the  most  pressing  and  urgent 
issues  facing  us  today.  Therefore,  I  hope  that  we  are 
now  more  firm  in  our  resolve  to  act  immediately.  In 
Malaysia’s  case,  we  are,  in  the  context  of  mitigation 
action,  protecting  and  preserving  our  rainforests 
through  sustainable  forest  management  measures.  We 
are  increasing  the  use  of  public  transportation  as  part 
of  the  relevant  Ministry’s  key  performance  indicator. 
We  are  also  increasing  the  usage  of  renewable  energy 
sources  and  promoting  greater  energy  efficiency.  The 
Ministry  of  Energy,  Water  and  Communications  has 
A/64/PV.12
We  have 
to  seal 
the  deal 
to 
there 
important, 
to  attempt 
is  a  need 
been  transformed  into  the  Ministry  of  Energy,  Green 
Technology and Water. 

However, it is the developed world that must play 
the leading role in the global effort to  combat  climate 
change.  Sadly,  such  leadership  has  been  lacking. 
Developed  countries’  pledges  to  cut  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  fall  short  of  what  is  required  to  tackle 
increasing global temperatures. 

in  Copenhagen. 
However,  that  cannot  be  achieved  if  the  developed 
world  continues 
reinterpret  and 
renegotiate  key  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
Kyoto Protocol. Let me be absolutely clear about this: 
there will not be a deal in Copenhagen if some are keen 
to “steal the deal”. 

I  need  to  state  what  I  believe  to  be  a  very 
important fact. Tackling climate change entails making 
difficult  choices,  given  the  competing  interests  of  so 
many  constituents  and  needs  in  developing  countries. 
More 
to  balance 
development, food security and poverty eradication, on 
the one hand, and environmental considerations, on the 
other.  Let  us  not  make  the  glib  statement  that  one 
perfectly complements the other. 

For example, agricultural production, the bedrock 
of  efforts  to  address  the  food  crisis,  produces  14  per 
cent of greenhouse gas emissions. Let us not forget that 
the  world  food  system  is  still  in  crisis.  Although  the 
prices  of  major  food  grains  have  declined  since  last 
year, they are still above average. Hunger afflicts more 
than  1  billion  people.  Addressing  the  food  crisis 
requires  more  than  increasing  food  production;  it 
demands  nothing  less  than  a  transformation  of  market 
systems  so  that  they  work  better  for  the  poorest  and 
hungriest.  It  is  for  those  reasons  that  we  believe  that 
climate  change  must  not  be  treated  as  a  stand-alone 
subject;  it  must  be  seen  as  part  of  the  broader 
sustainable development challenge. 

The  United  Nations  has  been  in  existence  for 
more than 60 years, yet peace and security continue to 
elude  us  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Malaysia  has 
played  and  will  continue  to  play  its  role  in  achieving 
global  peace  and  security.  We  have  committed  our 
troops to United Nations peacekeeping operations since 
1960. 
09-52604 

37 
the  fact 
that 
the  Palestinian 
Israel,  Palestine  and 
A/64/PV.12 


Closer to home, Malaysia has been playing a role 
in  fostering  peace  within  the Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  region.  We  are  actively  involved  in 
peace  efforts  in  the  southern  Philippines.  We  will 
continue  to  work  towards  greater  progress  in  the 
democratization process in Myanmar. 

Often,  grave  injustices  are  the  cause  of  breaches 
of peace and threats to security. In that connection, we 
must  accept 
issue 
epitomizes  everything  that  is  unjust  and  unfair  in 
international relations. It has taken on a symbolic value 
that colours cultural and political relations well beyond 
its  geographical  scope.  This  issue  has  bedevilled  the 
international  community  for  too  long.  We  must  do  all 
that  we  can  to  address  the  Palestinian  issue,  as 
resolving  it  will  have  a  major  impact  in  our  efforts  to 
achieve  peace  and  security  in  the  Middle  East  and 
beyond. 

For  far  too  long,  the  unstinting  support  given  to 
Israel  has  resulted  in  an  impasse.  In  the  interest  of 
global  peace, 
the  affected 
countries  in  the  region  must  work  together  to  resolve 
the  conflict.  We  look  forward  to  the  United  States 
undertaking the role of an honest broker. We hold much 
hope  for  a  more  even-handed  approach  by  the  United 
States on the Middle East. We expect to be able to be 
part of a just and comprehensive solution and that the 
action of the United States will match its rhetoric. After 
all,  history  is  littered  with  examples  of  the  fury  and 
vehemence that result when hope turns into despair. 

are 
cornerstones of peace and security. We agree that at the 
heart of such efforts is a basic bargain comprising these 
elements: first, all nations have the right to peacefully 
use  nuclear  power;  second,  nations  that  have  nuclear 
weapons  must  move  towards  disarmament;  and  third, 
those  without  nuclear  weapons  must  renounce  their 
acquisition.  

In  that  regard,  Malaysia  draws  hope  from  any 
action by major Powers such as the agreement between 
the  United  States  and  Russia  to  reduce  their  nuclear 
stockpiles. We  also  look  forward  to  other  measures  to 
strengthen that bargain, including the strengthening of 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  and  other  international  instruments 
related  to  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  By  the 
same  token,  we  view  with  grave  concern  any  attempt 
Non-proliferation 
disarmament 
and 

introduced 
aimed at the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other 
weapons of mass destruction. 

For our part, since 1996, we have introduced the 
draft resolution on follow-up to the advisory opinion of 
the International Court of Justice on the legality of the 
threat or use of nuclear weapons, and we will continue 
to  do  so  at  this  session  of  the  General Assembly. The 
resolution,  inter  alia,  calls  on  all  States  to  fulfil  their 
obligation  by  commencing  multilateral  negotiations 
leading  to  an  early  conclusion  of  a  nuclear  weapons 
convention.  Malaysia’s  efforts  in  that  regard  will  not 
cease here. We will also participate actively in the 2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the NPT and play 
our rightful role as President of the Board of Governors 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency. 

For  many,  efforts  to  achieve  peace  and  security 
begin at a more commonplace level. Given Malaysia’s 
multi-ethnic  and  multi-religious  society,  we  are 
especially  conscious  of  the  need  to  continuously 
promote 
interaction  among  peoples  of  different 
religions,  races  and  beliefs.  For  that  reason,  the 
Malaysian  Government  has 
the  “one 
Malaysia” concept, which builds on previous efforts to 
promote  national  unity  yet  takes  present  realities  into 
account.  It  aims  to  foster  appreciation  and  respect  for 
all  races,  seeing  diversity  as  a  source  of  strength.  It 
envisages unity that arises from true acceptance instead 
of mere tolerance, based on the legal principles set out 
in the Constitution, and has social justice for all at its 
heart.  

If  our  collective  efforts  to  create  a  better  world 
are to succeed, the global governance structure must be 
improved.  Decisions  are  still  made  by  the  few  for  the 
many.  The  prime  example  of  that  is  the  Security 
Council.  We  continue  to  believe  that  reform  of  the 
Council, including the eventual abolition of the veto, is 
critical if the aspiration to the equality of States is to be 
fulfilled.  

The  same  situation  is  reflected  in  the  economic 
sphere.  Perhaps  the  most  important  result  of  the 
recently  concluded  summit  of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20) 
is  the  Group’s  designation  as  the  premier  forum  for 
international  economic  cooperation.  That  point  was 
made  twice  in  the  Leaders’  Statement.  Further,  G-20 
representatives  are  to  report  back  to  their  countries 
with  recommendations  on  how 
the 
effectiveness of their cooperation. 
to  maximize 
38 

09-52604 
the 
themselves, 



It  may  be  said  that  the  G-20  is  far  more 
representative  than  the  Group  of  Eight,  given  the 
participation  of 
leading  emerging  economies. 
However,  questions  remain  as  to  how  representative 
and inclusive it truly is. Therefore, the challenge of the 
G-20  process  is  how  best  to  make  it  more  legitimate 
and more effective. 

I  would  like  to  make  the  following  points  and 
proposals in this regard. First, many of the main thrusts 
of  the  G-20’s  work,  such  as  reform  of  the  Bretton 
Woods  institutions  and  strengthening  the  international 
financial  regulatory  system,  were  first  articulated  by 
Malaysia  in  the  wake  of  the  Asian  financial  crisis. 
Secondly,  while  claiming  no  particular  credit  for 
Malaysia,  that  means  that  ideas  and  solutions  are  not 
the  monopoly  of  the  large  and  powerful.  Thirdly,  the 
choice between legitimacy and effectiveness is often a 
false one. Fourthly, in addressing ways of maximizing 
cooperation  among 
the  G-20  must 
simultaneously  address  ways  of  improving  links  with 
the  broader  international  community.  Finally,  there 
needs  to  be  greater  clarity  on  the  involvement  of 
regional organizations. 

On  the  issue  of  global  governance,  as  in  many 
others, Malaysia stands ready, willing and able to make 
a meaningful contribution. We aspire to equality for all 
States,  large  and  small.  We  dream  a  dream  of  a  true 
Parliament of Man, a Federation of the World. 

But  we  are  not  content  to  be  idle  dreamers.  We 
intend to make full use our presidency of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  next  year  to  address  these  issues. 
We  will  do  so  in  a  cooperative  and  action-oriented 
manner. 

Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela), Vice-President, took the Chair. 

History has shown that a state of virtue or vice is 
often the result of human endeavour and activity. Vices 
that  have  existed  since  time  immemorial  have  been 
eradicated by dint of human action. Slavery is one such 
example,  apartheid  another.  Inspired  by  the  hope  that 
these  examples  provide,  I  believe  that  we  can  yet 
overcome the grave challenges that we face. However, 
there  must  be  a  willingness  to  collectively  bear  our 
common burdens. 

I would therefore like to end where I began, with 
an  expression  of  hope  that  in  the  light  of  some  of  the 
greatest  challenges  ever  faced  by  any  generation  of 
between 
09-52604 

39 
A/64/PV.12
and 
the  next  year  and 
Man, we will finally be able to work more closely. This 
hope is that we may strengthen the ties that bind us as 
members of a human family, fulfil our responsibilities 
and overcome distrust and discord. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rangin  Dâdfar  Spantâ, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan. 
Mr.  Spantâ  (Afghanistan):  First,  I  would  like  to 

congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Treki  on  his  election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session.  Afghanistan  looks  forward  to  working  with 
him  over 
to  strengthening 
international responses to the crises that we are facing 
today. 

Since  its  inception  the  United  Nations  has  been 
instrumental  in  addressing  the  world’s  challenges, 
in 
particularly 
the  global  South.  But  significant 
challenges 
remain  unresolved.  The  growing  gap 
between and within nations in terms of opportunity and 
prosperity reminds us that we are still far from meeting 
the  ideals  and  objectives  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations for creating a just and secure world. 

Strengthening  and  restructuring  United  Nations 
agencies remain pivotal in closing the gap between the 
objectives of the Charter and the realities of the world. 
The  United  Nations  is  not  a  forum  for  lip  service.  It 
must  embody  the  ideals  of  the  Charter  by  providing 
political  and  moral  direction  and  leadership.  In  our 
increasingly 
the 
multilaterally oriented international system, the United 
Nations must assume greater responsibility for finding 
collective solutions to our challenges.  

The world, and in particular developing nations, is 
faced  with  the  threat  of  poverty,  underdevelopment, 
environmental  degradation,  extremism,  fundamentalism, 
terrorism, culturally based racism, the spread of weapons 
of  mass  destruction  and  the  arms  race.  Rather  than  just 
managing  and  reacting  to  problems,  the  United  Nations 
must  find  ways  to  address  the  structural  causes  of  the 
world’s  problems  and  conflicts.  To  this  end,  closer 
cooperation 
the 
international  financial 
International  Criminal  Court, 
organizations and global civil society is vital in moving 
towards more just and friendly relations among nations. 

Our  efforts  to  address  new  challenges  must  be 
followed up by redoubling our commitment to resolve 
interdependent  world 
the  United  Nations, 

A/64/PV.12 

remaining  historical  conflicts,  chief  among  which  is 
the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East. Afghanistan  reiterates 
its  call  for  the  full  implementation  of  United  Nations 
resolutions and regional initiatives for bringing an end 
to the suffering of the Palestinian nation and creating a 
safe region for all Middle Eastern nations. 

On  the  eve  of  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  the 
establishment  of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference,  the  Islamic  world  faces  a  number  of 
important  internal  and  external  questions  and  issues. 
Addressing  those  issues  and  reviving  the  prominent 
role  of  Muslims  in  contributing  to  the  progress  of 
humanity  and  civilization  can  be  achieved  only  if  we, 
members  of  the  Islamic  world,  collectively  confront 
the  current  intellectual  stagnation  that  many  of  us 
suffer  from. As  was  the  case  during  the  golden  era  of 
Islamic  history,  intellectual  freedom  and  creativity 
must  be  elevated  to  our  highest  social  and  political 
priorities.  The  Islamic  world  is  in  urgent  need  of  an 
intellectual  renaissance.  Islamophobia  and  associating 
Muslims  with  a  violent  minority  are  additional  issues 
that call all of us, particularly Western nations, to seek 
effective ways to confront them.  

Let  me  now  turn  to  the  situation  of  my  country, 
Afghanistan.  Unfortunately,  negative  coverage  of  the 
situation by international media has overshadowed the 
many  positive  trends  and  developments  since  the 
collapse of the Taliban regime in 2001. Alongside our 
challenges,  a  new  Afghanistan  is  emerging.  That 
Afghanistan 
democracy, 
ascendant  State  institutions,  a  nascent  civil  society,  a 
growing  private  sector  and  strong 
international 
solidarity. 

I  can  refer  to  many  examples  of  how  that  new 
Afghanistan  is  advancing.  In  the  fields  of  education, 
health, infrastructure, media and economic growth, the 
generous  support  and  sacrifices  of  the  international 
community  have  been  vital  in  our  joint  and  proud 
achievements  in  Afghanistan,  for  which  we  Afghans 
remain grateful. 

The  Afghanistan  presidential  and  provincial 
elections  in  August  demonstrated  the  many  positive 
changes.  It was the  first time  in  the modern history of 
Afghanistan  that Afghan  institutions  were  tasked  with 
organizing  and  holding  a  nationwide  election.  Taking 
into account the socio-historic realities of Afghanistan, 
we passed that national test successfully. In addition to 
it  being  our  first  experience,  we  were  faced  with 
emerging 
includes 
an 
In  due 
the 
efforts 
the 
sake  of 
the 
the  Taliban  and  other 
their  decision.  Continuing 
dangerous enemies who did their utmost to disrupt and 
derail  the  process  by  terrorizing  Afghan  voters.  By 
braving  Al-Qaida, 
terrorist 
groups, Afghan voters demonstrated their determination 
and desire to have a modern, moderate and democratic 
political system. 

As  in  any  emerging  democracy,  undoubtedly 
there  were  irregularities.  But  one  should  not  assess  a 
young,  terrorist-inflicted  democracy  with  the  criteria 
used  for  old,  stable  and  prosperous  democracies.  In 
passing  judgement  we  should  be  conscious  of  the 
context, the process and the full picture, rather than of 
only one aspect or issue. 

Independent  Election 
course, 
Commission and the Electoral Complaints Commission 
will  announce  and  certify  the  final  results  of  the 
elections.  For 
stability  and 
consolidation of our young democratic institutions and 
processes,  it  is  imperative  that  all  of  us  respect  and 
support 
to 
delegitimize and undermine the integrity of the process 
and  our  institutions  will  certainly  result  in  worsening 
the  situation  not  only  for Afghanistan  but  also  for  the 
international community. 

Afghanistan  still  faces  significant  challenges. 
Chief  among  them  is  terrorism,  which  enjoys  safe 
havens  and  institutional  support  beyond  our  borders. 
As 
the 
Taliban  leadership,  and  sanctuaries  remain  protected, 
Afghanistan,  the  region  and  the  world  will  be  at  the 
mercy  of  terrorists  and  their  totalitarian  ideology  and 
objectives. Only by pursuing a comprehensive strategy 
with adequate resources, effective implementation and, 
more  importantly,  strategic  patience,  can  we  address 
our interconnected challenges. The main pillars of such 
a 
good 
governance, 
regional 
cooperation and international solidarity. 

Afghanistan  fully  endorses  President  Obama’s 
new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan and the new 
assessment  by  General  McChrystal,  in  particular  their 
the  need  for  a  comprehensive  and 
emphasis  on 
long-term  strategy.  The  forthcoming 
international 
conference  on Afghanistan  will  be  an  opportunity  for 
us to review and reiterate our mutual commitment and 
determination 
to  address  Afghanistan’s  remaining 
challenges.  We  must  renew  the  sense  of  partnership 
comprehensive 
infrastructure, 
development, 
long  as 
terrorist 
economic 
including 
strategy 
are 
security, 
40 

09-52604 
the 


and  cooperation  between  Afghanistan  and 
international community.  

The  principles  of  good  governance,  mutual 
accountability  and  regional  cooperation  are  of  the 
highest priority. There must be a zero tolerance for any 
drug-related  activity  or  corruption  by  the  Afghan 
Government or our international partners. 

What  the  Afghan  nation  expects  and  deserves 
from  a  renewed  partnership  with  the  international 
community  is  assurance  of  a  long-term  commitment 
and  solidarity.  Afghans  are  rightly  fearful  of  being 
abandoned  once  again  to  lawlessness,  extremism  and 
external  interference.  Abandoning  the  Afghan  nation 
will undermine the spirit of collective cooperation and 
the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations  and  will  weaken  the 
moral  credibility  of  those  who  fail  to  honour  their 
promises  and  commitments  to  Afghanistan  for  many 
generations.  Furthermore,  it  will  embolden  extremists 
in the region and beyond. 

I  have  full  confidence  that  with  the  full  support 
and commitment of the family of nations, Afghanistan 
will  be  able  to  overcome  the  legacy  of  decades  of 
violence  and  suffering.  We  will  restore  our  historic 
position  as  a  model  of  cooperation  between  different 
cultures and as a regional crossroads and hub for trade, 
transit, 
the  Asian 
continent. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on His Excellency Chief Ojo Maduekwe, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. 
Chief  Maduekwe  (Nigeria):  On  behalf  of  the 

Nigerian  delegation,  I  wish 
to  congratulate  His 
Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on his election as 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
fourth session. I have no doubt that the Assembly will 
benefit from his wealth of experience and wisdom. Let 
me  therefore  affirm  the  full  support  and  solidarity  of 
my  country.  Similarly,  I  wish 
the 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-third session, His 
Excellency Father Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, for the 
able and effective manner with which he conducted the 
affairs of that session. 

Last  year  when  we  gathered  here,  we  were 
hopeful  that  the  world  would  soon  put  behind  it  the 
devastating  impact  of  the  various  global  crises  in  the 
energy,  agriculture  and  financial  sectors.  However,  in 
spite of the efforts by the international community, the 
transportation  and 
to  commend 
tourism  on 
A/64/PV.12
to 
to 
for 
fulfil 
needs 
community 
developing  world  is  yet  to  experience  any  serious 
relief. There is no doubt that more than ever before the 
international 
its 
commitments to the developing world if more than half 
of humanity is to avoid an imminent calamity.  

In  this  connection  we  welcome  and  applaud  the 
efforts of the United Nations, in particular the outcome 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  its  Impact  on 
Development held in New York last June . We call for 
the support and implementation of the recommendations 
of  the  conference  and  hope  they  will  receive  the 
unconditional support of the developed nations. 
Equally important is the need for global efforts to 

boost  food  security.  We  need 
increase  food 
production,  whether  for  domestic  consumption  or  for 
export,  which  requires  collaboration  among  investors, 
organizations  and  Governments.  It  is  relevant  here  to 
reiterate  our  call  for  the  removal  of  the  enormous 
agricultural subsidies that developed countries continue 
to give their farmers, a practice that defies the logic of 
a free market economy  and remains unfair to millions 
of poor peasant farmers across the world. 

As  we  approach  the  countdown  to  2015,  a 
convergence  of  many  factors,  including  the  global 
economic 
crisis, 
the 
achievement  of 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  but  also  the  substantial 
gains  already  made.  Unless  we  act  fast,  our  dream  of 
lifting  the  vast  majority  of  humanity  out  of  extreme 
poverty,  hunger  and  disease  will  remain  an  illusion. 
Donors and recipient countries alike should make more 
effort 
the 
programme.  For  our  part,  we  are  determined  to  do  all 
we can in order to attain the MDG targets, and we are 
calling  on  the  international  community  to  continue  to 
provide support. 

The African Summit on Roll Back Malaria, which 
was  held  in  Abuja  in  2000,  adopted  the  Abuja 
Declaration  and  the  Plan  of Action  to  reduce  malaria 
by 50 per cent in Africa by 2010. To achieve this goal, 
African countries affected by malaria were expected to 
devote  15  per  cent  of  their  public  expenditures  to  the 
health sector. 

Although considerable efforts have been made by 
the affected countries, as well as by donor agencies, the 
goal  of  Roll  Back  Malaria  has  not  been  realized. 
Malaria  remains  by  far  the  biggest  killer  disease  for 
threatening  not  only 
targets 
commitments  under 
is 
the 
to 
fulfil 
their 
09-52604 

41 

threat 
in  Africa,  as 
A/64/PV.12 

children under 5-years old in Africa. This should weigh 
heavy on the global conscience. 

Africa  is  committed  to  the  goal  of  eliminating 
malaria,  and  to  this  end,  Nigeria  intends  to  host  the 
Abuja-Plus Ten Summit on Roll Back Malaria in 2011. 
We  would  therefore  appreciate  the  support  of  the 
Secretary-General,  not  only  to  make  the  proposed 
summit possible, but also to facilitate the realization of 
its objective. 

The quality of participation at the just concluded 
2009  Summit  on  Climate  Change  was  a  testimony  to 
the  global  realization  that  climate  change  has  truly 
become  seen  as  a  genuine  existential 
to 
humanity.  I  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
consistent  engagement  with  this  most  important  issue 
of our time, and call on all Member States to rededicate 
themselves  to  reversing  the  worst  effects  of  this 
phenomenon. 
the  continent  where, 

For  us 
unfortunately,  15  of  the  world’s  20  countries  most 
vulnerable to the impact of climate change are situated, 
we  hope  that  the  outcome  of  the  fifteenth  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  coming  up 
in 
Copenhagen  later  this  year  will  be  an  acceptable 
response to this global threat. 
Even in the middle of this tale of global economic 

and  financial  woes,  there  is  a  silver  lining.  We  are 
gratified  and  greatly  encouraged  by  the  increasing 
rapprochement  between  the  United  States  and  Russia 
on  nuclear  disarmament.  The  idea  of  a  nuclear-free 
world,  the  architecture  of  which  is  now  being  put 
together, has great appeal for many of us. 

Such  an  outcome,  probably  achievable  in  our 
lifetime,  would  not  only  result  in  a  safer  and  better 
world, but would free resources for use in sectors that 
would benefit humanity. Nigeria encourages all nuclear 
Powers to identify with this great initiative, this dream, 
and to embrace any and all initiatives that promote the 
achievement  of  the  goal  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
armaments and the apocalyptic nightmare. 

It  is  in  this  connection  that  Nigeria  applauds  the 
conclusion  and  bringing  into  force  of  the  Pelindaba 
Treaty, the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, 
which  bans  the  testing,  manufacturing,  stockpiling, 
acquisition  and  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  in 
Africa.  This  is  a  commendable  testimony  to  Africa’s 
total  rejection  of  the  proliferation,  and  indeed  the 
existence,  of  nuclear  weapons.  We  call  on  all  other 
regions  to  follow  suit.  The  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  coming  up  next  year  provides  an 
opportunity that should not be missed. 

While  we  applaud  this  development,  let  us  not 
forget that there are weapons still being produced that 
have  killed  far  more  people  than  nuclear  arms  in  the 
tragic history of humanity. I speak, in particular, about 
the  production  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  and 
their illicit export to regions like my own, Nigeria and 
West Africa, where these small arms and light weapons 
have  become  the  real  weapons  of  mass  destruction  — 
destroying  many  lives  of  innocent  children,  men  and 
women, destroying property, economies and dreams — 
as  well  as  the  undermining  of  national  and  regional 
efforts at development. 

We  are  all  aware  of  the  close  link  between  such 
weapons and organized crime, drug trafficking and, in 
the  case  of  Nigeria,  piracy  and  oil  smuggling  in  the 
Niger Delta. The proliferation of such weapons in West 
Africa  is  fast  turning  the  region  into  a  major  transit 
point for illicit drugs, thus also facilitating the growth 
of criminal syndicates, some with enough firepower to 
challenge a nation’s military forces. This cannot be just 
a West African problem. It should be seen as a  global 
threat. 
the 

to  demonstrate  greater 
international  community 
commitment 
this 
in  check  by 
to  keeping 
implementing existing initiatives, as well as developing 
new and legally binding ones, where necessary, geared 
towards  achieving  the  goal  of  preventing,  combating 
and  eradicating 
in  small  arms,  and 
regulating  the  transfer  of  conventional  weapons  in 
general. The full implementation of the United Nations 
Programme  on  Small  Arms  would  be  a  very  good 
beginning. 

Although  over  the  past  decade,  West  Africa  has 
made  considerable  progress  by  way  of  building  or 
strengthening  democratic  structures  in  our  various 
countries, the job is far from done, and this is not the 
time  to  rest  on  our  laurels.  Peace  and  security 
challenges  remain  daunting  in  some  parts  of  the 
subregion.  As  current  Chairperson  of  the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  the 
President  of 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria, 
is  why  we  continue 
to  call  on 
threat 
This 
illicit 
trade 
42 

09-52604 


Mr. Alhaji  Umaru  Yar’Adua  sent  a  special  envoy,  in 
fact  a  former  Head  of  State,  the  former  President  of 
Nigeria, to President Mamadou Tandja of the Republic 
of  Niger  with  a  view  to  establishing  a  line  of 
communication  with  him  in  favour  of  a  peaceful 
resolution  of  the  political  problems  of  our  esteemed 
neighbour  to  the  north.  A  delegation  of  ECOWAS 
Foreign  Ministers  undertook  a  similar  visit  with  the 
same  objective.  Our  role  is  largely  mediatory,  but  we 
are waiting with cautious optimism for the democratic 
imperative in the Republic of the Niger to be upheld. 

The situation in Guinea-Bissau is somewhat more 
cheerful.  Guinea-Bissau  held  successful  elections  last 
July and, as members may already be aware, President 
Malam  Bacai  Sanhá  was  sworn  in  on  8  September. 
Because  of  the  strong  commitment  on  the  part  of  all 
stakeholders in Guinea-Bissau, this peaceful transition 
to  democratic,  constitutional  rule  has  taken  place.  We 
are indeed very proud of what the Government and the 
people  of  Guinea-Bissau  have  been  able  to  achieve. 
Guinea-Bissau  can  now  look  forward  with  hope  to  a 
peaceful and bright future, and Nigeria will continue to 
stand  side  by  side  with  that  country  as  it  charts  its 
destiny for the future. 

In  Guinea-Conakry,  where  elections  have  again 
been slated for next January, we continue to impress on 
the  authorities  the  need  for  the  country  to  return  to 
democratic  rule  through  manifestly  transparent,  free 
and fair elections. We hope that these efforts will yield 
dividends in the form of an elected civilian government 
early  next  year.  Our  own  experience  and  history  in 
Nigeria  leave  us  with  no  other  choice  than  to  remain 
unwaveringly  and  unambiguously  on  the  side  of  the 
consolidation 
constitutional 
democracy and to strongly repudiate even the slightest 
prospect  of  democratic  reversal  in  the  subregion.  It  is 
our national interest to do so.  

ECOWAS  has  proven  over  and  over  again  its 
willingness  and  capacity  to  come  to  the  aid  of  its 
members  in  their  hour  of  need.  In  that  spirit,  we  will 
continue to make our best  efforts to ensure that peace 
and  stability  reign  in  the  region  and  to  facilitate  the 
realization  of 
the 
Community’s name. We continue, as usual, to count on 
the support of the United Nations system. 

Nigeria  continues  to  make  great  strides  in  our 
efforts  to  build  a  peaceful,  stable  and  prosperous 
nation,  able  to  provide  the  best  possible  life  for  its 
and  maturation 
the  objectives 
implied 
of 
in 
A/64/PV.12
Nigeria 
is  a 
to 
solutions 
to 
signatory 
citizens and able to fulfil its international commitments 
and obligations. We have made great progress in laying 
a  solid  foundation  for  democracy,  and  we  are  seeking 
to  build  on  this  foundation  to  grow  an  economy  that 
will  see  Nigeria  take  its  rightful  place  among  the 
world’s  economic  powerhouses.  However,  there  are 
challenges.  Some  we  can  deal  with  by  ourselves. 
Others require the help, support and cooperation of our 
friends and allies and of the United Nations family. 

Those  who  have  been  watching  events  in  our 
country  in  the  past  few  months  will  testify  to  the 
progress  we  have  made  in  the  Niger  Delta  in  finding 
social  and 
durable 
the  political, 
environmental  problems  of  one  of 
the  most 
strategically  important  regions  of  our  country.  Today, 
relative  peace  has  returned to  the  Niger  Delta,  largely 
on the back of an amnesty deal which the Government 
and  erstwhile  militants  forged  and  are  implementing 
together.  The  return  of  peace  to  the  region  would 
provide the platform for meeting the aspirations of the 
people,  as  well  as  allowing  the  resumption  of  full 
economic activity there. 

the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  to  the  majority  of 
other 
rights 
instruments,  and  we  continue  to  remain  focused  and 
committed on the issue of human rights.  

In  our  endeavour  to  overcome  the  constraints 
brought about by the present gap between our nation’s 
increasing demand for power to drive its development 
and  the  available  supply,  we  join  others  in  pursuit  of 
reliable, cheap and environmentally friendly alternative 
sources  of  energy.  In  this  regard,  we  are  gratified  by 
the  support  and  assistance  that  we,  as  a  non-nuclear 
State,  continue 
the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency in exploring alternative sources 
of  electricity  generation,  as  well  as  in  the  areas  of 
radiation  control,  waste  management  and  training. We 
will continue to collaborate closely with the Agency, as 
well  as  to  rely  on  the  assistance  of  our  allies  and 
friends. 

reform  and 
democratization  of  the  United  Nations  system  and 
notes  the  progress  made  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiation  process.  We  encourage  all  parties 
to 
continue  the  negotiations  with  renewed  vigour  with  a 
view to achieving the desired objectives. Of particular 
importance 
the  enlargement  and 
Nigeria  welcomes 
to  receive  from 
regional  human 
the  ongoing 
international 
to  Nigeria 
is 
and 
09-52604 

43 

It 
the  Security  Council. 
A/64/PV.12 

democratization  of 
is 
unacceptable  that  Africa,  with  53  countries,  is  not 
represented  in  the  permanent  seat  category  of  the 
Council.  We  call  upon  Member  States  to  demonstrate 
the  necessary  political  will  to  bring  about  the  long-
awaited reform, in order to make the Security Council 
more legitimate, more democratic and more transparent 
and inclusive. 

Nigeria’s commitment to the United Nations and 
the  international  system  has  been  demonstrated  over 
the  years.  This  commitment  accords  with 
the 
provisions of our Constitution, which enjoins us, inter 
alia,  to  promote  international  cooperation  for  the 
consolidation  of  universal  peace  and  to  promote 
respect for international law and treaty obligations. Our 
international  behaviour  has  always  been  guided  by 
those noble foreign policy objectives. 

Nigeria has been the fourth-largest contributor in 
the world to peacekeeping operations, and the role we 
have  played  —  and  will  continue  to  play  —  in 
peacekeeping  in  the  subregion,  the  African  continent 
and,  with  the  United  Nations,  around  the  world  is  a 
clear  testimony  to  our  unflinching  commitment  to 
joining  hands  with  others,  especially 
the  United 
Nations, in laying solid foundations upon which human 
prosperity  can  be  built.  This  is  why  we  welcome  the 
new  strategy  by  the  United  Nations  to  strengthen  the 
partnership  between  troop-contributing  countries  and 
the  United  Nations,  especially  in  the  provision  of 
adequate  resources  and  the  capacity  to  strengthen 
regional peacekeeping initiatives. 

Finally, as usual, Nigeria will continue to draw on 
its  vast  experience  and  commitment  in  its  efforts  to 
contribute  to  the  realization  of  the  objectives  and 
values  of  the  United  Nations. We  assure  all  our  allies 
and  friends 
to  be  a 
responsible  global  member  of  the  United  Nations, 
subscribing to all the norms, conventions and values of 
this human family and providing leadership, especially 
on issues concerning West Africa and indeed the rest of 
the world. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  Her  Excellency  Patricia  Isabel  Rodas  Baca, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Honduras. 
Ms.  Rodas  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  For 

the  past  three  years  the  President  of  Honduras  has 
come  to  this  global  forum  to  propose  simple,  honest, 
that  Nigeria  will  continue 
to 
(spoke 
straightforward  ways  of  responding 
the  great 
challenges that face our societies, because of the need 
to  do  more  to  contribute  to  the  survival  of  the  human 
species  and  to  decrease  the  injustice  of  the  immense 
asymmetries among nations and between rich and poor. 
From this very rostrum, President Zelaya urged respect 
for the human rights of our migrants and the forgotten 
ones of the Earth — those who draw on the strength of 
hurricanes  from  their  poverty  to  produce  wealth  to 
which  they  hardly  ever  have  access  and  that  does  not 
relieve the anguish caused by their unsatisfied needs.  

Our constitutional President, José Manuel Zelaya 
Rosales,  with  simple  and  effective  proposals,  has 
always called for a more just and more equitable world 
that would lighten the burden of the shame created by 
the  existence  of  the  astonishing  wealth  of  a  few 
alongside  the  outrageous  misery  of  the  majority.  He 
has  also  called  for  a  world  of  tolerance  in  which  we 
could  exchange  opinions,  ideas  and  diverse  ways  of 
seeing the world, respecting and cooperating with one 
another to build a better world. 

But today, another fate has forced us to represent 
our  President  and  our  people  here.  In  our  country, 
criminal hordes have made us revisit old issues — ones 
that  we  had  believed  to  be  mere  vestiges  from  the 
distant past. Today, from this rostrum, I should like to 
tell  the  members  of  the  Assembly  that,  as  I  address 
them,  our  President  is  being  besieged  by  military 
the  sisterly 
forces  at 
Republic  of  Brazil 
is  being 
threatened, and every moment that passes could bring a 
tragic outcome that  would  have  a paralysing effect on 
history  and  on  all  Hondurans,  all  Central  Americans 
and the entire world. As I speak, our President’s life is 
in peril, and the lives of our people are also in peril.  

I should like to prove this to the members of the 
Assembly.  In  my  hand,  I  have  a  telephone  with 
President  Manuel  Zelaya  Rosales  on  the  line.  He 
wishes  to  address  the  Assembly  and  to  reclaim  his 
rightful  place  in  the  presence  of  the  members  of  the 
international  community.  Here,  with  them,  is  our 
leader, our President, the hero of democracy, which he 
is defending today with his life alongside our people. 
in  Spanish  via 

telephone): Greetings to the United Nations. For those 
who  had  any  doubt  that  a  dictatorship  was  being 
installed  here,  I  believe  that  all  that  has  occurred 
during  the  past  93  days  of  repression  have  dispelled 
the  diplomatic  mission  of 
in  Tegucigalpa.  He 
President  Zelaya
44 

09-52604 
that  has 
the 
suppressed 


those doubts. In Honduras, in addition to a coup d’état 
having  taken  place,  a  fascist  dictatorship  has  been 
installed 
freedoms  of 
Hondurans  and  is  violently  repressing  the  Honduran 
people.  

Today, the broadcast frequencies used by the only 
two  media  outlets  opposed  to  the  dictatorship  —  a 
national  radio  station,  Radio  Globo,  and  a  national 
television  network,  Channel  36  —  have  been  shut 
down,  their  offices  invaded  and  their  transmission 
equipment confiscated. Surely, a serious crime is being 
committed when the voice of the people is silenced — 
a people that is being suppressed.  

I  ask  the  United  Nations  for  cooperation  to 
restore the rule of law and the freedom that Hondurans 
deserve.  I  ask  the  United  Nations  for  support,  so  that 
the civilized nations of the world can continue to stand 
firm  against force and barbarity. I  also  ask the United 
Nations  to  give  us  guarantees  for  our  own  personal 
integrity  and  the  lives  of  those  being  besieged  with 
chemical  gases  and  electronic  interference  at  this 
diplomatic  facility  of  the  sisterly  Republic  of  Brazil. 
With great courage, President Lula is demonstrating his 
interest  by  supporting  democracy  and  fighting  against 
coups d’état. I ask the United Nations for its support to 
reverse  this  coup  d’état,  so  that  democracy  will  really 
be  an  asset  of  all  civilized  societies  throughout  the 
world. 
Ms.  Rodas  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Our 

President is surrounded and isolated by military forces. 
The Embassy of the Republic of Brazil is under threat 
of  invasion.  We  have  heard  the  forceful  call  of 
President José Manuel Zelaya Rosales, and we are here 
to  tell  the  Assembly  about  the  scale  and  the  terrible 
impact  of  the  repression  being  visited  on  our  people 
today.  

Free transit through airports and land borders has 
been  halted.  A  state  of  emergency  has  been  decreed, 
with  the  indefinite  suspension  of  absolutely  every 
constitutional guarantee. In addition, independent news 
media have been shut down, destroyed and dismantled 
and  their  operators  persecuted,  and  two  journalists 
were tortured today in our country. Women have been 
raped  during  demonstrations,  and  sport  centres  have 
been  turned  into  concentration  camps  in  Tegucigalpa 
and other cities.  
Honduras is becoming an enormous prison camp. 

They have imprisoned national journalists and expelled 
09-52604 

A/64/PV.12
international media. Furthermore, the entire country is 
militarized.  There  are  constant  reports  that  highly 
dangerous hired assassins are being freed from prison, 
as military contingents move forward and mass around 
the place where our President is now located, together 
with his family, officials of the Embassy of the sisterly 
Republic  of  Brazil,  journalists,  priests  and  a  large 
group of people who are accompanying him. We have 
made  major  efforts  together,  inside  and  outside  of 
Honduras,  aimed  at  enabling  our  country  to  regain  its 
constitutional rights, which were forcibly taken from it 
just  three  months  ago  to  the  day.  We  have  done  this, 
convinced  that  it  will  benefit  not  only  Honduras,  but 
the  entire  world,  where  there  are  still  people  fighting 
for  freedom  and  self-determination,  so  as  not  to  be 
punished  for  their  ideological  differences  or  for  their 
efforts to improve society and transform the economy, 
so  that  our  peoples  may  finally  look  forward  to  a 
brighter future with greater possibility.  
Our  countries,  our  peoples  deserve  this,  because 

they  have  fought  their  entire  lives  —  first  against 
conquest,  then  against  colonization,  then  against  the 
major  differences  created  by  economic  dependency; 
and today, we continue to fight peacefully and without 
weapons  for  our  democratic  freedoms.  Our  only 
weapon  is  the  truth  we  carry  in  our  hearts,  which  we 
have openly expressed to the world.  
In  the  meantime,  while  we  are  faced  with  all  of 

this, our President is being punished for trying to give 
more  freedom  and  more  well-being  to  our  people  and 
for joining in the concert of nations to ensure that our 
diversity  and  ways  of  thinking  are  viewed  as  equal  to 
those of the greater countries of the world. Because no 
matter  how  small  our  economies  or  populations  may 
be,  we  deserve  no  less  than  any  other  society. 
Dreaming  the  impossible  dream  makes  it  possible  for 
us to attain what is indeed possible. But our President, 
our  people,  all  of  Honduran  society,  the  international 
community  and  the  solidarity  that  gives  life  to  our 
struggle  are  shamefully  punished  day  after  day  by  the 
weapons  and  brute  force  of  the  regime  of  putschists, 
which is quickly transforming itself into a dictatorship 
in  the  best  tradition  of  what  occurred  three  and  four 
decades ago on our continent.  
There  is  no  civil  war  in  Honduras. There  are  no 

armed 
facing  each  other.  There  are  no 
subversive  groups.  Hondurans  are  people  who  walk 
tirelessly. They continued walking forward for 90 days, 
peacefully,  silently  and  determined,  with  bravery  and 
forces 
45 

A/64/PV.12 

heroism.  And  with  their  silence,  children,  young 
people, men, women and the elderly told the world: as 
long  as  the  Honduran  people  have  the  unwavering 
support  of  the  international  community,  it  will  be 
possible  to  take  back  our  democratic  path  —  the  path 
we  shed  blood  for  throughout  our  history,  until  the 
victory at the ballot boxes, until the guns and cannons 
were  lowered  —  and  now  those  weapons  are  raised 
again with bayonets aimed at our defenceless people. It 
is  a  dreadful  state  of  siege:  every  single  conceivable 
constitutional  guarantee  has  been  suspended,  which 
threatens  the  life  of  every  Honduran  man  and  woman 
every night and every day.  

But every day, tirelessly, our people come out to 
the street and march in small groups, large groups or in 
masses.  They  mobilize  in  whatever  way  they  can 
around their houses, their blocks, their neighbourhoods 
or  on  big  plazas.  It  does  not  matter  how  they  do  it; 
wherever  they  are,  they  mobilize  actively.  They  put 
their  feet on the ground, on the soil that gave birth to 
them,  and  assured  of  regaining  our  territory  —  with 
freedom and democracy — they do not feel tired, they 
simply walk, as Gandhi did a long time ago and as our 
migrants  and  poor  have  done  thousands  of  times  to 
harvest their simple everyday sustenance.  

In this way our people do not use their energy for 
violence. They are determined to conquer the world by 
force of will alone, without raising a gun or shooting a 
single round, even if they risk joining the ranks of the 
dead, or being tortured or jailed. The brutal coup d’état 
expelled  our  President,  persecuted  his  Cabinet  and 
kidnapped  his  Minister,  but  finds  itself  humiliated 
under the feet of a people who walk their way around 
the  world  every  day.  Their  steps  cross  imaginary 
bridges  to  all  of  the  countries  of  the  world,  and  the 
world responds with its solidarity. 

But,  we  have  been  able  to  present  many  shared 
efforts  inside  and  outside  our  country,  including 
mediation  initiatives  that  have  arisen  with  the  aim  of 
implementing  resolutions  of  this  General  Assembly, 
such  as  resolution  63/301  of  30  June  2009,  in  which 
the  Government  of  putschists  was  repudiated  and  the 
only  constitutional  president  of  Honduras  was 
recognized to be José Manuel Zelaya Rosales. Forums 
for  dialogue  have  been  created,  along  with  efforts  at 
mediation such as the San Jose Agreement, all of which 
have  been  systematically  rejected  by  the  intransigent 
putschist  regime,  which  causes  those  efforts  to  fail, 
that 
joins 
the 
even  when  the  world  attempts  to  revive  those  efforts 
every day.  

Those  who  wished  to  join  the  constitutional 
President  have  been  replaced  and  prevented  from 
returning  to  the  country,  even  though  they  wanted  to 
find the path to reconciliation. Ambassadors who were 
summoned  for  consultations  following  the  military 
coup  d’état  cannot  return  to  the  country  without  first 
bowing to the boots of the military who are trampling 
on our country today. 
All of these initiatives, as important and essential 

as  they  are  in  attempting  to  give  strength  to  the 
struggle  of  my  people,  all  of  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community  in  searching  for  rational, 
peaceful solutions have made it clear that we are facing 
forces  that  are  able  to  unleash  the  most  perverse  
form  of  violence  and  irrationality.  Civilization  is  
being  brought  to  a  halt  by  barbarism  there  in  Central 
America  —  in  the  centre  of  Central  America  —  that 
narrow  strip 
two  halves  of  our 
hemisphere. 

Given this new situation in which the President’s 
return unleashed the fury of the dictators, the initiatives 
needed  in  order  to  find  a  solution  today  call  for 
specific actions to be taken: the tyrant and the military 
must  be  forced  to  step  back.  The  military  forces  who 
disobeyed  their  President  and  oppressed  their  own 
people  have  become  an  occupying  army  —  irregular 
forces  serving  only  to  repress  and  oppress.  They 
uphold  the  executory  arm  of  a  coup  d’état  that  found 
its  support  in  a  sector  of  the  powerful,  old  economic 
class, which is responsible for crushing, exploiting and 
stripping  bare  our  people  and  has  done  so  throughout 
our history.  
That  is  why,  in  those  new  conditions,  when  we 

need  strength 
the  proposals  and 
assemble  global  intelligence  and  the  feeling  of  a 
continental home in the midst of the conspiracy of the 
imminent  danger  that  today  confronts  not  only  our 
President,  an  embassy  and  a  diplomatic  mission  the 
inviolability  of  which  is  threatened,  but  also,  in  fact, 
our humble people who walk, who at any moment can 
be  assassinated,  imprisoned  or  tortured;  at  this  time 
when  we  hear  that  military  units  are  moving  towards 
the  Embassy  of  Brazil  to  continue  attacking  our 
President, I appeal to this Assembly. With the authority 
derived from  our peaceful and heroic people and with 
the moral authority of those who resist the bullets with 
to  consolidate 
46 

09-52604 
all 
that  depends  on 


their bodies and flesh, we fervently but resolutely call 
on the United Nations and its highest bodies to use the 
strength  of  their  authority  to  avert  and  ward  off  the 
danger  that  hovers  over  Honduras.  It  is  increasingly 
imminent,  ever  closer  and  more  and  more  terrifying. 
We  can  avert  that  danger  together  with  the  will  and 
solidarity  garnered  so  far,  but  with  resolute  joint 
actions that will succeed in pushing back that shame. 

I  must  say  that,  first  of  all,  we  must  demand 
respect  for  the  life  of  our  President,  his  physical  and 
moral integrity and the dignity of his high office. That 
gives  our  people  strength  and  determination  because 
we  are  and  wish 
to  be  a  sovereign,  free  and 
independent  republic  with  a  solid  lasting  democracy 
that will also help make the injustices and inequalities 
subside.  We  must  also  request  unconditional  support 
for  the  dialogue  that  our  President  began  once  he  had 
entered the country unarmed and peacefully so as to be 
able  to  sit  with  the  different  sectors  of  Honduran 
society  and  thereby  open  the  way  to  restoring  trust, 
reconciliation  and  the  fabric  of  the  Constitution, 
because 
the 
constitutional  President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras, 
José Manuel Zelaya Rosales.  

It  is  also  important  to  bolster  efforts  to  set 
specific  dates,  precise  mechanisms,  ultimatums  and 
frameworks  for  action  to  be  signed  by  the  body  for 
dialogue and mediation that has been set up, and those 
that may emerge in its support, to restore peace to our 
people  and 
the  path  of 
transformation. Furthermore, we must say that as long 
as  there  are  no  constitutional  guarantees,  a  permanent 
state  of  siege  is  imposed  on  our  people  and  citizen 
rights  are  absent,  the  conditions  to  prepare  free, 
transparent and universal elections do not exist. 

The  international  community  has  spoken  out  by 
not  recognizing  that  regime  of  the  coup  or  those 
Governments  or  regimes  that  arose  from  spurious 
elections  launched  into  history  by  cannon  or  at  the 
point  of  a  bayonet.  We  therefore  urge  this  General 
Assembly to call an urgent extraordinary session of the 
Assembly 
situation 
developing  in  Honduras,  that  country  so  close  to  this 
land  and  all  countries  of  the  world,  neighbour  of  the 
Panama Canal and at the centre of all America, so as to 
be  able  to  keep  monitoring  the  pace  of  events  and,  of 
course,  the  necessary  resources  to  urgently  respond  to 
relieving whatever needs arise there. 
to  continue  building 
to  keep  under 
reinstating 
review 
the 
A/64/PV.12

It  is  important  that  the  vital  issues  that  we  have 
presented here be addressed at that Assembly, but it is 
even more important and more urgent that we urge the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations to appoint an 
urgent  special  diplomatic  mission,  comprised  of  the 
various countries that make up this world forum, to go 
as  soon  as  possible  and  pay  a  working  visit  to 
Honduras. It can assess in situ the situation prevailing 
there  and  help  seek  solutions  for  the  region,  together 
with  our  President,  in  conjunction  with  the  efforts  of 
the Organization of American States (OAS). The OAS 
special missions sent to Honduras to prepare a meeting 
of  its  Secretary-General  with  other  foreign  ministers 
was recently expelled from the territory. 

Thirdly, we should impress on this Assembly and 
its  appropriate  authority  the  need  for  it  to  continue 
analysing  and  constantly  review 
the  situation  of 
violence  and  the  danger  of  violation  of  the  Vienna 
Conventions, which prevail over everything pertaining 
to  the  inviolability  of  diplomatic  missions  and  the 
upholding  of  international  law.  For  the  lives  of  our 
President  and  of  our  entire  people,  the  consideration, 
review,  analysis  and  ongoing  attention  of  the  Security 
Council is essential in order to find formulas to avert a 
greater tragedy that later, once out of control, we could 
not address. 

To  conclude,  I  must  state  here  that,  with  the 
awareness  of  and  support  for  the  presence  of  our 
President, José Manuel Zelaya Rosales, in our land — 
in  the  country  where  he  was  elected  President  by  a 
large majority in free and democratic elections, which 
today makes him the leader and hero in defending the 
democratic rights of our peoples — the need to restore 
to  José  Manuel  Zelaya  Rosales  to  his  functions  as 
President of the Republic is more urgent than ever, so 
that he can take on the duties bestowed on him by our 
Republic’s  constitution  and  the  sovereign  mandate  of 
our  people.  Right  now,  tonight  and  in  the  days 
following,  the  leaders  of  the  coup  should  be  urged  to 
respect the life of our President and the inviolability of 
Brazilian 
its  diplomatic 
mission. 

We  must  not  neglect  this  grave  political  and 
institutional crisis, a crisis that affects the entire world 
and  democracy  around  the  globe.  I  therefore  request 
that 
the  special 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  a  report  analysing 
compliance with resolution 63/301, and resolutions that 
might  stem  from  it,  for  a  return  to  constitutional  rule, 
the  Secretary-General  present 
in  Honduras 
territory 
in 
to 
09-52604 

47 
inequality, 
A/64/PV.12 

the  restoration  of  our  President,  ending  violence  and 
repression and violations of the international law, for a 
return  to  international  peace  and  concord,  to  our 
people’s freedom to hold elections without the constant 
threat  of  violence  and  coups  d’état,  and,  finally,  for 
respect  for  human  life.  The  most  humble  may  not  be 
known to the international community, but every night 
their lives are in danger under the skies of our country. 

We declare our solidarity with all those suffering 
from  lack  of  freedom  and  of  democracy,  from  lack  of 
development,  from  poverty  and 
those 
suffering  from  a  lack  of  respect  for  the  freedom  that 
every  society  must  have  to  organize  itself  as  best  it 
can,  without  being  attacked,  blockaded  or,  much  less, 
expelled  from  any  international  entity.  I  express  the 
solidarity  of  Honduras  with  those  people  suffering 
from  discrimination  and  despoliation  and  those  whose 
hope  is  crushed  beneath  the  terror  of  military  force, 
and  our  bottomless  gratitude 
the  solidarity 
expressed by the entire international community. In an 
extraordinary,  unprecedented  way,  they  joined  hands 
and forgot their profound differences to unite with our 
people  and  jointly  confront  this  crime,  which,  in  the 
twenty-first  century,  has  once  again  stained  our 
democracies. 

We  give  our  thanks  for  the  prayers  and  the 
solidarity of all the peoples of the world, to those who 
accompany  us  daily  on 
to 
democracy,  and  to  those  who  will  never  forget  the 
words of our  President  calling out for respect for life, 
integrity  and  freedom  of  speech,  and  that  never  again 
will  this  sad  story  of  persecution  and  death  be 
perpetrated against an innocent, unarmed and peaceful 
people. 

These,  then,  are  the  initiatives  I  have  set  out. 
Along with that I express our gratitude to all peoples of 
the  world,  representatives  of  whom  fit  into  this  small 
space,  just  as  all  the  freedom  and  the  hope  of 
democracy  of  the  entire  world  fits  into  that  tiny 
country of Honduras. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Pak Kil Yon, Vice-Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. 

Mr. Pak Kil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text  provided  by 
the  delegation):  On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  I  would  like 
long  road  back 
for 
the 

to  congratulate  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session.  At  the  same  time,  I  wish  to 
express my hope that his skilful stewardship will lead 
the current session to success. 

The sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly 
will mark an end to the first decade of a new century, 
which  humankind  has  ushered  in  with  a  great  deal  of 
anticipation  and  aspiration.  One  of  the  major  tasks 
facing the Assembly this year is to conduct an impartial 
review  of  this  first  decade  and  set  the  correct  path 
ahead. 

Humankind  has  yet  to  realize  its  long-cherished 
desire to thrive in a peaceful and equitable world free 
from war, while its hopes are confronted with a host of 
serious challenges one after the other. The Afghan war 
is in escalation and the Iraq war is still undecided. The 
cold  wind  of  a  nuclear  arms  race  is  blowing,  even 
before negotiations on nuclear disarmament have been 
opened. Avian influenza is not completely subdued, yet 
a  new  strain  of  H1N1  flu  is  sweeping  the  world.  The 
world  is  undergoing  a  much  greater  degree  of  global 
warming  this  year  than  last,  and  we  are  witnessing 
more stagnant economies and many more people out of 
work everywhere. 

The United Nations Security Council has become 
more  arrogant,  resulting  in  further  inequality  and 
double standards in international relations. We need to 
direct  serious  attention  to  this  prevailing  reality  when 
we review the first decade of the new century. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 

under the leadership of the great General Kim Jong Il, 
has  now  entered  a  phase  of  State-building.  A  great, 
prosperous  and  powerful  nation  is  a  country  in  which 
national  power  is  strong  and  everything  thrives  and 
whose people live happily, with nothing to envy in the 
world. To build such a country was the lifelong wish of 
the  great  leader  of  our  people  President  Kim  Il  Sung, 
and it is the firm intention and wish of the Government 
and  people  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  that  such  a  thriving  nation  will  be  a  reality  by 
2012, the centenary of Kim Il Sung’s birth. 
The main task facing us over the next three years 

is  to  concentrate  all  our  efforts  on  building  an 
economic  power,  which  is  the  last  height  we  need  to 
scale  in  building  a  great,  prosperous  and  powerful 
nation. The Korean peninsula remains as ever in a state 
of  armistice.  But  now  that  we  possess  a  dependable 
09-52604 
48 



nuclear  deterrent,  we  may  be  able  to  prevent  war  and 
defend peace. For more than half a century our country 
was  compelled  to  produce  guns  rather  than  butter,  as 
we  suffered  under  nuclear  threats  and  the  danger  of 
war posed by hostile forces. But today we have settled 
down  to  channel  our  efforts  into  building  a  great, 
prosperous  and  powerful  nation.  To  all  intents  and 
purposes,  this  is  completely  the  result  of  the  Songun-
based politics instituted by the great General Kim Jong 
Il.  And,  when  our  country  becomes  an  economic 
power,  that  will  create  new  impetus  to  the  economic 
development of the region. Our efforts to build up the 
economy  will  constitute  a  significant  part  of  the 
international  community’s  efforts  to  attain  the  United 
Nations Millennium Development Goals. 
We  have  never  opposed  the  denuclearization  of 

the  Korean  peninsula  and  the  rest  of  the  world. 
Denuclearization  was  the  wish  of  President  Kim  Il 
Sung,  and  a  nuclear-free  world  is  a  long-cherished 
desire of mankind. 

The  Korean  people  are  more  devoted  to  the 
sovereignty  and  peace  of  their  country  than  any  other 
people  or  nation  in  the  world,  as  a  result  of  the 
characteristics 
historical 
development.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea has done its  utmost  to bring about the  peaceful 
reunification  of  the  country,  to  eliminate  nuclear 
threats  and  grounds  for  war  and  to  secure  peace  and 
stability  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  We  initiated  the 
denuclearization of North-East Asia and of the Korean 
peninsula  and  put  forward  the  proposals  for  the 
Armistice  Agreement  to  be  replaced  by  a  peace 
agreement  and  for  the  adoption  of  a  non-aggression 
pact  between  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea and the United States. 

However,  our  efforts  have  not  received  an 
appropriate  response  from  the  United  States.  The 
United  States  considers  the  Korean  issue  only  in  the 
light  of  its Asia  strategy  and  does  not  want  to  see  the 
entire  Korean  peninsula  denuclearized.  That  has 
resulted 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The 
arbitrariness  of  the  United  States  can  be  seen  in  the 
claim that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
is not allowed to launch even a peaceful satellite. The 
Security  Council 
that 
arbitrariness. 
is  being  manipulated  by 
in  a  greater  nuclear 
country’s 
facing 
threat 
their 
of 
A/64/PV.12
to 
realize 
In  order 
towards  Korea. 

We  have  concluded  that,  as  long  as  the  United 
States  does  not  change  its  existing  nuclear  policy,  we 
have no option but to rely on our nuclear capability in 
order  to  ensure  the  nuclear  balance  in  the  region  and 
preserve  peace  and  stability  in  North-East  Asia.  The 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  depends  on 
whether  or  not  the  United  States  changes  its  nuclear 
policy 
the 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula,  the  United 
States  Administration  must  discard  its  long-standing 
policy of confrontation and put into practice the change 
that it has recently talked about on several occasions. 

We  are  not  engaged  in  a  nuclear  arms  race.  The 
purpose of our nuclear weapon is to deter war. We will 
only  possess  a  nuclear  deterrent  so  as  to  avert  a 
military  attack  or  the  threat  of  such  an  attack  against 
our country. Deterrence will be directly proportional to 
the  threat  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  as  in  Europe  and 
elsewhere. As long as it possesses nuclear weapons, the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  act 
responsibly  with  regard  to  their  management,  use  and 
non-proliferation,  and  to  nuclear  disarmament.  We 
share  the  position  of  all  peaceful  countries,  including 
the non-aligned countries, in opposing nuclear war, the 
nuclear  arms  race  and  the  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons. 

United Nations sanctions have now been imposed 
on us on the grounds that we had a nuclear deterrent. It 
may be recalled that the United Nations was set up in 
the country that produced the first nuclear weapon and 
that  all  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  are  nuclear  Powers.  If  those  countries  had 
demonstrated 
nuclear 
disarmament  a  long  time  ago  and  had  refrained  from 
arbitrarily  and  selectively  opposing 
the  peaceful 
satellite launch of another country, the nuclear situation 
in the world might have developed differently. 

The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
attaches  importance  to  the  principle  of  sovereign 
equality  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter. The 
principle  of  sovereign  equality  is  also  the  reason  why 
we  became  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  Unjust 
and  selective  sanctions  will  never  be  recognized  or 
accepted.  The  position  of  the  Government  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  to  respond 
to  dialogue  with  dialogue  and 
to  sanctions  by 
strengthening  nuclear  deterrence.  If  the  United  States 
brings  sanctions  to  the  talks,  we  will,  for  our  part, 
commitment 
their 
to 
09-52604 

49 
the  future, 
the  Government  of 
those  grand  programmes 
A/64/PV.12 

participate  in  such  talks  by  bolstering  our  nuclear 
deterrence. 

Thanks  to  the  far-sighted  bold  decision  of  the 
great  General  Kim  Jong  Il,  North-South  relations  on 
the  Korean  peninsula  have  entered  a  new  phase.  Just 
over a year ago, the North and the South had to adapt 
to changes owing to the differences in the positions of 
the two parties towards the historic joint declaration of 
15  June  and  the  declaration  of  4  October,  which  were 
recognized and supported by the General Assembly. 
However, our sincere and noble efforts paved the 

way  for  a  turning  point  so  as  to  reach  a  common 
understanding  of 
for 
reunification. 
Inter-Korean  economic  cooperation, 
including  the  operation  of  the  Kaesong  industrial 
complex, is back on track and separated families can be 
reunited.  In 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  also 
continue  to  make  all  possible  efforts  to  achieve 
national  reconciliation  and  unity  and  to  bring  forward 
the  independent  and  peaceful  reunification  of  the 
country under the banner of “by our nation itself”. 
All  Member  States  have  accepted  the  need  for 

United  Nations  reform,  as  the  new  century  requires. 
Currently, 
the  most 
anachronistic  organ  of 
the  United  Nations.  An 
imbalance  in  relations,  by  which  the  strong  nations 
have  ruled  the  weaker  ones  for  the  past  half  century, 
remains  part  of  the  structure  of  the  Security  Council, 
and  it  is  precisely  in  the  rules  of  procedure  of  that 
Council  that  democracy  is  least  developed. Today,  the 
General  Assembly  is  the  only  place  in  the  United 
Nations  where 
international 
community  can  be  properly  reflected  and  democracy 
ensured. 

In  order  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  line  with  the  requirement  of  the  times  and 
the  new  situation, 
thoroughly 
democratize  the  Security  Council  and  to  substantially 
increase  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly.  In 
restructuring  the  Security  Council,  we  should  first 
consider  the  issues  that  can  be  resolved,  such  as  the 
expansion  of  non-permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  on 
full 
representation  of  non-aligned  and  other  developing 
countries,  which  make  up  the  majority  of  the  United 
Nations Member States. 
the  principle  of  ensuring 
the  Security  Council 
the  views  of 
the 
is 
it 
is 
important 
to 
the 

In  enhancing 
the  authority  of 
self-determination  and  choice  and 

the  General 
Assembly,  we  need  to  discuss  the  issue  of  submitting 
decisions  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly  for  approval,  in  particular  all  decisions 
relating  to  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality  laid 
down  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  The  United 
Nations  is  required  to  have  the  proper  criteria  and 
principles in order to examine human rights issues. The 
the  rights  of 
United  Nations  Charter  recognizes 
national 
the 
principle of non-interference in internal affairs, and all 
international  human  rights  instruments  contain  the 
basic  principle  of  the  non-politicization  of  human 
rights. 

However,  these  days  some  debates  in  the  United 
Nations  contradict  that.  Any  attempt  to  bring  into 
question  the  systems  of  specific  countries  and  to 
interfere in their internal affairs under the guise of the 
protection  of  human  rights  is,  in  itself,  a  violation  of 
human rights, denying the right of the people of those 
countries  to  choose  their  own  system.  The  United 
Nations should pay attention to the fact that its human 
rights agenda covers only the situations found in small 
countries, with no mention of large ones, the West and 
European countries. Due attention should also be given 
to  how  to  boost  the  role  of  the  non-aligned  and  other 
developing countries in the international arena. 
International  efforts  to  attain  the  Millennium 

Development Goals and to address the central issues of 
the United Nations, such as the global economic crisis 
and  climate  change,  urgently  call  for  the  active 
participation  of  a  wide  range  of  developing  countries, 
including the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The  foreign  policy  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea has been, is and will be based on the 
principles  of  independence,  peace  and  friendship. The 
Government  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  will  actively  strive  to  further  strengthen  and 
develop  friendly  and  cooperative  relations  with  all 
United  Nations  Member  States  under  those  principles, 
and 
towards 
defending  the  peace  and  security  of  the  Korean 
peninsula and the rest of the world. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  João  Gomes  Cravinho,  Secretary  of 
State  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the 
Portuguese Republic. 
to  fully  discharge 
its  commitment 
50 

09-52604 
Its 
are 
issue. 
consequences 
Fighting  climate  change 
Mr.  Gomes  Cravinho  (Portugal)  (spoke 


in 

Portuguese; English text provided by the delegation): I 
wish  the  President  all  the  best  for  this  General 
Assembly.  Along  with  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon,  he  can  count  on  Portugal’s  firm  support  in 
his  work.  Allow  me  to  begin  by  endorsing  fully 
Sweden’s  intervention  as  the  country  holding  the 
presidency of the European Union. 

is  both  a  moral 
imperative and a matter of survival. This is no longer a 
long-term 
evident 
everywhere;  from  the  small  island  States  to  Portugal, 
we  can  all  witness  it.  The  time  to  act  is  now.  I 
congratulate the Secretary-General on the timely high-
level  meeting  on  climate  change.  The  objective  of 
mobilizing  political  will  and  vision  for  the  climate 
negotiations has been fulfilled. The process of political 
consciousness-raising  is  done.  Governments  are  now 
better  prepared  to  take  the  decisions  necessary  for  an 
ambitious  agreement  in  Copenhagen.  At  December’s 
Climate  Change  Summit,  every  State  should  take  on 
bold  commitments,  to  the  extent  that  their  respective 
responsibilities  and  capacities  allow,  so  that  the  post-
2012  world  can  meet  the  challenge.  If,  however,  we 
leave  Copenhagen  with  limited  results  and  small, 
insignificant reforms, we will be failing in our historic 
responsibilities. 
We  are  all  affected  by  climate  change,  but  it  is 

obvious 
the  consequences  are  not  equally 
distributed.  The  least  developed  countries  and  small 
island States, despite being the lowest polluters, suffer 
the most from the effects of climate change, and their 
greater vulnerability imposes a larger responsibility on 
the 
international  community.  Being  part  of  a 
community  means  having  a  responsibility  to  the  other 
members of the community; so, when we talk about the 
international  community,  we  automatically  imply  that 
it  is  our  duty  to  support  these  countries  in  their 
adaptation and mitigation efforts. 
The  General  Assembly’s  resolution  63/281,  on 

the  impact  of  climate  change  on  global  security,  is  a 
good  step  forward.  But  it  must  be  followed  up.  The 
United  Nations  should  promote  in-depth  debates  on 
this matter at all relevant levels during the session we 
are now starting. Portugal is a country that has built its 
history  through  an  extraordinary  relationship  with  the 
sea.  It  is,  therefore,  natural  for  us  to  promote  the 
sustainable development of oceans and their resources 
with a coherent and coordinated approach. We see this 
that 
A/64/PV.12
to 
in 
the 
rates  per  capita 
signs  bear  witness 
as a strategic issue for the whole world. In this regard, 
Portugal has contributed in multiple contexts, including 
to the maritime policy of  the European Union and the 
ocean  strategy  of 
the  Community  of  Portuguese 
Speaking Countries (CPLP). 

The  preservation  of  the  environment  must  also 
tackle  the  energy  question.  Climate  change  brings 
challenges but also great opportunities. Fully conscious 
of  this,  Portugal  is  strongly  committed  to  renewable 
energy  sources:  solar,  wind,  hydro,  biomass  and  wave 
power. In 2010 we plan to produce 45 per cent of our 
energy from renewable sources. By 2020 we will reach 
60  per  cent.  Furthermore,  Portugal  has  one  of  the 
lowest  carbon-emission 
the 
European  Union,  and  we  are  ready  to  share  our 
experience  in  this  area  with  all  interested  Member 
States. 

A year ago, when we gathered in this Hall for the 
opening of the sixty-third session of the Assembly, the 
world  was  waking  up  to  an  economic  and  financial 
crisis  that  we  are  still  dealing  with  today.  Recent 
positive 
results  of 
international  cooperation  in  the  face  of  this  common 
threat,  but  we  are  aware  that  the  effects  of  this  crisis 
continue  to  be  felt  in  the  daily  lives  of  millions  of 
people all over the world, and that the most vulnerable 
are once again the main victims. We are convinced that 
the  international  financial  system  must  be  guided  by 
principles  of  responsibility  and  transparency,  and  that 
regulation  and  supervision  must  be  strengthened.  We 
can  and  should  make  sure  that  international  markets 
are  based  on  the  values,  principles  and  standards  of 
conduct that we share. 

We  should  also  ensure  that  the  benefits  of 
economic  globalization  have  a  more  universal  impact. 
The  United  Nations  Global  Compact  is  an  important 
contribution to this end. The solution to this issue was 
not, is not and will never be protectionism. Closing the 
door  on  our  neighbours  and  partners  means  leaving 
people in poverty and failing to solve our medium- to 
long-term  domestic  problems.  It  is  therefore  crucial 
that we bring the Doha Round to a rapid conclusion in 
a  way  that  corresponds  fully  to  the  sustainable  global 
development objectives that have been outlined. At the 
same  time,  we  renew  our  firm  commitment  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  cannot  allow  the 
economic  crisis  to  affect  the  gains  we  have  achieved 
through  this  process. A  State  that  forgets  the  common 
good  will  sooner  or  later  find  instability,  poverty  and 
09-52604 

51 

interests  of 
the  specific  concerns  and 
A/64/PV.12 

insecurity knocking at its door. Portugal, with its sense 
of  collective  responsibility  and  international  cohesion, 
will continue to contribute to the limits of its capacity. 

We  concentrate  a  large  part  of  our  action  on 
development  aid  in  Africa,  where  poverty  is  most 
marked.  In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  mention  that 
Portugal  is  currently  a  co-president  of  the  Africa 
Partnership Forum and, in this capacity, in concert with 
our  African  partners,  we  have  communicated  to  the 
G-20 
the 
continent in areas such as the response to the economic 
and financial crisis and climate change. In the context 
of  Africa,  we  continue  to  be  firmly  committed  to 
implementing  the  first  European  Union  Action  Plan 
and Common Strategy, adopted at the second European 
Union and Africa Summit in Lisbon in December 2007. 

Allow  me  at  this  point  to  salute  the  people  of 
Guinea-Bissau for their conduct of the recent elections 
in their country. It is now up to the Guinean institutions 
to  maintain  and  consolidate  peace  and  stability,  and  it 
is  up  to  the  international  community  to  increase  its 
assistance  in  order  to  strengthen  the  building  of 
institutions  and  security  sector  reform  in  Guinea-
Bissau.  Portugal  will  continue 
strongly 
committed to this process, bearing in mind the wishes 
expressed by the democratically elected institutions of 
Guinea-Bissau. 

This month we celebrate the tenth anniversary of 
the self-determination referendum of Timor-Leste, and 
we take this opportunity to pay a heartfelt tribute to the 
East-Timorese  people.  The 
the 
corollary  of  the  affirmation  of  Timor-Leste’s  identity 
and its admirable will towards peace and development 
as a sovereign nation. 
Guinea-Bissau and Timor-Leste are two countries 

that  demonstrate  the  growing  involvement  of  the 
Community  of  Portuguese  Speaking  Countries 
in 
promoting  peace,  democracy,  human  rights,  political 
stability and social and economic development. One of 
the  fundamental  pillars  of  that  organization,  over 
which Portugal currently presides, is the promotion of 
the  Portuguese  language,  one  of  the  five  most  widely 
spoken  languages  in  the  world  and  the  vehicle  of 
communication  for  more  than  250  million  people, 
connecting  States  and  peoples  in  all  corners  of  the 
world.  It  is  therefore  ever  more  pressing  and  fair  that 
Portuguese be made an official or working language in 
international  organizations.  Portugal  is  also  assuming 
referendum  was 
to  be 
in 
Equally 
fundamental 
in 
the  reform  of 
the  CPLP  and 
the  debate  over 
that  we  witness 
the  pro  tempore  presidency  of  the  Ibero-American 
Conference  on  Culture,  whose  summit  will  take  place 
this  year  in  Estoril,  Portugal,  with  innovation  and 
knowledge as its theme. 
In  this  regard,  I  wish  to  emphasize  that,  as 

President  of 
the  Ibero-American 
Conference, Portugal has, through regional institutions 
and  organizations,  supported  the  participation  and 
involvement  of  emerging  economies  and  developing 
countries 
the 
international financial system. 
Regarding  the  situation  in  Honduras,  we  call  for 

the 
speedy 
re-establishment  of  democratic  and 
constitutional legality, and we recall the inviolability of 
the  diplomatic  mission  of  Brazil,  under  the  principles 
of the Vienna Convention. 

The  CPLP  and  the  Ibero-American  Conference 
are  true  paradigms  of  intercontinental  cooperation, 
based on a communion of cultures and values. We also 
consider  these  paradigms  to  be  the  spirit  and  the 
essence of the Alliance of Civilizations. Thus, it is with 
great  satisfaction 
the  enormous 
progress in the work of the Alliance and that we shall 
participate  in  the  Third  Forum  of  the  Alliance,  to  be 
held in Brazil in 2010, which will be an event in which 
the  CPLP  will  have  a  special  role.  I  take  this 
opportunity to congratulate the High Representative of 
the Secretary-General for his Office’s valuable work. 

Portugal  is  proud  to  have  been  among  the  first 
signatories of the Optional Protocol to the International 
Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights, 
which  has  just  been  opened  for  signature.  We  call  on 
all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  do  so  as 
well,  so  that  this  new  international  human  rights 
instrument  may  enter  into  effect  and  bring  about 
respect for all human rights for every human being. 

and 
promotion of human dignity is the continuous action of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees, 
as  well  as  the  recent  appointment  of  the  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  on  Violence 
against  Children.  In  both  cases  I  would  like  to 
highlight  the  committed,  tireless  and  effective  way  in 
which they have assumed their responsibilities. 

the  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons  are  the  greatest  challenges  to  international 
peace  and  security.  In  combating  these  threats  it  is 
Terrorism  and 
the  defence 
52 

09-52604 
in 
to 
invest 
Portugal  has  assumed 


essential that we implement the respective international 
regimes  and  continue 
international 
cooperation,  in  particular  in  the  framework  of  the 
United  Nations.  All  States  that  signed  the  Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation Treaty must honour their obligations 
without reservations. 

Regarding the maintenance of international peace 
and  security,  we  have  never  demanded  so  much  from 
the  United  Nations.  If  peacekeeping  operations  are  to 
have the outcome that they deserve, clear, credible and 
achievable mandates are absolutely necessary, as is the 
engagement of all Member States through contribution 
of personnel. 

its  share,  with  both 
financial  and  operational  contributions.  More  than 
20,000 members of Portuguese armed forces and 3,000 
from the Portuguese police forces have participated so 
far 
in  peacekeeping  operations.  Today,  we  have 
peacekeepers  in  Timor-Leste,  Lebanon,  Afghanistan 
and Chad. 

One of the main challenges to international peace 
and security is the conflict in the Middle East. Portugal 
reiterates its support for a two-State solution, with the 
creation  of  an  independent,  democratic  and  viable 
Palestinian  State,  to  exist  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security  with  the  State  of  Israel.  But  to  attain  this 
objective it is paramount that Palestine have a territory 
that enables it to exist as a State. 

In this context, Portugal will continue to support 
all efforts, in particular those of Egypt and the United 
States,  for  the  return  to  the  negotiation  process  in 
accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1860 
(2009) and in accordance with the principles contained 
in  the  various  peace  initiatives,  particularly  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative. We are living in a time of opportunity, 
and  it  is  fundamental  that  the  increasingly  united 
opinion  of 
international  community  be  fully 
listened to by the parties. 
In  Iraq  and  in  Afghanistan,  we  welcome  the 

progress  achieved  in  the  past  few  years,  but  we 
recognize  the  need  for  the  continued  commitment  of 
the  international  community.  I  hereby  affirm  the 
guarantee  that  Portugal  will  continue  to  assume  its 
share of the burden. 

Climate  change,  the  financial  and  economic 
crisis,  sustainable  development,  human  rights,  threats 
to  the  international  peace  and  security:  to  face  such  a 
the 
A/64/PV.12
that  may 
instrument 
the  resolution  of  conflicts  of 
vast  array  of  global  challenges,  there  is  no  more 
appropriate  forum  than  the  United  Nations,  no  other 
strategic  agent 
transmit  our  collective 
response. 

Today,  more  than  ever,  the  collective  interest 
reflects the national concern of each of us. Today, more 
than ever, I subscribe to Dag Hammarskjöld’s vision of 
a  United  Nations  as  a  dynamic  instrument  to  develop 
means  of  executive  action  that  is  not  limited  to  being 
simply  a  mechanism  consisting  of  static  conferences 
for 
interests  and 
ideologies.  To  ensure  that  the  multilateralism  we 
profess is truly effective, to ensure that the primacy of 
the  United  Nations  in  international  politics  and  the 
respect  for  international  law  is  not  mere  rhetoric,  to 
ensure that this Organization is increasingly more like 
the  dynamic 
that  Dag  Hammarskjöld 
envisioned,  we  must  further  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  must  seek  in  this  General  Assembly  a 
broad  consensus  that  will  enable  what  we  all  know  is 
necessary  to  take  place,  namely,  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council. 
In  so  doing  we  should  ask  ourselves  whether  a 

India  as 
Security  Council  without  Brazil  and 
is  not 
permanent  members,  and  where  Africa 
represented  with 
truly 
representative  Council.  Is  it  consistent  to  defend  a 
more efficient and transparent Organization and yet to 
have a Security Council without reform of its working 
methods? 

Let  us  not  be  satisfied  with  merely  a  discussion 
of  a  better  Organization.  Let  us  build  together  a  more 
efficient, 
representative  United 
Nations. 
Since  2000,  Portugal  has  been  a  candidate  for  a 

non-permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council  for  the 
biennium 2011-2012. Our candidacy is consistent with 
the history of our engagement with the United Nations, 
our  capacity  to  listen  and  dialogue  with  other  peoples 
and  cultures,  and  our  commitment  towards  fair  and 
balanced  solutions  in  international  issues.  We  are  a 
candidate  in  the  name  of  representativeness  and  the 
right  of  all  countries,  including  those  of  small  and 
medium  size,  which  constitute  the  majority  of  the 
Members  of  this  Organization,  to  be  present  in  the 
Security Council. We are a candidate for the benefit of 
sustainable  development  and  on  behalf  of  the  human 
values that bind us together, of the inalienable rights of 
that  same  status, 
transparent 
is  a 
and 
09-52604 

53 
A/64/PV.12 

all  human  beings  and  of  our  common  aspiration  for  a 
more just and peaceful world. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Thomas Matussek, 
chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany. 
Mr.  Matussek  (Germany):  In  these  tumultuous 

times  marked  by  manifold  crises,  we  are  more  than 
ever in need of a global Organization that all Members 
make use of and support. We need the United Nations. 
The  comprehensive,  universal  system  of  the  United 
Nations  forms  the  heart  of  the  global  system  of  crisis 
prevention  and  mitigation.  Now  more  than  ever, 
Germany  pledges  its  active  and  extensive  support  to 
this world Organization. 

This past year taught us bitter lessons, and today 
it  seems  clearer  than  ever:  we  must  secure  the 
sustainability  of  the  economic  recovery.  That  applies 
not  only  to  the  financial  sector,  but  also,  and  in 
particular,  to  the  most  vulnerable  in  the  world  —  the 
poorest  of  the  poor  in  the  developing  countries  —  as 
well as to our environment and the world’s climate. 

The  consultations  on  a  charter  for  sustainable 
economic  activity  point  in  the  right  direction.  The 
United  Nations  should  be  actively  involved  in  that 
process. We must turn the crisis into an opportunity for 
development and a truly green recovery. 
is 

towards 
jeopardizing  our  progress  on 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Therefore,  we  must  do  our  utmost  to  avoid  any 
setbacks  in  that  regard.  Donor  States  must  continue 
their efforts for development, all the more so in times 
of crisis. Germany has continually increased its official 
development  assistance  contributions  in  recent  years. 
In  2008,  my  country  was  the  second-largest  donor  of 
also 
official  development 
significantly 
the 
multilateral development banks. 

All  of  this  underscores  one  thing:  Germany,  as 
one  of  the  world’s  largest  economies,  stands  by  its 
global  responsibility.  But  developing  countries  must 
also  live  up  to  their  responsibilities.  Responsible 
governance,  respect  for  human  rights,  environmental 
protection, 
the 
strengthening  of  the  rights  of  women  —  those  are  the 
assistance.  We  will 
to 
financial  crisis 
the  path 
increase  our  contributions 
The  aftermath  of 
fight 
the 
the 
against 
epidemics, 

challenges  that  each  country  has  the  responsibility  to 
meet. 

Climate  change  is  the  pre-eminent  challenge  of 
the  twenty-first  century.  It  threatens  our  well-being, 
our  security  and  our  economic  development.  It  will 
lead to uncontrollable risks and dramatic damage, if we 
do  not  take  resolute  action  —  not  in  some  distant 
future, but right now. 

the  Assembly:  Germany  will 
I  can  assure 
continue  to  be  a  leader  in  climate  protection.  But  we 
will be successful only if we act together. We need an 
inclusive  process  in  which  those  countries  directly 
affected  by  climate  change,  such  as  the  small  island 
States, can also play a part. The United Nations is the 
only reliable framework for this. I would like to thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  very  timely  initiative  in 
convening  a  United  Nations  summit 
last  week 
addressing this key issue. 
Disarmament  and  arms  control  can  help  create 

better  conditions  for  global  cooperation  and  increase 
security  and  stability.  We  warmly  welcome  the  new 
dynamic  in  the  area  of  nuclear  disarmament.  The  call 
for  a  nuclear-weapon-free  world  enjoys  widespread 
support, including that of Germany. We must seize this 
opportunity  for  progress  in  all  areas  of  disarmament. 
Germany  has  underlined  that  sub-strategic  nuclear 
weapons must also be incorporated into the continuing 
process  of  disarmament.  Our  clear  commitment  to 
ridding  the  world  of  all  nuclear  weapons  is  the  best 
way  to  strengthen  the  international  non-proliferation 
regime. 

We  need  a  new  international  consensus  at  the 
2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  the 
launching  of  negotiations  in  Geneva  on  a  fissile 
material  cut-off  treaty  and  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  In  order  to 
avoid 
between 
non-proliferation and peaceful uses, Germany supports 
multilateral  solutions  to  nuclear-fuel  supply  and  has 
put forward its own proposal on that issue. 

The  international  community  must  not  relent  in 
its  commitment  to  banning  all  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  A  model  in  that  respect  is  the  Chemical 
Weapons Convention, which outlaws a whole category 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Its  implementing 
organization  needs  strong  and  dynamic  leadership. 
Germany  has  always  had  a  particular  commitment  to 
objectives 
conflict 
of 
a 
54 

09-52604 
We  sincerely  hope 
that  Iran  will  use 


the Chemical Weapons Convention, and we stand ready 
to accept greater responsibility in that organization. 

We view the ongoing nuclear programme in Iran 
with  great  concern.  The  belated  admittance  by  Iran 
concerning  the  construction  of  a  second  enrichment 
plant  underlines  the  fact  that  our  concerns  are  more 
than justified. Even before this latest event, the report 
by  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA) 
Director-General El Baradei emphasized the urgency of 
the matter. Unfortunately, the Iranian Government still 
refuses to cooperate fully with the IAEA and to remove 
serious doubts concerning the peaceful character of its 
nuclear  programme.  We  urge  Iran  to  grant  an  IAEA 
verification  team  access  to  the  newly  disclosed  site 
without delay. 

the 
opportunity  of  the  upcoming  talks  between  it  and  the 
E3+3  —  the  United  Kingdom,  France  and  Germany, 
plus  the  United  States,  the  Russian  Federation  and 
China  —  to  demonstrate  its  willingness  to  engage  in 
honest  and  speedy  negotiations.  If  Iran’s  leaders 
continue to stall, the international community will have 
no  other  choice  but  to  take  additional  measures  to 
emphasize the seriousness of our common concern. 

Iran has a long and great history. It witnessed the 
origins  of  civilization.  It  can  become  an  anchor  of 
stability  in  its  region  —  a  respected  member  of  the 
international community. But that involves, in addition 
to  a  diplomatic  resolution  of  questions  regarding  its 
nuclear  programme,  a  responsible  foreign  policy 
towards 
its  neighbours.  The  key 
the 
recognition of Israel’s right to exist. 

Since the escalation of violence in the Gaza Strip 
at  the  beginning  of  the  year,  we  have  seen  some 
encouraging signs of a return to the peace process. The 
resumption  of  negotiations  aimed  at  the  two-State 
solution  is  still  possible.  Germany  strongly  supports 
President Obama’s intensive commitment and regional 
approach.  Together  with  the  partners  of  the  European 
Union,  we  are  prepared  to  support  efforts  towards 
peace  through  concrete  contributions.  What  we  now 
need, however, are courageous gestures of goodwill on 
all sides to create the conditions for serious talks. 
The  successful  holding  of  elections  in  June  was 

an 
important  milestone 
the  continuing 
stabilization of Lebanon. What is now important is that 
a  new  Government  soon  be  formed.  The  successful 
United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL) 
towards 
this 
to 
is 
A/64/PV.12
the 
Despite  all 
the  criticism, 
the  framework  of 
free  and  organized  by 
mission  remains  a  crucial  contribution  to  securing  the 
ceasefire  between  Lebanon  and  Israel,  and  thus  to  the 
stabilization  of 
region.  By  again  assuming 
command  of  the  UNIFIL  Maritime  Task  Force  on 
1 September, we further strengthened our commitment 
to UNIFIL. 

For  Afghanistan,  2009  is  a  pivotal  year.  The 
presidential  elections  —  the  first  elections  in  decades 
that  were 
the  Afghans 
themselves — determined who will control the fate of 
the  country  over  the  next  five  years.  They  were  an 
impressive  sign  of  the  resolve  of  the  people  of 
Afghanistan to take part in the political process. 

Against  the  backdrop  of  the  difficult  security 
situation, the further build-up of Afghan security forces 
assumes  even  greater  importance.  We  will,  therefore, 
continue  to  increase  the  number  of  German  police 
instructors  in Afghanistan,  we  will  support  the  further 
build-up  of  the  European  Union  Police  Mission,  and 
we  will  help  to  advance  the  training  of  the  Afghan 
army  within 
the  International 
Security Assistance Force. 
there  are  also 

encouraging  accomplishments,  especially  in  the  field 
of  economic  growth  and  in  the  reconstruction  of  the 
country’s  infrastructure.  The  basic  prerequisites  for 
Afghanistan’s 
sustainable  development  are  good 
governance,  a  resolute  fight  against  corruption  and  an 
improvement  in  State  services.  These  are  essential  if 
the  population  is  to  once  again  nurture  hope  for  the 
future. As one of the largest troop-contributing nations 
and  one  of  the  main  bilateral  donors,  Germany  will 
continue 
the 
reconstruction of the country. 
Following  the  presidential  elections,  we  are  now 

entering  a  new  phase  of  cooperation  between  the 
international  community  and  Afghanistan.  For  that 
reason,  Germany,  together  with  the  United  Kingdom 
and  France,  has  taken  the  initiative  to  hold  an 
international  conference  that  will  set  out  concrete, 
realistic  and  measurable  goals  for  the  future  political 
and  economic  development  of  Afghanistan.  To  that 
end,  the  Afghanistan  Compact,  which  will  expire  in 
2010, should be further developed. 

In 2010, we will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary 
of  the  independence  of  no  fewer  than  17  African 
States —  a  fitting  moment  to  also  look  to  the  future. 
Despite the global economic crisis, the overall outlook 
to  play  an 
instrumental 
role 
in 
09-52604 

55 
remains 
and 
security,  business 
One  major  common  challenge 
A/64/PV.12 

for Africa and its people is positive. We must succeed 
in utilizing the continent’s enormous potential in terms 
of  people,  creativity  and  resources.  It  remains  our 
challenge to  support the development of that potential 
while, at the same time, respecting African ownership. 

African  ownership  should  by  no  means  be 
equated  with  a  withdrawal  from  our  neighbouring 
continent.  On  the  contrary,  it  means  that  we  should 
cultivate  relations  with  the  States  of Africa  in  a  spirit 
of  partnership  —  a  partnership  in  which  each  side 
introduces its ideas, and in which we work together to 
master  the  challenges  we  face,  whether  locally  or 
globally. 

the 
containment of violence and the protection of people in 
conflict  areas.  Germany  will  continue  its  extensive 
engagement in Africa, be it in the area of development 
cooperation,  peace 
and 
technology,  the  environmental  and  energy  sector  or 
educational  and  scientific  cooperation.  This  also 
applies  to  cooperation  with  the African  Union,  which 
has been expanding increasingly in recent years. 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  are  a 

central pillar  of the international security architecture. 
Reform  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  is  an  urgent 
issue,  and  Germany  is  ready  to  actively  contribute  to 
such reform. 

It  is  absolutely  essential  that  the  cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
be  further  intensified.  The  European  Union  has  just 
shown 
in 
Africa —  those  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo and Chad, to name just two examples — it is a 
reliable partner of the United Nations when it comes to 
crisis management. 

We  are  facing  a  multitude  of  global  challenges. 
Today,  no  country  is  strong  enough  to  tackle  those 
challenges  on  its  own. We  need  a  universal  forum  for 
joint  global  action.  That  is  why  we  need  a  strong 
United  Nations  that  is  capable  of  taking  effective 
action. 

A long chain  of high-level  meetings —  from the 
2005  High-level  Event  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
Summit  on  Climate  Change 
last  week  —  has 
emphasized  how  urgent  it  is  to  adapt  the  United 
Nations to the challenges of today’s world, for threats 
have become  global. Our responses, however, are still 
that,  with 
its  peacekeeping  missions 

not  always  global,  and  that  is  true  for  the  United 
Nations as well. 

Reforms must start with simple questions. Does a 
particular  body  effectively  fulfil  its  tasks?  Does  its 
composition  reflect  the  world  of  today? Where  that  is 
not  the  case,  reform  must  have  a  clear  objective:  to 
make the United Nations more effective, more credible 
and more assertive. 

However, we must not limit reforms to the United 
Nations. If we want to deal effectively with the current 
crisis  and  effectively  prevent  future  crises,  we  must 
also  reform  the  international  financial  institutions. 
Isolated  reforms  of  individual  institutions  will  not  get 
us  anywhere.  Reform  of  the  financial  institutions  and 
of  the  United  Nations  must  intermesh  as  a  broader 
reform  of  global  governance  —  a  reform  that,  more 
than  six  decades  after  the  founding  of  today’s  world 
order,  is  long  overdue.  Germany,  incidentally,  is 
advocating at a high level the improved representation 
of  newly  industrialized  and  developing  countries  as 
part  of  the  reform  of  the  international  financial 
institutions.  This 
is  our  understanding  of  global 
governance: fair participation for everybody. 

In 2000 and 2005, heads of State and Government 
called for reform of the Security Council. They did so 
out  of  the  realization  that  we  can  meet  the  threats  of 
today  only  if  the  Council  reflects  the  world  of  today. 
One  thing  is  clear:  if  the  Security  Council  does  not 
reform  itself,  there  is  a  risk  that  other  bodies  will 
attempt  to  take  its  place.  Such  a  rivalry  would  be 
detrimental  to  us  all.  Let  us  therefore  attempt,  at  this 
sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly, to bring 
about concrete results. 

Germany  has  been  and  remains  willing  to  take 
responsibility.  That  includes  assuming  a  permanent 
seat on a reformed Security Council. We also underline 
this readiness to take responsibility with our candidacy 
for a non-permanent seat on the Council for the period 
2011-2012. Through our work in the Security Council, 
we  want  to  contribute  to  the  success  of  the  United 
Nations, 
to 
worldwide  United  Nations  missions,  to  development 
funds,  humanitarian  aid  and 
the  United  Nations 
Environment  Programme.  Now  and  in  the  future,  we 
will  work  to  find  common  interests,  to  overcome 
divisions  and  to  strengthen  a  global  partnership  of 
responsibility. 
The meeting rose at 9.10 p.m. 
just  as  we  are  already  contributing 
09-52604 
56 

