
A/64/PV.23
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

23rd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 20 October 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:
Ali Abdussalam Treki. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 







The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Agenda items 63 and 47 (continued) 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 

progress in implementation and 
international support 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/64/204 
and A/64/208) 




  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/210) 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/302) 

Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  The  Canadian  delegation 

is  pleased  once  again  to  join  this  important  debate. 
Africa, as we all know, is a continent of vast richness 
in  its  cultures,  diversity,  resources,  experience  and 
prospects.  In  our  view,  many  African  countries  have 
made important progress in recent years and significant 
parts of the continent are moving in the right direction. 
There have been more free and fair elections, and more 
prudent  economic  management,  with  more  reform-
minded and democratic leadership. 

Africa continues to face major health, education, 
agricultural,  environmental  and  peace  and  security 
the  MDGs 
challenges. Much remains to be done to assist African 
countries  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) and build stable political and economic 
institutions.  Achieving 
is  a  shared 
responsibility,  based  on  commitment,  partnership,  and 
perseverance. 

Canada is doing its part to help Africa achieve the 
MDGs.  Canada  has  met  its  Group  of  Eight  (G-8) 
commitment  to  double  aid  to  Africa  from  2003-2004 
levels to $2.1 billion. Furthermore, Canada reaffirmed 
its  commitment  to  double  its  overall  international 
assistance  by  2010-2011  from  2001-2002  levels.  This 
will  bring  Canada’s  total  international  assistance  to 
approximately $5 billion per year. 

As part of the joint G-8 pledge on food security, 
Canada  will  more  than  double  its  investment  in  this 
area  and  provide  $600  million  in  increased  funding 
over  three  years,  reaching  $1.18  billion  in  overall 
funding.  Canada  has  also  untied  all  its  food  aid  and 
committed  to  untie  all  bilateral  assistance  by  2013. 
This will not only improve aid by increasing its impact, 
but  also  enable  us  to  respond  better  to  the  needs  of 
developing countries. 
the  African 

For  example, 
Development  Bank’s 
forecast  of  a  shortfall  of 
resources over the next year, Canada announced at the 
last Group of 20 summit that it will temporarily triple 
its  callable  capital.  This  initiative  will  provide  the 
Bank  with  about  $2.6  billion  in  additional  capacity. 
Canada’s response recognizes the efforts by the African 
Development  Bank  to  ensure  that  it  has  sufficient 
response 
in 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-56896 (E) 
*0956896* 


in  at 
is  an 
Private 
sector  expansion 
A/64/PV.23 

resources  with  which  to  respond  quickly  to  the 
demands  of  its  borrowing  members  while  it  continues 
its poverty reduction efforts. 
important 

component  of  overall  development.  Canada 
is  a 
significant economic partner for Africa, with more than 
290  Canadian  companies  operating 
least 
36 countries. Canada is the largest non-African foreign 
investor in mining in Africa, often playing a significant 
role in the development of the mining industry on the 
continent.  The  Canadian  Government  encourages  and 
indeed  expects  Canadian  companies  to  meet  high 
standards  of  corporate  social  responsibility  when  they 
operate abroad. 

Democratic and effective governance are also key 
to the success of African socio-economic development. 
The  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  and  its  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
(APRM) are vehicles to help achieve this goal through 
the  creation  of  an  enabling  environment  for  stability 
and  socio-economic  development.  Canada  strongly 
supports  NEPAD  and  considers  the  APRM  initiative 
vital  to  the  overall  success  of  Africa’s  development. 
We welcome the progress made by African countries in 
the 
the  APRM.  Twenty-nine 
countries  have  already  signed  on,  and  nine  have 
completed  the  review  process.  Canada  was  among  the 
first  donors  to  support  the APRM  and  has  contributed 
$6  million 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme Trust Fund. 

Canada has also maintained a strong commitment 
to  regional  and  multilateral  initiatives  to  advance 
global malaria prevention and control efforts. In 2008, 
Canada  pledged  an  additional  $450  million  over  three 
years  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
and  Malaria,  bringing  Canada’s  total  commitment  to 
close to $1 billion. Approximately one quarter of these 
funds are channelled towards fighting malaria. 

International 
Development  Agency’s  support  for  the  prevention  of 
malaria  has  resulted 
the  distribution  of  over 
7.9 million bednets in Africa through partnerships with 
the  Red  Cross,  UNICEF  and  World  Vision  Canada; 
$60 million  has  been  allocated  to  increase  access  to 
treatment  at  the  community  level  for  malaria  and 
pneumonia,  two  of  the  leading  killers  of  children 
worldwide.  It  is  conservatively  estimated  that  these 
two programmes will save over 250,000 lives. 
implementation  of 
the  Canadian 
to 
Since 
2003, 
in 

Canada  has  long  been  engaged  with  our African 
partners  in  finding  durable  solutions  to  protracted 
conflicts  across  the  continent,  both  through  direct 
bilateral  partners  and  through  our  engagement  in 
support  for African  institutions,  including  the African 
Union  (AU), 
the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African  States  (ECOWAS)  and  the  Southern  Africa 
Development  Community.  We  are  pleased  with  the 
leadership roles that these institutions are assuming to 
deal  with  crises  in  the  region.  To  cite  but  one  recent 
example,  ECOWAS  and  the AU  have  been  co-leading 
the International Contact Group addressing the situation 
in Guinea. Furthermore, as a committed member of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  Chair  of  its  Sierra 
Leone  country-specific  configuration,  Canada  is  also 
working  in  direct  partnership  with  States  seeking  a 
peaceful and sustainable recovery from conflict. 
(spoke in French) 

The  ongoing  conflict  in  the  Sudan  and  the 
resultant  humanitarian  crisis  in  Darfur  have  become 
perennial issues on the agenda of the Security Council, 
while  growing  insecurity  —  most  particularly  in 
Southern  Sudan  —  is  of  mounting  concern  as  we 
approach  such  critical  milestones  in  the  North-South 
Comprehensive Peace Agreement as the 2010 Sudanese 
elections  and 
the  2011  referendum  on  Southern 
secession. A  return  to  civil  war  in  the  Sudan  must  be 
avoided. 

Since  2006,  Canada  has  contributed  over 
$647 million  in  support  of  peace  and  humanitarian 
efforts 
the 
implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
and  for  the  Darfur  peace  process.  Our  support  has 
included partnering with African countries contributing 
personnel 
two  Security  Council-mandated 
peacekeeping  missions  in  the  Sudan,  namely  the 
United  Nations  Mission  in  the  Sudan,  in  southern 
Sudan,  and  the African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid 
Operation  in  Darfur  and  its  predecessor  mission,  the 
African Union Mission in the Sudan. 
In  the  Great  Lakes  region,  Canada  views  the 

resolution  of  ongoing,  complex  and 
interlinked 
conflicts  as  key  to  building  long-term  prosperity  and 
development. As co-chair, with the Netherlands, of the 
Group  of  Friends  of  the  Great  Lakes  Region,  Canada 
supports the process of the International Conference on 
the Great Lakes Region in its goal to implement lasting 
including  support  for 
the  Sudan, 
the 
in 
to 
2 

09-56896 


solutions  to  regional  problems  of  peace,  security, 
stability and development. 

Peace  and  prosperity  in  the  Great  Lakes  region 
cannot,  however,  be  accomplished  without  addressing 
the ongoing conflict in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo,  particularly  in  the  eastern  region.  Canada 
currently  has  Canadian  officers  fulfilling  key  roles  in 
the United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo, and has provided more than $98 million 
for  humanitarian  and  development  assistance  since 
2006. 

Canada  has  been  actively  involved  in  efforts  to 
bring stability and humanitarian assistance to Somalia. 
Canada participates in the International Contact Group 
on  Somalia  and  has  provided  over  $65  million  in 
humanitarian  assistance  since  December  2006  to  help 
respond to the urgent needs of Somalis  and of Somali 
refugees in Kenya. In response to pirate attacks against 
aid vessels off the coast of eastern Africa, Canada will 
once  again  be  deploying  a  naval  vessel  to  the  region 
this November for a six-month tour of duty. 

Africa  has  achieved  much  success  over  the  past 
few  years.  We  Canadians  join  our African  partners  in 
celebration of this progress. The African continent is a 
region  of  great  promise  and  potential.  Through 
coordinated African-led commitments and partnerships, 
this potential is being realized. Canada will continue to 
contribute 
the  challenges  faced  by 
Africans  and  will  do  its  part  in  working  towards  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): The world financial and economic crisis has 
jeopardized the steady socio-economic development of 
the  African  continent.  Today,  as  never  before,  it  is 
important to implement political agreements in support 
of Africa  achieved  both  at  the  United  Nations  and  in 
other multilateral forums, including the Group of Eight 
and  the  Group  of  20  (G-20).  We  reaffirm  Russia’s 
commitment to implementing international commitments 
to  assist  African  countries,  in  particular  in  terms  of 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
for  Africa’s 
implementing 
the  New  Partnership 
Development  (NEPAD),  which  are 
the  generally 
recognized frameworks for working with Africa. 

to 
significantly increase assistance to the world’s poorest 
countries, the majority of which are African States. We 
will  actively  help  to  implement  this.  Recently,  we 
the  G-20  Summit, 
it  was  decided 
to  resolving 
At 
A/64/PV.23
economic 
growth, 
traditional 
development 
Strengthening  Russia’s 
to  programmes  encouraging 
concluded  an  agreement  with  the  World  Bank  to 
contribute  $50  million  to  the  Rapid  Social  Response 
Multi-Donor  Trust  Fund  Facility.  We  are  considering 
additional  opportunities  to  provide  assistance  on  a 
bilateral  basis.  A  good  foundation  for  subsequent 
action  in  support  of  NEPAD  was  laid  by  the  political 
declaration  on Africa’s  development  needs  (resolution 
63/1), adopted at last year’s high-level plenary meeting 
on  the  theme  “Africa’s  development  needs:  state  of 
implementation  of  various  commitments,  challenges 
and the way forward”.  

We  believe  that  in  the  future  it  will  not  only  be 
important to focus on providing financial assistance as 
a  means  of  reacting  to  the  crisis,  but  also  essential  to 
focus  national  and  international  efforts  on  ensuring 
long-term 
of 
infrastructure,  and  social  support  to  the  poorest  and 
most vulnerable strata of the population. Priority must 
also  be  given 
the 
participation  of  private  capital  in  infrastructure  and 
social projects.  
friendly 

relations  with  African  States 
and  broadening 
multifaceted  interaction  with  them  remains  a  foreign 
policy  priority  for  us.  Tens  of  thousands  of  Africans 
have  graduated  from  educational  institutions  in  our 
country,  and  many  Russian  professionals  —  including 
physicians,  engineers  and  geologists  —  have  worked 
and  continue  to  work  in  many  African  countries. 
Recently,  interaction  between  Russia  and  Africa  has 
regained  considerable  momentum.  The  most  vivid 
proof of this was last June’s visit by President Dmitry 
A.  Medvedev  of  the  Russian  Federation  to  Africa, 
during  which  we  reaffirmed  our  commitment 
to 
developing  an  overall  partnership  with Africa  as  well 
as  with  the  African  Union,  subregional  organizations 
and 
the  economic  and 
humanitarian areas. 

Dealing  with  socio-economic  problems  in Africa 
is  impossible  without  ensuring  lasting  peace  on  the 
continent.  To  this  end,  a  proactive  stance  by Africans 
themselves  is  essential.  It  is  important  to  consistently 
implement  measures 
to 
eliminate illegal armed groups; to broaden cooperation 
on  border  security  in  order  to  seal  borders  against 
conflict  spill-over  and  trafficking  in  illegal  weapons 
and  drugs;  and  to  curb  violations  of  the  norms  of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  put  an  end  to 
impunity for crimes against humanity. 
to  strengthen  harmony; 
individual  countries 
in 
09-56896 

3 

significant 
contributions 
A/64/PV.23 


We  welcome  current  efforts  being  made  in  those 
areas by the African community, as we do the vigorous 
work of the African Union Peace and Security Council, 
including  its  establishment  of  an  African  Standby 
Force. It is exceedingly important to continue to work 
to  develop  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
Security  Council  and  the  African  Union  Peace  and 
Security Council. 
As a permanent member of the Security Council, 

Russia  makes 
towards 
developing  a  strategy  for  the  international  community 
as  well  as  practical  measures  to  strengthen  peace  and 
security in the region. We participate in the majority of 
United Nations peacekeeping operations in Africa. We 
have  created  opportunities  for  increasing  Russian 
assistance  to  help Africa  build  its  capacity  to  resolve 
crises,  first  and  foremost  by  providing  additional 
training  in  Russia  for  African  peacekeeping  troops, 
along  with  the  provision  of  rear  guard  and  logistical 
support  for  African  Union  peacekeeping  operations 
authorized by the Security Council, as well as aviation 
and transport services. 

Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): First 
of  all,  Mr.  President,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s  appreciation  for  the  very  illuminating 
this  debate 
introduction  with  which  you  opened 
devoted 
for  Africa’s 
the  promotion  of  sustainable 
Development  and 
economic growth and sustainable development. 

My  delegation  fully  associates  itself  with  the 
statements  delivered  by  the  representatives  of  the 
Sudan  and  Tunisia  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China and the African Group, respectively. 

I  should  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  reports  on  the  issue  we  are  addressing  today:  the 
seventh consolidated progress report on implementation 
and  international  support  for  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) (A/64/204), the report 
on 
various 
commitments,  challenges  and 
forward 
(A/64/208) and the report on the causes of conflict and 
the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa  (A/64/210).  Those  reports  and 
the  recommendations  they  contain  serve  to  remind  us 
that  Africa  has  made  significant  progress  since  we 
began  to  implement  NEPAD,  which  is  now  an  agency 
of  the  African  Union.  The  establishment  of  this  new 
mechanism  and  its  incorporation  into  the  Union  will 
the  New  Partnership 
of 
the  way 
implementation 
state 
the 
of 
to 
The  report  of 
produce  effective  complementarity  in  the  Union’s 
missions and efforts as a whole in the common pursuit 
of Africa’s development and integration.  

Algeria,  which  was  among  the  first  African 
countries to promote NEPAD, would like once again to 
underscore  the  importance  of  this  strategic  framework 
in ensuring the rebirth of the continent. The Partnership 
reflects  the  resolve  of  African  countries  to  place  the 
continent  on  the  path  towards  economic  and  social 
development by taking charge of its own development 
efforts.  

the  Secretary-General  clearly 
indicates  that,  despite  every  commitment  and  effort 
made  by  African  countries  and  their  institutions,  the 
main  problem  continues  to  be  the  lack  of  financial 
resources.  Six  years  from  the  deadline  established  by 
the international community for the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), Africa is the 
only continent still facing major obstacles in its efforts 
to  combat  poverty  and  need.  The  ongoing  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis,  a  complex  food  crisis 
and  the  exacerbation  of  the  negative  consequences  of 
climate  change  could  potentially  undermine 
the 
significant  progress  made  in  the  implementation  of 
sustainable  development  programmes,  which  are  of 
crucial importance to the continent.  

Algeria  concurs  with  the  Secretary-General  on 
the urgent need for action to address the economic and 
financial 
international 
development  cooperation  is  essential  in  the  current 
international  environment.  My  country  calls  on 
international  development  partners, 
the 
United Nations, to act in unison as a matter of urgency 
to  ameliorate  the  social  and  economic  effects  of  the 
crisis  and  help African  countries  to  get  back  on  track 
towards 
the 
achievement of the MDGs. 
in  particular 

The 
developed 
financial 
institutions, should therefore act to help Africa to make 
use  of  all  of  NEPAD’s  capacities  and  all 
the 
commitments made to put an end to poverty and bolster 
sustainable  development 
the 
Partnership as soon as possible, as was called for at the 
Gleneagles Group of Eight (G-8) Summit. To that end, 
official  development  assistance  to  Africa  in  2010 
should  rise  to  at  least  $55  billion  in  2004  dollars. 
Similarly, the promise made by the G-8 at the meeting 
international  community, 
countries 
implementation  of  NEPAD  and 
the  context  of 
international 
including 
regard, 
crisis. 
that 
and 
in 
In 
the 
4 

09-56896 
in 
investment 
that  sector 
in  particular 


held  in  L’Aquila  in  July  2009,  namely,  to  provide  an 
estimated  $20  billion  in  agricultural  assistance  to 
in  developing 
increase 
countries,  and 
to  achieve  a  green 
revolution in Africa, must be kept.  

Algeria would like to reiterate its appreciation for 
the  contributions  of  numerous  partners  whose 
commitment and backing, combined with the efforts of 
African  countries  themselves,  have  made  a  difference 
on the ground. That was especially the case with regard 
to the determined efforts made in the course of the past 
decade to alleviate the debt of the world’s most heavily 
indebted developing countries, especially in Africa. 

The  willingness  of  our  development  partners 
since  the  2007  G-8  Summit  at  Heiligendamm  to 
rekindle their interest vis-à-vis partnership with Africa 
was  clearly  a  promising  development,  which  we  very 
much appreciate, as it seems to us to herald a genuine 
reactivation of that partnership. In that regard, Algeria 
welcomes  the  decision  taken  in  response  to  the 
commendable initiative of the Italian presidency of the 
G-8  to  implement  the  decision  taken  at  the  2008 
Hokkaido  Summit 
the 
G-8/Group  of  Five  plus  three  follow-up  mechanism, 
whose  added  value 
in  strengthening  partnership 
between the two parties is beyond question. 

In  the  consensus  document  they  adopted  at  the 
September  2008  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development  needs  and  the  MDGs  (resolution  63/1), 
heads of State or Government reiterated the importance 
they  attach  to  the  continent’s  development.  They 
established a framework and identified the steps to be 
taken  towards  the  overall  goal  of  contributing  to 
Africa’s development and, in particular, to ensuring the 
implementation  of  NEPAD  programmes.  In  addition, 
they stressed the importance of cooperation to provide 
ongoing coordinated support to NEPAD to help African 
countries 
the 
continent’s  development.  The  United  Nations  system 
provides  the  clear  goals  and  road  map  to  that  end, 
which we should support. 

To  that  end,  we  believe  that  the  United  Nations 
system should improve the quality and effectiveness of 
its  programmes  and  redouble  efforts  to  increase  its 
overall  assistance  to  Africa  through  advocacy  efforts 
and appropriate financing. We also think that it must of 
course  fully  respect  the  provisions  of  the  political 
declaration  contained  in  resolution  63/1  related  to  the 
to  mobilize  financial  resources  for 
to  effectively 
reactivate 
A/64/PV.23
to 
the 
all 
and 
rights 
review 
eliminating 
implementation  of 
increased  cooperation  between 
establishment,  before  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  of  a  follow-up  mechanism  with  a 
mandate 
the 
commitments related to Africa’s development.  

My  delegation  shares  the  Secretary-General’s 
observation  contained  in  his  report  on  the  causes  of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa.  The  establishment 
of  a  peaceful  environment  is  an  essential  element  of 
economic  and  social  development.  We  are  pleased  to 
note  that,  despite  the  difficulties  referred  to  in  the 
report, significant progress has been made in the areas 
of  security,  democracy,  good  governance,  capacity-
building  and 
the 
African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  in  promoting 
human 
forms  of 
discrimination against women on the continent. 

Mr. Cabral (Guinea-Bissau), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

The African  Union,  in  line  with  the  spirit  of  its 
Constitutive  Act,  has  devoted  itself  to  combating 
conflict and political instability in Africa, with a view 
to making the continent free of conflict during the year 
2010.  That  goal  was  underscored  in  the  Tripoli 
declaration  on  the  elimination  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion of sustainable development in Africa, which 
was adopted in September 2009. 

Algeria  is  pleased  to  note  the  operationalization 
of the African Peace and Security Architecture set out 
in  the  protocol  establishing  the  African  Union  Peace 
and Security Council, as well as that of the Panel of the 
Wise  and  the  putting  in  place  of  the  key  elements  of 
the  African  Standby  Force  and  the  Continental  Early 
Warning System.  

The  African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council 
and the Panel of the Wise continue to play an important 
role in the prevention and resolution of conflicts on the 
continent. We  therefore  commend  the  efforts  made  by 
the United Nations to cooperate with the African Union 
in  order  to  strengthen  and  improve  the  Union’s 
peacekeeping capacities. 

The African Union plays a key role in preventing 
and  mediating  numerous  conflicts 
in  Africa,  as 
reflected  in  the  outstanding  results  achieved  in  such 
countries  as  Burundi,  Comoros, 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Liberia and the Sudan, as well 
as in the progress made in the search for peace in other 
09-56896 

5 

in 
is  committed 
A/64/PV.23 

countries  and  areas.  That  progress  has  sparked  hope 
and  improved  prospects  for  development  and  rebirth 
that must now be supported by sustained peacebuilding 
and post-conflict reconstruction efforts. 

The  African  continent  is  aware  of  the  need  to 
strengthen  democratic  governance,  promote  legitimate 
interests  and  to  respect  human  rights  and  the  rule  of 
law.  To  that  end,  I  should  like  to  recall  that  African 
countries have made significant efforts to honour their 
NEPAD commitments, including with regard to health, 
agriculture, education, information technology, science 
and  technology  and,  in  particular,  with  regard  to 
establishing the African Peer Review Mechanism, that 
today  comprises  30  African  countries, 
including 
Algeria.  That  also  illustrates  that  the  continent  has 
made  genuine  progress 
the  areas  of  good 
governance,  respect  for  human  rights  and  promoting 
democracy  in  an  atmosphere  of  cooperation.  That 
underscores  how  much  Africa 
to 
sustainable  development,  peace  and  human  rights  as 
the foundations for progress.  

In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my belief 
that successfully achieving NEPAD’s goals will not be 
possible  without  a  plan  devised  and  carried  out  by 
African  countries.  With 
the  continent’s  abundant 
natural  and  human  resources  and  the  commitment  of 
African  leaders  to  achieve  those  goals,  success  is 
possible  —  so  long  as  NEPAD  has  the  unfailing 
support of the international community. 

Mr.  Carmon  (Israel):  I  wish 
the 
President of the Assembly for convening this important 
debate. 
the  Secretary-General’s 
seventh consolidated progress report on implementation 
and  international  support  for  the  New  Partnership  for 
(A/64/204).  The 
Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) 
report  examines  policy  actions 
taken  by 
the 
international community to help African countries meet 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
implement 
for  Africa’s 
Development projects and programmes.  

Today,  as  the  international  community  addresses 
development in Africa, one of its major challenges, the 
world should examine the achievements and challenges 
that  lie  ahead.  As  we  strengthen  our  partnerships  in 
development,  so  too  will  we  become  partners  in 
prosperity. With the stark realities of the financial and 
economic crises, we must reaffirm — in both word and 
deed  —  our  commitment  to  the  MDGs  and  the 
the  New  Partnership 
Israel  welcomes 
thank 
to 
to 
and 
Israel’s 
in  1958, 
throughout 
development 
in  particular  on 
is  developing  new 
principles of development and humanity that gave rise 
to today’s debate.  

Israel’s long-standing relationship with the region 
began  after  the  historic  visit  of  then-Foreign  Minister 
of  Israel,  Golda  Meir, 
the  young, 
independent  States  of  Africa.  Since  then,  Israel  has 
sought  to  build  upon  those  cooperative  relationships 
across  the  continent.  Only  recently,  Foreign  Minister 
Avigdor  Liberman  visited  a  number  of  African 
countries  in  order  to  continue  and  deepen  Israel’s 
dedication to development.  

agency, 
international 
MASHAV, lies at the heart of our development efforts 
in Africa. Founded as a modest programme focused on 
grass-roots-level  human  capacity-building  in  Africa 
only  a  decade  after  Israel’s  inception,  MASHAV  has 
blossomed into an extensive programme that promotes 
food  production,  public 
sustainable  development, 
health  programmes  and  equality 
the 
developing  world, 
the  African 
continent. In addition to bilateral country cooperation, 
MASHAV 
innovative 
partnerships. Last year, MASHAV signed, among other 
things,  a  memorandum  of  understanding  with  the 
United Nations Development Programme in Africa, as 
well as an agreement with the United Nations Food and 
Agriculture  Organization.  Those  agreements  are 
integrating  the  work  of  MASHAV  into  the  context  of 
African development. 

Combating HIV/AIDS must continue to be a high 
global  priority.  On  this  matter,  Israel  has  built  and 
maintained  cooperation  with  the  Joint  United  Nations 
Programme  on  HIV/AIDS,  UNICEF,  civil  society 
partners in African countries and private organizations. 
In this context, Israel will organize a multi-disciplinary 
training  programme  on  HIV  antiretroviral  therapy  for 
doctors, nurses and technicians from African countries 
that will take place in January. While such programmes 
bring  doctors  from Africa  to  Israel,  others  send  teams 
of  specially  trained  Israeli  health  professionals  and 
volunteers 
to  work  with  orphaned  HIV-positive 
children  through  the  use  of  support  programmes  and 
community-based initiatives. 

Another area of emphasis in the field of health is 
prenatal  and  neonatal  care.  The  Tipat  Chalav 
concept — which  appropriately  means  “drop  of  milk” 
in  Hebrew  —  offers  community-based  prenatal  and 
healthy-baby  clinics.  The  Tipat  Chalav  model 
is 
6 

09-56896 
In 
this 
cooperation,  will 
irrigation  systems 
and  Development. 


currently  being  implemented  in  Kumasi,  Ghana,  and 
will  have  a  dramatic  impact  on  rates  of  infant 
mortality. 

Social  development  is  another  key  aspect  of 
today’s debate. To further enhance such work, this year 
Israel  will  assume  the  chair  of  the  Commission  on 
Population 
context, 
MASHAV programmes address the connections among 
gender, poverty reduction and sustainable development, 
as well as the need for gender-sensitive policymaking. 

Harnessing agricultural technology has the power 
to  transform  development  and  hasten  growth.  In 
Israel’s  case,  despite  environmental  and  climatic 
challenges, we succeeded in making the most unlikely 
environments  —  notably 
the  desert  —  bloom. 
Technology  sharing  in  this  field,  along  with  increased 
international 
facilitate  greater 
sustainable development on the African continent. One 
of  Israel’s  hallmark  projects  is  the  promotion  of 
sustainable  agriculture  through  the  widespread  use  of 
low-pressure 
that  enable  small 
farmers  to  establish  individual  market  gardens  with 
their own water-rationing facilities. The project is part 
of  the  Techno-agricultural  Innovation  for  Poverty 
Alleviation programmes. Such  efforts also offer better 
food security to often vulnerable populations. 

In  the  area  of  desertification,  Israel  has  given 
special  emphasis  to  developing  programmes  in Africa 
in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations  Convention  to 
Combat  Desertification,  including  initiatives  aimed  at 
dryland development. In coordination with the relevant 
agricultural  and  environmental  ministries  in  many 
African  States,  we  offer  our  perspective  on  managing 
drought,  entrepreneurship  and  livelihoods  in  desert 
conditions,  as  well  as  soil  degradation,  among  other 
relevant  issues.  For  this  reason,  Israel  is  actively 
involved in the work of the Commission on Sustainable 
Development (CSD) and endorsed the recommendations 
of  the  seventeenth  CSD  policy  session  in  2009,  the 
CSD-17  initiative,  “Realizing  a  Green  Revolution  in 
Africa”. 

Israel  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
entitled  “Agricultural  technology  for  development” 
(A/64/258).  This  year,  we  are  proud  to  present  a 
follow-up  draft  resolution  to  resolution  62/190  on 
agricultural technology for development. We will work 
to achieve consensus on this important resolution with 
the  productive  and  positive  engagement  of  as  many 
A/64/PV.23
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke 
States  as  possible,  and  with  the  clear  view  that Africa 
will be the main beneficiary of such a resolution. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  my  country’s 
commitment  to  the  ideals  enshrined  in  today’s  debate 
and to reaffirm that we will continue to do our part to 
contribute to the global human family. 

in  French):  My 
delegation  joins  in  supporting  the  worthy  statement 
made this morning by the representative of Tunisia on 
behalf  of 
the  African  Group,  and  we  associate 
ourselves with the statement made by the delegation of 
the Sudan, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, on 
agenda items 63 (a) and (b). 

The  Republic  of  the  Congo,  being  one  of  the 
countries where malaria is the most severe, would like 
to  focus  its  statement  on  agenda  item  47,  concerning 
the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Developing 
Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa  (A/64/302).  First  of 
all, I would like to thank the President of the Assembly 
for calling this meeting on that subject. I also take this 
occasion to express my thanks to the Secretary-General 
for having made the report available to Member States. 

My delegation has no doubt that the World Health 
Organization’s  2009  World  Malaria  Report,  to  be 
published  at  the  end  of  this  month,  will  shed  light  on 
the spread of this terrible affliction and will permit all 
partners  to  better  appreciate  the  efforts  being  made  to 
fight malaria, as well as their impact on health through 
the end of 2008. 

In 2000, heads of State and Government in Africa 
made commitments to roll back malaria. They set noble 
goals, including achieving 80 per cent coverage in four 
well-defined areas of intervention, with the corollary of 
a reduction of at least 50 per cent in malaria cases and 
mortality  between  2000  and  2010,  and  of  at  least 
75 per cent  between  2000  and  2015.  The  Global 
Malaria  Action  Plan  took  on  those  same  objectives, 
giving them a global dimension. 

Information  from  last  year  described  an  increase 
in  coverage  in  Africa  and  around  the  world.  It 
confirmed  the  impact  of  combating  malaria  with 
increased  intervention  measures  in  countries  that  had 
had low to moderate malaria rates. Today, as the 2010 
deadline  approaches,  despite  the  tremendous  progress 
that has been made in combating this scourge, areas of 
concern remain. These include, in particular, resistance 
09-56896 

7 

in 
A/64/PV.23 

to  artemisinin  monotherapy,  insufficient  funding,  and 
weakness in purchasing and supply chains. 

Malaria  affects  more  than  a  hundred  countries 
throughout  the  world.  It  is  the  premier  cause  of 
mortality and morbidity, especially in Africa, where the 
disease  kills  over  a  million  people  every  year. 
Moreover,  each  year  it  costs  the  continent  more  than 
$12  billion  and  slows  its  economic  growth  by  1.3  per 
cent.  The  Republic  of  the  Congo,  as  I  said  before,  is 
one  of  the  countries  of  Africa  where  malaria  is  most 
endemic.  The  health  situation  shows  a  rate  of 
prevalence  for malaria of  5.6 per  cent,  compared with 
the  rates  for  tuberculosis  and  HIV/AIDS,  which  are 
0.4 per cent and 4.2 per cent, respectively. 

As we study those disturbing statistics, the urgent 
need  for  coming  up  with  innovative,  better  adapted 
strategies for fighting malaria in order to contribute to 
the  well-being  of 
individuals  and  communities 
becomes  clear.  Women  and  children  are  the  most 
vulnerable  targets  of  all  and  should  be  at  the  heart  of 
such  strategies.  As  a  stakeholder 
the  Abuja 
Declaration  and  a  member  of  the  International  Drug 
Purchase  Facility 
to  help  developing 
countries access treatment for HIV/AIDS, malaria and 
tuberculosis,  my  country  has  made  the  fight  against 
the 
malaria  one  of 
reference 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The Strategy 
Document  on  Poverty  Reduction  and  the  National 
Health  Development  Plan,  implemented  through  the 
Health  Services  Development  Programme,  as  well  as 
the private sector Medium-Term Financing Framework, 
constitute the main pillars of our national strategy. 

As to the implementation of our national plan to 
combat malaria, the Government has taken a number of 
steps,  of  which  the  most  significant  was  the  free 
distribution  of  more  than  half  a  million  insecticide-
treated mosquito nets in October 2007. More recently, 
the  Government  instituted  last  September  mother-and-
child  weeks  dedicated 
to  providing  vaccination, 
vitamin  A  supplements,  parasite  treatment  and  the 
distribution  of  470,000  insecticide-treated  nets.  Since 
December  2007,  the  Republic  of  Congo  has  invested 
major resources in ensuring free antimalarial treatment 
for  children  up  to  15  years  of  age  and  their  mothers. 
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  this  free  treatment,  which 
has  so  far  been  used  in  1,764,504  cases  of  simple 
malaria  —  almost  a  third  of  the  population  —  has 
reached  100  per  cent  of  our  health  units.  This 
its  national  priorities  within 
for  action  based  on 
frameworks 
initiative 
to 
especially 
the  national  authorities  are  committed 
lifesaving  experiment  will  be  gradually  extended  to 
more  serious  cases  of  malaria  and  will  be  part  of  the 
effort to ensure universal access to medication. 
For  the  Republic  of  Congo,  universal  access  to 

medication, 
the  most  vulnerable 
populations, remains a key element in the fight against 
malaria. With respect to its actions against this scourge, 
the  Government  has  established  a  central  purchasing 
agency  for  buying  and  supplying  health  units  with 
essential  generic  medications  and  expanding  free 
antimalarial treatment beyond those  under 15 years  of 
age  to  all  age  levels  of  the  population.  However, 
universal  access  to  medications  alone  cannot  help  us 
roll  back  malaria  and  lead  to  the  ultimate  solution  we 
all hope for — its eradication, pure and simple. In spite 
of  the  Government’s  ongoing  efforts,  the  fight  against 
malaria in the Republic of Congo still faces challenges 
that 
to 
addressing. 

We  need  more  vigorous  promotion  of  a  public 
awareness  campaign  on  using  treated  mosquito  nets. 
Gaps in preventive treatment coverage and the practice 
of  indoor  insecticide  spraying,  as  well  as  insufficient 
use  of  labs  and  rapid  diagnostic  tests,  are  also  areas 
that  health  authorities  will  need 
tackle  more 
vigorously in future. Finally, training health personnel 
in the correct treatment of malaria is still lacking and is 
a  priority,  particularly 
in  capacity-building,  both 
nationally and in the competent subregional bodies. 

Given this urgency, and the scope of the financial 
effort  required,  the  commitment  of  the  State  is  not 
enough to encompass the extent of the response needed 
to  deal  with  this  disease.  The  Government  therefore 
intends to develop a partnership with the private sector, 
particularly  as  regards  prevention.  A  scourge  like 
malaria obviously demands more significant action and 
resources,  nationally  and  globally,  if  we  are  to  reach 
our  goals.  According  to  the  report  before  us,  almost 
two  thirds  of  the  funding  allocated  to  combat  malaria 
will  go  to Africa,  which  has  about  90  per  cent  of  the 
world’s  deaths  due  to  the  disease.  The  same  source 
indicates that $5 billion is needed to achieve the goals 
set by Roll Back Malaria and the MDGs. At the same 
time,  we  fear  that  the  context  of  the  global  economic 
and financial crisis may negatively affect the financing 
of  antimalaria  programmes  and,  furthermore,  might 
compromise  progress  already  made.  The  effective 
control  of  malaria  requires  interventions  on  a  greater 
scale, predictable and sustainable financing, and better 
to 
8 

09-56896 


participation  by  the  communities  dealing  with  the 
disease,  as  well  as  strengthened  partnerships  on  the 
global, regional and national levels. 

My  delegation,  which  has  always  supported 
initiatives  to  roll  back  malaria,  fully  supports  the 
recommendations in the Secretary-General’s report and 
calls  for  their  positive  consideration.  This  is  also  the 
moment to say how grateful we are to our bilateral and 
multilateral  partners  involved  in  this  common  cause, 
and to ask them not to abandon their commitments — 
particularly  in  difficult  periods  such  as  this  when 
multiple crises throughout the world threaten to devour 
our financial resources — in order that our campaign’s 
goals  will  be  achieved  on  time.  The  Congolese 
delegation would like to welcome from this rostrum the 
creation  of  the  Alliance  of  African  Leaders  against 
Malaria,  launched  on  23  September  2009  on  the 
sidelines  of  the  General  Assembly.  This  initiative 
shows African leaders’ willingness to stand on the front 
line of the fight against this scourge. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express at this time its support for a draft resolution on 
the  establishment  of  a  global  fund  in  support  of  the 
fight  against  malaria,  initiated  by  the  delegation  of 
Tanzania.  It  renews  the  call  for  a  broader,  stronger 
mobilization  against  this  disaster,  whose  devastating 
consequences  call  for  more  active  and  dynamic 
solidarity on the part of the international community. 
(Gambia):  The  Gambia 

associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  during  this 
debate  by Tunisia  and  Sudan  on  behalf  of  the African 
Group and the Group of 77, respectively. In my turn I 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive reports on the items under discussion. 
This  statement  will  speak  to  the  progress  of  the 

New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) in 
its implementation and in international support, as well 
as  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Developing 
Countries, Particularly in Africa. 
NEPAD  is  the  blueprint  in  which  the  African 

leadership  articulates 
takes 
ownership of the holistic development of the continent. 
It offers a new, vigorous impulse for our leaders to pull 
Africa  out  of  stagnation.  In  his  reports,  the  Secretary-
General has highlighted progress made in many of the 
infrastructure, 
NEPAD  priority 
agriculture,  health, 
and 
the  environment,  and 
communications 
as 
information 
its  broad  vision  and 
Mrs.  Waffa-Ogoo
areas, 
such 
education, 
technology, 
A/64/PV.23
rather 
than  a  blessing.  Against 
gender equality and women’s empowerment, including 
the response of the international community in support 
of NEPAD. 

Prior to the onslaught of the multiple crises of the 
last  few  years,  African  Governments  had  gained 
considerable  momentum  in  terms  of  socio-economic 
development,  as  demonstrated  by  strong  economic 
growth  rates  in  many  countries,  improved  governance 
and better policy performance. It is indeed ironic that a 
continent  that  possesses  sufficient  natural  resources, 
including  large  areas  of  arable  land  with  diverse 
agro-ecologic  conditions,  still  finds  more  than  half  of 
its  population  affected  by  hunger,  particularly  in 
sub-Saharan Africa. 

African  agriculture  is  in  crisis,  leaving  millions 
of  people  malnourished.  The  natural 
resource 
endowments of the continent seem, in most cases, to be 
a  curse, 
this 
background,  the  Gambia  calls  on  the  international 
community  to  ensure  that  the  resource  gap  between 
Africa and the rest of the world is closed. We call for a 
reversal  of  the  competitive  advantages  given  to  the 
agricultural industries of industrialized countries in the 
form of subsidies, and support the Secretary-General’s 
call  for  the  long-overdue  conclusion  of  the  Doha 
Round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations  with  an 
outcome that encompasses a development dimension. 

The  commitment  made  by  the  World  Bank, 
through the Africa Action Plan, to develop the African 
private  sector,  create  jobs,  enhance  exports,  expand 
infrastructure, 
raise  agricultural  productivity  and 
strengthen  human  development  is  highly  encouraging. 
We therefore call on our partners to continue to invest 
in  infrastructure  in  order  to  break  down  the  barriers 
that hold Africa back. Investment in infrastructure — a 
precondition  for  economic  growth  —  is  critical  to 
Africa’s sustainable development agenda. 

Food  insecurity,  desertification,  land  degradation 
and  climate  change  must  be  halted  and  reversed 
through financial support and technology transfer. The 
international  community  needs  to  increase  investment 
in the productive sectors of African economies — and 
not  just  in  the  extractive  industries  —  to  allow  for 
rapid  economic  growth.  In  this  same  manner,  the 
private sector in developed countries, as well as in the 
countries of the South, must be encouraged to take an 
active  role  in  promoting  closer  economic  ties  with 
African  countries  for mutual benefit, as  well as in the 
09-56896 

9 
taken  of 
Due  note  has  been 
A/64/PV.23 

development  of  small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises 
(SME). SME development  is critical to the generation 
of  economic  activity  and  to  long-term  sustainability. 
Given the continued role it can play in the development 
process,  due  attention  must  be  devoted  to  fostering 
SME  in  order  to  encourage  entrepreneurship  and 
enterprise development in our countries. In developing 
countries,  SME  accounts  for  approximately 
three 
quarters  of  GDP  and  just  over  60  per  cent  of 
employment creation. 

the  positive 
implementation of the human resource development of 
nurses and midwives — as highlighted in the report of 
through  postgraduate 
the  Secretary-General  — 
programmes,  with  a  view 
to  enhancing 
their 
professional  skills.  However,  given  the  dire  impact  of 
the brain drain — in the health sector in particular — a 
mechanism must be found to halt and reverse the mass 
exodus  of  highly  trained  personnel  from  African 
countries  to  developed  countries  in  search  of  greener 
pastures. 

We therefore welcome the progress that has been 
made  in  the  implementation  of  the  NEPAD/Spanish 
Fund 
for  African  Women  Empowerment,  which 
promotes gender  equality and women’s  entitlement by 
providing 
their 
economic  potential,  fight  poverty  and  develop  small- 
and medium-sized enterprises, among other things. 

Malaria  inflicts  a  heavy  economic  burden  on 
Africa  as  a  whole,  and  on  sub-Saharan  Africa  in 
particular,  draining  the  wealth  of  its  nations  and 
households.  According 
the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO),  malaria  costs Africa  $12  billion 
every  year. A  poor  household  can  spend  up  to  34  per 
cent of its total income on fighting malaria. This state 
of  affairs  is  not  sustainable.  However,  the  Roll  Back 
Malaria  Global  Strategic  Plan  2000-2015  has 
demonstrated  that  this  trend  could  be  reversed.  When 
the  Roll  Back  Malaria  Partnership  was  established, 
deaths  caused  by  malaria,  particularly  in Africa,  were 
at  unprecedented 
the 
“Cinderella of diseases”, receiving little attention from 
the international community. 

Without  doubt,  the  past  few  years  have  been 
characterized by success in the malaria sector, both as 
it  concerns  Roll  Back  Malaria  partners  and 
the 
Partnership  as  a  whole.  The  campaign  gained  further 
momentum,  new  partners  joined  the  effort,  significant 
levels,  and  malaria  was 
them  with 
the  means 
to  unlock 
to 

treat 
tools 
towards 
to  prevent  and 
the  heroic  steps  being  made 
resources  were  mobilized  and  ambitious  goals  and 
plans  set.  Fresh 
the 
devastating  disease  are  now  available  and  efforts  are 
being  made  to  make  these  affordable,  though  there  is 
need for additional resources to accelerate treatment. 

Some 108 countries are now free of malaria, and 
more  countries  in  Africa  have  registered  significant 
success in the fight against the disease, having attained 
WHO  morbidity  and  mortality  targets.  However,  we 
must  heed  the  warning  not  to  underestimate  the 
problem  or  overstate  the  successes.  Our  leaders  have 
been  fully  engaged  in  the  fight  against  malaria.  The 
Abuja Declaration to Roll Back Malaria in Africa, the 
recently  launched  African  Leaders  Malaria  Alliance 
and 
the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
relating  to  health  are  clear  testimony  of  their  resolve 
and  commitment.  In spite  of these efforts, much more 
remains to be done. 

Notwithstanding my previous remarks, the global 
financial  and  economic  crisis  is  expected,  in  all 
likelihood,  to  put  pressure  on  resources  and  threaten 
the  attainment  of  the  ambitious  goals  of  universal 
coverage  by  2010  and  zero  deaths  by  2015.  This  will 
require strong progress at the country level, especially 
in 
the 
Partnership  and  the  international  community  as  a 
whole to make special efforts to assist countries that do 
not  yet  have  well-mobilized  and  well-supported 
partnerships  on  track  to  help  them  meet  their  targets. 
More emphasis should be placed on at-risk groups such 
as children and pregnant women in sub-Saharan Africa. 

In  conclusion,  the  Gambia  wishes  to  place  on 
record  its  appreciation  for  the  concerted  efforts  made 
in  the  fight  against  malaria  by  the  international 
community  through  the  work  of  organizations  such  as 
the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria,  the  Malaria  Initiative  of  the  President  of  the 
United States, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, 
the  World  Bank  and  the  International  Drug  Purchase 
Facility.  We  call  on  all  concerned  to  redouble  their 
efforts  to  bring  about  the  total  eradication  of  the 
disease by 2015. 

Mr.  Faqeeh  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
The delegation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia would 
like to extend its thanks to the President of the General 
Assembly and the Secretary-General for their efforts in 
convening this meeting on agenda items 63 (a) and (b) 
sub-Saharan  Africa.  We 
therefore  urge 
10 

09-56896 
Particularly 
if  Africa. 
The 
invitation  by 
is  directly  affecting 
the  Secretary-General 


and 47, concerning the development of Africa and the 
Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  the  Developing 
Countries, 
Supporting 
development,  both  regionally  and  internationally,  is 
one of the most important goals of the Kingdom. 

to 
achieve  development  in  Africa  comes  as  the  world 
faces  a  set  of  difficult  circumstances,  including  the 
economic  crisis  which 
the 
economies  of African  States  and  development  in  their 
continent.  For  so  long  now,  the African  continent  has 
suffered 
from  socio-economic  problems  such  as 
poverty,  unemployment  and  poor  health  care,  all  of 
which calls for joint action to achieve development and 
end the suffering of the peoples of those States. 

The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  contributes 
annually  to  such  development  programmes  as  the 
African  Development  Bank  (ADB),  to  which  it  has 
contributed  $25  million.  That  contribution  will  be 
drawn  on  over  five  years.  The  Kingdom  is  a  member 
State  of  the  ADB  Group  and  is  among  the  States 
supporting the African Development Fund and the Arab 
Bank  for  Economic  Development  in  Africa.  The 
Kingdom  has  doubled  its  contributions  to  renew  the 
resources  of  the  International  Fund  for  Agricultural 
Development in the amount of $50 million.  

In the field of combating AIDS, tuberculosis and 
malaria,  the  Kingdom  has  announced  a  2008-2010 
contribution of $18 million to the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  —  $6  million  per 
year; $10 million has already been paid to the Fund.  

Although  Saudi  Arabia  is  a  developing  country 
that is witnessing considerable population growth with 
the attendant increasing financial requirements to cover 
its  human  development,  basic 
infrastructure  and 
capacity-building, it supports and assists other, needier 
countries 
that 
the 
internationally suggested ratios.  
Reports issued by the Office for the Coordination 

of Humanitarian Affairs state that Saudi Arabia was in 
the forefront of countries contributing to humanitarian 
relief  operations  in  2008.  It  contributed  $1  billion  to 
the  Islamic  Solidarity  Fund  for  Development  and  has 
made  contributions 
financial  and 
institutions. 
international 
It  has  also  extended 
concessional 
loans  and  unreimbursable  assistance 
amounting  $100  billion,  from  which  95  developing 
States have benefited. This represents 4 per cent of the 
in  a  manner 
far  exceeds 
to  18  other 
09-56896 

A/64/PV.23
Kingdom’s  gross  national  product,  a  ratio  far  higher 
than the United Nations target. 

Proceeding from the interest of the Servant of the 
Two  Holy  Shrines  to  spread  education  as  widely  as 
possible,  Saudi Arabia  is  earmarking  $500  million  for 
education projects in developing countries. In the field 
of  debt  relief,  the  Kingdom  has  forgiven  more  than 
$6 billion  owed  to  it  by  poor  countries.  It  has  also 
contributed its full share to the International Monetary 
Fund  debt  relief  fund.  Once  again,  we  call  upon  the 
industrial  countries  to  fulfil  their  obligations,  in  the 
form  of  direct  assistance  or  relief  on  debts  owed  to 
them by the needier States, or by opening their markets 
to  developing  country  exports  without  unjustifiable 
restrictions.  

The effective role undertaken by the Kingdom of 
Saudi  Arabia  through  its  direct  presence  and  its 
effective  initiatives  in  the  field  of  humanitarian  and 
relief  work 
in  areas  affected  by  natural  and 
environmental disasters worldwide makes it one of the 
States  providing  the  most  relief  to  the  disadvantaged 
and  the  afflicted.  It  has  carried  out  concrete  relief 
projects  for  many  States  hit  by  war  and  disaster.  The 
Kingdom is always responsive to the issues and crises 
of the world in support of the disadvantaged anywhere 
and at any time.  

In  this  context,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia 
takes  geographical  diversity  into  consideration  in  the 
distribution  of  such  assistance,  which  has  reached  a 
great number of States in many parts of the developing 
world.  By  the  end  of  2008,  the  Saudi  Fund  for 
Development  had  extended  concessional 
to 
finance  73  economic  and  development  projects  in 
developing countries, 42 of which are in Africa. Saudi 
Arabia is one of the principal contributors to the OPEC 
Fund for International Development to finance projects 
in  48  States  in  Africa,  including  projects  related  to 
agriculture,  industry,  education,  energy,  health  care, 
potable  water,  communications  and  transportation. We 
also  contribute  to  the  regional  and  international  funds 
that channel most concessional loans to Africa. 

In  conclusion,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  is 
eager to support the efforts of NEPAD and to meet its 
international obligations towards the African continent, 
in  order  to  achieve  lasting  peace  and  sustainable 
development there. 
Mr.  Christian  (Ghana):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like to commend the Secretary-General for his in-depth 
loans 
11 

the 
statements  delivered  by 
A/64/PV.23 

review of the current situation in Africa. Ghana aligns 
itself  with 
the 
representatives  of  the  Sudan  and Tunisia  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of African  States  and  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, respectively.  

It  is  a  matter  of  great  concern  to  my  delegation 
that  the  very  modest  and  hard-earned  progress  of  the 
past  few  years  is  being  severely  undermined  by  a 
combination  of  internal  factors  and  external  forces. 
The  ongoing  financial  and  economic  crisis  coupled 
with  high  food  and  energy  prices  and  chronic 
shortages,  as  well  as  climate  change,  have  all  had  a 
very negative impact on economic growth, agricultural 
development,  poverty  eradication  and  overall  human 
development. 

No doubt, these trends have thrown into doubt the 
noble  aspirations  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  high  hopes  for  an 
African  renaissance  that  greeted  the  programme  in 
Africa  and  beyond  when  it  was  first  launched  by 
African leaders in July 2001 and formally endorsed by 
the  General  Assembly 
(see 
resolution 57/2).  

Africa  cannot  afford  another  lost  decade.  The 
stakes  are  just  too  high. We  already  have  a  consensus 
on  the  path  forward.  That  has  been  clearly  set  out  in 
the 
goals, 
including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Therefore, we must move quickly and urgently to fulfil 
all outstanding commitments especially in the areas of 
sustainable  economic  growth,  human  development, 
governance 
development 
assistance,  debt  relief,  trade  liberalization  and  aid  for 
trade. 
There  is  ample  evidence  that  whenever  African 

leaders and their development partners have acted with 
determination  and  common  purpose  the  results  have 
been  outstanding. There  are  now  fewer  civil  wars  and 
more  democratic  countries  than  ever  before.  Let  me 
hasten to add that even one civil war is a war too many, 
as  it  costs  lives,  brings  about  displacement,  the 
destruction  of  property  and  lost  opportunities  for 
development — all of which exacerbate human misery. 
Nonetheless,  in  general  terms,  we  have  been  greatly 
encouraged  by  the  real  progress  in  economic  growth 
and  private  sector  development,  primary  education, 
women’s  rights  and  the  fight  against  poverty  and 
diseases. 
in  September  2002 
internationally 
development 
security, 
agreed 
and 
official 
and 
better 
living  with 
accountability 
launched  an  effort 
Many  African  countries  have 
No less significant is the steady progress towards 

greater 
economic 
management.  To  date,  29  countries  have  voluntarily 
acceded to NEPAD’s African Peer Review Mechanism, 
and  15  have  already  launched  reviews.  The  growing 
role  of  civil  society  in  many  countries  is  also  a  great 
sign of progress, and  citizens are increasingly holding 
Governments accountable for their actions. 

There have also been some positive developments 
in Africa’s health sector. Heads of State or Government 
endorsed  the  Africa  Health  Strategy  for  the  period 
2007-2015,  which  aims  to  strengthen  the  quality  and 
coverage of the continent’s health systems. The World 
Health  Organization  has 
to 
maximize  positive  synergies  between  global  health 
initiatives,  such  as  the  Global  Alliance  for  Vaccines 
and Immunization and national health systems. 

significantly 
reduced  their  AIDS  prevalence  rates,  and  a  growing 
number  of  Africans 
the  virus  are 
undergoing  antiretroviral  treatment.  Two  thirds  of 
African  countries  have  adopted  policies  that  include 
the  use  of  drugs  that  are  effective  against  malaria. 
Ethiopia, Rwanda, Tanzania and Zambia have achieved 
particularly  impressive  reductions  in  malaria-related 
mortalities. 

We  believe  we  can  still  build  on  those  positive 
trends  towards  less  conflict,  more  democracy  and 
greater  development  if  we  continue  to  cooperate  and 
act  with  a  common  purpose.  At  the  same  time,  we 
accept  the  fact  that,  ultimately,  the  responsibility  for 
driving  progress  rests  with African  leaders. Their  task 
is  not  easy,  given  capacity  constraints  and  the  many 
challenges they face. 
What Africa  seeks,  above  all,  is  partnership  and 

mutual  accountability,  whether  in  governmental  or 
corporate  endeavours.  Donors  must  honour 
their 
commitments;  trading  partners  and  corporations  must 
honour  their  social  responsibilities,  respect  human 
rights and ensure environmental standards. 

With the right support, Africa can also contribute 
solutions  to  global  problems.  Its  vast  human  and 
economic  potential,  natural  resources  and  sources  of 
clean  energy  offer  highly  attractive 
investment 
opportunities  that  can  be  exploited  to  benefit,  not  just 
Africa,  but  also  the  rest  of  the  world.  If  that  is  to  be 
achieved,  Africa  needs  a  stronger  voice  on 
the 
international stage, in the multilateral architecture and 
12 

09-56896 
Enormous  challenges  remain 
Africa  has  enormous  potential 


in  key  decision-making  forums  —  whether  the  Group 
of  Eight  (G-8),  the  Group  of  20  or  trade  or  climate 
change negotiations — in order to attract the political, 
financial and technical support required. 

in  several  key 
sectors.  Africa’s  health  systems  remain  underfunded, 
understaffed and ill equipped. Africa also continues to 
have  the  largest  number  of  armed  conflicts,  and 
approximately  one  fifth  of  the  continent’s  population 
still  lives  in  conflict  zones.  But  there  have  been  a 
number  of  positive  developments  over  the  past  few 
years.  

The availability of infrastructure is critical to the 
development  of  Africa’s  private  sector,  including  a 
reliable  supply  of  energy  and  safe  roads  to  connect 
farmers  to  markets.  Strategies  to  respond  to  those 
needs  should  be  developed  in  parallel  with  efforts  in 
the  field  of  water  access  and  sanitation.  Infrastructure 
is  currently  a  key  constraint  on  Africa’s  enterprise 
development. 

for  energy 
production  from  renewable  sources  —  solar,  hydro, 
wind, nuclear and geothermal. Almost  all sub-Saharan 
African  countries  have  sufficient  renewable  resources 
that  can  be  exploited  with  modern  technologies  to 
satisfy current energy demand. Studies show that daily 
average  solar  radiation  levels  in Africa  are  very  high, 
and  the  continent  could  be  the  world’s  future  solar 
super-power. 

The  potential  for  development  in  Africa’s  real 
economy  is  huge,  particularly  in  the  infrastructure, 
renewable  energy,  agriculture  and  telecommunications 
sectors.  Greater  investment  in  those  sectors  would 
create  not  only  jobs  in  Africa,  but  also  markets  for 
developed  countries.  Africa  can  provide  a  valuable 
growth  platform  for  the  global  economy  and  pioneer 
clean  development  models  that  contribute  to  global 
efforts to manage climate change. 
It  is  encouraging  that  a  number  of  developed 

countries — including the members of the G-8 — have, 
in recent times, emphasized the urgency of concluding 
the  Doha  Development  Round. While  pressing  for  the 
conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round,  it  is  critical  that  we 
rethink  trade  policy  in  order  to  boost  agricultural 
production  around  the  world.  Policies  for  fertilizer 
markets should provide the response needed to address 
shortages  in  food  production,  while  policies  on  grain 
A/64/PV.23
facing 
our 
continent 
and 
itself  with 
In  addition 
to  associating 
storage and buffer stocks must also be taken seriously. 
Promises on aid for trade must be honoured.  

The unique development experiences of emerging 
economies,  such  as  those  of  China,  Brazil  and  India, 
are  relevant  to  the  situation  of  African  countries  and 
should serve as a model for international cooperation if 
the continent is to realize its full potential for sustained 
economic growth and accelerated development. 
Mr. Loulichki (Morocco) (spoke in French): My 

delegation  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this  debate  on 
issues  related  to  development  in Africa  in  the  light  of 
the  excellent  reports  submitted  by  the  Secretary-
General.  Those  reports  paint  a  clear  picture  of  the 
challenges 
contain 
recommendations on ways likely to help Africa find its 
way back to the path of peace and development. 

the 
statements made by the representative of the Sudan on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the 
representative  of  Tunisia  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African  States,  my  delegation  would  like  to  share  the 
following comments with the Assembly.  

various 
international 
institutions  show  that  Africa  is  the  continent  most 
affected by the successive food and energy crises and, 
most  recently,  the  financial  crisis,  which  swiftly 
became an economic crisis. Those crises arose at a time 
when  African  countries  had  been  engaged  in  bold 
political and economic reform efforts that had allowed 
the  continent  to  make  significant  progress  towards 
attaining  its  objectives  both  in  terms  of  development 
in  such  areas  as  democracy,  human  rights 
and 
protection  and 
the 
implementation  of  sustainable 
economic policies.  

The  economic  forecasts  for  Africa  predicting  a 
2009  growth  rate  of  less  than  3  per  cent  —  perhaps 
even  2  per  cent  —  remain  much  lower  than  the 
7 per cent  annual  rate  considered  necessary  for  the 
continent  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) by the 2015 deadline. In addition, over 
the  past  few  years,  despite 
the 
international  economic  context  —  which  has, 
unfortunately,  become  very  unfavourable  —  African 
countries  have  continued  and  even  stepped  up  their 
efforts to improve the  well-being of their populations. 
Unfortunately,  those  sincere  and  committed  efforts  by 
African  countries  have  not  been  supported  as  they 
the  changes 
in 
published 
Data 
by 
09-56896 

13 

It 
for 
that 
Even 
is  becoming 
the  continent 
increasingly  clear 
the  official  development 
A/64/PV.23 

should have been and have suffered from a lack of the 
substantial resources needed for their success.  

the 
combined  effects  of  successive  crises  have  made 
implementing  the  MDGs  on  our  African  continent 
more difficult by slowing the pace of their achievement 
as 2015 approaches. Thus, millions of people living in 
Africa could sink into poverty and destitution.  

In  the  area  of  health,  despite  the  progress  made 
thanks  to  the  efforts  of  African  countries  and  their 
development  partners,  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria  remain 
major  challenges 
that  could 
undermine  its  development  process.  The  recent  crises 
and  their  effects  on  African  economies  have  only 
aggravated  their  health  and  social  situation,  thereby 
further  reducing  the  chances  that  the  health-related 
MDGs will be achieved. 

assistance 
provided  to Africa  before  the  crisis  was  mostly  below 
the  $70  billion  per  year  considered  necessary  for  the 
continent to attain its development objectives. We hope 
that the renewal by the Group of 20 and the Group of 
Eight  of  their  commitments  regarding  Africa  will  be 
diligently and fully implemented. At the same time, if 
the African  continent  is  to  assume  ownership  over  its 
development  process,  it  is  also  necessary  to  help 
African countries establish an atmosphere conducive to 
foreign direct investment so that they can address weak 
infrastructures,  which  continue  to  heavily  overshadow 
Africa’s attractiveness in terms of investment.  
As economic and social development depends on 

conflict settlement and peacebuilding, the Kingdom of 
Morocco  welcomes  our  continent’s 
increasingly 
steadfast  commitment  to  promoting  the  settlement  of 
persistent  conflicts.  My  country  continues  to  provide 
assistance  on  several  fronts,  in  particular  through  its 
participation 
peacekeeping 
operations deployed in Africa and in the Peacebuilding 
Commission. 

Morocco  has  always  been  convinced  of  the 
advantages  and  merits  of  South-South  cooperation  in 
promoting the social and economic development of our 
continent. Of course, that in no way detracts from the 
valuable  contribution  of  North-South  cooperation.  In 
line  with  that  conviction,  my  country  has  always 
worked,  under 
the  vision  of  His  Majesty  King 
Mohammed  VI,  to  strengthen  partnership  ties  with  its 
African  family  in  the  context  of  fruitful  and  mutually 
in  United  Nations 
and 
In 
the 
several 
partnership 
that  context, 
infrastructure, 
agriculture,  health, 
beneficial  South-South  cooperation,  based  on  human 
development and experience sharing.  

As  evidence  of  that  commitment,  Morocco  has 
initiated 
cooperation 
programmes with African countries in areas as diverse 
as 
education, 
transport,  telecommunications  and  the  training  and 
development  of African management abilities. Also as 
proof  of  its  solidarity,  in  particular  with Africa’s  least 
developed  countries,  my  country  took  the  initiative  a 
few  years  ago  to  cancel  their  bilateral  debt  to  grant 
them  quota-  and  duty-free  access  to  the  Moroccan 
market. 

Africa  remains  among  the  continents  suffering 
most  from  the  negative  effects  of  climate  change.  In 
fact,  our  continent  is  threatened  today  more  than  ever 
by rising sea levels, which could affect 30 per cent of 
its  coastal  infrastructure.  The  increase  in  average 
temperatures 
in  Africa,  consecutive  droughts  and 
scarce precipitation could pose a huge threat to African 
agriculture,  which  accounts  for  exactly  55  per  cent  of 
all exports and which feeds 70 per cent of the African 
population. 
the 
Copenhagen negotiations on climate change must take 
due consideration of the concerns of our continent, not 
only in terms of economic growth, but also in terms of 
human  and  social  development,  resource  mobilization 
and technology transfer. 

The  African  continent  also  continues  to  draw 
least  benefits  from  international  exchanges.  African 
countries  still  encounter  difficulties  in  participating 
effectively  in  international  trade,  despite  the  efforts 
that  they  have  agreed  to  in  order  to  open  up  their 
to 
economies  and 
trade.  The 
conclusion 
of 
the  World  Trade  Organization 
negotiations in the Doha Round, which, let us be clear, 
is  described  as  a  development  round,  should  be 
accomplished 
into 
consideration  the  concerns  of  African  countries  with 
regard to development. 

The  international  community  has  held,  or  is 
preparing to organize in the coming months, a series of 
very  significant  international  meetings  to  deal  with 
various  development  issues.  Be  it  through  the  World 
Summit  on  Food  Security,  the  Copenhagen  Climate 
Change  Conference,  the  High-level  United  Nations 
Conference  on  South-South  Cooperation  or  the  High-
level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development,  the 
in  such  a  way 
results  of 
implement 
takes 
freer 
that 
it 
14 

09-56896 
to 


international community as a whole is urged to make a 
commitment 
the  development  of  Africa.  That 
commitment  must  translate  into  specific  measures,  in 
particular  mobilization  of  the  resources  needed  to 
implement  them,  so  that  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  can  at  last  become  a  reality  in 
Africa. 

In conclusion, my country remains convinced that 
it is necessary to establish a true global partnership for 
Africa’s  development,  which  continues  to  be  the  only 
way  to  help  our  continent  to  achieve  its  development 
goals  and  to  give  hope  to  millions  of  African  people 
and  the  clear  message  that  they  can  live  in  dignity, 
protected from poverty and pandemics. 
Mrs.  Mtamboh  (Zambia):  At  the  outset,  allow 

me to express my sincere and heartfelt congratulations 
to the President on his election. My delegation assures 
him  of  its  support  for  the  successful  execution  of  his 
mandate.  Zambia  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
of  the  representatives  of  the  Sudan,  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China, and of Tunisia, on behalf of the 
African Group.  
We  are  grateful  for  the  report  of  the  Secretary-

General  entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria 
in 
Africa”,  contained 
in  document  A/64/302.  My 
delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the  challenges  that  the 
world  faces  today,  such  as  (H1N1)  influenza,  avian 
influenza,  severe  acute  respiratory  syndrome  and 
HIV/AIDS,  call  for  more  unity  and  concerted  efforts 
among nations, aimed at the early sharing of concerns, 
the  mobilization  of  resources  and 
the  collective 
implementation of evidence-based interventions. 

I  am  pleased  to  state  that  Zambia  is  making 
steady progress in meeting its national health goals, as 
well as the internationally agreed development targets, 
including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Allow 
me  to  refer  to  our  country’s  2007  demographic  and 
health survey, which covers a period of five years. It is 
worth  noting  that  a  number  of  important  basic  health 
indicators  have  improved  in  Zambia.  Notable  among 
these is the fact that 70 per cent of our children receive 
all 
a 
consequence  of  that,  the  under-five  mortality  rate  has 
dropped from 168 to 119 deaths per 1,000 live births.  

In  addition,  the  maternal  mortality  ratio  has 
improved from 729 to 591 per 100,000 live births; the 
infant  mortality  rate  has  improved  from  90  to  70  per 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
immunizations.  Partly 
required 
the 
A/64/PV.23
said 
that  with 
self-reliance, 
1,000 live births; protection from malaria has increased 
countrywide  for  those  under  five  years  of  age  and  for 
pregnant  women;  the  incidence  rates  of  malaria  have 
dropped  and  the  number  of  deaths  recorded  at  our 
health facilities from the disease has dropped by 60 per 
cent;  and  the  prevalence  of  HIV  has  decreased  from 
16 to 14.3 per cent.  

Zambia  is  threatened  with  the  loss,  or  even  the 
reversal,  of  those  encouraging  gains  because  of  the 
prevailing global financial and economic crisis, as well 
as the withholding of pledged resources by some of our 
cooperating partners in the health sector. However, we 
are  encouraged  by  the  words  of  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Rwanda, His Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, 
who, in his speech this year at the fifty-ninth session of 
the  World  Health  Organization’s  Regional  Committee 
for  Africa, 
the 
reprioritization of our health action plans, a conscious 
emphasis  on  primary  health  care  and  the  use  of  local 
resources,  as  well  as  low-cost  effective  interventions, 
we can indeed attain the MDGs. 
Zambia  is  the  current  Chair  of  the  Roll  Back 

Malaria  Partnership  Board.  Noting 
that  malaria 
remains  the  leading  cause  of  morbidity  and  mortality, 
not  only  in  Zambia,  but  in  many  other  parts  of  the 
world,  allow  me  to  place  special  emphasis  on  that 
global health challenge. The good news is that Zambia 
is  indeed  one  of  the  countries  to  have  achieved 
universal  coverage  of  preventive  interventions  against 
malaria.  By  universal  coverage,  we  mean 
the 
ownership and the use of commodities intended to keep 
malaria  away  from  Zambian  communities  by  the 
communities themselves. 

Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

I  am  pleased  to  note  that  other  countries  have 
also achieved universal coverage. In that regard, I must 
acknowledge  the  role  played  by  Minister  Tewodros 
Adhanom,  the  former  Chairman  of  the  Roll  Back 
Malaria  Partnership  Board,  who  is  now  Chairman  of 
the  Board  of 
to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  as  well  as  the  Minister  of 
Health of Ethiopia. Mr. Adhanom worked very hard as 
the  Chairman  of  the  Roll  Back  Malaria  Partnership 
Board. During his term in office, all the funds required 
to  meet  the  2010  Roll  Back  Malaria  targets  were 
mobilized.  He  also  worked  very  hard  to  ensure  that  a 
road  map  for  each  country  to  achieve  the  2010  Roll 
the  Global  Fund 
as 
09-56896 

15 

It 
is 
targets, 
the  challenge  remaining 
truly  encouraging 
to  protect  about  460  million  of 
A/64/PV.23 

Back  Malaria  targets  was  put  in  place.  Indeed,  he  left 
the  Roll  Back  Malaria  Partnership  with  the  strength 
needed  to  take  on  the  remaining  challenges.  I  salute 
him greatly and wish him well at the Global Fund. 
that  we  now  have 

is 
resources 
the 
approximately  500  million  African  people  who  have 
been  targeted.  It  is  also  pleasing  that  country-specific 
road maps are already in place for the attainment of the 
desired  universal  coverage.  What  we  now  need  is  the 
requisite political will to assure all of us of the required 
leadership for success. 

We  have  only  15  months  to  do  this  work.  By 
31 December  2010,  we  should  all  be  able  to  celebrate 
having met our set targets. For the many that have yet 
to  reach  the  target,  there  is  still  a  lot  of  work  to  do. 
Nonetheless,  for  the  few  that  have  already  reached 
their 
that  of 
maintaining these gains. 

My  delegation  is  pleased  to  report  that,  over  the 
past six years, Zambia has recorded impressive gains in 
the  health  sector.  The  2007  Zambia  demographic  and 
health survey I mentioned earlier attests to this. Those 
gains are evidence of the realization of the pledge that 
our  Government  has  made  in  the  fifth  National 
Development Plan to secure the health of Zambians by 
addressing public health challenges such as malaria. It 
ought to be mentioned that judicious malaria control in 
Zambia  —  in  particular,  that  undertaken  by  the 
Ministry  of  Health  —  was  a  significant  contributor  to 
those  remarkable  achievements.  Further,  it  is  pleasing 
to note — and worth mentioning — that in some areas 
of Zambia such as the Southern Province, which has a 
population of more than 2 million people, malaria is no 
longer a major public health concern. 

The  Ministry  of  Health  in  Zambia  is  succeeding 
in  addressing  malaria  as  a  public  health  challenge 
through  the  simultaneous  and  diligent  implementation 
of a package of evidence-based interventions.  

The  first  is  indoor  residual  house  spraying. 
Zambia’s  indoor  residual  house  spraying  programme, 
which  was  originally  implemented  in  five  districts  in 
2003, is now being implemented in 36 districts — half 
of  the  districts  in  the  country. That  progress  is  indeed 
remarkable, especially considering that, combined with 
the  coverage  of  insecticide-treated  nets,  Zambia  has 
achieved  the  Roll  Back  Malaria  goal  of  ensuring 
Improved 
treatment  has 
Stores  Limited. 
80 per cent  coverage  of  the  population  with  malaria 
preventative measures.  

The  second  intervention  is  insecticide-treated 
bednets.  Since  2004,  the  Ministry  of  Health  has 
distributed over 6 million such nets across the country. 
Country-wide  coverage  of  insecticide-treated  bednets 
is  now  approximately  60  per  cent.  The  third  is  case 
management and diagnosis. The Ministry of Health has 
ensured the availability of malaria treatment medicines 
and  diagnostic  tools  in  all  public  health  facilities. 
Measures  have  been  put  in  place  to  minimize  drug 
stock-outs.  There  are  adequate  stocks  of  the  requisite 
antimalarials  at  our  central  distribution  facility,  the 
Medical 
logistical 
management  has  also  been  of  benefit,  as  has 
intermittent  presumptive  treatment  —  a  measure  with 
which  we  have  performed  extremely  well.  The 
proportion  of  pregnant  women  accessing  malaria 
preventive 
increased.  The  2007 
demographic  and  health  survey  revealed  that  the 
percentage  of  pregnant  women  who 
took  an 
anti-malarial  drug  during  pregnancy  increased  from 
35 per cent in 2002 to 86.5 per cent in 2007. The 2008 
malaria indicator survey revealed similar results. 

number  of  factors.  These 
simultaneous  use  of  evidence-based 
partnerships 
cooperating  partners 
community mobilization and participation.  

I  should  like  to  mention  some  of  the  challenges 
that  still 
remain.  First,  we  anticipate  covering 
approximately  1.2  million  household  structures  across 
the country with indoor residual house spraying, which 
translates 
into  protection  from  malaria  for  over 
7 million  people.  This 
resources,  both 
financial  and  material,  which  are  limited.  Secondly,  it 
is worth mentioning that, when pledges of support are 
made, they must be honoured — and aid should not be 
used  as  a  tool  for  coercion.  Thirdly,  with  regard  to 
irrational  drug  use  —  while  it  is  noted  that  not  every 
case of fever is caused by malaria, fostering acceptance 
among health workers that rapid diagnostic test kits are 
reliable  remains  a  challenge.  Fourthly,  community 
security and distribution requires further strengthening. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  mention  that  the 
Government of the Republic of Zambia is very grateful 
to all its cooperating partners at the local, regional and 
These  successes  have  been  the  consequence  of  a 
include  political  will, 
interventions, 
and 
our  Government 
the  health  sector,  and 
involving 
in 
requires 
16 

09-56896 
in 
pursuing 
the 


global levels for their support. It is our conviction that, 
with  informed  interventions,  healthy  partnerships  and 
dedication to duty, we shall in no time rid Zambia and 
the rest of the world of malaria. 
Mr.  Wetland  (Norway):  It  was  truly  heartening 

to listen to the speaker before me, the representative of 
Zambia,  and  I  must  commend  that  country  for  its 
achievements 
health-related 
Millennium Development Goals in particular. 

As  a  friend  and  partner,  Norway  continues  to 
support the vision and goals of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD), which is a genuinely 
African  initiative.  NEPAD  demonstrates  a  willingness 
and determination to fight poverty on the continent and 
to  strengthen  the  integration  of Africa  into  the  global 
economy.  NEPAD  also  represents  a  recognition  that 
African countries need to reinforce cooperation among 
themselves in order to effectively address many of the 
common challenges. 

Africa  has  been  hit  hard  by  the  recent  food  and 
economic crises. Moreover, a climate crisis is looming. 
However, those challenges should not let us lose sight 
of  the  significant  progress Africa  has  seen  during  the 
past  decade,  which  includes  unprecedented  economic 
growth  and  improvements  in  governance.  NEPAD  has 
been part of that development. I should like to address 
a few key issues that NEPAD will face in the years to 
come. 

How  should  the  resources  to  finance  the  goals 
and  objectives  of  NEPAD  be  mobilized?  The  primary 
responsibility  rests  with  African  nations  themselves. 
Traditional  aid  should  primarily  be  a  supplement  and 
catalyst. We welcome the progress made in mobilizing 
those domestic resources.  

said,  Africa 
substantial 
assistance.  Commitments  to  increase  aid  must  be 
honoured. Too little attention has been given to the big 
money flowing out of Africa. Illicit capital flows from 
poor  countries  amount  to  hundreds  of  billions  of 
dollars annually; that is around three times the level of 
aid  going  into Africa. A  lack  of  transparency  and  the 
inability to control capital flows have resulted in huge 
amounts  evading  developing  countries’  tax  collectors. 
Proceeds  from  crime  and  corruption  move  almost 
freely  from  poor  countries  to  safe  havens,  which  are 
often in rich and middle-income countries. That is also 
why  international  cooperation  to  fight  illicit  capital 
flight  and  tax  havens  must  be  strengthened  and  made 
still  needs 
That 
A/64/PV.23
technical  capacity  and  a 
effective. And Africa should be assisted in establishing 
better tax systems and broadening the tax base. 

NEPAD  has  contributed  to  giving  infrastructure 
development higher priority in the fight against poverty 
in Africa. We welcome that.  

Africa  is  facing  an  energy  deficit  that  may 
severely  hamper  development  if  the  power-generating 
capacity  is  not  substantially  increased.  Energy  is  a 
sector particularly well suited for regional cooperation. 
The  potential  for  clean  energy  in Africa  is  enormous, 
with  about  93  per  cent  of  Africa’s  hydropower 
potential  still  undeveloped.  Hydropower  is  clean  and 
renewable  energy,  but  the  required  investments  are 
often  of  such  a  magnitude  that  aid  can  cover  only  a 
minor  share.  There  is  a  need  to  involve  the  private 
sector to attract the required financing, technology and 
knowledge.  That  requires  good  governance,  robust 
institutions, 
favourable 
investment  climate.  We  believe  that  those  challenges 
could be more forcefully addressed within the  context 
of NEPAD. 

A  few  weeks  ago,  Uganda  saw  the  inauguration 
of the first significant hydropower plant to be built in 
Africa  in  14  years.  It  is  a  joint  Norwegian-Ugandan 
project involving Norwegian private and public finance 
and expertise — TrønderEnergi and Norfund. The plant 
will 
increase  Uganda’s  electricity  production  by 
7 per cent. I believe we can and should see more such 
success stories that will bring growth and prosperity to 
the people of Africa. 
The  world  has  indeed  changed  since  2001.  A 

clear example that the NEPAD framework was drafted 
in a different context than today is the modest attention 
paid  to  climate  change  in  that  document.  Africa  is 
joining  forces  in  the  run-up  to  Copenhagen.  One 
among  many  commendable  steps  is  the  Climate  for 
Development in Africa Programme, a joint initiative by 
the  African  Union,  the  United  Nations  Economic 
Commission  for  Africa  and  the  African  Development 
Bank  aiming  at  integrating  climate  risk  management 
into  policy  and  decision  processes  throughout  Africa. 
We  look  forward  to  learning  more  about  what  role 
African  countries  see 
for  NEPAD 
terms  of 
adaptation to climate change in Africa. 

We  all  know  that  war  and  armed  conflicts  are 
major  factors  in  undermining  development.  No  other 
continent has suffered more from armed conflicts than 
Africa  in  recent  decades.  Many  of  the  conflicts  that 
in 
09-56896 

17 

growth 
achieved 
remarkable 
A/64/PV.23 

ravaged the continent during the 1980s and 1990s have 
since  been  brought  to  an  end,  and  we  have  seen  that 
some of the countries emerging from conflicts in recent 
have 
years 
and 
development. 

It is important to highlight the role of  women in 
achieving  peaceful,  sustainable  development. This  fall 
we have seen a renewed global commitment not only to 
the protection of women in conflict, but to highlighting 
that  women  are  part  of  the  solution  in  situations  of 
conflict.  

We need to renew our efforts to promote women’s 
rights  and  their  participation  in  democratic  processes. 
One glance at this year’s Human Development Report 
says it clearly: there is a strong correlation between the 
level of gender equality and the growth and prosperity 
of  countries.  So  the  greatest  gains  countries  can 
achieve,  economically  and  politically,  come  from 
empowering  women,  ensuring  equal  opportunity  and 
health  care  and  increasing  the  participation  of  women 
in economic activity. That is not only the right thing to 
do  from  a  human  and  ethical  perspective;  it  is  hard-
core  macro-economic  policy.  Empowering  women 
gives  competitive  advantage.  Improving  women’s 
educational  opportunity  gives  competitive  advantage. 
Countries  that  recognize  that  and  adjust  their  policies 
are going to prosper more than others. 

We  must  strive  to  uphold  the  pledges  that  we 
have  previously  made  with  regard  to  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  create 
the 
necessary  conditions  for  sustainable  growth  and 
development.  That  will  be 
the  most  significant 
contribution  we  can  make  towards  peace  and  stability 
on the African continent.  
Norway  is  committed  to  a  long-term  partnership 

with  Africa  and  its  people.  Two  weeks  ago  Norway 
presented  its  aid  budget  for  2010.  In  it  we  pledge  to 
give  1.09  per  cent  of  our  estimated  gross  national 
income for development assistance. We will remain  at 
that  high  level  for  many  years  to  come.  Even  though 
we face a financial crisis, we increased the aid budget 
by  4  per  cent  as  a  token  of  solidarity  with  those  who 
are  less  fortunate  than  ourselves,  and  thus  we  will 
remain a partner for Africa. 
Mr. Davide (Philippines): The Philippines aligns 

itself  with  the  statement  by  the  representative  of  the 
Sudan  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China. 
However,  there  are  some  elements  that  we  wish  to 
The  Secretary-General’s 
stress.  Let  me  start  with  agenda  items  relating  to  the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). 

The  story  of  Africa’s  development  has  been  a 
priority of the General Assembly for quite some time. 
It  is  a  tale  of  a  rich  continent  that  paradoxically  finds 
itself  struggling  to  provide  an  adequate  standard  of 
living to its teeming millions. All of us in this Hall are 
acutely  aware  of  the  promise  and  potential  of  the 
countries and people of Africa, and we must constantly 
strive to provide the necessary support for NEPAD. 
on 

reports 
NEPAD — A/64/204 and A/64/208 — show that up to 
the  time  in  2008  when  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  struck  most  of  the  world, Africa  was 
pursuing  a  deliberate  path  to  growth.  However,  the 
combination  of  food  and  energy  price  volatility,  the 
turmoil  in  financial  and  economic  markets  and  the 
increasingly  devastating  effects  of  climate  change  has 
conspired  with  a  waning  international  commitment  to 
provide much-needed financial and technical resources 
to  derail Africa’s  march  towards  the  attainment  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), among other 
internationally agreed development goals. 

important  United 
Nations events on development-related issues that must 
address  NEPAD  in  their  discussions.  The  first  is  the 
High-level Conference on South-South Cooperation to 
be  held,  appropriately,  in  Nairobi  this  December.  The 
second  is  the  summit  to  review  progress  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  to  be  held  in  New 
York in 2010. The Assembly President has already set 
the process of discussions on those two major meetings 
in  motion  by  selecting  co-facilitators  to  guide  the 
process forward. 
United  Nations  discussions  about  the  several 

crises  I  mentioned  earlier  are  proceeding  apace.  The 
Outcome  of  the  Conference  on  the  World  Economic 
and  Financial  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development 
(resolution 
several 
recommendations  that  we  are  taking  forward.  The 
United  Nations  System  Chief  Executives  Board  for 
Coordination 
joint  crisis 
initiatives  meant  to  address  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  in  much  the  same  way  that  the 
Comprehensive Framework for Action drawn up by the 
High-level  Task  Force  on  the  Global  Food  Security 
Crisis  provided  short-,  medium-  and 
long-term 
recommendations for consideration and implementation. 
is  also  pursuing  nine 
two  upcoming 
There  are 
outlined 
twin 
63/303, 
annex) 
18 

09-56896 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 


The  Economic  and  Social  Council,  together  with  its 
subsidiary  bodies,  is  likewise  seized  on  many  of  the 
same  development  issues  and  is  actively  pursuing 
discussions in order to come up with recommendations 
to be brought to the General Assembly in due time. All 
of  those  avenues  for  discussion  and  action  can  and 
should  remember  to  consider  the  needs  of  the  most 
vulnerable — which includes Africa — in drawing up 
recommendations. 
Let  me  now  proceed  to  agenda  item  47,  entitled 

“2001-2010:  Decade 
in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in Africa”,  and  the 
note  by  the  Secretary-General  transmitting  the  report 
prepared by the World Health Organization (A/64/302). 
The  report  and  its  summary  set  out  many  promising 
trends  and  indications  of  progress  in  the  global  effort 
to fight malaria. 

It  is  fitting  that  an  assessment  of  the  world 
malaria condition is being made at this juncture, since 
the  extent 
is  controlled  and 
eliminated  determines  how  much  we  are  progressing 
towards  the  achievement  of  Millennium  Development 
Goal 6: to  combat those deadly diseases that  have the 
broadest  and  starkest  impact  on  development.  The 
H1N1 influenza was recently added to those diseases.  

Time  is  running  fast  towards  the  2015  deadline 
for  the  MDGs.  Our  journey  towards  it  is  diverted  by 
other  crises  of  every  kind,  for  which  summits  have 
been convened. 

The Government of the Philippines gives priority 
to  the  control  and  eradication  of  malaria,  as  it 
continues to be among the top 10 causes of morbidity 
in the country. Most locations in the Philippines where 
malaria is endemic are in the poorest and most remote 
areas, with a high percentage of indigenous peoples. 

Malaria  control  and  eradication  efforts  in  the 
Philippines have been scaled up through a five-pronged 
strategy 
local 
government  health  units.  The  strategy  includes:  first, 
raising  political  awareness  and  promoting  community 
involvement,  especially  at  the  local  level;  second, 
strengthening  diagnosis,  promptly  and  effectively 
treating malaria and expanding the availability of drug 
supplies in all health-care facilities; third, streamlining 
referrals  of  severe  cases,  including  through  training 
doctors  on  the  management  of  such  cases,  training 
health  workers  on  treatment  policies  and  protecting 
mothers  by  providing  nets  treated  with  insecticide; 
emphasizes  working  with 
to  which  malaria 
that 
A/64/PV.23
in 
fourth,  building  buffer  stockpiles  of  essential  supplies 
for  malaria  and  dengue;  and, 
fifth,  promoting 
operational research to improve the delivery of services 
to internally displaced families, indigenous communities 
and schoolchildren. As a result of those efforts, malaria 
cases 
the  Philippines  have  consistently  been 
declining  —  from  more  than  76,000  cases  with  150 
deaths reported in 1990 to 33,800 cases with 89 deaths 
in 2006. 

In order to facilitate programme management and 
inculcate health-seeking behaviour  among the Filipino 
population,  especially  the  high-risk  population,  the 
Philippine  Government  declared  that  November  every 
year  would  be  Malaria  Awareness  Month.  That 
initiative bands together various Government agencies, 
such  as  the  Departments  of  Health,  of  Interior  and 
Local Government, of Education, of National Defence 
and  of  Tourism,  all  local  government  units  —  the 
provinces,  cities,  municipalities  and  barangays  —  and 
the  National  Commission  on  Indigenous  Peoples, 
synergizing the mandate of each for the prevention and 
the elimination of malaria in the Philippines. 

While  it  is  very  heartening  that  global  funds 
made  available 
substantially 
increased — from  less  than  $0.2  billion  in  2000  to 
$2 billion  at  the  end  of  2008  —  it  is  disconcerting  to 
note  that  significant  sources  of  funding  come  from 
only a few large external contributors. That means that 
without  a  good  number  and  diversity  of  funding 
sources,  there  is  a  risk  that  antimalaria  efforts  will  be 
jeopardized if any of those major sources dries up. We 
therefore advocate a diverse portfolio of global funding 
for malaria in order to ensure the sustainability and to 
lessen 
the  vulnerability  of  antimalaria  efforts, 
particularly in developing countries. 

The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria, as well as the Roll Back Malaria project, offer 
major  assistance  to  the  Philippine  fight  against  the 
disease.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  a  significant 
portion  of  our  antimalaria  efforts  is  funded  from 
external sources, the Philippine Government, driven by 
its commitment to a malaria-free Philippines by 2020, 
increased  its  malaria  control  budget  from  3.4  million 
pesos in 2001 to 60 million pesos in 2008, representing 
a  2,000  per  cent  increase  in  funding  in  the  national 
budget to fight malaria. 

We can see some emerging challenges in the fight 
against  malaria.  The  global  economic  and  financial 
for  malaria  have 
09-56896 

19 

that 
only 
including 
underscore 
that  while 
A/64/PV.23 

crises  threaten  current  and  prospective  funding  for 
health  programmes, 
international  health 
assistance.  Global  warming  increases  the  incidence  of 
climate-sensitive  diseases  such  as  malaria.  Those 
challenges 
international 
cooperation  to  rid  the  world  of  malaria  will  require 
continued  and  enhanced  cooperation  on  other  related 
issues, such as financial and economic downturns of a 
regional or international nature and climate change.  

The General Assembly, as the biggest parliament 
of  nations,  must  focus  on  the  findings  of  the  World 
Health  Organization 
there  has  been 
remarkable progress in malaria control, these potential 
threats  demand  increased  attention:  first,  resistance  to 
insecticides and antimalarial medicines and the lack of 
alternatives;  second,  insufficient  funding  to  reach 
universal  coverage;  and  third,  weakness  in  global  and 
intranational  purchasing  and  supply,  resulting 
in 
shortages  of  key  commodities  at  the  national  and 
health facility levels. 
Mrs. Viotti (Brazil): One of the key priorities of 

Brazil’s  foreign  policy  is  strengthening  cooperation 
with Africa, land of the forefathers of a significant part 
of  the  Brazilian  people.  For  that  purpose  Brazil  has 
established  a  network  of  embassies  in  the  African 
continent.  Today,  we  are  present 
in  34  African 
countries  through  resident  embassies,  including  in 
Addis Ababa, the headquarters of the African Union. 

Brazil has also been one of the mentors and main 
supporters  of  the  Africa-South  America  summits,  the 
second  of  which  took  place  less  than  a  month  ago  in 
Isla  Margarita,  Venezuela.  South  America  and  Africa 
are building a bridge of dialogue and cooperation. Our 
common efforts have resulted in a significant increase 
of  South  American-African  trade,  from  $6  billion  to 
$36 billion in the last six years.  

As  an  Africa-owned  and  Africa-driven  blueprint 
for  development,  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  can  count  on  Brazil’s  full 
support. Our approach to NEPAD is that of a call for a 
partnership  with  Africa,  rather  than  a  partnership  for 
Africa.  Brazil  believes  in  cooperation  as  a  tool  of 
technical  and  technological  emancipation  and  as  a 
conduit for sharing successful experiences in the fields 
of health, energy and, in particular, agriculture. 

Our  cooperation  with  Africa  is  consistent  with 
NEPAD’s  focus  on  agriculture  as  a  means  to  wealth 
generation  and  poverty  alleviation.  The  Brazilian 
Agriculture and Husbandry Research Company opened 
an office in Accra through which it is cooperating with 
various  African  countries.  To  take  that  cooperation 
even further, Brazil will host a meeting of ministers of 
agriculture  next  year.  We  believe  in  the  African 
the  production  of  biofuels.  Brazil’s 
potential  for 
experience 
in 
that  area  has  made  possible 
the 
development  of  one  of  the  cleanest  sources  of  energy, 
sure  to  be  in  growing  demand  in  the  years  to  come, 
without endangering the food supply and food security. 

Brazil  is  aware  of  the  impact  of  the  global 
economic and financial crisis on African countries. We 
praise their efforts to tackle economic hardship, which 
is  aggravated  by  a  global  financial  disarray  for  which 
they cannot be held responsible. Those efforts have to 
be  supported.  It  is  important  that  the  international 
financial institutions be able to provide countries most 
in need with more liquidity and credit that are subject 
to  less  conditionalities.  Brazil  is  working  towards  this 
aim in the Group of 20, together with other developing 
countries.  

The  Secretary-General’s  note  on  the  Decade  to 
Roll  Back  Malaria  (A/64/302)  gives  us  an  updated 
picture of how different countries are faring in the fight 
to  control  and  eradicate  this  serious  tropical  disease. 
Brazil  is  committed  to  the  international  fight  against 
malaria through bilateral cooperation and participation 
in multilateral efforts. Our engagement with the Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the 
Roll Back Malaria Partnership reflects this commitment.  

has  made 
remarkable progress in the past few years in pursuit of 
the  goals  of  achieving  universal  coverage  of  malaria 
prevention  and  treatment  by  December  2010  and 
reducing global malaria deaths by 50 per cent from the 
2000  levels  and  to  near  zero  preventable  deaths  by 
2015. It is not acceptable that children continue to die 
from  preventable  diseases.  Besides  expanding  the  use 
of 
that 
adequate mechanisms be put in place to ensure access 
to  drugs  for  malaria  treatment  if  we  are  to  avoid 
preventable deaths and eliminate this scourge. 
Mr.  Neville  (Australia):  I  thank  President  Treki 

for convening this joint debate on the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and the Decade to 
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa. I will address each item in turn.  
insecticide-treated  nets, 
international 
community 
imperative 
The 
is 
it 
20 

09-56896 
three 
areas 
priority 



First,  NEPAD  continues  to  provide  an  important 
framework for addressing the critical challenges facing 
the  African  continent.  In  his  address  to  a  meeting  of 
African  Union  foreign  ministers  in  Addis  Ababa  in 
February  this  year,  the  Australian  Foreign  Minister 
identified 
for  Australian 
engagement  with  African  countries:  first,  support  for 
African  efforts  to  promote  economic  growth  and 
prosperity  through  investment  and  trade;  secondly, 
support to accelerate progress towards the achievement 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals;  and  thirdly, 
support  to  address  peace  and  security  challenges  in 
Africa.  These  priorities  are  consistent  with 
the 
objectives of NEPAD.  

In  the  past  year,  Australia  has  increased  its 
development  assistance  to Africa  by  40  per  cent.  The 
Australian  Government  believes  that  it  can  assist 
African countries with their long-term development in 
areas  where  our  expertise  and  experience  can  make  a 
unique and positive contribution. To this end, Australia 
is  deepening  its  development  cooperation  engagement 
with  Africa  through  three  sectoral  programmes:  food 
security  and  agriculture,  water  and  sanitation,  and 
maternal and child health.  

Furthermore,  the  Australian  Government  sees 
education  as  a  key  to  assisting  to Africa  to  realize  its 
economic  and  social  development  potential.  We  are 
expanding  our  scholarships  programme 
in  Africa 
through  short  courses  and  fellowships  and  capacity-
building  partnerships  facilities.  These  facilities  will 
focus  on  priority  areas,  including  mining  and  natural 
resource  management,  agriculture  and  public  sector 
reform, and will be flexible to respond to requests from 
African Governments.  

the 
this 
Secretary-General’s frustration with the ongoing Doha 
Round  of  trade  negotiations.  We  join  the  Secretary-
General in calling for a conclusion to the Doha Round. 
Australia is pursuing an outcome that is for the good of 
development, for the good of agricultural trade reform 
and  for  the  good  of  multilateral  trading  regimes.  The 
early  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round  will  also  be  a 
significant  economic  stimulus  at  a  time  when  the 
world’s economy has faced its greatest threat since the 
Great Depression of the 1930s.  

Turning  to  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing Countries, I would like to thank the World 
Health  Organization  for  its  report  on  this  item  (see 
item  Australia  shares 
Finally,  on 
A/64/PV.23
Initiative 
that  offer  few 
is  providing 
to 
A/64/302,  annex).  Malaria  has  a  serious  economic  as 
well  as  human  impact  on Africa.  It  fuels  the  cycle  of 
poverty, afflicting primarily the poor, who tend to live 
in  malaria-prone  rural  areas  in  poorly  constructed 
dwellings 
if  any  barriers  against 
mosquitoes.  It  is  an  unacceptable  tragedy  that  the 
disease  accounts  for  nearly  one  in  five  childhood 
deaths in Africa.  

In  the  Asia-Pacific  region,  malaria  also  causes 
significant morbidity and mortality. Over 60 per cent of 
malaria  cases  outside  of  Africa  occur  in  the  Asia-
Pacific  region;  a  high  proportion  of  these  cases  are 
vivax malaria, for which the clinical tools required for 
diagnosis  and  management  are  less  well  developed.  It 
is important to recognize that malaria is a global issue.  

Australia  is  playing  a  leading  role  in  addressing 
malaria in the Asia-Pacific region. Through the Pacific 
targeted 
Malaria  Initiative,  Australia 
technical 
and  management 
assist 
Governments  to  implement  their  national  malaria 
action  plans.  The 
is  already  making 
impressive  progress.  In  Solomon  Islands,  the  malaria 
incidence rate has been reduced from 199 malaria cases 
per 1,000 people in 2003 to 82 cases per 1,000 in 2008. 
In Vanuatu, the rate has been reduced from 74 malaria 
cases  per  1,000  in  2003  to  14  cases  in  2008.  The 
Initiative  has  highlighted  the  importance  of  working 
within partner Government systems, of strong political 
leadership  and  of  providing  appropriate 
technical 
expertise.  
Australia  was  also  pleased  to  host  the  inaugural 

the  Asia-Pacific  Malaria  Elimination 
meeting  of 
Network 
in  February  2009.  The  Network  was 
established  to  bring  attention  to  the  work  of  malaria 
elimination  in  the Asia-Pacific  region,  which  is  home 
to  a  quarter  of  the  countries  in  the  world  that  have 
embarked  on  this  elimination.  It  represents  another 
means  of  strengthening 
technologies,  skills, 
systems  and  leadership  that  are  needed  to  reduce  and 
eventually  eliminate  this  disease  in  the  Asia-Pacific 
region.  
to 

congratulate  the  President  and  the  members  of  the 
Bureau  on  their  election  to  conduct  our  work  during 
this  session  and  to  reassure  them  of  my  delegation’s 
support for the successful conclusion of our work. 
the 

itself  with 
statements  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Mr.  Touray  (Sierra  Leone):  Allow  me 
My  delegation  fully  aligns 
support 
the 
09-56896 

21 

the 
like,  however, 
respectively.  Given 
A/64/PV.23 

the Sudan and the Permanent Representative of Tunisia 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and the African 
Group, 
importance  my 
delegation attaches to the respective agenda items, we 
would 
to  make  a  few  pertinent 
comments from a national perspective.  

We join others in thanking the Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  and  forward-looking  reports 
(A/64/204,  A/64/208  and  A/64/210).  My  delegation 
further wishes to express its appreciation to the Special 
Adviser  on  Africa,  Under-Secretary-General  Cheick 
Sidi  Diarra,  and  his  dedicated  team  for  their  advisory 
and advocacy work in promoting Africa’s development 
agenda. 

We are reviewing various reports on the progress 
of implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development;  the  political  declaration  on  Africa’s 
development  needs,  adopted  22  September  2008 
(resolution  63/1);  the  1998  recommendations  on  the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and  sustainable  development  in  Africa;  and  the  Roll 
Back Malaria programme, at a very crucial moment in 
the global economic architecture. 
Clearly, the entire global community is grappling 

with 
the  deepening  effect  of  an  unprecedented 
economic and financial crisis that undoubtedly has had 
a much graver impact on the developing world  and in 
particular has set back the 34 least developed countries 
internationally  agreed 
in  Africa 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals, by the target date of 2015. 

However,  despite  the  gloom  there  are  prospects 
on  the  horizon.  With  the  support  of  the  international 
community  significant,  progress  has  been  made  in 
fostering  the  objectives  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  Conflicts  on  the 
continent  have  diminished.  Many  households  sleep 
under 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  bednets.  Some 
African  heads  of  State,  including  the  President  of 
Sierra  Leone,  recently  launched  the  African  Leaders 
Malaria  Alliance  to  combat  this  deadly  pandemic. 
Nonetheless,  we  concur  with  the  Secretary-General’s 
assessment that the key challenge is to ensure that the 
current  economic  downturn,  including  the  food  and 
energy  crisis  that  preceded  it,  does  not  lead  to  a 
reversal of the gains achieved so far. 
The integration of NEPAD into the African Union 

marks  a  new  dawn  in  advancing  the  socio-economic 
from  attaining 
including 
goals, 
and 
in 
of 
On 
training 
trade  and 
the  home 
information 
issue,  climate  change, 
is  a  recent  member  — 
transformation  agenda  of  the  continent.  It  provides  a 
window  for  strategic  partnerships  to  explore  areas  of 
cooperation  to  address  global  challenges  such  as  the 
debt 
regional 
integration  and  sustainable  development.  We  are 
encouraged by the ongoing implementation of NEPAD 
projects  ranging  from 
the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme  —  of  which  my 
country 
to  projects  on 
infrastructure,  environment,  gender  mainstreaming, 
education 
and 
communication technologies.  
At  the  level  of  governance,  advances  in  the 

implementation 
the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism — involving  30  acceding  countries,  12  of 
which are being reviewed — demonstrate the continent’s 
resolve to achieve a paradigm shift. 

front,  my  Government  has 
articulated  and  is  currently  implementing  its  Agenda 
for  Change  with  the  assistance  and  support  of  the 
United Nations Joint Vision. It is a framework through 
which  Government  has  set  clear  priorities  such  as 
energy,  agriculture  and  infrastructure  as  the  drivers  of 
growth  and 
the  necessary  conditions  for  human 
these 
development.  The  strategies  for  delivering 
priorities 
improving 
public  service  capacity  and  enhancing  public  and 
private  sector  partnerships,  as  well  as  our  domestic 
financial system.  

It  is  in  this  regard  that  we  are  intensifying  our 
cooperation  with 
traditional  and  new  partners, 
particularly 
through  South-South  cooperation.  The 
recent  visit  of  President  Koroma  to  Brazil  and  the 
conclusion  of  a  tripartite  agreement  with  Cuba  and 
South Africa for improving health care delivery in my 
country are a clear demonstration of the Government’s 
determination to replicate best practices at that level. 

Cognizant  of  the  fact  that  the  responsibility  for 
peace and security in Africa, including the capacity to 
address  the  root  causes  of  conflict  and  to  resolve 
conflicts  in  a  peaceful  manner,  lies  primarily  with 
African  countries  themselves,  the  African  Union  and 
subregional  organizations  are  strengthening 
their 
capacities  in  conflict  prevention  and  resolution.  They 
are also taking the lead in peacekeeping operations on 
the continent.  
The African Union and subregional organizations 

are playing a significant role in responding to conflicts 
include,  among  other 
things, 
22 

09-56896 
In 
the 
indications  of 
respect,  my  delegation  urges 
review  of 


and  potentially  explosive  situations.  The  African 
Union’s  recent  efforts  to  quell  the  post-election  crisis 
in  Kenya  and  its  peacekeeping  efforts  in  Darfur  and 
Somalia  are  clear 
the  continent’s 
preparedness to rise to the occasion, with much-needed 
support  from  the  international  community  and  the 
United Nations. 
While  these  efforts  are  continuing,  we  are  also 

witnessing  a  new  wave  of  challenges 
involving 
unconstitutional changes of Government, transnational 
organized crime, narcotic drug trafficking, particularly 
in the Gulf of Guinea, piracy and issues of governance, 
human  rights  and  corruption.  Thus,  the  need  to  forge 
partnerships  to  strengthen  capacities  to  respond  to 
crises and security threats cannot be overemphasized. 
a 

this 
comprehensive 
implementation  of 
recommendations  contained  in  the  1998  report  of  the 
Secretary-General (A/52/871) on the causes of conflict 
and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa  in  the  light  of  the  new  and 
emerging  issues  affecting  human  security  on  the 
continent. 
In  concluding  this  brief  intervention,  I  reiterate 

the 
my  Government’s  commitment 
objectives  of  NEPAD, 
the  promotion  of  good 
governance,  sustainable  peace  and  development,  and 
further call upon our partners to intensify, among other 
things,  efforts  to  first,  eliminate  all  protectionist  and 
distorting  trade  barriers  by  promoting  and  facilitating 
market  access  to  developing  countries,  especially  the 
least  developed; 
their 
commitments  to  achieve  the  official  development 
assistance  target  of  0.7  per  cent  and  0.15  per  cent  of 
gross  national  income  for  the  developing  and  least 
developed  countries,  respectively;  thirdly,  to  ensure 
adequate  and  predictable  funding  and  support  for  the 
peacebuilding  efforts  of  countries  emerging  from 
conflict in order to facilitate their early recovery efforts 
for  sustainable  peace  and  development;  fourthly,  to 
promote  and  strengthen  cooperation  between 
the 
United  Nations  and  the African  Union,  as  well  as  the 
subregional  organizations;  and  finally,  to  address  the 
unsustainable  debt  burden  of  heavily  indebted  poor 
countries. 
Mr.  Gaspar  Martins  (Angola):  Angola  fully 

aligns 
the 
representative of the Sudan on behalf of the  Group of 
the  statement  made  by 
to  deliver  on 
to  furthering 
itself  with 
secondly, 
A/64/PV.23
report 
progress 
(A/64/204) 
report  urges 
77  and  China,  as  well  as  with  the  statement  made  by 
the  representative  of  Tunisia  on  behalf  of  the African 
Group. 

We  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  seventh 
consolidated 
on 
implementation  and  international  support  for  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD);  his 
progress reports entitled “Africa’s development needs: 
state  of 
implementation  of  various  commitments, 
challenges  and  the  way  forward”  (A/64/208)  and 
“Implementation of the recommendations contained in 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa” (A/64/210); and his 
note entitled “2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
in  Africa” 
(A/64/302).  We  are  confident  that  those  reports  will 
enable a better understanding of the progress made by 
African countries in implementing the key priorities of 
NEPAD. 
Angola notes with satisfaction that the Secretary-

General’s 
international  development 
partners,  including  the  United  Nations  system,  to  take 
concrete  and  urgent  actions  to  mitigate  the  impact  of 
the  socio-economic  crisis  in  order  to  assist  African 
countries 
and 
implementing  NEPAD.  We  are  certain  that  such  an 
effort  will  support  Africa  in  its  quest  to  achieve 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

The  recent  10.2  per  cent  increase  in  official 
development  assistance  to  Africa  and  the  16  per  cent 
increase  in  foreign  direct  investment  on  the  continent 
are  notable  achievements  for  Africa  and  its  partners. 
While  we  remain  concerned  that  extractive  industries 
continue to absorb a disproportionate  amount of those 
flows, 
real 
opportunities  on  the  continent. We  are  also  concerned 
that the current global economic recession may reverse 
that  trend,  exposing  many  African  economies  to  an 
exogenous shock where many will not have the policy 
space to enact the recommended policies. 

NEPAD  has  been  designed  for  Africa  and  by 
Africans  to  tackle  the  major  challenges  to  sustained 
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development  in 
Africa.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that  some  projects 
conceived  under  NEPAD  are  being  implemented,  in 
figures  show 
stimulating 
economies 
there  are 
those 
in 
their 
that 
09-56896 

23 

A/64/PV.23 

particular in the domains of infrastructure, information, 
health, education, the environment, agriculture, science 
technology,  gender  mainstreaming  and  civil 
and 
society 
involvement.  There  are  visible  signs  of 
progress, owing to a global partnership. In that context, 
we  welcome  the  several  partnership  initiatives  our 
continent  has  been  developing  with  various  countries 
and regions of the world. 

My delegation recognizes that peace, development 
and the protection of human rights are interlinked and 
mutually  reinforcing.  In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased 
with  the  level  of  cooperation  between  the  African 
Union  and  the  United  Nations  family,  in  particular  as 
the  African  Union  aims  for  political  stability  and  the 
resolution  of  conflicts  where  they  linger  on  the 
continent.  In  recent  years,  the  African  Union  has 
substantially improved its capacity to contribute to the 
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts  in  the  continent.  We 
call  on  Africa’s  partners  to  continue  to  support  such 
efforts, as they are crucial for the economic growth and 
sustainable development of the continent. 
Angola  maintains  its  commitment  to  the  sectoral 

priorities  of  NEPAD.  One  such  priority  area 
is 
infrastructure,  as  it  improves  the  conditions  for  the 
development of other sectors of the economy and plays 
an important role in attracting investment. 

The  Angolan  Government  is  implementing  a 
national  reconstruction  programme  that  aims  to  build 
or  rehabilitate  the  infrastructure  that  will  facilitate 
trade  and  improve  communication  and  movement 
throughout the country. The programme has enabled us 
to connect all 18 Angolan provinces. 

Although we have registered tangible progress in 
the health sector in Africa, it is important to highlight 
that  future  African  generations  are  still  at  a  risk  of 
being  condemned  to  suffer  from  malaria  and  other 
treatable  diseases.  Life  expectancy 
figures  are 
particularly gloomy for children under the age of 5. We 
strongly  believe  that  the  nature  of  those  diseases 
compels us to undertake joint efforts at all levels to roll 
back  its  prevalence  on  the  continent.  For  that  reason, 
my country reaffirms its commitment to halve malaria 
mortality and commends other efforts and initiatives to 
that  end.  In  that  regard  we  welcome  the  launching  of 
the  African  Leaders  Malaria  Alliance  and 
the 
strengthening  of  the  United  States  Global  Health 
Initiative,  to  which  President  Obama  has  pledged 
$63 billion over the next six years. 
in 

I  must  convey  our  appreciation  to  the  Global 
Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  the 
World  Bank,  which  finances  the  Angola  HIV/AIDS, 
Malaria  and  Tuberculosis  Control  Project,  the  Bush 
Presidential  Initiative  and  other  initiatives  carried  out 
by foundations. Combined, the efforts of Africans and 
their partners seek to deploy resources, institutions and 
knowledge 
the  fight  against  preventable  and 
treatable  diseases  such  as  malaria, 
tuberculosis, 
HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases. 

The  full  implementation  of  all  the  commitments 
made  to  and  for  Africa,  including  NEPAD,  was  the 
subject  of  the  political  declaration  of  the  high-level 
meeting  on  Africa’s  development  needs  and  on  the 
state  of 
implementation  of  various  commitments, 
challenges  and  the  way  forward,  which  was  held  on 
22 September 2008  here  in  New  York.  Among  other 
things, that document recognized that Africa as a whole 
was  being  disproportionately  affected  by  the  negative 
consequences  of  the  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
climate change, the food crisis and volatile commodity 
prices. 

In  order  to  overcome  those  challenges,  Angola 
believes  that  the  international  community  should, 
among  other  things,  remain  seized  of  the  reform  and 
strengthening of the international financial system and 
architecture  so  as  to  align  it  with  the  global  need  for 
stability,  agility,  support,  participation,  transparency, 
coherence and coordination. In addition, it should take 
concrete  steps  to  reach  a  successful  conclusion  of  the 
Doha  Round  of  trade  negotiations,  with  the  full 
realization of its development mandate,  and undertake 
ambitious  commitments  vis-à-vis  technology  transfer 
and financing for adaptation under the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  so  as  to 
enable  African  countries  to  adapt  to  the  impact  of 
climate  change  and  develop  competitive  green 
economies. 

My  delegation  stresses  the  need  for  concrete 
actions  and  time-bound  commitments  to  meet  specific 
needs 
trade, 
finance,  access  to  markets,  debt  relief  and  sustainable 
development. 

full 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
the  Secretary-General’s  reports  related  to  NEPAD. 
Furthermore,  we  stress  the  need  for  this  body  to 
consider the establishment of a monitoring mechanism 
to  development  assistance, 
forward 
Finally,  we 
look 
relating 
to 
the 
24 

09-56896 
to 
take 
My  delegation  also  wishes 


to enable us all to remain seized of the coordinated and 
coherent  implementation  of  all  commitments  to,  and 
by, Africa. 
Mr. Owoseni (Nigeria): Nigeria aligns itself with 

the  statements  made  earlier  by  the  representatives  of 
the Sudan and Tunisia on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China and the African Group, respectively. 

My  delegation  commends  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General in providing elaborate reports under 
sub-items (a) and (b) of agenda item 63, which is now 
under  consideration.  We  are  particularly  thankful  for 
the report (A/64/208) — and the insights it provides — 
on the challenges that lie ahead with regard to the full 
implementation  of 
the  September  2008  political 
declaration  on  Africa’s  development  needs.  The 
symbolism  of  that  report  underscores  the  continued 
commitment of the United Nations system to maintain 
Africa’s development as a top item on the international 
community’s agenda. 

this 
opportunity to commend the leadership provided by the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
and  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  in 
updating  Member  States  through  their  comprehensive 
briefings.  By  doing  so,  they  have  afforded  us  an 
opportunity 
that 
NEPAD has had and the challenges on the path towards 
the realization of its goals and objectives. 

Since coming into being, NEPAD has engendered 
optimism,  even  in  the  face  of  daunting  challenges. 
Africa  remains  confident  that  that  strategy  was  the 
right  model  for  mitigating  crises  and  propelling  the 
continent’s  sustainable  development  and  growth.  That 
belief underpins the tenacious commitment to creating 
an  environment  that  will  enable  progress  in  the 
flagship  sectors,  including  infrastructure,  agriculture, 
health,  education, 
the  environment,  science  and 
technology, information and communication technology, 
gender mainstreaming and civil society. 

Nigeria  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to  the 
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  (APRM),  a  wholly 
unique  African 
and 
that  has  gained 
strengthening  good  governance 
popularity both within and outside Africa. Not only has 
the  number  of  participating  countries  grown,  the 
number of those that have been peer reviewed has also 
increased, thus deepening the culture of accountability, 
transparency  and  genuine  self-examination  on  the 
the  achievements 
for  promoting 
to  appreciate 
instrument 
A/64/PV.23
through 
exogenous 
therefore  calls  on 
circumstances  which 
As  African  countries  navigate 
continent.  The  success  of  the  APRM  has  made  it  a 
regular  paradigm  of  reference  at  many  extra-African 
forums.  My  delegation 
those 
countries on the continent that have not yet acceded to 
it to do so, since, in the final analysis, good governance 
is about the well-being of the people. Good governance 
is a sine qua non precondition. 

the 
labyrinth  of  age-old  economic  difficulties,  our  efforts 
continue  to  contend  with  the  inevitable  influence  of 
unforeseen 
are 
manifested  through  a  deluge  of  global  crises  in  the 
energy  and  food  sectors. The  modest  growth  recorded 
in  recent  years  has  been  substantially  undermined  by 
the  current  global  financial  and  economic  crisis.  The 
result is the further weakening of the capacity of Africa 
to attain the internationally agreed development goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals. In order 
to  achieve  a  true  and  realistic  global  recovery,  the 
international  community  needs  to  take  appropriate 
measures to fend off further economic reversals on the 
continent. 

The  United  Nations  and  NEPAD  provide  ready 
platforms  for  articulating  and  formulating  appropriate 
responses  to  Africa’s  needs.  Accordingly,  we  believe 
that  the  recommendations  contained  in  the  political 
declaration  on  Africa’s  development  needs  of 
September  2008  and  in  the  outcome  document  of  the 
United  Nations  High-level  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development,  which  was  held  from  24  to  26  June 
2009, have the capacity to turn around the fortunes of 
the continent. 

the 
strategic  partnership  that  NEPAD  has  created  with 
friends  of  Africa  from  all  over  the  world  has  further 
strengthened  our  faith  in  the  United  Nations  system. 
Nigeria welcomes Africa’s productive engagement with 
Japan and the European Union, countries in the context 
of the South-South process, including China, India and 
Turkey, as well as countries participating in the Africa-
South America Summit. 

We call for the expeditious implementation of the 
suggested  useful 
including  enhancing 
national  capacities  for  the  domestic  mobilization  of 
resources,  the  scaling  up  of  official  development 
assistance,  increasing  foreign  direct  investment,  the 
speedy reactivation and conclusion of the Doha Round 
The  success  achieved 
in  consolidating 
remedies, 
09-56896 

25 

to 
face 
the  continent.  My  delegation  commends 
A/64/PV.23 

of  trade  negotiations,  the  expansion  of  the  scope  of 
multilateral  and  bilateral  debt  relief  and  outright  debt 
cancellation for the poorest countries. 

Climate  change  stands  out  in  the  panoply  of 
socio-economic challenges. It is not just an inhibitor to 
sustainable development but also an existential danger 
to 
the 
Secretary-General  for  once  again  demonstrating  an 
unrelenting  commitment 
this  challenge 
frontally. We welcome the rare sense of optimism that 
resulted from his summit and hope that the momentum 
that has been generated will catalyse a comprehensive 
and  all-inclusive  agreement  at  Copenhagen 
in 
December.  

For  us  in  Africa,  the  enormity  of  the  effects  of 
climate challenge has compelled us to take a collective 
approach to resolving it. In that regard, my delegation 
calls  on  the  international  community  to  uphold  the 
common African position deriving from the uniqueness 
and  peculiarity  of  climate  change  impact,  especially 
considering  the  continent’s  relatively  weaker  capacity 
to respond. 
My  delegation  acknowledges  that  meaningful 

sustainable  development  can  only  take  root  in  an 
atmosphere where peace and security prevail. Thus, in 
Africa’s  quest 
the 
collaboration  of  partners,  long  drawn-out  crises  and 
conflicts  constitute  serious  impediments.  Such  crises 
dissipate Africa’s resources and retard growth. It is for 
that  reason  that  my  delegation  concurs  with  the 
Secretary-General’s  conclusions  and  recommendations 
contained  in  his  report  (A/64/210).  We  urge  Member 
States to work towards establishing lasting peace. 

Nigeria appreciates the continued commitment of 
the United  Nations to restore  peace and order in most 
of  Africa’s  hot  spots.  We  are  heartened  that  the 
experience  with  the  African  Union-United  Nations 
Hybrid  Operation 
in  Darfur  has  yielded  some 
outstanding  results.  The  success  of  that  partnership 
should  therefore  be  a  lesson  that  can  be  adopted  as 
strategy,  not  only  for  peacekeeping  but  also 
in 
formulating early warning mechanisms to halt potential 
conflicts.  

the 
Peacebuilding Commission, which provides invaluable 
financial  and  other  critical  support  for  countries  just 
transiting  from  peacekeeping  towards  peace,  stability 
and development. 
for  development,  even  with 
Equally  gratifying 
the  work  of 
is 
the 
threats 
fairness, 
justice  and 
to  peace  and 
At this critical moment in history, we believe that 

the  opportunity  provided  by 
international 
community’s support must be adequately complemented 
and  reciprocated.  As  Africans,  we  must  dedicate 
ourselves  to  adopting  best  practices  and  innovative 
strategies to  maximize the gains. We  cannot but agree 
with the call in the report on the need to invest in  

“mechanisms  aimed  at  preventing  conflict  at  the 
community,  local,  national  and  regional  levels 
and supporting partners in the field to build their 
capacity  to  effectively  address  the  new  and 
emerging 
stability”. 
(A/64/210, para. 71)

Similarly, we call for a preventive approach to the 
management  of  crises  and  conflicts.  The  efficacy  of 
this  approach  derives  from  the  institution  of  political 
governance,  which  is  predicated  on  the  principles  of 
democracy, 
the  equitable 
allocation  of  resources.  In  that  equation,  there  should 
be  zero  tolerance  for  democratic  reversals  in  the  form 
of  unconstitutional  changes  of  Government,  self-
succession or self-perpetuation in office. 
Since  the  holding  of  the  2000  Abuja  Summit, 

which  adopted  the  Abuja  Declaration  and  plan  of 
action,  tremendous  improvements  and  progress  have 
been  made  in  the  area  of  rolling  back  malaria. 
However,  that  pandemic  continues  to  ravage  the 
continent, causing a high number of deaths among both 
children and adults. 

the 
individual. Economically, it brings a lot of hardship to 
people,  particularly  in  Africa.  Although  considerable 
efforts  have  been  made  by  affected  countries  and  by 
donor  agencies,  the  goals  of  Roll  Back  Malaria  have 
not  been  realized.  Africa  is  committed  to  eliminating 
the  malaria  scourge.  To  that  end,  Nigeria  remains 
committed  to  hosting  the  Abuja-Plus  Ten  Summit  on 
Roll  Back  Malaria  in  2011. We  therefore  reiterate  our 
earlier  call  for  the  support  of  the  Secretary-General, 
not  only  to  make  the  proposed  summit  possible  but 
also to facilitate the realization of its objectives. 

the 
challenges facing Africa may be daunting, they are not 
insurmountable.  With  effective  harmonization  and 
coordination,  the  targets  set  out  in  the  frameworks  of 
the African  Union,  NEPAD  and  the APRM  could  fast 
track  our 
from  a  continent  of 
lamentation  to  one  of  opportunity.  My  delegation 
The  effects  go  beyond 
firmly  believes 
the  health  of 
that  although 
transformation 
Nigeria 
26 

09-56896 
the  continued  support  of 


therefore  calls  for 
the 
international  community  in  the  process  of  integrating 
NEPAD into the structures and processes of a reformed 
African  Union.  Furthermore,  the  advancement  of  the 
various  programmes  of  NEPAD,  such  as  the  African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism  and 
the  Comprehensive 
Africa  Agriculture  Development  Programme,  support 
for  the  global  strategic  partnerships  that  are  already 
improving the investment scenario on the continent and 
collaboration  with,  and  support  for,  the  Peace  and 
Security Architecture of the African Union are critical 
for  success.  Above  all,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to 
prioritize  the  redemption  of  the  promises  of  aid  made 
to Africa at various international forums.  

We  firmly  believe  that  an  African  continent  in 
which  hunger,  poverty  and  disease  are  effectively 
combated,  basic  infrastructure  functions  and  conflicts 
make  way  for  peaceful  coexistence  is  the  continent  to 
which  we  all  aspire  to  meaningfully  contribute  to 
global peace and prosperity. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would  like  to  thank 
the President for convening this important meeting.  

My delegation would like to associate itself with 
the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  the 
Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  
The  fact  that  we  are  discussing  the  future  of 

Africa  is  a  cause  for  hope.  The  Venezuelan  people, 
which has roots in Africa, is comprised of an array of 
different  cultures  that  serve  to  make  up  our  national 
identity.  We  are  therefore  not  indifferent  to  Africa’s 
future. We are committed to it.  

The  second  summit  of  heads  of  State  and 
Government  from  Africa  and  Latin  America,  which 
was  held  from  26  to  27  September  on  the  island  of 
Margarita  in  Venezuela,  was  a  major  step  towards 
expanding  South-South  cooperation.  Such  cooperation 
has  taken  on  new  urgency  in  the  light  of  today’s 
unbridled  savage  capitalism,  whose  underpinnings 
include the exploitation, dispossession and subjugation 
of  countries  by  other  countries.  That  has  been  the 
orientation  of  North-South  relations.  What  is  being 
proposed 
form  of 
cooperation that is grounded in solidarity. 

At the Africa and South America summit, leaders 
from both regions committed themselves to fomenting 
South-South  cooperation  in  order  to  create  societies 
is  a  new  humanistic 
today 
on 
09-56896 

27 
A/64/PV.23
for 
increasing 
where social justice is the law of the land. It was also 
proposed  to  achieve  sustainable  economic  growth, 
generate  dignified  work  and  promote  social  inclusion 
policies  through  the  effective  participation  of  young 
people,  civil  society  and  people  with  special  needs, 
while  at  the  same  time  taking  the  gender  perspective 
into consideration. They also committed themselves to 
ensuring equality and mutual respect among States and 
to  promoting  economic  cooperation  while  facilitating 
the equitable distribution of benefits resulting from the 
exchange of goods and services.  
With  regard  to  national  policies,  the  leaders 

called 
scientific  knowledge  and 
capacities  and  for  their  transfer,  namely,  by  bringing 
together the scientific communities of Africa and South 
America,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  society’s  ownership 
of  scientific  and  technical  understanding  so  as  to 
promote  educational  and  health  opportunities  and 
better living conditions for people. 

The Margarita summit took to a higher plane the 
interaction  between  two  regions  that  are  seeking  new 
horizons  to  realize  the  ideals  of  justice  and  equality 
that their peoples have sought since colonial times.  

Venezuela  attaches  great  importance  to  South-
South  cooperation  in  the  context  of  its  international 
relations.  We  have  signed  more  than  100  agreements 
with  various  African  countries.  Those  agreements, 
which are currently being implemented, were ratified at 
the Africa-South America summit. Venezuela currently 
has  diplomatic  relations  with  every  country  of  the 
African  Union.  Before  President  Chávez  came  to 
power, Venezuela barely had eight embassies in Africa. 
Today, we have 18. 

The Margarita summit called for the strengthening 
of  the  Bank  of  the  South,  which  South  American 
countries  have  already  set  up  and  which  will  initially 
be capitalized at $20 billion. The Bank will be able to 
establish  agreements  with  the  African  Development 
Bank  based  on  fairness  and  without  the  heinous 
conditionalities 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions.  

President  Chávez  also  called  for  promoting 
PetroSur  and  for  the  establishment  of  a  research  and 
implementation  coordinating  body  for  energy  projects 
in service of South America and Africa. PetroSur aims 
at establishing cooperation and integration mechanisms 
based 
and 
democratically  utilizing  energy  resources  with  a  view 
complementarity,  while 
imposed  by 
fairly 

to  minimize 
A/64/PV.23 

to  alleviating  poverty  and  inequality.  PetroSur  also 
aims 
the  negative  consequences  on 
developing  countries  caused  by  fluctuations  in  the 
price  of  energy,  which 
is  mainly  affected  by 
geopolitical  factors  and  speculative  variables.  It  also 
recognizes  the  importance  of  promoting  cooperation 
and  strategic  alliances  between  oil  companies  of  the 
countries of the South.  

Also  at  the  Africa-South  America  summit,  the 
leader  of  the  Bolivarian  revolution  stated  that  there  is 
an  urgent  need  to  establish  a  university  of  the  South. 
Such  an  undertaking,  which  is  deeply  rooted  in  the 
spirit  of  liberation,  could  contribute  to  bridging  the 
scientific  and  technological  gap  between  developed 
and  developing  countries,  as  well  as  have  a  positive 
impact on the countries of South America and Africa. 

The  international  community  should  resolutely 
support  the  countries  of  Africa  to  combat  malaria, 
HIV/AIDS  and  other  catastrophic  illnesses.  In  that 
as  we 
is 
immoral 
treat 
in  Venezuela, 
do 
to  prevent  and 
 regard,  it  is  crucial  to  ensure  universal  free  access  to 
treatment  for  those  illnesses,  as  we  do  in  Venezuela. 
generic 
Likewise 
pharmaceutical  drugs 
those 
illnesses  should  be  manufactured  under  compulsory 
licensing.  It 
that  multinational  drug 
companies  enrich  themselves  on  people’s  illness  and 
suffering. Human health cannot be a business. 

The United Nations must firmly commit itself to 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development.  All 
African 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  This  should  be  a  challenge  that 
every  country  in  the  world  rises  to.  The  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela reiterates its readiness to foster 
South-South cooperation and to fight side by side with 
African  peoples  and  Governments 
the 
development they so deeply desire.  
The meeting rose at 6 p.m. 

countries  must 
to  attain 
attain 
28 

09-56896 
