
A/64/PV.7
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

7th plenary meeting 
Friday, 25 September 2009, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m. 

Address by Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Zimbabwe. 

Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Robert  G.  Mugabe, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Mugabe:  Let  me  begin  by  extending 

our  warmest  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth session. Your election to this high office is 
a  fitting  and  eloquent  tribute  to  the  personal  and 
diplomatic qualities that we have witnessed in you over 
the years. We are indeed proud of the honour that has 
been  bestowed  upon  the  African  continent  by  your 
election.  We  are  confident  that  under  your  wise 
stewardship  we  will  make  pleasing  progress  on  the 
important agenda before us. 

In  the  same  vein,  Mr.  President,  I  wish  to 
commend your predecessor, the President at the sixty-
third  session,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for 
having  brought  his  experience  and  wisdom  to  bear 
upon  the  various  meetings  and  conferences  that  he 
presided over during the last year. He brought integrity, 
transparency and credibility to the deliberations of the 
General Assembly.  Indeed,  we  share  his  assertion  that 
the “G-192” — that is, the General Assembly — being 
the most representative body of the United Nations, is 
the best forum in which to tackle global issues, which 
include  the  current  financial  and  economic  crises.  We 
commend him for standing up for what is right and for 
upholding  the  right  of  each  Member  State,  no  matter 
how small, to be heard. 

Over the years, my delegation has underlined the 
need  for  the  United  Nations  and  other  international 
bodies  to  truly  serve  the  collective  interest  of  all 
Member  States.  Our  unchanging  conviction  is  that  all 
international institutions should abide by the universal 
principles  that  underlie  the  multilateral  processes  of 
decision-making, particularly, the principle of equality 
among States and the right to development. It is in this 
context  that  we  welcome  the  appropriate,  indeed, 
timely,  theme  of  this  session,  namely,  effective  global 
responses 
strengthening 
multilateralism  and  dialogue  among  civilizations.  It  is 
our hope that we will have a candid and holistic debate 
on  the  global  responses  to  the  crises  that  currently 
affect our world. 
the 

General  Assembly  in  order  to  make  it  more  effective 
and  thus  enable  it  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  As  the 
pre-eminent deliberative and policymaking body of the 
United  Nations,  the  Assembly  should  play  a  more 
active role in mobilizing action against such challenges 
the  revitalization  of 
Zimbabwe  supports 
to  global 
crises, 
and 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52463 (E) 
*0952463* 

if 
it 
is 

the 
to  ensure 
A/64/PV.7 

today  as  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security,  the 
financial  and  economic  crises,  economic  and  social 
development and climate change.  

Accordingly,  the  encroachment  of  other  United 
Nations organs on the work of the General Assembly is 
of  great  concern  to  us. We  therefore  reiterate  that  any 
process of revitalization should strengthen the principle 
of  the  accountability  of  all  principal  and  subsidiary 
organs of the United Nations to the Assembly. 

It is our hope that the current negotiations on the 
reform of the Security Council will break the deadlock 
that for some time now has prevented us from making 
progress  in  an  area  of  strategic  interest  to Africa. The 
reform  of  the  Council  is  not  only  desirable  but 
imperative 
successful 
implementation  of  its  global  mandate  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security  on  behalf  of  all 
Member States.  
The fact that Africa, a major geographical region, 

remains underrepresented and without a permanent seat 
on  the  Security  Council  is  not  only  a  serious  and 
antiquated anomaly whose time for address is overdue. 
It is also clearly an untenable violation of the principle 
and  practice  of  democracy  in  international  relations. 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  urgently 
take full notice of the African position, which demands 
two  permanent  seats,  with  complete  veto  power  —  as 
long  as 
two  additional 
the  veto 
non-permanent seats. 

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development,  held  in  June  2009,  rightfully  positioned 
the Organization at the centre of efforts to deal with the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis.  The  devastating 
effect  of  the  current  global  crisis  has  clearly  exposed 
the  folly  of  leaving  the  management  of  the  global 
economy in the hands of a few self-appointed countries 
and groupings.  
the 

setting  up  of  a  follow-up  working  group  under  the 
aegis of the General Assembly. It is urgent and critical 
that  the  working  group  reach  an  early  agreement  on 
immediate  policy  actions 
the 
international  community  in  support  of  developing 
countries,  which  have  suffered  the  most  as  a  result  of 
this  global  financial  meltdown.  Such  actions  should 
include  the  development  of  a  global  stimulus  plan  to 
respond to the crisis and issues related to it. 
therefore,  fully  supports 
My  delegation, 
lasts  —  plus 
to  be 
taken  by 

Those  measures  will  not  achieve  the  desired 
objectives  unless  accompanied  by  a  comprehensive 
reform of the Bretton Woods institutions. Such reforms 
would, inter alia, include representation of sub-Saharan 
Africa  on  the  Executive  Boards  of  these  institutions. 
We are glad that our unequivocal call for their reform 
is  beginning  to  bear  fruit.  We  welcome  the  recent 
decision by the World Bank to establish three seats for 
Africa on its Executive Board. We are similarly pleased 
that,  earlier  this  month,  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  finalized  the  re-allocation  of  special  drawing 
rights  on  the  basis  of  the  $250  billion  pledged  by  the 
Group of 20 at its meeting in April 2009. Regrettably, 
only a mere $18 billion of this money was allocated to 
low-income  countries,  while  the  developed  countries  — 
which caused the crisis, after all — got the lion’s share. 

The need to ensure global food security has been 
raised  and  restated  at  many  international  forums.  We 
reiterate our call for an urgent and substantial increase 
in investment in agriculture in developing countries. It 
is  critical  that  provisions  of  agricultural  inputs  — 
seeds,  fertilizers  and  chemicals  —  be  put  in  place  for 
small-scale farmers, particularly women.  

To achieve this, we need to channel more support 
towards  agriculture,  which  has  dwindled  over  the  last 
few  decades.  In  addition,  we  call  upon  developed 
countries 
their  agricultural 
subsidies  and  to  open  up  their  markets  to  agricultural 
products from developing countries. 

In  the  area  of  health,  efforts  to  reduce  maternal 
and  child  mortality  and  to  combat  HIV  and  AIDS, 
malaria  and  tuberculosis  still  fall  short  of  targets 
despite 
the  commitments  made  at  national  and 
international levels. Over the last few years, Zimbabwe 
has made great strides in the fight against the HIV and 
AIDS 
resources 
notwithstanding.  The  country  has  witnessed  a  drop  in 
the  adult  prevalence  rate  from  20  per  cent  in  2000  to 
11 per cent this year.  

However,  we  still  face  a  major  challenge  in 
increasing  the  availability  of  affordable  antiretroviral 
drugs.  We  therefore  continue  to  urge  the  international 
community, 
in  cooperation  with  pharmaceutical 
companies, to assist in increasing access to affordable 
essential  drugs,  particularly  for  people  in  Africa. 
People  living  with  HIV  and AIDS  expect  delivery  on 
the commitments we have made.  
to  remove  or  reduce 
pandemic, 
limited 
our 
2 

09-52463 



For  sub-Saharan  Africa,  malaria  presents  yet 
another still-formidable challenge. The commitment of 
the international community and national Governments 
therefore  needs  to  be  strengthened  to  eradicate  the 
scourge of malaria in our part of the world. 

We warmly welcome the renewed enthusiasm on 
the  part  of  Russia  and  the  United  States  to  pursue 
actions to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons, and 
we urge other nuclear-armed States to do the same. In 
this regard, Zimbabwe is honoured to have chaired, in 
May  of  this  year,  the  third  session  of  the  Preparatory 
Committee  for  the  2010  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty  Review  Conference  and  takes  this  opportunity 
to thank all members for their support. We are hopeful 
that,  having  secured  agreement  on  the  Conference 
agenda, members will produce a renewed commitment 
to  the  three  pillars  of  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty:  nuclear  disarmament,  non-proliferation  and 
peaceful use of nuclear energy. 

I  would  now  like  to  turn  to  developments  in  my 
country.  Since  its  formation  in  February  this  year,  the 
Inclusive  Government  in  Zimbabwe  has  demonstrated 
a  conviction  and  unity  of  purpose  and  an  unwavering 
commitment to chart a new vision for the country and 
to  improve  the  lives  of  the  people  in  peace  and 
harmony.  In  the  Global  Political Agreement,  we  have 
defined our priorities as the maintenance of conditions 
of 
recovery, 
development,  promotion  of  human 
and 
improvement of the condition of women and children. 

Regrettably,  while  countries  in  the  Southern 
African Development Community (SADC) region have 
made  huge  sacrifices  and  given  Zimbabwe  financial 
and  other  support  at  a  time  when  they  too  are  reeling 
from  the  effects  of  the  global  economic  crisis,  the 
Western  countries  —  in  particular  the  United  States 
and 
illegal 
sanctions  on  Zimbabwe  —  have,  to  our  surprise,  and 
that of SADC and the rest of Africa, refused to remove 
the  sanctions. We  wonder  what  their  motives  are,  and 
we  ask  what  they  would  want  to  see  us  do.  Indeed, 
some  Western  countries  are  working  strenuously  to 
divide the parties in the Inclusive Government. If they 
will  not 
in 
rehabilitating  our  economy,  could  they  please,  please 
stop  their  filthy  clandestine,  divisive  antics.  Where 
stand their humanitarian principles, we ask, when their 
illegal sanctions are ruining the lives of our children? 
the  European  Union,  who 
Inclusive  Government 
economic 
stability, 
imposed 
rights 
peace 
and 
assist 
the 
A/64/PV.7
for  peace 
comprehensive  multilateralism 
and 
a  global  partnership 

We  simply  call  for  an  immediate  end  to  the 
coercive,  illegal  and  unjustified  50-year  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba, which 
is  estimated  to  have  cost  Cuba  a  total  of  some 
$96 billion so far. My delegation joins other countries 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  that  have  repeatedly 
condemned the use of unilateral coercive measures as a 
flagrant violation of the norms of international law and 
international  relations,  especially  as 
they  govern 
relations  between  States  under  the  United  Nations 
Charter. 
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  the  need  for 

to 
effective 
and 
promote 
development.  The  United  Nations 
other 
international organizations that carry the legitimacy of 
multilateralism  should  play  a  leading  role  in  directing 
the  course  of  events  and  developments,  taking  into 
account 
the 
Organization’s members in an inclusive, peaceful, just, 
universal and democratic manner.  

It  is  our  hope  that  through  our  unity,  solidarity, 
cooperation and commitment, the challenges facing the 
international  community  can  be  addressed.  Let  us  rise 
to the occasion and demonstrate our political will  and 
ability  to  work  together  for  the  good  of  humanity. 
Zimbabwe is willing and ready to play its part. 

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  majority  of 
interests  of 
and 
the 


Address by the Honourable Marcus Stephen, 
President of the Republic of Nauru 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Nauru. 

The Honourable Marcus Stephen, President of the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Marcus 
Stephen,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Nauru,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
09-52463 

3 
A/64/PV.7 

President  Stephen:  I  would  like  to  offer  my 

congratulations,  Mr.  President,  on  your  assumption  of 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
fourth  session.  Allow  me  also  to  commend  your 
predecessor,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for 
his capable leadership during the sixty-third session. I 
assure  you,  Sir,  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and 
cooperation  as  you  lead  the  work  of  this  important 
session. 

The  new  millennium  has  been  no  stranger  to 
crisis.  We  have  seen  how  ideological  extremism  can 
foment  turmoil  and  civil  unrest  in  ways  that  do  not 
respect international borders. We have also learned that 
financial  instability  can  quickly  propagate  through 
global  markets  and  cause  chaos  in  the  real  economy. 
And  we  have  been  repeatedly  reminded  that  we 
disrespect the natural environment at our peril. 

The  global  challenges  that  we  face  today  may 
sometimes  shock  us,  but  they  should  not  surprise  us. 
Most  stem  from  problems  that  have  been  allowed  to 
fester and grow for many years, if not decades. All are 
inextricably 
the 
international 
international 
commerce and development. The challenges of the new 
millennium are global in nature and therefore require a 
global  response.  Now,  more  than  ever,  we  must 
revitalize  our  multilateral  systems  of  governance  in 
order 
them  more  responsive  and  more 
representative.  Large  countries 
to  dominate 
international forums and drown out the rest of us.  

In  the  case  of  climate  change  and  small  island 
States, I mean that quite literally. We must consider the 
impacts  of  our  activities  and  institutions  on  the  most 
vulnerable, so that large and small countries  alike  can 
enjoy 
for 
sustainable  economic  development. 
this  new 
millennium,  even  the  mighty  have  been  humbled.  So 
what  does  that  mean  for  a  small  island  nation  like 
Nauru? When giants stumble, it is usually the smallest 
that suffer the most serious injuries. 

The  international  community  must  begin  this 
process  of  renewal  by  reaffirming  its  commitment  to 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  an 
initiative  meant  to  alleviate  the  burdens  of  extreme 
poverty, hunger, illiteracy, inequality and disease. After 
early success in the 1990s, progress towards the MDGs 
has slowed throughout the world.  
the  choices  made  by 
security  necessary 
stability  and 
community 
regarding 
linked 
to 
to  make 
tend 
the 
In 

for 
for 
the 
The 
financial  crisis  was  devastating 

In  the  Pacific,  where  nearly  40  per  cent  of  the 
population lives on less than a dollar a day, it has been 
no different. The reasons  are not hard to identify. The 
Asian 
the 
economies in our region. The recent spike in food and 
energy  prices  has  strained  our 
limited  financial 
resources.  Now 
the  global  economic  downturn 
threatens to depress our economies even further. 

Additionally, the Pacific confronts a unique set of 
challenges  in  reaching  our  MDGs.  Our  remoteness 
makes  it  difficult  to  access  world  markets  and  greatly 
increases  the  cost  of  doing  business.  Our  small  size 
deprives us of the advantage of economies of scale, and 
our  vulnerability  to  climate  change  places  our  hard-
won economic and social progress in jeopardy. Perhaps 
the most vivid example of our situation is the price of a 
bag  of  rice.  For  most  countries,  the  food  crisis  has 
eased  as  commodity  prices  have  fallen  but,  in  Nauru, 
the price of a bag of rice has increased by 80 per cent 
over the past year, hovering now above $60. The rest of 
the world pays less than $25. 

international 
time  has  come 
community  to  deliver  on  its  promises  and  to  dedicate 
0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  to  helping 
developing  countries  meet  their  development  goals. 
Past  recessions  have  led  to  a  steep  drop  in  levels  of 
official development assistance. There will be no hope 
of reaching our MDGs if that happens again. 

It is vitally important for United Nations agencies 
to  strengthen  their  engagement  in  the  Pacific  region. 
For  the  past  four  years,  Nauru  has  called  upon  the 
United  Nations  to  establish  a  presence  on  the  ground 
by  opening  an  office  in  our  country.  It  is  my  fervent 
hope  that  the  next  time  that  I  address  this  body  I  can 
announce  that  that  commitment  of  the  United  Nations 
has been fulfilled. 

The absence of the United Nations in the Pacific 
is reflected by the paucity of statistics collected in the 
region. Accurate  indicators  are  necessary  for  tracking 
economic  and  social  progress.  It  is  critical  for  United 
Nations agencies and other international institutions to 
work more closely with our national Governments and 
with  regional  organizations  so  that  accurate  data  is 
available for planning and policymaking. 

The  temptation  to  add  layer  upon  layer  of  new 
programmes  must  be  avoided. We  must  not  forget  the 
commitments  made  under  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for 
the  Further  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
4 

09-52463 
share 
equitably 
in  global 
and  other 
that  helping  poor  countries  develop 


Action  for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
Island  Developing  States,  the  Monterrey  Consensus, 
the  Paris  Declaration 
international 
agreements.  Too  often,  the  United  Nations  and  other 
development partners succeed in delivering many new 
reports, but fail to deliver tangible results. Action plans 
are no substitute for action. We must dispense with the 
excuse 
is 
something  that  we  cannot  afford.  That  is  simply  not 
true. Quite the opposite: in a globalized world, leaving 
large  portions  of  the  world  to  languish  in  poverty  is 
what we cannot afford. 

The  international  community  must  also  reform 
the  world  financial  system  so  that  all  developing 
countries 
economic 
prosperity.  The  current  economic  crisis  has  revealed 
deep  flaws  in  our  international  financial  system.  The 
overriding goals of those reforms should be to facilitate 
growth  in  developing  nations  and  to  increase  their 
resilience  to  abrupt  economic  fluctuations  and  the 
fickle flow of capital. 

While  Nauru  does  not  have  a  mature  financial 
sector,  shocks  to  the  international  system  can  be 
devastating  to  our  local  economy  and  dry  up  vital 
development  assistance.  To  be  effective,  development 
assistance  needs  to  be  reliable.  That  is  not  possible 
without a stable and transparent financial system. 

Lastly,  the  international  community  must  next 
take  swift  steps  to  mitigate  climate  change,  starting 
with a bold agreement in Copenhagen. Climate change 
presents  the  greatest  threat  for  my  country  and  many 
other  small  island  developing  States.  Scientists  warn 
that, within our children’s lifetime, sea levels may rise 
by  a  metre  or  more.  That  would  wipe  out  low-lying 
coastal  areas,  and  many  Pacific  islands  would  be  a 
distant memory. 

However,  we  do  not  need  to  wait  for  that 
catastrophic  scenario  to  see  the  impacts  of  climate 
change.  We  live  with  them  every  day.  Flooding  and 
inundation  are  already  eroding  our  shores  and 
contaminating  our  water 
supply.  Higher  water 
temperatures and ocean acidification are damaging the 
marine ecosystems that we depend on for food and our 
economic  livelihood.  We  pray  that  malaria  does  not 
find its way to our doorstep. 

I  applaud  the  commitment  of  the  Secretary-
General to addressing that issue and his efforts to build 
consensus among world leaders this week at the high-
A/64/PV.7
level Summit on Climate Change. From Asia to Africa 
and  the  Arctic,  he  has  visited  affected  regions  to 
observe the effects of climate change first hand, but not 
the  Pacific,  one  of  the  most  vulnerable  regions  in  the 
world.  

When  the  Secretary-General  glances  out  the 
window  of  his  aircraft  while  travelling  between  Asia 
and  the Americas,  I  would  ask  that  he  remember  that, 
in  the  vast  expanse  of  water  below,  there  is  a  whole 
region  of  people  living  on  small  islands  who  are 
already  grappling  with  the  consequences  of  climate 
change. I encourage that his next trip be to the nations 
of the Pacific before they disappear. 

The  science  tells  us  that  we  must  reduce  the 
concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to 
350 parts per million or less in order to avoid the most 
dire  climate  change 
scenarios.  However,  most 
developed  countries  have  proposed  emissions  targets 
that would result in concentrations far higher. 

That  is  not  acceptable  policy  when  human  lives 
are  at  stake.  If  a  doctor  prescribes  medicine  to  treat  a 
serious illness, do we only give the patient half of what 
is  needed?  If  an  engineer  says  eight  columns  are 
necessary to support a building, would any responsible 
person  recommend  that  we  use  only  four?  Then  why 
are  the  most  vulnerable  countries  asked  to  accept 
proposals  that  would  surely  lead  to  our  extinction? 
That is not good enough when the lives of real people 
from real places are being threatened. 

the 
financial, technical and human resources necessary for 
us  to  address  a  problem  that  was  not  of  our  own 
making. Nauru joins the Alliance of Small Island States 
in  calling  for  developed  countries  to  provide  the 
equivalent of 1 per cent of their gross domestic product 
for  urgent  adaptation  and  mitigation  efforts 
in 
developing countries. That must be in addition to their 
current commitments for development assistance. 
Climate  change  calls  for  the  widest  possible 

cooperation  from  every  member  of  the  international 
community.  Taiwan,  as  one  of  the  world’s  20  largest 
economies, can contribute in many ways and should be 
invited  to  play  a  larger  role  in  the  United  Nations 
system,  particularly  in  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  process.  Taiwan  has 
much  to  offer  to  vulnerable  countries,  especially  in 
adaptation  measures, 
and 
financing. 
Developed  countries  must  also  provide 
technology 
transfer 
09-52463 

5 

threat 
seen 
is  an 
imminent 
We  have 
Climate  change 
A/64/PV.7 


to 
international  security.  It  is  therefore  vital  that  the 
Security  Council  be  seized  of  the  issue  and  closely 
monitor  new  developments.  Special  attention  must  be 
paid  to  the  most  vulnerable  countries,  including  the 
small  island  developing  States  and  least  developed 
countries,  and  also 
to  vulnerable  groups  within 
countries,  including  women  and  children,  indigenous 
people and the poor. 

The  challenges  of  the  new  millennium  can  be 
overcome  only  through  multilateral  cooperation  and  a 
revitalized  United  Nations  system.  It  is  necessary  for 
the Security Council to be more representative in both 
the permanent and non-permanent categories to reflect 
current  geopolitical  realities,  which  is  why  Japan, 
India, Germany and Brazil should be made permanent 
members. I also call upon the General Assembly, as the 
world’s most representative governance body, to accept 
Taiwan’s  meaningful  participation  in  its  specialized 
agencies and other world forums. 

the  power  of  multilateral 
cooperation  around  the  world  and  close  to  home.  My 
country  was  at  the  brink  of  economic  collapse  at  the 
beginning  of  this  decade.  In  cooperation  with  Pacific 
Islands  Forum  member  Governments,  my  country 
outlined a number of key governance and development 
priorities in the Pacific Regional Assistance for Nauru 
(PRAN)  programme.  It  included  a  re-evaluation  of 
fiscal  policies  and  objectives, 
review  of  our 
Constitution, and reforms for our education and health 
sectors.  I  am  proud  that  in  just  four  years  we  have 
reached the goals laid out in PRAN, so much so that at 
the  fortieth  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Leaders’  Meeting, 
held in Cairns, Australia just last month, leaders agreed 
that Nauru had emerged from the crisis phase and was 
on  the  path  to  sustainable  economic  recovery  and 
development, and that PRAN was no longer required. 

PRAN was an excellent example of how country-
focused  development  aid  can  quickly  lift  a  nation  out 
of  crisis  and  back  onto  the  path  towards  sustainable 
development.  PRAN  was  successful  because 
it 
identified  concrete  objectives  and  was  backed  by 
sufficient  funds.  Future  programmes  in  the  region 
should  likewise  bring  tangible  benefits  and  be  free 
from political influence. 
Here  I  must  acknowledge  and  express  Nauru’s 

deepest  appreciation 
to  Australia,  New  Zealand, 
Taiwan,  Japan  and  Forum  island  countries,  our  own 
important 
a  number  of 
regional organizations and others for their unwavering 
funding  and  other  forms  of  support  to  PRAN.  The 
people of Nauru will always remember their generosity 
during our time of need. 

We  are  also  grateful  to  the  United  Nations 
Democracy  Fund.  With  its  assistance,  Nauru  recently 
adopted 
constitutional 
amendments  that  will  enhance  good  governance  and 
bring  increased  stability  and  responsiveness  to  my 
Government. 
One of the founding fathers of the United Nations 

once said, “The test of our progress is not whether we 
add more to the abundance of those who have much; it 
is whether we provide enough for those who have too 
little”.  President  Roosevelt  passed  away  before  the 
inaugural session of the General Assembly, but those of 
us  here  today  have  the  responsibility  to  see  that  his 
spirit lives on. 
The  United  Nations  system  of  multilateral 

governance was born out of a time of great crisis and it 
ushered in over half a century of peace and prosperity. 
However, the benefits were not shared equally, and two 
thirds  of  humanity  was  largely  left  behind.  The  time 
has come to take up the project begun 64 years ago so 
that  future  prosperity  can  be  shared  by  all,  including 
the  smallest  and  most  vulnerable. The  United  Nations 
continues to be our best hope for creating a fairer and 
more just world. 

the United Nations. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Nauru for the statement he has just made. 

God bless the Republic of  Nauru, and God bless 
The Honourable Marcus Stephen, President of the 
Republic  of  Nauru,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
from 


Address by Mr. Johnson Toribiong, President of the 
Republic of Palau 

address by the President of the Republic of Palau. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr. Johnson Toribiong, President of the Republic 
of Palau, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
6 

09-52463 
seeking 
In  1994, 
independence. 


Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Johnson  Toribiong, 
President of the Republic of Palau, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly. 
President  Toribiong:  I  am  speaking  for  the  first 

time  as  Head  of  State.  However,  in  1977  I  appeared 
with  my  country’s  delegation  before  the  Trusteeship 
Council, 
the 
trusteeship ended and we took our place as a Member 
of  the  United  Nations.  Our  independence  is  testament 
to the success of the International Trusteeship System, 
for which we are grateful. The legacy of our experience 
is  a  Constitution  that  incorporates  the  rights  and 
freedoms  enshrined  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights:  freedom,  democracy,  equal  protection 
and the rule of law. 

We thank the permanent members of the Security 
Council, which recognized our sovereignty: the United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  the 
French  Republic,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  and  the  United  States  of  America. 
The  United  States  was  our  Administering  Authority, 
and  we  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  it  for 
becoming our close partner under the Compact of Free 
Association, a relationship we cherish and one that we 
hope will endure. 

As  a  new  and  young  Member,  Palau  has 
shouldered  its  responsibilities  in  the  community  of 
nations,  including  the  deployment  of  peacekeepers  to 
Darfur,  Timor-Leste  and  the  Solomon  Islands.  When 
signing  international  conventions  and  meeting  our 
counter-terrorism  obligations,  as  set  forth  by  the 
Security Council, we remember and honour the legacy 
of the United Nations. 

While our political progress has been satisfactory 
since  independence,  I  must  report  to  you  that  we  are 
now  confronted  with  several  looming  threats  to  our 
continued peaceful way of life, and indeed to our very 
existence.  Climate  change,  environmental  degradation 
and  the  world  financial  crisis  are  challenges  that  we 
will  only  be  able  to  overcome  if  we  work  with  the 
international community. 

We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statements  of 
concern on climate change which we heard in this Hall 
earlier  this  week.  We  applaud  the  commitments  made 
and note that we must use our best efforts to stop this 
slow-moving  tsunami  that  threatens  to  engulf  us.  To 
this  end,  Palau  and  our  neighbours  in  the  Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall 
A/64/PV.7
that 
lived 
Palauans  have 
Islands  have  adopted  a  joint  policy,  known  as  Green 
Energy  Micronesia  (GEM)  to  move  to  renewable 
energy  as  a  pillar  of  our  collective  energy  security. 
Furthermore,  Palau  has  signed  the  Statute  of  the 
International  Renewable  Energy Agency,  and  we  look 
forward to the exciting work that will emanate from the 
United  Arab  Emirates.  We  are  hopeful 
the 
combined  efforts  of  all  our  nations  will  lead  to  a 
fruitful outcome in Copenhagen. 

We  note  in  particular  the  statement  of  the  new 
Prime Minister of Japan, Mr. Yukio Hatoyama. Japan’s 
vision  and  commitment 
to  save  our  planet  are 
inspiring. This is one of the many reasons we support a 
permanent seat for Japan on the Security Council. 

We  reiterate  that  climate  change  is  indeed  a 
cross-cutting issue and that all aspects of it, especially 
the  security  impact  of  climate  change,  need  to  be 
examined.  This  is  why  Palau  and  the  Pacific  Small 
Island  Developing  States  initiated  General  Assembly 
resolution 63/281, on “Climate change and its possible 
security implications”. We look forward to meaningful 
action by the Security Council on that resolution. 
in 

symbiosis  with  the  sea.  Now,  though,  the  sea,  which 
has  long  been  the  source  of  our  sustenance,  is 
simultaneously  rising 
to  destroy  us  and 
becoming  barren.  This  fury  was  caused  by  abuses  by 
humankind,  and  we 
take  every 
necessary  action 
to  heal 
themselves.  In  days  gone  by,  the  traditional  chiefs  of 
Palau would declare a bul — a moratorium to protect a 
resource  that  had  become  scarce.  This  traditional 
concept, now popularly known as conservation, shows 
the  way  for  us  to  move  forward. As  Mahatma  Gandhi 
said,  “Earth  provides  enough  to  satisfy  every  man’s 
need, but not every man’s greed”. 
This  is  why  the  world  must  declare  a  bul  on 

destructive  fishing  practices  like  deep-sea  bottom 
trawling,  unsustainable  harvesting  of  shark  for  their 
fins  and  overexploitation  of  tuna  stocks.  The  odious 
fishing  practice  of  bottom  trawling,  where  a  weighted 
net  is  dragged  along  the  sea  floor,  crushing  nearly 
everything in its path, is contributing to the rapid loss 
of  a  critical  ecosystem,  our  coral  reefs.  We  have 
outlawed  deep-sea  bottom  trawling  in  Palau,  but,  no 
matter what we do in our own waters, there must be an 
international  solution.  For  several  years,  we,  along 
with  our  Pacific  neighbours,  have  advocated  a 
throughout  history 
therefore  must 
in  rage 
to  allow 
the  oceans 
09-52463 

7 
It 
that  Palau 
is  anomalous 
A/64/PV.7 

moratorium  on  this  practice.  The  sustainable  fisheries 
resolution  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  in  2007 
(resolution  62/177)  urged  nations  and  regional  fishery 
management organizations to stop trawling in sensitive 
areas by 2009. We have waited for compliance, which 
has  not  come,  and  we  now  renew  our  call  for  a 
worldwide moratorium on this practice. 

An  equally  destructive  fishing  practice  is  shark-
finning. We have banned it in Palau and call upon the 
world to address this issue in order to save sharks from 
extinction. The physical strength and beauty of sharks 
are  a  natural  barometer  of  the  health  of  our  oceans. 
Therefore,  I  declare  today  that  Palau  will  become  the 
world’s  first  national  shark  sanctuary,  ending  all 
commercial  shark  fishing  in  our  waters  and  giving  a 
sanctuary for sharks to live and reproduce unmolested 
in our 237,000 square miles of ocean. We call upon all 
nations  to  join  us.  The  need  to  save  sharks  and  our 
environment far outweighs the need to enjoy a bowl of 
shark’s fin soup. 

is  experiencing 
economic  difficulty  while  it  sits  in  the  middle  of  the 
richest fishing grounds in the world, the Pacific Ocean. 
We  can  no  longer  stand  by  while  foreign  vessels 
illicitly  come  to  our  waters  to  take  our  greatest 
resource,  our  tuna  stocks,  without  regard  for  their 
conservation 
adequate 
compensation to the island States that own the fishing 
grounds  and  rely  on  this  resource.  Palau  believes  that 
the  best  model  for  a  regional  effort  to  conserve  our 
tuna  resources  and  maximize  the  benefits  to  us  is  the 
Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries 
(OPEC). I will therefore work for the establishment of 
OTEC, the Organization of Tuna Exporting Countries, 
and I now call on our friends in OPEC to come forward 
and  help  us  to  understand  and  obtain  fair  value  from 
our  threatened  resource  and  to  make  tuna  fishing 
sustainable. 

I  come  now  to  the  economic  crisis  that  my 
country  is  facing.  As  a  developing  nation,  we  are 
grateful  for  the  grants  provided  by  our  allies  and 
partners  to  advance  our  development. They  have  been 
helpful. 

Mr.  Martínez  Bonilla 
President, took the Chair.

But we must acknowledge that outright grants do 
not  always  create  meaningful  employment.  Jobs 
created are illusory and temporary. In the absence of a 
(El  Salvador)  Vice-
and  without 
regard 
for 

this  cycle  by  promoting 
strong local economy, our  children, our  most valuable 
resource,  are  leaving  our  shores  for  opportunities 
elsewhere. The continuing downward cycle created by 
their departure must be stopped, or else it will destroy 
the  very  fabric  of  our  society.  Our  allies  and  partners 
can  help  us  stop 
the 
development  of  private  enterprise  through  investment 
in  our  country.  We  need  capital  and  entrepreneurial 
expertise. 

I  implore  our  allies  and  partners  to  consider 
providing  incentives  to  their  nationals  to  encourage 
them  to  invest  in  our  islands,  to  come  to  our  islands 
and  launch  partnerships  with  our  talented  people  to 
create  a  viable  economy.  Let  us  once  and  for  all  put 
aside the fiction that we need handouts. What we need 
are  partners  and  investment  to  help  advance  our 
economy, put an end to the out-migration of our people 
and propel Palau towards economic self-sufficiency. 

We  note  with  satisfaction  the  decision  by  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  to  invite Taiwan  to  attend 
the  World  Health Assembly.  The  health  and  safety  of 
the world’s peoples are at the heart of the ideals of the 
United  Nations.  In  order  to  further  promote  those 
ideals,  we  recommend  that  Taiwan  be  invited  to 
participate  meaningfully  in  the  International  Civil 
Aviation  Organization  (ICAO),  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change coming up 
in  Copenhagen  and  other  international  organizations 
and forums. 

We  have  heard  the  voices  of  world  leaders  from 
countries small and large, powerful and vulnerable. We 
have  heard  the  voice  of  science.  Let  us  heed  those 
voices, fulfil our obligations to our people, now and in 
the  next  generation,  and  work  for  a  strong  economy 
and a healthy planet. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly  I  would  like  to  thank 
the President of the Republic of Palau for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr. Johnson Toribiong, President of the Republic 
of  Palau,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 

8 

09-52463 

to 
into 


Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Estonia.  

Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic of 
Estonia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President Ilves: Over the past year, I, like many 
others in this Hall, have spoken about the effect of the 
current  global  financial  crisis  on  our  people  and  the 
need for an effective national or international response. 
Although the crisis is closely related to issues such as 
peace  and  security,  human  rights,  development  and 
many other matters of common concern, we cannot let 
it cast a shadow over all the global challenges that we 
currently face. 
Today,  a  year  after  the  collapse  of  the  financial 

markets,  cyclical 
to  economic 
stabilization.  The  crisis  is  not  over,  however,  and  the 
need  to  restore  confidence  and  repair  the  financial 
system remains. Moreover, each of us should make an 
effort  to  refrain  from  raising  new  barriers  and  avoid 
laying  the  foundations  for  new  global  imbalances  in 
the longer run. 

In  combating  climate  change,  we  have  finally 
understood the magnitude of our task and I would like 
to thank the Secretary-General for hosting the Summit 
on Climate Change a few days ago. We are not running 
a  100-metre  sprint,  but  rather  a  marathon,  where  one 
must maintain speed. If we manage to stay on track we 
all shall be winners in the end. But time is running out. 
Melting  glaciers, 
large 
hurricanes,  floods  and  heat  waves  —  this  is  not  the 
planet that we want to leave to our children. 

Global  and  united  efforts  are  needed  to  reach  a 
comprehensive  and  ambitious  post-2012  climate 
agreement  in  Copenhagen  this  December.  I  call  upon 
all  countries  to  set  binding  goals  to  share  the  burden. 
Responsibility must be proportional to the harm that is 
caused.  I  am  convinced  that  applying  the  “polluter-
pays” principle would motivate the biggest polluters to 
frequent  and  abnormally 
indicators  point 
A/64/PV.7
in 
to 
contributing 
international 
multiply  their  efforts  and  would  therefore  have  the 
greatest effect. 

Green  energy  production,  renewable  energy, 
energy  efficiency  and  diversification  of  energy 
sources —  all  these  contribute  not  only  to  sustainable 
environmental  and  economic  development  but  also  to 
our  security,  as  we  will  become  less  dependent  on 
exhaustible fossil fuels. 

As  an  essential  part  of  cutting  greenhouse  gas 
emissions, we foresee a wider use of renewable energy 
in  Estonia,  particularly  biomass  and  wind  energy.  By 
the  end  of  the  year,  an  Estonian  Energy  and  Climate 
Agency  will  be  established  to  help  consumers  cut 
energy  expenditures  and  support  building  energy-
efficient  homes.  This  is  but  one  example  of  how  an 
ambitious  climate  policy  can  be  used  to  trigger  new 
growth in the economy. 

To uphold the core of the United Nations Charter, 
we  must  remain  committed  to  providing  the  United 
Nations  with  sufficient  resources  to  fulfil  its  unique 
role 
security. 
Compliance  with  the  basic  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter,  including  the  obligation  of  all  Members  to 
refrain  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force  against  the 
territorial  integrity  or  political  independence  of  any 
State, must remain the fundamental basis of the United 
Nations  agenda.  The  United  Nations  should  remain 
engaged  in  areas  of  tension  where  it  can  make  a 
contribution. 

My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
its  firm  support  for  the  security  and  stability  of 
Georgia,  based  on  full  respect  for  the  principles  of 
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. 

I  follow  with  deep  concern  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan.  It  is  essential  that  the  election  process 
deliver  results  that  are  legitimate  in  the  eyes  of  the 
Afghans. The future of Afghanistan lies in the hands of 
the  Afghan  people;  we,  the  international  community, 
can only help. By consolidating the efforts of the new 
Government  and  the  international  community,  lasting 
progress can and should be achieved. Estonia is one of 
the countries that have steadily increased their military 
and civilian contribution to Afghanistan. 

I am convinced that the bolstered role and greater 
visibility of the United Nations throughout the country 
has  a  positive 
the  coordination  of 
development  activities  that  in  turn  will  attract  more 
impact  on 
09-52463 

9 
they 
effective 
endanger 
increasing 
systems  but 
develop  more 
A/64/PV.7 

non-governmental organizations and other international 
organizations to the area. 

Besides conflicts between and inside States, new 
and  asymmetrical  cross-border 
threats  have  also 
emerged:  the  threat  from  the  Internet,  for  example. 
Cyber  threats  not  only  endanger  vital  information 
technology 
entire 
communities. Concurrently with the rapid development 
of  computer  technology  we  are  witnessing  alarming 
signs of more sinister developments: cyber attacks are 
growing  more  complex  and  are 
in 
frequency.  Consequently,  major  cooperative  efforts  by 
both  the  governmental  and  the  private  sectors  are 
required 
to 
response 
capabilities. 
This  growing  global  concern  demands  both  a 

better  coordinated 
international  approach  and  an 
enhanced legal domestic framework, including steps to 
criminalize  malevolent  cyber  acts.  Our  long-term  aim 
should be the creation of a universal cyber culture — a 
universally accessible, secure and safe environment for 
all. 
is 

equally  challenging.  Global  ecological 
instability, 
political  and  military  conflicts,  combined  with 
economic 
instability  and  population  growth,  are 
expected  to  increase  humanitarian  needs  considerably 
and require that our efforts be multiplied in the future. 
We  must  stand  ready  to  provide  a  more  predictable, 
equitable  and  consistently  effective 
to 
humanitarian  crises.  The  growing  needs  require  an 
increase  in  the  amount  of  assistance,  in  coordination 
and in the range of donors. 

True,  we  all  have  economic  concerns  at  the 
moment,  but  it  is  vital  to  keep  our  commitments  to 
providing  humanitarian  relief.  Today’s  short-sighted 
financial  decisions  or  fading  political  will  may  in  the 
end become far more expensive and entail severe long-
term consequences. 

I would like to commend the excellent work done 
by  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs and Member States in making the coordination 
among  humanitarian  workers  more  efficient  and 
implementing  the  cluster  system.  The  launch  of  the 
Central Emergency Response Fund three years ago has 
also  proven  a  justified  effort  in  providing  more  rapid 
and  equitable  response  allocations  to  disaster-affected 
areas.  As  Estonia,  together  with  Ireland,  currently 
Regarding  humanitarian  affairs,  our 
response 
task 

in 
become 
adherence 
conflict 
principles 
situations, 
has 
co-chairs the Good Humanitarian Donorship initiative, 
we  urge  all  donors  to  apply  the  principles  of  good 
humanitarian donorship to make humanitarian aid more 
needs-based and its financing more flexible. 

As  a  sign  of  the  priority  we  give  to  global 
humanitarian  issues,  Estonia  this  year  holds  a  vice-
presidency  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
has been leading humanitarian discussions in that body. 
I  am  concerned  that  in  many  humanitarian  situations, 
to 
especially 
humanitarian 
selective, 
hindering  safe  and  timely  access  to  victims.  I  fully 
concur  with  Under-Secretary-General  John  Holmes 
that  this  is  not  an  ideological  luxury  but  a  practical 
necessity  to  help  ensure  timely  access  as  well  as  the 
safety and security of humanitarian staff. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  expectations  are 
higher  during  trying  times,  and  therefore  the  United 
Nations  actions  in  carrying  out  its  objectives  have 
increasingly  come  under  scrutiny.  Yet,  how  is  the 
Organization  to  live  up  to  those  high  expectations 
when the United Nations is struggling to reform itself? 
Over  the  past  years,  Member  States  have  undertaken 
considerable  efforts  to  improve  the  United  Nations 
system, while one important element, Security Council 
reform,  still  remains  pending.  While  recognizing  that 
the  reform  process  is  complex,  we  must  also  realize 
that  there  will  be  severe  consequences  if  the  process 
remains incomplete. 

reform  area  —  gender 
reform — considerable progress that is also relevant to 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals has been 
made  recently.  No  security,  development  or  human 
rights-related  goal  can  be  achieved  without  the  full 
participation  of  women.  Estonia  has  been  a  dedicated 
supporter of the United Nations funds and programmes 
that foster gender equality. It is our common obligation 
to ensure that reform becomes a reality without delay. 

Facing the first financial crisis of the twenty-first 
century  and  the  accelerating  global  warming  process, 
we  see  the  necessity  for  a  united  response  growing. 
This  is  why  we,  the  leaders  of  all  nations,  once  again 
have  gathered  here  this  week:  to  remind  ourselves  to 
keep  our  eyes  on  the  horizon  of  peace  and  prosperity 
and to make sure that we are in the same boat. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Regarding  another 
10 

09-52463 


President of the Republic  of Estonia  for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Laurent Gbagbo, President of the 
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire. 

Mr. Laurent Gbagbo, President of the Republic of 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Laurent Gbagbo, President of the Republic of Côte 
d’Ivoire, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  Gbagbo  (spoke  in  French): As  I  take 
the floor for the first time at the present session, allow 
me to join all of those who preceded me at this rostrum 
in congratulating Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki and telling 
him  how  proud  we  are  to  see  him  presiding  over  the 
General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-fourth  session.  His 
election  testifies  to  his  personal  qualities  and  is  a 
tribute to the African Union.  

I  applaud  our  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon. He has kept the United Nations on track and 
strengthened  the  United  Nations  in  the  context  of  the 
multiple crises affecting the world. 

Two years ago, from this very rostrum, I updated 
the  Assembly  on  the  crisis  in  my  country,  Côte 
d’Ivoire. At  that  time,  I  welcomed  the  important  role 
played  by  regional  organizations,  such  as  the African 
Union  and  the  Economic  Community  of West African 
States.  I  particularly  dwelt  on  the  internal  processes 
that brought us, the Government and former rebels, to 
commit  to  a  process  of  peace  that  ended  the  conflict 
and 
the  current  preparations  for  general 
elections.  All  through  that  process,  we  enjoyed  from 
the support of the United Nations, notably through the 
in  Côte  d’Ivoire.  We 
United  Nations  Operation 
benefited  even  more  from 
the  assistance  of 
the 
President of Burkina Faso, Mr. Blaise Compaore. 
led 
to 
A/64/PV.7

Thanks to the efforts of all, and particularly to the 
Ivorians’  hard  work  and  desire  for  peace,  the  process 
has now entered into a irreversible phase. Today, there 
are  no  remaining  political  obstacles  to  the  holding  of 
the  elections.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  once 
again  the  gratitude  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  to  the  United 
Nations and to all our friends for their commitment to 
the restoration of peace. 

I  would  also  like  to  share  our  desire  to  do  our 
utmost  to  end  the  crisis  via  the  ballot  box. We  are  all 
the  more  resolute  given  that  the  challenges  facing 
today’s  world  require  of  all  States,  and  in  particular 
small States such as ours, a political strategy based on 
democracy.  Thus  armed,  we  will  be  able  not  only  to 
effectively  address  our  current  difficulties,  but  also  to 
contribute  to  the  understanding  of  and  resolution of 
international crises. 

This  is  what  President  Treki  has  called  on  us  to 
do through the theme of this sixty-fourth session of the 
General  Assembly,  “Effective  responses  to  global 
crises:  strengthening  multilateralism  and  dialogue 
among  civilizations  for  international  peace,  security 
and development”. 

We  note  that,  in  addition  to  recurrent  political 
crises, the acute crises facing the world today affect the 
stability of nations and jeopardize our shared future. In 
2008, 
reached  unprecedented 
proportions.  The  price  of  a  barrel  of  oil,  it  will  be 
recalled,  rose  to  nearly  $150.  That  major  crisis  took 
place  alongside  a  food  crisis  and  an  unprecedented 
financial  crisis  that  soon  turned  into  a  deep  economic 
crisis. The entire world woke up to the threat posed to 
social and political equilibrium by the three crises that 
struck  at  the  same  time.  These  crises  shook  all  our 
certainties  and  caused  a  wave  of  panic.  They  showed 
us in no uncertain terms that nothing can ever be taken 
for granted, even in big countries. 
The entire world mobilized to meet the challenge, 

both  within 
and  within 
international institutions and organizations. We saw the 
International  Monetary  Fund  provide  assistance  to 
countries that are not usually the recipients of such aid, 
such  as  those  of  northern  Europe.  This  exceptional 
mobilization  points  to  the  concern  of  the  international 
community at seeing the situation end in uncontrollable 
social and political crises. 
and 

although 
cooperation  were  multilateral,  the  crisis  resolution 
the  energy  crisis 
the  mobilization 
individual 
However, 
countries 
09-52463 

11 

the 
into 
that  underscored 
A/64/PV.7 

plans  were  not.  Countries  in  North  America,  Europe 
and Asia adopted national plans. This shows that there 
are  limits  to  multilateralism  and  that  nation  States 
protect  their  prerogatives  and  shoulder  their  full 
responsibilities at the economic level, when necessary. 

I  note,  moreover,  that  the  mobilization  in Africa 
and for Africa was quite diffident. It was as though the 
financial  crisis  was  not  also  an African  crisis,  or  as  if 
the  financial  sector  in  Africa  was  not  sufficiently 
integrated 
international  financial  system. 
Perhaps  our  continent  did  not  grasp  the  full  extent  of 
the  crisis.  And  yet,  the  financial  crisis  has  had 
consequences  on  the  African  continent.  In  Africa, 
perhaps  more  than  anywhere  else,  the  financial  crisis 
became  an  economic  crisis 
the 
economic and social fragility of our countries. 

The  lesson  we  draw  from  that  experience  is  that 
no  country  is  immune  to  crisis.  This  requires  the 
international  community  to  enhance  its  vigilance  by 
increasing  oversight  of  the  financial  system  and  its 
institutions  at  the  international  level.  It  would  also  be 
timely for us to embark on a reform of the international 
monetary and financial system. In this context, United 
Nations  reform,  and  above  all  reform  of  its  organs,  is 
essential if the United Nations is to play a solid leading 
role in strengthening multilateralism.  

Among  the  cross-cutting  issues  in  which  the 
United Nations must play a key role are the resurgence 
of  extremism.  The  entrenchment  and  hardening  of 
positions  are  prevailing  over  dialogue  and  deepening 
the chasm between cultures that need to live together in 
harmony.  Hence,  the  importance  of  the  historic  high-
level  meeting  convened  in  this  very  Hall  on  12  and 
13 November  2008  on  the  urgent  need  for  genuine 
dialogue  among  religions  with  a  view  to  creating  a 
culture  of  peace.  That  initiative  bolstered  activities  to 
raise  the  awareness  of  the  international  community  to 
the need for preventive diplomacy on this key topic, in 
particular  the  World  Conference  on  Dialogue,  held  in 
Madrid in July 2008, and the launching in July 2005 of 
the Alliance of Civilizations, under the auspices of the 
United Nations. 

We therefore believe that all of these initiatives in 
favour of dialogue among cultures, as well as those to 
come, point to the need to establish a permanent forum 
for dialogue among civilizations so as to draw peoples 
together. 
to 
and 
even 
regional 

I now turn to world peace and security. The only 
sure  way  to  attain  lasting  peace  is  the  equitable 
settlement  of  conflicts  within  a  reformed,  more 
democratic  and  more  credible  Security  Council. 
Together,  we  need  to  build  a  United  Nations  with  a 
stronger mandate and greater representativity. 

In  that  regard,  it  would  be  preferable  to  entrust 
the  prevention,  management  and  settlement  of  local 
conflicts 
subregional 
organizations.  That  approach,  which  was  enshrined  in 
April  2008  by 
the  Security  Council,  should  be 
strengthened by an earnest updating of the mechanism 
for  cooperation  with 
regional  organizations,  as 
provided for in the United Nations Charter of 1945. 

In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  simply  reiterate 
here  the  position  of  my  delegation,  which  is  based  on 
our  experience  of  handling  and  settling  the  Ivorian 
crisis. Direct dialogue, like that in Côte d’Ivoire, offers 
avenues  for  thought  that  the  United  Nations  could 
make  good  use  of.  I  think  that  the  Burkina  Faso 
delegation  can  address  that  issue  as  well  as,  if  not 
better than, we can.  
Another topic of concern is world poverty. World 

peace and security are dependent on the eradication of 
extreme poverty and poverty reduction. That is why my 
delegation  welcomes  the  convening  at  the  sixty-third 
session  of 
two  high-level  meetings  on  Africa’s 
development  needs  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  We 
and 
recommendations of those meetings. 
Côte  d’Ivoire  is  resolved  to  free  itself  of  the 

burden  of  debt  that  is  threatening  its  development 
goals.  There  have  been  meetings  on  debt,  but  there 
need to be more, and decisions must be taken on debt 
because the debts that were incurred in the 1960s, the 
1970s and the 1980s today hamper the development of 
African countries. That must be considered. It is a law 
of  nature 
is 
overburdened by debt, the original purpose of which is 
often not known even to its leaders, that country sinks, 
and drags the world down with it. Africa is part of the 
world. If a decision is not taken on the issue of the debt 
of African countries, the entire global financial system 
will be on course for disaster.  

That  is  why  I  stress,  alongside  the  problem  of 
debt,  the  issue  of  climate  change.  We  talk  of  climate 
change, and we are right to do so, but we need to take 
decisions  that  are  critical  for  most  of  our  countries.  I 
that  when  a  small,  weak  country 
outcomes 
welcome 
the 
12 

09-52463 




do not know the situation in West Africa very well, but 
it has been shown that, in Central and Southern Africa, 
the  deserts  are  advancing  by  two  kilometres  a  year. 
What  does  that  mean?  It  means  that  in  50  years  the 
deserts  will  have  advanced  by  100  kilometres  and 
reached the coasts. We must decide. 

While the deserts advance, on the coasts villages 
and  houses  are  disappearing  into  the  sea.  That  is 
happening  in  Nigeria,  Benin,  Togo,  Ghana,  Côte 
d’Ivoire  and  elsewhere. There  are  people  living  today 
with  the  water  at  their  feet.  There  are  those  who  live 
not knowing if tomorrow it will reach their houses or if 
their  houses  will,  in  fact,  be  in  the  sea.  Urgent 
measures  are  needed. We  need  not  only  meetings,  but 
also  decisions,  and  those  decisions  —  on  deserts,  the 
sea  and  floods  —  must  be  implemented.  Everywhere 
today  —  in  Burkina  Faso,  Mali  and  Côte  d’Ivoire  — 
the  rains  bring  disaster,  and  those  very  rains  that  we 
call  for  to  water  our  farms  have  become  a  cause  for 
alarm.  We  no  longer  know  if  the  rains  to  come  bring 
death or life.  

Africa is fighting, and is doing so alone. It would 
prefer to fight with the rest of the world behind it. That 
is  also  why  we  have  come  to  speak  here.  Africa  no 
longer  wishes  to  feel  abandoned  or  to  fight  alone. 
Soon,  in  50  years  according  to  the  experts,  it  will  be 
easier to find oil than clean drinking water, because we 
will  have  to  go  a  long  way  —  too  far  for  our 
economies.  

What  are  we  going  to  do?  The  issue  of  clean 
water  has  become  a  problem.  Certainly,  in  some  rich 
oil-producing  countries  in  the  Arab  world,  we  have 
seen our brothers working to make seawater drinkable, 
but how many countries in the world have the means to 
turn  seawater  into  drinking  water?  It  is  terribly 
expensive.  We  need  to  convene  a  meeting  here  at  the 
United Nations on that issue — and not only meetings, 
but decisions followed by action.  

Those  are  the  problems  that  I  came  here  to  talk 
about  on  behalf  of  the  Ivorian  delegation.  Everyone 
knows  that  Africa  is  such  that  when  one  delegation 
talks, it speaks for all delegations because we face the 
same problems. I would hope that, as of today, we can 
look  beyond  internal  crises.  We  all  know  that  Africa 
has  made  great  progress.  It  is  up  to  us  to  strengthen 
ourselves  by  daring  to  fight  poverty,  extreme  poverty 
and  catastrophic  climate  change.  Climate  change  is 
dangerous  throughout  the  world,  but  it  is  catastrophic 
to 
A/64/PV.7
for  us.  We  need  the  help  of  representatives  to  tackle 
this  difficult  century  before  us.  I  pray  that  God  may 
bless the United Nations. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Laurent Gbagbo, President of the Republic of 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Blaise Compaore, President of 
Burkina Faso 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Burkina Faso. 

Mr. Blaise Compaore, President of Burkina Faso, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Blaise  Compaore,  President  of  Burkina  Faso,  and 
to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  Compaore  (spoke  in  French):  The 
sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General Assembly  is  being 
held at a time when the international community, faced 
with numerous crises, is seeking ways to build a world 
of  shared  peace  and  development.  However,  although 
the political and economic consequences of the current 
financial  crisis  affect  the  whole  world,  they  are  and 
will  continue  to  be  more  severe  for African  countries, 
given  their  fragility  and  the  limited  diversity  of  their 
economies. 

Is  it  fair  that  those  who  have  not  caused  this 
tremendous  international  upheaval  should  pay  the 
highest  price?  It  certainly  is  not.  That  is  why,  in  the 
face of the deep recession besetting the entire planet, it 
is important to bolster partnerships for development in 
order  to  correct  the  dysfunctions  of  the  currently 
failing global economic system. I welcome the incisive 
conclusions  of 
the 
financial and economic crisis, which could lead to the 
establishment  of  a  more  virtuous  world  government 
assuring sustainable development for all States. 

full 
employment and restore confidence, it is essential that 
the  high-level  Conference  on 
relaunch  growth,  achieve 
In  order 
to 
09-52463 

13 

A/64/PV.7 

we  adopt  strict  rules  to  regulate  and  manage  the 
international financial system. At the same time, it will 
be necessary to increase aid to developing countries in 
order  to  help  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

On 1 September 2009, Burkina Faso experienced 
floods  that  caused  extensive  loss  of  life  and  material 
damage.  I  reiterate  my  deepest  thanks  to  the  friends 
and partners who have supported us in dealing with the 
consequences  of  this  natural  disaster.  The  growing 
frequency  of  such  events  all  over  the  world  is  due  to 
the  effects  of  climate  change.  We  must  therefore  take 
action  to  address  the  pressing  need  to  come  up  with 
appropriate  solutions.  In  this  regard,  I  welcome  the 
marked  convergence  of  views  and  the  mobilization  of 
the  international  community  in  connection  with  the 
issue of climate change. 

The  fifteenth  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Climate Change, to be held from 7 to 18 December in 
Copenhagen,  will  offer  countries  a  prime  opportunity 
to take bold decisions to protect our generation and our 
planet from the effects of global warming. It is to that 
end that Burkina Faso will host, from 9 to 11 October 
in  Ouagadougou, 
the  Seventh  World  Forum  of 
Sustainable  Development  in  the  context  of  climate 
change.  This  event  will  allow  Africa,  a  continent  ill-
equipped  to  resist  and  adapt  to  the  consequences  of 
climate  change,  to  amplify  its  contribution  to  the 
global debate on this issue. 

The  recurring  conflicts  affecting  the  world  are  a 
genuine  threat  to  peace  and  international  security,  as 
well  as  a  serious  obstacle  to  the  economic  and  social 
progress of nations. Burkina Faso wishes to express its 
deep  concern  over  the  current  situation  in  Darfur  and 
southern  Sudan,  and  reiterates  its  commitment  to 
working  with  the  Sudanese  people  in  their  quest  for 
peace. In that connection, Burkina Faso will dispatch a 
military  battalion  to  join  the  African  Union-United 
Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur,  as  well  as  a 
formed police unit to assist in peacekeeping operations. 
The  support  of  the  international  community  for  the 
efforts  of  the  Joint  African  Union-United  Nations 
Mediator  to  create  conditions  for  productive  dialogue 
and  forge  a  lasting  peace  agreement  between  the 
principal parties is essential. 
The  equally  tragic  situation  in  Somalia  calls  for 

genuine 
the  Transitional  Federal 
Government so that it can definitively restore security 
support 
for 
particular, 
I 
encourage 
I  congratulate 
to  find  satisfactory  solutions 
throughout the country and in Somali territorial waters. 
Burkina  Faso  is  also  following  political  developments 
in  Guinea  and  Madagascar  with  particular  interest.  I 
urge the various political actors in those two countries 
to engage in constructive dialogue with all stakeholders 
to ensure a rapid return to the constitutional order. 

the 
the  African  Union  and 
subregional  organizations  for  the  efforts  they  have 
made 
to  numerous 
hotspots  of  tension  on  the  continent.  The  holding  of 
presidential  elections  in  Guinea-Bissau  is  an  example 
of success  on the part of the international community. 
In 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  to  support  the  Government  of  Guinea-
Bissau in the reconstruction of the country. 

In  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  Togo,  the  political  actors’ 
commitment  to  ensuring  the  effective  implementation 
of  the  accords  to  end  the  crises  in  those  countries 
affords  real  reason  to  hope  for  the  organization  of 
regular and transparent presidential elections in future. 
I welcome the Security Council’s unflagging readiness 
to  work  with  Côte  d’Ivoire  on  implementing  the 
Ouagadougou  Political Agreement,  and  I  encourage  it 
to  continue  to  pursue  its  efforts  to  achieve  peaceful 
solutions to conflicts. 

In  regard  to  the  matter  of  Western  Sahara, 
Burkina  Faso  reaffirms  its  endorsement  of  Security 
Council 
the 
Secretary-General’s efforts to find a political solution, 
and  considers  the  Moroccan  initiative  to  negotiate 
autonomy for the Western Sahara to be an appropriate 
way to settle the disagreement.  

In  the  Middle  East,  we  welcome  the  successful 
conduct  of  elections  in  Lebanon  and  encourage  that 
country  to  improve  its  relations  with  Syria  and  Israel. 
The 
for 
normalized 
relations  with  Lebanon’s  neighbours 
represent  an  opportunity  for  calm  consideration  of  a 
global settlement of the Palestinian question.  

The  contribution  of  the  Republic  of  China  on 
Taiwan  to  assisting  the  least  developed  countries 
should  be  commended,  and  its  participation  in  the 
previous session of the World Health Assembly augurs 
well  for  the  positive  evolution  of  this  country’s 
contribution to the life of the international community. 

For  some  years,  the  question  of  the  proliferation 
of  nuclear  weapons,  which  pose  an  enormous  threat, 
stability  and  prospects 
resolution  1813 
(2008), 
supports 
restoration  of 
14 

09-52463 
for  his 


has  divided  the  international  community.  I  thank  and 
encourage  President  Obama 
successful 
organization  and  leadership  of  the  Security  Council 
summit on disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation. 
The  commitments  made  could  lead  to  a  denuclearized 
world  that  is  more  ambitious  in  its  exploitation  of 
nuclear  power  for  civil  purposes  and  more  vigilant  in 
policing illicit trafficking in nuclear materials. 

The  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  which  has 
been on our agenda for more than a decade, calls for a 
cautious but determined approach, particular as regards 
the  Security  Council. 
that 
negotiations will soon be undertaken regarding the fair 
and equitable representation of all regions of the world, 
the strengthening of the effectiveness of the Council’s 
role  and  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly. 
True to the ideals of the United Nations, Burkina Faso 
will  make  its  contribution  to  the  various  issues  and 
actions  under  way  to  endow  our  global  Organization 
with the vitality and authority essential to taking on the 
new challenges on the horizon. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of Burkina Faso for the statement he has just 
made. 

Mr. Blaise Compaore, President of Burkina Faso, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
I  express 
the  hope 


the 
the 
Address by General Michel Sleiman, President of the 
Lebanese Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Lebanese Republic. 

General  Michel  Sleiman,  President  of 
Lebanese  Republic,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall.  

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency General 
Michel  Sleiman,  President  of  the  Lebanese  Republic, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Sleiman  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  should 

like  at  the  outset  to  congratulate  Mr.  Ali Abdussalam 
Treki  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session and to express my 
appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann, for his efforts. I should also like 
A/64/PV.7
to 
this  universal 
the  drafting  of 
to  thank  in  particular  His  Excellency  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  comprehensive 
annual report on the work of the Organization (A/64/1) 
and  for  the  special  attention  that  he  has  consistently 
devoted to the concerns of Lebanon and its people. 

Lebanon  closely  follows  all  political,  economic, 
social  and  legal  issues  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly,  and  we  are  hopeful  and  confident  that  we 
will  be  elected  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  period  2010-2011,  with  the 
full  support  of  brotherly  and  friendly  nations  in  that 
regard.  Lebanon  looks  forward  to  that  election  with 
great  confidence,  because  we  are  a  founding  member 
international  Organization  and 
of 
contributed  significantly 
the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  

For  thousands  of  years,  the  people  of  Lebanon 
have  made  vital  contributions  to  the  development  of 
civilization,  including  innovations  that  have  promoted 
communication, 
interaction  and  dialogue  among 
nations and peoples. These are the same people who set 
sail  in  search  of  new  horizons  of  cooperation  and 
communication  and  have  played  a  vital  role 
in 
spreading  the  values  of  freedom  and  democracy, 
reinforcing 
the  concept  of  Arab  nationalism  and 
establishing  the  pillars  of  the  intellectual  and  literary 
renaissance of the Arab world. 

Today,  from  this  rostrum,  Lebanon  reaffirms  its 
commitment  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
to 
in 
particular  Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006),  as 
well  as  its  willingness  to  contribute  seriously  and 
responsibly  to  the  deliberations  and  resolutions  of  the 
Council  for  the  coming  two  years,  especially  those 
aimed  at  ensuring  peace  and  security  in  the  Middle 
East.  Furthermore,  Lebanon  will  give 
special 
consideration  to  the  deliberations  on  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  and  its  organs  that  will  enable  it  to 
become more effective in addressing the challenges of 
today’s world. 

Therefore,  it  comes  as  no  surprise  that  the 
Lebanese  Constitution,  which  was  adopted  in  1926, 
two decades before the United Nations was established, 
stipulates  that  “There  shall  be  absolute  freedom  of 
conscience. The State ... shall respect all religions and 
creeds and guarantees under its protection, and the free 
exercise of all religious rites”.  
the  resolutions  of 
international 
legitimacy, 
09-52463 

15 

in 
its  political 
life 
A/64/PV.7 


The model of coexistence embodied by Lebanon, 
which  allows  various  confessional  communities  to 
participate  actively 
in  an 
environment of democracy and freedom of thought and 
expression, runs counter to all trends towards ethnic or 
religious cleansing and doctrines of the single-thought 
theory.  That  is  why,  last  year,  I  called  for  the 
establishment  of  Lebanon  as  an 
internationally 
recognized  centre  for  dialogue  among  civilizations, 
cultures  and  religions,  in  keeping  with  our  role  as  a 
bridge  of  communication  between  East  and  West  and 
our  message  as  a  country  in  which  18  different 
communities  interact  in  a  unique  and  exemplary 
manner. 

One of the primary tasks entrusted to the Security 
Council is to strive to maintain international peace and 
security.  Indeed,  it  is  very  unfortunate  that  the  Arab 
Middle  East,  a  region  that  gave  rise  to  the  three 
monotheistic  religions,  has  been  an  area  of  tension, 
conflict and war ever since the Nakba, the tragedy that 
befell Palestine in 1948 and displaced its people. 

Any settlement of the Middle East crisis must be 
based  on  a  predetermined  and  comprehensive  plan 
whose  basic  elements  have  been  set  out  in  the 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy,  at  the  Madrid 
Peace  Conference  and  in  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative. 
Above  all,  such  a  settlement  requires  the  genuine 
political  will  of  the  parties  to  commit  themselves  to 
peace and its obligations.  

However,  the  Israeli  side  has  not  demonstrated 
such  will,  because  the  soundness  and  usefulness  of  a 
just  peace  are  still  being  discussed  both  by  the 
Government  and  at  the  grass-roots  level  in  Israel. 
Furthermore,  Israeli 
threats  of  attacks  and  wars 
continue  as  ways  to  exert  control  and  hegemony  and 
impose a fait accompli, if not to bring about expansion, 
displacement and further encroachment on the rights of 
Palestinians  and  Arabs.  Meanwhile,  Arab  countries 
have 
introduced  a  comprehensive  Peace 
Initiative, which was unanimously adopted at the 2002 
Arab League Summit, held in Beirut.  

international 
community take appropriate measures to compel Israel 
to  fulfil  its  international  obligations  under  the  peace 
process within a specific and reasonable time frame, in 
accordance  with  the  Declaration  of  the  recent  Arab 
League  Summit  held  in  Doha,  Qatar.  How  can  we 
persuade our peoples that the international community 
thus  essential 
together 
that 
the 
It 
is 
from  all  Lebanese 
is capable of achieving a just and comprehensive peace 
and thus of putting an end to the various aspects of the 
Middle  East  conflict,  including  through  an  Israeli 
withdrawal  from  all  occupied Arab  territories  and  the 
establishment  of  an 
independent  and  sovereign 
Palestinian  State  with  Al-Quds  as  its  capital,  if  it 
cannot  force  Israel  to  halt  its  settlement  construction, 
lift its unjust siege on Gaza and stop the Judaization of 
Jerusalem? 

In that context, it is important to note that people 
have  the  right  to  reclaim  their  occupied  territories  by 
all legitimate and available means, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the relevant United Nations resolutions. Everyone here 
knows  how  Lebanon  was  able  to  liberate  most  of  its 
territories occupied by Israel in the spring of 2000 after 
Israel had refused to implement resolution 425 (1978), 
which  called  for  its  immediate  and  unconditional 
withdrawal 
territories.  That 
occupation lasted 22 continuous years. 

Our meeting this year coincides with the sixtieth 
anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East (UNRWA). On this occasion, Lebanon would 
like  to  stress  that  the  Palestinian  refugees’  solution  is 
first and foremost a political solution. We fully support 
all  efforts  aimed  at  reinforcing  the  programmes  and 
capabilities  of  UNRWA,  enabling  it  to  improve  the 
living standards and human conditions of the refugees, 
in collaboration with the host countries, until a just and 
final  solution  to  the  tragedy  of  the  Palestinians  has 
been reached. 

Clearly,  such  a  just  and  final  solution  for  the 
Palestinian refugees cannot deny them their natural and 
legitimate right of return to their lands and homes, nor 
can 
the  host  countries’ 
participation  or  in  violation  of  their  sovereignty,  their 
special circumstances and their national interests. This 
is why Lebanon rejects any form of settling Palestinian 
refugees  on  its  territories,  for  by  such  rejection  it 
upholds  the  Palestinian  refugees’  right  of  return,  in 
accordance  with  Lebanon’s  Constitution  and  national 
pact.  Let  it  be  clear  that  such  a  position  will  not  be 
reversed.  Nor  will  it  be  subject  to  compromise  or 
negotiation.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
gratitude to the countries that have lent their support to 
the  Lebanese  position  on  this  issue  and  shown  a 
willingness to defend it. 
it  be  achieved  without 
16 

09-52463 
forward 
to 
launch 
While  parliamentary  consultations  are 



Throughout  last  year,  Lebanon  was  able  to 
maintain  its  internal  stability  and  dismantle  many 
Israeli spy networks and terrorist cells while striving to 
implement  resolution  1701  (2006)  and  strengthen  its 
relations  with  brotherly  and 
friendly  countries. 
Furthermore,  Lebanon  was  able  to  hold  parliamentary 
elections.  The  world  witnessed  the  transparency  and 
integrity  of  those  elections,  and  the  results  were 
accepted  by  all  competing  parties.  Lebanon  has  also 
been able to improve its credibility, avoid the aftermath 
of the global financial crisis, attract many tourists and 
investors, and raise its economic growth rate to almost 
6  per  cent.  It  is  now  preparing  to  host  the  sixth 
Francophone Games in a few days. 

taking 
place in accordance with constitutional provisions and 
the  requirement  to  forge  a  national  consensus,  we  are 
looking 
forming  a  national  unity 
government  very  soon.  Such  a  government  would 
reinstate  government  dynamics  and 
the 
political, administrative and judicial reform process the 
Lebanese people aspire to. The fruits of such a process 
will serve the people and the authorities, thus ensuring 
its success and continuity. 

In  parallel,  and  on  the  third  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  resolution  1701  (2006),  Lebanon  stresses 
that  Israel  should  be  forced  to  comply  with  all  the 
provisions of that resolution, especially its withdrawal 
from  all  the  Lebanese  occupied  territories,  including 
the  Shaba’a  farms,  the  Kfarshouba  hills  and  the 
northern part of the village of Ghajar, to stop its daily 
violations  of  Lebanon’s  sovereignty  and  its  persistent 
threats 
and 
infrastructure. 

In this context, Lebanon would like to commend 
the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) 
for the role it is playing in the south of the country, in 
accordance  with  the  rules  of  engagement  agreed  upon 
and  in  full  coordination  with  the  Lebanese  Army.  In 
addition,  Lebanon  would  like  to  reaffirm  that  it 
remains  keen  to  preserve  the  safety  of  this  Force  and 
reiterates its appreciation for the efforts deployed by its 
commander and soldiers and for their sacrifices in the 
service of peace and stability. 

Lebanon  will  pursue  its  international  efforts  to 
force Israel to pay due compensation for the enormous 
damage 
its  repeated  acts  of 
aggression  against  Lebanon,  including  the  damage 
against  Lebanon, 
institutions 
it  caused 
through 
its 
A/64/PV.7
fundamental  political, 
caused  by  the  oil  slick  resulting  from  the  Israeli 
bombardment  of  the  Jiyeh  power  plant  in  the  summer 
of 2006. 

The  experience  acquired  over  the  past  61  years 
has  confirmed  a  set  of  truths.  First,  the  Palestinian 
cause  is  at  the  core  of  the  Middle  East  conflict. 
Secondly,  Israel’s  resorting  to  force  to  impose  a  fait 
accompli is futile and will weaken neither the will nor 
the  determination  of  the  Arab  people  to  restore  their 
rights. Thirdly, partial and unilateral solutions will not 
achieve genuine peace, and unjust solutions are  short-
lived. 
Since the middle of the last century, the world has 

witnessed 
intellectual  and 
ideological  shifts  that  have  had  a  profound  impact  on 
nations  and  their  interactions,  along  with  a  troubling 
accumulation  of  economic,  social  and  environmental 
predicaments.  No  matter  how  local  or  regional  some 
conflicts and crises have been in the past, in the current 
era of globalization they have become global in nature 
or acquired a global dimension. Such has been the case 
for  the  phenomenon  of  international  terrorism,  the 
global financial crisis and the contagious diseases that 
are spreading across continents. 

In ancient times, and now in the modern world, as 
told  in  the  fiercest  epic  tales,  wars  beget  tragic  and 
painful  events  and  give  rise  to  costly  and  horrific 
experiences  where  endless  blood  and  countless  tears 
are shed and disappointment and tragedies prevail. We 
therefore hope that the United Nations, which from the 
outset  was  established  to  prevent  wars  and  resolve 
conflicts  through  peaceful  means,  will  persist  in  its 
to  achieve  righteousness  and  establish 
endeavour 
justice 
international 
efforts. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Lebanese  Republic  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 

through  active  and  unbiased 
General  Michel  Sleiman,  President  of 
Lebanese  Republic,  was  escorted 
from 
General Assembly Hall.  
the 
the 

09-52463 

17 

to 
A/64/PV.7 

Address by Mr. Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, 
President of the Transitional Federal Government of 
the Somali Republic  

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the  Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic. 

Mr. Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, President of the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Sheikh  Sharif  Sheikh  Ahmed,  President  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of 
the  Somali 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly.  
President Ahmed (spoke in Arabic): I would like 

to begin by congratulating Mr. Ali Treki on his election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session.  We  are  confident 
international 
community  will  greatly  benefit  from  his  experience 
and  wisdom  on  the  political  and  human  fronts,  and  at 
the  local  and  international  levels.  I  also  take  this 
opportunity warmly to thank the Secretary-General and 
all  Governments, 
international  organizations  and 
permanent  members  who  have  offered  support  and 
have promoted peace and stability in Somalia, and who 
have  delivered  to  our  country  the  aid  necessary  to 
protect our sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity.  

I wish to express our condolences to the families 
of  those  who  have  lost  their  lives  in  defence  of  peace 
and  stability  in  Somalia.  I  would  particularly  like  to 
thank  the African  Union,  which  has  made  tremendous 
sacrifices for the cause of peace in Somalia.  

I  would  now  like  to  talk  about  the  efforts  and 
progress  made  by  the  Government  of  Somalia  since  it 
came  to  power  through  the  Djibouti  peace  process  — 
progress  made  despite  the  enormous  difficulties  and 
challenges facing the Somali nation, particularly given 
that  it  was  established  after  18  years  of  anarchy  and 
chaos.  My  Government’s  priorities  include  improving 
the  security  situation,  promoting  efforts 
towards 
reconciliation  and  providing  essential  humanitarian 
assistance  to  the  displaced  and  the  suffering  in  our 
country.  
that 
the 

the 
rebels 
however, 
Unfortunately, 

are 
endeavouring  to  overthrow  the  Somali  Government, 
which is still taking its first steps in achieving security. 
These  rebel  elements  have  conducted  a  violent 
insurrection  against  the  Government,  fuelled  by  the 
negative effects and consequences of the past 18 years, 
which  are  further  compounded  by  prevailing  high 
unemployment and our country’s weakness in the field 
of  security.  It  is  clear  that  extremist  foreign  elements 
have  joined  the  ranks  of  the  insurgency  and  some  of 
these  foreign  extremists  hold  key  rebel  leadership 
positions. 

I  would  like  to  recall  that  we  thwarted  the 
attempted coup d’état perpetrated by the rebels against 
the  Government.  We  believe  that  we  were  able  to 
prevail  thanks,  first  and  foremost,  to  God,  and  then 
through the efforts of our Government and people and 
the help we received from the international community 
and the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM). 
We are  currently endeavouring to promote and bolster 
the  Somali  security  forces,  to  create  new  naval  forces 
and a new coast guard to tackle the problem of piracy, 
which  continues  to  threaten  international  shipping  in 
the  Gulf  of  Aden  and  the  Indian  Ocean.  However, 
despite all our achievements we still have a long road 
to travel.  

Rebellion in Somalia is a new form of insurgency 
that  is  emerging  in  the  world  today.  This  rebellion  is 
conducted  by  foreign  and  Somali  extremists  who  are 
against  Islam,  against  peace,  against  security  and 
against stability. They are spoilers who sow destruction 
and  take  exploit  the  chaos  and  anarchy  that  have 
existed in Somalia since 1991.  

We  suggest  that  what  is  happening  in  Somalia 
should  not  be  underestimated  or  taken  lightly.  The 
international  community  should 
take  prompt  and 
decisive  steps  to  ensure  that  our  people  are  not  held 
hostage  by  these  extremist  groups  who  are  working 
against our freedom and our destiny. From this rostrum 
I  would  like  to  state  that  if  the  world  does  not 
comprehend  the  gravity  of  what  is  happening  in 
Somalia,  then  the  consequences  will  be  very  harmful. 
The troubles we are experiencing threaten to proliferate 
into neighbouring countries and indeed throughout the 
world.  

The  problem  of  international  terrorism  is  not 
confined  to  Somalia  and  this  problem  should  be 
addressed at the international level.  
18 

09-52463 



I  turn  now  to  the  issue  of  piracy,  which  has 
recently  become  a  matter  of  major  concern  for  the 
international community. The phenomenon of piracy is 
closely  linked  to  the  current  security  situation  in 
Somalia. As a result, as long as the security situation in 
Somalia  remains  unchanged,  piracy  will  continue  in 
one  way  or  another.  We  would  like  to  say,  however, 
that  there  has  of  late  been  a  reduction  of  piracy  as  a 
result  of  collective  international  endeavours.  Still,  it 
remains essential to make additional efforts to combat 
piracy. 

Toxic  waste  sunk  off  the  Somali  coast,  unlawful 
fishing  and  the  pillaging  of  national  wealth  are  a 
violation of Somali sovereignty and cause considerable 
damage,  which  has  a  negative  effect  on 
the 
environment through the pollution caused.  

We are resolved to engage in a political dialogue 
that  is  open  to  all  Somali  stakeholders,  including  the 
armed rebels.  

We are determined to sit down at the negotiating 
table  with  all  parties,  even  those  who  are  against  the 
Government,  any  time  and  any  place,  in  order  to  end 
the  conflict  raging  in  our  country.  We  will  spare  no 
effort  to  end  the  conflict  and  find  a  lasting  political 
solution. We will ensure the security of our people and 
protect  our  sovereignty  and 
integrity. 
However, the extremists do not believe in the benefit of 
any  manner  of  dialogue  or  negotiation;  they  believe 
only in guns and cannons.  

We are ready to establish a firm foundation for an 
open, transparent and participatory democratic political 
system  by  creating  sound  democratic  institutions  that 
reflect  the  collective  political  will  and  the  cultural 
values of the Somali people. That system will be based 
on 
constitutional 
mechanisms  designed  to  protect  human  rights  and  the 
rule of law. 

Islamic 
principles that encourage tolerance, personal freedoms, 
respect  for  individual  rights  and  equal  rights  for  all 
under the law, without regard to gender, clan or ethnic 
origin. 

In  addition,  we  will  work  tirelessly  towards 
establishing  a  free-market  economic  system  to  attract 
foreign  direct 
investment  and  encourage  private 
ownership.  The  system  we  will  introduce  will  have 
Similarly,  we  will 
foster  genuine 
institutional 
territorial 
an 
regime 
and 
A/64/PV.7
At 
this 
taken, 
trying  moment 
sound  and  effective  financial  institutions  with  strong 
built-in anti-corruption mechanisms. 

We  will  use  all  available  means  to  rebuild  a 
national  Somali  State  that  is  at  peace  with  itself,  with 
its  neighbours  and  with  the  international  community. 
Furthermore,  we  intend  to  cooperate  closely  with  the 
international community in the security sphere. 

in  history,  Somalia 
urgently  needs  the  support  and  assistance  of  the 
international  community,  in  particular  in  the  form  of 
security and humanitarian aid. Since 1991, Somalia has 
not  enjoyed  peace,  stability  or  security.  Thus,  it  has 
been  difficult 
to  achieve  social  and  economic 
development and to protect human rights.  
Security  and  stability  may  be  established  if 

certain  essential  measures  are 
including 
promotion  of  the  security  and  police  components,  the 
judiciary and administrative institutions. African Union 
troops  should  be  increased  to  a  necessary  level  and 
augmented  by  other  troops,  provided  that  they  are 
sufficiently  funded,  trained  and  equipped  to  carry  out 
their task. In order to restore security in Somalia, those 
measures must be implemented decisively and as soon 
as possible. 

Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

In the context of humanitarian assistance, it must 
be  emphasized  that  the  situation  of  refugees,  both 
within  Somalia  and  outside  its  borders,  continues  to 
deteriorate. There  are  nearly  3.8  million  people  in  the 
country  requiring  humanitarian  assistance.  Our  people 
are  experiencing  a  real  humanitarian  tragedy  that  is 
compounded by several years of drought. Humanitarian 
access  to  those  in  need  is  considerably  hampered  by 
the security situation that has deteriorated as a result of 
the conflict. 

In  connection  with  Security  Council  resolutions 
on the arms embargo, I urge the Council to reconsider 
the matter and appeal to it to assist us in strengthening 
our  security  forces  without  which  any  endeavour  to 
rebuild infrastructure and achieve security and stability 
in Somalia will be impossible. 

On  the  donors  conference  held  in  Brussels  in 
April  2009  pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolution 
1863  (2009),  we  wish  to  ask  donor  countries  which 
have made funds available to Somalia to speed up the 
allocation  of  additional  funding.  I  also  urge  United 
09-52463 

19 

to  end 
in  order 
A/64/PV.7 

Nations Member States and Security Council members 
to  take  further  measures  to  support  the  Republic  of 
Somalia  more  effectively 
the 
intransigence  of  the  extremists  and  to  ensure  that  no 
further  obstacles  exist  to  rehabilitating  Somalia  and 
rebuilding its infrastructure so that we can bring an end 
to the genuine daily tragedy of the people in Somalia. 

We firmly believe that our progress on security is 
likely  to  enable  us  to  counter  the  negative  economic 
and  social  impacts  of  the  chaotic  events  of  the  past 
18 years. Somalia would be in a position to revive the 
entrepreneurial  spirit  of  the  people  of  Somalia.  We 
have  already  begun  to  make  tangible  progress  with 
remittances  from  Somalis  abroad.  If  Somalia  enjoyed 
some level of stability and security our economy could 
progress reasonably in the coming years. In any event, 
peace,  stability  and  development  are  all  interlinked; 
there  can  be  no  peace  without  development  or 
development without peace and stability.  

The  worldwide  economic  decline  has  severely 
affected  the  people  of  Somalia  and  has  placed  an 
additional  burden  on 
this 
rostrum, we reiterate our appeal for joint, urgent action 
for  Somalia.  I  stand  before 
the  Assembly  fully 
confident in the future of Somalia. It is a country with 
vast  natural  and  human  resources. We  believe  and  we 
are  confident  that,  with  support,  we  will  be  able  to 
make genuine and concrete progress. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank the  President  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of 
the  Somali 
Republic for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, President of the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
their  shoulders.  From 
from 


Address by Mr. Gjorge Ivanov, President of the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 

Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
contributed 
indisputably 
to 
the  role  and  reputation  of 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 

President Ivanov (spoke in Macedonian; English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  have  the 
special  honour  and  privilege  today  to  address  this 
esteemed forum and to share with you the views of the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  regarding  the  topics  of  this 
session, but also on other current issues that concern us 
all, directly or indirectly. 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  convey  my 

congratulations  and  to  greet  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki.  I  would  also  like  to  extend  to  him 
our  full  readiness  for  cooperation  in  the  course  of  his 
mandate. At  the  same  time,  I  wish  to  congratulate  the 
President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session, 
Mr. Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for  his  successful 
presidency.  Availing  myself  of  this  opportunity,  I 
would  like  to  acknowledge  the  engagements  and  the 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
the 
which 
enhancement  of 
the 
Organization. 

Before I refer to the key theme of this session, I 
would  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  of  the  fear  and 
uncertainty we all felt exactly one year ago, right here. 
It  was  fear  and  uncertainty  over  the  scope  and  the 
consequences  of  the  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis.  I  recall  this  in  order  to  emphasize  the  urgent 
need  for the  United Nations to use this opportunity to 
contribute 
the 
overcoming of the effects of the crisis. It is even more 
important that we assist in preventing new such crises. 
In this context the serious economic problems most of 
us have been facing should not shift our focus from the 
absolute  priority,  which  is  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

today 
represents  one  of 
the  biggest  challenges  facing 
humanity,  is  extremely  high  on  our  national  agenda, 
but also on that of the United Nations. We owe it to our 
children and to the generations to come to preserve our 
planet. 
If  we  do  not  establish,  urgently  and 
immediately, 
sustainable 
standards  for  how  we  treat  the  environment,  we  will 
pay  the  price  in  the  future.  Time  is  running  out,  and 
there  is  no  possibility  for  us  to  further  postpone 
issue  of  climate  change,  which 
the  highest  and  most 
to  processes 
that  will 
facilitate 
have 
The 
20 

09-52463 
to  combat 


coordinated  and  serious  measures 
the 
negative  consequences  of  climate  change.  Climate 
change  and  global  warming  have  an  increasingly 
serious impact on economic growth and on the quality, 
quantity and price of food. That exacerbates poverty. It 
is  therefore  imperative  that  we  tackle  this  issue 
immediately.  

The  Republic  of  Macedonia,  as  a  party  to  the 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  for  more 
than  a  decade  now,  has  been  actively  working  on 
implementing the goals set out in the Convention. We 
have  —  including  me  personally  —  assigned  special 
significance to the forthcoming United Nations Climate 
Change  Conference  in  Copenhagen,  and  we  all  have 
great  expectations  for  it.  The  Macedonian  authorities 
are truly committed to undertaking numerous concrete 
activities  with  a  view  to  raising  awareness  in  society 
regarding  this  issue.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  is 
fully  prepared  to  make  its  contribution  to  the  global 
effort. 

When  we  address  issues  related  to  peacekeeping 
and  stability,  a  large  majority  of  us,  unfortunately, 
regularly  expresses  dissatisfaction 
the 
current  state  of  affairs.  Peace  and  security  are 
compromised on a daily basis in certain regions of the 
world.  We  are  faced  with  the  continuation  of  old  and 
frozen conflicts, but also with a series of new tensions 
in many regions throughout the world. 

When  it  comes  to  the  reasons  for  the  constant 
crises besetting our world, or certain parts of it, allow 
me  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  quote  Martin  Luther 
King,  who  in  1967  uttered  a  recipe  for  overcoming 
bilateral, regional and global crises. He said:  

“Let us be dissatisfied until from every city hall, 
justice  will 
like  waters,  and 
righteousness  like  a  mighty  stream.  Let  us  be 
dissatisfied  until  that  day  when  the  lion  and  the 
lamb shall lie down together, and every man will 
sit under his own vine and fig tree, and none shall 
be afraid.” 

With  reference  to  these  words,  I  welcome  the 
topic  of  this  session,  which  is  meant  to  assist  us  in 
finding  effective  responses 
to  global  crises.  The 
responses 
into 
consideration  not  only  the  present  and  the  reality  of 
today’s  world,  but  on  top  of  that,  we  must  anticipate 
the future and take on board the objectives we have set 
ourselves. 
to  most  questions  must 
roll  down 
regarding 
take 
A/64/PV.7
in 
in 
and 
dialogue 

Instead  of  paying  lip  service  to  multilateralism, 
which I do not believe will help, a real approach based 
on  meaningful  multilateralism  and  action  is  required. 
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  I  personally  strongly 
believe in and strive towards effective multilateralism. 
We  believe  that  strengthening  multilateralism  is  the 
only way to advance towards and achieve our primary 
goals of peace, democracy, human freedoms and rights 
and respect of international law and principles. 

The  Republic  of  Macedonia  strongly  supports 
joint  efforts  to  improve  the  overall  coherence  of  the 
United Nations system. We need a United Nations that 
will,  in  the  best  possible  and  most  efficient  manner, 
realize  the  expectations  and  the  objectives  of  its 
Member States. 
The Republic of Macedonia is a country that has 

in  nurturing  and  affirming 
immense  experience 
dialogue 
advancing 
among 
civilizations.  It  is  a  unique  example  of  a  successful 
multi-ethnic and multi-faith country. 
The  summit  on  Dialogue  Among  Civilizations

that  was  held  in  the  Republic  of  Macedonia,  in  Ohrid 
in  2003,  with  assistance  and  support  from  the  United 
Nations,  is  an  example  of  the  kind  of  regular  annual 
meetings  at  the  highest  level  that  are  being  held  in 
South-East  Europe  under  the  auspices  of  UNESCO. 
This not only represents recognition for my country but 
also  demonstrates 
the 
the  value  of  dialogue 
advancement of security and in development. 

the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  has  been  unswervingly  committed  to  the 
promotion  of  democracy  and  the  improvement  of  the 
living  standards  of  its  people,  and  to  reform  in  all 
spheres  of  our  economy.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia 
promotes  a  society  founded  upon  the  rule  of  law, 
respect  for  human  rights,  multi-ethnic  cohabitation, 
dialogue and mutual understanding.  

Over  the  past  number  of  years,  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  has  achieved  impressive  progress  that  has 
been recognized and acknowledged by all. My country 
today  is  looking  forward  to  the  initiation  of  the 
accession  negotiations  with  the  European  Union.  My 
country has fulfilled all of the conditions set for NATO 
membership.  It  is  an  active  and  strong  supporter  of 
regional  cooperation.  It  remains  fully  committed  to 
good-neighbourly  relations  and  to  dialogue  as  a  key 
tool  for  overcoming  all  of  the  issues  that  continue  to 
beset the region. 
independence, 
Since 
its 
09-52463 

21 

to 
to 
sharing  and  contributing 
A/64/PV.7 


All  of  my  country’s  Governments  have  consistently 
focused  on  the  realization  of  the  country’s  two  top 
strategic  priorities:  accession  to  the  European  Union 
and accession to NATO. The Republic of Macedonia is 
dedicated 
the 
Euro-Atlantic  values  in  a  common  vision  for  the 
enlargement of the stability and security zone in South-
East Europe.  

The  actions  of  our  southern  neighbour  that 
prevented the Republic of Macedonia from acceding to 
the  NATO  alliance  were  contrary  to  the  obligations 
undertaken  in  the  1995  interim  agreement.  That  was 
done  in  an  attempt  to  influence  the  outcome  of  the 
negotiations  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations  and  was  completely  opposite  to  the  common 
vision. Nevertheless,  I would like to stress before this 
forum  that  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  is  sincerely 
dedicated  to  the  process  of  resolving  our  differences 
with  our  southern  neighbour  within  the  framework  of 
the mechanism set out in United Nations resolutions.  

The  Republic  of  Macedonia  believes  in  law  and 
in  justice. The  Republic  of  Macedonia  believes  in  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  as  a  body  of  the  United 
Nations  and  as  a  protector  and  upholder  of  the  law. 
Beyond the absurdity of the dispute with our southern 
neighbour, the Republic of Macedonia sincerely hopes 
that soon the only obstacle that prevents us from taking 
our  rightful  place  in  the  Euro-Atlantic  family  will  be 
removed.  

In  spite  of  the  flagrant  violation  of  international 
obligations  by  our  southern  neighbour  —  in  respect 
whereof the Republic of Macedonia has filed an appeal 
at the International Court of Justice — we are actively 
participating 
the 
Republic  of  Greece.  I  would  like  to  state  clearly  that 
we are prepared to discuss  only the issues foreseen in 
the  United  Nations  resolutions.  The  Republic  of 
Macedonia  is  prepared  to  seek  a  solution  that  is  a 
reasonable and fair compromise and that will not touch 
upon  or  deny  our  national,  cultural  or  linguistic 
identity  in  any  way,  a  solution  that  would  obtain  the 
legitimacy  and  the  seal  of  approval  of  our  citizens. 
There is no more sovereign right than the right of self-
determination  and  self-identification.  That  right  has 
been cherished by many generations before us. 

I  hope  that  the  Republic  of  Greece  will  abandon 
its policy of taking action from a position of power in 
order  to  unfavourably  influence  the  outcome  of  the 
the  negotiation  process  with 
in 
to 
appropriate  measures 
disputed  issue.  I  expect  that  the  political  leadership 
will  look  towards  the  wider  interest  in  terms  of 
permanent stabilization of the entire region. We believe 
that  with 
truthful  and  sincere  willingness  and 
preparedness  we  can  reach  a  solution  whereby  there 
will be neither winners nor losers. 

Allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  recall 
Article 1,  paragraph  2  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations:  

“[t]o  develop  friendly  relations  among  nations 
based on respect for the principle of equal rights 
and  self-determination  of  peoples,  and  to  take 
other 
strengthen 
universal peace”. 
Let not this Organization betray the expectations 

of the vast majority of people who set their hope on it, 
and  let  it  not  betray  the  ideals  of  its  founders.  The 
Organization  must  prepare  itself  to  come  up  with 
responses  to  existing  and  emerging  challenges  posed 
by our times. When I say “the Organization”, I refer to 
all of us who support those processes. The Republic of 
Macedonia  sees  in  the  Organization  the  potential  to 
maintain  stability  in  international  affairs  and  a  unique 
opportunity to tackle the numerous challenges posed to 
humanity. The Republic of Macedonia, as has been the 
case hitherto, shall continue to respect and support the 
values and principles enshrined in the Charter. 

Allow me to finish my address with the words of 
the  former  Secretary-General  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  who 
said  that  if  the  goal  of  humanity  is  progress  in  peace 
and freedom, the state of peace is not only a state free 
of  conflict,  it  is  a  state  of  respecting  human  freedom 
and  rights.  We  are  still  far  from  that  goal.  However, 
indisputably,  huge  and  serious  progress  has  been 
achieved. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I  wish to thank the President of the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 

22 

09-52463 

to  promote  global  peace, 


Address by Mr. Nicholas Joseph Orville Liverpool, 
President of the Commonwealth of Dominica 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the President of the Commonwealth 
of Dominica. 

Mr. Nicholas Joseph Orville Liverpool, President 
of the Commonwealth of Dominica, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicholas  Joseph  Orville 
Liverpool,  President  of 
the  Commonwealth  of 
Dominica, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Liverpool:  I  begin  by  joining  my 

colleague  Heads  of  State  in  congratulating  Mr.  Ali 
Treki on his well-deserved election as the President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I 
would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  His 
Excellency  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann 
for  his 
effective  stewardship  of  the  sixty-third  session  and  to 
salute  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless 
efforts 
security  and 
development. 

It is an internationally accepted fact that we are in 
a  period  characterized  by  unprecedented  crisis.  Crises 
related  to  basic  human  needs  such  as  food,  water  and 
energy  are  contributing  to  great  distress  and  hardship 
in  every  region  of  our  world  and  precipitating  an 
escalation in  poverty, which we in the  United  Nations 
had committed to halve at the beginning of this decade. 
These crises have the potential to bring great social and 
political instability to many regions.  

The  sheer  complexity  of  these  matters  and  their 
connectivity with human development make the task of 
addressing them very daunting. The progress made by 
the  international  community  in  this  respect  must  be 
noted. However, we must all be mindful that whatever 
the  perceived  impact  or  fallout  experienced  by  the 
economies  of  the  world,  the  citizens  of  the  small 
vulnerable  States  among  us  will  be  the  worst  hit,  and 
therefore they continue to warrant the special attention 
of this body. 

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development,  which  convened  last  June  in  this  Hall, 
brought 
the 
magnitude  of  this  crisis.  The  outcome  document 
international  attention 
renewed 
to 
A/64/PV.7
to 
threatens 
its  cause.  It  also 
(resolution  63/303,  annex)  confirmed,  and  further 
emphasizes,  that  the  crisis  has  had  a  particularly 
negative  effect  on  developing  countries  such  as 
Dominica.  

The irony is that though severely affected by the 
crisis,  our  countries  had  absolutely  no  relationship  or 
contribution 
the 
realization  of  the  Millennium  Development  goals.  In 
the  Caribbean  it  is  estimated  that  the  impact  of  the 
crisis  has  created 
the  worst  set  of  economic 
circumstances  since  the  era  of  independence  of  the 
countries  of  the  region,  bringing  with  it  depressed 
commodity  prices,  a  decline  in  agricultural  export 
earnings,  contraction  of  tourism  revenues,  retreating 
foreign direct investment, decreased access to external 
financing and declining remittances, among others. 

At  the  regional  level  the  Governments  of  the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) are addressing the 
impacts of the crisis through the establishment in July 
of a task force that will allow the member States, along 
with the heads of our regional financial institutions, to 
facilitate  the  mobilization  of  funds  and  present  a  core 
set of proposals for dealing with this crisis. Our Heads 
of Government have also agreed to the institution of a 
programme of collective enhancement of our financial 
services  sector  through  improved  national  regulatory 
and 
through 
rationalization  and  consolidation  to  ensure  safety, 
soundness and stability in that sector.  

We  concur  with  the  call  for  the  strengthening  of 
institutional arrangements for international cooperation 
in 
the 
recommendation  of  the  Conference  of  the  CARICOM 
Heads  of  State  for  consistent  and  non-discriminatory 
implementation  of 
transparency  requirements  and 
international standards for exchange of information. 

We  believe  that  in  order  to  adapt  to  the  adverse 
impact  of  the  financial  crisis  it  is  crucial  that  small 
island  developing  States  and  less  developed  countries 
receive  the  following:  one,  speedy  implementation  of 
the  decisions  of  the  Conference;  two,  assistance  to 
facilitate economic diversification while responding to 
the  crisis  and  the  negative  impact  of  climate  change; 
three,  fiscal  support  in  view  of  already  high  debt 
burdens; four, practical assistance from United Nations 
agencies  through  a  compact  framework;  and  five, 
stimulus  funds  to  be  made  available  by  bilateral  and 
multilateral entities. 
tax  matters.  Furthermore,  we  endorse 
supervisory 
systems, 
and 
also 
09-52463 

23 

A/64/PV.7 


With the onset of the financial crisis, there is now 
a  wrong  perception  that  the  food  crisis  is  over.  Food 
insecurity continues unabated around the world, and it 
is  estimated  that  more  than  a  billion  people  go  to  bed 
hungry  every  night.  This  is  both  unacceptable  and 
unsustainable.  The  creation  of  the  United  Nations 
system high-level Task Force on Global Food Security 
was  a  timely  and  welcome  initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General  and  the  Director-General  of  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization.  Increasing  investments  in 
agriculture  in  the  developing  nations  is  critical  to 
addressing  the  food  crisis.  We  therefore  welcome  the 
Group  of  Eight  pledge  of  $15  billion  over  the  next 
three  years  for  enhancing  food  security,  but  we  warn 
that  the  desired  objective  may  not  be  achieved  if 
harmful  subsidies  in  agriculture  continue  to  prevail  in 
the developed countries. 

Completion  of  the  Doha  Development  Agenda 
negotiations at the World Trade Organization takes on 
renewed importance as we seek solutions to the global 
financial crisis. An appropriate trade environment for a 
sustainable recovery for all is highly desirable. It is in 
that  spirit  that  we  must  renew  our  commitment  to 
re-engage  in  the  Doha  negotiations  with  the  declared 
objective of concluding them in 2010.  

to  further 
marginalize small and vulnerable States and has led to 
the  almost  total  collapse  of  some  of  our  major 
industries, 
including  sugar  and  bananas,  which 
provided the livelihoods of numerous farming families 
and  communities.  Our  Governments  continue 
the 
struggle  to  develop  their  economies  in  the  absence  of 
the much-needed foreign exchange that those industries 
generated. 
of 
developing countries and their effective participation in 
world  trade  underscores  that  Aid  for  Trade  as  a  new 
and independent source of development financing must 
be at the centre of the trade and development agenda. 

Climate change has emerged as one of the leading 
challenges  of  our  generation.  If  it  is  not  arrested  and 
sufficiently  managed, 
the 
potential  to  undermine  human  security  and  the  social 
and economic stability of all nations. All around us we 
see  evidence  of  escalating  climate  change  in  the  form 
of  severe  weather, 
floods,  drought,  devastating 
hurricanes and cyclones and rising sea levels.  

island  developing  States  are  most 
vulnerable to the negative impact of climate change. As 
The  status  quo  has  served  only 
competitiveness 
impact  has 
its  adverse 
Increasing 
Small 
the 
As 
at 
the 
for 
the 
global 
preparations 
to  humanity. 
this  monumental  challenge 
a  consequence,  we  find  our  countries  in  the  front  line 
of 
In 
Dominica  and  several  of  the  sister  islands  of  the 
Caribbean,  situated  as  we  are  in  the  hurricane  belt, 
there  have  been  and  will  continue  to  be  an  almost 
annual cycle of considerable damage to houses, roads, 
coastlines  and  other  infrastructure.  For  many  of  our 
countries  there  is  a  constant  struggle  to  achieve 
economic development and a higher quality of life for 
our  people,  only  to  find  ourselves  experiencing  these 
heavy  losses  and  having  routinely  to  start  all  over 
again.  

critical 
Copenhagen conference continue, the urgency to act to 
address  climate  change  has  increased.  What  has  long 
been  pointed  out  by  the  scientists  has  now  been 
confirmed  by  those  whose  unsustainable  production 
has  precipitated  an  Earth  crisis,  which  must  be 
addressed  if  our  planet  is  to  survive.  The  General 
Assembly, in its resolution 63/281 of 3 June this year, 
recognized the security implications of climate change 
as an additional dimension of the crisis. That is clearly 
evident  for  many  small  island  States  whose  viability 
and very existence are threatened by conditions such as 
the rising sea levels. 

forefront  of  nature 
is 
conservation. Upon attaining political independence in 
1978, our country was aptly dubbed the “Nature Island 
of 
in  view  of  our  unwavering 
commitment  to  the  management  and  conservation  of 
our  abundant  biodiversity,  extensive  national  parks 
system,  rich  forest  resources,  mountain  ranges,  fresh 
water resources and a pure marine environment. At the 
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  held  in 
Johannesburg  in  September  2002,  the  then  Prime 
Minister  of  Dominica,  the  Honourable  Pierre  Charles, 
proclaimed  our  country  as  the  “Nature  Island  of  the 
World”. Today  in  the  presence  of  the  world  gathering 
in this body, I announce Dominica’s intention to make 
our  country  a  model  for  sustainable  development.  A 
cordial  invitation  is  extended  to  the  international 
community to contribute to this noble venture. 

Dominica  continues  to  work  closely  within  the 
framework  of  small  island  States  to  continue  to  bring 
our perspective, as climate change front-line States, to 
the negotiating table. We are contributing to a solution 
to the effects of climate  change  by pursuing measures 
at  the  national  level  to  promote  energy  efficiency, 
reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and develop our 
the  Caribbean” 
Dominica 
24 

09-52463 


geothermal potential for national energy needs, as well 
as  for  the  possible  export  of  clean  energy  to  our 
neighbours, in the first instance to the French overseas 
Departments of Guadeloupe and Martinique.  

Dominica is already generating 40 per cent of its 
electricity by hydropower. We are at an advanced stage 
of  geothermal  energy  development,  which  by  2015 
should  enable  us  to  reach  the  target  of  100  per  cent 
electricity generation by renewable energy. We express 
our  gratitude  to  France  and  the  European  Union  for 
their  commendable  cooperation  towards  the  shift  to 
renewable energy. 

Dominica  is  therefore  encouraged  by  the  many 
expressions of support for a successful outcome of the 
Copenhagen  meeting  made  by  world  leaders  at  the 
high-level Summit on Climate Change held a few days 
ago in this  Hall. There is  an urgent need for  a greater 
demonstration  of  political  will 
this  regard.  I 
therefore  urge  every  Head  of  State  or  Government  to 
seize  the  moment  to  reach  an  agreement  that  will 
protect  the  inhabitants  of  this  planet  from  one  of  the 
most serious challenges ever to confront humanity. 
Dominica  remains  concerned  about  the  current 

economic  situation  in  our  sister  island  of  Haiti.  We 
recognize  the  important  role  of  the  United  Nations 
Stabilization  Mission 
in 
ensuring the stability of that country. We commend all 
troop-contributing States for their engagement in Haiti, 
and we appreciate the support of the Security Council 
in  extending  the  mandate  of  the  Mission.  Haiti  needs 
considerable  development  assistance 
to 
consolidate  the  stability  that  MINUSTAH’s  presence 
has  fostered  and 
the 
peacebuilding  process.  In  this  regard,  we  endorse  and 
applaud  the  decision  of  the  Secretary-General  to 
appoint  former  United  States  President  Clinton  as 
Special Envoy for Haiti. We hope that this appointment 
will  advance  the  cause  of  rebuilding  that  country. 
Dominica, 
through 
CARICOM,  will  continue  to  do  all  in  its  power  to 
advance the quality of life of the Haitian people. 

Central  to  my  country’s  development  thrust  is  a 
particular focus on the advancement of our indigenous 
people.  Consistent  with  this  priority  of  the  United 
Nations,  we  support  the  continued  and  expanded 
efforts of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues in 
the  implementation  of  the  measures  contained  in  its 
recommendations. In this connection, we welcome the 
its  actions  and  also 
the  success  of 
(MINUSTAH) 
to  ensure 
in  order 
through 
in 
in  Haiti 
A/64/PV.7
in  a 
the  eighth  session  of 
recommendations  of 
the 
Permanent Forum on indigenous women, the economic 
development  and  human  rights  of  indigenous  peoples, 
and  specific  actions  in  relation  to  the  Arctic  region. 
Dominica  has  undertaken  and  continues  to  undertake 
important initiatives to improve the social development 
of our indigenous people. 
We  come  together  every  year  in  the  general 

debate 
true  spirit  of  common  resolve  and 
partnership. This common resolve and partnership must 
assume  greater  meaning  this  year  because  the  tasks 
before  the  international  community  are  enormous  and 
necessitate collective action. However challenging may 
be  the  efforts  towards  their  solution,  it  seems  evident 
that  only  genuine  global  cooperation  and  concerted 
multilateral  action  have  the  possibility  of  yielding 
favourable results. But committed multilateral action in 
the face of these crises has so far proved to be elusive. 
A greater demonstration of political will should ensure 
multilateral  action  in  confronting  these  crises,  as  it  is 
an absolute necessity for the survival of this planet. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  recognize  all  the 

countries  and  organizations 
that  have  assisted 
Dominica  and  the  more  vulnerable  States  in  our 
development thrust. Particular reference must be made 
to  those  developing  countries  which,  while  dealing 
with  their  own  domestic  challenges,  have  extended  a 
true fraternal hand of friendship. To all, we express our 
most sincere gratitude. We also reiterate the call of this 
General  Assembly  for  an  end  of  the  United  States 
embargo  against  the  Republic  of  Cuba  and  look 
forward to an early date for its removal. 

Finally,  as  we  chart  a  most  progressive 
development  course  for  our  future,  we  should  ensure 
that 
the 
recommendations  emanating  from  the  Conference  on 
the  World  Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its 
Impact  on  Development.  We  should  also  make  every 
effort to leave Copenhagen with a framework for a firm 
commitment  and  a  sound  climate  agreement  that  will 
protect  the  inhabitants  of  this  planet,  particularly  the 
most  vulnerable,  from  one  of 
the  most  serious 
challenges ever to confront humanity. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 
implementation  of 
the  full 
includes 
it 
09-52463 

25 
A/64/PV.7 



Mr. Nicholas Joseph Orville Liverpool, President 
of the Commonwealth of Dominica, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Anote Tong, President of the 
Republic of Kiribati 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kiribati. 

Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kiribati, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr. Anote  Tong,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Kiribati,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
President Tong: I am indeed honoured to address 

this body on behalf of the people of Kiribati, but let me 
start by congratulating Mr. Ali Treki on his assumption 
of  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this 
session. The tasks ahead of him and indeed ahead of us 
all are challenging. I am confident, however, that with 
cooperative efforts and commitment from all of us and 
with the President’s able leadership of this session, we 
should be able to rise to the challenge before us. I also 
take 
the  President’s 
predecessor,  Mr.  D’Escoto  Brockmann, 
for  his 
commendable leadership during the previous session. 

Every year, we gather in this Hall to deliberate on 
the daunting challenges that continue to confront us as 
citizens  of  the  international  community.  We  gather  as 
leaders  to  find  solutions  to  these  challenges  that  will 
ensure  the  survival  of  humanity  not  just  today  but 
tomorrow and beyond. 

Climate  change  is  indeed  the  greatest  moral 
challenge  to  humanity  in  our  time,  and  I  fear  that  our 
children  and  grandchildren  will  look  back  and  ask  us 
the question: “How is it that they knew what they knew 
yet  they  did  so  little?”  We  simply  cannot  afford  the 
consequences  of  inaction.  The  people  of  my  country 
are  already  feeling  the  impacts  of  climate  change, 
which  will  only  worsen  over  time.  We,  together  with 
those of other low-lying States, will become victims of 
climate change. 
I  have  been  advocating  a  combination  of 

pragmatic adaptation strategies for my people. It is our 
the  opportunity 
thank 
to 
to 
We  expect  greenhouse  gas  emitters 
overwhelming desire to maintain our homeland and our 
sovereignty.  However,  with  the  inevitable  decline  in 
the  ability  of  our  islands  to  support  life  —  let  alone 
increasing  populations  —  due  to  rising  sea  levels,  we 
must also provide opportunities for those of our people 
who wish to  migrate to  be able to do so on merit and 
with  dignity.  Our  approaches  will  be  time-relevant, 
responding to the different levels of threat and impacts 
of  climate  change  on  our  islands  and  our  people  as 
time goes by.  

take 
appropriate  action  to  mitigate  these  negative  effects. 
We  ask  for  assistance  with  our  adaptation  efforts  and 
we ask those who might need our labour to be able to 
open  their  doors.  It  is  important  to  stress  that  these 
options are not mutually exclusive. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


Our relocation strategy requires the support of the 
international  community.  On  previous  occasions,  I 
have  referred  to  existing  initiatives  with  our  regional 
development partners, and I wish to say again that I am 
grateful  to  the  Governments  of  New  Zealand  and 
Australia  for  their  support  through  the  Pacific Access 
Category  scheme, 
the  Kiribati  Australia  Nursing 
Initiative  and  the  Australia-Pacific  Technical  College 
programme.  These  are  models  that  we  believe  can  be 
implemented more broadly as a win-win option for all 
concerned.  Pacific 
to  work 
together  to  address  climate  change  through  the  2008 
Niue Declaration on Climate Change.  
the  declaration  adopted  by 

Alliance of Small Island States leaders a few days ago 
outlines  the  issues  of  importance  to  small  island 
developing  States  and  calls  for  action  on  climate 
change,  particularly 
to  Copenhagen. 
Resolution  63/281  on  climate  change  and  its  possible 
security  implications  is  a  landmark  decision  of  the 
General Assembly that acknowledges the link between 
climate  change  and  security.  I  commend  our  Pacific 
ambassadors  in  New  York  for  initiating  and  driving 
that  resolution,  and  I  thank  the  sponsors  for  their 
support. 
in 

Copenhagen will not be an easy task, but I do believe 
that  it  is  possible  and  that  it  is  imperative  that  we  do 
so. If we can mobilize trillions of dollars to address the 
challenges of the global economic crisis, then we must 
be  equally  capable  of  taking  the  action  necessary  to 
leaders  have  agreed 
Internationally, 
leading  up 
appreciate 
that 
I 
reaching 
consensus 
26 

09-52463 
and 
compassion 
to  strongly  commend 


deal  with  the  challenges  of  the  global  environment. 
Over  the  past  few  days,  I  have  been  deeply  heartened 
to  see  leaders’  strong  commitment  to  tackling  this 
common challenge together, to hear leaders resolve to 
look beyond national interests and focus on the global 
interest, and by their understanding of the predicament 
of those on the front line of climate change.  

To be able to see leaders’ strong determination to 
seal  the  deal  in  Copenhagen  —  a  deal  that,  among 
other  things,  will  address  the  plight  of  the  most 
vulnerable — has given me hope and restored my faith 
in  humanity  and  in  the  relevance  of  our  global 
community  and  our  global  leadership.  I  take  this 
opportunity 
the  Secretary-
General  for  his  initiative  in  organizing  the  high-level 
Summit on Climate Change. That Summit provided us 
with the opportunity as leaders to talk face to face and 
to  agree  on  a  way  forward  for  the  climate  change 
negotiations.  I  also  thank  my  fellow  leaders  for  their 
understanding, 
political  will 
collectively to address this crisis and its impacts. 

It  is  now  absolutely  necessary  that  we  capitalize 
on  this  collective  political  will.  We  must  direct  our 
negotiators  to  act  accordingly  to  ensure  that  our 
common  resolve  as  leaders  is  in  fact  given  effect.  I 
know that we will not be able to agree on all issues, but 
at the same time I am sure there are some fundamental 
issues that we cannot afford not to agree on. Let us not 
waste  any  more  time  on  diplomatic  talk,  language, 
drafting  of  amendments,  posturing  and  empty 
platitudes. We know what needs to be done. It has been 
called  many  things  —  a  new  world  order,  the  grand 
bargain, a new green deal — but Copenhagen gives us 
the  opportunity  to  enter  into  a  global  compact  for 
action  on  climate  change  between  developed  and 
developing countries, North and South, East and West. 
This  might  be  our  last  chance.  If  we  do  not  act  now, 
who the hell is going to do it? 

We  have  declared  the  Phoenix  Islands  Protected 
Area  (PIPA),  the  largest  marine  protected  area  in  the 
world,  covering  more  than  400,000  square  kilometres 
of ocean area. It constitutes something like 11 per cent 
of  our  exclusive  economic  zone.  PIPA  is  a  collective 
partnership  between  my  Government,  Conservation 
International  and  New  England  Aquarium.  The 
the 
preservation  of 
surrounding  ocean 
to 
humanity,  in  the  face  of  climate  change.  It  is  our 
contribution  to  international  efforts  to  significantly 
is  our  gift,  our  statement 
the  Phoenix 
Islands 
and 
A/64/PV.7
at 
the 
The 
crisis, 
aimed 
climate 
initiative, 
impacts  of 
initiative  from 
reduce biodiversity loss by the year 2010. Even now as 
we confront the possibility that our islands will become 
uninhabitable  within  this  century  due  to  rising  sea 
levels, we recognize the value of protecting something 
that we firmly believe to be the common heritage of all 
mankind. 

We  are  indeed  encouraged  to  see  the  emergence 
of  ocean  conservation  and  management  initiatives  in 
the  Pacific.  Such  initiatives  include  the  Micronesia 
Challenge, the Coral Triangle Initiative and the Nauru 
Agreement.  Kiribati  and  the  Pacific  are  committed  to 
the  sustainable  conservation  and  management  of  its 
oceans. At  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  in Australia  last 
month,  the  leaders  of  the  Pacific  adopted  the  Pacific 
Oceanscape 
promoting 
collaboration and exchanges between marine protected 
areas in the region and with other partners. We call for 
support  for 
international 
community. 

the 
international  financial  crisis  and  the  food  and  energy 
crisis  have  ended  our  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable 
development  and  our  way  forward  towards  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  particular 
economic and environment vulnerability of Kiribati as 
a  small  island  developing  State  should  be  taken  into 
account when considering us for graduation from least 
developed  country  status.  Assistance  provided  to  the 
least developed countries helps us at this point in time 
in our efforts to address challenges we face as a nation. 
To  lose  that  assistance  would  be  detrimental  to  our 
efforts and to the livelihood of our people. We reiterate 
our call to the United Nations to reconsider the listing 
for the graduation of Kiribati and other countries in the 
Pacific. 

On  the  issue  of  global  governance,  the  United 
Nations  is  undergoing  change  to  adapt  to  the  realities 
of  our  time.  It  must  maintain  its  relevance  if  it  is  to 
address the security challenges that the world continues 
to  face. We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  should  be 
an  inclusive  Organization,  particularly  for  States  such 
as Taiwan  that  make  a  contribution  to  world  harmony 
and have demonstrated time and again their willingness 
and  ability  to  contribute  positively  to  international 
cooperative  efforts.  Taiwan  has  demonstrated 
its 
commitment 
international  peace  and  security 
through  its  contributions  to  national,  regional  and 
international  development  programmes.  It  is  only  fair 
and fitting, therefore, that Taiwan should be allowed to 
this 
the 
to 
09-52463 

27 

it 
facing 
the  global  community, 
A/64/PV.7 

participate  meaningfully  in  meetings  and  activities  of 
the United Nations organs. Given the impact of climate 
change and the demands of aviation safety and security 
on its development and the well-being of its people, we 
now appeal for the meaningful participation of Taiwan 
in  the  work  and  activities  of  the  International  Civil 
Aviation  Organization  and 
the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
In  concluding,  in  the  face  of  the  common 

challenges 
is 
encouraging to hear leaders call for a new global order 
in  which  our  interests  as  fellow  citizens  of  the  planet 
override  our  national  interests,  particularly  where 
global  human  security  and  lives  are  under  serious 
threat.  This  goal  reaffirms  the  principle  of  collective 
responsibility for the common challenges that we face.  

The  United  Nations  will  and  must  continue  to 
play  a  significant  role  in  the  new  world  order, 
particularly  in  mobilizing  the  political  will  and  the 
necessary  action  and  resources  required  to  implement 
it. Copenhagen will be the test of the political will and 
commitment  that  we  have  declared  over  the  past  few 
days  as  leaders.  It  will  determine  the  fate  of  the  most 
vulnerable and eventually the whole of humanity.  

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Kiribati for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kiribati, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by Mr. Asif Ali Zardari, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Pakistan. 

Mr.  Asif  Ali  Zardari,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Asif Ali Zardari, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Zardari:  I  am  honoured  to  return  to 

this chamber of hope, peace and cooperation. I wish to 
28 

the  rule  of 
convey  the  warm  greetings  of  the  people  of  Pakistan. 
We  are  delighted  to  see  you,  Mr.  President,  presiding 
over  the  General  Assembly.  The  high  ideals  of  the 
United  Nations  have  inspired  our  vision  of  a  global 
society that is based on peace and justice, freedom and 
human rights, equality and equal opportunity, freedom 
from  want  and  hunger,  tolerance  and  harmony  —  a 
global society that believes in the sovereign equality of 
nations  large  and  small,  and  that  promotes  truth  and 
reconciliation. 

On behalf of the people of Pakistan, I assure you, 
Mr. President, of our cooperation in fashioning a safer 
and  better  world  in  which  all  children  —  yours  and 
mine  —  shall  live  in  peace  and  harmony.  This  is  a 
world in which we shall  all depend  on  one  another.  It 
demands a return to the path of the United Nations. It 
calls for reforming the United Nations on the principles 
of equality and consensus building. 

In Pakistan, the will of the people has prevailed. 
Our  people  have  witnessed  a  profound  democratic 
transformation.  We  have  entered  a  new  era  of 
democracy, 
law  and  human  rights. 
Democracy in Pakistan is of great importance not only 
to  our  country,  but  also  to  our  region  and  the  world. 
Pakistan  has  struggled  hard  for  democracy.  My  late 
wife, Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, led the fight 
for democracy and laid down her life for it. Following 
in  the  footsteps  of  her  great  father,  Shaheed  Zulfikar 
Ali Bhutto, she made the ultimate sacrifice so that our 
nation might live in democracy. We are now following 
in her footsteps. I, my party, my people and Pakistan’s 
democracy are grateful to the international community 
and to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for constituting 
an  international  commission  of  investigation  into  her 
assassination.  We  are  confident  that  the  commission 
will bring out all the dimensions of her life, work and 
tragic assassination. 

The  world  supports  our  struggle  for  democracy, 
and  we  are  grateful  for  that  support.  Democracy  in 
Pakistan is beginning to achieve successes in the fight 
against  militancy.  The  real  challenge  now  is  to  make 
democracy  sustainable,  and  indeed  irreversible.  This 
requires  that  democracy  should  be  able  to  deliver.  It 
should  meet  the  aspirations  of  our  people  to  progress 
and  prosperity.  It  must  give  our  people  peace  and 
stability. 

Unfortunately,  our  neighbourhood  has  witnessed 
decades of conflict. Pakistan has suffered greatly from 
09-52463 


terrorism  and  religious  extremism.  Terrorism  and 
extremism  were  not  previously  known  to  our  society 
and  culture.  Religious  extremism  entered  our  society 
and the region when we all in the free world decided to 
confront a rival ideology. The policy was based on the 
exploitation of religion to motivate Muslims around the 
world  to  wage  jihad.  It  was  a  policy  whereby  jihadi 
leaders  were  referred  to  as  the  moral  equivalents  of 
George  Washington.  It  was  a  policy  that  allowed 
warlords and criminals to destroy civilizations to come. 
The virus multiplied and has affected the world.  

To eliminate militancy we must strike at its roots. 
Surgery alone will not be enough. We need to address 
the  causes  of  deprivation,  poverty  and  illiteracy.  We 
need to adopt dialogue, development and a wise use of 
force as our strategy. 

Pakistan  has  firmly  responded  to  the  challenges 
of extremism and militancy. Democracy has given our 
people ownership of the fight against terrorism. Today, 
our nation stands fully united in this struggle. Our law 
enforcement  agencies  have,  within  a  short  span  of 
time, cleared a large area in Malakand of militants. Of 
the more than 2.5 million civilians who were forced to 
leave their homes, about 2 million were hosted by their 
relatives  and  friends.  I  salute  the  host  families. 
Democracy  and  political  ownership  of the  war  have 
proved  to  be  the  chief  weapons  in  the  fight  against 
militancy.  In  the  short  span  of  10  weeks,  most  of  the 
internally dislocated have returned to their homes. We 
are now engaged in rebuilding their lives.  
Pakistan  appreciates  the  international  community’s 

support  and  understanding  of  our  efforts. We  urge  the 
international  community 
this 
support. We are determined to eliminate terrorism and 
extremism  from  our  territory.  To  that  end,  the  early 
return of peace and stability in Afghanistan is critical. 
The flow of weapons across the region must stop. The 
funding  and  support  to  militants  by  drug  barons  and 
other elements must stop.  

We also believe that regional cooperation against 
terrorism  and  extremism  holds  great  promise.  We 
emphasize  regional  efforts  for  peace  and  stability. 
Pakistan  will  continue  to  work  with  Afghanistan  and 
the international community for the early restoration of 
peace and stability in that country. Pakistan has hosted 
almost  3  million  Afghan  refugees  for  the  past  three 
decades. We have been providing for them on our own. 
to  further  reinforce 
A/64/PV.7
issues  with 
Pakistan  also 
supports 
the 
rights  of 
We call upon the world to help in the safe return of the 
refugees to their homes.  

Pakistan’s  democracy  has  begun  to  deliver.  We 
are  doing  more  in  self-interest.  We  urge  the  world’s 
democracies to do more for the peace and development 
of the people affected by militancy and terror. We need 
to  create  economic  opportunities  for  our  people.  We 
urge  our  friends  and  partners  to  help  Pakistan  by 
providing  market  access  for  the  economic  revival  and 
well-being of their own people.  
Pakistan desires friendly relations with India. We 

believe  that  dialogue  is  the  only  way  forward.  The 
absence  of  dialogue  leads  to  tensions  that  must  be 
avoided.  We  look  forward  to  the  resumption  of  the 
composite  dialogue  process.  We  seek  a  peaceful 
resolution  of  all  outstanding 
India. 
Meaningful  progress  towards  a  resolution  of  the 
Kashmir  dispute  is  necessary  for  durable  peace  and 
stability in South Asia. 

the 
Palestinian  people  as  guaranteed  in  several  United 
Nations resolutions. Durable peace in the Middle East 
requires  that  the  issue  of  Palestine  be  addressed 
meaningfully.  

San Suu Kyi. 

All  nations  seek  security.  Peace  and  security  are 
closely  linked.  Equal  security  for  all  is  important. We 
support  all  efforts  for  arms  control,  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation. The principle of equal security is of 
fundamental importance for achieving those objectives. 
Imbalances in security, especially at the regional level, 
need  to  be  redressed.  Pakistan  will  continue  to  play  a 
constructive  role  in  promoting  conflict  resolution  and 
restraint in South Asia and in promoting initiatives on 
nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation on the basis 
of non-discrimination. 

Pakistan’s  priority is economic development. We 
wish to build on our internal strengths. In this effort we 
seek  partnerships.  We  seek  to  develop  a  win-win 
situation.  We  are  engaged  in  economic  revival  by 
developing  our  agriculture,  building  mega-hydro 
projects, 
conservation  projects, 
undertaking infrastructure projects, promoting regional 
trade  and  cooperation  and  encouraging,  beyond 
Government,  the  corporate  sector  in  development. We 
We  also  call  for  the  immediate  release  of  Aung 
initiating  water 
09-52463 

29 

A/64/PV.7 

need to develop a framework for cooperation that will 
deliver quickly. 

In overcoming the challenges faced by the world, 
the United Nations has a central role to play. Guided by 
its  principles  and  the  high  ideals  in  its  Charter,  the 
United  Nations  is  destined  to  succeed.  A  democratic 
Pakistan will continue to uphold the ideals and values 
of  the  United  Nations.  Together  we  shall  succeed.  In 
the  words  of  my  leader  and  martyred  wife  Shaheed 
Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, “time, justice and the forces 
of history are on our side”. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  for  the  statement  he 
has just made, and also to offer our condolences on the 
demise of the late Ms. Benazir Bhutto. 

Mr.  Asif  Ali  Zardari,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 



to 
and  President  of 
Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 

The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  a  statement  by  the  Chairman  of  the 
the  Palestine  Liberation 
Executive  Committee  of 
Organization 
the  Palestinian 
Authority. 
Mr.  Abbas  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
the 
presidency of the General Assembly. I wish you every 
success in your noble mission and recognize your long 
experience  in  international  political  affairs.  I  also 
extend  our  greetings  and  thanks  to  former  President, 
His  Excellency  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann, 
whose  positions  and  active  efforts  reflected  the  spirit 
and principles of this international organization, which 
is  headed  by  His  Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon,  whom 
I  express  our 
appreciation for everything he has done personally and 
through the organs and agencies of the United Nations, 
notably  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works Agency 
for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA),  to 
assist the Palestinian people and defend their rights.  

During this session we have a full agenda before 
us. The peoples of the whole world are looking to this 
body to determine what can be done to save our planet 
from the effects of climate change and global warming 
I  also  salute. 
the 
and  to  address  the  world  financial  crisis.  Many 
countries,  including  small  and  developing  countries, 
see  the  need  to  reform  the  United  Nations,  including 
the Security Council, so as to reflect the reality of the 
current  international  situation  and  to  ensure  more 
comprehensive  representation  of 
international 
community.  

These  common  concerns  must  not  overshadow 
the  fact  that  serious  problems  face  the  Middle  East 
region  in  particular,  first  and  foremost  the  lack  of 
commitment  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  extent  to  which  the  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  are  actually  being 
implemented  without 
the  application  of  double 
standards.  Everyone  agrees  on  the  need  to  achieve 
peace  in  the  Middle  East,  to  counter  extremism  and 
violence,  and  to  establish  the  region  as  a  zone  free  of 
nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  Yet  the  larger  wound  and  deeper  tragedy 
remains  the  suffering  of  our  Palestinian  people  since 
the  Nakba  —  the  catastrophe  —  more  than  60  years 
ago, to which the United Nations is a living witness. Its 
archives contain not dozens but hundreds of resolutions 
that have not been implemented. 

The suffering of the Palestinian people as a result 
of  Israel’s  settler  occupation  is  crystal  clear  to  the 
world. Since the occupation of the West Bank and the 
Gaza  Strip,  including  East  Jerusalem,  in  1967,  Israel 
has  continued  with 
its  settlement  policy  on  all 
Palestinian  land,  especially  in  holy  Jerusalem,  where 
that policy is being accelerated and escalated by many 
means, 
the  homes  of 
Palestinians  in  the  city,  the  imposition  of  restrictions, 
even  preventing  Palestinians 
from  building  and 
sometimes  from  repairing  their  homes  while  new 
settlement  neighbourhoods  are  established.  Jerusalem 
is becoming completely isolated from its surroundings 
because  of  the  illegal  settlements  and  the  apartheid 
wall. 
We  now  face  a  unique  situation.  If  international 

law  stipulates  the  inadmissibility  of  the  acquisition  of 
the territory  of others by force, how can we then deal 
with  the  current  situation  where  Israeli  settlement 
policies  are  undermining  the  goal  of  establishing  a 
geographically 
in 
implementation  of 
international 
consensus?  That  consensus  is  reflected  in  the  many 
resolutions  and  principles,  including  the  Road  Map, 
which  we  all  agreed  upon  and  which  is  based  on  the 
contiguous  Palestinian  State 
the  seizure  of 
the  will  of 
including 
the 
30 

09-52463 


principle  of  land  for  peace  and  on  an  end  to  the 
occupation that began in 1967. 

Immense  efforts  have  been  exerted  and  many 
conferences have been held over the years, particularly 
since the signing of the Oslo Accords in 1993. Yet all 
of  this  has  not  led  to  an  end  to  the  conflict.  President 
Barack Obama gave much  hope to our people  and the 
peoples of the region when he announced his vision for 
a peace agreement on the basis of a two-State solution 
and  the  cessation  of  all  settlement  activities.  We 
welcomed the active American diplomacy to revive the 
peace  process  and  all  efforts  of  the  international 
Quartet  and  its  members:  the  United  Nations,  the 
European  Union,  the  Russian  Federation  and  the 
United States.  

All  these  active  efforts  and  initiatives,  which 
have  been  welcomed  and  supported  by  us  and  by  the 
Arab  States,  are  however  confronted  by 
the 
intransigence  of  Israel,  which  refuses  to  adhere  to  the 
requirements for relaunching the peace process. How is 
it  conceivable  that  negotiations  can  be  held  on  the 
borders  and  on  Jerusalem  while  Israeli  bulldozers  are 
working  to  change  the  reality  on  the  ground  with  the 
aim of creating a new reality and imposing the borders 
that  Israel  desires?  How  can  one  conceive  of  holding 
negotiations  without  agreement  on 
terms  of 
reference  and  the  objective  of  those  negotiations, 
which  the  whole  world  has  unanimously  agreed  upon, 
namely  ending  the  Israeli  occupation  of  the  territories 
occupied  in  1967,  establishing  the  State  of  Palestine, 
with Jerusalem as its capital, reaching a just and agreed 
upon solution to the question of Palestinian refugees on 
the basis of resolution 194 (III) of 1948, and achieving 
peace  on  all  the  Palestinian,  Syrian  and  Lebanese 
tracks, as affirmed in the Arab Peace Initiative, which 
provides a precious opportunity that must be seized to 
achieve peace? 

In  this  regard,  I  should  like  to  express  our  deep 
appreciation  of  the  important  speech  delivered  to  the 
Assembly  by  President  Obama  two  days  ago  (see 
A/64/PV.3),  in  which  he  affirmed  the  necessity  of 
ending  the  occupation  that  began  in  1967  and  the 
illegitimacy  of  the  settlements.  He  also  stressed  the 
need to establish an independent, sovereign and viable 
Palestinian  State  and  to  address  all  the  final-status 
issues  in  the  negotiations,  foremost  among  these 
Jerusalem,  refugees,  borders,  water  and  settlements, 
along with others. We reiterate that adherence to these 
principles,  in  addition  to  a  complete  freeze  on  all 
the 
A/64/PV.7
I 
reaffirm 
in 
the 
to 
release 
accordance  with 
the  eagerness  of 
settlement activities, can salvage the peace process and 
open horizons for its success. 

the  Palestine 
Liberation  Organization  to  achieve  a  just,  lasting  and 
comprehensive  peace 
the 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy.  At  the  same 
time,  I  caution  that  the  settlement  policy  and  the 
building  of  the  separation  wall,  which  continue  to  be 
pursued  by 
Israeli  occupation,  will  abort 
opportunities  to  relaunch  the  peace  process.  Time  is 
running  out  and  the  risks  are  becoming  greater  as  a 
result  of  the  continued  suffering  of  the  Palestinian 
people  under  the  last  remaining  occupation  in  the 
world.  

We  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
uphold  international  law  and  international  legitimacy 
and  to  exert  pressure  on  Israel  to  cease  its  settlement 
activities, to comply with the agreements it has signed, 
to  cease 
its  policies  of  occupation  and  colonial 
settlement, 
the  approximately  11,000 
prisoners  and  detainees  and  to  lift  the  unjust  siege 
imposed  on  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  was  subjected 
months  ago 
to  devastating  aggression  claiming 
thousands  of  civilian  casualties  among  and  causing 
unprecedented  destruction  of  infrastructure  and  public 
facilities,  including  hospitals,  mosques,  schools  and 
even United Nations facilities. 

Our people, which continues to demand its rights 
and to be determined to remain in its homeland despite 
all  of  the  suffering  caused  by  the  detentions,  the 
blockade  and  the  killings,  is  also  keen  to  end  internal 
division and to restore national unity. Our sister, Egypt, 
is making commendable efforts to achieve that goal.  

In  spite  of  all  our  suffering  from  the  occupation 
and  its  practices,  we  continue  to  work  to  build  and 
develop  our  national  institutions.  We  have  made 
significant progress in this regard both in upholding the 
rule  of  law  and  public  order  and  in  promoting 
economic  and  social  development,  despite  the  harsh 
conditions  of  the  occupation  and  the  blockade.  We 
continue to make every possible effort for the success 
of  the  efforts  of  our  brothers  in  Egypt  to  end  the 
ongoing  coup  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  to  restore  our 
national  unity  by  resorting  to  the  ballot  box  and 
holding  presidential  and  legislative  elections  on  their 
constitutional date under the supervision and control of 
Arab and Islamic countries, the United Nations and the 
09-52463 

31 

A/64/PV.7 

international  community.  In  that  way,  democracy  will 
be firmly institutionalized in our political life. 

Hope  will  remain  alive  in  our  souls  and  we  will 
not  despair  of  regaining  our  rights  on  the  basis  of 
relevant resolutions of the United Nations, the historic 
role  of  which  we  reaffirm  for  attaining  peace  and 
upholding  the  principle  of  “might  for  right”  and  not 
“right for might”.  
From this rostrum, I conclude by reaffirming our 

commitment 
the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  and  to  all  terms  of  reference  of  the  political 
process.  We  call  upon  all  parties  to  respect  and  abide 
by  them  to  provide  the  opportunity  to  launch  a 
successful  and  effective  peace  process.  We  are 
confident that all our brothers in sisterly Arab countries 
will  adhere  to  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  as  a  basis  for 
safeguarding  our  rights  and  opening  the  way  towards 
genuine  peaceful  relations  with  Israel  once 
the 
occupation  is  ended  and  the  independent  State  of 
Palestine is established. 
the  Road  Map, 
to 


to 
I  have  great  pleasure 
Address by The Honourable Winston Baldwin 
Spencer, Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Antigua and Barbuda 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address by the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Antigua and Barbuda. 

The Honourable Winston Baldwin Spencer, Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Winston  Baldwin 
Spencer,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Spencer  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  On  behalf 

of  my  Government  and  the  people  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to 
preside  over  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  wish  you  every  success  during  your 
tenure.  I  also  extend  heartfelt  congratulations 
to 
Mr. Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  on  his  visionary  and 
inspiring leadership over the past year. 


“We  are  all  members  of  one  body.  The 
welfare  of  the  weakest  and  the  welfare  of  the 
most  powerful  are  inseparably  bound  together. 
and 
about 
by 
if 
labour 
security, 
increasing 
the  worst  economic  crisis  since 
Industry  cannot  flourish 
languish. 
Transportation  cannot  prosper  if  manufactures 
decline.  The  general  welfare  cannot  be  provided 
for in any one act, but it is well to remember that 
the  benefit  of  one  is  the  benefit  of  all,  and  the 
neglect of one is the neglect of all.” 

Those  words  are  taken  from  a  1914  speech  by 
Calvin  Coolidge.  However,  as  we  gather  as  a 
community  of  nations  almost  a  century  later,  they  are 
just  as  timely.  Our  common  humanity  is  being  tested 
by 
the  Great 
Depression.  Additional  challenges 
that  currently 
confront us include the increased incidence and impact 
of  pandemic  diseases,  worsening  poverty  and  hunger 
that  trap  millions  around  the  globe,  the  adverse 
consequences  of  climate  change,  tensions  over  peace 
and 
environmental 
degradation. When  history  is  recorded,  our  success  as 
leaders  will  be  determined  by  our  stewardship  during 
these turbulent times. 

Years  ago  in  much  warmer  and  gentler  climes, 
small  island  nations  like  our  twin  island  nation  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  convened  a  global  conference 
entitled “Small Islands, Big Issues”. Today, we remain 
small islands, but the issues with which we grapple are 
gargantuan. In many cases, they have been exacerbated 
by 
interventions  and 
structures.  None  among  us  is  immune  to  the  financial 
insecurity 
banking 
mismanagement  and  fraud.  At  the  same  time,  global 
climate change threatens to overwhelm the very fabric 
of our small nations. 

tide  of 
globalization  floats  all  boats  on  a  sea  of  economic 
opportunities. What is now clear is that such tides can 
turn into an economic tsunami that, in one swift wave, 
can wash away development gains that took decades to 
be realized. That is the situation in which Antigua and 
Barbuda now finds itself. An unwelcome visitor in the 
form  of  this  global  economic  crisis  has  thrust  itself 
upon  our  pristine  shores  and  is  threatening  to  wreak 
untold damage on our economies.  

Thus, while some members of our community of 
nations  have  begun  to  tout  faint  but  hopeful  signs  of 
recovery,  prudence  dictates  that  we  pay  heed  to  the 
words  of  Calvin  Coolidge  and  acknowledge  that  it 
simply is not an option to adopt an insular approach in 
responding 
stronger 
this  global  crisis.  The 
It  has  been  said 
ill-conceived  or 
ineffective 
brought 
global 
that 
the 
rising 
to 
32 

09-52463 
in 
a 
as 
cooperation 
replacement 
the  paradigm  shift 


economies must remain ever cognizant of the fact that 
the welfare of the weakest and the welfare of the most 
powerful are inseparably bound together. 
In responding to the crisis, all parties must admit 

that 
the 
the  old  methodologies,  as  reflected 
Washington  Consensus  and  similar  models,  are 
obsolete.  As  we  actively  pursue  the  creation  of  new 
structures  and 
strategies,  Antigua  and  Barbuda 
encourages  the  community  of  nations  to  explore 
alternative  models,  such  as  that  represented  by  the 
Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas (ALBA). With 
its  foundation  principles  of  complementarity  as  an 
alternative  to  competition,  solidarity  as  opposed  to 
domination, 
for 
exploitation,  and  respect  for  sovereignty  rather  than 
corporate  rule,  ALBA  represents  an  innovative  and 
viable model of integration and development. 

Antigua  and  Barbuda,  along  with  many  of  our 
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  brothers  and 
sisters,  welcomes 
that  now 
characterizes  engagement  with  agencies  such  as  the 
International  Monetary  Fund.  The  decision  to  limit 
conditionalities  to  those  critical  to  achieving  the 
objectives  of  the  country  programme  being  supported, 
and the commitment to play a more supportive role and 
allow the objectives to be set by the borrowing country 
are welcome responses to earlier calls to recognize the 
absolute necessity of using factors other than per capita 
gross  domestic  product  as  a  criteria 
to  access 
concessionary  financing. We maintain  that  therein  lies 
the key to mitigating a downward spiral into economic 
and social chaos. 

international 
financial  governance  remains  a  privilege  of  the  few 
when  such  decisions  have  great  impact  on  the  lives, 
livelihood  and  basic  well-being  of  millions  of  people 
the world over. My Government calls on the developed 
countries  that  are  members  of  the  Organization  for 
Economic Cooperation and Development to ensure that 
their  response  strategies  involve  better  international 
cooperation  on 
inclusive  and 
cooperative  frameworks  that  ensure  the  involvement 
and equal treatment of small jurisdictions, as stipulated 
in  the  Outcome  Document  (resolution  63/303)  of  the 
United Nations Conference on the World Financial and 
Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development. The 
Outcome  Document  is  a  welcome  one,  and  I  applaud 
the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-third 
Decision-making  on 
issues  of 
through 
tax 
issues 
A/64/PV.7
in 
the 
session  for  giving  voice  to  the  G-192,  including  the 
developing and most vulnerable countries.  

The genesis of the crisis lies in the capitals of the 
developed  world,  but  its  effects  are  global  and  the 
response must be truly global. In this regard, I urge the 
Assembly, through the ad hoc working group to follow 
up  on  the  outcome  of  the  Conference,  to  take  an 
inclusive  approach  to  allow  for  the  participation  of 
those  that  are  not  members  of  the  exclusive  Group  of 
Eight and Group of Twenty clubs.  
Again, drawing on the words of Coolidge, I point 

out  that  the  general  welfare  cannot  be  provided  for  in 
any one act or, I would add, by any single, small subset 
of  the  community  of  nations  seeking  unilaterally  to 
reshape the global economic and financial architecture. 
It is in our power to change the operating principles of 
global  capitalism  such  that  economic  prosperity  is 
shared  equally  among  countries  and  within  countries. 
Drastic  change  is  needed,  in  theory  and  practice,  in 
economic  assumptions  and 
institutions  of 
governance.  It  is  the  sustainable  path  to  development 
and a challenge to which this assembly of nations and 
leaders must rise. 
Meeting  transnational  and  global  threats  and 

challenges 
international 
cooperation. As previously stated, traditional Western-
based modalities of development cooperation in which 
partners  are  not  considered  equals  have  failed  us.  A 
paradigm shift is not an option; it is an imperative. My 
Government firmly believes in promoting partnerships 
in  support  of  sustainable  development  based  on 
principles  of  mutual 
respect  and  understanding, 
equality  and  a  genuine  desire  to  effect  the  social  and 
economic development of all.  
to  my  country’s 

membership in ALBA and commended that innovative 
model  of  integration  and  development.  Antigua  and 
Barbuda also looks forward to fully playing its role in 
ensuring  that  the  various  trade  arrangements  entered 
into  with  the  European  Union,  the  United  States  of 
America  and  Canada  work  in  the  interest  of  all  our 
nations.  My  Government,  however,  will  continue  to 
place  a 
the  development 
components,  which  should  be  central  to  ensuring  that 
these  arrangements  produce  positive  results  for  our 
people.  
time,  we  have  deepened  our 

At 
integration  efforts  with  our  CARICOM  brothers  and 
I  have  already  alluded 
strong  emphasis  on 
to  development 
the  same 
requires 
09-52463 

33 
the  shared 
in 

to  build  on 
to  participate 
the  affairs  of 
A/64/PV.7 

sisters, focusing on fully implementing the CARICOM 
Single  Market  and  Economy  as  well  as  deepening  the 
various  subregional  regulatory  frameworks.  As  a  part 
of the smaller Organization of Eastern Caribbean States 
(OECS) grouping, Antigua and Barbuda fully supports 
the  establishment  of  an  OECS  economic  union  in  an 
effort 
tradition  of  our 
subregional integration arrangements and to expand the 
areas  of  shared  sovereignty  in  order  to  survive  and 
ultimately thrive. 

As  a  member  of  the  CARICOM  family, Antigua 
and Barbuda is proud of its long-standing relationship 
with the Republic of Cuba. It is my Government’s firm 
belief that the discriminatory and punitive policies and 
practices that serve to prevent Cuba from exercising its 
right  freely 
the 
hemisphere  must  be  discontinued  and  with  immediate 
effect.  While  the  winds  of  change  continue  to  move 
across  the  United  States  of  America,  I  call  on  the 
Obama Administration  to  effect  change  in  its  dealings 
with our sister nation of the Republic of Cuba. I call on 
the  United  States  of  America  to  end  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  on  our 
brothers  and  sisters  in  Cuba.  As  a  world  leader  and 
defender of justice, the United States of America must 
embrace  change  fully  in  the  interests  of  the  men, 
women and children of Cuba. 
It  is  worth  reiterating  that  the  parallels  between 

the  global  economic  crisis  and  the  global  climate 
change  crisis  are  both  stark  and  dire  for  small  island 
developing  States.  Again,  we  are  faced  with  the 
adverse impacts of a crisis that is not of our making but 
which  is  threatening  —  quite  literally  in  the  case  of 
some of our sister nations in the Pacific — to wipe us 
off the face of the Earth. It is a recognized fact, but it is 
worth repeating, that small island States contribute the 
least to the causes of climate change, yet we suffer the 
most from its effects.  

At  the  summit  of  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island 
States  held  earlier  this  week,  my  country  joined  with 
other  island  States  in  sending  a  strong  message  to  the 
international  community  on  the  need  for  bold  and 
ambitious  actions.  Small  island  States  have  expressed 
their  profound  disappointment  at  the  lack  of  tangible 
action  within 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change negotiations to protect 
small  island  developing  States  and  other  vulnerable 
countries, their peoples, culture, land and ecosystems.  
support 
financial 
and  predictable 

The  responsibility  for  mitigating  climate  change 
is  a  common  responsibility  of  all  nations,  be  they 
developed  or  developing.  However,  developed 
countries  should  shoulder  their  moral,  ethical  and 
historical  responsibilities  for  emitting  high  levels  of 
anthropogenic greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. It 
is  those  actions  that  have  now  put  the  planet  in 
jeopardy  and  compromised  the  well-being  of  present 
and future generations. Antigua and Barbuda therefore 
fully  supports  our  sister  nation  of 
the  People’s 
Republic of China in its call for developed countries to 
take up their responsibility to provide new, additional, 
adequate 
to 
developing  countries,  which,  in  effect,  represents  a 
joint investment in the future of humankind.  
At  this  pivotal  point  of  the  climate  change 

negotiations  that  will  culminate  in  December, Antigua 
and  Barbuda  also  anxiously  awaits  an  international 
agreement  significantly  to  reduce  greenhouse  gas 
emissions.  A  small  island  nation  like  ours,  which  is 
highly  vulnerable  to  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change,  including  sea-level  rise,  coral  bleaching  and 
more frequent and intense hurricanes, understands that 
our  fate,  our  very  existence,  hangs  on  the  outcome  of 
such an agreement. We wait with bated breath and hope 
that humanity will show itself worthy of this planet and 
that nations will have the political will and integrity of 
leadership to solve the most confounding challenge of 
our era. 

The  effects  of  climate  change  have  forcibly 
brought  home  the  absolute  necessity  of  better  disaster 
preparedness management and risk reduction. That has 
been clearly illustrated by several very active hurricane 
seasons  in  recent  history.  Cognizant  of  this,  my 
Government  has  upgraded  our  disaster  management 
capabilities, 
the  national 
disaster  office,  constructing  hurricane  shelters  and 
enhancing  community  resilience.  In 
the  spirit  of 
cooperation  and  solidarity,  we  look  forward  to  having 
our development partners make available the necessary 
resources  to  enable  us  to  implement  our  national 
adaptation  plans  and  programmes.  By  so  doing,  they 
will  help  to  address  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change  that  we,  the  most  vulnerable  countries,  are 
already  experiencing.  We  urge  them  to  view  this  as  a 
top-most priority and moral imperative. 
Gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment 

the  national  development 
remain  centrepieces  of 
strategy  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda.  Having  achieved 
including  strengthening 
34 

09-52463 
trans-shipment  point 


universal  primary  education,  we  are  proud  that  our 
young  males  and  females  continue  to  enjoy  equal 
access  and  opportunity  to  education  at  the  primary, 
secondary  and  tertiary  levels.  Further,  with  a  growing 
number of  female parliamentarians  and key high-level 
political positions occupied by women, we continue to 
improve  on  our  record  of  female  empowerment.  The 
advocacy work of the United Nations system on gender 
issues  has  been  instrumental  in  the  progress  we  have 
made  thus  far,  and  we  look  forward  to  continuing 
support  as  we  continue  to  break  down  the  traditional 
barriers to the active participation of more than 50 per 
cent of our country’s human capital. 

Transnational  crime  has  burdened  our  societies 
with social and financial costs that we cannot afford to 
bear.  Crime  prevention  and  small  arms  control  are 
priorities  for  my  Government.  Our  geography  has 
placed  us  at  a  major 
for 
transnational  organized  crime  networks  trafficking  in 
arms and narcotics. 

In  recent  years,  the  level  of  gun  violence  and 
gun-related  crime  has  escalated  significantly,  placing 
further  pressure  on  an  already  fragile  economy.  This 
has  led  to  insecurity,  fear  and  loss  of  life  in  our 
societies,  hampering  our  development  efforts  and 
threatening  the  general  peace  and  stability  of  the 
region. We need greater cooperation from countries, as 
well  as  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  system,  to 
eliminate  this  threat  to  hemispheric  and  international 
peace  and  security.  Antigua  and  Barbuda  is  in  full 
support of a legally binding arms trade treaty that will 
prevent  the  illegal  international  transfer  of  arms  and 
will govern the trade in conventional arms according to 
common international standards. 

As a peace-loving nation, Antigua and Barbuda is 
also  concerned  by  the  lack  of  progress  in  the  field  of 
disarmament 
remain 
steadfast in our commitment to a world free of nuclear 
weapons.  The 
threat  posed  by  non-State  actors 
acquiring weapons of mass destruction is shared by all 
countries,  large  and  small.  For  this  reason  we  support 
the  extension  of  the  mandate  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1540  (2004).  Pursuant  to  our  obligations 
under that resolution we are pleased to have submitted 
the  relevant  reports  to  the  respective  Security  Council 
committees. 

The  trans-shipment  of  nuclear  waste  through  the 
waters  of  the  Caribbean  also  remains  a  critical  issue. 
and  non-proliferation.  We 
A/64/PV.7
threat 
to 
to  educate  and 
inculcate 
in 
of  Caribbean  States 
shipments  poses  a  grave 
The  risk  of  an  accident  or  a  terrorist  attack  on  one  of 
these 
the 
environmental  and  economic  sustainability  of  the 
region. Heads of Government of CARICOM and of the 
wider  Association 
have 
consistently  called  for  a  total  cessation  of  these 
shipments in our waters, and we reiterate our strenuous 
and  forceful  rejection  of  the  continued  use  of  the 
Caribbean  Sea  for  the  trans-shipment  of  nuclear  and 
other hazardous waste material. 

Finally,  as  Caribbean  people  of African  descent, 
our past is clouded by the dark days of the transatlantic 
slave  trade.  However,  with  steady  hands,  committed 
minds and innovative plans, a bright future looms with 
that  we  develop 
the  sunrise.  We  must  ensure 
programmes 
future 
generations  an  understanding  of  the  lessons,  history 
and  consequences  of  slavery  and  the  slave  trade.  We 
must  not  forget.  We  must  encourage  continued  action 
in  this  regard. Antigua  and  Barbuda  looks  forward  to 
the erection of a permanent memorial to the victims of 
the  transatlantic  slave  trade  and  slavery,  an  initiative 
being  championed  by  CARICOM.  We  look  forward 
also  to  the  continuation  of  serious  dialogue  and 
eventual consensus on the issue of reparations. 

In  conclusion,  it  is  very  clear  that  the  multiple 
and  multifaceted  nature  of  the  global  threats  and 
challenges  we  face  will  test  the  abilities  of  this 
assembly  of  nations  and  its  leaders.  Is  the  United 
Nations up to the task? Will we, both individually and 
collectively,  heed  the  admonition  of  Calvin  Coolidge 
and  demonstrate  in  both  word  and  deed  a  firm 
conviction  that  the  welfare  of  the  weakest  and  the 
welfare  of  the  most  powerful  are  inseparably  bound 
together?  For  us,  a  small  island  with  big  aspirations 
and  dreams  for  the  future  of  our  people,  we  remain 
hopeful  that  we  will  all  find  the  political  will  and  the 
ability to rise to the task. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda 
for the statement he has just made. 

The Honourable Winston Baldwin Spencer, Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

09-52463 

35 


A/64/PV.7 

Address by His Highness Sheikh Nasser 
Al-Mohammad Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Prime 
Minister of the State of Kuwait 

The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
State of Kuwait. 

His  Highness  Sheikh  Nasser  Al-Mohammad 
Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of 
the State of Kuwait, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Highness  Sheikh  Nasser 
Al-Mohammad  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Sheikh Al-Sabah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It 

is my pleasure, Sir, to  convey to you on behalf of the 
State  of  Kuwait  and  on  my  own  account  our  most 
sincere congratulations on your election as President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session. 
Undoubtedly,  your  long  regional  and  international 
experience will be an important asset in achieving the 
success we desire in the work of this important session 
of the General Assembly. I also wish to pay tribute to 
the  presidency  of  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  former  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua, during the sixty-third 
session. 

Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.  
I  cannot  fail  to  express  also  our  appreciation  for 

the  efforts  and  good  offices  of  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  of  the  entire 
Secretariat staff. We thank them for all their efforts in 
the service of peace and security and in improving the 
performance  and  the  programmes  of  United  Nations 
bodies  with  a  view  to  enhancing  and  developing  their 
capacities to keep pace with new developments on the 
international  scene  and  to  respond  effectively  to  the 
challenges and dangers of today’s world. 

Never before has the world been in such need of a 
strong, effective global organization. The diversity and 
complexity  of 
the  challenges,  crises  and  new 
developments  which  confront  our  world  today,  in 
addition  to  regional  and  international  questions  that 
have  remained  unresolved  for  a  long  time,  require 
Member  States  to  shoulder  their  responsibilities  in 
supporting  this  Organization,  providing  it  with  the 
to 
improve 
responsibility 
fashion.  Also,  mobilizing 
financial  resources  it  needs  to  perform  its  duties  and 
discharge 
its  responsibilities  effectively  and  with 
innovative  methodology.  Also,  the  United  Nations 
itself  has  a 
its  own 
administrative  structure  and  its  performance  in  the 
field, and to enhance its capacity to detect and monitor 
developing  challenges.  This  must  be  commensurate 
with the current dangers, which require bold initiatives, 
quick action and effective treatment.  
Combating  terrorism;  eradicating  poverty  and 

hunger;  combating  dangerous  diseases 
such  as 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and the A (H1N1) influenza virus, 
which of late has spread in a frightful manner all over 
the  world;  and  dealing  with  the  spread  of  the  scourge 
of  illegal  drugs:  these  are  all  challenges  that  require 
from  our  Organization  innovative  joint  action  that 
recognizes  the  dangers,  diagnoses  the  crises,  prepares 
the resources and intervenes effectively in a radical and 
collective 
specialized 
regional  organizations  to  act  in  a  concerted  and 
organized effort is an important element in addressing 
these challenges. 

Moreover,  there  are  other  challenges  and  threats 
from  which  the  international  community  still  suffers, 
the  most  prominent  being  the  financial  and  economic 
crisis  and  the  phenomenon  of  climate  change.  The 
financial  crisis  has  had  a  negative  impact  on  the 
economies  of 
the  developing  countries  and  has 
impeded 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  This  has  resulted  in  the 
emergence of economic and social problems such as a 
high rate of unemployment, deceleration in the rate of 
economic growth, the collapse of financial markets and 
an obvious contraction in regional and world trade. 

the  Outcome 
Document adopted by the high-level meeting convened 
by the President of the General Assembly last June (see 
resolution  63/303),  where  commitments  were  made  to 
help  developing  countries  overcome  the  effects  of  the 
financial  crisis, 
in  official 
development 
the 
international trade system. It also emphasized the need 
to  continue  the  reform  of  the  international  financial 
institutions  to  ensure  equitable  representation  on  their 
executive boards and to enhance their oversight role, as 
well  as  to  improve  the  conditions  for  providing 
financial  and  technical  assistance  for  the  developing 
and least developed countries. 
regard,  we  welcome 
their  efforts 
through  an 
to  attain 
increase 
In 
this 
assistance, 
and 
to 
improve 
36 

09-52463 
to 
host 
honoured 
Kuwait  will 



That effort, along with joint arrangements, led to 
the  emergence  of  signs  of  global  economic  recovery 
during  the  last  few  weeks.  It  is  our  hope  that  such 
action  will  continue  in  order  to  address  a  no  less 
dangerous  crisis,  that  of  climate  change  and  the 
degradation of the environment. This problem requires 
an  urgent  global  response.  In  this  regard,  we  look 
forward  to  the  success  of  the  important  Climate 
Change  Conference,  to  be  held  in  December  in 
Copenhagen, Denmark.  

in 
be 
mid-December  their  Majesties  and  Highnesses,  the 
leaders of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States 
of  the  Gulf,  at  their  thirtieth  Summit  Conference, 
where  they  will  have  a  full  agenda.  Foremost  of  the 
many  issues  before  them  will  be  a  project  of  vital 
importance:  the  electric  grid  linking  their  States.  We 
hope  that  this  strategic  step  will  be  the  first  of  many, 
including  the  monetary  unification  project  and  the 
issuance of a unified Gulf currency. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  is  proud  to  top  the  list  of 
Arab States, and to hold thirty-third position overall, in 
human  development. As  indicated  in  the Arab  Human 
Development  Report  2009,  “Challenges  to  Human 
Security  in  the Arab  Countries”,  issued  by  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  Kuwait  scored  the 
highest  marks  among  the  Arab  States  in  the  fields  of 
education, health and general freedoms. Let there be no 
doubt that the Government of Kuwait will continue its 
efforts to improve economic and social conditions, and 
to achieve all the Millennium Development Goals even 
before the target date,  which will provide a  better life 
for its citizens and residents. 

Kuwait  is  proud,  too,  that  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  located  in  Vienna,  has 
listed  Kuwait  as  first  among  Arab  States,  and  third 
globally, 
illegal  drugs  and  drug 
trafficking.  That  was  possible  only  through  a  focused 
national  effort  and  broad  regional  cooperation,  which 
achieved outstanding results. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  will  continue  steadily  to 
meet all its financial commitments to international and 
regional  institutes,  funds  and  programmes  in  the  field 
of  development  assistance  as  well  as  to  support 
infrastructure  projects  in  the  developing  and  least 
developed  countries.  Kuwait  will  also  continue  to 
contribute to development projects through the Kuwait 
Fund for Arab Economic Development, which since its 
in  combating 
A/64/PV.7
the 
through 
in  Africa 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
establishment 
in  1961  has  provided  assistance 
amounting  to  more  than  $14.5  billion  to  more  than  a 
hundred countries.  

The  State  of  Kuwait  has  also  taken  initiatives  to 
stimulate  economic  growth,  raise  living  standards  and 
reduce poverty in States suffering from the increase in 
prices  of  basic  food  commodities.  For  this  purpose, 
Kuwait  has  established  the  Decent  Living  Fund,  with 
$100 million capital, and has allocated $300 million to 
fight  poverty 
Islamic 
Development Bank. 

Although  Kuwait  is  a  developing  country,  the 
percentage  of  humanitarian  development  aid  that  it 
provides  exceeds  the  target  adopted  at  international 
conferences,  reaching  1.31  per  cent  of  its  gross 
national  product,  compared  with  0.45  per  cent  of  the 
gross  national  product  of  States  members  of  the 
Organization 
and 
Development (OECD). 

Based on the State of Kuwait’s realization of the 
importance  of  economic  cooperation  and  trade  in 
consolidating  relations  between  States,  His  Highness 
the  Emir  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  Sheikh  Sabah 
Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, convened the first Arab 
Economic  Summit,  focusing  on  development,  which 
Kuwait hosted last January. The Conference adopted a 
number of important and  ambitious economic projects 
aimed  at  reaching  new  horizons  of  partnership  and 
cooperation.  Also  adopted  was  the  proposal  by  the 
State of Kuwait to establish a $1 billion fund, to which 
we will contribute $500 million, to support and finance 
small  and  medium-size  development  projects,  which 
will help raise the standards of living of Arab citizens. 

The  June  parliamentary  elections  in  my  country 
represented  a  qualitative  transformation  in  Kuwaiti 
parliamentary life, with four women obtaining the trust 
and support of the Kuwaiti voters. They now join their 
brothers 
the  Kuwaiti  people  and 
expressing  their  ambitions  under  the  dome  of  the 
National  Assembly.  This  civilized  accomplishment 
comes  after  Kuwaiti  women  have  achieved  success  in 
the  fields  of  private  and  public  enterprise,  as  well  as 
government  work, 
including  holding  ministerial 
positions in the Kuwaiti Cabinet. We express our pride 
in, and appreciation of, the significant achievements of 
Kuwaiti women and will continue to support their role 
as active partners in the political, economic and social 
fields. 
in  representing 
09-52463 

37 

territories, 
in  particular, 
to  assume 
last  December, 
in  which  more 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
Israeli  aggression  against 
A/64/PV.7 


We  express  much  sorrow  and  pain  that  the 
question of Palestine has remained unresolved for over 
six decades, despite numerous international efforts and 
initiatives  by  a  number  of  international  and  regional 
parties. A source of major concern is the deteriorating 
political,  economic,  social  and  humanitarian  situation 
in 
including 
Jerusalem,  as  a  result  of  the  continued  exercise  by 
Israel, the occupying Power, of its illegal policies and 
practices,  contrary  to  international  law  and  relevant 
United Nations resolutions. 
In  this  regard,  we  renew  our  condemnation  of 

repeated 
the  occupied 
territories, in particular, the military aggression against 
Gaza 
than 
1,400 Palestinians,  among  them  women,  children  and 
the  elderly,  were  killed.  That  aggression  also  resulted 
in the unjustifiable destruction of homes, property and 
civilian infrastructure.  
We  call  upon  the  international  community,  the 

Security  Council 
its 
responsibilities and take all necessary measures to stop 
Israel’s violation of international humanitarian law and 
its  settlement  activities  as  well  as  the  policy  of 
collective  punishment  it  imposes  on  the  Palestinian 
people. That  policy  is  applied  through  its  blockade  of 
Gaza  and  its  restriction  of  the  freedom  of  access  and 
movement  of  persons  in  all  areas,  including  in  the 
occupied territories. We also call for an immediate halt 
to  Israel’s  settlement  activities,  which  are  carried  out 
under unacceptable pretexts. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  also  wishes  to  refer  to  the 
report  (A/HRC/12/48)  of  the  United  Nations  Fact 
Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  which  clearly 
proves  that  the  Israeli  forces  committed  war  crimes 
during  the  brutal  aggression  against  Gaza  last  year. 
This  represents  a  grave  violation  of  international 
humanitarian  law. Therefore,  it  is  incumbent  upon  the 
Security  Council  and  the  broader  United  Nations  to 
assume their responsibility to stop these crimes against 
humanity and to punish the perpetrators in accordance 
with international law. 

Because of its moral and national responsibilities, 
as well as its steady support for the Palestinian cause, 
the  State  of  Kuwait, 
to  supporting 
international  efforts  to  improve  living  conditions  in 
Gaza and to rebuild what the Israeli aggression against 
Gaza  destroyed,  has  voluntarily  pledged  to  donate 
its  capital,  and 
$500 million, $200 million of which is to rebuild Gaza. 
This is a portion of its commitments within the context 
of the League of Arab States to support the Palestinian 
Authority. 

Kuwait  also  took  the  initiative  of  responding  to 
the  appeal  that  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East 
(UNRWA)  launched  last  December  by  donating  the 
entire amount sought, $34 million, to cover the cost of 
urgently needed relief aid. 
In  this  context,  we  believe  that  the  suffering  of 

the  Palestinian  people  will  continue  until  there  is  a 
permanent, just and comprehensive peace, which must 
mean  ending  the  Israeli  occupation  of  the  Palestinian 
territories,  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State, 
with  Jerusalem  as 
total  Israeli 
withdrawal  from  all  Arab  territories  it  has  occupied 
since  4  June  1967,  in  implementation  of  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  the  Road  Map  and  the 
Arab Peace Initiative. 

As  for  Iraq,  the  State  of  Kuwait  commends  the 
speedy  efforts  of  the  Iraqi  Government  to  achieve 
peace,  security,  stability  and  prosperity  for  the  Iraqi 
people. Kuwait supports every action that will preserve 
the  sovereignty,  national  unity  and  territorial  integrity 
of  brotherly  Iraq  and  ensure  non-interference  in  its 
internal affairs. The State of Kuwait also condemns all 
acts  of  terrorism  in  Iraq  aimed  at  destabilizing  its 
security and stability and instigating detestable violent 
sectarianism. 
To put an end to the so-called sectarian violence, 

it  is  important  to  resume  the  policy  of  dialogue  and 
national  reconciliation 
to  ensure  ample 
participation  by  all  sectors  of  society  in  all  phases  of 
the  political  process, 
the  parliamentary 
elections to be held next January. The State of Kuwait 
will continue to support every effort to assist brotherly 
Iraq  to  regain  its  standing  and  natural  position  in  its 
regional  and  international  environment,  in  order  to 
build a democratic, unified and peaceful Iraq, living in 
peace internally and with its neighbours, committed to 
fulfil  its  obligations  as  laid  down  in  resolutions  of 
international legitimacy. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  hopes  that  the  conflict  over 
the  occupied  United  Arab  Emirates  islands  will  be 
resolved  by  peaceful  means. It  calls  upon  the  friendly 
Islamic Republic of Iran to settle the question through 
including 
in  order 
in  addition 
38 

09-52463 
the  most 
international 
relations,  and  emanating 


direct  brotherly  negotiations  or  by  recourse  to  the 
International Court of Justice. 

The  resolution  of  conflicts  and  the  settlement  of 
differences  between  States,  particularly  in  our  region, 
must depend on a set of firm principles, deeply rooted 
in 
from 
resolutions of international legitimacy and the rules of 
international  law.  If  necessary,  a  decision  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  must  be  sought  to 
preserve  good-neighbourly  relations.  That  basis  and 
those legal principles cannot be sidestepped to achieve 
the self-interests of one side at the expense of the other. 
In no case would that serve good-neighbourly relations 
or the building of mutual trust, and therefore it would 
affect the peace and stability of the parties, as well as 
international peace and security. 

interest  yesterday’s 
We  followed  with  great 
Security  Council  summit  (see  S/PV.6191)  addressing 
one  of 
important  matters  affecting 
international  peace  and  security, nuclear disarmament, 
in order to create a world free of nuclear weapons. We 
noted  with  satisfaction  the  unanimous  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1887  (2009),  which  sets 
the  stage  for  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  a  world  that  fulfils  the 
hopes  of  humanity  and  ensures 
the  safety  and 
prosperity of the world’s peoples. 

While  Kuwait  supports  the  right  of  all  States  to 
use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  it  reiterates 
its  deep-rooted  belief  in  the  important  need  for 
disarmament  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
for  declaring  the Middle East region a zone  free from 
nuclear  weapons.  We  renew  our  call  to  deal  seriously 
with Israel, the only country in the region that did not 
adhere  to  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty,  and 
call upon Israel to adhere to the Treaty and subject all 
its  facilities  to  comprehensive  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards. 

Kuwait  also  hopes  that  negotiations  between  the 
friendly  Islamic Republic of  Iran, the  IAEA and other 
countries  concerned  will  continue,  with  a  view  to 
reaching  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  Iranian  nuclear 
issue 
the  fears  and  doubts 
surrounding the nature and purpose of its programme. 

In  conclusion,  it  is  our  hope  that  joint  political 
will can be mustered to achieve the noble purposes and 
principles  of  the  Charter  and  to  confront  the  serious 
challenges facing our world today.  
to  dispel 
in  order 
A/64/PV.7

There  is  also  an  urgent  need  to  redouble  our 
efforts  to  reject  fanaticism  and  xenophobia,  and  to 
continue  strengthening  the  dialogue  between  different 
civilizations  and  religions  as  the  ideal  mode  for 
achieving  understanding  between  cultures.  This  will 
create  an  appropriate  environment  to  consolidate  the 
principle  of  mutual  respect  and  build  bridges  between 
societies. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Kuwait for the statement he has just made. 

His  Highness  Sheikh  Nasser  Al-Mohammad 
Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  State  of  Kuwait,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 


Address by Mr. Navinchandra Ramgoolam, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Mauritius 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Mauritius. 

Mr. Navinchandra Ramgoolam, Prime Minister of 
the  Republic  of  Mauritius,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Navinchandra 
Ramgoolam,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Republic  of 
Mauritius,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Ramgoolam  (Mauritius):  On  behalf  of  my 

delegation,  and  in  my  own  name,  I  extend  to  the 
President  our  warmest  congratulations  on  his  well-
deserved  election  to  preside  over  the  sixty-fourth 
session  of 
the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  tireless 
efforts at the helm of our Organization in the cause of 
international peace and security. 
In this globalized world, nations will increasingly 

face unconventional, emerging threats to their security. 
The recent rapid spread of the A (H1N1) virus is a case 
in point. The commitment of the entire membership of 
our  Organization  is  required  to  forge  a  consensus  to 
deal  with  the  uncertainties  of  the  times  ahead.  More 
than  ever  before,  multilateralism  will  be  the  way 
forward. 
I  also  commend 
the  Assembly. 
09-52463 

39 

to  be  engulfed 
A/64/PV.7 


As  we  confronted  the  severe  food  and  energy 
crises of a year ago, little did we realize that the world 
was  about 
in  an  unprecedented 
economic  crisis.  The  most  severe  meltdown  since  the 
Great  Depression  has  spared  no  country,  precisely 
because we live in an interconnected world. Millions of 
people  all  over  the  world  have  lost  their  jobs,  their 
incomes  and  their  savings.  It  is  estimated  that  an 
additional 50 million people have  already been driven 
into  extreme  poverty.  Whatever  modest  progress 
developing  countries  had  achieved  has  been  severely 
set back. 

The world may be witnessing the early signs of a 
slow  recovery.  However,  the  aftershocks  of  the  crisis 
will  continue  to  be  felt  for  much  longer.  Developing 
countries  have  experienced  declining  capital  flows, 
stagnating  foreign  aid  and  a  fall  in  remittances  and 
export revenues. 

Mauritius,  with  a  small  open  economy,  has  been 
exceptionally  exposed  to  the  adverse  effects  of  the 
crisis. Although both our manufacturing sector and our 
tourism  industry  have  been  negatively  impacted,  we 
have  registered positive economic growth. This is due 
to the reforms my Government has implemented since 
2005.  Bold  reforms  have  succeeded  in  making  our 
economy  more  resilient.  In  2008,  our  gross  domestic 
product  (GDP)  grew  by  5.3  per  cent  and 
the 
unemployment rate dropped to 7.2 per cent. Mauritius 
attracted foreign direct investment amounting to almost 
5  per  cent  of  GDP,  and  achieved  the  highest  level  of 
job creation in more than a decade. 

However,  the  global  crisis  has  been  a  severe 
blow.  Growth  has  been  slowed;  we  expect  growth  of 
around 2.7 per cent this year. But our economy is now 
structurally  more  sound,  more  competitive  and 
resilient.  We  are  concerned  that  a  prolonged  crisis 
could  drive  our  export-oriented  economy  into  reverse 
gear,  with  further  declines  in  trade  and  capital  flows, 
exchange  rate  volatility,  and  further  falls  in  tourist 
arrivals. 

To  mitigate  the  damage  to  our  economy,  we 
reacted as soon as the first signs of the subprime crisis 
started 
introduced  an 
expansionary  budget  with  emphasis  on  infrastructural 
projects,  and  as  the  crisis  spread  into  a  worldwide 
financial  and  economic  crisis  we  put  in  place  a 
stimulus  package  to  save  jobs,  protect  people  and 
prepare for the recovery. We have, in other words, been 
the  United  States.  We 
in 
prevent 
the 
long-term 
into  account 
the  curve.  In 
supervision  will 
follow.  We  hope 
and 
financial 
regulation  and  deficient 
ahead  of 
this  uncertain  economic 
situation,  the  priority  of  Mauritius  is  to  safeguard  the 
hard-earned gains from past reforms. 
We  have  been  collateral  victims  of  financial 

institutions, 
imbalances,  over-leveraged 
inadequate 
supervision. 
Developing  countries  benefit  little  from  periods  of 
boom, and pay an inordinately high price for the busts 
that  strengthening 
that  often 
regulations 
the 
accumulation  of  high-risk,  toxic  assets  that  led  to  the 
crisis in the first place. 

The crisis has also made it clear that the Bretton 
Woods  institutions  stand  in  need  of  fundamental 
reform. However, reforms will be effective only if they 
take 
stability  and 
sustainability  of  the  global  economy.  Institutions  that 
make global decisions must reflect the changing nature 
of the global economic environment. 

long  we  have  condoned  a  clear 
democratic deficit in global economic governance. We 
need  to  reshape  the  global  economy  into  a  more 
equitable  system,  responsive  to  the  needs  of  all 
countries and reflecting the realities of the day. In this 
regard,  we  appreciate  the  convening  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on 
the  World  Financial  and 
Economic Crisis and Its Impact on Development, held 
last  June.  The  Conference  provided  a  uniquely 
inclusive platform to address the urgent concerns of all 
nations. It has allowed the formulation of proposals to 
lessen the impact of the crisis, especially on vulnerable 
populations. 

the  Conference’s 
recommendations  should  avoid  a  further  deterioration 
in  the  conditions  of  the  world’s  poor.  And  we  look 
forward  to  the  recommendations  of  the  Group  of  20 
(G20) Summit, which starts today in Pittsburgh. 

In coping with the effects of the crisis, we have to 
resist  the  temptation  to  resort  to  trade  protectionism. 
We should not forget that international trade has been a 
powerful  engine  for  development  and  has  generated 
substantial  economic  growth.  From  our  perspective  as 
a  vulnerable  small  island  developing  State,  it  is  vital 
that  markets  remain  open  and  that  international  trade 
flows are not impeded. 

the  Doha  Round,  with 
is  essential 
development  at  its  core,  be  successfully  concluded, 
implementation 
It 
that 
For 
too 
The 
of 
40 

09-52463 


without,  however,  any  unravelling  of  the  July  2008 
convergence  package.  We  look  forward  to  significant 
progress  at  the  seventh  session  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization  Ministerial  Conference,  scheduled  for 
December in Geneva. 

The negative impact of the economic crisis on the 
most  vulnerable  populations  causes  us  great  concern. 
The global economic slowdown has further delayed the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  Confronted  with  this  grave  setback,  the 
developing  world  looks  for  a  strong  demonstration  of 
solidarity. 
We hope that the donor community will do more 

than 
just  honour 
its  previous  commitments.  The 
Millennium Declaration, the Monterrey Consensus and 
the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development 
have been overtaken by the events of the past year. 

But I strongly believe that what we need now is a 
change  in  our  approach  in  the  developing  economies. 
We  need  to  urgently  apply  ourselves  to  making 
pro-business  policy  reforms  instead  of  just  relying  on 
aid.  That  is  the  way  to  create  wealth  and  prosperity. 
Charity  is  a  noble  endeavour,  but  relying  on  charity 
alone  is  not  the  answer  to  future  prosperity  and 
opportunity for all. 
We  need  to  unleash  the  entrepreneurial  drive  of 

the 
our  people.  That 
eradication of poverty. We all know that it is better to 
show a man how to fish than to give him a fish every 
day.  And  we  need  to  coordinate  our  actions  to  bring 
down  trade  barriers.  In  fact,  what  the  developing 
countries  need  is  a  Marshall  Plan,  with  a  single 
coordinated  programme.  To  qualify,  countries  need  to 
meet  benchmarks  for  good  governance,  respect  for 
human rights, accessible health care and education and 
predictable economic policies. 

Such  a  plan  was  successful  in  uplifting  the 
economies  of  Europe  after  the  Second  World  War.  I 
have no doubt that it can be adapted to meet the same 
measure of success for developing countries. 
is 

mobilizing  considerable 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  a  relentless  drive 
to fight poverty, we have introduced  an  eradication of 
absolute  poverty  programme,  which  aims  to  break  the 
vicious  circle  of  poverty  begetting  poverty.  And,  to 
show  our  commitment  to  eradicating  poverty  in  our 
level,  my  Government 
the  ultimate  answer 
the  national 
At 
resources 
to  meet 
is 
to 
A/64/PV.7
the 
the 
response  of 
region,  Mauritius  took  the  initiative  to  host  the 
Southern  African  Development  Community  (SADC) 
International  Consultative  Conference  on  Poverty  and 
Development  last  year  so  that  we  can  develop  a 
common pragmatic approach. We are committed to the 
attainment of the MDGs on schedule, and look forward 
to the high-level review meeting next year. 

Ensuring  the  fulfilment  of  the  MDGs  demands  a 
stronger  commitment  by  national  Governments  in  the 
fight  against  HIV/AIDS.  We  are  heartened  in  this 
instance  by 
international 
community,  which  has  been  timely,  generous  and 
effective. Each and every nation must be fully engaged 
in this fight. 

In  Mauritius,  we  treat  HIV/AIDS  as  a  national 
priority.  I  have  set  up  a  National  AIDS  Committee, 
which  I  chair.  We  have  put  in  place  a  multisectoral 
strategy to protect the population at large, with special 
emphasis  on  vulnerable  groups.  And  yesterday  I  was 
delighted  to  learn  about  the  breakthrough  of  an 
HIV/AIDS vaccine which could be available in the not 
too distant future. 
Recently,  the  A  (H1N1)  pandemic  has  rapidly 

taken on alarming proportions. Although we have taken 
all  possible  steps  to  effectively  deal  with  this  new 
influenza  virus,  the  escalation  of  the  outbreak  could 
stretch  our  health  resources  and  infrastructure.  In  this 
connection,  developing  countries  require  early  access 
to  the  vaccines  that  are  in  the  pipeline,  once  their 
safety is assured. 
Food  security  should  have  been  an  absolute 

priority  of  development  strategies.  It  has  for  far  too 
long  been  neglected.  Many  countries  struggle  to 
guarantee  adequate  food  for  their  people.  The  present 
economic  recession  compounds  an  already  difficult 
situation.  Over  a  billion  people,  mostly  in  developing 
countries,  do  not  have  sufficient  food  to  meet  their 
daily basic nutritional needs. One in six of the human 
family goes to bed hungry and angry. 

The  present  relative  decline  in  food  prices  must 
not  make  us  lose  sight  of  the  structural  long-term 
deficit  the  world  faces.  This  age-old  problem  is 
complicated  by  uncertainties  linked  to  climate  change 
and the diversion of food crops for bio-fuel production. 

We  must  strengthen  measures  to  improve  food 
security  globally.  Existing  funding  mechanisms  must 
09-52463 

41 
production 
for 
export.  We 
in 
of 
surplus 
are 
and  marine  products.  The 
A/64/PV.7 

be  improved  to  assist  the  World  Food  Programme  to 
effectively avoid recurrent outbreaks of famine. 

Mauritius welcomes the initiative of the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) 
to  convene  the  World  Summit  on  Food  Security  in 
Rome  in  November.  It  is  our  earnest  hope  that  it  will 
not  be  just  another  conference,  but  will  propose 
practical measures to alleviate hunger and malnutrition. 

In  Mauritius,  we  have  adopted  a  comprehensive 
strategy  to  achieve  a  reasonable  level  of  food  self-
sufficiency. We are mobilizing technological, financial 
and human resources to produce locally as much food 
as is practically possible. To this end, we have set up a 
one-billion-rupee  Food  Security  Fund  to  optimize 
efficiency and boost agricultural production. 
To  benefit  from  economies  of  scale,  we  are 

local 
encouraging 
consumption 
establishing 
partnerships  regionally  to  jointly  produce  food  crops, 
livestock 
effective 
implementation  of  this  strategy  will  contribute  to 
improving our national food security. 
We are currently working with Mozambique on a 

rice  production  project  which  will  contribute 
to 
improving  food  availability  in  both  countries,  and 
probably in the region. 

Climate  change  poses  an  existential  challenge  to 
mankind.  Our  profligacy  puts  at  stake  the  very  future 
of our planet and the forms of life it supports. This is 
an  environmental  threat  with  far-reaching  social  and 
economic implications that we have yet to mainstream 
into  our  national  planning  and  decision-making 
processes. 
We  cannot  with  impunity  treat  our  home  planet 

with  contempt.  We  can  yet  forestall  bringing  upon 
ourselves the full wrath of nature. But time is running 
out.  Divergences  must  be  resolved  at  all  costs,  and 
quickly,  at  Copenhagen.  To  move  forward 
in  a 
pragmatic  manner,  we  need  to  break  away  from  the 
finger-pointing, recrimination and brinkmanship of the 
past. 
In Copenhagen, it is imperative that we agree to a 

targeted  reduction  in  greenhouse  gas  emissions  that 
will  restrict  global  temperature  rise  to  no  more  than 
1.5° C. But any action, to be fair, must be proportional. 
Those who have polluted the most should bear most of 

For  its  part,  Mauritius 
the  burden.  Developing  countries  need  extra  help  so 
that their growth path is not thwarted. 

We  must  create  a  financial  mechanism  to  assist 
developing  countries  to  adapt  to  and  mitigate  the 
effects  of  climate  change.  This  mechanism  has  to  be 
credible and sustainable, and be managed according to 
the principles of good governance. It should also be a 
channel for the transfer of technology. 

I therefore make a strong appeal that we unite to 
act  collectively  and  quickly  in  our  own  interest  and 
that of future generations. 

is  implementing  the 
“Maurice  île  durable”  project  to  respond  to  climate 
change  and  the  energy  crisis.  This  is  an  ambitious 
programme  focusing  on  the  use  of  renewable  energy 
and  the  emergence  of  small  power  producers.  Its 
implementation  will  reduce  our  dependence  on  fossil 
fuels  considerably  and  facilitate  the  transition  to  a 
clean, energy-efficient economy. 

We  have  mobilized  appropriate  resources,  with 
the collaboration of the private sector and development 
partners,  to  build  a  green  and  ecological  future  for 
Mauritius.  We  are  doing  our  utmost  to  contribute,  in 
full measure, to the global effort required. 

The  inherent  constraints  faced  by  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDS)  —  in  particular  limited 
resources,  remoteness,  small  domestic  markets  and 
vulnerability to natural disasters — cannot be ignored. 
We  share  a  common  future,  and  the  welfare  of  one  is 
unsustainable without the welfare of all. 

We  appeal  to  the  international  community  to  be 
more  forthcoming  in  assisting  SIDS  in  their  efforts  to 
become integrated into the global economy. A one-size-
fits-all  approach  to  development  threatens  to  further 
marginalize SIDS in an increasingly globalized world. 
It  is  patently  obvious  that  SIDS  deserve  special 
treatment  and  need  to  be  recognized  as  a  group  of 
countries having specificities of their own. 

The promotion and protection of human rights is 
a key priority of my Government. I wish to extend our 
appreciation to the United Nations membership for the 
re-election of Mauritius to the Human Rights Council. 
We  will  continue  to  work  with  other  members  of  the 
Council  in  a  spirit  of  dialogue,  cooperation  and 
objectivity  to  ensure  that  human  rights  violations  are 
effectively addressed. 
42 

09-52463 
In 
to  see 
line  with  our  commitment 



that 
perpetrators  of  grave  human  rights  violations  are 
brought to justice, we wish to reaffirm our unflinching 
support for the International Criminal Court (ICC). 

At the national level, we have adopted legislation 
such as the Equal Opportunities Act and the Truth and 
Justice  Commission  Act  to  further  entrench  human 
rights.  Our  achievements  in  the  field  of  human  rights 
were  widely  acknowledged  during 
the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  conducted  earlier  this  year  by  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  We  were  gratified  by  the 
unique  opportunity  provided  to  us  by  the  Review  to 
make  a  critical  self-assessment  of  the  situation  in 
Mauritius. 

When  I  addressed  the  Assembly  in  September 
2007  I  called  on  the  international  community  to  do 
more  than  just  stand  by  the  people  of  Burma.  This 
appeal is more than ever relevant. We cannot condone 
the  condemnation  of  Ms.  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi  by  a 
kangaroo  court.  We  reaffirm  our  solidarity  with  and 
support for Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, an emblematic lady 
who personifies the courage and dignity of her people, 
a people battered and bruised but unbowed.  

It is imperative that we convey a clear and strong 
signal  to  the  military  junta  that  the  international 
community  will  not  tolerate  its  confiscation  of  the 
Burmese  people’s  sovereignty.  In 
this  respect,  I 
welcome  the  recent  decision  of  the  EU  to  extend  the 
sanctions imposed on Burma. 

For its part, Mauritius will continue to implement 
the decision I took in 1997 to suspend importations of 
rice  from  Burma.  This  decision  has  a  cost,  but  it  is  a 
price  we  are  prepared  to  pay  in  defence  of  principles 
we hold dear. We must show the world that there will 
be  no  double  standards  in  our  approach.  I  urge  those 
countries  that  give  comfort  and  sustenance  to  the 
regime  not  to  let  their  short-term,  mercantile  interests 
perpetuate the misery of this long-suffering people. 
The  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  with  the  question  of 

Palestine at its core, remains an issue of deep concern 
not  only  to  the  region,  but  also  to  the  world  at  large. 
We  take  heart  in  the  efforts  of  the  Administration  of 
President Obama to impart new impetus to the Middle 
East peace process. And we could not agree more with 
President  Obama 
to  build  new 
settlements flies in the face of logic if lasting peace is 
to be achieved. 
that  continuing 
A/64/PV.7
As a long-time proponent of a two-State solution, 

Mauritius  welcomes 
the  Quartet’s  commitment, 
renewed  in Trieste  in  June,  to  actively  and  vigorously 
work  for  a  comprehensive  solution  of  the Arab-Israeli 
conflict. 
The  Arab  League’s  commitment  to  peace  with 

Israel  and 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  have  been 
encouraging  developments.  We  hope  that  those  most 
directly  concerned  will  display 
the  courage  and 
maturity to engage in meaningful dialogue in earnest. 
The  United  Nations  is,  more  than  ever,  the 

ultimate  guardian  of  mankind’s  aspiration  to  global 
peace  and  security.  I  salute  its  unceasing  effort  in 
resolving  conflicts  around  the  world,  in  particular  on 
the  African  continent.  Conflicts  and  insecurity  in 
Africa  have  been  a  major  cause  of  the  continent’s 
underdevelopment. A  study  carried  out  by  Oxfam  last 
year indicates that between 1990 and 2005 conflict cost 
the  continent  $300  billion,  which  is  almost  equivalent 
to  all  the  international  aid  received  by  sub-Saharan 
Africa during that period. 

The  African  Union  has  moved  ahead  with  the 
creation  of  an  African  Standby  Force.  Once  fully 
established,  the  Force  will,  hopefully,  help  in  the 
advancement  of  peace  and  security  at  the  continental 
level.  The  creation  of  the  Mechanism  for  Conflict 
Prevention,  Management  and  Resolution  is  also  a 
positive  step  in  improving  the  peace  and  security 
architecture of Africa. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the  United 
Nations  and  the  European  Union  for  helping  Africa 
enhance  its  capacity  to  respond  adequately  and  in  a 
timely manner to security threats on the continent. The 
European  Union  deserves  our  appreciation  for  its 
contribution,  to  the  tune  of  €500  million  under  the 
10th European Development Fund, for the implementation 
of the Africa Peace Facility. 

Allow me also to highlight some of the  progress 
that  has  been  achieved  on  the  continent  this  year, 
including the formation of an all-inclusive Government 
in Zimbabwe and the holding of presidential  elections 
in Mauritania. 

We  welcome  the  Agreement  of  Goodwill  and 
Confidence-Building for the Settlement of the Problem 
in Darfur reached in February by Sudan’s Government 
of  National  Unity  and 
the  Justice  and  Equality 
Movement.  
09-52463 

43 
cannot 
and 
should 
not 
it 
joint  mediation 
A/64/PV.7 

We  commend  the  role  played  by  the  African 

Union-United  Nations 
team  and 
particularly  the  Government  of  Qatar,  which  has  done 
so much to drive the process. We call on all the parties 
to the conflict to join in the search for peace in Darfur. 
We  hope  that  conditions  will  speedily  be  created  for 
the return of refugees and internally displaced persons. 

We  have  high  expectations  that  the  preliminary 
agreement reached in Maputo will provide the political 
framework  for  resolution  of  the  troubled  situation  in 
Madagascar.  We  are  heartened  by 
the  active 
involvement  and  solicitude  of  various  international 
bodies in trying to return the country to constitutional 
condone 
order.  We 
unconstitutional  Governments  anywhere,  be 
in 
Honduras or Madagascar. 

Somalia reminds us that we cannot with impunity 
wash our hands of any country, however remote it may 
be  or  however  unimportant 
it  may  seem.  The 
international  community’s  neglect  of  the  country  and 
its  indifference  to  the  suffering  of  the  Somali  people 
have  resulted  in  a  quintessential  failed  State.  That 
neglect and indifference have come back to haunt us in 
the form of piracy. Armed bands led by warlords have 
filled the political vacuum left by the deliquescence of 
the  Somali  State.  Today  the  territory  of  Somalia 
provides  not  only  a  haven  for  pirates,  but  also  a  base 
for 
terrorist  groups.  The  Transitional  Federal 
Government has to be assisted to regain control of the 
country,  to  put  an  end  to  the  suffering  of  the  Somali 
people and to deal with the problem of piracy. 

tentacular 
malignancy —  a  bane  of  our  times.  It  is  not  only  a 
security threat. It is a moral challenge, the negation of 
the  fundamental  values  of  civilization:  the  sanctity  of 
human  life  and  the  intrinsic  worth  of  the  human 
person. 

Every terrorist attack causes us pain, anguish and 
revulsion. But the one in Mumbai last November took 
on a special poignancy for the people of Mauritius. In 
the  blind  and  mindless  carnage  unleashed  by  the 
terrorists  on  that  city,  one  of  the  victims  was  a 
compatriot  of  ours.  We  have  condemned 
in  no 
uncertain  terms  this  dastardly,  cowardly  act,  and  we 
expect  that  everything  will  be  done  to  ensure  that  the 
terrorist  organization  behind  it  is  brought  to  justice. 
My  Government  unreservedly  supports  all  campaigns 
and initiatives against terrorism. 
Terrorism 
insidious, 
an 
is 


Mauritius  nurtures  the  hope  of  the  complete 
elimination of all nuclear weapons one day. Pending its 
ultimate  realization, we support  all measures aimed at 
halting  the  further  spread  of  such  weapons.  In  this 
regard,  we  welcome  the  comprehensive  agenda  of 
President  Obama  to  achieve  the  goal  of  a  world 
without nuclear weapons. 

Multilateralism  is  the  cornerstone  of  the  United 
Nations, and should be strengthened in the face of the 
current  global  challenges.  Global  challenges  need  a 
global response. 

We  follow  with  keen  interest  the  process  under 
way to revitalize the General Assembly and improve its 
working  methods,  to  bring  more  coherence  to  the 
United  Nation  system,  and  to  reform  the  Security 
Council. 

We  are  particularly  satisfied  by  the  start  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform earlier this year in an informal plenary session 
of the General Assembly. The comity of nations should 
work  together,  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity,  to  reach  a 
unified  position  on  the  reform  of  this  important  body. 
The reform of the Council should cover the categories 
of both permanent and non-permanent members, with a 
revised set of working methods. 

We fully support India’s having a permanent seat 
in  a  reformed  Security  Council.  And  we  once  again 
express  our  unequivocal  support  for  the  Common 
African  Position.  We 
support  permanent 
membership  of  a  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
country in a reformed Security Council. 

I take this opportunity to reaffirm the sovereignty 
of  Mauritius  over  the  Chagos  Archipelago,  including 
Diego  Garcia,  which  was  detached  by  the  United 
Kingdom  from  the  territory  of  Mauritius  prior  to  our 
independence.  The  dismemberment  of  the  territory  of 
Mauritius  was  in  total  disregard  of  General Assembly 
resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 2066 
(XX) of 16 December 1965. 

As President Obama said two days ago from this 
very  rostrum,  we  must  “demonstrate  that  international 
law is not an empty promise” (A/64/PV.3). We must all 
abide by it. 

We  have  consistently  urged  the  United  Kingdom 
to engage in a meaningful dialogue with Mauritius for 
the  early  return  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago.  We  are 
pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  two  rounds  of 
also 
09-52463 
44 



talks  have  been  held  with  the  United  Kingdom  this 
year. We  look  forward  to  those  discussions  coming  to 
fruition,  and  hope  that  Mauritius  will  be  able  to 
exercise  its  sovereignty  over  the  Chagos Archipelago, 
including Diego Garcia, in the near future. 

My  Government  and  the  French  authorities  are 
also in the process of addressing the issue of Tromelin. 
We are discussing the modalities of co-management of 
the island in a spirit of friendship and trust, pending the 
settlement  of  the  sovereignty  issue,  which  has  to  be 
resolved and not left on the back burner. 
(spoke in French) 

Nobody  can  deny  the  key  role  that  the  United 
Nations is called upon to play in the concert of nations. 
At the same time, we agree that the Organization needs 
to  be  reformed.  The  attendance  at  this  session  of  the 
Assembly, where each year a number of points of view 
and perceptions converge, emphasizes our desire to act 
and build together.  

The  concerns  and  aspirations  of  our  peoples  are 
echoed  and  thus  take  on  universal  resonance.  We  are 
indeed  becoming  aware  that,  whatever  latitude  we 
develop in, we have a common destiny. 

I am one of a people steeped in several cultures, 
whose  men  and  women  worship  Shiva,  Jesus,  Allah 
and  Buddha,  in  diverse  languages.  The  history  of  the  
A/64/PV.7
populating  of  our  island  and  its  geographical  position 
have  made  our  country  a  true  crossroads  of  cultures. 
We have made the right to difference on the one hand 
and the right to equality on the other our watchwords. I 
am  happy  to  remind  my  multi-ethnic  people  that  each 
individual  shares  with  all  other  humans  99.9  per  cent 
of the same genetic code. 

Those  of  us  gathered  here  have  much  to  learn 
from  each  other.  Exchanging  our  experiences  and 
knowledge enriches us and makes us stronger. 
The respect for plurality that this forum demands 

must  neither  make  us  forget  our  differences  nor 
contribute to the emergence of a dominant discourse.  

I commend the topic that the President has chosen 
for this year. If the Assembly manages to foster cross-
pollenization  of  cultures  and  to  highlight  what  human 
beings  have  in  common,  we  shall,  to  a  large  extent, 
have achieved our goal. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Mauritius  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr. Navinchandra Ramgoolam, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Mauritius, was escorted from the 
rostrum. 
The meeting rose at 2.10 p.m. 
09-52463 

45 
