
A/64/PV.54
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

54th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 2 December 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 

The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m. 


Agenda item 16 (continued) 
Question of Palestine 



  Draft resolutions (A/64/L.20, A/64/L.21, 
A/64/L.22 and A/64/L.23) 
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 

Assembly  held  the  debate  on  this  item  at  its  51st  to 
53rd  plenary  meetings,  on  30  November  and 
1 December 2009. 

Before  the  Assembly  takes  action  on  the  draft 
resolutions one by one, I wish to remind members that 
they will have an opportunity to explain their votes on 
all  of  the  draft  resolutions  before  and  after  action  is 
taken on each one.  

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolutions 
A/64/L.20, A/64/L.21, A/64/L.22 and A/64/L.23. Before 
giving  the  floor  to  the  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote 
before  the  voting,  may  I  remind  delegations  that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 

United States of America. 
Mr.  Erdman  (United  States  of  America):  With 

respect to the situation in the Middle  East, the United 
States has clearly stated our policy that there should be 
two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in 
peace and security. Therefore, we are deeply saddened 
to  be  presented  once  again  with  unbalanced  draft 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
resolutions  that,  unlike  the  General Assembly’s  action 
with  respect  to  any  other  Member  State,  geographic 
area or issue, place demands on Israel while failing to 
acknowledge that both sides have obligations and must 
take difficult steps.  

While the United States accepts the principle that 
the  General  Assembly  may  look  into  the  practices  of 
individual  States,  the  draft  resolutions  under  this 
agenda  item,  in  combination  with  over  15  other  draft 
resolutions  that  will  come  before  the  Assembly  this 
year  —  as  every  year  —  form  a  clear  pattern  of 
institutional  bias  directed  at  one  Member  State  of  the 
United Nations. 

Of  particular  concern  to  the  United  States  are 
three  resolutions  concerning  entities  established  more 
than a generation ago that perpetuate institutional bias. 
The  millions  of  dollars  expended  on  the  Secretariat’s 
Division  for  Palestinian  Rights,  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People and the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices  Affecting 
the 
Palestinian  People  and  Other  Arabs  of  the  Occupied 
Territories  could  be  better  directed  towards  more 
pressing  issues,  including  direct  assistance  to  needy 
Palestinians,  as  could  the  staff  resources  taken  up  by 
those  entities.  The  United  States  provides  significant 
financial  support  to  the  Palestinian  Authority  and  to 
Palestinian refugees receiving support from the United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East, to which the United States 
is the largest single donor. We reiterate our call for all 
the  Human  Rights  of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-62820 (E) 
*0962820* 




A/64/PV.54 

Member  States  to  review  seriously  the  continued 
existence of those bodies, with a sharp focus on what, 
if anything, they actually contribute towards a solution 
to the Middle East conflict. 

In  addition  to  these  three  draft  resolutions,  the 
General Assembly will consider other draft resolutions 
that  prejudge  the  outcome  of  permanent  status  issues. 
Those issues  properly belong in bilateral negotiations. 
Resolutions  such  as  these  call  into  question  the 
credibility  of  the  United  Nations,  which,  through  the 
Quartet, has an important role to play in supporting the 
resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict. 

We  believe  that  through  good-faith  negotiations 
the parties can mutually agree on an outcome that ends 
the conflict and reconciles the Palestinians’ goal of an 
independent  and  viable  State  based  on  the  1967  lines 
with agreed territorial swaps, and the  Israeli goal of  a 
Jewish  State  with  secure  and  recognized  borders  that 
reflect  subsequent  developments  and  that  meet  Israeli 
security requirements. Our commitment to achieving a 
solution, with two States living side by side in peace, is 
unwavering. 

in explanation of vote before the voting. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  decisions  on  draft 
resolutions  A/64/L.20,  A/64/L.21,  A/64/L.22  and 
A/64/L.23. I give the floor to the representative of the 
Secretariat to make an announcement. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  Before  the  Assembly 
proceeds  to  take  action  on  the  draft  resolutions,  I 
would  like  to  announce  that,  since  their  introduction, 
Guinea  has  become  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolutions 
A/64/L.21, A/64/L.22 and A/64/L.23. 
The  President:  We  turn  first  to  draft  resolution 

A/64/L.20, entitled “Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable  Rights  of 
the  Palestinian  People”.  A 
recorded vote has been requested. 
A recorded vote was taken. 

In favour:
The  President:  We  have  heard  the  only  speaker 
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, 
Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize,  Bhutan, 
Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Chile,  China,  Comoros, 


Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Cyprus, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea, 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana, 
Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  India, 
Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq, 
Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nepal, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Panama,  Paraguay,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Senegal,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Togo,  Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe 
Against:
Australia,  Canada, 
Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru,  Palau, 
United States of America 
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining: 
Andorra,  Austria,  Belgium,  Benin,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  Colombia, 
Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  El  Salvador, 
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Peru, 
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain, 
Sweden,  Switzerland, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tonga,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
Uruguay 
Draft  resolution  A/64/L.20  was  adopted  by  109 
votes to 8, with 55 abstentions (resolution 64/16).
[Subsequently 
of  Congo, 
Grenada,  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  and 
delegations 
the 
the 
2 

09-62820 


A/64/PV.54


Yemen  advised  the  Secretariat  that  they  had 
intended  to  vote  in  favour;  the  delegation  of 
Albania advised that it had intended to abstain.] 
The  President:  We  turn  next  to  draft  resolution 

A/64/L.21, entitled “Division for Palestinian Rights of 
the Secretariat”. A recorded vote has been requested. 

In favour:
A recorded vote was taken. 
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cambodia, 
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Comoros, Costa 
Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, 
Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Haiti,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Malaysia,  Maldives, 
Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Oman, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Philippines,  Qatar, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Togo,  Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan, 
Uganda,  United Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe 
Against:
Australia,  Canada, 
Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru,  New 
Zealand, Palau, United States of America 
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining:
Andorra,  Armenia,  Austria,  Belgium,  Benin, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon, 
Colombia, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, El 
Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
the 
Italy, 
Ireland, 
Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Netherlands,  Norway,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain, 
Sweden,  Switzerland, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tonga,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
Draft  resolution  A/64/L.21  was  adopted  by  112 
votes to 9, with 54 abstentions (resolution 64/17).
[Subsequently  the  delegations  of  Congo  and 
Grenada  advised  the  Secretariat  that  they  had 
intended  to  vote  in  favour;  the  delegation  of 
Albania advised that it had intended to abstain.] 
The  President:  We  turn  next  to  draft  resolution 

A/64/L.22,  entitled  “Special  information  programme 
on  the  question  of  Palestine  of  the  Department  of 
Public Information of the Secretariat”. A recorded vote 
has been requested. 

In favour:
A recorded vote was taken.
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, 
Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea, 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Denmark, 
Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
09-62820 

3 
A/64/PV.54 


Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint 
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, 
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra 
Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, 
Sweden, 
Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan, 
Thailand, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Togo,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United 
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe 
Swaziland, 
Suriname, 
Against:
Islands, 
Australia,  Canada, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru,  Palau, 
United States of America 
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining:


Benin, Cameroon, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Tonga 
Draft  resolution  A/64/L.22  was  adopted  by  162 
votes to 8, with 5 abstentions (resolution 64/18).
the  delegations  of  Bahamas, 
[Subsequently 
Congo  and  Grenada  advised  the  Secretariat  that 
they had intended to vote in favour.] 
The  President:  We  turn  next  to  draft  resolution 

A/64/L.23, entitled “Peaceful settlement of the question 
of Palestine”. A recorded vote has been requested. 

In favour:
A recorded vote was taken.  
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia 
(Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria, 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Chad,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea, 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Denmark, 
Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Lithuania, 
Ethiopia,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya, 
Liechtenstein, 
Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New 
Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Sierra  Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  South Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo, 
Trinidad 
Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United  Arab 
Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen,  Zambia, 
Zimbabwe 
Tobago, 
Tunisia, 
and 
Against:
Australia,  Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States 
of America 
Abstaining:


Cameroon, Canada, Fiji, Tonga 
Draft  resolution  A/64/L.23  was  adopted  by  164 
votes to 7, with 4 abstentions (resolution 64/19). 
[Subsequently  the  delegations  of  Congo  and 
Grenada  advised  the  Secretariat  that  they  had 
intended to vote in favour.] 
The  President:  Before  giving 

to 
speakers in explanation of vote after the voting, may I 
remind  delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
the  floor 
4 

09-62820 
its  vote  on 


Mr.  Weissbrod  (Israel):  Israel  voted  against  the 

resolutions just adopted and will vote against the draft 
resolution still before us, as we have done in the past, 
because we believe that those resolutions do not reflect 
the  reality  of  our  region.  They  reflect  a  one-sided 
political  agenda  that  has  been  traditionally  repeated 
here  year  in  and  year  out.  They  are  unhelpful  to  the 
conflict,  where  one  side  is  only  right  while  the  other 
only has obligations.  

The  peoples  in  our  region  need  peace  based  on 
mutual  recognition  that  is  the  result  of  direct  bilateral 
negotiations,  which  should  be  resumed  as  soon  as 
possible  and  without  preconditions.  Our  region  does 
not  need  annual  biased,  unbalanced  and  one-sided 
General Assembly resolutions. Instead, the Middle East 
requires  an  agreement  that  will  enable  us  to  live  side 
by side in peace and security. 
Mr. McLay (New Zealand): New Zealand wished 

to  explain 
two  resolutions,  namely, 
resolution 64/17, on the Division for Palestinian Rights 
of  the  Secretariat,  and  resolution  64/18,  on  the  special 
information programme on the question of Palestine of 
the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat. 

New  Zealand  has  consistently  and  strongly 
supported negotiations towards a two-State solution to 
the  Middle  East  conflict  —  namely,  a  viable, 
contiguous  Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  with 
Israel  in  peace  and  security.  As  we  have  previously 
explained, New Zealand believes that it is essential to 
approach  the  issues  raised  in  those  resolutions  with 
balance  and  with  regard  for  the  overall  purpose  and 
intent of the text in question. 

With  regard  to  the  resolution  on  the  special 
information  programme,  New  Zealand  supports  the 
dissemination of balanced and objective information on 
the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East.  We  welcome  the 
and 
resolution’s 
understanding  between  Palestinians  and 
Israelis. 
Although we voted in favour of the resolution, we call 
on  the  Department  of  Public  Information’s  special 
information  programme  to  carry  out  its  mandate  in  a 
manner  that  reflects  the  full  spectrum  of  perspectives 
on the question of Palestine, particularly those of both 
Israel and Palestine. 

On the resolution on the Division for Palestinian 
Rights, New Zealand is not convinced that the Division 
is a constructive use of resources, and we think it does 
little  to  contribute  to  the  Middle  East  peace  process. 
focus  on  promoting  dialogue 
A/64/PV.54
The  European  Union  urges 
two  States  —  Israel  and  an 
Ms. Måwe (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 
That  we  voted  against  the  resolution  does  not  detract, 
however,  from  our  strong  support  for  Palestinian  self-
determination  and  for  the  continuation  of  negotiations 
leading to a two-State solution. 

on behalf of the European Union (EU).  
The European Union wishes to make to following 

explanation of vote with regard to resolution 64/19, on 
the peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine. 

the  Palestinian 
Authority  and  the  Government  of  Israel  to  enter  into 
serious  peace  negotiations  as  soon  as  possible  while 
respecting  international  law  and  previous  agreements 
and  implementing  their  road  map  obligations.  We 
hereby reiterate the need to ensure a political solution, 
with 
independent, 
democratic  and  viable  Palestinian  State  —  living  side 
by side in peace and security. 

We  welcome  the  United  States  Administration’s 
commitment to pursue vigorously a two-State solution 
and a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. The EU 
is ready to work with the parties to the conflict, as well 
as  with  the  United  States  and  other  Quartet  members 
and Arab partners, to achieve that goal. 

The European Union remains deeply concerned at 
the  continued  settlement  activities,  house  demolitions 
and  evictions  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
including in East Jerusalem. The EU reiterates that the 
settlements  are  illegal  under  international  law  and 
constitute an obstacle to peace.  

The  European  Union  is  also  concerned  about  the 
recent  developments  in  East  Jerusalem.  We  have  been 
following  closely  the  situation  around  the  Al-Aqsa 
mosque, the Temple Mount and Al-Haram Al-Sharif. We 
urge  all  parties  to  refrain  from  any  provocative  actions 
that could further inflame tensions or lead to violence. 

The  EU  remains  gravely  concerned  about  the 
humanitarian  situation  in  Gaza  and  what  is  described 
as, 
to  a  blockade.  While 
acknowledging that crossings are open for the delivery 
of  some  basic  humanitarian  supplies  on  a  relatively 
frequent  basis,  they  remain  at  an  insufficient  level  to 
meet  the  needs  of  the  population.  The  EU  has 
consistently called for the immediate and unconditional 
opening of crossings for the flow of humanitarian aid, 
commercial  goods  and  persons  to  and  from  Gaza, 
without which the unimpeded delivery of humanitarian 
in  effect,  amounting 
09-62820 

5 

A/64/PV.54 

aid,  reconstruction  and  economic  recovery  will  not  be 
possible. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

explanation  of  vote  after  the  voting.  The  General 
Assembly  has 
its 
thus  concluded 
consideration of agenda item 16. 
this  stage  of 




Agenda item 15 (continued) 
The situation in the Middle East 
  Draft resolutions (A/64/L.24 and A/64/L.25) 

The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 

Assembly  held  the  debate  on  this  item  at  its  53rd 
plenary meeting, on 1 December 2009. 
Before  the  Assembly  takes  action  on  the  draft 

resolutions  one  by  one,  I  should  like  to  remind 
members that they will have an opportunity to explain 
their votes on the two draft resolutions before and after 
action is taken on both of them.  

The  Assembly  will  now  take  decisions  on  draft 
resolutions A/64/L.24 and A/64/L.25. I give the floor to 
the  representative  of  the  Secretariat  to  make  an 
announcement. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  Before  the  Assembly 
takes  action  on  the  draft  resolutions,  I  should  like  to 
announce  that,  since  their  introduction,  Guinea  has 
become  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolutions  A/64/L.24  and 
A/64/L.25. 
The  President:  We  turn  first  to  draft  resolution 

A/64/L.24,  entitled  “Jerusalem”.  A  recorded  vote  has 
been requested. 

In favour:
A recorded vote was taken.
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia 
(Plurinational State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria, 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Canada,  Cape  Verde,  Chad, 
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea, 
Iraq, 
Arab 
Ireland, 
Jamahiriya, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Finland,  France,  Gabon, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran 
(Islamic  Republic  of), 
Italy, 
Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libyan 
Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Papua 
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint 
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, 
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra 
Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, 
Sweden, 
Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan, 
Thailand, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Togo,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United 
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe 
Swaziland, 
Suriname, 
Against:
Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated 
States  of),  Nauru,  Palau,  Panama,  United  States 
of America 
Abstaining:


Australia, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Fiji, Tonga 
Draft  resolution  A/64/L.24  was  adopted  by  163 
votes to 7, with 5 abstentions (resolution 64/20).
[Subsequently  the  delegations  of  Congo  and 
Grenada  advised  the  Secretariat  that  they  had 
intended to vote in favour.] 
The  President:  We  turn  next  to  draft  resolution 

A/64/L.25,  entitled  “The  Syrian  Golan”.  A  recorded 
vote has been requested. 

A recorded vote was taken.
6 

09-62820 


In favour:
(Plurinational  State 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Argentina, 
Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan,  Bolivia 
of), 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina 
Faso, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Cuba,  Cyprus, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Ghana,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Haiti,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Madagascar,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Russian  Federation, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  Sri 
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Togo,  Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan, 
Uganda,  United Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe 
Against:
Canada,  Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States 
of America 
Abstaining:
Italy, 
Japan, 
Ireland, 
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia, 
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, 
France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta, 
Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway,  Panama,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain, 
Sweden,  Switzerland, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tonga,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
the 
A/64/PV.54

Draft  resolution  A/64/L.25  was  adopted  by  116 
votes to 7, with 51 abstentions (resolution 64/21).
[Subsequently  the  delegations  of  Congo  and 
Grenada  advised  the  Secretariat  that  they  had 
intended to vote in favour.] 
The  President:  Before  giving 
the  floor 
to 

speakers in explanation of vote after the voting, may I 
remind  delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Limeres  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

have the honour to speak  on behalf of the delegations 
of Brazil and Argentina in connection with agenda item 
15,  “The  situation  in  the  Middle  East”.  I  wish  in 
particular  to  explain  the  votes  of  our  delegations  with 
regard 
to  resolution  64/21,  entitled  “The  Syrian 
Golan”,  which  the  General  Assembly  adopted  just  a 
few moments ago. 

Brazil  and Argentina both  voted in favour of the 
resolution,  for  we  believe  that  its  crucial  nature  is 
linked to the illegality of the acquisition of territory by 
force.  Article  2,  paragraph  4,  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  prohibits  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of 
force against the territorial integrity of a State. That is 
an imperative norm of international law.  

I  should  also  like  to  clarify  the  position  of  our 
delegations  with  regard 
the 
resolution. Our votes do not prejudge the provisions of 
that  paragraph,  and  in  particular  the  reference  to  the 
line of 4 June 1967. 

Brazil  and Argentina  believe  that  it  is  important 
to  make  progress  in  the  search  for  a  solution  on  the 
Syrian-Israeli track of the Middle East conflict, with a 
view to putting an end to the occupation of the Golan 
Heights  in  line  with  Security  Council  resolutions  242 
(1967)  and  338  (1973).  I  should  therefore  like  to  take 
this  opportunity,  on  behalf  of  the  Governments  of 
Brazil  and  Argentina,  to  once  again  urge  Israeli  and 
Syrian authorities to renew negotiations in order to find 
a definite solution to the situation in the Syrian Golan, 
in line with resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and 
the principle of land for peace. 
Mr.  Salsabili  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  wish 

to  place  on  record  here  in  the  General Assembly  that 
my delegation has voted in favour of all the resolutions 
adopted 
item  entitled 
“Question  of  Palestine”,  namely,  resolutions  64/16, 
to  paragraph  6  of 
today  under 
the  agenda 
09-62820 

7 

The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
A/64/PV.54 

64/17, 64/18 and 64/19. We have also voted in favour 
of  resolutions  64/20  and  64/21,  which  were  adopted 
under  agenda  item  15,  entitled  “The  situation  in  the 
Middle  East”.  We  have  done  so  in  the  spirit  of 
solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people  and  their  cause, 
as  well  as  in  solidarity  with  other  peoples  under 
occupation.  

However, I would like to express my delegation’s 
reservations on those parts of the resolutions that may 
not be in line with the stated policies and positions of 
my country, or that may be construed as recognition of 
the Israeli regime. 

explanation of vote after the voting. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): My country’s delegation would like to express 
its  deep  gratitude  and  appreciation  for  the  General 
Assembly’s  majority  adoption  of  resolution  64/21, 
entitled  “The  Syrian  Golan”.  The Assembly  has  done 
so for many years now, since 1991, in order to promote 
justice,  right  and  law,.  I  am  also  grateful  for  the 
adoption  of 
the 
question  of  Palestine  and  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East. 

That  the  international  community  has  continued 
to support those resolutions is a clear reflection of the 
commitment  of  Member  States  to  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations. It also 
reflects their rejection of foreign occupation as well as 
their support of our right to recover our territory, which 
has  now  been  occupied  by  Israel  since  5  June  1967, 
more than 40 years. 

There  is  no  doubt  whatever  that  the  affirmative 
votes for the resolutions were intended to send a clear 
message  from  the  international  community  to  Israel, 
the occupying Power in the Golan, Palestine and parts 
of Lebanon, that it rejects all expansionist policies and 
policies  of  occupation,  aggression  and  killing,  the 
construction  of  settlements,  the  imposition  of  fait 
accompli situations and the annexation of the territory 
of  others  by  force.  Those  policies  and  practices  are 
rejected,  as  they  violate  the  Charter  and  the  1949 
Fourth  Geneva  Convention.  The  entire  international 
community  has  thereby  condemned  those  policies  and 
practices.  

The world is unanimous in its belief that just and 
comprehensive  peace  can  be  established  only  on  the 
the  other  resolutions  concerning 
territories, 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
basis  of  the  principles  of  peace  and  international 
resolutions.  By  definition  that  means  that  there  is  a 
need  for  an  Israeli  partner  with  whom  peace  can  be 
established.  That  partner  does  not  exist  today.  It  also 
illustrates the international community’s belief that all 
occupied  Arab 
included  Syrian  Golan, 
should be restored to the 4 June 1967 borders and that 
an independent Palestinian State, with Jerusalem as its 
capital,  must  be  established.  The  ongoing  Israeli 
occupation  is  counter  to  peace  and  underscores  the 
need  for  all  resources  to  be  mobilized  in  order  to  end 
the occupation. 

I  would  like  to  reiterate  Syria’s  gratitude  to  all 
the  States  that  sponsored  the  resolution  entitled  “The 
Syrian  Golan”.  I  also  wish  to  thank  all  countries  that 
voted  in  favour.  Lastly,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  my 
country’s  call  for  the  establishment  of  a  just  and 
comprehensive  peace.  More  than  ever  before,  Syria  is 
determined to liberate the occupied Golan to the 4 June 
1967 borders and to rid it of Israeli occupation through 
every means guaranteed by international law.  

representative of Palestine. 
Mr. Mansour (Palestine): Palestine would like to 

express  its  gratitude  to  all  those  who  sponsored  the 
resolutions related to the question of Palestine and the 
situation  in  the  Middle  East,  as  well  as  all  those  who 
voted  in  their  favour.  We  view  the  adoption  of  those 
resolutions  as  a  very  strong  signal  from  the  General 
Assembly  both  with  regard  to  upholding  international 
law and reaffirming very clear principles. 

We hope, and will work diligently to ensure, that 
the  Israeli  side  will  comply  with  the  essence  of  these 
resolutions,  which  are  rooted  in  international  law  and 
the  civilized  conduct  of  nations.  We  do  not  see 
upholding  international  law  and  reaffirming  those 
principles as conditions. What we see as illegal, and as 
obstacles  to  peace,  is  unilateral  action  in  building 
illegal  settlements,  the  construction  of  an  illegal  wall 
and the annexation of East Jerusalem. And if the Israeli 
occupying  authority  thinks  that  they  can  take  us  for  a 
ride,  forcing  us  to  negotiate  on  the  basis  of  their 
conditions, creating all those unilateral, illegal actions, 
they will have a long time to wait. They must abide by 
their  obligations  under  international  law  and  by  the 
essence of the resolutions of the General Assembly and 
the Security Council. 
8 

09-62820 



We are eager to move forward in the direction of 
peace, as we have demonstrated all along by fulfilling 
all of our obligations. We do not see similar behaviour 
on the Israeli side. And for those who think that these 
resolutions  are  one-sided,  they  have  to  recall  that  this 
strong message is sent by almost the entire membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  cannot  all  of  us  be  wrong. 
We cannot all of us be selecting Israel as a target. Israel 
is acting and behaving as if it were above international 
law, and it is getting away with it. It is high time for all 
of us to bring Israel into compliance with international 
law and the essence of these resolutions. 

The  one-sided  action  is  that  of  the  Israeli  side, 
which  is  building  illegal  settlements  and  creating  the 
reality  on  the  ground.  Its  actions  are  much  stronger 
than  resolutions.  Although  these  resolutions  defend 
international  law  and  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people,  the  action  of  the  Israeli  side,  which  should  be 
condemned and which we should seek to stop, could be 
the most important contribution to the peace process so 
that  all  obstacles  could  be  removed  from  the  path  of 
A/64/PV.54
the  peace  negotiations  and  the  occupation  brought  to 
an  end,  allowing  the  Palestinian  people  to  enjoy 
freedom  and  sovereignty  in  their  own  independent 
Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital. 

We hope that, collectively,  we can find a way to 
bring Israel into compliance so that we can put an end 
to the tragedy of the Palestinian people and allow them 
to  exercise  self-determination  and  have  their  own 
independent State in Palestine. 

We  wish  to  thank  all  members  for  the  strong 
message they are sending to our people, who continue 
in  their  struggle. They  will  not  cease  in  their  struggle 
until they succeed in putting an end to the occupation 
and  realizing  their  aspiration  for  an  independent  State 
of Palestine.  
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 15. 

The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m. 
09-62820 

9 
