
A/64/PV.40
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

40th plenary meeting 
Monday, 9 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 




Agenda item 17 
The situation in Afghanistan 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/364) 

  Draft resolution (A/64/L.8) 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  Germany  to  introduce 
draft resolution A/64/L.8. 
Mr. Ney (Germany): The international community 

is  willing  and  committed  to  continue  to  support  the 
Afghan  people  in  their  efforts  to  shape  their  own 
destiny,  establish  sustainable  peace  and  security,  and 
rebuild  their  country  despite  ongoing  terrorist  threats. 
This  is  the  key  message  of  General  Assembly  draft 
resolution  A/64/L.8  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan, 
which I have the honour to introduce to the Assembly 
today. 

The  debate  and  adoption  of  the  draft  resolution 
give  us,  the  members  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
timely  opportunity  to  renew  our  clear  message  of 
international solidarity to the Afghan people. 

As  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  stressed  last 
week, we will not be deterred by the recent despicable 
attacks  by  the  Taliban  targeting  the  international 
community  in  Kabul.  We  pay  homage  to  the  innocent 
people  who  lost  their  lives  and  extend  our  deepest 
condolences to the families and friends of the victims. 
Our thoughts are also with all those Afghans and other 
international 
authorities.  The 
nationals  who  have  lost  their  lives  as  a  result  of  the 
Taliban insurgency. 

Afghanistan  experienced  the  first  presidential 
elections  run  entirely  under  the  responsibility  of  the 
community
Afghan 
witnessed  with  admiration  the  courage  of  the  Afghan 
people  who  cast  their  votes  despite  serious  security 
threats. We welcome the conclusion of the presidential 
electoral process and congratulate President Karzai on 
his second term in office. 
It is at this point that I should like to extend the 

sincerest 
thanks  and  profound  gratitude  of  my 
Government  to  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General,  Kai  Eide,  and  his  team  within  the 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, for 
supporting the Afghan institutions during the elections. 
I  should  also  like  to  extend  my  thanks  to  the  security 
forces  in  Afghanistan  for  their  efforts  to  provide 
security  during  the  electoral  process  to  the  extent 
possible.  The  good  performance  of  the Afghan  media 
and the Afghan election observers also deserves praise.  

As  Afghanistan  continues  to  face  significant 
challenges, we emphasize that President Karzai should 
move swiftly to form a Government that is able to meet 
the  challenges.  We  should  continue  to  encourage  all 
political actors in Afghanistan to respect the rule of law 
and  to  continue  to  take  responsibility  for  the  stability 
and  unity  of  Afghanistan.  In  this  regard,  Germany 
welcomes  President  Karzai’s  most  recent  commitment 
to 
fighting 
corruption.  We  hope  that  effective  measures,  such  as 
reforms  and 
to  actively 
instituting 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-59876 (E) 
*0959876* 


in 
reflects 
the  views  expressed 
informal  consultations  for  all 
A/64/PV.40 

the  strengthening  of  the  anti-corruption  commission, 
will be taken to ensure good governance and to create 
an  enabling 
legal  and  political  environment  for 
stability,  as  well  as  economic  and  social  development 
and growth through private investment in Afghanistan. 

The draft resolution before us is a well-balanced 
call  on  Member  States  for  continued  cooperation  with 
the  Afghan  Government  and  on  the  new  Afghan 
Government  “to  build  a  renewed  relationship  of  trust 
with  its  citizens  by  achieving  concrete  and  visible 
results” (A/64/L.8, fourth preambular paragraph). The 
draft 
informal 
consultations. I wish to seize this opportunity to thank 
the  numerous  delegations  that  participated  actively  in 
the 
their  valuable 
contributions. 

I should like briefly to point out four elements of 
the  draft  resolution  that  have  been  discussed  most 
intensively during the informal consultations. First, all 
delegations underlined the importance of the protection 
of  the  civilian  population.  On  the  one  hand,  the  draft 
resolution  clearly  stresses  the  fact  that  the  Taliban, 
Al-Qaida  and  other  extremist  and  criminal  groups  are 
responsible for the wide majority of civilian casualties 
in Afghanistan and continue their despicable tactics of 
using civilians as human shields. On the other hand, it 
also  calls  on  the  security  forces  to  continue  their 
intensified  efforts  aimed  at  ensuring  the  protection  of 
civilians.  This  will  require  the  continued  review  of 
tactics  and  procedures  and  the  conduct  of  after-action 
reviews and investigations. 

Secondly,  delegations  felt  a  need  to  recall  the 
importance  of  upholding  international  obligations  for 
the advancement of women’s rights, as enshrined in the 
Afghan Constitution. 

Thirdly, delegations exchanged their views on the 
prospects  of  an  internal  political  dialogue  aimed  at 
establishing  sustainable  peace  in  Afghanistan.  They 
agreed  that  the  draft  resolution  should  encourage  the 
implementation  of  reintegration,  reconciliation  and 
transitional 
the  Afghan 
Government  aiming  at  reintegrating  those  who  are 
ready to renounce violence, denounce terrorism, accept 
the  Afghan  Constitution,  and  commit  themselves  to 
stability  and 
working  constructively 
development 
the  Afghan 
Constitution. 
for  peace, 
framework  of 
justice  processes 
led  by 
the 
in 
Fourthly  and 
the  United  Kingdom  have 

finally,  delegations  welcomed 
ongoing  efforts  by  the  Governments  of  Afghanistan 
and  its  partners  in  the  region  to  foster  trust  and 
cooperation  with  each  other.  Delegations  encouraged 
further  initiatives  to  increase  regional  cooperation  in 
order 
to  promote  security,  stability,  peace  and 
economic  development  in  Afghanistan  and  in  the 
region. 

The  second  presidential  election  in  Afghanistan 
marked  an important step in the democratic history of 
the country. This is the time for the Afghan people and 
the  international  community  alike  to  take  stock,  look 
ahead and assess the challenges we are facing. France, 
Germany  and 
jointly 
proposed  that  the  Secretary-General  take  the  initiative 
to co-chair an international conference on Afghanistan 
in  cooperation  with  the  new Afghan  Government.  We 
appreciate  the  support  expressed  by  the  Secretary-
General for this initiative, and welcome the first steps 
taken  by  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-
General Kai Eide in this regard. 

If we want to succeed, it is of crucial importance 
that  we  jointly  revisit  our  goals.  These  goals  must 
include security, good governance, the rule of law and 
human  rights,  as  well  as  the  economic  and  social 
development of Afghanistan. We should agree on new, 
specific  and  measurable  benchmarks  and  timelines  in 
order  to  establish  a  joint  framework  for  the  transition 
phase  ahead  towards  increased  Afghan  ownership.  In 
view  of  such  a  framework,  Germany  is  committed  to 
continuing  its  support  to  the  Afghan  people  and  to 
cooperating  fully  and  constructively  with  the  new 
Afghan  Government.  Germany  is  planning  to  further 
enhance 
international 
reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan. 

Germany  aligns  itself  fully  with  the  statement 
that will be delivered by the Swedish presidency of the 
European Union later in the debate. 

Finally, I would like to conclude by extending my 
heartfelt  thanks  to  my  colleague  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin and his Deputy Permanent Representative, Erfani 
Ayoob,  for  their  trust,  cooperation  and  friendship, 
which we have been privileged to enjoy. 
Mr.  Tanin  (Afghanistan):  Thirty  years  ago,  in 

December  1979,  Soviet  forces  entered  Afghanistan. 
Since 
the  victim  of 
perpetual war, violence and conflict. Constant upheaval 
has torn the country from a peaceful, progressive path 
then,  Afghanistan  has  been 
contribution 
the 
its 
to 
2 

09-59876 


and  thrust  it  into  the  global  spotlight.  The  General 
Assembly  has  repeatedly  gathered  to  reiterate  its 
solidarity with the Afghan people. 

However,  while  we  debated  here,  the  floodgates 
of hell opened in Afghanistan. What was once a stable, 
modernizing country and a role model for other States 
in  the  region  became  a  name  without  a  State,  a  vast 
wasteland  of  shattered  lives.  One  hundred  years  of 
social, political and economic progress were destroyed. 
What  is  worse,  2  million  people  were  killed  and 
10 million  more  fled  for  their  own  safety.  That  is  the 
true tragedy of my country and my people. Now, eight 
years after the fall of the Taliban, eight years after we 
all  believed  that  the  long  national  nightmare  of  the 
Afghan people had at last come to an end, violence still 
threatens  the  lives  of  Afghans  in  many  parts  of  the 
country. 

The  draft  resolution  (A/64/L.8)  before  us  today 
reflects an awareness of our common responsibility to 
address  the  situation  in Afghanistan  and  reaffirms  the 
strong  determination  of  the  membership  towards  this 
end.  For  this  support,  the  Government  and  people  of 
Afghanistan are deeply grateful. 

In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  thank  you, 
Mr. President,  for  convening  this  meeting,  and  all  the 
members  for  their  presence  here  today  and  for  so 
widely  and  strongly  supporting  the  draft  resolution 
now before us. Allow me to also express my sincerest 
thanks 
in  particular 
Ambassador  Martin  Ney,  Counsellor  Daniel  Krull  and 
his  able  team,  for  their  substantial  efforts  and  able 
facilitation of the draft resolution. 

The  past  eight  years  have  been  difficult,  but  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  has  fundamentally  improved. 
Eight  years  ago,  we  were  debating  how  to  build  what 
did not exist: a Government, an army and police force, 
and a functioning economic and social life. Today, we 
are  debating  how  to  improve  what  we  have  built  and 
how  to  have  a  good,  effective  Government,  a  well-
trained  army  and  police  and  a  productive  economy. 
Today,  Afghanistan’s  flag  flies  proudly  across  the 
country. This is a substantial accomplishment. 
Unfortunately,  our  progress  has  not  been 

sufficient. We have allowed three crucial opportunities 
to slip through our fingers. 

First,  we  missed  the  chance  to  wipe  out  the 
Taliban, Al-Qaida and other terrorists. After their initial 
the  German  Mission, 
to 
A/64/PV.40
Thirdly,  we  missed 
the  chance 
to 
to  shoulder 
Thankfully,  within 
two  years, 
the 
defeat,  we  permitted  them  to  rearm  and  regroup  in 
sanctuaries  outside  Afghanistan.  As  a  result,  they 
returned  to  threaten  us  in  2006,  and  the  security 
situation has deteriorated markedly. 

Secondly,  we  missed  the  chance  to  properly 
resource  and  reinforce  our  efforts.  Afghanistan  has 
been  starved  for  resources,  starved  for  attention  and 
starved  for  troops.  Our  responses  have  been  reactive, 
ex post facto and fragmented. 
rapidly 

the 
empower  and  enable  Afghans 
responsibility  for  their  own  destiny.  The  Government 
and  civil  society 
lack  capacity,  experience  and 
resources. 
the 
the  past 

Government  of  Afghanistan  and 
international 
community  have  together  begun  to  craft  a  common 
approach.  We  are  beginning  to  offer  the  necessary 
resources  to  combat  a  resurgent  Taliban.  We  have 
strengthened the important United Nations mandate for 
coordination.  We  have  begun  to  build  capacity  to 
address  weak  governance  and  fragile  institutions.  We 
have  built  a  strengthened  partnership  with  the  elected 
Government in Islamabad, and we are working together 
towards  real  cooperation  in  the  fight  against  our 
common enemy. Finally, with the holding of the second 
presidential elections in our history, Afghans are again 
able to have a say in their future. 

The  elections  marked  the  beginning  of  a  new 
chapter  in  Afghanistan.  Unfortunately,  the  elections 
were held in  difficult circumstances. In  many regions, 
voters  risked  their  lives  to  participate.  Despite  this, 
however,  millions 
and  millions  more 
participated in the debates surrounding the campaigns. 

Elections are not perfect anywhere. They are even 
less  perfect  in  an  emerging  democracy  threatened  by 
conflict.  The Afghan  people  worked  tirelessly,  not  on 
the  sidelines  but  as 
institutions. 
Complaints  and  irregularities  were  uncovered  and 
addressed  in  a  meticulously  fair  and  systematic  way. 
The  elections  were  as  free  as  possible,  as  fair  as 
possible  and  as 
transparent  as  possible.  Most 
importantly, the people of Afghanistan showed respect 
for  the  rule  of  law.  All  of  Afghanistan  patiently  and 
peacefully awaited a legal, constitutional outcome and 
are now prepared to accept that outcome. This has been 
a peaceful transition. 
leaders  of  our 
voted, 
09-59876 

3 

A/64/PV.40 


The  re-election  of  President  Karzai  has  ended  a 
period  of  uncertainty  and  an  extended  pause  in  our 
reconstruction  and  stabilization  efforts.  The  President-
elect,  in  his  first  address,  emphasized  that  we  need  to 
seize this unique moment. Over the next five years, the 
new  Government  of  Afghanistan  will  create  and 
maintain  two  compacts,  one  with  the  Afghan  people 
and  one  with  the  international  community.  Together, 
these  pacts  will  help  forge  strong,  constructive 
partnerships  and  will  lead  Afghanistan  to  sustainable 
progress. 

The  principal  compact  is  with  the  people  of 
Afghanistan  and  will  be  based  on  a  continuing 
commitment  to  ensuring  the  physical  and  economic 
security  of  Afghans,  providing  good  governance  and 
ensuring  the  rule  of  law,  and  encouraging  economic 
development.  To  achieve  these  three  aims,  President-
elect Karzai has identified four areas of focus: national 
participation, reconciliation, Afghanization and tackling 
corruption. 

The  need  for  Afghans  to  take  control  of  their 
destinies  is  central  to  this  compact.  In  an  ongoing 
effort  to  build  capacity  and  wash  out  the  stain  of 
corruption,  Afghans 
increasing 
responsibility  for  governance,  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
protection  of  human  rights.  In  training  the  army  and 
police, Afghans  can  take  on  a  greater  role  in  ensuring 
security,  enforcing 
leading  counter-
narcotics efforts. 

The  Government  represents  all  Afghans.  The 
Government  serves  all Afghans.  We  are  committed  to 
greater  national  participation  in  the  political  and 
reconstruction processes. In addition, we will continue 
to  welcome  any  Afghan  who  is  willing  to  join  the 
peace  process  and  respect  the Afghan  Constitution.  In 
undertaking  these  commitments,  the  new  Government 
of  Afghanistan  will  work  actively  and  constructively 
with 
international 
community alike. 

In  building  a  prosperous  and  democratic 
Afghanistan,  security  is  at  the  core  of  all  our  efforts. 
Security  is  not  only  an  end  in  itself;  it  is  also  an 
important  prerequisite  for  progress  in  other  areas. 
Insecurity 
to  good  governance  and 
sustainable  development,  and  is  the  single  biggest 
threat  to  human  rights.  Insecurity  prevents  Afghans 
from  putting  aside  their  guns  to  concentrate  on 
rebuilding  their  lives,  and  it  breeds  corruption,  fear, 
is  a  barrier 
the  broader 
region  and 
law  and 
assume 
should 
the 
the 
the 
in  order 
reach  of 
to  expand 
hopelessness  and despair. We will never earn the trust 
of  Afghans  while  they  are  constantly  subjected  to 
terror. We must first help them feel secure. 

However,  our  aim  is  not  to  kill  every  Taliban 
fighter. We have to use political and military strategies 
together 
the 
Government, train the Afghan army and police, isolate 
the Taliban from the people, earn the trust of the people 
and  encourage  the  engagement  of Afghan  civilians  in 
the peace and reconciliation process. 
The  sole  strength  of  the  Taliban,  Al-Qaida  and 

their  terrorist  allies  lies  in  their  brutality. Afghanistan 
needs  a  military  and  civilian  strategy  that  centres  on 
the security of the Afghan people and offers them real 
protection  from  the  threats  of  the  Taliban  and  the 
unintended consequences of counter-terrorist operations. 
NATO’s  new  strategy  is  a  promising  and  responsible 
step in this direction. 
However, the Government’s tremendous objectives 

will  not  be  achieved  in  one  day.  We  will  achieve 
nothing  by  setting  premature  deadlines.  We  will 
achieve  nothing  without 
the  consistent  political, 
military  and  financial  support  of  the  international 
community.  Most  important,  we  will  achieve  nothing 
without  mutual  understanding  built  on 
trust  and 
cooperation. 
Recent  public  debate  about  Afghanistan  has 

strained  this  understanding. Afghanistan  both  respects 
and  understands 
the 
international  community.  We  ask  the  world  to  respect 
and understand the views and concerns of Afghans. All 
stakeholders  deserve  sincere,  credible  partners.  We 
need a partnership built on real solidarity.  

For  this  reason,  the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
will  focus  on  building  and  renewing  a  second 
compact — a compact with the international community. 
This  compact  should  rest  on  the  strong  foundation  of 
our 
security, 
development and good governance in Afghanistan and 
the region. Together, we should seek rational and well-
resourced  common  strategies  with  realistic  timelines. 
In this regard, we welcome the call for an international 
conference  to  refresh  and  renew  our  partnership  and 
build  a  solid  foundation  for  our  future  work  together. 
The  recent  attack  on  the  dedicated  United  Nations 
workers  in  Kabul  shows  that  our  partnership  is  under 
attack from the outside. We must strengthen it from the 
inside. 
legitimate  concerns  of 
to  pursuing 
commitment 
shared 
the 
4 

09-59876 
seen 



The  key  to  the  future  of  Afghanistan  is  in  the 
hands  of  the  Afghan  people.  They  are  the  masters  of 
their  destiny.  The  Taliban  do  not  represent  Afghans. 
Their power is the power of destruction. Their strength 
lies only in brutality. Let us make a strong relationship 
between  the  Afghan  people  and  the  international 
community  the  bedrock  of  our  strategies.  Let  us  use 
today’s  draft  resolution  on  Afghanistan  to  demand 
more from ourselves and our partners alike. Alone, we 
will fail, but together we can and will succeed. 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  Croatia,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Albania, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, Iceland, 
Ukraine,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  and Armenia  align 
themselves with this statement. 

The European Union welcomes the conclusion of 
the  presidential  electoral  process  and  congratulates 
President  Hamid  Karzai  on  winning  a  second  term  in 
office.  This  autumn,  we  have 
important 
developments in Afghanistan. The first elections to be 
organized by the Afghan authorities in several decades 
took  place.  The  European  Union  has  supported  these 
elections  and  the  Afghan  institutions  responsible  for 
conducting  them  throughout  the  process  and  will 
continue to do so. 

Lessons  should  be  learned  from  this  round  of 
elections.  The  European  Union  stands  ready  to  assist 
Afghanistan  in  reviewing  and  improving  the  electoral 
system,  especially  in  view  of  the  elections  to  be  held 
next  year,  while  we  also  note  that  addressing  some  of 
the  issues  related  to  the  electoral  system  will  require 
attention in the longer term as well. 

On  27  October,  the  European  Union  took  an 
important decision in adopting a plan for strengthened 
EU  action  in  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan.  The  plan 
reflects  the  strategic  importance  that  the  European 
Union attaches to the region. The EU will increase its 
efforts strategically, politically and financially, as well 
as  through  the  contribution  of  technical  assistance,  in 
order 
in  a  positive 
direction. 
The  European  Union  expects  that  a  credible  and 

competent  Government 
the  major 
challenges  facing  the  country  will  be  formed  without 
delay and that it will promote national unity in order to 
regain legitimacy in the eyes of the Afghan people. The 
to  engage  early  and 
European  Union 
to  help  move  developments 
that  addresses 
A/64/PV.40
substantially  with  such  a  Government,  on  the  basis  of 
the European Union’s plan of action. 

The  debate  on  the  annual  resolution  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  is  an  opportunity  for  the 
international community to reaffirm its support for the 
Afghan people and its path towards peace, security and 
democracy.  We  thank  Germany  for  its  initiative  again 
this year and  for  having managed this draft resolution 
so  well. The  end  result  reflects  both  the  progress  that 
has  been  achieved  and  the  challenges  remaining  in 
Afghanistan,  as  well  as  the  international  community’s 
unanimous  support  for 
the  Afghan  Government’s 
efforts to consolidate a stable and democratic country. 

The  European  Union  expresses  its  continued 
strong  support  for  the  Secretary-General,  his  Special 
Representative  and  all  United  Nations  personnel  for 
their  important  work  in  assisting  Afghanistan  despite 
the  tragic  loss  of  life  during  the  suicide  attack  on 
United Nations personnel in Kabul on 28 October. 

The  European  Union  salutes  half  a  century  of 
United Nations commitment to Afghanistan and hopes 
that  it  will  be  possible,  following  its  security  review, 
for  the  United  Nations  presence  there  to  return  to  full 
strength. The European Union understands the difficult 
security  situation  under  which  the  United  Nations 
operates  in  Afghanistan,  supports  the  need  to  ensure 
the  safety  of  United  Nations  staff  accordingly,  and 
looks forward to further discussions on proposals from 
the Secretary-General in that regard. 

Following  the  completion  of  the  elections  and 
with a new Government in place, the EU looks forward 
to the Government of Afghanistan’s rapidly addressing 
the  challenges  facing  the  nation  by  developing  a 
reform  agenda  with  concrete  commitments  to  the 
Afghan  people.  Such  an  agenda  should 
include 
improving governance and fighting corruption, as well 
as addressing security and improving the rule of law. 
The  European  Union  also  looks  forward  to  the 

an 
international 
opportunity for the new Afghan Government to lay out 
its  priorities,  plans  and  commitments.  The  United 
Nations  should  have  a  prominent 
that 
conference. For the international community, it will be 
an  occasion  to  review  and  reaffirm  its  engagement  in 
Afghanistan.  Jointly,  we  should  agree  on  new  goals, 
benchmarks and timelines in order to formulate a joint 
framework  for  our  work  towards  the  common  goal  of 
an Afghanistan living in peace and security. 
conference,  which  will  offer 
role 
in 
is  ready 
09-59876 

5 

the  EU 
The  focus  of 
the 
in  Afghanistan,  and 
international  presence 
A/64/PV.40 

The  European  Union  member  States  are  deeply 

involved 
is  a  key 
contributor  to  its  reconstruction.  The  EU  and  its 
member States are spending nearly €1 billion a year on 
civilian  efforts  in Afghanistan.  The  troop  contribution 
of  EU  member  States  to  the  United  Nations-mandated 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  amounts  to 
approximately  30,000,  which  is  the  heaviest  EU 
military engagement in a long time. 
in 

Afghanistan 
is  on  safeguarding  a  stable  security 
environment to make development possible. Maintaining 
security is currently a responsibility shared between the 
Afghan  national  security  forces  and  the  international 
community.  Ultimately,  our  highest  priority  should  be 
to  enable  the Afghan  national  security  forces  to  carry 
out  that  responsibility  on  their  own.  The  European 
Union  concurs,  needless  to  say,  with  the  view  that 
everything  possible  should  be  done  to  avoid  civilian 
casualties. 

Building  Afghan  capacity  and  strengthening 
national ownership in the civilian sectors remain at the 
core  of 
in 
Afghanistan.  The  EU  will  increase  its  support,  for 
example,  in  the  areas  of  good  governance,  the  rule  of 
law, including justice, and the fight against corruption. 
We  urge  the  next  Government  of Afghanistan  to  give 
priority to the achievement of progress in those areas, 
not 
level.  Further,  we 
underscore  the  need  for  concrete  improvements  in  the 
protection  of  human  rights,  including  the  rights  of 
women, and stand ready to support a new Government 
in that regard. 
The framework for political, social and economic 

development 
the  Afghanistan 
Compact,  the  Afghan  National  Development  Strategy 
and  the  principles  agreed  at  the  Paris  and  Hague 
Conferences on Afghanistan. The European Union will 
further  enhance  and  improve  its  contributions  to 
Afghanistan’s reconstruction and development through 
a  common  approach,  as  well  as  bilaterally  through 
individual member States. 

Without doubt, stability, security and development 
in  Afghanistan  are  closely  linked  to  the  overall 
situation  in  that  region. The  EU  strongly  supports  the 
development of a coordinated approach at the regional 
level  and  enhanced  cooperation  between  Afghanistan 
and 
its  neighbours,  especially  Pakistan.  The  EU 
the  European  Union’s  engagement 
the  subnational 
in  Afghanistan 
least  at 
is 
particularly  acknowledges  Pakistan’s  key  role  for 
stability  in  the  region.  We  welcome  the  progress  that 
has  been  achieved  in  the  bilateral  dialogue  between 
Afghanistan and Pakistan.  

The  European  Union  will  concentrate  its  efforts 
on  strengthening  State  capacity  and  institutions  to 
promote  good  governance,  human  rights  and  efficient 
public  administration,  especially  at  the  subnational 
level.  The  EU  will  focus  on  strengthening  the  rule  of 
law  by  assisting  in  the  building  of  a  civilian  police 
force  through  the  European  Union  Police  Mission  in 
Afghanistan.  We  will  also  support  economic  growth, 
especially  through  rural  development  and  improved 
regional  cooperation.  The  EU  strongly  supports  the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan 
(UNAMA)  in  its  important  role  as  coordinator  of 
international efforts. We recognize the responsibility of 
member  States  to  assist  UNAMA  in  performing  that 
task.  Additional  UNAMA  provincial  offices  are  a 
welcome contribution. 

The  EU  reiterates  that  the  primary  responsibility 
for the development of the country lies with the Afghan 
Government and the people themselves. I would like to 
assure  the  Assembly  that  the  European  Union  will 
continue to play an active role in assisting Afghanistan 
on its road to security, stability and prosperity in close 
cooperation  and  coordination  with  UNAMA  and  other 
international actors. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
States  members  of  the  Collective  Security  Treaty 
Organization (CSTO) — the Republic of Armenia, the 
Republic  of  Belarus,  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  the 
Kyrgyz  Republic,  the  Russian  Federation  and  the 
Republic of Tajikistan. 

In  recent  years,  the  authorities  of  Afghanistan 
have  managed  to  achieve  definite  progress  in  State-
building 
strengthening  of  democratic 
institutions. The presidential and local elections held in 
Afghanistan  serve  as  a  vivid  example  of  that.  We 
expect a new effective Government to be formed soon. 

Referring  to  the  recent  attack  on  the  United 
Nations  mission  in  Kabul,  we  decisively  condemn  the 
actions  of  terrorists  and  call  on  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  to  guarantee  an  appropriate  level  of 
security  both 
in 
Afghanistan  and  to  all  foreign  missions  accredited  in 
that country. 
the  United  Nations  mission 
and 
the 
to 
6 

09-59876 
international  endeavours 



The  new  Afghan  authorities  will  encounter 
unprecedented  challenges.  The  Taliban’s  position  is 
stronger  than  ever  since  they  were  toppled.  Al-Qaida 
remains  very  active.  Much  remains  to  be  done  in  the 
field  of  socio-economic  rehabilitation.  The  security 
situation  is  still  of  key  importance  to  the  further 
reconstruction and development of Afghanistan. 

In that respect, neither the Afghan authorities nor 
the  international  community  can  abandon  their  efforts 
to  isolate  extremist  leaders,  especially  those  on  the 
sanctions  list  of  the  Security  Council  Committee 
established  pursuant  to  resolution  1267  (1999).  An 
opportunity to return to normal political life should be 
offered  only  to  those  who  renounce  violence,  armed 
combat  and  their  ties  with  Al-Qaida  and  the  Taliban 
movement  and  recognize  the  Constitution  and  the 
legitimate Government of Afghanistan. All talks should 
be held only by the legitimate authorities of Afghanistan. 

Our countries pay the utmost attention to fighting 
drug  trafficking,  which  is  a  source  of  financing 
terrorist activity. Unfortunately, we must acknowledge 
that 
illicit 
production  and  distribution  of  narcotics  from  the 
territory  of  Afghanistan  have  yet  to  prove  effective. 
The  international  military  presence  in  Afghanistan 
possesses  all  the  tools  necessary  for  a  more  efficient 
struggle 
support  more 
comprehensive  international  cooperation  to  ensure  the 
full  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1735  (2006),  including  with  regard  to  those  who  use 
resources  gained  from  the  production  of  illicit  drugs 
and  precursors  to  finance  terrorist  groups.  Security 
Council  resolution  1817  (2008),  intended  to  impose 
international control over the circulation of precursors, 
remains relevant. 

We encourage the Government of Afghanistan to 
strengthen  cooperation  with  the  CSTO  on  countering 
the  illicit  production  and  trafficking  of  drugs.  We  are 
convinced that only through the Afghan Government’s 
full  involvement  in  the  fight  against  that  evil  can 
substantial  improvements  be  made  in  reducing  the 
global  level  of  opiate  production.  We  believe  it 
necessary 
to  significantly  strengthen  anti-narcotic 
efforts both in the territory of Afghanistan and around it 
by creating belts of anti-narcotic and financial security 
with the participation of neighbouring countries. 

in 
countering the illicit circulation of drugs on the Afghan 
The  CSTO  possesses  vast 
experience 
evil.  We 
to  fight 
the 
against 
that 
A/64/PV.40
The  participants  were 
track. One of the most successful and effective formats 
of  the  CSTO  countries’  practical  cooperation  to  curb 
the  interregional  and  international  supply  of  drugs  is 
Operation  Channel,  which  has  had  the  status  of  a 
permanent  regional  CSTO  anti-narcotics  operation 
since September 2008. 

Every year the number  of  countries participating 
in Operation Channel expands. In accordance with the 
decision  of  CSTO  heads  of  State,  the  first  stage  of 
Channel  2009,  a  complex  operational  and  prevention 
operation, was completed between 22 and 28 September. 
Participants included drug enforcement agencies of the 
CSTO  member  States;  authorized  representatives  of 
law-enforcement bodies from Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, 
Bulgaria,  Venezuela,  Germany,  Iran,  China,  Latvia, 
Lithuania,  Poland,  the  United  States,  Turkey,  Ukraine 
and  Estonia;  and  financial  investigation  operatives 
from  States  members  of  the  Eurasian  Group  on 
Combating  Money  Laundering  and  Financing  of 
Terrorism.  Representatives  of  law-enforcement  bodies 
from  Bulgaria,  Germany,  Venezuela  and  Turkey 
participated in the endeavour for the first time. 

tasked  with  several 
objectives,  chief  of  which  were  blocking 
illicit 
trafficking channels into Eurasian countries for opiates 
from  Afghanistan,  synthetic  drugs  from  Europe  and 
cocaine  from  Latin  America,  and  preventing  illicit 
supplies  of  precursors  to  the  Central  Asian  republics 
and Afghanistan,  as  well  as  confiscating  illegal  arms, 
ammunition  and  explosive  materials,  and  preventing 
the laundering of drug money. The operation involved 
139,000  officers  of  drug  enforcement  agencies, 
security  forces, 
law  enforcement  agencies,  police 
forces and border services. More than 9,000 joint rapid 
response groups and 7,000 fixed stations were created 
in  border  regions  at  rail,  air  and  road  transportation 
facilities.  More  than  2,000  rail  junctions  and  stations, 
725 airports and almost 4,500 roads were closed off. 

Operations  were  conducted  in  regions  directly 
adjacent to Afghanistan. This permitted the interception 
of  large,  wholesale  shipments  of  drugs.  Based  on  a 
previously tested scheme of interaction and information 
exchange  between  the  operational  department  of  the 
international coordination headquarters and the Russian 
Financial  Monitoring  Service,  an  examination  of 
financial  operations  suspected  of  being  connected  to 
illicit  drug  trafficking  activity  was  organized.  In  the 
course  of 
tons  of 
psychotropic, narcotic and other hard drugs were seized. 
the  operation  more 
than  30 
09-59876 

7 

A/64/PV.40 

More than 6,000 charges for crimes pertaining to illicit 
drug trafficking were made, more than 26,000 criminal 
cases  initiated  and  5,400  people  were  tried  for  crimes 
involving  illicit  drug  deals;  531  of  those  individuals 
were members of criminal organizations. Approximately 
849 firearms and more than 34,000 items of ammunition 
were confiscated. 

The  strengthening  of  the  anti-drug  zones  should 
be supplemented by creating financial security cordons 
around Afghanistan.  This  means  not  only  intercepting 
drug shipments but also imposing stronger controls on 
the  transnational  movement  of  income  from  drug 
trafficking,  money-laundering  and  other  criminal 
activities, including financing terrorism. 

This year the CSTO member States took an active 
part in a number of significant international forums on 
the  question  of  Afghanistan,  including  the  Special 
Conference on Afghanistan held in Moscow under the 
auspices  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization. 
The  CSTO  strongly  believes  that  effectively  resolving 
the situation in Afghanistan and addressing the serious 
issues  on 
the  Afghan  Government’s  agenda  are 
unattainable without an integrated approach on the part 
of  the  international  community,  under  the  auspices  of 
the United Nations. Such efforts, though, will not yield 
the  benefits  hoped  for  without  delegating  more 
independence 
in  solving  Afghanistan’s 
internal problems, above all by creating the conditions 
that  will  enable  the  Afghan  Government  to  be  self-
sufficient in providing national security. 

Mrs.  Juul  (Norway):  Eight  years  have  passed 
since the Taliban were defeated and the reconstruction 
of  Afghanistan  began.  There  have  been  positive 
developments, particularly in the socio-economic field. 
But many Afghans are becoming impatient and say that 
too  little  is  happening,  too  late.  The  deteriorating 
security  situation  is  a  cause  of  suffering  for  the 
population  and  grave  concern  in  the  international 
community. It is therefore necessary to ask how we and 
the  Afghan  Government  should  prioritize,  and  where 
we can improve our performance. The  United Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  plays  a 
key  role  in  finding  constructive  answers  to  these 
questions. 

Against  this  backdrop,  Norway  looks  forward  to 
the  unanimous  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of 
draft 
in 
Afghanistan. The broad support for this draft resolution 
resolution  A/64/L.8,  on 
to  Kabul 
situation 
the 
that 
it  can  continue 
among all States Members of the United Nations sends 
an important message: the international community has 
a  common  wish  for 
improved  security,  political 
stability and development for the people of Afghanistan. 

Following the fatal attack on United Nations staff 
in  Kabul  on  28  October,  it  is  imperative  that  we 
express  our  strongest  support  for  the  Organization  in 
Afghanistan.  We  welcome  the  recent  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  ensure  protection  of  his  own 
United Nations staff. Norway is committed to assisting 
the  United  Nations  so 
its 
indispensable work in a safe manner. The attack was a 
brutal reminder that our common goal — security and 
stability in Afghanistan — is still a long way off. It also 
shows  how  crucial  it  is  that  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations,  NATO  and  a  united  international  community 
in  Afghanistan  be  predictable  and  have  a  long-term 
perspective. It is deeply tragic that the United Nations, 
whose  mandate  includes  working  for  peace,  stability 
and improved coordination, has been hit so hard. 

We  are  very  pleased  that  the  key  role  played  by 
UNAMA  in Afghanistan  is  reflected  in  the  significant 
increase in the Mission’s budget for 2010. Only with a 
sufficient level of predictable funding will UNAMA be 
able  to  implement  its  mandate  effectively.  We  should 
not  expect  more  from  the  United  Nations  than  we  are 
willing to invest in it. 

its 
aftermath  this  year  illustrated  clearly  how  challenging 
conducting  elections  in  conflict-affected  areas  can  be. 
Following  a  lengthy  and  difficult  election  process, 
President  Karzai  will  be  inaugurated  as Afghanistan’s 
next President on 19 November, and soon thereafter  a 
new  Afghan  Government  will  be  formed.  With  the 
election concluded, the new Afghan Government has to 
demonstrate  a  genuine  interest  in  fulfilling  basic  and 
crucial  commitments  to  the  Afghan  people  and  the 
international community. If not, the new Administration 
risks losing support. The legitimacy of the next Karzai 
Government will be decided by the actions they take in 
the near future and judged by the Afghan people. 
It  is  not  only  the  people  of Afghanistan  but  also 

the 
international  community 
formulating 
expectations  and  demands.  President  Karzai  and  the 
new  Afghan  Government  will  have 
to  commit 
themselves  on  a  larger  scale  and  take  all  necessary 
measures  to  combat  corruption  and  the  culture  of 
impunity;  improve  governance,  particularly  at  local 
The  Afghan  presidential  election  and 
that 
is 
8 

09-59876 
to 
towards 
in  meeting 
review  progress 


levels  and  including  strengthening  the  rule  of  law; 
protect human rights and women’s rights; improve the 
security situation; and increase their capacity to deliver 
basic services to the Afghan people. As members of the 
international community, we must stand ready to assist 
the  next  Afghan  Government 
these 
demanding commitments to the people of Afghanistan. 

Mr. Sial (Pakistan): Pakistan’s delegation wishes 
to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this 
meeting,  as  it  provides  a  timely  opportunity  for 
Member  States 
the 
realization  of  our  shared  objectives  of  peace,  stability 
and development in Afghanistan. We have a vital stake 
in achieving this objective. 

Pakistan  has  inseparable  bonds  of  geography, 
history,  faith  and  culture  with Afghanistan,  bonds  that 
link the destinies of our two nations. No other country 
has suffered more than Pakistan from the consequences 
of the conflict and the human tragedy in Afghanistan. It 
has impacted our social and economic fabric, disturbed 
the  peace  and  tranquillity  of  our  border  regions  and 
given  rise  to  the  common  threat  of  extremism  and 
terrorism.  The  people  of  Pakistan  have  shared  the 
sorrows  of  their  Afghan  brethrens.  Therefore,  we  see 
our  own  prosperity  reflected  in  the  prosperity  of 
Afghanistan. 

Our  vision  of  common  strategic  and  economic 
interests  positions  Pakistan  and  Afghanistan  to  play 
their  rightful  role  as  partners  forming  the  hub  for  the 
shortest and the most economical corridors for trade in 
raw  materials,  goods  and  energy  among  Central Asia, 
South  and  West  Asia  and  beyond.  We  feel  that  our 
economic  and  trade  potential  will  remain  untapped 
unless  Afghanistan  is  peaceful  and  stable  and  that 
vision reinforces our efforts and commitment to peace 
and stability in Afghanistan. 

Pakistan  is  of  the  view  that  peace  and  economic 
development in Afghanistan can only be brought about 
by  a  stable  Government  enjoying  majority  support  of 
the  Afghan  people.  In  this  context,  Pakistan  greatly 
values  the  recent  presidential  and  provincial  council 
elections held in Afghanistan. These elections show the 
commitment  of  the  Afghan  people  to  democracy  and 
the  rule  of  law.  We  have  welcomed  the  outcomes  of 
these  elections.  The  Government  and  people  of 
Pakistan  remain  committed  to  further  cementing  our 
close,  fraternal  and  cooperative  ties  with  the  new 
Afghan Administration under President Hamid Karzai. 
A/64/PV.40
regional  and 

The cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan 
spans  the  entire  spectrum  of  political,  economic  and 
cultural  relations.  There  is  continuous  dialogue  and 
regular  exchange  of  visits  at  the  highest  levels.  Early 
this  year,  our  two  countries  signed  the  landmark  Joint 
Declaration  on  Directions  of  Bilateral  Cooperation, 
which has turned a new page in our bilateral relations. 
This  Declaration  is  a  road  map  for  our  bilateral 
relations leading to a bright and promising future. It is 
also  a  manifestation  of  the  aspirations  of  our  two 
peoples for a peaceful, prosperous and better tomorrow. 

In  May  this  year,  Pakistan  hosted  the  third 
Regional  Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on 
Afghanistan.  The  event  was  attended  by  24  countries 
and  18 
international  organizations, 
institutions  and  bodies.  The  Conference  crystallized  a 
regional  consensus  on  key  transregional  cooperation 
projects  in 
the  fields  of  mining,  health,  energy, 
infrastructure  development,  transit,  trade,  labour  and 
human resource development. We are closely following 
up  on  these  projects  and  hope  that  our  efforts  will 
prove to be a milestone in assisting Afghanistan in its 
developmental  efforts.  Despite  our  own  financial 
constraints,  we  are  participating  significantly 
in 
Afghanistan’s economic development and reconstruction. 
Our  assistance  package  for Afghanistan  is  the  biggest 
cooperation  programme  Pakistan  has  with  any  other 
country. 

We  are  also  looking  forward  to  closely  working 
with  the  new  Afghan  Government  on  key  bilateral 
projects that have been identified earlier, including the 
rail  link  from  Chaman  to  Kandahar,  the  Central Asia-
South  Asia  Regional  Energy  Cooperation  project  or 
CASA 1000, the Hairatan-Mazar-e-Sharif rail link and 
establishment of a customs academy in Kabul. 
We  are  also  engaged  in  security  and  intelligence 

cooperation, 
the  Tripartite 
Commission, which includes the United States and the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF).  This 
cooperation is essential in order to cement our gains in 
the  campaign  against  terrorism  and  extremism.  We 
have  made  enormous  sacrifices,  more  than  any  other 
country, in this campaign. 

cross-border 
movement, which is a joint responsibility, Pakistan has 
established  1,000  border  posts.  More  than  100,000 
troops  are  deployed  on  our  side  of  the  border  with 
Afghanistan, at considerable cost. We rightfully expect 
In  order 
including 
through 
to 
interdict 
illegal 
09-59876 

9 

illegal  activities 
to  checking  all 
A/64/PV.40 

Afghanistan  and  NATO/ISAF 
to  reciprocate  with 
robust deployment and patrolling on their side, with  a 
view 
including 
terrorism, drug trafficking and commercial smuggling. 

Afghan infants born in refugee camps in Pakistan 
during  the  time  of  the  Soviet  invasion  of Afghanistan 
have now grown and become fathers. For the past three 
decades,  Pakistan  has  housed  over  3  million  Afghan 
refugees and, despite isolated short spells of voluntary 
return,  Pakistan  still  hosts  nearly  2  million.  Nobody 
should  underestimate  the  resulting  enormous  social, 
economic and security costs already paid by the people 
of Pakistan and the outstanding challenges we still face.  

The  Tripartite  Agreement  of  August  2007 
between Pakistan, Afghanistan and the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees contains a framework 
on  reintegration,  and  Pakistan  remains  committed  to 
the  voluntary,  gradual,  safe  and  dignified  return  of  all 
Afghan  refugees.  However,  we  stress  the  need  to 
strengthen  reintegration  programmes  for  refugees 
within  Afghanistan’s  development  strategy.  Greater 
sustained  and  diligent  efforts  to  create  the  necessary 
pull-factors in Afghanistan are needed so that refugees 
feel  that  they  can  return  to  their  country  with  dignity 
and  honour.  We  expect  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international  community  to  assist  in  this  endeavour 
with all necessary resources. 

The  latest  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
Afghanistan  (A/64/364)  underscores  that  insecurity, 
driven  by  politically  motivated 
insurgency  and 
exploited  by  criminals  and  drug  traffickers,  is  the 
greatest  factor  impeding  progress  in Afghanistan.  The 
report notes the spread of this menace to the north-east 
and north-west of the country. The insurgency needs to 
be eliminated as a priority matter and without seeking 
to  externalize  the  problem.  This  is  a  complex  and 
interconnected challenge that requires a corresponding 
integrated,  coherent  and  coordinated  response.  Its 
objective analysis and proper understanding is required 
to formulate an effective response. 

The core of violence and  conflict in Afghanistan 
emanates  from  terrorist  groups,  foreign  militants  such 
as Al-Qaida, and militant Taliban who are not prepared 
to  reconcile  and  give  up  the  path  of  violence.  Their 
nexus  with  drug  traders  is  increasingly  discernable. 
These elements must be confronted head on. However, 
coercion needs to be supplemented by a comprehensive 
approach  that  addresses  the  political  and  economic 
is  capacity-building  of 
the  central  and  subnational 
aspects  in  parallel. Although  reliance  on  international 
support is vital, especially for development needs, such 
efforts  must  have  strong  ownership  from  the  Afghan 
Government.  

We  agree  with  the  conclusion  drawn  by  the 
Secretary-General that the key to long-term stability in 
Afghanistan 
the  country’s 
security  institutions:  the  Afghan  National  Army,  the 
Afghan  National  Police  and  the  relevant  ministries. 
Equally important is building the civilian institutions at 
both 
levels.  Good 
governance and the rule of law are required to counter 
the  problems  of  neglect,  exclusion  and  interference, 
which are common causes of grievances. 

We are happy to note the improvement in several 
economic  and  social  indicators  in  Afghanistan.  The 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  notes  the  increasing 
effectiveness of the Afghan Government in implementing 
its developmental agenda and seeking donor alignment 
in  its  agricultural  initiatives.  Most  of  these  gains  will 
be  short-lived  if  they  are  not  backed  by  a  surge  in 
investment in development programmes. 
The  world  needs  to  recognize  that  most  of  the 

growth  and  innovation  of  the  past  few  decades  in  the 
global  corporate  sector  has  eluded  Afghanistan.  As 
such,  Afghanistan  remains  isolated  from  the  global 
economy.  It  is  therefore  time  to  re-establish  these 
linkages. To that end, the key would be the engagement 
of  multinational  corporations  and  large  enterprises  in 
project  development  in  Afghanistan,  particularly  in 
mining, 
The 
international  community,  particularly  the  developed 
countries,  should  leverage  their  potential  behind  such 
efforts.  The  economic  and  political  dividends  of  such 
initiatives could be enormous not only for the people of 
Afghanistan, but for rest of the world as well. 

Pakistan  greatly  values  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan. The United 
Nations  has  an  important  role  to  play  in  coordinating 
the  comprehensive  international  effort  in Afghanistan. 
Pakistan  would  welcome  the  enhancement  of  this  role 
in  the  political  and  security  fields.  We  strongly 
condemn  terrorist  attacks  on  United  Nations  and 
Afghan security personnel and reiterate our support for 
the  Secretary-General  in  his  endeavours  to  enhance 
security for United Nations personnel. 
We  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  delegation 

of Germany for leading the process of consultations on 
infrastructure. 
agriculture 
and 
10 

09-59876 
the 
social 
situation 
sustainable 


the draft resolution (A/64/L.8). We believe that the text 
addresses  all  the  relevant  issues  in  a  comprehensive 
and balanced manner. We are happy to co-sponsor the 
draft resolution and urge all Member States to adopt it 
by consensus. 

Mr. Askarov  (Uzbekistan):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan  in  its 
capacity  as  the  Chair  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization (SCO). 

in  Afghanistan 
Unfortunately, 
continues  to  be  defined  by  the  aggravation  and 
escalation  of  confrontation  and  the  intensification  of 
terrorist  actions  by  militants.  Confrontation 
in 
Afghanistan remains today one of the main sources of 
concern for the international community and a serious 
security threat to Central Asia. 

Uzbekistan, as a close neighbour of Afghanistan, 
clearly  recognizes  that  the  achievement  of  peace  and 
stability  in  that  country  is  a  key  security  factor  and 
would  open  great  possibilities  for  solving  the  critical 
problems  of 
economic 
development of the whole Central Asian region. 

There is deep concern about drug production and 
trafficking because, despite the decrease in narco-crops 
and some reduction in the volume of drug production, 
it  is  still  too  early  to  draw  conclusions  about  possible 
success in this field. We need to take into consideration 
the  fact  that  drug  trafficking  has  become  one  of  the 
major  sources  of  financing  for  militants  and  the 
destabilization of the situation not only in Afghanistan, 
but also in neighbouring States. 

The dynamics of the development of the situation 
in Afghanistan  highlights  the  increasing  evidence  that 
the  Afghan  problem  cannot  be  solved  only  by  armed 
forces,  using  only  military  means,  or  by  further 
militarization. 

We acknowledge the measures undertaken by the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF)  in 
Afghanistan.  In  this  context,  it  is  important  that 
resolution  1890  (2009),  recently  adopted  by 
the 
Security  Council,  directs  ISAF 
to  comply  with 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law 
and for all appropriate measures to be taken to ensure 
the protection of civilians. 
It is extremely important to fully respect the deep 

the 
historical  and  ethno-demographic 
multi-ethnic people of Afghanistan and their traditional 
roots  of 
and 
A/64/PV.40
its 
in 
solving 
such  as 
inclusion 
that  stipulates 
such  acute  problems 
in  2008,  Uzbekistan  completed 
and religious values. Special attention should be given 
to 
the 
rehabilitation of the economy and social infrastructure 
in Afghanistan, destroyed by more than 30 years of war.  

Uzbekistan  is  undertaking  significant  efforts  to 
assist  Afghanistan.  Our  country  has  built  11  bridges 
along  the  Mazari-Sharif-Kabul  highway,  which  is 
crucial 
to  ensuring  unhampered  communication 
between  the  North  and  South  of  the  country.  At  the 
start  of  2002,  we  restored  Afghanistan’s  electrical 
supply  and, 
the 
construction  of 
the  high-powered  Khairaton-Puli-
Khumri-Kabul  electrical  line,  thanks  to  which  the 
Afghan capital receives 100 per  cent of the  electricity 
it requires. 
The  problem  of  the  development  of  transport 

infrastructure  and 
international 
transport  and  communication  projects  requires  very 
urgent attention. As members know, the only railway in 
Afghanistan goes through the Uzbek city of Termiz and 
ends in the city of Khairaton. The Asian Development 
Bank  has  prepared  a  project 
the 
extension  of  the  railway  to  the  city  of  Mazari  Sharif, 
and  Uzbek  companies  are  currently  active  on  this 
project.  This  project  seeks  to  integrate  Afghanistan’s 
transport infrastructure not only into the Central Asian 
and trans-Caucasian transport-communication systems, 
but also into the Navoi-Turkmenbashi-Baku-Kars route, 
allowing  it  to  reach  the  markets  of  Europe  and  the 
Turkish seaport of Mersin, which would provide access 
to  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  The  project’s 
implementation  would  assist  rapid  development  of 
mutual  trade  and  increased  investment  activity  in  the 
region. 

Uzbekistan believes that a peaceful settlement of 
the  situation  in  Afghanistan  is  unachievable  without 
bringing  Afghans  into  the  process.  We  are  confident 
that,  without  promoting  national  reconciliation  and 
consent and strengthening the State hierarchy, it would 
be  impossible  to  significantly  improve  and  radically 
change the situation in the country. 

In this connection, forming effective international 
mechanisms  of  multilateral  cooperation  capable  of 
consolidating 
involving 
neighbouring  countries,  all 
interested  States  and 
international  organizations  will  be  crucial  in  many 
ways  to  finding  a  solution  to  the  acute  problems  of 
Afghanistan. 
stabilization  efforts  and 
09-59876 

11 

initiative 
such  an 
A/64/PV.40 


The  settlement  of  the  Afghan  problem  could  be 
facilitated  by  the  creation,  under  United  Nations 
auspices, of a “6+3” contact group, with the participation 
of  plenipotentiary  representatives  of  Afghanistan’s 
neighbouring States plus Russia, the United States and 
NATO.  The  President  of  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan, 
Islam  Karimov,  has  repeatedly  emphasized  that  the 
implementation  of 
involving 
neighbouring countries would allow for the achievement 
of an accord both in and around Afghanistan. 

Important  steps  in  this  direction  have  already 
been  undertaken  by 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization.  It  is  particularly  necessary  to  highlight 
the  outcome  of  the  special  conference  held  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  in 
Moscow  on  27  March,  as  well  as  the  cooperation 
between  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  and 
Afghanistan,  which  is  being  carried  out  under  the 
protocol  signed  by  the  organization  and  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan  on  the  establishment  of  the 
SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group in 2005 in Beijing.  

In  this  context,  Uzbekistan  supports  the  General 
Assembly’s draft resolution on Afghanistan (A/64/L.8), 
prepared by a large group of sponsors. We expect that 
the  adoption  of  this  document  by  consensus  will 
contribute  to  the  consolidation  of  international  efforts 
in Afghanistan. 

Mr.  Towpik  (Poland):  Poland  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  made 
during  our  debate  by  the  representative  of  Sweden  on 
behalf of the European Union. I would like to make a 
few  additional  comments  on  this  vital  issue  in  my 
national capacity. 

The annual debate on the situation in Afghanistan 
is  the  best  opportunity  to  underline  the  role  that  the 
United Nations plays in the process of the stabilization 
and  reconstruction  of  that  country.  Poland  welcomes 
the draft resolution introduced by the representative of 
Germany  (A/64/L.8).  The  coordinating  role  of  the 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan and 
the activities undertaken by Special Representative Kai 
Eide enjoy our full support and respect.  
In that context, I would like to pay tribute to the 

members of the United Nations Mission in Afghanistan 
who were killed and injured during the recent terrorist 
attack  against  United  Nations  personnel  in  Kabul  in 
October.  I  convey  my  sincere  condolences  to  the 
families  of  the  victims,  the  Secretary-General,  United 
following 
We  are  closely 
Nations  staff  and  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan. My Government reiterates its determination 
to  combat  all  forms  of 
terrorism  and  strongly 
condemns  all  acts  of  terror,  especially  those  directed 
against those who work for the country’s stability and 
security.  I  would  like  to  underline  my  Government’s 
full support for the Secretary-General’s recent initiative 
to enhance the security of United Nations staff. 

The year that has passed since our last debate on 
Afghanistan  in  this  Hall  has  been  one  of  significant 
efforts and important positive and negative developments 
in  that  country.  Poland  shares  the  assessment  of  the 
Secretary-General  and  endorses  the  recommendations 
contained  in  his  most  recent  report  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan  (A/64/364). We  welcome  the  benchmarks 
and indicators of progress annexed to it, which can be a 
useful  tool  for  measuring  the  progress  achieved.  We 
hope that this new instrument will contribute to better 
coordination and increase the effectiveness of our joint 
efforts. 

the  process  of 
presidential and provincial council elections, which are 
without  a  doubt  important  milestones  in  the  processes 
of  stabilization  and  State-building.  Despite  all  the 
problems,  the  holding  of  elections  in  very  difficult, 
complex and dangerous circumstances, the participation 
of young people, and public engagement in the election 
campaign  provide  us  with  grounds  for  cautious 
optimism.  We  deplore 
electoral 
irregularities  and  fraud,  but  at  the  same  time  we 
commend  the  Electoral  Complaints  Commission  and 
the Independent Election Commission for their work in 
identifying,  investigating  and  ruling  on  those  frauds 
and  irregularities.  The  time  factor  is  critical.  Poland 
looks forward to the rapid formation of a new Afghan 
Government  based  on  a  broad  political  platform,  as 
well as the establishment of a new contract between the 
Government and the people of Afghanistan. 

Poland regrets the current increase in the number 
of  violent  incidents,  compared  to  previous  years.  We 
note  that  the  security  situation  in  the  southern  and 
eastern  parts  of  the  country  is  still  more  complex  and 
more  difficult  than  in  other  regions.  However,  the 
decrease  in  security  is  visible  throughout  the  country. 
In  that  regard,  we  deeply  regret  any  civilian  casualty. 
At the same time, it must be stressed, as the Secretary-
General’s report states, that the Taliban and other anti-
Government  elements  are  responsible  for  almost  three 
quarters  of  civilian  deaths.  We  fully  agree  with  the 
the  numerous 
12 

09-59876 
increased 
strengthen 
significantly 
the  number  of  our 


declaration  made  by  General  McChrystal  that  the 
protection  of  the Afghan  population  is  the  central  and 
essential  element  of  the  international  presence  in 
Afghanistan. 

Poland  has  been  engaged  in  Afghanistan  since 
March  2002.  My  country’s  involvement  follows  from 
our  sense  of  responsibility  for  the  situation  in  that 
country, which still poses a threat to international peace 
and  security.  We  are  fully  aware  that  assuming  the 
responsibility  for  the  stabilization  and  reconstruction 
processes  is  not  a  short-term  commitment.  The  2008 
decision 
the  Polish 
to 
involvement 
troops 
allocated to the International Security Assistance Force 
operation in Afghanistan to 1,600. The recent decision 
of the Government of Poland in April 2009 resulted in 
the current number of 2,000 military personnel, with an 
additional  troop  reserve  of  200  deployable  in  an 
emergency.  Moreover,  since  the  autumn  of  2008, 
Poland  has  taken  over  the  responsibility  for  the 
security situation in Ghazni province. 

Poland  is  gradually  increasing  its  engagement  in 
what we view as the crucial task of training the Afghan 
national security forces. My country has provided three 
operational  military  liaison  teams  to  train  the Afghan 
National Army and two international police mentoring 
teams  to  the  Afghan  National  Police.  Additionally, 
Poland has been present in the European Union Police 
Mission in Afghanistan since its launch in 2007. 

Apart  from  its  military  engagement,  Poland  has 
been reshaping its involvement in accordance with the 
concept  of  a  comprehensive  approach  aimed  at 
effective  civil-military  cooperation.  That  has  resulted 
in  complementing  our  military  presence  with  civil 
elements. Since the summer of 2008, a Polish team of 
30  civilian  personnel  has  been  working  in  the  United 
States-led provincial reconstruction team in Ghazni. 
Additionally,  Poland  has  provided  development 

aid 
to  Afghanistan  since  2002.  In  2009,  Polish 
contributed around $12.5 million to the reconstruction 
goal in that country, which is five times higher than the 
amount  assigned  in  2008.  The  inclusion  of  Poland  in 
the  work  of  the  Joint  Coordination  and  Monitoring 
Board since July 2009 is perceived by my Government 
not  only  as  recognition  of  our  efforts  in  the  field  of 
development  cooperation  with  Afghanistan,  but  also 
and primarily as reinforcing our commitment to further 
further  step 
09-59876 

13 
A/64/PV.40
faced  with 
that  we  are 
Mr.  Apakan
The  problems 
the  stabilization  and 
supporting 
the  process  of 
reconstruction of Afghanistan. 

in 
Afghanistan are of major concern to all United Nations 
Member States. That common interest gives us grounds 
for optimism that the coordinated  efforts of the whole 
international community will lead us to further progress 
in the reconstruction and stabilization of Afghanistan. 
(Turkey):  Let  me  begin  by 

expressing  our  satisfaction  with  the  draft  resolution 
(A/64/L.8) that the General Assembly intends to adopt 
this  morning.  We  would  like  to  thank  Germany  for 
facilitating  a  consensus  on  it.  We  are  happy  to  be 
co-sponsoring it. It is a balanced document that reflects 
the achievements and challenges in Afghanistan. 

I  would  like  to  share  Turkey’s  position  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan.  That  country  is  passing 
through  a  critical  period.  Turkey  is  hopeful  for  its 
future.  The  situation  may  be  difficult,  but  we  have  to 
continue  working  to  assist  our  Afghan  brothers  and 
sisters.  The  deliberate  terrorist  attacks  on  the  United 
Nations  mission  during  the  recent  electoral  process 
should  not  deter  us.  It  should  only  strengthen  our 
determination to assist the Afghan people in establishing 
lasting  peace  and  stability.  Turkey  condemns  the 
28 October  terrorist  attack  against  the  United  Nations 
in  the  strongest  terms.  We  extend  our  condolences  to 
the  United  Nations  family  and  the  families  of  the 
victims.  We  wish  the  wounded  a  quick  recovery.  We 
salute  the  courage  of  the  United  Nations  and  Afghan 
staff. We also share the grief of the Afghan people. 
The  continued  strong  presence  of  the  United 

Nations 
in 
Afghanistan.  At  this  juncture,  we  must  continue  to 
support  the  Secretary-General  by  every  means;  first 
and foremost, we must address staff security. 

Turkey  trusts  that  the Afghan  people  will  sooner 
or  later  achieve  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  future.  In 
that vein, the elections were an important milestone in 
the  efforts  to  fight  terrorism  and  secure  stability  in 
Afghanistan.  The  elections  were  crucial.  Everybody 
knew that they would not be easy. The most important 
thing is that for the second time elections were held in 
that big country. Each election experience undoubtedly 
constitutes  a 
towards  strengthening 
democracy. Thanks to the courage and determination of 
the  Afghan  people,  who  faced  difficult  conditions, 
elections  were  held.  Turkey  congratulates  President 
is  of  utmost 
importance 
to  success 
Now 
that 
is 
its  most 
continuing 
A/64/PV.40 

Karzai  on  his  re-election  and  hopes  that  the  coming 
period will be better for the Afghan people. 

the  elections  are  over, 
the  new 
Administration  should  embrace 
the  entire  nation. 
Turkey hopes that the Administration will reach out to 
all  ethnic  groups  in  the  country  through  inclusive 
policies  and  that  all  who  competed  against  President 
Karzai  in  the  election  will  offer  their  support  to  the 
new Administration. Following the election process, it 
is  of  great  importance  that  Afghanistan  refocus  on 
national  unity  and  reconstruction  efforts  as  soon  as 
possible. 

Let  me  also  briefly  touch  upon  Turkish-Afghan 
relations.  Our  relations  with  Afghanistan  are  unique; 
they  are  based  on  deep  historical  and  cultural  bonds. 
Turkey 
comprehensive 
humanitarian  operation.  We  are  participating  in  the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF)  and 
took over the ISAF Kabul Command as of 1 November 
for  a  period  of  one  year.  On  that  occasion  we  nearly 
doubled  our  troop  contribution.  We  also  have  a 
civilian-led provincial reconstruction team in Wardak. 
Turkey  continues  to  implement  an  intensive 

assistance  programme  for  the  peace  and  prosperity  of 
the  Afghan  people  and  intends  to  further  expand  its 
humanitarian  operations.  Building  the  capacity  of 
Afghanistan  and  strengthening  national  ownership  in 
the  civilian  sector  is  a  priority.  Turkey  will  also 
continue  its  utmost  efforts  to  provide  support  to  the 
United  Nations  in  Afghanistan.  We  will  be  the  lead 
country  in  the  Security  Council  on  Afghanistan  in 
2010. We  intend  to  build  on  the  positive  momentum 
created  by  Japan  with  the  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations  and  to  contribute  to  stability  in  Afghanistan 
through the Security Council as well. 
Turkey  believes  there  is  a  long-term  need  for  a 

comprehensive 
security, 
governance,  the  rule  of  law,  human  rights  and  social 
and  economic  development.  All  of  those  issues  are 
interlinked,  and  the  following  four  areas  therefore 
deserve  special  attention:  comprehensive  economic 
development  with  a  visible  impact  on  the  people’s 
living  conditions;  strong  Afghan  military  and  police 
forces  to  take  the  lead  in  and  ownership  of  national 
security;  inclusive  national  reconciliation  in  order  to 
strengthen  peace  and  stability  in  the  country;  and 
modern  education  and  justice  systems  to  effectively 
combat extremism of all sorts. 
approach 
includes 
that 

is  also  a  must 
for 

Regional  cooperation 
accomplishing  our  goals 
in  Afghanistan.  The 
international  community  should  encourage  and  help 
regional  cooperation.  For  our  part,  in April  we  hosted 
the third Turkey-Afghanistan-Pakistan Trilateral Summit 
in Turkey.  For  the  first  time,  security  and  intelligence 
officials  met,  along  with  the  Presidents  of  the  three 
countries.  We  hosted 
the  Friends  of  Democratic 
Pakistan  Senior  Officials  meeting  and  the  Foreign 
Ministerial  Meeting  on  24  and  25 August  in  Istanbul, 
followed  by  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  Special  Envoys 
meeting.  We  support  a  coordinated  approach  at  the 
regional  level  and  enhanced  cooperation  between 
Afghanistan  and  its  neighbours.  To  that  end,  we  will 
continue  our  regional  efforts  in  order  to  contribute  to 
stability in the region. 

  Mrs.  Ataeva  (Turkmenistan),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

Turkey is confident that the country’s stability as 
well  as  its  social  and  political  harmony  will  grow 
stronger  in  the  coming  period.  Turkey  will  always 
stand by the friendly and brotherly Afghan people and 
fully  trusts  that  they  will  surmount  the  difficulties 
confronting them in unity and solidarity. We must also 
strengthen  the  hopes  and  expectations  of  the  Afghan 
people.  Unless  the  international  community  wins  the 
hearts  and  minds  of  the  Afghan  people,  peace  and 
stability will remain a distant objective. 

succeed; we are confident that we will. 
Ms.  AlRashoud  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the  outset,  my  delegation  wishes  to  thank  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  sincere  and  continued 
efforts  to  bring  about  success  in  Afghanistan.  My 
delegation  highly  appreciates  the  pivotal  role  of  the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan 
(UNAMA), as well as that of the Special Representative 
of the Secretary-General for Afghanistan in leading and 
coordinating civilian efforts there. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  denounces  all  acts  of 
violence  and  suicide  attacks  in  Afghanistan,  and  it 
firmly  condemns  the  armed  terrorist  attack  that  took 
place at the end of last month against a United Nations 
guest, 
lives  of  five  United  Nations 
employees,  whose  duties  included  assisting  election 
teams  and  other  field  work  that  contributed  to  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security.  It  also  denounces 
the  increased  targeting  of  United  Nations  missions, 
Failure is not an option in Afghanistan. We must 
taking 
the 
14 

09-59876 
also 
conveys 
The  State  of  Kuwait 


since  this  has  led  to  a  growing  number  of  victims 
among  Afghan  civilians,  members  of  international 
assistance  agencies  and  all  those  who  work  to  deliver 
humanitarian assistance in the field. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes  the  commitment 
of  the  Secretary-General  to  continue  United  Nations 
efforts  in  support  of Afghanistan,  based  on  the  moral 
duty to carry out desperately needed humanitarian work, 
while  also  reaffirming  the  sovereignty,  independence, 
territorial integrity and national unity of Afghanistan. 
The  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes  the  adoption  of 

Security Council resolution 1868 (2009) on 23 March, 
the  15  July  statement  of  the  President  of  the  Security 
Council on the situation in Afghanistan (S/PRST/2009/ 
21), and all relevant international resolutions. 

its 
congratulations  to  President  Hâmid  Karzai  on  his 
election  for  another  term,  and  wishes  him  success  in 
leading the country and in achieving stability, security 
and  progress  for  Afghanistan,  while  affirming  its 
sovereignty. 

We also thank the representative of Germany for 
introducing  draft  resolution  A/64/L.8  on  the  situation 
in  Afghanistan,  of  which  my  country  is  sponsor.  We 
stress the importance of the fundamental and impartial 
role  performed  by  the  United  Nations  in  promoting 
peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  and  in  leading  the 
efforts of the international community.  

According to  the  report of  the Secretary-General 
on the situation in Afghanistan and its implications for 
peace  and  security  (A/64/364), 
there  have  been 
accomplishments  and  progress  in  some  areas,  such  as 
demining, limiting opium cultivation and building and 
fostering the capacity of the national Afghan army and 
police forces. But, despite all of that, the rate of change 
in  the  living  conditions  of  the  Afghan  people  is  still 
very  slow  and  is  a  source  of  increasing  despair  for 
them.  Furthermore,  the  strong  ties  between  the  drug 
trade  and  the  terrorist  activities  of  extremist  groups 
pose a serious threat to security, the rule of law and the 
development of the country. 

Therefore,  the  State  of  Kuwait  appeals  to  all 
Member States, the United Nations and non-governmental 
organizations 
to  continue  providing  all  possible 
assistance for Afghanistan in all humanitarian fields, in 
close 
the 
coordination  with 
cooperation 
and 
A/64/PV.40
to 
role 
in 
to 
the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  and  consistent  with  its 
national development strategies. 

In  this  context,  we  refer  to  the  contributions  of 
the  State  of  Kuwait 
reconstruction  of 
infrastructure  in  Afghanistan.  The  Kuwait  Fund  for 
Arab  Economic  Development  provided  a  loan  in  the 
amount  of  $30  million,  in  fulfilment  of  its  pledge 
during  the  donors’  conference  held  in  the  Japanese 
capital,  Tokyo.  This  included  $15  million  for  the 
rebuilding  and  rehabilitation  of  the  Kandahar-Spin 
Boldak  road;  the  remaining  $15  million  went  to  the 
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund. Moreover, the 
Kuwait  Red  Crescent  Society  has  over  the  past  few 
years provided assistances in the amount of more than 
$6.5  million.  Also  various  Kuwaiti  civil  society  and 
charitable organizations continue to provide assistance 
to Afghanistan. 

In  conclusion,  it  is  our  hope  that  the  United 
Nations  will  continue  in  its  endeavours  to  provide 
assistance  to  the  Afghan  Government,  in  order  to 
consolidate  peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan,  which 
will have a positive effect in the region and will enable 
the  country 
resume 
the 
international community. 
Mr.  Normandin  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French): 

Canada  is  pleased  to  be  among  the  sponsors  of  draft 
resolution  A/64/L.8,  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan. 
Once again this year, we warmly welcome the fact that 
the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus, thus 
reaffirming  the  collective  commitment  of  all  United 
Nations  Member  States  to  Afghanistan.  The  draft 
resolution  expresses  our  hope  and 
that 
Afghanistan,  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community,  will  continue 
in 
achieving a better life for its people. 

that 
Afghanistan  and  the  international  community  face  in 
achieving that progress. In this context, Canada offers 
its  sincere  condolences  to  the  families  and  friends  of 
the victims of the latest attack on the United Nations in 
Kabul.  We  also  offer  our  condolences  to  the  families 
and  friends  of  all  Afghans  as  well  as  to  those  of  the 
civilians  and  soldiers  from  many  of  the  countries 
represented here today who have lost their lives in the 
fighting  in  Afghanistan.  We  condemn  the  insurgents’ 
disregard  for  human  life  and  for  all  the  toil  and 
sacrifice  invested  by  so  many  to  build  a  better  future 
for Afghanistan. Canadians are saddened by the losses 
We  are  conscious  of 
to  make  progress 
the  challenges 
its  natural 
resolve 
09-59876 

15 

it 
Despite 
the  problems 
in  Afghanistan, 
A/64/PV.40 

of  all  those  who  mourn.  Canada  too  has  made 
sacrifices. Yet we will not falter in our commitment to 
help Afghans achieve peace and stability. 

is 
important to remember that progress has been made in 
certain  respects.  That  can  be  seen  in  the  advances  in 
education  and health care since the  fall  of the Taliban 
in  2001.  Furthermore,  as  noted  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  September  report  (A/64/364),  Afghanistan 
has seen some real progress this year in the following 
areas.  With  the  support  of  the  International  Security 
Assistance Force and the international community, the 
Afghan  security  forces  are  increasingly  taking  charge 
of their own security and protecting the Afghan people. 
Strong ministers in key positions have made important 
progress  on  issues  such  as  policing,  agriculture  and 
rural  development.  Afghanistan  has  also  seen  a 
significant  increase  this  year  in  its  own  revenue 
collection.  At  the  same  time,  opium  production  has 
decreased  in  Afghanistan,  and  the  economy  is  being 
boosted by increased efforts to buy locally. 
(spoke in English) 
Continued  progress  will  require  a  renewed 

relationship of trust among President Karzai, the Afghan 
Government  and Afghan  citizens.  While  the  elections 
in  Afghanistan  were  not  without  challenges,  Canada 
acknowledges the decision of the Independent Election 
Commission not to hold a second round and commends 
the Afghan people who made their voices heard. 

international 
partners,  looks  to  President  Karzai  and  the  new 
Government  to  turn  their  immediate  attention 
to 
building the legitimacy of the Government at all levels. 
To  do  that,  the  needs  of  the  Afghan  people  must  be 
central  to  the  setting  of  realistic  objectives  by  the 
Afghan Government. Delivery on those objectives will 
require  the  appointment  of  effective  and  credible 
ministers and governors. We look to the Government of 
Afghanistan  to  undertake  serious,  credible  and  visible 
efforts to improve good governance, combat corruption 
and promote and protect human rights. 

Our  expectations  of  the Afghan  Government  are 
high,  but  we  set  these  expectations  while  continuing 
our  work  to  rebuild Afghanistan  in  a  concerted  effort 
with  the  Government  of  Afghanistan,  the  Afghan 
people and the international community. 
Now,  Canada,  along  with 
its 
The 
efforts 
tangible 
results  of  our 

Canada has successfully transformed its efforts in 
Afghanistan into a fully integrated civilian and military 
mission. We are supporting the delivery of measurable 
results in Kandahar, where our efforts are concentrated, 
but  also  throughout  the  country,  as  we  contribute 
50 per cent  of  our  assistance  to  national  programmes. 
Canada  continues  to  make  progress  on  our  three 
signature projects: schools are being built, rehabilitation 
of the Dahla Dam is advancing and children are being 
vaccinated  against  polio  in  Kandahar  and  across  the 
country. 

In  addition,  our  stabilization  operation,  which 
aims  to  increase  security  in  Kandahar  city  and  its 
populated  approaches,  has  brought  increased  stability 
in  the  pilot  project  village  of  Deh-e-Bagh  by  clearing 
insurgent elements, initiating basic infrastructure projects 
and working with Afghan security forces to build long-
term security in the village and its surrounding areas. 

are 
encouraging. However, many important challenges still 
lie ahead. There is increased violence by an insurgency 
attempting  to  derail  reconstruction  efforts,  progress  is 
slow in many areas such as governance and rule of law 
and  access  by  humanitarian  workers  to  vulnerable 
populations has become increasingly constrained. 

In  the  face  of  these  challenges,  we  stand  behind 
the  United  Nations  as  the  voice  of  the  international 
community  in  Afghanistan.  We  are  heartened  to  see 
that  the  violence  has  not  deterred  the  United  Nations 
from its vital role in Afghanistan and we would like to 
pay  special  tribute  to  Special  Representative  Kai  Eide 
and his team for their tireless efforts. 

We  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
unite behind the United Nations Assistance Mission in 
Afghanistan (UNAMA) and give it the necessary tools 
to continue its work in Afghanistan, including UNAMA’s 
important  coordination  and  outreach  role  in  the  more 
difficult areas of the country. 
In  conclusion,  while  we  need  to  continue  to  be 

realistic  about  the  challenges  we  face  in Afghanistan, 
we  must  maintain  our  collective  resolve  and  continue 
to  work  with  the  Government  of  Afghanistan,  the 
United  Nations  and  the  rest  of  the  international 
community to ensure a brighter and safer future for the 
people of Afghanistan. 

(New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 
welcomes the progress made in Afghanistan since this 
Mr.  McLay 
16 

09-59876 


time  last  year,  and  in  particular  congratulates  the 
people and the Government of Afghanistan on holding 
and  participating  in  the  first  elections  run  wholly  by 
Afghan  authorities.  While  New  Zealand  was  very 
concerned by the level of  fraud of those elections, we 
welcome  the  respect  shown  by  the  parties  for  the 
electoral complaints process. 

New Zealand believes that attention must now be 
focused  on  securing  a  safe  and  secure  future  for 
Afghanistan.  To  this  end,  we  call  on  President  Karzai 
to move swiftly to form a new, inclusive, credible and 
effective  Government.  We  encourage  him,  with  the 
support of the international community, including New 
Zealand, to build a renewed relationship with the people 
of  Afghanistan  by  addressing  deep-seated  problems 
facing the country in security, governance, corruption, 
human rights, development, justice and narcotics. New 
Zealand also urges the new Government to ensure that 
the legislation that was enacted immediately before the 
election  complies  with  its  international  human  rights 
obligations,  particularly  those  protecting  women  and 
children.  

New Zealand strongly condemns the recent attack 
on  United  Nations  staff  in  Kabul,  and  we  express  our 
sympathy  to  the  victims  and  their  families.  New 
Zealand  agrees  with  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
importance  of  protecting  United  Nations  personnel, 
who often work in trying and dangerous environments 
in their efforts to build a secure future for Afghanistan. 
And  while  we  accept  the  need  to  relocate  many 
personnel,  we  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s 
commitment  that  the  United  Nations  will  not  be 
deterred from its important role in Afghanistan. 

The  security  situation,  particularly  in  the  South 
and  East,  continues  seriously  to  hamper  development 
by  limiting  the  reach  of  the  Afghan  Government  and 
humanitarian  agencies  and  hindering  their  ability  to 
improve  the  lives  of  the  Afghan  people.  Afghan 
military  and  police  capability  must  be  strengthened  to 
deal  with  the  deteriorating  security  situation,  and  in 
this 
International  Security 
Assistance  Force  commander  General  McChrystal’s 
renewed  focus  on  training  and  mentoring.  Indeed, 
empowering  Afghan  forces  to  lead  security  efforts  in 
Afghanistan is a key commitment for the international 
community, and New Zealand is doing its part to meet 
that commitment. 
regard  we  welcome 
A/64/PV.40
reconstruction 
that  a  continued, 

Although  New  Zealand  faces  other  security 
challenges  closer  to  home,  the  New  Zealand  Defence 
Force  has  led  the  provincial  reconstruction  team  in 
Bamyan province for more than six years. The team is 
building the capacity of the Afghan National Police to 
take  responsibility  for  security  in  the  province.  In 
addition,  we  recently  deployed  our  special  forces  to 
Kabul  to  work  alongside  the  Afghan  Crisis  Response 
Unit. That redeployment and our work on the Bamyan 
provincial 
team  demonstrate  New 
Zealand’s  long-standing  desire  to  promote  the  safety 
and security of the Afghan people. 

In parallel, New Zealand is expanding its civilian 
assistance  to  Afghanistan,  with  a  particular  focus  on 
agriculture  in  Bamyan.  We  are  also  continuing  our 
support for rural livelihood programmes, education and 
health services and the capacity-building of provincial 
governmental,  non-governmental  and  civil  society 
organizations. 
While  we  welcome  the  progress  made  in  recent 

years,  we  believe 
sustained 
commitment by the international community will remain 
necessary  to  help Afghanistan  build  a  positive  future. 
And  New  Zealand  is  committed  to  playing  its  part  in 
securing that outcome for the people of Afghanistan.  

Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Allow 
me to extend our gratitude to the Secretary-General, his 
Special  Representative,  Mr.  Kai  Eide,  and  all  their 
colleagues in the United Nations Assistance Mission in 
Afghanistan  for  their  firm  commitment  and  valuable 
dedication  to  strengthening  peace  and  stability  in 
Afghanistan.  

in 
coordinating  international  efforts  in Afghanistan  is  of 
paramount  importance  and  enjoys  our  full  support.  I 
would like here to salute the heroism and sacrifices of 
United  Nations  personnel  in  Afghanistan  and  extend 
my condolences to the United Nations family over the 
loss  of  the  lives  of  United  Nations  personnel  in  the 
recent terrorist attack on the guest house on 28 October.  
The Islamic Republic of Iran welcomes the recent 

presidential 
and 
congratulates the people of Afghanistan on their active 
participation 
that  historic  election  and  His 
Excellency Mr. Karzai upon his re-election.  

We  are  pleased  to  see  the  progress  achieved  by 
our  brotherly  neighbour  Afghanistan  in  all  areas,  in 
The  central  role  of 
the  United  Nations 
election  held 
in  Afghanistan 
in 
09-59876 

17 

A/64/PV.40 

particular  in  institution-building.  As  reiterated  in  the 
recent  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/364),  the 
Afghan  State  must  be  founded  on  solid  institutions 
staffed with competent officials selected and promoted 
on  the  basis  of  merit.  Much  effort  has  gone  into 
creating these institutions over the past eight years, yet 
some  of  that  effort  has  been  insufficient,  despite  the 
achievements  made  to  date.  But  the  deteriorating 
security  situation  has  also  significantly  hampered 
attempts  to  build  the  governmental  institutions  and 
infrastructure  necessary  to  the  smooth  running  of  the 
Government.  

As  in  the  past,  we  extend  our  full  support  and 
assistance to the people and Government of Afghanistan 
in  their  efforts  to  achieve  security,  stability  and 
comprehensive  and  sustainable  development.  We  call 
for  the  expeditious  withdrawal  of  foreign  forces  from 
Afghanistan  and  the  handing  over  of  the  control  and 
management  of  Afghani  affairs  to  the  people  and 
Government of Afghanistan.  

The security situation in Afghanistan remains the 
biggest  challenge.  The  latest  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on the situation in Afghanistan and realities on 
the ground clearly indicates that there have been some 
accomplishments in strengthening security and stability 
in  the  country,  but  that  increased  terrorist  attacks  and 
violence  in  some  parts  of  Afghanistan,  coupled  with 
the pervasive drug trade and the military operations by 
foreign forces, are yet other concerns preoccupying the 
people of Afghanistan and international public opinion. 

Along  with  security  concerns,  the  continuing 
poppy  cultivation,  production  of  narcotics,  drug 
trafficking  and  the  humanitarian  crisis,  among  other 
issues, remain to be effectively tackled and continue to 
endanger  Afghanistan’s  stability  and  development,  as 
well as that of the region and beyond. 

The  recent  rise  of  insecurity  in  Afghanistan 
indicates clearly that the attempts made in the name of 
national  reconciliation  by  some  of  the  Powers  present 
in Afghanistan to appease some extremist and terrorist 
groups  have  been  shown  to  be  counterproductive  and 
have only emboldened such groups. We are of the view 
that peace and stability are achievable only by making 
the people of Afghanistan see the results of the help and 
support of the international community in their daily life 
through  the  reconstruction  of  infrastructure,  capacity-
building,  training,  education  and  the  development  of 
important sectors such as agriculture, among others. 
its  neighbours. 
In 
18 

09-59876 
security 
is  adversely  affecting 

Furthermore, we believe that the hearts and minds 
of  the  Afghan  people,  who  have  undergone  many 
hardships and much suffering in recent decades, cannot 
be  won  by  relying  on  military  operations.  Instead  of 
dispatching  more  troops  to  the  country,  we  should 
strengthen  the  Afghan  National  Army  and  National 
Police  expeditiously  to  enable  them  to  take  charge  of 
security in Afghanistan. 
Despite a small drop in narcotic drug cultivation 

and  production 
in  some  provinces,  Afghanistan 
remains,  according  to  the  recent  assessment  report  of 
the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  the 
world’s  biggest  producer  of  narcotic  drugs.  The 
continuing  cultivation,  production  and  trafficking  of 
narcotics 
there. 
Combating  this  menace  unquestionably  demands  a 
long-term, multifaceted strategy. The magnitude of the 
threat requires more resolute and coordinated efforts by 
Afghanistan  and  the  international  community.  For  its 
part, the Islamic Republic of Iran has spared no effort 
in  combating  this  threat,  and  we  have  made  many 
sacrifices  in  this  regard.  While  our  determination  to 
continue  this  fight  is  unwavering,  we  expect  the 
international community to get more seriously involved 
in  the  quest  to  save  people  across  the  globe  from  the 
destructive effects of this menace. 

Despite  all  these  concerns  and  uncertainties, 
however,  one  thing  is  clear  —  the  Government  and 
people  of  Afghanistan  continue  to  demonstrate  their 
steadfast resolve not to bow to the difficulties they are 
facing,  but  to  surmount  them  and  work  for  a  stable, 
prosperous and democratic Afghanistan. In this regard, 
they  need  the  support  of  every  one  of  us  in  the 
international  community.  The  forthcoming  conference 
on  Afghanistan  will  provide  us  with  another 
opportunity  to  reassure  the  Afghans  that  as  they 
continue  on  their  journey  towards  stability,  security 
and  development,  the  international  community  stands 
with them, offering its help and support. 
Iran, along with other neighbouring countries and 

the world at large, has a vital interest in a secure, stable 
and  prosperous  Afghanistan  at  peace  with  itself  and 
with 
recent  years,  we  have 
in  projects  aimed  at  rebuilding  and 
participated 
reconstructing 
focusing  mainly  on 
infrastructure and capacity-building. So far, the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran’s  official  assistance  to  Afghanistan 
amounts  to  about  $500  million  for  those  projects.  In 
the  area  of  regional  cooperation,  we  have  also  held 
the  country, 
(Italy): 
Mr.  Cornado


trilateral  meetings  at  various  levels  with  Afghanistan 
and Pakistan to foster cooperation in the economic and 
development sectors. Within that context, after several 
rounds  of  expert  consultations,  the  heads  of  State  of 
Afghanistan, Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran 
met in Tehran in May. 

We  have  also  extended  our  hospitality  to  more 
than  3  million  Afghan  nationals  over  the  past  three 
decades. At present, close to 1 million Afghan refugees 
are  registered  in  Iran,  while  a  similar  number  of 
unregistered Afghans are also living in our country. For 
all  these  years,  Afghan  nationals  have  continued  to 
enjoy  Iran’s  educational  and  welfare  facilities  and  to 
benefit  from  the  same  subsidies  that  our  own  people 
receive. 

Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  our  hope  for  a 
better and more prosperous future for Afghanistan and 
a  commitment  to  help  its  people  build  a  better  world 
and a better future. 

Italy  welcomes  and 
supports  today’s  draft  resolution  (A/64/L.8)  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  and  looks  forward  to  its 
adoption  by  consensus.  That  will  confirm  the  strong 
ongoing  commitment  of  all  United  Nations  Member 
States  to  assisting  Afghanistan  on  its  path  to  peace, 
stability, democracy and reconstruction. And we thank 
Germany  for  its  leadership  in  the  negotiations  that 
enabled the achievement of this important result. 

Italy aligns itself with the statement made by the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Sweden  on  behalf  of  the 
European  Union  and 
in 
welcoming  the  conclusion  of  the  first  elections  run 
entirely by the Afghan authorities, with the support of 
the  international  community.  We  congratulate  the 
people of Afghanistan  and  President Hamid Karzai on 
his  election,  and  applaud 
the  other  presidential 
candidates  for  a  campaign  that  addressed  key  issues 
and challenges for Afghanistan and its people. We also 
welcome the efforts of the Afghan electoral institutions 
to  address  irregularities  in  accordance  with  Afghan 
election  laws  and  the  Afghan  Constitution.  In  this 
process, important lessons have been learned and need 
to be remembered, in view of the forthcoming elections 
in 2010. 

As the Group of Eight foreign ministers stated on 
3  November,  the  conclusion  of  this  process  gives 
Afghanistan  a  new  opportunity  for  peaceful,  effective 
and productive cooperation among all the political and 
joins  previous  speakers 
A/64/PV.40
in 
in 
the 
to 
strengthening 
social components of its society. It also paves the way 
for a new season of collaboration between the Afghan 
authorities  and  the  international  community,  under 
United  Nations 
leadership.  Strengthening  regional 
cooperation, particularly among countries crucial to the 
stability  of  the  region,  will  also  play  a  key  role  in 
promoting security and development in Afghanistan. 

For  the  sake  of  national  unity,  we  encourage 
President Karzai to rapidly form an effective, qualified 
and  credible  Government.  The  biggest  challenges 
facing the new executive are improving State and local 
governance, fighting corruption, promoting the rule of 
law,  justice  and  human  rights,  as  well  as  increasing 
accountability and achieving progress on reintegration, 
security and stability. 

As one of the largest troop-contributing countries, 
Italy  confirms  its  resolute  support  for  the  people  and 
leadership  of  Afghanistan 
their  fight  against 
terrorism and the cultivation and production of narcotic 
drugs,  in  promoting  good  governance,  and  in  tackling 
acute socio-economic problems. We remain unwaveringly 
committed 
the  ownership  and 
responsibility of the Government of Afghanistan, to the 
ultimate  benefit  of  the  Afghan  people.  Italy  looks 
forward 
inauguration  of 
President  Karzai  and,  upon  the  installation  of  his 
Government,  to  stepping  up  its  dialogue  with  the 
Afghan authorities. 
Mr.  Das  (India):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

expressing  India’s  appreciation  for  the  convening  of 
this discussion on a subject of great importance for us, 
our region and the world. I commend the effort by the 
delegation of Germany in coordinating intergovernmental 
negotiations  that  have  led  us  to  this  annual  General 
Assembly  resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan. 
As  we  have  been  doing  for  the  last  several  years,  we 
are  happy  to  be  a  sponsor  of  this  resolution,  which  is 
traditionally adopted by consensus. 

The successful conclusion of the first Afghan-led 
presidential and provincial council elections is a major 
milestone  in  Afghanistan’s  evolution  as  a  democracy. 
We  congratulate  President  Hamid  Karzai  on  his 
re-election  and  express  our  appreciation 
to  all 
democratic forces in Afghanistan. I would be remiss if 
I  did  not  place  on  record  our  appreciation  for  the 
critical  supportive  role  played  by  the  United  Nations 
and  the  international  community  towards  organizing 
those  elections.  India  appreciates  the  resolve  and 
to  participating 
09-59876 

19 

a 
for 
from 
the  experiences  drawn 
A/64/PV.40 

determination of the Afghan people who participated in 
this  historic  election  process,  notwithstanding  threats 
and intimidation by the Taliban. 
Once  a  new  Government  assumes  office,  a  fresh 

opportunity  will  be  provided 
renewed 
commitment by the international community to rebuild 
Afghanistan. While determining the contours of a new 
Afghanistan  compact,  we  need  to  assimilate  and 
integrate 
the  past 
compacts,  such  as  the  ones  agreed  to  in  London  in 
January  2006  and  in  Paris  in  June  2008.  Those 
agreements  placed  the  responsibility  for  institution-
building and governance mainly on the shoulders of the 
Afghan  people  and  Government,  without  adequately 
funding  that  effort  and  eliminating  the  growing  threat 
from  terrorist  groups  destabilizing  the  country.  This 
time we need to be mindful of those aspects. 

In the arduous journey towards lasting peace and 
security  in  Afghanistan,  significant  challenges  lie 
ahead.  First  and  foremost  is  the  imperative  need  for 
security.  The  challenge  from  a  resurgent  Taliban  and 
Al-Qaida  is  real,  and  it  is  one  that  threatens  us  all. 
Asymmetric  warfare  and  complex  terrorist  attacks  are 
being mounted in Afghanistan and the wellsprings that 
sustain  such  terror  show  no  signs  of  being  drained. 
Civilians, humanitarian personnel, international workers, 
including  United  Nations 
staff  and  diplomatic 
personnel,  as  well  as  our  own  mission  in  Kabul,  have 
been targeted in terrorist attacks.  

There  is  increasing  recognition  that  the  surge  in 
terrorist actions in Afghanistan is linked to the support 
and sanctuaries available in the contiguous areas. That 
explains  the  particularly  high  level  of  violence  in  the 
border areas of Afghanistan. Security and stabilization 
of Afghanistan will remain a distant goal unless we are 
able  to  root  out  the  elements  of Al-Qaida,  the Taliban 
and  other  terrorist  and  extremist  groups  operating 
within and outside Afghanistan’s borders.  

Therefore, in addition to the strengthening of the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force,  it  is  crucial 
that  the  Afghan  national  security  forces  be  enlarged 
and developed in a professional manner and at a much 
faster pace, while being provided appropriate resources, 
combat  equipment  and  training.  We  welcome  the 
expansion of their capacities, as this is the only viable 
guarantee  for  a  successful  conclusion  to  the  military 
engagement in Afghanistan. We note with appreciation 
that 
suggests 
to  guard  against 
the efforts being made by third countries to strengthen 
the capacities of the Afghan national security forces. 

Indeed,  there  are  no  quick-fix  solutions.  In  the 
battle  for  winning  the  hearts  and  minds  of  ordinary 
the  risk  of 
Afghans,  we  need 
pessimism  and  defeatism  pervading  our 
thought 
processes.  Perseverance  and  tenacity  are  critical  to 
handle  the  challenge  posed  by  Al-Qaida,  the  Taliban 
and  other  terrorist  and  extremist  groups  squarely  and 
effectively. 
This  brings  us  to  reconciliation.  It  requires 

strategic  clarity,  unity  of  purpose  and  due  recognition 
of the nature of those with whom we seek to reconcile. 
Without  consensus  among  relevant  parties  over  key 
issues,  such  as  with  whom  to  reconcile  and  how,  we 
may  well  be  dividing  ourselves,  not  those  we  seek  to 
peel  away  from  terrorist  groups.  It  is  for  this  reason 
that we must go beyond unworkable divisions between 
so-called  good  and  bad  Taliban.  Terrorism  cannot  be 
compartmentalized.  History 
facile 
attempts  to  strike  Faustian  bargains  with  terrorists 
often result in such forces turning on the very Powers 
that  sustained  them  in  the  past.  Any  effort  which 
weakens  the  authority  of  the  central  Government  and 
its institutions would be counterproductive. We need to 
be  extremely  cautious  while  moving  forward  on  this 
sensitive issue. 
We support the Afghan Government’s determination 

to  integrate  those  willing  to  abjure  violence  and  live 
and  work  within 
the  Afghan 
Constitution,  which  provides  the  framework  for  a 
pluralistic  and  democratic  society.  This  should,  of 
course, go hand-in-hand with actions to shut down the 
support  and  sanctuaries  provided  to  terrorist  groups 
across the border. 

for  stabilization  of 
Afghanistan  must  be  predicated  upon  short-,  medium- 
and  long-term  strategies  to  address  the  development 
challenge. While the Afghan Government should spell 
out  its  priorities,  the  international  community  should 
come  forward  to  provide  the  resources  for  fulfilling 
them.  The  efforts  of  the  international  community  in 
Afghanistan  can  only  be  sustained  in  the  long  term  if 
we invest in  developing Afghan human  resources. For 
this, a multipronged approach is required. At one level, 
we  must  invest  in  rebuilding  the  economic  and  social 
infrastructure  of  the  nation,  while  generating  jobs. At 
another,  we  must  progressively  transfer  skills  and 
A  sustainable  strategy 
the  parameters  of 
20 

09-59876 
In 
towards 
India’s  efforts 


authority to our Afghan friends, to enable them to take 
full ownership of the reconstruction of their country. 

stabilization  of 
Afghanistan,  the  focus  has  been  on  development. 
Stabilizing Afghanistan is not only integrally connected 
with  our  own  security,  it  is  also  connected  to  the 
civilizational legacy of our friendship. Our commitment 
to  Afghanistan  has  now  cost  $1.2  billion.  It  includes 
the widest range of activities, from a cold storage plant 
in Kandahar to the 218-kilometre-long Zaranj-Delaram 
highway to a power transmission line to Kabul, which 
has  provided  a  round-the-clock  electricity  supply  for 
the  first  time  since  1992.  We  are  constructing  the 
Afghanistan  Parliament  building  —  the  edifice  of 
democracy — while simultaneously targeting community-
based  local  projects  that  provide  immediate  peace 
dividends, such as schools and hospitals. In all of this, 
capacity-building is a core element. It is in support of 
this core task that India has expanded, by 35 per cent, 
the current allocation of 1,000 seats in our institutions 
for capacity-building and scholarship programmes. 

Turning to the regional aspect, the stabilization of 
Afghanistan  must  be  a  central  part  of  regional 
processes,  if  the  country  is  to  regain  its  role  as  the 
crossroads  of  South,  West  and  Central  Asia.  This 
includes  regional  economic  processes,  such  as  the 
South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and 
the  Regional  Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on 
Afghanistan. Those processes benefit the entire region, 
while  hindering  them  affects  Afghanistan  and  the 
region  as  well.  We  must  expand,  rather  than  hinder 
trade,  transit  and  transport  ties,  including  overland 
transit  and  trade. That  is  the  best  way  of  bringing  the 
regional dimension into play in a positive manner. 

Given  the  turbulence  of  the  past  eight  years  and 
the recent dramatic decline in security, there is need for 
an  intensified  focus  on  security,  governance  and 
development  on  the  part  of  the  Afghan  Government, 
and here the international community should do what it 
can to assist. Failure to stabilize Afghanistan will entail 
a heavy cost for both the Afghan people and the world 
at large. 

When  we  speak  of  recommitting  ourselves  to 
helping  Afghanistan  defeat  the  forces  that  seek  to 
destroy  all  that  has  been  achieved  since  2001,  it  is 
important  to  recognize  that  all  of  us  have  an  abiding 
interest  in  the  success  of  this  endeavour.  We  believe 
Afghanistan  needs  a  long-term  commitment  from  us, 
A/64/PV.40
even  while  we  remain  mindful  of  the  challenges.  The 
Afghan people have displayed resilience and a survival 
instinct, even against the greatest odds. We must do our 
utmost to support them. 

Mr.  Erdman  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United States is pleased to join other Member States in 
sponsoring  the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan contained in document A/64/L.8.  

The  draft  resolution  recognizes  the  progress  that 
the  Afghan  people  have  made  in  rebuilding  their 
country, but it acknowledges that far more work has yet 
to be done. We recognize the Afghan Government and 
security  forces  for  their  continuing  efforts  to  address 
challenges  in  security,  governance,  human  rights  and 
the rule of law. 

We also thank the Secretary-General, his Special 
Representative  for Afghanistan,  Kai  Eide,  the  staff  of 
the  United  Nations Assistance  Mission  in Afghanistan 
and  other  United  Nations  personnel  and  the  forces 
participating  in  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force  and  Operation  Enduring  Freedom  for  their 
shared commitment to the people of Afghanistan. 

The  draft  resolution  highlights  the  challenges 
posed  by  those  who  seek  to  disrupt Afghan  efforts  to 
build  a  prosperous  and  stable  country.  Violent  attacks 
by  the  Taliban,  Al-Qaida  and  other  extremists  and 
criminal  groups  undermine  efforts  to  bring  stability, 
security and a representative Government to Afghanistan 
and the draft resolution rightly denounces them. 

The  brutal  attack  on  28  October  on  the  guest 
house in Kabul demonstrated tragically once more the 
need to stand firm against violent efforts to undermine 
the  peace  and  stability  that  the  Afghan  people  are 
working  so  hard  to  establish.  Afghanistan  has  now 
reached  the  conclusion  to  its  presidential  election 
process.  We  congratulate  President  Karzai  on  his 
victory  and  we  congratulate  all  the  candidates  who 
stood  in Afghanistan’s  second  presidential  election,  in 
particular, Mr. Abdullah. 

This  first-ever  Afghan-led  election  was  held 
under challenging circumstances, but the result was in 
line  with  Afghanistan’s  laws  and  its  Constitution.  As 
we  move  beyond  the  election,  the  credibility  and 
success of the new President and his Government will 
rest on its ability to deliver better security, governance, 
justice  and  economic  progress  to  the  Afghan  people. 
We stand ready to support the new Government in that 
09-59876 

21 

A/64/PV.40 

regard  and  we  call  on  all  Member  States  to  redouble 
their efforts to work with the new Afghan Government 
to  promote  stability  and  prosperity  for  the  Afghan 
people, along with peace and security for the region. 

Mr. Korček (Slovakia): First of all, I would like 
to express my full support and associate Slovakia with 
the  statement  delivered  by 
the  representative  of 
Sweden on behalf of the European Union. Allow me to 
underline  several  important  issues  in  my  national 
capacity. 
We  welcome  the  draft  resolution  on Afghanistan 

contained in document A/64/L.8, and we appreciate the 
efforts  of  Germany  to  facilitate  a  message  of  support 
from  the  international  community  to  the  Afghan 
people,  who  hope  for  a  safe,  stable,  prosperous  and 
democratic country. We are proud to be sponsors of the 
draft resolution. 

Slovakia  advocates  massive  engagement  on  the 
part  of  the  international  community  in  Afghanistan. 
The  main  objective  of  our  common  endeavour  should 
be  to  help  the  new  Afghan  Government  to  become 
ready  for  taking  full  responsibility  for  the  country,  as 
far  as  security,  stability,  rule  of  law  and  development 
are concerned. 

International  forces  are  playing  a  crucial  role  in 
helping to bring about a stable and secure Afghanistan. 
I would like to pay tribute to all of the women and men 
of  all  nationalities,  members  of  United  Nations  staff 
and  many Afghans,  who  have  lost  their  lives  fighting 
for  a  better,  fear-free  and  prosperous  future  for 
Afghanistan. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  again 
convey  the  condolences  of  my  Government  to  the 
families  of 
the  most  recent  victims  of  violent 
extremism. We strongly condemn all subversive acts by 
the  Taliban  and  Al-Qaida,  especially  those  aimed  at 
civilians and international civil personnel. 

Slovakia  is  fully  aware  of  its  share  of  the 
responsibility  for  the  situation  in Afghanistan. That  is 
why we have significantly increased our engagement in 
the  military  and  civilian  fields.  Despite  the  economic 
crisis,  we  are  fulfilling  our  commitments  and  we 
remain  fully  involved  in  the  International  Security 
Assistance Force operation. 

Only  five  months  ago,  the  Government  of  the 
Slovak  Republic  and  the  National  Council  of  the 
Slovak  Republic  extended  a  mandate  to  262  Slovak 
22 

the  defence  ministers  meeting 
military  personnel  in  the  country  and  recently  we 
announced  at 
in 
Bratislava  that  my  country  is  considering  increasing 
the number of our troops, as well as doing more in the 
construction field. 

Slovakia  is  also  involved  in  the  training  of  the 
Afghan  National  Army  and  in  preparing  the  full 
engagement  of  the  Afghan  National  Police  force  by 
providing  our  own  police  personnel  to  the  European 
Police Office mission. 
Security  is  the  main  precondition  for  further 

development of the country. However,  we cannot wait 
until the country is secure to address the humanitarian 
situation. 
Durable peace and stability in Afghanistan can be 

achieved only when adequate measures to promote the 
socio-economic  construction  of  the  country  have  been 
adopted.  It  is  crucial  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of 
our joint efforts so that the greatest number of Afghans 
can  enjoy  a  positive  impact  on  their  lives  as  soon  as 
possible.  

Since 2003, Afghanistan has been a high priority 
country  for  Slovak  development  assistance.  In  2009, 
Afghanistan  was  upgraded  to  a  programme  country 
under 
the  new  Slovak  2009-2013  medium-term 
strategy  for  development  cooperation.  Our  goal  is  to 
allocate nearly €1 million to Afghanistan assistance in 
the upcoming period. 

Slovakia  directs  its  development  assistance  in 
Afghanistan  in  line  with  its  sectoral  priorities  — 
developing  democratic  institutions,  civil  society  and 
peace; social development; support for health care and 
education;  and  developing  the  economic  and  market 
environment  and  infrastructure.  In  2009,  six  bilateral 
development projects prepared by Slovak organizations 
totalled €850,000. 

Afghanistan  is  one  of  the  four  countries  in  the 
world with the lowest success rates in the fight against 
polio.  This  year,  the  Government  of  Slovakia  has 
funded  the  distribution  of  polio  vaccine  to  250,000 
children in Afghanistan, in cooperation  with UNICEF. 
In September, we delivered humanitarian assistance in 
the  form  of  tents  and  blankets  for  people  in  the 
province of Uruzgan who had been affected by natural 
disasters. 
Afghanistan must remain at the top of our agenda 

over the long term. We are committed to our common 
09-59876 
to 
its  appreciation 


objective  to  help  to  improve  the  everyday  lives  of 
people in the country. Let me express my sincere hope 
that  the  international  community,  led  by  the  United 
Nations, will step up its multilateral efforts to provide 
assistance  to  the  Afghan  Government  with  a  view  to 
consolidating peace and stability in Afghanistan. 

Mr.  Kim  Bonghyun  (Republic  of  Korea):  My 
delegation  looks  forward  to  the  adoption  by  the 
General Assembly of draft resolution A/64/L.8, on the 
situation  in  Afghanistan.  This  draft  resolution  is  the 
result  of  a  constructive  and  active  negotiation  among 
Member  States,  which,  I  believe,  represents 
the 
political will of all Member States and which supports 
the  Afghan  people  in  their  political  and  national 
reconstruction  process.  In  this  vein,  the  Republic  of 
Korea  joined  in  sponsoring  this  draft  resolution  in 
order  to  add  its  own  political  will  to  the  international 
collaboration  in  support  of  the  Afghan  people.  My 
delegation  also  expresses 
the 
German  delegation  for  drafting  and  facilitating  this 
draft resolution. 

For the last couple of months, we have witnessed 
an intense political evolution in Afghanistan. We were 
at 
times 
disappointed by setbacks. Most of all, we were deeply 
saddened  and  disheartened  by  the  terrorist  attack  on 
28 October.  However,  at  the  same  time,  as  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  said,  we  were  more  than 
resolved not to be deterred, and we remain determined 
to  continue  the  work  of  the  United  Nations 
in 
Afghanistan.  

and 
determination of the Afghan people in participating in 
the electoral process and exercising their constitutional 
rights  in  one  of  the  most  difficult  and  threatening  of 
environments.  The  Electoral  Complaints  Commission 
and the Afghan Independent Election Commission (IEC) 
deserve  our  respect  in  upholding  the  constitutional 
process. The experience and the lessons learned during 
the  elections  will  lay  a  valuable  and  solid  foundation 
for  the  future  process  of  democratization  and  national 
restoration  of  Afghanistan. 
regard,  my 
Government  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  IEC  to 
declare Mr. Hâmid Karzai the newly elected President 
of  Afghanistan  and  congratulates  President  Karzai  on 
his election. 

We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international  community  are  ready  to  support  and 
times  encouraged  by  progress  and  at 
My  delegation 
In 
this 
admires 
the 
courage 
A/64/PV.40
team 
training 
cooperate  with  the  new Afghan  Government.  We  also 
believe  that  international  engagement  is  crucial  to 
rebuilding Afghanistan’s stability and national capacity. 
To  earn  trust  and  confidence  and  establish  a  credible 
partnership with the international community, President 
Karzai should reach out to Afghan political leaders and 
ethnic  groups  to  expedite  the  national  reconciliation 
process and ensure good governance, including bold and 
determined measures to eradicate corruptive practices. 

The Korean Government has been contributing to 
international efforts to support the national reconstruction 
process  of  the  Afghan  people,  and  we  are  ready  to 
continue  to  work  with  President  Karzai  and  his  new 
Government. As was announced last month, the Korean 
Government  will  launch  a  provincial  reconstruction 
team in Afghanistan in addition to the existing Korean 
medical  support  and  vocational 
in 
Bagram,  Afghanistan.  This  decision  was  made  at  the 
request  of  the Afghan  Government  and  in  accordance 
with  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council.  Through  this  reconstruction 
team and other channels, the Korean Government will 
continue  its  support  and  cooperation  with  the  people 
and the Government of Afghanistan. 

Lastly,  my  delegation  would  like  once  again  to 
express  our  deepest  condolences  to  the  victims  and 
their  families  for  their  tragic  losses  in  the  vicious 
terrorist  attacks  on  28  October.  This  cowardly  attack 
targeting unarmed civilians and workers of international 
organizations  should  not  be  condoned  under  any 
circumstances. My delegation strongly urges the Afghan 
Government  to  take  all  necessary  measures  to  secure 
the  safety  and  security  of  civilian  workers  in  the 
country.  We  also  stand  determined  to  support  the 
initiatives of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon,  including 
the 
to 
strengthen  security  for  all  United  Nations  staff  in 
Afghanistan. 

Mr. Gebreel (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (spoke in 
Arabic):  I  would  first  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  detailed  and  comprehensive  report 
(A/64/364). We commend the United Nations Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan for its remarkable work in that 
country. We  wish  to  express  our  regret  with  regard  to 
the  incident  that  led  to  the  death  of  United  Nations 
staff on 28 October and present our condolences to our 
colleagues and to family members. 
taking  of  necessary  budgetary  measures, 
09-59876 

23 
the  security  situation 
A/64/PV.40 

Since 2005, we have continued to receive reports 

of 
the  deterioration  of 
in 
Afghanistan. Today’s report again shows a rise in loss 
of life and a deterioration in the security situation. That 
is a source of concern for us, particularly when we see 
deaths  among  civilians  caused  by  attacks  by  armed 
groups  as  well  as  by  air  attacks  by  the  international 
forces  in  Afghanistan.  We  are  extremely  concerned 
about  the  number  of  civilian  victims  —  especially 
because  of  the  actions  of  the  international  forces  — 
despite  calls  by  international  and  local  forces  for 
caution  in  the  exercise  of  their  missions.  We  urge  all 
measures to be taken to  ensure the safety of  civilians, 
as well as full respect for international law and human 
rights law. 
Another  source  of  concern  is  mentioned  in 

paragraph 5 of the Secretary-General’s report: “Efforts 
undertaken  over  the  past  several  years  to  increase  the 
number  of  national  and  international  security  forces 
have  failed  to  stem  the  insurgency”.  This  leads  us  to 
recognize the reality that a solution does not depend on 
the  number  of  troops  or  their  equipment,  but  on  a 
comprehensive policy based on national reconciliation 
and  development.  In  this  context,  we  agree  with  the 
Secretary-General’s  statement  in  paragraph  8  of  the 
report  concerning  the  need,  noted  by  some  political 
leaders of the country, to establish a ceasefire with the 
Taliban as a first step towards ensuring the stability of 
Afghanistan. 

The ultimate goal of the international community 
is to assist the Afghan people in building a democratic, 
prosperous  and  stable  State.  The  objective  of  the 
international community is not the defeat of the Taliban 
or others per se. The use of force alone will not restore 
security  and  stability  if  it  is  not  accompanied  by  a 
dialogue leading to national reconciliation incorporating 
all components of the Afghan people, and if we do not 
fight corruption and drug trafficking. The international 
community  must  therefore  undertake  programmes  to 
ensure 
full 
responsibilities  as  a  sovereign  country  capable  of 
providing  security  and  a  dignified  life  for  all Afghans 
and  conditions  conducive 
the  withdrawal  of 
international  troops,  which  is  essential  for  national 
reconciliation. 

According to the report of the Secretary-General, 
his  Special  Representative  has  visited  a  number  of 
detention  centres,  including  that  at  Bagram,  which  is 
run  by  international  forces.  But  the  report  does  not 
that  Afghanistan 
assume 
can 
its 
to 

law, 
international 
Mr.  Parham  (United  Kingdom):  When 
evaluate these installations or say  whether or not they 
are  run  in  accordance  with  international  law  and 
international humanitarian law. We therefore call upon 
the  parties  running  these  centres,  be  they  the  Afghan 
authorities  or  international  forces,  to  respect  the  rules 
and  norms  of 
international 
humanitarian law and human rights law, and to ensure 
that  detainees  receive  fair  trials  and  are  allowed 
contact  with 
the  outside  world  and  specialized 
international  organizations,  such  as  the  International 
Committee for Human Rights. 
the 

General Assembly met last year to discuss the situation 
in  Afghanistan,  many  if  not  all  of  us  underlined  the 
significance  of  the  August  presidential  elections  for 
Afghanistan  and  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  to 
work  with  the  Afghan  authorities  to  ensure  that  they 
were credible, inclusive and secure. The fact that those 
elections  went  ahead  in  what  were  very  challenging 
circumstances is an achievement in itself. We welcome 
the  United  Nations  support  for  the  elections.  There 
were  problems  but  they  were  addressed,  and  it  was 
right that we saw the process through. 

We  must  remember  that  these  were  the  first 
Afghan-led  elections  in  over  30  years.  There  was  a 
genuine  dialogue  and  debate  about  the  future  of  the 
country  on  a  wide-ranging  set  of  issues  during  the 
elections.  Candidates  campaigned  vigorously  and 
millions  of  Afghans  turned  out  to  vote,  which  would 
never have happened under Taliban rule. 

Though the elections were Afghan-led, the United 
Nations  played  a  crucial  role  in  facilitating  and 
monitoring the process. From the early planning stages 
right up to the process’s conclusion in recent days, the 
United  Nations  has  provided  admirable  political 
leadership, resource coordination and technical expertise. 

the  United  Kingdom’s 
continued  support  to  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA). UNAMA does vital 
work in incredibly difficult circumstances, particularly 
following  the  terrible  attack  in  Kabul  on  28  October. 
Over  the  past  10  days,  the  Secretary-General  and  his 
Special Representative have shown impressive resolve 
and determination to stay the course in Afghanistan. 

In the light of the attack on 28 October, we agree 
that the United Nations must look to improve security. 
We  stand  ready  to  engage  on  how  best  this  can  be 
achieved.  We  all  want  to  look  carefully  at  existing 
reiterate 
I  wish 
to 
24 

09-59876 
third,  and 


proposals that form part of the wider uplift package to 
see whether they can meet UNAMA’s security needs or 
whether they need to be adapted.  

Despite the many challenges Afghanistan faces, it 
is heartening to be able to note the continuing positive 
trend  in  counter-narcotics.  Following  a  19  per  cent 
decrease in 2008, opium cultivation looks set to fall by 
a further 22 per cent this year. In Helmand, close work 
with  the Afghan  authorities  has  resulted  in  a  decrease 
in  cultivation  of  one 
the  operations 
conducted  this  year  under  trilateral  initiative  of  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  provide 
grounds for cautious optimism at the regional level as 
well. 

I  should  like  to  touch  briefly  on  the  issue  of 
civilian  casualties.  The  United  Kingdom  position 
remains  as  set  out  in  previous  discussions. We  deeply 
regret  —  deeply  regret  —  any  civilian  casualty.  Each 
and  every  innocent  life  lost  is  a  tragedy.  As  General 
McChrystal  has  made  clear,  protecting  the  Afghan 
population  is  at  the  core  of  our  international  mission, 
in  stark  contrast  to  the  Taliban  and  their  fellow 
insurgents  who,  as  the  Secretary-General’s  recent 
report 
to  be 
responsible for the vast majority of civilian deaths. 

Afghanistan  now  needs  to  work  to  tackle  the 
significant challenges it faces. Following the clear and 
authoritative  announcement  by 
Independent 
Election  Commission  on  2  November,  my  Prime 
Minister  spoke  to  President  Karzai  on  2  November  to 
congratulate  him.  My  Prime  Minister  told  Mr.  Karzai 
that we now look to him to take forward a programme 
that  represents  the  interests  of  all  Afghans.  President 
Karzai,  at  his  press  conference  on  3  November,  made 
clear  that  he  is  ready  to  make  progress  and  take  firm 
action to tackle, among other things, corruption. 
The  top  priority  for  the  international  community 

the  process  of 
shall  now  be 
to  drive  forward 
Afghanization  by  working  with 
the  new  Afghan 
Government  to  build  up  its  security  forces,  make 
progress  on  reconciliation,  improve  local  governance, 
deliver services for all Afghans, continue to expand the 
economy,  tackle  corruption  and  build  constructive 
relations with its neighbours. We urge the international 
community 
the  General 
Assembly  as  an  important  opportunity  to  reaffirm  our 
shared commitment to Afghanistan’s young democracy 
and to its stability and security.  
(A/64/364)  makes  clear,  continue 
this  debate 
to  seize 
the 
in 
09-59876 

25 
to 
A/64/PV.40
to 
the 
accomplished 
introduced  by 

I emphasize our shared commitment. What we are 
all doing together in Afghanistan is vital not only to the 
people  of  Afghanistan,  but  also  to  the  international 
community as a whole. As my Prime Minister said in a 
speech on Friday, we will succeed or fail together, and 
we must succeed. 
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  is  pleased  to 

co-sponsor draft resolution A/64/L.8 on the situation in 
Afghanistan 
representative  of 
Germany.  The  draft  reflects  the  crucial  aspect  of  the 
support and cooperation of the international community. 
Only 
through  an  effective  and  well-coordinated 
discharging  of  commitments  under 
the  various 
international, regional and bilateral agreements can we 
ensure that the Government of Afghanistan is supported 
fully in executing its national strategies. 

In  only  a  few  years,  Afghanistan  has  achieved 
notable  progress  in  various  sectors.  Both  the  national 
authorities and civilians are to be commended for their 
work in the extremely arduous circumstances. Yet now, 
is  being 
what  Afghanistan  has 
continuously  eroded  by  serious  challenges 
its 
security  and  stability.  Fear  of  sliding  back  into  a 
conflict  situation  is  increasing  as  the  activities  of 
militants  escalate.  The  series  of  recent  bomb  attacks 
reflects  the  urgent  need  to  address  those  security 
challenges.  In  that  regard,  we  condemn  the  recent 
wanton  killings  of  United  Nations  staff  members  in 
Kabul. The courageous United Nations staff and other 
assistance  partners  provide  help  at  great  personal  risk 
and  deserve  the  full  support  of  the  international 
community.  

We  attach  primary  importance  to  increasing  the 
capacity  of  the  Afghan  security  forces  to  address  the 
security  challenges.  We  are  mindful  of  the  strong 
wishes  of  the  Afghan  people  and  Government  to 
empower  and  strengthen  their  capacity  in  various 
sectors, including ensuring the security and stability of 
the  country.  National  ownership  is  indeed  critical. 
Sustained consultation and coordination with the Afghan 
authorities  on  the  implementation  of  international 
assistance is therefore of paramount importance. 

in 
responding  to  security  challenges  and  the  increasing 
attacks  of  militants.  The  role  of  the  International 
Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF)  has  been  central  in 
tackle  such 
assisting 
challenges.  We  also  acknowledge 
the  complex 
the  Afghan  Government 
indeed  remain  crucial 
Military  measures 

loyalty 
An  Afghan-led 
A/64/PV.40 

situations  faced by  ISAF in the  execution of its tasks. 
However,  the  military  is  not  the  only  instrument 
necessary  to  achieve  peace  and  stability.  As  the 
militants  continue  to  rely  on  asymmetric  attacks,  it  is 
becoming  obvious  that  other  steps  will  be  needed  in 
addition  to  full-scale  military  responses. The  situation 
in  Afghanistan  must  be  dealt  with  through  a  strategy 
that incorporates not only security sectors, but also the 
promotion of governance and the rule of law, as well as 
socio-economic development. 

reconciliation  process  will 
continue  to  be  needed  in  order  to  achieve  sustained 
peace.  The  elements  among  insurgents  that  renounce 
violence, respect justice, equality, freedom and tolerance 
and  declare 
to  Afghanistan’s  constitution 
should  continue  to  be  engaged  politically  in  the 
reconciliation  process. Addressing  the  narco-economy 
is  also  an  urgent  matter  as  it  is  closely  linked  to 
sustaining the insurgency. The continuing effort should 
be sustained and intensified. The progress achieved in 
reducing opium cultivation needs to be consolidated. 

Indeed, there will be high expectations of the new 
Government of Afghanistan. The new Government will 
have an opportunity not only to shape a new agenda for 
cooperation,  but  also  to  improve  governance  and 
services  in  the  socio-economic  field  for  its  people.  In 
spite of the fact that the capacities of the authorities are 
still  limited  and  there  is  the  danger  of  insurgent 
violence, it is crucial that the new Government deliver 
positive  changes  to  the  daily  life  of  its  people. A  key 
ingredient to  a successful  outcome, needless to say, is 
national  ownership.  Each  and  every  Afghan  has  to 
embrace  a  new  Afghanistan.  The  participation  of  all 
Afghan  people  in  the  political,  social  and  economic 
processes is imperative. 
Partnerships between Afghanistan and neighbouring 

States in addressing security challenges and in finding 
mutually acceptable solutions to humanitarian problems 
will remain key to sustainable peace and development 
in  Afghanistan.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
commitment  of  Afghanistan  and 
immediate 
neighbours  to  contribute  to  regional  security  and 
prosperity. 

the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan,  my  delegation 
believes  that  the  Mission  will  remain  pertinent  in 
assisting the country in tackling the various challenges 
to  its  security  and  development.  We  welcome  the 
Finally,  with  regard 
its 
to 
and 
to 
reaffirm 
the 
(A/64/L.8) 
increase  of 
Mr.  Goledzinowski
expansion  of  its  presence  to  additional  regions  of  the 
country  and 
its  capabilities  and 
resources. Such an expansion will hopefully contribute 
to  bringing  about  a  political  surge  towards  an  early 
establishment of peace and stability in the country. 

In closing, allow me to reiterate Indonesia’s wish 
for  Afghanistan  to  be  a  peaceful,  democratic  and 
prosperous  country.  We  also  reaffirm  our  full  support 
for  the  sovereignty,  independence,  territorial  integrity 
and national unity of Afghanistan. 
(Australia):  Australia 

welcomes  this  opportunity  to  endorse  and  to  be  a 
sponsor of the General Assembly’s draft resolution on 
Afghanistan 
our 
commitment  to  international  efforts  to  build  a  more 
stable and more secure Afghan State. 

We  would  like  first  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
record Australia’s  deep  sorrow  over  the  deaths  of  the 
United  Nations  workers  so  callously  murdered  by  the 
Taliban on 28 October in Kabul. I suspect that there are 
very  few  of  us  here  who  do  not  personally  know 
someone  who  either  has  served  or  is  serving  in 
Afghanistan. We support all efforts to meet the security 
needs of United Nations staff in Afghanistan, while at 
the same time enabling the United Nations to continue 
to play its indispensable role throughout the country. 
Our  collective  task  remains  both  difficult  and 

urgent,  as  developments  in  Afghanistan  over  the  last 
year, including a worsening of the security situation in 
many  parts  of  the  country,  have  shown.  The  coming 
year or two will be critical to the success of efforts by 
Afghans,  and  the  international  community  supporting 
them, 
facing 
Afghanistan.  Achieving  that  will  require  commitment 
to  a  focused  agenda  for  action  that  is  capable  of 
delivering  real  improvements  in  the  priority  areas  of 
security, governance and economic development. 
important 

the 
juncture.  The  difficulties 
presidential  election  are  well  known,  although  it  is 
important  to  note,  as  many  speakers  today  have  done, 
that  the  outcome  respected  the  constitution  and  the 
Afghan-led  electoral  process.  Looking  forward,  the 
task  before  President  Karzai  is  to  form  a  Government 
that  can  win  the  trust  of  the  Afghan  people  by 
strengthening Afghanistan’s security, fighting corruption 
and delivering effective Government services. Through 
our  ongoing  commitment  in  Afghanistan,  Australia 
Today,  Afghanistan  stands  at  an 
the  pressing  challenges 
that  accompanied 
to  meet 
26 

09-59876 
the 
approach 
that  builds 
comprehensive 


stands ready to work with the new Afghan Government 
and  other  international  partners  in  support  of  those 
objectives. 

There  has  been  a  growing  recognition  that  the 
challenges facing the coalition in Afghanistan demand 
a 
strong 
connections  between  the  military  and  civilian  spheres 
and  views  them  as  complementary  parts  of  a  single 
endeavour. Winning support for our mission among the 
Afghan people will depend as much on our success in 
helping  the  Afghan  authorities  deliver  better  services 
and  clean  government  as  on  our  achievements  on  the 
battlefield. That is reflected in Australia’s approach to 
Afghanistan,  which  stresses 
importance  of  a 
comprehensive  capacity-building  and  development 
assistance  effort,  in  addition  to  a  substantial  military 
and combat commitment. 

On  the  military  front,  Australia  announced  in 
April a substantial increase in the number of our troops 
from 1,100 to around 1,550. The principal aim of that 
increased  contribution  was  to  bolster  our  efforts  in 
training  Afghan  forces  in  the  southern  province  of 
Oruzgan  in  order  to  get  them  to  the  point  where  they 
themselves  can 
take  responsibility  for  providing 
security 
the  province.  Thus,  we  committed 
additional  troops  to  form  two  further  operational 
mentor and liaison teams in Oruzgan, in addition to the 
team  that  we  already  had  in  place.  Australia  also 
undertook to provide additional logistic support forces 
and  force  protection  elements 
in  Oruzgan,  extra 
embedded  planning  and  staff  officers  and  some  120 
troops  to  assist  with  security  for  the  elections  and 
general security in the province. 

Australia is also providing $200 million over the 
next  five  years  to  the  Afghan  National  Army  Trust 
Fund.  Contributing  to  the  Trust  Fund  supports  the 
Australian  Government’s  objective  of  creating  a  self-
sufficient Afghan  national  army,  capable  of  providing 
security  for 
the  Afghan  nation.  Further,  we  are 
deploying  extra  Australian  Federal  Police  officers  to 
train  and  advise  members  of  the  Afghan  National 
Police  force.  The  Australian  Federal  Police  are 
providing  training  to  the  Afghan  National  Police  at 
Oruzgan’s  Provincial  Training  Centre  and  also 
contributes 
in  counter-narcotics, 
combating serious organized crime, providing strategic 
advice  to  the  Interior  Ministry  and  working  with 
international  partners.  It  has  also  helped  to  develop 
teams  and 
national  Afghan  police 
investigation 
in 
through 
its  role 
A/64/PV.40
for 
including 
reconstruction, 
the  Australian  Agency 
important  development  projects, 
contributed  to  the  establishment  of  strategic  police 
programmes. 

In  addition  to  its  work  on  the  security  front, 
Australia  has  also  made  a  substantial  contribution  to 
the  equally  important  civilian  assistance  effort.  Since 
2001,  Australia  has  committed  $600  million  to  aid, 
capacity-building  and 
including  a 
pledge  of  $250  million  in  June  2008  for  development 
and reconstruction assistance over three years. 

Through  the  efforts  of  the  Australian  Defence 
Force’s  Reconstruction  Task  Force  and  of  advisers 
from 
International 
Development, Australia has already completed a range 
of 
in 
Oruzgan  province,  such  as  upgrades  to  hospitals  and 
health  clinics  and 
the  construction  of  bridges. 
Australian  aid  has  contributed  to Afghan  Government 
efforts  to  build  over  800  schools  and  provide  basic 
health  services  to  approximately  80  per  cent  of  the 
population. 

We  are  increasing  Australia’s  aid  efforts  to 
support capacity-building and service delivery. We will 
provide up to six technical specialists, who will provide 
advice  to  key  service  delivery  agencies  including  the 
Ministries of Health, Education, Agriculture and Rural 
Reconstruction and Development. 
One  of  our  principal  objectives  on  the  civilian 

front  is  to  help  pave  the  way  for  a  more  effective, 
credible and durable system of Government, extending 
from  the  capital  of  Kabul  all  the  way  down  to  the 
district level. What Afghanistan desperately needs is a 
system of national Government that is both trusted  by 
its  people  and  capable  of  delivering  much-needed 
services throughout the country. Without it, the risk is 
that disillusioned Afghans will increasingly look to the 
Taliban and other destructive forces, rather than to the 
legitimate Government, to meet their needs. 

With  this  in  mind,  Australia  is  helping  to  build 
the  capacity  of  the  Afghan  Government  at  both  the 
central and the provincial levels so it can deliver better 
services  to  its  people.  By  contributing  $87  million  to 
the  Afghanistan  Reconstruction  Trust  Fund, Australia 
has  supported  significant  improvements  in  the Afghan 
Government’s  public  financial  management  practices. 
This  support  is  helping  the  Government  to  produce 
transparent  budgets  and  to  ensure  public  funds  are 
being  used  for  their  intended  purpose.  It  is  also  being 
used  to  establish  an  external  monitoring  agency  to 
09-59876 

27 

A/64/PV.40 

oversee donor contributions to the Afghan Government’s 
budget  and  to  strengthen  the  procurement  and  audit 
functions of the Afghan Ministry of Finance. 

As part of our contribution to the Trust Fund, we 
are also supporting the National Solidarity Programme. 
Run  by  the  Afghan  Ministry  of  Rural  Reconstruction 
and Development, the programme is aimed at providing 
small-scale,  community-implemented 
infrastructure 
projects  and  at  expanding  the  economic  opportunities 
of the Afghan people. That has already reached 22,000 
villages, or 68 per cent of the rural population, through 
delivery  of  more  than  44,000  infrastructure  projects, 
such  as  irrigation  systems,  safe  drinking  water  and 
health clinics, to those rural communities. 

Australia’s  efforts  in Afghanistan  are,  of  course, 
only  part  of  a  broader  campaign  by  the  international 
community  to  build  a  better  future  for  the  Afghan 
people.  As  the  international  community  scales  up  its 
efforts  in  Afghanistan,  effective  donor  coordination 
mechanisms  will  become  even  more  important,  if  we 
are to ensure transparency and the effective distribution 
of resources. 
the 

organizational  role  played  by  the  United  Nations  in 
Afghanistan  is  becoming  ever  more  important  and 
challenging and we would like to note our appreciation 
for  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Special 
Representative, Kai Eide,  and also the  United Nations 
Mission in Afghanistan personnel he leads. 

Australia  supports  the  draft  resolution  and  we 
thank  the  delegation  of  Germany  and  its  efforts  in 
making it happen. We welcome, in particular, the draft 
resolution’s  call  for  reform  of  the  country’s  public 
administration in order to ensure good governance and 
accountability at both the national and the subnational 
levels.  Likewise,  we  welcome  its  interest  in  seeing 
further  progress  on  the  part  of  the  Government  in 
establishing  a  more  effective,  accountable  and 
transparent  administration  to  lead  the  fight  against 
corruption, and its call for improved service delivery in 
key sectors such as energy and water supply. 

in  French): 
France associates itself with the statement made by the 
representative  of  Sweden  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union,  and  we  would  like  to  say  how  much  we 
appreciate  the  German  delegation’s  draft  resolution 
contained  in  document  A/64/L.8,  of  which  we  are  a 
sponsor. 
Mr.  Thiebaud  (France)  (spoke 
environment, 
complex 
In 
such 
a 

May  I  associate  France  with  those  delegations 
that  have  expressed  their  sincerest  condolences  to  the 
families and the loved ones of the victims of the recent 
attack  on  the  United  Nations  facility  in  Kabul  on 
28 October. 

We  also  would  like  to  express  our  sympathy  to 
the  families  of  all  the  civilian  and  military  personnel 
who were killed in the line of duty in Afghanistan,  as 
well  as  to  the  Afghan  people,  who  have  been  sorely 
tested. 
The electoral process has just concluded. We now 

need  to  turn  towards  the  future.  A  new  Government 
will soon take office. It will need to meet the specific 
expectations of the Afghan people in terms of progress 
in  their  daily  lives  as  well  as  in  terms  of  good 
governance.  To  do  this,  President  Karzai  will  need  to 
work non-stop to bring together all Afghans of goodwill.  

France will be at the Afghan people’s side in this 
critical  phase  in  the  democratic  life  of  the  country,  a 
life  that  will  also  allow  them  to  redefine  relations 
between Afghanistan  and  the  international  community 
for the years to come. 

With  its  allies  and  partners,  France  will  remain 
committed  as  long  as  necessary  so  that  Afghanistan 
will be able to regain full control of their destiny. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian): We 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.  

resolution A/64/L.8.

I  would  like  to  inform  the Assembly  that,  since 
the issuance of draft resolution A/64/L.8, the following 
countries have become sponsors of the draft resolution: 
Chile, El Salvador, Fiji, Mauritius, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, 
Seychelles,  Sri  Lanka,  Tajikistan,  Timor-Leste,  Togo, 
the United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam and Yemen. 

draft resolution A/64/L.8? 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
Draft resolution A/64/L.8 was adopted (resolution 
64/11). 
The Acting President (spoke in Russian): May I 

take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 17? 


It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
28 

09-59876 
