
A/64/PV.48
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

48th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 19 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-61350 (E) 
*0961350* 

In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Tommo 
Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 

Agenda item 112 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (a)  Appointment of members of the Advisory 



Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions 

  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/64/524) 
The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 

recommends  in  paragraph  11  of  its  report  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions for a three-year term of office 
beginning  on  1  January  2010:  Ms.  Jasminka  Dinić
(Croatia),  Mr.  Collen  Vixen  Kelapile  (Botswana), 
Mr. Stafford  Oliver  Neil  (Jamaica),  Mr.  Mohammad 
Mustafa Tal (Jordan) and Ms. Nonye Udo (Nigeria). 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  appoint  those  persons  as  members  of  the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2010? 

It was so decided. 


  (b)  Appointment of members of the Committee  
on Contributions 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/64/525) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  the 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members  of  the  Committee  on  Contributions  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2010: 
Mr.  Andrzej  Abraszewski  (Poland),  Mr.  Elmi  Ahmed 
Dualeh  (Somalia),  Mr.  Ihor  Humenny  (Ukraine), 
Mr. Meshal  Al-Mansour  (Kuwait),  Ms.  Lisa  Spratt 
(United  States  of  America)  and  Mr.  Shigeki  Sumi 
(Japan). 
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 

to appoint those persons as members of the Committee 
on  Contributions  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2010? 

It was so decided. 



  (c)  Confirmation of the appointment of members  
of the Investments Committee 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/64/526) 

The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 

recommends  in  paragraph  5  of  its  report  that  the 
General  Assembly  confirm  the  reappointment  by  the 
Secretary-General of Mr. Emilio Cárdenas (Argentina) 
and  Ms.  Linah  Mohohlo  (Botswana)  as  regular 
members  of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a  three-
year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January  2010,  and 
the  reappointment  of  Mr.  Fernando  Chico  Pardo 












A/64/PV.48 

(Mexico) as a regular member of the Committee for a 
one-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2010. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to confirm the reappointment by the Secretary-General 
of  Mr.  Emilio  Cárdenas  (Argentina)  and  Ms.  Linah 
Mohohlo  (Botswana)  as  regular  members  of 
the 
Investments Committee for a three-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2010, and the reappointment of 
Mr.  Fernando  Chico  Pardo  (Mexico)  as  a  regular 
member of the Committee for a one-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2010? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  6  of  the 

same report, the Fifth Committee also recommends that 
the  General  Assembly  reappoint  Mr.  Simon  Jiang 
(China)  and  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet  (Switzerland)  as  ad  hoc 
members of the Investments Committee for a one-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2010. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  reappoint  Mr.  Simon  Jiang  (China)  and  Mr.  Ivan 
Pictet  (Switzerland)  as  ad  hoc  members  of 
the 
Investments  Committee  for  a  one-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2010? 

It was so decided. 

  (d)  Appointment of a member of the Board  


of Auditors 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/64/527) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint 
the  Comptroller  and 
Auditor-General  of  the  National  Audit  Office  of  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
as  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Auditors  for  a  six-year 
term of office beginning on 1 July 2010. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to appoint the Comptroller and Auditor-General of the 
National Audit Office of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland as a member of the Board 
of Auditors for a six-year  term of office beginning on 
1 July 2010? 

It was so decided. 

2 



  (e)  Appointment of members of the International 
those  persons  as  members  of 
Civil Service Commission 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/64/528) 


The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  7  of  its 
report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members of the International Civil Service Commission 
for  a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January 
2010:  Mr.  Minoru  Endo  (Japan),  Ms.  Lucretia  Myers 
(United  States  of  America),  Mr.  Gilberto  Paranhos 
Velloso  (Brazil),  Mr.  Wolfgang  Stöckl  (Germany)  and 
Mr. Gian Luigi Valenza (Italy). 
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 

to  appoint 
the 
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2010? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting President: The Fifth Committee also 

recommends  in  paragraph  7  of  its  report  that  the 
General  Assembly  designate  Mr.  Wolfgang  Stöckl 
(Germany) as Vice-Chairman of the International Civil 
Service  Commission  for  a  four-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2010.  

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  designate  Mr. Wolfgang  Stöckl  (Germany)  as Vice-
Chairman 
International  Civil  Service 
Commission  for  a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning 
on 1 January 2010? 
It was so decided.  

The Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the 

wish  of 
its 
consideration of sub-items (a) to (e) of agenda item 112? 


the  General  Assembly 
It was so decided. 
to  conclude 
the 
of 


Agenda item 118 
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
The  Acting  President: I  shall  now  read  out  a 

statement from the President of the General Assembly.  

to 
multilateralism,  the  call  for  dialogue  and  the 
willingness  to  act  together,  as  demonstrated  at 
this year’s general debate, were a reaffirmation of 
international  confidence  and  trust  in  the  United 
Nations  and  the  General  Assembly.  That  is  a 
commitment 
renewed 
“The 
09-61350 


A/64/PV.48
to  human 
international  peace  and 
rights, 
strong  incentive  for  all  of  us  to  redouble  our 
efforts to achieve what we all want: a revitalized 
General  Assembly; 
a  General  Assembly 
determined  and  ready  to  address  the  greatest 
challenges  facing  us 
today  by  harmonizing 
actions  of  nations  to  promote  global  solutions  to 
global  problems;  a  General  Assembly 
that 
projects  the  strength  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Organization,  thus  enhancing  its  credibility;  a 
General Assembly that lives up to its status as the 
main  deliberative,  policy-making  and  decision-
making  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  This  is  a 
priority  for  a  large  majority  of  Member  States, 
and  I  am  deeply  devoted  to  promoting  it  during 
this session. 
“The  General  Assembly  has  wide-ranging 

functions and powers. It can discuss any question 
or any matter within the scope of the Charter. We 
should  make  optimal  use  of  these  provisions  to 
exploit the full potential of the General Assembly. 
security 
From 
to 
development 
justice  and 
international law, and a host of other domains, the 
General Assembly has and must continue to play 
its rightful role. And it has to be more responsive 
and  quick  in  tackling  the  issues  of  greatest  and 
immediate 
international 
community.  Since  that  is  largely  a  function  of 
political  will,  the  Member  States  should  be 
encouraged  to  engage  in  a  constructive  political 
dialogue  that  facilitates  effective  and  timely 
decisions,  which  then  need  to  be  implemented. 
That  is  essential  if  the Assembly  is  to  retain  its 
central  role  and  authority,  which  have  been 
eroded in recent years. 
“I  also  intend  to  increase  the  Assembly’s 

visibility,  including  by  holding  thematic  debates 
that  will  offer  member  States  an  opportunity  to 
debate some of the most pressing challenges in an 
open, interactive, inclusive and effective manner. 
That  will  also  enhance  the  General  Assembly’s 
working  relationship  with  other  United  Nations 
bodies, non-governmental organizations and civil 
society, and thus boost its public outreach. 

“I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  work 
done  by  the  two  co-facilitators  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  established  last  year,  which, 
among  other  things,  led  to  the  adoption  of  an 
concern 
the 
to 
the  need 
that 
I  believe 
to  ensure 
the  Security  Council  and 
important  report  (A/63/959)  and  the  substantive 
resolution 63/309. Their work provides us with a 
starting  point  to  discuss  the  most  relevant  issues 
that  need  to  be  addressed  during  this  session  in 
order  to  enhance  the  transparency  and  efficiency 
of the work of the General Assembly.  

“In  that  resolution,  Member  States  have 
clearly  underlined 
to  achieve  an 
adequate  balance  among  the  principal  organs, 
particularly  between  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council. 
the 
negotiation  process  on  Security  Council  reform 
could  also  be  bolstered  by  our  work  on  the 
revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly.  A 
reformed Security Council should be reflective of 
the  composition  of  the  general  membership  and 
responsive to its positions and priorities. 

“As  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  I 
have  held  regular  meetings  with  the  rotating 
Presidents  of 
the 
President of the Economic and Social Council in 
order 
increased  cooperation  and 
coordination between our work programmes.  

“Many States have also underscored the role 
of  the  General  Assembly  in  the  selection  and 
appointment  of 
in 
accordance with Article 97 of the Charter, as well 
as  provisions  contained  in  General  Assembly 
resolutions  regarding  this  matter.  Many  Member 
States  also  stress  the  need  for  the  Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  to  work 
harmoniously  to  make  this  important  decision  in 
a more transparent manner. 

“In  order  to  continue  the  work  of  the  past 
session, as I have already informed delegations in 
my  letter  of  2  November  2009,  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Sanja  Štiglic,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Slovenia, and His Excellency Mr. Jorge Argüello, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Argentina,  have 
agreed  to  serve  as  co-facilitators  of  the Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group.  I  would  like  to  thank  both  of 
them  for  accepting  this  important  task,  and  I  am 
convinced  that  all  Member  States  will  extend  to 
them their full cooperation and support. 

“I hope that this session will bring us closer 
to  fulfilling  our  commitment  to  revitalizing  the 
General  Assembly  in  all  aspects  of  its  work. 
the  Secretary-General, 
09-61350 

3 
A/64/PV.48 


Delegations’  views  and  suggestions  and  active 
participation will surely facilitate this objective.” 
Mr.  Örnéus  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  of 

speaking  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU). 
Croatia,  the  former Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Iceland,  Turkey,  Albania,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro,  Serbia,  Ukraine, 
the  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  align  themselves 
with this statement. 

At  the  outset,  the  European  Union  would  like  to 
thank  the  President  of  the  General Assembly,  Mr. Ali 
Treki,  for  having  convened  this  meeting  on  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  for  the 
statement that we have just heard. The EU would also 
like  to  express  gratitude  to  former  President  of  the 
General Assembly Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann for his 
efforts  during 
the  sixty-third  session.  The  EU 
encourages Mr. Treki to pursue his engagement in that 
vital process. 

The  European  Union  would  also  like  to  express 
gratitude to the two co-Chairs, Ambassador Ms. María 
Fernanda  Espinosa,  former  Permanent  Representative 
of  Ecuador,  and  Ambassador  Mr.  Morten  Wetland, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Norway,  for  the  work 
accomplished within the Ad Hoc Working Group on the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the 
sixty-third session. 

As  it  is  well  known,  the  EU  supports  effective 
multilateralism  and  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations  therein.  Furthermore,  the  strengthening  of  the 
United  Nations  is  a  top  priority  for  the  European 
Union.  The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
an  integral  part  of  the  reform  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  EU  continues  to  be  committed  to  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  supports 
efforts aimed at strengthening its role and authority in 
line with the United Nations Charter and other relevant 
documents.  
The  European  Union  strongly  believes  that  the 

revitalization of the General Assembly can be ensured 
only  when  it  engages  in  issues  of  genuine  concern  to 
all  Member  States  and  to  the  international  community 
as a whole. Doing so, it will live up to its role as one of 
the principle organs of the United Nations. At the same 
time,  a  number  of  practical  steps  could  be  undertaken 
that  would  make  the  proceedings  of  the  General 
Assembly  more  effective  and  efficient.  At  this  stage, 
we believe, concrete initiatives at the practical level are 
In  our  efforts 
of  critical  importance  to  an  overhaul  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  performance. 
towards 
reform,  we  must  be  careful  not  to  duplicate  in  the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  discussions  and  negotiations 
already held or still ongoing in other forums.  

The European Union has heard the appeal of the 
President of the General Assembly as well as from all 
Member  States  for  the  need  to  reform  the  United 
Nations,  including  the  General  Assembly.  The  EU 
remains  resolved  to  participate  actively  in  a  genuine 
dialogue  with  all  United  Nations  Members  to  push 
those efforts forward.  

The  European  Union  welcomes  the  adoption  of 
resolution  63/309  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  note  with  great  appreciation 
the 
dynamic political will among Member States to engage 
constructively  in  the  negotiation  process  in  order  to 
give  substance  to  further  work.  The  European  Union 
looks forward to advancing our common efforts in the 
same spirit of consensus.  

We  are  counting  on  the Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
continue  progress  towards  reform.  In  that  regard,  we 
would  like  to  highlight  the  inventory  chart  of  all 
relevant  proposals  on  revitalization  and  the  stages  of 
their  implementation,  contained  in  the  most  recent 
report of the Ad Hoc Working Group  (A/63/959). The 
chart  provides  a  useful  tool  which  facilitates  the 
continued monitoring of the further implementation of 
our joint commitment.  
The EU is convinced that the best way forward is 

existing 
through 
resolutions  on 
the  General 
Assembly, including the 2005 World Summit Outcome 
Document  (resolution  60/1). As  previously  stated,  the 
Secretary-General  could,  in  his  annual  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization,  present  precise  information 
concerning  the  mandates  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly during the year, including information on the 
status of their implementation. 

With  regard  to  the  working  methods  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  EU  looks  forward  to  working 
with the full membership and the Secretariat in order to 
further  streamline  and  modernize  the  agenda  of  the 
General Assembly. We also reiterate the importance of 
introducing  measures  to  improve  the  quality  and 
accuracy  of  General  Assembly  documents  in  the  six 
official  United  Nations  languages,  and  to  ensure  that 
swift 
the  revitalization  of 
the 
implementation  of 
4 

09-61350 
and  Mr. 
the  Secretariat  on 


they  are  systematically  produced  and  translated  using 
the texts and speeches as they were written or given in 
their original language. In that regard, we would like to 
request  clarification  from 
the 
possible  savings  that  could  be  made  by  eliminating 
distribution  of  the  paper  versions  of  United  Nations 
documents to all permanent missions. The savings, we 
believe, could be used to improve the quality of those 
documents and their distribution to Member States. 

As  regards  the  process  of  selection  of  the 
Secretary-General,  which  has  also  been  under 
examination, 
the  European  Union  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  full  application  of  the  relevant 
provisions of the Charter and respective resolutions of 
the  General  Assembly.  The  EU  looks  forward  to 
working  with 
the  co-facilitators  who  have  been 
appointed  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Ms.  Sanja  Štiglic,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Slovenia, 
Jorge  Argüello,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Argentina.  We  assure  them  of  our 
full cooperation and support. 

The European Union will engage in an active and 
pragmatic  manner  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  with  a  view  to  contributing  to  the 
successful  outcome  of  our  efforts  aimed  at 
the 
collective  objective  of  further  revitalizing  the  General 
Assembly. 

speak  on  behalf  of 
(NAM). 
At the outset, I would like to express the gratitude 

of  NAM  members  to  Ambassador  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa, 
former  Permanent  Representative  of 
Ecuador, and Ambassador Morten Wetland, Permanent 
Representative  of  Norway,  for  their  excellent  work  in 
co-chairing 
the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the 
sixty-third session. 
the 

importance  it  accords  to  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly and the validity and relevance of its 
principled  position  with  regard  to  this  process.  The 
Movement underlines that the revitalization process is 
of  a  political  nature  and 
is  aimed  mainly  at 
strengthening  the  role  of  the  General Assembly  as  the 
chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  position  in  the 
wider  United  Nations  system.  It  should  therefore  be 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reiterates 
A/64/PV.48
has 
report 
is  attuned 
as 
and 
Globalization 
to  events  of 
(A/HRC/12/48), 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  welcomed 
conducted  in  an  inclusive,  transparent  and  efficient 
manner. 

the 
holding of the United Nations Conference on the World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development. 
undoubtedly 
facilitated  the  rapid  diffusion  of  the  crisis  and  its 
numerous  consequences  in  all  regions  of  the  world. A 
global  and  coordinated  response  is  therefore  required 
to address the effects and root causes of the crisis. The 
June  Conference 
its  Outcome  Document 
(resolution  63/303)  established  that  a  reinvigorated 
General  Assembly  is  the  most  appropriate  plenary 
forum to tackle such global issues. 

The  Movement  also  notes  with  satisfaction  the 
decisive  and  timely  adoption  of  resolution  63/301,  on 
the  situation  in  Honduras,  and  of  resolution  64/10,  on 
the  Goldstone 
a 
manifestation  of  the  extent  to  which  the  General 
Assembly 
international 
relevance and as an example of the Assembly’s role in 
maintaining international peace and security. 
The Non-Aligned Movement emphasizes the need 

for  Member  States  to  fully  respect  the  functions  and 
powers of  each principal organ of the  United Nations, 
in particular the General Assembly, and to maintain the 
balance  among  those  organs  within  their  respective 
Charter-based functions and powers. In this regard, the 
Security  Council  must  fully  observe  all  Charter 
provisions  and  General  Assembly  resolutions  that 
clarify  the  Assembly’s  relationship  with  the  Council 
and other principal organs. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  expresses  again  its 
concern, which it has raised at previous sessions, with 
regard to the continual attempts of the Security Council 
to  encroach  on  the  powers  and  prerogatives  of  the 
General Assembly. Article  24  of  the  Charter  does  not 
provide  the  Security  Council  with  the  competence  to 
address  issues  which  fall  within  the  functions  and 
powers  of  the  General  Assembly  and  Economic  and 
Social  Council.  The  General  Assembly,  as 
the 
policymaking  organ  of  the  Organization,  has  the 
authority  and  essential 
the 
framework,  setting  the  principles  and  identifying  the 
objectives for the wider United Nations system and its 
numerous organs, agencies and programmes. 
The Non-Aligned Movement, while expressing its 

readiness  to  continue  to  support  all  ongoing  efforts  to 
in  designing 
role 
09-61350 

5 

A 
the 
its  positions, 
its  willingness 
thorough  evaluation  of 
identify  ways  and  means 
the  central  role  and  authority  of 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  welcomes 
A/64/PV.48 

strengthen 
the 
Assembly,  wishes  to  state  that  it  will  oppose  any 
approach  that  seeks  to  undermine  or  minimize  the 
achievements  of  the  General  Assembly,  diminish  its 
current  role  and  functioning,  or  raise  questions  about 
its relevance and credibility. 

the 
adoption  of  resolution  63/309  in  September,  by  which 
the  General  Assembly,  inter  alia,  re-established  the 
Ad Hoc  Working  Group  to  discuss  during  the  sixty-
fourth session issues related to the revitalization of the 
General  Assembly  and  to  assess,  in  particular,  the 
status of implementation of its previous resolutions on 
this  matter.  In  this  regard,  while  it  reiterates  the 
validity  and  relevance  of  all 
the 
to  contribute 
Movement  reaffirms 
effectively  and  constructively  to  the  activities  of  the 
Working  Group 
to 
strengthen  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

status  of 
implementation of General Assembly resolutions and a 
clear identification of the causes underlying any lack of 
implementation  are  of  the  utmost  importance  in  order 
to  progressively  eliminate  the  constraints  that  still 
prevent 
the  General 
Assembly from achieving its full potential. 
The  Movement  emphasizes  the  importance  of 

ensuring 
the 
President  of  the  General Assembly,  including  through 
the  strengthening  of 
in 
particular  the  strengthening  of  permanent  staff  of  that 
Office.  While  we  note  with  appreciation  the  progress 
already achieved in this regard, we are of the view that 
particular effort should be devoted to implementing the 
resolutions that already exist on this matter, as well as 
to identifying, during the upcoming discussions of the 
Working  Group,  ways  and  means  to  pursue  this 
objective progressively and with determination. 

the  gratitude  and 
appreciation  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  to  the 
President  of 
the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki, for his determination to enhance the 
authority  of  this  body,  and  to  reaffirm  our  conviction 
that,  during  his  tenure  and  under  his  presidency,  the 
issue of the revitalization of the General Assembly will 
be  handled  successfully  and  genuine  progress  will  be 
achieved. 
institutional  memory, 
the  effectiveness  of 
the  process  of 
the  Office  of 
I  should 
like 
to  express 
to 
revitalizing 
its 
the 
lack  of 
transparency 
in  addressing 
the  growing  concern  of 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the  nomination  and  election  of 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  expresses 
its 

concern  over 
and 
inclusiveness  that  characterized  the  nomination  and 
election  of  the  Secretary-General.  It  has  become  clear 
that  the  Security  Council,  and  its  permanent  members 
in particular, have assumed over-broad powers over the 
years  on  this  matter.  The  lengthy  discussions  of  this 
issue  during  the  sixty-third  session  and  the  various 
views  expressed  show  the  growing  concern  of  the 
whole membership towards this matter and with regard 
to its future improvement.  

The Movement, recalling the role of the principal 
organs as enshrined in Article 97 of the Charter of the 
United Nations, stresses the need for adaptation of the 
procedure laid out by resolution 11 (I) of January 1946. 
That  60  year-old  resolution  has  been  proven  to  fall 
the 
short 
members  of 
their 
willingness  to  create  conditions  necessary  for  this 
organ  to  fully  undertake  its  responsibility  in  the 
process  of 
the 
Secretary-General. 

In  this  regard,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly may consult with Member States to identify 
potential candidates endorsed by a Member State  and, 
upon  informing  all  Member  States  of  the  results, 
forward these results to the Security Council. A formal 
presentation  before 
the  General  Assembly  of 
candidatures  for the position of Secretary-General can 
be  envisaged,  since  it  will  allow  effective  interaction 
among Member States in the General Assembly and the 
Security  Council.  The  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly  could,  during  the  process  of  selection, 
convene  a  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  for  an 
exchange of views and dialogue with all candidates, as 
is 
important 
international organizations. 

With regard to the proposal for the establishment 
of a new balloting system, the Non-Aligned Movement 
reiterates  the  necessary  cautiousness  it  has  already 
expressed  before  the  Working  Group  regarding  the 
confidentiality  and  the  integrity  of  the  voting  process. 
The  various  proposals  made  on  the  use  of  optical 
scanners  have  not  convinced  members  of 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement that the confidentiality of the 
vote  is  enhanced  or  even  preserved.  Furthermore,  the 
Capital  Master  Plan  should  not  be  used  as  a 
justification to engage in the actual installation of any 
kind of new balloting system until the membership has 
the  procedure  within  many  other 
6 

09-61350 
good 
the 
governance 
international 


had  the  opportunity  to  exhaust  the  discussion  on  the 
matter. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reaffirms  that  a 
reinvigorated  General Assembly,  in  a  more  responsive 
environment and fully exercising its role and authority, 
would  significantly  contribute  to  the  strengthening  of 
the  wider  United  Nations  system  and  be  capable  of 
enhancing 
and 
multilateralism. 

I  should  like  to  end  by  congratulating  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Slovenia  and Argentina 
on  their  appointments  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group 
on the Revitalization of the General Assembly. We look 
forward to working with them constructively. 
Ms. Rovirosa  (Mexico)  (spoke in Spanish):  It  is 

an honour for my delegation to participate on behalf of 
the Rio Group in this year’s debate on the revitalization 
of the work of the General Assembly.  

The Rio Group reiterates its firm commitment to 
the  process  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  and 
believes  that  resolution  63/309,  adopted  by  consensus 
on  14  September,  incorporates  the  main  concerns 
expressed by the various groups and delegations in the 
framework  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization of the General Assembly. The resolution 
and  the  report  of  the  Working  Group  (A/63/959), 
diligently coordinated by the Ambassadors of Ecuador 
and  Norway, 
the 
membership  and  the  Secretariat  to  promoting  the 
process  of 
the  Organization’s  most 
representative organ. 

the  progress  made  — 
especially with regard to procedural matters — the Rio 
Group believes that efforts should be redoubled in the 
implementation  of  mandates  pertaining  to  the  role  of 
the General Assembly, especially in the following five 
areas,  which 
to 
revitalization efforts. 

First, with regard to the role and responsibility of 
the  General  Assembly  in  the  process  of  selecting  the 
Secretary-General, it is a fact that the authority for this 
important  decision  lies  mainly  with  the  Security 
Council.  The  General  Assembly  only  has  a  de  facto 
role  in  consenting  to  the  decision.  The  Rio  Group 
therefore  believes  that  a  transparent  and  inclusive 
selection  process  should  be  put  in  place  whereby  the 
the  Group  believes  are  crucial 
Nevertheless,  despite 
commitment  of 
revitalizing 
reflect 
A/64/PV.48
regard 
peacebuilding 
Secondly,  with 
to  strengthening 
architecture.  Similarly, 
General Assembly  could  play  a  more  relevant  role  in 
line  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  of  the  resolutions  that  have  been  adopted 
by the Assembly itself on this issue. 

the 
authority  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Rio  Group 
believes  that  it  is  critical  that  the  General  Assembly 
assume  a  more  proactive  role  in  addressing  issues 
pertaining  to  international  peace  and  security  and  the 
new 
the 
Assembly  should  continue  to  advance  discussion  on 
issues  of  universal  interest.  That  should  serve  to 
strengthen  its  authority,  especially  in  connection  with 
matters  that  require  an  adequate  and  timely  response 
from the Organization. 

Thirdly,  with  regard  to  strengthening  the  Office 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Rio 
Group  supports  the  efforts  under  way  to  continue  to 
strengthen that Office in institutional terms. The Group 
also acknowledges the progress that has been made in 
that  regard  in  recent  years.  However,  the  Group 
believes  that  it  is  important  to  continue  to  consider 
measures  and  procedures  that  will  make  it  possible  to 
optimize  the  use  of  the  existing  human  and  financial 
resources of the Office of the President. 
to 
improving  working 

methods,  when 
to  operational  matters 
revitalization is more likely to be approached in a more 
immediate way, for it directly involves Member States. 
Streamlining  the  items  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly 
the 
Assembly’s workload — both in the plenary and in the 
Main  Committees  —  while  still  taking  its  political 
implications  into  consideration.  That  goal  can  be 
achieved  if  the  membership  as  a  whole  decides  to  do 
so.  It  is  up  to  us,  the  Member  States,  to  demonstrate 
our readiness to adequately reduce the number of items 
addressed  by  the Assembly. Among  the  most  feasible 
ways  to  do  so  is  to  biennialize  or  triennialize  the 
consideration of items. That, too, is dependent upon a 
decision of the membership as a whole. 

Fifthly,  with  regard  to  the  voting  system  in  the 
United Nations, the General Assembly’s manual voting 
system must function more efficiently so as to expedite 
the  counting  process  and  ensure 
the  credibility, 
reliability and confidentiality of the voting process.  
The Rio Group wishes once again to reiterate its 

full readiness to continue to work constructively at this 
Fourthly,  with  regard 
it  comes 
to  better  parcel  out 
is  one  way 
09-61350 

7 

A/64/PV.48 

session  to  find  practical  and  realistic  approaches 
leading  to  a  genuine  strengthening  of  the  supreme 
universal forum. 

Lastly,  on  behalf  of  the  Rio  Group,  allow  me  to 
express  our  gratitude  to Ambassador Ali Treki  for  his 
efforts  to  continue  to  advance  work  on  this  important 
issue.  Similarly,  I  would  like  to  express  the  Group’s 
gratitude 
to  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session,  for  the  commitment  he  demonstrated  during 
his  presidency  in  connection  with  efforts  aimed  at 
revitalizing  the Assembly.  I  should  also  like  to  assure 
the  new  co-facilitators,  the  Ambassadors  of  Slovenia 
and  Argentina,  of  the  Group’s  cooperation.  We  shall 
continue  to  work  with  them  to  achieve  results  in  our 
work. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like  to  express  to Ambassador Treki  Egypt’s  gratitude 
for making the issue of the revitalization of the work of 
the General Assembly one of the main priorities of his 
presidency during the Assembly’s sixty-fourth session. 
I also thank him for his commitment and determination 
to enhance the Assembly’s role and authority, including 
through 
the 
Revitalization of the General Assembly. 

I would also like to take this opportunity to thank 
the  co-facilitators  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  — 
Ms. María Espinoza, former Permanent Representative 
of  Ecuador,  and  Mr.  Morten  Wetland,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Norway  —  for  their  excellent  work 
and  dedication  in  co-chairing  the  Working  Group 
during  the  sixty-third  session.  I  should  also  like  to 
pledge  our  full  support  to  the  new  co-facilitators  for 
the  sixty-fourth  session  —  Ms.  Sanja  Štiglic, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Slovenia,  and  Mr.  Jorge 
Argüello, Permanent Representative of Argentina — in 
promoting  the  process  of  revitalizing  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly. 

Egypt  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  Permanent  Representative  of Algeria  on  behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
the  process  of 

the  chief 
revitalizing 
deliberative, policymaking and representative principal 
organ  of  the  Organization,  no  concrete  results  have 
been achieved so far. That is due mainly to the lack of 
political will to ensure that the General Assembly plays 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
the  General  Assembly  as 
importance  of 
Despite 
the 
First, 
that 
focusing  on 
effort  while 
is  convinced 
its leading role in accordance with the delicate balance 
among all principal organs established by the Charter. 

As the relationship between the Security Council 
and  the  General  Assembly  is  already  defined  in  the 
Charter,  Egypt 
the  problem 
concerning  the  relation  between  those  two  principal 
organs  lies  in  the  application  by  both  of  them  —  the 
Council  and  the  Assembly  —  of  their  respective 
mandates.  On  the  one  hand,  the  Security  Council 
continues  to  encroach  on  the  mandate  of  the  General 
Assembly. It does not bring any matter to the attention 
of the General Assembly and, in most cases, it acts in a 
manner that ignores the will and views of the countries 
concerned  and  the  general  membership  of  the  United 
Nations. On the other hand, the General Assembly does 
not exercise in a satisfactory manner its responsibilities 
enshrined  in  the  Charter,  particularly  concerning  its 
relations  with  the  Security  Council  and  the  other 
principal organs. 

Egypt therefore believes that we should focus on 
taking concrete steps. We should continue to make the 
utmost 
the  honest 
implementation  of  the  proposals  that  were  previously 
adopted in resolutions of the General Assembly, as well 
as on new proposals to be presented during this session 
aimed  at  achieving  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly and at preventing the Security Council from 
encroaching on its mandates.  

In  this  regard,  allow  me  to  highlight  some 
additional important points, which were reflected in the 
final  document  adopted  by  the  fifteenth  Non-Aligned 
Movement Summit, held in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, in 
July  2009,  and  some  other  points  we  deem  necessary 
for  the  success  of  the  process  of  revitalizing  the 
General Assembly. 

take 
appropriate and concrete measures, in accordance with 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  in  instances  wherein  the 
Security  Council  fails  to  address  cases  involving 
genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes  or 
breaches  of  ceasefire  between  belligerent  parties,  in 
fulfilment  of  its  primary  responsibility.  Moreover,  the 
Assembly  should  identify  measures  to  simplify  the 
Uniting  for  Peace  process  to  enable  swifter  and  more 
urgent  action  by  the  Assembly,  in  recognition  of  its 
role  on  issues  relating  to  international  peace  and 
security, as set out in the Charter. 
the  General  Assembly 
should 
8 

09-61350 
reforms, 
including 
issues  and 



Second,  the  General  Assembly  should  maintain 
its  role  and  mandate  in  setting  the  priorities  of  the 
United  Nations  in  considering  all  budgetary  and 
administrative 
its 
absolute  authority  to  allocate  and  reallocate  financial 
and human resources and in the appointment of senior 
officials  of  the  Secretariat  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter  and  the  relevant Assembly  resolutions.  In  this 
regard,  prerogatives  of  the  Assembly,  as  the  chief 
oversight  organ  of  the  Organization,  including  on 
management  and  procurement 
for  peacekeeping 
operations, must be respected. 

Third,  the  General  Assembly  should  actively 
undertake  its  role  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  as  stipulated  in  Articles  10  to  14 
and Article 35 of the United Nations Charter, as well as 
using,  where  appropriate,  the  procedures  set  forth  in 
rules  7,  8,  9  and  10  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the 
Assembly, which enable swift and urgent action by the 
Assembly,  bearing  in  mind  that  the  Security  Council 
has  the  primary  —  but  not  the  only  —  responsibility 
for the maintenance of international peace and security. 
The  adoption  of  resolution  63/301  on  the  situation  in 
Honduras  and  of  resolution  64/10  on  the  follow-up  to 
the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission 
on  the  Gaza  Conflict  are  clear  illustrations  of  the 
ability of the Assembly to take action on issues that fall 
within the purview of the maintenance of international 
peace and security. This trend by the Assembly should 
be  enhanced,  further  solidified  and  even  developed  in 
all  similar  cases  relating  to  the  maintenance  of  peace 
and  security,  particularly  in  cases  where  the  Security 
Council  has  failed  in  achieving  peace  and  security, 
such  as  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and 
Somalia. We  encourage the President of  the Assembly 
to  hold  many  thematic  debates  on  these  issues  and  on 
other issues of concern to the larger membership of the 
Organization  with  a  view  to  adopting  the  necessary 
resolutions. 

Fourth,  to  achieve  that,  we  should  ensure  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  which 
is  a  matter  of  great 
importance  in  the  process  of  enhancing  the  role  and 
authority  of 
through 
strengthening  the  institutional  memory  of  the  Office, 
which  currently  relies  on  voluntary  contributions;  this 
affects  the  ability  of  developing  countries  to  take  an 
active part in the development of such capabilities. 
the  Assembly, 
in  particular 
A/64/PV.48
that 
Sixth, 
including 
Fifth,  we  stress 
the  role  undertaken  by 
the  Assembly.  Moreover,  we  encourage 

the  General  Assembly 
remains the principal organ that reviews the work of its 
subsidiary  organs, 
the  Human  Rights 
Council,  which  is  and  shall  remain  a  subsidiary  body 
of 
the 
Assembly  to  engage  actively  with  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission as a subsidiary body of the Assembly and 
call for more periodic briefings to the Assembly by the 
Chairs  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  its 
country-specific configurations. 

the  Security 
Council  and  its  permanent  members  in  the  selection 
process  of  the  Secretary-General  encroaches  on  the 
role of the General Assembly in this regard. Therefore, 
it is necessary to revitalize the role of the Assembly, in 
accordance  with  Article  97  of 
the  Charter  and 
resolutions  51/241  and  60/286  concerning  this  matter. 
In  this  context,  we  propose  establishing  a  mechanism 
that  allows  the  President  of  the  Assembly  to  consult 
with  Member  States  to  identify  potential  candidates 
endorsed by Member States, inform all Member States 
of the results and forward those results to the Security 
Council.  Formal  presentation  of  candidatures  for  the 
position  of  Secretary-General  should  be  held  in  a 
manner  that  allows  for  interaction  and  exchange  of 
views with Member States. 

the 
technology  of  voting  and  balloting  systems  applied  in 
the  General Assembly,  as  long  as  this  does  not  affect 
the  reliability  and  confidentiality  of  those  systems. 
Nevertheless,  Egypt  is  not  in  favour  of  the  proposals 
presented  during 
the 
Assembly  to  establish  a  new  balloting  system  as  a 
mean of expediting the counting of votes cast by secret 
ballot during elections. We believe that these proposals 
affect  the  credibility,  reliability  and  confidentiality  of 
the current balloting system. Thus, we believe that the 
current  system  concerning  voting  and  balloting  in  the 
Assembly  should  be  maintained  until  another  credible 
system meets with acceptance by Member States. 

Eighth,  there  should  be  a  follow-up  to  the 
effective implementation of the resolutions adopted by 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  revitalization  process. 
The  Secretary-General  should  be  requested  to  submit 
to  the  Assembly  an  analytical  status  report  with  a 
factual  chart  on  the  implementation  of  all  resolutions 
that  have  been  adopted  under  this  agenda  item  in  all 
previous  years  —  and  we  have  adopted  many 
resolutions on this by consensus. 
the  sixty-third  session  of 
Seventh,  Egypt 
supports 
developing 
09-61350 

9 
is 

to 
fulfil 
the 
its  capacity 
In  conclusion, 
the  best  way 
Recently,  we  adopted 
A/64/PV.48 

to  enhance 

multilateralism 
to  have  a  revitalized  General 
Assembly through identifying further ways to enhance 
its role, authority, effectiveness and efficiency, building 
on  previous  resolutions  and  on  the  progress  made 
during  previous  sessions.  As  the  credibility  of  the 
United  Nations  and 
its 
responsibilities are increasingly linked to the ability of 
the Assembly to exercise its institutional prerogatives, 
we  call  on  all  members  to  show  the  political  will 
necessary  to  support  international  good  governance 
based on equality, transparency and accountability. 
Mr. Yaroshevich (Belarus): The Ad Hoc Working 

Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
has lately achieved some tangible results. Last year, we 
were  able  to  work  out  the  chart  of  General Assembly 
resolutions  on  revitalization  (A/63/959,  annex),  which 
was used as the basis for analysing the reasons for the 
lack  of 
implementation  of  previously  adopted 
resolutions on Assembly revitalization. 

first  substantive 
resolution on General Assembly revitalization in years. 
Resolution  63/309  covers  most  of  the  themes  we 
discussed and incorporates the conclusions at which we 
arrived.  We  would  like  to  commend  the  goodwill  of 
Member  States  and  political  groups,  in  particular  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  and  the  European 
Union, which made these results possible. 

Belarus associates itself with the statement made 
by  the  Permanent  Representative  of Algeria  on  behalf 
of the NAM. 

the 
atmosphere  in  which  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
General  Assembly  revitalization  worked  has  been 
significantly  improved  and, in  general,  will  contribute 
to  the  restoration  of  trust  between  the  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council.  We 
that, 
strategically,  the  steps  we  took  together  towards 
strengthening  the  role  of  the  Assembly  as  the  main 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations are visible evidence of the effective 
interaction  that  has  been  intensified  between  the 
recognized  centres  of  world  economic  and  political 
power in order to stabilize the international situation. 

Having achieved so much, we cannot be allowed 
to  lose  momentum.  The  Belarusian  delegation  will 
strive  for  further  good  practical  results  on  General 
The  Belarusian  delegation  believes 
also  believe 
that 
in 
(P-5) 
the  most 
Assembly  revitalization  during  this  session,  and  we 
call upon our partners to do the same. 

We commend the interest and engagement shown 
by  the  delegations  of  the  five  permanent  members  of 
the  Security  Council 
recent 
deliberations in the framework of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group.  We  hope  that  the  P-5  members  will  further 
regard  the  revitalization  process  as  an  indispensable 
way of ensuring the viability and stable good health of 
the whole United Nations system. 
The Belarusian delegation would like to share its 

vision on the possible ways to proceed. We believe that 
the  following  key  ideas  should  be  developed  in  the 
course of the Assembly’s current session. 
First,  one  of  the  best  ways  to  revitalize  the 

Assembly would be for it to facilitate consideration of 
the most pressing and topical concerns of relevance to 
all  Member  States,  as  well  as  to  the  international 
community  as  a  whole. Among  the  pressing  issues  to 
be  comprehensively  considered  in  the  Assembly  the 
Belarusian  delegation  would  include  the  Kyoto  and 
Copenhagen  arrangements;  access 
for  developing 
countries and countries with economies in transition to 
technologies for new and renewable sources of energy; 
improving 
against 
trafficking  in  human  beings;  and  the  interests  of 
middle-income countries. 

Secondly,  the  thematic  debates,  as  an  advanced 
format  of  discussion  in  the  Assembly  on  issues  of 
relevance  to  the  international  community  and  of 
concern  and  interest  to  the  United  Nations,  could  be 
more  results-oriented.  We  reiterate  our  opinion  that 
those debates could lead to the adoption of a resolution 
or  the  establishment  of  an  open-ended  group  on  the 
issue  discussed,  and  a  list  of  proposals  made  by 
Member States during the debates could be drafted. 

Thirdly,  public  visibility  of  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly  should  be  improved  by  increasing 
cooperation  with  major  media  outlets  and  using 
modern media techniques. In this regard once again we 
note  with  great  interest  the  proposals  made  by  the 
representative  of  the  United  Nations  Correspondents 
Association and reflected in the latest report of the Ad 
Hoc Working Group (A/63/959), such as quick delivery 
of statements to the press; easy access for the media to 
Assembly meetings; indication of the speakers’ names 
and  titles  during  video  and  TV  transmissions  of 
meetings; and enhancing the capacity and institutional 
coordination  of 
efforts 
the 
10 

09-61350 


memory  of  the  Assembly’s  Spokesperson  section. 
Visibility  of  the  General  Assembly  could  also  be 
increased through more interaction with civil society or 
through  travel  activities  by  its  President  and  Vice-
Presidents. 

Fourthly,  the  commitment  to  continuing  our 
consideration  at  the  current  session  of  the Assembly’s 
role in the selection and appointment of the Secretary-
General  should  not  be  a  stumbling  block  to  our  work 
but  rather  an  opportunity  to  listen  carefully  to  the 
arguments  of  other  sides,  absorb  them  and  thoroughly 
work out the decisions we would support. 

Fifthly, the modernization of the voting system in 
the Assembly, including the introduction of optical disc 
scanners,  is  an  important  subject  that  could  lead  to  a 
specific  result,  provided  that  issues  of  security  and 
confidentiality  can  be  duly  taken  into  account.  The 
Assembly  cannot  ignore  the  advantages  of  global 
technological progress.  

Last but not least, we think it would be useful to 
continue  to  analyse  the  reasons  for  the  lack  of 
implementation  of  previous 
the 
revitalization of the Assembly. 

In  conclusion,  the  Belarusian  delegation  would 
like  to  note  that  in  the  charts  of  General  Assembly 
resolutions  on  revitalization  we  frequently  see  the 
following  comment  on  the  provisions  of  previously 
adopted  resolutions:  “Ongoing  provision.  Provision 
does not contain request for specific action“. Today, we 
believe  that  the  time  has  come  for  specific,  joint  and 
efficient  actions  to  revitalize  the  United  Nations 
General Assembly. 
Mr. Bui The Giang (Viet Nam): On behalf of the 

Vietnamese  delegation,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  for  convening  today’s  meeting  to  discuss  a 
subject  dear  to  the  heart  of  the  broad  membership  of 
the General Assembly. I would also like to express my 
gratitude  to  Ambassador  Maria  Fernanda  Espinosa  of 
Ecuador  and Ambassador  Morten  Wetland  of  Norway 
for  their  excellent  co-chairmanship  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly during the sixty-third session.  

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made earlier by the representative of Algeria on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
Eighteen  years  after  its  first  appearance  on  the 

agenda  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  issue  of  the 
resolutions  on 
A/64/PV.48
specific 
to 
the 
rising 
challenges 
facing 
and  useful 
in  general  and 
its  greater  clarity, 
revitalization  of  the Assembly  has  emerged  as  one  of 
the most important subjects in the process of reform of 
the  United  Nations 
the  General 
Assembly in particular. 

My delegation shares the view that revitalization 
is not an objective per se but a means of enhancing the 
efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the  Assembly’s  work 
with  a  view  to  ultimately  strengthening  its  role  as  the 
main  deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  in  an  effort  to  respond 
properly 
the 
international  community.  We  therefore  acknowledge 
the Ad Hoc Working Group for its efforts in producing 
the  report  (A/63/959)  of  10  September  2009,  which 
contains 
recommendations, 
including  in  particular  the  draft  resolution  that  the 
Assembly  adopted  on  14  September  2009  (resolution 
63/309).  

That  resolution  —  the  seventeenth  on  this  issue 
since  the  first  was  adopted  in  1991  —  is  noteworthy 
for 
straightforwardness  and 
comprehensiveness, including the decision to establish, 
at the sixty-fourth session, an ad hoc working group on 
revitalization  and  to  define  concrete  measures  to 
enhance the role and authority of the General Assembly 
within  the  entire  United  Nations  system.  In  that 
connection,  my  delegation  wishes  to  highlight  the 
following four points. 

First,  in  today’s  world,  interdependence  among 
nations  has  grown  to  a  point  where  no  single  nation, 
however  big  and  powerful,  can  solve  all  its  problems 
on  its  own.  The  global  economic  and  financial  crisis 
that  has  been  raging  all  over  the  globe  is  evidence  of 
that.  It  was  therefore  opportune  and  encouraging  that 
the  Assembly  convened  the  World  Summit  on  the 
Economic  and  Financial  Crisis  in  June  and  the  World 
Summit on Climate Change in September, and, also in 
June,  adopted  resolution  63/301  on  the  coup  d’état  in 
Honduras.  Those  events  help  prove  that  the  General 
Assembly  is  the  most  appropriate  forum  in  which  all 
global  stakeholders  can  come  together,  discuss  and 
make  decisions  on  effective  and  sustainable  solutions 
to issues of the utmost importance to the international 
community. This is the judicious direction. 
In  the  same  vein,  we  support  the  Assembly’s 

ongoing  discussions  of 
issues  of 
international  relevance  —  particularly  those  in  the 
fields 
security, 
topical  global 
development, 
of 
peace 
and 
09-61350 

11 
A/64/PV.48 

humanitarian  affairs and human rights — on the basis 
of  consultations  with  Member  States  and  taking  into 
full  account  the  interests  and  concerns  of  the  broad 
membership, especially developing countries. 

Secondly,  full  implementation  of  all  General 
Assembly  resolutions  remains  essential  to  the  process 
of the Assembly’s revitalization. My delegation’s view 
is  that  it  is  useful  and  legitimate  to  study  the  factual 
chart developed by the Ad Hoc Working Group during 
the  sixty-second  session  on  the  implementation  of 
relevant resolutions and to use it as a productive basis 
for  thorough  discussion  and  honest  assessment  of  this 
vital  aspect  of  the  work  required  to  enhance  the 
Assembly’s role and authority. 

Thirdly,  the  strengthening  of  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly is yet another issue 
key  to  the  revitalization  of  the  Assembly’s  work.  To 
that end, we  believe it is necessary to ensure both the 
sufficient  provision  and  the  efficient  use  of  financial 
and  human  resources  for  that  Office  in  order  to 
improve its substantive work. We consider it advisable 
to  study  seriously  the  suggestions  of  a  number  of 
delegations  concerning 
the 
Office’s  institutional  memory,  as  well  as  a  best-
practices paper that an incumbent President could draft 
for his or her successor so as to facilitate the transition 
process. 

Fourthly,  the  process  of  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly  would  be  gravely  deficient  without 
improvement  of  the  cooperation  and  coordination 
between the Assembly and other principal organs of the 
United Nations and other international institutions and 
civil  society,  as  well  as  among  the  Main  Committees 
and the Assembly’s subsidiary bodies. We welcome the 
Assembly’s  decision  to  continue  its  consideration  of 
the  revitalization  of  its  role  in  the  selection  and 
appointment  of  the  Secretary-General,  for  we  believe 
that  will 
improving 
coordination  among 
the  Security 
Council and the Secretary-General. That is why in July 
last  year,  when  Viet  Nam  held  the  presidency  of  the 
Council, 
launched 
consultations  with  Member  States  on  the  draft  annual 
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly. 
Likewise, we support regular briefings of the Assembly 
by 
the  Secretary-General  and  periodic  meetings 
between  the Assembly  President  and  the  Presidents  of 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. More initiatives and measures should also be 
the  strengthening  of 
the  Vietnamese 
the  Assembly, 
delegation 
contribute 
positively 
to 

Mr.  Kleib
the  General  Assembly  and 
explored  to  further  improve  the  interaction  among 
different organs of the United Nations. 

We  welcome  the  appointment  of  Ambassador 
Sanja  Štiglic  of  Slovenia  and  Ambassador  Jorge 
Argüello  of  Argentina  as  Co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working Group during the sixty-fourth session.  
We  fully  concur  with  the  comments  of  the 

Assembly  President  at  the  13th  meeting,  on  the 
conclusion  of  the  general  debate  at  the  sixty-fourth 
session, that the best way to enhance multilateralism is 
to  have  a  revitalized  General  Assembly  as  the  main 
deliberative,  policymaking  and  decision-making  organ 
of the United Nations. Let me reiterate Viet Nam’s firm 
commitment  to  participate  actively  and  constructively 
in  the  work  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly in the way forward towards that goal. 
(Indonesia):  Let  me  begin  by 

commending  the  excellent  work  done  by  the  two 
Co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of 
the 
Group’s report (A/63/959). We also thank them for the 
updated  inventory/chart  on  revitalization  annexed  to 
the report, which is a valuable tool for monitoring the 
progress in the Assembly’s effectiveness.  

Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  delegation  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

We  must  all  work  together  to  strengthen  the 
General  Assembly’s  role  as  the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking and representative United Nations organ. 
With  membership  from  all  United  Nations  States  and 
an  encompassing  mandate,  the  Assembly  is  uniquely 
poised  to  comprehensively  review  and  take  policy 
actions on vital issues of concern to the world. 

Indonesia always supports the efforts to revitalize 
the  Assembly  and  to  enhance  its  global  status  in 
representing peoples’ wishes. We will continue to work 
actively to that end. I would like to share some of our 
thoughts on today’s critical agenda item. 

First, it is not because of any shortage of United 
Nations  resolutions  and  decisions  that  we  continue  to 
work  towards  revitalization  of  the  Assembly  after  16 
years of debate on United Nations reform. It is the slow 
implementation  of,  or  lack  of  implementation  of,  the 
resolutions  already  adopted  on 
is 
fundamentally  responsible  for  the Assembly  not  being 
able to discharge its Charter role fully. Indeed, greater 
issue 
that 
the 
12 

09-61350 
to  energize 


political  will  on  the  part  of  all  remains  central  to 
advancing  our  collective  efforts 
the 
Assembly.  In  that  regard,  we  were  encouraged  by  the 
forward-looking  work  by  the Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
during  the  sixty-third  session,  including  at  its  three 
thematic  meetings  on  the  crucial  issues. We  hope  that 
the  Group  will  build  on 
the  many  points  of 
convergence in the sixty-fourth session and that where 
there  are  differences  there  will  be  further  efforts  to 
bridge them. 

Secondly,  the  role  of  the  Office  of  the  President 
of 
the  General  Assembly 
is  undoubtedly  very 
important,  and  it  should  be  supported  fully  by  the 
United  Nations  system.  We  support  the  strengthening 
of  the  institutional  memory  and  functioning  of  the 
Office  of  the  President  from  separate  and  dedicated 
resources.  We  also  share  the  view  that  the  President 
should  make  a  comprehensive  and  analytical  report  at 
the  end  of  his  or  her  tenure,  providing  assessments, 
particularly  where  the  decisions  and  actions  of  the 
Assembly  could  not  be  carried  out.  That  would  be 
useful  as  an  exercise  in  best  practices  and  lessons 
learned,  as  well  as  for  enhancing  cohesion  among 
Member States.  

The annual report of the Secretary-General on the 
work of the Organization could also include the status 
of resolutions directly affecting the work of the United 
Nations. 

Thirdly,  the  General  Assembly,  to  demonstrate 
that is in sync with the aspirations of the international 
community and able to take necessary measures, must 
show  leadership  by  taking  timely  policy  initiatives  on 
issues of common concern and developing the required 
norms.  In  this  regard  Indonesia  lauds  the  initiative 
shown  in  convening  in  June  the  Conference  on  the 
World Financial and Economic Crisis and Its Impact on 
Development,  and  its  Outcome  (resolution  63/303, 
annex).  

The  Assembly  should  continue  to  examine  the 
major  political,  social  and  economic  issues  in  an 
effective manner. It should also play its due role in the 
area  of  international  peace  and  security  in  accordance 
with the Charter. It must increase its involvement in the 
United  Nations  peace  architecture  and  further  support 
efforts 
partnership-based 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  both  at  Headquarters 
and in the field. 
effective 
and 
for 
to 
09-61350 

13 
A/64/PV.48
the 
complex 
their 
to 
tackle 
the 
issue  of 
Fourthly, 
linkages  between 
they  must  work  within 

and 
multidimensional  global  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century, it is vital that the relations among the principal 
United  Nations  organs  be  balanced  and  that  there  be 
cooperation  and  collaboration  on  the  pertinent  issues. 
While 
respective 
mandates, they must continue to explore ways to build 
synergies for targeted purposes. 
Here we need to be mindful of the important and 

sensitive 
the 
implementation  of  General  Assembly  resolutions  and 
the ongoing processes of mandate review and Security 
Council  reform.  While  some  relevant  topics  will 
invariably  be  considered  by  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group,  care should be taken that its examination does 
not  inadvertently  interfere  with  the  specific  work 
carried  out  in  the  other  concerned  United  Nations 
intergovernmental forums. 

Fifthly,  with  respect  to  the  appointment  of  the 
Secretary-General, we recognize that the Assembly has 
an instrumental role in making the process of selection 
transparent, inclusive and open for consultation by the 
wider  membership.  While 
the  existing  selection 
process  has  produced  distinguished  and  commendable 
Secretaries-General, 
the 
process  itself  is  perfect.  There  is  always  room  for 
improvement  in  order  to  fulfil  democratic  principles. 
Without prejudice to Article 97 of the Charter, we share 
the  views  on  the  need  for  substantive  interaction 
between the candidates and the Assembly. 

the  global  visibility  and  outreach 
capacity  of  the  General  Assembly  are  essential  for 
enhancing  its  influence  on  international  affairs.  The 
required  support  from  the  Committee  on  Information 
and  the  Department  of  Public  Information  in  this 
respect  is  critical.  Creating  ownership  of  the  work  of 
the  United  Nations  among 
the  various  global 
stakeholders  is  very  important  for  the  success  of  the 
objectives  of  the  Organization.  Therefore,  along  with 
greater  dissemination  and  focused  communication 
strategies,  meaningful  interaction  with  civil  society 
about  the  issues  under  consideration  by  the Assembly 
could  contribute 
the 
Assembly’s role.  
Mr.  Le  Roux  (South  Africa):  Our  delegation 

aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
Permanent Representative of Algeria in his capacity as 
the  robust  execution  of 
that  does  not  mean 
Finally, 
that 
in 
the 
through 
reflected 
sixty-third 
is  marginalized 
A/64/PV.48 

coordinator  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement’s  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the General Assembly. 

South  Africa  also  joins  other  delegations  in 
conveying our sincere gratitude to the Co-Chairs of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly 
session, 
Ambassador María Fernanda Espinosa of Ecuador and 
Ambassador  Morten  Wetland  of  Norway.  We 
congratulate them on a job well done. 

The  General  Assembly  is  the  only  body  of  the 
United  Nations  in  which  all  192  Members  enjoy 
membership and in which all the 192 take decisions as 
a  collective  and  as  equals.  Unfortunately,  reality  does 
not  always  reflect  this  body’s  importance.  Too  often 
the  Assembly 
the 
encroachment  of  its  mandate  by  other  United  Nations 
bodies, most notably the Security Council. We reiterate 
that the General Assembly is the main deliberative and 
policymaking body of the United Nations. 
South Africa therefore unequivocally supports the 

African  position,  as 
the  Ezulwini 
Consensus of 2005, that calls for the General Assembly 
to be “strengthened for it to play its proper role as the 
most  representative  and  democratic  body  within  the 
United  Nations  System  and  as  the  parliament  of  the 
world”.  
actively 

participate in the deliberations of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group,  with  the  aim  of  making  the  General Assembly 
more transparent and responsive. As parliament of the 
world,  the  Assembly  must  be  able  to  respond  and 
address issues of concern that affect the whole world. 

In this  regard, my delegation acknowledges with 
satisfaction  the Assembly’s  thematic  discussions  in  its 
previous  session,  most  notably  at 
the  high-level 
meeting  on  the  world  economic  crisis  held  in  June 
2009.  We  have  also  noted  that  the  Assembly  took 
action  on  matters  relating  to  international  peace  and 
security,  as  mandated  by  the  Charter,  at  its  sixty-third 
session;  when  it  resumed  its  tenth  emergency  special 
session,  pursuant  to  “Uniting  for  Peace”  (resolution 
377  (V)),  to  discuss  the  grave  developments  in  Gaza; 
and  when 
the 
unconstitutional change of government in Honduras.  

In  spite  of  those  developments,  we  firmly  hold 
the  opinion  that  measures  should  be  discussed  and 
adopted  to  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  General 
My  delegation  will 
took  swift  action 
to  address 
continue 
to 

to 
elect 
Assembly,  especially  regarding  its  role  in  maintaining 
international peace and security. 

South  Africa  does  not  wish  to  see  the  General 
Assembly  usurp  the  role  of  the  Security  Council,  but 
we do advocate the need to improve on the balance of 
competence between the Assembly and the Council, as 
the Ezulwini Consensus states. 

That is especially true with regard to the election 
of the Secretary-General of the Organization. We agree 
with the statement by the Non-Aligned Movement that 
the  procedure 
the  Secretary-General 
established  by  resolution  11  (I)  of  1946  should  be 
reviewed,  especially 
its  paragraph  4  (d),  which 
provides  that  the  Security  Council  should  present  the 
General Assembly with one candidate, that “debate on 
the  nomination  …  should  be  avoided”,  and  that  the 
nomination  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General 
should be discussed at private meetings. These aspects 
are  not  characteristic  of  a  democratically  functioning 
organization.  In  fact,  resolution  51/241  provides  a 
slightly  more  transparent  framework  for  the  selection 
of  the  Secretary-General,  and  that  practice  should  be 
enhanced and developed further. 

My delegation is therefore pleased that resolution 
63/309,  which  establishes  the Ad  Hoc Working  Group 
on  the  Revitalization  for  this  session,  mandates  the 
Working Group to consider the role of the Assembly in 
the  selection  and  appointment  of 
the  Secretary-
General.  We 
participating 
to 
constructively in those discussions. In that connection, 
South  Africa  congratulates 
the  Ambassadors  of 
Slovenia  and  Argentina  on 
their  appointment  as 
co-facilitators.  They  can  be  assured  of  South Africa’s 
full support and cooperation. 
Finally,  the  President  may  be  assured  of  my 

delegation’s support for the strengthening of his office. 
We look forward to hearing his views in that regard in 
the  Working  Group,  especially  with  regard  to  the 
institutional  memory  of  his  office,  as  mandated  by 
resolution 63/309. 

Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  First  of  all,  the 
delegation  of  Kazakhstan  would  like  to  thank  the 
President 
the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  within  the 
framework of the Assembly’s sixty-fourth session. 

I would also like to express our sincere gratitude 
to  the  Co-Chairs  of  the  Working  Group  on  the 
the  discussion  of 
for  continuing 
forward 
look 
in 
it 
14 

09-61350 
and 
To  date, 
consolidating 
the  basis  of 
revitalization,  on 
the  General  Assembly  — 
there  has  been  some  progress 


Revitalization  of 
the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Ecuador,  Ms.  Maria 
Fernanda  Espinosa,  and  of  Norway,  Mr.  Morten 
Wetland  —  for  the  intensive  work,  as  reflected  in  the 
report  of  the  Working  Group  presented  in  the  last 
session  (A/63/959).  Let  me  also  congratulate  the 
Ambassadors of Argentina and Slovenia on their recent 
appointment  by  the  Assembly  President  as  the  new 
co-facilitators  of  the  Working  Group.  It  is  our  belief 
that  under  their  chairmanship  the Working  Group  will 
continue  to  successfully  execute  the  very  important 
mandate  of  identifying  further  ways  to  enhance  the 
role,  authority,  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the 
General Assembly. 

in 
improving the efficiency of the General Assembly and 
its  working  methods.  In  particular,  we  commend  the 
practical  approach  of  analysing  in  detail  the  status  of 
implementation  of  existing  resolutions  and  decisions 
on 
the  updated 
inventory/chart.  The  chart  is  a  useful  instrument  for 
assessing 
of 
implementation  of  the  main  provisions  of  relevant 
resolutions,  which  have  been  distributed  across  three 
main  clusters.  In  our  view,  the  chart  of  the  status  of 
implementation  should 
the 
Assembly’s deliberations.  
Another example of a positive shift that we would 

like  to  mention  is  the  regular  meetings  held  by  the 
President of the General Assembly with the Presidents 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  to  ensure  increased  cooperation,  coordination 
and complementarity in the work programmes of three 
principal  bodies  of  the  United  Nations.  Moreover,  in 
recent  years,  the  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly 
have  been  proactive  in  addressing  the  most  pressing 
global  issues  through  thematic  debates  and  informal 
plenary meetings. 

At this stage of the discussion, we should be able 
to  decide  what  modalities  of  operation  the  Working 
Group  on  Revitalization  should  adopt  during  this 
session  of  the  Assembly.  We  think  that  the  Working 
Group  should  organize  its  work  programme  around 
holding  general  discussions  and  exchanges  of  views, 
organized thematic meetings and briefings. 

to  which  aspects  of  General  Assembly 
revitalization  require  our  careful  attention,  I  would 
single out three.  
the  basis 
status 
form 
the 
for 
As 
A/64/PV.48

First,  it  is  clear  that  the  ultimate  goal  of  the 
General  Assembly  reform  process  is  to  make  it  the 
main  deliberative,  policy-making  and  representative 
organ of the United Nations. No one can disagree with 
that. General Assembly reform is closely linked to the 
reform of other principal bodies of the United Nations 
and  their  working  methods.  Although  the  division  of 
labour between three principal bodies is duly reflected 
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  we  are  still 
debating the disparity of power. A strong political will 
on the part of the Member States is needed if they are 
to evaluate a balance among the principal bodies of the 
United  Nations  with  a  view  to  making  the  Councils 
more  accountable  to  the  General  Assembly  and  to 
aligning their work programmes. 
Secondly,  it  is  very  important  to  strengthen  the 

institutional  memory  of  the  Office  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  by  enhancing  the  role  of  core 
staff  members  and  improving  the  functions  of  the 
Office  and  its  relationship  with  the  Secretariat.  We 
voice  our  support  for  strengthening  both  the  financial 
and human resources for the Office of the President. 

Thirdly,  proper  consideration  should  be  given  to 
the  question  of  the  role  and  responsibility  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  the  process  of  selecting  and 
appointing  the  Secretary-General.  The  Member  States 
should  move  forward  in  their  consultations  and  reach 
an  agreement 
the 
Secretary-General should be formalized and carried out 
in a timely, transparent and inclusive manner. 

the 
Assembly’s  visibility  and  public  outreach  capacity,  its 
relationship with the Secretariat, new technological and 
balloting options, media coverage and improvements in 
documentation  are  no  less  important.  Nevertheless,  in 
our  view,  the  ultimate  goal  of  General  Assembly 
reform  will  not  be  reached  unless  we  have  come  to 
terms  with  the  three  principal  aspects  I  have  just 
discussed. 

those  of  a 
recommendatory  nature  is  put  forward  by  the  General 
Assembly  in  the  operative  parts  of  its  resolutions. We 
think  that  it  is  now  time  to  collectively  resolve  the 
issue  of  making  it  mandatory  for  Member  States  to 
implement  General  Assembly  recommendations,  even 
if  this  would  require  the  introduction  of  certain 
amendments to the Charter of the United Nations. 
that  procedures 
for  selecting 
is  no  doubt 
issues  of 
Another 
relates 
There 
issue 
that 
that 
the 
to 
09-61350 

15 
I 
like 
to 
that 
should 
In  conclusion, 
Kazakhstan  believes 
A/64/PV.48 


the  major  global 
issues —  such  as  the  financial  crisis  and  progress  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  —  should  be 
discussed  not  only  at  high-level  meetings,  as 
traditionally  done  on  the  eve  of  the  opening  of  the 
general  debate  at  the  General  Assembly’s  annual 
session, but directly within the plenary sessions of the 
General Assembly, not outside them. 

reiterate 
Kazakhstan’s  firm  position  that  a  stronger  General 
Assembly  would  help  strengthen  multilateralism  in 
terms of transparency and inclusiveness. Kazakhstan is 
committed  to  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly as an essential element of the United 
Nations reform process as a whole. 

Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representative of Algeria, on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  by  the  representative  of 
Mexico,  on  behalf  of  the  Rio  Group.  I  should  like  to 
add some remarks on this item. 

First  of  all,  I  should  like  to  thank  the  Co-Chairs 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the revitalization of 
the  General  Assembly  for  having  prepared  the  report 
on this matter (A/63/959) and for their efforts to make 
progress in revitalizing the General Assembly. 
the  General  Assembly 

constitutes  a  determining  element  in  any  genuine 
reform of the United Nations. We cannot hope to have 
an Organization whose actions are fully democratic and 
effective  as  long  as  the  General  Assembly  does  not 
fully exercise the faculties accorded to it in the Charter. 
This process of revitalization must have as its aim the 
reaffirmation  of 
the  General 
Assembly  as  the  principal  deliberative,  policy-making 
and representative body of the United  Nations, just  as 
it is recognized to be in the Charter and the Millennium 
Declaration. It is important that this process culminate 
in an Assembly strengthened in its independence and in 
its  nature  as  a  body  for  inclusive  debate,  in  which 
Member  States  enjoy  unrestricted  and  unlimited 
freedom  to  consider  any  matter  they  deem  to  be  of 
interest. 

If  we  wish  to  restore  the  confidence  of  the 
international  community  in  the  United  Nations,  and, 
above all, its credibility in global public opinion, then 
we must ensure that our Organization truly responds to 
the collective interests of its Member States. That  can 
The  revitalization  of 
the  central  role  of 

the 
today 
that  have 
is  precisely 
only be achieved by revitalizing the leading role of the 
General Assembly as the only United Nations body in 
which  there  is  no  place  for  hegemonies,  where  we  all 
have a voice and a vote and where the obsolete right of 
veto does not exist. 

The  General  Assembly  can  and  must  examine 
crucial and urgent matters of international significance 
with  a  view  to  adopting  concrete  and  action-oriented 
resolutions.  In  our  view,  the  main  problem  of  the 
Organization 
lack  of 
implementation  of  the  numerous  resolutions  adopted 
by 
the  General  Assembly,  which  constitute  an 
important  set  of  regulations  but  remain  inert,  since 
their  implementation  depends  on  the  political  will  of 
those  States 
the  political,  military  or 
economic  power  to  do  so.  The  same  applies  to  the 
numerous  resolutions  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
Assembly,  whose 
implementation  has  been  very 
limited indeed. 

Cuba stresses the need to attain a proper balance 
among  the  main  bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
accordance with the Charter, and for Member States to 
put  an  end  to  any  attempt  to  transfer  items  from  the 
agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  to  the  Security 
Council.  The  Security  Council  should  strictly  observe 
the provisions of the Charter, as well as all resolutions 
of  the  General Assembly,  as  the  principal  body  of  the 
United  Nations,  and  must  desist  from  interfering  in 
matters  that  clearly  fall  within  the  functions  and 
powers of other bodies. 

The  delegation  of  Cuba  wishes  to  express  its 
concern  at  the  establishment  of  norms  and  definitions 
by the Security Council that go beyond the competence 
of  that  body,  actions  that  ignore  the  fact  that,  under 
Article 13 of the Charter, the General Assembly has the 
primary responsibility for the progressive development 
of international law and its codification. 

the  General  Assembly 
cannot  be  a  bureaucratic  process.  As  Father  Miguel 
D’Escoto  wisely  said  in  his  farewell  address  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session,  “revitalization  is  a  political  rather  than  a 
technical issue” (A/63/PV.105). 

We  hope  that,  as  a  result  of  the  revitalization 
process, the interaction between the Secretariat and the 
General  Assembly  will  be  strengthened,  so  that  the 
former  can  respond  more  effectively  to  the  mandates 
set by the Member States. 
The  revitalization  of 
16 

09-61350 
to 
the 
arsenal 
relating 
revitalizing 



Additionally,  as  part  of  the  work  by  the Ad  Hoc 
Working Group on revitalization, strict attention should 
be paid to the implementation of the resolutions on this 
matter. Also,  the  chart  that  lists  the  resolutions  on  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  should  be 
appropriately  updated.  We  already  have  a  powerful 
legislative 
necessary 
revitalization  of this principal body. The priority must 
be precisely to implement the multiple resolutions that 
have already been adopted. 

The  Cuban  delegation  wishes  to  conclude  by 
reiterating  its  willingness  to  continue  collaborating  on 
the ongoing work aimed at achieving the important and 
necessary  objective  of 
the  General 
Assembly. 

Mr.  Chávez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At  the 
outset,  I  should  like  to  welcome  the  decision  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  appoint  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Argentina,  Ambassador 
Jorge  Argüello,  and  Slovenia,  Ambassador  Sanja 
Štiglic, as Co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
at the present session of the Assembly. We express our 
warm  congratulations  to  them  and  pledge  our  full 
support  for the important task they have assumed. We 
are sure that, under their wise guidance, we will make 
progress 
this 
multilateral forum. 

I  also  reaffirm  our  particular  gratitude  for  the 
excellent  work  carried  out  by  the  former  Permanent 
Representative  of  Ecuador,  Ambassador  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa,  and  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Norway,  Ambassador  Morten  Wetland,  in  leading 
the Ad  Hoc Working  Group  during  the  last  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  The  significant  contributions 
they made have laid the groundwork for the work that 
we will carry out starting today. 
In this world, where the various problems facing 

humanity  demand 
responses, 
organizations must be able to adapt. However, taking a 
look at the agenda of the  General Assembly, we see a 
proliferation  of  topics  that  do  not  necessarily  reflect 
the  priorities  of  the  international  agenda  but,  rather, 
divert  our  efforts.  Many  of  them,  because  of  their 
limited  scope,  could  be  tackled  in  other  hemispheric 
forums. Other topics that are of a very specific nature 
would  be  better  dealt  with  in  specialized  forums.  We 
must  also  seek  to  limit  the  automatic  and  mechanical 
towards  our  goal  of 
revitalizing 
swift  and 
timely 
A/64/PV.48
the  President  of 
remembered  within 
the  Chairpersons  of 
repetition  of  the  topics  that  we  address.  We  therefore 
believe that this programme must be reviewed. 

Ms.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

We also believe that the General Assembly should 
be  proactive  and  not  limit  itself  to  drawn-out  debates, 
which  will  only  be 
this 
Organization  and  have  little  practical  effect  on  the 
ground.  Along  these  lines,  we  must  be  able  to  move 
ahead  in  defining  the  essential  subjects  on  which  the 
General  Assembly  should  focus  its  work  in  order  to 
produce concrete and verifiable results that are noticed 
by public opinion. 
My delegation believes it is important to foster a 

the 
closer  relationship  between 
Assembly  and 
the  Main 
Committees, as well as other United Nations organs in 
which relevant matters on the international agenda are 
addressed.  Greater  involvement  on  the  part  of  the 
President would lead to greater visibility and ability to 
reach  the  general  public.  This  is  essential  when  it 
comes to raising the profile and voice of the President 
of the Assembly in international public opinion. 

We all agree on the importance of the President’s 
profile and the role the President must play during his 
or  her  tenure  in  lending  weight  and  relevance  to  the 
General Assembly. Unfortunately, the annual change of 
the presidency makes it difficult to produce significant 
results.  Despite  this,  it  is  possible  to  ensure  effective 
and  efficient  management  of  the  presidency.  For  this 
reason  it  is  essential  that  we  strengthen  the  capacities 
of  the  Office  of  the  presidency  by  creating  an  ad  hoc 
team that remains over time and does not rotate yearly. 
To  the  degree  that  this  is  possible,  we  would  be 
promoting more streamlined and efficient work, which 
would  permit  us 
the  presidency’s 
institutional  memory.  The  ad  hoc  team  should  have 
sufficient 
greater 
effectiveness and continuity over time, all the work of 
information  management,  as  well  as  to  cooperate 
substantively  on 
in 
coordinating  the  work  of  the  presidency  with  the 
Secretariat and the Chairs of the Main Committees. 

The function of the Office of the President of the 
General Assembly cannot be separated from the actual 
figure  of 
the 
strengthening  of  the  Office  of  the  presidency  will,  in 
the end, be a natural consequence of the ability of the 
the  President.  For 
support,  with 
to  maintain 
the  many 
involved 
capacity 
this 
reason, 
to 
tasks 
09-61350 

17 

A/64/PV.48 

President to guide the work of the Assembly, generate 
consensus,  bring  rapprochement  between  differing 
positions,  and  place  him  or  her  above  the  various 
interests in play in order to foster dialogue, which will 
allow  all  of  us  to  identify  with  this  unifying  function. 
The  President  must  be  able  to  maintain  a  profile 
conducive to the important work of the Office and that, 
as we are all  aware, reflects the  efficient management 
of the Office and of the Assembly itself. 
We have made progress in  updating the  synoptic 

chart  of 
the  General  Assembly’s  resolutions  on 
revitalization. This chart should, however, be dynamic, 
flexible, easy to understand and results-oriented. In this 
regard, for instance, resolutions that have already been 
implemented  could  be  compiled  in  an  annex  to  the 
rules  of  the Assembly.  Concerning  the  voting  system, 
we  will  continue  to  participate  constructively  in  the 
review  of  the  secret  ballot  proposals  that  have  been 
made  with  a  view  to  establishing  a  fast,  efficient  and 
secure system that will ensure the credibility, reliability 
and confidentiality of the secret ballot process. 

Regarding  the  role  and  responsibility  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  the  selection  of  the  Secretary-
General,  we  believe the Assembly should play a more 
proactive  role,  in  keeping  with  that  established  in  the 
Charter  and  in  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Assembly 
itself.  Organizing  meetings  with  the  candidates  in  the 
Assembly and/or with regional groups could be a first 
step  for  greater  involvement  on  the  part  of  the 
Assembly in the election of the Secretary-General. We 
also stress that in appointing the Secretary-General and 
in  accordance  with  resolutions  on  this  subject,  due 
attention  should  be  paid  to  regional  rotation  and  to 
gender equality. 

the 
commitment  of  the  Peruvian delegation  to  continue  to 
support  all  efforts  aimed  at  revitalizing  the  General 
Assembly.  With  this  in  mind,  we  will  participate 
constructively  in  the  work  that  develops  during  the 
current session. 

Mr.  Okuda  (Japan):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to 
extend  my  sincere  gratitude  to  the  President  for 
convening  today’s  meeting  to  discuss  one  of  the  most 
important items on the General Assembly’s agenda, the 
revitalization of its work. I would like also to thank the 
Co-Chairs  of  the  previous Ad  Hoc Working  Group  on 
the 
the  General  Assembly, 
Ambassador Maria Fernanda Espinosa of Ecuador and 
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
revitalization 
reaffirm 
of 
to 
and 
18 

09-61350 
the 
in 
this 
co-facilitators 
the  Charter.  Japan 
Ambassador  Morten  Wetland  of  Norway,  for  their 
excellent work, detailed in their report (A/63/959) and 
Assembly  resolution  63/309.  Let  me  also  warmly 
welcome 
process, 
Ambassador Sanja Štiglić of Slovenia and Ambassador 
Jorge  Argüello  of  Argentina;  I  expect  to  cooperate 
closely  with  them  as  we  continue  to  work  on  these 
essential issues. 

The General Assembly is the most representative 
organ of the United Nations, one in which all Member 
States  participate.  Despite  an  exception  in Article  12, 
paragraph 1, of the Charter of the United Nations, the 
Assembly  is  mandated  to  address  any  issues  and 
questions  determined  by 
is 
committed to the process  of revitalizing the Assembly 
and  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the  activities  to  be 
carried out in this regard. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  single  out  the  issue 
of thematic debates, which we consider very useful in 
promoting  Member  States’  understanding  of 
the 
ordering of priorities on the United Nations agenda. We 
welcomed  the  thematic  debates  organized  in  the  past 
year  on  global  issues  such  as  the  financial  crisis,  the 
food  crisis,  and  problems  of  energy  and  natural 
resources, as well as today’s important topic of human 
security.  Japan  believes 
that  we  should  create 
mechanisms  to  link  such  debates  to  various  concrete 
activities of the Assembly. The selection of the subjects 
of debates is also crucial. I would like to stress that, in 
order  to  keep  thematic  debates  within  the  United 
Nations  limited  resources,  the  theme  and  content  of 
discussions  must  be  carefully  selected  on  a  case-by-
case  basis.  I  hope  that  Presidents  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  Member  States  will  consult  closely  in 
this regard. 
Japan recognizes the importance of continuing to 

review 
implementation  of  General 
Assembly resolutions, and commends the Secretariat’s 
strenuous work in issuing its related report in February 
(A/62/952/Add.1).  We  expect  that  monitoring  of  the 
implementation  of  Assembly 
resolutions  will  be 
improved in the wake of that document. 

Japan welcomes the submission of annual reports 
by  the  Security  Council  to  the  General Assembly,  the 
regular  consultations  between  the  presidents  of  the 
Council 
timely 
communications  from  the  Secretary-General  to  the 
Assembly.  We  firmly  hope 
the  Assembly’s 
the  Assembly, 
the  status  of 
that 
and 
the 


relationship  and  coordination  with  the  other  principal 
organs  will  be  further  strengthened  and  improved  as 
this process continues. 

We  should  also  note  that  the  General Assembly, 
jointly with the Security Council, is a supervisory body 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  Japan  commends 
the  active  discussion  in  both  the  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  on  the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
annual report, as this contributes further to reinforcing 
the  links  between  the  two  main  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations. 

We note that  the introduction of a voting system 
for  the  Assembly  using  new  technology  is  being 
examined in the framework of the Capital Master Plan. 
This should be done on condition that it takes Member 
States’  needs  and  their  concerns  about  secrecy  and 
security  into  full  consideration,  as  well  as  rationally 
utilization  of  existing  financial  resources  without  any 
additional  budgetary 
the 
Secretariat to consult with the Member States for these 
purposes. 

As we look forward to the imminent constructive 
discussions on this agenda, my delegation reiterates its 
commitment to contributing to revitalizing the work of 
the General Assembly. 

wrote:  
Mr. Fazal (Singapore): In Bleak House, Dickens 
requirements. 
I  expect 
“This  scarecrow  of  a  suit  has  …  become  so 
complicated  that  no  man  alive  knows  what  it 
means. The parties to it understand it least, but it 
has been observed that no two Chancery lawyers 
can talk about it for five minutes without coming 
to a total disagreement as to all the premises.”  
I  am  sure  that  this  state  of  affairs  will  not  seem 
unfamiliar to representatives in this Hall as we discuss 
the  revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly  and 
negotiate  the  remaining  resolutions  on  the  agenda  of 
the sixty-fourth session. 

Indeed, revitalization of the General Assembly is 
a  subject  that  we  have  been  struggling  with  for  some 
time,  along  with  other  pressing  issues  of  United 
Nations reform. We must press on, and do so knowing 
that  we  do  not  have  the  luxury  of  time.  For  too  long, 
we  in  this  house  believed  that  there  were  no  serious 
challengers to this model of international organization. 
The  rise  of  alternative  global  governance  structures 
such  as  the  Group  of  20  and  the  expansion  of  its 
A/64/PV.48
States 
like 
For 
Lilliputian 
issue  of  paramount 
agenda  beyond  the  financial  crisis  to  trade  and  labour 
issues  have  renewed  questions  and  doubts  about  the 
relevance  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  General 
Assembly.  

Singapore, 
multilateralism has always been a vital defence against 
the Gullivers of the international stage. It is in this vein 
that  we  see  the  General  Assembly’s  vigour  and 
relevance  as  an 
importance, 
particularly  since  a  key  characteristic  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  its  unique  legitimacy  arising  from  its 
universal membership. 

Singapore has always held the view that the task 
of revitalizing the General Assembly and of reforming 
the  United  Nations  in  general  must  be  done  in  a 
pragmatic  fashion.  It  is  not  practical  or  realistic  to 
believe we can simply tear down the General Assembly 
and  build  a  new  one.  Rather,  we  must  clean  up  our 
house  one  room  at  a  time.  That  can  appear  to  be 
tedious work, but it must be done. More importantly, it 
should be done by all of us, as all Member States have 
much  to  gain  from  a  tidier  house.  In  this  regard, 
Singapore  recognizes  the  important  contributions  of 
past  Ad  Hoc  Working  Groups  on  this  agenda  item, 
including efforts to streamline the work of the General 
Assembly  through  the  biennialization,  triennialization, 
thematic  clustering  and  elimination  of  items  on  its 
agenda,  as  well  as  the  introduction  of  a  sunset  clause 
on resolutions. 

Aside  from  the  important  micro-reforms  that  we 
must  take  to  improve  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness 
of  the  Assembly,  our  revitalization  efforts  this  year 
should  also  focus  on  macro-reforms.  Let  me  highlight 
two issues in this regard.  
First,  we  should  strengthen  United  Nations 

budgetary processes. Member States should have a say 
over the budget of the Organization, but the prevailing 
climate of excessive micromanagement and politicking 
amongst  Member  States  on  administrative  and 
budgetary issues has led, ironically, to the proliferation 
of bureaucracy and the wastage of resources.  

Let  us  do  something  about  that.  Let  us  refocus 
discussions  on  finance  and  budget  issues  at  a  broader 
and more strategic level. For instance, we could devote 
more time to examine the drivers behind the growth of 
various  components  of  the  budget  to  see  if  these  are 
reasonable and commensurate with the commitments of 
the  United  Nations  in  an  increasingly  complex  and 
09-61350 

19 

A/64/PV.48 

volatile  world.  I  am  thinking  of  the  special  political 
missions,  whose  share  of  the  regular  budget  has 
ballooned tremendously in recent years and engendered 
the  inaccurate  perception  that  the  United  Nations 
budget  is  somehow  spiralling  out  of  control.  Another 
example is in the area of human resources reform. Are 
we  paying  sufficient  attention  to  the  performance 
management of United Nations staff to ensure that they 
deliver their best? 

Secondly,  we  should  review  and  reprioritize  the 
General  Assembly  agenda,  especially  high-level 
events.  We  should  take  into  account  what  developed 
and developing countries alike want to discuss, with an 
eye  to  the  timeliness  and  relevance  of  these  events. 
This approach would help to garner more buy-in from 
Member  States  and  sustain  the  interest  of  our  capitals 
in  attending  these  events. The  harsh  reality  is  that  the 
activities  of  the  General  Assembly  risk  becoming  a 
sideshow to the activities of other forums if we fall out 
of  sync  with  the  relevant  and  pressing  issues  of  the 
day. 
Alternative  forums  emerge  in  the  vacuum  of 

leadership 
cedes,  whether 
consciously  or  inadvertently.  The  General  Assembly 
may  be  the  most  legitimate  forum  for  the  deliberation 
of multilateral issues, but we must beware of relegating 
ourselves  to  the  sidelines  as  a  result  of  our  own 
ineffectiveness.  All 
discourse 
degenerates  into  deadlocks  animated  by  dogmatic 
sparring.  

We  can  do  better  than  that.  Our  emergence  from 
the  trough  of  the  world  financial  and  economic  crisis 
provides  us  with  a  brief  window  of  respite  to  reflect 
and  take  the  necessary  steps  to  revitalize  the  General 
Assembly. We should not squander that opportunity. 

(Madagascar) 
(spoke 
in  French):  The  Madagascar  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of Algeria  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  Nevertheless,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  make  some  comments  in  its  national 
capacity. 
Today,  we  are  addressing  a  topic  that  covers 

issues of great interest to States Members of the United 
Nations.  My  delegation  would  like  to  commend  the 
efforts  made  and  the  commitment  shown  to  our 
Organization during this session.  
Mr.  Andrianarivelo-Razafy
the  United  Nations 
often, 
our 
too 
remains 
the 
recognizes 
Madagascar 
The  General  Assembly 

the  core 
framework  for  reaching  global  consensus  on  major 
contemporary  problems  and  for  taking  decisions  or 
making  recommendations  on  concerted  action  to  deal 
with  the  interdependent  threats  that  currently  imperil 
the world. The General Assembly is thus an instrument 
for  effective  multilateralism  and  a  unique  forum  for 
dialogue.  Any  reform  should  therefore  improve  the 
effectiveness  and  credibility  of  our  Organization, 
which is a universal symbol for translating our people’s 
aspirations to peace into action.  

Madagascar  greatly  values  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly and efforts to strengthen the role of 
the  Organization.  It  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the 
purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations and to international law, which are the 
essential  foundations  of  a  more  peaceful  and  fairer 
world. 

significant 
achievements  made  in  making  this  Organization  more 
democratic and efficient, while respecting the role and 
authority  of  the  General Assembly.  In  this  regard,  my 
delegation read with interest the  report of the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  (A/63/959),  and  should  like,  in  its  national 
capacity,  to  highlight  the  injustice  that  we  suffered 
during the general debate of the sixty-fourth session on 
25 September 2009.  
With respect to rule 71 of the General Assembly’s 

rules  of  procedure, 
issue  of  Madagascar’s 
representation  was  not  on  the  agenda  of  the  general 
debate,  to  which  all  States,  including  Madagascar,  are 
invited,  as  they  are  each  year,  to  put  forward  their 
opinions  and  to  speak  to  this Assembly.  Furthermore, 
according 
the 
programme  of  work  of  the  General Assembly  and  the 
schedule  of  plenary  meetings, 
the  Credentials 
Committee  will  not  present  its  report  to  the  General 
Assembly  until  Monday,  14  December  2009.  That 
means the Committee has not yet made a statement on 
the  case  of  Madagascar’s  participation  in  the  work  of 
the sixty-fourth session. 

the  rules  of 
procedures,  the  head  of  the  delegation  of  Madagascar 
maintains  the  same  rights  as  other  representatives. 
Moreover,  I  would  note  that  at  no  time  to  date  has  a 
delegation  questioned  the  validity  of  Madagascar’s 
credentials. Hence, Madagascar is neither excluded nor 
to  document  A/INF/64/3/Rev.1  on 
to  rule  29  of 
Thus,  pursuant 
the 
20 

09-61350 
are 
recognized 
by 
universally 


suspended  from  its  rights  and  privileges  as  a  member 
under rule 83 of the rules of procedures, which requires 
that  decisions  on  important  questions,  such  as  the 
determination  of  a  State  Member’s  sovereignty,  shall 
be  made  by  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  members 
present  and  voting.  For  the  sake  of  good  sense  and 
respect for democracy, that question should not be left 
in the hands of a small number of States.  

Madagascar  has  been  the  subject  of  no  sanction 
either by the Security Council or the General Assembly 
and  therefore  cannot  be  denied  its  right  to  take  the 
floor.  That  is  an  assault  on  the  sovereignty  of  my 
country  and  a  violation  of  the  inalienable  right  of  the 
Malagasy  people.  In  the  name  of  the  rule  of  law  in 
international relations, we denounce that denial with all 
our might. 

We reaffirm our full and unreserved commitment 
to the principles and aims of non-alignment, inter alia, 
the  respect  of  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity 
of  States  and  the  principle  of  non-intervention  and 
non-interference in a country’s domestic affairs. Those 
principles 
the 
international community. In that regard, any procedure 
should  be  carried  out  in  respect  for  the  standards  and 
principles  of  the  Organization  that  we  ourselves,  the 
peoples of the United Nations, have adopted. We are in 
a  system  that  respects  the  rule  of  law  and  democratic 
processes.  

We  hope  that  such  a  deeply  regrettable  incident 
will not recur. That extremely serious incident must in 
no way serve as a precedent within the Organization or 
in  the  annals  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Madagascar 
delegation  supports  every  initiative  to  improve  and 
revitalize the work of the General Assembly in order to 
make it more effective and credible. 

on 
Principles  of  International  Law  concerning  Friendly 
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance 
with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  contained  in 
resolution  2625  (XXV)  of  24  October  1970,  which 
stipulates,  in  its  section  on  the  principle  of  sovereign 
equality  of  States 
that  all  States  enjoy  equal 
sovereignty, that they have equal rights and duties and 
are  equal  members  of  the  international  community, 
notwithstanding  economic,  social,  political  or  other 
differences. That further complements the provisions of 
Article 14 of  the Charter  on the functions and powers 
of the General Assembly, which stipulates that  
the  Declaration 
Madagascar 
endorses 
A/64/PV.48
“the  General  Assembly  may 
recommend 
measures  for  the  peaceful  adjustment  of  any 
situation,  regardless  of  origin,  which  it  deems 
likely  to  impair  the  general  welfare  or  friendly 
relations among nations”.  
Ms.  Blum  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  delegation  of  Colombia,  I  would  like  to 
recognize  the  work  of  the Ad  Hoc Working  Group  on 
the  Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and,  in 
particular, the work and dedication of its co-Chairs, the 
Ambassadors  of  Ecuador  and  Norway.  Resolution 
63/309, adopted on 14 September, and the report of the 
Working Group (A/63/959) reflect the work undertaken 
in this area. 

I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  Ambassadors 
Argüello of Argentina and Štiglic of Slovenia for their 
appointment  as  co-facilitators  of  the Ad  Hoc Working 
Group. We wish them every success in their important 
work. They can count on the support of my delegation 
in carrying out their work. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of Mexico on behalf of the 
Rio Group and of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

For my Government, the efforts to strengthen the 
General  Assembly  and  its  role  as  the  principal  organ 
for participation, deliberation and policy development, 
are  a  priority. We  reiterate  our  commitment  to  further 
enhancing  the  role,  authority  and  effectiveness  of  the 
General Assembly. I wish to underscore the innovation 
distinction  made 
resolution  63/309  between 
substantive questions and procedural aspects related to 
working  methods.  That  modification  allows  a 
conceptual  step  forward  in  the  analysis  of  topics 
related  to  revitalization  and  reflects  methodological 
suggestions made by several delegations, including that 
of  Colombia,  during  the  meetings  of  the  Working 
Group. 
initiatives  proposed  by  delegations  and 

described  in  the  report  of  the  Working  Group  with 
respect to the more active participation of the General 
Assembly in selecting the Secretary-General deserve to 
be highlighted. Greater interaction between prospective 
candidates 
the  General  Assembly,  with 
presentations  before  the  plenary  and  regional  groups, 
would undoubtedly promote a better selection process. 
The 
and 
in 
09-61350 

21 
based 
on 
the 
distribution 
A/64/PV.48 


Coordination among the three principal organs of 
the  United  Nations  —  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Security  Council  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council —  should  be  broadened  and  improved.  Such 
coordination, 
of 
responsibilities  pursuant  to  the  Charter,  could  be 
supported  by  improved  information  exchange  on  the 
work  of  those  organs,  the  convening  of  monthly 
meetings between them, and the submission of periodic 
reports. 

The  challenges  arising  from  the  new  global 
realities need to be addressed in universal forums, such 
as 
the  General  Assembly.  The  development  of 
interactive thematic debates at the previous session is a 
step  in  that  direction.  We  encourage  the  President  of 
the General Assembly to continue such debates and to 
convene  special  meetings  to  address  situations  of 
international importance. 

Support  for  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  through  the  allocation  of  required 
resources  will  allow  for  the  strengthening  of  its 
institutional  memory  and  a  better  dissemination  of  its 
work. It is important that the analysis of these issues be 
addressed by the Working Group established to review 
the revitalization of this body. 

Other issues, such as balloting, the more efficient 
handling of documentation and the introduction of new 
technologies  to  improve  the  balloting  process  and 
make  it  more  transparent,  must  be  addressed  as  a 
matter of priority. We also hope that the consideration 
of  those  issues,  from  a  technological  and  budgetary 
standpoint,  will  be  part  of  the  work  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working Group. 

In  order  to  streamline  and  optimize  the  work  of 
this main organ, it is important that we move ahead in 
updating  and 
the 
revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  at  this  session. 
My  delegation  also  wishes  to  highlight  the  request  in 
resolution 63/309 to the President of the Assembly that 
he, 
in  consultation  with  Member  States,  make 
proposals for grouping  agenda items so  that some  can 
be addressed every two or three years. The introduction 
of a sunset clause would also contribute to making our 
work more rational. 

idea  of  developing 
specific  action  plans  for  each  thematic  area  as  part  of 
the  work  of  the  Working  Group.  Such  plans  would 
enable  the  Group  to  envisage  elements  and  critical 
Finally,  we  support 
implementing 
resolutions  on 
the 

to  consider 
the  new  co-Chairs, 
pathways leading to concrete results. Each action plan 
would define the objectives to be achieved, the analysis 
of  their  budgetary  and/or  legal  viability,  the  specific 
activities to be carried out and their timelines, as well 
as the bodies responsible for their implementation. 

My  delegation  trusts  that,  with  such  initiatives, 
the  process  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  can 
deliver tangible results. We must focus our efforts on a 
practical approach to that end. My delegation reiterates 
its willingness to cooperate resolutely in this important 
work. 

Mr. Kim Bonghyun (Republic of Korea): At the 
outset, I should like to thank President Treki for having 
convened  this  debate  and  provided  the  membership 
with  a  meaningful  opportunity 
the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  during  this 
session. We should also like to express our gratitude to 
the  former  Permanent  Representative  of  Ecuador  and 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Norway  for  their 
excellent  work  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Report  of  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-third  session.  I  also 
congratulate 
the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Slovenia  and  Argentina.  We  are 
ready to extend our full support to their efforts on this 
issue. 

As we are all aware, the issue of the revitalization 
of  the  General Assembly  has  been  on  our  agenda  for 
many  years.  So  far,  a  wide  range  of  issues  has  been 
discussed and multiple resolutions have been  adopted. 
In particular, the report of the Ad Hoc Working Group 
(A/63/959)  was  adopted  at  the  sixty-third  session. We 
have been able to build upon that report in our further 
discussions on this issue. 
My  delegation  believes  that  a  more  focused 

approach  needs  to  be  introduced  to  bring  about 
substantial  results  in  our  future  deliberations  on  this 
issue.  First,  more  efforts  should  be  geared  towards 
making  the  General  Assembly  a  more  efficient  and 
effective body and helping it make use of its resources 
in  a  cost-effective  manner.  In  this  regard,  efforts  to 
thoroughly review existing resolutions on revitalization 
need  to  be  scaled  up.  We  need  to  examine  which 
resolutions  have  been  well  implemented  and  which 
have  not,  and  the  reasons  why.  The  inventory  chart 
developed  at  the  sixty-second  session  will  be  a  good 
base in this regard. Furthermore, the General Assembly 
needs  to  restructure  its  agenda  and  focus  its  work  on 
22 

09-61350 
it 
is 
in 
for 
important 
Secondly, 
exercising 
to  meet  periodically  with 
the  Presidents  of 


more  priority  issues.  The  possibility  of  eliminating, 
clustering  or  biennializing  Assembly  agenda  items 
should be explored in detail. 

the  General 
Assembly  to  enhance  cooperation  and  coordination 
with  other  main  organs 
their 
competencies. We should approach this point from the 
perspective  of  coordination  among  the  main  organs, 
not from the perspective of competition. In that regard, 
we  would  like  to  encourage  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly 
the 
Secretary-General, 
the  Security 
Council and the Economic and Social Council, and the 
chairs  of  the  Main  Committees,  and  to  share  the 
outcome  of  these  interactions  with  Member  States. 
This  will  facilitate  the  streamlining  of  agendas  and 
help  reduce  duplication  of  work.  In  this  regard,  we 
fully  support  and  value  the  practical  initiative  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  provide  timely  briefings  to  the 
General Assembly on his activities and the work of the 
United Nations. 

Thirdly,  we  agree  that  it  is  desirable  to  continue 
to  hold  thematic  debates  on  issues  of  relevance  to  the 
international  community  and  of  concern 
the 
Organization.  This  will  contribute  to  raising  political 
will  and  momentum  on  current  issues  that  warrant 
collective  endeavours  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community.  Therefore,  we  believe  that  the  thematic 
debate  should  produce  more  action-oriented  results. 
Furthermore, we would like to encourage the President 
of the General Assembly to work closely with Member 
States  in  deciding  specific  themes  and  setting  the 
timing  of  thematic  debates  in  a  more  transparent  and 
effective  manner.  We  would  also  like  to  suggest  that 
the  General Assembly  undertake  review  processes  for 
past  thematic  debates  to  evaluate  how  much  added 
value they have produced. This will provide us with a 
guide  for  preparing  future  thematic  debates  in  a  more 
productive manner. 
The revitalization of the General Assembly is an 

ongoing  process.  Indeed,  we  have  a  wide  variety  of 
issues  on  the  table  relating  to  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  that  need  further  deliberation.  My 
delegation looks forward to the re-establishment of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly during this session,  as called for in 
resolution 63/309. We need to agree on specific issues 
to  address,  including  the  working  methods,  and  focus 
to 
A/64/PV.48
to 
like 
tangible 
continue 
results  on 
them  without 
My  delegation  will 
the  General  Assembly 
on  achieving 
overextending ourselves with too broad a workload. 

actively 
participate in future debates with a view to contributing 
to  a  successful  and  productive  outcome  of  our 
collective  endeavours  aimed  at  further  revitalizing  the 
General Assembly. 

Mrs. Rubiales de Chamarro (Nicaragua) (spoke 
in  Spanish):  The  delegation  of  Nicaragua  thanks  the 
President  of 
for  having 
convened this important debate. I also wish to express 
our  appreciation  for  the  work  of  the Ad  Hoc Working 
Group  coordinated  by  the  former  Ambassador  of 
Ecuador,  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinoza,  and  the 
Ambassador  of  Norway,  Mr.  Morten  Wetland.  The 
work  they  undertook  at  the  sixty-third  session  of 
Assembly drove forward the process of revitalization.  

Nicaragua reiterates its strong commitment to the 
process of the revitalization and democratization of the 
General  Assembly  and  underscores  the  importance  of 
resolution 63/309. However, we still have a great deal 
of  work  ahead  to  ensure  that  this  body,  in  all  its 
dimensions,  remains 
the  most  representative  and 
legitimate  body  of  this  Organization.  My  delegation 
aligns 
the 
Permanent  Representatives  of Argentina,  on  behalf  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement, and of Mexico on behalf 
of the Rio Group. 

The  democratization  of  the  United  Nations  is  a 
matter of priority. Measures must continue to be taken 
so  that  the  General  Assembly  can  regain  its  full 
authority and exercise the functions incumbent on it as 
the most democratic, deliberative and legitimate organ 
of the Organization. 

to  express  our  particular 
appreciation for the  efforts made in this regard by the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session.  The  first  thing  we  wish  to  recognize  is  that 
Mr. Miguel  D’Escoto  Brockmann  gave  such  weight  to 
the  fact  that  all  countries  have  the  same  right  to  be 
heard  and  heeded  that  the  term  that  he  correctly 
coined —  the  Group  of  192,  or  G-192  —  can  now  be 
heard in all quarters. 

The  holding  in  June  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development,  as  well  as  the 
richness of the debate, demonstrated that we are indeed 
the  statements  made  by 
We  should 
itself  with 
09-61350 

23 
to 
that 
the  fact 
illustrated 
issues  of 
the  request  of 
A/64/PV.48 

prepared  to  discuss  any  issue  that  affects  us. We  have 
shattered  the  myth  that  some  issues  are  solely  the 
purview of a few, rather than of the entire G-192. The 
importance  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  most 
appropriate  forum  for  addressing  any  issue  affecting 
the international community has been well established. 

Similarly,  we  welcome  the  timely  and  decisive 
adoption of resolution 63/301, concerning the situation 
in  Honduras,  which 
the 
Assembly 
international 
is  attuned 
relevance.  It  also  constituted  an  important  example  of 
the  role  that  the Assembly  can  and  should  play  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.  

An  additional  example  in  that  regard  was  the 
speedy action by the Assembly’s presidency during the 
sixty-third session in the face of the impasse in which 
the  Security  Council  found  itself  during  the  Israeli 
invasion of Gaza. We would also like to commend the 
President’s  swift  response 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Palestinian  people  to 
hold a special debate during the sixty-fourth session to 
take up the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48).  
We  believe  that  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of 

the 
the  General  Assembly  should  be  based  on 
principles 
and 
accountability and achieved through open and inclusive 
consultations, 
the 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Organization  that  is  so 
badly needed. The main necessary elements to be taken 
into account in revitalizing the Assembly are clearly set 
out 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  We  trust  that  the  Working 
Group  will  consider 
its 
deliberations. We take this opportunity to welcome the 
appointment  of  the  representatives  of  Slovenia  and 
Argentina as co-Chairs of that important Group. 

We wish to stress the need for those principles to 
be taken into consideration in addressing issues of vital 
importance  for  the  Organization,  in  particular  the 
nomination and appointment of the Secretary-General, 
as  is  clearly  detailed  in  the  Movement’s  declaration. 
The  General  Assembly 
its 
responsibility in the nomination and appointment of the 
Secretary-General,  carry  out  consultations  with  all 
Member States and subsequently present its candidates. 
An  open  debate  should  be  held,  with  candidates 
presenting  their  points  of  view  so  that  we,  the  G-192, 
can  make  judgements  on  the  correct  selection  and 
them  carefully  during 
the  declaration 
transparency 
democracy, 
issued  by 
component 
exercise 
recently 
should 
a 
critical 
of 
of 
in 
to 

its 
and 
functions 
to  promote 
strengthened, 
should  make 
the  Assembly 
the  Organization  and 
appointment.  Following  such  an  open  and  transparent 
process, 
its 
recommendations. 
If  the  Assembly’s  role  and  authority  are  to  be 

restored 
and 
competencies  must  be  fully  respected.  We  must  also 
strengthen its relations and coordination with the other 
principal  organs,  in  particular  the  Security  Council, 
where  there  is  still  much  work  to  be  done.  It  is 
necessary to reiterate that the Security Council should 
not encroach on matters that fall exclusively under the 
purview  of 
the  Assembly.  We  have  noted  with 
satisfaction  the  efforts  of  the  President  to  bring 
together  the  Security  Council  and  the  other  principal 
organs  of 
the 
exchange of information. 

With  regard  to  strengthening  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  reiterate  the 
importance  of  continuing  to  consider  ways  and  means 
to make it possible to increase the human and financial 
resources  currently  at  the  disposal  of  the  presidency. 
Every country should have the right to preside over the 
Assembly,  and  economic  considerations  should  be  no 
impediment  to  doing  so.  It  is  therefore  important  to 
increase  resources 
to 
contribute 
the  General 
Assembly. 

Lastly,  with  regard  to  establishing  a  new  voting 
system,  we  warn  against  any  decisions  being  taken 
prior  to  wide-scale  decisive  consultations  among  the 
entire membership.  

Nicaragua will continue to support every effort to 
strengthen the central role and authority of the General 
Assembly  as  the  main  deliberative,  standard-setting 
and  representative  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
have  confidence  in  the  President,  in  whose  hands  we 
place ourselves, for we know that, under his leadership 
and  through  his  efforts,  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly  will  continue  to  be  strengthened,  thereby 
increasing its relevance and credibility and amplifying 
the voice of the G-192. 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): This is 

the  second  consecutive  year  that  we  are  enjoying  the 
opportunity to express our gratitude to the President of 
the General Assembly for his particular attention to the 
long-standing and important issue of the revitalization 
of  the  work  of  the  General Assembly,  as  inscribed  on 
that  connection,  so  as 
the  strengthening  of 
to 
in 
24 

09-61350 
the 
streamlining 


the working agendas of the sixty-third and sixty-fourth 
sessions of the Assembly. 

I  would  like  to  associate  my  delegation  with  the 
statement  that  has  already  been  delivered  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Algeria  to  the  United 
Nations  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  on 
that very agenda item. I wish, however, to delve into a 
few observations. 
After 18 years of work, and much has been done 

to  enhance 
the  role,  authority,  effectiveness  and 
efficiency  of  the  General Assembly.  However,  we  are 
still far from accomplishing the main tasks, including, 
inter  alia,  enhancing  the  role  and  authority  of  the 
General  Assembly, 
relationship 
between the Assembly and the other principal organs of 
the  United  Nations,  and  promoting  the  role  and 
responsibility  of  the  Assembly  in  the  process  of 
selecting  and  appointing  the  Secretary-General. Those 
are but a few of the expectations we have of this body 
as we engage in this profound endeavour this year. 

On  the  basis  of  a  review  of  various  United 
Nations resolutions on the revitalization of the General 
Assembly, it is quite clear that a great number of them 
have  dealt  with  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly.  That  clearly  demonstrates  how  important 
the enhancement of the role and authority of this organ 
is 
the  general  membership.  We  should  not 
underestimate  the  great  importance  of  this  issue,  and 
should  therefore  explore  concrete  ways  and  means  of 
ensuring  full  respect  for  the  functions  and  powers  of 
the  General Assembly,  as  stipulated  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations. 

As  for  the  relationship  between  the  General 
Assembly  and  other  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations, 
the 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  has  been  a  matter 
of  extensive  debate  for  many  years,  especially  during 
various  United  Nations  reform  processes.  A  good 
number  of  General  Assembly  resolutions  set  certain 
criteria  to  clarify  the  relationship  between  those  two 
important  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations. The 
Charter 
important 
functions and responsibilities.  

Nonetheless, in recent years, we have witnessed a 
gradual  but  constant  encroachment  by  the  Security 
Council on the functions and the powers of the General 
Assembly,  as  well  as  of  other  organs,  such  as  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  There  are  numerous 
itself  confers  on  both  organs 
relationship  between 
the  particular 
to 
A/64/PV.48
the 
progressive 
development 
cases  of  the  Security  Council  encroaching  on  the 
powers and prerogatives of the Assembly and of other 
bodies of the Organization. 
We are particularly concerned about the exercise 

of  setting  norms,  making 
laws  and  establishing 
definitions by the Security Council in areas beyond its 
competency.  Let  me  recall  Article  13  of  the  Charter, 
according to  which the General Assembly, as the only 
universal  and  representative  organ  comprising  all 
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations,  is  primarily 
tasked  with 
of 
international law and its codification. 

With  regard  to  the  role  and  responsibility  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  the  process  of  selecting  and 
appointing  the  Secretary-General,  I  should  emphasis 
that,  if  we  seek  to  make  Article  97  of  the  Charter  a 
reality,  we  cannot  and  should  not  relegate 
the 
Assembly merely to the role of a rubber stamp. In our 
view,  there  is  a  strong  tendency  among  the  vast 
majority  of  Members  of  the  Organization  to  articulate 
and improve the procedure for selecting the Secretary-
General  by  giving  the  General  Assembly  a  more 
meaningful and determining role to assume. 

Resolution  51/241  prescribed  a  set  of  provisions 
that,  if  implemented,  will  strengthen  the  role  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  the  selection  of  the  Secretary-
General. In fact, this is a matter of great importance for 
the  entire  international  community,  which  regards  the 
Secretary-General  as  its  highest  representative,  whose 
legitimacy and credibility should be based on the wider 
support of its members, not that of just a few. 

As  part  of  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  a  dynamic  and  continuous  process.  We 
should  remain  committed  and  constructive  throughout 
this ongoing exercise, with a view to strengthening the 
role  and  authority  of  the  Assembly  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations. My delegation will be prepared to 
actively  participate  in  a  discussion  that  is  transparent, 
open and inclusive. 
Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri (India): I am happy to 

participate in today’s debate on the revitalization of the 
work  of 
the  General  Assembly.  My  delegation 
associates  itself  broadly  with  the  position  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement, 
the 
delegation of Algeria. 
expressed  by 
as 
09-61350 

25 

in 
legislative, 
policymaking 
important  steps 
A/64/PV.48 


We  are  guided  by  the  desire  to  have  a  more 
effective  United  Nations.  India  wants  the  United 
Nations  to  be  an  Organization  that  is  truly  responsive 
to  the  priorities  and  aspirations  of  Member  States,  in 
particular of developing countries, which constitute the 
vast majority of the membership. Its working methods 
must also embody efficiency and transparency. 
The  role  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  chief 

deliberative, 
and 
representative  body  of  the  international  community 
must  be  strengthened  and  respected  both  in  letter  and 
in  spirit.  Indeed,  the  strengthening  of  procedures, 
working methods and documentation and ensuring due 
follow-up  are 
that  direction. 
Enhanced General Assembly visibility and outreach are 
equally  important.  However,  more  important  is  the 
need  to  continue  to  focus  on  substantive  measures  to 
restore  and  enhance  the  role  and  authority  of  the 
General Assembly, including in exercising control over 
legislation, material and manpower, and its role as the 
chief oversight organ of the United Nations. 

As  the  voice  of  the  international  community,  the 
General  Assembly  must  have  a  greater  say  in  the 
process  of  selecting 
the  Secretary-General.  The 
mandate  for  the  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General 
flows  from  Article  97  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  envisages  a  role  for  both  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council. The modalities of 
the  appointment  process  have,  however,  come  to  be 
governed  by  subparagraph  (d)  of  paragraph  4  of 
Assembly  resolution  11 (I),  of  24  January  1946.  It 
would appear strange today that, while we all promote 
the  principles  of 
inclusive 
selection  process,  the  General  Assembly  willingly 
agreed  to  impose  such  restrictions  on  its  own  Charter 
mandate.  However,  it  is  important  to  recall  that  the 
reason for resolution 11 (I) was the context of the post-
1945 world. 

the  adoption  of 
More 
resolution  11 (I),  we  live  in  a  different  world.  While 
the  Security  Council  itself  must  change  to  reflect 
contemporary  realities  and  expand  its  membership  in 
both the permanent and the non-permanent categories, 
the  General  Assembly  cannot  remain  bound  by  self-
imposed  restrictions  that  reflect  an  era  gone  by.  The 
General  Assembly’s  role  cannot  be  merely  to  rubber-
stamp  the  recommendation  of  the  Security  Council. 
The need for changes in the process of appointing the 
Secretary-General has been recognized by all Member 
than  60  years  since 
transparency  and  an 
the 
encouraging 
States.  Resolutions  51/241,  of  31  July  1997,  and 
60/286,  of  8  September  2006,  outline 
in  detail 
proposals for improving this process. 

Those  proposals  include  making  full  use  of  the 
Charter provisions on the General Assembly’s power of 
appointment,  due  regard  for  regional  rotation  and 
gender  equality,  the  possibility  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  consulting  with  Member  States  to 
identify  potential  candidates  endorsed  by  a  Member 
State, 
formal  presentation  of 
candidatures for the position of Secretary-General in a 
manner that allows sufficient time for interaction with 
Member  States  and  requesting  candidates  to  present 
their  views  to  all  States  members  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

Clearly, what is required is the necessary political 
will to comprehensively consider and implement those 
changes.  A  more  inclusive  and  interactive  selection 
process  would  also  enhance 
the  authority  and 
effectiveness  of  the  Secretary-General,  as  well  as 
increase  the  confidence  of  all  Member  States  in  the 
Secretary-General. 
The  revitalization  process  also  implies  that  the 

General  Assembly  should  take  the  lead  in  setting  the 
global agenda and restoring the centrality of the United 
Nations.  The  convening  power  of  the  United  Nations 
must be used more decisively in that regard. 
to 

undermine 
the 
General  Assembly  through  the  Security  Council’s 
encroachment  on  its  agenda.  It  is  important  that  the 
balance  among  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations  envisaged  in  the  Charter  be  maintained  and 
respected.  Of  special  concern  is  the  encroachment  by 
the  Security  Council  on  issues  that  traditionally  fall 
within the General Assembly’s competence, such as the 
process  of  standard-setting  and  the  codification  of 
international  law.  Of  concern  also  is  the  holding  of 
thematic debates in the Security Council on issues that 
frequently  fall  within  the  purview  of  the  General 
Assembly or the Economic and Social Council. 

Resolution  60/286  reiterated  that,  in  addition  to 
the  Security  Council  making  its  annual  report  more 
analytical,  it  should  submit  special  reports  to  the 
General  Assembly.  It 
that 
provision  to  the  satisfaction  of  Member  States  while 
the Security Council considers ways to further improve 
the quality of its reports to the General Assembly.  
tendency 
the  prerogatives  and  authority  of 
There  has  been  an 
increasing 
important 
to  fulfil 
is 
26 

09-61350 



It  is  also  important  that  a  truly  representative 
body  such  as  the  General  Assembly  have  a  much 
greater  say  in  international  economic  and  financial 
matters. The  United  Nations  Conference  on  the World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development successfully demonstrated the convening 
power that the General Assembly can exercise on such 
global  issues.  Our  expectation  is  that  Member  States 
will  continue  their  constructive  engagement  in  the Ad 
Hoc  Open-ended  Working  Group  of  the  General 
Assembly  that  was  set  up  pursuant  to  the  outcome  of 
the Conference. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  felicitate  the 
Permanent Representatives of Norway and Ecuador for 
their  significant  efforts  in  this  direction  as  Co-Chairs  

A/64/PV.48
to 
re-emphasize 
the  need 
forward 
to  working  with 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group.  My  delegation  also 
looks 
the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Slovenia  and Argentina,  the  newly 
appointed Co-Chairs for the current session. We assure 
them of our full cooperation and support. I would also 
like 
to  undertake 
comprehensive  discussions  on  substantive  issues  that 
are  critical  for  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly. 
the 

remaining  speakers 
item 
tomorrow,  20  November,  immediately  following  the 
joint debate on agenda items 10 and 108. 

The  Acting  President:  We  shall  hear 
this 
  The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
in 
the  debate  on 
09-61350 

27 
