
A/64/PV.52
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

52nd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 1 December 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
in  the  General  Assembly”  becomes  item  169  on  the 
agenda of the current session. 

The  Chairman  of  the  Sixth  Committee  will  be 
informed  of  the  decision  just  taken  by  the  General 
Assembly. 

In  paragraph  3  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee  recommends  to  the  General Assembly  that 
an additional item entitled “United Nations University” 
be included in the agenda of the current session under 
heading  B,  “Promotion  of  sustained  economic  growth 
and  sustainable  development  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
recent United Nations conferences”. 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 

to include this item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading B? 
It was so decided. 


The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  paragraph  
3 (b), the General Committee further recommends that 
the item be allocated to the Second Committee. May I 
take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides  to  allocate 
this item to the Second Committee? 
It was so decided. 


The President (spoke in Arabic): I should like to 
inform members that the item entitled “United Nations 
University”  becomes  item  170  on  the  agenda  of  the 
current session. 






  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 


for 
the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of 
Agenda item 7 (continued) 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 

  Second report of the General Committee 
(A/64/250/Add.1) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  paragraph  
1  (a)  of  its  report  (A/64/250/Add.1),  the  General 
Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the  General 
Assembly  that  an  additional  item  entitled  “Observer 
status 
the 
Mediterranean in the General Assembly” be included in 
the  agenda  of  the  current  session  under  heading  I, 
“Organizational, administrative and other matters”. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
to include this item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading I? 
It was so decided. 


The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  paragraph  
1 (b), the General Committee further recommends that 
the  item  be  allocated  to  the  Sixth  Committee.  May  I 
take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides  to  allocate 
this item to the Sixth Committee? 
It was so decided. 


The President (spoke in Arabic): I should like to 
inform members that the item entitled “Observer status 
for  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-62559 (E) 
*0962559* 


A/64/PV.52 


The  Chairman  of  the  Second  Committee  will  be 
informed  of  the  decision  just  taken  by  the  General 
Assembly. 

In  paragraph  4  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee  recommends  to  the  General Assembly  that 
an  additional  item  entitled  “Observer  status  in  the 
General Assembly for the Council of Presidents of the 
General  Assembly”  be  included  in  the  agenda  of  the 
current  session  under  heading  I,  “Organizational, 
administrative and other matters”.  
May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 

to include this item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading I?  

It was so decided. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  paragraph  

4 (b), the General Committee further recommends that 
the  item  be  allocated  to  the  Sixth  Committee.  May  I 
take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides  to  allocate 
this item to the Sixth Committee? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I should like to 

inform members that the item entitled “Observer status 
in the General Assembly for the Council of Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly”  becomes  item  171  on  the 
agenda of the current session. 

In  light  of  the  decisions  just  taken  by  the 
Assembly, may I take it that the Assembly also decides 
to  extend 
to 
specifically consider agenda items 169 and 171, which 
have been allocated to that Committee? 
It was so decided.  

The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The  Chairman 

of  the  Sixth  Committee  will  be  informed  of  the 
decisions just taken by the General Assembly. 

In paragraph 5, the General Committee decided to 
recommend  to  the  General  Assembly  that  the  item 
entitled “Question of the Comorian island of Mayotte” 
be included in the agenda of the current session under 
heading  A,  “Maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security”, on the understanding that there would be no 
consideration  of  this  item  by  the  General  Assembly 
until further notice. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
to include this item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading A, on the understanding that there would 
the  Sixth  Committee 
the  work  of 
be  no  consideration  of  this  item  by  the  General 
Assembly until further notice? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I should like to 

inform members that the item entitled “Question of the 
Comorian island of Mayotte” becomes item 172 on the 
agenda of the current session. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration  of  the  second  report  of  the  General 
Committee. 



Agenda item 16 (continued) 
Question of Palestine 






  Report of the Committee on the Exercise  
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (A/64/35) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/351) 
  Draft resolutions (A/64/L.20, A/64/L.21, 
A/64/L.22 and A/64/L.23) 
Mr.  Haroon  (Pakistan): Yesterday,  a  great  voice 

for the Palestinian people, Mr. Walid Khalidi, spoke at 
the  United  Nations.  His  lament  reminded  me  of  that 
other  great  Palestinian,  Edward  Saïd,  and  hearing 
Khalidi I thought it appropriate to remember Saïd and 
to give thanks to God that his voice continues.  

A  lot  of  people  might  be  unhappy  that  the  voice 
of  Palestine  as  echoed  by  these  great  people  is  still 
being  heard  in  the  halls  of  the  United  Nations,  and 
today that lament carries forward in items 15 and 16 as 
a stark reminder of the protracted suffering, desolation 
and  dispossession  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  their 
continuing  ordeal  and  oppression  under  occupation. A 
lot of people seem to ask: “What good does this annual 
lament  make”?  To  them  I  say,  “If  you  listen  closely 
enough, the lament is asking not for retribution but for 
lasting  peace”.  That  is  the  essential  matter  in  this 
lament.  

And  is  it  a  difficult  task  for  the  people  who 
believe  in  one  God?  Palestinians  and  Jews  believe  in 
Abraham; both believe in Moses. Is it all that difficult 
to reach the promised land together and to unite? I do 
not think so. I think that today we must commend the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People  for  the  very  compact  case  and 
position  they  have  put  before  us  here.  I  would 
2 

09-62559 
the 
like 
to  mention 
living  conditions 


specifically 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Senegal  and  the  Rapporteur  of  the 
Committee, the Permanent Representative of Malta, for 
their invaluable contributions.  

Today’s  important  debate  coincides  with  the 
observance of the International Day of Solidarity with 
the  Palestinian  People.  It  is  therefore  a  propitious 
occasion to reaffirm our commitment to the legitimate 
struggle  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  remind  the 
world of their inalienable rights.  
For  the  past  six  decades,  the  peaceful  settlement 

of  the  question  of  Palestine  has  remained  one  of  the 
major  challenges  for  the  international  community.  Let 
us put on record that we are now entering the seventh 
decade  of  our  collective  failure  —  I  repeat,  our 
collective failure — to meet this challenge. It is indeed 
a sad record for the United Nations. From Oslo in 1993 
to  Annapolis  in  2007,  matters  do  not  seem  to  have 
become  more  encouraging.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
serious  deterioration  of 
the 
occupied territories has seen no reversal. The impunity 
and  defiance  of  the  international  community  are 
inflicting  a  mortal  blow  both  to  the  proponents  of  the 
peace  process  and,  more  important,  to  the  living 
conditions of human beings under forceful occupation. 

the  worsening 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied  territories  is  a 
matter  of  more  serious  concern  to  my  delegation.  As 
acknowledged  in  various  United  Nations  reports,  the 
closure  of  Gaza’s  borders  to  the  free  flow  of  people 
and  commerce  is  strangulating  the  local  economy. 
Public  services  and  human  security  stand  threatened. 
Construction  of  the  separation  wall  replicates  the 
situation in the West Bank. 
Elsewhere  in  the  occupied  territories,  settlement 

activity by Israel is compounding the conflict. We note 
with great concern  a  finding that, even this year,  over 
755 square metres of further territory — and this may 
sound  miniscule,  but  it  is  the  principle  of  it  that  
matters  —  has  been  added  to  the  settlements  in  the 
West  Bank  alone.  This  becomes,  slowly  and  steadily, 
an  encroachment  that  does  not  want  to  go  away.  The 
settlement  activity  in  and  around  East  Jerusalem  and 
the inexplicable and irrational occupation of the Syrian 
Golan,  together  with  provocative  excavation  around 
sites  holy  to  Muslims,  Christians  and  Jews,  are  only 
widening 
this  conflict.  The 
construction of 900 housing units in Gilo, south of East 
the  dimensions  of 
From  among 
in 
these 
trends, 
A/64/PV.52
Jerusalem,  has  the  potential  to  further  ignite  the 
prevailing tensions in the region. 

The  incessant  culture  of  impunity  vitiates  trust 
and  confidence,  which  are  prerequisite  to  any  viable 
peace  process.  Confidence  cannot  be  built  in  the  face 
of  actions  involving  the  use  of  force,  human  rights 
violations,  discrimination,  checkpoints,  permits  and 
blockades of entire populations, resulting in social and 
economic  strangulation.  The  collective  punishment  of 
the  Palestinian  people  is  the  worst  example  of  all. 
Israel  must  seriously  reconsider  its  actions  and  harsh 
measures,  not  just  for  the  sake  of  the  besieged 
Palestinian  people  and  the  peace  process,  but  also  for 
its  own  security  concerns  and  the  peace  of  the  world 
that it antagonizes with utter disdain for humanity. 

While  we  see  little  reason  for  optimism  for  a 
sustainable  peace  process  in  the  near  future,  complete 
desperation and hopelessness must be avoided because 
they  create  violence.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  parties 
concerned  will  undertake  immediate  and  credible 
confidence-building  measures  aimed  at  improving  the 
overall  environment  and  making  it  conducive  to  a 
negotiation  process.  For  this,  it  is  imperative  for  the 
international community to re-engage on this issue and 
to revive the momentum for a renewed peace process. 

of  
14  October,  I  outlined  four  parameters  for  such  a  
re-engagement  (see  S/PV.6201).  I  shall  now  repeat 
them. First, the Security Council should take a lead in 
the 
Its 
member States must show the political will to achieve 
real progress on peace and security in the Middle East 
based  on  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council 
as  well  as  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference,  the  Road 
Map,  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  understanding 
reached in Annapolis in 2007.  

Secondly,  the  Middle  East  Quartet  must  utilize 
the full potential of its statement of 24 September 2009 
in  support  of  the  peace  process  through  a  transparent 
and objective engagement.  

Thirdly, there is a pressing urgency to address the 
humanitarian plight in the Palestinian territories and to 
rebuild the Palestinian institutions battered by conflict 
and violence. Likewise, we must support the efforts to 
achieve further cohesion among the Palestinian people.  

Fourthly,  to  achieve  a  lasting  settlement  to  the 
Arab-Israeli conflict, it is imperative to address its root 
international  community’s 
the  Security  Council 
re-engagement. 
During 
debate 
09-62559 

3 
in 
order 
to 
tracks 
A/64/PV.52 

cause — the Israeli occupation of the Arab territories. 
The  solution 
therefore  requires  Israel’s  complete 
withdrawal  from  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  and  all  other  occupied Arab 
territories,  including  the  Syrian  Golan  and  South 
Lebanon.  Israel  should  also  immediately  cease  all 
settlement  activities.  Also  crucial  to  this  equation 
would  be  parallel  progress  on  the  Syria-Israel  and 
Lebanon-Israel 
achieve 
comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East  —  peace 
being the most important aspect of the rendition of this 
speech today. 

Having  said  that,  let  us  make  life  a  little  easier. 
Coming in, I met a very wise, old Arab dignitary, and I 
said to him, “Why do we not take one point and begin 
from there?” And he turned around and said, “There is 
a very easy solution. Let us just freeze the settlements 
immediately  and  opt  for  peace”.  This  is  a  very 
simplistic but very profound piece of advice. Let Israel 
grasp  the  bull  by  its  horns.  Let  it  not  falter  at  this 
moment.  This  is  the  time  to  grasp  what  should  be  a 
tenable peace.  

The  people  of  all  races  and  religions  in  the 
Middle  East  have  suffered  for  too  long.  Over  the  past 
60  years,  many  generations  have  completed  their 
respective  life  cycles  in  the  perverse  shadows  of 
poverty, inane violence and life-threatening insecurity. 
Only  our  firm,  joint  resolve,  concerted  action  and, 
above all, the political will to build a lasting peace can 
save  succeeding  generations  of  the  region  from  the 
tragedies and tribulations of their ill-fated heritage and 
from  the  repetition  of  the  senseless,  blood-soaked 
history of their predecessors. 

I should like to conclude by quoting John Milton. 
In the face of perversity and the fall from paradise, he 
writes in the first book of Paradise Lost that “All is not 
lost; the unconquerable Will”. That is what the United 
Nations needs: an unconquerable will. 

Mr.  Alrowaiei  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  should 
to 
Ambassador  Paul  Badji,  Chairman  of  the  Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian People. We should also like to thank all the 
other  members  of  the  Committee  for  their  efforts  in 
preparing the Committee’s thirty-fifth report (A/64/35) 
before  us,  which  contains  valuable  information  on  the 
grave  deterioration  of  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories.  We  also  highly  appreciate  their 
to  extend 
its 
thanks 
like 

in 
efforts in carrying out their tasks aimed at enabling the 
Palestinian people to exercise their inalienable rights as 
enshrined 
the  relevant  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  resolutions,  which  have  echoed  in 
this Hall a thousand times. 

We  should  also  like  to  thank  the  Department  of 
Public Information for its effective role in highlighting 
issues  relevant  to  the  question  of  Palestine  and  for 
organizing  activities  within  its  Special  Information 
Programme  on  the  Question  of  Palestine  in  order  to 
raise  awareness  of  this  issue  among  the  international 
community. 

Yesterday,  in  a  letter  addressed  by  King  Hamad 
bin  Issa  Al  Khalifa  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  the  Chairman  of 
the  Committee,  Mr.  Paul  Badji,  on  the  International 
Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  His 
Majesty  called  upon  the  international  community  to 
shoulder  its  responsibilities  with  respect  to  the  future 
of the Palestinian people and to help them attain their 
inalienable  rights  to  self-determination  and  establish 
their  independent  State  on  their  national  soil,  with 
Jerusalem as its capital. 

His  Majesty  also  called  upon  Israel  and  the 
Palestinian  Authority  to  pursue  peaceful  efforts  to 
reach  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  agreement,  in 
accordance  with  the  Annapolis  Joint  Understanding 
and proceedings within the international framework on 
this  issue,  foremost  among  which  are  United  Nations 
resolutions,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  Road 
Map. 

He  also  stressed  the  need  for  the  international 
community to take a firm position in genuine solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  help  them  realize 
their 
them 
political  and  financial  support  for  pursuing  serious 
negotiations aimed at reaching a final settlement of this 
pending issue. 
He  also  stressed  that,  this  year,  the  International 

Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People comes at 
a time when the Palestinian people are suffering most. 
The greatest testimony to this was the report prepared 
by Judge Richard Goldstone this year (A/HCR/12/48), 
which  laid  bare  to  the  international  community  the 
persecution and oppression of the Palestinian people at 
the hands of the occupying Israeli forces. It reaffirmed 
the absolute necessity for the international community 
legitimate  national  rights  by  offering 
4 

09-62559 
them 


to  provide  international  protection  to  the  Palestinian 
people under Israeli occupation. 

That  letter  also  stresses  Bahrain’s  firm  position 
with  regard  to  the  Palestinian  issue  in  two  particular 
aspects: first, in standing with the brotherly Palestinian 
people  against  that  historic  injustice,  embodied  in  the 
worst  forms  of  occupation,  wanton  aggression,  forced 
emigration,  killing  and  blockade;  and  secondly,  in 
reaching  a  peaceful  international  settlement  of  the 
issue,  based  on  the  well-known  international  terms  of 
reference.  

I need not dwell on the daily deterioration of the 
situation  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  people  due  to 
Israel’s  ongoing  policies  of  subjecting 
to 
humiliation  and  siege,  in  particular  in  the  Gaza  Strip, 
and of continuing to build the separation wall in clear 
violation  of  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  international  law  and  international 
humanitarian  law.  The  latest  events  in  Gaza  are  only 
one  more  atrocious  link  in  a  chain  of  aggression 
perpetrated  by  Israel,  in  which  it  has  deliberately 
destroyed Palestinian infrastructure and United Nations 
facilities,  killed  men,  women  and  the  elderly,  used 
internationally  prohibited  weapons,  and  deprived 
Palestinians of the most basic necessities of life under 
the eyes of the international community.  

Only  a  political  process  can  bring  about  a 
peaceful  settlement  that  guarantees  the  Palestinian 
people  the  enjoyment  of  all  its  inalienable  rights.  It 
would  also  ensure  that  the  Israeli  people  enjoy  peace 
and security within internationally recognized borders, 
living side by side with their neighbour in peace. That 
is  Bahrain’s  particular  appeal  at  this  time  and  always 
has been. 
In conclusion, we agree with the view expressed 

in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/351)  that 
the  time  has  come  for  Israel  to  fundamentally  change 
its  policies  in  that  regard.  The  observance  of  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People  represents  recognition  of  the  international 
community’s  particular  responsibility  to  remediate  the 
historic  injustice  and  inequity  done  to  the  Palestinian 
people.  It  also  requires  us  to  assist  that  people  in 
attaining their inalienable rights, including the right to 
self-determination  and  to  establish  their  independent 
State  on  their  national  soil,  with  Jerusalem  as  the 
capital. 
A/64/PV.52
in 
their  national  aspirations  and 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of  Iran): At the 

outset,  on  the  occasion  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  I  wish  to 
express  our  solidarity  with  the  people  of  Palestine  in 
their  tireless  efforts  and  unwavering  determination  to 
pursue 
their 
courageous  struggle  to  defend  and  exercise  their 
inalienable rights. 

The recent United Nations reports on the question 
of  Palestine,  particularly  the  report  of  the  Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People,  contained  in  document  A/64/35, 
once again bear witness to the unfortunate reality that, 
in  the  period  under  consideration,  the  Israeli  regime 
has  continued  with  its  crimes  against  the  defenceless 
Palestinian  people.  It  has  been  systematically  altering 
the demography and the historical and cultural heritage 
of  the  Palestinian  land  through  unlawful  policies  and 
practices,  thus  inflicting  unspeakable  suffering  and 
losses  on  the  Palestinian  people,  including  the  recent 
carnage  in  Gaza  that  resulted  in  the  deaths  and  injury 
of  hundreds  of 
innocent  Palestinians  and  an 
unprecedented humanitarian crisis in that area. 

the  International  Court  of  Justice’s 
advisory  opinion  and  the  strong  condemnation  of  the 
international  community, 
settlements  are 
expanding much faster than before and more and more 
Palestinian  houses  are  being  demolished.  The  recent 
illegal decision of the Israeli regime to build 900 new 
housing  units  is  a  move  undoubtedly  orchestrated  to 
alter the demographic composition and character of the 
Palestinian territories, particularly in Jerusalem and its 
surrounding areas. 

The  Israeli  regime  has  also  persisted  in  its 
aggressive  and  expansionist  policies  towards  Lebanon 
and the occupied Syrian Golan. The illegitimate regime 
continues  to  violate  the  most  basic  principles  of 
international 
international  humanitarian  and 
human rights law and the United Nations Charter, and 
continues  its  defiance  of  numerous  resolutions  of 
different  United  Nations  bodies.  Those  crimes  are 
undoubtedly  among 
the  most  serious  and  gross 
violations  of  United  Nations  resolutions,  especially 
those  of  the  Security  Council,  and  therefore  must  be 
dealt  with  urgently  and  appropriately  by  the  Council 
and  other  United  Nations  bodies  in  a  resolute  and 
decisive manner. 
Despite 
illegal 
law, 
09-62559 

5 
the 
including 
authenticated 
the  Goldstone 
issue  of  Palestine, 
A/64/PV.52 


In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  adoption  of 
resolution  64/10  on  5  November  on  the  follow-up  to 
the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission 
on  the  Gaza  Conflict.  That  resolution  needs  to  be 
seriously  followed  up  by  the  relevant  United  Nations 
organs,  in  particular  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to 
bring to justice the Israeli perpetrators of the crimes so 
vividly 
report 
(A/HRC/12/48)  and  to  put  an  end  to  the  culture  of 
impunity and above-the-law behaviour. If criminals are 
punished, room for criminal acts by those who possess 
the  motives  and  means  to  commit  them  will  be 
restricted.  Impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  serious 
crimes  is  itself  a  cause  of  and  an  incentive  to  further 
crimes. 
Unfortunately,  the  Security  Council’s  debate  on 

the  Goldstone  report  in  October  (see  S/PV.6201)  did 
not  result  in  the  expected  conclusion. We  believe  that 
any action to appease the Israeli regime or to divert the 
attention of the international community from the root 
causes  of 
the 
politically motivated manoeuvres in the Council during 
its  debate  on  Gaza,  amounts  to  defending  State 
terrorism,  injustice  and  oppression,  as  well  as  the 
recent  22-day  massacre  of  hundreds  of  Palestinian 
men, women and children. 

Since the question of Palestine is the international 
community’s  most  urgent  problem,  finding  a  solution 
to  that  issue  is  of  the  highest  priority.  Over  60  years 
have  passed  since  the  occupation  of  Palestine.  During 
all  those  years,  the  Israeli  regime  has  benefited  from 
all  material  means  of  power,  including  financial  aid, 
weapons  and  technology,  as  well  as  the  political  and 
diplomatic 
some  Western  countries, 
including  their  giant  monopolized  empire  of  news 
media  and  networks.  Yet,  despite  that  staggering 
support,  not  only  have  those  countries  failed  to  solve 
the problem of the Israeli regime’s illegitimacy, but the 
complex 
issue  of  Palestine  has  grown  more 
complicated  with  time.  In  the  past,  there  have  been 
many  solutions  on  the  table,  but  none  has  been 
successful because,  first, they were based on denying, 
in  one  way  or  another,  the  legitimate  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people,  and,  secondly,  because  of  the 
intransigence  of  the  Israeli  regime  in  failing  to  abide 
by  its  commitments  and  international  norms  and 
regulations. 

just  settlement  of 
There  is  no  doubt  that  attaining  a  peaceful  and 
is 
the  question  of  Palestine 
support  of 
in 

its  share 
terrorism, 
My  delegation  would 
justice  and  putting  an  end 
imperative  to  the  realization  of  a  comprehensive  and 
lasting  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East  and 
beyond.  Aggression,  State 
intimidation, 
occupation,  the  setting  up  of  new  illegal  settlements 
and  the  construction  of  the  separation  wall  will  not 
bring  peace  to  the  Middle  East.  In  our  view,  a  lasting 
peace in Palestine and the region will be possible only 
by  establishing 
to 
discrimination  and  the  occupation  of  Palestine  and 
other occupied Arab territories. 

Today,  in  commemoration  of  the  International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, we need 
to  act  collectively  to  demonstrate  our  unqualified 
support for the Palestinian cause, and to rally to assist 
those  who  have  been  deprived  of  their  inalienable 
rights. The reconstruction of Gaza is one of Palestine’s 
most  urgent  needs,  requiring  our  strong  political  will 
and  immediate  collective  action.  We  have  a  common 
duty and responsibility to offer multifaceted support to 
the  Palestinians  in  Gaza.  The  Government  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  done 
to 
financially  assist  the  Palestinians  in  order  to  alleviate 
their suffering in the humanitarian sphere. 

to  reiterate  our 
proposal  for  a  durable  solution  to  the  Palestinian 
problem.  Our  proposal  is  a  solution  that  is  in  total 
sympathy  with  democratic  values  and  has  a  basis  in 
common  logic.  Based  on  our  proposal,  all  those  who 
have  a  legitimate  stake  in  the  territory  of  Palestine, 
including Muslims, Christians and Jews, should choose 
their  own  system  of  Government 
in  a  general 
referendum.  All  Palestinians  who  have  for  years 
endured the ordeals of exile should also be allowed to 
take part in the referendum. For true believers in peace 
and  democracy,  this  is  the  only  just,  comprehensive 
and democratic solution to this long-lasting problem in 
the Middle East. 

Finally, I wish to express our appreciation to the 
Chairman  and  the  members  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  for  their  tireless  efforts  to  address  the  torment 
and onerous situation of the people of Palestine and for 
the informative report they have presented to us. 

Mr.  Kohona  (Sri  Lanka):  I  wish  to  express  the 
sincere appreciation of my delegation to the Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian People for its report contained in document 
A/64/35. We would also like to thank the Chairman of 
like 
6 

09-62559 
for 
take 
support 
the  people  and 


the Committee, Ambassador Paul Badji of Senegal, for 
his comprehensive statement on the Committee’s work. 

Sri  Lanka  has  consistently  extended  its  steadfast 
support to the Palestinian people in the pursuit of their 
inalienable rights, including the right to statehood. This 
has  been  a  matter  persistently  advocated  by  our 
President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa, 
over  the  past  40  years.  I  would  like  to  seek  the 
Assembly’s  indulgence  and  quote  the  message  he  has 
sent to mark this year’s observance of the International 
Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  which 
reads as follows. 
“On 

the 

the  solemn  occasion  marking 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the 
Palestinian  people,  on  behalf  of  the  people  and 
the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka,  I 
this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  our  unequivocal  and 
sincere 
the 
Government of Palestine for their just struggle to 
achieve  their  inalienable  rights,  including  the 
right to statehood. 
“We  remain  deeply  concerned  about  the 

the 
widespread 
Palestinian  people  continue  to  undergo  and  the 
grave  situation 
the  Occupied  Palestinian 
Territory.  We  welcome  the  new  efforts  and 
commitments  by  the  international  community  to 
reinvigorate  the  peace  process.  However,  we  are 
disappointed  that  no  tangible  results  have  been 
achieved  towards  the  two-State  solution  and  the 
realization  of 
the 
the 
Palestinian people. 

“On this commemorative Day of Solidarity, 
I wish to recall my association with the cause of 
the Palestinian people for nearly 40 years, during 
which  I  have  advocated  the  recognition  of  the 
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and a 
viable  solution  to  the  conflict.  I  sincerely  hope 
that  all  peace  initiatives  that  have  as  their  main 
objective  the  realization  of  a  two-State  solution 
and  the  renewed  efforts  of  the  international 
community  will  enable  the  speedy  creation  of  a 
Palestinian  State  coexisting  with  Israel  in  peace, 
harmony and prosperity.” 

The Palestinian people have suffered for too long 
and  have  lived  under  occupation.  The  denial  of  their 
fundamental  right  to  statehood  due  to  the  continued 
the  
Israeli 
inalienable  rights  of 
occupation 
hardships 
seriously 
suffering 
affected 
and 
has 
in 


A/64/PV.52
it 
is 
of 
the 
imperative 
settlements  and 
illegal  expansion  of 
socio-economic  well-being 
Palestinian 
population in Gaza and the West Bank, including East 
Jerusalem.  We  believe 
to  fully 
implement  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions, 
and  those  adopted  by  the Assembly,  to  achieve  a  just, 
lasting and comprehensive solution to the Middle East 
and  Palestinian  questions.  The  principle  of  land  for 
peace, the Road Map and the Arab Peace Initiative are 
important  milestones  in  the  process  of  achieving  a 
permanent two-State solution. 

For  peace  to  be  viable  and  sustainable  in  the 
Palestinian territory, Israel must withdraw from all the 
Palestinian territories back to the 1967 borders. It must 
end the economic blockade and siege of the Gaza Strip. 
The 
the 
continuation of the construction of the separation wall, 
changing the demographic and geographic character of 
the Palestinian territory, can only increase tensions and 
animosities between the two parties to the conflict. The 
Palestinian Authority  needs  to  continue  implementing 
its security plan and to make every effort at its disposal 
to improve law and order. 

Sri  Lanka  wishes  to  reiterate  its  support  for  the 
Palestinian Authority under the leadership of President 
Mahmoud  Abbas.  We  stress  the  need  to  preserve  and 
protect the national and democratic institutions that are 
vital  to  a  future  independent  Palestinian  State.  We 
therefore urge the Palestinian groups to act speedily to 
reconcile  and  unite  within  the  framework  of  the 
legitimate  Palestinian  Authority.  Unity 
among 
Palestinian  people  is  their  strength.  In  this  regard,  we 
commend the initiative of Egypt to promote a dialogue 
among  the  parties  concerned  in  order  to  restore 
Palestinian national unity. 

Serious  efforts  must  be  made  for  the  early 
resumption  of  negotiations  by  the  two  sides,  with  the 
objective of reaching a final agreement, to enable both 
the people of Israel and the people of Palestine to live 
side  by 
recognized 
boundaries.  In  this  regard,  it  is  important  that  both 
parties  abide  by 
their  previous  agreements  and 
obligations  and  take  concrete  steps  to  consolidate 
confidence. 

to  convey  our 
appreciation  to  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East 
(UNRWA),  which  has  played  a  vital  role  in  providing 
essential 
development 
In  conclusion,  permit  me 
securely  and  within 
humanitarian 
relief 
side, 
and 
09-62559 

7 
to 

in 
an 
the  Middle  East  will  be 
and  Jordan.  How  can  it  be,  then,  that  the  debate  in 
that 
these  halls  embraces  a  one-sided  narrative 
promotes 
and  maintains 
obsessive 
and 
condemnatory focus on Israel? 

Today’s  debate  undermines  the  endorsement  of 
the  two-State  solution.  It  reflects  the  reality  of  an 
automatic majority that ensures that any debate on the 
situation 
fruitless, 
destructive,  cynical  and  hateful.  Peace  will  require  a 
new direction. It will require truthfulness and courage. 

And so I ask our Palestinian neighbours whether 
or  not  we  both  possess  the  courage  to  transform 
ourselves  from  soldiers  of  war  into  soldiers  of  peace. 
Do the Arab States have the courage not only to speak 
about  peace,  but  to  engage  with  Israel  in  a  serious 
political and economic manner? Do those in our region 
have  the  courage  to  say  publicly  that  Israel  is  the 
legitimate  nation-State  of  the  Jewish  people?  Do  the 
members  of  this  body  have  the  courage  to  confront 
Hamas  and  Hizbullah  and  all  those  for  whom  there  is 
no two-State solution? 

Israel,  for  its  part,  will choose  the  path  of  peace 
over  the  course  of  conflict. Thus,  a  few  days  ago,  the 
Government of Israel announced a policy of settlement 
restraint,  a  policy  that  includes  the  suspension  of  new 
permits  and  new  construction  in  the  West  Bank  for  a 
period  of  10  months. This  unprecedented  step  reflects 
three simple realities: first, that Israel wants to reenter 
into  negotiations  with  the  Palestinians;  secondly,  that 
Israel  is  not  only  talking  about  peace  but  is  taking 
painful and effective steps towards it; and, thirdly, that 
Israel is serious about its intention to pursue peace. 

Israel wishes to reach a historic peace agreement, 
and  will  discuss  peace  at  any  time,  anywhere  and 
without preconditions. We wish to hear the Palestinian 
Authority say the same: that it, too, will discuss peace 
at any time, anywhere and without preconditions. Only 
through negotiations between the parties can we solve 
the conflict in a complete and comprehensive fashion. 

We are now witnessing efforts to use the Security 
Council or the General Assembly to promote unilateral 
declarations.  Like  the  rejection  of  resolution  181  (II), 
this  could  turn  into  another  historic  mistake.  Such 
declarations erode the foundations of peace and create 
instead  a  situation  that  will  destroy  the  hope  for 
bilateral negotiations. 
that  announced 
A/64/PV.52 

assistance  to  the  Palestinian  population  for  60  years. 
The  work  carried  out  by  UNRWA  under  difficult 
conditions  is  commendable.  We  also  extend  our  good 
wishes 
the  outgoing  Commissioner-General,  
Ms. Karen AbuZayd, who has contributed tirelessly to 
this worthy cause during her tenure. 

Ms.  Shalev  (Israel):  “Thirty-three  for.  Thirteen 
against.  Ten  abstentions.  The  resolution  is  approved.” 
the  words  at  Lake  Success  on  
Those  were 
29  November  1947 
the  General 
Assembly’s adoption of resolution 181 (II). Those were 
the words that conferred international legitimacy on the 
creation  of  two  States  for  two  peoples:  “Thirty-three 
for. Thirteen against. Ten abstentions. The resolution is 
approved.” 

The  Jewish  population  in  then-British-Mandate 
Palestine  accepted  that  historic  resolution.  It  reflected 
the  Zionist  conviction  that  it  was  both  necessary  and 
possible  to  live  in  peace  with  our  neighbours  in  the 
land  of  our  forefathers.  Yet  the  Arab  side  within  the 
Mandate  territory  and  across  the  region  instantly 
rejected  resolution  181  (II),  and  Egypt,  Saudi Arabia, 
Syria,  Iraq  and  Lebanon  —  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  —  launched  a  war  of  annihilation  against 
Israel together with Jordan and the Arabs of Palestine. 

As  a  result  of  that  rejection  and  that  war,  many 
Palestinian  Arabs  became  refugees,  while  a  similar 
number  of  Jews  who  lived  in  Arab  countries  were 
forced  to  flee  their  homes,  and  they,  too,  became 
refugees.  They  all  —  Jews  and  Arabs  —  lived  in 
refugee camps, torn away from their homes. 

The  difference  between  the  two  distinct  refugee 
populations was — and still is — that Israel has done 
its  utmost  to  redeem  these  Jewish  refugees  from  their 
misery  and  to  absorb  them  successfully  in  Israel, 
whereas the belligerent Arab States did not lift a finger 
to  redeem  their  brethren.  To  wage  war?  Yes,  by  all 
means.  To  help  in  redeeming  and  resettling,  let  alone 
absorbing 
is  another  matter 
altogether. 

Today,  the  Arabs’  historic  mistake  of  rejecting 
resolution 181 (II) is also measured in lives lost in war, 
parents  who  bury  their  children  and  pain  that  has 
touched  us  all,  Israelis  and Arabs.  But  Israel  will  not 
let the pain that we all have suffered turn into hate. It 
will not diminish Israel’s desire for peace. For history 
shows  that  peace  can  be  achieved  in  the  Middle  East, 
such  as  through  the  historic  peace  treaties  with  Egypt 
their  brethren: 
that 
8 

09-62559 



We must also confront the most dangerous threat 
to  peace  in  our  region,  namely  Iran.  Iran  continues  to 
export violence, hatred and terrorism to our region and 
beyond. The 360 tons of weapons aboard the Francop
were merely a drop in the ocean. Iran funds, trains and 
supports  global  terrorism,  including  the  relentless 
attacks  by  Hamas  and  Hizbullah  against  Israeli  men, 
women and children. Iran must be stopped. 

As  our  region  stands  at  a  critical  juncture,  this 
body can  choose between two paths. It  can indulge in 
the  hatred  of  yesterday.  It  can  mourn  the  rejection  of 
resolution  181  (II).  It  can  even  promote  and  applaud 
futile unilateral affirmations. It can turn a blind eye to 
terrorists and their sponsors and justify their repugnant 
tactics  and  deadly  consequences.  Or  it  can  recognize 
that  the  only  way  towards  peace  is  through  bilateral 
negotiations.  It  can  then  celebrate  29  November  as  a 
joint  day  of  peace  for  two  States,  living  honourably, 
side by side. For us, there is no other way. 

Mr.  Manjeev  Singh  Puri  (India): At  the  outset, 
Mr. President, allow me to express our appreciation to 
you  for  having  convened  this  discussion  on  the 
question  of  Palestine  in  the  General  Assembly  as  we 
mark  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People.  Our  appreciation  goes  also  to 
Ambassador  Paul  Badji  and  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People.  

India  has  long-standing  social  and  cultural  ties 
with the entire region of the Middle East and a strong 
tradition of support for the Palestinian cause. We voted 
in support of the Human Rights Council resolution on 
the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict,  as  well  as  General  Assembly  resolution 
64/10.  We  believe  that  the  conflict  in  West  Asia  is 
essentially  political  and  cannot  be  resolved  by  force. 
We  favour  a  negotiated  solution  wherein  a  sovereign, 
independent,  viable  and  united  State  of  Palestine  can 
live within secure and recognized borders, side by side 
and  at  peace  with  Israel,  as  endorsed  in  the  Quartet 
Road  Map  and  Security  Council  resolutions  1397 
(2002)  and  1515  (2003).  This  is  in  line  with  our 
support  for  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967) 
and  338  (1973)  as  well.  India  also  participated  in  the 
Annapolis Conference in 2007. 

The Arab Peace Initiative calls for the withdrawal 
of Israel to pre-1967 borders, the recognition of Israel 
and  the  establishment  of  the  State  of  Palestine  with 
A/64/PV.52
Mindful  of 
sixtieth  anniversary  year  of 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  India  has  supported  that 
plan.  We  have  also  called  for  an  end  to  Israeli 
settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  and 
the  easing  of  restrictions,  at  an  early  date,  of  the 
movement of goods and persons within Palestine. 

India has always stood by  the Palestinian people 
in  their  pursuit  of  their  legitimate  goals  and  their 
efforts aimed at economic and social development with 
dignity  and  self-reliance.  Towards  that  end,  India  has 
been doing what it can to extend development support 
to  Palestine.  In  New  Delhi,  we  have  completed  the 
Palestinian  Chancery  building  as  a  gift  from  the 
Government  of  India  and  an  enduring  symbol  of  our 
solidarity with the people of Palestine. 

the  deteriorating  humanitarian 
situation,  India  contributed  $1  million  in  response  to 
the  flash  appeals  of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
(UNRWA) following the conflict in Gaza in late 2008-
early 2009. 

the 
establishment  of  UNRWA,  we  have  increased  our 
contributions  to  that  agency.  India  has,  furthermore, 
contributed  $10  million  in  budget  support  to  the 
Palestinian  National  Authority  after  the  International 
Conference in Support of the Palestinian Economy for 
the Reconstruction of Gaza, held in Sharm el-Sheikh in 
March 2009. 

We  have  also  participated  in  various  donor 
conferences,  including  those  in  Paris,  Jakarta  and 
Sharm el-Sheikh, and have expeditiously implemented 
our pledges. 

coupled  with 
humanitarian  issues  in  Palestine,  have  impacted  upon 
the  broader  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and  beyond. 
There can be little doubt that the situation in Palestine 
remains  a  matter  of  grave  concern  to  the  international 
community, and there is a  need for all stakeholders to 
come  together  and  create  an  environment  for  the 
earliest possible resumption of dialogue in the Middle 
East peace process. 

The  Prime  Minister  of  India,  Mr.  Manmohan 
Singh, 
the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People, reiterated that concerted and inclusive action is 
necessary  to  reinvigorate  the  peace  process  with  the 
objective  of  achieving  a  durable,  comprehensive  and 
in  his  message  on 
the  occasion  of 
Instability 
In 
this 
and 
violence, 
09-62559 

9 

A/64/PV.52 

just settlement. We remain convinced that lasting peace 
in  the  region  will  contribute  to  global  stability  and 
prosperity. 

Mr.  Chekkori  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 
met  yesterday  to  celebrate  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People, which serves to 
remind  us 
that  compliance  with  United  Nations 
resolutions on the Palestinian question is necessary so 
that  the  Palestinians  can  enjoy  their  right  to  self-
determination and their own State. 
The  Palestinian  people  are  resilient  despite  the 

challenges  they  face,  but  they  have  suffered  now  for 
more than six decades. They continue to be courageous 
in asking here and in other international forums for the 
respect  of  commitments  and  promises  made  so  many 
times  over  that  we  have  come  to  regard  the  rays  of 
hope they provided as mere mirages. 

We  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  steadfast 
Palestinian  people  who  have  undergone  trials  and,  in 
spite  of  all  those  years  of  difficulties  and  all  those 
years  of  displacement,  imprisonment,  killing  and  an 
overwhelming daily situation, have maintained that ray 
of hope. And every time someone would want to snuff 
it  out,  soft  winds  fan  its  flames  for  a  better  day 
tomorrow so that the Palestinians can live in their own 
territory and in peace and security. 
We  fully  align  ourselves  with  the  statements 

the  Non-Aligned 
made  by  Egypt  on  behalf  of 
Movement  and  Syria  on  behalf  of 
the  Islamic 
Conference  of  Foreign  Ministers.  We  would  like  to 
stress, notwithstanding, the following main points. 

Before  doing  that,  however,  we  would  like  to 
thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  having  convened  this 
meeting 
the 
question of Palestine. 

We would also like to express our appreciation to 
His  Excellency Ambassador  Paul  Badji  for  the  efforts 
he  has  made  at  the  head  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People. 

I  also  wish  to  commend  the  work  and  efforts 
made  by  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  of  the 
Secretariat,  as  well  as  the  special  programme  in  the 
Department of Public Information. We are grateful for 
its  many  activities,  in  particular  its  daily  update  of 
developments in the situation. 
to  consider  recent  developments  on 
10 

Last  September,  we  celebrated 

the  sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  Works  and  Relief 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East 
(UNRWA). Here, we wish to commend and express our 
gratitude  to  the  continuous  and  valuable  efforts  that 
have been made by UNRWA to reduce the suffering of 
more  than  4.5  million  Palestinians  in  the  occupied 
territories and in the surrounding countries. 

As  she  leaves  her  post,  we  commend  Ms.  Karen 
Koning AbuZayd on all the work she has done for the 
past nine years while at the head of UNRWA and all of 
the valuable achievements of her work on behalf of the 
Palestinian people. 

We  are  meeting  here  to  discuss  the  question  of 
Palestine  in  the  present  session.  Our  assessment  of 
what has happened recently forces us to conclude that 
there is a clear contradiction between the efforts of the 
international  community  to  relaunch  the  negotiations, 
on the one hand, and the very serious developments on 
the ground, on the other. 

Even  though  the  international  community  had 
hoped  that  the Annapolis  arrangements  would  lead  to 
progress, Israel, for its part, has continued its collective 
punishment  policy,  its  settlement  activities  and  its 
expropriation of Arab property, which is then given to 
Israeli settlers.  
In that context and a few days after a meeting on 

the subject by the General Assembly, the Israeli forces 
launched  an  attack  against  Gaza  that  killed  more  than 
1,400  Palestinians  and  wounded  5,000  others, 
including women, children and the elderly. The Israeli 
forces  did  not  spare  homes,  schools,  mosques  or 
hospitals  treating  the  ill  and  wounded.  After  the 
declaration of the ceasefire and following the adoption 
of  Security  Council  resolution  1860  (2009),  a  number 
of  reports  were  produced.  Those  reports  clearly 
revealed  the  scope  of  the  crimes  committed  by  the 
Israeli  forces  during  their  aggression  in  Gaza,  where 
the  most  fundamental  international  humanitarian  and 
human rights norms were violated. 

We  were  first  made  aware  of  a  summary  of  the 
report of the Commission of Inquiry that the Secretary-
General  had  dispatched 
from  United  Nations 
Headquarters  to  investigate  nine  incidents  involving 
United Nations facilities that led to deaths and injuries. 
This  detailed  summary  of  extremely  serious  events 
offers but a small selection of the terrible, widespread 
actions that are given specific attention in the report of 
09-62559 
intervene, 
the  consequences  of 


the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48),  some  recommendations  of 
which  were  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  on  
5 November.  

Another report was published in September, but it 
did  not  receive  as  much  coverage  as  the  two  others. 
The report, entitled “Environmental Assessment of the 
Gaza  Strip  following  the  escalation  of  hostilities  in 
December  2008-January  2009”  and  published  by  the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP), 
addresses 
the  acts  of  war 
committed in the Gaza Strip, in particular the pollution 
of its already deteriorating environment, economy and 
living conditions. Among the conclusions of the UNEP 
report, which was prepared by international experts — 
including  Israelis  and  Palestinians  —  was  that,  if  the 
international  community  did  not 
the 
consequences  would  last  not  merely  for  years,  but  for 
centuries.  The  scarcity  of  water  resources  could 
jeopardize  the  security  of  the  population  if  minimal 
sanitary needs are not met. 

The international community had hoped that after 
the  ceasefire  declaration,  in  keeping  with  Security 
Council  resolution  1860  (2009),  Israel  would  stop 
these  practices  and  end 
its  policy  of  collective 
punishment of the Palestinian people, while at the same 
time  halt  its  imposition  of  facts  on  the  ground  and  its 
incremental seizure of Palestinian land. Unfortunately, 
Israel  has  in  fact  done  the  opposite,  continuing  its 
illegal settlement activity on the West Bank, including 
in East Jerusalem, and has grabbed more Arab property 
and 
their 
neighbourhoods to enable settlers to move in. Israel has 
also 
separation  wall, 
fragmenting the Arab presence.  

All  these  activities  seek  to  alter  the  city’s 
demographics  and  character.  Israel  has  continued  to 
attack  the  city’s  holy  sites,  undermining  the  Al-Aqsa 
mosque  through  excavations  and  tunnels  beneath  and 
around  it,  offering  worthless  justifications  in  an  effort 
to  mask  its  repeated  attempts  to  violate  freedom  of 
worship at the mosque and the right of worshippers to 
access  holy  sites  in  safety  and  unconditionally. All  of 
these 
flagrantly  violate 
international 
the  provisions  of 
international  law  and  the  religious  sensitivities  of  all 
faiths. 
land.  It  has  chased  Palestinians  from 
and  policies 
legal  decisions, 
continued 
excesses 
building 
the 
A/64/PV.52
these 
and 
earlier 
Finally, 
resolutions 
the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
the  special  character  of  Jerusalem, 

Our  Kingdom  and  His  Majesty  Mohammed  VI, 
Chairman of the Al Quds Committee, express our grave 
concern  about  these  practices  and  activities,  which 
seek to change the specifically Arab and Islamic nature 
of  the  holy  city  of  Jerusalem,  and  we  condemn  them. 
Motivated  by  that  sense  of  responsibility,  and  given 
that  the  city  is  of  particular  importance  in  the  Arab-
Israeli  conflict,  His  Majesty  has  tirelessly  sought  to 
draw the attention of the United Nations, world Powers 
and  religious  leaders,  in  particular  the  Pope,  to  the 
dangers  posed  by 
illegal,  unilateral  Israeli 
actions.  In  the  face  of  activities  that  threaten  the 
stability  and  security  of  the  region,  he  has  also  urged 
them  to  shoulder  their  responsibilities  and  to  help 
preserve 
in 
accordance  with  General  Assembly  and  Security 
Council 
commitments 
undertaken by the parties. 

firmly 
condemns  the  decision  of  the  Israeli  Government  to 
issue  permits  for  900  new  units  to  be  built  in  East 
Jerusalem; this is illegal and completely unacceptable. 
We also note the illicit and illegal nature of all Israeli 
settlement and construction activity in  the West Bank. 
Moreover,  Jerusalem  must  under  no  pretext  be  made 
the  subject  of  an  exemption.  Given  the  suffering 
endured daily by the Arab population of the holy city, 
the  Al  Quds  Committee  of  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference  continues  to  offer  support  by 
undertaking 
social 
facilities managed by the Bayt-Mal-Al-Quds Agency.  
the  Al  Quds 

Committee  and  the Yasser Arafat  Institute,  held  on  28 
and  29  October,  affirmed  that  it  was  urgent  that  the 
international  community  end  the  illegal  and  immoral 
Israeli  offences  against  Jerusalem  and  its  places  of 
worship.  The  meeting  also  called  on  Israel  to  respect 
freedom  of  religion  and  worship  on  the  basis  of  the 
principle  that  Jerusalem  is  an  inherent  part  of  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories,  as  set  forth  in  the 
provisions of international law and the Fourth Geneva 
Convention. Participants also called for the freedom of 
worship  and  holy sites to  be respected  and for greater 
tolerance and a strengthened spirit of coexistence.  

In view of the importance of Al-Quds to the Arab 
and  Islamic  world,  an  important  international  meeting 
will  be  held  at  the  Sidi  Mohamed  Ben  Abdellah 
University  in  Fez,  Morocco,  from  11  to  13  December 
to  celebrate  Jerusalem  as  the  2009  capital  of  Arab 
The  most  recent  meeting  of 
social  projects  and  creating 
09-62559 

11 
the 
In 
that 
in 
that 
lasting  belief 
implementation 
the  peace  process 
the  context  of  occupation  and 
A/64/PV.52 

culture. That international forum, to be held under the 
theme  “Al-Quds  in  Arab  and  International  Thought”, 
will address  various issues, highlighting the important 
of  Jerusalem  and  the  Al-Aqsa  mosque  in  Arab  and 
Muslim consciousness, as well as the consequences of 
Israeli  settlement  for  the  city,  its  history  and  human 
heritage.  The  meeting  will  also  focus  on  Palestinian 
culture 
the 
preservation of the Palestinian identity. 

Our deep concern about the serious recent events 
in  Palestine  and  the  threat  they  pose  to  stability  and 
security in the Middle East is accompanied by our firm 
and 
is  an 
irrevocable choice and that its outcome will establish a 
just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  region,  to  the 
benefit  of  all  its  peoples,  and  thereby  ensure  their 
security and the restoration of their rights. On the basis 
of the Arab Peace Initiative, the Kingdom of Morocco 
is committed to the Middle East peace process and, as 
a  member  of 
committee, 
participates  in  all  international  efforts  aimed  at  the 
effective resumption of negotiations. 

the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
welcomes the efforts of President Obama to overcome 
the  obstacles  to  the  peace  process  and  hopes  that  he 
is 
will  sustain 
achieved.  We  also  commend 
the 
international  community,  in  particular  the  European 
Union,  and  hope  that  they  will  lead  to  the  resumption 
of  negotiations  based  on 
relevant  General 
Assembly and Security Council resolutions, the Madrid 
terms of reference, the agreements and understandings 
between the parties, and the Arab Peace Initiative — a 
courageous undertaking that reflects the Arab desire to 
achieve  a  fair  and  comprehensive  solution  to  the 
conflict  in  the  Middle  East.  That  being  said,  the 
Initiative  will  be  strengthened  by  the  unity  of  the 
Palestinian  people  and  by  progress  in  meeting  their 
commitments to the terms of the Quartet Road Map.  
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  reiterates  once  again 

its support for President Abbas because of his wisdom, 
his 
the 
Palestinian dream — an independent, viable State with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  living  side  by  side  with 
Israel  in  peace  and  security  —  is  realized.  In  that 
regard,  a  comprehensive  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the 
Middle  East  will  be  possible  only  when  Syria  has 
regained  sovereignty  over  the  occupied  Golan  and 
leadership  and  his  pioneering  role  until 
the  desired  objective 
the  efforts  of 
them  until 
respect, 
the 

Sixty-two  years  ago, 
when  Lebanon  has  recovered  every  centimetre  of  its 
land. 

Mr. Ali (Malaysia): My delegation first wishes to 
align  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
representatives  of  Egypt  and  Syria  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic Conference, respectively. 

the  General  Assembly 
adopted resolution 181  (II), proposing the partitioning 
of  Palestine  into  two  independent  States,  one  Jewish 
and  one  Arab.  However,  to  date,  only  one  State  has 
come into being. This is a situation that has resulted in 
the  loss  of  many  lives  and  whose  effect  reverberates 
not  only  in  the  Middle  East,  but  worldwide. We  must 
therefore  undertake  urgent,  decisive  action  to  bring 
order and stability to the region and to restart the peace 
process  leading  to  a  comprehensive  and  just  solution. 
In  so  doing,  we  can  give  effect  to  what  was  provided 
for in resolution 181 (II). 

It is apparent that the root cause of this problem 
is  the  illegal  occupation  by  Israel  of  Palestinian, 
Lebanese  and  Syrian  territories.  The  problems  have 
been  compounded  throughout  the  decades  by  Israel’s 
actions  and  intransigence  in  the  following  areas:  first, 
atrocities  committed  by 
in  Gaza,  which 
contravene the Geneva Conventions; secondly, lack of 
political  commitment 
the 
successive  peace  processes;  thirdly,  continuation  and 
expansion  of  illegal  settlement  activities  in  the  West 
Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem,  as  well  as  the  recent 
Israeli Government approval of the construction of 900 
new settlement housing units in the settlement of Gilo, 
which  is  located  on  the  south  side  of  East  Jerusalem; 
fourthly,  forced  evictions  of  the  Palestinian  people, 
demolition  of  homes  and  confiscation  of  Palestinian 
lands, including through the building of the separation 
wall,  which  continues  to  be  built  despite  the  advisory 
opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  Such 
unlawful 
the  demographic 
composition, status and nature of East Jerusalem. They 
also  negatively  affect  the  territorial  contiguity  of  the 
Palestinian territories, as well as the social fabric of the 
Palestinian  people,  in  violation  of  international  law; 
fifthly, imposition of measures that constitute a form of 
collective  punishment,  as  is  strictly  forbidden  under 
international humanitarian law. Such measures include 
the blockade of Gaza, which has restricted the passage 
of  essential  goods  and  construction  materials  to  the 
vulnerable  groups,  the  establishment  of  hundreds  of 
through 
actions 
follow 
Israel 
could 
alter 
in 
to 
12 

09-62559 


checkpoints and roadblocks, the permit system as well 
as  other  obstacles  that  have  violated  the  Palestinians’ 
right to freedom of movement. 

The  attacks  on  Palestinians  by  extremist  Israeli 
settlers at the Islamic holy sites of Al-Haram Al-Sharif 
and  Al-Aqsa  mosque  are  further  acts  of  impunity 
manifested  by  the  Israeli  regime  in  the  occupied 
territories.  We  are  alarmed  at  the  increasing  incidents 
of illegal acts of violence and attacks by Israeli settlers 
against Palestinians without much action by the Israeli 
authorities  to  stop  or  to  hinder  their  occurrence.  Such 
provocations have further worsened the already volatile 
situation  in  the  occupied  territories,  especially  in 
occupied East Jerusalem. 

The  dehumanization  of  the  Palestinian  people 
through  such  exploitation  is  not  only  illegal  and 
immoral,  but  is  counter-productive  to  the  aim  of 
achieving genuine and lasting peace. Israel cannot, as it 
has  so  often  tried  to  do  in  the  past,  alter  the  way  in 
which  it  is  perceived  by  the  international  community 
by  listing,  at  the  United  Nations  and  other  forums, 
actions it has undertaken to lessen the sufferings of the 
Palestinians.  Israel  must  recognize  itself  as  it  is  and 
that it is a source of conflict in the Middle East. 
It  is  therefore  manifestly  clear  that  peace  in  the 

Middle  East  will  only  be  achieved  when 
the 
international community succeeds in its efforts to have 
Israel  recognize  its  wrongdoings  and  to  hold  Israel 
accountable.  Israel  must  improve  the  situation  on  the 
ground, 
in  Gaza, 
addressing the humanitarian needs of the people of the 
occupied  territories,  fostering  economic  activities  and 
improving the atmosphere for negotiations. 
It  is  necessary  that  the  international  community 

the 
refocus 
Palestinians their inalienable rights, including the right 
to an independent State of Palestine. In that regard, we 
urge  the  Security  Council  to  take  the  necessary 
decisive  action  against  Israel’s  violations 
the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory  and  to  thus  end  the 
immoral culture of impunity of the Israeli regime. 

Mr. Cabral (Guinea-Bissau), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

Yesterday,  we  also  marked  the  International  Day 
of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. I wish to take 
this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  all  Palestinians  who 
have  suffered  in  their  just  struggle  to  live  in  freedom 
its  energy  and  efforts 
the  blockade 
including 
lifting 
to  return 
to 
in 
A/64/PV.52
and 
establishing 
self-determination 
and  dignity  in  a  State  they  can  call  their  own.  The 
people of Palestine can count on Malaysia’s unceasing 
and  unwavering  support  for  their  efforts  to  create  an 
independent and sovereign State of Palestine with East 
Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr.  Al-Allaf  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset  I  express  my  gratitude  and  appreciation  for  the 
convening  of  this  important  meeting,  which  coincides 
with  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  With  the 
Palestinian  People  and  renews  the  commitment  of  the 
international  community  to  support  and  assist  the 
Palestinian  people  in  exercising  their  inalienable  right 
to 
their 
independent State. 

I  also  wish  to  express  Jordan’s  appreciation  for 
the  historic  role  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People and for 
the  efforts  of  its  Chairman,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul 
Badji, and for the significant efforts by the Committee 
to preserve the United Nations historic responsibility to 
ensure the rights of the Palestinian people.  
Here, I also mention the letter of appreciation for 

that  His  Majesty  King 
the  Committee’s  efforts 
Abdullah  Bin  Al  Hussein  addressed  yesterday  to  the 
Chairman of the Committee. 

The situation in the Middle East is experiencing a 
highly  delicate  stage  these  days. The  gap  between  the 
parties  to  the  conflict  has  expanded  and  unilateral 
actions  have  increased.  The  level-headed  thinking 
required  to  control  tensions  and  prevent  escalating 
violence is  absent,  as is the political will to achieve a 
permanent,  just  and  comprehensive  solution  to  the 
Palestinian problem, which is at the core of the conflict 
in the Middle East. 

Peace  is  the  only  option  for  the  region.  That 
requires  the  relevant  parties  to  commit  to  serious 
negotiations, within the regional context, based on the 
two-State solution and the agreed terms of reference, in 
order to achieve comprehensive peace in the region. It 
is  important  that  the  negotiations  resume  at  the  point 
where  the  previous  negotiations  stopped  and  that  they 
address  all  of  the  issues  of  a  final  solution,  primary 
among which are the borders, Jerusalem, refugees and 
security. 

International  efforts  to  resume  negotiations  must 
be  strengthened.  Under  the  leadership  of  His  Majesty 
King Abdullah II, Jordan is continuing its efforts at all 
09-62559 

13 

A/64/PV.52 

levels  in  order  to  mobilize  international  support  to 
launch the negotiation process between the Palestinians 
and  the  Israelis  with  the  aim  of  achieving  a  peace 
agreement  that  guarantees  the  establishment  of  an 
independent,  contiguous  and  viable  State  on 
the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories  based  on  the  1967 
borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  That 
process  must  take  place  within  a  clear  timetable  and 
based on the accepted terms of reference, in particular 
the Arab Peace Initiative, which reflects a unified Arab 
position  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  and  permanent 
peace that guarantees true  security and  stability in the 
region. 

The  current  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip  has 
become a human catastrophe, especially in the light of 
the  continued  Israeli  blockade  which  constitutes  a 
collective punishment of the civilian population of the 
Gaza  Strip.  The  Gaza  Strip  has  turned  into  a  giant 
prison.  The  siege  and  conflict  must  end  and 
humanitarian  relief  supplies  must  be  guaranteed 
unrestricted access. Those in need of medical attention 
must  be  allowed  access  to  medical  care  and  civilians 
should be allowed free and unrestricted movement. The 
international  community  must 
to  ensure 
protection of the human rights of the Palestinian people 
throughout  the  Palestinian  territories,  not  as  an  act  of 
humanitarian  charity  but  as  a  matter  affecting 
Palestinian 
obligations 
and 
responsibilities of the international community. 

In  this  respect,  Jordan  continues,  under  the 
leadership  of  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin  
Al  Hussein, 
the 
international  community  to  urge  it  to  end  the  stifling 
suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  provide 
assistance aimed at improving the living conditions of 
the Palestinians and preventing their deterioration. We 
call upon the international community, on the grounds 
of  their  legal  and  humanitarian  responsibilities,  to 
stand  by 
their  Palestinian  brethren  and  provide 
emergency humanitarian  relief  and put  an end to their 
human suffering.  

The  occupied  territories  today  witness  arbitrary 
Israeli  practices  against  Palestinians  and  the  Arab 
population that are completely contrary to any desire to 
achieve  peace.  In  order  to  create  a  sincere  impression 
of seeking peace Israel would have to immediately halt 
all  practices  that  contradict  its  obligations  as  the 
occupying  Power  and  international  human  rights  and 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
humanitarian 
its  efforts  and  contacts  with 
law,  specifically 
rights 
strive 
and 
the 
tragic 
reality  and 
trusts.  In 
Jerusalem, 
this  respect 
the  closures  and 
the  elimination  of 
living  conditions  of 
serious  violation  of 
Convention.  Any  progress  would  require  a  change  in 
the 
the 
Palestinians  in  the  occupied  territories  by  revitalizing 
the  Palestinian  economy,  which  cannot  be  achieved 
without 
the 
unjustified security checkpoints. 

This year we witnessed a clear acceleration in the 
pace  and  volume  of  unilateral  Israeli  measures  in 
occupied  East 
such  as  excavations 
underneath  and  around  sites  that  are  holy  to  Muslims 
and Christians, especially the holy sanctuary Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif  and  its  surroundings,  in  addition  to  the 
policies of home demolitions and expulsion of the Arab 
population in a feverish attempt to change the identity 
and demographic structure of occupied East Jerusalem 
and  to  create  obstacles  in  the  management  of  Islamic 
endowment 
the  Hashemite 
Kingdom  of  Jordan  emphasizes  that  all  of  these 
unilateral  Israeli  practices  are  illegal  and  illegitimate 
and  constitute  a 
Israel’s 
commitments and obligations, as the occupying Power 
in  the  occupied West  Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem. 
They also constitute an obstacle to the efforts to launch 
negotiations  seeking  to  achieve  a  two-State  solution 
and  a  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  The 
international 
its 
responsibilities and must adopt a firm position to put a 
halt  to  all  Israeli  attacks  and  provocations  in  the 
occupied Arab territories.  

Any  harm  to  the  holy  city  is,  in  the  view  of  the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and its leadership in the 
person of His Majesty King Abdullah Bin Al Hussein, 
constitutes  a  red  line  and  crossing  it  is  unacceptable. 
Based on this position, the protection of Jerusalem will 
always  be  a  Hashemite  and  Jordanian  priority.  Our 
country  will  spare  no  effort  to  protect  Jerusalem  and 
the  Muslim  and  Christian  holy  places.  Jerusalem 
enjoys  a  significant  position  of  importance  in  the 
minds  and  hearts  of  tens  of  millions  of  Muslims  and 
Christians throughout the world, which makes of such 
illegal  provocations  and  actions  sparks  that  could 
create  a  situation  that  threatens  the  foundations  of 
international peace and security. 
Israel’s  activities  seek  to  create  a  new  reality  on 

the ground, to obliterate the Arab and Islamic features 
of  Jerusalem  and  to  affect  the  legal  status  of  the  city. 
These  provocative  measures  could  undermine  the 
efforts  of  international  parties  to  achieve  a  just, 
comprehensive  and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East. 
community  must 
shoulder 
14 

09-62559 


Indeed,  they  threaten  the  entire  negotiating  process. 
Israel must put an immediate stop to these illegitimate 
violations  and  must  abide  by  the  provisions  of  the 
Israeli-Jordanian  peace  agreement  with  regard 
to 
Jerusalem and the protection of the holy sites. 

The unilateral Israeli declaration of a partial halt 
to  settlements  in  the  occupied  West  Bank  is  an 
insufficient  step  that  does  not  fulfil  the  necessary 
conditions  in  the  view  of  the  international  community 
seeking  to  achieve  a  two-State  solution.  The  fact  that 
East Jerusalem was not covered by this proposed hold 
on  settlements  is  unacceptable  and  contradicts  the 
international consensus that considered East Jerusalem 
to  be  part  of  the  occupied  territories  in  1967.  That 
consensus  also  acknowledges  that  Jerusalem  is  a 
principal  item  among  the  issues  of  the  final  status 
negotiations.  The  settlements  themselves  are  a  clear 
violation of international law, based on paragraph 120 
of  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice on the legal consequences of the construction of 
the  separation  wall 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
in 
territories (A/ES-10/273). 

Israeli  actions  linked  to  the  construction  of 
settlements,  such  as  the  expulsion  of  Palestinians  and 
the  demolition  of  their  homes  in  several  areas  of  the 
West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem,  also  constitute  a  clear 
violation of international humanitarian law, specifically 
the Fourth Geneva Convention. In addition to  all this, 
Israeli  settlements  constitute  insurmountable  burdens 
on  the  movement  of  Palestinians  and  on  development 
in  the  Palestinian  territories.  The  settlements  also 
deprive  Palestinians  of  the  right  to  benefit  from  their 
land,  their  resources  and  their  water  sources.  In  this 
context,  Jordan  emphasizes 
importance  of  a 
complete,  direct  and  immediate  cessation  of  all  the 
illegal  and  condemned  Israeli  settlement  activities, 
including  the  so-called  natural  growth  of  existing 
settlements. Just as settlement itself is illegitimate so is 
its so-called natural growth, which is also an unnatural 
and  illegitimate  activity.  Settlement  and  peace  are 
opposites 
that  cannot  meet.  Settlement  activities 
undermine 
the  creation  of  an 
the  chances 
independent and viable Palestinian State on Palestinian 
national  soil.  The  feverish  continuation  of  settlement 
activities  is  a  direct  and  grave  threat  to  the  prospects 
for peace in the entire region. 

In conclusion, a just and comprehensive solution 
to  the  Palestinian  question,  which  is  the  core  of  the 
conflict in the Middle East, is a key to the resolution of 
the 
for 
09-62559 

A/64/PV.52
other  conflicts  and  a  guarantee  to  the  peace  and 
stability  of  the  region.  Our  region  is  eager  for  peace, 
and peace can only be achieved through the two-State 
solution,  an 
independent,  contiguous  and  viable 
Palestinian  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
living in peace and security side by side with Israel. 
Mr.  Momen  (Bangladesh):  Let  me  begin  by 

thanking the President of the Assembly for scheduling 
this  meeting  on  the  occasion  of  the  observance  of  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People.  On  this  occasion,  Bangladesh  unites  with  the 
international community in reaffirming its full support 
for  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  just  and  legitimate 
struggle  for  self-determination  and  freedom  from 
continued  occupation.  Bangladesh  stands  firm  in  its 
position  on  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  in  favour  of 
achieving  a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  peace  in 
the Middle East. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  by  the  representative  of 
the Syrian Arab Republic on behalf of the Organization 
of  the  Islamic  Conference.  I  would,  however,  like  to 
mention some issues of concern to us. 

The  Palestinian  issue  has  always  been  a  serious 
concern  for  Bangladesh.  Our  Prime  Minister,  Sheikh 
Hasina,  on  this  Day  of  Solidarity  expressed  our 
unwavering  support  for  and  solidarity  with 
the 
Palestinian people in their just and legitimate struggle 
for their right of self-determination and statehood.  
Bangladesh  reiterates  its  long-standing  position 

that  the  continued  occupation  of  Palestine  is  the  root 
cause  of  violence,  unrest  and  destabilization  in  the 
region. The people of Palestine have been under illegal 
occupation over the past four decades. Unfortunately, it 
appears  to  be  a  collective  failure  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community  that  their  fundamental  rights 
to  self-determination  and  a  sovereign  State  have 
remained unrealized.  

It  is  also  unfortunate  that  Israel,  whose  people 
had experienced sufferings in the past, has continued to 
violate  international  humanitarian  law  by  committing 
systematic  human 
the 
Palestinian  people.  The  people  of  Palestine  are  being 
denied  their  fundamental  rights  to  self-determination 
and  to  live  freely  in  their  own  land,  and  displaced 
Palestinians  have  been  denied  their  right  to  return 
home  in  dignity  and  safety.  We  believe  that  the 
rights  violations  against 
15 

the 
strongly 
condemns 
Bangladesh 
that  serious  violations  of 
A/64/PV.52 

establishment of an independent Palestinian State with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital  is  the  only  sustainable 
solution to this long-lasting conflict. 

illegal 
expansion of settlements that Israel has undertaken by 
grabbing Palestinian lands. The continued expansion of 
Israeli  settlements  in  the  occupied  territories  and  the 
construction  of  the  separation  wall  threaten  to  derail 
the ongoing peace negotiations. As the construction of 
the  wall  in  disregard  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  advisory  opinion  continues  unabated, 
the 
occupied  territories  are  increasingly  being  fragmented 
into  smaller  parts,  which  will  seriously  affect  the 
viability  of  a 
sovereign, 
stable,  peaceful  and 
independent Palestine State. 

According  to  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  —  the 
Goldstone  report  (A/HRC/12/48)  —  there  is  evidence 
indicating 
international 
human rights and humanitarian law were committed by 
Israel  during  its  military  operations  in  Gaza  from  
27 December 2008 to 18 January 2009, and that Israel 
had  committed  actions  tantamount  to  war  crimes,  and 
possibly crimes against humanity. The situation in East 
Jerusalem 
land 
confiscations,  house  demolitions  and  evictions  of 
Palestinian  residents  and  the  transfer  of  more  Israeli 
settlers.  Homes,  schools,  medical  facilities  and  even 
United Nations buildings took direct hits.  
We  are  deeply  concerned  at  the  violations  of 

international  human  rights  and  humanitarian 
law 
committed  by  Israel  as  reported  in  the  Goldstone 
report.  We 
the 
recommendations  of  the  Goldstone  report  will  help 
create  an  opportunity  to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for 
violations  of  international  law  in  Israel  and  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territory. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  draw  attention  to  the 
fact that Israel, as a signatory to the relevant provisions 
of the Fourth Geneva Convention, which sets forth the 
responsibilities  of  an  occupying  Power,  cannot  legally 
or  morally  absolve  itself  of  its  responsibilities  to 
guarantee  the  basic  human  rights  of  the  people  under 
its occupation. The General Assembly and the Security 
Council,  in  their  resolutions  adopted  over  the  years, 
have reconfirmed Israel’s obligation to ensure the basic 
human  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Bangladesh 
believes  that  only  full  and  sincere  implementation  of 
deteriorated,  with 
implementation  of 
seriously 
trust 
that 
a 
to 
just 
achieve 
the  Arab 
its  early 
endeavour 
support  behind 
the  relevant  General  Assembly  and  Security  Council 
resolutions can resolve the Palestinian crisis. 

A durable and sustainable resolution of the Arab-
Israeli conflict, including the issue of Palestine, which 
is  the  core  of  the  long-lasting  crisis,  must  be  our 
collective  strategic  objective. All  Member  States  must 
pledge  complete  commitment  to  this  objective  and 
throw 
their  full  moral,  diplomatic,  political  and 
economic 
realization. 
Bangladesh  is  ready  to  play  a  supportive  role  in  this 
collective 
and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East. 

In  conclusion,  in  order  to  achieve  a  lasting 
solution  in  the  Middle  East,  it  is  very  important  to 
address  the  key  issue,  which  is  the  illegal  Israeli 
occupation  of 
territories.  The  solution 
therefore  requires  Israel’s  complete  and  unconditional 
withdrawal  from  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  and  all  other  occupied Arab 
lands.  We  reiterate  that  the  creation  of  a  Palestinian 
State,  coexisting  peacefully  alongside  Israel  on  the 
basis  of  the  1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital,  is  the  only  sustainable  solution  to  the  conflict 
that may bring peace to the region. The Road Map, the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  relevant  resolutions  are 
the best guides for achieving a two-State solution. 
delegation 

welcomes  this  debate  on  agenda  items  15  and  16,  on 
the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  question  of 
Palestine,  respectively.  As  clearly  stated  in  the  report 
of 
in  document 
A/64/351, 
the  United  Nations  remains  and  will 
continue to be central for the promotion of a peaceful 
settlement  of  the  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict,  which  is, 
in  fact,  the  core  of  any  success  in  achieving  global 
peace and stability in the Middle East. 

The  Zambian  delegation  fully  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. However, in our 
national  capacity,  we  wish  to  make  one  additional 
cardinal point.  

The General Assembly, together with the Security 
Council,  correctly  foresaw  the  ultimate  solution  to 
problem of the Middle East about 60 years ago, when it 
adopted  the  principle  of  a  two-State  solution.  That 
principle, which remains valid today, provides for two 
States and two peoples living side by side in peace and 
security. This  ultimate  solution  was  clearly  elaborated 
the  Secretary-General  contained 
Mr.  Sipangule
(Zambia):  My 
16 

09-62559 
the 
the  Israelis, 
the  Palestinians  and 


in  resolution  181  (II)  of  29  November  1947  and  has 
been  reaffirmed  by  subsequent  Security  Council 
resolutions,  in  particular  resolutions  242  (1967)  and 
338  (1973)  up  to  resolution  1850  (2008),  which 
unfortunately  was  sidelined  when  a  military  solution 
was  promoted  over  a  negotiated  solution  between  the 
key parties to the conflict. 

One  year  ago,  on  26  November  2008,  the 
Assembly — realizing that, notwithstanding the desire 
of 
larger 
international community to set the goal of a two-State 
solution,  no  major  steps  had  been  taken  by  the 
international  community  in  that  direction  —  adopted 
resolution 63/29. That Assembly action, taken with the 
largest  support  in  history,  reaffirmed  the  undisputed 
historical and socio-economic viability of the two-State 
solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  Zambia 
wishes to appeal to the key participants in the conflict 
to  seize  this  opportunity  to  crown those  two  years  of 
multilateral efforts to deliver peace and security in the 
Middle East in general and to the suffering Palestinian 
people in particular.  

Mr.  Mohamad  (Sudan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
Zambia,  a  country  that  maintains  full  diplomatic 

relations  with  both 
the 
Palestinian National Authority, continues to support the 
two-State solution to this conflict. In bilateral relations 
with  both  parties,  the  Zambian  Government  has  urged 
and continues to urge both to negotiate in good faith on 
the  core  issues  in  the  conflict  on  which  the  premises 
for any comprehensive agreement can be based. Those 
issues  are 
the  status  of  Jerusalem,  settlements, 
refugees, borders, security and even water. 
In our view, the international community needs to 

sustain  support  to  both  Israel  and  the  Palestinian 
National  Authority  in  order  to  build  the  required 
confidence  for  them  to  revert  to  the  original  United 
Nations  plan  for  the  region  —  the  two-State  solution, 
by which two States for two peoples exist side by side 
in peace and security. 
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau)  (spoke  in  French): 

Yesterday  in  the  Trusteeship  Council  Chamber  we 
participated  in  a  very  moving  day.  Together,  we 
attended  a  celebration  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  I  do  not  think 
that  we  just  did  that  out  of  habit,  not  at  all.  I  do  not 
the  many 
think 
the  State  of  Israel  and 
those  who  were 
there  — 
that 
A/64/PV.52
of 
civil 
society, 
I  wish 
the  basis  on 
to  congratulate 
the  Committee  excelled 
representatives 
international 
organizations,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
even  representatives  from  the  Jewish  community  — 
acted out of habit, either. 

We were moved by the need to express our active 
solidarity towards a justice-loving people, a people that 
is suffering — human beings, like us. Yesterday we did 
not have the feeling that we were attending a campaign 
against  Israel,  far  from  it.  On  the  contrary,  we  heard 
measured  statements  by  speakers  who  expressed 
themselves  on 
facts,  known  and 
undeniable facts — and, so far, irrefutable facts. 

The Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  is  working  tirelessly 
so  that  we  do  not  forget  the  tragic  fate  forced  on  the 
Palestinian  people. 
the 
Committee  for  its  perseverance  in  its  useful  and 
necessary work demanding our awareness of the fate of 
a  people  fighting  for  its  freedom.  I  would  like  to  say 
that  yesterday 
its 
presentation  of  the  situation,  in  the  rigour  of  its 
impartial  analysis  of,  as  I  said,  irrefutable  facts.  I 
congratulate  our  colleague Ambassador  Badji,  who  is, 
in  our  view,  the  most  noteworthy  member  of  the 
Committee, which is doing such excellent work. 
impression 

yesterday 
that  we  were  expressing  any  hostility 
towards Israel, far from it. I am not here today before 
the Assembly to participate in some sort of alleged trial 
against  Israel,  not  at  all.  We  are  here  to  demonstrate 
our  solidarity  towards  a  people.  We  are  here  because 
we  have  the  very  profound  feeling  that  an  injustice 
must  be  rectified.  We  all  have  the  feeling  that 
something must be done, and done quickly, so that we 
can  be  in  conformity  with  the  well-known  resolution 
adopted  here  in  the  General Assembly  —  not  in  New 
York City, because it was in 1947, but in any case, 62 
years ago, almost to the day. I am pleased that a while 
ago someone mentioned that important resolution.  

We  are not  here in  an echo chamber. We are  not 
acting  mechanically.  We  are  officials  who  have  the 
intention to fully shoulder our responsibilities. It is up 
to  the  international  community  to  ensure  international 
legality, to ensure respect for the principles that guide 
international  relations  so  that  peace  can  exist  in  the 
Middle East and so that peace will be lasting and based 
on  the  fundamental  principles  that  regulate  today’s 
international relations. 
Moreover,  we  did  not  have 
in 
the 
09-62559 

17 
in  Palestine, 
in 

A/64/PV.52 


For a long time, we have repeatedly said how we 
were  and  remain  against  the  actions  of  the  Israeli 
authorities 
the  occupied  Arab 
territories.  We  have  always  maintained  in  a  very 
determined way that that situation is unjust and that we 
cannot accept it. Today, we must note that the situation 
is  stagnating,  as  we  saw  in  the  report  in  document 
A/64/35,  which  was  tabled  yesterday  on  behalf  of  the 
Committee by the Ambassador of Malta. 

Stagnation — there is no progress; things are not 
moving  forward,  and  we  could  even  say  that  the 
situation is becoming much more complicated. So what 
do we do except to say, to repeat, to try to convince our 
Israeli friends of the need to cast a much more serene 
gaze on what is happening in their country and around 
them  so  that  they  can  hear  what  the  rest  of  the 
international community is saying. 

We  have  always  said  here  that  we  cannot  accept 
the  wall  that  was  built  illegally.  That  wall  is  simply 
unacceptable, not only because the International Court 
of Justice said as much in its advisory opinion, but also 
because the wall, which snakes through territories that 
belong to the Palestinians, is in the process of creating 
a  horrible  injustice.  The  wall  separates  neighbours,  it 
separates  people  who,  before  it,  associated  with  each 
other. The wall prevents children from going to school. 
The wall keeps believers from going to the mosque or 
to church. The wall is in taking away the veritable soul 
of the Palestinians. We thus cannot accept it.  

I would like to say here that this wall could also 
be a type of alienation of our Israeli friends from their 
own  history.  Walls,  barbed  wire  and  watchtowers 
should  conjure  up  some  very  bad  memories  for  our 
friends. I think they should not accept the construction 
of  this  wall  because  it  represents  a  true  laceration  in 
the  body  and  soul  of 
is 
unacceptable.  

I also say that it is high time that the Palestinians 
reconcile  among and with themselves. We  are  friends, 
and we have to challenge them to reunify, so that they 
will  come  together  around  the  core  principle  —  the 
inalienable  right  of  their  people  to  self-determination. 
The  differences  should  be  silenced.  Our  Palestinian 
friends should be able to sit down at the same table to 
lift  the  standard  of  liberty,  to  struggle  for  the  self-
determination of their people. That is what I would like 
to say to them today, here and now, with a great deal of 
sincerity. 
the  Palestinians.  That 

Those living in Gaza are no less Palestinian than 
people  living  elsewhere,  on  the  West  Bank  or  in  the 
diaspora. They are human beings, just like each of us, 
who  deserve  that  we  think  about  their  fate,  who 
deserve  that  we  be  struck  by  the  barbaric  acts  they 
have  been  subjected  to.  They  have  been  harassed, 
attacked, bombed, day and night, violently. I think that 
above  and  beyond  humanitarian  questions  and 
humanitarian aspects that bring us here today, we must 
also cast our eyes on the fate befalling those living in 
that part of Palestine.  

And I would like to say that we are grateful to the 
Secretary-General for displaying such determination in 
his quest for a fair, lasting solution in the Middle East. 
I would also like to thank the members of the Quartet 
for their efforts and say that we are with them, we are 
behind  them  to  support  their  commitments  and  efforts 
to achieve a lasting resolution of this conflict. 

We  have  heard  some  statements  here  that  could 
give  rise  to  some  irritation,  but  I  think  we  are 
reasonable people. We all wish to work for peace. We 
should certainly be disposed to show patience, but we 
also need to continue to show determination to bring to 
the Palestinian people all the support that they need, to 
give  them  active  solidarity  that  will  not  fail  them,  to 
say  to  all  who  might  like  to  listen  that  we  are  not 
against  anybody,  that  we  are  not  showing  hostility 
towards  anyone,  that  we  wish  to  work  for  peace,  a 
lasting peace that benefits all peoples in the region. 

I conclude by saying that as long as this question 
is  not  resolved,  as  long  as  the  inalienable  right  of  the 
Palestinian people is not fulfilled, as long as children, 
women,  seniors  —  in  short,  human  beings  —  are 
subject  to  barbaric  acts,  as  long  as  they  continue  to 
suffer, we will be there to add our voice to the clamour 
that  is  rising  here  in  this  Chamber,  in  this  General 
Assembly Hall, to say “no” to what is unacceptable, to 
refuse what is illegal, to come out against actions that 
go against the fundamental principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations and the freedom of peoples. 

Mr. Ba-Omar (Oman) (spoke in Arabic): It gives 
me great pleasure to extend, on behalf of the Sultanate 
of  Oman,  our 
to  His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Paul  Badji,  Chairman  of  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People, 
the  Committee’s 
comprehensive  report  in  document  A/64/35.  I  cannot 
fail to mention that we highly appreciate his efforts, as 
thanks  and  appreciation 
for 
18 

09-62559 
their 
rights, 
in 
including 
legitimate 


well as those of the other members of the Committee, 
in supporting the Palestinian people in their just cause. 
We would also like to thank him for his comprehensive 
statement  on  the  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories (see A/64/PV.51). 

There is no doubt that our meeting today acquires 
special  importance  with  regard  to  an  issue  that  has 
been  before  the  international  community  for  far  too 
long,  particularly  since  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territories is increasingly deteriorating. The 
international community cannot sit silent and allow the 
situation  to  deteriorate  further.  More  than  50  years  of 
murder,  expulsion  and  destruction  of  infrastructure 
have  not  broken  the  will  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
demand 
the 
independent  State,  with 
their 
establishment  of 
Jerusalem as its capital.  

The  Government  of  Oman  expresses  its  deep 
concern regarding the serious situation in the occupied 
Palestinian territories, particularly the continued Israeli 
blockade and the cruel humanitarian crisis imposed on 
the  Palestinian  civilians 
the 
campaigns  of  settler  occupation,  the  separation  wall 
and  other  illegal  actions  carried  out  by  Israel  in  Holy 
Jerusalem and its surrounding areas, and its desecration 
of religious and spiritual holy places. 

Today  marks  the  celebration  of  the  thirty-second 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People, which in 1977 embodied the firm position that 
the international community has taken in support of the 
Palestinian people in their struggle for their legitimate 
and inalienable rights. This day also coincides with the 
sixty-second  anniversary  of  the  adoption  in  1947  of 
resolution 181 (II), which provided for the partition of 
Palestine into two States. Nevertheless, the Palestinian 
people  are  still  deprived  of  their  legitimate  rights, 
national  sovereignty  and  independence  and  of  their 
right  to  self-determination.  That  has  resulted  in  more 
than  4  million  Palestinian  refugees  suffering  the 
scourge of exile, diaspora and deprivation. 

The  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  have 
been and are still directed to this international forum in 
the  hope 
the 
intransigence  and  oppression  of  successive  Israeli 
Governments  and  their  inhuman  and  illegal  practices. 
The  international  community  should  take  a  firm, 
serious stand against all those practices.  
the  Gaza  Strip, 
it  will  protect 
them 
from 
that 
A/64/PV.52
its 

Earlier this year we saw the destructive results of 
the  war  against  Gaza  and  the  flagrant  violations  of 
human  rights.  We  should  send  a  clear,  unambiguous 
message  demanding  that  Israel  put  an  end  to  those 
policies and start genuine negotiations to establish the 
foundations for security and stability in the region, on 
the  basis  of  the  framework  of  the  peace  process, 
including  the  principle  of  land  for  peace  and  Security 
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). 

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  welcomed  the 
adoption of Assembly resolution 64/10 on 5 November 
2009, on the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding 
Mission on the Gaza Conflict (A/HRC/12/48), and the 
inclusion by the Assembly of recommendations of that 
report  in  its  resolution.  We  hope  that  all  relevant 
United Nations entities, including the Security Council, 
will seriously consider them.  

My delegation would also like to express its deep 
concern  regarding  the  continued  occupation  of  Arab 
territories  in  the  Syrian  Golan  and  southern  Lebanon, 
Israel’s  daily  violations  of  Lebanese  air,  land  and  sea 
space  in  clear  violation  of  Council  resolution  1701 
(2006)  and 
the 
demographic  and  natural  makeup  of  the  occupied 
Syrian  Golan.  We  call  on  Israel  to  withdraw  from  all 
occupied Arab territories and start serious negotiations 
with the parties concerned. 

Oman  has  always  been  among  the  countries  that 
welcomed the peace process and considered it a natural 
and  civilized  way  to  settle  disagreements  through 
dialogue and negotiations. On that basis, we call on the 
parties concerned and the sponsors of the peace process 
to play an effective role in reaching a settlement of the 
Middle  East  conflict,  in  view  of  the  gravity  of  the 
situation  in  the  region  and  the  crises  seen  there 
recently. 

That  will  require  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Quartet to shoulder their responsibilities by responding 
positively  to  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  to  call  for 
convening  a  peace  conference  to  be  attended  by  the 
Arab parties, Israel and the permanent members of the 
Security  Council,  with  a  view  to  reaching  a  just  and 
comprehensive  solution  to  the Arab-Israeli  conflict  on 
all tracks, in accordance with the relevant international 
resolutions and the principle of land  for  peace. Let us 
hope  that  the  fruit  of  that  conference  will  be  the 
embodiment of the vision of establishing a Palestinian 
illegal  actions 
to  change 
09-62559 

19 

the 
living 
side  by 
side  with 
Israel  within 
A/64/PV.52 

State, 
internationally recognized borders. 

international 
In  concluding,  we  call  on 
community  to  support  the  peace  efforts  in  the  Middle 
East, for a peace that can be achieved only through the 
recognition  of  the  legitimate  right  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  establish  their  independent  State  within  the 
1967 borders, including Jerusalem, and to live in peace 
in  a  sovereign  State  within  internationally  recognized 
borders. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): Venezuela supports the 
draft  resolutions  before  the  Assembly  today  and  thus 
aligns itself with the statement by the representative of 
Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  countries  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement (see A/64/PV.51). 

The  Government  and  people  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of Venezuela  join  in  the  clamour  demanding 
an end, unequivocally and without further delay, to the 
Israeli  presence  in  the  occupied  territories  as  a  basic 
prerequisite  for  achieving  a  comprehensive,  just  and 
lasting peace in the Middle East and for the definitive 
establishment of a free and sovereign Palestinian State. 

Today  we  remember  that  62  years  ago  the 
General  Assembly  adopted  the  historic  resolution  
181  (II),  calling  for  the  creation  of  two  States  in  the 
territory  of  Palestine. The  State  of  Israel  was  founded 
in  1948  and  has  now  existed  for  61  years.  The 
Palestinian State has yet to be born, having fallen prey 
to the genocidal aggression of Israel. 

On  27  November  2009  the  President  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez Frías, 
and the President of the Palestinian National Authority, 
Mahmoud  Abbas,  met  in  Caracas  to  strengthen  the 
historical  ties  between  their  peoples.  President  Abbas 
visited  various  countries  in  Latin  America,  where  he 
was  welcomed  with  signs  of  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  cause.  In  welcoming  President  Abbas  to 
Venezuela, our President, Hugo Chávez, said: 


“We  salute  the  heroic  Palestinian  people,  a 
people with a long history of struggle, spirituality 
and sacrifice. The Bolivarian Revolution from the 
beginning  has  sided  with  the  Palestinian  people. 
We  have  always  been  on 
the 
Palestinian  people 
their  memorable  fight 
against  the Yankee  empire,  their  lackeys  and  the 
genocidal  State  of  Israel,  which  bulldozes,  kills 
the  side  of 
in 
that 
the 
the 
also 
“We 
signed 
demand 
inherited 
to  exterminate 
and  attempts 
the  Palestinian 
people.  All  those  who  fight  for  justice  on  this 
planet join their voices to those of the Palestinian 
people.” 

In  a  speech  before  the  National  Assembly,  the 
parliament  of  Venezuela,  Palestinian  leader  Mahmoud 
Abbas stated: 


international 
community  and  the  world  understand  that  for  
60  years,  Palestine  has  wanted  to  live  as  a  free, 
peaceful,  independent  and  sovereign  State  and 
people,  like  the  other  countries  in  the  world.  … 
We  have 
task  of  building  a 
democratic  State 
in  Palestine  where  Jews, 
Christians and Muslims can live on equal terms.” 

The  Presidents  of  Venezuela  and  the  Palestinian 
National  Authority  signed  a  framework  cooperation 
agreement  between  the  two  countries,  which  involves 
the  development  of  social,  economic,  educational, 
agricultural, scientific and cultural programmes, among 
a  memorandum  of 
others.  They 
understanding  on  university-level  education 
for 
training Palestinian professionals in undergraduate and 
graduate  programmes  at  various  institutions  of  higher 
education in Venezuela. 

the  national 
parliament, that body issued a declaration stating that, 
to achieve lasting peace in the Middle East, the State of 
Israel must recognize each and every one of the rights 
of the Palestinian nation, put an end to the occupation 
of the occupied Palestinian territories and to the siege 
imposed  on  the  Gaza  Strip,  dismantle  the  Israeli 
settlements  and  resolve  the  Palestinian  refugee  issue. 
The slaughter of the Palestinian people, the demolition 
of their houses, the systematic destruction of orchards 
and  olive  groves,  the  dismantling  and  destruction  of 
basic  civic  infrastructure  and  the  imprisonment  of  the 
Palestinian people must cease.  
Venezuela recalls the report of the United Nations 

Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  drafted 
under 
leadership  of  Richard  Goldstone,  of  
16 October 2009 (A/HRC/12/48), and its condemnation 
of  the  multiple  and  massive  violations  of  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention  characterized  as  war  crimes 
committed  by 
forces  — 
executions, torture, inhumane treatment, use of human 
shields  and  physical  and  psychological  harm  to  the 
During  Mr.  Abbas’  visit 
Israeli  occupying 
to 
the 
the 
20 

09-62559 
We  cannot 
forget 
facing 
the  situation 


Palestinian  population  during  Operation  Cast  Lead  in 
December 2008 and January 2009.  

Furthermore,  it  recalls  the  conclusions  of  the 
Goldstone  report  referring  to  the  long  and  sinister 
blockade  of  Gaza  by  the  occupying  Power,  Israel, 
including  depravation  of 
the  basic  means  of 
sustenance: jobs, water, shelter, the right to movement 
and  a  court  of  justice,  inter  alia.  Israel  remains  the 
occupying Power in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  therefore  it  has  specific 
obligations under the Geneva Convention to protect the 
occupied  population.  But  instead  of  protecting  the 
Palestinian people as required under international law, 
the  Government  of  Israel  systematically  exterminates 
it.  

the 
Palestinian  people  in  the  West  Bank,  with  more  than 
600  check  points  and  control  points,  which  impede 
their  free  movement  and  development,  nor  can  we 
forget  the  construction  of  an  ominous  and  illegal  wall 
on Palestinian territory, nor the acts of aggression, the 
attacks  and  the  killings  of  Palestinian  civilians  in  the 
West Bank and East Jerusalem. Venezuela categorically 
rejects the violent attacks by Israeli extremists against 
the Palestinians gathered in holy places — the mosques 
Al-Haram al-Sharif and Al-Aqsa.  

We  can  never  equate  the  genocidal  Government 
of  Israel  with  those  Palestinian  forces  who,  under  the 
protection  of  inalienable  historic  rights  and  in  the 
exercise  of  their  legitimate  self-defence,  resist  the 
criminal  aggression  against  their  nation  and  their 
people. We would like to recall that the Revolutionary 
Government  of  President  Hugo  Chávez  Frías 
suspended diplomatic relations with the Government of 
Israel  following  its  brutal  invasion  of  Gaza  and  is  not 
prepared 
inhumane 
the 
harassment of the Palestinian people ceases.  

The  Israeli  authorities,  responsible  for  genocide 
and crimes against humanity, must be brought before in 
the International Criminal Court. It is time for them to 
be  held  accountable  under  international  law.  How 
many more crimes must they commit before they have 
to answer to the international rule of law? The Security 
Council cannot evade its responsibilities in this matter; 
it  must  echo  the  cry  of  the  peoples  of  the  world 
demanding justice for the Palestinian people. 
In  organizing  this  important  meeting  of  the 

General Assembly on the question of Palestine, I think 
them  until 
resume 
to 
A/64/PV.52
we  should  remember  the  poetic  song  of  Mahmoud 
Darwish:  

“We love life whenever we can.  
We steal a thread from a silkworm to weave  
a sky …”.

Mr.  Hernández-Milian  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  When  on  5  February  2008  Costa  Rica 
recognized  the  State  of  Palestine,  it  did  so  honouring 
an historic commitment to that people, especially since 
we were one of the 33 countries that voted in favour of 
the resolution that approved the 1947 Partition Plan for 
Palestine  (resolution  181  (II)).  In  speaking  in  this 
debate, my country would like to build bridges. Today 
we  extend  a  hand  of  solidarity  to  the  Palestinian 
people, and we hope that in the near future we will no 
longer have to fill the Assembly’s archives with attacks 
and rhetorical messages that do not contribute anything 
substantive to peace in the region. 
We  are  concerned  by  the  demonstrations  of 

violence  that  are  still  going  on,  because  they  create 
greater  tension  and  they  do  not  help  to  provide  the 
conditions  for  renewing  the  dialogue  between  Israelis 
and Palestinians. The humanitarian situation in Gaza is 
still a cause for concern.  

Costa Rica understands the legitimate concerns of 
Israelis  with  regard  to  their  security  and  calls  on  the 
Palestinian  authorities  to  continue  to  monitor  the 
activities  of  extremist  elements  that  are  involved  in 
acts of terrorism. At the same time, we also feel that it 
is  imperative  to  lift  the  restrictions  imposed  by  Israel 
on  access  to  the  goods  and  humanitarian  aid  so 
urgently needed by the population of Gaza, particularly 
given the upcoming winter. 

rapprochement 
between the parties have emerged, moving them further 
away  from  negotiations  on  the  core  issues  of  the 
conflict. One was the authorization by the Government 
of  Israel  to  build  new  settlements,  in  addition  to 
continuing  its  policy  of  demolition  of  Palestinian 
houses  and  eviction  of  Palestinian  families  in  East 
Jerusalem. The Israeli policy of settlements expansion 
in occupied territories, in  addition to weakening those 
who  are  called  on  to  be  their  interlocutors  in  the 
negotiations,  adds  to  the  distrust  between  the  parties 
and  endangers  any  possibility  for  a  solution  to  the 
conflict.  The  Palestinians  need  to  know  that  the 
negotiations are credible. 
Recently,  new  obstacles 
to 
09-62559 

21 

A/64/PV.52 


On the other hand, we call upon the Palestinians 
to  redouble  efforts  conducive  to  genuine  national 
reconciliation  —  a  condition  that  is  necessary  for 
holding  credible  elections  and  for  moving  the  peace 
process  forward.  Although  President  Abbas  and  his 
team  have  established  guidelines  to  improve  the 
security  conditions  and  to  free  their  people  from 
violence,  Palestinian  unity  has  been  systematically 
weakened by radical sectors that represent an obstacle 
to  the  well-being  of  the  people  they  claim  to  be 
defending.  

We are concerned about the announcement of the 
Palestinian  Central  Elections  Commission  with  regard 
to  the  cancellation  of  the  elections  that  were  planned 
for  next  January,  because  the  Palestinian  people  and 
the international community need to continue to count 
on  legitimate  leadership  in  order  to  move  the  peace 
process  forward.  Israel  also  needs  valid  interlocutors 
who  are  able  to  negotiate  and  end  the  conflict.  The 
absence  of  that  leadership  will  only  weaken  the 
commitment to the peace process. 

It  is  indispensable  that  there  be  a  renewal  of 
negotiations between the parties on the final objectives, 
without  conditions  and  without  detriment 
the 
agreements  already  reached.  We  have  heard  both 
parties  express  the  desire  to  find  a  solution  to  the 
conflict on the basis of two States, and good use should 
be  made  of  that.  That  commitment  should  not  be 
marginalized.  

It is up to the international community to assume 
the responsibility of providing a favourable context for 
the  reactivation  of  the  negotiating  process.  Both  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  have  a 
huge  responsibility,  particularly  those  States  that  have 
greater influence over the parties.  

Costa Rica is convinced that the only sustainable 
solution to the conflict in the Middle East is one that is 
founded  on  absolute  respect  for  international  law, 
including  the  fulfilment  of  the  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council,  the 
Madrid principles and the Arab Peace Initiative. Today, 
the  path  to  sustainable  peace  involves  observance  of 
international humanitarian law without reservation and 
absolute respect for human rights. The objective of two 
States, Palestine and Israel, living side by side in peace 
within  internationally  recognized  borders  can  only  be 
based  on  international  law,  not  on  force.  In  this 
context,  the  Arab  countries  are  strategic  partners  in 
to 
building  peace  and  should  therefore  contribute  to 
helping  the  Palestinian Authority  prevent  this  conflict 
from  serving  as  an  excuse  for  actions  by  extremist 
groups. 

The  parties  must  focus  negotiations  on  the  core 
issues  of  the  conflict:  Jerusalem,  borders,  refugees, 
settlements and security. This was in essence one of the 
messages that the President of my country, Óscar Arias, 
recently  took  to  the  region  when  he  visited  Israel  and 
Palestine  and  held  constructive  meetings  with  leaders 
of  both  parties.  Costa  Rica  is  aware  of  its  limited 
influence  in  a  place  where  the  major  Powers  of  the 
world have failed time and again. However, we take to 
both parties the message of a faithful friend who has no 
other interest in the region than that of contributing to 
peace.  

During President Arias’s visit, Costa Rica shared 
with  the  other  parties  its  experience  as  a  small 
democracy  that  lives  without  an  army  and  entrusts  its 
security  to  law,  the  international  community  and  its 
multilateral  mechanisms.  We  welcomed  the  interest 
shown by the Palestinian authorities in our experiences 
and  we  shared  with  both  parties  the  conviction  that, 
provided  there  are  appropriate  conditions  in  place  for 
peaceful  regional  coexistence,  building  a  military 
structure  in  the  Palestinian  State  would  not  seem  to 
make sense.  

Today  more  than  ever  before,  we  need  bold 
measures to build trust and good will as the basis for a 
lasting and sustainable peace. In the Middle East, there 
will  be  no  final  victory  of  one  over  the  other.  In  the 
end,  peace  will  be  the  fruit  of  pragmatic  voices  that 
accept  the  coexistence  of  two  independent  States  that 
wish to live in peace and security. 
Mr. Ali (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 

I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  and  gratitude 
to  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  and  its  Chair,  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Senegal,  Mr.  Paul  Badji, 
who  yesterday  organized  an  important  ceremony  to 
celebrate  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  once 
again our complete and unreserved solidarity with and 
support  for  the  legitimate  struggle  of  the  Palestinian 
people in their just cause to recover their right to self-
determination  and  to  establish  an  independent  State 
with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. 
22 

09-62559 
the 
and 
and 
fuel, 
including 
combined 
construction 



Israel, the occupying Power, continues to defy the 
international  community  by  depriving  the  Palestinian 
people  of  their  rights  and  violating  international, 
international  humanitarian  and  international  human 
rights  law.  It  pursues  these  actions  in  inhumane  and 
illegal ways that violate the rights of the Palestinians in 
their  occupied  territories.  That  is  clear  to  all  and  has 
recently  been  emphasized  in  a  number  of  United 
Nations  reports, 
the  report  of  Special 
Rapporteur  Richard  Falk  on  the  situation  of  human 
rights  in  the  Palestinian  territories  occupied  by  Israel 
since  1967  (A/64/328),  a  United  Nations  report 
investigating  incidents  that  took  place  during  Israel’s 
invasion  of  Gaza, 
report 
(A/HRC/10/22)  presented  by  10  Special  Rapporteurs 
on  20  March  2009  to  the  Human  Rights  Council 
regarding  Israel’s  siege  of  Gaza,  which  called  for  the 
blockade  to  be  lifted  and  for  the  import  of  basic 
necessities, 
agricultural 
materials  into  Gaza  and  for  the  free  movement  of 
people to work and hospitals.  
In addition, the report of the High Commissioner 

for  Human  Rights 
(A/HRC/8/17)  noted  serious 
breaches of human rights during the Israeli aggression 
in  Gaza.  Finally,  the  comprehensive  report  of  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48),  headed  by  Judge  Richard 
Goldstone, which we considered in this Assembly, led 
to  the  adoption  of  the  important  resolution  64/10  on 
that subject. 

Israel’s  destructive  aggression  in  besieged  Gaza 
has  caused  the  deaths  of  thousands  of  people  in  Gaza 
and wounded and disabled many, including women and 
children, as well as the destruction of homes, schools, 
hospitals,  universities,  factories,  businesses,  places  of 
worship, and United Nations facilities. Crossing points 
into Gaza  remain closed,  besieging 1.5 million people 
in  Gaza.  In  the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem,  Israel 
continues  its  settlement  activities,  its  destruction  of 
Palestinian  property  and  its  appropriation  of  fertile 
lands in an attempt to alter the demographic nature of 
the  region,  prevent  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian 
State and influence the final status negotiations. 
The  Palestinians  continue  to  suffer  from  the 

construction of the apartheid wall in the West Bank, in 
contravention  of 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  on  the  building  of  the 
wall.  The  Palestinians 
incarceration  and 
detention,  even  of  children,  and  aggression  by  Israeli 
the  advisory  opinion  of 
suffer 
A/64/PV.52
resolutions, 
Hundreds  of 
land,  bringing 
from  accessing 
their  settlements 
the  United  Nations 
settlers. In 2009, checkpoints in the occupied territories 
numbered  688.  The  Palestinians  cannot  enjoy  their 
rights  to  water,  food,  work,  clothing,  shelter,  health, 
education  and,  indeed,  life.  The  Israelis  continue  to 
in  East  Jerusalem  by 
enlarge 
confiscating 
in  settlers,  destroying 
homes and chasing out the Palestinians as they Judaize 
the  city  and  alter  its  demographic  character.  They 
excavate  in  and  around  the  Al-Aqsa  mosque,  in 
disregard for Muslim sensitivities around the world.  

including  Security 
Council  resolution  497  (1981),  have  demanded  that 
Israel  withdraw  from  occupied  Arab  lands,  including 
the Syrian Golan. Nevertheless, Israel has increased the 
number of settlers in the Golan, inter alia, by building 
infrastructure,  businesses,  water  and  other  natural 
resources.  Israel  consistently  violates  the  civil  and 
political  rights  of  the  Syrian  people  of  the  occupied 
Golan and continues to disperse Syrian families and to 
prevent 
the 
territory. In addition, the Syrian population is suffering 
from anti-personnel mines and the dumping of nuclear 
waste  in  some  occupied  areas.  We  also  ask  Israel  to 
withdraw  from  Lebanese  territories,  including  Kfar 
Shuba and Al-Ghajar village in southern Lebanon. 

We have always supported the Palestinian people 
and  their  fight  against  injustice  and  occupation.  The 
United  Nations  must  assume  its  historic  responsibility 
to  ensure  a  just  and  comprehensive  settlement  of  the 
Palestinian cause, the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict, 
by  pressuring  Israel  to  withdraw  fully  from  all  Arab 
territories  occupied  since  1967  and 
the 
Palestinians  the  right  to  return  to  their  land  and 
establish their independent State, based on hundreds of 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Zhang  Yesui  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

Yesterday,  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  held  a 
special  meeting  to  observe  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  Premier  Wen 
Jiabao  of  China  sent  a  message  of  solidarity  to  the 
Committee, expressing support for the just cause of the 
Palestinian 
national 
independence. Today, the consideration of the question 
of Palestine and the situation in the Middle East in the 
General  Assembly  is  of  particular  significance.  We 
hope  that  this  meeting  will  give  new  impetus  to 
relaunching the Middle East peace process.  
to  give 
seeking 
their 
people 
in 
09-62559 

23 

A/64/PV.52 


Two years after the Annapolis meeting, the peace 
process in the Middle East is again at a crossroads. We 
hoped  that  Palestine  and  Israel  would  have  advanced 
towards  negotiations  for  a  just  and  lasting  peace  and 
have  achieved  results.  However,  it  is  regrettable  that 
the  situation  there  is  still  tumultuous  and  negotiations 
remain  deadlocked.  Despite  the  tireless  efforts  of  the 
parties concerned to resolve the situation in the Middle 
East,  in  particular  the  question  of  Palestine,  there  has 
been  no  major  breakthrough  in  the  political  process. 
The situation on the ground has been marked by some 
very alarming events and tendencies.  

Late  last  year  and  early  this  year,  the  military 
actions  of  Israel  in  Gaza  caused  grave  casualties  and 
the  destruction  of  property.  They  not  only  triggered  a 
severe humanitarian crisis, but also set back the Middle 
East  peace  process.  Israel’s  disproportionate  use  of 
force is unacceptable. The facts have shown that until 
the  question  of  Palestine  is  decisively  resolved,  there 
can  be  no  guarantee  of  peace  and  stability  in  the 
Middle East. 

We  express  serious  concern  about  the  grave 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  in  particular  Gaza. With  the  onset  of  winter, 
the  humanitarian  situation  in  Gaza  may  continue  to 
deteriorate.  We  appeal  to  all  parties  concerned  to 
resolutely implement Security Council resolution 1860 
(2009), and urge Israel to open all border crossings in 
response  to  the  international  community’s  appeal  and 
to  allow  humanitarian  and  reconstruction  materials 
enter Gaza without hindrance so as to facilitate Gaza’s 
prompt  reconstruction.  The  international  community 
should  actively  provide  socio-economic  development 
assistance 
its 
commitments  and  alleviate  the  humanitarian  crisis  in 
Gaza. 

The Palestinian people of the West Bank and East 
Jerusalem  also  deserve  our  sympathy.  Israel  continues 
to  expand 
the 
separation  wall.  Its  violations  of  its  obligations  under 
international  law  do  not  promote  its  own  security. We 
call  on  Israel  to  completely  cease  the  construction  of 
settlements and the separation wall, lift all obstructions 
to  the  movement  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  cease 
any  action  that  might  complicate  the  situation  of 
Jerusalem. 

The  content  of  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  to  the 
its  settlements  and 
to  Palestine, 
to  construct 
speedily 
honour 
still 
the  demands  of 
the  common  expectation  of 
Human  Rights  Council  (A/HRC/12/48)  is  a  source  of 
concern.  Violence  and  all  actions 
that  violate 
international  human  rights  law  are  unacceptable.  We 
call on both sides to carry out independent and credible 
investigations  of  the  actions  that  gravely  violated 
international law.  

Achieving  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace 
is 
international 
community.  We  have  always  believed  that  political 
negotiation is the only correct way and that the use of 
force  cannot  lead  to  a  solution.  At  a  time  when  the 
Middle  East  peace  process 
faces  various 
challenges,  we  hope  that  the  two  sides  can  reaffirm 
their faith in the peace negotiations, adhere to the path 
to  peace,  overcome  differences  and  obstacles,  resume 
negotiations as soon as possible and desist from taking 
any  action  that  might  undermine  trust  and  harm  the 
peace  process.  We  support 
the 
Palestinian  people  for  their  inalienable  rights  and  for 
the establishment of an independent country. We hope 
that  the  Palestinian  factions  can  reconcile  as  soon  as 
possible. 

Meanwhile,  the  international  community  should 
continue to strive to promote peace in the Middle East. 
We  support  the  two  sides  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant 
General  Assembly  and  Security  Council  resolutions, 
the  principle  of  land  for  peace  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative in order to achieve, by means of negotiation, 
the  two-State  solution  whereby  Arabs  and  Jews  can 
live side by side in peace.  

The  international  community  should  continue  to 
focus  on  the  other  issues  in  the  Middle  East  peace 
process.  We  welcome  the  significant  progress  in  the 
situation  of  Lebanon.  We  hope  that  the  Lebanese 
parties  can  uphold  the  Doha  agreement,  strengthen 
their  unity  and  make  common  efforts  to  safeguard 
national  peace,  stability  and  development.  We  respect 
the  sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial  integrity 
of  Lebanon  and  call  on  all  parties  to  implement 
Security  Council 
(2006).  The 
negotiations between Syria and Israel and Lebanon and 
Israel  are  important  components  of  the  peace  process. 
We  hope  that  the  parties  can  work  together  to  create 
conditions  conducive 
the 
negotiations.  

China  has  always  supported  an  early,  just  and 
lasting  settlement  of  the  Middle  East  issue.  We  have 
supported and actively participated in the efforts of the 
resolution  1701 
resumption  of 
the 
the 
to 
24 

09-62559 
(spoke 
(Tunisia) 
Mr.  Jomaa


international  community  to  promote  peace,  stability 
and  development,  including  by  providing  economic 
and  humanitarian  assistance  to  the  best  of  our  ability. 
China will remain committed to promoting the Middle 
East peace process and is ready to work with the rest of 
the  international  community  in  playing  a  constructive 
role  in  order  to  achieve  the  two-State  solution  and  a 
comprehensive, just and lasting peace. 
in  Arabic): 

Yesterday,  we  all  observed  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People, an occasion that 
reminds  us  of  the  continuing  daily  suffering  of  the 
brotherly  Palestinian  people  and  the  tragic  situation 
that  necessitates  the  further  intensive  efforts  of  the 
international community and all relevant parties to find 
an  immediate  and  appropriate  solution  to  the  crisis  in 
the occupied Palestinian territories. 

We observe the International Day at a time when 
the  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  is 
seriously  deteriorating,  owing 
to  Israel’s  ongoing 
actions  against 
the  brotherly  Palestinian  people, 
including  its  siege,  confiscation  of  land,  violation  of 
holy  places  and  excessive  settlement  expansion 
policies. 
impossible 
conditions 
to 
revitalizing  the  peace  process  at  a  time  when  the 
international  community 
the 
negotiation  process  so  as  to  achieve  peace,  stability 
and security in the region. 

Our  country  believes  in  the  principles  of  right, 
justice  and 
the 
principles  of 
law  and  has  always 
supported the just Palestinian cause. Tunisia wishes to 
reaffirm  once  again  from  this  rostrum  its  consistent 
support for the struggle of the heroic Palestinian people 
and  expresses  its  full  solidarity  with  their  struggle  to 
recover their legitimate national rights and to establish 
an independent State on their own territory. 
President  Zine  El  Abidine  Ben  Ali  has 

regional  and 
consistently  affirmed, 
international 
forums  and  on  numerous  national 
occasions,  the  importance  of  the  Palestinian  cause, 
which  we  consider  to  be  our  primary  issue  and  to 
which we give special attention. In his message on the 
occasion  of  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity,  the 
President also wrote: 

“Tunisia is anxious to see all the legitimate 

rights of the fraternal Palestinian people restored 
set  up  additional  obstacles 
Israel’s  actions  also  create 
legitimacy,  upholds 
international 
international 
in  various 
to  support 
trying 
that 
is 
A/64/PV.52


to 
in 
the 
their 
aspirations 
framework  of  a 
to  them.  We  therefore  renew  our  call  to  all 
international  parties  concerned  to  step  up  their 
efforts  to  compel  Israel  to  comply  with  the 
requirements for peace. These include, primarily, 
bringing  a  complete  halt  to  settlement  activities 
and  to  attempts  to  change  the  geographic  and 
demographic  status  of  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  and 
acknowledging the right of the Palestinian people 
to  establish  an  independent  State  within  its  own 
borders  and 
just, 
comprehensive  and  lasting  settlement  based  on 
international  law,  the  terms  of  reference  of  the 
peace  process,  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the 
two-State solution.” 
The President also emphasized in his message 
“the  continued  support  of  Tunisia  for  the 

efforts  of 
the  United  Nations  and  various 
international parties to put an end to the suffering 
of  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  enable  them  to 
realize 
sovereignty, 
independence  and  a  dignified  life  in  their  own 
territories in peace and stability”. 
The  Secretary-General’s  recent  report  to  the 

Security  Council  on  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the 
question  of  Palestine  (A/64/351)  contains  information 
that  has  caused  grave  concern. The  General Assembly 
referred  to  that  same  information  in  warning  that  the 
deadlock  in  the  peace  process  presaged  growing 
insecurity  and 
the 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory.  
and  historical 

thus 
responsibility  of 
this 
international Organization to seek to avoid a recurrence 
of  the  crises,  such  as  Israel’s  incursion  into  the  Gaza 
Strip,  that  have  worsened  the  tragic  situation  in  the 
Middle East in general and the Palestinian territories in 
particular.  That  incursion  into  Gaza  resulted  in  grave 
loss  of  life  and  property  and  was  the  subject  of  the 
report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48), 
led  by  Judge 
Richard Goldstone, which made recommendations that 
the  General  Assembly  incorporated  into  resolution 
64/10, adopted on 5 November. 

Tunisia calls on all influential parties, particularly 
the Quartet, to take effective measures to put an end to 
the suffering of the Palestinian people and their tragic 
situation. We also emphasize the need to compel Israel 
the 
the  States  Members  of 
further  deterioration  of 
collective 
the 
is 
It 
09-62559 

25 

A/64/PV.52 

to end its illegitimate practices and aggressive policies 
towards  the  Palestinian  people.  We  also  call  on  the 
international  community  as  a  whole  to  consolidate, 
strengthen  and  support  the  negotiations  in  order  to 
achieve  the  peace  sought  by  all  peoples  of  the  region 
on 
the  relevant 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly, and the Arab Peace Initiative. 
the  basis  of 
international 
law, 
in  support  of 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
country’s appreciation for the Organization’s continued 
efforts 
the  Palestinian  cause,  and 
particularly  those  of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
and  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People. 


  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 
26 

09-62559 
