
A/64/PV.51
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

51st plenary meeting 
Monday, 30 November 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 





  The meeting was called to order at 3:15 p.m. 

Agenda item 16 (continued)
Question of Palestine 







  Report of the Committee on the Exercise  
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (A/64/35) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/351) 
  Draft resolutions (A/64/L.20, A/64/L.21, 
A/64/L.22 and A/64/L.23) 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I would like to 

make  a  brief  statement  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

We  meet  today  to  consider  the  question  of 
Palestine,  which  remains  the  oldest  unresolved  issue 
before  the  General  Assembly.  We  have  before  us  the 
report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People (A/64/35) 
and  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  peaceful 
settlement of the question of Palestine (A/64/351). 

This  morning  we  observed  the  International  Day 
of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  an  occasion 
for renewing our commitment to the realization of the 
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people — primarily 
the  right  to  self-determination  and  the  right  to  an 
independent State — and for reaffirming our support to 
a comprehensive, just and  lasting peace  in the Middle 
East. The fact that after all these years the question of 
Palestine  still  awaits  a  peaceful  settlement  weighs 
heavily  on  the  United  Nations.  This  day  should  also 
remind  us  that  the  human  cost  of  the  Middle  East 
conflict  is  borne  by  the  Palestinian  people.  Their 
suffering will continue until the question of Palestine is 
resolved and the right of the Palestinian people to their 
homeland is realized. 

The Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip has forced 
1.5  million  Palestinian  civilians  into  poverty  and 
isolation.  The  Israeli  military  offensive  almost  a  year 
ago further exacerbated the already desperate situation. 
International  efforts  to  rebuild  the  Gaza  Strip  and  to 
assist its civilian population are blocked by Israel. The 
United  Nations  has  repeatedly  called  on  Israel  to  lift 
the blockade, but Israel continues to impose collective 
punishment on the civilian population of Gaza, in clear 
violation of international law. Israel must heed the call 
of 
its 
stranglehold on civilian life in the Gaza Strip and to lift 
the illegal blockade. 

the  General  Assembly 
endorsed the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48)  and 
called  on  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  side  to  undertake 
independent,  credible  investigations  with  a  view  to 
ensuring  accountability  and  justice  (see  resolution 
64/10).  The  Secretary-General  has  been  requested  to 
report  on  the  implementation  of  the  resolution  before 
2 February  2010.  The  General  Assembly  will  in  due 
course consider the report of the Secretary-General and 
any further action. 
international  community 
this  month, 
release 
Earlier 
the 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-62352 (E) 
*0962352* 


sustained 
juncture  where 
territory,  notwithstanding 
A/64/PV.51 

The  situation  of  the  question  of  Palestine  is  at  a 

critical 
focus  and  a 
reinvigoration  of  the  peace  process  are  needed.  The 
renewed  engagement  of  President  Barack  Obama  to 
promote  peace  in  the  Middle  East  has  the  support  of 
the  international  community.  But,  on  the  ground,  the 
obstacles to peace remain in place.  

The  continued  expansion  of  Israeli  settlements 
and construction of the separation barrier on occupied 
Palestinian 
the  advisory 
opinion  handed  down  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  undermine  the  peace  process  and  violate 
United Nations resolutions. Continued Israeli actions to 
change  the  status  of  Jerusalem  further  endanger  the 
establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital. 

The  United  Nations  has  consistently  upheld  the 
right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-determination 
and will continue to work for a peaceful settlement of 
the  question  of  Palestine  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
the  Madrid  terms  of  reference,  the  road  map  and  the 
Arab  Peace 
and 
agreements  are  the  building  blocks  of  a  Palestinian 
State  and  must  be  implemented.  In  order  to  achieve  a 
comprehensive  peace  in  the  region,  the  international 
community  must  also  work  for  a  just  and  lasting 
settlement  of  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East  that 
ensures the withdrawal of Israel from the Syrian Golan 
and the territories it occupies in Lebanon. 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul 
Badji  of  Senegal,  who  will  speak  in  his  capacity  as 
Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  and  who 
will  also 
resolutions  A/64/L.20, 
A/64/L.21, A/64/L.22 and A/64/L.23. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow 

me,  at  the  outset,  to  express,  on  behalf  of  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People,  our  sincere  appreciation  to  all 
the  representatives  of  Member  States,  observers, 
representatives  of 
intergovernmental  organizations, 
United  Nations  system  entities  and  civil  society  who 
participated this morning in the special meeting of the 
Committee 
the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  The  meeting 
forcefully reaffirmed the solidarity of the international 
community  and  highlighted  the  broad  support  for  the 
Initiative.  These 
introduce  draft 
to  observe 
resolutions 
I 
for 
Before 
introduce 
unrestrained 
have  witnessed 
rehabilitation,  which  are 
exercise  by  the  Palestinian  people  of  its  inalienable 
rights. 

the  Assembly’s 
consideration the four draft resolutions prepared by our 
Committee under this agenda item, I would like to talk 
about the situation in the occupied Palestinian territory 
and  developments  in  the  political  process.  Today,  the 
situation  can  only  be  described  as  bleak.  It 
is 
characterized  by  a  steadily  worsening  humanitarian 
situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip  exacerbated  by  the  Israeli 
military offensive of last December and January, a lack 
of  progress  in  efforts  to  unite  the  West  Bank  and  the 
Gaza  Strip  under  the  Palestinian  Authority  and  a 
stagnation  of  the  political  process.  The  continuing 
blockade  of  Gaza  does  not  allow  the  long  overdue 
reconstruction  and 
so 
necessary. 

Equally  disturbing  are  the  Israeli  actions  in  East 
Jerusalem,  in  particular,  land  confiscations,  house 
demolitions,  evictions  of  Palestinian  residents  and 
settler violence. Elsewhere throughout the West Bank, 
we 
settlement 
construction,  Israeli  incursions  into  Palestinian  towns 
and villages and arrests of Palestinians. Violent actions 
on  the  part  of  radical  Israeli  settlers  against  the 
Palestinian population are also of great concern. 

Let me address two of the most critical issues and 
remind  Israel  of  the  position  of  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  international  community  on  them, 
namely the settlements and East Jerusalem. 
As regards the settlements, it is recognized by all, 

with the exception of Israel, the occupying Power, that 
settlements  in  the  occupied  West  Bank  and  East 
Jerusalem  are  illegal  under  international  law  and 
contravene Israel’s obligations under the road map. All 
settlement  construction,  including  so-called  natural 
growth, must be halted immediately. All outposts must 
be  dismantled.  The  settlements  built  on  Palestinian 
land perpetuate conflict, lead to violence and constitute 
a  clear  obstacle  to  ever  achieving  peace  between 
Israelis  and  Palestinians,  as  they  undermine  efforts  at 
establishing a State of Palestine that will live in peace 
and security with Israel. 

As  regards  East  Jerusalem,  the  international 
community  does  not  recognize  Israel’s  unilateral 
claims that the entire city of Jerusalem is the capital of 
Israel. All  actions  taken  by  Israel  that  alter  or  purport 
to  alter  the  status  of  the  city  are  null  and  void  and 
2 

09-62352 
to 


illegal  under  international  law. The  status  of  the  Holy 
City  is  clearly  and  unequivocally  outlined  in  several 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
and  Israel  must  abide  by  them.  The  continuation  of 
those policies by the Israeli Government has prevented 
any  tangible  improvement  in  the  situation  in  the 
occupied  territories  and  cast  serious  doubts  on  the 
genuine  intention  of  the  Israeli  leaders  when  they 
declare their interest in the resumption of negotiations 
without preconditions. 

The Committee is a strong supporter of  the two-
State  solution,  by  which  an  independent,  sovereign 
State  of  Palestine  would  be  created  within  the  1967 
borders,  with  East  Jerusalem as  its  capital,  living  side 
by side with Israel in peace and security. It considers it 
to be the only feasible solution whereby the Palestinian 
people  would  be  able  to  exercise  its  inalienable 
national  rights.  That  solution  would  also  bring  peace 
the  State  of  Israel  and  give  a 
and  security 
considerable  boost 
to  economic  development  and 
cooperation in the Middle East region. 

To achieve that goal, the Israeli Government must 
change  its  policy.  The  continuation  for  decades  of 
settlement-expansion 
annexations, 
exploitation  of  Palestinian  natural  resources  and 
control and, in fact, stifling and collective punishment 
of  Palestinians  by  erecting  a  separation  wall  on  their 
land and establishing checkpoints and closures will not 
lead  to  peace.  Those  policies  have  entrenched  the 
status quo, subjugated the Palestinian people, triggered 
two  intifadas  and  created  tension  and  conflict  in  the 
region.  

More  than  20  years  ago,  Palestinian  leaders 
declared  their  acceptance  of  the  two-State  solution  in 
accordance  with  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions. 
President  Abbas  has  undertaken  to  achieve  that  goal 
through 
Israeli 
negotiators have met many times for that purpose  and 
have  invariably  found  themselves  confronted  with  a 
new  situation  on 
the  ground:  new  or  expanded 
settlements,  outposts  and  the  construction  of  the 
separation wall with its detrimental effect on the lives 
of Palestinians. Furthermore, daily oppressive practices 
of  the  occupying  Power  continue  unabated:  military 
raids, arrests, restrictions on the movement of persons 
and  goods,  settler  violence  and  numerous  other 
coercive measures. The list of illegal acts and measures 
by Israel is long. 
negotiations. 
Palestinian 
policies, 
land 
and 
A/64/PV.51
the 
two-State 

That  was  not  the  objective  expected  when  the 
international  community  wholeheartedly  worked  for 
the Madrid peace process that started in 1991 and then 
the  confidence-building  measures  set  up  by  the  Oslo 
Accords of 1993 and those that followed. That was not 
at all what the participants in the Annapolis Conference 
had in mind when they supported the resumption of the 
negotiations on permanent status. A lack of cooperation 
on the part of the Israeli Government is contrary to the 
spirit  and  letter  of  the  road  map  of  the  Quartet  and 
leaves  no  room  for  implementing  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative. 

Our  Committee  has  continuously  supported 
efforts  by  the  parties  and  the  international  community 
to  bring  about  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  Palestinian 
question.  In  view  of  the  widening  gap  between  the 
desired  objective  —  namely,  the  establishment  of  a 
Palestinian State within the borders of 1967 — and the 
reality  on  the  ground,  the  Committee  has  focused  its 
annual programme of work on the urgent achievement 
of 
solution.  Serious  and  honest 
negotiations  in  good  faith  on  all  permanent  status 
issues are necessary to get the process off the ground. 

At  the  same  time,  actions  on  the  ground  have  to 
change  radically.  Settlement  expansion  has  to  stop. 
Extremists  on  all  sides  must  be  held  accountable  for 
their acts. The rule of law  must prevail. The blockade 
of Gaza has to be lifted. Palestinian economic activity 
must be relauanched through the lifting the restrictions 
on  the  movement  of  people  and  goods.  That  would 
create a climate of trust and encourage growing support 
on  the  part  of  Palestinian  and  Israeli  public  opinion, 
allowing  the  parties  to  reach  decisions  that  at  the 
moment may seem very difficult or remote. 

The  Committee’s  position  is  that  the  continuing 
illegal occupation of the Palestinian territories remains 
the root cause of the conflict. As long as that situation 
continues,  we  will  not  cease  to  remind  Israel,  the 
occupying  Power,  that  it  is  bound  by  well-defined 
obligations  enshrined  in  international  humanitarian 
law. 

The international community must ensure that all 
of its members adhere to those principles. Impunity for 
serious  violations  must  end.  The  General  Assembly 
recently  held  an  important  discussion  on  those  issues 
when 
report 
(A/HRC/12/48). Our Committee encourages the parties 
and  the  international  community  to  implement  the 
considering 
Goldstone 
the 
09-62352 

3 

in 
that 
contained 
A/64/PV.51 

recommendations 
report. 
Responsibility  and  accountability  must  be  established, 
and everything must be done to prevent a reoccurrence 
of  the  devastation  caused  by  Israel  during  the  war  in 
Gaza  and the human tragedy it brought to the civilian 
population of Gaza. 

The best solution would be a negotiated solution 
that  would  end  the  occupation,  ensure  the  exercise  by 
the  Palestinian  people  of  its  inalienable  rights  and 
guarantee  security  for  the  State  of  Israel.  Such  a 
settlement must be based on international law, relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions  and  the  principles  outlined 
in the Road Map and the Arab Peace Initiative. 

On  a  number  of  occasions,  the  Committee  has 
voiced  its  concern  about  internal  Palestinian  divisions 
that block national reconciliation and the reunification 
of  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  under  the  aegis  of  the 
Palestinian  Authority.  The  Committee  supports  all 
efforts, in particular those by Egypt, aimed at restoring 
Palestinian national unity, which is indispensable for a 
permanent settlement of the question of Palestine. 

The  Committee  firmly  believes  that  the  United 
Nations  should  continue  to  maintain  its  permanent 
responsibility towards the question of Palestine until it 
is  effectively  resolved  in  all  its  aspects  in  accordance 
with  international  law  and  legitimacy. The  Committee 
calls on the Security Council to act decisively to ensure 
implementation  of  its  own  resolutions  with  respect  to 
the question of Palestine, in particular resolutions 242 
(1967) and 338 (1973). The Committee also hopes that 
the  Council,  as  the  principal  United  Nations  organ 
responsible  for the maintenance of international peace 
and  security,  will  live  up  to  its  obligations  under  the 
Charter.  For  its  part,  the  Committee  will  continue  to 
fulfil  the  mandate  entrusted  to  it  by  the  General 
Assembly,  the  purpose  of  which  is  to  help  the 
Palestinian people to realize its inalienable rights. 

In  this  context,  I  wish  to  introduce  to  the 
Assembly  the  four  draft  resolutions  approved  by  the 
Committee  and  circulated  under  agenda  item  16,  in 
documents  A/64/L.20,  A/64/L.21,  A/64/L.22  and 
A/64/L.23.  
The first three draft resolutions are related to the 

work  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  of  the 
Division for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat and of 
the  special  information  programme  on  the  question  of 
Palestine  of  the  Department  of  Public  Information. 
and 
Israel 
between 
agreements 
the  Madrid 
They reaffirm the important mandates entrusted to this 
organ of the General Assembly and to the divisions of 
the  Secretariat. As  in  the  past,  the  Committee  intends 
to  ensure  that  its  resources  placed  at  its  disposal  are 
used in the most cost-effective manner for all activities 
relevant  to  its  mandate.  These  three  draft  resolutions 
have been updated.  

The  fourth  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Peaceful 
settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”,  reaffirms  the 
position  of  the  General  Assembly  with  regard  to  the 
essential  elements  of  such  a  settlement  and  includes 
references  to  developments  during  the  past  year.  This 
draft  reaffirms  in  particular  our  full  support  for  the 
Middle  East  peace  process,  based  on  the  relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions, 
terms  of 
reference, including the principle of land for peace, the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  Quartet  road  map  and  the 
existing 
the 
Palestinians. 

The  four  draft  resolutions  I  have  just  introduced 
outline positions, mandates and programmes that are of 
special importance, in particular at the crucial juncture 
where we find ourselves today. I call on Member States 
to  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolutions  and  support 
the important goals contained therein. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Saviour  Borg  of  Malta, 
Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of 
to 
introduce the Committee’s report. 
Mr. Borg (Malta): It is an honour for me, in my 

capacity  as  Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People, to present to the General Assembly the annual 
report  of  the  Committee,  contained 
in  document 
A/64/35. Indeed, the report I am presenting today is the 
Committee’s thirty-third report to the Assembly.  

For  the  past  three  decades  the  Committee  has 
followed the  recommendations that it made in its first 
report  to  the  Assembly,  recommendations  that  have 
been  endorsed  by  the  Assembly  in  its  32  subsequent 
sessions, as a basis for the solution of the question  of 
Palestine. However, as indicated in paragraph 2 of this 
year’s report,  
the  Palestinian  People, 
recommendations  of 
“The 
contained 
implemented,  and 
the  Committee 
its  first  report  could  not  be 
the  Assembly  each  year 
in 
4 

09-62352 


A/64/PV.51
resumed  after 
renewed  the  Committee’s  mandate  in  pursuit  of 
the tasks assigned to it.”  
Allow me now to summarize each section of the 

report.  

Chapters  I  through  III  cover  the  Committee’s 
objectives and its general perspective on the events that 
have  taken  place  in  the  course  of  the  year.  They  also 
summarize  the  General  Assembly  mandates  to  the 
Committee and contain information on the organization 
of the Committee’s work during the year. 

In  Chapter  I,  the  introduction  to  the  report,  a 
number  of  facts  are  highlighted.  They  include  in 
particular  the  Committee’s  consistent  support  for  a 
peaceful  solution  of  the  question  of  Palestine;  the 
stagnation  of  the  political  process,  lack  of  progress  in 
efforts to unite the West Bank and the Gaza Strip under 
the  Palestinian Authority,  and  the  worsening  situation 
on  the  ground  throughout  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem;  the  failure  of  the 
political  process  between  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian 
sides,  which  was 
the  Annapolis 
Conference of November 2007, to produce any tangible 
results; the response by the international community to 
the assault on Gaza by calling for calm and respect for 
the lives of innocent civilians; the continued efforts by 
the  Quartet  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  resolution  of 
the Arab-Israeli conflict; and the Committee’s activities 
which  sought  to  draw  attention  to  the  urgent  need  for 
coordinated  and  collective  efforts  to  mitigate  the 
negative developments occurring on the ground. 
In  Chapter  IV  the  report  reviews  the  situation, 

monitored  by  the  Committee  during  the  year,  in  the 
occupied 
including  East 
Jerusalem,  as  well  as  the  relevant  political  situation. 
This  chapter  contains  a  detailed  factual  account  of 
events  that  took  place  in  the  period  under  review,  as 
well  as  the  role  played  by  the  United  Nations  Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East  and 
the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  in  alleviating  the  hardships  that 
the  populations  suffer  because  of 
the  situation 
prevailing  in  and  around  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, including East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip. 

Chapter  V  reviews  the  action  taken  by  the 
Committee  in  accordance  with  Assembly  resolution 
63/26, including action taken in the Assembly and the 
Security  Council  and 
the 
Committee  Chairman  in  the  debates  of  these  two 
the  participation  of 
the  Office 
for 
Palestinian 
territory, 
and 
programmes, 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  The  chapter 
reviews  statements  issued  by  the  Committee  and  its 
Bureau  and  the  Committee’s  continued  dialogue  and 
consultations  with  Governments,  United  Nations 
agencies 
intergovernmental 
organizations,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
parliamentarians.  It  also  reports  on  the  series  of 
international  meetings  and  conferences  organized  by 
the Committee. The valid role and mandated activities 
carried  out  by  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  are 
appropriately reflected in the report. 

Chapter  VI  provides  an  overview  of  the  work 
done  over  the  year  by  the  Department  of  Public 
Information (DPI) in pursuance of Assembly resolution 
63/28 of 26 November 2008. In particular, it outlines in 
some detail the role of DPI in the implementation of its 
special  information  programme  on  the  question  of 
Palestine  in  order  to  raise  the  awareness  of  the 
international community on that question, as well as on 
the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  in  such  a  way  as  to 
contribute  actively  to  an  atmosphere  conducive  to 
dialogue  and  supportive  of  the  Middle  East  peace 
process. 

The  last  Chapter  of  the  report  contains  the 
Committee’s  conclusions  and  recommendations.  The 
Committee  has  repeatedly  expressed,  throughout  the 
reporting  period,  its  utmost  concern  about  the  ever-
deteriorating  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, including East Jerusalem, and the breakdown 
of the political process. It condemned the offensive by 
the Israeli military in the Gaza Strip late last year and 
in  the  beginning  of  this  year.  The  Committee  also 
denounced  the  firing  of  rockets  and  mortar  rounds  by 
Palestinian  militants  from  Gaza.  The  Committee 
expressed its deep alarm about the resultant suffocating 
blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  continues  to  be 
imposed  by  Israel  after  the  thousands  of  casualties 
among the civilian population and massive destruction 
of  Palestinian  homes,  property  and 
infrastructure 
caused by the offensive.  

In this regard, the Committee reminds Israel, the 
occupying  Power,  of  its  obligation  under  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention  to  protect  the  civilian  population 
under  its  occupation  and  to  act  within  the  ambit  of 
international law. The Committee recommends that the 
international community consider strengthening respect 
of 
creating 
appropriate mechanisms to monitor adherence, and that 
the  High  Contracting  Parties  take,  individually  or 
international  humanitarian 
law  by 
09-62352 

5 
A/64/PV.51 

collectively,  the  measures  they  deem  appropriate  to 
ensure  respect  for  the  Convention,  including  the 
convening  of  a  conference  of  the  High  Contracting 
Parties  to  address  the  subject  of  respect  and  ensuring 
respect for the Convention. 

The  Committee  notes  that  the  actions  of  the 
Israeli  Defence  Forces  during  Operation  Cast  Lead  in 
the  Gaza  Strip  led  to  serious  allegations  of  violations 
of  international  humanitarian  law  and,  possibly,  war 
crimes.  The  Committee  commends  the  work  of  the 
various  investigative  missions  and,  at  the  same  time, 
expresses  its  disquiet  over  an  almost  complete  denial 
by  Israel  of  any  violations  of  the  rules  governing  the 
conduct  of  war.  The  Committee  deplores  the  lack  of 
Israeli  cooperation  with  some  of  the  missions.  The 
Committee  expresses  its  view  that  the  perpetrators  of 
serious  crimes  on  either  side  should  be  brought  to 
justice and held accountable for their actions, and calls 
for  the  recommendations  contained  in  the  various 
reports to be implemented. 

The Committee also expresses its serious concern 
over Israel’s ongoing settlement activity and reiterates 
that  the  presence  of  settlements  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
is 
illegal  under  international  law.  In  this  context,  the 
Committee  welcomes  the  fact  that  the  international 
community  has  remained  focused  on  the  damaging 
effects  of 
the 
achievement  of  a  two-State  solution  and  calls  for 
that  regard.  The 
serious  action 
the 
Committee  also  expresses 
accelerated  creation  of 
in  East 
Jerusalem,  including  recent  policy  statements  and 
illegal  unilateral  measures  by  the  Government  of 
Israel. The Committee reiterates that East Jerusalem is 
part  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  and  that  a 
negotiated solution to the question of Jerusalem, based 
on international law, is absolutely essential to resolving 
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and crucial for a durable 
peace  in  the  whole  region.  Moreover,  the  Committee 
denounces the continued construction of the wall in the 
occupied 
including  East 
Jerusalem,  and  recommends  that  the  international 
community  take  more  determined  action  challenging 
the presence of the wall. 

The  Committee  notes  that  as  result  of  those 
detrimental  developments  and  the  continuing  Israeli 
occupation,  no  progress  has  been  achieved  in  the 
realization  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
including  East  Jerusalem, 
settlement  policies 
its  concern  about 
faits  accomplis 
Palestinian 
territory, 
territory, 
Israel’s 
for 
to  be 
taken 
in 

that 
that 
the  view 
the  Division 
in  support  of 
contribution  of 
people. The Committee reiterates its full support to the 
international consensus that the only viable solution to 
the conflict and the exercise by the Palestinian people 
of its inalienable rights is the creation of a Palestinian 
State in the territory occupied by Israel in 1967, living 
side  by  side  with  Israel  in  peace  and  security. To  that 
end,  the  Committee  calls  for  the  resumption  of  the 
permanent  status  negotiations  between  Israel  and  the 
Palestinians. The Committee also calls for invigorated 
efforts by all to work to reconcile their positions on the 
basis  of  the  prevailing  consensus  on  the  need  to 
achieve  a  two-State  solution,  which  would  lead  to  the 
exercise  by  the  Palestinian  people  of  its  inalienable 
rights. 
The  Committee  also  emphasizes  the  useful  and 

for 
constructive 
its  mandate.  It 
Palestinian  Rights 
expresses 
the  programme  of 
international  meetings  and  conferences  implemented 
by the Division contributes to focusing the attention of 
Governments, 
intergovernmental  and  civil  society 
organizations and the public on the urgency of bringing 
about the two-State solution and mobilizing assistance 
to  the  Palestinian  people.  The  Committee  intends  to 
further generate wide support for a peaceful solution of 
the  conflict  based  on  international  law  and  relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions  through  its  programme  of 
international  meetings  and  conferences  for  2010. 
Furthermore, the Committee intends to reach out, with 
the assistance of United Nations entities on the ground, 
to the people most affected by the status quo, namely, 
refugees and Palestinians living under occupation, and 
to members of the Israeli public to involve them in the 
search for solutions, to promote dialogue and common 
projects  and  to  win  their  backing  for  a  settlement 
negotiated  by  their  leaders  and  supported  by  the 
international  community.  The  Committee  wishes  to 
contribute  to  efforts  aimed  at  ending  incitement  on 
both sides, provide a venue to have the narratives heard 
and  reconciled  and,  with  the  help  of  civil  society, 
promote  peace  education  on  the  ground.  It  will  pay 
particular attention to the empowerment of women and 
their organizations in this process. 

The  Committee  also  commends  civil  society 
organizations for their support of the Palestinian people 
and 
the  courageous  advocacy  actions  of 
numerous  activists,  including  parliamentarians,  who 
have  participated  in  demonstrations  against  the  wall, 
provided  assistance  to  Gaza  and  kept  their  home 
lauds 
6 

09-62352 
its 
cooperation 
to 
of 
Public 
international 
Information’s 
to  make  an 
in  accordance  with 


constituencies informed about the harsh realities of life 
under  occupation.  The  Committee  will  continue  to 
assess its programme of cooperation with civil society 
organizations  and  consult  them  on  ways  to  enhance 
their  contribution.  The  Committee  also  commits  to 
further 
developing 
with 
parliamentarians  and 
their  umbrella  organizations, 
which have a special responsibility to ensure that their 
Governments  actively  promote  and  support 
the 
realization  of  a  two-State  solution  and  ensure  respect 
for 
law, 
their 
international obligations. 
Lastly, the Committee expresses its view that the 

Department 
special 
information  programme  on  the  question  of  Palestine 
has  made  and  continues 
important 
contribution to informing the media and public opinion 
of  the  relevant  issues.  In  this  regard,  the  Committee 
requests  the  continuation  of  the  programme  with  the 
necessary  flexibility  as  warranted  by  developments 
relevant to the question of Palestine. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  express  the  hope  that 
the  report  I  have  just  presented  will  be  of  assistance 
not  only  to  the  Members  of  this  Assembly  in  its 
deliberations on the question of Palestine but also serve 
as another clarion call to all States and parties to join in 
this  endeavour  and  to  expand  their  cooperation  and 
support 
the 
Committee  invites  the  General  Assembly  again  to 
recognize  the  importance  of  the  Committee’s  role  and 
to reconfirm its mandate. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Riyad  Mansour,  Chairman  of 
the observer delegation of Palestine. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Allow  me  at  the  outset,  Sir,  to  express  our  deep 
appreciation  for  your  wise  leadership  and  excellent 
stewardship  of  the  General  Assembly.  At  the  same 
time,  it  is  my  pleasure  to  express  our  gratitude  and 
appreciation  to  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  to  its 
Chairman,  His  Excellency Ambassador  Paul  Badji,  to 
all  members  of  the  Committee  and  to  the  members  of 
the  Bureau.  I  also  wish  to  thank  the  Division  for 
Palestinian  Rights  and  the  Department  of  Public 
Information of the United Nations Secretariat for their 
tireless  efforts  and 
to  mobilize 
international  support  for  the  Palestinian  cause  and  for 
the  Committee. 
serious  work 
In 
that  context 
A/64/PV.51
in  all 
adopted 
its  aspects, 
resolution  181 
to  solemnly  commemorate 
the  Palestinian  people  in  their  endeavour  to  realize 
their  inalienable  rights.  I  also  express  gratitude  to  the 
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
for his efforts to serve the cause of peace. 
We  gathered  this  morning  in  the  Trusteeship 

Council  Chamber 
the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People. Our people express their profound gratitude for 
the  solidarity  and  the  support  for  their  cause,  which 
have  been  reaffirmed  on  this  Day  from  all  corners  of 
the  world.  The  Day  is  traditionally  observed  on 
29 November,  the  date  in  1947  when  the  General 
Assembly 
(II),  which 
partitioned historic Palestine into two States — one of 
which  is  Palestine,  which  has  yet  to  see  the  light  of 
day,  and  the  other,  Israel.  That  resolution  led  to  the 
tragedy and injustice that befell the Palestinian people, 
who  were  uprooted  from  their  land,  dispossessed  and 
dispersed and who suffered the loss of their homeland 
in  1948.  The  Day  also  reaffirms  the  continuing 
international commitment, including on the part of the 
United  Nations,  to  uphold  its  historic  responsibility 
with  regard  to  the  question  of  Palestine  until  it  is 
resolved 
in  accordance  with 
international law and United Nations resolutions.  

The  consequences  of  the  Nakba  are  known  to 
everyone.  More  than  half  the  Palestinian  people, 
comprised  of  more  than  three  generations  of  families, 
continue  to  live  in  exile  as  refugees  after  their 
displacement  from  their  homeland.  They  are  scattered 
in all parts of the world, with millions still languishing 
in refugee camps and denied the right to return to their 
homes  to  live  in  peace  with  their  neighbours,  and  are 
suffering  innumerable  hardships.  The  rest  of  the 
Palestinian people, including refugees, continue to live 
under  Israeli  occupation  in  the  Palestinian  territory, 
including East Jerusalem, and are continually suffering 
repression,  punishment  and  violations  of  their  basic 
rights. 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  continues  to  deny 

the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  slight 
international  law,  including  international  humanitarian 
law  and  human  rights  law.  At  the  same  time,  it 
continues its illegal colonial settlement by building and 
expanding 
the 
separation  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  aimed  at  advancing  its 
expansionist plans by creating facts on the ground so as 
the  character,  status  and  demographic 
to  alter 
settlements  and  by  constructing 
09-62352 

7 
fields 
of 
to 
and 
occupying 
forces 
use 
excessive 
In  addition, 
and 
violence, 
Israel, 
arbitrarily 
A/64/PV.51 

composition  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.  The 
Israeli 
and 
indiscriminate  military 
force  against  Palestinian 
civilians,  in  flagrant  violation  of  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention.  That  has  resulted  in  the  loss  of  innocent 
lives, including children and women, and many injuries 
and  cases  of  psychological  trauma  among  the  civilian 
population,  as  well  as  the  destruction  of  property, 
the  Palestinian 
homes, 
agricultural 
infrastructure.  Acts 
harassment, 
provocation,  incitement  and  terror  against  Palestinian 
civilians  continue  to  be  committed  by  the  armed 
extremist  Israeli  settlers  who  have  been  transferred 
illegally to the occupied Palestinian territory.  
the  occupying  Power, 

detain 
imprison 
continues 
approximately  11,000  Palestinian  civilians,  including 
children  and  women.  Moreover,  Palestinian  prisoners 
and detainees continue to be subjected to physical and 
mental  ill-treatment,  solitary  confinement  and  torture. 
They  are  denied  family  visits,  adequate  medical  care 
and  food  and  are  held  in  completely  unsanitary  and 
inhumane  conditions,  in  violation  of  all  rules  and 
principles of international humanitarian law. 

Since  its  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  territory, 
Israel  has  persistently  pursued  a  policy  of  collective 
punishment against the Palestinian people by imposing 
closures  and  restrictions  on  the  movement  of  persons 
and  goods  within,  into  and  out  of  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  which 
has  been  completely  cut  off  from  the  rest  of  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory.  That  policy  has  led  to 
obstructing  Palestinian  access  to  schools,  hospitals, 
farms and work and holy places and to preventing the 
arrival  of  food  supplies  and  humanitarian  aid.  That 
policy  is  reflected  in  its  ugliest  forms  through  the 
complete  blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  creation 
of  more  than  550  checkpoints  and  roadblocks  in  the 
West  Bank, 
the 
separation  wall,  bypass  roads,  the  permit  regime  and, 
in particular, the residency restrictions imposed on the 
Palestinian inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
At  the  same  time,  Israel  continues  to  defy  the 

international  community,  which 
consensus  of 
demands  the  cessation  of  Israel’s  illegal  settlement 
its  colonization 
activities. 
campaign 
territory, 
including East Jerusalem, in grave breach of the Fourth 
Geneva  Convention  and  its  Additional  Protocol  I,  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
the  settlements, 
is  continuing 
in  addition 
to 
Israel 
in 
the 

by 
and 
addressed 
immediately 
violation of United Nations resolutions and in complete 
disregard for the 9 July 2004 Advisory Opinion of the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  showing  deliberate 
disrespect  for  the  commitments  made  in  the  peace 
process.  

The  city  of  East  Jerusalem  is  subjected  to  a 
feverish campaign through the continued expansion of 
settlements and the transfer of settlers, the destruction 
and  seizure  of  Palestinian  homes,  the  displacement  of 
its  inhabitants,  severe  residence  restrictions  and  the 
serious  excavations  beneath  and  around  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque  that  threaten  its  foundations. All  those  illegal 
Israeli  measures  and  actions  are  clearly  aimed  at 
changing 
the  character,  status  and  demographic 
composition of the city. 

The  immoral  Israeli  practices  forcibly  displacing 
Palestinians  and  replacing  them  with  unlawful  settlers 
are  illegal  and  must  be  seriously  condemned  and 
seriously 
the 
international  community.  Such  actions  constitute  war 
crimes  under  article  8  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  a  violation  of  article  49 
of the Fourth Geneva Convention, and  grave breaches 
of  international  humanitarian  law  under  article  147  of 
the Convention. They are also in violation of numerous 
United Nations resolutions, including Security Council 
resolutions 476 (1980) and 478 (1980). 

The  ongoing  building  of  additional  colonial 
settlement units in the occupied Palestinian territory by 
the  Israeli  Government,  including  in  East  Jerusalem, 
are  stark  evidence  of  Israel’s  continued  policy  of 
seizure and confiscation of Palestinian land and reflect 
the  absolute  arrogance  of  power  and  disdain  for  the 
international will and consensus in that regard and for 
the  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  that  affirm 
that occupied East Jerusalem is an integral part of the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory  and  that  all  Israeli 
settlement and annexation activities in the city are null 
and void and have no legal validity. 

Allowing  Israel  to  continue  its  campaign  of 
illegal  colonial  settlement  seriously  jeopardizes  the 
the  future.  That 
chances  of  achieving  peace 
in 
campaign  undermines  not  only 
the  contiguity, 
integration  and  unity  of  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory but also the efforts seeking to achieve a two-
State solution. 

on  27  December  2008  against 
The brutal military aggression launched by Israel 
the  defenceless 
8 

09-62352 
including 
territory, 
its 
that  was 
Palestinian 
than  1,400  people, 


Palestinian  civilians  in  the  Gaza  Strip  viciously  killed 
more 
including  hundreds  of 
innocent children and women, and left more than 5,500 
injured.  Undoubtedly, 
a  disgraceful 
illustration  of  Israel’s  complete  disregard  for  human 
rights  and  for  the  sanctity  of  human  life. At  the  same 
time,  Israel  has  continued 
illegal  and  unjust 
blockade of the Gaza Strip in collective punishment of 
the  entire  Palestinian  population  of  Gaza.  That 
blockade has turned the Gaza Strip into a large prison 
and  exacerbated 
the  humanitarian  crisis,  causing 
massive poverty, hunger, disease and unemployment. 
Regrettably,  the  selectivity  and  inaction  of  the 

international  community, 
the  Security 
Council,  has  allowed  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to 
continue  its  shameful  violations  of  international  law 
and  international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights 
law  against  the  Palestinian  civilian  population  in  the 
occupied 
including  East 
Jerusalem. Undoubtedly, the international community’s 
failure to hold Israel accountable for its violations and 
war  crimes  has  reinforced  Israel’s 
impunity  and 
lawlessness,  allowing  it  to  continue  to  use  military 
force and collective punishment against the defenceless 
Palestinian people under its occupation. 

The  investigation  carried  out  by  the  United 
Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict 
clearly confirmed that Israel, the occupying Power, had 
committed  serious  human  rights  violations  and  grave 
breaches  of  international  humanitarian  law,  including 
the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention,  amounting  to  war 
crimes  and  even  crimes  against  humanity  against  the 
Palestinian  people.  It  also  concluded  that  the  absence 
of accountability and, worse still, in many instances the 
lack of any expectation thereof is what allowed Israel, 
to  a  large  extent,  to  continue  its  violations  and  to 
persist in the culture of impunity that it has enjoyed for 
more  than  four  decades.  That  has  not  only  gravely 
deepened  the  injustice  and  suffering  endured  by  the 
Palestinian  people,  but  has  also  undermined 
the 
credibility of international law and of the international 
order as a whole. 
In  that  regard,  resolution  64/10,  adopted  by  the 

is  an 
General  Assembly  on  5  November  2009, 
important step in the direction of beginning the process 
towards ensuring accountability and justice. In addition 
to  efforts  made  to  address  that  serious  issue  in  the 
General  Assembly,  we  will  continue  to  call  on  all 
relevant United Nations bodies, including the Security 
A/64/PV.51
to 
in  order 
the  duty 
law 
to  abide  by 
should  be 
Council,  to  shoulder  their  responsibility  and  on  the 
High  Contracting  Parties 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention  to  accept  their  individual  and  collective 
legal  obligations  and  responsibilities 
to 
embark on a new era for our people and for the entire 
world,  based  on  respect  for  international  law  —  the 
true  guarantor  of  peace,  freedom,  security  and  human 
dignity. 

The  international  community,  in  particular  the 
Security  Council,  must  shoulder  its  responsibility  by 
sending  a  clear  and  strong  message  to  the  occupying 
Power that the international community will no longer 
tolerate  its  illegal  practices,  violations  and  crimes, 
the  principles  of 
because 
international 
above 
all  other 
considerations  that  may  make  a  mockery  of  our 
international  system.  Such  principled  commitment  to 
the  law  will  help  us  to  break  that  vicious  cycle  of 
impunity  and  to  bring  an  end  to  the  crimes  that  have 
caused  so  much  suffering  and  have  prolonged  that 
tragic conflict, as well as to ensure the protection of the 
Palestinian  civilian  population. There  is  no  doubt  that 
that would bring an end to the human suffering caused 
by  the  Israeli  occupation  of  our  people,  create  an 
appropriate and more stable environment for achieving 
peace  and  a  two-State  solution  and  put  an  end  to  the 
Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the Arab-Israeli conflict 
as a whole.  

There will be no peace, security or stability in the 
Middle  East  as  long  as  the  question  of  Palestine 
remains  unresolved.  That  cannot  be  achieved  while 
Israel  continues  to  defy  the  law  and  continues  not  to 
fulfil  its  legal  obligations,  remaining  an  absent  or 
unwilling  partner  in  the  peace  process  and  constantly 
trying to impose a solution based on military force. 

We are going through a period of serious political 
activity in order to revitalize a political process aimed 
at  achieving  a  comprehensive  peace  agreement. 
However,  we  again  emphasize  that  launching  that 
process  should  be  based  on  each  party,  in  particular 
Israel,  implementing  its  obligations  under  the  first 
phase  of  the  Road  Map,  which  basically  calls  for  the 
complete cessation of all forms of settlement activities 
and the commitment to resolving the final status issues, 
in  accordance  with  the  known  terms  of  reference,  in 
particular Jerusalem, refugees, borders, water, security 
and others. That position is the core of the Arab Peace 
Initiative,  which  we  and  all  international  Powers, 
09-62352 

9 

to 
to 
leadership  remains  committed 
to 
the  national  programme  and 
A/64/PV.51 

without exception, in particular, the Quartet, have been 
pursuing. 
We  affirm  that  the  Palestinian  leadership,  in  any 

its 
future  political  move,  will  adhere  firmly 
commitment 
the 
Palestinian peace initiative endorsed by the Palestinian 
National  Council,  as  stated  in  the  Declaration  of 
Palestinian Independence of 15 November 1988, to its 
obligations in the peace process in the Middle East that 
began  in  1991,  and  to  the  two-State  solution  for  the 
establishment  of  an  independent  State  of  Palestine, 
with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  in  the  Palestinian 
territory  under  Israeli  occupation  since  1967.  The 
Palestinian 
the 
Madrid terms of reference and the principle of land for 
peace,  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338 
(1973), 1397 (2002), 1515 (2003) and 1850 (2008), the 
Arab Peace Initiative and the road map. 

However, we wish to reiterate that the Palestinian 
leadership fully rejects any ideas or schemes pertaining 
to  an  alternative  homeland,  to  resettlement,  or  to  a 
State with provisional borders. We reject Israel’s toying 
with  the  peace  process  and  using  it  as  a  cover  to 
achieve  its  expansionist  and  settlement  objectives, 
including the latest theatrical declaration by the Israeli 
Prime Minister of a partial and provisional suspension 
of settlement building in the West Bank but not in East 
Jerusalem.  That  is  not  subject  to  debate.  The  State  of 
Palestine will be based on the entire territory occupied 
in  1967  and  on  a  solution  to  the  Palestine  refugee 
issue. The interests of Palestinians, wherever they are, 
form  an  indispensable  priority  that  must  be  solved 
justly,  in  accordance  with  United  Nations  resolution 
194  (III)  of  1948.  The  only  means  to  resolve  the 
conflict and to achieve peace in our region is complete 
withdrawal  of  Israel  from  all  Palestinian,  Syrian  and 
Lebanese  territories  occupied  since  1967  and  a  just 
solution of the issue of Palestinian refugees. 

The  obligations  of  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli 
sides  are  specific  and  unambiguous.  The  Palestinian 
side  has  fulfilled  all  of  its  obligations,  unlike  Israel, 
which  has  not  complied  with  any  of  its  obligations, 
including in  particular halting its settlement activities. 
We  are  not  placing  any  preconditions  but  we  demand 
that Israel fulfil its obligations as called for in the road 
map  referred  to  in  Security  Council  resolution  1515 
(2003). 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  immense 
gratitude and appreciation of the Palestinian people for 
all  the  support  and  solidarity  extended  to  it  over  the 
years  by  the  international  community,  including  the 
United  Nations.  In  that  connection,  we  express  the 
hope that all countries will vote in favour of all of the 
draft  resolutions  submitted  under  the  agenda  items  on 
the  question  of  Palestine  and  the  situation  in  the 
Middle  East,  as  well  as  all  other  draft  resolutions 
relevant  to  Palestine  that  will  be  put  before  the 
Assembly.  We  firmly  believe  in  the  principles  and 
purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  of 
international  law.  We  also  believe  that  all  free  and 
peace-loving  nations  of  the  world  stand  for  peace  and 
justice and support the question of Palestine because it 
is a just and noble cause and because they wish to see 
an end to the suffering and pain of our people through 
the  realization  of  their  rights  and  freedom  and  the 
establishment  of  an  independent  State  of  Palestine. 
They also wish to see an end to decades of occupation 
and cycles of violence, so that peace, security, stability, 
justice  and  prosperity  will  be  achieved  for  all  peoples 
of  the  Middle  East  region.  We  express  the  hope  that 
one  day  soon  we  shall  gather  here  to  celebrate  the 
inclusion of the free and independent State of Palestine 
among the family of nations. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  I  have  the  pleasure  of 

addressing  the  General  Assembly  on  this  important 
occasion on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.  

International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People, which provides 
a  special  opportunity  for  the  international  community 
to reaffirm its support for the legitimate endeavours of 
the  Palestinians  to  restore  and  fully  exercise  their 
inalienable rights, foremost among which is the right to 
establish an independent, sovereign and viable State of 
Palestine  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  The 
Movement  believes  that  the  achievement  of  such  a 
lofty  goal  should  be  based  on  the  two-State  solution, 
the  relevant  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions,  the  Madrid  principles  and  the Arab  Peace 
Initiative. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  therefore  calls  for 
the early resumption of the peace process. It regrets the 
lack  of  progress  that  has  been  made,  despite  the 
international  consensus  on  the  urgent  need  for  peace 
and 
international 
community to achieve a just and lasting solution to the 
question  of  Palestine  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the 
increased  efforts  by 
Today  we  mark 
the 
the 
the 
10 

09-62352 
the  occupying  Power,  has  not  ceased 


Middle East region. Regrettably, no progress has been 
made,  owing  to  Israel’s  continued  defiance  of  United 
Nations  resolutions  and  international  law,  including 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law.  The 
international  community  must  not  waver  in  its  calls 
upon  Israel  to  cease  its  violations  and  to  return  to 
negotiations in good faith. 

Since the consideration of the agenda item on the 
question of Palestine by the General Assembly in 2008, 
Israel, 
its 
unlawful practices in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  its  collective  punishment  of  the  Palestinian 
people  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  its  illegal  settlement 
activities in the West Bank. Moreover, Israel has used 
excessive  and  indiscriminate  force  against  Palestinian 
civilians  and  has  committed  grave  breaches  of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law, 
as  described  by  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  the  United  Nations 
Headquarters  Board  of  Inquiry  and  the  independent 
fact-finding  mission  of  the  League  of  Arab  States. 
Israel’s  activities  have  had  a  negative  impact  on  the 
conducive environment needed to achieve the objective 
of  peace.  They  have  also  affected  endeavours  to 
resume  negotiations  and  reach  an  agreement  on  final 
status core issues. 
Israel  is  continuing  to  impede  efforts  to  resume 

the  Palestinian 
peace  negotiations  by  oppressing 
people, refusing to stop settlement activities and trying 
to impose unilateral solutions by creating new facts on 
the  ground  whose  aim  is  to  alter  the  status  and 
character  of  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including 
East  Jerusalem.  Israel  does  not  refrain  from  measures 
that  prejudice  the  outcome  of  negotiations  on  final 
status  issues,  namely,  those  of  Jerusalem,  settlements, 
refugees,  borders,  security  and  water.  Such  illegal 
measures  undermine  confidence,  inflame  tensions  on 
the  ground,  prevent  any  progress  and  raise  questions 
about Israel’s credibility as a partner for peace. 
Israel is continuing its illegal settlement activities 

in  the  West  Bank,  in  particular  in  and  around  East 
Jerusalem.  It  is  also  intensifying  its  confiscation  of 
Palestinian  land,  expanding  settlements,  transferring 
Israeli  settlers,  constructing  the  wall  and  engaging  in 
other  destructive  measures, 
including  demolishing 
more  Palestinian  homes,  in  an  attempt  to  annex  de 
facto  more  Palestinian  territory.  All  of  that  is  being 
done  in  grave  breach  of  international  law,  United 
Nations resolutions and Israel’s commitments under the 
A/64/PV.51
through 
road  map,  which  clearly  call  upon  Israel  to  freeze  all 
settlement  activities,  including  as  a  result  of  natural 
growth,  and 
to  dismantle  all  settlement  outposts 
established since March 2001.  

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  continues  to  have 
grave concerns in that regard. It also wishes to raise a 
warning  with  regard  to  the  effects  of  Israel’s  ongoing 
policy  and  the  prospects  for  achieving  a  two-State 
solution  and  establishing  a  viable  Palestinian  State. 
Furthermore,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  is  alarmed 
about the latest illegal Israeli measures in the occupied 
West  Bank,  including  its  approval  of  the  construction 
of  900  additional  new  housing  units  in  the  Gilo 
settlement,  south  of  East  Jerusalem.  That  contradicts 
the internationally supported objective of resolving the 
conflict 
the  peace  process.  Settlement 
activities undermine the possibility of realizing a two-
State solution. The Non-Aligned Movement would like 
to draw the attention of the international community to 
the  fact  that  Israeli  settlement  expansion  in  occupied 
East Jerusalem is accelerating at an unprecedented rate. 
That  expansion  requires  the  demolition  of  Palestinian 
homes  and  the  eviction  and  displacement  of  hundreds 
of Palestinian families in a flagrant and illegal attempt 
to alter the demographic composition, status and nature 
of  the  city  and  to  pre-empt  any  final  solution  to  the 
conflict. 
in  occupied  East 

Jerusalem,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  would  like  to 
express its grave alarm and warn against the continued 
and persistent attacks by extremist and militant Israeli 
settlers,  with  the  protection  of  Israeli  forces,  against 
Palestinian  worshippers  at  the  Islamic  holy  sites  of 
Al-Haram  Al-Sharif  and  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque.  Such 
attacks pose a threat and constitute a provocation in an 
already volatile situation in the occupied city.  

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  expresses  its  grave 
concern  that,  in  defiance  of  the  clear  international 
in 
consensus  rejecting  Israeli 
occupied  East  Jerusalem,  Israel 
to 
construct  settlements  in  the  city  and,  inter  alia,  to 
demolish Palestinian homes, evict Palestinian families, 
confiscate  their  land  and  property  and  carry  out 
excavations in the city, including in the vicinity of the 
Al-Haram Al-Sharif compound. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  condemns  Israel’s 
continuing provocations and illegal actions against the 
city’s holy sites and against its Palestinian inhabitants, 
illegal  colonization 
is  continuing 
Concerning 
the  situation 
09-62352 

11 

in 
of 
for 
Israel 
is  also  continuing 
violation 
A/64/PV.51 

who are living under foreign occupation. Furthermore, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  that  it  deplores 
all  Israeli  actions  and  provocative  measures  aimed  at 
altering 
the  demographic  composition,  geographic 
nature,  character  and 
status  of  occupied  East 
Jerusalem.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  believes  that 
the  time  has  come  for  the  Security  Council  to 
pronounce  itself  and  to  take  a  clear  position  and 
serious  actions  with  regard  to  Israel’s  violations  in 
occupied East Jerusalem. 

The  situation  in  Gaza  also  continues  to  be  a 
matter  of  grave  concern 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  We  have  repeatedly  stressed  the  fact  that 
the  current  situation  in  Gaza  is  unacceptable  and 
unsustainable  and  has  negative  repercussions  on  all 
efforts to advance the peace process. By closing all its 
crossing points to Gaza, Israel is continuing to impose 
a  blockade  on  the  Palestinian  civilian  population, 
thereby depriving it of its humanitarian needs.  
to  prevent  Gaza’s 

reconstruction, 
international 
humanitarian  law  and  United  Nations  resolutions, 
including Security Council resolution 1860 (2009) and 
the  resolution  adopted  at  the  resumption  of  the  tenth 
emergency  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
(ES-10/18)  on  15  and  16  January  2009.  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement 
Israel 
immediately  lift  its  illegal  blockade  and  allow  for  the 
immediate  and  sustained  opening  of  all  border 
crossings  to  alleviate  the  humanitarian  crisis  and  to 
achieve the urgent early recovery and reconstruction of 
the Gaza Strip. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  stresses  the  urgent 
need  for  reconstruction  to  begin  in  Gaza,  including 
through the implementation of the Secretary-General’s 
proposal for the commencement of United Nations-led 
civilian reconstruction activities and the completion of 
numerous  suspended  projects  managed  by  United 
Nations  agencies  working  on  the  ground  despite  the 
availability  of  funds.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
regrets  the  continued  obstruction  of  the  import  of 
essential reconstruction materials into Gaza as a result 
of the ongoing Israeli blockade. 

A peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine 
requires  a  rapid  response  and  intensive  efforts  by  the 
international community to rectify the unlawful current 
situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  and  to 
commit  Israel  to  comply  with  its  obligations  under 
demands 
that 
its 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  calls  upon 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  believes  that  respect  for 
international law will bring about a real change in the 
situation  and  create  the  appropriate  environment  for 
pursuing  the  negotiation  of  a  final,  just  and  lasting 
settlement  that  will  bring  the  peace,  stability  and 
coexistence  that  our  long-troubled  region  needs  and 
deserves. 

the 
Security Council to act in conjunction with the General 
Assembly  to  fulfil  its  permanent  responsibility  with 
regard  to  the  question  of  Palestine  until  it  is  resolved 
through  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State, 
thereby fulfilling the vision of a two-State solution. 

In  conclusion,  the  question  of  Palestine  and  the 
Middle East peace process is now at a crucial juncture. 
Fulfilling  the  vision  of  the  two-State  solution  of 
Palestine  and  Israel  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security  is  the  only  way  to  settle  the  question  of 
Palestine and to restore peace in the Middle East. The 
Non-Aligned  Movement  supports  the  achievement  of 
the two-State solution and will continue to support the 
Palestinian  people  and 
their 
endeavours to bring an end to the long-standing Israeli 
occupation,  which  began  in  1967,  through  a  just, 
lasting  and  peaceful  solution  in  accordance  with 
international law and United Nations resolutions. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian Arab  Republic):  I  have  the 

honour  to  make  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). 
The OIC would like to express its serious concern 

about  the  grave  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  in  particular  the  continuing  inhuman  Israeli 
blockade  and 
the  dire  humanitarian  crisis  being 
imposed  on  the  Palestinian  civilian  population  in  the 
Gaza Strip, as well as the ongoing illegal colonization 
campaign  being  carried  out  by  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power, in and around Al-Quds Al-Sharif. 
The  international  community  has  witnessed  and 

condemned 
intensifying 
colonization  measures  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, 
the 
persistent  aggression  against  Islamic  and  Christian 
holy places in Al-Quds Al-Sharif, the transfer of more 
Israeli  settlers,  the  continued  construction  of  the 
separation  wall  in  and  around  the  holy  city,  which 
includes  changing  its  demographic  and  geographic 
character, the restrictions on the freedom of movement 
settlement  activities, 
the  ongoing 
leadership 
Israel’s 
illegal 
and 
in 
12 

09-62352 
in  1967, 


of  Palestinian  citizens,  their  unlawful  detention,  the 
demolition of Palestinian houses and, in particular, the 
continued excavation work  in and around the Al-Aqsa 
mosque. 

The OIC emphasizes that the question of the holy 
Al-Haram Al-Sharif in Al-Quds Al-Sharif is a red line 
that  cannot  be  addressed  with  laxity  or  be  the  subject 
of  any  debate.  Any  prejudice  to  the  holy  Al-Aqsa 
mosque  will  have  very  serious  repercussions  for  the 
Islamic world and is likely to destabilize the region. 
The  OIC  affirms  its  unwavering  support  for  the 

stand of the State of Palestine based on a commitment 
to  the  right  of  sovereignty  over  Palestinian  territories 
occupied 
including  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif, 
Al-Haram Al-Sharif and all Christian and Muslim holy 
places  that  are  part  of  the  Palestinian  territories 
occupied  since  4  June  1967.  It  also  emphasizes  that 
Al-Quds  is  the  capital  of  the  independent  State  of 
Palestine. In that regard, the OIC rejects any attempt to 
undermine  the  Palestinian  right  of  sovereignty  over 
Al-Quds Al-Sharif. 
We  strongly  condemn  the  recent  attacks  by  the 

settlers 
Israeli  occupying 
perpetrated 
and 
worshippers  at  Al-Aqsa  mosque  and  the  Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif  compound  in  occupied  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif. 
Our  group  reiterates  its  condemnation  of  Israel’s 
persistent  aggression  against  Islamic  and  Christian 
holy  places  in  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  and  against  the 
Palestinian inhabitants of the holy city. That aggression 
continues 
tensions  and  mounting 
difficulties for the Palestinian inhabitants of the city in 
all spheres of life.  

That  ongoing  aggression  is  a  new  chapter  in  the 
constant  saga  of  terror  committed  by  Israel,  the 
occupying  Power.  This  current  aggression  began  on 
27 September  2009  with  Israel’s  excavation  activity, 
which  seeks  to  undermine  the  symbolic  and  sacred 
significance  of  the  city  for  Muslims  throughout  the 
world and to the Islamic faith itself. 

Early  this  year,  the  international  community 
witnessed with horror the events in the occupied Gaza 
Strip. The Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48) confirmed 
the  international  community’s  worst  fears  about  the 
commission  of  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity,  including  wilful  killings,  deliberate  attacks 
on  civilian  objects,  the  wanton  destruction  of  civilian 
property,  indiscriminate  attacks,  the  use  of  human 
forces  and  extremist 
to  cause  rising 
Palestinian 
against 
civilians 
A/64/PV.51
in 
in 
The  OIC  welcomes 
shields  and  collective  punishment  against  Gaza’s 
civilian  population 
the  form  of  a  continuing 
blockade  by  Israel  during  its  aggression  on  the  Gaza 
Strip, which continues to this very moment. 

the  General  Assembly’s 
adoption,  on  5  November  2009,  of  resolution  64/10, 
entitled “Follow-up to the report of the United Nations 
Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict”. We are of 
the  view  that  this  resolution  constitutes  an  important 
first  step  in  remedying  those  Israeli  violations,  which 
have  been  confirmed  and  authenticated 
the 
Goldstone  report.  Hence,  further  action  is  yet  to  be 
taken  by  the  relevant  organs  and  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations, including by the Security Council, in order to 
bring the Israeli perpetrators of those crimes to justice 
and  to  put  an  end  to  Israel’s  impunity  and  above-the-
law attitude. 

Israel  has  left  behind  much  more  than  dead  and 
injured Palestinians in the  bleeding Gaza Strip. Israeli 
jets, tanks and battleships could see only one target on 
their  radar  screens  —  civilians  —  and  yet  they  fired. 
That was documented by a United Nations team. Israel 
has  therefore  placed  the  United  Nations  in  a  situation 
in which it has either to react or to tell us why it does 
not. 
The  OIC  remains  deeply  concerned  by  Israel’s 

ongoing  air  and 
land  violations  of  Lebanon’s 
sovereignty,  in  breach  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1701 (2006). The OIC calls on Israel to withdraw fully 
from  the  remaining  Lebanese  occupied  land  in  the 
Shab’a  Farms,  the  Kfar  Shouba  hills  and  the  northern 
part of the village of Al-Ghajar. 

The  OIC  also  reaffirms  that  all  measures  and 
actions  taken  or  to  be  taken  by  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power,  to  alter  the  legal,  physical  and  demographic 
status of the occupied Syrian Golan and its institutional 
structure  or  to  impose  jurisdiction  and  administration 
there  are  null  and  void  and  have  no  legal  effect.  The 
OIC  demands  that  Israel  abide  by  Security  Council 
resolution  497  (1981)  and  withdraw  fully  from  the 
occupied Syrian Golan to the lines of 4  June 1967, in 
implementation  also  of  Security  Council  resolutions 
242 (1967) and 338 (1973). 

The OIC calls for an intensification of efforts by 
the  international  community  aimed  at  accelerating  the 
process  of  achieving  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace 
settlement on the basis of the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference,  including 
09-62352 

13 
rights, 
including 
their 
right 
of 
combination 
process.  The 
the  establishment  of 
the  Palestinian  people  of 
A/64/PV.51 

the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  and  the  Road  Map.  In  that  regard,  the  OIC 
reiterates  its  firm  and  unwavering  support  for  the  just 
cause  of  Palestine.  The  OIC  calls  for  the  speedy 
their 
realization  by 
to  self-
inalienable 
determination,  with 
their 
independent State of Palestine, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif 
as  its  capital,  and  a  just  solution  to  the  plight  of  the 
Palestine refugees on the basis of resolution 194 (III). 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  Turkey, 
Croatia,  the  former Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, Iceland, Ukraine and the 
Republic  of  Moldova  align  themselves  with  this 
statement. 

The  European  Union  continues  to  be  concerned 
about the current lack of movement in the Middle East 
peace 
negative 
developments on the ground and limited achievements 
in the diplomatic efforts is dangerous. At this juncture, 
relaunched negotiations and positive movement on the 
ground  are  urgently  needed 
to  create  hope  and 
strengthen the hand of those working for peace. If we 
fail, the responsibility will be for all of us to bear, and 
the consequences will also be felt widely. 

The  European  Union  remains  committed  to  a 
comprehensive settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict on 
the basis of international law, the relevant resolutions of 
the  Security  Council,  the  terms  of  reference  of  the 
Madrid  Conference,  including  the  principle  of  land  for 
peace, the Road Map, the agreements previously reached 
by the parties and the Arab Peace Initiative. We reiterate 
the need to ensure a political solution, with two states — 
Israel  and  an 
independent,  democratic  and  viable 
Palestinian  State  —  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security.  We  welcome 
States 
Administration’s  commitment  to  pursuing  vigorously 
the two-State solution and comprehensive peace in the 
Middle  East.  The  European  Union  is  ready  to  work 
with  the  parties  to  the  conflict  as  well  as  with  the 
United  States,  other  Quartet  members  and  Arab 
partners to achieve that goal. The two-State solution is 
the road to future security for both peoples.  

Both parties must now take concrete measures to 
resume  peace  negotiations,  while  respecting  previous 
agreements  and  understandings.  The  continuing 
settlement  activities,  house  demolitions  and  evictions 
the  United 

that 
the  settlements  are 
in the occupied Palestinian territories, including in East 
Jerusalem,  remain  a  serious  concern  for  the  European 
Union.  We  urge  the  Government  of  Israel  to  end 
immediately  those  settlement  activities,  including  so-
called  natural  growth,  and  to  dismantle  all  outposts 
erected  since  March  2001.  The  European  Union 
reiterates 
illegal  under 
international  law  and  constitute  an  obstacle  to  peace. 
The EU will not recognize any changes to the pre-1967 
borders other than those agreed by both parties. 

A  durable  solution  to  the  Gaza  crisis  has  to  be 
achieved  through  the  full  implementation  of  Security 
Council  resolution  1860  (2009).  The  European  Union 
remains  gravely  concerned  at 
the  humanitarian 
situation  in  Gaza  and  calls  for  the  immediate  and 
unconditional  opening  of  crossings  to  the  flow  of 
humanitarian  aid,  commercial  goods  and  persons  to 
and from Gaza. Reconstruction and economic recovery 
have to be allowed. An effective mechanism to prevent 
ammunition  smuggling  into  the  Gaza  Strip  must  also 
be  established.  The  European  Union  calls  for  a 
complete stop to all violence, including a sustained halt 
to rocket attacks against Israel. We reiterate our call on 
those  holding  the  abducted  Israeli  soldier  Gilad  Shalit 
to release him without delay. 

The European Union is also very concerned about 
the  recent  incidents  in  East  Jerusalem.  We  have  been 
following  closely  the  situation  around  the  Al-Aqsa 
mosque  and  the  Temple  Mount/Al-Haram  Al-Sharif. 
We  urge  all  parties  to  refrain  from  any  provocative 
actions  that  could  further  inflame  tensions  or  lead  to 
violence.  Everyone  must 
to  avoid 
escalation. If there is to be genuine peace, a way must 
be found to resolve the status of Jerusalem as the future 
capital of two States. 

This  year,  as  we  commemorate  the  sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  four  Geneva  Conventions,  the 
European Union reiterates the importance it attaches to 
the  Geneva  Conventions,  which,  together  with  their 
Additional  Protocols,  form  the  heart  of  international 
humanitarian  law.  We  call  on  all  parties  to  stop 
incitement  and  violence  against  civilians.  Respect  for 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law 
must be ensured. The European Union emphasizes the 
importance  of  appropriate  and  credible  investigations 
into  possible  violations  of  international  human  rights 
law and international humanitarian law. 
take  action 
14 

09-62352 
look  forward 



The  European  Union  calls  upon  the  Palestinians 
to  step  up  the  intra-Palestinian  reconciliation  efforts 
behind  President  Mahmoud  Abbas.  We  support  the 
mediation  by  Egypt  and 
the  Arab  League.  The 
European  Union  will  continue  to  promote  Palestinian 
State-building  and  will  intensify  work  on  reforms,  in 
partnership  with  the  Palestinian Authority. The  efforts 
of the Palestinian Authority to develop an effective and 
reformed  security  sector  are  positive.  We  will 
cooperate  towards  additional  improvement.  Civilian 
police  and  the  judicial  sector  will  continue  to  be  a 
focus of European Union support. 

The  declared  readiness  of  the  Government  of 
Israel to promote Palestinian economic development is 
a  positive  sign.  This  should  be  carried  out  within  the 
framework of the broader perspective of the two-State 
solution.  The  European  Union  welcomes  the  positive 
steps  taken  by  the  Israeli  authorities  regarding  the 
easing  of  restrictions  on  the  West  Bank.  The  ongoing 
limitations of freedom of movement in the West Bank 
the  human  rights  situation.  We 
negatively  affect 
therefore 
to  further  and  sustained 
improvements  of  movement  and  access  in  all  of  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories.  The  Agreement  on 
Movement  and  Access  of  2005  must  be 
fully 
implemented.  The  European  Union  is  ready  to  work 
closely  with  Israel,  the  Palestinian  Authority  and 
international  donors 
the 
sustainable 
development of the Palestinian economy. 

The European Union will contribute substantially 
to  post-conflict  arrangements  aimed  at  ensuring  the 
sustainability  of  peace  agreements  and  addressing  the 
regional economic and security dimensions. We call on 
to 
all  partners 
contribute 
a 
comprehensive  settlement.  In  the  light  of  further 
developments at the political level and on the ground, 
the  European  Union  stands  ready  to  support  concrete 
and  early  results  on  the  path  to  a  comprehensive 
settlement of the conflict. 
Mr.  Salam  (Lebanon):  Does  one  need  to  recall 

that  the  principle  of  the  self-determination  of  peoples 
is  among  the  fundamental  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations,  as  enshrined  in  Chapter  I,  Article  1,  of  the 
Charter?  Does  one  need  to  recall  that  the  principle  of 
the  self-determination  of  peoples  was  confirmed  by 
this Assembly in its resolution 637 (VII) of 1952 on the 
right of people and nations to self-determination; in its 
to 
Declaration  on 
international  community 
to 
achievement  of 
the  Granting  of  Independence 
to  achieve 
actively 
the 
the 
in 
A/64/PV.51
has 
become 
Self-determination 
Colonial  Countries  and  Peoples,  adopted  in  1960  as 
resolution 1514 (XV); in its resolution 1803 (XVII) of 
1962 on permanent sovereignty over natural resources; 
and  in  its  Declaration  of  Principles  of  International 
Law  concerning  Friendly  Relations  and  Co-operation 
Among  States  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  which  was  unanimously  adopted  as 
resolution  2625  (XXV)  in  1970  and  is  considered  an 
expression of customary international law? 

Moreover,  does  one  need  to  recall  that  common 
article  1  of  both 
the  International  Covenant  on 
Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights  and 
the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
reaffirms the right of all peoples to self-determination? 

almost 
synonymous  with  the  long  struggle  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  exercise  their  internationally  recognized 
inalienable  rights,  including  the  right  to  national 
independence and sovereignty and the right to return to 
the  homes  and  property  from  which  they  have  been 
uprooted.  The  mere  fact,  however,  that  this Assembly 
has  been  meeting  on  a  yearly  basis  since  1978  to 
celebrate  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People  is  in  itself  an  indication  of  the 
enormity  of  the  obstacles  preventing  the  Palestinian 
people 
from 
self-
determination. 

The aforementioned resolutions of this Assembly 
convey  upon  States  not  only  the  obligation  to  respect 
the principle of self-determination, but also the duty to 
refrain  from  actions  which  deprive  peoples  of  such  a 
right.  In  this  case,  however,  not  only  has  Israel  failed 
to  withdraw  from  the  Palestinian  territories  that  it 
occupied  in  1967,  as  per  its  legal  obligations  under 
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338 
(1973), but it has also been creating a series of facts on 
the  ground  in  the  occupied  territories  in  the  form  of 
security 
and 
checkpoints,  not  to  mention  the  annexation  of  East 
Jerusalem  and  the  erection  of  the  wall,  which  all 
prevent the Palestinian people from exercising its right 
to self-determination. 

The  magnitude  of  these  facts  on  the  ground  is 
well  illustrated  by  the  size  and  growth  of  settlement 
activities  in  the  occupied  territories.  So-called  official 
settlements have recently exceeded 120, in addition to 
some  100  so-called  unofficial  outposts.  According  to 
the Israeli Information Center for Human Rights in the 
settlements,  bypass 
exercising 
zones, 
roads 
right 
their 
to 
09-62352 

15 

in  East  Jerusalem.  It 
A/64/PV.51 

Occupied Territories, B’Tselem, the number of settlers 
in the West Bank by the end of 2008 stood at 479,000, 
including  193,000 
is  also 
noteworthy  that  by  2008,  the  settler  population  — 
excluding  East  Jerusalem  —  had  grown  at  a  much 
faster rate than the general population of Israel: 4.7 per 
cent  compared  to  1.6  per  cent,  respectively. The  same 
was true in 2007. 

Mr. Cabral (Guinea-Bissau), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
In  addition,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in 

its  Advisory  Opinion  of  July  2004  found  that  vast 
sections  of  the  wall  that  are  on  occupied  Palestinian 
territory  
“severely  impede[s]  the  exercise  by  the 

Palestinian  people  of 
self-
determination,  and  is  therefore  a  breach  of 
Israel’s obligation to respect that right”.  
right 
its 
to 
the  Advisory  Opinion  was 
The Court ruled that Israel is legally obliged to “return 
the  land,  orchards,  olive  groves  and  other  immovable 
property seized”.  
However,  five  years  on,  construction  of  the  wall 

continues,  with  approximately  200  kilometres  built 
since 
rendered. 
Approximately 58 per cent of the 709-kilometre wall is 
complete;  a  further  10  per  cent  is  under  construction 
and  31.5  per  cent  is  planned.  The  total  area  located 
between  the  wall  and  the  Green  Line  amounts  to 
9.5 per  cent  of  the  West  Bank.  When  completed,  the 
majority of the route, or approximately 85 per cent of 
it,  will  run  inside  the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem 
rather  than  along  the  1949  armistice  line. Also,  when 
completed,  this  wall  will  be  four  times  as  long  as  the 
no-less-infamous 
was 
155 kilometres  long.  Reaching  in  places  a  height  of 
8 metres,  it  will  also  be  twice  as  high  as  the  Berlin 
wall, the average height of which was 3.6 metres. 

Until such time as it complies with its obligations 
to  withdraw  from  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
thus removing the main impediment to the Palestinian 
people  exercising  their  right  to  self-determination, 
Israel’s  duties  as  the  occupying  Power  in  the  West 
Bank  and  Gaza  shall  remain  those  described  under 
international humanitarian law as set out in The Hague 
Regulations and the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War. This has 
been reaffirmed in repeated resolutions by the General 
Berlin  Wall, 
which 
the 
collective 
punishment, 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  by  the  high 
contracting  parties  to  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention 
and  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  its 
Advisory Opinion on the wall. 

However,  since  1967,  Israel,  as  an  occupying 
Power,  has  constantly  and  systematically  violated  its 
basic duties under international humanitarian law. Such 
violations  have  included  the  annexation  of  land,  the 
transfer  of 
punitive  demolition  of  houses, 
populations, 
political 
assassinations and the use of torture. 

In  addition,  based  on  evidence  gathered  by 
internationally  respected  human  rights  organizations, 
such  as  Amnesty  International  and  Human  Rights 
Watch,  and  by 
the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  led  by  Judge  Richard 
Goldstone, 
Israel  has  been  charged  with  grave 
violations  of  human  rights  and  with  a  number  of  war 
crimes  in  its  conduct  of  military  operations  in  the 
occupied  territories.  Those  include  failing  to  protect 
civilian  populations;  deliberately  attacking  civilian 
targets;  the  premeditated  killing  of  civilians;  denying 
medical aid to wounded Palestinians; firing at civilians 
carrying  white  flags;  carrying  out  attacks  on  the 
foundations  of  civilian  life,  such  as  the  destruction  of 
food  production,  water 
industrial 
infrastructure, 
installations  and  sewage 
treatment  plants;  using 
Palestinian  civilians  as  human  shields;  detaining 
civilians, including women and children, in humiliating 
and  degrading 
arbitrarily  depriving 
Palestinians  of  liberty  and  violating  their  due  process 
rights; and using phosphorus bombs in residential areas 
and using dense inert metal explosive munitions. 

For too long, Israel has systematically challenged 
the  will  of  this Assembly.  For  too  long,  it  has  shown 
flagrant  disrespect  for  international  law.  For  too  long, 
its war criminals have benefited from impunity. 

Seeking  to  reverse  this  trend,  earlier  this  month 
this  Assembly  demonstrated  resolve  by  endorsing  the 
report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48),  led  by  Justice 
Richard  Goldstone.  More  resolve  will  be  needed, 
however, if we are one day to celebrate the fact that we 
no longer need an International Day of Solidarity with 
the Palestinian People. My delegation is confident that 
this day will come because the cause of the Palestinian 
People  is  just  and  because  international  law  must 
ultimately prevail. 
conditions; 
16 

09-62352 


Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): For 

over  three  decades  now,  the  General  Assembly  has 
identified the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as the core of 
the  problem  in  the  Middle  East  and  has  put  forward 
proposals for its settlement.  

Today,  as  we  celebrate  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  reaffirm  Algeria’s  unfailing  solidarity 
with the Palestinian people in their struggle to exercise 
their inalienable rights, first and foremost their right to 
establish  in  their  land  an  independent,  sovereign  and 
viable  State  with Al-Quds Al-Sharif  as  its  capital,  on 
the  basis  of  the  pertinent  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council and in line with the 
principles underpinning the Arab Peace Initiative.  

When  faced  with  the  clear  framework  for  the 
settlement  of  this  conflict  based  on  the  principles  of 
international  law  and  international  legality,  Israel’s 
response has always been one of defiance of the efforts 
of  the  international  community  and  disdain  for  its 
peace  partner.  This  negative  trend  attained  its  peak 
during  the  horrifying  military  aggression  by  Israel 
against  the  defensive  population  of  the  Gaza  Strip. 
That  aggression  caused  the  deaths  of  over  1,400 
Palestinian 
of  whom  were 
non-combatants, including women and children, not to 
mention  the  thousands  of  injured  and  the  essential 
infrastructure  that  was  totally  or  partially  destroyed. 
That  serious  situation  was  created  deliberately  and 
leads  us  to  note  that  the  peace  process  has  been 
completely  deadlocked  since  the  General  Assembly 
examined  the  question  of  Palestine  at  its  sixty-third 
session. 

Achieving  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle 
East  is  a  shared  goal  of  the  international  community, 
which  has  spared  no  effort  in  seeking  to  patiently 
define a negotiated settlement framework that depends 
on the good faith of both parties in question and cedes 
no  ground 
the  Palestinian  people’s 
inalienable rights.  

Despite the declared commitment to lasting peace 
based  on  a  two-State  solution,  over  the  past  year  we 
have witnessed Israel’s continued application of illegal 
and aggressive policies and practices, which all seek to 
torpedo an already fragile peace process. The impact of 
Israel’s  aggression  against  the  Palestinian  people  in 
Gaza  has  become 
the 
incontrovertible  truth  of  pictures  taken  and  reports 
tragically  obvious,  given 
civilians,  most 
terms  of 
in 
A/64/PV.51
led 
imposed  by 
drawn up by  United Nations bodies. This should have 
prompted the international community, in particular the 
Security Council, to play a more decisive role, first in 
putting  an  end  to  the  aggression,  and  then  in  pushing 
for a peaceful and definitive solution to the conflict.  

Instead, the reaction was only one of vague moral 
disapproval that failed to sway Israel in the pursuit of 
its  concealed  designs.  The  international  community 
must  not  continue  to  tolerate  such  impunity.  The  law 
must prevail once again. The General Assembly, for its 
part, in adopting resolution 64/10 on the conclusions of 
the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48), has shown a way 
forward that does not depend on the abhorrent practice 
of applying double standards. 

All the reports of United Nations bodies highlight 
the  disturbing  deterioration  of  the  situation  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories  due  to  the  illegal  and 
destructive policies and practices adopted by Israel, the 
occupying  Power.  In  Gaza,  the  complete  and  ongoing 
blockade 
to  some 
Israel  has 
particularly worrisome developments.  

More  than  10  months  after  Israel’s  destructive 
military  aggression,  the  Palestinian  population  is  still 
living  in  a  state  of  siege,  with  limited  freedom  of 
movement,  restrictions  on  the  import  of  even  basic 
goods  and  negative  gains  in  terms  of  economic 
development.  The  intensity  of  the  conflict  and  its 
destructive  impact  have  seriously  exacerbated  the 
humanitarian 
environmental 
degradation,  health  problems  and  a  deterioration  in 
food security.  

the 
Palestinian  people  in  Gaza,  and  in  the  light  of 
established  international  standards,  this  situation  is 
unacceptable.  In  particular,  it  runs  counter  to  the 
provisions of Security Council resolution 1860 (2009). 
The Council should, with no further hesitation, call for 
the  criminal  and 
lifted, 
immediately and unconditionally. 
the  West  Bank  and  East 

Jerusalem 
is 
continuing  its  illegal  settlement  activities,  particularly 
in  and  around  Jerusalem,  stepping  up  its  confiscation 
of Palestinian lands, its destruction and seizure of their 
houses, and expanding settlements and moving settlers 
with the clear goal of creating fait accompli situations, 
particularly since, in violation of the advisory opinion 
of 9 July 2004 of the International Court of Justice, the 
is  also  extremely  worrying.  Israel 
the  heavy  sacrifices  made  by 
illegal  blockade 
The  situation 
crisis, 
causing 
Given 
to  be 
in 
09-62352 

17 

the 
Israeli-Palestinian 
the  draft  resolution  on 
of 
A/64/PV.51 

wall  of  separation  that  Israel  continues  to  build 
deviates clearly from the 1967 Green Line and crosses 
into  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  in  the  West 
Bank.  Algeria  firmly  condemns  Israel’s  provocations 
and  illegal  actions  against  Jerusalem’s  holy  sites, 
aimed at changing the city’s demographic composition 
and  status.  We  appeal  to  the  Security  Council  to 
shoulder  its  responsibility  and  require  Israel  with  the 
utmost urgency to immediately lift the illegal blockade 
of  Gaza  and  bring  a  complete  halt  to  the  settlements 
and  their  expansion,  and  to  adopt  the  necessary 
decisions  to  deal  with  Israel’s  provocative  measures, 
particularly  in  Jerusalem,  that  seek  to  strip  the  peace 
process of its substance. 

The quest for a negotiated solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict must be based on the principles of 
international  law  and  the  conditions  and  parameters 
the  peaceful 
defined 
in 
settlement 
conflict 
(A/64/L.23)  that  will  be  adopted  at  the  end  of  our 
work. The international community is within its rights 
to  demand  that  the  global  rejection  of  these  barbaric 
acts should be reflected in binding decisions on Israel 
by  the  Security  Council.  The  United  Nations  should 
also implement standards concerning the protection of 
civilians  in  armed  conflict  in  order  to  protect  the 
civilian  population  of  Palestine,  who  have  been 
subjected to collective punishment. 

Only  by  ensuring  that  these  parameters  are 
implemented  on  the  ground  and  by  stepping  up 
demands  with 
to 
international  law  will  our  Organization  restore  its 
credibility  and  encourage  the  Middle  East  peace 
process by protecting it from power struggles and faits 
accomplis. 
Mr.  Hoang  Chi  Trung  (Viet  Nam):  To  begin, 

allow  me,  on  the  occasion  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  to  convey  the 
warmest  greetings  of  the  Government  and  people  of 
Viet Nam to the Government and people of Palestine. 

The Vietnamese  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The  question  of  Palestine  remains  the  oldest 
unresolved issue on the agenda of the United Nations. 
For  many  decades  now,  the  Palestinian  people  have 
continued to be deprived of their inalienable rights and 
to undergo much suffering and sacrifice. This year has 
the  Charter  and 
respect 
to 
that 
territory, 
Palestinian 
to  reiterate 
settlement  activity, 
Our  delegation  wishes 
in 
the  ongoing 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
been marked by the steady deterioration of the security, 
economic  and  humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  by 
the  breakdown  of  the  political  process.  It  is  truly 
heartrending  to  see  more  lives  of  innocent  Palestinian 
and  Israeli  civilians  lost  or  harmed  in  this  conflict. 
Despite  unanimous  appeals  by  the  world  community, 
the  Israeli  authorities  continue  to  move  ahead  with 
their  policies  of  occupation,  settlement  expansion  and 
territory, 
blockade 
including 
land 
confiscation and destruction of Palestinians’ homes and 
property in and around East Jerusalem. Those measures 
have  seriously  affected  the  legal,  demographic  and 
cultural character and status of the city, threatening to 
destroy  the  fragile  hopes  for  the  restoration  of  the 
peace  process  as  well  as  the  search  for  a  two-State 
solution to the long-running conflict. 

the 
settlements  and  the  wall  constructed  by  Israel  in  the 
occupied 
including  East 
Jerusalem,  are  contrary  to  international  law  and  to 
numerous  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General Assembly as well as the provisions of the road 
map.  We  call  upon  Israel  to  immediately  cease  all  its 
illegal  settlement  activity, 
including  construction 
related  to  natural  growth,  and  to  dismantle  settlement 
outposts and refrain from provocative actions. 

Viet  Nam  has  expressed  its  profound  concerns 
over  the  findings  contained  in  the  Goldstone  Report 
(A/HRC/12/48)  regarding 
the  accusations  of  war 
crimes,  as  well  as  other  violations  of  international 
humanitarian law, committed during the Gaza conflict. 
In  this  context,  we  welcome  the  General  Assembly’s 
adoption  on  5  November  of  resolution  64/10,  which 
calls  on  both  Israel  and  Palestine  to  investigate  the 
accusations  of  war  crimes  committed  during 
the 
incursion  of  the  Israeli  armed  forces  into  Gaza.  We 
welcome  the  statements  made  by  the  two  sides  that 
they  will  conduct  those  investigations.  It  is  our  hope 
that  the  parties  concerned  will  do  their  utmost  to 
conduct  early  and  proper  investigations  and  bring 
justice to the victims. 
In  addition,  we  wish  to  urge  the  Palestinian 

factions  to  make  greater  efforts  to  promote  national 
reconciliation  and  to  rally  behind  the  Palestinian 
National Authority for a Government of national unity 
and future statehood. We also call for early resumption 
of the permanent status negotiations between Israel and 
18 

09-62352 
in 
On 
including, 
resolutions, 
is  especially 
their  heroic  and 
this  occasion,  my  delegation  wishes 


Palestine.  In  this  connection,  the  continued  strong 
support  of  the  international  community  is  crucial  in 
order to get the peace process back on track and enable 
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations to move forward on all 
core issues. We thus support the collective efforts and 
all peace initiatives of the United Nations, the Quartet, 
the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the  international 
community in the quest for a two-State solution based 
on  internationally  recognized  guidelines  such  as  the 
road  map,  the  Annapolis  outcomes,  the  principle  of 
land  for  peace,  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  relevant 
Security  Council 
recently, 
resolutions 1850 (2008) and 1860 (2009). 

to 
reiterate the consistent support of the Government and 
people of Viet Nam for the just cause of the Palestinian 
people 
tireless  struggle  for 
independence, sovereignty and statehood. 
Mr.  Shalgham  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  This  meeting 
important 
because  it  is  the  first  held  to  consider  this  item  since 
the  adoption  on  5  November  2009  of  General 
Assembly  resolution  64/10  on  the  report  of  the  Fact-
Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict. That document, 
the  Goldstone  Report,  called  for  an  impartial  and 
independent  investigation  into  violations  of  human 
rights  and  war  crimes  against  civilians  in  the  Gaza 
Strip. It seems that the Israeli authorities will deal with 
this  as  they  have  dealt  with  previous  resolutions, 
because Israel believes it is a State above the law and 
cannot be held accountable or subjected to punishment. 
Instead of trying to achieve progress on the ground and 
improve  conditions  for  Palestinians  —  whether  in  the 
Gaza  Strip  or  the  West  Bank  —  and  to  convince  the 
world of the need to focus on the peace process, Israel 
announced  that  it  was  allowing  the  construction  of 
900 more settlement units in East Jerusalem, in flagrant 
defiance  of 
and 
international legitimacy, thus emphasizing their lack of 
interest in the peace process. 

The  situation  in  the  region  has  plunged  to 
unprecedented  levels  of  deterioration  owing  to  the 
intransigence of the Israeli authorities and their lack of 
interest  in  negotiating  with  the  Palestinians.  The  way 
Israeli  authorities  respond  to  international  resolutions 
and calls by the international community are clear.  

The  killing  and  detention  of  Palestinians  have 
continued,  settlement  activities  have  intensified,  the 
international 
community 
the 
A/64/PV.51
for 
the  acts  of 
represented  a  continuous 
state of siege in Gaza has been reinforced, the number 
of  barriers  in  the  West  Bank  has  increased,  the 
demolition of houses continues and the building of the 
wall persists. The whole world has witnessed how the 
Israeli  army  and  the  security  forces  of  Israel  have 
provided  protection 
terrorism 
perpetuated  by  the  settlers  and  extremists  against 
that  has  resulted 
Palestinian  people.  All  of 
in 
unbearable daily living conditions for Palestinians. 

The continuation of that situation goes against the 
grain  of  what  has  been  achieved  all  over  the  world  in 
the  field  of  human  rights  since  the  adoption  of  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It undermines 
the credibility and effectiveness of the United Nations 
and  turns  the  principles  of  international  law  and  the 
values of human rights into empty slogans and tools to 
be  used  by  a  certain  country  according  to  its  interests 
and  political  objectives.  It  leads  to  a  culture  of 
violence, hatred and extremism in the region. 

Libya  is  of  the  view  that  the  international 
community must, pursuant to the letter and spirit of the 
Charter, consider and resolve the question of Palestine, 
which  has 
to 
international  peace  and  security  for  six  decades.  The 
international  community  has  to  put  an  end  to  the 
suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  the  other 
peoples  of  the  region  because  of  what  they  are 
subjected  to  in  terms  of  violations  of  human  rights, 
international law and international humanitarian law by 
the  Israeli  occupying  forces.  Those  violations  have 
reached  unprecedented  levels  in  their  atrociousness, 
scope,  duration  and  contravention  of  all  international 
norms and laws. 

Peace  efforts  aimed  at  achieving  a  two-State 
solution  have  reached  a  dead  end  because  of  Israeli 
policies  and  that  option  has,  thus,  become  unrealistic, 
especially with the disappearance of the land on which 
the Palestinians have dreamt of establishing their State 
and  the  continuation  by  Israel  of  the  confiscation  of 
Palestinian land for settlements, in clear defiance of all 
international resolutions. 

international 
community  to  seriously  consider  another  option  to 
resolve  the  question  of  Palestine,  namely,  a  solution 
that  takes  into  account  historic  experience  and  fulfils 
both  Jewish  and  Palestinian  aspirations,  namely,  the 
establishment of a single democratic State in which the 
two  peoples  coexist  with  equal  rights  and  duties.  On 
therefore 
threat 
time 
the 
for 
is 
It 
09-62352 

19 

land  and 
the  confiscation  of 
A/64/PV.51 

23 September,  that  option  was  proposed  by  Brother 
Muammar  Al-Qadhafi,  the  initiator  of  the  resolution 
before the General Assembly. We urge States to support 
that  option,  which  proved  to  be  effective  in  South 
Africa. There  is  no  other  alternative  in  light  of  Israeli 
intransigence, 
the 
continued suffering of the Palestinian people. 
Mr. Kleib (Indonesia): Let me first of all extend 

our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People  for  their  respective  reports, 
contained 
in  documents  A/64/351  and  A/64/35. 
Indonesia  fully  shares  the  observations  as  well  as  the 
recommendations contained in both reports. 

My delegation also wishes to associate itself with 
the statement delivered by the representative of Egypt 
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  the 
representative  of  Syria  on  behalf  of  the  Islamic 
Conference of Foreign Ministers. 

Today,  we  held  a  solemn  meeting  to  observe  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People.  Every  year  on  this  occasion,  the  international 
community reiterates its full support for the Palestinian 
people  in  the  exercise  of  their  inalienable  right  to 
establish a sovereign and independent State. Indonesia 
is of the view that the past year is the one of the worst 
for  the  struggle  of  the  Palestinians  to  achieve  their 
legitimate rights. 

Following  the  brief  flicker  of  hope  for  the  two-
State  solution,  arising  from  the Annapolis  Conference 
at  the  end  of  2007,  Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations 
were  soon  abandoned,  to  be  replaced  by  renewed 
violence.  We  witnessed  the  inhumane  Israeli  military 
assault in the Gaza Strip, causing immense loss of lives 
and injuries to thousands of Palestinians. 

The Goldstone report has shown that an excessive 
and  disproportionate  use  of  force  and  a  policy  of 
collective  punishment  were  intentionally  inflicted  on 
the  people  of  Gaza.  Israel  committed  a  variety  of 
crimes, 
including  war  crimes,  and  violations  of 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law, 
including  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention.  The  war  in 
Gaza  in  December  2008  and  January  2009  was  a 
deliberate  assault  aimed  at  punishing,  humiliating  and 
terrorizing a civilian population. 

That Israeli military offensive is further described 
in  the  report  issued  by  the  Special  Committee  to 
are 
those 
to 
thus, 
to 
and  demolishing 
the  greatest  obstacles 
the  separation  wall,  despite 
including  natural  growth,  and 
Investigate  Israeli  Practices  Affecting 
the  Human 
Rights of the Palestinian People and other Arabs of the 
Occupied  Territories  in  document A/64/339.  Not  only 
does  the  report  show  that  over  3,000  private  homes 
were  destroyed  during  the  conflict,  but  also  that  over 
20,000  other  homes,  hospitals,  schools,  universities, 
factories, businesses and mosques were damaged. 

Israel  is  further  extending  or  complicating  some 
of  the  final  status  issues.  It  continues  to  extend  its 
illegal  settlement  activity  in  the  West  Bank.  Contrary 
to  all  expectations,  Israel  has  failed  to  commit  to  its 
obligation  under  the  road  map  to  freeze  all  settlement 
construction, 
to 
dismantle outposts erected since March 2001. 

And in East Jerusalem, Israel has continued with 
the  odious  policy  of  evicting  Palestinians  from  their 
structures.  The 
homes 
settlements 
the 
establishment  of  a  physically  viable,  sovereign  and 
independent  Palestinian  State,  and 
the 
achievement of peace. 
Similarly,  Israel  has  also  continued  with  its 

the 
construction  of 
2004 advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice.  It  has  also  continued  restricting  Palestinian 
access 
to  East 
services  and 
agricultural land. 

Furthermore,  the  insensitive  and  reckless  recent 
attacks  against  Palestinian  worshippers  and  other 
civilians at the Al-Aqsa Mosque and the Al-Haram al-
Sharif  compound 
in  East  Jerusalem,  which  are 
condemnable,  can  only  further  complicate  the  road  to 
peace.  

today 
expressing its solidarity with Palestinians, we call upon 
all nations to go beyond mere expressions of goodwill 
and take action. Indonesia stands ready to fully support 
Palestinian  independence  and  the  resumption  of  the 
peace process in the region. Without doubt, the events 
all  over  the  occupied  territories  in  the  past  year  show 
that,  unless  concerted,  determined  and  just  action  is 
taken,  peace  will  not  be  achieved  in  the  near  future. 
Indonesia 
just  and 
comprehensive  resolution  to  the  conflict.  We  wish  to 
reaffirm  our  support  for  a  two-State  solution  that 
envisions  the  creation  of  an  independent,  democratic 
and viable Palestinian State living side by side in peace 
and security with Israel and its other neighbours. 
therefore  strongly  supports  a 
international  community 
Jerusalem, 
social 
While 
the 
is 
20 

09-62352 
by 
the 
supports 
to  express 
furthermore, 
statement  made 
to  stepping  up  efforts 



Before  concluding,  I  should  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  the  gratitude  of  my  delegation 
to  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  for  its  tireless  and 
consistent implementation of its mandate. 

We  also  express  our  deep  recognition  to  and 
appreciation  of  the  Department  of  Public  Information 
for  its  work  in  pursuing  a  strong  and  effective  public 
information  programme  to  raise  awareness  among  the 
international community on this issue, as well as on the 
situation in the Middle East. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

Cuba 
the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. This meeting is an appropriate occasion for 
the international community to reaffirm its support for 
the  heroic  efforts  of  the  Palestinian  people  in  their 
struggle  to  exercise  their  inalienable  right  to  self-
determination  and, 
its 
commitment 
to  attain  a 
comprehensive  solution  to  the  Palestinian  question  in 
all its aspects. 
Cuba reiterates its solidarity with the Palestinian 

people  and condemns the  continued illegal occupation 
of  their  land  by  Israel,  which  is  the  principal  obstacle 
to a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the whole 
region. 

Over  the  past  year,  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  East  Jerusalem,  has 
continued  to  deteriorate.  Israel  continued  to  violate 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law. 
Since  the  military  aggression  carried  out  by  Israel  in 
Gaza,  there  has  been  an  alarming  increase  across  the 
whole of the occupied Palestinian territories, and in the 
besieged  Gaza  Strip  in  particular,  in  the  number  of 
casualties  as  well  as  of  injured,  displaced,  homeless 
and  impoverished  persons,  unable  to  meet  their  basic 
needs. 
The  human  damage  caused  by  the  aggressor  has 

been  irreparable.  The  report  of  the  United  Nations 
Fact-Finding  Mission 
the  Gaza  Conflict 
(A/HRC/12/48), better known as the Goldstone report, 
and  the  results  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Board  of 
Inquiry lay out the situation in a vivid and graphic way. 
Nonetheless,  the  perpetrators  of  these  barbarous  acts 
continue  to  go  unpunished,  enjoying  impunity  that  is 
only  possible  owing  to  the  protection  that  Israel 
receives  from  the  superPower,  which  continues  to 
on 
A/64/PV.51
fuel 
and  other 
supply Israel with the financial resources and arms that 
sustain its policy of aggression. 

Unfortunately,  the  Security  Council  continues  to 
be  unable  to  adequately  address  the  situation  in 
Palestine  as  it  should  in  order  to  find  a  fair  and 
impartial solution to this longstanding conflict. This is 
a result of the habitual application of double standards 
and of the use, or threat of the use, of the veto on the 
part of the superPower on any draft resolution aimed at 
this objective. 
Israel  continues  to  severely  limit  the  freedom  of 

movement of Palestinians, imposing a humiliating and 
discriminatory network of hundreds of checkpoints, in 
particular in the Gaza Strip. It continues the unjust and 
inhumane blockage against Gaza inhabitants, its policy 
of border-crossing closures, the imposition of physical 
barriers  on  roads  used  by  Palestinians,  as  well  as  the 
limitation of the movement of persons and goods such 
as 
food,  medicine, 
essential 
humanitarian supplies. 

Post-war reconstruction work in Gaza has not yet 
begun  because  of  the  intransigence  of  the  Israeli 
Government.  Cuba  condemns  this  aggressive  policy, 
which  ignores  the  repeated  calls  by  the  international 
community  and  the  successive  resolutions  adopted  by 
various bodies of the United Nations, in clear violation 
of 
law,  and  we 
Israel 
immediately lift the Gaza blockade. 

Israel  continues  to  build  barriers  throughout  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory,  thus  fragmenting  and 
profoundly undermining the contiguity and integrity of 
the  territory,  totally  isolating  East  Jerusalem  from  the 
rest  of  the  West  Bank  and  causing  great  damage  to 
Palestinian society and the Palestinian economy. 

The  occupying  Power  continues  its  intensive 
colonization activities, such as the ongoing practice of 
confiscating  large  tracts  of  land,  the  construction  and 
extension of Israeli settlements and the construction of 
the  wall.  The  settlement  policy  aimed  at  altering  the 
demographic  composition,  character  and  nature  of  the 
Palestinian lands, annexing them de facto by means of 
confiscating  large  areas  of  Palestinian  territory,  have 
been  accelerated 
to  an  unprecedented  rate.  This 
situation  has  been  intensified  in  the  West  Bank  in 
particular.  The  most 
the 
announcement  of  the  construction  of  900  new  settler 
homes  south  of  Jerusalem.  The  continuation  of  those 
international 
example 
recent 
insist 
that 
is 
09-62352 

21 

the 
right 
rights, 
including 
A/64/PV.51 

settlement  activities  endangers  the  realization  of  a 
negotiated two-State solution. 

Cuba  condemns  those  policies  and  practices, 
which  violate  international  law,  including  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention,  United  Nations  resolutions  and 
the  advisory  opinion  issued  on  9  July  2004  by  the 
International Court of Justice, and we insist that Israel 
immediately end all of these illegal practices. 

On  this  occasion,  as  we  are  gathered  here  to 
consider  the  Palestinian  question,  which  goes  back 
more than 60 years now, Cuba reaffirms its support for 
the  just  cause  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  for  their 
efforts  to  realize  their  legitimate  national  aspirations. 
Cuba will continue to support the Palestinian people in 
their fight to end the Israeli occupation, which began in 
1967,  as  well  as  in  the  search  for  a  just,  peaceful  and 
lasting  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  that 
will  allow  the  Palestinian  people  to  exercise  their 
inalienable 
to  self-
determination and sovereignty in an independent State 
within  the  1967  borders  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital. 
Mr. Al-Jarman (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 

Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  thank  the 
President  of 
for  having 
convened  this  important  meeting,  which  the  General 
Assembly organizes every year in conjunction with the 
world’s  celebration  of 
the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People  to  renew  the 
commitment 
international 
community  for  the  efforts  made  by  the  Palestinian 
people  towards  exercising  their  inalienable  rights  to 
determine 
independence  and 
freedom, and return to their homeland. 
I  wish  also  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  express 

my country’s appreciation of and support for the efforts 
made  by  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  and  its 
Chairman, Ambassador Paul Badji. 

Today,  the  international  community  recalls  the 
61 years  of  suffering,  misery  and  deprivation  of  the 
Palestinian people, which started in 1948 with Israel’s 
occupation of their land and continues to this very day 
owing  to  Israel’s  serious  and  repeated  violations  of 
international  law  and  human  rights.  Such  human 
suffering,  which  the  Palestinian  people  have  endured 
collectively  and  individually,  has  continued  for  years 
before the eyes of the world.  
the  General  Assembly 
their  destiny,  attain 
support  of 
and 
the 
cities 
and 
today  at 
occupied  Palestinian 
independence  and  self-determination, 

The  Palestinian  people  —  more  than  half  of 
whom  live  in  exile  or  are  in  refugee  camps  and  are 
deprived  of  their  most  basic  rights,  including  their 
legitimate right to return to their homeland and live in 
peace  with  their  neighbours,  like  other  peoples  —  are 
very  disappointed 
the  many  unfulfilled 
promises  regarding  achieving  their  aspirations  for 
freedom, 
in 
accordance  with  international  law  and  resolutions  of 
international 
legitimacy.  Their  disappointment  has 
especially  increased  with  the  growing  hostile  policies 
of  the  present  Israeli  Government,  which  follows  an 
intensive  plan  for  the  illegal  confiscation  of  more 
Palestinian  lands  and  properties,  expansion  of  illegal 
settlements  and  the  building  of  the  separation  wall  in 
the 
villages, 
particularly  in  Jerusalem  and  its  surroundings,  with  a 
view to changing the demographic composition of East 
Jerusalem  and  its  legal  structure  and Arab  identity  in 
order to create a new reality on the ground that would 
lead  to  a  new  interruption  of  negotiations  with  the 
Palestinian Authority. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates,  which  expresses  its 
grave  concern  at  the  continued  deterioration  of  the 
already  desperate  and  dangerous  situation  in  the 
including  East 
occupied 
Jerusalem, 
its 
aggressive  and  countless  violations  of  international 
law,  including  international  humanitarian  law  and 
human  rights  law,  and  its  total  impunity  for  the  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  committed  in 
Gaza.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  also  condemns  the 
continued collective punishment measures imposed by 
Israel on Gaza, including the frequent closures.  
the 

the 
importance  of  maintaining 
Palestinian  territory  as  one  contiguous  political  entity 
in  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza  under  the  Palestinian 
Authority  and  also  welcomes  efforts  in  that  regard  by 
the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt  to  achieve  Palestinian 
reconciliation  and  accord.  The  United  Arab  Emirates 
demands 
community  — 
represented  by  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security  Council 
the 
Organization, each within its own field of competence, 
as  well  as  the  members  of  the  Quartet  —  increase 
effective efforts and put further political and economic 
pressures  on  Israel 
its  aggression  and 
settlement  building  and  renounce  its  current  hard-line 
territory, 
Israel’s  policies 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
reiterates 
integrity  of 
Palestinian 
condemns 
agencies  of 
international 
and  other 
to  cease 
that 
the 
and 
the 
22 

09-62352 
the 
release  all 


political  positions  and  comply  with  the  international 
demands  that  it  correct  the  unlawful  present  reality  it 
has  created  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
especially in East Jerusalem.  

Israel  should  stop  immediately,  permanently  and 
unconditionally,  under  international  oversight,  all  its 
present  settlement  activities  and  remove  what 
is 
already built, including the separation wall in the West 
Bank  and  around  Jerusalem,  in  compliance  with 
relevant international laws and the advisory opinion of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We  further  demand 
that  Israel  be  compelled  to  lift  all  restrictions  on 
movement  and passage,  re-open the  crossings in  Gaza 
and  the  Palestinian  Authority  institutions  in  occupied 
East  Jerusalem,  and 
the  Palestinian 
prisoners,  in  compliance  with  its  commitments  to 
international law and international humanitarian law, in 
particular  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention.  That  will 
lead  to  a  final,  permanent  and  just  settlement  to  all 
aspects  of  the  Palestinian  question,  including  a  just 
settlement 
issues  of  Palestinian  refugees, 
Jerusalem  and  the  final  demarcation  of  the  borders  of 
the  two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  according  to  the 
provisions of the road map, the Annapolis Conference 
understandings, 
resolutions 
242 (1967)  and  338  (1973),  all  relevant  General 
Assembly  resolutions, 
in  particular  181  (II)  and 
194 (III),  the  Madrid  principles  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  which  calls  for  the  unconditional  complete 
withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territories.  

to 
that  context,  we  renew  our  demand 
implement  the  recommendations  of  the  report  of  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict (A/HRC/12/48), identify those responsible for 
war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in 
the  Gaza  Strip  and  bring  them  to  justice,  and  prevent 
the  continuation  of  impunity,  in  compliance  with 
Assembly resolution 64/10. 

The United Arab Emirates believes that the Arab-
Israeli  conflict,  which  continues  to  dominate  all  other 
issues  in  the  Middle  East,  is  the  root  of  the  tension, 
violence  and  persistent  instability  in  the  region.  We 
renew  today  our  commitment  to  the  choice  of  peace 
the  rest  of 
with 
the  Arab  countries,  based  on 
implementation  of 
international 
the  principles  of 
legitimacy  and  the  principle  of  land  for  peace.  We 
stress 
and 
comprehensive  peace  and  security  in  the  region  is 
international 
conditional  on 
the  sincerity  of 
establishing 
permanent, 
Security 
Council 
that 
just 
the 
to 
In 
A/64/PV.51
to  put  an  end 
community in showing a genuine and earnest political 
will 
to  Israel’s  aggression  and 
intransigence, to revive the peace process and to ensure 
a  complete  withdrawal  of  Israel  from  all  Palestinian 
and  Arab  territories  occupied  since  1967,  including 
East  Jerusalem,  the  Syrian  Golan  and  the  Sheba’a 
farms and the village of Al-Ghajar in Lebanon. 

We  hope  that  our  deliberations  on  this  item  will 
contribute  to  strengthening  the  important,  major  role 
that the United Nations plays in  reaching a  settlement 
for  the  Palestinian  problem  and  the  situation  in  the 
Middle  East,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter. We  urge 
the  international  community,  especially  the  donor 
countries  and  parties,  to  increase  political,  moral  and 
financial  support  to  the  Palestinian  people  so  as  to 
alleviate their exacerbated humanitarian crisis until the 
just  realization  of  their  rights  and  the  fulfilment  of 
their  aspirations  to  freedom,  independence  and  the 
establishment  of  their  State  of  Palestine  as  a  viable 
independent  State,  on  the  basis  of  the  two-State 
solution. 
Mr.  Al-Saadi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  This 

International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People  has  political,  humanitarian  and  ethical 
significance for our Organization, which for over half a 
century  has  especially  championed  the  struggles  of 
oppressed  peoples  and  their  right  to  resist  occupation. 
Our  celebration  of 
the 
legitimacy of the Palestinian people’s struggle to resist 
occupation  and  its  right  to  establish  its  independent 
State on its national soil, with Jerusalem as its capital.  

The  situation  of  the  Palestinians  in  the  occupied 
territories 
the  killings, 
genocide,  State  terrorism,  displacement  policies,  the 
building of the separation wall, the ongoing building of 
illegal  settlements,  the  blockade  of  Gaza  and  the 
infliction 
that 
contravenes 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention  and 
relevant  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  resolutions.  Those  aggressive  and 
dangerous  practices  aim  at  killing  the  peace  process 
and  the  efforts  of  the  international  Quartet,  which  are 
supported  by 
international  community.  That 
escalation  can  lead  to  real  dangers  which  might  push 
the  region 
terrorism,  with  very 
dangerous  repercussions  for  the  stability  of  the  region 
and for international peace and security. 
collective 
international 
this  occasion  confirms 
tragedy  because  of 
punishment.  All 
to  violence  and 
is  a 
law, 
the 
of 
09-62352 

23 
to 
to 
in 
the 

to 
to 
the 
leading 
international 
shoulder 
rights  of 
A/64/PV.51 


My  delegation  expresses  its  deep  concern  at  the 
aggressive policies with which Israel is challenging the 
international community, at its rejection of all relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  including  resolutions 
242 (1967)  and  338  (1973),  at  its  disregard  of  all 
appeals and calls by the countries of the world, and at 
its  negative  response 
initiatives, 
including the Arab Peace  Initiative submitted by King 
Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud,  King  of  sisterly 
Saudi Arabia — the initiative that provided a political 
framework for peace in the region.  
My  delegation  calls  on  the  United  Nations  and 

their 
international  community 
the 
responsibilities 
to  guarantee 
the 
Palestinian  people  and  force  Israel  to  stop  its  policies 
of  violence  and  State  terrorism,  compel  it  to  respond 
positively  to  international  and  regional  agreements, 
initiatives  and  resolutions  relevant 
the  peace 
process,  and  make  it  reach  comprehensive  and  just 
solutions 
the  establishment  of  an 
independent  Palestinian  State 
territories 
occupied  since  4  June  1967,  with  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital.  

We  would  like  to  renew  the  call  on  Israel  to 
withdraw from all occupied Arab territories and return 
the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  to  Syrian  sovereignty.  We 
also  call  on  Israel  to  resume  negotiations  with  Syria, 
with the expectation that Israel will respect its previous 
commitments.  Such  negotiations  cannot  succeed  in 
achieving peace unless Israel respects what has already 
been  agreed  with  the  Syrian  side  and  unless  it 
withdraws from the occupied Lebanese lands.  

the  recommendations  and 
conclusions  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People.  We  also 
wish  to  reiterate  the  need  for  the  Security  Council  to 
implement  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  and  Assembly  resolution  ES-10/15, 
which  calls  on  Israel  to  stop  building  the  separation 
wall.  Furthermore,  we  call  on  the  Security  Council  to 
consider imposing sanctions on Israel if it continues to 
ignore its international legal commitments.  

the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  in  its 
struggle  to  achieve  independence  and  establish  its 
independent State. 
in 

Arabic): The delegation of Saudi Arabia is honoured to 
My  country  supports 
We  support  here 
the  exercise  of 
(Saudi  Arabia) 
Mr.  Faqeeh
(spoke 
in 
law 
Whatever 
legitimacy, 
international 
complexity  of  details 
the  deteriorating  situation 
be  able  to  thank  both  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and the Secretary-General for their efforts to 
hold  this  meeting  to  discuss  agenda  item  16  on  the 
question  of  Palestine  under  the  present  circumstances 
and  changes  that  threaten  international  peace  and 
security.  

My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  concern 
about 
the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory  and  the  grave  threats  to  our 
brethren  in  Palestine.  Since  the  onset  of  aggression 
against Gaza at the end of 2008 and at the beginning of 
2009,  the  negative  effects  and  repercussions  have 
continued,  not  only  with  regard  to  the  security  of 
Palestinians but for the security, peace  and well-being 
of the entire world.  

the 
and 
differences in interests and positions with respect to the 
question of Palestine, the solutions must meet one sole 
criterion  —  namely,  comprehensive  compliance  with 
international 
and 
international  justice  that  allows  no  exception,  double 
standard  or  selectivity.  Any  departure  from 
that 
inclusive  criterion,  whatever  justification  might  be 
used,  would  lead  to  the  deterioration  of  the  situation 
and would have a grave negative impact on our ability 
to effectively address the list of problems and crises we 
face  with  respect  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.  

Compliance  with  international  legitimacy  is  the 
easiest,  best  and  most  effective  way  to  resolve  the 
Arab-Israeli  conflict,  which  is  truly  the  gravest  threat 
to peace and security in the Middle East, which in turn 
is  a  strategic  region  whose  situation  has  broad  effects 
on  the  entire  world.  That  conflict  could  never  have 
continued  for  over  seven  decades  with  such  tragic 
effects were it not for the deviation from the principles 
of  international  legitimacy,  the  norms  of  international 
law and the requirements of international justice.  

The Arab world, including the State of Palestine, 
has  done  its  best  to  achieve  a  true  and  lasting  peace. 
The  Arab  Peace  Initiative  is  still  continuing  and 
provides an offer to end the conflict with Israel and to 
enter  into  a  peace  agreement  that  would  provide 
security,  recognition  and  normal  relations  for  all 
countries  of 
the  Arab 
commitment  to  peace  as  a  strategic  option  and  is 
consistent with the Charter of the United Nations.  
It  embodies 
region. 
the 
24 

09-62352 
in 
All 
initiatives  and 
Security  Council 
Despite  our  presence  here 



international  efforts  and 
solutions  in  this  respect  are  still  facing  a  wall  of 
rejection,  manipulation,  procrastination  and  delaying 
tactics  by  Israel,  which  continues  to  take  unilateral 
measures  in  violation  of  international  law  and  of  the 
resolutions of the Security Council. Instead of making 
a true effort to achieve peace, Israel continues daily to 
subjugate and oppress the Palestinian people, building 
settlements,  walls  and  bypass  roads  that  contradict 
international legitimacy and create new realities on the 
ground.  
It  is  the  building  of  settlements  that  changes  the 

geography  and  demography  of 
the  Palestinian 
territories, especially in Jerusalem and its surrounding 
areas,  in  clear  violation  of  international  law  and  all 
relevant 
resolutions.  Those 
settlements  undermine  most  of  the  major  cities  in  the 
West Bank, consuming more than half of its resources, 
including water resources.  

this  General 
Assembly meeting, where we are expressing hope and 
optimism with regard to reaching tangible results, and 
despite  all  the  commendable  efforts  made  by  the 
United  States  and  the  Quartet,  no  actual  results  have 
been achieved.  

If all the interest of the international community, 
all this unanimity and all of those international efforts 
are  still  unable  to  push  Israel  to  fulfil  its  obligations 
under  the  road  map,  how  can  we  be  optimistic?  The 
protection of human rights in Palestine should be given 
priority  in  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations  through 
the rule of law and the dissemination of the culture of 
peace  and  dialogue  between  civilizations  and  peoples, 
which  are  basic  elements  in  any  effective  strategy 
seeking  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  and  just  peace 
between  the  Palestinians  and  the  Israelis  and  to  reject 
violence and extremism.  

The  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  which  has  been  going 
on for over six decades, has dominated all issues in the 
Middle  East.  It  has  led  to  more  extremism  and 
terrorism,  and  it  seriously  impedes  development  and 
reform  in  a  region  that  should  play  a  cultural  role 
instead  of  being  submerged  in  a  conflict  that  depletes 
its resources and capabilities. 

All Arab countries reconfirm their commitment to 
a just and comprehensive peace based on international 
legitimacy.  Those  countries  are  still  waiting  for  the 
same  serious  commitment  by  Israel.  In  that  context, 
A/64/PV.51
to 
create 
territories  because 
partial  solutions  do  not  support  current  negotiations 
between the two sides aimed at reaching a lasting and 
comprehensive  solution.  The  peace  process  requires 
Israel  to  immediately  stop  building  settlements  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian 
Israel’s 
continued  settlement  activities  are  an  obstacle  to 
negotiations.  

The peace process is based on a good idea, but it 
requires  more  communications  and  contacts  between 
our peoples. We have understood that we need to have 
our Arab Peace Initiative reach the Israeli people easily 
and  quickly.  Affecting  public  opinion  can  lead  to 
peace.  We  should  intelligently  and  wisely  use  the 
available  mass  media 
channels  of 
communication and structures that enable us as leaders, 
Governments and civil society to create the appropriate 
conditions for the peace that we seek. 

International  dialogue  has  come  to  focus  on 
humanitarian  issues  as  we  see  it  now  at  the  United 
Nations  and  in  other  forums  such  as  the  2008  World 
Conference  on  Dialogue  held  in  Madrid  and  other 
dialogues  on  religions  and  cultures.  Those  efforts  all 
work  towards  enriching  peaceful  coexistence  among 
societies and peoples as the optimal means of relating 
to one another and as the main way to relieve tensions, 
conflicts and divisions. 

The investigation of the events in Gaza at the end 
of last year and into January of this year, presented in 
the  Goldstone  report  to  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/HRC/12/48),  proved  that  Israel  has  committed  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  In  that  war, 
1,400 Palestinians,  mostly  women  and  children,  were 
killed,  thousands  of  Palestinians  were  wounded,  and 
Israel even  attacked United Nations facilities in Gaza. 
Those who tried to flee were brutally killed. Israel also 
aggressively  attacked  holy  sites.  Such  aggressive 
practices have made peace absent from the region. 

Israel  has  also  conducted  two  destructive  wars 
against  Lebanon  and  has  besieged  Gaza,  and  it  is  still 
occupying the Syrian Golan. It used excessive force in 
both  cases,  including  internationally  banned  weapons, 
in  violation  of  international  humanitarian  law.  The 
report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
the  Gaza  Conflict  testifies  to  that.  The  head  of  that 
Mission  stated 
international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law,  and  those 
violations  amount  to  war  crimes  and  probably  crimes 
against humanity. 
Israel  violated 
that 
09-62352 

25 
Saudi  Arabia 
is  deeply  concerned  by 
A/64/PV.51 


the 
continued Israeli blockade of Gaza, which undermines 
the  rights  of  the  Palestinians  and  causes  deterioration 
of their living conditions. In addition to that, Israel has 
imposed  a  blockade  on  East  Jerusalem  that  has 
prevented  people  from  accessing  their  homes  and 
places of worship. 

Israel’s  practices  against  Islamic  holy  places  are 
daily  aggressions  against  the  defenceless  Palestinian 
people.  The  flagrant  Israeli  attacks  on  the  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque  will  undoubtedly  have  a  serious  direct  effect 
on international peace and security. In that context, my 
Government  calls  on  the  international  community  to 
stand against those flagrant aggressions and to support 
the  Goldstone 
recommendations 
contained  therein  to  prevent  the  reoccurrence  of  such 
crimes. 

This year, contrary to past years, the international 
handling of the Middle East crisis took a different track 
and  occupied  a  prominent  place  on  the  international 
agenda.  We  optimistically  welcome  that.  However,  at 
the  same  time  we  see  that  despite  the  action  of  the 
United States and its new Administration and of  other 
members  of  the  Security  Council,  as  well  as  of  the 
European  Union,  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference  and  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  Israel 
still  acts  in  contravention  of  the  most  basic  principles 
of the peace process and so defies the will and policies 
of its allies and friends and the majority, if not all,  of 
the international community. Thus, Israel shows its true 
report  and 
the 

to 
trying 
judaize  Jerusalem  and 
face,  perpetuating  its  systemic  aggression,  racism, 
expansionism and rejection of peace in defiance of all 
those calling for it. 

Israel  refuses  to  freeze  settlement  activity  even 
though it is illegal under international law. It continues 
confiscating  Palestinian  land,  building  the  separation 
wall, 
to  expel 
Palestinian  people  from  their  homes.  I  could  continue 
the  list,  but  it  would  take  a  long  time  to  provide  all 
details  and  statistics.  Israel  rejects  the  two-State 
solution,  which  is  supported  by  the  international 
community,  and  what  its  Prime  Minister  has  said  was 
just  a  manoeuvre  and  a  formality  that  contradicts  the 
policies  of  his  Government  and  does  not  reflect 
realities on the ground. 

In  conclusion,  Saudi Arabia  reaffirms  that  peace 
and  occupation  are  mutually  exclusive  and  that  our 
strategic  option  is  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace 
based  on 
implementation  of  Security  Council 
resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973),  the  Madrid 
terms of reference, the principle of land for peace and 
the Arab Peace Initiative. 
We  therefore  support  all  efforts  to  reach  a 

comprehensive  regional  peace.  The  lack  of  genuine 
political  will  for  peace  on  the  part  of  the  Israeli 
Government and its aggressive war against Gaza closed 
all  doors  to  those  efforts.  We  are  still  hopeful  and 
confident, however, that the United Nations and peace-
loving  nations  and  peoples  can  lead  us  to  peace, 
stability, cooperation and prosperity for all. 

  The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. 
26 

09-62352 
