



United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

27th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 28 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 

A/64/PV.27
Official Records
President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 

f




The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 




the  economic,  commercial  and 
Agenda item 19 
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/97) 

  Draft resolution (A/64/L.4) 

Mr. Mohamad (Sudan): On behalf of the Group 

of  77  and  China,  I  am  honoured  to  speak  in  this 
plenary  meeting  on  agenda  item  19,  “Necessity  of 
ending 
financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”.  

The  Group  of  77  and  China  have  always  been 
firmly  against  this  embargo.  The  heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  at  the 
Second South Summit, held in Doha, Qatar, from 12 to 
16  June  2005,  firmly  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws 
and  regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all 
other forms of coercive economic measures, including 
unilateral  sanctions  against  developing  countries,  and 
called upon the Government of the United States to put 
an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  against  Cuba,  which,  in  addition  to  being 
unilateral  and  contrary  to  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, international law and to the principle of good-
neighbourliness,  causes  huge  material 
losses  and 
economic damage to the people of Cuba. 

In this regard, the Group of 77 and China would 
like to reiterate once again their long-standing position 
on  this  important  matter.  At  their  recent  thirty-third 
annual  meeting  held  here 
in  New  York  on 
25 September 2009, the ministers for foreign affairs of 
the States members of the Group of 77 and China  

“firmly  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and 
regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all 
other  forms  of  coercive  economic  measures, 
including  unilateral  sanctions  against  developing 
countries,  and  reiterated  the  urgent  need  to 
eliminate  them  immediately.  They  emphasized 
that  such  actions  not  only  undermine 
the 
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  international  law  but  also  severely 
threaten  the  freedom  of  trade  and  investment. 
They, 
international 
community  neither  to  recognize  these  measures 
nor apply them”. (A/64/489, annex, para. 39) 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  take  note  of  the 
replies  of  Governments  and  bodies  within  the  United 
Nations  system  to  the  Secretary-General’s  request  for 
information  on  the  matter,  contained  in  his  report  on 
the implementation of resolution 63/7 (A/64/97). Sadly, 
they  unequivocally  show  that  the  embargo  remains 
largely  unchanged  and  continues  to  impose  severe 
economic 
restrictions  on  Cuba. 
Furthermore,  the  debilitating  impact  of  the  global 
economic crisis on Cuba and the continued embargo by 
the Government of the United States will contribute to 
further  aggravating  the  hardships  of  and  imposed  on 
the people of Cuba.  
therefore,  called  on 
financial 
and 
the 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-57988 (E) 
*0957988* 


the 
to  heed 
increasing  appeals  of 
the  draft  resolution  against 
A/64/PV.27 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  calls  on  the  United 

States 
the 
international  community  to  put  an  end  to  the  five-
decade embargo and to fully adhere to the principles of 
mutual  respect  and  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs  of  a  sisterly  nation.  The  embargo  frustrates 
efforts  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  negatively  affects  regional 
cooperation in that area. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  committed  to 
working  towards  a  better  world  for  all,  in  which 
nations  large  and  small  can  coexist  peacefully.  The 
achievement  of  such  peaceful  coexistence  among 
nations  requires  adherence  by  all  nations  to  the 
cardinal  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
the peaceful conduct of relations among nations.  
The  Group  of  77  and  China  will  again  fully 

support 
the  embargo 
(A/64/L.4)  and  urges  all  States  Members  of  the 
Organization to do so as well.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Before  giving 

the  floor  to  the  next  speaker,  I  would  like  to  propose 
that the list of speakers for the debate on this item be 
closed. 
It was so decided. 

Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement on this 
important  item,  and  would  like  to  start  by  welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, to the General Assembly. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  once  again  renews 

its 
commitment 
and 
promoting the United Nations Charter and international 
law,  and  stresses 
to  promoting, 
preserving  and  strengthening  multilateralism  and  the 
multilateral decision-making process.  

On  the  basis  of  that  principled  position,  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  firmly  reiterates  its  rejection 
of  the  adoption  and  implementation  of  extraterritorial 
or  unilateral  coercive  measures  or  laws,  including 
unilateral economic sanctions or other illegal measures 
contrary to international law, that seek to exert pressure 
on  non-aligned  countries 
them  from 
exercising their right to decide, by their own free will, 
their  own  political,  economic  and  social  systems.  We 
therefore call on all States to refrain from recognizing 
such measures or laws, which undermine the principles 
to  defending,  preserving 
its  commitment 
to  prevent 
in 
for 
as 
revoke 
in 
laws 
incurred 
Furthermore, 
the  damage 
enshrined 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
international law and severely threaten the freedom of 
trade, navigation and investment.  

the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
opposes and condemns such measures or laws and their 
continued  application,  and  urges  other  States  to  do 
likewise,  as  called  for  by  the  General  Assembly  and 
other  United  Nations  organs.  The  Non-Aligned 
Movement  once  again  requests  States  applying  such 
them 
measures  or 
to 
fully  and 
immediately.  Moreover, 
accordance  with 
international law, the Non-Aligned Movement supports 
the claim of affected States, including targeted ones, to 
compensation 
a 
consequence  of  the  implementation  of  extraterritorial 
or unilateral coercive measures or laws. 

The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  against  the 
Republic  of  Cuba  has  been  in  place  for  50  years,  and 
70  per  cent  of  Cubans  have  been  born  under  it.  The 
Non-Aligned Movement expresses its concern over the 
continuation  of  that  long-standing  unilateral  policy, 
especially  since  the  overwhelming  majority  of  States 
has consistently rejected it, as evidenced by last year’s 
General  Assembly  resolution  on  this  item  (resolution 
63/7),  which  received  the  support  of  185  Member 
States. 
The  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 

Non-Aligned  Movement,  at 
fifteenth  summit 
conference  held  in  Sharm  el-Sheikh,  Egypt,  in  July 
2009,  reiterated  once  again  in  the  final  document 
adopted by the summit their long-standing position on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States against 
Cuba.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  of America  to  put  an  immediate  end  to 
the embargo. 

in  Sharm 
el-Sheikh,  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  adopted  an  exceptional 
declaration,  entitled  the  “Special  Declaration  of  the 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”.  That 
declaration 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  to  that  issue,  and 
Furthermore,  during 
the  summit 
importance 
reflects 
the 
that 
its 
2 

09-57988 
law  and 
Therefore, 
From  another  perspective,  I  would 


marked  the  end  of  Cuba’s  outstanding  presidency  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement for the past three years. 

to 
like 
underscore  that  the  embargo,  in  addition  to  being 
unilateral  and  contrary  to  the  United  Nations  Charter, 
international 
the  principle  of  good-
neighbourliness, continues to cause huge material loss 
and economic and financial damage, which have had a 
negative  impact  on  the  welfare  and  well-being  of  the 
people of Cuba. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  also  reiterates  its 

deep  concern  over  the  widening  of  the  extraterritorial 
nature  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba  and  rejects  the 
reinforcement  of  measures  adopted  by  the  United 
States  Government,  aimed  at  tightening  the  embargo, 
as well as all other recent measures carried out by the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  against 
the people of Cuba. 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  once 

again  urges  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of 
America  to  immediately  and  fully  comply  with  all 
resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  related  to  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba.  Similarly,  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  urges  all  States  to  strictly  comply  with 
resolutions  47/19,  48/16,  49/9,  50/10,  51/17,  52/10, 
53/4,  54/21,  55/20,  56/9,  57/11,  58/7,  59/11,  60/12, 
61/11, 62/3 and 63/7. All those resolutions relate to the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba. 

To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  highlight  that, 
despite  the  continuation  of  the  embargo  and  all  its 
negative  effects,  the  Cuban  Government  conducted  its 
presidency  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  over  the 
past three years in a highly capable and commendable 
manner that preserved and advanced the interests of the 
States  members  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
contributed  to  enhancing  the  interaction  between  the 
Non-Aligned Movement and the larger membership of 
the United Nations.  
In  addition,  these  past  few  years  have  also 

witnessed 
in  Cuba’s 
international relations with all regions of the world. In 
that context,  I would like to state that the new United 
States  Administration  has  embarked  on  a  path  of 
openness  and  engagement  with  the  outside  world. 
increased  dynamism 
an 
A/64/PV.27
I  have 
to  address 
the  honour 
Mr.  Bart  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  I, 
Thus,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  looks  forward  to 
that  new  policy  being  extended  to  Cuba  as  well  and 
leading  to  the  immediate  end  of  the  long-standing 
embargo. 
too, 

recognize  the  presence  of  the  Foreign  Minister  of 
Cuba.  

the  General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM), which also aligns 
itself with the statements made by the representative of 
the Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and 
the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-
Aligned Movement. 
CARICOM  member  States  continue  to  reiterate 

their  unequivocal  opposition  to  the  United  States 
imposition  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba, which has been opposed by the 
overwhelming majority of the international community 
for  the  past  17  years.  The  unilateral  imposition  of 
extraterritorial laws on third States is contrary to both 
the letter and the spirit of the United Nations Charter, 
and the  embargo itself  continues to run  counter to the 
principles  of  multilateralism, 
law, 
sovereignty  and  free  trade  that  this  body  traditionally 
champions. 
The  stubborn  persistence  of  the  embargo  is 

apparently  impervious  to  the  sustained  chorus  of 
international criticism and to the logic of a world that 
has  changed  immeasurably  over  the  four  and  a  half 
decades  since  the  blockade  was  first  imposed.  The 
embargo has now outlived the cold war by 18 years. It 
has  outlasted 
terms  of  eight  United  States 
presidents  and  that  of  Cuban  President  Fidel  Castro. 
Over  70  per  cent  of  Cubans  alive  today  were  born 
under the embargo.  

CARICOM  considers  the  embargo  to  be  an 
anachronism that has succeeded only in contributing to 
the  suffering  of  generations  of  ordinary  Cubans  and 
unnecessarily  increased  tensions  between  the  United 
States and Cuba. It serves no justifiable legal, political 
or moral purpose in the twenty-first century. 

The punitive embargo is of a particular concern to 
CARICOM,  which  shares  a  history,  culture  and 
brotherhood with the people of Cuba. Cuba is the most 
populous State of the Caribbean region and an integral 
part of the pan-Caribbean process. Caribbean ties with 
international 
the 
09-57988 

3 

This  year’s  report  of 
infrastructure  and  human 
A/64/PV.27 

Cuba  have  historical  significance,  cemented  by  years 
of  active  cooperation  at  various  levels.  The  States 
members  of  CARICOM  continue  to  maintain  their 
close  relations  with  Cuba  through  a  wide  range  of 
programmes  of  cooperation  in  areas  including  trade, 
health  care, 
resource 
development.  Our  future  regional  development  is  in 
many  ways  reliant  upon  our  collective  advancement 
and progress. In that context, we view the embargo not 
just  as  a  punitive  act  against  Cuba,  but  as  an 
impediment to our shared regional development. 

the  Secretary-General 
(A/64/97)  on  the  implementation  of  resolution  63/7, 
like previous reports on this matter, outlines responses 
from an overwhelming majority of Member States that 
share  a  common  perspective  on 
the  continued 
unilateral  embargo  against  Cuba.  Indeed,  the  report 
demonstrates that the embargo even affects the manner 
in  which  organs  and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations 
system carry out their work in Cuba. 

CARICOM States therefore reaffirm the position 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement in opposing such unilateral actions, and we 
maintain the position that constructive engagement and 
peaceful  negotiations  remain 
the  only  acceptable 
means of advancing long-term peace and stability. 

The  significance  of  the  embargo  on  the  Cuban 
economy  continues 
to 
CARICOM, and its humanitarian impact on the people 
of Cuba, especially in the area of health care and food, 
is  especially  saddening.  The  inability  of  Cuba  to 
acquire  necessary  medical  equipment,  spare  parts  and 
the 
the 
embargo  continues  to  affect  the  health-care  system, 
whereby treatment remains free of charge to the Cuban 
people. 

With  the  strengthened  and  more  frequent  storms 
and  hurricanes  brought  by  climate  change  and  Cuba’s 
geographical  susceptibility  to  these  natural  disasters, 
the  unacceptable  humanitarian  impact  of  the  embargo 
is  becoming  even  more  acute.  Additionally,  Cuba’s 
access  to  construction  materials  and  heavy  equipment 
is  becoming  increasingly  impossible  because  of  the 
stringent  rules  on  origins  and  restrictions  against 
corporations based outside of the United States. 

The  negative  effects  on  the  Cuban  economy  and 
its  growth  are  obvious  and  tangible. The  embargo  has 
now  cost  Cuba  almost  $100  billion  since  its  1962 
latest-generation  medications  because  of 
to  be  of  great  concern 
its 
participation 
starting  with 
regional 
reiterates 
imposition. It is remarkable that even as Cuba struggles 
with  the  recent  unfortunate  string  of  natural  disasters 
and  the  impact  of  the  global  economic  crisis,  it 
continues  to  assist  other  nations  in  the  developing 
world, 
immediate  Caribbean 
neighbours.  Thousands  of  CARICOM  students  have 
attended Cuban universities without charge, thousands 
have  received free surgeries and medical assistance in 
Cuba,  and  thousands  more  have  been  treated  in  their 
home countries by Cuban doctors and nurses. 

We  have  benefited  from  technical  expertise, 
capacity-building  programmes,  infrastructure  assistance 
and  the  selfless  generosity  of  the  Cuban  people.  The 
people of Cuba have threatened no one, and neither the 
embargo nor its deleterious side effects have prevented 
them  from  continuing  to  extend  a  hand  of  friendship 
and solidarity, even across ideological divides. 

Given Cuba’s peaceful, generous and cooperative 
international  stance,  it  should  not  be  isolated  or 
excluded 
and 
in 
hemispheric  processes.  CARICOM 
its 
unwavering  support  for  the  right  of  the  Cuban  people 
to  self-determination  in  a  manner  beneficial  to  their 
social  and  economic development. We  call once  again 
for the end to an embargo that has preserved a state of 
tension  between 
two  neighbouring  countries  and 
generated concern, disquiet and discomfort throughout 
the Caribbean. 
States  continue  to  enjoy  friendly  relations  with 

both  Cuba  and 
two 
neighbours — a mere 90 miles apart — have produced 
great  scholars,  scientists  and  global  leaders.  The  two 
countries  possess  proud  and  noble  histories  and  are 
populated  by  friendly,  open  and  loving  peoples.  As 
such  and  in  spite  of  a  long  history  of  dashed  hopes, 
CARICOM  continues  to  believe  that  a  new  beginning 
is  possible 
the 
Governments of Cuba and the United States. However, 
we  consider  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  to  be  a 
prerequisite of any meaningful rapprochement between 
the two countries, not a negotiated end result.  

While  there  have  been  some  recent  positive 
indications  of 
flexibility, 
there  have  also  been 
reminders  of  unilateral 
rigidity.  For 
example, 
CARICOM  notes  with  regret  that  the  United  States 
Trading  with  the  Enemy Act  —  an Act  that  lists  only 
Cuba  as  its  target  —  was  renewed  as  recently  as  last 
month.  Indeed,  recent  diplomatic  activity  only  serves 
the  United  States.  These 
relationship  between 
from 
in 
the 
4 

09-57988 


to  highlight  the  undeniable  fact  that  the  embargo 
remains  firmly  in  place  and  that  its  imposition  is  a 
continued violation of international law and norms. 

We  are  optimistic  that  the  recent  recommitment 
by the United States to multilateralism will result in an 
increased  willingness  to  consider  the  opinions  and 
concerns  of  its  global  friends  and  partners.  On  this 
issue, global opinion can hardly be conveyed in a more 
convincing or consistent manner. As such, our faith in 
the  recent  pronouncements  of 
the  United  States 
Government  carries  with  it  an  expectation  that  these 
few remaining historical and unilateral wrongs will be 
righted  expeditiously.  It  is  within  this  context  that 
CARICOM  States  unstintingly  support 
the  draft 
resolution  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo by the United States 
of America against Cuba.  
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): At  the 

outset, I should like to welcome the presence among us 
of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla.  

For the eighteenth consecutive year, the Mexican 
Government is taking the floor to reiterate once again 
its rejection of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  against  Cuba  and  to  restate  its  opposition  to 
the use of coercive  actions that have no legal basis in 
the  United  Nations  Charter.  Mexico  underlines  that 
such national measures, when applied extraterritorially 
to 
humanitarian 
consequences that are contrary to international law and 
reflect a repudiation of dialogue and diplomacy as the 
proper means to solve disputes among States.  

As  we  have  done  since  1992,  when  the  Cuban 
Government  first  introduced  a  draft  resolution  to  the 
General  Assembly  calling  for  an  end  to  the  embargo 
imposed  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  Mexico  takes  the  floor  to  reiterate  its 
historical  principled  position 
that  any  political, 
economic or military sanction imposed upon any State 
must  derive  only  from  decisions  or  recommendations 
issued  by 
the  General 
Assembly.  Multilateralism,  respect  for  international 
law  and 
that  govern 
coexistence  among  nations,  and  respectful  dialogue 
remain  the  best  way  to  resolve  disputes  and  to  ensure 
peaceful coexistence among States and an international 
climate of peace.  
the  Security  Council  or 
rules  and  principles 
countries, 
severe 
third 
have 
the 
A/64/PV.27
law 
to  protect 

Various  United  Nations  organs  and  entities 
recognize  the  negative  impact  the  embargo  has  on  the 
economic  and  social  development  of  Cuba,  with 
significant  damage  to  its  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  dealings.  The  embargo  has  also  had  a 
negative impact on sensitive sectors that touch directly 
on the everyday lives of the Cuban people,  as well as 
indirect  consequences  on  third  countries  prevented 
from  interacting  with  Cuba  in  many  economic  and 
social  activities.  The  vociferous  outcry  of 
the 
international  community  against  such  action  reminds 
us 
that  political,  economic  or  military  sanctions 
imposed  on  States  must  not  be  the  result  of  unilateral 
decisions.  Rather, 
they  must  always  result  from 
measures  adopted  by  the  appropriate  bodies  of  this 
Organization,  in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations 
Charter and international law.  
In that respect, on 23 October 1996 the Mexican 

Government  enacted  a 
trade  and 
investments  from  foreign  regulations  that  contravene 
international  law.  The  law  prohibits  activities  that 
affect  trade  or  investment  when  such  activities  are  a 
consequence  of  the  extraterritorial  effects  of  foreign 
legislation. Mexico has supported all initiatives against 
the  embargo  and  unilateral  actions  here  at  the  United 
Nations,  in  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade 
and  Development  and  in  other  forums,  such  as  the 
Organization  of  American  States  (OAS),  the  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  Economic  System, 
the 
Ibero-American  Summit  and  the  Rio  Group.  We  have 
also  promoted  opportunities  for  cooperation  and 
respectful  dialogue  based  on  the  fact  that  the  United 
States embargo against Cuba reflects a policy that has 
weighed  upon  the  Cuban  population  in  a  silent, 
systematic  and  cumulative  way  for  almost  half  a 
century. 

In  this  context,  in  addition  to  opposing  the 
economic,  political  and  diplomatic  isolation  of  Cuba, 
Mexico  has  supported,  at  the  Cuban  Government’s 
request,  Cuba’s  membership 
regional 
mechanisms  of 
to  promote 
economic and trade exchanges, as  well  as cooperation 
and  development.  In  this  regard,  I  wish  to  underscore 
the  support  our  Government  offered  for  Cuba’s  full 
membership  of  the  Rio  Group  in  November  2008  in 
Zacatecas,  Mexico,  with  the  full  support  of  States 
members of that organization.  
That  historic  moment  contributed  to  cooperation 

and exchanges to promote development and strengthen 
integration 
in  order 
all 
in 
09-57988 

5 
far 
from 
in 
them 
that  exclusion, 
from  participating 
the  historic  decision  of 
A/64/PV.27 

multilateralism  and  Latin  American  unity.  It  also 
prefigured 
the  General 
Assembly  of  the  Organization  of  American  States, 
adopted  by  acclamation  on  3  June  2009,  revoking 
resolution VI of 31 January 1962, which excluded the 
Government  of  Cuba 
the 
inter-American  system.  The  new  decision  establishes 
that Cuba’s participation in the OAS will be the result 
of  a  process  of  dialogue  and  in  accordance  with  the 
practices, purposes and principles of the OAS. 
Mexico considers that the facts we have outlined 

resolving 
demonstrate 
disputes,  amplifies 
to  negative  effect.  We 
therefore reiterate our support for the inclusion of Cuba 
in  mechanisms  of  dialogue  and  global  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  activity,  pursuant  to  its  own 
sovereign  will  and  decisions.  In  this  regard,  Mexico 
welcomes  the  measure  taken  by  the  United  States 
Government  to  allow  the  flow  of  remittances  and 
Cuban-Americans between Cuba and the United States. 
While  those  measures  may  modestly  contribute  to 
improving  the  prevailing  environment,  Mexico  feels 
that much remains to be done to truly and substantially 
mitigate 
the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba. 

The  Mexican  Government  bases  its  bilateral  and 
multilateral  relations  on the principles of international 
law  that  regulate  peaceful  and  civilized  coexistence 
among  sovereign  States  in  the  modern  world.  Those 
principles  have  preserved  solidarity  and  continuity  in 
relations  between  Mexico  and  Cuba.  We  have 
maintained  unbreakable  historical  ties  supported  by  a 
climate  of  renewed  confidence,  and  consistently 
observed  the  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  peaceful 
coexistence,  respect  for  sovereignty  and  sovereign 
equality among States, and non-interference in internal 
affairs. 

Based on our own experience, we are aware that 
societies  evolve  and  change  according  to  their  own 
circumstances,  and  not  as  a  result  of  arbitrary  and 
coercive  measures  imposed  from  the  outside.  In  light 
of  that,  the  Government  of  Mexico  reiterates  its  firm 
commitment  to  actively  and  decisively  contribute  to 
effective international law in regard to this item on the 
agenda  of  the  General Assembly,  and  will  support  the 
draft  resolution  on  this  issue  that  has  been  introduced 
at the present session. 
the  negative  effects  of 

Mr.  Zhang  Yesui  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The Chinese delegation welcomes the report submitted 
by the Secretary-General on this agenda item (A/64/97) 
and supports the statement made by the representative 
of the Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

China  pursues  an  independent  foreign  policy  of 
peace and is committed to developing friendly relations 
with all countries on the basis of the five principles of 
peaceful  coexistence.  We  are  of  the  view  that  every 
sovereign  State  is  entitled  to  independently  choose  its 
own  suitable  social  system  and  path  of  development. 
No  country  has  the  right  to  unilaterally  impose 
military,  political,  economic  or  other 
forms  of 
sanctions  on  other  countries.  Experience  shows  that 
sanctions usually fail to achieve their expected results; 
on the contrary, they may end up victimizing civilians, 
not  least  of  all  the  most  vulnerable  groups,  such  as 
women and children. 

For  17  consecutive  years,  the  General Assembly 
has  adopted  resolutions  by  an  overwhelming  majority, 
urging  all  countries,  in  compliance  with  the  United 
Nations Charter and the principles of international law, 
to  repeal  or  invalidate  all  laws  and  measures  with 
extraterritorial  effect  that  compromise  the  sovereignty 
of  other  States,  undermine  the  legitimate  rights  and 
interests  of  entities  and 
the 
jurisdiction of those States, and affect freedom of trade 
and navigation. 

Regrettably,  however,  those  resolutions  have  not 
been  effectively  implemented  over  the  years,  and  the 
long-term 
financial 
embargo  against  Cuba 
the  country 
concerned  is  still  in  place. This  not  only  constitutes  a 
serious violation of the purposes  and principles of the 
Charter,  but  also  seriously  undermines  the  Cuban 
people’s rights to survival and development. 

As  the  Secretary-General  describes  in  his  report, 
by  December  2008,  the  embargo  had  inflicted  direct 
economic  damage  on  Cuba  totalling  over  $96  billion, 
immeasurably  constraining  the  efforts  of  the  Cuban 
people  to  eradicate  poverty,  promote  economic  and 
social  development,  and  achieve 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

The  international  community  is  now  faced  with 
the serious challenges of the global financial, food, and 
energy crises, as well as climate change, which makes 
the  embargo  and  sanctions  against  Cuba  all  the  more 
unreasonable.  We  have  noted  that,  in  April  this  year, 
individuals  under 
imposed  by 
commercial 
economic, 
and 
6 

09-57988 
In 
the 
that 
lifted 
their  relations 
today’s  world,  multilateralism 


travel  and 
the  United  States  Government 
remittance 
restrictions  on  Cuban-Americans.  We 
welcome this move and hope that the United States will 
continue  to  improve  its  relations  with  Cuba  and 
promote normal exchanges between the peoples of the 
two countries. 

and 
democratization of international relations strike a chord 
in people’s hearts, while openness, cooperation, mutual 
respect  and  win-win  progress  have  become 
the 
consensus  of 
international  community.  When 
disputes  arise,  dialogue  on  equal  footing  and  in  the 
spirit of friendly consultation is the best way to achieve 
progress. 

The  Chinese  Government  has  always  maintained 
that  countries  should  develop 
in 
compliance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter.  It  is  always  our  hope  that  there  will  be 
dialogue  rather  than  confrontation,  and  engagement 
and  exchanges  rather  than  embargo  and  sanctions  in 
State-to-State  relations.  The  Chinese  Government 
therefore  demands 
the  country  concerned 
terminate as soon as possible its economic, commercial 
and financial embargo against Cuba.  

In  this  connection,  China  supports  the  draft 
resolution submitted by Cuba under the current agenda 
item. 
Mr.  Vyas  (India):  At  the  outset  I  would  like  to 

thank the Secretary-General for his report (A/64/97) on 
the  agenda  item  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”.  My 
delegation associates itself with the statement made by 
the Chair of the Group of 77. 

For  the  past  17  consecutive  years,  the  General 
Assembly,  while  deliberating  this  agenda  item,  has 
categorically 
the 
imposition of laws and regulations with extraterritorial 
impact. 

The  General  Assembly  has  also  called  upon  all 
States,  in  compliance  with  their  obligations  under  the 
Charter  and  the  principles  of  international  law,  to 
refrain  from  promulgating  and  applying,  as  well  as 
repealing and invalidating laws and measures that have 
extraterritorial  effects  on  the  sovereignty  of  other 
States,  the  legitimate  interests  of  entities  or  persons 
and  overwhelmingly 
rejected 
09-57988 

A/64/PV.27
under their jurisdiction and on the freedom of trade and 
navigation. 

Unfortunately,  those  repeated  resolutions  remain 
unimplemented.  The  nearly  five-decade-old  United 
States  embargo  on  Cuba,  including  its  extraterritorial 
aspects,  continues  to  remain  in  force.  We  share  the 
views expressed by the international  community in its 
opposition to the extraterritorial aspect of the embargo. 

In  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General,  various 
United Nations entities have detailed the impact of the 
embargo,  particularly  its  extraterritorial  effects.  For 
example,  the  United  Nations  Resident  Coordinator  in 
Havana  has  noted  that  humanitarian  and  development 
cooperation implemented by the United Nations system 
in  Cuba  is  significantly  affected  by  the  embargo.  The 
embargo  also  adversely  impacts  the  functioning  of 
United  Nations  offices,  including  travel  for  United 
Nations staff. 
The  United  Nations  Development  Programme 

(UNDP) has stated that the effects of the embargo can 
be  observed  in  all  spheres  of  Cuba’s  social  and 
economic activities, as well as in its effect on the most 
vulnerable  groups  and  on  human  development  in 
general. It highlights the negative consequences of the 
embargo  on  UNDP’s  development  coordination 
activities, including an average increase of 15 per cent 
in project cost. 

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development  refers  to  the  attendant  costs  of  the 
embargo,  both  for  Cuba  and  for  citizens  in  third 
countries,  due  to  its  extraterritorial  application.  The 
United Nations Population Fund states that the impact 
of  the  embargo  on  some  of  its  programmes  was  felt 
especially  hard.  The  Economic  Commission  for  Latin 
America and the Caribbean has stated that the embargo 
adversely  affects  the  standard  of  living  of  Cuban 
citizens.  The  health  sector  has  been  among  those 
affected, on account of enhanced costs and restrictions 
on equipment and technologies. Thus, the embargo has 
also  had  an  indirect  extraterritorial  impact  on  Cuba’s 
efforts  at  South-South  cooperation 
this  field. 
Moreover,  the  natural  disasters  suffered  by  Cuba  last 
year  and  the  ongoing  financial  and  economic  crisis 
have made the impact of the embargo more acute. 

Given  their  geography,  Cuba  and  the  United 
States  of  America  could  be  expected  to  be  natural 
partners  in  trade  and  investment.  While  the  embargo 
has  not  permitted  this,  the  potential  for  economic  and 
in 
7 

A/64/PV.27 

commercial  ties  between  the  two  countries  clearly 
exists.  For  example,  by  taking  advantage  of  limited 
openings  under  the  United  States  Trade  Sanctions 
Reform  and  Export  Enhancement  Act  of  2000,  the 
United  States  has  become  the  largest  exporter  of 
agricultural  products  to  Cuba.  The  United  States 
International  Trade  Commission  itself  estimates  that 
this would rise sharply if restrictions were lifted, which 
underscores  the  negative  impact  of  the  embargo  on 
United States trade and business opportunities. Various 
efforts in the United States to relax or lift the embargo 
indicate  that  there  is  substantial  interest,  in  particular 
in  the  business  sector,  in  unhindered  access  to  the 
Cuban market or in having contact with Cuba. 

We are encouraged by the steps announced by the 
current United States Administration earlier this year to 
reduce  restrictions  on  travel  and  on  the  sending  of 
remittances  to  Cuba  by  Cuban-Americans  and  on 
United  States  telecommunications  services.  We  look 
forward  to  the  full  lifting  of  sanctions  and  embargo 
against Cuba. 

In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  India’s  opposition  to 
countries  taking  unilateral  measures  that  impinge  on 
the  sovereignty  of  another  country,  including  attempts 
to  extend  the  application  of  one  country’s  laws 
extraterritorially to other sovereign nations. 
Mr. Le Luong Minh (Viet Nam): The delegation 

of  Viet  Nam  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement and of 
the Group of 77 and China. I welcome the participation 
of  His  Excellency,  Mr.  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  Cuba,  in  this 
important meeting of the General Assembly. 

For  17  consecutive  years,  at  each  and  every 
session, the General Assembly has demanded an end to 
the  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against  Cuba.  Annual  resolutions  on  the  necessity  of 
ending 
financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba have won increasingly broad support and 
have been adopted with virtual unanimity. 
The  embargo  unilaterally  imposed  by  the  United 

States  of  America  against  Cuba  constitutes  a  serious 
violation 
of 
international laws relating to the freedom of trade and 
navigation,  sovereign  equality  and  non-interference  in 
the  internal  affairs  of  States.  This  runs  counter  to  the 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
international 
including 
law, 
of 
in 
the 
systems 
and 
goals, 
including 
including  a 
their  efforts 
regardless  of 
implementation  of 
universally  recognized  norms  governing  relations 
between  sovereign  countries 
their 
political 
chosen  paths  of 
their 
development, as well as to the fundamental principles, 
purposes  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. 

Apart  from  causing  losses  worth  billions  of 
dollars to the Cuban economy, the embargo has, for the 
past  year,  continued  to  inflict  considerable  hardships 
on  the  Cuban  people,  in  particular  on  women  and 
children, making it extremely difficult for them to fully 
recover  from  a  series  of  destructive  natural  disasters, 
let  alone  attain  success 
towards 
socio-economic  development,  national  reconstruction 
internationally  agreed 
and 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  The  embargo  has  also  hurt  those 
wishing  to  develop  legitimate,  normal  and  mutually 
beneficial economic, financial and trade relations with 
Cuba, 
large  number  of  American 
businesses and individuals. 

We  concur  with  President  Obama  of  the  United 
States  when  he  eloquently  declared  at  the  opening  of 
the general debate of the current General Assembly that  
“Democracy  cannot  be  imposed  on  any  nation 

from the outside. Each society must search for its 
own  path,  and  no  path  is  perfect.  Each  country 
will  pursue  a  path  rooted  in  the  culture  of  its 
people and in its past traditions”. (A/64/PV.3) 

Disputes  among  States  should  and  can  only  be 
resolved through peaceful dialogue and negotiations on 
the  basis  of  equality,  mutual  respect  for  each  other’s 
independence and sovereignty and the principle of the 
non-interference in the internal affairs of States. 

We  join  the  majority  of  Member  States  in 
demanding that the Government of the United States of 
America  put  an  end  to  the  unilateral  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  in 
order  to  ease  the  hardships  and  difficulties  unduly 
inflicted  upon  the  people  of  Cuba,  reduce  tension  and 
create an atmosphere conducive to constructive efforts 
towards  a  normalization  of  the  relations  between  the 
two countries in the interests of the peace, stability and 
development of the whole region. 

Viet Nam reaffirms its support for and solidarity 
with  the  Government  and  people  of  Cuba  and  stands 
ready,  together  with  the  international  community,  to 
8 

09-57988 
their  own  national 
interests, 


continue assisting them to overcome the consequences 
of  this  embargo.  In  that  spirit,  Viet  Nam  will  vote  in 
favour of draft resolution A/64/L.4, submitted by Cuba. 
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  For  yet  another  year,  we 

are  assembled  here  to  address  the  issue  of  ending  the 
economic  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  since  1962.  In 
addressing this matter, Indonesia aligns its views with 
those  expressed  by  the  distinguished  representative  of 
the Sudan, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and 
by the distinguished representative of Egypt, on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Conventional  wisdom  dictates  that  geographic 
proximity between the two countries should be a strong 
reason  for  close  bilateral  relations.  Relations  among 
States  —  any  States  —  will  be  constantly  tested  by 
waves of change. States will always face the challenge 
of maintaining a delicate balance between cooperation 
and competition. Actions by States are naturally guided 
by 
restrained  by 
international norms and standards. 

Thus, differences will always remain between and 
among  countries,  and  tensions  could  always  arise 
between  nations.  But  that  should  not  prevent  any 
movement towards  creating a space  for cooperation,  a 
space  that  allows  the  two  States,  the  two  peoples  and 
the  business  communities  to  seek  and  establish  a 
common  ground  where  both  sides  can  benefit,  grow 
and  nurture  the  tree  of  friendship,  mutual  respect  and 
cooperation. 

For  this  reason,  it  is  pertinent  to  highlight  the 
spirit  of  global  partnership  required  for  development, 
as  set  out 
the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of 
Implementation.  Such  commitments,  made  at 
the 
highest level, urged countries to cooperate, to set aside 
differences  and  to  work  for  the  common  good  of 
billions of people. 

The  current  global  economic  crisis,  ongoing 
climate  change  and  the  energy  and  food  crises  have 
severely  curtailed  efforts  by  Cuba  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals. The United States can 
bring  much-needed  assistance  by  lifting  its  policy  of 
embargo.  In  that  regard  we  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
call  made  by  heads  of  State  and  Government  at  the 
fifteenth  summit  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  in 
Sharm  el-Sheik,  Egypt,  for  an  immediate  end  to  that 
embargo  in  the  name  of  humanity.  That  would  help 
Cuba,  a  developing  country,  to  continue  efforts  to 
the  Millennium  Declaration, 
in 
A/64/PV.27
for 
eradicate poverty and hunger from its midst and bring 
hope of prosperity to millions of Cubans.  

Clearly, there is much to gain by cooperation and 
less  to  gain  by  confrontation.  From  that  perspective, 
Indonesia  believes  that  dialogue  and  negotiation  offer 
the  most  viable  solution 
resolving  existing 
disagreements.  The  United  Nations  Charter  clearly 
stipulates its preference for that avenue towards peace. 

This issue has been on the agenda of the General 
Assembly  for  many  years,  but  tangible  results  are  yet 
to  be  seen.  Forty-seven  years  have  passed,  yet  there 
have been only tortoise-like movements without major 
positive results. Year after year, through its resolutions 
the  General Assembly  has  urged  the  two  countries  to 
dismantle  the  barriers  that  sustain  unhealthy  relations 
between them. 

This year we have reason to be optimistic. Steps 
are  being  taken  towards  normalizing  relations,  and 
there  are  encouraging  signs  to  confirm  that.  That  is 
truly  one  essential  step,  and  it  merits  our  support. We 
stress  our  hope  that  the  once-icy  relations  between 
these  two  neighbours  will  end  and  a  new  era  of 
cooperation and engagement will blossom in the years 
to come. The ending of the economic, commercial and 
financial  blockade  cannot  come  too  soon.  We  support 
the draft resolution on this agenda item. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French): 

Permit me first to welcome among us the Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba.  We  endorse  the  statements 
made by the  Sudan and Egypt on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and the Non-Aligned Movement respectively.  

More  than  half  a  century  after  its  unilateral 
imposition,  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade of the United States of America against Cuba 
is  still  in  place.  We  are  meeting  today  for  the 
seventeenth  consecutive  year  to  restate  the  appeal  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  unceasing  call  of  the 
international  community  for  an  end  to  that  blockade, 
which  is  unjust  and  contrary  to  international  law  and 
international  legitimacy. At  a  time  when  the  values  of 
cooperation, dialogue, solidarity and mutual assistance 
are  more  established  than  ever  as  the  general  trend  in 
international relations, that blockade is an anomaly and 
runs counter to global developments.  

Algeria  reiterates  its  appeal  for  the  lifting  of  the 
trade,  economic  and  financial  blockade  that  Cuba  is 
facing.  It  violates  the  principles  of  the  sovereign 
09-57988 

9 

A/64/PV.27 

equality  of  States  and  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of another State and is an obstacle to the Cuban 
people’s right to development.  

Extraterritorial legislation by a State that is aimed 
at  imposing  unilateral  sanctions  is  a  flagrant  violation 
of  the  principles  of  the  Charter  and  the  rules  of 
international  relations.  Apart  from  the  fact  that  it 
violates  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Charter,  that 
attitude calls into question freedom of trade, navigation 
and movement of capital, which substantially hampers 
the  economic  development  of  Cuba  and  its  people. 
Algeria  states  its  profound  concern  as  to  the  grave 
consequences  of  the  blockade,  which  are  as  unjust  as 
they are illegal.  

Algeria reiterates its firm support for the position 
adopted  by  the  Fifteenth  Summit  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, the decisions adopted at the Second South 
Summit,  held  in  June  2005,  and  all  declarations  that 
have  rejected  the  coercive  economic  measures  and 
extraterritorial  laws  imposed  on  developing  countries 
and demanded that the United States of America lift the 
blockade imposed on Cuba. 
Algeria  reiterates  its  appeal  to  the  United  States 

to lift the blockade, which has constantly been rejected 
by an increasing number of countries year after year, to 
the  point  where 
is  nearly  unanimously 
denounced. 
(South  Africa):  South  Africa 

continues  to  support  the  resolution  before  us,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”.  We  do  so  because 
that 
relentless and unilateral action against Cuba has caused 
untold suffering to her people. 
international 

community  has  reacted 
the 
embargo,  with  a  record  vote  of  185  to  3  in  2008,  is 
testimony that the time has come for it to be lifted and 
thereby  end  the  suffering  of  the  Cuban  civilian 
population, who are carrying the brunt of that injustice.  
The  time  to  end  the  embargo  is  long  overdue. 

South  Africa 
the  basic  norms  of 
international law and conduct in its principled support 
for  the  need  to  eliminate  coercive  economic  measures 
as a means of political and economic coercion. 
We  similarly  recognize  the  sovereignty  of  States 

to  develop  national  legislation.  However,  when  such 
The  unity  with  which 
in  condemnation  of 
is  guided  by 
Mr.  Sangqu
today 
the 
it 
contributions 
legislation  takes  on  an  extraterritorial  reach,  as  is  the 
case with the legislation that has been directed towards 
Cuba, the outcome of such action impacts on the very 
raison  d’être  for  the  existence  of  this  Organization  — 
the United Nations. 

South  Africa  views  the  continued  imposition  of 
an  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  as  a 
violation of the principles of the sovereign equality of 
States.  South  Africa  has  thus  repeatedly  joined  the 
majority  of  countries  in  expressing  its  disagreement 
with  and  opposition  to  the  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba. 

Throughout  the  period  of  this  embargo,  the 
Cuban  people  have  extended  a  hand  of  friendship  and 
solidarity  to  other  peoples  around  the  world.  Cuba’s 
outstanding work in the areas of health, education and 
biotechnology  in  many  developing  countries  and  the 
world  in  general  is  recognized  by  the  international 
community.  Cuba’s 
supporting 
struggles  for  self-determination,  freedom  and  justice 
around 
the  world  are  also  noted.  South  Africa 
continues to recognize Cuba’s contribution to our own 
freedom  and  democracy. The  role  that  Cuba  played  in 
South Africa’s liberation history in solidarity with our 
people  was  celebrated  last  year  during  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  battle  of  Cuito  Cuanavale,  which 
was  a  decisive  turning  point  in  the  struggle  against 
apartheid  and  opened  the  doors  for  the  liberation  of 
South Africa. 

In  November  this  year,  Cuba  will  host  the  sixth 
session  of  the  Joint  Bilateral  Commission  with  South 
Africa.  Through 
the 
Governments  of  South  Africa  and  Cuba  strive  to 
expand the already sound relations in various areas of 
cooperation. Through the bilateral cooperation projects 
in the context of the Joint Bilateral Commission, Cuba 
is  greatly  assisting  South  Africa  to  address  its  skills-
shortage 
provision 
of 
professional workers and trainers in myriad areas. 

financial 
blockade  imposed  against  Cuba  is  an  obstacle  to  the 
economic  and  social  development  of  the  country.  It  is 
therefore incumbent on all of us, as equal Members of 
the United Nations, to urge adherence to the principles 
of our Charter. While international best practice nudges 
States towards engaging in robust trade and investment 
within  a  globalized  economy,  it  is  unacceptable  that 
this  cooperative  mechanism, 
commercial 
economic, 
problems 
through 
The 
and 
to 
the 
10 

09-57988 


Cuba  is  prevented  from  reintegrating  into  the  world 
trading system. 

The  United  Nations  prides  itself  in  rendering 
much-needed humanitarian assistance to those Member 
States that are afflicted by natural disasters or conflicts. 
We  must  continue  to  ensure  that  that  track  record  of 
being responsive to humanitarian need is not tainted in 
any  way,  especially  by  denying  the  Cuban  people 
access 
to  affordable  medical  goods  and  services 
because  of  an  embargo  that,  it  is  claimed,  is  enforced 
for their own good. 

The  extremely  harsh  global  economic  and 
financial  climate  only  worsens  the  fate  of  the  Cuban 
people.  The  international  community  should  therefore 
take steps to free the Cuban people from the embargo. 

While  we  welcome  the  positive  rapprochement 
initiated  by  the  current  United  States  Administration 
and  encourage  it  to  continue  on  that  path,  we  call  on 
the United States to end its unilateral isolation of Cuba. 
We  encourage  the  United  States  to  engage  in  a 
meaningful  dialogue  with  Cuba  in  order  to  accelerate 
the dismantling of those unjust sanctions against Cuba 
and its people. 

South  Africa  will  join  the  majority  in  this 
Assembly  in  supporting  the  draft  resolution  before  us 
today.  South Africa  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement delivered by the representative of the Sudan 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
Mr.  Kapambwe  (Zambia):  My  delegation  is 

grateful  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for  providing  the 
opportunity  to  participate  in  this  important  debate.  I 
wish 
the 
statements by the representative of the Sudan on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China and by the representative 
of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
Zambia  commends  the  Secretary-General  for  the 

report  contained 
in  document  A/64/97,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”,  which  provides  useful 
information. 
My Government believes that the continuation of 

the  embargo  is  a  violation  of  international  law  as 
contained  in  international  covenants.  It  is  for  that 
reason  that  this  body  has  in  the  past  called  on  the 
United States of America to reconsider its position. The 
actions  of  Member  States  on  this  resolution  have 
to  begin  by  associating  myself  with 
A/64/PV.27
to  regard 
consistently  demonstrated  the  clear  conflict  of  the 
embargo with the tenets of the conduct of international 
relationships.  Accordingly,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  my 
Government’s position that lifting the embargo will be 
the  best  way  forward.  Against  this  background,  my 
delegation  continues 
the  extraterritorial 
effects  of  the  embargo  on  third  countries  as  further 
worsening 
the  already  desperate  socio-economic 
conditions in Cuba. 

It is our conviction that discussions on the agenda 
item  before  us  should  not  end  up  as  mere  formalities 
but should result in measures that can be implemented. 
It  is  the  expectation  of  the  Cuban  people  on  this,  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  embargo,  that  through  this 
Assembly  the  international  community  should  send 
them  a  strong  message  that  it  is  concerned  by  their 
plight; that together, the United Nations stands on high 
ground to induce the lifting of the embargo. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  the  continued 
support  of  the  Zambian  Government  for  the  call  to 
bring 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba. In the light of the foregoing, my 
delegation  will  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.4, calling for the lifting of the embargo. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic of Venezuela supports the statements made in 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  and  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  on  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba. 

The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, committed 
to  the  values  of  humanism  and  solidarity  among 
peoples,  condemns  the  application  of  any  unilateral 
measure  of  an  extraterritorial  nature  that  violates  the 
norms  and  principles  of 
law.  The 
blockade against Cuba breaches the principles of self-
determination and sovereignty of peoples and States. It 
is  a  repeated  refusal  by  a  country  signatory  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  of  another  Member 
State’s right to development — in this case, the heroic 
Republic of Cuba. That policy represents a systematic 
violation  of  the  human  rights  of  the  Cuban  people.  It 
also  violates  the  constitutional  rights  of  the  people  of 
the  United  States,  including  the  freedom  to  travel  to 
Cuba. 
international 
to  an  end 
(spoke 
09-57988 

11 
the 
A/64/PV.27 


The  embargo  against  the  heroic  Cuban  people  is 
the  longest,  cruelest  and  most  unfair  in  the  history  of 
humanity. It is the main obstacle for the economic and 
social  development  of  Cuba.  The  impact  on  the 
economy is astronomical. It is equivalent to double the 
expenditures  of  the  United  States  in  implementing  the 
Marshall Plan in the years after the Second World War. 
The  embargo  against  Cuba  can  be  classified  as 
genocide,  given  what  is  set  out  in  paragraph  (c)  of 
Article  II  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. It is also an act 
of  economic  warfare,  according  to  the  Declaration 
concerning  the  Laws  of  Naval  War  approved  by  the 
London Naval Conference. 

There  is  no  historical  precedent  for  the  Cuba 
embargo. No country, not even those considered sworn 
enemies  of  the  United  States,  has  been  the  object  of 
such criminal measures. The embargo violates the rules 
of 
international  systems  of  commerce  and 
navigation; it has an impact on the legitimate interests 
of any sovereign State that wishes to become a partner 
of  Cuba.  The  extraterritorial  application  of  United 
States laws, together with the hostility to the legitimate 
interests  of  companies  and  citizens  of  third-party 
countries, 
the  entire 
international community. It represents a threat to world 
peace  and  an  outright  attack  on  the  self-determination 
and sovereignty of peoples and States. 

The  embargo  against  Cuba  has  also  affected  the 
Venezuelan  people  and  other  peoples  of  the  world, 
especially  those  of  the  Caribbean,  as  was  expressed 
here by the delegation of the Caribbean Community. In 
the  case  of  Venezuela,  we  should  point  out  that  the 
United  States  Government  recently  refused  to  grant 
permission  to  a  transnational  company  to  carry  out  a 
business  transaction  with  Cuba  involving  the  sale  of 
defibrillators to Venezuela to address heart disease, one 
of the leading causes of death in our countries. 

There  are great  expectations of President Barack 
Obama’s  Government,  but  there  is  no  evidence  to 
suggest that the Cuba embargo will be lifted, since all 
the laws and administrative provisions that underpin it 
are still in place. Vice-President Joseph Biden has said, 
and  no  one  has  denied, 
the  United  States 
Government  will  maintain  the  blockade  against  Cuba 
as  a  “pressure 
tool”.  The  half-hearted  measures 
adopted  so  far  do  not  alter  the  legal  framework  on 
which  the  embargo  and  its  continued  application  rest. 
repressive 
The 
issue  of  concern 
administrative 
is  an 
that 
political, 
and 
to 

mechanisms that guarantee thorough implementation of 
the embargo remain intact. 

President  Barack  Obama  received  this  year’s 
Nobel  Peace  Prize.  To  meet  the  expectations  raised 
around  the  world  his  Government  should  pay  close 
attention, among the most important issues, to the call 
of  this  Assembly,  repeated  every  year,  to  lift  the 
blockade against the heroic people of Cuba, the heroic 
republic  under  the  leadership  of  Comandante  Fidel 
Castro. This is an emblematic issue, and that is why the 
President  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela, 
Hugo Chávez Frías, has called on the President of the 
United States to end the blockade and prove that, in the 
words of President Chávez, he “is worthy of the Nobel 
Peace Prize”.  

The  United  States  has  systematically  refused  to 
comply  with  the  resolutions  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  of  the  United  Nations  demanding  that  the 
embargo against the Cuban people be lifted. How long 
will  this  inhuman  policy,  rejected  all  over  the  world, 
continue? What can the General Assembly — the most 
representative  body  of  the  United  Nations  —  do  in 
light of such stubborn non-compliance? 

For all of these reasons, the Bolivarian  Republic 
of  Venezuela  again  votes  in  support  of  the  resolution 
demanding the lifting of the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba. 
Mr.  Sin  Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 

of  Korea):  The  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against  the  Republic  of  Cuba  has  been  in  place  for 
50 years,  in  spite  of  strong  demands  by  an  absolute 
majority of Member States of the United Nations. The 
embargo,  which  has  been  enforced  unilaterally  by  the 
United  States  under  the  pretext  of  accelerating  a 
at 
democratic 
overthrowing 
the 
Government  and  people  of  Cuba.  That  constitutes  a 
grave  violation  of  principles,  such  as  respect  for 
sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in 
internal affairs that are enshrined in the United Nations 
Charter and international law. 

Cuba  has  already  suffered  losses  of  hundreds  of 
billions  of  dollars  in  various  areas  of  its  economy 
because  of  the  cruel  embargo  imposed  by  the  United 
States, which has also had a severe impact on the social 
life and well-being of the Cuban people. The embargo, 
transition 
aimed 
the  social  system  selected  by 
in  Cuba, 
is 
12 

09-57988 


a silent economic war against the people of Cuba, is an 
illegal and inhumane act that has no justification at all, 
politically, legally or morally. No coercive measure of 
a unilateral and extraterritorial nature, devised in order 
to  pursue  sinister  political  purposes  and  to  impose  a 
political,  economic  and  social  system  based  on  one 
country’s  own  perspective,  can  ever  be  justified  or 
tolerated in any way. 

For  the  last  17  years,  therefore,  the  General 
Assembly has adopted resolutions rejecting and calling 
for  an  immediate  end  to  the  United  States  unilateral 
embargo against Cuba, with the overwhelming support 
of  Member  States,  barring  a  very  few  countries, 
including  the  United  States.  We  also  remind  the 
Assembly  that  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  reaffirmed  their  rejection 
of,  and  urged  an  immediate  end  to,  the  United  States 
embargo  against  Cuba  at  the  Movement’s  fifteenth 
Summit  Conference,  held  in  July  2009  in  Sharm 
el-Sheikh, Egypt. 

There have been some media reports on probable 
change in United States policy towards Cuba since the 
Obama Administration took office, but in fact there has 
been  no  change  in  their  policy  of  maintaining  the 
embargo  as  a  tool  to  put  pressure  on  Cuba.  If  it  is 
genuinely  willing  to  improve  relations  and  to  coexist 
with  Cuba  and  every  other  nation,  the  United  States 
should  take  substantial  measures  to  move  away  from 
the outdated mentality of the cold-war era and conform 
with the expectations of people throughout the world. 

It is the consistent position of the Government of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  oppose 
all forms of interference, threat of the use of force and 
sanctions against sovereign States. 
the  Democratic  People’s 

Republic strongly urges the United States Government 
to  immediately  and  unconditionally  end  the  unilateral 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba,  comply  with  all  relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions  and  compensate  Cuba  for  the  economic 
losses that have resulted from the embargo. 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  fully  supports  the  adoption  of  the 
draft  resolution  on  ending  the  embargo  against  Cuba 
and extends its firm support to and solidarity with the 
just  cause  of  the  Government  and  people  of  Cuba  for 
defending  their  national  sovereignty  and  achieving 
The  delegation  of 
The  delegation  of 
A/64/PV.27
In  his  remarks  to  this  body  at  the  2009  general 
economic  development,  social  progress  and  prosperity 
of their nation. 
Mrs.  Waffa-Ogoo  (Gambia):  Mr.  President,  I 

wish to thank you for convening this debate on agenda 
item  19,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”. The report of 
the  Secretary-General  (A/64/97)  amply  documents  the 
devastation  caused  by  the  continued  imposition  of  the 
embargo against Cuba.  

debate, His Excellency Al Hadji Yahya Jammeh said,  


“My  delegation  …  calls  on  the  United 
Nations  to  urge  the  United  States  of America  to 
immediately  and unconditionally lift its embargo 
on  Cuba,  in  accordance  with  the  wishes  of  more 
than 98 per cent of the membership of this body. 
That  trade  embargo  continues  to  hurt  Cuban 
women  and  children.  The  Cuban  children  born 
into  those  extreme  hardships  have  committed  no 
crime.  The  punishment  of  women  and  children 
because  of  political  differences  is  a  very  serious 
violation of their rights.” (A/64/PV.6, pp. 29-30)  
UNICEF’s  contribution 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report  makes  it  clear  that  even  children  with  special 
needs are not spared the impact of the embargo. 

My  delegation  therefore  joins  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  Member  States  in  the  Assembly  in 
calling  for  an 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America on Cuba. For 18 consecutive 
years,  the  General Assembly,  reflecting  the  voice  and 
moral  authority  of  the  people  of  this  world,  has 
rejected the embargo as contrary to international law.  

The  harm  that  the  embargo  has  inflicted  on  the 
Cuban  people  is  incalculable  in  terms  of  human 
suffering  and  deprivation  of  essential  commodities. 
Almost every sector of Cuban society is affected by the 
punitive  reach  of  extraterritorial  application  of  the 
embargo. The loss and damage to the Cuban economy, 
health,  education,  tourism,  culture  and  many  other 
areas  is  well  documented  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report.  

the 
embargo  and  is  of  the  firm  belief  that  its  continued 
application serves no other purpose than to punish the 
Cuban  people  and  Government  for  their  political 
The  Gambia  has  consistently  opposed 
to 
immediate  end 
to 
09-57988 

13 

is 
through  dialogue 
A/64/PV.27 

stance. Let us remind ourselves once again that we are 
in  the  twenty-first  century  and  that  the  best  way  to 
solve  our  problems 
and 
multilateralism.  

To  paraphrase  President  Barack  Obama,  we  call 
on  the  United  States  to  embrace  a  new  era  of 
engagement  with  Cuba  based  on  mutual  interest  and 
mutual  respect,  in  order  to  build  a  new  coalition  that 
bridges  all  divides.  We  call  on  the  United  States 
Government  to  take  a  serious  look  at  this  year’s  draft 
resolution  (A/64/L.4)  and  honour  its  demands.  My 
delegation  believes  that  the  time  has  come  for  the 
United  States  to  open  a  new  chapter  in  its  bilateral 
relations  with  Cuba,  beginning  with  the  immediate 
dismantling of the sanctions regime.  

It is in the interest of the United States, Cuba and 
the  international  community  to  see  an  end  to  this 
extraterritorial  regime.  It  is  our  hope  that  this  year’s 
draft resolution will usher in a new era of cooperation, 
dialogue and mutual respect and ultimately lead to the 
immediate and unconditional lifting of the embargo. 
Mr.  Savostianov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The  Russian  delegation  would  first  and 
foremost like to express appreciation to the Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  contained  in 
document A/64/97. The report presents the opinions of 
the  Member  States  that  have  unanimously  expressed 
their  disagreement  with  and  objections 
the 
introduction  of 
the  unilateral  and  extraterritorial 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade  against 
Cuba.  

Russia’s  position  of  principle  in  respect  of  the 
resolution  on  this  issue  is  well  known.  Our  country 
wholeheartedly shares the opinion of the overwhelming 
majority of members of the international community in 
resolutely condemning the American blockade of Cuba 
and calling for its swift lifting. We are convinced that 
ending 
the  anti-Cuban  embargo  and  normalizing 
American-Cuban relations as a whole will contribute to 
redressing the situation with respect to Cuba and to its 
further reintegration into continent-wide structures.  

the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade of Cuba 
is  counterproductive  and  anachronistic,  inconsistent 
with  today’s  realities.  We  welcome  the April  decision 
of Barack Obama’s Administration to lift a number of 
restrictions on visits to Cuba by United States citizens 
who  have  relatives  there  and  on  monetary  and  postal 
the  maintenance  of 
We  consider 
that 
the 
transfers  to  Cubans  from  the  United  States.  We  trust 
that other actions to improve relations between the two 
countries will follow, ultimately leading to the full end 
of 
long-obsolete  economic  and  commercial 
embargo against Cuba.  

For the time being, we feel that it is necessary to 
continue  our  policy  of  supporting  the  draft  resolution 
demanding  the  lifting  of  the  blockade,  guided  by  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  on  the  inadmissibility  of  any  discriminatory 
measures  or  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
States. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran): At  the 

outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his  report  submitted  under  agenda  item  19,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba” (A/64/97). 
My  delegation  also  associates  itself  with  the 

statement made by the Permanent Representative of the 
Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  

The  adoption  of  resolution  63/7  —  the  most 
recent in a long chain of resolutions that the Assembly 
has adopted on this subject with such strong support — 
clearly 
the 
international  community 
to  unilateral  economic 
coercive  measures  in  general  and  to  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  against 
Cuba in particular.  

Resorting  to  an  embargo  as  a  tool  to  attain 
political objectives seriously undermines the collective 
efforts  of  Member  States  to  achieve  economic  growth 
and  sustainable  development  at  the  national,  regional 
and  international  levels.  Therefore,  these  consecutive 
resolutions,  which  call  on  all  States  to  refrain  from 
applying such laws and measures and to take necessary 
steps  to  repeal  or  invalidate  them,  are  wise  and 
laudable  reactions  by  the  international  community  to 
such unacceptable measures. 

Nevertheless,  we  are  deeply  concerned  that, 
despite so many appeals contained in resolutions of the 
General  Assembly  and  recommendations  adopted  by 
the Human Rights Council and at several major United 
Nations  conferences,  unilateral  coercive  measures, 
with  all  their  negative  implications,  continue  to  be 
imposed and implemented. 
strong  objection  of 
indicates 
the 
to 
14 

09-57988 
It 
its 
reiterates 
My  delegation 
full  achievement  of  economic  and 
is  worth  recalling  paragraph  102  of 



the 
Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation  of  the  World 
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  which  clearly 
urges Member States to take steps with a view to avoid 
and  refrain  from  any  unilateral  measure  that  impedes 
the 
social 
development by the people of the affected countries.  

long-standing 
position  that  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba runs counter to the principles of 
international law governing relations among States and 
contradicts  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  Therefore,  we  strongly  reject  the 
implementation  of  unilateral  economic  and 
trade 
measures  by  one  State  against  another  that  affect  the 
free flow of international trade and financial resources. 
We  further denounce the extraterritorial application of 
national legislation to other States. 

Indeed,  such  measures  continue  to  adversely 
impact  the  living  conditions  and  human  rights  of  the 
Cuban  people  and  to  hamper  the  efforts  of  the  Cuban 
in  eradicating  poverty  and  hunger, 
Government 
promoting  health  and  education  — 
indispensable 
elements  of  economic  and  social  development  —  and 
achieving  internationally  agreed  development  goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals.  

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  along  with  many 
other  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations, 
emphasizes  the  urgent  need  for  an  immediate  end  to 
such  measures  and  for  the  full  implementation  of  all 
relevant General Assembly resolutions. 
Mrs. Viotti (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): I should 

like at the outset to welcome the presence among us of 
Mr.  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba.  

The  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba  is  an  issue  that  has  occupied  us  for  nearly 
50 years. Last year saw the most impressive display of 
support  for  the  traditional  resolution  on  this  subject. 
Let  us  hope  that  we  can  celebrate  the  long-awaited 
international  consensus  that  would  enable  us  to  settle 
this  unresolved 
the  agenda  of  our 
Organization. Let us hope that we can keep pace with 
history,  which  has  already  consigned  to  the  grave  so 
many  other  anachronisms  of  the  cold  war  era.  Let  us 
hope  that  we  can  overcome  one  of  the  last  obstacles 
preventing  us  from  finally  entering  the  twenty-first 
century, free of the constraints of an international order 
item  on 
A/64/PV.27
in  April 
inter-American 
this  year,  when 
family  of  nations 
whose elements of conflict we do not wish to pass on 
to future generations.  

We  have  grounds  for  optimism.  Last  year,  the 
winds  of  change  finally  began  to  blow.  The  first 
tangible movement was Cuba’s full integration into the 
Rio Group as a result of a presidential decision late in 
2008.  The  presence  of  that  brotherly  nation  in  a 
mechanism  for  building  political  consensus  will  be 
valuable in continuing to build a common destiny. The 
next step occurred at the Summit of the Americas held 
in  Puerto  España 
the 
possibility  arose  of  achieving  the  full  reintegration  of 
the 
in  our 
hemisphere.  In  June,  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
Organization of American States (OAS), meeting in the 
city  of  San  Pedro  Sula,  took  the  historic  decision  to 
declare  resolution  VI,  adopted  in  1962,  by  which  the 
Government  of  Cuba  had  been  excluded  from  the 
inter-American system, without effect.  

The  progress  of  the  past  year  brought  us  a  little 
closer  to  the  ideals  of  the  OAS  charter,  based  on  the 
principles  of  solidarity  and  good-neighbourliness.  In 
addition, it expressed the aspiration of our peoples to a 
tolerant  regionalism  based  on  progress  and  prosperity 
for  all,  independence,  the  sovereign  equality  of  States 
and  respect  for  the  law.  Those  principles  assume 
universal scope at the United Nations and require firm 
commitment to multilateralism. 

Some early progress has been made over the past 
year in the relaxing of the embargo. We are following 
with  the  greatest  interest  and  welcome  the  decisions 
taken  to  reduce  the  restrictions  imposed  on  the  travel 
of individuals with relatives in Cuba, to raise the caps 
on financial remittances and to facilitate the mailing of 
parcels.  The  resumption  of  bilateral  dialogue  between 
the  United  States  and  the  Government  of  Cuba  on 
migration issues and the more open parameters for the 
participation  of 
in 
Cuba are also positive.  

Notwithstanding  the  recent  progress,  or  perhaps 
precisely  because  of  it,  the  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  against  Cuba  seems  increasingly  irrational 
and  anachronistic,  in  addition  to  being  harmful  to  the 
interests  of  the  international  community.  The  truth  is 
that  nothing  less  than  an  unequivocal,  swift  and 
decisive end to the embargo will bring us back into line 
with the realities of the new century in which we live. 
telecommunications  companies 
09-57988 

15 

(spoke 
(Cuba) 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
A/64/PV.27 


From  this  very  rostrum,  President  Lula  has 
affirmed  that  we  must  exert  our  political  will  to 
overcome  situations 
that  militate  against  peace, 
development  and  democracy.  An  end  to  the  embargo 
would contribute decisively to that end. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  to 
introduce draft resolution A/64/L.4. 
in 

Spanish): Alexis García Iribar was born in Cuba, in the 
province  of  Guantánamo,  with  congenital  cardiopathy. 
At  the  age  of  six,  after  successive  deferrals  and  with 
complications,  he  had  to  undergo  open-heart  surgery 
on  9  March  2009  because  the  Government  of  the 
United States prohibits the North American companies 
NuMED,  AGA  Medical  Corporation  and  Boston 
Scientific  from  selling  Cuba 
the  Amplatzer  and 
embolization coil devices for paediatric catheterization 
that  can  replace  surgery.  I  could  mention  another 
12 cases  of  children  between  the  ages  of  five  months 
and  13  years,  all  of  whom  have  undergone  a  similar 
procedure  in  the  past  year  and  a  half,  two  since 
20 January. 
acute 

Cuban 
lymphoblastic 
the  usual 
medicines  cannot  be  treated  with  the  North American 
product  Elspar,  made  specifically 
for  cases  of 
intolerance.  Consequently,  their  life  expectancy  is 
reduced  and  their  suffering  increases.  The  North 
American  Government  prohibits  the  company  Merck 
from  supplying  it  to  Cuba.  Cuba  has  been  unable  to 
obtain the genetic analyser equipment needed to study 
the cause of breast, colon and prostate cancer, which is 
manufactured by the North American company Applied 
Biosystems.  Lactalis  USA,  a  supplier  of  dairy 
products,  was  fined  $20,000  by  the  North  American 
Government. 

Since President Obama’s election, there has been 
no  change 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba.  It 
remains intact. It continues to be an absurd policy that 
causes  scarcities  and  suffering.  It  is  a  mass,  flagrant 
and  systematic  violation  of  human  rights.  Under  the 
1948  Geneva  Convention,  it  could  be  classified  as  an 
act of genocide. It is ethically unacceptable. 
The  blockade  is  an  arrogant  and  ignorant  act. 

Recently,  the  North  American  Government  prevented 
children 
leukaemia  who 
the  application  of 
suffering 
reject 
from 
in 
such 
However, 
inhumane 
Hitachi  stated 
the New York Philharmonic Orchestra from performing 
in  Cuba.  Cuban  artists  cannot  be  paid  for  their 
performances  before  the  North American  public.  How 
can  artistic  creation  be  considered  a  crime?  Microsoft 
blocked  Cuba’s  access  to  Windows  Live  because,  as 
can  be  read  after  opening  that  tool,  that  is  what 
happens  to  users  from  countries  under  United  States 
embargo.  The  same  happens  with  the  web  pages  of 
Cisco  Systems,  SolidWorks  and  Symantec.  The 
blockade  limits  Cuba’s  bandwidth  and  connectivity.  It 
prevents  our  connection  to  the  submarine  fibre-optic 
cables that pass near our coasts. Why does the United 
States Government hinder the free flow of information 
and access to new technologies? 

prohibitions, 
inappropriate  in  this  age,  are  applied  not  only  against 
Cuba, but also against other countries represented here. 
Philips Medical Systems failed to fulfil the contracted 
supply of spare parts for medical equipment, bought at 
a  cost  of  $72  million  and  installed  in  Cuba  and  in 
Venezuela.  Moreover,  it  was  fined  $200,000.  It  is  a 
Netherlands company, against which the United States 
Government applied the blockade extraterritorially. 
it  cannot  sell  Cuba  an 

electronic 
for 
pathological  anatomy  studies,  while  Toshiba  said  the 
same about a gamma chamber and magnetic resonance 
and  high-precision  ultrasound  equipment.  They  are 
Japanese  companies  against  which  the  United  States 
the  blockade.  The  North  American 
also  applies 
Government  forbade 
the  food  company  Sensient 
Flavors  from  exporting  to  Cuba,  although  it  is  a 
subsidiary registered and based in Canada. 
Siemens, a German company, refused to sell us a 

125-megawatt 
its 
obligation to follow certain United States rules. One of 
its  subsidiaries  based  in  Denmark  could  not  supply 
equipment  for  a  cement  factory  in  Cuba  under  the 
North  American  ban.  The  Australia  &  New  Zealand 
Bank  Group,  headquartered  in  Australia,  was  fined 
millions  for  doing  business  with  Cuba.  Some  1,941 
vessels that moored in Cuban ports between July 2008 
and  July  2009  were  banned  from  entering  North 
American  ports  for  180  days.  There  are  many  other 
examples  cited 
the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/64/97), which includes Cuba’s reply.  

The  United  States  representatives  lie  when  they 
assert  that  the  blockade  is  a  bilateral  issue.  The 
transmission  microscope,  essential 
transformer  owing, 
it  said, 
that 
to 
in 
16 

09-57988 
investing 


extraterritorial  application  of  blockade  laws,  such  as 
the  Helms-Burton  and  Torricelli  Acts,  against  States 
represented  here  is  a  serious  violation  of  international 
law,  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  freedom  of  trade 
and navigation. Recently, blockade measures have been 
applied  against  at  least  56  countries.  It  is  up  to  the 
General Assembly to deal with this matter. 

According  to  recent  polls  of  institutions  of  that 
country,  76  per  cent  of  North  Americans  oppose  the 
blockade. It is antidemocratic to disregard the wish for 
change  and  to  maintain  the  blockade.  In  a  time  of 
unemployment  and  economic  crisis,  United  States 
businesses  are  banned  from  the  Cuban  market  and 
prohibited  from 
in  Cuba.  International 
companies  face  no  North  American  competition  in 
Cuba because the United States Government forbids it. 

What  harm  could  there  be  in  North  Americans 
accessing Cuban products? Who would  be hurt by the 
creation of new jobs in United States ports as a result 
of  the  development  of  normal  trade  relations  between 
our  countries?  Why  can  North  Americans  not  have 
access  to  the  latest  Cuban  medicines  for  cancer  or 
diabetes  and  the  technologies  to  manufacture  them, 
which  are  available  in  only  Cuba?  Why  does  the 
company Bacardi, which paid for the lobbying that led 
to the Helms-Burton Act, avoid competition and force 
North Americans to buy a poor imitation of Cuban rum 
at  a  higher  price?  Why  should  a  Cuban  cigar  be 
inaccessible and exotic in that country? 

The  United  States  President  seemed  stuck  in  the 
past when, on 11 September, he extended the embargo 
for  another  year,  citing  the  national  interest  of  the 
United States, based on the Trade with the Enemy Act 
of  1917,  which  is  applicable  only  to  situations  of  war 
and  enforced  solely  against  Cuba.  No  serious  person 
could  maintain  that  Cuba  is  a  threat  to  the  national 
security of the only super-Power.  

Our strength is that of law, truth and reason. The 
inclusion of Cuba on the spurious list of alleged State 
sponsors of terrorism — the reason given for some of 
the  blockade  measures  —  should  cease.  Our  five 
anti-terrorist  heroes,  who  have  been  unjustly 
imprisoned in that country, should be freed now. 

On  11  September  2001,  Cuba  opened  its  skies 
and  airports  so  that  any  American  plane  could  have 
somewhere  to  land.  It  offered  plasma  and  health-care 
workers. Later on, it offered antibiotics and equipment 
to combat the anthrax threat and generously offered to 
A/64/PV.27
send  doctors  when  Hurricane  Katrina  battered  New 
Orleans. 

Cuba is a hospitable nation that invites American 
citizens  to  visit,  American  intellectuals,  scholars  and 
scientists to engage in cooperation and fruitful debate, 
American  artists 
to  build  bridges,  and  American 
companies to trade and invest.  

A  few  days  ago,  we  all  applauded  President 
Obama when he said  from this rostrum, “international 
law is not an empty promise” and “no nation … should 
try to dominate another nation” (A/64/PV.3). 

The international community cannot and will not 
accept  that  those  who  govern  in  Washington,  D.C., 
believe  they  have  the  authority  to  implement  coercive 
economic  measures  and  extraterritorial  laws  against 
sovereign  States.  President  Obama  has  a  historical 
opportunity  to  lead  a  change  of  policy  towards  Cuba 
and lift the blockade. He is even vested with executive 
powers  that  would  allow  him,  right  now  and  all  by 
himself, to substantially modify the implementation of 
the  blockade  measures  by  granting  general  licences, 
dispensations  or  waivers,  humanitarian  exceptions  or 
measures taken for reasons of national interest, without 
even  modifying 
such 
prohibitions. 

President  Obama  righteously  defied  the  egoism 
and  callous  nature  of  the  conservative  right  when  he 
told Congress, 

“One  man  from  Illinois  lost  his  coverage  in  the 
middle  of  chemotherapy  …  and  he  died  because 
of it. Another woman from Texas was about to get 
a  double  mastectomy  when  her 
insurance 
company cancelled her policy”.  
Anyone who could be troubled by this could not, 

without  disregarding  the  most  basic  ethical  standards, 
prevent  Cuban  children  suffering  from  cancer  or  a 
heart  condition  from  receiving  medicine  and  medical 
equipment.  To  paraphrase  Senator  Kennedy  when  he 
referred to health reform, the blockade against Cuba is 
also a moral issue that puts to the test the character of 
the United States of America. 
that  Cuba  purchases  significant 

quantities  of  agricultural  products  from  the  United 
States.  However,  the  United  States  representatives  lie 
when they say that the United States is Cuba’s trading 
partner  but  fail  to  mention  that  this  trade  does  not 
the 
conform 
standards  established  by 
enforce 
It 
is 
true 
to 
the 
the 
laws 
that 
09-57988 

17 
The 
and 
through 
fictitious 
representatives  of 
A/64/PV.27 

international  trade  system.  Cuba’s  payments  are  to  be 
made in cash and in advance, without access to private 
credit.  Cuban  vessels  are  not  allowed  to  transport 
cargo. Cuba is submitted to onerous and discriminatory 
procedures  and  endures  endless  manoeuvres  aimed  at 
confiscating  shipments.  We  cannot  call  “trade”  those 
operations that lack even the minimum reciprocity that 
would allow Cuba to export its products to the United 
States.  A  country  imposing  a  blockade  on  another 
cannot be its trading partner. 

the  United  States 
Government  lie  shamelessly  when  they  assert  that  the 
United  States  is  the  main  donor  of  humanitarian 
assistance  to  Cuba.  The  data  they  use  are  false.  They 
conflate, 
intentionally 
misleading  figures,  the  value  of  alleged  licences  for 
transactions  that  never  took  place  and  the  assistance 
that  Cuban  immigrants  residing  in  the  United  States 
send, through no effort but their own, to their relatives. 
Successive United States administrations have persecuted 
and  harassed  non-governmental  organizations  that  send 
humanitarian  assistance  to  Cuba,  and  as  a  result,  half 
of those organizations have stopped doing so. 

A  year  ago,  when  Cuba  was  devastated  by  three 
hurricanes,  which  caused  losses  equivalent  to  20  per 
cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product, 
the  Bush 
administration did not even respond to our request that 
American  companies  be  allowed  to  sell  to  us,  on  an 
exceptional  basis,  construction  material  and  tarpaulins 
to  replace  damaged  roofs,  and  to  grant  us  private 
credit. 

At several meetings, United States representatives 
have  referred  to  the  steps  that  their  Government  has 
taken to dismantle the most brutal restrictions imposed 
by George W. Bush on travel by Cuban émigrés and on 
remittances  to  their  relatives,  as  well  as  to  resume 
bilateral  talks  on  migration  issues  and  re-establish 
direct postal services. 

These actions are positive, but they are extremely 
limited  and  insufficient. The  truth  is  that  we  have  not 
even  returned  to  a  situation  comparable  to  that  which 
prevailed until the early days of 2004, when the United 
States  allowed  a  certain  level  of  academic,  cultural, 
scientific 
exchange  with  Cuban 
counterparts.  Such  exchanges  continue  to  be  banned 
today. 
to 

telecommunications  will  simply  be  impracticable  so 
proposals 
sporting 
relating 
vague 
Some 
and 

to 
to 
the 
travel 
long  as  other  restrictions  that  remain  in  force  are  not 
eliminated,  and  so  long  as  the  practice  of  stealing 
Cuban  funds  resulting  from  such  transactions,  which 
remain  frozen  in  American  banks  on  the  basis  of 
decisions adopted by venal judges in violation of their 
own laws, is not discontinued. 

Since  the  right  of  United  States  residents  of 
Cuban  origin 
island  has  been 
re-established,  the  absurdity  of  preventing  American 
citizens  from  travelling  to  Cuba  —  the  only  place  in 
the  world  forbidden  to  them  —  has  been  thrown  into 
starker  relief.  American  citizens,  who  pay  taxes,  are 
not  free  to  travel  to  Cuba,  despite  the  fact  that  the 
Constitution  of  that  country  allegedly  guarantees  that 
right.  American  citizens  are  not  allowed  to  receive 
first-hand information about Cuba. 

United  States  representatives  have  also  referred 
in several meetings to a supposedly new spirit in their 
relations  with  our  country.  Cuba’s  response  has  been 
fully  consistent  with  its  historical  readiness  to  talk 
directly with the United States. Just as Commander-in-
Chief Fidel Castro Ruz did in the past, President Raúl 
Castro  Ruz  has  reiterated  his  willingness  to  establish 
dialogue  on  all  issues  and  to  negotiate  all  bilateral 
problems  on  the  basis  of  respect  and  sovereign 
equality,  without 
national 
independence  and  self-determination.  We  have  clearly 
stated that we will not negotiate our internal affairs or 
our constitutional order. We await a response from the 
United  States  Government  about  the  proposed  agenda 
submitted  by  Cuba  this  past  July  to  launch  a  bilateral 
dialogue,  which  I  publicly  announced  in  this  Hall  on 
28 September 2006. 

The  economic  blockade  has  not  succeeded  and 
will not succeed in its purpose of crushing the patriotic 
resolve  of  the  Cuban  people.  However,  it  generates 
shortages,  restricts  our  development  potential  and 
seriously  hurts  our  economy.  It  is,  without  doubt,  the 
fundamental  obstacle 
the  economic 
development of our country. Its cost is very difficult to 
estimate.  A  rigorous  and  conservative  record  of  the 
economic  damage  amounts  to  hundreds  of  billions  of 
dollars,  based  on  the  current  and  decreasing  value  of 
that currency. 

Representatives  of  the  United  States  have  said 
that our shortages result from the failure of our system. 
But  they  lie,  perhaps  rather  from  ignorance  than  bad 
faith. Thanks to our system, we have been able to resist 
that  hinders 
prejudice 
our 
to 
18 

09-57988 


for  50  years  and  we  have  developed  despite  the 
blockade.  If  the  United  States  representatives  are 
convinced that our system does not work, why do they 
need the blockade? 

In  conditions  of  true  economic  warfare  and 
vicious  manipulation  of  the  media,  and  subject  to  the 
effects  of  climate  change  and  the  global  economic 
crisis, Cuba is engaged in deeply human and fraternal, 
social and cultural work. Our people are determined to 
move  ahead,  in  sovereignty,  in  order  to  solve  our 
problems and perfect our political, economic and social 
system  within  socialism.  We  Cubans  have  every  right 
to  do  so,  without  blockades  or  foreign  pressure, 
without  the  millions  in  funds  with  which  the  United 
States  Government  finances  subversion  and  without 
foreign  interference  in  the  decisions  that  only  we 
Cubans are entitled to make. 

That is the purpose of the draft resolution that we 
intend  to  adopt  and  that  I  am  honoured  to  present. 
Supporting this draft resolution would be an act against 
aggression  and  the  use  of  force.  It  would  be  an  act  in 
favour of peace, justice and hope. It would be an act of 
justice  towards  the  heroic  people  of  Cuba  who  are 
today  paying 
the  memory  of  Camilo 
Cienfuegos, a young and cheerful Commander from the 
Sierra Maestra Mountains, from whom we learned that 
loyalty  to  our  sacred  achievements  and  our  profound 
convictions is the only way to victory. 

the last speaker in the debate on this agenda item.

A/64/L.4. 

Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote before the vote, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  before  the  vote  are  limited  to  10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.  However,  in  view  of  the  large  number  of 
speakers,  I  would  ask  delegations  to  limit  their 
explanations of vote to no more than a few minutes so 
that  we  can  finish  our  work  on  this  item  in  a  timely 
manner.  

I now give the floor to those representatives who 
wish to speak in explanation of vote before the voting. 

Ms. Rice (United States of America): Here we go 
again.  I  suppose  old  habits  die  hard.  The  hostile 
language we have just heard from the Foreign Minister 
of Cuba seems straight out of the Cold War era and is 
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
tribute 
to 
A/64/PV.27
not  conducive  to  constructive  progress.  We  will  not 
respond  in  kind  to  the  painfully  familiar  rhetoric  that 
we  have  heard  in  years  past.  Rather,  I  am  here  to 
acknowledge  that  there  is  a  new  chapter  to  this  old 
story.  
In  recent  months,  since  the  start  of  the  Obama 

administration, 
the  United  States  has  undertaken 
several  steps  to  reach  out  to  the  Cuban  people  in 
support  of  their  desire  to  freely  determine  their 
country’s  future.  We  have  promoted  family  visits  and 
the  free  flow  of  information  to  and  from  the  Cuban 
people.  The  United  States  has  lifted  restrictions  on 
family visits and remittances and expanded the amount 
of  humanitarian  items  that  the  American  people  can 
donate  to  individuals  in  Cuba.  The  United  States  has 
enhanced the ability of United States telecommunications 
companies  to  pursue  agreements  to  provide  service  to 
Cuba  and  has  made  it  easier  for  United  States 
agricultural  producers  to  pursue  contracts  with  Cuban 
buyers.  These  are  important  steps  and  we  hope  they 
can  be  the  starting  point  for  further  changes  in  the 
relationship. 

It  is  equally  important  to  note  that  the  United 
States has demonstrated that we are prepared to engage 
the  Government  of  Cuba  on  issues  that  affect  the 
security  and  well-being  of  both  our  peoples. 
Specifically, we have resumed bilateral discussions on 
migration, we have initiated talks to re-establish direct 
mail  service  between  the  United  States  and  Cuba  and 
we  stand  by  to  provide  assistance  should  Cuba  be 
ravaged again by hurricanes as it was in 2008. 

We  believe  that  any  resolution  commenting  on 
the relationship between Cuba and the United States of 
constructive 
America 
developments.  Sadly, 
resolution  under 
discussion  fails  in  that  regard  and,  regrettably,  the 
Government  of  Cuba  has  not  yet  reciprocated  those 
important steps taken by my Government.  

At  the  same  time,  we  must  point  out  that  the 
United  States  of America,  like  all  Member  States,  has 
the sovereign right to conduct its economic relationship 
with  another  country  as  it  sees  fit.  The  United  States 
economic  relationship  with  Cuba  is  a  bilateral  issue 
and  part  of  a  broader  set  of  relations.  The  steps  the 
United  States  has  taken  to  improve  communications 
and  exchanges  with  the  Cuban  people  are  undertaken 
with a continuing firm commitment to encouraging the 
Cuban Government to respect basic norms embodied in 
the  draft 
should 
reflect 
those 
09-57988 

19 

the 
Inter-American  Democratic  Charter  and 
A/64/PV.27 

the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 

As we discuss our differences on that subject, we 
must  remember  one 
important  commonality.  The 
United  States,  like  most  Member  States,  is  firmly 
committed to supporting the desire of the Cuban people 
to  determine  freely  their  country’s  future.  Respect  for 
human rights and fundamental freedoms are part of this 
Organization’s core values. We should not lose sight of 
that  in  a  stale  debate  bogged  down  in  rhetorical 
arguments of the past. That kind of debate does nothing 
to help the people of Cuba. 

I  must  address  two  significant  distortions  in  the 
Cuban  position.  First,  my  delegation  regrets  that  the 
delegation  of  Cuba  continues  inappropriately  and 
incorrectly  to  label  United  States  trade  restrictions  on 
Cuba as an act of genocide. Such an egregious misuse 
of  the  term  genocide  diminishes  the  real  suffering  of 
victims of genocide elsewhere in the world. 

Secondly,  it  is  erroneous  to  charge  that  United 
States sanctions are the cause of deprivation among the 
Cuban  people.  The  United  States  maintains  no 
restriction  on  humanitarian  aid  to  Cuba.  In  fact,  the 
United  States  is  a  major  source  of  humanitarian 
assistance to the Cuban people and the largest provider 
of  food  to  Cuba.  In  2008,  the  United  States  exported 
agricultural products, medical devices, medicine, wood 
and  humanitarian 
to  Cuba.  In  agricultural 
products  alone,  the  United  States  sold  $700.1  million 
of  goods  to  Cuba.  Once  again,  in  2008,  the  United 
States was Cuba’s fifth largest trading partner.  

As  we  have  sought  to  reach  out  to  the  Cuban 
people, we have called upon the Cuban Government to 
take  steps  to  respond  to  the  desire  of  its  citizens  to 
enjoy  political,  social,  and  economic  freedoms.  There 
are  many  things  the  Government  of  Cuba  could  do  to 
signal its willingness to engage constructively with its 
own  people  and  with  the  United  States.  Positive 
measures  could  include  liberating  the  hundreds  of 
prisoners  of  conscience  in  Cuban  jails,  ratifying  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights, 
reducing the excessive charges on remittances flowing 
into  the  country,  demonstrating  greater  respect  for 
freedom  of  speech,  ending  the  practice  of  arresting 
political  opponents  on  vague  and  arbitrary  charges 
such as “social dangerousness” and permitting the visit 
of  United  Nations  rapporteurs  on  human  rights  and 
torture.  As  other  delegations  consider 
this  draft 
items 
recognized 
internationally 
resolution,  we  do  hope  they  will  not  lose  sight  of  the 
undeniable  fact  that  the  Cuban  Government’s  airtight 
restrictions  on 
social, 
political and economic freedoms are the main source of 
deprivation and the primary obstacle to development in 
Cuba.  

Because  it  does  not  reflect  current  realities,  my 
delegation will vote against this draft resolution. At the 
same  time,  the  United  States  will  continue  to  work  to 
expand  opportunities  for  the  people  of  Cuba  to 
empower themselves through access to information and 
resources. We will continue to engage the Government 
of  Cuba  on  issues  of  mutual  concern  and  national 
security.  We  await  a  constructive  Cuban  response  to 
our initiatives. In the meantime it is high time for this 
body  to  move  beyond  the  rhetorical  posturing  of  the 
past,  to  recognize  the  situation  in  Cuba  for  what  it  is 
today  and  to  encourage  progress  towards  genuine 
change. 
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf 

of  my  delegation  I  would  like  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for 
organizing this debate on the need to end the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba. 

My  delegation,  which  has  consistently  voted  in 
favour of the resolution on the Cuban embargo, wishes 
to  make  the  following  observations  on  this  issue,  on 
which we could have spared ourselves a vote. First, the 
embargo  imposed  on  Cuba,  which  causes  suffering  to 
the  Cuban  population,  as  well  as  considerable 
economic damages to the nation, does not constitute, in 
the  opinion  of  my  delegation,  an  acceptable  means  of 
resolving political differences among States. Secondly, 
this embargo, which is a unilateral measure, not only is 
a  flagrant  violation  of  the  provisions  of  the  United 
Nations Charter, the principles of international law and 
resolutions  adopted  year  after  year  by  this  Assembly, 
but also flouts the principles of freedom of commerce 
and international navigation. 

Congo, which keenly wishes to see the lifting of 
this measure, has no intention of associating itself with 
it in any way whatsoever. That is why it has refrained 
from  passing  or  putting  into  practice  any  law  of  the 
kind referred to in the draft resolution. In that sprit, the 
Congolese delegation  will  cast  a vote in favour of the 
draft before us.  
I could not conclude my statement without taking 

note of the encouraging signs seen recently that give us 
20 

09-57988 
through 


reasons  to  hope  that  a  settlement  of  this  question  is 
possible 
constructive  dialogue.  Congo 
encourages any development to that end and expresses 
a  hope  that  the  parties  to  this  conflict  may  draw  on  a 
spirit of dialogue in order to put an end to this unjust, 
anachronistic  measure  that  is  manifestly  damaging  to 
peace and security in the region. 
Ms.  Rubiales  de  Chamorro  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 

in  Spanish):  Nicaragua  would  like  to  explain  the 
elements  it  believes  need  to  be  taken  into  account  for 
this vote and, specifically, explain why we will vote in 
favour of draft resolution A/64/L.4.  

Who  is  Cuba?  Cuba  is  a  sister,  the  inspirational 
source  of  our  own  struggles,  the  daughter  both  of  the 
American  continent  and  the  African  continent,  an 
example of solidarity and generosity. Cuba, all of your 
brothers and sisters on this continent are with you. All 
our  peoples  and  Governments  recognize  you  and 
admire you — all except one. And the Government that 
does not recognize you is acting against the will of its 
own people. Moreover, that Government not only does 
not recognize you but also abuses you, and abuses you 
against the will of the international community. 

financial 
blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States  against  Cuba 
for  more  than  50  years  is  the  highest  expression  of  a 
cruel  and  inhumane  policy  that  is  lacking  in  legality 
and legitimacy and is deliberately designed to provoke 
hunger,  disease  and  desperation 
the  Cuban 
population.  This  blockade  has  to  stop  now.  It  is  a 
flagrant violation of human rights.  

The United States Government cannot continue to 
ignore  the  resolutions  of  this  Assembly.  It  must 
immediately  obey  them  and  join  in  what  has  been  the 
will of the international community, which since 1992 
has expressed itself in a growing condemnation of the 
Member  States  of  this  Organization,  a  condemnation 
and  rejection  that  last  year  reached  a  total  of  185 
States, a figure that we have no doubt will continue to 
grow. 

With every passing day the policies of the United 
States will isolate it more and more, until it finds itself 
utterly alone, because the call for the elimination of its 
blockade  against  Cuba  and  for  an  end  to  its  policy  of 
aggression  against  a  small  and  worthy  country  is 
stronger  and  more  determined  than  ever.  Once  more, 
Nicaragua  expresses  its  fundamental  rejection  of  all 
coercive,  unilateral,  extraterritorial  measures  that  are 
commercial 
economic, 
The 
and 
in 
A/64/PV.27
Why  does 
the  blockade,  shares 
the  United  States  continue 
contrary to international law and the accepted norms of 
free  trade,  because  such  measures  represent  a  serious 
threat  to  multilateralism. We  also  condemn  the  use  of 
unilateral  coercive  measures,  such  as  illegal  sanctions 
against  developing  countries,  for 
the  purpose  of 
thwarting  those  countries’  exercise  of  their  right  to 
determine  their  own  political,  economic  and  social 
system. 

The cold war has been left behind. Dialogue and 
negotiation  should  replace  blockades,  aggression  and 
hostility. It is now time that the United States set aside 
its  imperialist  policy  and  resolve  its  differences  with 
Cuba  and  other  States  in  a  civilized  manner,  through 
dialogue and negotiation. In the specific case of Cuba, 
such dialogue should take place without preconditions 
and  under  terms  of  full  equality,  as  our  sister  country 
has requested. 

this 
criminal  policy  when  it  knows  very  well  that  the 
people  and  Government  of  Cuba  will  never  give  in? 
Cuba is a giant in dignity and resistance in the face of a 
powerful  empire  and  an  example  for  all  our  peoples. 
Cuba,  despite 
its  political, 
economic  and  social  accomplishments  with  all  of  us. 
Cuba  is  life  and  it  gives  life  to  our  peoples.  While 
others  prescribe  destabilization,  hostility,  aggression 
and  death  to  us,  since  they  only  know  to  respond  to 
challenges  with  military  force  and  ever  more  bases  in 
our  region,  Cuba  shares  with  us  education,  health, 
housing,  scientific  and 
technological  knowledge, 
sports,  friendship  and  its  values.  In  sum,  it  shares  all 
the necessary components of complementary solidarity 
to assist in the development of our peoples and to build 
a better world.  

The  people  and  Government  of  Cuba  do  not 
merely  hand  out  their  leftovers;  they  share  what  they 
have.  It  is  because  of  this  example  that  the  United 
States  has  persisted  with  its  aggressive  policy  against 
Cuba for 50 years. We urge the United States instead to 
follow  Cuba’s  example  and  to  focus  its  energies  and 
resources  on  cooperation  based  on  solidarity  and 
impartiality in favour of the development of our region 
and of the peoples of the world. 

Nicaragua  is  living  proof  of  the  benefits  of  the 
initiatives  and  solidarity  of  this  generous  people  and 
Government. As our President and Commander Daniel 
Ortega  Saavedra  says,  in  this  new  history,  which 
includes new forms of thinking and living better, you, 
09-57988 

21 

A/64/PV.27 

brothers and sisters in Cuba, are a permanent source of 
inspiration for the new victories of our nations. 

We would like to take this opportunity to restate 
our  profound  gratitude  to  the  thousands  of  Cuban 
doctors,  teachers,  construction  workers,  technicians 
and  specialists  who  have  devoted  all  their  efforts  and 
knowledge  in  favour  of  the  development  of  my 
country. Nicaragua, in unfailing solidarity, reiterates its 
unconditional  support  for 
the  heroic  people  and 
Government of Cuba in their enormous struggle in the 
face of the constant aggressions of the empire, as well 
as its support for the ending of the blockade, the return 
of  Cuba’s  legitimate  territory  in  Guantánamo  and  the 
liberation  of  the  five  Cuban  heroes.  We  reiterate  our 
defence  of  Cuba’s  achievements,  sovereignty,  self-
determination  and  socialist  homeland.  We  will  always 
defend  the  right  of  the  Cuban  Revolution  to  exist  and 
to  continue  to  illuminate  us  with  its  light  and  its 
wisdom. 

For  the  justice  of  the  Cuban  cause,  we  will  vote 
in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution.  And  we  hope  there 
will  be  a  genuine  change  in  the  policy  of  the  United 
States towards Cuba — that is to say, that it will bring 
the blockade to an end. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 

the last speaker in explanation of vote before the vote. 
The  General  Assembly  shall  now  proceed  to  take  a 
decision on draft resolution A/64/L.4. A recorded vote 
has been requested. 

In favour: 

A recorded vote was taken. 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Cape 
Verde,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El 
Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria, 
Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, 
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao 
Tome  and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal, 
Serbia,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia, 
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste, 
Togo,  Tonga,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United Arab  Emirates, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe 
the 
Israel, Palau, United States of America 
Against: 

Abstaining: 


(Federated 
Islands,  Micronesia 
Marshall 
States of) 
Draft  resolution  A/64/L.4  was  adopted  by  187 
votes to 3, with 2 abstentions (resolution 64/6).
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  shall  now 

hear  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  after  the  vote.  I 
hope  that  speakers  will  be  very  brief  so  that  we  may 
finish our work on this item on time. 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to deliver 

this  explanation  of  vote  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union. Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Albania,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
22 

09-57988 


Montenegro,  Ukraine  and  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
align themselves with this statement. 

The  European  Union  believes  that  the  United 
States  trade  policy  towards  Cuba  is  fundamentally  a 
bilateral  issue.  However, American  legislation  such  as 
the  Cuban  Democracy  Act  of  1992  and  the  Helms-
Burton  Act  of  1996  has  extended  the  effects  of  the 
United  States  embargo  to  third-party  countries.  As  a 
matter of principle, the European Union has firmly and 
continuously opposed such extraterritorial measures. 
We  welcome  the  recent  decision  by  the  United 

States  Government  to  lift  restrictions  on  remittances 
and  family  travel  to  Cuba,  but  we  cannot  accept  that 
unilaterally  imposed  measures  impede  our  economic 
and  commercial  relations  with  Cuba.  To  address  this 
problem,  the  European  Union’s  Council  of  Ministers 
adopted,  in  November  1996,  a  regulation  and  a  joint 
action  to  protect  the  interests  of  natural  or  legal 
persons residing in Europe against the consequences of 
these  Acts.  Furthermore,  at  the  May  1998  European 
Union-United States Summit in London, a package was 
agreed  that  also  sought  to  alleviate  the  problems  with 
extraterritorial  legislation.  It  covered  waivers  to  titles 
III and IV of the Helms-Burton Act, a commitment by 
the  United  States  Government 
future 
that  kind,  and  an 
extraterritorial 
understanding 
the 
strengthening  of  investment  protection.  The  European 
Union  reiterates  its  call  on  the  United  States  to 
implement this agreement. 

The  European  Union’s  policy  towards  Cuba  is 
clear  and  was  set  out  in  a  Common  Position  in  1996. 
The  objective  of  the  European  Union  in  its  relations 
with  Cuba  is  to  encourage  a  peaceful  process  of 
transition,  led  by  the  Cuban  people,  to  a  pluralist 
democracy  and 
rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms,  as  well  as  a  sustainable 
economic  recovery  and  an  improvement  in  the  living 
standards of the Cuban people. 

this  Common 
Position,  the  European  Union  in  June  2008  lifted  the 
political  measures  imposed  on  Cuba  in  2003.  The 
dialogue  with  the  authorities  in  Havana  was  resumed 
without  preconditions  and  on  the  basis  of  reciprocity 
and non-discrimination. 

Ministerial  sessions  were  held  with  the  Cuban 
Government  in  Paris  in  October  2008  and  in  Brussels 
in  May  2009.  The  dialogue  addressed  issues  of 
legislation  of 
regarding 
the  validity  of 
for  human 
Reaffirming 
disciplines 
respect 
resist 
for 
to 
A/64/PV.27
While 
signed 
utmost 
it  has 
concern 
expresses 
again  urges 
the  Cuban  Government 
common  interest,  including  human  rights,  an  area  in 
which  the  European  Union  expects  concrete  actions 
from  Havana.  Additionally, 
the  European  Union 
intends  to  continue  its  dialogue  with  the  democratic 
opposition and civil society on Cuba. 

the  United  Nations 
International  Covenants  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
and  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights,  Cuba  has 
not yet ratified them. Havana has undertaken to invite 
the  United  Nations  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to 
food  and  has  mentioned  the  possibility  of  visits  from 
other rapporteurs. 

The  Cuban  Government  continues  to  deny  its 
citizens  internationally  recognized  civil,  political  and 
economic  rights  and  freedoms.  The  European  Union 
remains  seriously  concerned  at  the  continuation  of 
human  rights  violations  in  Cuba  despite  a  decrease  in 
the number of political prisoners. The European Union 
once 
to 
unconditionally  release  all  political  prisoners  and,  in 
particular, 
the 
deteriorating health of several of them and of members 
of the group of 75 who were detained in March 2003. 
The  European  Union  also  reiterates  its  call  on  the 
Cuban Government to grant freedom of expression and 
free access to information. 

freedoms 
undermine the Cuban achievements in health  care and 
education. Similarly, domestic Cuban economic policy 
seriously  hampers 
the  country’s  own  economic 
development. The economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  contributes  to 
these  problems,  negatively  affecting 
living 
standards of the Cuban people. 
The  European  Union  clearly  believes,  therefore, 

that  the  lifting  of  the  United  States  embargo  would 
open  up  the  Cuban  economy,  to  the  benefit  of  the 
Cuban  people.  We  again  express  our  rejection  of  all 
unilateral  measures  directed  against  Cuba  that  are 
contrary  to  commonly  accepted  rules  of  international 
trade. With regard to Cuba, the European Union urges 
the Cuban authorities to bring about real improvements 
in all areas mentioned. 

For  all  those  reasons,  and  in  spite  of  serious 
criticism of Cuba’s human rights record, the European 
Union voted unanimously in favour of resolution 64/6. 
restrictions  on 
rights  and 
These 
at 
the 
09-57988 

23 

the  Common  Market  of 
A/64/PV.27 

Mr.  Cancela  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  States 
members  of 
the  South 
(MERCOSUR) and its associated States: Argentina, the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, 
Ecuador,  Paraguay,  Peru,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela and my country, Uruguay. 

As  in  previous  years,  the  States  members  of 
MERCOSUR and its associated States voted in favour 
of the resolution submitted by the delegation of Cuba, 
because  we  understand  that  the  embargo  against  that 
country contradicts the principles of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  contravenes  rules  of  international 
law,  in  particular  the  norms  regulating  international 
trade that are binding on members of the World Trade 
Organization. 

The  position  of  MERCOSUR  and  its  associated 
States  falls  within  the  broader  framework  of  the 
defence  of  multilateralism,  non-intervention  and  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes, which are fundamental 
principles of the diplomacy of our continent.  

This embargo has been condemned before here at 
the  United  Nations  and  in  other  international  forums 
and  bodies,  including  the  Organization  of  American 
States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Economic 
System,  and 
the  Ibero-American  and  Rio  Group 
summits. 

The  States  members  of  MERCOSUR  and  its 
associated  States  reject  unilateral  and  extraterritorial 
measures  out  of  principle.  In  that  connection,  we 
condemn  the  implementation  of  coercive  unilateral 
measures  contrary 
trade,  which  cause 
irreparable  harm  to  the  well-being  of  peoples  and 
obstruct regional integration processes. 

resolution  64/6, 
MERCOSUR and its associated States have reaffirmed 
their  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  a  legitimate 
instrument  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
between  States  and  an  effective  tool  in  promoting 
international  cooperation,  human  rights,  security  and 
understanding among peoples. 
Mrs.  Phommachanh  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 

Republic) (spoke in French): My delegation subscribes 
to  the  statements  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and by 
the 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement.  
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of 
By  voting 
favour  of 
free 
to 
in 
to 
the 
international  community 
since  1992,  been 
the 

The Lao People’s Democratic Republic wishes to 
express once again its opposition to the continuation of 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
unilaterally  imposed  by  the  United  States  of America 
against  Cuba  for  half  a  century.  We  believe  that  the 
ongoing  imposition  of  that  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo is a violation of the principles of the 
sovereign  equality  of  States,  non-intervention  and 
non-interference in the internal affairs of another State, 
and  that  it  constitutes  an  attack  on  the  sovereignty  of 
the  Cuban  people  and  their  right  to  development. The 
extraterritorial  application  of  legislation  by  one  State 
aimed at imposing unilateral sanctions against another 
runs  counter 
fundamental  principles  of 
international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  

Because of its harmful  effects on the livelihoods 
of the Cuban people, as well as its exterritorial nature, 
the embargo imposed on Cuba by the United States of 
America  has, 
systematically 
condemned  by 
in 
17 identical  resolutions,  adopted  by  an  overwhelming 
majority  every  year  by 
the  General  Assembly. 
However, despite the requests of the General Assembly 
and  many  other  intergovernmental  organs  and  forums, 
the  embargo  remains  in  place.  Its  perpetuation  will 
only  create  further  tension  in  the  bilateral  relations 
between  the  United  States  and  Cuba  and  lead  to  new 
suffering  and  difficulties  for  the  people  of  Cuba,  in 
particular its most vulnerable citizens, such as women 
and children. 
I  should  like  to  conclude  by  reaffirming  our 

tireless  support  for  and  solidarity  with  the  Cuban 
people.  We  join  other  Member  States  in  insistently 
requesting the United States of America to put an end 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution 64/6. 
(Plurinational  State  of 

Bolivia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of  Bolivia,  I 
should  like  to  endorse  the  statements  made  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  by  the 
representative  of  Uruguay  on  behalf  of  the  Common 
Market of the South. I  also wish to welcome Minister 
Rodríguez Parilla. 
Mr.  Loayza  Barea 
24 

09-57988 
as 
such 
Charter, 
sovereign 



Resolution  64/6,  just  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  —  the  eighteenth  such  resolution  to  have 
been  consecutively  adopted  —  unequivocally  reflects 
the  international  community’s  explicit  rejection  of  the 
embargo imposed by the United States of America and, 
above all, fully reaffirms the purposes and principles of 
the 
equality, 
non-intervention  and,  especially,  non-interference  in 
States’ internal affairs.  

Once again, it is clear that there is a need to put 
an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo,  which  results  from  a  persistent  unilateral 
attitude that has no place in the twenty-first century. It 
lacks  all  legitimacy,  and  its  adverse  consequences 
continue  to  affect  the  Cuban  people,  who,  with  great 
dignity,  are  growing  much  stronger  in  opposing  an 
obsolete  measure  that  has  proved  to  be  a  resounding 
failure year after year.  

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/97) 
sets out the actual and irrefutable facts of this reality. It 
cites  examples  of  the  economic  and  social  effects  of 
this  aggressive  embargo,  whose  extraterritoriality  — 
which  blatantly  subverts  international  norms  —  is 
supported in laws such as the Helms-Burton Act, which 
imposes  sanctions  on  companies  maintaining  relations 
with Cuba. That concept, which is absolutely null and 
void, also entails a flagrant violation of human rights, 
as  well  as  a  breach  of  the  fundamental  principles  of 
relations  among  sovereign  States  because  it  seeks  to 
control their political life. 

That is why one cannot defend the assumption by 
one  State  of  the  extraterritorial  right  to  implement  a 
legal norm against another without its consent. The 18 
resolutions adopted by the General Assembly rejecting 
the  blockade  eliminate  any  possible  doubt  about  that 
fact,  which  has  once  again  been 
resoundingly 
reaffirmed by the international community today. 

The  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  believes  that 
the time has come to reverse this situation and that, in 
the  twenty-first  century,  we  need  a  change  in  attitude 
and  behaviour  that  are  contrary  to  and  incompatible 
with  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  In 
that  regard,  we  need  to  give  sway  to  reason  and 
dialogue  based  on  full  respect  for  the  economic  and 
political model that works best for the interests of the 
Cuban  people,  in  accordance  with  their  identity  and 
unique characteristics. They should not have to bend to 
A/64/PV.27
the  external  pressure  or  irregular  policies  that  are 
implemented against Cuba. 

Why  persist  with  such  mistaken  policies?  If  we 
consider  the  regional  context,  the  argument  against 
such conduct is powerful. The beginning of a new era 
of commitment, interest and mutual respect invoked by 
President  Barack  Obama  is  in  line  with  the  Nobel 
Peace Prize that he was awarded. Why not, in the name 
of  peace,  unconditionally  revoke  the  blockade  so  that 
we can overcome once and for all a vast humanitarian 
crisis that contravenes international law? Why continue 
to  buck  a  trend  recognized  in  numerous  regional, 
subregional and global forums, which seek cooperation 
towards  the  optimal  mutual  benefit  among  peoples 
through  coordination,  not  subordination?  For 
the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia, that herald of change has 
been  ratified  today.  Cuba  is  forging  onward.  That  is 
why we voted in favour of resolution 64/6. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I would like to 

remind speakers of time constraints and ask them to be 
brief in their statements.  
Mr.  Christian  (Ghana):  Ghana  aligns  itself  with 

statements 
Permanent 
the 
Representative of the Sudan on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China and by the Permanent Representative of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.  
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 

imposed by the United States on Cuba nearly 50 years 
ago 
in  place  and  has  had  negative 
repercussions on the people of Cuba. That situation is 
now  exacerbated  by  the  global  financial,  energy  and 
food crises. Despite the fact that the General Assembly 
demanded  an  end  to  that  embargo  and  extraterritorial 
domination,  the  unilateral  measures  imposed  17  years 
ago are still being implemented.  
Ghana,  in  fulfilment  of  its  commitment  to  the 

purposes  and  principles  enshrined 
the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  international  law,  has  steadfastly 
refrained  from  promulgating  and  applying  those  laws 
whose  extraterritorial  effects  adversely  affect 
the 
sovereignty of States, the legitimate interests of entities 
or persons under their jurisdiction, and the freedom of 
trade and navigation. 

We  welcome  the  decision  of  the  current  United 
States Administration to reduce restrictions on travel to 
Cuba  and  remittances  by  Cuban-Americans.  It  is  our 
considered  view 
that  such  measures,  constructive 
delivered 
remains 
the 
by 
in 
09-57988 

25 

and 
live 
cooperation 
The  reason 
is  simple:  We  all 
A/64/PV.27 

engagement and  peaceful  negotiations  will  eventually 
promote 
good-neighbourliness 
between the United States and Cuba. We commend the 
Cuban  people  for  their  resilience  and  sense  of  unity 
and  purpose under  difficult  economic  and  social 
conditions.  

Mrs.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands): At  the  outset,  my 
delegation  acknowledges  the  presence  of  the  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Cuba. We take the floor to speak 
in explanation of vote on resolution 64/6, just adopted 
to  end 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba. 

in  an 
interrelated and interdependent global system. We need 
each other — big countries and small, rich and poor — 
to  tackle  our  global  problems. Against  this  backdrop, 
my  delegation  is  saddened  to  see  the  remnants  of  the 
cold  war  continuing  to  this  day.  The  decades-old 
blockade  is  one  of  the  longest-running  campaigns, 
spilling over into a new century and a new generation. 

Today,  there  are  now  more  than  100  Pacific 
islands  students  studying  medicine  in  Cuba.  Despite 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo,  the 
Cuban people in their hardship have sheltered, fed and 
clothed  our  young  people.  Solomon  Islands  remains 
thankful  for  that  and  commends  the  resilience  of  the 
Cuban  people.  We  also  know 
the 
embargo,  Cuba  could  do  more  for  the  developing 
world. 

The  reference  to  those  young  people  is  to 
underscore  the  argument  that  the  United  Nations 
Charter is centred on its peoples and begins with “We 
the  peoples”.  We,  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations, must continue to give humanity a chance and 
to work together to build bridges over the embargo. We 
must  do  so  in  the  name  of  peace,  security  and  the 
Cuban people’s right to development. 

the  unconditional 
lifting of the blockade against the Cuban people and its 
replacement  with  genuine  dialogue  and  cooperation. 
We make this call in conformity with the purposes and 
principles  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
international  law,  and  as  an  opportunity  for  a  new 
beginning between Cuba and the United States. 

Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): May I begin by expressing Syria’s support for 
the 
Permanent 
Solomon  Islands  calls  for 
that,  without 
statements 
delivered 
by 
the 
Representative of the Sudan on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China and by the Permanent Representative of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The  right  of  States  to  exercise  sovereignty  over 
their  territory  and  to  non-interference  in  their  own 
internal  affairs  is  enshrined  in  the  purposes  and 
principles  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter.  Those 
principles and their inviolability have been part of the 
United Nations since its founding in 1945.  

As the host country, the United States contributed 
to the drafting of the United Nations Charter following 
the  Second World War,  in  which  many  States  had  had 
the  bitter  experience  of  outside  interference  in  their 
internal  affairs  and  of 
their  sovereignty  being 
threatened  both  before  and  during  the  hostilities.  The 
United  States,  more  than  any  other  State,  is  therefore 
supposed to respect the United Nations Charter. 

The  unilateral  embargo  imposed  by  the  United 
States  against  Cuba  and  new  measures  to  tighten  the 
grip  of  the  embargo  run  counter  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  of 
international and international humanitarian law, and to 
the  rules  and  principles  governing  relations  between 
States,  in  particular  the  equal  sovereignty  of  States, 
non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs,  and  the 
freedom of international trade and navigation.  
The embargo is thus illegal and does not conform 

to 
intergovernmental 
international 
relations.  It  poses  an  unprecedented  challenge  to 
international  law,  as  well  as  to  the  credibility  of  the 
legality  of  United  States  policy.  The  49-year-old 
embargo  is  unprecedented  in  bilateral  relations  and 
extraneous  to  international  law.  It  has  subjected  Cuba 
to  numerous  economic,  social  and  political  hardships 
and increased the suffering of the Cuban people. It has 
also  placed  the  United  States  in  direct  confrontation 
with the international community.  

stated 
commitment  to  constructive  dialogue  with  the  United 
States  with  a  view  to  resolving  all  the  issues  between 
the two parties on the basis of the equal sovereignty of 
States,  mutual 
their 
internal  affairs,  and  respect  for  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  for  the 
principles of good-neighbourliness. 

We  believe  that  relations  between  countries, 
especially between the United States and Cuba, should 
respect,  non-interference 
commends  Cuba’s 
standards  of 
delegation 
My 
in 
26 

09-57988 
Coercive, 
are 
to 
the  fact 
that 
orientation 
unwarranted 
unacceptable 


be  normalized  to  take  the  interests  of  the  peoples  of 
both  countries  into  account.  We  assert  the  right  of 
peoples to freely choose their own economic, political, 
social and cultural systems.  
The 187 votes in favour of resolution 64/6 at this 

meeting  reaffirm 
the  overwhelming 
majority of countries believe that the time has come to 
lift the illegal embargo imposed on Cuba and underline 
the  need  to  respect  national,  political,  economic  and 
social  systems  freely  chosen  by  States  in  the  light  of 
their own interests.  

economic  measures 
imposed  against  other  countries  because  of  their 
political 
the 
international community. The international community 
has  repeatedly  denounced  the  pursuit  of  unilateral 
measures  against  Cuba,  as  well  as  efforts  to  broaden 
the sanctions through the so-called Helms-Burton Act. 

Pursuant  to  its  mandate,  the  General  Assembly 
must  take  the  necessary  steps  to  put  an  end  to  the 
embargo policies and sanctions imposed by the United 
States  on  its  neighbours  and  countries  further  afield. 
We  hope  that  the  embargoes  imposed  on  Cuba  and 
several  other  countries,  including  my  own,  Syria,  will 
come  to  an  end.  We  hope  that  the  voice  of  the 
international 
international 
organizations  and  institutions  will  be  heeded  and 
respected  by  the  United  States  and  its  legislative 
bodies.  

In  the  light  of  the  foregoing,  Syria  voted  in 
favour of resolution 64/6. Israel’s aberrant vote against 
the 
the 
overwhelming  majority,  was  most  revealing.  It  was 
also  an  acknowledgment  of  the  fact  that  Israel  flouts 
international  law  and  the  voice  of  the  international 
community, and that it represents an isolated minority. 
Its position exacerbates the situation and makes it even 
more  difficult  for  the  United  States  to  revert  to  the 
logic  of  dialogue  in  seeking  to  resolve  disputes 
between countries and to apply international law while 
respecting the differing opinions. 

delegations to be brief. 

Mr. Sinoussi (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (spoke in 
Arabic): The  people  of  Cuba  continue  to  suffer  under 
an  unfair  blockade  that  has  lasted  for  more  than  four 
decades  and  had  serious  impacts  on  all  levels  of 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  beseech 
resolution,  which  was 
community 
adopted 
by 
and 
A/64/PV.27
including 
society, 
the  most  vulnerable,  such  as 
children, women and the elderly. The blockade has also 
sharply  reduced  Cuba’s  capacity  to  import  food  and 
goods that meet its medical and agricultural needs, and 
has  certainly  hampered  the  country’s  development 
efforts.  

The  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  expresses  great 
concern  and  asserts  that  the  imposition  of  such 
unilateral  and  abusive  economic  measures  by  some 
countries  is  extraterritorial  in  nature  and  explicitly 
violates international law. We reiterate our rejection of 
such  measures  and  stress  that  embargoes  are  not  the 
way to resolve disputes between countries, but that, on 
the contrary, they further complicate them.  

As civilized nations, we repudiate violence in all 
its  forms  and  manifestations,  including  the  imposition 
of sanctions and blockades. Therefore, we must choose 
the  path  of  wisdom,  rationality  and  constructive 
dialogue to resolve our disputes. That is not difficult if 
there is enough political will. 

We  believe  that  the  United  States  Government’s 
decision  to  ease  its  unilateral  measures  is  cause  for 
optimism.  We  hope  that  it  will  introduce  further 
measures that take into account the humanitarian needs 
of  the  Cuban  people  and  international  law  and  that  it 
will eventually lift the blockade once and for all. 
Mr.  Wetland  (Norway):  Norway  considers  the 

United  States  embargo  against  Cuba  to  be  a  bilateral 
issue. We support sanctions when they are adopted by 
the 
the  United 
Nations,  but  cannot  support  the  exterritorial  extension 
of  unilateral  measures  against  another  country. 
Therefore,  we  cannot  accept  that  unilateral  measures 
imposed  by 
the  United  States  should  determine 
Norway’s relations with Cuba.  
Norway  welcomes  the  recent  decision  of  the 

United  States  Government 
lift  restrictions  on 
remittances  and  family  travel  to  Cuba  and  encourages 
both the United States and Cuba to make further efforts 
to improve their bilateral relationship. 

While  Norway  is  encouraged  by  some  positive 
developments in the area of human rights in Cuba, we 
nevertheless  remain  concerned  about  their  protection 
and  promotion.  We 
the 
Government  of  Cuba  to  release  all  political  prisoners 
unconditionally. We also reiterate our call on the Cuban 
international  community 
reiterate  our  call  on 
through 
to 
09-57988 

27 

for 
too 
the  people  of  Cuba 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of 
A/64/PV.27 

Government  to  grant  freedom  of  expression  and  free 
access to information.  

Norway  does  not  consider  isolation  to  be  an 
appropriate  response  to  the  developments  in  Cuba. 
More can be achieved through a constructive dialogue 
with  the  Government  of  Cuba.  Moving  forward, 
Norway  intends  to  contribute  to  such  a  dialogue.  For 
these  reasons,  Norway  voted  in  favour  of  today’s 
resolution, as it has in previous years. 

Mr.  Rugunda  (Uganda):  Uganda  aligns  itself 
with  the  statements  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and by 
the 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement.  
Uganda  voted  in  favour  of  today’s  resolution,  as 

it  has  consistently  done  in  the  past,  as  it  opposes  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba. The embargo is unjustified. It has had an adverse 
impact  on 
long. 
Furthermore,  we  do  not  support  unilateral  measures 
with extraterritorial applications, which we believe are 
inconsistent  with  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  international  law  and  humanitarian 
law. 

Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  Benin 
voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution  that  has  just  been 
adopted,  because  we  believe  in  friendly  relations 
between States.  

By  their  extraterritorial  nature,  the  measures 
imposed  on  Cuba  50  years  ago  in  the  context  of  the 
cold war continue to hamper the  country’s exercise of 
its  rights  as  a  sovereign  State  on  the  international 
stage.  This  Assembly  is  the  right  place  to  recall  that 
relations  between  States  Members  of 
the  United 
Nations are ruled by the Charter. The Cuban people ask 
only  that  they  be  allowed  to  live  in  an  atmosphere  of 
respect  for  their  rights  as  a  sovereign  State  and  a 
country of peace and justice, and that they be accorded 
reciprocal advantages.  

The current situation is a historic opportunity that 
must be exploited to ensure that the blockade is lifted 
in  an  amicable  manner.  The  profound  changes  that 
have taken place in the lives of the two nations should 
lead  to  improved  relations  in  line  with  the  provisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Benin  appeals  urgently 
to  the  Governments  of  the  United  States  and  Cuba  to 
launch  without  delay  a 
towards 
frank  dialogue 
to 
this  painful  chapter  of 
the  General  Assembly  has  adopted 
normalizing  relations  between  the  two  countries.  We 
welcome  the  measures  taken  by  the Administration  of 
President  Obama  to  ease  restrictions  on  travel  and 
remittances from Cuban-Americans to their country of 
origin.  This  is  an  important  step  towards  the  full 
rapprochement desired by all. 

The  more  there  are  among  us  demanding  a 
closure 
international 
relations,  the  more  our  voices  will  be  heard  and  the 
more powerful our call for reconciliation between two 
nations  that  are  both  friends  of  Benin.  The  people  of 
Benin truly hope to see the two countries shake hands, 
repudiate  the  illogic  of  coercion  and  restart  their 
relationship on a healthier basis. 

Mr.  Yaroshevich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
Today, 
its 
eighteenth  resolution  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  Once 
again,  some  99  per  cent  of  Member  States,  including 
the closest political partners of the United States, have 
appealed to that country to lift the blockade, which has 
been in place for half a century. We hope that this time 
the  voice  of  the  international  community  will  be 
heeded in Washington, D.C. 

The  Belarusian  delegation  would  like  to  quote 
from the Special Declaration of the Heads of State and 
Government of the Non-Aligned Countries, adopted at 
their  fifteenth  summit  conference  in  Sharm  el-Sheik, 
Egypt,  in  July  2009,  on  the  issue  of  the  United  States 
blockade  against  Cuba,  which  stresses  that  “under  no 
circumstances  people  should  be  deprived  of  their  own 
means of subsistence and development”.  

The  practice  of  imposing  measures  to  apply 
economic  pressure  on  a  country  creates  serious 
obstacles 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  contributes  to  international 
instability.  Speaking  at  the  general  debate  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session  (see 
A/64/PV.10),  the  Foreign  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Belarus  noted  that  it  appears  that,  after  a  long  hiatus, 
the  international  community  is  starting  to  think  in 
terms  of  a  single  system  of  references,  while  political 
leaders are beginning to speak in the same language of 
common  sense.  In  particular,  this  year  the  United 
States  declared  its  readiness  to  build  partnerships  and 
resolve  problems  that  no  country  can  resolve  in 
isolation. 
its  achievement  of 
to 
28 

09-57988 
financial  prosperity  of 



We  call  on  the  United  States  to  act  in  keeping 
with the constructive foreign policy course it itself has 
outlined, to end the embargo and to lift restrictions that 
impair the vital interests of the people of Cuba. We are 
certain  that,  in  the  light  of  the  global  financial  and 
economic crisis, the arsenal of unilateral sanctions and 
coercive measures is especially inappropriate. 

Mr.  Hamza  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  I 
thank  you,  Sir,  for  granting  me  this  opportunity  to 
speak after the voting. My delegation aligns itself with 
the  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  the 
Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The United Republic of Tanzania voted in favour 
of  the  resolution  to  end  the  economic  and  financial 
embargo  on  Cuba  because  we  believe  that  current 
political  and  economic  realities  in  the  world,  and  in 
particular between Cuba and the United States, warrant 
an  end  to  the  embargo.  Both  sides  wish  to  enhance 
democracy  and  good  governance  in  order  to  promote 
the  economic  and 
their 
countries. The embargo does not promote such goals. 
Furthermore,  Tanzania  is  convinced  that  if  the 

peoples  of  the  two  countries  are  to  continue  working 
towards economic growth and prosperity, there must be 
increased  and  varied  contacts  between  them.  This  is 
crucial, particularly in the areas of trade and people-to-
people communication. 

We also welcome the lifting of the restriction on 
family travel imposed by the United States. This indeed 
reflects a positive trend and an improved beginning of 
the end of the embargo. We urge both sides to develop 
confidence-building  measures  to  set  the  ground  for 
future cooperation between Cuba and the United States 
after the lifting of the embargo. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  call  on  the 

representative of Cuba in exercise of the right of reply. 

in 
Spanish): I feel obliged to respond to the statements of 
the United States, the European Union and Norway.  

I  must  tell  the  European  Union  that  Cuba  in  no 
way recognizes its moral authority to dictate models or 
give  advice  on  democracy.  I  would  like  to  remind  the 
Union  of  its  complicity  with  the  acts  of  torture  that 
took  place  in  Guantánamo  and  Abu  Ghraib,  and  I 
reiterate  that  so  long  as  it  resorts  to  double  standards 
and hypocrisy, it will have no credibility whatsoever. 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla 
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
A/64/PV.27

Ms. Susan Rice, who unfortunately is not present 
in  the  Hall  right  now,  began  by  saying:  “Here  we  go 
again”.  With  those  words,  she  acknowledged  that  she 
was  here  to  do  what  17  United  States  representatives 
have  done  in  the  past.  I  respect  her  opinions  and  I 
acknowledge that her career is different from that of a 
neo-conservative such as John Bolton, but she had the 
sad  task  here  of  defending  a  blockade  policy  that 
began,  according  to  a  classified  memorandum  of 
6 April  1960,  with  the  declared  aim  of  causing  the 
hunger, despair and hopelessness of the Cuban people. 
The  only  remains  of  the  cold  war,  as  has  been 
mentioned here, is the blockade itself.  If the blockade 
is lifted, that relic will disappear.  

Cuba  is  a  democracy  that  is  closer  to  Lincoln’s 
principles  of  a  Government  of  the  people,  by  the 
people  and  for  the  people  than  the  plutocracy  or 
Government of the rich currently running that country. 
The United States Ambassador identified as dissidents 
or political prisoners people who are in fact agents of a 
foreign Power — mercenaries paid by the Government 
of the United States. If she wants to talk about political 
prisoners,  the  United  States  should  release  the  five 
anti-terrorist  Cuban  heroes  subject  to  cruel,  inhumane 
and degrading treatment in American prisons. 

Ambassador  Rice  said  that  we  are  abusing  the 
word “genocide” when we talk of the blockade. I quote 
paragraphs  (b)  and  (c)  of  article  2  of  the  1948 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide. Paragraph (b) notes that genocide 
is  an  act  “[c]ausing  serious  bodily  or  mental  harm  to 
members of the group”, referring to a group of human 
beings, and paragraph (c) notes that genocide is an act 
of  “deliberately  inflicting  on  the  group  conditions  of 
life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in 
whole or in part”. I invite the United States Department 
of State to study that Convention more closely. 

The  embargo  against  Cuba  is  a  unilateral  and 
criminal policy and as such must be lifted unilaterally. 
It is neither  reasonable nor fair nor possible to  expect 
Cuba  to  move  to  make  this  criminal  action  against  its 
people,  including  its  children  and  elderly,  stop,  with 
the examples mentioned previously. 

The United States should lift the embargo and lift 
it  now;  first  of  all,  because  Cuba  has  no  embargo 
against  the  United  States,  nor  does  it  occupy  any  part 
of  its  territory  with  a  military  base,  nor  do  we 
discriminate  against 
its  citizens  or  companies. 
09-57988 

29 

A/64/PV.27 

Secondly, it should lift the blockade because it is in the 
best  interests  of  the  United  States  itself  and  it  is  the 
will of the people of the United States.  

There has been mention of the free movement of 
information.  Lift  the  prohibition  of  United  States 
citizens to travel freely to Cuba. Respect their right to 
freedom  of  movement.  Lift  the  embargo  against  Cuba 
in  the  area  of  technology  and  information.  Permit 
better  connectivity  for  our  country.  Export  software 
and  technology  to  Cuba  and  there  will  be  progress  in 
that field. 

Ms.  Rice  mentioned  constructive  progress.  It  is 
true  that  there  have  been  some  steps  in  the  right 
direction,  but  they  have  been  strictly  limited  to 
relations  between  Cubans  living  in  the  United  States 
with  their  country  of  origin,  and  they  have  nothing  to 
do with nor do they signify any flexibility with regard 
to the embargo. They are steps in the right direction but 
are very limited and insufficient. 

The  embargo  is  not  a  bilateral  issue.  That  has 
been clearly demonstrated by the many examples of its 
extraterritorial application. Ms. Rice has reiterated the 
proposal  to  continue  with  exchanges  or  dialogue 
between  the  two  countries.  That  idea  was  presented 
many  years  ago  by  Commander-in-Chief  Fidel  Castro 
and reiterated several times in public by President Raúl 
Castro.  If  the  United  States  wants  to  enter  into  a 
dialogue,  it  should  respond  to  the  proposal  of  a 
bilateral agenda presented by Cuba to that Government 
on 17 July 2009. 
At  New  York  University  in  August,  Ms.  Susan 

Rice  said  that  the  United  States  leads  by  example, 
acknowledges  mistakes, 
course  when 
necessary, 
treats  others  with  respect,  and  forges 
strategies  in  partnership.  In  the  same  speech,  she  also 
said  that  we  are  proving  that  the  United  States  is 
willing to listen,  respect differences and consider new 
ideas. I am very surprised that Ambassador Rice had to 
say the complete opposite this morning. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): As in previous 

years,  the  General  Assembly  has  just  expressed  its 
opinion on the agenda item by adopting a resolution — 
resolution  64/6  —  that  enjoys  the  support  of  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States. 
In 
proceeding in this fashion, the international community 
has  expressed  its  insistence  on  strict  compliance  with 
the principles and purposes expressed in the Charter. I 
therefore  cherish  the  hope  that  the  appeals  addressed 
corrects 
time  when  we  see  a  will 
here for implementation of this resolution will be heard 
by all of us.  

to  spurn 
At  a 
confrontation  and  unilateralism,  we  see  great  support 
for  dialogue  and  multilateralism.  We  need  to  see  the 
positive  aspects  of  that  approach  and  put  an  end  to 
sanctions and embargoes and open up the way to peace, 
development and cooperation. We hope that all parties 
will  find  a  solution  to  conflicts  through  cooperation 
and dialogue.  
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 

Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 19? 

It was so decided. 



(spoke 
The  President
Agenda item 7 (continued) 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 
in  Arabic):  Before 

adjourning, I invite the Assembly to take a decision on 
an issue as  follows. In  a letter dated 27  October 2009 
to  all  Permanent  Representatives  and  Permanent 
Observers  to  the  United  Nations,  I  forwarded  a  letter 
dated  16  October  2009  from  the  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council transmitting Council resolution 
S-12/1  for  the  consideration  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session.  I  also  attached  two  letters  dated 
26 and 27 October 2009 from the chargé d’affaires ad 
interim  of  the  Sudan,  in  his  capacity  as  the  Chairman 
of  the  Group  of  Arab  States,  and  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Egypt, 
the 
Chairman  of 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement, with a request that the report 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  its  twelfth  special 
session be considered directly in plenary meeting under 
agenda item 64, entitled “Report of the Human Rights 
Council”, during the first week of November.  

Members  will  recall  that  at  its  2nd  plenary 
meeting, on 18 September 2009, the Assembly decided, 
inter alia, to allocate agenda item 64 to the plenary and 
the  Third  Committee.  If  there  is  no  objection,  may  I 
take it that the Assembly decides to consider the report 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  its  twelfth  special 
session, as contained in document A/64/53/Add.1, at a 
plenary meeting, without setting a precedent? 

The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.
in  his  capacity  as 
the  Coordinating  Bureau  of 
It was so decided. 
30 

09-57988 
