
A/64/PV.47
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

47th plenary meeting 
Monday, 16 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 








In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Viinanen 
(Finland), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 

Agenda items 48 (continued), 114, 120 and 121 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 

  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/64/176, 
A/64/228 and A/64/350) 





the 
fifteenth  anniversary  of 
Strengthening of the United Nations system 
United Nations reform: measures and proposals 

The Acting President: In connection with agenda 
item  48,  members  will  recall  that  the  Assembly 
the 
commemorated 
International  Conference 
and 
Development under the agenda item at its 17th to 19th 
plenary meetings on 12 and 13 October 2009. Members 
will  also  recall  that  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-
General  issued  as  documents  A/64/87  and  A/64/263 
have  already  been  discussed  at  the  26th  plenary 
meeting  of  the  Assembly  on  27  October  2009.  In 
connection  with  agenda 
the  Assembly 
adopted resolution 64/1 at its 15th plenary meeting on 
6 October 2009.
Population 
item  114, 
on 
Three  considerations  underpin 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 

on behalf of the European Union (EU). 

There are many aspects to the implementation of 
the Millennium Summit. I would like to focus today on 
one  important  issue:  climate  change  and  its  possible 
security  implications.  The  watershed  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on this topic, contained in document 
A/64/350,  could  not  be  more  timely.  It  marks  the 
beginning  of  a  new  field  of  work  for  the  United 
Nations. 

the  European 
Union perspective: first, the impacts of climate change 
are universal; secondly, left unchecked global warming 
will sooner or later affect us all — rich or poor, North 
or South; and thirdly, it is not a challenge only to some, 
but of concern to us all. That implies that our response 
must  be  global.  Since  climate  change  brings  shared 
challenges,  we  need  to  respond  with  a  comprehensive 
approach  at  all  levels  and  with  all  policy  tools  at  our 
disposal.  No  country  can 
in 
isolation. 

There  is  an  urgent  need  for  action.  The  security 
risks  posed  by  climate  change  are  real.  They  are 
already  being  felt.  They  are  having  an  impact  on 
people’s  lives.  One  key  measure  will  be  a  common 
push  in  the  lead-up  to  Copenhagen  and  a  bold 
agreement there. 

By redrawing the maps of water availability, food 
security,  disease  prevalence,  population  distribution 
and  coastal  zones,  climate  change  will  have  serious 
implications for the security and development of entire 
tackle 
issues 
these 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-60826 (E) 
*0960826* 

threatens 
those 

in  building 
to  exacerbate 
A/64/PV.47 

regions.  We  need  to  build  emergency  preparedness 
capacity  for  both  the  immediate  and  the  longer  terms, 
as  well  as  be  prepared  to  address  a  number  of 
unprecedented  and  unpredictable  challenges.  The 
Hyogo  Framework  for  Action  gives  us  an  important 
platform 
resilience  of  nations  and 
communities to disasters. 

The  poor  and  vulnerable  are  most  at  risk.  One 
third  of  Africans  live  in  areas  prone  to  drought.  By 
2020,  an  additional  75  to  250  million  Africans  are 
likely  to  be  at  risk  of  water  stress.  Sea-level  rise, 
coastal flooding, changing rainfall patterns and drought 
could displace as many as 200 million people in Africa 
by  2050.  Scientists  draw  the  conclusion  that  climate 
change 
trends  and 
undermine Governments’ ability to ensure security and 
sustainable development. 

For  people  of  many  small  island  developing 
States,  the  link  between  climate  change,  development 
and security is a question not only of regional stability, 
but  also  of  national  survival.  In  response  to  sea-level 
rise and salt water inundation, relocation strategies are 
being  formulated  by  some  nations  and  opportunities 
provided  for  citizens  to  migrate.  The  international 
community  will  have  to  tackle  the  legal  and  political 
implications  of  migration  caused  by  climate-related 
events  and  Stateless  citizens  within  a  not  so  distant 
future. 

In the Arctic region, the effects of climate change 
are plainly visible with melting sea ice, the melting of 
the  Greenland  icecap  and  thawing  permafrost.  Coastal 
erosion has already made it necessary to relocate entire 
communities.  Fortunately,  in  that  region  international 
cooperation  structures  that  bring  together  the  States 
and  the  indigenous  peoples  involved  are  already  in 
place. Such cooperation fosters confidence and helps to 
address transboundary issues, adapt to new conditions, 
maintain stability and avoid conflict. 

So how can we continue our efforts to address the 
challenges before us? The European Union would like 
to highlight five areas where action is needed. 

First, we need a transformation of our economies 
to  mitigate  climate  change.  We  must  take  bold  and 
determined action to reduce our collective emissions of 
greenhouse  gases.  It  is  necessary  to  limit  global 
temperature rise below 2 degrees. Developed countries 
will  have  to  take  the  lead  with  binding  commitments, 
and  developing  countries,  especially  the  advanced 
focused 
landmark  report  proposes 
research  effort  will  help 
emerging economies, will also have to contribute with 
intensified actions. 

Secondly,  we  need  to  focus  our  efforts.  The 
Secretary-General’s 
two 
courses  of  action.  One  is  to  focus  on  problem  areas 
with  high-impact  and  irreversible  consequences;  the 
other  is  to  accelerate  the  identification  of  threat 
minimizers. It is a question of creating positive spirals 
of  change  and  making  systematic  use  of  available 
tools.  A 
to 
continuously improve our understanding of the drivers 
of climate change and the options we have to reduce its 
impact. 

Thirdly,  we  need  to  identify  and  strengthen  the 
interconnections  between  climate  change  and  security, 
between climate change and development, and between 
adaptation and mitigation. Adaptation is about forms of 
development  in  which  the  capacity  to  manage  risk 
determines  progress.  There  are  synergies  between 
adaptation  measures  and  emission  reductions  that 
should  be  explored.  Investment  in  mitigation  and 
adaptation  should  go  hand  in  hand  with  efforts  to 
address and respond to the international security threat 
posed  by  climate  change.  International  cooperation 
should  be  enhanced  in  the  areas  of  early  warning, 
conflict  management  and  peacebuilding  in  the  context 
of global warming. These actions should all be viewed 
as part of a preventive security policy. 

Fourthly,  adaptation  to  climate  change  is  a 
challenge  for  every  country.  Special  attention  must  be 
paid  to  the  most  vulnerable  groups  and  the  poor.  It  is 
crucial to strengthen the ability of individuals, societies 
and ecosystems to deal with this challenge. Adaptation 
in  the  agricultural  sector  will  be  decisive  for  food 
security and the livelihoods of poor people. A growing 
body  of  scientific  work  also  shows  the  importance  of 
applying  a  gender  perspective  to  adaptation.  The 
promotion  of  good  governance,  human  rights  and 
gender  equality  are 
threat  minimizers.  They  are 
desirable in their own right but can also help lower the 
risk  of  climate-related 
insecurity.  Regional  and 
multinational  adaptation  activities  can  have  trust-
creating and peacebuilding effects. 

Last  but  not  least,  because  the  agenda  is  so  all-
encompassing,  a  multilateral  response  is  warranted. 
The  United  Nations  has  the  capacity  like  no  other 
organization to address this issue in all its dimensions 
and  must  take  the  lead.  The  report  of  the  Secretary-
2 

09-60826 
It 
is 
to 
have 
important 
that  we  continue 
appreciated  more 


General is the first of its kind and has the potential to 
serve  as  a  vital  point  of  departure  for  the  United 
Nations.  While  the  way  forward  outlined  by  the 
Secretary-General is a good basis for further work, the 
EU  would 
specific 
recommendations.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
terms  of  responsibilities,  capacities  and  resources 
should  be  made  even  more  explicit.  The  European 
Union would hope that the Secretary-General can make 
use  of  some  of  our  proposals  on  how  the  United 
Nations system could address emerging challenges. 

to  build 
knowledge  and  discuss  solutions  jointly  at  the  global 
level.  In  March  2008,  the  highest  decision-making 
body of the EU, the European Council, considered the 
impact of climate change on international security, how 
it affects Europe’s own security and how the European 
Union  should  respond  to  it.  This  assessment  was 
followed  up  with  more  specific  recommendations  for 
action.  As  a  consequence,  we  have  enhanced  our 
conflict  prevention  and  crisis  management,  but  we 
need 
improve  analysis  and  early  warning 
capabilities. The European Union cannot do this alone. 
We must now step up our efforts, in particular with the 
United Nations. 

Climate  change  and  its  security  implications  are 
an item that should be kept regularly on the agenda of 
the  General Assembly,  underpinned  by  regular  reports 
of  the  Secretary-General.  The  European  Union  also 
supports consideration by the Security Council on this 
issue on a regular basis, if necessary. 

The  first  and  most  urgent  step  on  the  road  to 
security  in  the  face  of  climate  change  is  a  global, 
ambitious 
in 
Copenhagen.  It  is  the  European  Union’s  profound 
belief  that  there  is  no  alternative  to  a  successful 
outcome  of  the  meeting  in  Copenhagen. An  ambitious 
and  binding  deal  is  in  the  interests  and  is  the 
responsibility of all nations. 
Mr. Beck (Palau): I have the honour to speak on 

behalf  of  the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS) represented at the United Nations, namely, Fiji, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall 
Islands,  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  Nauru, 
Samoa,  Solomon  Islands,  Tuvalu, Tonga, Vanuatu  and 
my own country, Palau. 
island  developing  States 

welcome the report of the Secretary-General contained 
The  Pacific  small 
comprehensive 
agreement 
and 
A/64/PV.47
these 
All  of 
focused  attention  …  of 
in document A/64/350, entitled “Climate change and its 
possible  security  implications”,  and  we  would  like  to 
sincerely  thank  the  Department  of  Economic  and 
Social Affairs (DESA) and the Division for Sustainable 
Development  for  their  lead  role  in  preparing  such  a 
comprehensive  and  substantive  report  in  such  a  short 
period  of  time.  We  have  a  small  and  distinct  window 
for  action  and  we  appreciate  the  urgency  with  which 
the Secretary-General has approached this matter. 

From  the  report,  it  is  clear  that  the  security 
implications  of  climate  change  are  not  theoretical  but 
real.  We  note  in  particular  the  identification  in  the 
report  of  emerging  climate  change-related  threats 
which  merit  “the 
the 
international  community”  (A/64/350,  p.  2).  These 
threats are ones which, in the words of the report, are 
“those that appear highly likely, are large in magnitude, 
may unfold relatively swiftly, and are unprecedented in 
nature”  (ibid.).  These  threats  include  loss  of  territory, 
statelessness  and 
increased  numbers  of  displaced 
persons.  

threats  have  occurred  or  will 
imminently  occur  in  the  Pacific.  It  is  the  reality  and 
immediacy of these threats that initially motivated the 
Pacific  small  island  developing  States  to  sponsor 
resolution  63/281  containing 
the 
Secretary-General’s report. It is this reality that makes 
it  increasingly  critical  that  all  relevant  organs  of  the 
United Nations, including the Security Council, take up 
this issue. 

The report first outlines the threat to human well-
being in the fields of agriculture, water, health, coastal 
areas,  human  settlements  and  infrastructure.  Indeed, 
these threats are already being felt in the Pacific SIDS 
and  have  been  comprehensively  covered 
in  our 
submission,  as  well  as  addressed  in  the  national 
submissions  of  our  members,  which  are  available  on 
the DESA website. 

Next,  the  report  goes  on  to  describe  the  adverse 
impacts  of  climate  change  on  economic  development. 
We have covered these aspects in our submissions and 
wish 
improvement  and 
degeneration in security and development are mutually 
reinforcing.  The  Pacific  SIDS  are  pleased  that  the 
international  community has started to look at climate 
change  in  a  holistic  manner.  We  are  no  longer  
debating  —  nor  should  we  continue  to  debate  — 
whether  development  or  security  is  more  important.  I 
the  request  for 
reiterate  here 
that 
to 
09-60826 

3 

A/64/PV.47 

think we all now agree that they exist side by side and 
that development is not possible without security. 

In  this  respect,  chapter  V  of  the  report,  entitled 
“Threats  from  uncoordinated  coping”,  breaks  new 
ground.  It  pulls  the  various  elements  together  and 
the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
demonstrates  how 
change,  both 
in 
conjunction with other effects, present a clear threat to 
security. It is of particular concern to us that  

themselves  and 
standing  by 
“in the case of small island developing States, the 
adverse  impacts  of  climate  change  are  already 
increasing  the  rate  of  domestic  migration  and 
relocation,  with  people  from  rural  areas  and 
outlying  islands  moving  to  urban  centres  as  they 
lose  their  livelihoods  and  lands  owing  to  natural 
disasters  and  sea-level  rise.  This  migration  is 
placing  enormous  strains  on  food,  housing, 
education, health, and water supplies, as recipient 
communities struggle to accommodate the number 
of people migrating” (A/64/350, para. 57). 
in 
The  report  further  points  to  the  estimates  of  the 
International  Organization 
for  Migration,  which 
forecast  as  between  50  million  and  350  million  the 
number of persons who may have to migrate owing to 
climate  change  and  environmental  degradation  by 
2050. 
The  report  further  points  to  the  uncertainties  of 

the  international  legal  framework  for  responding  to 
displacement caused by the impacts of climate change. 
At  the  same  time,  and  this  is  not  theoretical,  the 
adverse impacts of climate change have already caused 
internal  displacement 
the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Tuvalu  and  Solomon 
Islands.  In  some  Pacific  SIDS,  internal  relocation  is 
simply 
geographical 
constraints.  Displacement  to  a  neighbouring  or  third 
country  might  be  the  only  option  if  climate  change 
continues  at  the  current  or  increased  rate  without 
significant  and  urgent  mitigation  by  the  international 
community. 

is  not  clear, 
according  to  an  analysis  by  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  some 
people  forced  to  migrate  by  the  effects  of  climate 
change  might  be  protected  by  the  1951  Convention 
relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees,  whereas  others 
might  not  be  protected.  There  is  little  appetite  for 
expanding  the  refugee  Convention  to  explicitly  cover 
international 
Yet,  while 
because 
law 
not 
feasible 
of 
4 

those  displaced  by  climate  change,  given  the  fear  that 
this risks lowering the protection currently afforded all 
refugees. The  discussion  on  what  needs  to  be  done  to 
fill  this  legal  vacuum  has  already  begun  and  such 
discussions should be well timed. 

However,  under  no  circumstances  can  efforts  to 
protect  climate-displaced  people  be  used  as  an  excuse 
for  inaction  on  mitigation  and  adaptation.  We  must 
focus our efforts first and foremost on preventing such 
forced  migration  and  providing  people  of  the  Pacific 
with the necessary resources to protect the integrity of 
their  island  homes,  their  unique  cultural  identity  and 
their  ability to provide for their means  of subsistence. 
Leaving  ancestral  homelands  and,  in  the  most  tragic 
scenario,  leaving  the  entire  country  behind  is  a 
devastating and unacceptable prospect for our people. 

I  will  now  turn  to  chapter  VI,  which  in  many 
ways is the most remarkable chapter in the report. It is 
entitled “Threat of loss of territory  and statelessness”. 
The  report  shows  an  alarming  but  correct  example 
when it states: 

“In the case of some small island developing 

States, sea-level rise presents perhaps the ultimate 
security threat, jeopardizing the very existence of 
small  low-lying  countries  such  as  the  Maldives, 
where  80  per  cent  of  land  is  less  than  one  metre 
above  sea  level  and  could  therefore  disappear 
over the next 30 years.” (ibid., para. 71) 
We  are  talking  about  the  survival  of  nations,  peoples 
and unique cultures, all of which are threatened by the 
adverse impacts of climate change. 

In  addition,  international  law  has  never  had  to 
contend with the disappearance of a country. There are 
complex political issues regarding the most appropriate 
means  to  address  the  rights  of  affected  populations, 
partial and complete loss of sovereign territory and the 
effects  on  territorial  waters  and  exclusive  economic 
zones. The implications for affected people in terms of 
human  rights,  as  well  as  the  economic  losses  for  the 
countries  concerned  and  the  issue  of  sovereignty,  are 
all matters of first impression as well as extraordinary 
international importance. 

The final chapter in the report tries to point a way 
forward on preventing and responding to the emerging 
threats.  Mitigation  and  adaptation  are  two  important 
elements,  both  of  which  are  dealt  with  under  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
09-60826 
territorial 


Change  process. We  are  now  just  days  away  from  the 
Copenhagen  Conference,  and  the  Pacific  SIDS,  as 
members of the Alliance of Small Island States, expect 
that  all  leaders  will  explicitly  ensure  our  survival, 
security  and 
integrity  by  making  firm 
international  commitments  through  legally  binding 
instruments to be adopted at Copenhagen. 

The political options on climate change have now 
been  clearly  outlined  in  negotiation  texts.  The  choice 
before  leaders  at  Copenhagen  will  be  whether  or  not 
the  global  community  has  sufficient  political  will  to 
ensure  our  security  through  legal  instruments  with 
serious,  specific  action  on  emissions  by  all  nations.  If 
we  fail,  we  will  fail  ourselves  and  future  generations 
by  delaying  the  decisions  that  need  to  be  made  now. 
Flimsy moral sentiments expressed at Copenhagen will 
be no substitute for legally binding treaties and will do 
little  to  ensure  the  security  of  the  most  vulnerable 
among our membership. 

We  look  to  Copenhagen  for  an  agreement  that 
will, among other things, use the avoidance of adverse 
climate  change  impacts  on  small  island  developing 
States  as  one  of  the  key  benchmarks  for  assessing  its 
appropriateness,  consistent  with 
the  precautionary 
principle  and  the  principle  of  prevention.  Such  an 
agreement  must 
include  a  package  of  mitigation 
activities now, up to and beyond 2012 that provides for 
the  long-term  stabilization  of  atmospheric  greenhouse 
gas concentrations at well below 350 parts per million 
carbon dioxide-equivalent levels; limits global average 
surface 
to  well  below  1.5 
degrees  centigrade  above  pre-industrial  levels;  and 
provides  for  global  greenhouse  gas  emissions  to  peak 
by 2015 and decline thereafter. 

As  I  have  stated  before,  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  greatly  enriches 
the  debate  on 
climate  change.  It  points  out  where  the  development 
aspects  and  the  security  implications  overlap,  as  well 
as  where  they  stand  apart.  In  fact,  the  General 
Assembly,  by  adopting  the  historic  resolution  63/281, 
has taken the same view. The report makes it clear that 
gaps  remain  in  how  the  international  system  responds 
to the security implications of climate change. It is now 
time 
those 
implications.  

The linkage between climate change and security 
needs  to  be  a  permanent  focus  of  deliberations  in  the 
United Nations. We reiterate our call for the inclusion 
temperature 
to  address 
tools  used 
to  update 
increases 
the 
A/64/PV.47
of  “security  and  climate  change”  as  an  annual  agenda 
item  in  the  United  Nations  and  for  formal  recognition 
of  the  link  between  security  and  climate  change.  We 
are already actively engaged in the General Assembly, 
in  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  at  the 
Framework  Convention.  It  is  time  that  the  Security 
Council  complement  the  discussion  by  looking  at  the 
appropriate aspects which fall under its own mandate. 

I  now  add  the  following  remarks  in  my  national 
capacity  for  the  Republic  of  Palau.  The  Secretary-
General’s  excellent  report,  as  we  have  said,  envisions 
that  international  peace  and  security  will  likely  be 
affected  by  statelessness.  This  chilling  conclusion 
means  that,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the 
world,  we  are  contemplating  the  loss  of  Member 
States.  Up  to  now,  the  membership  of  this  body  has 
only  grown  with  time.  How  will  we  feel  when  that 
trend  is  reversed?  The  international  community  must 
address itself to this reality with the mechanisms which 
are available to it. 

We submit that only the Security Council has the 
extraordinary powers to deal with threats like this. No, 
we  do  not  expect  the  Council  to  turn  back  the  rising 
seas; but rather, we challenge the Council to creatively 
use  its  powers  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  to 
develop enforceable emissions targets and to give teeth 
to  what  is  now,  apparently,  an  ineffectual  voluntary 
process. 
Mrs. Kolontai (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

Secretary-General’s many reports on implementing the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) clearly attest 
to the fact that the impact of the complex multifaceted 
crisis  threatens  the  achievement  by  2015  of  the 
internationally agreed development goals. 
The danger of a reduction in official development 

assistance,  the  absence  of  flexible  global  financial 
mechanisms,  and  the  unpredictability  of  resources 
provided  to  recipient  countries  during  the  crisis  have 
led  to  a  drastic  decrease  of  the  effectiveness  of 
development  measures  taken  by  the  Governments  of 
developing  and  middle-income  countries.  In 
that 
context, we believe it necessary to continue and expand 
assistance  to  developing  and  middle-income  countries 
because it is precisely those countries that can become 
a driving force for future economic and social progress. 

the 
international  community  in  terms  of  development  and 
the 
makes 
Belarus  recognizes 
its  responsibility 
contributions 
significant 
towards 
to 
09-60826 

5 

to 
threat 
improve  access 
traffic  still  poses  a  serious 
A/64/PV.47 

achievement  of  the  MDGs.  The  Republic  of  Belarus 
has  made  significant  progress  at  home  in  a  range  of 
areas  thanks  to  the  targeted  State  support  of  health 
care, education, agriculture, energy and other sectors of 
the economy. Furthermore, we believe that an impetus 
to development efforts could be provided by the United 
Nations  system  and  other  international  structures  in 
creating  mechanisms 
to  new 
technologies  and  new  and  renewable  sources  of 
energies  for  developing  countries  and  those  with 
economies in transition. 

In  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
(resolution  60/1),  Member  States  expressed  serious 
concern  about  the  negative  impact  of  transnational 
organized crime, one of the manifestations of which is 
the  traffic  in  persons.  World  leaders  also  recognized 
that  such 
to 
humankind  and  requires  a  concerted  international 
response.  A  few  days  ago,  the  Third  Committee 
adopted  by  consensus  a  draft  resolution  on  improving 
the coordination of efforts against the traffic in persons 
that  will  enhance  Member  States’  efforts  to  bring  a 
swift end to that contemporary form of slavery. 

As a consequence of decisions taken at the 2005 
Summit,  today  we  are  closer  than  ever  to  drafting  a 
comprehensive  United  Nations  plan  of  action 
to 
combat  the  traffic  in  persons  that  will  become  an 
effective  mechanism 
the 
international community to eradicate that social ill. The 
draft  resolution  strengthens  that  idea,  underlining  the 
importance 
open 
consultations on the comprehensive plan of action and 
bearing in mind the needs of all interested parties and 
the opinions of all Member States. 

For the first time in recent years, the work of the 
Open-ended  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
the 
Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly led 
to the adoption of a substantive resolution at the sixty-
third  session.  The  Belarus  delegation  commends  the 
excellent  outcome  of 
their 
co-chairs,  Norway  and  Ecuador.  We  also  note  the 
flexibility  and  good  will  of  the  delegations  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  European  Union  and  the 
permanent members of the Security Council, which had 
a  direct  and  positive  influence  on  the  outcome  of  the 
negotiation process. 

Belarus  believes  that  three  key  elements  are 
fundamental  to  the  future  success  of  the  process  of 
the  negotiations  and 
the  efforts  of 
transparent 
to  pool 
having 
and 
of 
relevant 
that  expanding 
General  Assembly  revitalization.  First,  we  need  to 
strengthen  the  practice  of  holding  General  Assembly 
thematic debates on topical issues on the international 
agenda, follow up on their development in open-ended 
working  groups,  and  adopt 
resolutions. 
Secondly, we need to increase public awareness of the 
work  of  the  General Assembly,  including  through  the 
most  up-to-date  media  outlets  and  new  technology. 
Thirdly,  we  need  to  implement  the  provisions  of  all 
previous  resolutions  on  revitalizing  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly. 

In  the  kaleidoscope  of  United  Nations  reform, 
most  attention  is  paid  to  Security  Council  reform.  In 
that regard, we call on Member States to accelerate the 
search  for  a  compromise  solution  to  expanding  the 
Council’s composition and improving the effectiveness 
of its work. 

Belarus  pays  particular  attention  to  the  United 
Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic 
Radiation.  We  are  convinced 
the 
membership  of  the  Committee  will  help  both  to 
strengthen  its  scientific  capacity  and  to  increase  its 
authority. We are particularly concerned by the lack of 
decisiveness  on  Committee  membership  and 
its 
potential  negative 
the 
the  quality  of 
Committee’s  work.  In  that  regard,  Belarus  welcomes 
the  General Assembly’s  intention  to  consider  bringing 
new  members  onto  the  Committee  by  the  end  of  the 
sixty-fourth  session.  We  note  the  timeliness  of  the 
Secretariat’s proposal on providing financial resources 
necessary  to  the  Committee’s  work,  and  call  upon 
delegations 
the 
framework of the draft budget discussions in the Fifth 
Committee. 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  United  Nations  has  a  crucial  role  to  play  in  the 
follow-up  of  its  major  conferences  and  summits. That 
role  is  of  particular  relevance  given  the  current 
international 
the 
interconnection  of  multiple  crises,  among  which  we 
underscore  the  serious  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
one of the most serious obstacles to the development of 
the nations of the South. 

In  the  current  state  of  affairs,  it  is  clear  that  the 
authority  of  this  world  forum  derives,  among  other 
things,  from  the  fact  that  its  representative  nature  and 
legitimacy  cannot  be  replaced  by  exclusive  clubs  of 
countries  seeking 
international 
those  proposals 
to  manipulate 
characterized 
impact  on 
support 
context 
the 
by 
in 
to 
6 

09-60826 
2010 
should  also 


decision-making  process  in  economic  and  financial 
matters.  Today  more  than  ever,  the  voices  of  all 
countries, especially the smallest and poorest, must be 
duly heeded and addressed. That is why Cuba supports 
the  holding  of  a  high-level  plenary  meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  next  year  as  a  follow-up  to  the 
commitments  made  10  years  ago  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration  and,  in  particular,  those  that  address 
development. 

The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that 
we  agreed  at  that  time,  together  with  other  goals  that 
are  no  less  important  in  the  area  of  development  and 
that  have  been  established  in  the  outcome  documents 
of  the  major  summits  and  conferences  that  preceded 
that historic event, must be the centre of our analysis in 
2010.  That  occasion  should  not  only 
reaffirm 
documents and reiterate agreed language; it should also 
allow for an in-depth analysis of the root causes of the 
persistence of poverty and underdevelopment. It should 
also  serve  as  an  opportunity  to  propose  concrete 
measures and viable alternative for eradicating poverty. 

the 
commitments made regarding sustainable development 
of the small island developing States. Cuba is one such 
State  and  will  participate  actively  in  that  process, 
which  should  focus  on  an  objective  analysis  of  the 
targets  agreed  upon  at  the  historic  conferences  of 
Barbados and Mauritius. 
Cuba  reaffirms  the  importance  of  redoubling 

efforts 
the 
empowerment  of  women.  The  2010  assessment  of 
progress  made  towards  achieving  the  MDGs  will  be  a 
key moment for consideration of those topics. 

Prior  to  that  meeting,  we  will  have  several 
opportunities  to  carry  out  an  in-depth  analysis  of  the 
measures  necessary 
remaining 
obstacles and the new challenges to the achievement of 
the  MDGs.  Those  opportunities  include  the  15-year 
review  of 
the  Beijing 
Declaration and Platform for Action and of the results 
of  the  twenty-third  special  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  to  be  carried  out  during  the  fifty-fourth 
session of the Commission on the Status of Women, in 
March  of  2010.  There  will  also  be 
the  annual 
ministerial review of the Economic and Social Council, 
dedicated  to  implementing  the  internationally  agreed 
goals  and  commitments  in  regard  to  gender  equality 
and the empowerment of women. 
implementation  of 
to  overcome 
review  of 
equality 
achieve 
see  a 
gender 
the 
to 
and 
the 
A/64/PV.47
by 
the 
suggested 
parameters 
the  adoption  of 
recently  captured 
Climate  change  has 

the 
attention  of  the  entire  world,  as  the  Copenhagen 
summit  draws  closer.  What  is  worrisome,  however,  is 
although  there  is  full  awareness  of  the  serious  danger 
that  climate  change  represents  for  humanity,  the 
negotiations  leading  up  to  Copenhagen  have  not  been 
able to make as much progress as we had hoped and as 
was needed. 

We  have  been  denouncing  the  cause  of  that 
stagnation for quite some time, and that is the lack of 
firm  political  will  on  the  part  of  the  developed 
countries  when  it  comes  to  committing  to  reducing 
their  emissions  to  a  level  that  is  proportional  to  their 
historical  and  current  responsibilities  and  in  keeping 
with 
scientific 
evaluations.  Those  countries  are  also  reluctant  to 
contribute the resources and technologies necessary to 
enable developing countries to tackle the phenomenon 
of climate change. 

Unfortunately,  everything  seems  to  point  to  the 
fact that the Copenhagen conference will not attain the 
results  that  the  majority  hoped  for.  It  seems  that  once 
again 
the  concrete  and  binding 
commitments that we are calling for will be postponed. 
How long will we have to wait while the future of all 
of all humanity is in danger?  

The manner in which we confront climate change 
today  will  have  a  direct  effect  on  the  development 
prospects  for  a  great  portion  of  humanity.  The 
achievement  of  a  fair  and  balanced  agreement  on 
climate  change  is  still  possible  if  we  approach  the 
process  of  negotiations  with  a  new  political  attitude. 
The  battle  against  climate  change  can  and  must  be 
won. Let us not wait until it is too late. 
Mr.  Gutiérrez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

24 October  we 
sixty-fourth 
anniversary of the entry into force of the Charter of the 
United Nations. During that 64 years Peru has actively 
participated  in  the  work  of  the  Organization  with  the 
same  conviction:  that  multilateralism  is  the  most 
propitious  road  for  building  a  better  world.  Thus  we 
welcome  with  great  satisfaction  the  new  momentum 
that  States  are  giving  multilateralism  as  an  area  for 
political  dialogue  and  cooperation  with  which  the 
challenges of the twenty-first century can be tackled. 

One of the most meaningful achievements of the 
United  Nations  in  that  context  was  the  Millennium 
the  Millennium 
Summit,  which 
in  2000  adopted 
commemorated 
the 
09-60826 

7 

A/64/PV.47 

Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  That  document  has  a 
special  historical  value  that  recognizes  the  collective 
responsibility of Governments to work for equality and 
equity  and  to  ensure  that  the  benefits  of  globalization 
will  be  shared  equally.  The  Summit  established  eight 
goals  to  be  met  by  2015,  which  brought  together  the 
commitments undertaken by the United Nations during 
the last decade of the twentieth century. 

Since  the  start  the  State  of  Peru  has  taken  those 
eight  goals  —  seven  of  which  have  established 
timetables — on board as the guiding axis of its social 
policy  in  fighting  poverty  and  promoting  inclusion. 
Today  we  are  beginning  to  see  the  results  of  that,  as 
was  confirmed  on  15  October  2009  by  the  United 
Nations Development Programme in its 2008 report on 
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

The report confirms the progress made by Peru in 
reducing  poverty  levels  from  54.4  per  cent  in  1991  to 
36  per  cent  in  2008  and  in  reducing  the  level  of 
extreme poverty from 23 per cent to 12.6 per cent over 
the same period. Thus the goal of reducing by half the 
number  of  individuals  whose  incomes  are  below  the 
extreme poverty line is about to be achieved in Peru. 

In the area of education, we have almost achieved 
universal primary education in Peru. The illiteracy rate 
has  been  reduced  from  18.1  per  cent  in  1991  to  6  per 
cent in the year 2008. 

In  the  area  of  basic  services,  the  homes  with 
potable water increased from 49 per cent in 1991 to an 
estimated  80  per  cent  in  2009.  Meanwhile,  the  homes 
with  electricity  increased  from  46  per  cent  to  80  per 
cent during the same period. 

With  regard  to  health,  overall  malnutrition  has 
gone  from  10  per  cent  in  2004  to  5  per  cent  in  2008. 
Chronic  child  malnutrition  has  dropped  from  25.4  per 
cent to 21.9 per cent during the same period. Mortality 
for  children  less  than  five  years  of  age  has  also  been 
reduced  by  68  per  cent,  which  means  that  we  will 
comply with this goal eight years before the deadline. 

It is important to underscore, however, that there 
are many illnesses that were not explicitly included in 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  but  that  seriously 
affect 
include 
non-transmittable  diseases  such  as  heart  disease, 
stroke,  cancer,  hypertension,  chronic 
respiratory 
illnesses  and  diabetes.  We  must  also  highlight  the 
as  Peru.  They 
countries 
such 
deaths  and  injuries  that  result  from  traffic  accidents. 
All  of  this  confirms  that  there  is  an  urgent  need  to 
evaluate  the  advisability  of  promoting  the  Millennium 
Development Goals Plus, which have as their principal 
axis  the  fight  against  non-transmittable  diseases  and 
injuries. 

My  Government  is  committed  to  continue  to 
allocate  the  greatest  possible  resources  to  fighting  not 
just  the  consequences  of  underdevelopment  but  its 
complex  causes.  In  the  framework  of  the  current 
economic  and  financial  crisis,  it  is  urgent  that  we 
reaffirm  the  commitments  taken  on  in  the  Millennium 
Goals, as the various areas they address are essential to 
improving the well-being of developing countries. 

In  that  context,  we  wish  to  reiterate  our  concern 
about  the  alarming  sums  that  are  allocated  around  the 
world  to  acquiring  weapons,  amounts  that  increases 
steadily  every  year  in  the  midst  of  one  of  the  most 
serious  global  economic  recessions.  The  increase  in 
military  expenditures  has  a  direct  impact  on  our 
countries’  capacity  to  fight  hunger  and  poverty  and 
attain  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Therefore 
we  believe  that  it  is  essential  to  strengthen  the  direct 
link between disarmament and development. 

The  crisis  also  causes  problems  in  terms  of 
mobilizing  resources  for  global  initiatives  to  fight 
climate  change.  Peru  is  among  the  countries  that  are 
particularly vulnerable to climate change without being 
among  its  principal  producers.  The  great  efforts  that 
my  country  must  undertake  in  allocating  resources  to 
adaptation will reduce our capacity to address the other 
needs of our population and, consequently, to continue 
working  effectively  towards  the  attainment  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  especially  the  fight 
against poverty. 

With that in mind, the Copenhagen conference in 
December  should  face  the  challenge  of  financing 
measures to adapt to climate change and of mitigating 
its effects. Peru has presented specific proposals in that 
area that we hope can be considered at the conference. 
We also wish to note that the illicit production of coca 
leaves is one of the greatest factors in the depredation 
of nature. The felling and burning of forests in order to 
increase illegal farming causes soil erosion and has led 
to  the  deforestation  of  more  than  2.5  million  hectares 
of the Amazon forest, making this phenomenon one of 
the principal contributors to global warming. 
8 

09-60826 
responses 
formulating  appropriate 



We have stated in the General Assembly that it is 
urgent that we make the fight against drug trafficking a 
centrepiece  of  the  international  agenda  and  of  the 
cooperation  agenda  of  developed  countries,  under  the 
principle of shared but differentiated responsibility. 

We have taken note of the report of the Secretary-
General  on  climate  change  and  its  possible  security 
implications  (A/64/350).  It  contains  elements  that  we 
will study with the necessary care. 

In this crisis scenario it is necessary to revitalize 
the  United  Nations  system  for  development.  We  must 
take advantage of the unique role that the Organization 
plays  as  an  inclusive  forum  for  promoting  a  better 
understanding of the social and economic effects of the 
crisis  and 
for 
overcoming the challenges that we now face. 

Along  these  lines,  we  are  looking  to  the  high-
level meeting that the General Assembly has decided to 
hold in 2010, at the beginning of its sixty-fifth session, 
with  heads  of  State  and  Government  participating,  at 
which  there  will  be  a  review  of  the  progress  towards 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  in 
which we will be participating with great interest at the 
highest possible level. 
Mr. Maurer (Switzerland): I would like to touch 

on  two  issues  under  agenda  item  114,  first  on  armed 
violence  and  development,  and  then  on  the  high-level 
event of September 2010.  

I  shall  first  speak  as  chair  of  the  Core  Group 
leading the implementation of the Geneva Declaration 
on Armed Violence and Development. The Core Group 
is comprised of Brazil, Colombia, Finland, Guatemala, 
Indonesia, Kenya, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, 
the  Philippines,  Spain,  Thailand,  the  United  Kingdom 
and Switzerland. 

The  Core  Group  welcomes  the  recommendations 
made  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  under 
review (A/64/228). The report was published pursuant 
to  resolution  63/23,  which  was  adopted  by  consensus 
during the sixty-third session of the General Assembly. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General on this substantive work. 

The Core Group is very pleased with the report’s 
detailed  analysis  of  the  relationship  between  armed 
violence  and  development  and  its  discussion  on  the 
human,  social  and  economic  costs  related  to  armed 
violence. The report acknowledges that armed violence 
A/64/PV.47
transparent  process  with  a  view 
constitutes  not  only  a  humanitarian  challenge  but  also 
an  obstacle  to  development  and,  ultimately,  to  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 

We believe that the report contains solid elements 
that  will  help  advance  the  agenda  on  armed  violence 
and  development.  In  particular,  it  highlights  the  main 
challenges  ahead  while  providing  the  international 
community  with  a  set  of  concrete  and 
targeted 
measures. The report also highlights the importance of 
strengthening national and local capacities with a view 
to preventing and reducing armed violence. In addition, 
it values the essential contribution made by multilateral 
and  bilateral  agencies  in  supporting  the  efforts  of 
Governments to combat armed violence. 

Following  on  recommendation  (h)  in  the  report, 
which 
to  build  a  greater 
awareness of the negative impact of armed violence on 
development, the Core Group would like to initiate an 
open  and 
to 
formulating  the  core  elements  of  a  possible  resolution 
during  the  current  session.  This  open-ended  process 
intends  to  allow  a  broad  and  inclusive  debate  on  the 
substance of the report and on the recommendations it 
makes,  as  well  as  on  the  ways  and  means  to  foster 
greater  international  action.  This  approach  will  be 
particularly important in view of the high-level plenary 
meeting  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly in September 2010.  

Our  open-ended  process  will  come  with  a  series 
of  events  on  several  aspects  covered  in  the  report  in 
order to make Member States aware of the importance 
of  reducing  armed  violence  as  a  means  of  enabling 
development  and  ultimately  the  attainment  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals. This  series  of  events 
starts at 1.15 p.m. today with a side event to be held in 
Conference  Room  4.  Furthermore,  the  Core  Group 
believes  that  enhancing  development  would  be  one  of 
the  key  contributing  factors  to  the  prevention  and 
reduction  of  armed  violence.  It  is  our  hope  that 
Member  States  will  make  full  use  of  this  forum  to 
explore  the  ways  and  means  to  ensure  people-centred 
development  and  hence  to  reduce  the  motive  to  resort 
to armed violence. 
To  conclude,  on  behalf  of  the  Core  Group,  I 

would 
to 
participate actively in the discussions to come. I hereby 
encourage those Member States that have not yet done 
to  encourage  all  Member  States 
invites  Member  States 
like 
09-60826 

9 

issues 
A/64/PV.47 

so  to  subscribe  to  the  Geneva  Declaration  and  its 
principles. 
(spoke in French) 

On  behalf  of  Switzerland,  I  would  now  like  to 
speak  about  the  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly that will take place next year. 

Ten  years  after  the  Millennium  Declaration  and 
five  years  after  the  2005  Summit  —  two  events  that 
provided 
important  blueprints  for  addressing  key 
challenges  and  strengthening  the  ability  of  the  United 
Nations to deliver on its mandates — leaders will again 
convene in September 2010 at the opening of the sixty-
fifth session of the General Assembly. 

Since those two historic events, the international 
context  has  changed,  presenting  new  challenges  and 
opportunities. The recent food, economic and financial 
crisis as well as global climate change have highlighted 
new  aspects  of  insecurity,  vulnerability  and  poverty. 
These global challenges have also strongly emphasized 
the characteristic interdependence of our world, where 
today 
that  concern  us  are  more  strongly 
interlinked  than  ever  and  cannot  be  dealt  with  in 
isolation. 

Development  is  no  exception.  For  our  leaders  to 
be  in  a  position  to  take  stock  next  year  of  the  current 
challenges  directly  affecting  development  and 
to 
discuss specific action to address them, they will have 
to take into account the multiple correlations between, 
for example, between climate change and development, 
between  peace  and  security  and  development,  or 
between  the  global  economy  and  development.  In  our 
view,  that  holistic  approach  is  critical  to  enabling  the 
2010  summit  to  reflect  the  broad  context  in  which 
development challenges are embedded. 

the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) have been shown to be a 
powerful  vector  for  political  action,  and  these  time-
bound  targets,  inter  alia,  will  continue  to  inspire  our 
common  efforts  for  development.  In  2008,  in  the 
framework  of  the  High-level  Event  on  the  MDGs  in 
2008,  our  leaders  reviewed  at  length  the  progress 
made, took stock of remaining gaps in the global effort 
to achieve the established goals and identified concrete 
action needed on a global scale to meet them. The 2010 
summit should therefore build on that meeting, as well 
as  on  others,  and  avoid  reiterating  debates  and  the 
conclusions already reached in 2008. 
2000, 
Since 
the 
year 
for 
effort 
peace, 
security 

Next fall, our leaders should also assess the status 
of the global partnership for development called for by 
the  Millennium  Declaration.  For  a  true  and  effective 
partnership, we need stronger international institutions. 
In  this  regard,  we  cannot  overemphasize  the  central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  or  the  need  for  reforms 
essential to make the United Nations a more efficient, 
effective  and  coherent  platform  for  carrying  out  the 
international 
and 
development. 

The  growing  interdependence  of  nations  and  the 
increasing  interconnection  of  global  threats  are  a 
challenge to all countries, all institutions and the global 
governance  system  as  a  whole. We  are  convinced  that 
the 2010 summit is an opportunity to demonstrate that 
the  United  Nations  is  capable  of  taking  on  those 
complex issues. It is also a key moment to reaffirm that 
the  United  Nations  remains  the  only  universal  and 
legitimate  platform  for  dealing  with  and  collecting  in 
one  forum  the  challenges  whose  interconnections  are 
evident on a planetary scale, affecting development and 
the global context in which we all live. 
Ms. Ross (United States of America): The United 

States welcomes the important report of the Secretary-
General  on  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations 
Comprehensive  Strategy  on Assistance  and  Support  to 
Victims  of  Sexual  Exploitation  and  Abuse  by  United 
Nations  Staff  and  Related  Personnel  (A/64/176).  We 
are gratified to note that the United Nations system is 
taking action to institutionalize implementation of this 
important  pillar  of  the  Organization’s  response  to 
sexual  exploitation  and  abuse  by  United  Nations  staff 
and  related  personnel.  The  victims  of  such  abuse  are 
beginning  to  receive  the  assistance  they  need  to 
address  the  very  real  needs  arising  out  of  these 
reprehensible acts. 

We appreciate the frankness on how the Strategy 
is  being  implemented  in  practice  by  humanitarian  and 
peacekeeping  missions  that  are  operating  in  often 
difficult  circumstances.  We  welcome  the  recognition 
that,  while  such  misconduct  is  the  exception,  as  it 
should  be,  it  is  committed  by  all  categories  of 
personnel  and  that  therefore  measures  to  prevent  and 
address  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse  must  be  taken 
throughout  the  United  Nations  system  and  should 
include  clear  standards  of  conduct  for  contractors  and 
other partners. 
10 

09-60826 
to 
steps 
taken 
being 



We note that the report indicates varying levels of 
coordination  among  United  Nations  agencies  at  the 
country  level  on  implementing  measures  to  assist 
victims  of  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse.  The  work 
already  being  done  to  use  existing  legal,  medical  and 
other community programmes is very useful. 

We  would  also  like  to  call  attention  to  other 
practical 
strengthen 
implementation of the Strategy. For example, the report 
notes that the United Nations Development Group has 
approved  revised  job  descriptions  for  managers  that 
include responsibility for coordinating implementation 
of the Strategy. That is exactly the kind of measure that 
ensures that busy leaders see this as a priority. Another 
such  example  is  the  inclusion  of  clauses  in  contracts 
that  would  establish  for  such  contractors  appropriate 
standards  of  conduct.  The  United  States  believes  that 
there  is  a  clear  need  for  continuing  reporting  on  the 
implementation of this Strategy. In this regard, we look 
forward  to  exploring  what  additional  measures  might 
be needed to strengthen and institutionalize application 
of the Strategy. 

We  wish  to  express  both  our  appreciation  of  the 
work that has already been done and our recognition of 
the  enormous  challenges  ahead.  The  United  States 
reiterates  its  support  for  the  Secretary-General’s  zero-
tolerance  policy  and  calls  on  all  Member  States  to 
strengthen  their  resolve  to  change  the  culture  of 
impunity  that  allows  such  reprehensible  acts  to  take 
place. 

Turning  to  the  issue  of  climate  change  and  its 
possible  security  implications,  the  United  States  was 
pleased 
list  of  sponsors  of  General 
Assembly resolution 63/281, on climate change and its 
possible  security  implications,  of  June  2009  and  to 
support  its  original  proponents,  namely  the  Pacific 
small island  developing States. We  also welcomed the 
opportunity 
security 
implications  of  climate  change,  as  requested  in  the 
resolution. 

We were encouraged by the Assembly’s ability to 
achieve broad consensus on a resolution concerning the 
urgent  issue  of  climate  change,  particularly  in  the 
crucial  remaining  weeks 
the  fifteenth 
the  United  Nations 
Conference  of  Parties 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
in 
Copenhagen. The Secretary-General’s thoughtful report 
to  provide  views  on 
leading 
to 
join 
the 
the 
to 
to 
A/64/PV.47
he 
underscored 
the  security 
in  September, 
implications  of  climate  change 
there  will  be  no  peace  unless  we 
The  United  States  has  made  advancing 
on 
(A/64/350) provides a valuable resource for Parties. 

When  President  Obama  addressed  the  General 
Assembly 
the 
seriousness  of  the  challenges  we  face. At  that  time  he 
said,  “we  must  recognize  that  in  the  twenty-first 
century 
take 
responsibility  for  the  preservation  of  our  planet”  (see 
A/64/PV.3). 

The  danger  posed  by  climate  change  cannot  be 
denied.  Our  responsibility  to  meet  it  must  not  be 
deferred.  If  we  continue  down  our  current  course, 
every  member  of  this  Assembly  will  see  irreversible 
changes  within  their  borders.  Our  efforts  to  end 
conflicts  will  be  eclipsed  by  wars  over  refugees  and 
resources. Development will be devastated by drought 
and famine. Land that human beings have lived on for 
millennia  will  disappear.  Future  generations  will  look 
back and wonder why we refused to act, why we failed 
to  pass  on  an  environment  that  was  worthy  of  our 
inheritance. 

the 
climate  change  agenda  one  of  our  top  priorities  at  the 
United  Nations.  Today’s  discussion  reinforces  our 
collective  recognition 
that  global  climate  change 
requires  an  urgent  response  and  the  widest  possible 
cooperation  by  all  countries.  The  United  States 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  leadership  in  this  critical 
global endeavour. 
Mr.  Normandin  (Canada):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of Canada, Australia and New Zealand. 

Canada, Australia and New Zealand welcome the 
report of the Secretary-General on the implementation 
of  the  United  Nations  Comprehensive  Strategy  on 
Assistance  and  Support 
to  Victims  of  Sexual 
Exploitation  and  Abuse  by  United  Nations  Staff  and 
Related Personnel (A/64/176). 

Since  the  Strategy’s  adoption  two  years  ago, 
progress  on 
implementation  has  been  slow. 
However,  significant  inroads  have  been  made  towards 
ensuring that in the future, provision of assistance and 
support 
to  victims  will  be  possible.  The  report 
identifies  a  number  of  key  actions  and  initiatives  that 
have been undertaken since adoption, such as the best 
practice  series  of  the  Task  Force  on  Protection  from 
Sexual  Exploitation  and  Abuse.  The  report  also 
describes 
the  Strategy’s 
the  challenges 
facing 
its 
09-60826 

11 

A/64/PV.47 

implementation, which include the lack of community-
based  reporting  and  complaints  mechanisms  to  deal 
with  such  cases.  With  an  issue  as  sensitive  and 
personal as sexual exploitation and abuse, it is easy to 
understand  that  victims  may  find  it  difficult  to  come 
forward  and  report  on  what  they  have  endured;  the 
issue  of  under-reporting  is  all  too  familiar  in  these 
circumstances. 

Canada, Australia  and  New  Zealand  believe  it  is 
essential  that  the  United  Nations  system  continue  its 
work to implement the Strategy, and that this work be 
undertaken in a comprehensive, system-wide manner. 
In-country  mechanisms  to  facilitate  access  for 

victims  to  needed  services  will  not  be  established,  and 
overall  protection  from  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse 
will not be achieved, without the whole United Nations 
system — humanitarian, development and peacekeeping 
personnel — being on board and working together. 
It is crucial that work on this Strategy continue so 

that  victims  are  offered  the  assistance  they  need  and 
deserve.  Canada, Australia  and  New  Zealand  strongly 
endorse  continued  implementation  of  the  Strategy  and 
support  the  next  steps  outlined  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report. 
Speaking  now  in  my  national  capacity,  let  me 

briefly  address 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
climate  change  and  its  possible  security  implications 
(A/64/350), also under agenda item 114. 
Canada  once  again  wishes  to  congratulate  the 

Pacific  small 
their 
leadership in bringing the issue of security and climate 
change  to  the  forefront  of  our  work  at  the  United 
Nations. The existential threat facing the Pacific small 
islands, in particular, gives this important issue a very 
real, urgent and human dimension. 

The global challenge of climate change requires a 
global  response.  Internationally,  Canada  is  working 
towards an ambitious post-2012 global climate change 
agreement at the fifteenth session of the Conference of 
the  Parties 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change in Copenhagen in early 
December. 

Canada  welcomed  the  adoption  of  resolution 
63/281,  on  climate  change  and  its  possible  security 
implications,  in  June  2009,  and  we  welcome  the  calls 
for  relevant  United  Nations  bodies  to  intensify  their 
island  developing  States  for 
to 
that  has  been  reported 
efforts in considering the possible security implications 
of climate change. 
(spoke in French) 

The  Secretary-General’s  comprehensive  report 
will  facilitate  the  exchange  among  Member  States  of 
diverse views on this important issue and will help put 
our work in context. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Pacific 
small  island  developing  States  for  their  leadership  on 
this issue. 
Mr.  Urbina  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 

2007, the President of the General Assembly asked me 
to coordinate the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group 
tasked  with  drafting  a  strategy  on  assistance  and 
support to victims of sexual exploitation and abuse by 
united nations staff and related personnel. Accordingly, 
today,  Costa  Rica  wishes  to  refer  specifically  to  that 
topic. 
We welcome the measures that have been adopted 

and 
the  progress 
the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  implementation  of  the 
United Nations Comprehensive Strategy on Assistance 
and  Support  to  Victims  of  Sexual  Exploitation  and 
Abuse  by  United  Nations  Staff  and  Related  Personnel 
(A/64/176).  When  the  Open-ended  Working  Group’s 
work came to an end, I said that it marked a great step 
forward in meeting the needs of victims, which should 
be a great source of satisfaction to the United Nations 
and  to  all  of  us  who  had  participated  in  drafting  the 
Strategy. 

While the nature and scope of the subject seemed 
to raise difficult obstacles to overcome, agreement was 
possible  thanks  to  the  commitment  of  all  States 
Members  of  the  Organization  to  help  the  victims.  It 
was  particularly  important  to  separate  the  assistance 
strategy  from  the  policy  of  zero  tolerance,  focusing 
solely  on  the  human  dimension  of  assistance  and 
support for victims. 

Despite the progress that has already been made, 
much remains to be done to attain a truly broad focus 
for  assistance  for  victims  based  on  the  principles  of 
comprehensive protection, solidarity and responsibility. 
The report tells us that the victims of those abuses are 
now beginning to receive basic assistance and support 
in  a  timely  manner,  in  keeping  with  their  specific 
needs. 
in 
12 

09-60826 
in 
and 
the  United  Nations  Office 
implementation  of 
development 



Through structures of the United Nations system, 
medical,  legal,  psychological  and  social  support  is 
already  being  provided,  along  with  urgent  support  in 
the areas of housing, food and clothing. The Strategy is 
an integral part of the measures adopted by the United 
Nations  system  to  prevent  and  address  sexual  abuse 
and exploitation by United Nations staff and associated 
personnel. 
Here,  we  view  favourably  the  progress  being 

the  Strategy  by 
made 
the 
humanitarian, 
peacekeeping 
personnel.  We  support  that  comprehensive  approach 
and  we  look  forward  to  its  consolidation  throughout 
the  system.  We  warmly  welcome  the  measures  and 
instruments that are being implemented to enhance the 
Strategy’s implementation, through the Task Force co-
the 
chaired  by 
for 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and 
the 
Department  of  Field  Support,  and  we  call  for  their 
strengthening. 
In  conclusion,  Costa  Rica  recognizes  the  work 

that  has  been  done  and  draws  attention 
the 
remaining  challenges.  Once  again,  we  call  on  all 
United Nations personnel to conduct themselves at the 
highest level of ethical standards. 
is 

grateful for this opportunity to make some remarks on 
agenda  item  114,  “Follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the 
Millennium Summit”. My delegation would also like to 
express  its  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  report  under  that  agenda  item,  entitled  “Climate 
change  and 
implications” 
(A/64/350). 

As  is  reflected  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
many  Member  States,  in  their  submissions,  recognize 
that  the  possible  security  implications  of  climate 
change  need  to  be  examined  in  the  context  of  pre-
existing  social,  economic  and  environmental  threats, 
which  are  key  factors  in  the  security  of  individuals, 
communities  and  States.  Those  assessments  are  all 
captured  and  adequately  reflected  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2). 
The  persistence  of  poverty,  hunger  and  disease, 

the  rapid  growth  of 
informal  urban  settlements, 
inadequate  infrastructure  and  the  growing  scarcity  of 
land,  water  and  other  resources  are  challenges  that 
must  be  effectively  addressed  to  ease  the  security 
implications of climate change. 
Mr.  Midekssa  (Ethiopia):  My  delegation 
its  possible 
security 
to 
A/64/PV.47
and 
reduced 
stability 
promote 
In  short, 
threats  can  be 
through 

including 
legitimate  and 
sustainable  development, 
effective  governance  and 
institutions,  as  well  as 
peaceful  dispute  resolution.  In  addition,  it  has  now 
become apparent that a significant slowdown of growth 
caused by climate change could pose a serious security 
threat  to  developing  countries,  by  worsening  poverty 
and desperation. Economic growth should therefore be 
to  strengthen  resilience,  maintain 
fostered  so  as 
political 
international 
cooperation  in  addressing  the  various  challenges  of 
underprivileged  populations.  This  fact 
is  clearly 
reflected  in  the  discussion  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  of  the  five  channels  through  which  climate 
change  could  affect  security,  in  which  the  channel 
showing  the  relationship  between  development  and 
peace  is  empirically  substantiated.  Maintaining  global 
peace and stability requires keeping the momentum of 
development going. 
It is in light of this evidence that the emphasis on 

preventing the adverse effects of climate change should 
be consistent with the efforts of the United Nations to 
move from a tradition of reaction to one of prevention 
and with its emphasis on sustainable development as a 
crucial  contributor  to  conflict  prevention.  Advancing 
sustainable  development,  building 
to 
physical  and  economic  shocks,  and  strengthening 
institutions  are  vital  to  confronting  the  impact  of 
climate change and promoting peace and security. 

The  impact  of  climate  change  on  human  well-
being can be illustrated in various ways. For instance, 
according  to  the  fourth  assessment  report  of  the 
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change,  cereal 
productivity  is  expected  to  decrease  in  Africa  and 
southern Asia  due  to  climate  change.  In  some African 
countries,  yields  from  rain-fed  agriculture  could  be 
reduced by up to 50 per cent by 2020; food security is 
likely  to  suffer  and  the  risk  of  hunger  to  increase. 
Africa  is  also  often  seen  as  a  continent  where  climate 
change  could  potentially  intensify  or  trigger  conflict. 
Among  the  reasons  given  are  the  continent’s  reliance 
on  climate-dependent  sectors, 
recent  ethnic  and 
political conflict, and fragile States. 
Speaking  of  Africa,  we  firmly  believe  that  in 

order  to  mitigate  the  impact  of  climate  change  on 
human well-being, the international community should 
take  serious  measures 
to  control  greenhouse-gas 
emissions.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  we  all  expect  a 
climate  change  deal  to  be  sealed  in  Copenhagen. 
resilience 
09-60826 

13 

interest  over 
the  potential 
relations  among  countries 
A/64/PV.47 

Africa,  for  its  part,  will  for  the  first  time  in  history 
field  a  single  negotiating  team,  chaired  by  Mr.  Meles 
Zenawi,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal  Democratic 
Republic  of  Ethiopia,  empowered  to  negotiate  on 
behalf of all the States members of the African Union. 
We believe more important than the challenges will be 
the  opportunities  opened  up  by  this  decision.  More 
than  50  countries,  more  than  one  fourth  of  the  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  will  speak  with  one 
voice.  That  should  make  the  negotiations  much  more 
manageable  than  would  have  been  the  case  in  the 
absence  of  such  a  decision.  Africa’s  interests  and 
position  will  not  be  muffled,  as  has  usually  been  the 
case,  and  the  problems  we  discuss  here  today  will 
definitely surface at the highest level in Copenhagen. 
My  delegation  has  also  learned  from  the  report 

to  affect 
that  climate  change  has 
through 
international 
possible  conflicts  of 
the  use  of 
transboundary  water  or  other  resources  that  may 
become  increasingly  scarce  as  a  result  of  climate 
change.  But  we  believe  that,  by  fostering  cooperation 
among  States  and  with  the  concrete  support  of  the 
international  community,  such  concerns  can  be 
effectively remedied.  

My  delegation  also  believes  that  the  strategy  of 
adaptation  requires  empowering  people,  building  their 
resilience,  securing  their  livelihoods,  and  putting  in 
place  or  strengthening 
infrastructure 
needed  to  protect  against  extreme  weather  events,  as 
well  as  the  institutions  and  systems  needed  to  cope 
with 
events.  The 
international  community  must 
therefore  provide 
stronger  support  for  climate-change  adaptation  in 
developing countries, including through investments in 
capacity-building at all levels. 
Finally,  any  failure  to  effectively  implement  the 

and 
other 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
internationally 
goals  will 
development 
undoubtedly  have  even  worse  effects  than  shattering 
economies;  it  could  rekindle  dormant  conflicts  and 
provoke new ones, thereby precipitating poor countries 
into  total  disaster.  It  is  therefore  imperative  for  the 
international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts  to 
guarantee the sustainable and equitable development of 
all  countries,  notably  by  ensuring  that  developed 
countries  meet  their  international  commitments  in 
development assistance. This is all the more imperative 
in the midst of the current global economic difficulties, 
consequences  of 
the  physical 
agreed 
such 
the 
their 
to  Pacific 
New  Zealand  made  detailed  submissions 
which have threatened to set back recent development 
progress in many developing countries. 
Mr. McLay (New Zealand): New Zealand thanks 

the Secretary-General for his comprehensive report on 
the  possible  security  implications  of  climate  change 
(A/64/350),  which  results  from  a  specific  request  in 
resolution  63/281  —  a  historic  resolution  that  New 
Zealand was proud to co-sponsor, along with 100 other 
Member States. 

This report comes at a time when the Asia-Pacific 
region  has  been  severely  hit  by  natural  disasters,  with 
devastating results for many communities, families and 
livelihoods. These recent tragedies have illustrated the 
challenges  faced  by  small  island  developing  States  in 
particular,  given 
small  size  and  specific 
vulnerabilities,  in  responding  to  natural  disasters, 
whether  climatic  or  otherwise.  Along  with  other 
to 
development  partners,  New  Zealand  continues 
provide  support 
island  countries 
in 
addressing those challenges. 

in 
respect  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  which  was 
based  on  the  views  of  Member  States  and  relevant 
regional  and  international  organizations.  We  therefore 
do not intend to comment in detail on this occasion, but 
there are some key points that should be highlighted.  
We  are  pleased  to  see  the  reference  to  the 

Copenhagen  summit  and  look  forward  to  engaging  in 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  process.  In  particular,  we  support  the  report’s 
call for a Copenhagen outcome that is “science-based, 
comprehensive,  balanced  and  equitable  and  fair” 
(A/64/350, para. 26). 

change 
New  Zealand’s 
objective  is  to  achieve  effective  and  comprehensive 
global  mitigation  action  to  reduce  emissions  and  to 
implement  effective  adaptation  measures.  Our  aim  in 
this  context  is  to  build  confident,  resilient  and  viable 
communities  and  to  lessen  the  impact  of  climate 
change  as  a  risk  multiplier,  as  identified  both  in  New 
Zealand’s  submission  and 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report.  

For  those  reasons,  we  are  particularly  interested 
in  chapter  IX,  “The  way  forward”.  The  report 
recommends  action  by  the  international  community, 
including  taking  bold  steps  on  climate  change  and 
providing 
for  climate  change 
immediate 
stronger 
support 
climate 
14 

09-60826 
to 
is  committed 
agriculture,  diminished 
this  adaptation  be  prioritized 


adaptation in developing countries. It will be important 
that 
the  most 
vulnerable, including those in the Pacific. 
The  report  recognizes  that  such  security  threats 

can  be  effectively  managed 
through  sustainable 
development  measures,  but  that  requires  ongoing  and 
relevant  research.  New  Zealand 
to 
working  with  its  Pacific  partners  to  achieve  this 
through a number of bilateral, regional and multilateral 
initiatives.  Above  all,  the  report  makes  clear  that  the 
nature  and  full  extent  of  the  security  implications  of 
climate  change  are  still  largely  untested,  so  it  is 
important  that  the  way  forward  be  guided  by  robust 
empirical evidence, and we agree with that view. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  iconic  image  of  climate 
change  has  been  the  polar  bear  on  a  melting  ice  floe, 
but in human terms the more compelling image should 
be  the  citizen  of  an  island  State  that  could  over  time 
become  devoid  of 
in 
infrastructure,  reduced  in  population  and,  ultimately, 
uninhabitable.  Whole  populations  would  be  on  the 
move  and  already  vulnerable  communities  would  be 
further  threatened.  Security  and  other  issues  would 
abound. These issues must be addressed before it is too 
late. And  that  is  the  challenge  for  all  of  us  —  for  the 
United Nations and all of its Member States. 
Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands): At the outset allow 

me, on behalf of my delegation, to thank the President 
for convening this meeting. My delegation also would 
for  his 
like 
comprehensive  report  on  climate  change  and 
its 
possible  security  implications,  contained  in  document 
A/64/350.  My  delegation  welcomes  the  report  and 
acknowledges  the  manner  in  which  some  of  the  new 
and  emerging  security  threats  associated  with  climate 
change are being addressed. 

Solomon Islands associate this statement with the 
statement  delivered  by  Mr.  Stuart  Beck,  Permanent 
Representative of Palau, on behalf of the Pacific small 
island developing States (SIDS). My delegation would 
like to contribute to the debate in our national capacity. 

It  is  clear  from  the  report  that  there  are  security 
implications  related  to  climate  change  that  require  the 
collective  cooperation  of  the  international  community 
in  addressing  identified  new  and  emerging  climate-
related  challenges.  The  report  identifies  five  elements 
that  have  climate  change-related  security  implications 
on vulnerable populations globally.  
the  Secretary-General 
thank 
to 
A/64/PV.47
The 
atmospheric 
report  also 
identifies  possible 

First is the vulnerability of populations to climate 
change-related  threats  to  their  food,  water,  health  and 
territorial  security  and  the  entire  livelihood  of  human 
societies,  especially  those  that  are  ill  equipped  to 
effectively  invest  in  the  implementation  of  national 
adaptation and mitigation activities. Second are threats 
to  reverse  current  development  processes.  Third  are 
national  capacities  to  address  climate  change-related 
migration  and  displacement  of  populations,  and 
conflicts  over  shared  resources  such  as  water  sources. 
Fourthly, the report confirms the threat of statelessness 
among  SIDS  and 
implications  for  human  rights, 
security  and  sovereignty.  Fifthly,  there  is  concern  that 
international  conflict  could  emerge  over  shared  or 
undemarcated international resources. 
threat 

minimizers to lower climate change-related insecurity. 
On this issue, we reiterate our call for a mitigation and 
adaptation  package  that  provides  for  the  long-term 
stabilization 
greenhouse-gas 
concentrations. 

In this connection, we wish to take a piece from 
the  Declaration  of  the Alliance  of  Small  Island  States 
agreed  to  by  all  SIDS  at  the  September  summit,  and 
that  is  to  adopt  a  package  of  mitigation  activities 
beyond 
long-term 
stabilization 
greenhouse-gas 
concentrations well below 350 parts per million carbon 
dioxide-equivalent  levels;  secondly,  ensures  that  the 
global  average  surface 
increases  are 
limited  to  well  below  1.5  degrees  Celsius  above 
pre-industrial 
thirdly,  provides  for  global 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  to  peak  by  2015  and  to 
decline thereafter; fourthly, reduces global greenhouse-
gas  emissions  by  more  than  85  per  cent  below  1990 
levels by 2050; and fifthly, calls on countries listed in 
Annex I to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change 
their  collective 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  by  more  than  45  per  cent 
below  1990  levels  by  2020  and  by  more  than  95  per 
cent below 1990 levels by 2050, given  their historical 
responsibility. 
With  respect  to  threat  minimizers,  democratic 

local  and  national 
good  governance  and  strong 
institutions  are  needed,  as  stated 
the  report. 
However,  every  effort  must  be  made  to  improve  the 
economic  and  trade  conditions  of  these  countries  to 
enable  them  to  effectively  invest  in  the  sustainable 
functioning of such institutions in order to address and 
atmospheric 
temperature 
provides 
levels; 
to 
reduce 
2012 
that, 
first, 
of 
of 
in 
09-60826 

15 

should 
Strategy, 
that  we 
including 
A/64/PV.47 

contain  climate  change  threats  through  mitigation  and 
adaptation programmes at the national level. 

As  to  international  cooperation,  it  is  vitally 
important  to  ensure  that  international  commitments 
under  the  Barbados  Programme  of  Action  and  the 
the  Millennium 
Mauritius 
Development  Goals,  are  fulfilled 
to  provide  an 
enabling process for the vulnerable countries to address 
the severe security implications of climate change. The 
lack  of  commitment  has  pushed  SIDS  to  submit 
resolutions  recognizing 
the  human  dimension  of 
climate  change,  which,  as  our  Charter  affirms,  is 
people-centred  as  far  as  sustainable  development  is 
concerned. 

The  same  can  be  said  of  current  climate  change 
negotiations. At this defining moment, when leadership 
is required, it is not available. My delegation registers 
its  deep  concerns  over  public  statements  from  some 
quarters 
lower  our  collective 
expectation of achieving a legally binding agreement in 
Copenhagen. We remain positive that a legally binding 
agreement  is  possible  in  Copenhagen,  but  it  requires 
political will to present ambitious targets and adequate 
resources.  We  know  there  is  sufficient  technology 
available  to  stabilize  our  climate.  As  my  delegation 
stated  in  Barcelona,  the  victims  of  the  lack  of  action 
will  come 
the  southern 
hemisphere, the vulnerable countries, the SIDS and the 
least  developed  countries,  and  not  from  the  Annex  I 
countries.  
We therefore call for action and we call for action 

now. We keep saying this; we keep having summits on 
climate  change;  and  yet  we  have  not  lived  up  to  what 
we have said. We make this plea on behalf of those who 
are living on the edge of climate change and would like 
to say that those on the front line will continue to suffer 
on a daily basis as we continue to postpone action that 
is required and is now demanded of us. 

Allow  me  to  close  by  once  again  thanking  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report.  We  also  call  on  the 
Security  Council  to  put  this  matter  on  its  agenda. 
Again,  I 
thank  all  who  are  present  and  have 
participated  in  and  supported  this  process  for  their 
support in discussing this important subject. 
Mr.  Goledzinowski  (Australia):  Australia  was 

proud  to  co-sponsor  resolution  63/281  on  the  link 
between  climate  change  and  security,  and  we  are 
pleased  that  the  Secretary-General's  report  (A/64/350) 
the  countries  of 
from 
to 
forward 
reminded 
in  addressing 
improving  our  awareness  of 
is  being  considered  today.  It  is  a  small  but  important 
step 
this  serious  global 
challenge. 

We are now all deeply aware that climate change 
has  the  potential  to  exacerbate  situations  that  are 
already  fragile  and  to  increase  pressures  on  areas  that 
are already vulnerable. This report, like the debate that 
preceded  it,  for  which  we  have  to  remember  to  thank 
the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States,  contributes 
significantly 
the 
potential implications. 

Australia  sees  effective  global  and  national 
efforts to mitigate against and adapt to climate change 
as  the  best  way  to  minimize  the  impacts  of  climate 
change and, in turn, any security-related consequences. 
We welcome the report's emphasis on prevention as the 
best remedy. 

Australia  is  playing  its  full  and  fair  part  in 
helping  to  shape  a  global  climate  change  solution. 
Some  States  will  be  better  placed  than  others  to  cope 
with  the  impacts  of  climate  change.  Low-lying  island 
States,  as  we  have  been 
today,  are 
particularly vulnerable. The threats posed by sea-level 
rise and increases in extreme weather events will have 
a  particular  impact  on  Australia's  Pacific  and  Indian 
Ocean island neighbours. As I said when the resolution 
was adopted, these States have done the least to cause 
climate change, but will be the first to feel its effects. 
As  the  report  details,  these  impacts  will  likely 

threaten 
and  vital 
infrastructure  and  community  facilities,  and  be  felt  in 
their  economies 
from 
agricultural, tourism and fisheries. 

Building resilience to climate impacts is therefore 
vital  to  securing  livelihoods  and  helping  people  have 
the  choice  to  remain  in  their  homes,  where  that  is 
possible.  That  is  why  Australia  is  contributing  to 
adaptation 
activities.  We  have 
committed  some  $150  million  under  the  International 
Climate  Change  Adaptation  Initiative  to  meet  high-
priority  adaptation  needs.  We  are  also  contributing  to 
the Least Developed Countries Fund under the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to 
support the identification and implementation of urgent 
adaptation activities. 

The international community must remain alert to 
the possible direct and indirect security implications of 
and  mitigation 
and  water 
security 
reduced 
food 
through 
income 
16 

09-60826 


climate  change. As  we  here  in  the  General Assembly 
should  remember,  we  are  the  authentic  voice  of  the 
international community. In adopting resolution 63/281 
and in receiving this report, we have begun to live up 
to that obligation.  
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

resolution  57/32  of  19  November  2002,  I  now  call  on 
the  Permanent  Observer  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary 
Union. 
Mrs.  Filip  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  I  am 

pleased  to  address  the  General Assembly  at  this  joint 
debate  on  the  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations 
system and the follow-up to the Millennium Summit. I 
am honoured to deliver this statement on behalf of the 
President  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU), 
Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  Speaker  of  the  National Assembly 
of  Namibia  and  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly.  
Over  the  past  several  years,  the  IPU  and  the 

United  Nations  have  been  building  a  strategic 
partnership in the pursuit of world peace, development, 
democracy and human rights. Looking back, I think we 
can agree that important progress has been made, as the 
Assembly  itself  has  confirmed  through  successive 
resolutions. 

Two  years  ago,  in  the  fall  of  2007,  the  General 
Assembly  received  an  IPU  policy  paper  on  the  nature 
of the relationship between the United Nations and the 
world’s  parliaments.  Essentially,  we  view  this  as  a 
partnership  that  needs  to  be  firmly  rooted  in  the 
activities  that  parliaments  carry  out  at  home.  The 
partnership  includes  action  by  parliaments  in  the  light 
of their legislative and budgetary functions, as well as 
work  by  parliaments  to  contribute  to  and  monitor 
international  negotiations  and  debates  at  the  United 
Nations  and 
to  ensure  national  compliance  with 
international norms and the rule of law. It also involves 
scrutinizing  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  and 
contributing to its deliberations. 
The IPU is convinced that members of parliament 

in  building  national 
can  play  an 
ownership  and  political  support  for 
international 
action.  In  the  view  of  the  IPU,  which  is  shared  by 
many  United  Nations  Member  States,  the  United 
Nations  stands  to  gain  considerably  by  making  sure 
that  parliaments  and  their  members  have  a  full  and 
undistorted  understanding  of  what  is  done  here  at  the 
United Nations. 
important  part 
A/64/PV.47
governance, 
national 
dialogue 
the 
First, 
invited 
the  General  Assembly 

This  is  the  purpose  of  the Annual  Parliamentary 
Hearing at the United Nations, which the Assembly has 
endorsed  as  a  joint  United  Nations-IPU  event  and  the 
outcome  report  of  which  is  circulated  to  parliaments 
and United Nations Member States. This year's Hearing 
takes  place  later  this  week.  It  will  focus  on  the 
international response to the global economic crisis. It 
will bring together legislators from around the world to 
interact  with  the  Assembly  and  the  broader  United 
Nations  community,  and  we  encourage  permanent 
missions to actively participate. 

Like  the  President  of the Assembly  and Member 
States,  we  are  also  working  hard  to  implement  the 
recommendations  of  resolution  63/24,  which  was 
adopted  by  consensus  exactly  one  year  ago.  I  would 
like to refer very briefly to just a few of its elements. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  work  with  the  IPU  in 
engaging  national  parliaments  in  the  countries  under 
consideration by the Commission in efforts to promote 
democratic 
and 
reconciliation.  To 
that  end,  we  have  expanded 
programmes in Burundi and Sierra Leone in support of 
an  inclusive  political  process.  More  recently,  we  have 
begun 
Peacebuilding 
Commission  on  the  type  of  capacity-building  support 
that could be provided to the Parliament of the Central 
African Republic. 

Secondly, the IPU has been working closely with 
the Development Cooperation Forum of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  to  provide  a  robust  parliamentary 
contribution to the Forum and the broader development 
cooperation  agenda.  We  have  begun  a  series  of  case 
studies  in Africa  on  how  parliaments  relate  to  the  aid 
effectiveness  agenda,  and  we  are 
substantively 
involved  in  the  preparations  for  the  second  Forum 
session next year. 
Thirdly,  that  resolution  encouraged  the  IPU  to 

strengthen 
the  Human  Rights 
Council,  particularly  as  it  relates  to  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  of  the  fulfilment  of  human  rights 
obligations  and  commitments  by  Member  States.  A 
recent  IPU  meeting  on  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
revealed  enormous  interest  among  parliaments  in  this 
process,  in  particular  in  terms  of  debating  the  draft 
national  report  in  parliament  before  it  becomes  final 
and  receiving  the  outcome  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
consultations  with 
its  contribution 
to 
09-60826 

17 

can 
hereby  make 
the  case  during 
A/64/PV.47 

Review  for  further  consideration.  IPU  will  seek  to 
follow up on these recommendations. 

Through  these  and  other  efforts  in  support  of 
United Nations activities, we are trying to help bridge 
the  gap  between  national  commitments  and  national 
response,  and  we  hope  that  the  IPU  and  its  member 
parliaments 
a  meaningful 
contribution to the strengthening of the United Nations. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  say  a  brief 
word on the work ahead. Today and tomorrow, the IPU 
President  is  chairing  a  meeting  of  the  Preparatory 
Committee for the 2010 World Conference of Speakers 
of Parliaments. We have a full agenda before us and, as 
was 
the  previous  parliamentary 
summits  in  2000  and  2005,  a  significant  part  of  the 
speakers'  reflections  will  focus  on  the  parliamentary 
dimension of the work of the United Nations. We will 
be  exploring  options 
the 
institutional  relationship  between  the  United  Nations 
system and the IPU. 

require 
substantive  consultations  at  various  levels  among  the 
parliamentary  leaders  themselves,  in  capitals  between 
the legislative and executive branches of Government, 
and  here  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  with 
permanent representatives and United Nations officials. 
We look forward to working closely with all members 
as  we  undertake  this  exciting  journey.  In  this  process 
we should all keep in mind that we share the common 
objective  of  strengthening  the  United  Nations  as  the 
cornerstone  of  multilateral  cooperation,  consolidating 
the rule of law in international relations and delivering 
on  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  our  peoples  to  peace, 
freedom and prosperity. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  these  items.  The  General 
Assembly  has 
this  stage  of 
its 
consideration of agenda items 48, 114, 120 and 121. 
further  consolidate 
We  cannot  do 
thus  concluded 
this  alone. 
It  will 
to 




Agenda item 43 
Return or restitution of cultural property to the 
countries of origin 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/303) 

  Draft resolution (A/64/L.17) 

The Acting President: In connection with agenda 

item  43,  the  Assembly  has  before  it  a  note  by  the 

the 
report  of 
transmitting 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  Permanent  Representative 
Secretary-General 
the 
Director-General  of  the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,  circulated  in 
document A/64/303. 

of Greece to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.17 
Mr.  Mitsialis  (Greece):  It  is  with  great  honour 

and  pleasure  that  I  present  to  the  General  Assembly, 
under  agenda  item  43,  a  draft  resolution  on  the  return 
or  restitution  of  cultural  property  to  the  countries  of 
origin, contained in document A/64/L.17.  

In  recent  years,  the  international  community  has 
become  increasingly  sensitive  to  this  issue  and  has 
demonstrated  its  willingness  to  facilitate  the  return  or 
restitution  of  cultural  property  illicitly  removed  from 
its  countries  of  origin.  Such  removal,  especially  when 
it results from illicit trade, is against all the principles 
that culture stands for. 

Culture is the soul of a nation. The illicit removal 
or destruction of cultural property deprives peoples of 
their  history  and  tradition.  Restitution  is  the  only 
means  to  reverse  the  damage  and  reinstate  a  sense  of 
dignity.  It  is  therefore  of  paramount  importance  that 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  continue  to 
cooperate actively, both bilaterally and in international 
forums,  in  a  spirit  of  mutual  understanding  and 
dialogue  with  a  view  to  resolving  any  outstanding 
issues in this respect. Such cooperation also constitutes 
the most appropriate way to address the adverse effects 
of major political and other upheavals, including armed 
conflict, that have provided fertile ground for the loss, 
destruction,  removal  or  illicit  movement  of  cultural 
property. 

In  the  draft  resolution  I  have  the  honour  to 
present  today,  we  have  tried  to  reflect  the  latest  steps 
and  activities  that  have  been  undertaken  by  the 
international  community,  especially  in  the  framework 
of UNESCO, which has  a  unique responsibility as the 
sole  agency  with  a  mandate  to  safeguard  and  promote 
the  world’s  cultural  resources  at  all  levels.  Equally 
important  in  this  respect  is  the  effective  work  and  the 
the  UNESCO 
relevant 
Intergovernmental  Committee 
the 
Return  of  Cultural  Property  to  its  Countries  of  Origin 
or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation. 

confident 
community  will  continue 
of 
for  Promoting 
that 
to  cooperate 
international 
towards 
recommendations 
We 
the 
are 
18 

09-60826 
is  once  more  a  crucial  part  of 


increased  mobilization  and  action  in  order  to  promote 
heritage  values  and  to  safeguard,  return  and  restitute 
cultural  property  to  the  countries  of  origin.  Public 
awareness 
this 
endeavour,  which  also  involves  Governments,  civil 
society,  academic  and  artistic  leadership,  and,  of 
course,  all  of  us  who  share  a  common  cultural 
heritage — the heritage of humankind. 

In  this  context,  I  should  like  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  as  well  to  the 
Director-General of UNESCO for the tireless, constant 
and  meaningful  support  they  have  provided  on  this 
issue. 

Action  on  the  draft  resolution  will  be  taken  at  a 
later  stage.  In  the  meantime,  we  will  consult  closely 
with all interested delegations. We look forward to the 
adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  by  consensus,  as  in 
previous  years,  and  with 
the  widest  possible 
sponsorship. 
Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The Chinese delegation welcomes the report submitted 
by the Secretary-General in document A/64/303 under 
agenda  item  43,  “Return  or  restitution  of  cultural 
property to the countries of origin”, and supports draft 
resolution  A/64/L.17,  submitted  by  the  delegation  of 
Greece under this agenda item. 
Symbolic  of  the  identity  of  a  nation  or  people, 

cultural property represents a valuable asset of human 
civilization.  The  illicit  appropriation  of  and  traffic  in 
cultural  property  are  a  sacrilege  against  history  and 
civilization.  While  enjoying  broad  consensus  within 
the international community, the protection of cultural 
heritage and the promotion of the restitution of cultural 
property to the countries of origin are also inalienable 
and  fundamental  cultural  rights  of  the  people  of 
countries  of  origin,  as  well  as  cultural  responsibilities 
incumbent on all Governments. 

In  recent  years,  the  issue  of  returning  cultural 
property  has  received  increasing  attention  from  a 
growing number of countries. China supports countries 
of  origin  in  seeking  the  return  of  cultural  property  of 
spiritual  and  cultural  value,  and  supports  the  General 
Assembly’s  resolutions  on  the  return  or  restitution  of 
cultural  property  to  the  countries  of  origin,  and 
resolution  2008/23  of 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  entitled  “Protection  against  trafficking  in 
cultural  property”.  We  reiterate  the  need  for  the 
international  community  to  prevent  and  combat  all 
A/64/PV.47
of 
cultural 
resources.  We 
attaches 
Strengthening 
international  cooperation 
aspects of trafficking in cultural property, including the 
transfer,  through  auction  or  other  means,  of  cultural 
property  that  was  illegally  removed  from  its  countries 
of origin. 

is  an 
effective  way  to  prevent  and  combat  trafficking  in 
cultural  property.  States  should  comply  in  good  faith 
with  international  legal  frameworks  and  principles 
relating  to  this  issue,  cooperate  actively  with  relevant 
United  Nations  bodies  and  international  organizations 
in  joint  efforts  to  combat  the  smuggling  of  and 
trafficking  in  cultural  property,  and  enhance  bilateral 
and multilateral cooperation in promoting the return of 
cultural property.  

China  commends  the  efforts  made  in  this  regard 
by UNESCO, an important global body engaged in the 
protection 
support 
UNESCO’s  expansion  of  its  advocacy  activities  to 
raise  public  awareness;  to  bring  to  the  attention  of 
Governments,  civil  society,  academic 
institutions, 
museums  and  art  market  operators  the  harm  resulting 
from  such  traffic  in  and  transfer  of  cultural  property 
illegally  taken  abroad;  and  to  advance  bilateral  and 
multilateral cooperation in the interest of the return of 
cultural property. 

great 
importance  to  the  protection  of  cultural  heritage.  We 
have  put  in  place  a  legal  and  regulatory  system  with 
the Cultural Relics Protection Law at its core. Positive 
results  have  been  achieved  in  areas  of  inventory 
archiving,  security  and  safeguard-building,  market 
management and publicity campaigning. China is now 
party  to  the  Convention  Concerning  the  Protection  of 
the  World  Cultural  and  Natural  Heritage; 
the 
Convention  on 
the  Means  of  Prohibiting  and 
Preventing  the  Illicit  Import,  Export  and  Transfer  of 
Ownership  of  Cultural  Property;  the  Convention  on 
Stolen  or  Illegally  Exported  Cultural  Objects;  and  the 
Convention  for  the  Protection  of  Cultural  Property  in 
the Event of Armed Conflict. China took an active part 
in the drafting of UNESCO's Declaration of Principles 
Relating  to  cultural  objects  displaced  in  connection 
with  the  Second  World  War.  It  has  signed  bilateral 
agreements  with  many  countries  on  the  prevention  of 
the  illicit  appropriation,  excavation  and  entry  and  exit 
of cultural objects,  and has, on multiple  occasions via 
international  cooperation,  successfully  sought  and 
retrieved 
illegally 
transported overseas. 
The  Chinese  Government 
that  had  been 
such  objects 
09-60826 

19 
For 
for 

to 
the  underlying  spirit  of 
A/64/PV.47 


For  an  extended  period  beginning  in  the  mid-
nineteenth century, the western Powers, in a succession 
of  wars  of  aggression  against  China,  plundered  and 
looted  countless  Chinese  cultural  relics,  including 
numerous  cultural  treasures  from  Yuan  Ming  Yuan 
Summer  Palace.  Those  relics  should  be  returned  to 
China.  

China  insists  on  its  right  to  seek  the  return  of 
cultural relics that have been illegally taken abroad. It 
opposes auctions of cultural relics illegally taken from 
China,  including  treasures  from  the  Yuan  Ming  Yuan 
Summer  Palace.  We  believe  that  such  auctions  run 
counter 
the  relevant 
international  treaties  and  United  Nations  resolutions. 
They  also  represent  serious  infringements  of  China’s 
cultural rights and interests. 

China  will  continue  to  actively  participate  in 
UNESCO  activities  aimed  at  promoting  the  return  of 
cultural  property  to  its  countries  of  origin.  We  shall 
also  seek  appropriate  solutions  in  that  regard,  thereby 
making  our  due  contribution  to  the  protection  of 
international cultural heritage. 
Mr.  Chávez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Cultural 

heritage is the inheritance of physical and non-physical 
property  that  our  ancestors  have  bequeathed  to  us  in 
the  course  of  history.  That  cultural  property  makes  it 
possible  for  us  to  forge  an  identity  in  order  to  know 
who  we  are  and  where  we  came  from,  as  well  as  to 
develop as individuals in our societies. States therefore 
have  the  right  and  obligation  to  protect  their  cultural 
heritage. 

Protection  cannot  be  done  in  an  isolated  way,  as 
only  a  portion  of  cultural  heritage  is  in  State  hands. 
That 
the  cooperation  of  other 
stakeholders, such as museums, artistic institutions, art 
dealers and society as a whole. All of them must work 
together to prevent the loss, destruction, removal, theft, 
ransacking  and 
improper 
acquisition of, cultural property, including any damage 
or act of vandalism. 

That task,  arduous in and of itself, is made even 
more difficult when it comes to cultural heritage that is 
not  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  State  of  origin. 
Unfortunately,  that  situation  penalizes  countries  with 
fewer  resources.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  develop 
international mechanisms that promote cooperation and 
support  the  efforts  made  by  States  to  protect  their 
cultural  heritage.  The  best  way  to  do  that  is  to  return 
is  why  we  need 
trafficking 
in,  or 
illicit 
legal 
ratified 
including 
instruments, 
its  part,  Peru  has 
illegally  gained  cultural  property  to  the  country  of 
origin. The international community has at its disposal 
significant  norms  in  this  area.  It  should  ensure  that 
they are applied. 
the  main 

international 
the 
Convention  for  the  Protection  of  Cultural  Property  in 
the Event of Armed Conflict and its two protocols, the 
Convention  on 
the  Means  of  Prohibiting  and 
Preventing  the  Illicit  Import,  Export  and  Transfer  of 
Ownership  of  Cultural  Property  and  the  International 
Institute 
the  Unification  of  Private  Law’s 
Convention  on  Stolen  or  Illegally  Exported  Cultural 
Objects.  We  have  also  enacted  various  bilateral 
agreements  in  this  connection.  We  call  on  States  that 
have not yet done so to adhere to or ratify the various 
international instruments to which I have referred. 

The existence of an international legal framework 
is essential, but it is not enough. Effectively protecting 
cultural heritage requires that States fully comply with 
their  international  commitments  in  this  field.  It  also 
requires technical, financial and judicial cooperation to 
facilitate  return  and  restitution  procedures  for  cultural 
property.  It  is  equally  necessary  for  there  to  be 
cooperation between the stakeholders involved. It must 
be underscored that it is they who provide information 
to  the  relevant  authorities  about  the  property  in  their 
possession.  In  many  cases,  it  is  also  they  who 
voluntarily  return  property 
their 
possession  after  having  been  illegally  acquired.  That 
practice  of  voluntary  return  should  be  acknowledged 
and encouraged.  

We  are  pleased  that  significant  efforts  are  being 
made  with  regard  to  returning  cultural  heritage,  as 
indicated 
the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
(UNESCO)  on  the  measures  that  have  been  taken  to 
return  such  property  to  their  countries  of  origin  (see 
A/64/303). That  document,  for  which  we  are  grateful, 
is a comprehensive report on the efforts that are being 
made  in  this  area.  I  should  like  to  make  special 
mention of the UNESCO database of national cultural 
heritage  laws,  which  is  a  very  valuable  tool  for 
learning  about  how  States  regulate  and  implement 
internal procedures. It is therefore essential that States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  submit  information  about 
their  cultural  heritage  laws  as  soon  as  possible.  States 
that have already done so should now implement those 
laws. 
that  came 
report  of 
in 
the 
into 
20 

09-60826 
to  other 
in  Case  of 
its  Restitution 



However,  the  report  also  identifies  areas  where 
reinforcement  is  necessary.  In  that  connection,  it  is 
urgent to implement the recommendations made by the 
UNESCO Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting 
the  Return  of  Cultural  Property  to  its  Countries  of 
Origin  or 
Illicit 
Appropriation.  Those  recommendations  were  adopted 
in November 2008, with the active participation of my 
country.  The  goals  should  be  to  substantially  increase 
the return or restitution of cultural property. 

Another area in which strengthening is required is 
the  fight  against  impunity  for  those  who  traffic  in 
cultural  property.  We  should  put  in  place  mechanisms 
for the investigation, control, detention and prosecution 
of  persons  associated  with  the  illicit  trafficking  in 
cultural  property.  Their 
types  of 
organized  crime  are  increasingly  close  and  troubling. 
In order to put an end to such illegal activity, we must 
severely punish all those who are guilty of it.  

Regional  cooperation  mechanisms  can,  and 
should, play a leading role in the return and restitution 
of  cultural  property  to  the  country  of  origin.  We  are 
grateful  for  the  efforts  made  by  the  International 
Criminal  Police  Organization  (INTERPOL)  and  the 
Andean  Community, 
the  Peruvian 
Government, to organize a capacity-building workshop 
on  the  illicit  trade  in  cultural  property.  We  urge  other 
States  and  regional  bodies  to  emulate  that  positive 
experience. In that regard, I would like to express our 
readiness to cooperate in sharing our experiences.  

Peru  is  continuing  its  efforts  to  recover  cultural 
property  that  was  illicitly  taken  from  our  territory  or 
which  has  not  been  returned  in  a  timely  manner. 
Thanks  to  the  assistance  and  cooperation  of  various 
countries, we have been successful in recovering pieces 
that  have 
is 
cooperating with other States with equal determination. 
This  year,  we  were  pleased  to  return  to  the  Iraqi 
authorities  and  people  three  cuneiform  clay  tablets 
dating  to  between  the  third  and  first  centuries  before 
Christ,  which  were  seized 
in  my  country  from 
international traffickers. 

By  reclaiming  its  own  cultural  property  and 
returning  seized  cultural  property  to  its  legitimate 
owners Peru is not merely meeting its obligations, it is 
acting in that way because it believes that this is about 
a  moral  obligation.  The  return  and  restitution  of 
cultural  property  does  not 
legal, 
incalculable  cultural  value.  Peru 
along  with 
entail 
links 
just 
A/64/PV.47
archaeological  and  political  aspects.  It  is  also,  above 
all,  a  matter  of  ethics.  The  ethical  and  moral 
component  is  especially  relevant  when  it  comes  to 
cultural property exported for the  purposes of display, 
restoration  or  study  that  has  not  been  returned  to  the 
country  of  origin  in  a  timely  manner.  We  must  not 
condone  such  situations.  Property  must  be  returned 
immediately to its legitimate owners.  

A  concrete  example  in  that  regard  is  the  efforts 
being  made  by  Peru  to  recover  the  large  number  of 
items  extracted  from  Machu  Picchu,  one  the  seven 
wonders  of  the  modern  world,  that  are  still  housed  in 
the Peabody Museum at Yale University in the United 
States. We regret that the dialogue to ensure the return 
of that property has not borne fruit and that it has been 
necessary  to  have  recourse  to  the  legal  route.  We 
believe  that  justice  will  determine  that  we  are  right. 
Nevertheless, that does not alter our belief that, before 
resorting  to  legal  mechanisms,  States  should  redouble 
their efforts to resolve disputes pertaining to the return 
and  restitution  of  cultural  property  by  friendly  means 
using negotiation or other complementary methods. 

We are certain that we have right on our side. We 
shall  continue  to  work  tirelessly  to  ensure  that  our 
cultural property returns to where it belongs. 
Mr.  Kuma
the  outset,  my 

delegation  would 
its  profound 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  note 
transmitting  the  comprehensive  report  on  the  agenda 
item  under  consideration  (A/64/303).  My  delegation 
also commends the increased role played by the United 
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural 
Organization 
illegal 
trafficking  in  cultural  property.  We  also  commend  the 
Intergovernmental Committee for promoting the return 
of cultural property to its countries of origin. 

The  issue  of  the  return  or  restitution  of  cultural 
property to the countries of origin is an area in which 
international  relations  are  put  to  the  test.  Because  of 
their  invaluable  aesthetic  significance  and  the  pivotal 
role  they  play  in  preserving  and  recording  the  talents 
and  endurance  of  humanity,  my  delegation  attaches 
particular importance to this agenda item. The return of 
displaced  cultural  property  is  a  fundamental  means  of 
restoring  and  reconstructing  a  people’s  heritage  and 
identity. It also creates dialogue among civilizations in 
an atmosphere of mutual respect. And it also has to do 
with  the  inalienable  attribute  of  sovereignty  of  every 
(Ethiopia):  At 
like 
to  express 
(UNESCO) 
combating 
Scientific 
in 
09-60826 

21 

of 
nor 
universal  museums 
A/64/PV.47 

people by which they should have access to and be able 
to  enjoy  the  irreplaceable  symbols  of  their  heritage. 
There  is  strong  sentiment  today  that  neither  the 
existence 
their 
multiplication  in  different  sites  in  the  future  can 
substitute  for  the  bond  that  exists  between  a  cultural 
object  and  the  societies  of  yesterday,  today  and 
tomorrow. 

Although  Ethiopia  has  enjoyed  a  long  history  of 
independence,  we  have  suffered  from  the  repeated 
looting  and  systematic  smuggling  of  our  cultural 
heritage,  dating  from  early  periods  to  the  religious 
wars of the sixteenth century. The looting of an infinite 
variety  of  artefacts  and  innumerable  manuscripts  has 
resulted in an immense depletion of Ethiopia’s cultural 
heritage. 
In  recent  years,  a  new  wind  of  optimism  has 

appeared  on 
the  horizon.  After  many  years  of 
negotiation,  Italy  has  returned  the  Axum  Obelisk  to 
Ethiopia. Given the beginning of a new chapter in our 
relations  with  Italy,  we  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  once  again  to  thank  the  Government  and 
people  of  Italy  for  that  magnanimous  act.  We  believe 
that others will also now start the process of returning 
the  remaining  objects,  which  include  manuscripts, 
works of art and religious and cultural artefacts. 

In  this  era  of  globalization,  it  is  important  for 
nations  to  be  able  to  preserve  their  historical  and 
cultural  identity,  while  at  the  same  time  working 
together 
to  overcome  global 
challenges. Cultural property serves as a link between 
past, present and future. There is no disagreement that 
cultural property is a basic element of civilization and 
national  heritage.  As  various  United  Nations  and 
African  Union  resolutions  have  underlined,  many 
countries of origin attach great importance to the return 
of  cultural  property.  In  certain  cases,  cultural  heritage 
constitutes  the  repository  of  fundamental  spiritual  and 
cultural  values.  The  cultural  wealth  of  Ethiopia 
symbolizes its national pride and its unity in diversity. 

In  conclusion,  Ethiopia  strongly  believes  that 
cooperation  with  regard  to  returning  cultural  property 
should  be  a  matter  of  ethics.  Fundamental  moral 
principles and the return of property are directly linked 
to  being  human.  Cooperation,  partnership  and  good 
will should be strengthened. The role of organizations 
engaged  in  that  process  should  be  enhanced  by 
providing 
resources  and 
the  necessary  means, 
and 
cooperating 
infrastructure.  We  reiterate  that  requests  for  the  full 
return  or  restitution  of  cultural  property  should  be 
respected and complied with as an act of justice and a 
moral obligation. 
Mr.  Saripudin  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  attaches 

great importance to the issue of the return or restitution 
of  cultural  property  to  the  countries  of  origin.  As  a 
country with many archaeological artefacts dating from 
prehistoric  times,  Indonesia  has  taken  many  measures 
to preserve its valuable national heritage. Among them 
is  the  enactment  of  Law  No.  5  of  1992,  regarding  the 
conservation  of  cultural  objects.  The  Government  of 
Indonesia plans to revise that law so as to incorporate 
not  only  the  physical  and  material  aspects  of  culture, 
such  as  objects  and  heritage 
sites,  but  also 
non-physical aspects, such as customs and art. 

Indonesia  acknowledges  the  2005  launching  of 
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization  (UNESCO)  database  of  national  cultural 
heritage  laws,  which  serves  as  a  reference  tool  and 
compendium  of  good  practices.  We  also  acknowledge 
the  UNESCO-World  Customs  Organization  Model 
Export  Certificate  for  Cultural  Objects  as  a  tool  to 
combat  illicit  trafficking  in  cultural  property.  We  also 
commend  the  efforts  of  UNESCO  to  promote  the 
relevant  international  standard-setting  instruments  and 
to  take  steps  to  raise  public  awareness  of  the  relevant 
restitution and illicit-trafficking issues. In addition, we 
commend the work of its Intergovernmental Committee 
for  Promoting  the  Return  of  Cultural  Property  to  its 
Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit 
Appropriation. We also believe that it is important for 
States  to  continue  to  do  their  utmost  to  prevent  the 
illicit appropriation of cultural objects. 

Indonesia underlines the fact that draft resolution 
A/64/L.17  basically  concerns  the  recovery  of  cultural 
property  that  was  stolen  or  obtained  in  an  illicit 
manner. However, my delegation notes that many legal 
difficulties  are  often  encountered  at  the  international 
level  when  attempting  to  recover  stolen  or  illicitly 
exported cultural property to which the 1972 UNESCO 
Convention  on 
the  Means  of  Prohibiting  and 
Preventing  the  Illicit  Import,  Export  and  Transfer  of 
Ownership  of  Cultural  Property  and 
the  1995 
International  Institute  for  the  Unification  of  Private 
Law  (UNIDROIT)  Convention  on  Stolen  or  Illegally 
Exported Cultural Objects do not apply. 
22 

09-60826 
the 
illegally.  Obviously, 
is  attractive 



Indonesia  would  like  to  underline  the  criminal 
dimension of this issue. As we know, it is the nature of 
stolen  cultural  objects  to  be  sent  across  international 
borders 
international 
dimension 
to  sophisticated  operators, 
whose  destinations  of  choice  are  those  nations  where 
they  feel  they  can  evade  law  enforcement  or  may  be 
able  to  exploit  perceived  loopholes  in  the  regulations. 
Indonesia  therefore  believes  that,  in  order  to  prevent 
and  further  deter  those  sophisticated  criminals  from 
trafficking cultural property in an illicit manner and to 
avoid  creating  safe  havens  for  them,  States  need  to 
cooperate  to  address  the  legal  difficulties  that  are  not 
covered by the UNESCO and UNIDROIT Conventions. 

Indonesia believes that cooperation among States is 
possible  through  mutual  legal  assistance  in  criminal 
matters and extradition, as they are closely and mutually 
linked. Moreover, mutual legal assistance and extradition 
are 
criminal 
proceedings against the perpetrators of such crimes. 

Lastly, in addition to cooperation among States, it 
is  important  for  all  members  of  the  international 
community 
the 
framework  of  the  United  Nations  and  UNESCO  in 
order  to  achieve  increased  mobilization  and  action  to 
promote  heritage  values  and  to  ensure  the  return  of 
cultural  property 
the  countries  of  origin,  or 
restitution for it. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on this item. At the request of the 
sponsor,  action  on  draft  resolution  A/64/L.17  will  be 
taken at a later date to be announced. 

stage of its consideration of agenda item 43. 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
to  cooperate  within 
to  continue 
instrumental 
effective 
ensuring 
to 
in 




Agenda item 116 (continued) 
Follow-up to the commemoration of the 
two-hundredth anniversary of the abolition of the 
transatlantic slave trade 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.10) 

The Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 

the Assembly held the debate on this agenda item at its 
34th plenary meeting, on 2 November 2009. 

the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica  to  introduce  a  revision  to 
draft resolution A/64/L.10.  
I  now  give 
floor 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.47
India, 
Israel, 
the  draft 
that,  when 
is  contained 
As  a  result  of 
in  document  A/64/L.10, 
Mr. Wolfe (Jamaica): I have the honour to inform 

the  General Assembly  that,  since  the  introduction,  on  
2  November  2009,  of  the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Permanent  memorial  to  and  remembrance  of  the 
victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade”, 
which 
the 
following  countries  have  become  co-sponsors  of  the 
draft  resolution:  Bangladesh,  Belgium,  Cyprus,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  El  Salvador,  Iceland, 
Liechtenstein, Mexico, Micronesia, San Marino, Serbia 
and  Syria.  I  should  also  like  to  remind  the  General 
Assembly 
resolution  was 
introduced,  on  2  November,  37  countries  joined  as 
additional 
sponsors,  namely,  Albania,  Armenia, 
Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Costa Rica, 
Croatia,  Cuba,  Ecuador,  Estonia,  France,  Georgia, 
Greece,  Hungary, 
Japan,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Malta,  Monaco,  Pakistan,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  the  Philippines,  the  Russian 
Federation,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  Sri  Lanka, 
Thailand,  Turkey,  Ukraine, 
the  United  States  of 
America  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela. 
That brings the total to 147 sponsors. 
informal  consultations  with 

Member  States,  agreement  has  been  reached  to  revise 
the  draft 
include  an  additional 
subparagraph  in  paragraph  13,  which  would  read  as 
follows: 


“Also  requests  the  United  Nations  Office 
for  Partnerships,  through  the  Secretary-General, 
to  submit  a  comprehensive  report  to  the  General 
Assembly  at  the  sixty-fifth  session  on  the  status 
of  the  Permanent  Memorial  Trust  Fund,  and  in 
particular,  on  contributions  received  and 
its 
utilization.” 

As  fate  would  have  it,  today  is  coincidentally 
recognized  by  the  United  Nations  system  as  the 
International Day for Tolerance. It is fitting that we are 
here  to  adopt  a  draft  resolution  that  addresses  the 
lingering consequences of the transatlantic slave trade, 
which  continue  to  impact  the  descendants  of  the 
victims until today. 

The  placement  of  a  permanent  memorial  at  the 
United Nations will be an appropriate symbol of what 
the  United  Nations  represents,  namely,  the  promotion 
and preservation of the dignity and worth of all human 
beings.  Those  principles  are  central  to  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  They  are  also  principles  that  the 
resolution 
to 
09-60826 

23 

tragedy  and  considering 
A/64/PV.47 

international community will stay focused on today in 
commemoration of tolerance, which brings to mind the 
theme  we  have  maintained  for  our  initiative,  namely 
the 
“Acknowledging 
the 
legacy, lest we forget”. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s  sincere  appreciation  to  all  those  who 
constructively engaged in the informal consultations to 
finalize  this  draft  resolution.  I  am  therefore  confident 
that this draft resolution, like similar ones in the past, 
will be adopted by consensus, in particular in view of 
the  strong  support  by  Member  States.  We  are  indeed 
grateful for the sponsorship of 147 Member States. 

Finally,  let  me  express  particular  appreciation  to 
the  Member  States  from  Africa  and  the  Caribbean 
Community,  which  continue  to  play  a  primary  role  in 
advancing the permanent memorial initiative. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take  action  on  draft  resolution  A/64/L.10,  entitled 
“Permanent  memorial  to  and  remembrance  of  the 
victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade”, as 
orally revised. 

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to adopt draft resolution A/64/L.10 as orally 
revised? 

Draft resolution A/64/L.10, as orally revised, was 
adopted (resolution 64/15). 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
to  conclude 
the  General  Assembly 

wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 116? 



It was so decided.  
  The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m. 
24 

09-60826 
