
A/64/PV.4
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

4th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 23 September 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 3.40 p.m. 


Address by Mrs. Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, 
President of the Argentine Republic 

address by the President of the Argentine Republic. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
  Mrs. Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, President of 
the  Argentine  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Cristina  Fernández  de 
Kirchner,  President  of  the Argentine  Republic,  and  to 
invite her to address the Assembly. 
President  Fernández  de  Kirchner  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  I  must  confess  that,  when  I  arrived  in  this 
city  to  participate  in  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, I had intended to begin my statement with a 
strong  appeal  on  the  need  to  rebuild  multilateralism 
and  cooperation  as  the  two  basic  instruments  to 
overcome  what  today  is  undoubtedly  the  central  issue 
in our global discussion, namely, overcoming the social 
and economic crisis. 

  Mr.  Berdymukhammedov  (Turkmenistan),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

However, certain events on Monday and Tuesday 
oblige me to begin my statement by reporting that the 
Embassy  of  the  Argentine  Republic  in  Tegucigalpa, 
Republic of  Honduras, had its electricity cut off some 

the 
and 
repression 
in  Honduras, 
two days ago. That, of course, was not because we had 
not paid the bill, but was for far more serious reasons.  

Next  to  the  Argentine  Embassy  is  a  television 
studio which broadcast the news of President Zelaya’s 
arrival 
the 
demonstrations  in  favour  of  the  return  of  democracy. 
That was one of the reasons. In any event, we have had 
better luck than the Embassy of the sister Republic of 
Brazil,  where,  at  an  early  stage  they  cut  off  not  only 
the electricity but the water as well — for having given 
shelter to the constitutional President, Manuel Zelaya. 

As a Latin American, I must recall that not even 
in Chile during the dictatorship of General Pinochet, or 
in  Argentina  during  the  dictatorship  of  General  Jorge 
Rafael Videla — perhaps the two cruelest dictatorships 
in  Latin  America  —  was  there  similar  behaviour 
against  embassies  that  were  actively  working  to  give 
shelter to refugees. 

I say this because it is crucial that we realize that 
we must design and forge a multilateral strategy which 
is strong and specific to return democracy to Honduras. 
We need a strategy which would actually allow for true 
respect 
free  and 
democratic elections — which can take place only with 
full  respect  for  the  constitution.  If  we  do  not  do  this, 
we  would  be  setting  a  harsh  precedent  in  a  region 
where,  for  decades  during 
the  national  security 
doctrine,  suspensions  of  democracy  claimed  the  lives 
of thousands and thousands of Latin Americans, led to 
the  exile  of  many  other  and  created  the  region’s  most 
serious economic and social tragedy in memory. 
rights  and  ensure 
for  human 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52228 (E) 
*0952228* 


A/64/PV.4 


I make this appeal because I played an active role 
from  the  platform  of  the  Organization  of  American 
States,  and  also  accompanied  the  former  President  of 
the  General  Assembly,  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, to El Salvador in order to carry out a task 
which would safeguard two basic values which, in my 
opinion,  our 
region  has  managed 
to  develop: 
democracy and respect for human rights. 

Therefore,  I  believe  that  multilateralism  would 
also  mean  understanding  that  we  have  to  set  common 
and general rules in this globalized world that must be 
accepted  by  all  countries.  In  this  case,  we  are  faced 
with a cynical media coup which was carefully hidden 
or  minimized  because,  in  fact,  it  was  slanted  against 
the advent of populist progressive Governments in the 
region.  I  believe 
that,  for  all  of  us,  defining 
multilateralism is going to require specific actions and 
rules  so  that  absolutely  all  of  us  will  have  the  same 
parameters  when  it  comes  time  to  judge  conduct, 
attitudes and institutional situations. 

Yesterday I took part in the climate change event 
convened  by  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  order 
to  bring  positions  closer  together  with  a  view  to  the 
Copenhagen  Conference,  which  will  take  place  in  a 
little  more  than  10  weeks’  time. A  decade  and  a  half 
ago  we  agreed  on  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  dealing  with 
environmental  protection,  and  we  later  adopted  the 
Kyoto  Protocol  in  order  to  begin  ensuring  respect  for 
those obligations undertaken by nations. A decade and 
a  half  later,  it  is  clear  that  neither  agreement  is  being 
satisfactorily implemented. 

Essentially, this is sometimes because the nations 
most  responsible  for  pollution  and  gas  emissions, 
which  should  bear  greater  responsibility  for  reducing 
those  emissions,  in  terms  of  investments  both  in  their 
own  countries  and  in  developing  countries,  cannot 
come to an agreement either. As I was saying yesterday 
in our meeting, I think we need to understand that the 
only 
approaching 
globalization  lies  precisely  in  the  setting  of  common 
rules  which  would  be  respected  by  all  nations, 
developed and developing. 

the 
situation  of  the  Argentine  Republic,  where  we  still 
have  a  colonial  enclave,  our  Malvinas  Islands,  which 
persists  without  the  possibility  of  addressing  the 
question  of  sovereignty  together  with  the  United 
this  framework,  we  should  mention 
successfully 
possibility 
In 
of 
it  will  become 
Kingdom,  as  proclaimed  in  many  General  Assembly 
resolutions. We were recently able to agree, following 
a  humanitarian  request,  that  family  members  with 
loved  ones  buried  on  the  islands  should  be  able  to 
travel  there  by  air  to  inaugurate  a  cenotaph  to  pay 
tribute to those who fought for their homeland. 
All of this points to the very clear need to look at 

type  of  rhetorical 
multilateralism  not  only  as  a 
statement  repeated  every  year 
this  or  other 
in 
multilateral  forums,  but  rather  in  terms  of  concrete 
results.  Otherwise, 
increasingly 
complicated, with ever more unresolved problems. For, 
in the final analysis, the multilateralism we have been 
persistently  proclaiming  since  2003  has  not  been  put 
into practice. 
My  country  and  the  United  States  are  the  only 

two  countries 
to  have  experienced  attacks  of 
international  terrorism.  For Argentina,  the  first  was  in 
1992, at the Embassy of Israel, and the second was at 
the  Asociación  Mutual  Israelita  Argentina  (AMIA). 
Hundreds of people died in those attacks. Today, in this 
Assembly, I am joined by the head of AMIA, the entity 
that  was  bombed,  as  well  as  by  family  members  who 
have accompanied him. 

In  2007,  then-President  Néstor  Kirchner  came 
here  to  the  Assembly  (see  A/62/PV.5)  to  call  on  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran to agree to extradite officials 
of  its  country  wanted  by  the Argentine  justice  system 
in order to carry out a proper investigation and assign 
responsibility  for  that  serious  attack.  Last  year,  I 
myself came here (see A/63/PV.5) to call once again on 
the  authorities  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to 
accede 
there  were 
constitutional  guarantees  in  my  country;  that  the 
principle  that  no  one  is  guilty  until  proven  guilty 
beyond a shadow of a doubt prevails from one end of 
my  country  to  the  other;  and  that  we  have  guarantees 
for 
justice. 
Nevertheless,  that  did  not  happen.  Instead,  this  year, 
one  of  the  officials  whose  extradition  was  sought  by 
the prosecutor on the case was promoted to minister.  

I  know  that  some  4,  5  or  15  speakers  from  now 
the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran will take 
the floor. Surely, he will once again deny tragedies that 
occurred  in  the  course  of  western  history  in  the 
twentieth  century.  He  will  surely  invoke  the  threat  of 
other  imperialisms.  And  he  will  also  surely  invoke 
God.  I  would  like  to  say  to  him  that  my  country,  the 
to  our  request.  I  said 
the  administration  of 
freedom  and 
that 
2 

09-52228 


Argentine  Republic,  is  not  an  imperialist  country  — 
neither  by  way  of  belief  nor  as  a  reflection  of  our 
history. To the contrary, ours is a country that suffered 
from  colonial  oppression  at  its  founding.  During  the 
world’s bipolar era, we also suffered from the doctrine 
of  national  security.  I  would  like  to  tell  him  that,  like 
him, I believe in God. We may do so in different faiths 
but, in the end, I believe that neither of us believes that 
God  could  command  us  to  prefer  threats  or  to  avoid 
justice from being done. 

As President of the Argentine Republic, therefore, 
I  humbly  reiterate  once  again  our  appeal  for  the 
extradition  of  the  officials  whom  Argentina’s  justice 
system  believes  are  responsible  —  not  to  be  found 
guilty,  but  to  be  judged  and  to  be  allowed  to  take 
advantage  of  all  the  rights  and  guarantees  that  every 
Argentine  citizen  and  foreigner  has  in  our  country: 
guarantees  under  democracy,  whose  unconditional 
defence Argentina has made part of its institutional and 
historical core. 

I would not wish to conclude without referring to 
three  events  that  I  believe  are  very  positive,  which  I 
would like to share with the members of the Assembly 
today.  The 
recently,  on 
9 September,  when  the Argentine  Republic  received  a 
visit  from  the  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human 
Rights,  including  its  Chair  and  the  President  of  the 
Inter-American  Court  of  Human  Rights.  That  visit 
occurred  30  years  after  the  Court’s  first  visit,  during 
the dictatorship, when it came to investigate the crimes 
that were being committed and to take complaints from 
Argentine  citizens  —  including  our  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs,  who  is  with  me  today  and  who,  like 
his  father,  was  imprisoned  at  that  time  —  and  to  hear 
testimony about the serious violations that were taking 
place. 

Thirty  years  later,  the  men  who  comprised  the 
Commission  and  the  men  and  women  who  are  its 
members  today  visited  an  Argentina  where  criminals 
responsible  for  genocide  under  the  dictatorship  are 
being 
the 
Constitution. We have also reached an agreement with 
the  Inter-American  Court  to  send  a  bill  to  our 
legislature  —  which  I  have  already  done  —  to 
eliminate  the  crime  of  libel  and  defamation  against 
journalists.  That 
the  freedom  of 
expression  and  of  the  press.  But  I  also  firmly  believe 
that it should apply to all citizens. It is offensive that, 
in  accordance  with 
took  place  quite 
tried  by 
first 
judges 
is  homage 
to 
A/64/PV.4
in the twenty-first century, someone could be sentenced 
to prison for having said something and said it freely. 

We  have  also  reached  an  agreement  to  send  up 
two  bills  —  which  we  have  also  already  done  —  to 
contribute to the recovery of children born in captivity 
during  the  dictatorship.  Those  will  include  provisions 
to ensure respect for the victims, as well as on society’s 
collective right to learn their identities. 

The second thing that I would like to share has to 
do with the fact that I listened today to the President of 
the United States speak about an issue that is crucial to 
world peace and security, as well as to the rights of the 
Palestinian  people.  It  is  also  a  key  component  of  a 
strategy against international terrorism, which, as ever, 
we continue to condemn. It is genuinely satisfying, and 
a  salve  to  the  soul,  to  hear  from  the  mouth  of  the 
President of the United States of America that there is a 
need  for  the  Palestinian  people  to  be  able  to  live  on 
their  land  free  of  settlements  of  any  kind,  as  well  as, 
clearly,  a  right  for  Israel’s  citizens  to  live  in  peace 
within  their  borders.  The  words  of  the  President  and 
the  timely  message  he  delivered  at  Cairo  University, 
which many here likely followed with interest, place us 
in a position that we have not occupied for many years, 
namely,  the  possibility  of  beginning  negotiations  — 
successful  ones,  I  hope  —  between  the  Palestinian 
Authority  and  the  Government  of  Israel  to  at  last 
resolve a key issue for international peace and security, 
namely, the Palestinian question. 

Lastly, I would like to tell the Assembly that, as a 
member  of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20),  which  will  meet 
tomorrow  in  Pittsburgh,  we  would  like  to  call  for  the 
presence of another multilateral body to be heard from 
at 
International  Labour 
Organization. In the two previous G-20 meetings, there 
was  a  great  deal  of  discussion  about  the  financial 
crisis. However, as we did then, we continue to believe 
that  a  key  issue  is  to  once  again  discuss  the  real 
economy.  That  is  why  we  believed  it  timely  that 
workers and business owners, as genuine actors in the 
real  economy  and  as  catalysts  to  re-energizing  it, 
should  be  heard  from  as  well  in  those  forums, 
alongside  officials  from  multilateral  credit  institutions 
and the World Bank. 

We  are  genuinely  convinced  that  there  is  a  need 
to  build  a  new  multilateralism  in  which  all  of  us  are 
genuinely  on  an  equal  footing;  where  rights  and 
obligations and the road map for the course to be taken 
those  meetings: 
the 
09-52228 

3 

elements 
three  key 
to  building 
A/64/PV.4 

are  the  same  for  rich  and  poor  countries  alike;  and 
where  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  developing 
countries are the same as those of developed States. We 
therefore  agreed  that  equal  rules  of  the  game  for  the 
entire world was one of the basic elements of ensuring 
success  in  building  multilateralism.  If  we  do  not 
achieve  this,  we  will  continue  with  these  rhetorical 
exercises year after year, but we will never achieve the 
results that are not a right but an obligation for all of us 
who make up this body. 

In  conclusion,  democracy,  the  defence  of  human 
rights, and equal rules for all countries in the world are 
the 
a  new 
multilateralism.  These  three  requirements  must  be 
equal and the same for all countries, but above all for 
those  that,  through  their  own  actions  and  because  of 
their  level  of  social  and  economic  development,  lead 
the major developed countries of the world.  

It  is  clear  that  those  who  have  the  greatest 
responsibility and hold the greatest leadership roles — 
won  through  military,  technological,  economic  and 
even  cultural  power  —  also  have  an  obligation  to 
exercise  that  leadership  in  a  responsible  manner.  This 
is  what  we,  the  developing  and  emerging  countries, 
feel,  and  what  we  ask  of  the  major  nations  of  the 
world. They have the responsibility to build this world. 
This  will  no  doubt  be  echoed  in  all  our  speeches,  but 
this  building  must  be  done  every  day  through  our 
decisions and concrete actions. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the Argentine  Republic  for  the  statement 
she has just made. 
Mrs.  Cristina  Fernández  de  Kirchner,  President 
of the Argentine Republic, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Emomali Rahmon, President of the 
Republic of Tajikistan 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Tajikistan. 
Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tajikistan,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
to 
In 
and 
such 
as 
pandemic 
outbreaks 
international 
recent  decades, 
in 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Rahmon  (spoke  in Tajik;  English  text 

provided by the delegation): At the outset, I should like 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session.  I  am  confident  that  his  extensive 
diplomatic experience and talent will contribute to the 
fruitful  and  successful  work  of  the  General Assembly 
at this session. 
the  world  has  made 

considerable  progress 
terms  of 
technology, 
information  and  economic  and  social  development, 
which, due to globalization, is being spread throughout 
the  world.  However,  the  negative  aspects  of  this 
phenomenon, 
terrorism, 
extremism,  transnational  organized  crime,  narcotics 
trafficking, 
emerging 
ecological  challenges,  pose  a  serious  threat  to  the 
international community. The United Nations plays the 
key  role  in  coordinating  Member  States’  efforts  to 
effectively meet the challenges of modern times and to 
attain the Millennium Development Goals. 

Tajikistan  regards  peacekeeping  as  one  of  the 
most  important  aspects  of  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations.  Last  year,  for  the  first  time  ever,  citizens  of 
the  Republic  of  Tajikistan  joined  police  forces  in 
peacekeeping  operations,  contributing  to  efforts  to 
strengthening  peace  and  stability  in  conflict  zones.  A 
national  strategy  on  the  development  of  Tajikistan’s 
peacekeeping capacity is currently being drafted. 

Tajikistan  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to 
strengthening  the  disarmament  process. We  hope  that, 
at  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, a 
constructive  exchange  of  views  will  take  place  on 
urgent issues related to the practical implementation of 
that 
the 
establishment  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  is  equally 
important  at  the  regional  and  global  levels.  Tajikistan 
is  therefore  prepared  to  work  to  enhance  its  practical 
implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty  on  a 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  in  Central  Asia,  which 
came into effect on 21 March 2009. 

We support the leading role played by the United 
Nations in combating the illicit trade in small arms and 
light  weapons.  We  hope  that  important  measures  for 
agreement.  We 
convinced 
are 
that 
4 

09-52228 


coordinating  further  steps  in  this  direction  will  be 
developed  at  the  next  Biennial  Meeting  to  be  held  on 
the Programme of Action. 

Tajikistan supports the efforts of the international 
community  to  achieve  the  comprehensive  prohibition 
of the use of anti-personnel mines. For our part, we are 
meeting our commitments under the Convention on the 
Prohibition  of  the  Use,  Stockpiling,  Production  and 
Transfer  of  Anti-personnel  Mines  and  on  Their 
Destruction, by providing mine-risk information to the 
Secretary-General on an annual basis. 

The  first  international  conference  to  address  the 
issues  of  the  consequences  of  landmines  was  held  in 
Dushanbe,  the  capital  of  my  country,  in  June  2009. 
Tajikistan  has  long  suffered  the  effects  of  landmines. 
We  believe  that  Central  Asia  must  be  free  from  the 
threat  of  mines  and  we  call  upon  the  international 
community to do its utmost to achieve this noble goal. 

The  international  community  continues  to  fight 
terrorism,  extremism,  transnational  organized  crime 
and  illicit  drug  trafficking.  These  combined  threats 
give  rise  to  greater  concerns. We  therefore  consider  it 
essential  to  expedite  the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive 
convention 
terrorism.  Double 
standards  must  be  avoided  in  this  endeavour,  since 
terrorism has no national or religious affiliations. 
The  prevention  of  illicit  drug  trafficking  is  an 

integral  part  of  the  common  struggle  against  terrorism. 
Tajikistan  has  developed  bilateral, 
regional  and 
multilateral short- and long-term programmes of action, 
and 
intergovernmental 
agreements. 

The  Drug  Control  Agency  established  by  the 
President of the Republic of Tajikistan, with the active 
involvement  of  the  United  Nations,  has  now  been  in 
existence  for  over  a  decade. The  total  value  of  heroin 
seized during these years, in terms of its average price 
in Europe, is estimated at $1.12 billion. This initiative 
has  helped  save  more  than  36  million  lives  from  drug 
addiction.  The  Tajik 
to  establish  an 
anti-narcotics  security  belt  around  Afghanistan  was 
launched  from 
the  General 
Assembly at its twentieth special session in 1998. 

to 
assistance 
Afghanistan’s target programmes could  be one way to 
counteract the drug threat emanating from that country. 
Regrettably,  the  efforts  undertaken  to  date  and  the 
ratified  approximately  30 
lofty  podium  of 
We  believe 
international 
initiative 
on 
the 
that 
rendering 
A/64/PV.4
stability 
in  every 
respect  on 
the  situation 
resources  allocated  by  the  international  community  to 
address this challenge have not always been sufficient 
to  counteract  the  increasingly  aggressive  spread  of 
narcotics.  In  our  view,  the  borders  of  the  countries 
neighbouring  Afghanistan  should  be  regarded  as  the 
front line in this struggle, and efforts to reinforce that 
line  should  be  enhanced.  For  many  years,  Tajikistan 
has acted as a buffer zone against the spread and export 
of  narcotics,  terrorism,  extremism  and  other  negative 
phenomena emanating from this area. 

We  are  profoundly  interested  in  strengthening 
lasting  peace  and 
in  our  neighbour 
Afghanistan  because  the  security  of  Central  Asia 
depends 
in 
Afghanistan. Today, it is obvious that the Afghan issue 
cannot  be  resolved  by  military  means  alone,  but 
requires a comprehensive approach taking into account 
all  the  many  factors  involved.  First  and  foremost, 
social and educational projects and programmes should 
be implemented in that country. We support the current 
efforts  at  peaceful  rehabilitation  and  believe  that  the 
international  strategy  of  action  in  Afghanistan  should 
to  a  larger  extent  rely  upon  the  Afghan  people 
themselves,  and  that  priority  should  be  given  to 
ensuring  close  and  efficient  cooperation  with  the 
country’s authorities. 

The  world  situation  is  rapidly  changing  because 
of  the  financial  and  economic  crisis.  It  not  only 
undermines  our  efforts  and  capacity  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals, but imposes new and 
complex 
the  United 
Nations role and efforts to address the current threefold 
crisis and mitigate its consequences.  

It  is  well  known  that  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  was  caused  primarily  by  the  most 
advanced  and  wealthy  countries,  which  unreasonably 
inflated banking assets on the basis of unsecured loans. 
We  therefore  believe  that  these  countries  must  bear 
their  share  of  responsibility  towards  the  developing 
countries, whose already difficult situation was further 
aggravated by the global financial crisis. Partial write-
offs  of  the  debts  incurred  during  the  crisis,  ongoing 
increases in donor assistance and rational management 
of  labour  migration  would  be  very  helpful  in  this 
situation. In my opinion, it is high time for a number of 
forums  to  be  replaced  by  practical  support  for  the 
efforts  of  the  developing  countries  to  mitigate  and 
overcome  the  impact  of  the  crisis.  If  the  crisis  should 
tasks.  We  highly  appreciate 
09-52228 

5 

to 
the 
it  necessary 
the  outcome  of 
to  enhance  assistance 
A/64/PV.4 

persist over the long term, it may be fraught with ever-
more serious consequences. 

Along  with  other  Member  States,  Tajikistan 
supported 
the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development.  We  highly 
appreciate  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the  High-level 
Task  Force  on  the  Global  Food  Security  Crisis,  and 
deem 
the 
developing  countries  in  the  form  of  financial  and 
economic  support  and 
transfer  of  modern 
technology and seed stocks.  

Meanwhile, in our opinion the efforts to solve the 
problems  caused  by  the  energy  crisis  have  not  been 
successful  enough.  We  believe  that,  along  with  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  access  to  energy 
should  be  given  top  priority.  Tajikistan,  which  ranks 
eighth  in  the  world  in  terms  of  available  hydropower 
resources — the total amount of which is estimated at 
527  billion  kilowatt  hours  —  currently  utilizes  less 
than  5  per  cent  of  its  potential,  and  over  the  past 
18 years  has  endured  a  chronic  energy  crisis  for  eight 
months of every year, primarily in autumn and winter. 
In  recent  years,  the  electricity  shortage  has  been 
exacerbated by abnormally severe and long winters, the 
result of climate change. It is perfectly logical that, in 
the  absence  of  explored  hydrocarbon 
resources, 
Tajikistan  should  develop  its  hydropower  engineering 
in a concerted and comprehensive manner. 

The  completion  of  the  construction  of  a  number 
of  small,  medium-size  and  large  hydropower  stations 
will  help  to  provide  energy  not  only  to  the  whole  of 
Central Asia, but to neighbouring countries as well. In 
this  regard,  the  implementation  of  such  regional 
projects  as  the  Central  Asia-South  Asia  Electricity 
Transmission  and  Trade  Project  will  define 
the 
development  prospects  of  our  vast  region,  which 
includes  Tajikistan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Afghanistan  and 
Pakistan. 

The  ever-increasing  need  for  cost-efficient  and 
environmentally sound energy requires the construction 
of hydropower stations and water reservoirs, which are 
essential  to  providing  reliable  volumes  of  water, 
especially in years of drought. As hydropower facilities 
generate  energy  by  utilizing  water  rather  than  by 
consuming 
it,  hydropower  engineering  plays  an 
important role in developing energy production and the 
socio-economic  sphere,  as  well  as  in  environmental 
6 

09-52228 
the 
protection  not  only  in  Tajikistan  but  in  the  entire 
Central Asian region.  

Global  climate  change  requires  a  comprehensive 
and integrated approach to the use of natural resources. 
We are deeply convinced that the Copenhagen meeting 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  will 
endorse a new comprehensive agreement on this issue. 

Every year, natural disasters cause severe damage 
to agriculture, the environment and the entire economy 
of countries such as ours. In Tajikistan, 93 per cent of 
the terrain consists of mountains. The damage done to 
our country’s economy in recent years by such natural 
disasters  as  mud  flows,  landslides  and  floods  is 
estimated  at  hundreds  of  millions  of  United  States 
dollars.  Tragically, 
that  damage  entails  human 
casualties. 

An assessment of the impact of climate change on 
Tajikistan’s glaciers has shown that, during the period 
of  observation  begun  in  1930,  the  total  area  of  the 
glaciers has been reduced by approximately one third. 
Since  glaciers  and  snowcaps  are  the  main  sources  for 
water  runoff  into  the  rivers,  there  is  a  probability  that 
in the near future river capacity will be diminished by 
5 to 15 per cent. At the same time, water consumption 
has  increased,  due  to  demographic  growth  and  the 
expansion  of  areas  of  irrigation.  In  the  previous 
century alone, the total area of irrigated land increased 
from  2.5  million  to  9  million  hectares,  while  the 
population  of  Central  Asia  grew  from  20  million  in 
1956 
these 
circumstances,  the  countries  of  the  region  should 
review their programmes and strategies with regard to 
water  use,  especially 
take 
consolidated  and  concerted  action 
to  promote 
sustainable development. 

From  this  lofty  rostrum,  we  should  like  once 
again  to  remind  everyone  of  the  problems  caused  by 
the degradation of the Aral Sea. The large-scale use of 
land  for  cultivating  such  agricultural  crops  as  cotton 
and  rice,  which  consume  a  great  deal  of  water,  has 
become the primary cause of this ecological disaster. 
The  most  reasonable  solution  to  the  current 

situation, which is characterized by the salinization of 
soil  and  the  irretrievable  loss  of  30  to  60  per  cent  of 
irrigation  water,  would  be  to  adopt  specific  water-
saving measures, such as the rehabilitation of irrigation 
the 
systems, 
to  63  million  people 
in  agriculture,  and 
reclamation  of 
irrigated 
today. 
land, 
In 
Only  an 


introduction  of  advanced  irrigation  technologies  and 
the  partial  replacement  of  cotton  and  rice  with  crops 
that  consume  less  water,  which  would  also  help  to 
address the food crisis issue.  

integrated  and  mutually  beneficial 
approach of the countries of the region towards the use 
of water energy and other natural resources can help to 
resolve  the  interrelated  energy,  food  and  environment 
problems and to ensure the sustainable development of 
all  Central  Asian  countries.  It  is  no  secret  that 
humankind 
is  already  facing  a  shortage  of  safe 
drinking  water,  which  is  not  accessible  to  more  than 
1 billion people on the planet, while in some countries 
the price of freshwater currently exceeds that of petrol.  

As a country that has one of the largest amounts 
of  freshwater  resources  in  the  world,  Tajikistan  is 
convinced  that  creating  an  economic  mechanism  for 
the  cross-flow  of  water  and  energy  resources  between 
upstream countries that are rich in water resources and 
downstream  countries  where  hydrocarbon  deposits  are 
primarily  located  would  promote  long-term  mutually 
beneficial cooperation among those States.  
Having  put  forward  the  idea  of  using  safe 

drinking  water  from  Lake  Sarez  to  meet  the  needs  of 
the population of the entire region, we propose specific 
measures in that area. We hope that the United Nations 
and 
regional 
organizations, 
commissions  and 
institutions  can  offer 
constructive  and  unwavering  assistance  on  that  issue, 
which is of utmost significance to our region. 
As  the  initiator  of  the  International  Year  of 

Freshwater  2003  and  the  International  Decade  for 
Action,  “Water 
for  Life”,  2005-2015,  Tajikistan 
believes that it is of paramount importance to expedite 
the implementation of the United Nations water agenda 
and to enhance it by achieving the Decade goals. World 
Water Day on 22 March 2010 will mark the fifth year 
since the commencement of the Water Decade. In that 
regard, Tajikistan proposes holding on that day a high-
level  dialogue  of  the  General Assembly  to  discuss  the 
implementation  of  the  international  water  Decade  and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  on  water  and 
sanitation.  That  event  could  be  a  milestone  in  the 
midterm  review  of  the  implementation  of  half  of  the 
Decade and evaluation of the progress in achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
My  Government  has  already  put  forward  a 

proposal to hold a conference for a midterm review in 
international 
other 
relevant 
A/64/PV.4
the 
international  community  should 
Dushanbe  in  2010  that  would  serve  as  one  of  the 
preparatory  events  for  the  United  Nations  millennium 
review summit in 2010. I hope that that initiative will 
find understanding among and receive support from all 
Member States. 

Bearing in mind the water crisis, which has been 
aggravated  by  population  growth  and  global  climate 
change, 
take 
specific measures to ensure the fair and integrated use 
of  water  resources  in  order  to  meet  the  needs  of  the 
people,  environment  and  economies  of  all  countries 
around  the  world.  To  that  end,  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan  has  proposed  declaring  2012  international 
year  of  water  diplomacy,  with  the  aim  of  developing, 
within  the  United  Nations,  further  coordinated  steps 
towards  the  rational  use  of  water  resources  at  the 
national, regional and international levels. Our country 
intends  to  further  promote  that  issue  at  the  General 
Assembly,  and  hopes  for  the  support  of  all  Member 
States. 

Next  year  will  mark  the  beginning  of  the  third 
five-year  term  on  the  way  towards  the  international 
community’s  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  The  year  2010  will  be  a  landmark  in  the 
assessment  of  our  efforts  to  meet  global  challenges, 
overcome  difficulties  and  evaluate  the  progress  in 
attaining  the  goals  outlined  in  the  United  Nations 
Millennium Declaration. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  that,  as  an 
advocate  of  broad-based  cooperation,  Tajikistan 
believes  that  only  collective  and  coordinated  efforts 
and  effective  regional  and  international  cooperation 
can  serve  as  a  foundation  for  our  common  success  in 
that  area.  The  mutual  understanding  and  cooperation 
that  have  prevailed  in  this  Organization  since  its 
establishment remain the only way to a bright and clear 
future and to universal peace and prosperity. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 
the  Republic  of  Tajikistan  for 
Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tajikistan,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 

09-52228 

7 
A/64/PV.4 

Address by Mr. Hu Jintao, President of the People’s 
Republic of China 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the People’s Republic of China. 


Mr. Hu Jintao, President of the People’s Republic 
of China, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Hu 
Jintao,  President  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Hu  Jintao  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 

world today is undergoing  major developments, major 
changes  and  major  adjustments.  The  trend  towards 
peace, development and cooperation, which represents 
the call of our times, has grown stronger than ever. As 
the  world  moves  further  towards  multipolarity  and 
economic globalization, multilateralism and democracy 
in  international  relations  have  won  greater  popular 
support,  while  openness  and  cooperation  for  mutual 
benefit  and  win-win  progress  have  become  the  shared 
aspirations  of  the  international  community.  Countries 
have become more interdependent. 

At the same time, the world remains in the grip of 
the  financial  crisis,  and  the  prospects  for  economic 
recovery are still not clear. Worldwide, unemployment 
and  poverty 
and  development 
imbalances  are  more  acute.  Global  issues  such  as 
climate  change,  food  security,  energy  and  resource 
security,  and  public  health  security  have  been  thrown 
into  sharp  relief.  Non-traditional  security 
threats, 
including  terrorism,  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction,  transnational  organized  crime  and 
major  communicable  diseases,  are  threatening  our 
world.  Some 
issues  remain 
unresolved, while regional and local conflicts continue 
to  flare  up.  The  instability  and  uncertainties  on  the 
international landscape pose severe challenges to world 
peace and development. 
In  the  face  of  unprecedented  opportunities  and 

international 
challenges,  we  members  of 
community 
to  peace, 
development,  cooperation,  common  progress  and 
tolerance,  and  continue  our  joint  endeavour  to  build  a 
harmonious  world  of  enduring  peace  and  common 
should  commit  ourselves 
long-standing  hotspot 
are  worsening, 
the 
prosperity  and  contribute  to  the  noble  cause  of  the 
peace and development of humankind. 

First,  we  should  view  security  in  a  broader 
perspective  and  safeguard  world  peace  and  stability. 
The security of all countries has never been as closely 
interconnected as it is today. Security is not a zero-sum 
game, and there is no isolated or absolute security. No 
country can be safe and stable in the absence of world 
and regional peace and stability. 

We  should  embrace  a  new  security  mindset  of 
mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality and coordination. 
While  maintaining  our  own  national  security,  we 
should  also  respect  the  security  concerns  of  other 
countries  and  advance 
the  common  security  of 
humankind.  We  should  adhere  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
seek  peaceful  solutions  to  regional  hotspot  issues  and 
international disputes. There should be no wilful use or 
threat  of  force. We  should  support  the  United  Nations 
in  continuing  to  play  an  important  role  in  the  field  of 
international  security.  We  should  oppose  terrorism, 
separatism  and  extremism  in  all  their  manifestations 
and broaden international security cooperation. 
China  has  consistently  stood  for  the  complete 

prohibition  and 
thorough  destruction  of  nuclear 
weapons and for a world without nuclear weapons. We 
call  on  the  international  community  to  take  credible 
steps to push forward the nuclear disarmament process, 
eradicate the risks of nuclear weapons proliferation and 
promote the peaceful use of nuclear energy and related 
international cooperation. 
take  a  more  holistic 

approach 
to  development  and  promote  common 
prosperity.  Increasing  economic  globalization  has 
linked 
the  development  of  all  countries  closely 
together.  Without 
equal 
participation  of  developing  countries,  there  can  be 
neither common prosperity in the world nor a more just 
and  equitable 
international  economic  order.  The 
developing countries now face a deteriorating external 
environment  brought  about  by 
international 
financial  crisis.  Their  economies  are  slowing  down, 
and their development endeavours are beset by serious 
difficulties. 
We  believe  that  common  development  is  an 

important  way 
redress  global  development 
imbalances  and  achieve  sustainable  development.  The 
in 
United  Nations 
Secondly,  we  should 
the  development 
increase 
should 
and 
the 
to 
its 
input 
8 

09-52228 
an 
countries, 
self-reliance 
to 
to 
increase 


development;  advance  economic  globalization  in  the 
direction of balanced development, shared benefits and 
international 
foster 
win-win  progress; 
and 
to 
environment  conducive 
the  development  of 
developing  countries.  The 
financial 
international 
institutions should use their newly increased resources, 
first  and  foremost,  to  help  developing  countries  move 
out  of  poverty  and  provide  loans  to  them  in  a  more 
flexible,  diverse,  convenient  and  efficient  manner. 
Great  effort  should  be  made 
the 
representation and voice of developing countries in the 
process of reforming the international financial system. 
We  should  take  responsible  measures  to  counter 

firmly  oppose 
the 
financial  crisis, 
international 
protectionism  and  actively  work 
for  an  early, 
comprehensive  and  balanced  outcome  of  the  Doha 
Round  negotiations.  Developed  countries  should  open 
their  markets  to  developing  countries  and  reduce  or 
exempt tariffs for those countries. They should honour 
their  official  development  assistance  and  debt  relief 
commitments  and,  in  particular,  increase  assistance  to 
the least developed countries, with a focus on tackling 
such issues as hunger, health care and education.  

is 
essential.  They  should  explore  development  models 
conducive 
and  poverty 
eradication efforts. It is also in their interest to increase 
trade and investment cooperation, open markets to one 
another and step up South-South cooperation. 

Thirdly,  we  should  pursue  cooperation  with  a 
more  open  mind  and  work  for  mutual  benefit  and 
common  progress.  Climate  change,  food  security, 
energy and resource security, and public health security 
are all global challenges, and no country is immune to 
them. The only way for us to meet those challenges and 
ensure  harmony  and  peace  is  to  engage  in  closer 
international cooperation.  

Climate change is one of the serious challenges to 
human  survival  and  development,  and  international 
cooperation  is  the  key  to  tackling  that  challenge.  We 
should 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol 
as  the  main  channel  in  addressing  climate  change, 
abide  by  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities, adhere to the mandate of the Bali Road 
Map,  and  work  for  the  success  of  the  Copenhagen 
conference with a view to achieving mutual benefit and 
common progress. 
their  development 
For  developing 
retain 
A/64/PV.4

Food  and  energy  are  vital  to  the  livelihood, 
development  and  stability  of  all  nations.  We  should 
increase  our  input  into  agriculture,  develop  advanced 
technologies,  curb  market  speculation,  increase  food 
assistance  and  intensify  cooperation  with  regard  to 
agriculture  and  food.  We  should  strengthen  mutually 
beneficial cooperation in the area of energy, step up the 
research  and  development  of  new  and  renewable 
energies,  put  in  place  a  system  for  the  research, 
development  and  dissemination  of  advanced  energy 
technologies, and diversify the energy supply. 

The continued spread of influenza A — H1N1 — 
has  presented  a  global  public  health  challenge 
confronting  the  entire  international  community.  China 
is ready to provide help, within its capacities, to other 
developing  countries  in  the  prevention  and  control  of 
influenza A. 

Fourthly, we should be more tolerant towards one 
another and live together in harmony. Mutual learning 
and  tolerance  among  different  civilizations  are  an 
inexhaustible  source  of  strength  for  social  progress, 
and all countries — large or small, strong or weak, rich 
or  poor  —  are  equal.  We  should  acknowledge 
differences  in  our  cultural  traditions,  social  systems 
and  values,  respect  the  right  of  all  countries  to 
independently choose their own development paths, let 
different civilizations and models of development draw 
on  one  another’s  strengths  through  competition  and 
comparison,  and  achieve  common  development  by 
seeking  common  ground  while  reserving  the  right  to 
differ.  

The  Chinese  people  will  soon  celebrate  the 
sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  People’s 
Republic of China. Sixty years ago, the Chinese people 
won  independence  and  liberation  after  a  prolonged, 
hard  struggle  and  became  masters  of  the  new  China. 
Today, China’s national strength has grown remarkably 
and the people are better off. 

China’s  development  has  contributed  greatly  to 
peace  and  development  in  the  world,  and  China’s 
future  is  more  closely  interconnected  with  that  of  the 
world.  A  more  developed  China  will  make  greater 
contributions  and  bring  more  opportunities  to  the 
world.  We  are  committed  to  the  path  of  peaceful 
development  and  the  win-win  strategy  of  opening  up. 
We  will  develop  friendly  relations  and  cooperation 
with all countries on the basis of the Five Principles of 
Peaceful Coexistence. China has always been and will 
09-52228 

9 
risk 
resistance 
and 
facilitating 
intensify 
trade  and 
First,  we  will 
increase  support 
implement  relevant  capital 
A/64/PV.4 

continue  to  be  a  positive  force  for  world  peace  and 
common development. 

As  a  responsible  and  major  developing  country, 
China  has  always  made  common  development  an 
important aspect of its foreign policy. We have made a 
great  effort  to  provide  support  and  assistance  to  other 
developing countries. To further assist them, China will 
adopt the following measures. 

for  other 
developing  countries  hit  hard  by  the  financial  crisis, 
honestly 
increase  and 
financing  plans, 
investment 
cooperation  and  help  increase the  capacity  of  relevant 
countries 
for 
sustainable 
development.  

Secondly,  we  will  continue  to  implement  the 
measures  announced  at  the  United  Nations  High-level 
Event on the Millennium Development Goals to assist 
other developing countries in accelerating development 
and 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

the 
measures 
that  were 
announced  at  the  Beijing  Summit  of  the  Forum  on 
China-Africa  Cooperation, 
to 
Africa,  reduce  or  cancel  debts  for  African  countries, 
expand trade and investment, provide human resources 
and technological support for African countries in such 
areas  as  agriculture,  health,  education  and  disaster 
preparedness  and  reduction,  and  intensify  personnel 
training tailored to African needs. 

Fourthly, China will continue to participate in and 
promote  regional  monetary  and  financial  cooperation, 
maintain financial and economic stability and promote 
financial cooperation and trade in the region. 

the  development 
opportunities,  rise  above  the  challenges  and  make  an 
unremitting  effort  towards  building  a  harmonious 
world of enduring peace and common prosperity. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  for  the 
statement he has just made. 
Thirdly,  China  will  follow 
to  help  African  countries 
increase  assistance 
join  hands,  share 
attainment  of 
through  on 

Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 


Address by His Serene Highness Prince Albert II  
of Monaco  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Serene 
Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco. 
(spoke 
Prince  Albert
His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Serene  Highness 
Prince Albert II of Monaco and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
in  French):  My 

participation  in  this  general  debate,  like  that  of  more 
than  100  heads  of  State  and  Government,  confirms 
both  the  seriousness  of  the  choices  we  must  make  in 
the  face  of  the  challenges  confronting  our  States  and 
the unavoidable role of the United Nations in deciding 
on the future of our planet and its inhabitants. 

More  than  ever  before,  the  General  Assembly 
must  be  the  “centre  for  harmonizing  the  actions  of 
nations” in the attainment of the common ends defined 
in Article 1 of the Charter. To remain the vital centre, 
the  Organization  and  its  most  representative  body  of 
the community of nations — our General Assembly — 
must better take into consideration the interdependence 
that links our destinies and the opportunity presented to 
our  sovereign  States  to  bestow  upon  our  fellow 
countrymen a common vision marked by moral values. 

The financial storm that swept through the world 
a year ago has caused too much suffering and too much 
harm  to  the  global  economy,  at  a  time  in  our  history 
when  we  are  confronted  with  the  major  challenges  of 
the  climate  crisis  and  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), for us not to 
draw obvious conclusions. 

A year from now, we will meet again in this same 
forum  to  take  stock  of  the  progress  we  have  made  in 
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  The  2015  deadline  —  which  already 
seemed 
this 
multidimensional  crisis  —  requires  that  we  define  a 
global  vision  for  the  future  of  humankind.  Some  will 
call  it  solidarity  or  moral  awareness.  Whatever  the 
compromised 
eve 
the 
on 
of 
Let  us 
Mr. Hu Jintao, President of the People’s Republic 
of  China,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 
10 

09-52228 
in 


name,  we  need  to  clearly  define  and  implement  the 
MDGs to meet the basic needs of all human beings. 

If  poverty  eradication  is  to  remain  our  priority, 
we will have  to get busy on fulfilling our obligations, 
for the most destitute are also the ones who are hungry, 
who  suffer  from  malnutrition  and  who  lack  access  to 
water  and  to  basic  social  and  health  services. Among 
the  main  victims  are  women  and  children,  25,000  of 
whom die each day, according to UNICEF. 
Several  hundred  thousand  people  today  benefit 

the 
from  actions  undertaken  by  my  country 
framework of its international cooperation in the fields 
of health, education and the fight against poverty. This 
is  why  I  requested  that  we  continue  our  effort  to 
contribute 0.7 per cent of our GDP by 2015 to official 
development  assistance.  This  assistance  must  not  be 
the  present  economic  and 
sacrificed  because  of 
financial  situation.  On 
the  contrary, 
it  must  be 
strengthened  at  a  time  when  the  most  vulnerable  are 
the  ones  who  need  it  the  most.  This  development 
assistance  must  be  accompanied  by 
long-term 
investments  aimed  at  strengthening 
the  capacity-
building of developing countries, in particular through 
the transfer of appropriate technologies with a view to 
respecting 
sustainable 
development. 

From  this  perspective,  and  in  the  light  of  the 
recent  food  crisis, 
to  restore 
agriculture  to  its  proper  place,  because  food  security 
depends on it. Today, it is up to us to forge for future 
generations  a  new  destiny,  “a  new  deal”.  We  must 
move from being donors to become partners in a green 
revolution in Africa, where food-producing agriculture 
adapted to the specific conditions of the continent must 
empower the local populations. 

The  restoration  of  agriculture  to  the  heart  of  our 
civilization  also  raises  the  crucial  issue  of  water. 
Whether  regarding  access  to  it  for  the  survival  of  our 
populations, for farming or for energy production, it is 
imperative  to  guarantee  water  security.  Therefore,  an 
integrated  management  of  water  resources  is  needed. 
We  must  be  aware  of  the  potential  disasters  and 
conflicts  that  would  arise  if  we  failed,  and  of  risks 
linked to poor sanitation that could cause outbreaks of 
infectious diseases and pandemics. 

The phenomena of desertification and drought, as 
well  as  the  acidification  of  seas  and  oceans,  are 
exacerbated by man-made climatic change. This is why 
requirements 
is  right 
time 
the 
the 
of 
A/64/PV.4
20 
years 
ago, 
than 
it  was  decided 
is  unequivocal:  we  must, 
failure of the Copenhagen negotiations is not an option. 
My  commitment,  and 
that  of  my  worldwide 
counterparts,  as  stated  yesterday  in  the  framework  of 
the climate change summit convened by the Secretary-
General, 
together  — 
developed  countries,  countries  with  high  carbon 
dioxide emissions and developing countries — succeed 
in defining a post-Kyoto regime that will be decidedly 
in line with a low-carbon-emission future. 
For  too  long,  we  have  neglected  the  scientific 

warnings.  More 
the 
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change  was 
created  by  the  World  Meteorological  Organization. 
During  the  third  World  Climate  Conference  at  the 
beginning  of  September  which,  with  great  pleasure,  I 
attended, 
to  establish  a  Global 
Framework  for  Climate  Services,  with  a  view  to 
helping  populations  meet  this  increasingly  pressing 
challenge. 

This Global Framework, which we fully support, 
aims  at  improving  the  management  of  the  risks  of 
climate  fluctuations  and  climate  change  as  well  as 
adaptation  to  climate  change  at  all  levels,  through 
development  and  the  incorporation  of  science-based 
information and forecasting into policies and planning. 
The  unparalleled  mobilization  of  public  opinion 
compels  us  to  adopt  innovative  measures  to  slow 
global  warming,  whose  consequences  could  be 
catastrophic. 

The Trade and Development Report recommends 
deep  structural  changes,  which  will  not  happen  unless 
we are willing to challenge our patterns of production 
and  consumption.  The  setting  up  of  a  green  economy 
must  be  the  basis  of  such  a  process.  Our  role,  as 
political  decision  makers, 
the 
necessary technology — which already exists — is put 
to  reduce  greenhouse  gases.  Sustainable 
to  use 
development 
the  globalization  of  green 
technologies and environmental assets. 

On behalf of the Principality, I reiterate our stated 
ambition  to  become  carbon  neutral  and  our  resolve  to 
reduce  greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  20  per  cent  by 
2020 and by 60 per cent by 2050. 

the  world 
economy  has  been  sorely  tried  and  tested.  Signs  of 
recovery  are  beginning  to  show,  but  we  must  draw 
lessons  from  this  grim  year.  The  globalization  of  the 
economy  and  the  resulting  interdependence  require 
few  months, 
these  past 
to  ensure 
requires 
During 
that 
is 
09-52228 

11 

in 
the 
the 
rest  of 
responsibility  vis-à-vis 
A/64/PV.4 

reform  of  the  international  monetary  and  financial 
system. 

Created 10 years ago, the Group of 20 (G-20) met 
for  the  first  time  at  the  level  of  heads  of  State  or 
Government  last  November,  thereby  acknowledging 
the  urgency  of  adopting  measures  to  save  the  world 
economy  from  a  disaster  worsened  by  the  panic 
reigning 
financial  markets.  Monaco 
acknowledges  that  this  group,  which  represents  two 
thirds of the world’s population and trade and close to 
90 per cent of the world gross domestic product, bears 
special 
the 
international community. 

We  are  confident  of  the  capacity  of  the  G-20, 
tomorrow  in  Pittsburgh,  to  lay  the  foundations  for  a 
new  era  encompassing, inter  alia,  financial regulation, 
financial  traders’  income,  governance  and  resources 
allocated  to  international  financial  institutions.  The 
G-20’s ability to bring together all States will give rise 
to the legitimacy necessary for renewed growth. 

For  several  months,  my  Government  has  been 
working to fulfil the commitments it undertook and to 
comply with the required norms of the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) with 
a view to improve transparency and exchanges of fiscal 
and banking information. That is why my Government 
has  already  signed  12  bilateral  conventions  and  has 
undertaken  to  conclude  other  agreements  in  this  area. 
As of today, Monaco has had its efforts acknowledged 
by  the  OECD  and  will  thus  now  be  included  on  its 
White List. 

But  let  us  make  no  mistake:  the  breach  of  trust 
resulting  from  the  financial  disaster  has  made  it  more 
necessary than ever before that the measures taken by 
the  G-20  be  non-discriminatory  and  bring  together  all 
Member States. A consultative body would thus ensure 
the legitimacy of any decisions made. 

We must, together, rebuild solid foundations for a 
capitalism with a human face that promotes growth and 
social  development.  Current  circumstances  have 
provided us the opportunity to create a green economy, 
one  which  associates  job  creation  with  the  transfer  of 
new  technologies  which  will  enable  us  to  achieve  a 
sustained recovery. 

The State must continuously adapt its role and the 
expression  of  its  sovereignty  to  new  realities  in  order 
to remain the guarantor of the security and social well-
for 
the 
levels 
implementation  of 
law  and  of  democratic 
Human  and  material  resources  available 
being of populations. The United Nations cannot avoid 
this  either.  Since  its  creation,  the  Organization  has 
worked for the maintenance of international peace and 
security  through  operations  led  under  its  flag.  It  has 
also  played  a  prominent  federative  role  in  the  field  of 
disarmament and non-proliferation. 

to 
peacekeeping  operations  have  reached 
that 
would  have  not  been  conceivable  only  a  decade  ago. 
The  necessary  consideration  of  this  matter  initiated 
within the Security Council and the Secretariat, as well 
as with Member States, is a priority and we support it. 
What  is  just  as  important  is  the  strengthening  of 

the  rule  of 
institutions, 
guardians  of  sovereignty  and  the  peaceful  coexistence 
of States. In this respect, I wish to reiterate the support 
of  my  country 
the 
responsibility  to  protect,  which  is  symbolic  of  the 
strengthening  of  multilateralism  for 
the  good  of 
populations.  The  responsibility  to  protect  does  not 
affect  the  exercise  of  responsible  sovereignty,  which 
places  the  individual  at  the  forefront.  Monaco  will 
continue to work with its partners — that is, each and 
every one in this Hall — to implement best practices in 
the  field  of  protection,  international  assistance  and 
capacity-building,  with  the  sole  objective  of  saving 
lives. 
in 

solidarity, 
to  emergency  humanitarian  situations, 
especially  when  it  comes  to  assisting  women  and 
children,  whose  vulnerability 
in  crisis  situations, 
unfortunately, no longer needs to be demonstrated.  
In  2010,  we  will  celebrate  the  International Year 

the 
the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures 
for 
themes 
International  Year  of  Biodiversity.  These 
symbolize, at the outset of the twenty-first century, the 
harmony that we must seek both among our people — 
with acceptance of our differences — and between the 
human  species  and  the  other  living  species  on  Earth, 
which  we  have  the  duty  to  protect  and  save  from 
extinction. 

I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that  my  country  will 
continue to tirelessly commit itself to processes likely 
to build and strengthen the ties between our societies in 
order  to  promote  dialogue  and  cultural  and  religious 
understanding  based  on  mutual  respect,  such  as  the 
Union  for  the  Mediterranean  and  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations.  
The  Principality  will  keep 
responding, 
and 
12 

09-52228 
that 
I  am  convinced 



the  President’s  great 
experience  at  the  United  Nations  and  his  role  in  the 
creation  of  the African  Union  are  great  pluses  for  the 
success of his very sensitive mission. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  His 
Serene Highness Prince Albert II of the Principality of 
Monaco for the statement he has just made. 
Prince  Albert  II  of  the  Principality  of  Monaco 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Alvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the 
Republic of Colombia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Colombia. 
to 
Mr. Alvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the Republic 
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Alvaro  Uribe  Vélez,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Colombia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Uribe  Vélez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would like to congratulate the President of the General 
Assembly  and  reiterate  to  the  United  Nations  our 
gratitude for its positive presence and cooperation with 
the Colombian people. 
The  Government  over  which  I  preside  aims  to 

enhance 
and 
international  community  in  Colombia.  This  quest  for 
confidence  is  based  on  three  pillars:  security  with 
democratic  values,  the  promotion  of  investment  and 
entrepreneurship  with  social  responsibility,  and  social 
cohesion with freedoms. 

We continue with our security advances, but also 
there are some outstanding challenges. I would like to 
highlight  some  intangible  achievements  that  attest  to 
the democratic credentials of our security project.  
We  have  recovered  two  monopolies  that  we 

should  never  have  lost:  the  monopoly  of  institutional 
forces  to  fight  criminals  and  the  monopoly  of  justice 
that the terrorists tried to dislodge. We have dismantled 
paramilitarism, a term that emerged to describe private 
criminal  gangs  whose  objective  was  to  fight  drug-
confidence  of 
the  national 
the 
A/64/PV.4
the 
threats 
regained 
We  have 
tormented  by 
trafficking guerrillas. Today, the State is the only entity 
that  fights  all  those  criminals.  Those  criminals  in  all 
their  forms  —  narco-guerrillas,  criminal  gangs  —  are 
part  of  a  mafia-type  relationship  that  unites  them  or 
pits them against each other to distribute or fight over 
the gains of the criminal drug business.  

Justice, with the Supreme Court that was attacked 
in  1985  by  drug  traffickers  and  guerrillas;  justice, 
which  was 
to  and 
assassination  of  judges  and  was  dislodged  in  many 
regions  by  the  terrorists  leaders  of  guerrillas  and 
paramilitary groups that attempted to replace it; justice 
has,  throughout  the  entire  country,  regained  its  full 
effectiveness. 

Victims did not complain out of fear of retaliation 
or  because  they  thought  it  was  pointless.  Now,  thanks 
to  the  recovery  of  our  security,  we  have  registered 
239,758 victims, whose situations we are determined to 
remedy, a remedy that is never complete but which will 
lead  little  by  little  to  reconciliation  by  overcoming  of 
the spirit of vengeance and hatred. 

independence  of 
the 
decentralization  and  of  political  exercise.  Terrorism 
had  displaced  30  per  cent  of  our  mayors,  stolen  and 
corrupted  municipal  and  departmental  budgets  and 
exercised  coercion  within  the  public  sector.  Mayors 
have  regained  their  security  so  that  they  may  freely 
carry  out  their  duties  and  transparently  manage  their 
resources.  Politics  is  now  expressed  freely  in  all 
spectrums  of  thought.  This  terrorist  threat  has  been 
tackled without martial law, with full civil and political 
guarantees and absolute respect for the freedom that we 
promote with security.  

We  are  working  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of 
our  public  forces  as  well  as  respect  for  human  rights. 
We  do  not  hesitate  to  punish  those  who  violate  them, 
but  neither  do  we  refrain  from  defending  our  soldiers 
and policemen who sometimes have been victims of a 
dirty  legal  war.  Colombia  has  voluntarily  presented 
itself to a United Nations human rights review.  

Furthermore,  despite  the  suffering  caused  by 
landmines that had been planted by terrorist groups, the 
State  destroyed  those  that  were  used  by  its  public 
forces for training purposes. Our country is one of the 
leaders  of  the  Ottawa  Convention  to  destroy  these 
landmines  and  will  host  the  next  meeting  of  States 
parties in Cartagena. 
09-52228 

13 
We 
the 

to 
Our 
lie 
in 
tackle 
terrorism  with 
interest  does  not 
A/64/PV.4 


utmost 
determination,  and  we  practise  democracy  fervently. 
That  is  why  the  doors  of  Colombia  have  been  open 
without  restriction 
international  vigilance.  We 
deliberate  and  disagree,  but  both  impartial  observers 
and  biased  critics  have  had  complete  freedom  to 
express themselves in Colombia. 

the  fanatical 
confrontation  between  left  and  right,  which  is  as 
dangerous as it is obsolete. Rather, we are betting on a 
modern  democracy, a  democracy that is safe  and  free, 
that  builds  social  cohesion,  a  democracy  with 
independent institutions and with confidence that stems 
from  the  transparency  that  is  based  on  a  high  level  of 
civic participation. 

We  have  not  been  able  to  completely  overcome 
the  problem  of  displacement,  but  we  have  increased 
our  budget  twelvefold  to  help  displaced  persons.  We 
promote  trust  between  public  forces  and  communities 
so  that  those  who  fight  drug  trafficking  are  not 
thwarted  by  the  displacement  that  is  caused  by  drug 
traffickers. 
We have demobilized 51,783 members of terrorist 

groups,  whose  numbers  have  dropped  from  around 
60,000  to  fewer  than  8,000.  We  have  been  extremely 
generous  with  those  who  have  been  demobilized  and 
extremely severe with the 7 per cent who have returned 
to  crime.  The  Justice  and  Peace  Law,  which  covers 
them,  made  it  possible  to  report  29,555  criminal  acts, 
12,104 confessions, the discovery of 2,043 graves with 
2,492 corpses, the identification of 708 bodies and the 
return  of  581  to  their  families.  The  participation  of 
victims  and  new  procedures  for  restitution  and 
restoration  of their  rights  are  a decisive  component  of 
this demobilization process. 

Terrorism cannot be ignored in the name of good 
international relations. To the contrary, multilateralism 
and diplomacy must lead to collaborative action among 
States  to  overcome  this  tragedy  and  its  corollaries, 
including  arms  trafficking,  illicit  drugs,  money  and 
asset laundering and terrorist havens. 

We reaffirm our commitment to multilateralism in 
all  its  legitimate  expressions,  from  organizations  of 
neighbouring 
global 
Organization, but we believe that multilateralism must 
demonstrate 
that 
in  defeating 
international crime. 
the  most 
countries 
effective 
to 
it 
is 
that, 

Colombia has acknowledged its internal problem 
of  narco-terrorism.  We  have  carried  out  a  heroic 
struggle that will ultimately prevail. We cooperate with 
the  international  community  and  we  ask  for  more 
effective cooperation. We are cooperating with Mexico, 
Guatemala, Panama, Costa Rica, Haiti, the Dominican 
Republic,  Peru,  Afghanistan  and  other  countries.  We 
acknowledge  the  efforts  of  the  United  States  to  work 
together  with  us  to  make  progress  in  dismantling 
narco-terrorism.  We  request  greater  cooperation  from 
more  countries  and  from  the  international  community. 
Our objective is to restore domestic security and never 
to participate in the arms race for the bloody game of 
international  warfare.  Our  tradition  is  one  of  respect 
for the global community. 
instead  of  progress 

We  are  concerned 
towards  greater  cooperation  to  ensure  the  security, 
peace  and  tranquillity  of  the  citizens  of  all  countries, 
there is an acceleration of the arms race. Some justify 
it  by  citing  the  need  to  modernize  their  military 
equipment, while others admit their desire for war. 

Multilateral agencies, led by the United  Nations, 
must  strengthen  their  action  so  that  Governments  will 
fulfil  their  duty  to  protect  their  citizens  and  their 
obligation not to attack the international community. 

In Colombia, the only reason for terrorism is the 
drug  trade.  Its  violent  criminals  used  to  deny  being 
involved  in  narco-terrorism  and  to  try  to  appear 
ideological;  today,  having  lost  all  sense  of  decency, 
they  cannot  hide  their  criminal  enterprise  or  feign 
ideological postures, which are negated by their cruelty 
towards  their  victims  and  those  whom  they  have 
kidnapped.  The  democratic 
transparency  of  our 
country,  which  they  tried  to  destroy,  ensures  that  they 
will never be acceptable. 

We have a different view of co-responsibility and 
of  the  proposal  that  drugs  be  legalized.  The  former 
division between producer and consumer countries has 
disappeared. Colombia began as a trafficking territory, 
burst  into  production  and  now  suffers  as  a  consumer. 
Those  who  began  as  consumers  increase  production. 
All peoples are exposed to the risks of drug production, 
trafficking  and  consumption.  Co-responsibility  must 
thus be exercised in accordance with its real meaning: 
a 
to  all  of  us,  without  any 
reservations. 

the 
legalization  of  drugs,  we  should  consider  the  need  to 
instead  of  advocating 
that  belongs 
We  believe 
that, 
task 
14 

09-52228 


criminalize  consumption.  There  is  no  consistency 
between  toughness  when  it  comes  to  production  and 
trafficking  and  permissiveness  when  it  comes  to 
consumption. That  has  led  to  deadly  micro-trafficking 
in cities, the promotion of consumption by adolescents 
and  young  people  and  the  involvement  of  children  in 
the  criminal  trade.  We  are  making  progress  in  the 
constitutional  process  of  criminalizing  consumption, 
taking  care  not  to  confuse  the  sick  addict  with  the 
criminal distributor.  

Our  Government  is  promoting  investment  and 
entrepreneurship  as  ways  to  overcome  poverty  and 
build  equity.  Colombia  is  moving  forward  in  terms  of 
competitiveness  and  confidence.  Investment  must 
perform  a  function  of  social  responsibility  to  acquire 
popular  legitimacy  in  democratic  societies.  Social 
responsibility — not speculation — is inseparable from 
capital as a significant factor in social-wealth creation. 
The  economic  crisis  is  a  crisis  of  speculation,  rather 
than  of  creative  free  enterprise.  We  are  confident  that 
the necessary conventions will be adopted to avoid the 
risks  created  by  speculative  money  transfers  and 
financial  market  speculation.  We  fear  a  new  era  of 
protectionism  and  the  selective  closure  of  developed 
economies, which would impede sustainable economic 
recovery. 

Social responsibility is inseparable from the fight 
against climate change. Colombia is a net producer of 
oxygen  and  emits  insignificant  amounts  of  carbon 
dioxide. However, we are highly vulnerable, as shown 
by  the  winter  tragedies  in  recent  years,  which  have 
caused  losses  in  terms  of  human  life,  production  and 
high  service  costs.  We  support  tougher  international 
conventions  to  protect  the  environment.  We  hope  that 
the  Copenhagen  conference  will  produce  effective 
binding instruments so that it will not be another dead 
letter. 

Our main contribution to the fight against climate 
change  is  the  preservation  of  our  578,000-square-
kilometre  rainforest,  which  constitutes  more 
than 
51 per cent of our national territory and the majority of 
which  lies  along  the Amazon.  We  have  as  a  concrete 
policy  the  forest  ranger  family  programme,  which  has 
involved  more  than  90,000  rural  families  in  the 
collective  effort  to  protect  the  rainforest,  keep  it  free 
from the shadow of illicit drugs and ensure its recovery 
where it has been destroyed. The State pays a bonus to 
those  families.  The  programme,  supervised  by  the 
A/64/PV.4
United  Nations,  has  received  the  highest  rating  from 
the Organization. 

In  Colombia,  forest  ranger  families  protect  the 
Amazon rainforest from predatory drugs; elsewhere in 
the world, a similar model could preserve trees in order 
to mitigate climate change. 
Clean  energy,  mass  transportation  systems  and 

the protection of water sources are essential actions in 
our  contribution  to  the  fight  against  global  warming. 
Colombia, at more than 1 million litres per day, is the 
second-largest  Latin  American  producer  of  ethanol 
from  sugar  cane  and,  at  1.8  million  litres  per  day,  the 
largest  producer  of  biodiesel  from  African  palm.  The 
conditions  in  our  country  make  it  possible  to  increase 
those  outputs  without  destroying  the  rainforest  or 
limiting food security. 
We  have  introduced  incentives  for  other  clean 

energies  such  as  solar  and  wind  energy, 
the 
development of which remains small despite their great 
potential. 

We  are  working  on  building  nine  mass 
transportation  systems  in  major  cities  and  are  now  in 
the  process  of  incorporating  another  10  that  are 
proportionally  sized,  with  a  view 
replacing 
individual transportation with collective transportation. 

Eleven per cent of our national territory has been 
designated a protected area. In natural sanctuaries such 
as  the  Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta,  which  is  the 
highest coastal sanctuary in the world, agreements with 
indigenous  communities  are  being  implemented.  In 
exchange  for  security,  the  recovery  of  lands  and  the 
building  of  seven  out  of  nine  promised  villages,  they 
have once again taken over the noble task of preserving 
forests and water sources. 

investment, 
health, education or any other social cohesion policy if 
we do not attach equal importance to the environment. 
We  understand  this  in  a  “mega-diverse”  nation  that 
contains 14 per cent of the planet’s diversity and ranks 
second  —  behind  Brazil  —  in  terms  of  plant  and 
animal  species  and  first  in  terms  of  amphibians  and 
birds. 

Our  fervent  desire  is  to  increase  the  Human 
Opportunity Index in order to eliminate poverty, build 
equity and guarantee every possible alternative for new 
generations. We propose to include in the measuring of 
the  Index  progress  and  setbacks  in  environmental 
We  gain  nothing  from  security, 
to 
09-52228 

15 

are 
A/64/PV.4 

policies.  Opportunities 
pointless  without 
environmental  protection.  Let  us  be  effective  in  our 
fight against climate change so that we do not condemn 
the  future  inhabitants  of  the  Earth  to  a  planetary 
holocaust. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Alvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the Republic 
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
the  Republic  of  Colombia  for 


to 
into 
Address by Mr. Dmitry Medvedev, President of the 
Russian Federation 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Russian Federation. 

Mr.  Dmitry  Medvedev,  President  of  the  Russian 
Federation,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
welcome 
Mr. Dmitry  Medvedev,  President  of 
the  Russian 
Federation, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Medvedev  (spoke  in  Russian):  Today, 

speaking  from  this  high  rostrum,  I  would  like  to 
highlight five topics that are, in my view, important to 
all  of  us  and  our  common  approaches 
the 
international agenda. 

The  first  is  the  timing  of  this  meeting  and  the 
moment that humankind is currently experiencing. This 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  taking  place  at  a 
very  critical  and  complex  time.  It  can  be  said  without 
exaggeration  that  we  are  living  through  one  of  the 
watershed  moments  of  modern  history.  Besides  the 
economic crisis — the first large-scale crisis of the era 
of  globalization  —  global  development  as  a  whole 
continues  to  be  threatened  by  regional  and  local 
conflicts, terrorism, cross-border crime, food shortages 
and climate change. The impact of the crisis continues 
to be felt by most countries of the world. Although so 
far we have been able, it seems, to avoid the very worst 
scenarios,  the  question  remains:  how  to  overcome  the 
huge imbalances and deficits — amounting to trillions 
to 
for 
the  United  Nations  as  a 
of  dollars  —  accumulated  in  the  global  and  national 
economies. 

Our  collective  agenda  for  unification  has  been 
dictated by life itself, which also dictates the growing 
need 
time-tested 
mechanism  for  harmonizing  the  interests  of  different 
States and peoples. As never before, we are feeling the 
need  for  informal  collective  leadership  and  for  an 
increased  role  for  such  platforms  as  the  G-8  and  the 
more  recent  G-20,  as  well  as  other  negotiation  and 
mediation  forums,  and  all  the  more  because  these 
operate  not  on  a  model  of  opposition,  but  rather  to 
advance the converging interests of their participants. 

At  this  morning’s  meeting,  the  President  of  the 
United  States  addressed  this  Assembly,  and  I  would 
like to endorse one of the thoughts he voiced. He stated 
that  no  single  country  can  or  should  attempt  to 
dominate others,  and that is absolutely  true. However, 
these  agreed  approaches  need  to  be  implemented  in 
some  way,  including  through  the  United  Nations 
system. 

Another distinctive feature of modern times is the 
increasing role of regional entities, which are growing 
more  active  on  every  continent.  This  trend  is  entirely 
consistent  with  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations. 
Russia, for its part — together with its partners in the 
Commonwealth  of 
the 
framework  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization, 
and  with  its  fellow  BRIC  countries  Brazil,  India  and 
China  —  will  continue  to  bolster  the  mechanisms  of 
regional  interaction.  These  mechanisms  facilitate  a 
collective 
threats,  while 
mitigating  the  consequences  of  the  crisis  for  our 
citizens  and 
the  sustainability  of  our 
national economies. 

Secondly, I want to touch on the issue of existing 
problems. Allow  me  to  dwell  on  those  that  cannot  be 
effectively  addressed  without 
the  participation  or 
outside the framework of the United Nations. The first 
task  in  this  regard  is  to  address  the  imbalance  of 
existing  mechanisms  of  global  economic  governance, 
the  inadequacy  of  their  rules  of  the  game,  and  the 
chasm  between  the  financial  markets  and  the  real 
economy.  We  need  to  make  joint  efforts  to  establish 
financial  and  economic  models  that  will  protect  all  of 
us from such turmoil in the future. 
Virtually all countries have seen a drop in output 

and  in  the  standards  of  living  of  millions  of  their 
Independent  States, 
increasing 
response 
common 
to 
in 
16 

09-52228 


citizens.  The  crisis  has  exacerbated  social  problems, 
painfully tested young people at the very start of their 
lives,  and  caused  significant  growth  in  unemployment 
in all countries. Russia is no exception in this. 

A painful blow has been delivered to our plans to 
alleviate  poverty.  A  real  threat  of  disruption  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals has emerged. We must 
do  our  utmost  to  prevent  such  a  development.  Donor 
assistance  to  countries  in  need  cannot  be  postponed 
until some other time. The tasks set out as a priority by 
the 
international  community  must  absolutely  be 
addressed.  The  arrangements  adopted  at  the  G-20 
summits  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
World Financial and Economic Crisis and Its Impact on 
Development  must  be  implemented  —  and  they  must 
be implemented within the deadlines that we ourselves 
set. 

The  second  major  task  in  this  context  is  to 
address  the  issues  of  global  energy  security.  Three 
years  ago  at  the  Saint  Petersburg  G-8  summit  in 
Russia,  the  principles  for  a  new  legal  framework  for 
such  cooperation  were  formulated.  The  goal  is  to 
harmonize the interests of all participants in the energy 
chain:  suppliers,  consumers  and  intermediaries  or 
transiters.  It  was  not  so  long  ago  that  we  solidified 
these  principles,  and  we  invite  all  States  to  engage  in 
discussion  on  them.  We  believe  that  such  discussions 
should  be  conducted  with  the  active  involvement  of 
specialized  multilateral 
including,  of 
course, the agencies of the United Nations family. 

The third task that Russia deems to be potentially 
critical  is  the  comprehensive  strengthening  of  the 
United  Nations  itself.  The  United  Nations  must  adapt 
itself  in  a  rational  way  to  the  new  global  realities.  It 
should  strengthen  its  influence  while  preserving  its 
multinational  nature  and  the  integrity  of  the  Charter’s 
key  provisions. The  most  important  component  of  the 
revitalization  of  the  United  Nations  is  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  The  time  has  come  to  speed  up  the 
search  for  a  compromise  formula  for  the  Security 
Council’s  expansion,  and  of  course  to  increase  its 
efficiency. 

is 
The 
disarmament. The process of multilateral disarmament 
under  United  Nations  auspices 
is  an  extremely 
important  task.  There  are  grounds  for  hope  since,  as 
members  are  aware,  a  number  of  positive  trends  have 
emerged  in  overcoming  the  protracted  crisis.  The 
institutions, 
touch  on 
issue 
third 
I  want 
to 
A/64/PV.4
reductions 
irreversible 
Conference on Disarmament in Geneva has adopted its 
programme of work. I should also like  to mention the 
Russian-Chinese  initiative  to  develop  a  treaty  to 
prevent  the  deployment  of  weapons  in  outer  space,  as 
well  as  our  current  proposal  to  universalize  the 
Russian-American  Treaty  on 
the  Elimination  of 
Intermediate-range and Shorter-range Missiles. 
Russia  will  unswervingly  follow  the  path  of 

verifiable  and 
in  nuclear 
weapons  as  an  essential  element  of  a  new  start  in  our 
relations with the United States. In Moscow in July this 
year, President Obama and I not only signed a relevant 
document,  but  also  agreed  on  a  mandate  for  further 
negotiations to elaborate a new, legally binding treaty. 
This treaty should replace the Treaty on the Reduction 
and  Limitation  of  Strategic  Offensive  Arms,  which 
expires in December. 

Of  special  importance  here  is  the  relationship 
between strategic offensive and defensive arms. In my 
meeting  with  President  Obama  this  morning,  we 
discussed  the  recently  announced  adjustments  to  the 
United  States’  planned  development  of  a  missile 
defence system. I should like to state in this highest of 
forums that we view this decision as a constructive step 
in  the  right  direction,  which  has  deservedly  received 
numerous expressions of support from the international 
community.  Russia  is  ready  to  engage  in  detailed 
discussions  with  the  American  side  and  to  undertake 
relevant  initiatives  in  this  field  in  order  to  reach 
mutually acceptable agreement. 

Without  resolving  such  problems  as  missile 
defence  and  non-nuclear  strategic  offensive  arms,  it 
will  be  simply  impossible  to  achieve  real  progress  in 
the  field  of  nuclear  disarmament.  I  believe  that  the 
work  on  this  new  treaty  will  be  fully  consistent  with 
relevant provisions of the joint document endorsed by 
the  President  of  the  United  States  and  myself  at  our 
meeting in Moscow. 

We  believe  that  other  nuclear  States  should  join 
the  disarmament  efforts  of  Russia  and  the  United 
States. There is no need to wait for further progress in 
the  Russian-American  disarmament  process.  We  can 
begin  forthwith  to  elaborate  acceptable  and  practical 
arrangements  that  take  into  account  the  differences  in 
the size of potentials. In that respect, we could draw on 
international  experience  in  the  twentieth  century,  for 
example  the  1921-1922  Washington  Conference  on 
naval  armaments,  where  participants  agreed  on  the 
09-52228 

17 

A/64/PV.4 

maximum size of their fleets without insisting on parity 
in absolute terms. If we take the same approach today, 
based  on  the  current  status  of  nuclear  arsenals,  we 
could  send  the  rest  of  the  world  a  sure  signal  that  the 
unaccounted numbers will be added to the equation of 
strategic stability. 

Pursuing  nuclear  disarmament,  strengthening  the 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  and  promoting  the 
peaceful use of nuclear energy will be at the very heart 
of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT). We cherish the hope that it will be successful. 

The global nuclear security summit scheduled for 
April 2010 will provide a good opportunity for a more 
detailed  discussion  of  these  issues.  We  support  that 
initiative. We  have  also  agreed  with  the  United  States 
Administration  on  joint  steps  for  further  progress  on 
such  aspects  of  nuclear  security  as  the  prevention  of 
nuclear  terrorism,  expanding  access  to  the  benefits  of 
peaceful nuclear energy to all signatories implementing 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons in good faith, and other decisions. We call for 
collective cooperation on these matters. 
In  order  to  reach  a  common  understanding  on 

such  important  issues,  we  must  engage  all  nations  
and 
the 
aforementioned negotiation processes. The international 
community,  it  must  be  said,  has  at  its  disposal  such 
tried  and  tested  measures  for  enhancing  regional  and 
international  security  as  nuclear-weapon-free  zones.  In 
particular,  there  is  a  very  pressing  need  to  establish  a 
zone in the Middle East free of all types of weapons of 
mass destruction and their means of delivery. This is a 
long-standing issue, with respect to which a resolution 
was adopted at the 1995 NPT Review Conference. 

the  Quartet  of 
international mediators on the Middle East settlement, 
has  consistently  supported  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  in  the  Middle  East. 
Russia  has  made  specific  proposals  within 
the 
framework of the NPT review process to seek mutually 
acceptable  ways  of  implementing  earlier  decisions  on 
this matter. All countries of the region need to take an 
active  stance  on  this  issue  and  demonstrate  their 
willingness to achieve that end. 

We  also  need  to  accelerate  work  towards  a 
mechanism to ensure peace and security in North-East 
Asia.  Russia  has  made  proposals  in  this  regard  to  the 
Russia,  as  a  member  of 
international  organizations 
influential 
in 
for  settling 
participants  in  the  Six-Party  Talks.  In  the  present 
circumstances, this task is more urgent than ever. 

The  fourth  topic  I  wish  to  address  is  that  of 
regional  conflicts  and  regional  security.  We  intend  to 
continue  to  participate  in  the  search  for  effective 
options 
regional  conflicts.  We  are 
convinced  that  the  use  of  force  can  only  exacerbate 
such situations. That was demonstrated by the reckless 
attempt by the Georgian authorities last year to resolve 
the  problems  in  their  relations  with  South  Ossetia  by 
military means. 

At that time, in August 2008, we came very close 
to  a  situation  in  which  a  local  armed  conflict  had  the 
potential to grow into a full-scale war. I am certain that 
this  is  clearly  understood  by  everyone  in  this  Hall 
today.  In  order  to  ensure  that  this  should  never  recur, 
we need clear and effective mechanisms to implement 
the  principle  of  the  indivisibility  of  security.  Without 
such a mechanism, we will not be able to move beyond 
the legacy of the past or overcome existing prejudices. 
I  wish  to  stress  that  irresponsible  regimes  should  not 
have  any  opportunity  whatsoever  to  foment  disputes 
among other countries. 

The  role  and  place  of  the  modern  nation  in 
ensuring  global  security  is  a  topic  of  the  greatest 
relevance today. We have witnessed situations time and 
again in which problems emerging within the confines 
of an individual State have acquired a regional or even 
global  character.  The  incompetence  and,  very  often, 
ineffectiveness of national Government institutions can 
have  consequences  that  are  fraught  with  risks  for 
several  countries.  The  prevention  of  such  an  outcome 
is of course a very complex and sensitive issue, but one 
upon which we must deliberate together. 
These  issues  were  the  focus  of  discussions  at  a 

recent  conference  held  in  Russia.  The  outcome  was 
quite  clear.  What  we  require  in  the  future  is  a  smart 
foreign  policy. The  current  global  crisis  is  not  limited 
to  economics;  it  is  also  a  crisis  of  ideas.  It  is  the 
accumulation  of  a  critical  mass  of  outdated  policies 
and development models. 

Having  developed  the  initiative  to  sign  a  new 
European security treaty, Russia has proposed taking a 
fresh  approach 
this  problem  and,  above  all, 
abandoning outdated policies. We all hope that the cold 
war has been left behind, but the world has not become 
more secure. What we need today are modern solutions 
and  clear  legal  frameworks  for  implementing  existing 
to 
18 

09-52228 


political  commitments.  We  do  not  need  declarations, 
appeals  or  demagogues;  what  we  need  are  clear  legal 
frameworks,  including  to  enshrine  the  principle  under 
international law that one must not seek to ensure one’s 
own security at the expense of the security of others. 

Our  initiative  concerns  the  Euro-Atlantic  space. 
However,  its  key  provision  on  the  indivisibility  of 
security is a universal principle that is applicable to all 
regions  of  the  world  and  is  fully  consistent  with  the 
letter  and  spirit  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  The 
principle  of  the  indivisibility  of  security  should  be  an 
integral part of current international law. 

Values  are  the  last  issue  that  I  wish  to  mention 
from this rostrum. The protection of human rights and 
interests  and  the  universal  application  of  commonly 
recognized norms and principles in that area should be 
the  basis  for  strengthening  trust  and  stability  in 
international relations. We are all united by values that 
are rooted in morality, religion, customs and traditions. 
I  am  talking  about  such  fundamental  concepts  as  the 
right to life, tolerance of dissent, responsibility towards 
one’s  family,  charity  and  compassion,  which  are  the 
foundation  both  of  daily  life  and  of  relations  among 
States. 

However,  unfortunately,  it  is  the  reality  that  the 
world is witnessing growing nationalism and numerous 
manifestations of religious intolerance and hatred. That 
is why we believe that establishing a high-level group 
on  interfaith  dialogue  under  the  Director-General  of 
UNESCO  is  extremely  valuable.  It  is  particularly 
relevant on the eve of 2010, which the United Nations 
has declared International Year for the Rapprochement 
of Cultures. 

To  conclude,  I  cannot  fail  to  mention,  as  I  stand 
here, another topic that is very close to the heart of all 
citizens  of  our  country  and  all  peoples  of  the  world. 
Next  year,  we  are  going  to  celebrate  the  sixty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War. 
Russia  put  forward  a  proposal  to  adopt  a  relevant 
General  Assembly  resolution  and  to  hold  a  special 
session to commemorate all victims of that war in May 
next  year.  We  cannot  allow  its  horrible  lessons  to  be 
forgotten. 

However,  from  time  to  time  we  see  neo-fascist 
organizations  raise  their  heads.  Racial,  national  and 
ethnic crimes are being committed. Attempts are being 
made to whitewash Nazism, to deny the Holocaust and 
to  review  the  decisions  of  the  Nuremberg  Tribunal.  I 
A/64/PV.4
am  convinced  that  strong  and  joint  resistance  to 
manifestations of neo-Nazism and to attempts to revise 
the  results  of  the  Second  World  War  enshrined  in  the 
United Nations Charter should remain a priority task of 
the Organization. 

The creation of the United Nations was one of the 
principal achievements of the international community 
in  the  twentieth  century.  This  Organization  and  its 
fruitful  activities  have  become  a  symbol  of 
the 
twentieth century, and there is simply no alternative to 
these  activities.  We  have  no  right  to  forget  that  the 
United  Nations 
international 
legitimacy,  and  we  all  must  preserve  and  strengthen 
this shared wealth of the peoples of the world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Russian  Federation  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Dmitry  Medvedev,  President  of  the  Russian 
Federation,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
possesses 
unique 
from 


to 
Address by Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the 
Republic of South Africa 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of South Africa. 

Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Africa, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Zuma:  This  year  marks  the  twentieth 

anniversary  of  the  adoption,  in  1989,  of  General 
Assembly 
international 
solidarity  with  the  liberation  struggle  in  South Africa. 
That  was  one  of  numerous  Assembly  resolutions  in 
which  the  nations  of  the  world  pledged  their  support 
for the eradication of apartheid. 
Within  months  of  the  adoption  of  that  important 

resolution, 
liberation 
movements  was  lifted.  Nelson  Mandela  and  other 
political  prisoners  were  released.  The  stage  was  thus 
the  ban  on  South  African 
resolution  44/27  A,  on 
09-52228 

19 

the  world 
is  an  exceptional  example  of 
A/64/PV.4 

set  for  the  negotiations  that  would  eventually  lead  to 
the  achievement  of  freedom  and  democracy  in  our 
country. 
The role of the United Nations in the struggle to 

end  apartheid 
the 
collective political will of the international community. 
It represented the victory of unity over division and of 
negotiation  over  confrontation.  It  represented  a  clear 
commitment  to  the  promotion  of  basic  human  rights. 
As South Africans, we will always be grateful for that 
international solidarity. 
Since the advent of democracy in 1994, we have 

built  a  solid,  stable  democracy,  founded  on 
the 
principles  of  unity,  non-sexism,  non-racialism  and 
democracy. As we continue to build our young nation, 
we  are  cognizant  of 
the  need  for  a  conducive 
international  environment.  For  that  reason,  we  are 
committed  to  playing  our  part,  with  the  rest  of  the 
international  community,  in  taking  forward  the  fight 
against poverty and in responding to the crises that are 
confronting 
today.  We  must  act  now, 
together,  to  halt  the  degradation  of  the  environment. 
We  must  act  now,  together,  to  prevent  the  global 
economic  crisis  from  undoing  the  gains  that  we  have 
achieved over decades. 

The eradication of poverty must remain central to 
the work of the United Nations. The Organization must 
continue to work harder to unite the  world to work to 
alleviate 
the  world’s  poor  and 
marginalized. The global economic meltdown has dealt 
a heavy blow to world efforts to eradicate poverty. But 
it should not diminish our resolve. 

The  United  Nations  must  play  a  significant  role 
in finding solutions to the global economic crisis. The 
crisis  should  not  be  an  excuse  to  delay  further  action 
on the delivery of the Millennium Development Goals. 
Rather,  it  should  urge  us  to  double  our  efforts  to 
achieve  greater  and 
faster  progress.  Developing 
countries  did  not  cause  the  economic  crisis,  but  they 
are  severely  affected  by  it.  The  crisis  has  further 
highlighted the urgent need for fundamental reform of 
the  Bretton  Woods 
including 
their 
mandate, scope, governance and responsiveness. 

These  institutions  have  been  unrepresentative 
since  their  formation  half  a  century  ago.  The  current 
arrangements  are  inadequate  and  unfair.  They  do  not 
reflect the changes that have taken place in the global 
economy.  We  should  ensure  that  the  election  of  the 
the  suffering  of 
institutions, 
facing 
to  ensure 
in  addressing 
the  challenges 
heads of all those institutions is more democratic, and 
opens  opportunities 
to  developing  countries.  The 
emerging  and  developing  countries,  including  the 
poorest,  must  have  a  greater  voice  and  greater 
participation  in  those  institutions.  Similarly,  if  we  are 
to eradicate poverty there is an urgent need to conclude 
the Doha Round of trade negotiations in a manner that 
prioritizes development. 

We continue to work for an African renewal, and 
welcome  the  ongoing  support  of  the  United  Nations 
system 
the 
continent. Now more than  ever, it is necessary for the 
United  Nations 
international 
community  collectively  implements  the  commitments 
made  to  Africa.  We  have  a  viable  socio-economic 
the  New  Partnership 
development  blueprint, 
for 
Africa’s  Development,  which  should  be  used 
in 
mobilizing  resources  for  Africa.  We  appreciate  that 
there can be no lasting peace without development, and 
no development without security. 

Over  the  past  20  years,  Africa  has  made  much 
progress  in  working  to  end  conflicts  and  to  promote 
democratic  practices  and  institutions.  However,  some 
pockets  of  conflict  persist.  For  its  part,  South  Africa 
has been engaged in mediation, conflict prevention and 
peacekeeping on the continent, in, among other places, 
Burundi,  Zimbabwe  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo. 

The  African  Union  has  the  political  will  to 
resolve  conflicts  on  the  continent.  However,  it  lacks 
resources  to  run  effective  peacekeeping  interventions 
and  conflict  prevention  mechanisms.  We  appeal  for 
support  for  African  peacemaking  efforts,  and  for 
greater  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  African  Union.  In  this  regard,  we  call  on  the 
General Assembly to align itself with resolutions of the 
African  Union  and  the  Southern African  Development 
Community  that  do  not  recognize  Governments  that 
come  into  power  by  force  or  other  unconstitutional 
means. 

The search for global peace, stability and security 
cannot  be  separated  from  the  pursuit  of  justice, 
self-determination,  human 
economic 
development.  We  need  to  constantly  reaffirm  the 
inalienable human rights of all people. We call for the 
full  and  effective  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of 
the 
the  World  Conference  against  Racism  and 
subsequent  Durban  Review  Conference.  It 
is  of 
rights 
that 
the 
and 
20 

09-52228 
We  are  convinced  that  urgent  and  concrete  steps 
We  also  call  for  the  lifting  of  the  economic, 


concern  that  at  the  close  of  the  first  decade  of  the 
twenty-first  century  there  are  still  nations  that  find 
their lands occupied and their peoples oppressed.  

are needed to resolve the situation in Western Sahara. 
We  must  work  with  similar  urgency  towards  the 

through  negotiations,  of  peaceful 
achievement, 
coexistence  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians.  This 
must  be  based  on  the  creation  of  a  viable  Palestinian 
State, existing side by side with Israel, within the 1967 
borders,  which  must  be  secure  and  internationally 
recognized. 

commercial and financial embargo on Cuba. 

We also appreciate the recent pronouncements by 
some  nuclear-weapon  States  on  their  intention  to 
reduce their nuclear arsenals. 
Let us take up this new momentum and utilize the 

opportunity  of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  to  recommit  ourselves  to  the 
full  implementation  of  obligations  under  the  NPT. We 
should  ensure  a  balance  among  the  objectives  of 
disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful use of 
nuclear energy. 
For  Africa,  the  impact  of  climate  change  is 

devastating  and  will  severely  undermine  development 
and poverty eradication efforts. We need to act now to 
ensure  that  there  is  an  inclusive,  fair  and  effective 
global  agreement  on 
this  critical  challenge.  The 
agreement  must  recognize  that  solving  the  climate 
problem  cannot  be  separated  from  the  struggle  to 
eradicate  poverty.  Developed  countries  bear 
the 
greatest  responsibility  for  climate  change  and  its 
impact.  We  must  therefore  strike  a  balance  between 
adaptation  and  mitigation.  Our  goal  should  be  to 
significantly reduce emissions across the globe without 
constraining development in the countries of the South. 
Ms.  McClean  (Barbados),  Vice-President,  took 

the Chair. 

Developed  countries  must  make  ambitious, 
quantified  and 
legally  binding  emission  reduction 
commitments  that  are  in  line  with  science  and  that 
address their historical responsibilities. At Copenhagen, 
there  needs  to  be  agreement  on  new,  additional, 
sustainable  and  predictable  financing  for  adaptation. 
A/64/PV.4
that  reduce 
the 
legitimacy  of 
This  should  be  for  programmes 
the 
vulnerability  of  developing  countries  to  the  effects  of 
climate change. 

In a world that is increasingly interconnected and 
interdependent, international problems can be resolved 
effectively  only  through  multilateral  cooperation.  The 
United  Nations  must  continue  to  be  at  the  centre  of 
multilateralism,  but  it  needs  to  be  reformed  if  it  is  to 
carry  out  its  mandate  effectively,  efficiently  and 
transparently. 
We remain committed to the view that no reform 

of  the  United  Nations  can  be  complete  without  the 
fundamental reform of the Security Council. It must be 
representative  of  the  international  community  and 
reflect the geopolitical realities of today. If the Security 
Council  is  not  reformed  and  does  not  have  permanent 
representation  for  Africa, 
the 
Council’s  decisions  will  continue  to  be  questioned. 
South  Africa  continues  to  advocate  an  expansion  in 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership. 

Let me express our appreciation to the world for 
the  celebration  of  the  inaugural  Nelson  Mandela  Day 
on  18  July  this  year.  Scores  of  people  engaged  in  a 
minimum  of  67  minutes  of  voluntary  action  in  the 
service  of  humanity,  in  honour  of  our  icon,  President 
Mandela.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  has  joined  the 
call  for  this  General  Assembly  to  declare  18  July 
Nelson Mandela Day. This would be in recognition of 
President  Mandela’s  contribution  to  the  struggle  for 
democracy and the cause of humanity, and to promote 
community service across the globe. In this regard, we 
hope that the General Assembly will adopt a consensus 
resolution in support of Nelson Mandela Day. 
South  Africa  is  privileged  to  host  the  2010 

Fédération 
Internationale  de  Football  Association 
World  Cup  in  the  middle  of  next  year,  which  will  be 
the  first  time  that  the  tournament  has  been  held  on 
African soil. We look forward to hosting the peoples of 
the  world,  who  will  enjoy  unique  African  hospitality 
and vibrancy. 

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
outgoing  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  his 
leadership at the sixty-third session of the Assembly. I 
thank the General Assembly and representatives for the 
opportunity 
this  esteemed  gathering. 
Working together as a global family, we can do more to 
create a better and just world. 
to  address 
09-52228 

21 

A/64/PV.4 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of South Africa for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 


the  President  of 
President  Klaus:  My  country, 
Address by Mr. Václav Klaus, President of the  
Czech Republic 

hear  an  address  by 
Republic. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
the  Czech 
Mr.  Václav  Klaus,  President  of 
the  Czech 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Václav Klaus, President of 
the  Czech  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
the  Czech 

Republic,  has  always  appreciated  the  role  that  the 
United  Nations  has  played  in  strengthening  security, 
stability  and  prosperity  in  the  world.  I  want  to  assure 
Members  that  we  will  continue  to  participate  in  the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations.  We  firmly  believe  in 
the  importance  of  this  Organization  and  want  it  to  be 
efficient and effective. For that reason, we support the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  so  that  it  will  more 
adequately  reflect  the  political  and  economic  realities 
of the world today, as some speakers have stressed here 
today. Changes are necessary and we are ready to start 
discussing them very seriously. 
the  world,  we 

commemorate  20  years  since  the  fall  of  communism, 
since  the  moment  when  my  country  —  together  with 
other States of Central and Eastern Europe — regained 
freedom and sovereignty, and was again able to resume 
the  place  in  the  community  of  free  and  democratic 
countries that it enjoyed when the United Nations was 
founded in 1945. 
In  the  20  years  that  have  passed  since  those 

historic  events,  we  succeeded  in  building  a  stable 
political democracy and in transforming our economic 
system  into  a  functioning  free-market  economy.  I  am 
mentioning this because I believe that our experience is 
This  year, 
in  our  part  of 
increase 
relevant to the ongoing discussions about how to solve 
the economic problems that the world faces today. 

We are meeting at a time when the world is in the 
midst  one  of  the  deepest  economic  crises  since  the 
Second  World  War.  The 
financial  crisis,  which 
originated in  the United States two years ago,  quickly 
spilled  over  into  most  other  countries  and  led  to  a 
severe decline in economic activity all over the world, 
a substantial decrease in international trade and capital 
flows  and  an 
in  social  and  economic 
instability  in  a  large  number  of  countries  on  all 
continents. 

The  United  Nations  —  as  a  unique  worldwide 
Organization  —  and  its  specialized  institutions  have 
become  an  important  global  platform  for  discussing 
alternative  steps  and  policies  that  could,  one  hopes, 
help  to  overcome  the  crisis  and  diminish  its  impact. 
The measures that have been implemented to date have 
contributed to the fact that the world has succeeded in 
avoiding a repetition of the situation in the 1930s. We 
also  succeeded  in  avoiding  a  repetition  of  a  massive 
protectionist reaction to the crisis. Protectionism in all 
its forms should be resolutely condemned here today. 

We see the first signs that the economic crisis has 
reached  bottom,  or  come  close  to  it.  Nevertheless,  we 
find  ourselves  at  the  beginning  of  a  difficult  and  very 
complicated post-crisis period. There are many reasons 
for  the  fragility  and  vulnerability  of  this  phase,  but  I 
should like to refer to just a few. 

First,  attempts  to  increase  aggregate  demand  led 
to  unprecedented  expansion  in  public  expenditure  and 
public  debt.  As  a  result,  a  large  number  of  United 
Nations  Member  States  are  facing  or  approaching  a 
debt  trap.  Those  huge  fiscal  deficits  will  harm  future 
economic  growth.  Secondly,  international  flows  of 
private  capital,  which  contributed  so  substantially  to 
rapid  economic  growth 
recent  decades,  are 
decreasing  and  becoming  less  reliable.  Thirdly,  a 
decrease  in  international  trade  will  undermine  the 
continuation  of  export-oriented  strategies  of  many 
emerging markets. 
It  would  be  a  tragic  mistake  to  fundamentally 

in  favour  of  State  or 
impair  economic  freedom 
supra-State  regulation  just  now.  Long-term  experience 
shows  us  that  it  is  thanks  to  free  markets  and  free 
entrepreneurship  that  we  enjoy  the  current  material 
well-being  and  economic  progress.  Business  cycles, 
accompanied  by  economic  downturns,  recessions  and 
in 
22 

09-52228 
its 
This 
important 
issue  has 


crises, did exist, do exist and will exist in the future. In 
spite of them, the world has been — at least in the past 
two  centuries  —  characterized  primarily  by  economic 
growth and growing prosperity.  

When  looking  for  an  appropriate  reaction  to  the 
problems  connected  with  the  current  crisis,  we  should 
build on the idea that the crisis was basically a failure 
of  Governments,  not  of  markets.  The  manipulation  of 
monetary  policy  in  an  attempt  to  artificially  prolong 
the  period  of  growth,  the  irrational  subsidization  of 
demand  in  the  housing  sector  and  the  failures  in 
financial-market regulation contributed substantially to 
the  crisis.  Let  us  not  delude  ourselves  into  believing 
that  economic  cycles  and  their  consequences  can  be 
prevented by more extensive Government regulation or 
by aiming at global governance of the world economy. 

territorial  and 
geographic aspects as well. We have to pay attention to 
the needs and interests of all kinds of countries — rich 
and poor, developed and developing. Global economic 
development will benefit from the removal of barriers, 
not  from  creating  new  ones,  because  barriers  would 
substantially  complicate  poorer  countries’  access  to 
foreign  markets,  as  well  as  their  ability  to  develop  by 
their own means. 

Economic recession and large increases in public 
debt have reduced the possibilities available to today’s 
world to meet such goals as combating climate change. 
I do not intend to go into details of this issue here now, 
but we should carefully follow it because of unfinished 
scientific  debate  and  pay  attention  to  the  costs  and 
benefits of our future decisions. 

I  do,  however,  want  to  emphasize  that  the 
measures proposed to combat climate change represent 
another  heavy  burden  for  both  developed  countries, 
which are falling into deep fiscal deficits now, and for 
developing countries. This is happening in a context in 
which  rich  countries,  often  pushing  this  agenda  at 
international 
to 
compensate  poorer  countries  for  the  impact  of  those 
additional costs. 
The  Czech  Republic,  as  a  successor  State  to 

the  founding 
Czechoslovakia,  which  was  one  of 
Members  of 
the  United  Nations,  has  always 
participated  actively  in  all  kinds  of  United  Nations 
activities. It intends to do so in the future as well. It is 
that 
in  our 
the  Organization  remains  a 
to 
forum 
respected  high-level 
that  contributes 
their  ability 
forums,  are 
interest 
losing 
A/64/PV.4
prosperity,  stability  and  peaceful  solutions  to  the 
conflicts of today’s world. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Czech 
Republic for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Václav  Klaus,  President  of 
Republic,  was  escorted 
Assembly Hall. 
from 
the  Czech 
the  General 


Address by Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, 
President of the Republic of El Salvador 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
El Salvador. 

Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos  Mauricio  Funes 
Cartagena,  President  of  the  Republic  of  El  Salvador, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Funes Cartagena (spoke in Spanish): I 

would  first  of  all  like  to  thank  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann of the sister Republic of Nicaragua for his 
work  during  the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 
to  convey  our 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Ali  Treki  on  his  election  as 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-fourth session, as 
well  as  to  wish  him  every  success  in  his  efforts.  We 
would  also 
thank  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his leadership of the United Nations. 

A little more than three months ago, by changing 
its  Government  after  two  decades  under  the  same 
political party, El Salvador began  a process to expand 
and  strengthen  its  democracy.  The  new  Government 
has  set  just  a  few,  but  overarching,  goals  aimed  at 
beginning  a  process  of  change  that  pulls  the  country 
out  of  its  economic  crisis  and  its  social  and  cultural 
backwardness while establishing the foundation for the 
full development of its productive potential, including 
social integration and fair distribution of its income, as 
well  as  making  it  possible  to  achieve  peace  and 
security,  which  is  our  greatest  challenge. We  have  set 
out  the  major  outlines  of  my  Administration  in  three 
words: unite, grow and include. 
I  would  also 
like 
like 
to 
09-52228 

23 

A/64/PV.4 


First of all, the Government over which I preside 
is  not  based  on  a  single  political  party,  let  alone  on  a 
single  faction.  It  is  a  Government  of  national  unity 
focused on two main goals. The first is to put an end to 
the  confrontations,  hatred  and  divisions  that  have 
drained a significant amount of vigour from our society 
and  fuelled  a  bloody  civil  war  that  has  left  behind 
painful  scars.  The  second  is  to  put  in  place  the 
foundation for peaceful and secure coexistence. 

That means that major national decisions will no 
longer be taken behind closed doors or out of sight of 
the majority  of our people. Every measure,  every step 
in  El  Salvador  will  be  discussed  and  decided  at  the 
table  through  dialogue.  Seated  at  that  table  will  be 
representatives of the production and labour sectors, as 
well  as  of  social  movements,  non-governmental 
organizations, political parties, churches and academia. 
It is untrue that the demands of administration require 
curtailing  dialogue  as  the  basic  instrument  of  the 
decision-making process. 

We  were  able  to  set  up  our  economic  and  social 
council in barely 100 days. That body is charged with 
proposing  and  considering  social  and  economic 
policies  that  will  allow  us  to  successfully  address  the 
crisis we are experiencing. In the same period, we were 
also  able  to  launch  an  ambitious  low-income  housing 
programme  that  is  unprecedented  in  El  Salvador’s 
history.  That  programme,  which  was  the  result  of 
Government  working  with  the  private  sector,  will 
produce  100,000  jobs.  Work  has  already  begun  in  the 
first projects.  

That undertaking, like others in the area of social 
and  productive  infrastructure,  also  helps  to  promote 
temporary  work  for  young  people  at  risk  and  to 
improve the  housing and  community conditions in the 
poorest  areas.  It  is  also  part  of  the  comprehensive 
anti-crisis  plan  that  I  promised  during  my  campaign, 
which we are carrying out through enormous effort. 

Also  in  less  than  100  days,  we  succeeded  in 
expanding  the  social  safety  net  and  the  provision  of 
assistance  for 
in  100  rural 
municipalities. Upon my return to the country, we will 
launch  the  first  safety  net,  involving  social  and 
employment 
communities 
experiencing  extreme  poverty.  We  are  responding 
promptly  to  the  urgent  needs  of  the  most  excluded, 
impoverished  and  neglected  groups  in  our  society.  I 
should  like  to  reiterate  that  all  this  is  being  done 
the  poorest  families 
services 
urban 
in 
In 
to 
for 
that 
thank 
that  connection,  allow  me 
We  have  resolutely  addressed 
through  an  honest  and  wide-scale  dialogue 
includes the entire social spectrum of El Salvador. 

the  concerns 
resulting from changes in power. It was once believed 
that  changes  in  Government  would  lead  to  instability 
and  uncertainty. The  complete  opposite  happened.  We 
have given legal guarantees and clear examples that the 
new  Government  is  serious,  responsible  in  managing 
finances  and  trustworthy  when  it  comes  to  both 
domestic  and  foreign  affairs,  including  as  regards 
multilateral  organizations  and 
friendly  countries 
extending assistance to El Salvador. 
the 

countries  and  groups 
that  assistance.  Their 
generosity  makes  us  even  more  determined  to  follow 
the path of responsibility, austerity and anti-corruption 
efforts throughout society and Government. 

My country has open wounds that have an impact 
on our daily lives, including on our family, social and 
cultural lives. Those wounds include public safety and 
immigration,  which  has  taken  about  3  million  of  our 
fellow  citizens  abroad  in  search  of  the  work  and 
opportunities they have not found in our homeland.  

insecurity. 

is  not  an 
exclusively  Salvadoran  phenomenon.  While  it  is  a 
global problem, it is certainly more pronounced in our 
region.  Organized  crime,  drug  trafficking  and  the 
activities  of  violent  criminal  youth  gangs  have 
developed  in  the  past  decade  to  become  the  worst 
threat to the stability of our countries. The policies that 
have  been  implemented  jointly  and  within  individual 
countries have not merely fallen short; they have been 
but  a  succession  of  failures. That  means  that  we  must 
increase our joint efforts while using all the means and 
intelligence at our disposal to confront those scourges. 
We  are  faced  with  a  structural  phenomenon  that 
hampers the full normal functioning of our societies. 

In that regard, I am completely convinced that we 
must  have  strong,  long-term,  decisive  and  intelligent 
policies  within  our  countries.  However,  we  will  fully 
defeat crime  only if we unite as a single entity that is 
genuinely determined to defeat organized crime, which 
is  a  destructive  element  that  undermines  institutions 
and  saps  the  creative  and  productive  energies  of  our 
peoples. 
to  speak  briefly  about 
I  should  first 
the  Assembly 
As 
is  aware, 
this 
like 
24 

09-52228 
and 
letter 
financial 
support  of  both 



I  have  said  to  my  fellow  citizens,  and  I  should 
like  to  reiterate  here,  that  my  Government  will  do 
everything  the  law  allows  to  combat  crime  with 
determination and courage. However, this is not a task 
for a single president or Government; it is also one for 
society  as  a  whole.  I  have  therefore  called  for  the 
widest  possible  level  of  participation  from  all  groups 
and people of good will in carrying out what is called 
“the good fight”, referred to by the Apostle Paul in his 
first 
to  Timothy  —  a  good  fight  against 
insecurity,  fear  and  hopelessness.  That  is  the  great 
challenge  that  brings  us  together,  let  us  make  no 
mistake. 

I  should  like  to  propose  the  holding  of  an 
international  conference  to  address  these  problems  in 
order to consider best practices with which to confront 
that battle together. To that end, we would require the 
logistical 
the 
Organization  of  American  States  and 
the  United 
Nations. 

The  other  wound  to  which  I  referred  is  the 
ongoing waves of immigration by Salvadoran men and 
women that have been taking place for many years. All 
those  who  have  left  have  been  in  their  productive 
years, the most skilled, seeking the work, security and 
well-being  denied  them  in  their  own  country.  With 
3 million  Salvadorans  abroad,  remittances  equal  about 
18 per cent of our gross national product. That tearing 
apart  of  families  is  difficult  to  overcome.  It  is  also  a 
constant  reminder  of  the  fact  that  we  have  not  been 
able  to  put  in  place  the  necessary  conditions  to  keep 
our  children  home,  as  well  as  of  the  fact  that  we  will 
never  be  able  to  achieve  our  potential,  individually  or 
as a society, unless we heal this terrible wound. 

I have personally raised the flag of our country’s 
full  democratization,  which  means  that  emigrants 
should  have  access  to  the  vote  that  has  been  denied 
them  to  this  day. That  unjustifiable  denial  is  added  to 
the  pain  of  separation  and  the  loss  of  human  rights  to 
which they are subjected as immigrants. 

I  have  called  on  political  parties,  intellectuals, 
academics and judges to draft the outlines of a national 
political accord that advances the necessary reforms to 
expand 
increase 
transparency  in  the  workings  of  political  parties, 
improve  the  administration  of  national  elections  law 
and  —  as  a  key  element  of  my  appeal  —  ensure  the 
right to vote for our brothers and sisters abroad. 
democracy, 
strengthen 
and 
A/64/PV.4
towards 
strengthening 
integrated  and 
transit  and  destination  countries 

We  are  concerned,  moreover,  not  only  by  the 
unstable  situation  of  migrants  living  abroad  with  no 
legal  status,  suffering  constant  uncertainty  and  fear  of 
being deported, but also by the difficult situation they 
are  currently  experiencing  as  a  result  of  the  global 
financial and economic crisis. For this reason a policy 
for  the  inclusion  and  protection  of  the  rights  of  our 
migrant  population  and  their  families  is  a  priority  for 
us.  We  will  be  undertaking  measures  within  and  with 
countries  of 
to 
guarantee  migrants’  rights  everywhere  in  the  world, 
and in particular the rights of our Salvadorian brothers. 
We  will  emphasize  an 
long-term 
approach  to  addressing  migration,  considering  all  its 
causes,  manifestations  and  effects.  We  will  bring  this 
vision  to  the  process  initiated  at  the  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development, 
and  we  pledge  our  participation  at  the  third  Global 
Forum on Migration and Development, to take place in 
Athens. 
My  Government  is  carrying  out  a  foreign  policy 

geared 
broadening 
relationships  of  friendship  and  cooperation  with  all 
countries  of  the  world,  both  at  the  bilateral  and 
multilateral  levels, based  on  solidarity,  mutual  respect 
and  compliance  with 
the  principles  of  peaceful 
coexistence, such as respect for sovereignty, territorial 
integrity,  non-interference 
the 
non-use  or  threat  of  use  of  force,  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  respect  for 
to 
self-determination and respect for international law and 
international  commitments,  in  accordance  with  the 
principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter. 

The  foreign  policy  of  El  Salvador  is  free  from 
ideological or partisan political stances. In good faith it 
is  guided  not  only  by  national  interests  and  priorities 
but  also  by  the  common  goals  and  interests  of  the 
international community, in particular the quest for and 
promotion  of  peace,  political  dialogue,  cooperation  in 
solidarity,  security  and  sustainable  development.  One 
example  of  this  is  the  restoration  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  El  Salvador  and  Cuba,  which 
overcame  a 
in  our  country’s 
hemispheric relations. I also wish to underscore that a 
further  key  objective  of  my  Government 
to 
strengthen  the  ties  that  we  have  with  our  brother 
countries in Central America. 
In this context, I am certain that there will be no 

solution or future for any of our countries if we act in 
lingering  breach 
internal  affairs, 
the  right 
is 
and 
in 
09-52228 

25 

Among 
A/64/PV.4 

isolation  from  each  other. We  long  ago  emerged  from 
the  era  of  nationalities,  and  we  are  now  ready  to 
embark on a  new phase, one of greater  integration. In 
this  regard  the  European  Union  is  perhaps  the  most 
advanced example. 

I  appeal  to  my  Central  American  colleagues  to 
consider this point. There are many pending issues that 
we must address. There are common challenges that we 
must face shoulder to shoulder. We have everything to 
gain  and  nothing  to  lose  in  the  full  integration  of  our 
region.  In  these  years  of  the  bicentenary  we  must 
regain the free and independent spirit of our ancestors, 
which  was  exemplified  in  the  concept  of  a  Central 
American union as a basis for development, well-being 
and  peace  for  our  peoples.  A  first  step  would  be  to 
convene  a  summit  that  would  focus  on  a  balanced 
integration  process  and  an  analysis  of  greater  transfer 
of  competencies  to  strengthen  the  mechanisms  of 
supra-nationality,  in  order  to  further  the  aims  and 
principles  established  in  the  Tegucigalpa  Protocol,  to 
ensure its credibility and viability. 

to 
strengthen  regional  democratic  institutions,  helping  us 
to avoid occurrences such as the Honduran coup d’état, 
of which members are all well aware. Working together 
we  must  ensure  that  it  will  be  impossible  to  return  to 
the  times  of  authoritarianism  or  military  or  civilian-
military  dictatorships.  The  coup  d’état  in  Honduras 
must  not  be  allowed  to  set  a  precedent  which  will 
jeopardize  the  achievements  that  we  have  reached  in 
terms of regional stability  and democratic institutions. 
The  de  facto  Government  in  our  brother  country  has 
ignored 
the 
international community, calling for Honduras to return 
as  quickly  as  possible  to  constitutional  order  through 
dialogue  and  political  negotiation  in  accordance  with 
human  rights  and  the  fundamental  freedoms  of  the 
Honduran people. 

Until  the  Constitution  is  restored  in  Honduras 
through  the  immediate  reinstatement  of  President 
Zelaya  and  the  creation  of  a  government  of  national 
unity  in  keeping  with  the  San  José  Agreement,  the 
electoral  process  currently  being  prepared  in  our 
brother 
legitimacy  or 
transparency  necessary  to  guarantee  reliable  results 
which  might  help  resolve  the  crisis  in  our  brother 
country. 
the  aims,  of  course,  would  be 
the  clamour  of  voices 
country  will 
raised  by 
lack 
the 
towards  meeting 
that  are  geared 

The  United  Nations  has  played  and  will  play  a 
leading  role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security  and  in  the  promotion  of  democracy  and 
development.  El  Salvador  is  a  leading  example:  the 
Organization helped in reaching the Peace Agreements 
that  succeeded  in  resolving  our  internal  conflict  —  a 
contribution for which I am deeply grateful, because it 
led us from war to peace and from peace to a phase of 
transition  to  democratization  and  development.  In  this 
regard  we  will  engage  in  a  major  review  of  the 
international  agenda  in  order  to  set  priorities  and  to 
ensure  compliance  with  the  key  guidelines  issued  by 
this  global  Organization  and  which  benefit  the  well-
being and dignity of our peoples. We are implementing 
policies 
the 
commitments  we  have  entered 
into  at  major 
international conferences, in particular the Millennium 
Development  Goals  and 
the  promotion  and  full 
protection  of  human  rights.  We  will  also  be  joining 
international agreements aimed at strengthening human 
rights and freedoms. 

We believe in the role that the United Nations has 
played  in  the  field  of  cooperation  and  development, 
and  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the  reform  of  its 
principal  organs,  programmes  and  subsidiary  bodies, 
which  will  allow  the  Organization  to  adapt  to  the 
demands  and  complexities  of  new  challenges,  in 
particular  through  the  interrelationship  and  interaction 
that 
social, 
environmental and security phenomena. 

Thus  we  commit  ourselves  to  strengthening  our 
national system for the protection of human rights and 
to promoting and guaranteeing a policy of justice, truth 
and  compensation  for  serious  infringements  of  human 
rights, by implementing a policy of openness, honesty 
and transparency in public affairs. 

The  effects  of  the  international  crisis  that  broke 
out  last  year  have  been  felt  by  all,  but  especially  by 
poor  and  developing  countries  whose  economies  are 
dependent  on  large  markets  and  that  suffer  from  the 
consequences  of  the  decline  of  economic  activity, 
employment  and  consumption.  Given  this  situation, 
international  solidarity  and  cooperation 
take  on 
extreme  importance  for  developing  countries,  which 
have  limited  natural  and  financial  resources  and  are 
very  vulnerable.  In  this  regard  we  call  upon  the 
industrialized countries and on the donor community to 
join  every 
to 
overcome  the  current  challenges,  which  jeopardize 
international  effort  and 
among  political, 
economic, 
initiative 
exist 
26 

09-52228 
in  Doha 
in  fostering 
in  2008,  as  well  as 


achievements  made  to  date  and  future  progress  for 
humankind. 

We  recommend  taking  full  advantage  of  the 
experience  and  expertise  within  the  United  Nations 
system 
international  cooperation  and 
coordinating  efforts  to  achieve  common  goals.  In  this 
context  we  appeal  particularly  to  developed  countries 
to ensure follow-up, support for and implementation of 
the  recommendations  and  commitments  set  out  in  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Follow-up  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  to  Review 
the  Implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus  that 
took  place 
the 
recommendations  contained  in  the  Outcome  of  the 
Conference  on  the  World  Economic  and  Financial 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development  (resolution 
63/303,  annex),  in  particular  the  need  for  donors  to 
maintain  and  fulfil  their  commitments  and  objectives 
with regard to official development assistance. To that 
end, there is a need for political resolve to reform the 
international financial structure and system in order to 
address the current difficulties. 

The  high-level  meeting  on  climate  change 
convened by the Secretary-General provided us with an 
opportunity  to  consider  that  issue,  especially  with 
respect  to  compliance  by  States,  and  in  particular  the 
industrialized  countries,  with  the  provisions  of  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  which  was  adopted  shortly  before  the  Earth 
Summit,  and  with  later  commitments  to  eliminate  the 
danger  posed  by  environmental  degradation  and 
ongoing  activities 
that  have  exacerbated  climate 
change. We therefore hope that we will act in earnest, 
responsibly  and  decisively  at 
the  Copenhagen 
conference to achieve a new agreement in this area so 
as  to  ensure  that  States  do  not  put  their  own  interests 
before the common well-being of humankind. It is time 
to  adopt  measures  and  mechanisms  to  rectify  the 
mistakes and shortcomings of the past, and to launch a 
process  to  bring  development  into  harmony  with 
environmental protections. 
As participants here are aware, in my country we 

have  done  away  with 
ideological  prejudices  and 
stereotypes in our international relations. We believe in 
multilateralism and in particular in the  systems of our 
continental organization, the Organization of American 
States,  and  of  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  in  the 
rich  and  valuable  contribution  that  new  and  emerging 
nations can make to the work of those two systems. We 
A/64/PV.4
believe  that  the  future  of  humankind  largely  depends 
on the intelligence, honour and generosity of the larger 
nations  in  ensuring  the  full  and  fair  development  of 
emerging  countries  so  as  to  put  an  end  to  the 
discrimination  and  differences 
that  offend  human 
nature. 

its support for my country and the Salvadoran people. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of El Salvador for the statement he has just made. 

I thank the General Assembly for its attention and 
Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Equatorial Guinea. 

Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema 
Mbasogo,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 
Guinea, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  congratulate 
Mr. Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  Minister  of  African  Union 
the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  on  his 
Affairs  of 
unanimous  election  as  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. We are convinced 
that,  guided  by  his  Government’s  adherence  to  the 
principles  of  national  independence  and  sovereignty, 
the primacy of the values of the human individual, the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  and 
the  economic  development  of  all  countries,  and  with 
his well-known diplomatic skills, he will contribute to 
the good management of the Assembly and to ensuring 
that 
the  universal 
objectives of peace, stability and global development. 

We  also  express  our  thanks  to  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Republic of Nicaragua, for his outstanding work at 
the  United  Nations  achieves 
09-52228 

27 
A/64/PV.4 

the  sixty-third  session,  at  a  time  when  the  world  was 
shaken  by  an  acute  financial  and  economic  crisis  the 
consequences  of  which  have  fomented  instability  and 
threatened peace in various regions of the world. 

Mr.  Singh  Puri  (India),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
Amid  this  climate  of  insecurity,  the  food  and 

global  energy  crises,  natural  disasters  and  climate 
change  that  threaten  the  sustainability  of  the  global 
ecology,  the  work  of  the  Secretary-General,  as  the 
coordinator  of  the  activities  of  our  Organization,  has 
been  far  from  easy.  We  therefore  commend  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  efforts  to  address  those  issues  and 
offer  him  our  full  support  and  cooperation  so  that  his 
actions can be implemented without delay. 

In  taking  the  floor  to  address  this  international 
forum,  I  wish  first  and  foremost  to  express  our 
gratitude  for  this  renewed  opportunity  to  share  our 
thoughts,  experience  and  common  concerns  for  the 
modern  world.  It  is  timely  indeed  that  the  Secretary-
General  has  dedicated  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the 
General Assembly to the topic of effective responses to 
the  current  global  economic  and  financial  crisis  in 
order  to  analyse  its  causes  and  adopt  policies  and 
strategies  that  will  enable  States  to  mitigate  the 
negative  consequences  of  the  crisis,  which  are  having 
an  increasingly  debilitating  impact  on  economically 
weak countries in particular. 

Following  the  end  of  the  cold  war  and  the 
disappearance  of  the  bipolar  and  antagonistic  world 
that  emerged  from  the  Second  World  War,  it  became 
clear that a more globalized, united and integrated era 
had dawned among nations that would result in greater 
justice,  solidarity  and 
international 
exchanges  and  relations.  Mutual  respect  for  cultural 
specificities 
for 
international  cooperation,  an  association  of  shared 
responsibilities,  mutual  respect  and  equitable  mutual 
benefit. That  has  been  the  guiding  ideal  of  the  United 
Nations since its inception. Its efforts to create a world 
of  peace,  development  and  well-being  for  humankind 
have  followed  this  aim  for  the  sixty-plus  years  of  its 
history. 

Yet  the  gap  between  developed  and  developing 
countries  has  only  widened,  in  spite  of  the  numerous 
resolutions,  decisions  and  recommendations  that  have 
been  adopted  to  promote  the  equality  of  political, 
the  global 
economic,  social  and  cultural  rights; 
fundamental  basis 
integration 
in 
remains 
the 

is  undermined. 
Inevitably,  unless 
development  of  humanity;  the  replacement  of  the  old 
economic  order  with  a  new,  more  just  and  equitable 
system;  the  provision  of  financial  assistance  to  the 
most  vulnerable  countries;  the  liberalization  of  global 
trade; and in spite of the many other measures  adopted 
at special summits. 

Yet,  despite  all  this,  global  achievement  of  the 
United  Nations  Millennium  Development  Goals  has 
fallen  short  by    20  per  cent.  We  can  see  that, 
unfortunately,  egoism  and  the  desire  to  dominate 
remain  the  driving  force  in  international  relations. 
Inevitably,  without  a  multilateralism  that  respects  the 
criterion  of  partnership  based  on  mutual  respect  for 
shared  responsibilities  and  reciprocal  and  equitable 
interests,  the  global  political,  economic  and  social 
balance 
this 
partnership  is  based  on  respect  for  the  cultural  values 
of  every  nation,  a  new  cold  or  hot  war  is  bound  to 
break out between poor countries and rich countries. 

The Republic of Equatorial Guinea welcomes the 
timeliness  of  this  debate,  since  in  the  middle  of  this 
unprecedented  global  crisis  we  can  all  redefine  our 
positions  on  the  subject  of  global  development.  Here, 
in New York in 2009, we must resolve these problems 
so 
the  current  causes  of  a  misery  and 
conflictiveness  driven  by  the  wealthy  countries  to  the 
detriment of the poor or economically fragile countries 
no longer justify this new and absurd bipolarization — 
when,  despite  everything,  humankind  has  assimilated 
the  supremacy  of  the  values  that  make  up  the  human 
individual. 

What  kind  of  morality  is  it  when  some  States 
enjoy  economic  abundance,  while  others  suffer  in 
misery, marginalization and desolation? 
Accordingly,  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea 

calls  for  new  global  approaches  that  will  enhance  the 
capacity  of  developing  countries 
to  contribute 
politically  and  economically  and  will  allow  a 
coexistence that safeguards the political and economic 
interests of all countries.  

We can no longer continue on the path that we are 
on.  We  can  no  longer  continue  on  this  irrational  and 
irresponsible path. We must consider matters calmly in 
order to adopt positive attitudes that effectively support 
the  original  philosophy  of  the  United  Nations,  a 
philosophy  that  conceived  of  a  united  world  where 
human  beings,  regardless  of  race,  culture  or  level  of 
that 
28 

09-52228 
our 
Through 
country’s 
they  respect 
independence, 


civilization,  are  recognized  as  human  beings,  in  both 
the North and the South.  

Thus, there can be no justification for theories of 
globalization  of  policies  unless 
the 
cultural  plurality  that  characterizes  the  peoples  of  the 
world.  There  can  be  no  discrimination  or  exclusion. 
Intercultural  dialogue  must  strengthen  this  community 
of nations with a view to achieving a coexistence that 
is  conducive  to  learning  from  one  another  for  the 
mutual benefit of us all. 
Equatorial  Guinea  conceives  of  its  development 

as the outcome of coordinated action between national 
effort  and  international  cooperation.  We  rule  out 
discrimination  of  any  kind  for  reasons  of  political, 
economic or cultural system in the case of any country 
or  international  organization,  provided  that  the  latter 
respects 
national 
sovereignty and territorial integrity, the peace and free 
exercise  of  the  sovereignty  of  the  people,  the  right  to 
the  free  utilization  of  our  natural  resources,  the 
maintenance  of  friendly  relations  and  cooperation  for 
reciprocal benefit, and respect for the cultural values of 
the people. 

these  principles, 
Equatorial  Guinea  enjoys  excellent  ties  of  friendship, 
cooperation  and  good  neighbourliness  with  all 
countries  in  Central  Africa.  We  accept  economic 
cooperation  with  countries  of  all  ideological  beliefs, 
from  the  East  to  the  West  and  from  the  North  to  the 
South. This is part of our contribution to global peace 
and balance. 

As a result, our oil and other resources contribute 
not only to the development of our European partners, 
but also to that of Africa, America and Asia. This being 
said, we are constantly amazed by the conflictiveness, 
suspicion and envy that these oil resources arouse in a 
number of countries, these same resources that we have 
made  freely  available  to  the  international  community. 
We  witnessed  this  first-hand  when  Equatorial  Guinea 
was  the  victim  of  mercenary-led  invasions,  terrorist 
attacks  and  plans  for  political  destabilization,  whose 
clear aim was to gain illegal access to resources which 
belong solely to the people of Equatorial Guinea. 

We wish to emphasize that Equatorial Guinea is a 
peaceful country without ambitions to acquire territory 
or  engage  in  political  hegemony  and  without  policies 
designed to jeopardize peace or stability in other States 
and  nations.  We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the 
its  application  of 
A/64/PV.4
for 
the 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the 
Charter  of  the  African  Union  with  regard  to  the 
maintenance  of  peaceful  relations,  the  rejection  of 
violence  and 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes 
through  dialogue,  mediation  and,  where  necessary, 
recourse to international tribunals. 

Global  peace  is  the  universal  right  of  all  and  an 
indispensable  prerequisite 
survival  of 
humankind. It is non-negotiable, not to be traded with 
any  public  or  private  interest,  and  is  so  fragile  that  it 
can be shattered when injustices affecting a State or a 
community of States are committed. Therefore, we are 
addressing the situation caused by the global economic 
crisis, which, without a doubt, has had repercussions in 
individual  States  of  the  international  community,  each 
at different levels and each with the potential to affect 
global  peace.  We  have  witnessed  examples  of  such 
consequences in the recent conflicts that have engulfed 
various States in the world today. Yet, this noble world 
Organization was created for peace.  

It is for the sake of maintaining peace and world 
stability that we all meet here every year. It is also for 
the sake of peace and stability that we must be careful 
not to the let the attitudes of some countries or groups 
of  countries  foster,  out  of  whatever  ambitions  or 
selfishness  they  have,  continuing  injustices  that  have 
created the crisis in international relations. 

With  best  wishes  for  a  world  abundant  in  peace 
and happiness, I wish every success to this sixty-fourth 
session of the General Assembly. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of  Equatorial  Guinea  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Leonel Fernández Reyna, President 
of the Dominican Republic 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Dominican 
Republic. 

Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
into 
09-52228 

29 
to 
for 

that 
among 
investment  banks,  and  with 
A/64/PV.4 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna, 
President of the Dominican Republic, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President Fernández Reyna (spoke in Spanish): 

We  convey  our  warmest  congratulations 
the 
renowned Libyan diplomat Mr. Ali Treki on his recent 
election  to  preside  over  the  General Assembly  at  this 
sixty-fourth  session,  as  well  as  for  his  call  for  a 
dialogue 
interreligious 
civilizations, 
understanding,  for 
the  promotion  for  peace  and 
security  and  for  closing  the  divide  between  rich  and 
poor. 

Exactly one year ago, when we were taking stock 
of  progress  made  towards  meeting  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  at  the  midterm  point,  something 
unexpected occurred: the collapse of some of the most 
emblematic 
the 
worsening of the global financial crisis.  
Before this crisis occurred, however, the world, in 

particular 
the  developing  countries,  was  already 
affected  by  the  impact  of  two  other  crises  that  had 
begun  simultaneously:  the  crisis  involving  oil  prices 
and that involving food prices. 

As a result of the first of these crises, that is, the 
oil crisis, vigorous and intense social protest broke out 
in  various  parts  of  the  world.  Suddenly,  all  products 
became  more  expensive.  Governments  were  forced  to 
use  their  currency  reserves  to  pay  their  oil  bills  and 
were  forced  to  allocate  subsidies  for  the  sake  of 
maintaining civic peace and democratic governance.  

When  it  comes  to  the  second  crisis,  the  food 
crisis,  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United Nations established that as a result of the food 
crisis,  the  number  of  people  suffering  from  hunger 
worldwide  rose  by  150  million,  which  meant  that  for 
the  first  time  in  human  history  the  total  figure 
exceeded the number of 1 billion human beings.  

Before  these  two  crises  broke  out,  the  World 
Bank  had  already  indicated  that  in  order  to  meet  the 
Millennium Development Goals in the remaining seven 
years  — 
is,  between  2008  and  2015  — 
$250 billion  were  still  needed,  or  $50  billion  every 
year.  Obviously,  with  the  outbreak  of  these  crises, 
which  gravely  affected  the  economies  of  developing 
countries,  the  resources  needed  to  meet  the  objectives 
that 
that  had  been  set  to  cut  by  half  the  level  of  poverty 
worldwide  would  have  to  be  increased  significantly 
above  the  projected  figures  established  by  the  World 
Bank. 

As one can see, the situation last year was already 
bleak  at  the  time  of  submitting  for  analysis  and 
evaluation  the  achievements  that  had  been  made  and 
future  challenges  to  meet  in  order  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  spite  of  the  dark 
clouds  that  were  gathering  on  the  global  economic 
horizon,  we  still  felt  optimistic;  we  held  the  illusion 
that we might meet our targets. After all, we had made 
continuous  progress  towards  meeting  some  of  the 
Goals.  But  from  then  on,  we  witnessed  the  deluge  of 
the  global  financial  crisis.  Since  then,  the  storm  has 
been so intense that it has created a widespread state of 
anxiety and fear at a global scale the likes of which has 
not been seen in many decades.  

According  to  the  Director-General  of  the  World 
Health Organization, Dr. Margaret Chan, 400,000 more 
children and tens of thousands of women will die every 
year  as  a  direct  consequence  of  the  global  financial 
crisis.  Today,  while  the  meetings  of  the  General 
Assembly  of  the  most  important  global  organization 
are being held, 25,000 children will die in various parts 
of  the  world.  That  is  the  equivalent  of  saying  that  a 
child will die every three seconds, or 18 children every 
minute.  

this 
By 
afternoon  —  my  15  minute  statement  —  worldwide 
270 children will have died, whose early deaths could 
have been avoided. Throughout the course of this year, 
9  million  children,  which  is  equivalent  to  the  entire 
population  of  my  country,  the  Dominican  Republic, 
will have lost their lives for no reason or justification. 
This represents a human tragedy of epic proportions, a 
true  catastrophe. 
is  morally  and  politically 
unacceptable.  For  that  reason,  it  is  important  to  call 
upon  the  General  Assembly  to  declare  a  state  of 
emergency  with 
the 
Millennium Development Goals.  

When facing the challenges to our efforts to meet 
the  eight  goals  established  in  the  year  2000  for 
improving  the  human  dignity  and  living  conditions  of 
millions  of  people  worldwide,  it  is  possible  to  adopt 
different  attitudes.  We  might  consider  that  we  have 
failed and that these goals can never be met; that they 
represent  a  new  utopia  and  therefore  the  only  path 
time  I  conclude  my  statement 
to  compliance  with 
regard 
the 
It 
30 

09-52228 


remaining is to abandon any effort to meet those goals. 
Clearly  that  would  be  a  cowardly  and  irresponsible 
attitude — the worst possible decision. It would mean 
leaving  all  those  in  need  of  human  solidarity  and 
compassion out in the cold. A second attitude would be 
to reconsider the goals and then extend the timetable to 
fulfil  them;  that  would  seem  logical  and  reasonable. 
However, that reasoning encounters one obstacle — the 
fact that children, the poor and the women of the world 
cannot wait. 

The  only  real  way  to  ensure  fulfilment  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  the  planned  2015 
date,  is  for  the  General  Assembly  to  work  towards 
promoting 
true  commitment  among  nations  and 
governmental  and  non-governmental  institutions  to 
urgently  assume  their  task  to  achieve  economic  and 
social  development  for  all  people  affected  by  poverty, 
hunger, disease and illiteracy. 

It cannot be argued that the resources available to 
address this urgent task are insufficient. We have seen 
in  the  diligent  manner  used  to  address  the  collapse  of 
the international financial system that — as the saying 
goes — where there is the will there is a way. 

Looking ahead, the first thing to be considered is 
that  with  the  forecasted  end  of  the  global  economic 
recession  and 
the  resulting  gradual  recovery  of 
economic growth, we must ensure that we never again 
witness  such  a  sudden  and  abrupt  increase  in  oil  and 
food prices as a result of excessive speculation and the 
transactions  of  the  futures  market.  We  issue  this 
warning because we have been observing with concern, 
an increase in milk prices over the past three weeks on 
the  international  market  that  have  risen  by  more  than 
$1,000 per ton without any valid justification.  
interests, 

resistance  and  obstacles  that  stand  in  the  way  of  the 
reform  of  the  global  financial  system  and  the  stock 
markets,  in  order  to  establish  new  mechanisms  for 
regulation  and  supervision  that  will  guarantee  that  no 
crisis such as this one will ever occur again. 
Because of the lack of compliance to date by the 

majority 
their 
commitments  made  during  the  Copenhagen  World 
Summit  for  Social  Development  to  contribute  to  the 
development  of  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable 
nations and due to the prevailing situation of the global 
recession,  we  draw  the  attention  of  the  General 
We  must  set  aside  all 
countries  with 
developed 
individual 
of 
A/64/PV.4
a 
report 
and 
submit 
(OECD), 
indicated 
that  more 
and  Development 
Assembly  to  the  possibility  of  finding  new  sources  of 
financing for the Millennium Development Goals.  

In  that  regard,  we  suggest  the  creation  of  a 
working  group  to  carry  out  professional,  high-quality 
research 
containing 
recommendations  and  a  plan  of  action  geared  towards 
establishing  a  fine  to  benefit  development  on  capital 
deposited 
fiscal  havens,  offshore  banks  and 
in 
international 
financial 
financial  centres.  Placing 
resources  in  such  fiscal  havens  means  that  every  year 
we  witness  tax  evasion  in  a  sum  equivalent  to 
$250 billion  —  a  figure  —  according  to  the  World 
Bank  —  equal  to  the  total  sum  of  external  aid 
necessary to meet the Millennium Development Goals.  

According  to  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation 
some 
$7 trillion  is  currently  deposited  in  tax  havens  which 
do  not  contribute  one  single  cent  towards  fiscal 
income.  OXFAM  has 
than 
$50 billion in fiscal income slips through the fingers of 
developing  countries  each  year  as  a  result  of  offshore 
banks  and  tax  havens.  The  organization  Christian Aid 
has  also  affirmed  bleakly 
is 
responsible  for  the  deaths  of  more  than  5  million 
children between the year 2000 and 2015 — the years 
we set to meet the Millennium Development Goals. 

There  are  abundant  resources  in  the  world  and 
what  is  happening  is  that  they  are  unfairly  and 
unequally  distributed  due,  inter  alia,  to  an  existing 
global  financial  architecture  marked  by  the  lack  of 
transparency,  secrecy,  money-laundering,  evasion  and 
fraud. Our only hope of changing the current situation 
of  economic  decline  and  social  deterioration  and  the 
moral  crisis  that  is  shaking  up  the  world  lies  in 
adopting  brave,  wise  and  timely  decisions  in  this 
prestigious global forum. 

The  peoples  of  the  world  are  waiting  for  these 
decisions. They are aware that their right to a dignified, 
honourable  and  happy  life  depends  upon  that.  We 
cannot  let  them  down.  We  must  act  with  justice 
courage,  a  sense  of  history  and  with  a  vision  of  the 
future. 
I cannot conclude this statement without touching 

upon the current prevailing situation in Honduras. The 
United  Nations  passed  a  resolution  condemning  the 
coup d’état which took place in this Central American 
nation in June of this year and called for the return of 
democratic order. The same attitude was adopted by the 
tax  evasion 
that 
09-52228 

31 
President  José  Manuel  Zelaya  — 
A/64/PV.4 

Organization of American States, the European Union, 
the African  Union  and  by  the  League  of Arab  States. 
Despite the entire world’s condemnation of that assault 
on  democracy,  the  de  facto  Government  of  Honduras 
has  remained  in  power,  thereby  underscoring  the 
weaknesses  of  the  international  community  to  take 
action.  

the  sole 
legitimate  President  of  Honduras,  who  was  scheduled 
as  the  sixth  speaker  to  take  the  floor  in  the  General 
Assembly  this  afternoon  —  has,  in  a  great  display  of 
personal courage and daring, preferred to return to his 
country. 
the 
representatives  of  the  peoples  gathered  here  at  this 
world forum will be able to act with the same dignity, 
sense of responsibility and level of commitment when 
it comes to the supremacy of democracy, freedom and 
justice. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
that  we 
from 
It 
is  now 
to  be  hoped 

wish him every success. I would also like to extend my 
thanks  to  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  President 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session,  for 
his excellent stewardship of the work of the Assembly 
during his term. 

Over the past four years, I have spoken about the 
main challenges facing our world. I have talked about 
the underlying causes of those challenges and about the 
need  for  world  Powers  to  review  their  outlook  and 
work  out  new  mechanisms  to  address  the  pressing 
international  problems  before  us.  I  have  also  talked 
about  the  two  conflicting  outlooks  that  prevail  in  our 
world.  One  is  based  on  the  predominance  of  its 
materialistic interests through spreading inequality and 
oppression,  poverty  and  deprivation,  aggression, 
occupation and deception and looks to bring the entire 
world under its control and to impose its will on other 
nations.  That  outlook  has  produced  nothing  but 
frustration,  disappointment  and  a  dark  future  for 
humankind as a whole. 

The other outlook is one that espouses a belief in 
the oneness of the Almighty God, follows the teachings 
of His messengers, respects human dignity and seeks to 
build  a  secure  world  for  all  members  of  the  human 
community  in  which  everybody  can  equally  enjoy  the 
blessings  of  sustainable  peace  and  spirituality. This  is 
an outlook that respects all human beings, nations and 
venerable  cultures 
types  of 
discrimination in the world. It is also one that commits 
itself  to  an  ongoing  fight  to  promote  equality  for  all 
before  the  law  on  the  basis  of  justice  and  fraternity 
while  laying  a  solid  foundation  to  guarantee  equal 
access  for  all  human  beings  in  their  quest  to  excel  in 
knowledge and science. 

Time  and  again,  I  have  emphasized  the  need  to 
make  fundamental  changes  in  the  current  outlook  on 
the world and on humankind, so as to be able to create 
a brighter tomorrow. 

Today,  I  wish  to  share  with  the Assembly  a  few 
points  about  the  changes  that  should  take  place.  First, 
the  continuation  of  the  current  circumstances  in  the 
world  is  clearly  impossible.  The  present  inequitable 
and  unfavourable  conditions  run  counter  to  the  very 
nature  of  humankind  and  move  in  a  direction  that 
contravenes the truth  and  the goal behind the creation 
of the world. It is no longer possible to inject trillions 
of  dollars  of  unreal  wealth  into  the  world  economy 
simply  by  printing  worthless  paper  assets  or  by 
in  defiance  of  all 
09-52228 


Address by Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran. 

Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad, 
President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President Ahmadinejad (spoke in Farsi; English 

text provided by the delegation): I thank Almighty God 
for  granting  me  the  opportunity  once  again  to  address 
this important international forum. 

At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  begin  by  congratulating 
Mr. Ali  Treki  on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session, and to 
32 

is 
the 
inflation  and 
thoughts  on 
intended 


transferring 
social  and  economic 
problems to others by creating severe budget deficits.  

The  engine  of  unbridled  capitalism,  with  its 
unfair  system  of  thought,  has  reached  the  end  of  road 
and  is  unable  to  move.  The  era  of  capitalist  thinking 
the 
and 
imposition  of  one’s 
international  community,  which 
to 
dominate  the  world  in  the  name  of  globalization,  as 
well as the  age of  setting  up empires, is over.  It is no 
longer  possible  to  humiliate  nations  or  to  impose 
double standard on the world community. 

It  is  necessary  to  delegitimize  and  reject  any 
approach  that  holds  up  the  realization  of  the  interests 
of certain Powers as the only measure of democracy or 
employs despicable forms of intimidation and deceit in 
the  name  of  freedom  and  democratic  practices. 
Approaches  by  which  dictators  are  portrayed  as 
democrats lack legitimacy and must be totally rejected. 
Time  has  come  to  an  end  for  those  who  define 
democracy  and  freedom  and  set  standards  while  they 
themselves  are  the  first  to  violate  those  fundamental 
principles.  They  can  in  fact  no  longer  be  both  judge 
and  executioner  or  challenge  real  democratically 
established Governments.  

I would like to say again that the time has passed 
for a group of people who believe that they alone can 
define  concepts  such  as  democracy  and  freedom  and 
put  forth  the  criteria  for  those  definitions  while 
simultaneously  violating  the  very  principles  to  which 
they claim to aspire. The continuation of Governments 
is based on the rule of the people. The development of 
nations  and  increasing  freedom  worldwide  will  no 
longer  allow  them  to  continue  their  hypocrisy  and 
vicious  attitudes.  For  those  reasons,  most  nations, 
including  the  people  of  the  United  States,  are  waiting 
for  real  and  profound  change.  They  have  welcomed 
and will continue to welcome change. 

How  can  it  be  possible  that  inhuman  policies  in 
Palestine  have  driven  the  entire  population  of  the 
country  from  their  homeland  for  over  60  years  by 
means  of  force  and  coercion,  attacking  them  with  all 
types  of  weapons,  including  banned  weapons,  and 
denying  them  their  legitimate  right  of  self-defence, 
and, 
international 
community,  calling  the  occupiers  peacemakers  and 
portraying the victims as terrorists? 
How  can  the  crimes  of  the  occupiers  against 

defenceless women and children and the destruction of 
the  astonishment  of 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.4
their 
It 
the  world 
through  complex 
supporters  deceitfully  continue 
is  unacceptable  for  a  small  minority 
their homes, farms, hospitals and schools be supported 
unconditionally  by  certain  Governments  and,  at  the 
same time, oppressed men and women be subjected the 
harshest  economic  blockade,  depriving 
them  of 
resources  to  meet  their  basic  needs,  including  food, 
water and medicine, and leading to genocide? They are 
not  even  allowed  to  rebuild  their  homes,  destroyed 
during  the  22-day  barbaric  attacks  of  the  Zionist 
regime, with winter approaching, while the aggressors 
and 
their 
rhetorical  defence  of  human  rights  in  order  to  put 
others under pressure. 

to 
dominate  the  politics,  economy  and  culture  of  large 
parts  of 
systems, 
establishing  a  de  facto  new  form  of  slavery,  and 
harming the reputation of other nations, even European 
nations  and  the  United  States,  to  achieve  its  racist 
goals. 

It  is  unacceptable  that  nations  several  thousand 
miles  from  the  Middle  East  send  their  troops  to 
intervene  militarily  and  to  promote  war,  bloodshed, 
aggression,  terror  and  fear  in  our  region,  the  Middle 
East, while brushing aside the protests of nations in the 
region  concerned  about  their  future  and  their  national 
security, thereby violating peace and interfering in the 
affairs of others.  

Such  standpoints  are  baffling.  We  only  have  to 
look  at  the  situations  in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan.  A 
country cannot remain under military occupation in the 
name  of 
terrorism  and  drug 
trafficking,  when  the  production  of  illicit  drugs  has 
grown,  terrorism  has  increased  and  tightened  its  grip, 
thousands of innocent people have been killed, injured 
or  displaced,  infrastructure  has  been  destroyed  and 
regional security has been seriously jeopardized.  

Yet those who have created the current disastrous 
situation  continue  to  blame  others.  How  can  they  talk 
about friendship and solidarity with other nations while 
they expand their military bases in various parts of the 
world,  including  Latin America.  That  situation  cannot 
continue.  It  is  increasingly  impossible  to  promote 
expansionist  and  inhuman  policies  on  the  basis  of 
militaristic 
logic  of  coercion  and 
intimidation  will  have  dire 
and 
exacerbate current global problems. 
It  is  not  acceptable  that  the  military  budgets  of 

some  Governments  far  exceed  the  budgets  of  entire 
fight  against 
consequences 
logic.  The 
the 
09-52228 

33 

and 
cannot 
continue 
situation 
A/64/PV.4 

countries of the world. Some countries  export billions 
of  dollars  of  arms  every  year,  stockpile  chemical, 
biological  and  nuclear  weapons,  establish  military 
bases  or  have  a  military  presence  in  other  countries 
while  accusing  others  of  militarism,  and  mobilize  all 
their  global  resources  to  impede  the  scientific  and 
technological  progress  of  other  nations  under  the 
pretext of countering arms proliferation. 

It  is  not  acceptable  that  the  United  Nations  and 
the Security Council, whose decisions should represent 
all nations and Governments through the application of 
democratic  and  popular  methods  of  decision-making, 
be dominated by a few Governments who seek to serve 
their own interests.  

Above  all,  in  a  world  where  culture,  ideas  and 
public opinion should be the only determining factors, 
the  present 
a 
fundamental  change  seems  inevitable.  We  must  strive 
to establish a new world system. 

Secondly,  any  change  must  be  deep-seated  both 
in theory  and in practice,  encompassing all spheres of 
our  life.  Outdated  methods  of  government  that  have 
caused the current problems in society cannot be used 
to  bring  about  change  and  create  a  better  world. 
Liberalism  and  capitalism,  in  particular  the  types  that 
seek to dominate the world and to alienate people from 
spiritual and moral values, will never bring humankind 
happiness,  since  they  are  the  principal  source  of  all 
disasters,  wars,  poverty  and  deprivation.  We  have  all 
seen  how  unfair  economic  structures  controlled  by 
certain political interests have been used to plunder the 
national wealth of countries for the benefit of a group 
of  corrupt  businesses.  Existing  structures  are  thus 
incapable  of  addressing  the  challenges  that  we  face. 
The political and economic structures created after the 
Second  World  War  that  sought  to  dominate  the  world 
have  failed,  in  short,  to  promote  justice  and  lasting 
security. 

Rulers  whose  hearts  do  not  beat  with  love  for 
humankind  and  who  have  abandoned  ideas  of  justice 
can  never  provide  humankind  with  the  promise  of 
peace and friendship. By the grace of God, Marxism is 
no more; it is history now. And the unhindered growth 
of capitalism will certainly meet the same fate because, 
based on the divine tradition of a principle in the Holy 
Koran,  the  deceitful  one,  like  a  bubble  on  the  surface 
of  water,  will  disappear.  Only  that  which  eternally 
serves the interests of human societies survives. 
taken 
format.  The  world  needs 

We  must  therefore  all  remain  vigilant  to  prevent 
the  pursuit  of  colonialism  and  discriminatory  and 
inhuman goals disguised under slogans for change or in 
any  new 
to  undergo 
fundamental  changes,  and  we  must  all  engage 
collectively  to  bring  them  about  in  the  right  way. 
Through  such  efforts,  no  one  and  no  Government 
would  consider  itself  an  exception  to  change  or 
superior to others, or try to impose its will on others by 
proclaiming world leadership. 

Thirdly,  all  of  the  problems  that  exist  in  our 
world  today  emanate  from  the  fact  that  rulers  have 
distanced themselves from human values, morality and 
the teachings of divine messengers. Regrettably, in the 
current  state  of  international  relations,  selfishness  and 
insatiable  greed  have 
the  place  of  such 
humanitarian  concepts  as  love,  sacrifice,  dignity  and 
justice.  Belief  in  the  one  God  has  been  replaced  with 
self-belief. Some have sought to take the place of God 
and  insist  on  imposing  their  values  and  wishes  on 
others. Lies have taken the place of honesty, hypocrisy 
has  replaced  integrity  and  selfishness  has  taken  the 
place of sacrifice. Nowadays, deception in interactions 
is  called  foresight  and  statesmanship.  Looting  the 
wealth  of  other  nations  is  called  development  efforts. 
Occupation  is  introduced  as  a  gift  in  promotion  of 
freedom  and  democracy.  And  defenceless  nations  are 
subjected  to  repression  in  the  name  of  the  defence  of 
human rights. 

justice 
administered  and  peace  maintained  only  through  the 
collective determination and cooperation of all nations 
and  States.  The  era  of  a  world  polarized  by  the 
premises  of  hegemony  or  the  domination  by  a  few 
Governments  is  over.  Today,  we  must  rise  together 
through  collective  commitment  against  the  present 
challenges.  We  must  take  change  seriously  and  work 
collectively  to  help  others  return  to  basic  moral  and 
human values. 
Messengers were sent by God to show the light of 

truth to humankind. They came to make people aware 
of  their  individual  and  social  obligations.  Living  in 
piety,  having  faith  in  Allah  and  judgment  of  human 
behaviour  or  conduct  in  the  next  world,  believing  in 
the primacy of justice in both lives, seeking happiness, 
well-being  and  security  in  the  happiness,  well-being 
and  security  of  others,  respecting  humankind,  making 
efforts 
love  and  compassion  against 
hostility —  these  were  all  paramount  in  the  teachings 
Global  problems  will  be 
to  expand 
resolved, 
34 

09-52228 
Fourthly, 
them  came 


offered  by  the  divine  messengers  of  God,  from Adam 
to  Noah,  Noah  to  Abraham,  Moses,  Jesus  Christ  and 
the last Prophet, Muhammad, may peace be upon all of 
them.  All  of 
to  eliminate  war  and 
ignorance, eradicate poverty and uproot discrimination 
in order to spread happiness to the entire world. They 
are  the  best  gifts  that  almighty  God  has  granted  to 
human  beings.  If  the  belief  in  Entezar  —  that  is,  in 
patiently awaiting the return of justice to Earth — can 
become  a  common  goal  and  we  join  hands  to  achieve 
prosperity  for  all,  then  there  will  be  greater  and  more 
genuine hope for reform.  

in  my  opinion,  we  have  several 
important matters before us. The Secretary-General and 
the General Assembly can take the lead by undertaking 
the necessary measures to fulfil our shared goals on the 
basis of the following actions. 

First,  the  United  Nations  should  be  restructured 
in order to transform this world body into an efficient 
and  fully  democratic  organization,  capable  of  playing 
an  impartial,  equitable  and  effective  role  in  the 
international  relations.  The  structure  of  the  Security 
Council  should  be  reformed,  especially  by  abolishing 
the  discriminatory  privilege  of  the  veto  right.  The 
inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  should  be 
restored by holding a referendum and free elections in 
Palestine  to  prepare  an  environment  in  which  all 
Palestinian populations, including Muslims, Christians 
and Jews, can live together in peace and harmony. All 
types of interference in the affairs of Iraq, Afghanistan 
and the Middle East, as well as all countries of Africa, 
Latin America, Asia and Europe, must be ended. 

As  our  great  Prophet  said,  a  Government  may 
survive  with  blasphemy,  but  never  with  oppression. 
The Palestinians continue to suffer oppression and their 
rights  continue  to  be  violated.  Yet  another  group  of 
Palestinians who lived in al-Quds al-Sharif were forced 
out  of  their  homes  as  the  occupiers  and  usurpers 
continue to destroy their residential area. Bombings in 
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  have  not  yet  stopped,  the 
Guantanamo  prison  has  not  yet  been  shut  down,  and 
there are still secret prisons in Europe. 

The  continuation  of  the  present  situation  adds  to 
hostilities  and  violence.  Oppression  and  military 
aggression  must  be  stopped.  Regrettably,  official 
reports concerning the brutalities of the Zionist regime 
in  Gaza  have  not  all  been  published.  The  Secretary-
General  and 
the  United  Nations  have  crucial 
A/64/PV.4
friendship, 
lasting  peace  and 
responsibilities  in  this  respect,  and  the  international 
community  is  impatiently  waiting  for  the  aggressors 
and the murderers of the defenceless people of Gaza to 
be punished. 

Regarding  the  second  action,  current  economic 
structures  must  be  reformed  and  a  new  international 
economic  order  set  up  based  on  human  and  moral 
values  and  obligations.  A  new  course  is  needed  that 
would help promote justice and progress worldwide by 
allowing  the  potential  and  talents  of  all  nations  to 
flourish, thus bringing well-being to all and for future 
generations. 
The  third  action  is  that  international  political 

the  basis  of 
relations  must  undergo  reform  on 
promotion  of 
the 
eradication  of  arms  races  and  the  elimination  of  all 
nuclear,  chemical  and  biological  weapons  to  pave  the 
way  for  all  nations  to  have  access  to  advanced  and 
peaceful  technologies  for  the  advancement  of  the 
human race. 

The  fourth  action  is  that  we  should  reform 
cultural  structures,  promote  respect  for  the  diverse 
customs  and  traditions  of  all  nations  and  foster  moral 
values  and  spirituality  aimed  at  strengthening  the 
institution  of  the  family,  which  is  the  backbone  of  all 
human societies. 
For  the  fifth  action,  worldwide  efforts  must  be 

made to protect the environment and fully observe the 
international  agreements  and  arrangements  to  prevent 
the annihilation of nature’s non-renewable resources. 

My fifth point is that our nation has successfully 
gone through a glorious and fully democratic election, 
opening  a  new  chapter  for  our  country  in  the  march 
towards  national  progress  and  enhanced  international 
interactions. Once again, a large majority has entrusted 
me with this heavy responsibility.  

And now, I want to declare that our great nation, 
which has made significant contributions both to world 
civilization  and  to  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  itself, 
and  as  one  of  the  most  democratic  and  progressive 
Governments  in  the  world,  is  ready  to  mobilize  all  its 
cultural,  political  and  economic  capabilities  to  engage 
in  a  constructive  process  aimed  at  addressing  the 
international  concerns  and  confronting  the  challenges 
that  face  human  society.  Our  country,  the  builder  of 
cultures,  has  itself  been  a  principal  victim  of  blind 
09-52228 

35 
in 
this 
journey 
A/64/PV.4 

terrorism  and  the  target  of  all-out  military  aggression 
during the first decade of its revolution. 

Throughout  the  past  30  years,  we  have  been 
subject to the hostile attitudes of those who at one time 
supported,  with  all  their  might,  Saddam’s  military 
aggression and his use of chemical weapons against us, 
and who at another time decided to take military action 
in Iraq to get rid of the same man. 
Today,  our  nation  seeks  to  create  a  world  in 

which 
justice  and  compassion  will  prevail.  We 
announce  our  commitment  to  participating  in  the 
process  of  building 
lasting  peace  and  security 
worldwide for all nations, based on justice, spirituality 
and  human  dignity,  while  being  dedicated  to  strongly 
defending our legitimate and legal rights. 

To achieve those goals, our nation is prepared to 
warmly  shake  all  hands  which  are  extended  to  us  in 
good faith. No nation can claim to be free of the need 
to  change  and  reform 
towards 
perfection. We welcome real and humane changes and 
stand  ready  to  actively  engage  in  fundamental  global 
reforms. 
Therefore,  we  emphasize  that  the  only  path  to 

continued  safety  and  security 
to 
monotheism  and  justice. That  is  the  greatest  hope  and 
opportunity of all ages and generations. Without belief 
in God and commitment to the  cause of justice,  along 
with the fight against injustice and discrimination, the 
world structure will not be corrected. 

Man  is  at  the  centre  of  the  universe.  Man’s 
unique  feature  is  his  humanity,  a  humanity  that  seeks 
justice, piety, love, knowledge, awareness and all other 
higher  values.  These  human  values  should  be 
supported,  and  each  and  every  fellow  human  being 
should  be  given  the  opportunity  to  develop  them. 
Neglecting  any  of  them  is  tantamount  to  the  omission 
of an essential aspect of humanity. These are common 
elements  which  connect  all  human  communities  and 
which  constitute  the  basis  of  peace,  security  and 
friendship. 

Divine  religions  pay  attention  to  all  aspects  of 
human  life,  including  obedience  to  God,  morality, 
justice,  fighting  oppression  and  endeavouring 
to 
establish  just  and  good  governance.  The  Prophet 
Abraham  called  for  the  oneness  of  God  against 
Nimrod, as the Prophet Moses did the same against the 
Pharaohs.  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Prophet  Muhammad, 
return 
is 
to 

may  peace  be  upon  them,  did  the  same  against  the 
oppressors  of  their  own  time.  All  of  these  men  were 
threatened  with  death  and  were  forced  out  of  their 
homelands. Without  resistance  and  objection,  the  face 
of the Earth will not be rid of injustice. 

I  turn  now  to  my  final  point.  The  world  is  in 
continuous change and evolution. Mankind’s promised 
destiny is the establishment of a pure humane life. This 
will come about when justice prevails around the globe 
and when every single human being enjoys respect and 
dignity. That will be the moment when mankind’s path 
to moral and spiritual perfection will be opened and his 
journey  to  God  and  the  manifestation  of  God’s  divine 
names  will  come  to  be.  Mankind  should  strive  to 
represent  God’s  knowledge 
and  wisdom,  his 
compassion  and  benevolence,  his  justice  and  fairness, 
his power and art, and his kindness and forgiveness. 

These  will  all  come  true  under  the  rule  of  the 
perfect  Man,  the  last  divine  source  on  Earth,  Hazrat 
Mahdi, peace be upon him. He will be an offspring of 
the  Prophet  of  Islam,  who  will  re-emerge,  and  Jesus 
Christ, peace be upon him. Other noble and pious men 
will  accompany  him  in  the  accomplishment  of  this 
grand  universal  mission.  This  is  the  belief  in  entezar: 
waiting  patiently  for  the  Imam  to  return;  waiting 
patiently  for  the  rule  of  goodness  and  the  governance 
of  the  best,  which  he  promises.  This  is  a  universal 
human  notion  and  a  source  of  the  hope  of  nations  for 
the betterment of the world. 

They  will  come,  and  with  the  help  of  righteous 
people  and  true  believers  will  realize  man’s  long-
standing  desire  for  freedom,  perfection,  maturity, 
security, tranquillity, peace and beauty. They will come 
to  put  an  end  to  war  and  aggression  and  to  reveal  all 
knowledge  to  the  world,  as  well  as  spirituality  and 
friendship.  Yes  indeed,  mankind’s  bright  future  will 
come. 

In waiting for that brilliant time to come and in a 
collective commitment, let us each do our part to pave 
the  way  and  prepare  the  conditions  for  building  that 
bright future. Long live love and spirituality. Long live 
peace and security. Long live justice and freedom. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran for the statement he has just made. 
36 

09-52228 



Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia 

The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Plurinational 
State of Bolivia.  

Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  President  of 
the 
Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma, 
President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.

President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Once  again,  we  meet  at  the  United  Nations  to  share 
concerns, problems and experiences and to discuss the 
various  ways  in  which  we  can  serve  our  peoples 
worldwide. 
Since  this  morning  I  have  listened  closely  to 

statements,  starting  with 
the  Secretary-
General —  to  whom  I  offer  a  special,  revolutionary 
greeting — until this moment, when we just heard the 
President  of  Iran.  In  all  of  these  statements,  there  has 
been  great  convergence  on  problems  such  as  the 
financial 
the 
environmental crisis and problems concerning stability 
and institutionalization of democracies in a number of 
countries.  There  have  also  been  ideas  and  proposals 
such  as  those  offered  by  the  Secretary-General,  who 
called for unity among Presidents and unity within the 
United  Nations.  I  fully  agree  that  it  is  important  that 
we  Presidents  and  Governments  unite  to  meet  the 
demands  of  our  peoples,  in  order  to  resolve  these 
crises.  

I  would  say  that  in  my  country  the  crises  have 
been  imposed  from  above  and  from  outside.  We  need 
unity  within  the  United  Nations  for  the  sake  of  the 
equality of our peoples; we need unity for dignity; we 
need  unity  above  all  to  tackle  the  deep  economic 
divergences, the deep asymmetries between continents, 
between families and between countries. But it must be 
unity in a context of complementarity, in order to meet 
our peoples’ demands.  
problems 
that  of 
crisis, 
arising 
from 
A/64/PV.4

There is an ongoing debate on the financial crisis 
and  on  climate  change,  as  well  as  on  the  problems  of 
democracy and the energy and food crises. I welcome a 
number  of  the  statements  that  addressed  and  focused 
on  the  origins  of  this  crisis.  But  the  majority  of 
Presidents  and  the  majority  of  the  statements  referred 
only to the effects, not to the causes.  

I would like to speak frankly to the Assembly — 
my  listeners  here,  and  to  all  others  who  are  following 
the  debates  taking  place  in  this  global  forum.  I  would 
like  to  say  that  the  origin  of  these  crises  was  the 
unbridled  accumulation  of  capital  in  a  few  hands,  the 
irretrievable  looting  of  natural  resources  and  the 
commercialization  of  Mother  Earth.  And  above  all,  I 
believe  their  origin  lies  in  an  economic  model,  an 
economic system, namely, capitalism.  

If  we  do  not  tell  our  peoples  the  truth  about  the 
origin  of  this  crisis,  then  we  will  be  misleading 
ourselves and the international community too. We will 
be  misleading  our  peoples,  who  have  great 
expectations  of  their  Presidents  and  Governments  and 
of forums such as this one.  
Although we are promoting and seeking peace, in 

the  light  of  our  experience,  we  know  that  we  will  not 
find  social  peace  while  there  is  economic  inequality, 
and all the less when there are military bases in some 
countries.  These  may  be  located  on  many  continents, 
including Latin America and South America. How can 
we hold discussions when United States military bases 
provoke distrust among peoples?  
I  would  like  to  briefly  tell  the  Assembly  that  I 

was  a  victim  of  the  military  bases  operating  in  my 
country  before  assuming  the  presidency,  before  the 
social movements were not merely opposed to policies 
but also actors in a new country of equality and social 
justice.  All  of  us  were  victims  of  the  United  States 
military  presence  in  Bolivia,  and  as  victims  we  know 
what uniformed armed United States personnel can do 
in South American countries. For that reason, I would 
like  to  say  that  when  there  is  a  United  States  military 
base,  particularly  in  Latin America  —  I  do  not  know 
about  their  conduct  in  Europe  or  on  other  continents, 
but in Latin America, the presence of military bases is 
no  guarantee  of  social  peace  or  of  democracy. 
Certainly,  it  cannot  guarantee  the  integration  of  our 
countries, much less of the peoples who are seeking to 
bring  about  deep-wrought  changes  in  our  social, 
economic and cultural structures.  
09-52228 

37 

the  dictatorships 
A/64/PV.4 


Now  we  have  Honduras.  If  there  is  a  United 
States military base in Honduras, why can this military 
base not guarantee democracy? It cannot because there 
are  Presidents  who  change  these  countries,  which  are 
constantly threatened by military bases. 

I  hail  the  courage  of  our  colleague,  President 
Zelaya  of  Honduras,  who 
is  democratically  and 
pacifically 
resisting  with 
the  aim  of 
restoring 
democracy. My respect and admiration go to him as he 
strives  together  with  his  defiant  people  to  uphold 
democracy.  How  good  it  would  be  if  the  United 
Nations,  this  great  international  organization,  were  to 
adopt a resolution issuing an ultimatum to the military 
dictatorship  in  Honduras  to  withdraw  and  restore  the 
only internationally recognized President. 

I  am  convinced  that  the  United  States  Southern 
Command does not accept Latin American countries or 
their Presidents that are seeking liberation. I have even 
heard  from  some  friends,  comrades  and  brothers  that 
they  supported 
in  Bolivia  and 
elsewhere  in  Latin  America.  They  say  that  the  only 
reason  there  has  been  no  coup  d’état  in  the  United 
States is that there is no United States Embassy in the 
United  States.  There  are  coups  d’état  occurring 
everywhere, but let me say that in September last year 
there  was  an  attempted  coup  d’état  in  Bolivia,  and 
thanks  to  the  union  forces and  the  involvement  of  the 
international community, particularly from the southern 
cone,  we  were  able  to  halt  that  civilian  —  not 
military — coup d’état.  

bases  cannot  guarantee  democracy, 
social peace.  
We  have  also  been  discussing  the  subject  of 

this 
climate  change,  and  I  would 
opportunity  to  propose  a  number  of  issues  to  the 
Assembly which are of the utmost importance for all of 
us  who  inhabit  Mother  Earth.  For  the  indigenous 
movement, this is Mother Earth — or, for many others, 
planet  Earth  or  the  environment.  For  those  of  us  who 
live in harmony with Mother Earth, not just in harmony 
with human beings, Mother Earth is something sacred. 
It  is  Mother  Earth  which  gives  life,  which  provides 
water,  natural  resources,  oxygen.  We  all  promote  the 
well-being  of  our  peoples.  We  are  struggling  and 
fighting and working for the well-being of our peoples, 
but  first  of  all,  we  must  ensure  the  well-being  of 
Mother Earth. 
For these reasons, we are convinced that military 
integration  or 
like 
to 
take 
38 


If we cannot guarantee the well-being of Mother 
Earth, then it will be impossible to guarantee the well-
being of our countrymen or of all the peoples on planet 
Earth.  I  have  reached  the  conclusion  that  Mother 
Earth —  or  planet  Earth  —  can  and  will  exist  forever 
with  or  without  human  life.  But  human  life  cannot 
exist without planet Earth — Mother Earth. 

After  having  listened  to  many  statements  and 
after having listened to my brothers, I have reached the 
conclusion  that  at  this  point  in  time,  in  this  new 
twenty-first  century,  it  will  be  more  important  than 
ever before to defend the rights of Mother Earth than to 
defend human rights. 

If  we  do  not  protect  the  rights  of  Mother  Earth, 
there will be no point in defending human rights. I am 
prepared  to  discuss  this  concept,  and  sooner  or  later 
everyone  will  understand  why  it  is  so  important  to 
defend the rights of Mother Earth. 
As we are currently discussing climate change, I 

propose to Presidents, representatives and all our other 
brothers  and  sisters  who  are  listening  throughout  the 
world our very simple, three-point proposal.  

First,  the  developed  countries  must  acknowledge 
and  pay  the  climate  debt  that  they  and  all  humankind 
owe Planet Earth. 

Secondly,  a  court  for  climate  justice  must  be 
established to try and to punish those who fail to meet 
their  commitments and those who  continue to damage 
Planet Earth. We need a structure that can quantify the 
damage  caused  by  some  countries  and  transnational 
companies,  and  therefore  it  is  important  that  such  a 
court for climate justice be established. 
The third proposal is one of those that have been 

indigenous 
developed  above  all  by 
movements:  the  United  Nations  must  draw  up  a 
declaration  of  the  rights  of  Mother  Earth,  in  order  to 
defend the right to life, the right to the regeneration of 
bio-capacity,  the  right  to  a  clean  life  and  the  right  to 
harmony and the coexistence of us all. 

I  hope  that  these  proposals  will  be  taken  into 
account during the discussions in Copenhagen. We also 
hope that Copenhagen will provide a grand solution to 
resolve the serious problems that affect us all, in all the 
countries of the world. 

I also take this opportunity to take up some of the 
proposals made by a number of Presidents. If we want 
rural  and 
09-52228 
their  privileges  and  accept 


to  change  the  world,  we  must  first  change  the  United 
Nations.  If  we  want  to  effect  change  in  our  countries, 
seeking  equality  and  dignity  for  our  compatriots,  why 
not first change the structures of the United Nations? 

Listening  to  what  many  other  Presidents  said 
about the Security Council, I felt that there were many 
points of agreement. We need a real democratization of 
the  United  Nations,  for  which  I  make  the  following 
suggestions. 

The  status  of  permanent  membership  of  the 
Security  Council  and  the  right  to  veto  must  be 
abolished. It is not possible in the twenty-first century 
to  maintain  outdated  totalitarian  practices  going  back 
to the time of monarchies. All countries must have the 
same  rights  within  the  United  Nations.  Those  who 
proclaim  themselves  to  be  the  leaders  of  democracy 
should  give  up 
true 
democratization  of  the  Security  Council.  We  must  be 
responsible  with  democracy  and  begin  to  democratize 
the United Nations. 

I shall soon end my short intervention, as I do not 
wish  to  exceed  my  time  limit,  in  keeping  with  the 
discipline that our peoples teach us. But first I am sorry 
to have state a truth that may upset the Government of 
the  United  States.  I  had  great  hopes  of  President 
Obama.  I  welcome  his  closure  of  Guantanamo,  which 
represents  progress.  But  in  addition  the  economic 
blockade  of  Cuba  should  be  ended.  That  is  my 
respectful request to the Government and people of the 
United States. 
Bolivia,  like  Latin  America  as  a  whole,  used  to 

enjoy certain tariff preferences, but under ex-President 
Bush they were removed, because we were accused of 
not  combating  drug-trafficking  and  poverty.  We  know 
that that was a political decision, but ex-President Bush 
never 
into  account  Bolivian  norms  or  our 
Constitution.  

Now,  under  President  Obama’s  Government,  we 
see  documents  which  include  references  to  our  new 
Constitution, which, for the first time in the 183 years’ 
existence  of  the  Republic,  was  approved  by  a  vote  of 
the  Bolivian  people. There  is  a  reference  to  article  56 
and  respect  for  private  property.  That  strikes  me  as 
direct interference by the United States Government in 
the  Constitution  and  other  norms  and  standards,  and  I 
roundly reject it. What we want is diplomatic relations 
not of interference, but of cooperation and investment. 
time 
While 
the  new  Constitution 
took 
first 
the 
for 
A/64/PV.4
the  coca 
guarantees  private  property  and  State  property, 
fundamentally  it  guarantees  collective  property  — 
property  held  by  associations  and  cooperatives,  and 
communal  lands  belonging  to  the  indigenous,  native 
movement. 

In addition, an accusation is made against me in a 
United  States  report  stating  that  current  challenges 
include  the  explicit  acceptance  and  encouragement  of 
coca  production  at  the  highest  levels  of  the  Bolivian 
Government.  That  is  to  say  that  I  encourage  the 
cultivation  of  coca.  It  should  be  understood  that 
growing  the  coca  leaf  is  one  thing  and  that  cocaine  is 
quite another. We do not defend cocaine; we shall fight 
it.  Indeed,  our  proposal  is  zero  cocaine.  What  I  have 
just  said  does  not  mean  having  free  cultivation  of  the 
coca leaf, though in its natural state it is beneficial and 
healthy for human life. 
We have launched a campaign on decriminalizing 

the 
traditional  consumption  of 
leaf.  I 
guarantee  that  there  will  never  be  free  cultivation  of 
coca, but neither will there a zero coca leaf policy. But 
there  is  a  zero  cocaine  policy.  It  cannot  be  said  that  I 
encourage coca cultivation in Bolivia. That is not true. 

The  Assembly  will  know  that  I  come  from  the 
trade  union  and  social  movements,  and  that  I  was  a 
union  leader.  Now  President,  fortuitously  and  for  the 
time  being,  I  am  extremely  concerned  that  it  is  said 
that 
the  union 
movement  by  decree.  How  could  I  eliminate  the 
unions,  when  they  and  the  social  movements  are  the 
backbone of the Evo Morales Government? I have built 
union  headquarters  and  encouraged  unions,  workers 
and  indigenous  peoples,  and  yet  I  am  accused  of 
dismantling the unions. 
President  Obama  may  not  be  aware  of  the 

documents  to  which  I  have  referred,  which  perhaps 
come 
I  perfectly 
understand that sometimes when change is desired it is 
difficult  to  change  State  structures.  But  after  reading 
the  documents  very  carefully  I  wonder  how  it  is 
possible  for  someone  who  has  suffered  discrimination 
to  discriminate  against  another.  At  least  in  Latin 
America, 
and 
Afro-Bolivians  are  the  sectors  most  discriminated 
against  in  society,  together  with  the  so-called  Indians 
or  indigenous  people.  We  are  called  “negroes”  and 
“Indians”. I do not understand how a black person who 
has  been  discriminated  against  and  excluded  can 
the  Government  will  dismantle 
so-called  Afro-Americans 
the  State  Department. 
from 
the 
09-52228 

39 
We 

A/64/PV.4 

discriminate  against  and  exclude  an  Indian.  It  is  a 
matter of grave concern.  

It is to be hoped that those historic errors can be 
rectified, not for the good of the President, and not just 
for the good of Bolivians, but for the image of peoples, 
such  as  the  people  of  the  United  States.  I  well 
understand  that  sometimes  it  is  not  easy  to  change 
structures which may work against our peoples. 

Finally, I refer  to some historical demands, such 
as the return of our access to the sea. Our two peoples, 
our brother republics, Chile and Bolivia, feel sufficient 
trust  in  each  other  to  seek  to  resolve  the  issue  of  
maritime access. I hope that it can be settled bilaterally. 
If not, intervention by the international community will 
be needed. Progress has been made. I feel that there is 
trust, which is needed in order to resolve any problem. 
Otherwise, important steps must be taken. 

I  thank  my  brothers  and  sisters  for  listening  to 
me. I would like to continue to share their experience,  
proposals  and  concerns  for  the  good  of  mankind  as  a 
whole. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Plurinational  State of Bolivia for the  statement he has 
just made. 

Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  President  of 
the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall. 


The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now 
Address by Mr. Victor Yushchenko, President 
of Ukraine 

hear an address by the President of Ukraine.  

Mr. Victor Yushchenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Victor  Yushchenko, 
President  of  Ukraine,  and  to  invite  him to  address  the 
Assembly. 
in  Ukrainian; 

English interpretation provided by the delegation): On 
behalf  of  Ukraine,  I  congratulate  Mr. Ali Abdussalam 
Treki of Libya on his election to preside over the sixty-
fourth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  wish  him 
every success in his activities. 
President  Yushchenko  (spoke 
live 

Every year we all gather here at high level in the 
General  Assembly  to  present  our  own  national  views 
on  the  life  of  our  planet  and  its  peoples. We  strive  to 
get  the  feeling  of  the  overall  emotional  setting  and 
pulse  of  human  energy, 
ideas  and  quests.  The 
emotional  setting  of  Ukraine  is  open,  principled  and 
tolerant. 

We have gathered here not to offend each other or 
exchange insults, but to resolve our common problems. 
I  call  upon  all  of  us  to  use  tolerance  against  bigotry, 
malignancy  and  arrogance.  I  say  this  on  behalf  of  a 
nation  whose  last  lustrum  is  unique  in  terms  of 
challenges and progress. 

in  an  atmosphere  of 
in  Ukraine 
strengthening freedom. This process is both grand and 
complex.  Its  difficulties  discourage 
idealists  and 
nurture authoritarian forces, yet they are another alpine 
peak  for  all  who  are  enlightened  to  ascend.  The 
milestone at which our nation stands today is the basis 
for moving forward to a free and safe life, to revive our 
own  millennium-old  tradition  and  its  interrupted  ties 
and to be again an active part of global civilization. 
Our  democratic  choice  is  irreversible.  As  a  free 

nation, we shall not accept any forms of interference in 
the internal affairs of sovereign States, any pressure on 
them  or  manifestations  of  authoritarian  thinking  in 
international relations. We remember the price paid by 
our fathers for our freedom, for the freedom of Europe 
and  the  world,  and  for  the  future  independence  of 
Ukraine. 
the  sixty-fifth 

anniversary  of  the  victory  over  fascism.  This  joint 
victory  of  the  anti-Hitler  coalition  is  sacred.  The 
mission of all countries which remember the horrors of 
fascism  is  to  avert  any  hint  of  a  restoration  of 
totalitarian  ideology  and  its  derivative:  the  policy  of 
imperial ambitions, neglecting the value of human life 
and violating the right of peoples to sovereign national 
existence. 

I  raise  this  issue  because  we  are  witnessing  the 
re-emergence  of  very  disconcerting  signals  from  the 
past,  ranging  from  questioning  the  very  existence  of 
newly  independent  States  to  denying  nations’  own 
views on their past and future. We are concerned about 
the 
approaches. 
Cooperation, openness and friendship between nations 
are  being  explicitly  confronted  by  aggressive  national 
egotism,  which  ignores  the  interests  of  close  partners 
We  shall  soon  commemorate 
substitution  of 
concepts 
and 
40 

09-52228 


and  dictates  the  right  of  the  powerful.  Unconcealed 
information  wars,  energy  blackmail  and  economic 
blackmail, as well as interference in sovereign affairs, 
fall outside the civilized framework. 

Most  important,  we  strongly  condemn  and  shall 
not  accept  any  violations  of  fundamental  international 
principles  —  in  particular,  territorial  integrity  and  the 
inviolability of the frontiers of all sovereign States. 

It  is  axiomatic  for  us  that  all  United  Nations 
Member States, and especially the permanent members 
of the Security Council, must be exemplary in abiding 
by  the  principles  of  international  law,  of  equality  of 
nations and of neighbourliness, for our Charter, which 
remains  unbroken,  entrusts  the  Security  Council  with 
the primary responsibility for maintaining international 
peace and security. 

Ukraine  acts  in  strict  compliance  with  the  goals 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  and  expects  the 
same from its partners and neighbours. 

Today  I  have  the  honour  to  confirm  Ukraine’s 
resolve to become a Security Council member in 2016-
2017. 

Our  country  has  been  and  will  always  remain  a 
reliable partner of the United Nations in all  peace and 
security  matters  and  in  collective  actions  fostering 
stability in every region, especially in Africa. This year 
I  approved  the  strategy  of  Ukraine’s  international 
peacekeeping  activity,  which  will  consolidate  our 
contribution and participation in this field. 
Safety  of  peacekeepers  has  been  constantly  the 

focus of Ukraine’s attention. As one of the initiators of 
the  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  United  Nations  and 
Associated  Personnel,  we  propose  that  the  General 
Assembly  consider  additional  measures  to  strengthen 
the  legal  protection  of  participants  in  peacekeeping 
operations. 

Almost 15 years ago Ukraine voluntarily gave up 
the  third  largest  nuclear  potential  and  acceded  to  the 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  as  a  non-nuclear 
State. We welcome the steps taken by the United States 
and 
to  elaborate  a  new 
agreement to  replace the Treaty between the Union  of 
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States on the 
Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, 
of 31 July 1991, which expires this year. 
the  Russian  Federation 
A/64/PV.4
for  our  proposal 
At the same time, Ukraine continues to count on 

the  Security  Council  permanent 
the  support  of 
members 
to  enhance  security 
assurances  for  non-nuclear  States,  in  particular  for 
those  which  have  voluntarily 
renounced  nuclear 
weapons  or  their  development.  That  will  become  an 
important incentive for many countries. 

Ukraine  will  continue  to  act  responsibly  and 
constructively  in  matters  of  military  and  security 
cooperation. 
We strictly abide by Security Council resolutions, 

and adhere to all established international regimes. Our 
position  in  this  sphere  is  consistent  with  all  our 
international  obligations.  It  is  verified,  balanced  and 
unchangeable. 
I  wish  to  dwell  on  an  issue  of  the  utmost 

importance  for  Ukraine: 
the  global  fight  against 
maritime piracy. We value all the efforts of the United 
Nations  and  the  International  Maritime  Organization 
(IMO) in this regard. However, the measures taken so 
far have not been sufficient. 

Almost  60,000  Ukrainian  citizens  are  employed 
on ships under foreign flags. Any developments on the 
high  seas  affect  us  directly.  In  the  last  seven  years 
alone  pirates  have  attacked  18  vessels  with  Ukrainian 
sailors  on  board,  and  in  the  last  nine  months  alone 
35 Ukrainian  sailors  have  been  taken  hostage.  It  is  no 
longer  a  local  problem;  it  has  become  very  dangerous 
and threatens us all. We shall not turn a blind eye to it. 

the  sponsors  of  IMO 
resolution  A.1002  (25),  entitled  “Piracy  and  armed 
robbery against ships operating in waters off the coast 
of Somalia”, which laid the ground for further Security 
Council resolutions in that regard. We strongly support 
the  elaboration  of  uniform,  clear  rules  to  fight  pirates 
and  to  protect  sailors.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
General Assembly  has  to  become  a  coordinating  body 
for  the  efforts  of  all  specialized  institutions  in  this 
field. We call for a more active stance by those United 
Nations Members which are main countries of origin of 
marine  workers  and  by  those  States  and  organizations 
capable  of  making  an 
the  safety  of 
international maritime navigation. 

On  behalf  of  Ukraine,  I  propose  to  examine 
carefully the idea of establishing in one of the African 
countries  a  regional  centre  under  the  United  Nations 
aegis which would bring under its umbrella specialized 
Ukraine  was  among 
impact  on 
09-52228 

41 

in  all 
A/64/PV.4 

agencies,  programmes  and  funds,  as  well  as  political 
offices,  to  counter  piracy.  I  want  to  be  clear:  Ukraine 
will  be  actively  engaged 
international 
endeavours, and we intend to join the European Union 
Atalanta anti-piracy naval operation. 

As  President  of  Ukraine,  I  urge  the  General 
Assembly  to  debate  these  very  critical  issues  in  a 
separate meeting. 

We face manifold challenges that we can resolve 
only  by  concerted  efforts.  I  am  convinced  that  one  of 
the  most  acute  problems  for  us  all  is  the  global 
financial  crisis.  Ukraine  welcomes  decisions  of 
multilateral forums, in particular those of the Group of 
20, as the leading instrument to counter the crisis. 
In  this  process,  our  Organization  can  and  should 

play  its  role  in  preventing  the  financial  perturbations 
from  spinning  out  into  social  upheavals.  Perhaps  it  is 
time to revisit the idea, put forward earlier by Ukraine 
and  recently  by  a  number  of  other  countries,  of  the 
creation  of  a  United  Nations  economic  security 
council.  The  large  scale  of  this  proposal  should  not 
prompt us to shelve it or reject it altogether. 

In addition, decisions on the financing of United 
Nations activities within regular reviews of the scale of 
assessments  must  be  taken  with  due  account  of  the 
global crisis. 

The  principal  and  most  important  objective  for 
our  universal  Organization  and  for  each  of  our 
countries  is  to  protect  common  people  from  the  crisis 
and to prevent the decline of their living standards.  

Despite  all  the  economic  difficulties,  Ukraine  is 
aware  of  its  responsibility  to  support  other  countries 
that  have  suffered  even  more.  This  year  Ukraine  has 
become a World Food Programme donor. We hope that 
our contribution will save millions of lives in Africa. I 
say to our dear partners that Ukraine understands very 
well  your  needs,  and  we  shall  strive  to  save  people 
suffering from hunger.  

We have gathered here today to get the feeling of 
the  overall  emotional  setting  of  our  planet.  Ukraine’s 
emotional 
resolute,  persevering  and 
benevolent. 

We  believe  in  our  Organization.  We  are  capable 
of  great  achievements.  I  am  firmly  convinced  of  our 
strength to move forward confidently for the benefit of 
the world, our peoples and countries. 
setting 
is 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  Ukraine  for  the 
statement he has just made.  

Mr. Victor Yushchenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.  


Address by Mr. Lech Kaczyński, President of the 
Republic of Poland 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Poland. 

Mr. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of 
Poland,  was  escorted  into  the  General Assembly 
Hall.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Lech Kaczyński, President 
of the Republic of Poland, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.  
President  Kaczyński  (spoke  in  Polish;  English 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Sixty-four 
years  since  the  foundation  of  the  United  Nations  we 
recall the self-evident fact that the United Nations was 
created to prevent atrocities such as those that occurred 
during  the  Second  World  War,  from  1939  to  1945.  It 
was  called into being in order to avoid  a repetition of 
the  failure  of 
the  first 
worldwide  organization,  which  tried  to  carry  out  its 
duties between the two world wars. 
The United Nations over 64 years has undergone 

various  twists  and  turns.  There  have  been  better  and 
worse  years,  years  when  here  in  this  Hall  there  were 
clashes between the forces of two camps, the so-called 
socialist  camp  and  the  free  world.  There  were  times 
when  here  in  this  Hall  scores  of  new  countries  of 
Africa, Oceania and Asia emerged. There was also the 
time,  20  years  ago,  when,  after  the  collapse  of  the 
Soviet  Union, 
there  appeared  many  other  new 
countries,  and  when  others  such  as  mine,  Poland, 
gained real, not only formal, independence.  

At that time the whole world believed that we had 
found a way to solve all problems, especially economic 
problems, using market economy rules, which meant a 
free economy and free movement of capital in all areas. 
We  have  to  state  clearly  that,  as  we  have  heard  here 
many  times,  in  recent  years  this  faith  has  been 
the  League  of  Nations, 
42 

09-52228 
However, 
the  problem  of 


undermined, and therefore I have to devote my address 
to the problem of the crisis to some extent. 

This  crisis  is  a  new  problem.  Participating  in  a 
General Assembly session for the first time, I can state 
that all the earlier problems, such as conflicts, of which 
there  are  many,  the  more  recent  problem  of  climate 
change,  and  the  problem  of  poverty,  are  not  new.  To 
them  we  should  add  the  problem  of  health:  AIDS, 
epidemics and so on. 

the  current  crisis 
appeared in the last year. Before coming to it, I should 
like  to  refer  to  what  the  President  of  Ukraine  said. 
There  are  many  causes  of  conflict  in  the  world,  one 
being  the  violation  of  faith  in  territorial  integrity. 
Because  many  new  countries  have  emerged  over  the 
past  dozens  of  years,  it  is  clear  that  there  will  be 
differences  of  opinion  over  this  or  that  territory.  If 
force is used to resolve such differences, as it was last 
year against Georgia, this may give rise to fundamental 
problems.  It  could  be  the  source  of  local  wars,  but  it 
could  also  be  the  source  of  great  conflicts,  even 
conflicts on a world scale. On behalf of my country, I 
warn against this. 

I  return  to  the  problem  of  the  current  crisis.  I 
represent  a  country  that  continues  to  develop.  We  are 
the  only  country  in  the  European  Union  that  will  this 
year  record  —  albeit  small  —  economic  growth. This 
is due to some factors that are specific to my country, 
so  I  do  not  wish  to  dwell  at  length  on  the  subject. 
However, it is clear that one reason for the crisis is that 
we  place  too  much  faith  in  markets  and  banking 
systems  that  become  more  and  more  complicated. 
Sooner or later that must lead to the outcomes that we 
all see. 
What preventive measures can be taken? They are 

known, but it is difficult to implement them. I believe 
that the United Nations has a great opportunity here. It 
is  not  that  there  will  be  management  of  the  global 
economy. Such attempts are doomed to failure and will 
lead to another crisis. But it is not true that we do not 
need  new  rules,  new  regulations,  to  deal  with  issues 
that  have  also  been  discussed 
including 
supervision  and  oversight  over  the  banking  sector. 
Perhaps  that  oversight  should  not  be  global  in  nature, 
but it must include countries where banks are under no 
control,  because  that  is  the  source  of  an  economic 
pathology,  which  often  facilitates  large-scale  criminal 
activity, such as drug-trafficking. 
today, 
A/64/PV.4
those 
to 
relating 
including 

Another problem that has been mentioned here is 
that of so-called tax havens. Mention can also be made 
of  cheap  flags  of  convenience  for  shipping.  We 
understand  that  all  those  who  use  them  do  so  to 
improve the situation in their countries; we realize that 
from the point of view of various countries, especially 
those that are not rich, there is a reason. I am not here 
to  criticize  them.  But  it  is  in  our  common  interest  to 
put  an  end  to  such  practices.  There  is  no  other 
organization  in  the  world  that  can  do  this  but  the 
United  Nations,  through  the  creation  of  international 
norms. 
President Lula of Brazil spoke about certain very 

important  problems, 
to 
financial  agencies  affiliated  to  the  United  Nations.  In 
that regard, I refer to the problem of greater flexibility 
in programmes launched by the International Monetary 
Fund or the World Bank. 

There  is  another  issue:  better  use  of  certain 
organizations  affiliated  to  the  United  Nations.  Here  I 
draw  attention  first 
the  International  Labour 
Organization (ILO), which has been in existence for 80 
years. It embraces almost all countries of the world and 
has  about  2,500  employees.  Should  it  not  to  a  greater 
extent  be  a  place  for  the  formulation  of  programmes 
providing  an  alternative  to  liberal  development?  It 
seems that a reformed ILO could successfully perform 
that  function.  It  requires  a  common  effort,  but  it  is 
feasible. 
I  am  not  talking  about  additional  funds  and 

financial  means.  I  am 
talking  about  formulating 
alternative  programmes  that  take  the  interests  of 
workers into account to a greater extent than so far, and 
also a balance between different social groups, not only 
in the rich countries, but also in the poorer countries. 

Today’s  address  by  the  President  of  the  United 
States pointed to the fact that a country that, whatever 
one  thinks  about  it,  is  the  most  powerful  in  the  world 
today,  is  now  approaching  the  problems  of  the  United 
Nations  differently.  This  creates  a  certain  possibility 
for  the  Organization,  our  Organization.  This  is  an 
opportunity  that  can  be  taken  if  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  become  more  effective.  We 
should appreciate the operations that have been carried 
out so far, but we need certain organizational changes 
to make the activity more effective. What I am saying 
does  not  exclude  the  tasks  taken  up  by,  for  instance, 
09-52228 

43 



issue, 
important 
is  a  very 
A/64/PV.4 

NATO. But the United Nations should play the leading 
role. 

There  is  also  the  problem  of  United  Nations 
reform, especially reform of the Security Council. I do 
not  wish  to  dwell  on  the  subject  now,  but  we  are  all 
aware that it is a very important issue, in that there is a 
basic difference between what was established 64 years 
ago and what we have now. 

In the past the United Nations has placed a great 
deal of emphasis on climate change and climate issues. 
Much  has  been  said  about  the  subject,  and  I  do  not 
want  to  repeat  it.  However,  I  strongly  emphasize  that 
this 
requiring  great 
sensitivity. If richer countries want to become strongly 
involved  in  climate  protection,  they  must  realize  that 
the weaker States should be assisted, because this very 
just  cause  cannot  be  dealt  with  in  such  a  way  as  to 
make  development  easier  for  some  and  harder  for 
others. We should always bear that in mind in thinking 
about  the  solidarity  of  all  nations  and  about  the 
objectives given to the United Nations 64 years ago. 

Last, but not least, I turn to an issue that has not 
been  discussed  at  great  length,  except  in  regard  to 
piracy: international terrorism. Today it is an important 
problem.  The  situation  in  some  countries,  such  as 
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan,  is  very  significant  proof  of 
that.  Terrorism  has  its  sources,  not  all  of  which  are 
related  to  external  ideologies.  There  are  also  some 
objective  premises,  and  we  understand  this.  We  also 
understand  that  the  United  Nations  can  play  a  greater 
role than it has played so far. 

Poland is a member of NATO, and is very much 
involved  in  operations.  But  we  understand  that  under 
international  law  the  only  100  per  cent  legitimacy  for 
such operations derives from the United Nations. This 
is very important now and also for the future, because 
we must realize that the problems of conflict, crisis and 
terrorism cannot be solved within a few years.  
Many  times  today  we  heard  that  the  United 

Nations  is  entering  a  new  stage.  We  believe  that  this 
will  be  a  phase  of  its  greatness,  because  we  have 
learned from the past that this great world experiment, 
which has many times passed the test on a global scale, 
will continue to do so in the near future. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Poland for the statement he has just made. 
to 

Mr. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of 
Poland, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
Address by Mr. Kevin Rudd, Prime Minister  
of Australia  

hear an address by the Prime Minister of Australia. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
I  have  great  pleasure 
Mr. Kevin Rudd, Prime Minister of Australia, was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  The  Honourable  Kevin  Rudd,  Prime 
Minister  of Australia,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr. Rudd (Australia): I come to the Assembly, as 

Australia  has  each  year  since  the  first  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  1946,  and  I  come  in  the  same 
spirit,  to  seek  solutions  to  the  great  challenges  of  our 
age and together help give those solutions effect. 
The challenges are not new. They are reflected in 

the  Preamble 
the  Charter  which  we,  as  an 
international  community,  crafted  together:  “to  save 
succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war”,  to 
advance  economic  growth  and  social  progress  for  all, 
“to  reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental  human  rights  …  in 
the equal rights of men and women and of nations large 
and  small”.  All  those  great  undertakings  were  to  be 
reflected in a new body of international law. 
these  great 

international  values 
the 
challenges  to  which  we  apply  them  are  subject  to 
continuing  change.  It  is  on  the  current  challenges 
facing  the  global  order  that  I  wish  to  speak  to  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session today: the 
global  financial  crisis,  the  unfinished  business  of  the 
Doha  Round,  the  unfolding  crisis  of  the  planet  itself, 
unresolved questions of nuclear weapons 20 years after 
the  end  of  the  cold  war,  and  the  future  of  global 
governance itself. 
Just on a year ago, just down the road from here, 

a destructive chain of events triggered the worst global 
financial  crisis  in  three  quarters  of  a  century.  It  was 
just on a year ago that I addressed the Assembly for the 
first  time,  10  days  after  the  collapse  of  Lehman 
remain  constant,  while 
thirds  of  a  century 
later 
Two 
44 

09-52228 


Brothers, to reflect on the  challenges  which lay  ahead 
for the proper regulation of global financial markets. 

That  reform  programme  is  now  under  way, 
through the Group of 20 (G-20), the Financial Stability 
Board and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). But 
there  remains  much  work  to  be  done  to  prevent  the 
unrestrained  greed  of  unregulated  financial  markets 
that  has  wrought  such  economic  carnage  across  the 
world in the past 12 months from sowing the seeds of 
future financial crises. 
The  global  financial  crisis  has  been  a  wake-up 

call  to  the  international  community  to  reform  the 
institutions  of  global  governance,  and  a  wake-up  call 
that our system of global governance today is in need 
of  radical  reform.  Because  the  truth  is  that  the  failure 
of these institutions is not just a matter of concern for 
Governments and for diplomats and for economists; the 
price  of  the  failure  of  these  institutions  has  been  paid 
by  working  people  and  their  families  right  across  the 
world.  

The  events  on  Wall  Street  spread  rapidly  and 
indiscriminately  to  every  corner  of  the  globe,  from 
London  to  Lima,  from  Beijing  to  Barcelona,  from 
Melbourne  to  Mumbai,  to  developed  and  developing 
economies. This global financial crisis and its ensuing 
economic and employment crisis has been no respecter 
of national boundaries, and no respecter of peoples. 

Australia  has  been  no  exception.  The  global 
financial crisis saw the Australian stock market fall by 
55  per  cent.  It  wiped  around A$ 150  billion  from  the 
retirement savings of Australian workers. And it led to 
tens  of  thousands  of Australians  losing  their  jobs.  We 
expect more job losses to follow. Behind each of these 
statistics  lie  the  faces  of  working  Australians,  who 
have  seen  their  savings  diminished,  their  financial 
security eroded and their job security threatened.  

I think of places like Liverpool in Sydney, where 
the decline in its light manufacturing base has led to an 
increase in unemployment of 4.5 per cent over the past 
year,  and  where  now  19,000  local  people  are  without 
work; like the tourist destination of Cairns in far North 
Queensland, where unemployment has risen by 3.7 per 
cent over the past year, meaning that 13,300 people are 
now out of work in that area; and like the south-eastern 
suburbs  of  Perth,  where  unemployment  has  risen  by 
3.3 per cent in the past year, leaving 12,800 people in 
that community without a job as well.  
A/64/PV.4
an 
integrated 
framework  of 
toxic 
to  prevent 
the  crisis, 
While  our  global  economic  system 

In  communities  like  those  across  Australia  the 
global recession is hurting in very real ways, just as in 
communities  like  them  across  the  world  the  global 
recession  is  hurting  in  very  real  ways.  We  can  never 
forget  these  men,  these  women,  and  their  families,  as 
we seek to find a path out of this global recession.  

failed 
comprehensively 
the  G-20 
Governments  have  rallied  to  reduce  the  damage  and 
prevent  systemic  collapse.  Through  the  agency  of  the 
G-20, for the first time involving heads of Government 
from  the  major  developed  and  developing  economies, 
Governments  acted  in  concert  to  provide  around 
$13.6 trillion-worth of support to directly stabilize the 
global financial system; to inject $5.5 trillion-worth of 
fiscal  stimulus  into  the  global  economy;  to  provide 
$1.1  trillion  in  resources  to  the  international  financial 
institutions,  to  give  markets  confidence  that  any 
subsequent  collapses  could  be  dealt  with;  to  develop 
also 
asset 
management  to  repair  the  balance  sheets  of  many 
major banks; and to initiate a comprehensive financial 
markets  reform  programme,  through  the  Financial 
Stability Board.  

The  IMF  has  assessed  that  these  extraordinary 
interventions  succeeded  in  breaking  the  fall  in  what 
was an economic crisis spiralling out of control. 

But the truth is that our global economic recovery 
is  far  from  certain,  and  that  many  twists  and  turns  lie 
ahead. Furthermore, the institutions of global economic 
governance  are  facing  new  challenges.  First,  the 
financial market reform programme must be completed 
and  implemented  to  prevent  a  future  crisis.  Secondly, 
in  anticipation  of  global  economic  recovery,  we  must 
agree  on  a  framework  for  the  coordinated  withdrawal 
of our emergency interventions. And, thirdly, and most 
critically,  we  must  articulate  a  new  framework  for 
sustainable  future  economic  growth,  a  framework  that 
does  not  simply  return  to  business  as  usual,  based  on 
unsustainable 
imbalances  and  excessive 
consumption,  fuelled  by  consumer  and  corporate  debt 
and irresponsible risk-taking in systemically significant 
financial institutions. 

One of the failures of the old growth model of the 
last  decade  was  the  lack  of  effective  global  economic 
to  grow 
coordination.  This  allowed 
remain 
unchecked  and 
inadequately 
towards 
to 
supervised.  As  we  move 
financial 
institutions 
financial 
imbalances 
09-52228 

45 
identify  how 
A/64/PV.4 

recovery,  we  must  build  a  framework  to  foster  both 
growth  and  balance  in  the  global  economy.  The  IMF 
estimates  that  effectively  implemented  coordination 
between  major  economies  could  add  significantly  to 
global  growth  —  an  additional  10  per  cent  to  global 
output, or around $6 trillion over a five-year period. To 
achieve  this  coordination  dividend  the  G-20  will  need 
to build on the structures of cooperation that have been 
established during the crisis and apply them to the new 
challenges of the global recovery.  

In  Pittsburgh  we  have  a  historic  opportunity  to 
agree on a framework to deliver effective coordination 
of  our  national  economic  policies.  This  framework 
should have four key elements.  

First,  G-20  members  should  agree  on  a  common 
objective  to  achieve  balanced  and  sustainable  growth. 
Secondly,  G-20  members  should  outline  their  own 
national  economic  strategy  and 
it 
contributes to our common objectives. Thirdly, the IMF 
should  analyse  individual  national  economic  plans  to 
determine whether they are consistent and collectively 
adequate  to  achieve  sustainable  and  balanced  global 
growth. And,  fourthly,  this  report  should  be  submitted 
to  the  G-20  to  form  the  basis  of  peer  review,  which 
would identify specific risks and vulnerabilities for the 
future. This framework should be consistent with, and 
an  important  input  to,  the  development  of  a  set  of 
global  principles,  such  as  the  current  proposal  from 
Germany  for  a  charter  for  sustainable  economic 
activity. 

The  other  great  global  challenge  of  our  age  is 
climate  change.  With  only  74  days  remaining  until 
Copenhagen,  the  Governments  of  the  world  are  far 
from agreement. Enough has been said about the need 
for  action  on  climate  change,  but  as  of  today  not 
enough  action  has  been  taken.  Our  collective  political 
will to date has not been adequate to meet the task. For 
too 
and 
developing  countries  have  degenerated  into  mutual 
recrimination,  with  developing  countries  accusing 
developed countries of failing to meet their obligations, 
given  their  undeniable  responsibility  for  the  bulk  of 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  already  in  the  atmosphere, 
and  developed  countries  warning  the  major  emerging 
economies that unless they take action global warming 
will increase to unacceptable levels, based on emerging 
economy emissions alone.  
long  discussions  between  developed 


The trouble is that both arguments are right. What 
is  required  globally  is  the  leadership  to  embrace  this 
truth and respond to it accordingly, because the truth is 
that  all  our  Governments  need  to  reach  beyond  their 
self-interests  and  instead  fashion  a  grand  bargain 
between the developed and the developing countries of 
the  world:  a  grand  bargain  on  climate  change  which 
embraces  both  historical  and  future  responsibility;  a 
grand  bargain  which  is  anchored  in  the  science  of 
climate change and the need to keep temperature rises 
within 2 degrees Celsius to avoid catastrophic climate 
change;  a  grand  bargain  embracing  the  three  great 
challenges  of  climate  change  which  we  are  yet  to 
resolve.  

Those  three  challenges  are  to  answer  these 
questions: what binding targets and commitments must 
developed  and  developing  countries  adopt  to  keep 
temperature rises within 2 degrees Celsius; what public 
and private climate change financing arrangements are 
necessary  to  support  the  mitigation  and  adaptation 
measures we need to implement in the future; and what 
technology  transfer  do  we  need  to  undertake  in 
renewable  energy,  in  carbon  capture  and  storage,  in 
energy efficiency and in the avoidance of deforestation 
and forest degradation to bring about real reductions in 
greenhouse gas emissions?  

In  the  period  ahead,  the  grand  bargain  we  must 
strike needs to resolve all three of those challenges, as 
each  is  inextricably  dependent  on  the  other.  We  must 
make use of all available mechanisms for international 
cooperation,  including  the  Major  Economies  Forum 
and  the  G-20,  to  achieve  success  in  the  negotiations. 
For  us  all,  this  will  be  a  test  of  our  leadership, 
leadership  which  seeks  to  lift  our  collective  vision 
beyond  today  and  instead  focus  on  the  needs  of 
tomorrow.  

But time is short. As Chair of the Pacific Islands 
Forum, I know that time is already running out for the 
island States of the Pacific. Coastal inundation is not a 
prospect; it is a reality. Fifty per cent of the population 
of those island States reside within 1.5 km of the coast. 
The South Pacific is part of the human face of climate 
change.  And 
is  why  Australia,  nationally, 
regionally and globally, stands ready to play its part in 
acting  on 
this  great  moral,  environmental  and 
economic challenge of our time. 

This  Organization  was  born  in  the  shadow  of 
nuclear weapons; that shadow remains today. One truth 
that 
09-52228 
46 



remains  absolutely  clear:  the  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons can never make any country more secure. The 
nuclear  test  by  North  Korea  this  year  was  rightly 
condemned  across  the  international  community.  It 
reiterates  that  the  only  path  to  safety  is  through  the 
eventual  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons.  Australia  is 
encouraged  by  the  commitment  of  the  United  States 
and Russia to further reduce their nuclear arsenals, but 
the  international  community  must  also  progress  the 
broader disarmament and non-proliferation agenda.  
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty has played a 

crucial  role  in  limiting  the  spread  of  nuclear  weapons, 
but the Treaty today is under grave challenge. We must 
work  to  ensure  that  its  global  security  benefits  are 
reinforced by a successful Review Conference in 2010. 
To reinvigorate global consensus and activism ahead of 
that  Conference  and  beyond,  Australia  and  Japan  last 
year  established 
the  International  Commission  on 
Nuclear  Non-proliferation  and  Disarmament,  which  in 
the next few months will produce its final report. Its aim 
is  to  chart  a  practical  and  realistic  course  to  achieve  a 
strengthened  non-proliferation  disarmament  regime, 
leading to the ultimate elimination of nuclear arsenals.  

summit  on 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament  is  important  for  us 
all.  We  must  not  miss  the  opportunity  it  offers  to 
summon  the  political  resolve  to  move  towards  a 
nuclear-weapons-free world. 

The  challenges  of  global  governance  extend 
beyond  the  global  financial  crisis,  climate  change  and 
the  threat  of  nuclear  weapons.  The  realization  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  is  fundamental  to  the 
elimination of extreme poverty. It remains an obscenity 
that  in  2009,  after  an  age  of  unprecedented  global 
prosperity,  1.5  billion  of  our  fellow  human  beings  are 
living  in  extreme  poverty.  That  is  a  core  reason  why 
the  Australian  Government  has 
to 
increasing  official  development  assistance  to  0.5  per 
cent  of  gross  national  income,  to  help  close  the 
development  gap  which  has  been  widening  in  many 
Pacific  island  countries,  while  also  helping,  where  


Tomorrow’s  Security  Council 
committed 
A/64/PV.4
possible,  to  deal  with  poverty  elsewhere  in  Asia, 
Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean. 

Parallel  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
the Doha Development Round has now been going for 
eight  years.  This  is  too  long.  The  negotiating  gap 
between  us  all  is  not  wide,  but  the  deficit  in  political 
will  to  conclude  the  Round  seems  vast. As  the  world 
searches for a new growth formula to sustain long-term 
economic recovery, surely Doha represents one critical 
element?  Australia,  as  one  of  the  lead  negotiators 
within  the  Doha  Round,  remains  ready  to  help  bridge 
the negotiating gap. 

Let  the Assembly  also  not  forget  the  continuing 
critical  work  of  the  United  Nations  across  the  full 
spectrum  of  global  governance  —  issues  concerning 
international  peacekeeping  operations,  humanitarian 
operations, food security, women, health, children and 
refugees — all hallmarks of a civilized global order. 
The  United  Nations  is  not  a  place;  it  is  not  an 

institution. The United Nations is us, “We, the peoples 
of the United Nations”, as the Charter begins. It is we 
who must find solutions to the problems we face, build 
consensus around those solutions, and implement them. 
This  Organization  had  its  beginnings  not  in  an  act  of 
will, though will was certainly needed, but in an act of 
imagination,  an  idea  of  what  the  world  should  and 
could  be.  This  is  the  challenge  of  leadership:  to 
imagine  a  future  worth  having  and  then  craft  that 
vision into a practical and present reality. 

That  was  the  challenge  to  which  our  forebears 
rose  in  1945.  That  is  the  challenge  to  which  our 
generation must now rise for the future. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Australia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Kevin Rudd, Prime Minister of Australia, was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
The meeting rose at 9.15 p.m. 



09-52228 

47 
