
A/64/PV.28
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

28th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 28 October 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.  

Terrorist attack in Afghanistan 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to express our deep and 
sincerest  sympathy  and  condolences  to  the  family 
members  of  the  five  United  Nations  employees  who 
were  killed  in  the  horrific  attack  that  took  place  in 
Kabul, Afghanistan. Let me join the Secretary-General 
in condemning this and all threats and acts of violence 
against humanitarian workers, United Nations staff and 
others.  I  emphatically  state  that  perpetrators  of  such 
crimes should be brought to justice. I urge all Member 
States  to  fully  comply  with  their  obligations  under 
international 
the  protection  of 
humanitarian workers and United Nations staff. 
law  pertaining 
to 





Agenda item 20 
The situation in Central America: progress in 
fashioning a region of peace, freedom, democracy 
and development 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/370) 

  Draft resolution (A/64/L.6*) 


The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 
floor  to  the  representative  of  Guatemala  to  introduce 
draft resolution A/64/L.6*. 

Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
On  10  November  a  year  ago,  I  had  the  honour  to 
explain  from  this  very  rostrum  the  origin  of  the 
International  Commission 
in 

Impunity 
against 
the  start  of 
the  Organization  and 
Guatemala (CICIG) — an initiative that complies with 
one  of  the  many  commitments  of  our  Peace  Accords 
signed  in  December  1996.  I  explained  that  we  had 
inherited  a  culture  of  impunity  as  a  sequel  to  the 
conflict  and  that  criminal  groups  sheltered  by  the 
climate  of  impunity  had  also  appeared  that  were 
sometimes  highly  organized  and  had  transnational 
connections.  

In order to deal with the situation, we turned once 
again  to  the  United  Nations  with  a  single  request  for 
cooperation  between 
the 
Government of Guatemala, which led to the creation of 
the  CICIG  and 
its  operations  on  
4 September 2007. 

Last  year,  this  initiative  received  the  collective 
support of the General Assembly with the adoption by 
consensus  of  resolution  63/19.  We  greatly  appreciate 
that support. As will be recalled, the final paragraph of 
that  resolution  requested  the  Secretary-General  to 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Commission  to  the  sixty-
fourth session of the General Assembly. 

That report, issued on 23 September in document 
A/64/370,  presents  an  objective  assessment  of  the 
Commission’s  important  achievements  during  its  first 
two  years  of  activities  and  discusses  some  of  the 
challenges it continues to face. We basically agree with 
the  assessment  of  the  Secretary-General,  to  whom  we 
express  our  sincere  appreciation  for  his  constant 
support of the work of the Commission. 

As  our  President,  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros, 
pointed  out  in  his  statement  delivered  to  the  General 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-57994 (E) 
*0957994* 



from 
that  operate 
to  organized  groups 
this  afternoon,  contained 
A/64/PV.28 

Assembly  barely  a  month  ago,  the  Commission  “has 
the solid support not only of my Government, but of all 
of civil society”. For this reason, we have renewed the 
agreement between the Government of Guatemala and 
the  United  Nations  to  extend  the  mandate  of  the 
Commission for an additional two years. 

The  draft  resolution  I  am  introducing  to  the 
Assembly 
in  document 
A/64/L.6*, is sponsored by over 70 nations, beginning 
with  our  partners 
the  Central  American 
Integration System. The draft follows up on resolution 
63/19,  adopted  last  year,  with  some  updating  in  the 
language  to  reflect  the  observations  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report. We trust that this draft resolution will 
be adopted by consensus, and we thank you in advance 
for your support. 

There are three final points I would like to make. 
First,  the  Commission  is  a  response  to  a  Guatemalan 
initiative.  It  reflects  our  deep  conviction  that  in  order 
to  respond 
in 
impunity,  international  cooperation  is  needed.  Such 
cooperation would not replace national institutions, but 
would support and strengthen them.  

We  approached  the  United  Nations  because  we 
see  it  as  an  objective  and  independent  Organization, 
without  its  own  agenda.  We  looked  for  creative 
modalities  of  partnership  with  the  United  Nations, 
without  renouncing  our  own  responsibilities  as  a 
sovereign nation, as set out in our Constitution. 
funded 

the  Commission 
fully 
the  donor 
through  voluntary  contributions 
community,  and  I  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  our 
special  gratitude  to  the  many  Governments  that  have 
worked with our country on that initiative. At the same 
time, I would like to emphasize that the draft resolution 
involves  no 
financial  or  budgetary 
implications for the United Nations. 

Thirdly,  I  would  like  to  publicly  and  warmly 
recognize  the  work  of  the  Commissioner,  Carlos 
Castresana,  for  his  selfless  and  excellent  work.  The 
important  progress  achieved  by  the  Commission  is,  in 
large  part,  due  to  the  leadership  he  has  exercised  in 
heading his team of national and international experts. 

Before concluding, permit me to read out the list 
of countries that are sponsoring this draft resolution in 
addition  to  those  that  are  already  listed  in  document 
A/64/L.6*.  Albania,  Argentina,  Australia,  Brazil, 
additional 
Secondly, 
is 
from 

the 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 
Bolivia, Colombia, Cypress, Costa Rice, Slovakia, the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Fiji, Greece, 
Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Ireland,  Iraq,  Italy, 
Japan,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar, 
Norway,  New  Zealand,  Paraguay,  Czech  Republic, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  Rwanda,  Senegal, 
Jamaica, Switzerland, Trinidad and Tobago and Turkey. 

I  have  confined  myself  to  introducing  the  draft 
resolution  contained  in  A/64/L.6*.  However,  I  feel  I 
must  state  that  this  very  broad  agenda  item  relates  to 
the  situation  in  Central  America.  Here,  we  have  a 
pending issue. In this very Hall, resolution 63/301 was 
adopted  on  30  June  2009  on  strengthening  democracy 
in Honduras. 

I  would  like  to  say  that  Guatemala  will  stand 
together  with  a  legitimate  Government  of  President 
Manuel  Zelaya  and  we  call  for 
immediate 
implementation  of  the  provisions  in  that  resolution. 
That  is  not  only  a  situation  concerning  Honduras,  but 
rather one involving our entire region. 

on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of 

and  Herzegovina, 
Macedonia,  Albania,  Bosnia 
Montenegro,  Norway,  Ukraine, 
the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Armenia and Georgia, align themselves with 
this statement. 

The  European  Union  welcomes  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  activities  of  the  International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala  (CICIG), 
and 
in  document 
A/64/L.6*,  just  introduced  by  the  Ambassador  of 
Guatemala. 
CICIG  continues  to  be  a  positive  force  in 

Guatemala  with  its  efforts  to  combat  the  prevailing 
situation  of  impunity  in  the  country.  Through  highly 
professional  work,  CICIG  is  now  accepted  as  a  key 
player  in  security  and  justice  matters  in  Guatemala. 
CICIG  has  entered  a  phase  where  high-impact  cases 
are  in  the  process  of  being  presented  to  the  national 
courts,  and  a  number  of  legal  proceedings  have  been 
initiated.  The  EU  fully  supports  the  work  of  the 
Commission. 

the 
reporting  period,  where  the  Commission  has  made 
significant progress in key areas of its mandate, the EU 
would  like  to  express  its  deep  concern  about  the 
the  draft  resolution  contained 
the  positive  results  during 
In  spite  of 
2 

09-57994 
that 
to  do 
strengthening 
assist  Guatemala 
The  EU  also  underlines 


continued  high  levels  of  violence  and  impunity  in 
the  United  Nations 
Guatemala.  The  EU  urges 
Secretariat 
its  utmost 
to  ensure 
the 
operational  challenges  now  faced  by  the  Commission 
are appropriately addressed. The safety and security of 
the  Commission’s  staff  are  matters  of  particular 
concern. 

It  is  important  that  the  work  of  CICIG  be 
institutionalized  by  the  Guatemalan  State  in  order  to 
create  long-term  sustainability  after  the  end  of  its 
mandate. An  independent  judicial  system  is  of  crucial 
importance in combating the high levels of impunity in 
the  country.  We  ask  all  State  institutions  to  take  the 
decisions  necessary  to  ensure  the  independence  and 
effectiveness  of  Guatemala’s  judicial  system  and  to 
work in close cooperation with CICIG.  

importance  of 
the 
Guatemala’s  continued  commitment  to  strengthen  its 
own  institutions,  and  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the 
Commission’s 
in 
maintaining 
democratic 
institutions, which are vital for peace and development 
in the country, and to build a State governed by the rule 
of law for all Guatemalans. 

I  would  now  like  to  turn  to  the  situation  in 
Honduras. On 2l July, the EU presidency, on behalf of 
its  27  member  States,  decided  to  restrict  contact  with 
the  representatives  of  the  de  facto  Government  of 
Honduras  and 
to  suspend  bilateral  development 
cooperation  with  the  institutions  of  the  de  facto 
Government.  The  EU  stands  ready  to  take  further 
restrictive  measures, 
those 
members  of  the  de  facto  Government  seen  to  be 
blocking progress on a negotiated solution based on the 
San José Accord. 

the 
importance of a rapid and peaceful negotiated solution 
to the severe crisis in Honduras and calls on all actors 
involved to work on the basis of the San José Accord, 
which, in the view of the EU, remains a key reference. 
The EU urges the parties to continue negotiations in a 
constructive  manner  in  order  to  achieve  restoration  of 
constitutional  order  in  the  country,  and  particularly 
before  the  elections  to  be  held  in  November.  The 
European  Union 
initiatives 
undertaken by the Organization of American States and 
its Secretary-General, José Miguel Insulza, to facilitate 
dialogue with a view to a peaceful negotiated solution. 
The  European  Union  underlines  again 
including 
targeting 
supports 
firmly 
efforts 
to 
and 
its 
the 
A/64/PV.28
just 
this  goal 
framework 
for  pursuing 
the  work  of  CICIG  and 

Ms.  Grau  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
warmly  thank  the  representative  of  Guatemala  for  his 
presentation of draft resolution A/64/L.6*. Switzerland 
has  supported  the  establishment  of  the  International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala  (CICIG) 
since  its  inception.  My  delegation  is  pleased  that  the 
mandate of the Commission has been extended for two 
more years. I would also like to endorse the Secretary-
General’s  remarks in his  address of 19 June, in which 
he  commended 
its 
Commissioner,  Mr.  Carlos  Castresana.  Together  with 
his national and international team, Mr. Castresana has 
acted with a high degree of professionalism. 

The Guatemalan Government has shown courage 
in  trying  to  find  ways  to  put  an  end  to  impunity. 
CICIG’s  mandate  and  institutional  structure  provide  a 
solid 
and 
strengthening  State  institutions.  This  is  particularly 
important  in  a  context  where  alarming  levels  of 
violence  and  corruption  challenge  not 
the 
institutions  of  the  country  itself,  but  those  of  the 
subregion as a whole.  

For  these  reasons  the  Commission  deserves  the 
full support of the international community. CICIG can 
be  considered  a  pioneering 
justice 
instrument. 
its  activities  on  national 
assessments, national participation, and national needs 
and  aspirations.  Its  strategy  seeks  to  support  the 
political  will  to  reform  as  much  as  the  technical 
capacity  to  make  those  reforms.  Moreover,  its  very 
existence  shows  that  international  mechanisms  need 
not  be  costly  in  order  to  contribute  effectively  to 
sustainable national capacities for the administration of 
justice. 

If  CICIG  is  to  be  able  to  fulfil  its  mission 
efficiently,  it  has  to  deal  with  several  challenges.  I 
would like to mention two of them. First, as regards the 
status  of  the  Commission,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/64/370)  underscores  the  dangers  and  risks 
that  have  become  part  of  the  Commission’s  daily  life. 
Enhanced protection and security for its staff is crucial. 
Accordingly,  Switzerland  stands  ready  to  engage  in 
discussions  with  other  Member  States  on  how  to 
strengthen  existing  modalities  and,  if  necessary,  to 
revise  the  Commission’s  status  within  the  United 
Nations.  Indeed,  given  the  strategic  issue  that  CICIG 
addresses  — 
the  dismantling  of  parallel  power 
structures linked to international organized crime — it 
is  crucial  to  provide  it  with  the  means  necessary  to 
transitional 
It  bases 
09-57994 

3 
to 
like 
to 

and 
it  provides 
the  competencies  of 
improving  Guatemala’s 
A/64/PV.28 

enable  it  to  function  in  an  optimal  manner,  while 
guaranteeing it adequate protection. 

Secondly,  regarding  CICIG’s  need  for  additional 
financial support, Switzerland will continue to provide 
such support, as well as expert assistance. Alongside its 
specific  criminal  investigations,  CICIG  has  helped  to 
strengthen 
the  prosecutorial 
services  in  Guatemala.  It  has  also  been  involved  in 
updating 
national 
legislation  by  making  recommendations  concerning 
vetting  and  the  reorganization  of  the  justice  and 
security  sectors.  It  is  important  that  the  international 
community  strengthen  such  measures  by  adapting  the 
support 
justice  and  security.  The 
Commission’s mission goes to the heart of the mandate 
of  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  the  rule  of  law, 
justice and lasting peace are mutually reinforcing. 

Switzerland hopes that the support of the United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  as  a  whole 
will  live  up  to  the  needs  of  CICIG  and  Guatemala  in 
their difficult struggle against impunity. 

Mr. Gutiérrez (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): As this 
is  the  first  time  I  have  taken  the  floor  at  the  present 
session, 
you,  
Mr.  President,  and  through  you,  the  other  Bureau 
members,  on  your  election  at  the  sixty-fourth  session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  and  to  assure  you  of  my 
delegation’s full support in your efforts. 

My delegation would like to address two aspects 
relating  to  item  20  on  the  agenda,  “The  situation  in 
Central  America:  progress  in  fashioning  a  region  of 
peace,  freedom,  democracy  and  development”:  first, 
the  draft  resolution  (A/64/L.6*)  on  the  International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala  (CICIG), 
and  secondly,  the  situation  in  our  sister  republic  of 
Honduras. Regarding the draft resolution on CICIG, it 
must  be  said  that  this  testifies  to  the  joint  endeavours 
of the United Nations and Guatemala to ensure that the 
rule  of  law  is  respected.  In  this  forum  we  have 
repeatedly  heard  the  dictum,  “There  us  no  peace 
without  justice”,  and  indeed  the  Commission  clearly 
shows  the  international  community’s  commitment  to 
achieving that goal and fighting impunity.  

This year by mutual agreement it was decided to 
extend  the  mandate  of  the  International  Commission 
for a period of two years, beginning 4 September 2009. 
To that end the Secretary-General’s report in document 
A/64/370  has  identified  significant  progress  achieved 
congratulate 
I  would 
the 
in  Guatemala  in  investigation,  prosecution  and  legal 
reforms.  However,  major  operational  challenges  still 
remain,  given 
sui  generis  nature  of 
the 
Commission, and those have still to be overcome.  

A  programme  of  work  has  been  established,  and 
the  Commission  must  present  a  consolidation  strategy 
to ensure that its powers can be transferred to national 
institutions. In that way it  will be possible to support, 
strengthen  and  assist  the  work  of  State  institutions  in 
Guatemala. To that end it is vital that dialogue continue 
among  the  State,  political  parties,  the  press  and  civil 
society so that all can join fully in the process.  

As the agenda item before us is “The situation in 
Central  America:  progress  in  fashioning  a  region  of 
peace,  freedom,  democracy  and  development”,  the 
delegation  of  Peru  must  refer  to  the  current  situation 
faced by the Republic of Honduras.  

Peru  is  firmly  committed  to  contributing  to  the 
consolidation  of  democracy  in  Latin America  and  the 
Caribbean.  The  maintenance  and  strengthening  of 
democratic institutions, with full respect for the rule of 
law  and  the  protection  and  promotion  of  the  political 
and social rights of our people, are supreme values that 
should  not  and  cannot  be  subject  to  any  conditions.  It 
is  regrettable  that,  after  a  lengthy  and  successful 
process  to  restore  democracy  in  Central  America,  we 
are witnessing a terrible reversal with the constitutional 
breach  that  occurred  in  Honduras  on  28  June,  which, 
with no justification whatever, is continuing.  

That situation was forcefully condemned by Peru, 
and  we  firmly  supported  the  regional  efforts  by  the 
Organization of American States (OAS) to facilitate the 
immediate 
the  constitutional  and 
legitimate  Government  of  President  José  Zelaya 
Rosales. Likewise, here at the United Nations Peru co-
sponsored 
the  General 
Assembly  adopted  by  consensus,  which  called  for  the 
immediate  and  unconditional  restoration  of  President 
Zelaya’s  Government  and  expressed  firm  support  for 
the  regional  efforts  being  undertaken  pursuant  to 
Chapter VIII of the Organization’s Charter to lead to a 
just solution to the serious political crisis in Honduras. 

the 
constitutional  President  José  Zelaya  to  Honduras  was 
supported  by  the  member  States  of  the  Rio  Group,  of 
which  Peru  is  one.  The  Group  also  condemned  the 
violent acts and ongoing harassment on the part of the 
de  facto  Government  against  the  Brazilian  Embassy, 
resolution  63/301,  which 
restoration  of 
the  peaceful 
Furthermore, 
return  of 
4 

09-57994 
in  Honduras  following 


where  President  Zelaya  is.  Peru  reiterates  its  vigorous 
call  to  respect  and  guarantee  the  physical  safety  of 
President  Zelaya’s  person,  family  and  associates,  as 
well  as  to  ensure  the  inviolability  of  the  Brazilian 
Embassy in Tegucigalpa and the  personal safety  of its 
staff, in strict observance of the Vienna Convention on 
Diplomatic Relations. 
A few weeks  ago my Government welcomed the 

developments 
the  second 
mission of foreign ministers of various OAS States. We 
were  hopeful  about  the  progress  of  negotiations  in 
Tegucigalpa,  which  held  out 
the  prospect  of  a 
Honduran  solution  to  a  Honduran  crisis.  However, 
unfortunately,  intransigence  and  placing  differences 
before  consensus  have  led  to  a  breakdown  in  the 
negotiations.  

Peru trusts that the dialogue process will continue 
in  Honduras  as  soon  as  possible,  within  the  terms  of 
the  San  José  Accord,  as  urged  by  the  Permanent 
Council of the OAS in its press release of Wednesday, 
21 October, to achieve a peaceful solution to the crisis 
and  that  that  in  turn  could  lead  to  the  national 
reconciliation  we  all  hope  for  and  the  restoration  of 
democracy,  legality  and  the  rule  of  law,  to  the  benefit 
of the nation and the Honduran people. 

(Brazil):  Brazil  has  gladly  
co-sponsored draft resolution A/64/L.6*, regarding the 
International  Commission 
in 
Guatemala.  We  fully  support 
the 
Commission to assist the Government of Guatemala in 
its difficult but indispensable fight against impunity. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  also  address  the 
situation in Honduras. It is an issue of grave concern to 
my  Government  and  that  of  the  entire  United  Nations 
membership.  

As  delegations  are  aware,  since  21  September 
2009 the constitutional President of Honduras, Mr. José 
Manuel Zelaya, has taken shelter, together with family 
members and close advisors, at the Brazilian Embassy 
in  Tegucigalpa.  President  Zelaya  arrived  at 
the 
Embassy  peacefully  and  by  his  own  means.  He  was 
received  in  the  Embassy  and  remains  there  as  the 
constitutional  head  of  State  of  Honduras  and  the 
legitimate  ruler  of  the  country.  That  is  the  firm 
conviction of all Member States of the United Nations, 
in  accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution 
63/301. It is also the view of all countries of the region. 
Impunity 
the  efforts  of 
Mrs.  Viotti
against 
A/64/PV.28
leaving 
the  Embassy,  and 

Since the day it first sheltered President Zelaya at 
its premises, the Brazilian Embassy has been virtually 
under siege. It has been constantly subjected to acts of 
harassment and intimidation by the de facto authorities. 
The  Embassy  continues  to  be  surrounded  by  military 
forces;  tear  gas  has  been  used;  basic  services  were 
suspended  and  later  restored;  sound  and  light  devices 
continue to be employed, especially at night, as tactics 
to  deprive  those  sheltered  in  the  building  of  much-
needed  sleep  and  therefore  affect  them  physically  and 
psychologically.  Scaffolds  have  been  mounted  outside 
the premises to monitor movement inside. Humiliating 
security  procedures  are  used  to  screen  those  entering 
and 
locally  engaged 
personnel  are  prevented  from  entering  the  building. 
Telephones  are  tapped.  Delivery  of  food  is  restricted 
and  perishable  food  is  left  under  direct  sunlight  for 
hours.  Garbage 
is  not  collected  for  days.  That 
behaviour  by  the  de  facto  authorities  constitutes 
flagrant and unacceptable violations of the obligations 
of  Honduras  under 
the  Vienna  Convention  on 
Diplomatic  Relations  and  of  the  human  rights  of 
persons inside the Embassy. 
international 

We  are  encouraged 
community has clearly and forcefully repudiated those 
aggressions.  We  are  also  grateful  for  the  solidarity 
shown  by  organizations  and  numerous  countries  or 
groups of countries.  

The  members  of  the  Security  Council,  at  the 
Council’s  6192nd  meeting,  on  25  September, 
condemned  the  acts  of  intimidation  by  the  de  facto 
authorities and called upon them to cease harassing the 
Brazilian Embassy and to provide all necessary utilities 
and services. Council members recalled that respect for 
and  protection  of 
inviolability  of  diplomatic 
is  a  universally  accepted  principle  of 
premises 
international 
the 
importance  of  respecting  international  law  through 
preserving the inviolability of the Embassy of Brazil in 
Tegucigalpa  and  other  protections  afforded  it  by  the 
Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations,  and  of 
ensuring the safety of individuals on its premises. They 
also underlined the need to preserve the inviolability of 
the  Embassy  of  Brazil  in  Tegucigalpa  and  of  its 
diplomatic personnel, in accordance with international 
law. 

The  Organization  of American  States  (OAS)  has 
also  deplored  the  reprehensible  behaviour  of  the  de 
facto  Government  of  Honduras  on  several  occasions. 
relations.  They 
stressed 
that 
the 
the 
also 
09-57994 

5 

and 
that  Organization  denounced 
A/64/PV.28 

Most  recently,  on  21  October,  the  Permanent  Council 
of 
strongly 
condemned  the  hostile  actions  against  the  Embassy  of 
Brazil  and  the  harassment  of  its  occupants.  It  again 
called on the de facto regime to put an immediate end 
to  those  actions,  to  respect  the Vienna  Convention  on 
Diplomatic  Relations  and  international  human  rights 
instruments  and  to  withdraw  all  repressive  forces 
forthwith  from  the  areas  surrounding  the  Embassy, 
without neglecting the due security of the mission. The 
Council  also  appealed  for  guarantees  for  the  right  to 
life,  integrity  and  security  of  President  Zelaya  and  of 
all  persons  in  and  around  the  Embassy  of  Brazil,  as 
well as for the protection of their dignity, and it urged 
the  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human  Rights  to 
follow up on the situation. 

It is high time for the de facto authorities to heed 
the  unanimous  calls  of  the  international  community 
and fully abide by Honduras’ international obligations. 
Their  behaviour  is  incompatible  with  the  right  to 
dignity of the Honduran people. 

On  21  October,  the  Permanent  Council  of  the 
OAS  issued  a  strong  appeal  for  continuation  of  the 
dialogue  already  under  way  between  the  parties,  in 
accordance with the proposed San José Agreement and 
without  any  attempt  to  open  topics  other  than  those 
contained  in  the  proposal.  The  appeal  follows  a  clear 
stagnation in the negotiating process. We call on the de 
facto  Government  to  abandon  dilatory  tactics  and 
negotiate in good faith. 

Brazil believes that the return of President Zelaya 
is indispensable. Coups d’état are no longer acceptable 
in a region that has outgrown - often with blood - years 
of  instability  and  violence.  Elections  alone  will  not 
solve  the  problem,  since  their  legitimacy  would  be 
seriously 
current 
circumstances  conditions  are  simply  not  in  place  to 
allow 
transparent  and 
democratic elections in Honduras. 

Mr.  Acharya  (Nepal),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

Brazil  is  ready  to  continue  to  support  initiatives 
aimed  at  resolving  the  current  crisis. We  count  on  the 
support  of  the  international  community,  especially 
those  who  have  a  direct  influence  on  the  de  facto 
authorities. 
the  holding  of  free,  fair, 
compromised.  Under 
the 
and 
for 
the 
impunity 
through 
results  of 
strengthening 
The  positive 
The  work  of 

Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
activities  of  the  International  Commission  against 
Impunity in Guatemala (A/64/370) and draft resolution 
A/64/L.6*,  which  was  introduced  by  the  Guatemalan 
delegation. 

the  International  Commission 
against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) is a successful 
example  of  what  can  be  achieved  through  multilateral 
action  to  benefit  the  States  and  peoples  of  the  world. 
Since  it  was  founded  in  August  2007  pursuant  to  a 
request by Guatemala, the Commission has shown that 
it  is  a  fundamental  tool  for  combating  impunity  in 
Guatemala 
judicial 
institutions  responsible  for  investigation  and  criminal 
prosecution of crimes against the people of Guatemala 
allegedly  committed  by  illegal  security  forces  and 
clandestine  groups.  Guatemala  waged  a  long  struggle 
to  achieve  national  reconciliation,  strengthen  the  rule 
of  law  and  combat  impunity.  For  that  it  deserves  the 
full support of the international community. 

International 
Commission  show  that  it  is  possible  to  effectively 
combat 
creative  models  of 
international  cooperation,  gradually 
the 
citizens’  trust  in  their  institutions.  Progress  to  date  is 
truly  encouraging,  but  much  remains  to  be  done. 
Mexico  has  thus  joined  the  sponsors  of  the  draft 
resolution 
the 
Commission’s work. 

The  situation  in  Central America  has  both  lights 
and shadows. Allow me now to turn to the situation in 
Honduras,  which  represents  a  marked  step  backwards 
in the life of the region.  
After  years  of  political  stability,  on  28  June  the 

situation  of  relative  calm  that  prevailed  in  Central 
America  and  in  Honduras  suffered  a  blow  that  had 
significant  regional  political  repercussions.  That  day, 
the  constitutional  order  of  Honduras  was  smashed  by 
the illegal expulsion of President José Manuel Zelaya, 
who  for  a  time  was  forced  to  live  outside  of  his 
country.  He  was  able  to  return  to  Honduras  only  by 
taking  temporary  refuge  in  the  Brazilian  Embassy  in 
Tegucigalpa.  That  situation 
respect 
unacceptable.  

Mexico  confirms  its  unambiguous  condemnation 
of the events of 28 June and demands the restoration of 
the  return  of 
democracy 
in  Honduras, 
supporting 
and  will 
is 
in  every 
including 
the 
restoring 
continue 
6 

09-57994 


President  Zelaya,  in  accordance  with  the  constitution 
of the country, the Inter-American Democratic Charter, 
the  Charter  of  the  Organization  of  American  States 
(OAS) and General Assembly resolution 63/301, which 
was  sponsored  by  my  delegation  and  adopted  by 
acclamation on 1 July.  

From  the  beginning  of  the  crisis,  the  OAS  has 
worked  tirelessly  to  make  possible  President  Zelaya’s 
restoration 
to  power.  Mexico  has  supported  and 
promoted  those  actions,  within  the  OAS  and  through 
competent  regional  bodies,  including  the  declarations 
of  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  Rio  Group, 
the mechanism for consultation and concerted political 
action,  and  the  Group’s  many  ministerial  declarations 
and  communiqués. We  will  continue  to  play  an  active 
role  in  the  multilateral  regional  mechanisms  and 
necessary mediation efforts in accordance with Chapter 
VIII of the United Nations Charter until constitutional 
order is restored in Honduras. 

I  wish  to  highlight  in  particular  the  work  of  the 
OAS  special  commission  of  ministers  for  foreign 
affairs, 
in  which  Mexico’s  Foreign  Minister 
participated.  That  commission  visited  Tegucigalpa 
twice  and  was  crucial  in  starting  a  dialogue  between 
representatives  of  the  constitutional  president  and  the 
de  facto  Government  to  find  a  way  out  of  the  crisis 
through dialogue and agreement. At the same time, we 
urge  the  Organization  of  American  States  and  its 
Secretary  General,  Mr.  José  Miguel  Insulza, 
to 
continue  promoting  all  efforts  towards  mediation, 
negotiation  and  conciliation  in  order  to  encourage 
political dialogue between the players involved — the 
Hondurans  themselves  —  and  to  reach  a  solution  to 
this political crisis. 

Since  the  June  coup  d’état  we  have  witnessed 
many actions of the de facto Government in Honduras 
that  violate  international  law  and  the  human  rights  of 
the  Honduran  people.  On  their  behalf  we  call  for 
respect for the democratic institutions, governance and 
protection of the people’s human rights.  

We  support  the  mission  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR) 
which,  pursuant  to  a  mandate  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  was  sent  to  Honduras  to  collect  information 
about possible human rights violations. 

In addition to violations of human rights, Mexico 
is  particularly  concerned  by  the  de  facto  regime’s 
harassment  of  President  Zelaya,  his  followers  and  the 
A/64/PV.28
staff  of 
the  Brazilian  Embassy 
diplomatic 
in 
Tegucigalpa.  We  repudiate  those  illegal  and  inhuman 
actions  and  call  for  an  immediate  halt  to  them. 
Similarly, we demand that the diplomatic status and the 
privileges and immunities of diplomatic representatives 
in  Honduras  be  respected,  in  line  with  the  Vienna 
Convention on Diplomatic Relations. The international 
community can no longer tolerate such intimidation of 
the  diplomatic  personnel  of  the  Brazilian  Embassy,  or 
of  any  other  mission  that  has  also  been  the  victim  of 
such  actions,  which  run  counter  to  international  law 
and pose a threat to the security and physical integrity 
of President Zelaya and his followers.  

Mexico  will  continue  to  follow  developments  in 
the political situation in Honduras. We will continue to 
support  every  effort  aimed  at  enabling  the  Hondurans 
to find, as soon as possible, a political solution to this 
crisis that leads to national reconciliation and promotes 
stability  in  the  country  and  improvement  in  the  living 
conditions of its inhabitants. 
Mr. Husain (Canada) (spoke in French): Canada 

welcomes this important draft resolution  in support of 
the  International  Commission  against  Impunity  in 
Guatemala (CICIG) (A/64/L.6*). We are pleased to be 
part  of  a  long  list  of  like-minded  sponsors  who 
continue to support the Commission through voluntary 
contributions. Further, the representatives work closely 
with the Commission and United Nations colleagues to 
combat  corruption  and  provide  an  impartial  voice  in 
public  debates  about  security  and  justice  issues  in 
Guatemala. 

The  draft  resolution  comes  at  a  crucial  time  for 
the Commission. That body continues to play a central 
role  in  publicly  challenging  entrenched  interests  and 
demanding greater justice and accountability on behalf 
of  all  Guatemalans.  The  recent  Supreme  Court 
nomination process, while controversial, represented a 
step  forward  for  Guatemala  in  terms  of  transparency 
and  open  debate.  In  his  report  of  23  September  2009 
(A/64/370),  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  has 
highlighted 
significant  progress  made  by 
Commission. 
(spoke in English) 

In  that  report,  the  Secretary-General  calls  our 
attention  to  the  pressing  operational  challenges  faced 
by the Commission as it moves forward into the second 
phase of its mandate. Those challenges are the result of 
the Commission’s status as a non-United Nations body, 
the 
09-57994 

7 

to  bolster 
they  undertake 
international  allies, 
A/64/PV.28 

as  well  as  a  reflection  of  its  success  in  challenging 
powerful  criminal  networks.  Through 
this  draft 
resolution,  and  in  response  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
report, Canada strongly encourages the United Nations, 
with the ongoing support of the Guatemalan State and 
Commission’s 
its 
assistance to the Commission in order to strengthen its 
security, its credibility, its capacity and its stability.  

Specifically,  Canada  strongly  supports  measures 
to  provide  the  CICIG  staff  with  immediate  and  full 
diplomatic  privileges  and  protections.  Canada  also 
encourages  the  United  Nations  to  act  swiftly  in 
offering  much-needed  assistance  to  CICIG  in  key 
areas, including guaranteeing the safety and security of 
the  Commission’s  staff  as 
their 
important and often dangerous work. 

The fact that CICIG is facing increasing pressures 
against its work suggests that it is having an impact in 
Guatemala.  As  a  strong  supporter  of  the  Commission 
since  its  inception,  Canada  hopes  that  through  this 
draft  resolution,  the  United  Nations  system  and  the 
international community can take further tangible steps 
toward sustaining and improving our support to CICIG. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
the  efforts  by 
Republic  of  Venezuela  commends 
Guatemala  and 
to 
establish 
and 
International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala  (CICIG), 
which  seeks  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and  respect 
for  human  rights  in  that  fraternal  country.  We  also 
commend the Government and people of Guatemala on 
the conviction of former military commissioner Felipe 
Cusanero, whom the judicial system has just sentenced 
for  the  disappearance  of  six  peasants  during  the  civil 
war  that  assailed  that  fraternal  Central  American 
country. 

Unfortunately, the coup d’état in Honduras could 
set  the  stage  for  a  new  wave  of  dictatorships  in  Latin  
America  and  the  Caribbean,  a  return  to  massive 
violations  of  human  rights,  the  heinous  practice  of 
disappearances,  mass  incarcerations  and  the  death  of 
innocent  civilian.  Just  when  it  seemed  that  Central 
America’s  tragic  history  had  been  overcome,  the 
worthy  and  democratic  President  José  Manuel  Zelaya 
Rosales was overthrown, kidnapped and exiled. At the 
same  time,  the  human  rights  of  the  Honduran  people 
are  being  repeatedly  violated.  Oligarch  elites,  who 
the 
operationalize 
international  community 
(spoke 
the 
longer  say 
However,  we  can  no 
the  military  coup  d’état 
endeavour to secure their obscene privileges, have once 
again  forcefully  intervened  against  the  constitutional 
order of one of the continent’s countries.  

Just a few years ago, Assembly resolution 58/239, 
which  was  adopted  on  23  December  2003  and  is 
entitled “The situation in Central America: progress in 
fashioning a region of peace, freedom, democracy and 
development”,  took  note  of  the  existence  throughout 
Central America of freely elected Governments. It also 
called  for  the  achievement  of  political,  economic  and 
social changes conducive to the further development of 
democratic, just and equitable societies.  

that  all 
Governments  in  Central  America  have  been  freely 
elected. Instead of making progress towards improving 
democracy,  the  de  facto  Government  that  emerged 
from 
in  Honduras  has 
succeeded  in  turning  back  many  years  of  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  principles  of  peace  and  democracy  in 
our  region.  Resolutions  seeking  a  way  forward  that 
have  been  adopted  by  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization of American States have been ignored by 
the regime established by the coup — an affront to the 
international  community  for  which  there  cannot  be 
impunity.  We  would  like  to  underscore  that  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  attaches  particular 
importance to resolution 63/301, which was adopted by 
the General Assembly in connection with this issue.  

The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela condemns 
the  harassment  against  the  Brazilian  Embassy  in 
Tegucigalpa and against President José Manuel Zelaya 
Rosales,  Honduras’s  constitutional  leader,  as  well  as 
his  family  and  supporters  in  the  Embassy  and  other 
staff  of  other  missions  accredited  in  that  country.  We 
demand full respect for international law, especially the 
1961  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations. 
Venezuela condemns the de facto regime’s intention to 
legitimize  the  coup  d’état,  as  well  as  the  mass 
violations  of  the  Honduran  people’s  human  rights  and 
the  violations  of  international  law.  As  Honduran 
Foreign  Minister  Patricia  Rodas 
recently, 
“elections  are  a  right,  but  not  a  way  to  resolve  coups 
d’états or illegitimate situations”.  

In that regard, our delegation would like to point 
out the decision by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to 
suspend the technical and financial assistance provided 
by  the  United  Nations  to  the  Honduran  Supreme 
Electoral  Tribunal  because  “he  does  not  believe 
said 
8 

09-57994 


conditions  are  currently  in  place  for  the  holding  of 
credible elections” (Press Release SG/SM/12482).

A new kind of coup d’état is emerging before our 
very eyes, one that seeks to legitimize itself through an 
opaque  and  highly  contested  electoral  process.  Those 
who  carried  out  the  coup  d’état  should  be  brought 
before national or international bodies to pay for their 
crimes. 

The  international  community,  and  in  particular 
the United Nations, should send a clear message to the 
coup regime in Honduras. In that regard, on 17 October 
2009  at  Cochabamba,  Bolivia,  we  held  the  seventh 
summit  of  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
Bolivarian Alternative  for  the Americas  (ALBA).  The 
declaration  adopted  at  the  meeting  included  a  set  of 
measures  intended  to  contribute  to  restoring  Mr.  José 
Manuel  Zelaya  Rosales 
the  presidency.  The 
declaration  also  emphasized  that  every ALBA  country 
had  decided  not  to  recognize  any  electoral  process  or 
result carried out under the coup regime. 
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 

My delegation fully associates itself with the statement 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Sweden 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  in  connection  with 
the 
the  General 
Assembly, namely, the situation in Central America. 
My  delegation  is  grateful  for  the  report  of  the 

Secretary-General  (A/64/370)  on  the  activities  of  the 
International  Commission 
in 
Guatemala (CICIG). We also welcome draft resolution 
A/64/L.6*,  which  was  introduced  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Guatemala. 

With  Commissioner  Carlos  Castresana  at  its 
helm,  CICIG  continues  to  be  a  positive  force  in 
Guatemala that is having a growing impact on various 
areas of Guatemalan society and on other countries of 
the region. The Commission is carrying out its work in 
especially difficult circumstances, in particular when it 
comes to the safety of its members and associates. We 
hope  that  those  conditions  will  improve  as  much  as 
possible  with  the  full  backing  of  the  United  Nations, 
thereby 
the 
Commission  needs  to  be  effective  and  carry  out  its 
work. 
From  the  very  beginning,  Spain  supported  the 

establishment 
the 
Commission  by  virtue  of  an  agreement  between 
issue  now  being  considered  by 
operationalization 
independence 
ensuring 
against 
Impunity 
that 
of 
to 
the 
and 
A/64/PV.28
that  has 
just  been 
introduced  for 
Guatemala  and  the  United  Nations.  Both  parties  have 
now agreed to extend that agreement for an additional 
two  years.  Spain  has  also  been  a  main  contributor  to 
the  financing  of  the  Commission  from  the  outset.  We 
are prepared to continue to support the work of CICIG 
in  the  political,  technical  and  financial  areas,  so  as  to 
strengthen the rule of law in Guatemala.  

Spain has been a member of the group of friends 
that has supported CICIG since it began its operations. 
Of course, we are also a sponsoring country of the draft 
resolution 
the 
Assembly’s  consideration. We  hope  that  the  draft  will 
be adopted by consensus in recognition and support of 
the difficult and important work being done by CICIG 
and the Government of Guatemala to combat impunity. 

I  must  also  refer  to  the  current  situation  in 
another  country  of  the  subregion,  namely,  Honduras. 
Spain  viewed  the  events  of  28  June  2009  —  exactly 
four months ago to the day — as a coup d’état. Those 
events  entailed  the  illegal  overthrow  and  expulsion 
from Honduras of the constitutional President, Mr. José 
Manuel  Zelaya  Rosales.  The  Spanish  Government’s 
position has led to our resolute condemnation of those 
events,  a  demand  that  President  Zelaya  be  restored  to 
office  and  the  adoption  of  measures,  both  nationally 
and  at  the  level  of  the  European  Union,  aimed  at 
contributing  to  a  return  to  the  democratic  order  in 
Honduras. 

Spain  has  supported  the  efforts  to  that  end 
undertaken by the Organization of American States and 
its  Secretary  General,  Mr.  José  Miguel  Insulza.  We 
have  also  backed  mediation  efforts  by  President Arias 
Sánchez of Costa Rica on the basis of the so-called San 
José accord for a resolution to the situation. We support 
the search for a peaceful and democratic solution to the 
crisis  that  is  negotiated  by  Honduran  parties.  We 
believe  the  San  José  accord  to  be  a  key  term  of 
reference for any solution.  

We  regret  that  dialogue  at  the  table  has  been 
interrupted. We hope that is only a temporary situation. 
In  that  regard,  it  is  necessary  to  continue  to  put 
maximum  pressure  on  the  de  facto  Government, 
especially  now  that  President  Zelaya  has  himself 
agreed  to  the  San  José  accord  and  the  military 
establishment,  which  was  materially  responsible  for 
carrying out coup d’état of 28 June, has stated, on more 
than one occasion, that it would not stand in the way in 
the  search  for  a  peaceful  negotiated  solution  to  the 
09-57994 

9 
the  backing  of 
in  Honduras,  with 
A/64/PV.28 

current  crisis.  Finding  such  a  solution  between  the 
parties 
the 
international  community,  is  more  urgent  than  ever. 
Such an agreement would confer on the elections to be 
held  in  a  month’s  time  the  national  and  international 
credibility  necessary  to  make  the  results  legitimate, 
thereby  genuinely  making  it  possible  to  emerge  from 
the current situation in Honduras. 
At  the  same  time,  it  is  necessary  to  continue  to 

send  out  a  strong  message  of 
international 
community’s  resolute  rejection  of  practices  such  as 
military intervention to subvert the constitutional order. 
Such acts are a thing of the past and have no place in 
Latin America in the twenty-first century. 

Mr.  Limeres  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
would first of all like to speak  about the International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala  (CICIG). 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  important  progress 
made  by  the  Commission  in  the  two  years  that  it  has 
been  operational,  as  indicated  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  contained  in  document  A/64/370. 
We  also  commend  the  efforts  by  the  Government  of 
Guatemala 
the  achievements  and 
overcome the challenges before it.  

Argentina  is  committed  to  the  Commission’s 
efforts.  We  have  contributed  national  gendarmerie 
personnel, who are part of the teams providing security 
for  both  staff  and  the  Commission’s  facilities.  My 
country hopes that the General Assembly will adopt by 
consensus draft resolution A/64/L.4, of which we are a 
sponsor. 
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  Honduras,  from 

the 
very 
the  Argentine  Republic 
energetically condemned the coup d’état carried out on 
28  June.  We  have  expressed  our  resolute  support  for 
the  constitutional  Government  of  Mr.  José  Manuel 
Zelaya  Rosales.  We  have  also  called 
for  his 
unconditional  return  to  the  office  to  which  he  was 
elected  by  the  Honduran  people.  And  we  have  urged 
the preservation of the rule of law, peace and national 
stability, 
stability  of  democratic 
institutions and the observance of human rights. 
Argentina  deplores  the  fact  that,  four  months 

after  the  suspension  of  democratic  and  constitutional 
order in Honduras, and despite the tireless efforts in the 
region by the Organization of American States and the 
entire 
legitimate 
Government has not been restored in that country. My 
to  consolidate 
international 
including 
the 
community, 
the 
beginning, 

the 
country continues to be firmly committed to a return to 
democratic normalcy in Honduras. Our commitment is 
reflected  in  the  active  participation  of  our  country’s 
President,  Cristina  Fernández  de  Kirchner,  in  every 
effort  made  by  the  Organization  of  American  States, 
including  by  accompanying  former  General Assembly 
President  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  to  El 
Salvador, with a view to safeguarding two basic values 
that  our  region  has  been  able  to  enshrine,  namely, 
democracy and respect for human rights. 

I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  words  spoken  by 
Argentina’s  President  during  the  general  debate  at  the 
sixty-fourth session on 23 September 2009: 

“it is crucial that we realize that we must design 
and  forge  a  multilateral  strategy  which  is  strong 
and specific to return democracy to Honduras. We 
need  a  strategy  which  would  actually  allow  for 
true respect for human rights and ensure free and 
democratic  elections  —  which  can  take  place 
only  with  full  respect  for  the  constitution.  If  we 
do  not  do  this,  we  would  be  setting  a  harsh 
precedent  in  a  region  where,  for  decades  during 
the  national  security  doctrine,  suspensions  of 
democracy  claimed  the  lives  of  thousands  and 
thousands of Latin Americans, led to the exile of 
many others and created the region’s most serious 
economic  and  social 
in  memory.” 
(A/64/PV.4) 
We  therefore  once  again  demand  the  immediate 

and  unconditional 
legitimate 
Government  of  President  Zelaya,  as  called  for  in 
paragraph 2 of resolution 63/301. We also reiterate our 
resolute support for regional efforts undertaken by the 
Organization  of  American  States  in  accordance  with 
Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  to 
resolve the political crisis in the Republic of Honduras.  
Mrs.  Gallardo  Hernández  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 

in Spanish): Allow me to welcome the initiative to hold 
this meeting in order for the General Assembly to take 
up  agenda  item  20,  entitled  “The  situation  in  Central 
America:  progress  in  fashioning  a  region  of  peace, 
freedom,  democracy  and  development”.  I  should  also 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on 
this issue (A/64/370). 

The  Government  of  El  Salvador  attaches  great 
importance to the situation in Central America, in line 
with the integrationist approach reflected in our foreign 
policy towards the region. That focus places priority on 
restoration  of 
tragedy 
the 
10 

09-57994 
illicit  gang  activity,  corruption  and 


promoting  and  supporting  efforts, 
initiatives  and 
projects that can contribute to the establishment of the 
Central  American  union  and  to  the  strengthening  of 
both  individual  and  collective  efforts  by  the  member 
countries  of  the  Central American  Integration  System 
(SICA).  The  overall  purpose  is  to  build  a  region  of 
peace, freedom, democracy and development.  

In  our  view,  the  Central  American  region  has 
great  potential  and  strengths  that  should  jointly  be 
exploited  in  order  to  achieve  sustainable  development 
in  the  region.  We  also  acknowledge  that  we  in  the 
region face common challenges and threats that call for 
ongoing  concerted  efforts  at  the  national  and  regional 
levels  if  we  are  to  address  them  successfully.  That 
includes efforts to combat threats to public safety, drug 
activity,  the  illicit  trade  in  drugs,  the  trade  in  human 
beings, 
the 
weakness of democratic institutions.  

All that was recently acknowledged by President 
Carlos  Mauricio  Funes  Cartagena  during  the  general 
debate  at  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, where he said that  

“there will be no solution or future for any of our 
countries  if  we  act  in  isolation  from  each  other. 
We 
the  era  of 
nationalities, and we are now ready to embark on 
a  new  phase,  one  of  greater  integration.  In  this 
regard  the  European  Union  is  perhaps  the  most 
advanced example.” (A/64/PV.4) 
The President also stated: 

to  my  Central  American 
colleagues to consider this point. There are many 
pending  issues  that  we  must  address.  There  are 
common challenges that we must face shoulder to 
shoulder. We have everything to gain and nothing 
to  lose  in  the  full  integration  of  our  region.” 
(Ibid.) 

The  Government  of  El  Salvador  was  therefore 
especially  pleased  with  the  designation  of  14  October 
as  a  date  on  which  we  will  henceforth  commemorate 
Central American Integration Day. That symbolic date 
is  a  valuable  opportunity  to  renew  El  Salvador’s 
commitment  to  regional  integration  by  reiterating  the 
integrationist  thrust  of  our  country’s  foreign  policy. 
Among  other  things,  that  is  a  reflection  of  my 
country’s  desire  to  promote  regional  initiatives  aimed 
at  implementing  the  Central American  strategic  social 
long  ago  emerged 
appeal 
from 


“I 
A/64/PV.28
agenda, which should make it possible to bring Central 
Americans  into  the  regional  integration  process,  as 
well  as  to  create  greater  awareness  of  the  befits  of 
regional integration for Central American peoples. 

Moreover, El Salvador is committed to taking the 
necessary  steps  to  establish  the  Central  American 
customs  union.  That  is  seen  as  a  prerequisite  for 
moving  towards  greater  regional  integration.  In  that 
regard,  my  country  reaffirms  its  political  resolve  to 
adopt, as soon as possible, a multi-year SICA plan with 
the aim of giving the System a medium- and long-term 
regional integration agenda in which priority actions to 
ensure the strengthening of the integration process, the 
periodic review and the modernization of the System’s 
legal  and  institutional  framework  can  be  set  in  line 
with  the  common  desire  for  a  regional  integration 
process. 

We  believe  it  important  to  reiterate  the  proposal 
of  President  Funes  to  convene  a  summit  of  heads  of 
State  and  Government  of  SICA  to  take  stock  of  the 
integration  in  order  to  analyse,  inter  alia,  a  greater 
transfer  of  power  to  strengthen  the  supranational 
mechanism  so  as  to  make  it  credible  and  essentially 
viable. 

The  Government  of  El  Salvador  supports  the 
work of the International Commission against Impunity 
in  Guatemala,  to  which  draft  resolution  A/64/L.6* 
refers. It was set up at the request of Guatemala, as we 
know,  as  a  non-United  Nations  body  financed  with 
voluntary contributions. As has been stated on various 
occasions,  the  prime  objective  of  the  Commission  is 
above  all 
the 
institutions  of  the  State  of  Guatemala  responsible  for 
the  investigation  and  prosecution  of  crimes  allegedly 
committed  by  illegal  security  forces  and  clandestine 
security bodies, and any other type of criminal conduct 
linked 
that  country.  The 
Commission  is  also  empowered  to  refer  criminal  or 
administrative  charges 
the  relevant  authorities 
against officials contributing to impunity by hampering 
the Commission’s powers or tasks. 

Here,  the  Government  of  El  Salvador  urges  the 
Government  of  Guatemala  to  continue  to  provide  the 
necessary  support  to  build  on  the  achievements  and 
overcome  the  challenges  outlined  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report.  We  also  urge  it  to  persevere  in  its 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  institutions  that  underpin  the 
rule  of  law  and  the  defence  of  human  rights.  At  the 
to  support,  strengthen  and  assist 
those  operating 
to 
in 
to 
09-57994 

11 
A/64/PV.28 

same  time,  it  welcomes  Guatemala’s  commitment  to 
fighting impunity. 

My  Government  reiterates  its  concern  about  the 
current situation in the sister Republic of Honduras as 
a  result  of  the  coup  d’état  of  28  June  2009.  We  pray 
once again that that situation will be resolved as soon 
as possible so that joint efforts can resume to form the 
region of peace, liberty, democracy and development in 
Central America that we all yearn for. 

In  that  respect,  we  reaffirm  the  position  of  the 
Government of El Salvador in vehemently condemning 
the  coup  d’état  in  Honduras  and  in  supporting  the 
restoration  of  constitutional  order,  which  indisputably 
requires the immediate and unconditional reinstatement 
of  President  José  Manuel  Zelaya  Rosales.  We  also 
support 
the  General 
Assembly and the Organization of American States and 
the  steps  taken  by  the  Rio  Group  to  promote  a  broad 
political  dialogue  that  will  facilitate  a  peaceful  and 
agreed  solution  to  the  crisis  in  Honduras,  while  fully 
respecting the human rights and fundamental freedoms 
of the entire Honduran people.   
Furthermore,  the  Government  of  El  Salvador 

requests  the  de  facto  regime  to  respect  the  physical 
integrity  of  President  Manuel  Zelaya  and  all  members 
of  the  diplomatic  and  consular  representations,  and  to 
guarantee 
in 
particular that of the Federative Government of Brazil.  

Lastly, allow me to reiterate a statement made by 
President of the Republic Mauricio Funes Cartagena:  

inviolability  of 
their  premises, 
the  relevant 
resolutions  of 
“Until  the  Constitution  is  restored  in  Honduras 
through the immediate reinstatement of President 
Zelaya  and  the  creation  of  a  government  of 
national  unity  in  keeping  with  the  San  José 
Agreement,  the  electoral  process  currently  being 
prepared  in  our  brother  country  will  lack  the 
legitimacy or transparency necessary to guarantee 
reliable  results  which  might  help  resolve  the 
crisis” (A/64/PV.4) 
in Honduras, as the entire region hopes. 
Mr. Urbina (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): As a 

country that believes in law and justice, Costa Rica has 
consistently  supported  the  International  Commission 
against  Impunity  in  Guatemala.  It  is  a  significant 
achievement  in  the  context  of  the  peace  agreements 
signed  in  1996.  We  support  the  extension  of  the 
agreement between the Government of Guatemala and 
12 

the 

For  many  years,  Latin  America 
the  United  Nations  system,  and  we  believe  that 
extending that mandate will make it possible to pursue 
additional efforts and initiatives of vital importance to 
ensuring  the  rule  of  law.  Costa  Rica  welcomes  the 
complete  transparency  and  the  willingness  of  the 
Government of the Republic of Guatemala in fulfilling 
the  substantive  obligations  of  the  Commission.  As  a 
sponsor  of  draft  resolution  A/64/L.6*,  introduced  by 
the  brother  nation  of  Guatemala,  we  call  for  its  broad 
support. 

suffered 
continuous  breakdowns  in  the  democratic  order.  Our 
region was a showcase of dictatorial horrors, fueled by 
the  existence  of  repressive  military  regimes  that 
abrogated political freedoms. The road to democracy in 
Latin  America  was  painful 
and  not  without 
considerable  bloodshed.  The  small  isthmus  of  Central 
America  was  no  exception  in  those  processes  to 
reclaim political systems. 
Exactly  four  months  ago,  one  of  those  projects 

was 
the  democratically 
tragically  disrupted  when 
elected  President  of  the  sister  Republic  of  Honduras 
was  driven  out  of  his  country  and  sent  to  Costa  Rica. 
On that morning of sad memory, the President of Costa 
Rica  was  the  first  head  of  State  to  demand  the 
immediate  reinstatement  of  President  José  Manuel 
Zelaya Rosales.  

For  over  60  years,  Costa  Rica  has  founded  its 
peace on dialogue and the institutional mechanisms of 
conflict resolution. With those resources, we were able 
to  avoid  the  Central American  wars  in  the  1980s,  and 
thanks  to  the  moral  strength  of  an  unarmed  country 
believing  in  negotiated  solutions  in  accordance  with 
the  rule  of  law,  our  President  was  able  to  mediate  the 
Honduran  conflict.  President  Óscar  Arias  wasted  no 
time  or  effort  in  bringing  the  parties  together  and  in 
calling  for  sensitivity,  common  sense  and  the  benefits 
of dialogue to resolve the political crisis in Honduras.  

Although  the  mediation  efforts  of  our  President 
have  not  yet  led  to  the  signing  of  an  agreement, 
somehow  the  spirit  of  the  San  José  agreement  has 
become the backdrop for the international community’s 
efforts,  in  particular  for  the  parties  involved.  In 
politically  realistic  terms,  the  terms  of  a  practical 
political  solution  that  is  within  reach  of  the  parties 
remains the basis for achieving national reconciliation, 
the  restoration  of  President  Zelaya  Rosales  and  the 
return  to  the  constitutional  order  that  prevailed  before 
09-57994 
is 
(Honduras) 
(spoke 
an 


28 June. It is only in that way that the Hondurans will 
be able to hold elections leading to a legitimate transfer 
of  power  and  a  normalization  of  relations  between 
Honduras and the international community.  

As a member of the Security Council, Costa Rica 
condemned  the  harassment  and  threats  to  which  the 
Brazilian  embassy  in  Tegucigalpa  and  its  diplomatic 
personnel  have  been  subject.  Today,  we  reiterate  that 
condemnation and remind the de  facto  authorities that 
they  must  comply  with  the  Vienna  Convention  on 
Diplomatic  Relations.  That 
absolutely 
fundamental  principle.  We  express  our  unequivocal 
solidarity  with  the  Government  of  Brazil  and  our 
support  for  its  legitimate  demands  for  full  respect  for 
that international instrument. 

Costa  Rica  supports  every  regional  effort  to 
resolve  this  situation  and  calls  on  the  constitutional 
Government  and  the  de  facto  authorities  to  resume 
dialogue in a constructive spirit, to resume democracy-
building,  and  to  give  the  Honduran  people  hope  for 
better  future,  free  from  the  specter  of  militarism  and 
oppression. We call on them to have the moral integrity 
to address the real challenges facing Honduran society: 
abolishing  poverty,  overcoming  violence  and  making 
real  progress  towards  sustainable  human  development 
in peaceful coexistence. 
in 

Spanish): I would like to express our warm thanks for 
the  solidarity  of  Assembly  President  Treki  with  the 
constitutional  President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras, 
whom I represent with the greatest honour and pride. I 
would also like to congratulate the Bureau on its skilful 
conduct of the work of this Assembly.  

As  members  of  the  Assembly  are  aware,  my 
country,  Honduras,  has  been  plunged  into  a  serious 
political crisis since 28 June, exactly four months ago 
today.  At  that  time,  I  and  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs provided the most up-to-date information to the 
Assembly  on  the  country’s  situation.  Subsequently, 
following the overthrow of the constitutional President, 
new developments have arisen that I wish to elaborate 
on now. 
The  initiative  to  restore  the  President  of  the 

Republic  to  power  enjoys  the  support  of  all  and  is 
needed  now  more  than  ever.  The  initiative  to  reach  a 
negotiated,  agreed,  peaceful  and  civil  solution  to  the 
internal  conflict  in  Honduras  was  launched  with  the 
valuable  mediation  of  the  President  of  Costa  Rica, 
Mr.  Reina  Idiaquez 
09-57994 

A/64/PV.28
the 
Óscar Arias Sánchez, and laid out a certain number of 
points  that  should  have  served  as  the  basis  for 
negotiations but have not. 

We also enjoyed the clear and determined support 
of  other  movements,  entities,  persons  and  countries. 
The  Organization  of  American  States  also  made  a 
decisive  contribution to the resolution  of this problem 
through  the  dialogue  that  has  been  ongoing  since  the 
return of the President. Since he re-entered the country, 
he  has  sought  shelter  in  the  Brazilian  embassy.  That 
dialogue, which was recently broken off because of the 
lack  of  an  agreement  on  the  issue  of  restoring  the 
President of the Republic to power — as demanded by 
the  people  of  Honduras  and 
international 
community  as  a  whole  —  is  now  in  a  new  phase, 
thanks  to  the  intervention  of  the  United  States  only  a 
few  hours  ago  through  its  Department  of  State.  The 
parties  are  meeting  to  achieve  consensus  at  this  very 
moment, as we speak in this Hall.  

I had hoped to speak here after the conclusion of 
that  meeting,  but  alas,  it  has  not  yet  ended.  However, 
there  is  still  a  good  chance  of  achieving  a  clear  and 
appropriate  agreement  to  restore  President  Zelaya  to 
the presidency of the country and uphold the rights of 
the people of Honduras. 

Allow me to express our deepest gratitude to the 
countries  of  all  the  representatives  who  have  spoken 
before  me  of  the  serious  problem  facing  Honduras.  I 
thank them for their brotherhood, their cooperation and 
the  efforts  they  have  made  to  help  to  resolve  the 
political  crisis  in  my  country.  I  would  refer  here  in 
particular  to  the  Government  of  Costa  Rica,  which 
facilitated the first reconciliation meeting, to the sister 
Republic of Brazil, and to all the other efforts exerted 
by other countries.  

I wish to reiterate that, if members were to decide 
at  some  point  in  the  future  that  it  were  necessary,  I 
would  return  once  again  to  this  Assembly  to  raise 
support for a motion aimed at shielding the elections in 
my country, which must be an example of transparency 
and  clarity,  from  any  threat.  The  perpetrators  of  the 
coup  d’état  must  not  be  allowed  to  manipulate  those 
elections,  a  mechanism  that  the  people  use  to  resolve 
their problems. 

If necessary, I will return to this Assembly, to the 
United Nations and to all  other such forums to seek  a 
resolution  to  the  situation  and  to  prevent  the  coming 
elections  from  being  manipulated  in  such  a  way  that, 
13 
that  for  now  because 
A/64/PV.28 

instead  of  being  a  solution  to  the  problem,  they  serve 
as  a  cover  for  a  coup  d’état  that  has  overthrown  the 
constitutional  order  of  the  country.  But  I  will  not  say 
anything  more  about 
the 
negotiations have not yet concluded and I do not wish 
in any way to interfere with them, in keeping  with the 
instructions  laid  out  for  me  by  the  constitutional 
President of the Republic of Honduras.  

I would also like to say that I was informed a few 
minutes  ago  of  a  statement  that  runs  completely 
counter  to  the  principle  of  friendship  among  peoples, 
made  by  a  person  claiming  to  be  an  official  of  the 
Government of Honduras at the International Court of 
Justice in the Hague, accusing Brazil of interference in 
the  internal  affairs  of  Honduras.  Here,  now,  in  this 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  say  that  that  official  will  be 
immediately dismissed and that he speaks not on behalf 
of  the  legitimate  Government  of  Honduras  but  on 
behalf of the perpetrators of the coup d’état. To Brazil, 
I simply offer my profound thanks for having sheltered 
the  constitutional  President  of 
the  Republic  of 
Honduras  and  for  having  supported  us,  together  with 
all  the  countries  of  the  world,  in  our  quest  to  re-
establish legality, democracy and the well-being of the 
people in Honduras. 
Mr. Wolff (United States of America): We thank 

the  Secretariat  for  the  report  on  the  activities  of  the 
International  Commission 
in 
Guatemala  (A/64/370)  and  express  our  strong  support 
for the Commission. We are pleased to be a sponsor of 
the  draft  resolution  presented  today  by  the  delegation 
of  Guatemala  (A/64/L.6*).  We  would  also  like  to 
recognize  the  excellent  work  of  Commissioner  Carlos 
Castresana. Guatemala is indeed well served to have an 
official  of  his  calibre  leading  the  efforts  of  the 
Commission. 

I  would  like  to  address  my  remarks  to  the 
situation  in  Honduras.  The  United  States,  like  other 
Member  States,  is  firmly  committed  to  the  restoration 
of  democratic  order  in  Honduras.  We  believe  that  the 
situation  in  Honduras  needs  to  be  resolved  through 
peaceful  dialogue  quickly  for  the  well-being  of  the 
people  of  Honduras  and  the  stability  of  the  region. 
Accordingly,  the  United  States  is  fully  engaged  in  the 
ongoing efforts of the Organization of American States 
(OAS),  the  competent  regional  body  to  resolve  this 
issue. That is also the reason that senior United States 
Government  officials  are 
to 
continue to urge the parties to resolve the situation in a 
in  Honduras 
Impunity 
against 
today 

that 
clearly 
reconciliation.  We  have 
restores  democracy  and  peace 
way that maximizes the ability of the Honduran people 
their  country’s  future  and  advance 
to  determine 
national 
and 
consistently  expressed  our  concern  about  the  situation 
in Honduras within the OAS and, as appropriate, in the 
United  Nations,  and  have  worked  hard  to  find  a 
solution 
to 
Honduras.  

Along  with  other  members  of  the  OAS,  we 
supported  mediation  by  President Arias  of  Costa  Rica 
between  representatives  of  President  José  Manuel 
Zelaya and the de facto regime. President Arias worked 
intensively during July and part of August to facilitate 
a  solution,  and  we  commend  his  efforts. The  proposal 
he  circulated  to  both  sides,  the  San  José  accord,  has 
been  used  as  the  negotiating  document  during  talks 
earlier  this  month  launched  by  an  OAS  mission  of 
member State foreign ministers. The United States also 
strongly supported that mission’s work.  

Although currently broken off, the talks launched 
by  the  OAS  mission  achieved  significant  progress. 
Representatives  of  the  de  facto  regime  and  President 
Zelaya  reached  agreement  on  most  of  the  text  of  the 
Guaymuras accord, the updated version of the San José 
accord,  to  resolve  the  crisis.  Unfortunately,  the  two 
sides have not resolved the most critical issue, namely, 
the restoration of President Zelaya. 

The  United  States  remains  intensively  engaged 
with  representatives  from  both  sides,  OAS  mediators 
and  other  Member  States  to  bring  the  parties  back  to 
the  table  to  resolve  the  remaining  outstanding  issues. 
Our efforts continue to be guided by resolution 63/301, 
adopted on 30 June. The Honduran people clearly want 
a  functioning  democracy  and 
to 
express their will in free and fair elections. That comes 
across  clearly  through  the  presidential  candidates’ 
actions  to  support  a  dialogue  to  resolve  the  crisis. 
Those  democratic  candidates  were  chosen  by  their 
respective  political  organizations  well  before 
the 
events that led to the coup of 28 June. The candidates 
did  not  participate  in  the  coup  and  have  earned  their 
positions  thanks  to  the  trust  of  Honduran  voters.  We 
should continue our efforts to promote a solution to the 
crisis  in  advance  of  the  elections  scheduled  for  
29 November.  

We  recognize  the  troubling  situation  at  the 
Brazilian  embassy.  We  want  to  assure  our  Brazilian 
friends  that  the  United  States  will  continue  to  help  in 
the  opportunity 
14 

09-57994 


any  way  possible.  Our  embassy  in  Tegucigalpa  has 
worked  closely  with  the  Brazilian  embassy  to  ensure 
that  it  has  food,  water  and  electricity  and  that  its 
diplomatic  rights  are  respected  by  the  Honduran  de 
facto  regime.  We  continue  to  remind  the  de  facto 
regime  that  its  behaviour  must  be  consistent  with  its 
obligations  under 
the  Vienna  Convention  on 
Diplomatic  Relations  to  respect  diplomatic  premises 
and personnel and those under their protection.  

The  United  States  will  continue  to  work  to 
expand opportunities for the people in Honduras, and a 
negotiated solution is the best way out of this crisis. In 
our view the United Nations should support the efforts 
of the OAS and others to reestablish democratic life in 
Honduras and help ensure its viability. 

speaker in the debate on this item.  
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
A/64/PV.28
A/64/L.6*, 
entitled 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 

resolution 
“International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala”.  May  I 
inform the Assembly that since the introduction of the 
draft  resolution,  the  delegations  of  Bulgaria  and  Côte 
d’Ivoire  have  joined  in  co-sponsoring  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.6*. 

draft resolution A/64/L.6*? 

Draft 
(resolution 64/7). 

The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 20. 
The meeting rose at 5 p.m. 
resolution  A/64/L.6*  was 
adopted 
09-57994 

15 
