
A/64/PV.10
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

10th plenary meeting 
Saturday, 26 September 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Valero 
Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela), 
Vice-President, took the Chair. 







The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 



  Address by Mr. Sali Berisha, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Albania 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Albania. 
Mr.  Berisha  (Albania):  I  have 
Mr. Sali Berisha, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Albania, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sali 
Berisha,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Albania, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
the  special 

pleasure today to extend to Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, 
President of the General Assembly, my congratulations 
on his excellent work in presiding over the sixty-fourth 
session of this Assembly. I would also like to thank his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for  his 
work in successfully leading the Assembly at its sixty-
third session. 

I  avail  myself  of  this  opportunity  to  extend  my 
greetings to all those present in this Hall today. I also 
express  my  deep  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his high competence and professionalism 
in  leading  the  United  Nations,  and  acknowledge  his 
important  personal  contribution  to  the  success  of  this 
session. 

We are gathered here today after a year in which 
the  world  has  faced  one  of  the  worst  financial  and 
economic crises in history. We  are gathered here once 
again  at  a  time  when  hundreds  of  millions  of  people 
are being oppressed by tyrannical regimes or are facing 
extreme  poverty,  disease  and  major  health  or  social 
calamities. We are gathered here at a time when brutal 
conflicts  continue  to  take  the  lives  of  innocent  people 
in  various  regions  of  our  world,  and  when  nuclear 
crises  in  Iran  and  North  Korea  represent  a  genuine 
threat to world peace. 

Albania  and  the  Albanian  people  continue  to 
engage in international cooperation and are determined 
to  offer  their  modest  contribution  to  advancing  peace, 
freedom  and  security  and  respect  for  human  rights, 
fighting  poverty,  promoting  sustainable  development 
and  prosperity  and,  last  but  not  least,  protecting  the 
environment. 
(spoke in French) 

As  a  European  country,  Albania  remains  fully 
committed  and  determined  to  carry  out  every  reform 
and  to  take  every  decision  and  every  other  measure 
required  of  it  on  the  road  to  membership  of  the 
European  Union  (EU).  More  than  94  per  cent  of 
Albanians  support  Albania’s  application  process  for 
joining  the  EU.  This  is  not  only  highly  encouraging, 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52592 (E) 
*0952592* 


A/64/PV.10 

but  also  a  major  obligation  for  my  Government  to 
proceed  swiftly  along  this  path.  This  autumn,  we 
expect  a  positive  response  from 
the  Council  of 
Ministers of the European Union to our application for 
candidate  status,  while  we  also  hope  to  obtain  visa 
liberalization as soon as possible. 

Albania  is  a  new  but  functioning  democracy. 
About two months ago, we held general parliamentary 
elections.  The 
international  watchdog  Office  for 
Democratic  Institutions  and  Human  Rights  reported 
that  the  elections  met  the  principal  standards  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
and deserve a generally positive assessment. The newly 
elected Government has proclaimed the following core 
pillars  of  its  programmes:  building  new  and  modern 
infrastructure throughout the country; bringing Albania 
into  the  digital  age;  reforming  the  health-care  and 
education  systems;  fighting  poverty,  and  creating  new 
jobs for Albanian citizens. 

Next  year  here  at  the  United  Nations,  we  will 
assess the progress we have made towards fulfilling the 
Millennium  Goals. Albania  has  put  intense  effort  into 
achieving  significant  progress  in  this  area.  Over  the 
past three years, some 400,000 Albanians have moved 
up from below the poverty line, while extreme poverty 
has been reduced by 70 per cent; tens of thousands of 
new  jobs  have  been  created;  the  number  of  university 
students  has  doubled  and  infant  mortality  has  been 
drastically reduced. 
(spoke in English) 
The  years  2008  and  2009  have  seen  the  worst 

financial  and  economic  crisis  the  world  has  known 
since the Great Depression. The Albanian economy has 
felt  the  consequences  of  the  crisis.  Its  exports  fell  by 
10  per  cent  and  the  levels  of  financial  credit  were 
drastically 
these  consequences, 
however, Albanian gross domestic product (GDP) grew 
by more than 5 per cent in the first six months of 2009, 
our revenues saw an 8 per cent increase compared with 
those  of  last  year,  and  foreign  direct  investment  was 
59 per cent higher than last year. 

I  believe  that  the  main  factors  protecting  the 
Albanian  economy  in  this  crisis  were,  first,  the  very 
fact that Albania has the lowest fiscal burden in Europe 
and  that  its  economy  is  largely  based  on  liberal 
standards;  secondly,  the  fact  that  my  Government  has 
invested  10  per  cent  of 
in 
infrastructure projects in 2009, or, taking into account 
the  country’s  GDP 
reduced.  Despite 
2 

09-52592 
comes 
to 
investment for 2008, 20 per cent of GDP over the past 
two  years;  thirdly,  our  thorough  reforms  aimed  at 
achieving  smaller  Government,  as  a  result  of  which 
Albania  now  has  one  of 
the  smallest  public 
administrations per capita in Europe and, indeed, in the 
entire world; and, last but not least, the very favourable 
climate  for  business  and  investment  created  by  my 
Government  over  the  past  four  years.  I  take  this 
opportunity  to  invite  investors  from  all  countries  to 
consider  my  country  for  their  projects,  which  will 
definitely  turn  out  to  be  success  stories  for  them,  and 
for Albania. 

Albania  has  maintained  excellent  cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies.  Albania  is 
one  of  the  pilot  countries  of  the  Delivering  as  One 
initiative,  and  through  its  experience  and  positive 
results  is  making  a  real  contribution  to  this  United 
Nations  reform.  Delivering  as  One  provides  for 
excellent savings of time and money, as well as much 
more  efficient  coordination  of  the  work  of  United 
Nations  agencies  in  their  cooperation  with  Member 
States. This project has had an excellent track record in 
my  country  due 
the  coherence  and  better 
coordination of the activities of United Nations bodies 
with those of our national authorities, particularly with 
regard  to  aligning  international  projects  with  the 
country’s priorities. 
We  have  been  pleased  to  see  that  our  reform 

priorities and national strategy on European integration 
are in full harmony with the Millennium Development 
Goals  and  those  of  the  Delivering  as  One  initiative. 
The  outcome  has  demonstrated  that  this  project,  the 
philosophy  of  which  depends  on  the  concept  of 
national  ownership,  has  produced  more  efficient 
implementation  of  United  Nations  development 
programmes. 

Albania is a multireligious society with religious 
harmony  par  excellence.  In  the  framework  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  in  accordance  with  our 
national strategy on intercultural dialogue, we offer our 
example of religious harmony and coexistence, one of 
the most invaluable spiritual heritages of our nation, as 
a  contribution  to  the  aims  of  this  United  Nations 
initiative. 

This general debate was preceded by the Summit 
on  Climate  Change.  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
inform the Assembly that more than 90 per cent of the 
electricity  my 
from 
consumes 
country 


renewable  hydroelectric  power. Although  we  are  open 
to  other  energy  sources,  including  nuclear,  we  are 
working hard and have so far secured about €5 billion 
in  new  investment  for  new  hydroelectric,  wind  and 
biomass  energy  plants.  Albania  intends  to  become  a 
small super-Power of green energy in the region. 

The  last  decade  of  brutal  conflict  in  the  Balkans 
seems to have been consigned to the annals of history. 
The  countries  of  that  region  are  now  engaged  in  a 
process  of  cooperation  in  all  fields  and  in  European 
and  Euro-Atlantic  integration.  This  year,  Albania  and 
Croatia  became 
full  members  of  NATO.  Other 
countries of the region have made significant progress 
towards EU and NATO membership. 

I  must  stress  at  this  point  that,  although  only  a 
short  time  has  passed  since  Kosovo’s  declaration  of 
independence,  the  establishment  of  the  independent 
state  of  Kosovo  has  become  an  important  factor  for 
peace  and  stability  in  South-East  Europe.  In  that 
country,  which  declared  independence  20  months  ago, 
inter-ethnic  relations  have  improved  and  inter-ethnic 
tensions have been significantly reduced. Serbs are no 
longer  leaving  Kosovo.  The  opposite  is  happening  — 
many  Serbian  families  are  coming  back  to  Kosovo  to 
build  their  future  in  their  country.  My  Government  is 
determined  to  help  and  assist  the  Government  of 
Kosovo  in  its  projects  to  facilitate  the  return  of  the 
displaced people of that country. 

The  European  Union  has  deployed  its  Rule  of 
Law  Mission,  which  is  doing  an  excellent  job  and 
providing  extremely  valuable  help  to  the  Government 
of Kosovo and its authorities in consolidating the rule 
of law and functional democracy in Kosovo, as well as 
in  developing  the  highest  European  standards  for  the 
coexistence  of  the  various  ethnic  communities.  The 
International Security Force in Kosovo has also played 
a very positive role, and the very fact that its strength 
has  been  reduced  is  clear  evidence  of  the  stability  in 
that country. 

Meanwhile,  63  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations have recognized independent Kosovo, and the 
Republic  of  Kosovo  has  become  a  member  of  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Bank. 
Nevertheless,  Kosovo  has  not  yet  assumed  the  place 
that it deserves in the family of sovereign countries of 
this prestigious Organization.  
On this occasion, I would like to point out that all 

the  countries  that  recognize  the  Republic  of  Kosovo 
A/64/PV.10
Fourteen  years  ago,  after  condemning 
and  the  international  institutions  that  have  accepted  it 
in  their  forums  as  an  independent  member  State  have 
done so because, above all else, they are convinced that 
the  independence  of  Kosovo  and  its  international 
recognition  make  a  major  contribution  to  peace  and 
stability in South-East Europe. That is why I take this 
opportunity  to  express  my  deepest  gratitude  to  all 
Governments  and  States  Members  of 
the  United 
Nations  that  are  considering  a  review  and  assessment 
of  the  existing  reality  in  South-East  Europe  and  the 
possibility of recognizing the independence of Kosovo. 
In my judgment, that would be a great contribution to 
peace, stability, security and cooperation in our region. 

the 
coercive  oppression,  violence  and  barbarism  of  the 
Milosevic  regime  against  Albanians  in  Kosovo,  137 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  voted  in 
resolution  49/204  of  23  December  1994  to  recognize 
and  respect  the  will  of  the  inhabitants  of  Kosovo. 
Today, 
the  reality  of  an 
independent  Kosovo  and  has  been  recognized  by  63 
countries that took that historic vote. I hope and firmly 
believe that the rest of the countries that voted for that 
historic  resolution  will  reaffirm  the  will  that  they 
expressed  14  years  ago  —  this  time  through  their 
recognition  of  Europe’s  newest  State,  the  Republic  of 
Kosovo. 
With  its  foreign  policy  of  peace  and  good 

relations  with  all  countries,  its  modest  but  important 
contribution  to  international  missions  of  peace  and 
human  rights  protection  through  its  policy  of  good 
neighbourliness,  and  a  moderate  and  constructive  role 
in the region, Albania has become a producer of and a 
direct contributor to stability and security in the region 
and at the global level. 

in  peacekeeping 
missions  in  several  international  operations  in  the 
framework  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  regional 
security organizations, such as in Afghanistan, Bosnia, 
Iraq, Chad and other countries. Only about two months 
ago,  Albania  doubled  its  number  of  troops  in  the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  mission.  My 
country  acknowledges  and  supports  every  effort  for 
global peace and security, and will continue to support 
all  efforts  of  the  United  Nations,  NATO  and  other 
actors that promote peace, stability and security in the 
world  and  that  keep  in  check  those  two  countries  that 
threaten it — Iran and North Korea — with their very 
dangerous nuclear programmes. 
that  will  has  become 
Today,  Albania  participates 
09-52592 

3 

A/64/PV.10 


All  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  share 
the  responsibility  for  the  efficient  functioning  of  this 
Organization. No one can ignore the track record of the 
United  Nations  activities  in  many  fields.  Whenever 
there  is  a  crisis,  poverty,  famine,  disease  or  disaster, 
the  United  Nations  is  there  to  provide  relief  and 
support.  

However, it has long been evident that the world, 
countries and the complexity of international relations 
develop much faster than the United Nations is able to 
adjust and adapt itself to the new realities. That is why 
Albania  strongly  supports  the  continuation  of  the 
reform  process  of  this  Organization  and  the  further 
improvement  of  the  United  Nations  system.  A  more 
efficient decision-making mechanism is pivotal in that 
respect.  We  support  the  efforts  to  reform  the  Security 
Council.  We  believe 
the 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century,  we  need  a 
Security  Council  that  is  efficient,  transparent  and 
legitimate in its decision-making process and in which 
regions  and  individual  Member  States  are  adequately 
represented. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Albania  for  the 
statement he has just made. 
in  order 
to  meet 
that 
Mr. Sali Berisha, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Albania, was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Josaia V. Bainimarama, Prime 
Minister and Commander of the Military 
Forces of the Republic of the Fiji Islands 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister and Commander of the Military Forces of the 
Republic of the Fiji Islands. 
the  Military  Forces  of 
Mr.  Josaia  V.  Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister  and 
Commander  of 
the 
Republic  of  the  Fiji  Islands,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Josaia 
V.  Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister  and  Commander  of 
the Military Forces of the Republic of the Fiji Islands, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Bainimarama  (Fiji):  I  extend  our  warm 

greetings  to  the  President  and  to  this  Assembly.  I 
the 
that  has  been  enriched  by 
congratulate  him  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly at this sixty-fourth session. I pay 
tribute  to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann, for presiding over the sixty-third 
session with great sensitivity and for bringing a human 
face to our work. 

The sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly 
will address important  contemporary issues of interest 
to all Member nations. Such issues include seeking out 
effective  responses  to  global  crises  and  strengthening 
multilateralism  and  dialogue  on  international  peace, 
security  and  development.  Those  issues  are  indeed  of 
critical  importance  to  my  own  country,  a  small  island 
developing  State 
its 
membership of and participation in the United Nations. 

Fiji  and  its  people,  like  all  small  developing 
island  States,  are  among 
first  victims  of 
contemporary  global  crises,  such  as  the  financial  and 
economic  crisis,  the  2009  H1N1  pandemic  and,  most 
dramatic of all, the phenomenon of climate change. In 
small  economies  like  ours,  those  global  events  have  a 
very real effect on the daily livelihoods of our people. 
For our part, we have attempted to respond to some of 
those 
and 
adjustments, encouraging our people to grow their own 
food and discouraging food imports wherever possible. 
Over the past two years, the size of our public service 
has  been  rationalized.  We  have  maintained  a  very 
streamlined  Cabinet 
significantly 
and 
controlled Government operational costs. 

There have been critics of the events in Fiji since 
December  2006,  when 
the  military,  with  great 
reluctance, was forced to remove the then Government 
of Fiji. I believe that these critics  are largely unaware 
of the extent to which politicians, in league with those 
who employ terror as a tactic to push racial supremacy 
and a corrupt agenda, had become a threat to the safety 
and  security  of  our  people.  Terrorism  has  become  a 
global  issue  and  it  impacts  Fiji  as  well.  We  are  fully 
cooperating  in  the  international  effort  to  control  and 
contain this scourge. 

Next  year  on  10  October,  Fiji  will  celebrate  the 
fortieth  year  of  its  independence  and  the  fortieth 
anniversary  of  its  membership  in  the  United  Nations. 
We  embraced  our  independence  full  of  enthusiasm, 
excited by the prospect of deciding our own future and 
believing  that  our  community  as  a  whole  would  work 
crises  by  making  policy 
structure 
changes 
4 

09-52592 
suffrage,  human 
rights, 
Work  on 
ruling  created  a 


together  to  achieve  a  better  life  for  all  of  our  people. 
Our path has not been smooth or easy. 

The  President  of  Fiji  abrogated  the  Constitution 
on 10 April this year. He took this step when a Court of 
Appeal 
legal  vacuum  —  a 
constitutional  anomaly  which  would  have  also 
prevented  implementation  of  the  reforms  which  were 
mandated by him in order to achieve a truly democratic 
State. 

On 1 July of this year, I announced a road map to 
lead  Fiji  to  a  new  constitution  and  elections  based  on 
equality,  equal 
justice, 
transparency,  modernity  and  true  democratic  ideals. 
My Government and I were mandated to carry out and 
to  continue  the  reforms,  which  will  ensure  that  true, 
democratic,  non-communal  and  equal  suffrage-based 
elections for parliamentary representation will be held 
by  September  2014.  A  road  map  to  implement  this 
mandate was announced on 1 July of this year. 

Together  with  stringent  steps  to  protect  our 
economy from the effects of the world economic crisis, 
work  will  commence  on  a  new  constitution  by 
September  2012.  The  basis  for  the  new  constitution 
will  be  the  ideals  and  principles  formulated  by  the 
People’s Charter for Change and Progress, a document 
prepared  following  widespread  consultations  with  and 
input from the people of Fiji. The People’s Charter was 
adopted  by  the  President  after  the  endorsement  of  the 
majority of the people of Fiji.  

involve 
consultations  with  all  the  ordinary  citizens  of  our 
country,  as  well  as  with  civil  society.  Consultations 
will  focus  on  issues  such  as  the  size  of  the  new 
parliament,  the  sustainability  of  a  bicameral  system, 
the  terms  of  office  of  Government,  and  systems  of 
accountability  of  Government  to  the  people.  The  new 
constitution  will  implement  reforms  and  the  results  of 
extensive  consultations  and  will  be 
in  place  by 
September  2013.  This  will  give  the  people  of  Fiji  a 
year to become familiar  with its provisions before the 
elections take place in September 2014. 

There  have  been  critics  of  this  timeline.  These 
critics  have  asked  why  work  on  the  new  constitution 
will  not  commence  before  September  2012.  The 
answer is very simple, at least to those who know and 
understand Fiji’s history. Fiji has a colonial history that 
has created many anomalies and inequalities and whose 
legacy  resonates  today.  Consequently  and  due  also  to 
the  new  constitution  will 
A/64/PV.10
the  politicians,  our  post-colonial  period  has  been 
punctuated  by  political  instability.  On  each  occasion 
that a new Government has been voted into power, the 
old elite which benefited financially from the previous 
established  Government  has  been  able  to  successfully 
destabilize  the  Government  and  to  replace  it  with  its 
own supporters and  representatives. This was possible 
only  because  those  institutions  of  the  State  that  were 
supposed  to  protect  democracy  and  democratic  values 
instead  colluded  with  the  elite  to  destabilize  and 
replace the new Government.  

And  that  is  not  all.  Fiji  has  suffered  more  than 
20 years  of  mismanagement,  corruption  and  nepotism. 
Our infrastructure, our judicial system and our systems 
of  accountability  have  all  remained  underdeveloped 
and  unproductive.  Many  of  our  finest  brains  have  left 
the  country  because  they  could  see  no  future  in  a 
country governed by ethno-nationalism, corruption and 
greed.  In  order  to  ensure  that  democracy  has  a  real 
chance  of  survival 
in  Fiji’s  future,  serious  and 
principled reforms must be implemented to build roads, 
institutions and values. 

Together with infrastructure, the hearts and minds 
of  our  people  must  adopt  and  cherish  true  democracy. 
The  way  of  the  old  elite  must  never  triumph  again. 
There  must  be  reforms  before  elections  to  ensure  that 
democracy  is  sustainable  for  Fiji’s  long-term  future. 
The  people  of  Fiji  deserve  better  than  the  short-term 
band-aid  solutions  we  have  experienced  over  the  past 
decades. 

I ask for patience and understanding, particularly 
from our neighbours, who have shown a surprising lack 
of understanding and disregard of the peculiar situation 
which our country has experienced since independence. 
Put  another  way,  there  is  an  almost  blind  faith  that 
once independence has been granted to those who were 
under  colonial  rule  and  the  machinery  of  democracy 
begins  to  work,  the  country  concerned  will  enjoy 
smooth  sailing.  Nothing  could  be  further  from  the 
truth.  I  invite  the  international  community  to  engage 
with us, to visit our country to see the situation, and to 
provide practical support and assistance to enable us to 
implement the reforms. 

History is replete with the struggles of people the 
world  over  for  self-determination  in  order  to  be  free 
from  subjugation  and  foreign  domination.  Our  own 
experience  should  have  provided  some  indication,  if 
09-52592 

5 

A/64/PV.10 

one  is  needed,  of  how  difficult  it  has  been  for  us  to 
achieve true, genuine and sustainable democracy. 

Many  of  the  nations  represented  in  this  Hall 
today have experienced the traumas of nation-building. 
It  would  not  be  out  of  place  to  reflect  on  what 
President Obama said during his address to the General 
Assembly on Wednesday, 23 September: 


“Democracy  cannot  be  imposed  on  any 
nation from the outside. Each society must search 
for  its  own  path,  and  no  path  is  perfect.  Each 
country will pursue a path rooted in the culture of 
its people and in its past traditions.” (A/64/PV.3)  
friends 
for 
their 
respect 
thank  Fiji’s 
We thoroughly endorse such sentiments. 

Our  dream  is  for  equality,  for  justice  and  for 
security.  Our  dream  is  for  dignity  and  for  economic 
well-being.  Our  dream  is  for  true  democracy.  I  thank 
those of our  friends  who have had  continued dialogue 
with me and my Government and who have helped us 
to achieve what they themselves now take for granted. 
I 
and 
understanding  even  when  we  agree  to  differ  on  some 
issues.  If  there  is  to  be  genuine  dialogue  at  both  the 
regional  and  the  international  levels,  there  must  be  a 
willingness to listen and to respect a different point of 
view. 

To those nations that have refused to engage with 
Fiji and have expressed an unwillingness to enter into 
dialogue,  I  can  only  repeat  my  plea  that  they  change 
their stance. Fiji is a small nation. Our people pose no 
threat  to  anyone,  least  of  all  to  the  big  Powers  of  the 
South  Pacific  that  have  arrogated  to  themselves  the 
right to dictate to us our future and the way we govern 
ourselves.  We  respect 
the  right  of  anyone  who 
disagrees  with  us  to  exercise  their  freedom.  However, 
that does not  give them the right to interfere with our 
efforts to build a better country for our people. 

In  addition  to  all  of  this,  they  have  used  their 
extensive  diplomatic  and  financial  resources  to  deny 
Fiji  the  ability  to  participate  in  new  peacekeeping 
operations.  Fiji  has  participated 
in  peacekeeping 
operations  since  1978  and  is  proud  of  its  association 
with 
the 
Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations.  Indeed,  the 
Fiji  Military  Forces,  since  the  beginning  of  their 
participation 
in  peacekeeping,  have  established  a 
reputation  for  professionalism,  skill  and  rapport  with 
the communities in their areas of operation. 
the  United  Nations, 
in  particular  with 
6 


Fiji has been disappointed by what appears to be 
a unilateral decision on the part of the United Nations 
to  debar  our  country  from  any  new  peacekeeping 
operations.  To  this  day,  we  have  not  been  able  to 
receive  a  clear  and  satisfactory  reply  from 
the 
Organization on this matter. I express the hope that the 
United  Nations  will  deal  equitably  and  fairly  with 
troop-contributing countries. 

Our  experiences  as  a  member  of  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  in  the  area  of  peacekeeping,  will 
be strengthened and enhanced by our People’s Charter 
and  the  road  map  to  the  elections.  Those  documents 
aptly  demonstrate  the  positive  values  of  genuine 
dialogue and engagement. We believe that, if we are to 
achieve  genuine  peace,  security  and  development  in 
our country, we must build on a foundation of patience 
and respect for all views. 

Like  most  small  island  nations,  Fiji  regards  the 
threat  posed  by  climate  change  as  one  that  will 
undermine  international  peace  and  security.  The  lives 
of real people from real places are at stake. The future 
survival  of  real  generations,  the  continuation  of  real 
cultures  and  the  security  of  belonging  to  a  real 
homeland are being threatened. 

The  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change  will  be 
politically  blind;  its  devastating  effects  on  humanity 
will  far  outweigh  any  ideology  or  system  of  belief 
devised by man. The potential casualties resulting from 
its  impacts  could  be  far  greater  than  those  caused  by 
any of the battles we have ever fought. Yet the ability 
to  reverse  its  onslaught  is  well  within  our  collective 
control. 

Fiji is thankful to the general membership of the 
Assembly  for  adopting,  at  its  previous  session,  a 
resolution promoted by small island developing States 
linking  the  threat  of  climate  change  to  security.  Some 
of  Fiji’s  closest  neighbours  live  on  the  lowest-lying 
atolls in the world. The rise in sea level brought about 
by  climate  change  threatens  literally  to  drown  them. 
Why should they be forced to abandon their homeland 
for  no  fault  of  their  own? All  human  beings  have  the 
right  to  live  in  their  ancestral  homeland,  if  they  so 
choose. 

It  is  vital  to  understand  that  no  measure  of 
financial assistance can resurrect what has submerged, 
generate  rain  to  end  drought,  reverse  the  effects  of 
natural  disasters  or  replace  what  has  been  lost  as  a 
result  of  climate  change.  No  small  island  State  can 
09-52592 
the  survival  of 


survive the future by merely mitigating the impacts of 
climate  change.  Adaptation  and  mitigation  are  not 
enough. We can halt the impact of climate change and 
ensure 
island  States  only  by 
significantly reducing carbon emissions. 

It is on the basis of that premise that Fiji, as one 
of the States that are more vulnerable to the impacts of 
climate change, calls on all nations — in particular the 
major  emitters  —  to  be  responsible  and  commit 
themselves to the carbon emission reduction targets of 
approximately  45  per  cent  from  1990  levels  by  2020 
and  85  per  cent  by  2050,  with  a  global  atmosphere 
concentration  of  less  than  350  parts  per  million;  and, 
further,  to  limit  temperature  increases  to  less  than 
1.5 degrees  Celsius  above  the  pre-industrial  level  by 
2020. I wish to emphasize that, realistically, that is the 
minimum reduction level that will allow us to address 
the  devastating  impacts  of  climate  change  that  we 
currently face. 

To fail to meet those targets would be to make the 
probability  of  risk  astoundingly  high  for  the  most 
vulnerable.  To  negotiate  on  those  targets  would  mean 
negotiating  on  the  lives  of  millions. The  inequity  that 
exists in terms of the extent of our vulnerabilities and 
abilities 
to  meet  mitigating  costs  vis-à-vis  our 
contributions  to climate change has divided our views 
and weakened our collective strength to deal with this 
global  issue.  Those  inequitable  circumstances  are 
further  complicated  by  the  conflicting  political  and 
economic interests of States. Understandably, decisions 
and  positions  are  based  on  national  self-interests, 
which,  in  most  cases,  take priority  over  the  principles 
of equity and responsibility. 

Those  are  the  differences  that  have  given  rise  to 
the challenges that we currently face as an international 
community  in  arriving  at  a  binding  international 
agreement 
the  current  most 
fundamental need of the world: its survival. 

Fiji hopes that political goodwill and compromise 
will be found on the road  to Copenhagen and that the 
necessary  platform  will  soon  be  found  for  a  fair, 
effective  and  ambitious  climate  change  regime  that 
ensures significant reductions in carbon emissions and 
the  creation  of  a  financial  regime  that  supports  the 
adaptation  and  mitigation  needs  of  every  country, 
particularly the most vulnerable ones. 
My  Government  is  committed  to  upholding  the 

principles  and  values  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the 
responds 
that 
to 
A/64/PV.10
United  Nations,  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  and  other  United  Nations  conventions.  We  are 
resolutely  committed  to  the  elimination  of  all  policies 
and  laws  that  are  inconsistent  with  our  international 
obligations.  We  wish  to  create  a  new  and  brighter 
future  for  our  people  based  on  equality,  dignity  and 
respect. 

the  General 
Assembly  and  the  community  of  nations,  as  well  as 
their support in fulfilling our dreams. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  the  Fiji  Islands  for 
the statement he has just made. 
the  understanding  of 
We  seek 
Mr.  Josaia  Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Fiji  Islands,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.  



  Address by Mr. Carlos Gomes Júnior, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. 
(spoke 
Mr.  Gomes
(Guinea-Bissau) 
Mr.  Carlos  Gomes  Júnior,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.  
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Carlos 
Gomes  Júnior,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea-Bissau, and inviting him to address the General 
Assembly. 
in 

Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
My first words are to congratulate Mr. Ali Abdussalam 
Treki  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. Aware of his skill 
and  his  vast  diplomatic  experience,  we  are  convinced 
that  this  session  will  be  crowned  with  success.  My 
country,  Guinea-Bissau,  which  has  excellent  relations 
of friendship  and cooperation with his country, Libya, 
welcomes his election and assures him of our fraternal 
cooperation during his term. 
the 

appreciation  of  Guinea-Bissau 
to  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann  for  his  performance  and  his 
dedication to the successful conduct of the work of the 
to  congratulate  and  express 
I  wish 
09-52592 

7 
Six  months  after 
the  crisis  caused  by 
A/64/PV.10 

sixty-third  session.  I  should  also  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
for  his  comprehensive  report  on  the  work  of  our 
Organization  and  the  excellent  work  he  has  done  to 
ensure  the  consolidation  of  peace  and  development 
throughout  the  world.  In  particular,  I  should  like  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Treki  for  holding  the  high-level 
gathering  on  climate  change  on  22  September  as  a 
prelude  to  the  Copenhagen  conference  to  be  held  in 
December. 

the 
assassination  of  our  President,  we  have  restored 
constitutional normality, and the organs of State power 
are in a position to fulfil the role entrusted to them by 
our  Constitution.  We  have  just  inaugurated  a  new 
President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Malam  Bacai  Sanhá, 
who  was  democratically  elected  in  elections  deemed 
free,  fair  and  transparent  by  all  political  parties  and 
candidates and by international observers. 

The  party  that  I  have  the  honour  to  chair,  the 
African  Party  for  the  Independence  of  Guinea-Bissau 
and Cape Verde, has a qualified majority in parliament 
and in an inclusive Government, and now the President 
of  the  Republic  is  from  among  its  ranks.  Never  in  its 
history  has  our  country  enjoyed  such  great  conditions 
for  stability.  We  have  thus  created  the  conditions  for 
implementing 
the  country  so 
pressingly  needs,  in  particular,  reform  of  the  public 
administration, with particular emphasis on the defence 
and  security  sectors,  as  well  as  public  finance  reform 
and the decentralization and modernization of the State 
apparatus. 

In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the  role 
and  contribution  of  subregional  organizations,  such  as 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS), the West African Economic and Monetary 
Union  and  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries (CPLP), as well as of the African Union and 
the  United  Nations,  whose  constant  support  has 
allowed our Government to make substantive progress 
in 
the  country’s  political, 
economic  and  social  life  and  development.  I  should 
like  further 
the  substantial  support 
provided  by  the  European  Union  during  the  difficult 
period we have gone through. In addition, I should like 
to  thank  the  brothers  of  the  CPLP  countries  for  their 
continued commitment and solidarity. 
the  normalization  of 
to  highlight 
the 
reforms 
that 

The 
law  and 
latest  crisis  situation 

in  Guinea-Bissau 
resulted  in  the  assassinations  of  the  head  of  State  and 
the Chief of Staff of the Guinean Armed Forces. Those 
tragic  events  surprised  and  shocked  all  of  Guinean 
society and the international community. They revealed 
the  vulnerabilities  of  our  rule  of 
the 
weaknesses  of 
the  national  defence  and  security 
system. 

In addition to strongly condemning those crimes, 
the Government immediately ordered the establishment 
of  a  committee  to  enable  us  to  find  out  the  truth  and 
hold the perpetrators accountable. Since then, owing to 
its  concerns  about  the  objectivity,  transparency  and 
speed  of  the  process,  our  Government  made  a  request 
to  the  Secretary-General  that  an  international  inquiry 
be  carried  out  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations. In response to that request and on the basis of 
Security  Council  resolutions,  the  Secretary-General 
urged the Government to continue its own investigation 
of  those  crimes,  offering,  however,  to  intervene  with 
the African Union, ECOWAS and the CPLP to provide 
the technical, financial and other types of support that 
might  be  necessary.  Following  that  response  from  the 
Secretary-General,  the  Government  sent  requests  for 
support to those organizations but has not yet received 
a response. The Government is truly looking forward to 
any  assistance  that  can  be  offered  by  the  African 
Union, ECOWAS and the CPLP. 

We  want  to  take  advantage  of  our  presence  in 
New  York  to  engage  with  all  those  organizations  to 
ensure that conditions that would give a new dynamic 
to 
the  Committee  of  Inquiry  are 
established,  and  we  consider  the  attainment  of  that 
objective  an  essential  condition  in  order  to  ensure 
genuine  justice  and  contribute  to  the  consolidation  of 
the  democratic  rule  of  law  and  the  protection  and 
promotion of  human rights. We seize this opportunity, 
from this rostrum, to firmly and unequivocally reaffirm 
that we are against impunity. We will not be a party to 
it,  nor  give  safe  haven  to  any  type  of  crime.  So  I  can 
assure you that the Government of Guinea-Bissau will 
do everything in its power to create the conditions for 
the  Committee  to  carry  out  its  work  in  a  peaceful, 
transparent and credible manner. 

Those  events  caused  a  serious  crisis  in  my 
country, which led to a radical change in the priorities 
of  Government  policy  —  specifically,  it  became 
necessary  to  hold  presidential  elections.  However, 
despite the gravity of the situation, the response of our 
the  work  of 
8 

09-52592 
this  condition  are  not  easy 


institutions was swift and positive. The President of the 
People’s  National  Assembly  temporarily  assumed  the 
presidency  of  the  Republic,  as  provided  for  in  the 
Constitution,  and  a  date  was  immediately  set  for  the 
holding of early presidential elections, according to the 
covenant of understanding among the political parties. 

The  tenure  of  the  interim  president,  which  has 
recently  ended,  was  marked  by  the  promotion  of  a 
constructive  and  frank  dialogue  between  civil  society 
and  political  society,  with  a  particular  focus  on 
clarifying  the  objectives  of  the  defence  and  security 
sector  reform,  which  is  a  crucial  pillar  for  peace  and 
stability in the country.  

In  Guinea-Bissau,  the  creation  of  the  armed 
forces preceded the creation of the State itself, and the 
latter  inherited  a  burden  of  complex  problems  in  the 
aftermath of the armed struggle for national liberation. 
As in other countries with a similar past, the problems 
associated  with 
to 
overcome,  especially  when  facing  survival  issues  that 
plague  all  of  society.  Aware  of  these  facts,  the 
Government  held  a  round  table  discussion  in  Praia, 
Cape Verde,  last  May  to  jointly  evaluate  the  proposed 
reform programme for the defence and security sectors 
with the help of our development partners, the  United 
Nations, ECOWAS and the CPLP. The continuation of 
the  reform  programme  in  the  military  and  security 
forces,  within  which  the  establishment  of  a  Special 
Pensions  Fund  is  planned,  specially  designed  to  deal 
with  these  issues,  can  contribute  to  solving  those 
problems once and for all. 

My  Government  has  just  concluded  a  thorough 
assessment  of  our  national  poverty  reduction  strategy. 
The  results  of  this  evaluation  allowed  us  to  conclude 
that we must strengthen our action on all the axes that 
define  the  strategy.  It  also  enabled  us,  after  careful 
consideration, 
greatest 
impediment  to  the  development  of  our  country  lies  in 
the energy sector. It was concluded that the top priority 
should  be  to  develop  an  energy  plan  that  solves  this 
problem  definitively.  We  would  therefore  like  to  use 
this forum to ask our development partners to carry out 
the  interim  review  of  our  poverty  reduction  strategy 
and  its  respective  programmes  as  soon  as  possible  so 
that  we  can  organize,  together  with  our  partners,  a 
round  table  to  address  the  need  to  strengthen  the 
technical, 
cooperation 
programmes with our country. This round table, which 
title  of 
we  would 
determine 
economic 
like 
to  organize  under 
the 
that 
the 
to 
and 
financial 
A/64/PV.10
“Reconciliation  and  Development”,  will  take  into 
account  the  new  strategic  direction  advocated  by  the 
Security  Council,  with 
the  transformation  of  the 
current United Nations presence in Guinea-Bissau into 
an integrated mission from January 2010. 

I  believe  I  am  in  a  position  to  say  that,  by 
working selflessly within this framework and with the 
resources  that  we  obtain,  we  will  be  better  able  to 
accomplish the Millennium Development Goals set by 
the  United  Nations,  in  particular  with  regard  to  the 
consolidation of peace and stability in our country. 

We welcome with satisfaction and encourage the 
policy of President Obama towards Africa, as recently 
clarified  during  his  visit  to  some African  countries;  it 
shows concern for the stability of our subregion and of 
the world at large, and devotes greater attention to the 
promotion  of  development.  We  also  welcome  with 
satisfaction the peace initiatives that are under way  in 
the  Middle  East  under  his  patronage,  as  well  as  the 
United  States  Administration’s  policy  towards  Cuba; 
we hope that the embargo against Cuba will be lifted in 
the near future. 
We  have  been  asking  our  development  partners 

for  many  years  for  a  post-conflict  programme  for 
Guinea-Bissau.  A  country  with  such  severe  shortages 
as  ours  should  not  be  abandoned  to  its  fate,  given  the 
profound  consequences  of 
the  political-military 
conflict  of  1998-1999,  which  continue  to  affect  all 
socio-economic  sectors  of  Guinea-Bissau.  Guinea-
Bissau,  which  once  possessed 
foreign  currency 
reserves  enough  to  provide  for  six  months’  worth  of 
imports  and  which  paid  regular  wages  to  its  State 
employees,  can  no  longer  honour  its  commitments 
because of the war. 
I  am  therefore  particularly  pleased  with  the 

position  of  the  African  Development  Bank,  which, 
understanding  the  needs  of  a  post-conflict  country, 
turned  an  important  part  of  the  financial  resources 
available  to  Guinea-Bissau  into  donations.  Likewise, 
we  welcome  the  recent  decision  by  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Bank  to  negotiate  and 
conclude 
a  post-conflict  programme  with  our 
Government,  which  will  soon  be  joining  the  Poverty 
Reduction  and  Growth  Facility,  which  will  enhance 
cooperation  with  our  key  development  partners.  We 
hope  this  new  and  dynamic  level  of  cooperation  will 
enable  us  to  benefit  from  the  initiative  for  debt  relief 
under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative.  
09-52592 

9 
A/64/PV.10 


I should like publicly to express our appreciation 
to the heads of State of the West African Economic and 
Monetary  Union,  Angola,  Nigeria,  the  Leader  and 
Guide  of  the  Great  Socialist  Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya, 
as  well  as  to  the  CPLP  and  the  European  Union,  for 
their support in covering our budget deficit, which has 
greatly contributed to the climate of peace in which we 
now  live.  Moreover,  we  acknowledge  the  presence  of 
South  Africa,  Brazil  and  India,  which  have  been 
contributing  significantly  to  mitigating  food  shortages 
in  our  country  through  the  India,  Brazil  and  South 
Africa programme. 

I should like to assure the General Assembly that, 
in  bearing  our  responsibility  for  the  governance  of 
Guinea-Bissau, we shall strive to continue to merit the 
trust and support that the international community has 
granted  us.  We  will  do  everything  possible  to  enable 
Guinea-Bissau  to  make  strides  towards  development 
and the well-being of its people. 

We are of the opinion that the people of Guinea-
Bissau themselves should seek to resolve their internal 
problems, especially those arising from social, political 
and military issues. However, one has to recognize that 
the reasons for the recurrence of the cyclical issues in 
our  country  are  not  only  domestic  in  nature.  Factors 
transnational  organized  crime  and  drug 
such  as 
trafficking, 
to 
exacerbating the situation in Guinea-Bissau. 

By  taking  advantage  of  our  shortcomings  in  sea 
and  land  border  control  and  in  our  administration 
structures,  which  are  weak  in  some  regions,  and  by 
using  sophisticated  means,  certain  groups  have 
introduced  drugs  into  our  country  with  the  support 
received from influential people in the State apparatus. 

My  Government  is  committed  to  participating  in 
all programmes and initiatives adopted in the subregion 
of  West  Africa 
trafficking  and 
organized  crime,  as  we  are  convinced  of  the  need  to 
establish  mechanisms  for  coordination  and  support  to 
fight these scourges. 

We are prepared to examine the possibility of the 
participation  of  foreign  forces  in  our  country  in  joint 
surveillance  missions  monitoring  our 
land  and 
maritime  borders  as  well  as  our  airspace,  in  order  to 
eradicate  organized  crime  and  all  forms  of  trafficking 
in  drugs,  weapons  and  people,  from  or  through  the 
territory of Guinea-Bissau. 
in  particular,  have 
to  combat  drug 

I  ask 

I  would  like  to  state  before  this  Assembly  my 
commitment  as  Prime  Minister  and  president  of  the 
historic  party  founded  by Amilcar  Cabral,  the African 
Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde, 
to  strive  to  put  Guinea-Bissau  on  the  path  of  peace, 
national  reconciliation  and  development.  We  will 
respect all the commitments made by my Government, 
whether  related  to  peacebuilding,  policy  dialogue, 
poverty  reduction  and  the  creation  of  conditions 
conducive  to  economic  growth  and  well-being  of  the 
Guinean people. 

the 
international  community  and  our 
development partners who believe in our determination 
to end the cycles of crises and the recurring conflicts in 
Guinea-Bissau  to  provide  a  new  opportunity  to  our 
country  for  a  true  partnership  in  favour  of  sustainable 
development. 

I  want  to  thank  all  the  friends  and  partners  of 
Guinea-Bissau  for  their  solidarity  and  support.  I  can 
assure  the Assembly  that  we  will  spare  no  efforts  and 
will  not  be  deterred  by  any  obstacles  in  consolidating 
peace  and  political  stability,  promoting  national  unity 
in  Guinea-Bissau  and  creating  better  living  conditions 
for the Guinean people. 

I leave this podium with a very special expression 
of  our  gratitude  to  all  those  who  have  contributed  to 
this normalization, with particular attention, if you will 
allow me, to all of the members of the Contact Group, 
the Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Guinea-Bissau, whose 
mandate  was  recently  terminated,  all  members  of  the 
Security  Council,  as  well  as  to  the  Secretary-General 
and his Representative in Guinea-Bissau. 

However, the most sublime show of appreciation 
on  our  part  would  be  to  build  a  peaceful  and 
prosperous  Guinea-Bissau  for  all  its  children,  which 
we will strive to do with all our might. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau  for 
the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Carlos  Gomes  Júnior,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted from the 
rostrum. 

contributed 
10 

09-52592 




  Address by The Honourable Ratnasiri 
Wickramanayake, Prime Minister of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka. 
the  sixty-third  session  of 
The  Honourable  Ratnasiri  Wickramanayake, 
Prime  Minister  of 
the  Democratic  Socialist 
Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  The 
Honourable Ratnasiri Wickramanayake, Prime Minister 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Wickramanayake  (Sri  Lanka)  (spoke  in 

Sinhala;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I 
take  great  pleasure 
in  congratulating  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki on his assumption of the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session. 
Sri Lanka extends its fullest cooperation to him so that 
we can effectively conclude the work before us. 

Significant  developments  have  taken  place  in 
Sri Lanka  since  my  President,  Mahinda  Rajapaksa, 
addressed 
the  General 
Assembly  last  year  (see  A/63/PV.7).  This  year  I  take 
the  floor  with  renewed  hope  and  optimism  for  my 
country. 
In  May  2009,  Sri  Lanka  was  successful  in 

defeating  the  scourge  of  brutal  terrorism  after  almost 
three  decades  of  conflict  inflicted  on  us  by  the 
Liberation  Tigers  of  Tamil  Eelam  (LTTE),  one  of  the 
most  ruthless  terrorist  organizations  known  to  the 
international  community.  Our  recent  anti-terrorist 
operations  cost  us  only  $2.8  billion  in  all,  compared 
with other anti-terrorist operations elsewhere which are 
costing much more than that. 

In  an  age  when  the  international  community  has 
collectively  acknowledged  that  terrorism  threatens  the 
very  foundations  of  global  and  national  security,  our 
success in defeating terrorism will benefit, not only the 
people  of  Sri  Lanka,  but  all our  peace-loving  partners 
in the international community. 

Today,  we  have  entered  a  forward-looking,  post-
conflict phase, recognizing at the same time the urgent 
At  present, 
A/64/PV.10
for 
the  welfare  of  our  people 
need  to  deal  with  the  scars  and  unresolved  challenges 
of  the  past.  In  our  unique  victory  in  defeating 
terrorism,  we  are  grateful 
the  assistance, 
encouragement  and  cooperation  extended  to  us  by 
friendly countries and we seek similar understanding in 
making  a  steady  and  stable  transition  from  ending 
conflict to ensuring lasting peace and security. 

We have shared our hopes and concerns with the 
United  Nations.  At  the  end  of  the  conflict  and  at  the 
invitation  of  my  President,  Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa, 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  was  the  first  high-
level dignitary to visit Sri Lanka. 

With the defeat of the terrorists in May this year, 
approximately  290,000  civilians  in  the  Vanni  region 
were  liberated  from  their  decades-long  subjugation. 
One  of  our  highest  priorities  thereafter  has  been  to 
meet  the  immediate  humanitarian  needs  of  these 
displaced civilians and to ensure their long-term, safe, 
voluntary and dignified return to their homes. 

in 
temporary  transit  sites  must  keep  up  with  standards 
that  meet  our  own  high  expectations  as  well  as 
accepted  international  norms.  This  task  has  been 
facilitated  by  the  assistance  we  receive  from  United 
Nations  agencies,  international  and  local  civil  society 
partners  and  donors.  More  than  54  agencies  are 
actively  engaged  with  us  in  these  welfare  villages.  In 
addition to providing food and transitional shelter, the 
welfare  villages  are  equipped  with  facilities,  such  as 
schools, banks, post offices, and health-care centres, to 
meet  the  needs  of  the  displaced  civilians.  In  fact, 
children whose education had been denied them by the 
terrorists are now for the first time learning to read and 
write at these sites. 
The  Government  reiterates  its  firm  resolve  to 

resettle  the  internally  displaced  persons  expeditiously, 
in  cooperation  with  our  international  partners.  In  that 
regard, we have learned valuable lessons from our own 
past experiences. In both the post-tsunami context and 
the  successful  resettlement  programmes  in  the  east  of 
the  country  completed  in  the  past  two  years,  we 
realized  that  the  pace  of  resettlement  must  not  be 
forced,  if  it  is  to  be  truly  safe  and  sustainable  in  the 
long 
term.  For  example,  against  all  established 
insurgents  had 
humanitarian  norms, 
indiscriminately 
and  other 
explosives  in  every  area  of  civilian  habitation  in  the 
North. The time-consuming and meticulous process of 
terrorist 
landmines 
the 
scattered 
09-52592 

11 

in 
the 
its 
field  of  human 
to  complying  with 
in 
A/64/PV.10 

demining is now under way. From another perspective, 
the stability and security that we have restored at great 
human  cost  cannot,  and  must  not,  be  compromised, 
particularly  when  a  large  number  of  self-confessed 
ex-terrorist  cadres  continue  to  mix  with  internally 
displaced persons. 

In  the  aftermath  of  conflict,  peace  cannot  last 
without  reconciliation.  We  have  put  in  place  a  broad 
and comprehensive foundation for long-term peace and 
security  encompassing  reconstruction,  development, 
political empowerment and reconciliation. Sri Lanka is 
committed 
international 
obligations 
rights  and 
humanitarian  standards,  and  will  undertake  further 
domestic measures aimed at reconciliation in the light 
of lessons learned. In less than three months since the 
conflict in August, we have made significant progress. 
For  the  first  time  in  more  than  a  decade,  local-
government  elections  were  held 
the  north 
completely  free  of  any  violence  and  intimidation.  In 
every  area  where  the  terrorists  had  suppressed  all 
dissent  in  the  past,  democracy  will  be  restored  and 
electoral processes will be re-established, encouraging 
a local leadership to emerge. 
We  must  enable  those  scarred  by  the  conflict  to 

lead  productive 
their  roles  as 
neighbours  and  productive  citizens.  Children  were 
forced into combat by the terrorists’ abhorrent practice 
of  using  them  as  fighting  cadres.  President  Mahinda 
Rajapaksa has personally launched a national campaign 
entitled  “Bring  Back  the  Child”,  and  an  extensive 
rehabilitation programme is under way to provide new 
beginnings for former child combatants. In cooperation 
with United Nations agencies and donors, we have put 
in  place  a  national  framework  for  the  reintegration  of 
ex-combatants. 

With the end of conflict, and for the first time in 
many  decades,  Sri  Lanka  is  poised  to  harness  the  full 
human, political and economic potential of the country 
for the betterment of our people. Donors, international 
organizations and financial institutions have expressed 
their confidence in our reconstruction and development 
plans by making important contributions. After a lapse 
of many years, the Eastern province has already begun 
to contribute to the national economy under the Eastern 
Re-awakening  Programme.  The  Waddakin  Wasantham 
Programme  was  initiated  by  President  Rajapaksa  this 
year  to  establish  a  strong  and  modern  economy  in  the 
Northern province. Civilian lives are being normalized 
lives  and  resume 
through 
with  the  restoration  of  former  livelihoods,  such  as 
farming  and  fisheries.  Already  people  and  produce 
from  the  north  and  east  of  the  country  are  being 
transported  via  previously  inaccessible  road  and  rail 
networks,  facilitating  people-to-people  contact  and 
integrating  the  economy  of  the  north  with  that  of  the 
rest of the country. Police stations, courts, schools and 
infrastructure are being re-established. 

The  end  of  conflict  provides  us  with  a  historic 
opportunity  to  address  the  grievances  and  aspirations 
of  all  communities  in  expediting  a  long-term  political 
solution.  Under 
the  All-Party  Representative 
Committee  process,  the  Government  looks  forward 
with  a  high  degree  of  confidence  to  obtaining  a 
consensus among all sections of the political spectrum 
on the proposals envisaged in this regard. The solution 
that evolves through this process, which we will offer 
to  all  communities,  must  be  a  home-grown  product. 
Complementary  to  the  long-term  political  solution 
envisaged 
the  All-Party  Representative 
Committee  process,  an  All-Party  Committee  of 
Development  and  Reconciliation  has  been  initiated  by 
President  Rajapaksa.  That 
the 
to  a  pluralistic  and 
Government’s  commitment 
inclusive 
post-conflict 
challenges. 
The  theme  of  this  year’s  debate  is  “Effective 

strengthening 
responses 
multilateralism  and  dialogue  among  civilizations  for 
international  peace,  security  and  development”.  The 
multilateral  architecture  of  the  United  Nations  was 
created 64 years ago to provide a collective response to 
global  issues  in  order  to  achieve  peace,  security  and 
development.  As  a  result  of  a  multitude  of  factors, 
including 
the  accelerated  globalization  of  recent 
decades,  the  challenges  we  are  confronted  with  today 
are  complex  and  intertwined,  and  require  a  holistic, 
concerted and collective approach. 

An  individual  State  alone  cannot  meet  these 
challenges. Thus multilateralism  must  be  strengthened 
to  meet  contemporary  global  crises  such  as  terrorism, 
the global financial crisis, the adverse consequences of 
climate change, food and energy security as well as the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
We need to take necessary measures to ensure that the 
impact  of  globalization 
inclusive  and 
sustainable.  Multilateralism  is  not  about  the  United 
Nations  agenda  responding  only  to  the  demands  of  a 
minority  of  powerful  States,  but  also  about  defending 
crises  — 
addressing 
approach 
reflects 
global 
is 
fair, 
forum 
to 
to 
12 

09-52592 
the  Charter 
that  keeps  us 


the  interests  of  the  powerless  majority.  And  it  is 
imperative  that  the  principle  reflected  in  Article  2, 
paragraph  7,  of  the  Charter  —  that  the  Organization 
should not interfere in the internal affairs of States — 
be  respected.  The  Charter  must  be  our  guiding  norm, 
for 
together. 
Non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States  must 
be respected at all times. 

In  our  own  region,  the  South  Asian  Association 
for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC),  which  Sri  Lanka 
chairs at present, has lent its voice to several issues of 
global  importance  affecting  our  region. Among  these, 
terrorism, the impact of the global economic crisis and 
climate  change,  as  well  as  food  security,  are  of  prime 
concern  to  the  one  fifth  of  humanity  who  live  in 
SAARC  nations.  We  in  the  SAARC  region  will 
continue 
forum, 
including  the  United  Nations,  to  find  regional  as  well 
as global solutions that can deal with these issues in an 
equitable manner. 
A  global  problem  such  as  terrorism,  with  its 

transnational 
requires  an  effective  and 
compelling  global  response.  As  our  experience  in  Sri 
Lanka  has  shown, 
transnational  character  of 
criminal activities of terrorist groups such as the LTTE 
required that counter-terrorism operations meticulously 
carried out on the battlefield be supported by concerted 
and  well-coordinated  measures  of 
international 
cooperation  directed  against  the  multifaceted  criminal 
networks of the terrorist organizations. 
international 
in  every 
to  work 
linkages, 
it 
is 
the 
that  much  of 
Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
We  are  aware 

the  financial 
sustenance  for  the  destruction  caused  in  Sri  Lanka  by 
the  LTTE  came  from  sources  overseas,  particularly 
deep-rooted  networks  in  developed  countries.  The 
so-called  overseas  representatives  of  the  LTTE  and 
their  front  organizations  procured  funds  and  arms 
through  a  complex  range of  criminal  activities:  terrorist 
financing,  money-laundering,  arms  procurement,  illicit 
trade  and  other  organized  criminal  activities,  such  as 
drug trafficking and human trafficking, all of which are 
interrelated. 

the  fast-diminishing  LTTE 
networks  overseas  continue  those  efforts  to  date. 
Although  we  have  been  successful 
in  defeating 
terrorism in Sri Lanka, we continue to urge our friends 
and  partners  in  the  international  community  to  be 
The  remnants  of 
A/64/PV.10
in 
to 
terrorism.  Our  navy  has 
lethal  cargo 
terrorist  groups 
vigilant  and  to  continue  taking  action  against  illegal 
acts of the LTTE on their soil. 

We  are  well  aware  that  some  of  the  front 
organizations  exploit  noble  humanitarian  sentiments, 
the  guise  of  humanitarian 
and  masquerade 
non-governmental  organizations  or  even 
infiltrate 
them.  We  thank  our  partners  in  the  international 
community  that  have  taken  action  to  expose  those 
organizations. 

The threat posed to maritime security through the 
transportation  of  large  consignments  of  sophisticated 
to  provide 
equipment  and 
logistical 
support 
requires  our  urgent 
attention.  In  recent  years,  Sri  Lanka  has  experienced 
the  most  unprecedented  and  dangerous  forms  of 
maritime 
successfully 
confronted  and  interdicted  the  movement  of  virtual 
floating  warehouses  of  arms  and  ammunition,  which 
posed a grave threat to the security and stability of our 
nation and our region.  

At  the  global  level,  this  phenomenon  calls  for  a 
revision  of  existing  laws  pertaining  to  boarding  and 
searching  vessels  on  the  high  seas.  We  need  a 
comprehensive  legal  framework  to  address  all  aspects 
of the safety and security of maritime navigation, going 
beyond  the  current  concerns  about  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. That would make a distinct contribution to 
securing global peace and security. 

The  comprehensive  range  of  terrorist  activities 
and their disastrous impact on the security and stability 
of  States  should  awaken  all  States  to  consider,  very 
seriously and as a matter of urgency, the importance of 
forging  a  global  consensus  on  a  comprehensive 
normative framework for international cooperation and 
solidarity 
the 
parameters of international law. 

In  this  context,  I  wish  to  emphasize  the  urgent 
need  to  finalize  the  ongoing  negotiations  on  the  draft 
comprehensive  convention  on  terrorism.  The  time  has 
come  to  reach  finality  on  the  outstanding  issues  and, 
through the  exertion of the necessary political will, to 
adopt the Convention without further delay.  

Sri Lanka, as Chairman of the United Nations Ad 
Hoc  Committee  on  International  Terrorism,  remains 
committed  to  doing  its  utmost  to  reach  consensus  on 
the draft comprehensive convention, and looks forward 
terrorism,  within 
combating 
in 
09-52592 

13 

the  stability  of 
the  economies  of 
A/64/PV.10 

to  the  fullest  support  of  all  Member  States  in  this 
important task. 

Today we face the greatest challenge to the world 
economy  in  modern  times.  The  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis,  which  had  its  roots  in  the  developed 
countries, will have a long-term impact on human lives 
in developing countries. Through the pursuit of prudent 
policies,  Sri  Lanka  has  been  able  to  minimize  the 
impact  of  the  crisis  on  the  domestic  financial  system 
and  maintain  an  overall  positive  rate  of  growth  in  the 
midst of the crisis. 
Recovery  from  the  crisis  should  go  well  beyond 

restoring 
the 
developed  countries,  and  must  address  the  deeper 
development  crisis  which  ensued 
in  developing 
countries.  The  plan  of  action  adopted  at  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on 
the  World  Financial  and 
Economic  Crisis  and  its  Impact  on  Development 
urgently  needs  to  be  implemented  with  the  support  of 
the  international  financial  institutions  and  advanced 
economies.  The  global  financial  and  economic  crisis 
also  highlights  the  need  for  transparent  multilateral 
regulatory structures at the helm of the world economy. 

The  Millennium  Declaration  set  2015  as  the 
target date for achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  and  we  are  already  nearing  the  target 
date. Long before the MDGs were articulated globally, 
Sri Lanka was well on track to reach the related targets 
in several areas.  

Development  as  it  is  understood  today,  and  as 
embodied  in  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals  and  MDGs,  encompasses  objectives  related  to 
human  well-being,  including  freedom,  empowerment, 
distribution  patterns  and  environmental  sustainability. 
This  broad  dimension  is  aligned  with  Sri  Lanka’s 
pluralistic  democratic  traditions.  Sri  Lanka  was  early 
among  developing  countries 
the 
importance of investing in human resources, of gender 
equality and of social development. We are determined 
to  make  further  progress.  We  welcome  the  high-level 
meeting to be convened by the Secretary-General next 
year. 
As a developing island State, Sri Lanka is highly 

vulnerable  to  the  adverse  impact  of  climate  change 
caused  by  unsustainable  production  and  consumption 
patterns  of  industrialized  countries.  The  carbon  debt 
owed to us by the developed countries must be used to 
finance  the  financial  and  technological  assistance  that 
to  understand 
in  order 
industries 
the 
to  pursue 
four  pillars 
to  adapt  our 
in  accordance  with 
we  need 
to  a 
sustainable  path.  As  the  people  of  a  developing 
country,  our  population  naturally  aspires  to  achieve 
progress and higher living standards. We hope that we 
can  reach  an  agreed  outcome  at  the  Copenhagen 
Conference, 
the  principle  of 
common, but differentiated, responsibilities. 

Reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Security 
Council  must  be  a  high  priority.  My  delegation 
believes  that  the  objectives  of  the  reform  process 
should be to strengthen multilateralism and to promote 
greater  democracy,  transparency,  effectiveness  and 
accountability  within  a  more  democratic  United 
Nations  system.  And,  in  tandem,  we  need  to  take 
measures 
that  are 
fundamental  to  our  future,  as  enunciated  by  President 
Obama. 

My delegation believes that the United Nations — 
particularly  the Assembly  —  has  primary  responsibility, 
as  set  out  in  the  Charter,  for  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  In  this  context,  the 
numerous  unresolved  conflicts  around 
the  world 
continue to be a matter of concern.  

We  are  disappointed that little progress  has been 
made  in  the  implementation  of  General  Assembly 
resolutions  regarding  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people  to  statehood  and  the  realization  of 
the  two-State  solution,  whereby  Israel  and  Palestine 
could  live  side-by-side  in  peace  and  harmony.  A  just 
and lasting peace in the Middle East, including through 
practical  recognition  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people,  has  been  strongly  advocated  by 
President  Mahinda  Rajapaksa.  In  this  regard,  we  are 
encouraged  by  the  words  spoken  by  President  Obama 
in his address to the Assembly. 

Mr.  Treki  is  presiding  over  the  work  of  the 
Assembly  at  a  critical  time.  As  Member  States,  we 
must mobilize the political will to shed our differences 
and  work  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  to  respond 
effectively  and  swiftly  to  the  challenges  that  confront 
us.  I  reiterate  my  delegation’s  confidence  in  President 
Treki’s leadership in this endeavour. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minster  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the 
statement he has just made. 
14 

09-52592 


A/64/PV.10
Everyone 
is 
today 
about 
concerned 
The  Honourable  Ratnasiri  Wickramanayake, 
Prime  Minister  of 
the  Democratic  Socialist 
Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Hor Namhong, Deputy Prime Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International 
Cooperation of the Kingdom of Cambodia.  
Mr.  Hor  Namhong  (Cambodia):  First,  I  echo 

previous  speakers  in  warmly  congratulating  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  of  the  Socialist  People’s  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya,  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I  am 
confident that under the able stewardship of Mr. Treki, 
a  veteran  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Assembly  will 
make  significant  progress  on  many  critical  issues  of 
common concern. 

Our  tribute  also  goes  to  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  of  Nicaragua,  who  successfully  presided 
over the General Assembly at its sixty-third session. 

the 
considerable  challenges  that  our  world  confronts, 
challenges  such  as  the  current  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis,  climate  change,  food  and  energy 
insecurity,  and 
the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  I  hope 
that  in  its  deliberations  the  Assembly  will  come  up 
with new ideas to cope with those global challenges. 

the  present  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  will  go  down  in  history 
as a landmark case of world economic meltdown. This 
global  crisis  has  clearly  undermined  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  While  the  developed 
countries have more possibilities and resources to cope 
with  the  slowdown,  the  developing  countries  have 
suffered the most, with huge losses of national income, 
as  their  economic  growth  is  expected  to  fall  sharply 
due to a drastic reduction in exports, which they have 
largely  depended  on, 
rising 
unemployment and so forth. 
In  order  to  help  mitigate  the  impact  of  this 

economic  and 
financial  disaster  on  developing 
countries, we should do everything possible to get the 
Doha  Round  negotiations  back  on 
for  a 
successful  conclusion  in  order  to  break  down  barriers 
to 
improve  market  access,  particularly 
in 
agricultural goods, and reduce agricultural subsidies. 
terrorism  and 
is  no  doubt 
investments, 
the 
threats  of 
There 
that 
falling 
trade, 
track 
threat 

In  this  regard,  Cambodia  greatly  appreciates  the 
commitment  that  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  made  in 
Pittsburgh,  just  two  days  ago,  to  “bringing  the  Doha 
Round to a successful conclusion in 2010”. At the same 
time,  the  Monterrey  Consensus  should  be  invigorated 
in  order  to  help  developing  countries  to  alleviate 
poverty and meet the MDGs. 

Under  these  terrible  circumstances,  we  warmly 
welcome  the  G-20’s  commitment,  made  in  London  in 
April  2009,  to  address  the  impact  of  the  global 
financial  crisis  with  the  injection  of  $50  billion  to 
support  social  protection,  boost  trade  and  sustain 
development  in  low-income  countries,  and  with  an 
additional  $6  billion  concessional  and 
flexible 
financing  over  the  next  two  or  three  years  for  social 
protection,  including  through  investing  in  long-term 
food security in the poorest countries. 

Today,  everyone  in  the  world  is  increasingly 
concerned about climate change, which is another very 
serious 
to  humanity.  Global  warming  has 
triggered  more  and  more  frequent  cyclones,  typhoons, 
extreme  floods  and  droughts.  Our  planet  is  now 
confronted,  more  than  ever,  with  increasing  natural 
disasters. The worsening impact of climate change has 
now reached an alarming level everywhere around the 
planet.  The  shrinking  of  the  Arctic  summer  sea  ice 
should  be  an  alarm  signal  for  everyone  that  global 
warming  is  inexorably  advancing,  and  with  perilous 
speed. 

the  Asian 
Development  Bank  (ADB),  will  be  the  most  affected 
region.  Its  vulnerability  to  climate  change  is  largely  a 
result of its geography, with low-lying nations and long 
coastlines.  The  negative  impact  of  climate  change  on 
farming in South-East Asia would seriously jeopardize 
the  production  of  rice  and  other  agricultural  products, 
and  consequently  would  have  ripple  effects  on  food 
security, as South-East Asia is one of the world’s most 
important rice crop regions. 

Based on the estimate by the ADB, the total cost 
of  loss  in  agricultural  production  and  other  negative 
aspects  of  climate  change  would  be  equivalent  to  as 
much  as  6.7  per  cent  of  the  region’s  gross  domestic 
product compared with the 2.6 per cent loss estimated 
for the world as a whole. 

Cambodia is essentially an agrarian country, with 
the  livelihood  of  more  than  80  per  cent  of  its 
population depending on farming. Therefore, it is very 
South-East  Asia, 
according 
to 
09-52592 

15 

A/64/PV.10 

vulnerable to weather-related disasters. Fully aware of 
that  danger  and  the  serious  consequences  of  climate 
change  and  global  warming  for 
the  well-being, 
livelihoods  and  development  of  peoples  around  the 
world,  Cambodia  has  been  assuming  its  share  of 
responsibility  in  the  matter  of  global  warming  since 
2003. 

We have made the utmost effort to implement the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  and  the  Kyoto  Protocol  by  promoting  Clean 
Development  Mechanism  projects  and  implementing 
our  National  Adaptation  Programme  of  Action  on 
climate change. 

We  have  also  launched  a  major  campaign  of 
reforestation  all  over  the  country;  more  than  49,000 
hectares  of  trees  have  been  planted.  We  have  also 
banned timber exports.  

In  this  context,  Cambodia  warmly  welcomes  the 
recent United States initiative to engage with the lower 
Mekong  basin  countries  by  sharing  with  the  Mekong 
countries  its  best  practices  and  experience  on  climate 
change  and  flood  and  water  resource  management. At 
the  same  time,  the  Mekong  countries  and  Japan  are 
now looking into an approach for the future to achieve 
sustainable  development  of 
the  Mekong  basin 
potential, with better respect for the environment of the 
mighty Mekong River. 

Furthermore,  Cambodia  commends  the  recent 
promise  of  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  at  its  summit  in 
July  to  work  towards  an  80  per  cent  reduction  in 
heat-trapping  pollution  by  2050.  Nonetheless,  since 
climate change is evolving steadily with time, we may 
question  whether  the  pledged  reduction  can  match  the 
speed  of  global  warming. 
the 
industrialized countries, which produce  80 per  cent of 
gases, 
the 
greater 
responsibility  and 
take  more  drastic  and  urgent 
measures to reduce emissions of those deadly gases. 
Governments  around  the  world  have  just  over 

three  months  to  craft  a  new  treaty  to  deal  with  global 
warming. It will be a historic treaty for generations to 
come. The United Nations Climate Change Conference 
to  be  held  in  Denmark  in  December  could  secure  a 
milestone plan to really slow down climate change for 
the  safety  of  all  humankind.  Therefore,  Cambodia 
believes  that  all  countries  and  all  actors  should  join 
hands 
in 
international  community  has  an 
December.  The 
to  reach  an  agreement 
in  Copenhagen 
I  believe 
that 
greenhouse 
should 
share 
16 

obligation to roll back global temperatures before it is 
too  late.  The  future  generations  of  our  children  and 
grandchildren are at stake. 

I turn to the subject of food and energy security. 
The  sharp  increase  in  oil  prices  last  year  prompted  a 
number  of  countries  to  turn  to  the  production  of 
bioenergy crops as an alternative source of energy, thus 
reducing  the  available  cultivated  land,  while  the 
world’s  population  continued  to  grow  day  by  day, 
increasing demand for food. The combination of those 
realities underlines the importance of a comprehensive 
approach to tackle the planet’s food crisis. 

The  challenge  we  now  confront  is,  on  the  one 
hand, how to produce enough food to feed the growing 
world  population,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  how  to 
respond to the increased need for clean energy to save 
the global environment and stop the advancing climate 
change. The  solution  to  this  twin  problem  is  to  find  a 
balanced  approach  between  food  crop  and  bioenergy 
culture,  and  to  develop  alternative  energy  sources  to 
meet the growing demand. We should avoid any short-
term  solution  to  the  energy  problem  that  would  have 
harmful  consequences  for  food  security  worldwide  in 
the long term. 

Finally,  Cambodia  welcomes  the  outcome  of  the 
G-8 meeting in L’Aquila, Italy, with the commitment to 
mobilize  $20  billion  over  the  next  three  years  to 
support  agricultural  production  in  poor  countries.  We 
hope  that  the  commitment  will  be  translated  into 
concrete and timely action. 
In parallel to all the serious global challenges that 

I  have  mentioned,  there  remain  political  and  security 
problems  causing  great  concern.  Terrorism  is  a  threat 
everywhere  and  has  caused  the  death  of  innocent 
people.  To  fight  terrorism  more  effectively,  we  need 
stronger  and  closer  cooperation  between  the  many 
authorities  concerned  in  order  to  face  up  to  such 
criminal  acts  against  humanity.  Moreover,  some 
countries with the capacity to produce nuclear weapons 
have  not  yet  signed  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty (NPT).  

The  dissemination  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction constitutes another massive, deadly menace 
to  humanity.  In  this  context,  Cambodia  highly  values 
the  call  by  United  States  President  Obama  on 
23 September  to  “stop  the  spread  of  nuclear  weapons 
and  seek 
them” 
(A/64/PV.3).  Cambodia  also  warmly  welcomes  the 
the  goal  of  a  world  without 
09-52592 


Security  Council’s  resolve,  expressed  at  its  summit 
(see  S/PV.6191)  on  24  September,  “to  seek  a  safer 
world  for  all”  (Security  Council  resolution  1887 
(2009), first preambular paragraph). 

Within  the  framework  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), we have the Treaty 
on  the  Southeast  Asia  Nuclear  Weapon  Free  Zone, 
which  is  an  important  instrument  to  keep  South-East 
Asia free of nuclear weapons in order to ensure peace 
and security in that part of the world. It is also a good 
confidence-building  mechanism,  which  needs  to  be 
adhered to by all, especially the nuclear-weapon States. 
In  recent  years  ASEAN  has  actively  encouraged  the 
nuclear-weapon  States  to  accede  to  the  Treaty,  but 
there  has  been  no  concrete  result  or  effect  yet.  Here 
also we appeal to all nuclear-weapon States to engage 
more constructively with the Treaty. 

I come now to the Korean Peninsula issue. We are 
all concerned about the rising tension in that part of the 
world,  which  can  affect  peace  and  security  in  the 
region.  Cambodia  urges  all  parties  concerned 
to 
exercise the utmost restraint and re-engage in peaceful 
negotiations  in  the  six-party  talks  aimed  at  the  early 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  Peninsula.  We  should 
call  upon  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
to  keep  in  mind  that  the  six-party  talks  remain  an 
appropriate forum to contribute to the settlement of the 
overall problem in the Korean Peninsula. 

While talking about threats to international peace 
and security, we should also keep an eye on the Middle 
East  situation.  The  never-ending  cycle  of  violence  of 
the Israel-Palestine conflict must be broken. One of the 
most  pressing 
just, 
comprehensive and sustainable solution to the problem 
of Palestine in accordance with the legitimate rights of 
the  Palestinian  people  and 
the  relevant  Security 
Council  resolutions.  Cambodia  strongly  urges  all 
parties  involved  to  cease  using  military  force  and 
violence,  in  order  to  foster  a  peaceful  and  lasting 
settlement  through  the  establishment  of  a  State  of 
Palestine living side by side with the State of Israel in a 
spirit  of  peaceful  coexistence  and  close  cooperation 
between the two peoples. 

Before  concluding,  I  should  like  to  say  a  few 
words  about  United  Nations  reform.  For  many  years 
now,  almost  all  delegations  to  the  General  Assembly 
have  voiced  their  demand  for  reform  of  the  United 
Nations.  But  when  it  was  time  to  act  a  conflict  of 
achieve 
issues 
is 
to 
a 
A/64/PV.10
interest  arose.  In  my  view,  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations should be in the interest of peace, security and 
development  for  the  whole  international  community, 
and  not  just  the  particular  interests  of  a  country.  The 
reform  should  also  go  beyond  the  restructuring  of  the 
United  Nations  organs,  in  order  to  enable  this  world 
body  to  engage  itself  more  actively  in  revitalizing  the 
primary role of the United Nations in world affairs. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  The  Honourable  Kenneth  Baugh,  Deputy 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Trade of Jamaica. 
Mr.  Baugh  (Jamaica):  I  join  other  speakers  in 

congratulating  Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  on  assuming 
the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session. We are confident that his extensive diplomatic 
experience will guide his leadership. He can be assured 
of  the  support  and  cooperation  of  Jamaica  during  his 
tenure.  

I  also  extend  Jamaica’s  appreciation  to  Father 
Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  for  his  energetic  and 
visible  leadership  during  the  sixty-third  session  of  the 
Assembly,  and  our  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his expert leadership of the Organization. 

We  meet  at  a  critical  juncture,  as  the  world 
confronts  multiple  crises:  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  and  the  food,  energy  and  climate 
crises, joined by the H1N1 pandemic. Both developed 
and developing countries are affected by these crises. It 
is  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable,  however,  that  are 
disproportionately  affected  and  are  least  capable  of 
responding.  Even  as  major  economies  are  reporting 
their emergence from the global recession, the outlook 
for most developing countries remains bleak. For many 
developing  countries,  there  are  no  early  signs  of  so-
called  green  shoots  of  economic  recovery.  For  the 
majority,  the  impact  of  the  recession  will  be  deep;  it 
will be prolonged; and it  will be painful. The irony is 
that developing countries are hapless victims of a crisis 
for which they are inculpable. 
The  synchronized  nature  of  the  downturn  in  the 

world  economy  means 
its  repercussions  are 
evident in virtually every sphere. Inflows of financing 
and investment have plunged precipitously; exports are 
weak,  and  commodity  prices  are 
low;  official 
development assistance has diminished drastically.  
that 
09-52592 

17 
reality 
is 
in 
that  we 
The  distressing 
the  policy  space 
A/64/PV.10 


Those consequences are reflected in Jamaica and 
throughout  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
region.  Countries  like  ours  now  face  the  daunting 
challenge  of  protecting  the  most  vulnerable  of  their 
citizens in a responsible and sustainable manner in the 
context  of  declining  export  demand,  contraction  in 
services, including tourism, and lower remittances. As 
with most developing countries, the fiscal and financial 
stress has forced us to make significant adjustments to 
our expenditure programmes. 

the 
developing  world  have  limited  scope  and  capacity  to 
mitigate  the  impact  of  the  crisis.  We  have  neither  the 
fiscal  flexibility  nor 
to  afford 
ambitious  stimulus  packages  to  respond  effectively  to 
the upheavals in our country.  

A  major  corollary  of  the  economic  downturn  is 
the  problem  of  debt  servicing  and  debt  sustainability. 
Many developing countries could be on the verge of a 
debt  crisis,  and  require  special  support  to  help  them 
attenuate the impact of the global crisis.  

Jamaica has always supported efforts to assist the 
Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  that  have  benefited 
from debt relief initiatives. But there is  another group 
of  developing  countries  that  are  equally  burdened  by 
high  debt  and  deserving  of  special  consideration.  I 
speak  of  the  heavily  indebted  lower-middle-income 
countries,  which  are  overlooked  on  the  presumption 
that, by virtue of their levels of gross domestic product 
(GDP)  per  capita,  they  do  not  require  international 
assistance. That approach continues to mask the reality 
of  our  vulnerability  to  external  shocks,  persistently 
high  levels  of  poverty  and  dependence  on  commodity 
exports. 
the 

situation  of  highly  indebted  middle-income  countries, 
which  cannot  benefit  from  the  kind  of  assistance 
available 
the  Least  Developed  Countries  and 
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries, but which have been 
devastated  by  the  impact  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis.  Jamaica  is  currently  saddled  with  a 
debt-to-GDP  ratio  of  125  per  cent.  Along  with  our 
CARICOM partners, we will continue to advocate for a 
very  special  category  of  small,  vulnerable  and  highly 
indebted  middle-income  countries.  A  review  of  the 
criteria  for  determining  middle-income  status  could 
help  to  address  financial  resource  accessibility  in  the 
is  particularly  concerned  about 
Jamaica 
to 

are 
through 
addressed 
long  term.  We  are  lobbying  for  a  review  of  those 
criteria. 

The pervasiveness of the crisis makes coordinated 
international action imperative. Over the last two days 
in  Pittsburgh,  leaders  of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  met 
for  the  third  time  in  less  than  a  year  to  review  the 
progress  on  commitments  made  at  their  last  summit 
and chart a course to counter the impact of the adverse 
economic  environment.  As  much  as  we  value  the 
inclusion of advanced developing countries in the G-20 
process, we believe that it is critical that space be made 
to accommodate the voices of a wider cross-section of 
developing countries, particularly the most vulnerable. 
Our interest is in ensuring  that the particular needs of 
small,  vulnerable  economies  and  highly 
indebted 
middle-income developing countries of the CARICOM 
subregion 
appropriate 
representation  at  the  summits  of  the  G-20.  We  must 
have  an  integrated  approach  in  order  to  craft  the  type 
of  common  strategy  that  a  crisis  of  this  magnitude 
demands. 

At  the  same  time,  the  United  Nations  must  play 
an  essential  role  in  helping  to  manage  the  various 
ramifications  of  the  crisis.  It  can  ensure  dialogue  and 
enable  a  coordinated  response  based  on  an  inclusive 
decision-making 
process.  The  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  its  Impact  on  Development,  held  in  June, 
provided  a  useful  platform.  Developing  countries  that 
are not part of the G-20 group were able to bring their 
concerns to the international community and contribute 
to the search for solutions to the crisis.  

We  are  encouraged  by  the  candour  of  leaders 
from the major industrialized countries who expressed 
their commitment, with obvious sincerity, to effectively 
addressing  the  concerns  of  developing  countries  in 
order to help them cope with the crisis. We are seized 
with a spirit of collectivity, and hope that this renewed 
momentum  will  overcome  all  obstacles  and  translate 
into tangible, targeted outcomes. 

The  severity  and  complexity  of  the  crisis  is 
underpinned  by  the  interlinked  and  interdependent 
nature  of  the  global  financial  system.  The  experience 
of the current crisis supports the case for strengthening 
financial 
to  address 
systemic weaknesses in the global financial system.  
Reform of the international financial architecture 

is long overdue. Urgent steps must be taken to reform 
regulation  and  supervision 
18 

09-52592 
Jamaica 


the  governance  structure  of  the  international  financial 
institutions, including a review of the policy conditions 
attached  to  lending  by  the  International  Monetary 
Fund.  We  are  disappointed  that  there  is  as  yet  no 
visible  action  on  reform  of  the  international  monetary 
and financial systems. 

trade-dependent  country.  We 
is  a 
therefore agree that there is an urgent need to conclude 
the  Doha  Round  of  negotiations  in  a  bid  to  revive 
global  trade  and  to  aid  in  global  economic  recovery. 
Development must remain central to that agenda. Any 
outcome of our negotiations in the Doha Development 
Round  must  lead  to  clear  benefits  for  our  farmers, 
producers, exporters and consumers. We must redouble 
our efforts in this critical area and resolve to transform 
international trade into an engine of growth. 

Progress has been made in the implementation of 
Aid for Trade for developing countries. We must build 
on  that  progress.  There  are  outstanding  commitments 
with respect to the provision of technical and financial 
support  to  help  strengthen  the  trading  and  production 
capacities of developing countries. We look forward to 
further  collaboration  with  our  international  partners 
and  aid  and  development  organizations  in  pushing  the 
Aid  for  Trade  initiative  to  build  on  the  supply-side 
capacity and infrastructure of developing countries, so 
that they can take advantage of trade opportunities and 
connections  with  the  global  economy,  particularly 
against the backdrop of this global recession. 

The  threat  posed  by  climate  change  must  not  be 
underestimated.  Urgent  and  effective  global  action  on 
climate change mitigation and adaptation is required to 
avoid 
the  catastrophic  consequences  of  global 
warming. 
The  Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  Climate 

Change  Summit  on  21  September,  as  well  as  the 
Summit on Climate Change held here a few days ago, 
reinforced  this  fact:  the  time  for  action  is  now.  We 
were  heartened  by 
that  a 
significant  reduction  in  greenhouse  gas  emissions  is 
necessary  to  reduce  global  warming.  What  is  now 
required is the necessary political will to take concrete, 
decisive  action  so  that  we  can  address  this  clear  and 
present danger head on. 

As  a  Small  Island  Developing  State  that  is 
vulnerable  to  the  impact  of  climate  change,  Jamaica 
has  a  vested  interest  in  a  successful  outcome  of  the 
in 
United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference 
the  broad  agreement 
A/64/PV.10
financial 
resources 
Copenhagen  in  December  —  an  outcome  based  on 
equity  and  differentiated  burden-sharing.  It  is  now 
clearly  established  that  developed  country  emitters 
have a historical responsibility for global warming and 
that  they  should  take  the  lead  in  reducing  greenhouse 
gas emissions. 

Other  major  emitters  also  have  a  role  to  play  in 
climate  change  mitigation  while  taking  into  account 
their  own  development  needs.  To  this  end,  we  favour 
the conclusion of a post-Kyoto framework wherein the 
commitments  agreed  to  by  all  the  parties  hold  to  the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities 
and respective capabilities. A successful outcome must 
also  include  concrete  commitments  on  adaptation, 
mitigation, capacity-building, technology transfers and 
the  provision  of 
to  assist 
developing countries in addressing climate change. 

We recognize that action at the international level 
must be complemented by urgent action at the national 
and regional levels. The necessary steps must be taken 
to  integrate  climate  change  into  broader  national 
sustainable  development  planning. 
Jamaica  has 
embraced this approach. 

The pursuit of complete disarmament and nuclear 
non-proliferation, with particular regard to weapons of 
mass  destruction,  must  remain  a  shared  goal.  The 
2010 Review  Conference of the Parties to the Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  provides  an  opportunity  for 
renewed 
the 
commitment 
non-proliferation regime. 
Restoring  peace  and  promoting  regional  stability 

through  peacekeeping  operations  is  at  the  heart  of  the 
contribution  of  the  United  Nations  to  international 
peace  and  security.  However,  as  we  have  seen, 
peacekeeping 
themselves 
produce the desired outcome of sustainable peace. The 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  established  in  2006,  can 
assure such sustainability and make a difference in the 
lives  of  people  in  post-conflict  countries.  We  are 
therefore pleased that new arrangements have been put 
in place to make the Peacebuilding Fund more flexible 
as  we  seek  to  support  peace  efforts  in  countries 
emerging from conflict. 

In my own region, Jamaica remains committed to 
the  long-term  stability,  socio-economic  growth  and 
development of our sister country, Haiti. We recognize 
the  important  role  of  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) in helping to foster the 
interventions  cannot  by 
strengthen 
to 
09-52592 

19 
the 
level, 
through 
regional 
We  must 
to  ensure 
increase  our  efforts 
A/64/PV.10 

environment  necessary  to  ensure  a  sustainable  future 
for the Haitian people. 

to  counter 
transnational  organized  crime,  narco-trafficking  and 
the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  ammunition,  which 
threaten the rule of law and democratic governance in 
many  countries,  and  fuel  the  spread  of  international 
terrorism.  At 
joint 
collaboration  and  approaches  within  CARICOM,  we 
continue  to  tackle  these  security  challenges,  which 
threaten 
the  social  and  economic  fabric  of  our 
societies. 

The  challenges  presented  by  the  outbreak  of 
infectious  diseases  and  the  potential  pandemics,  such 
as  HIV/AIDS  and  the  H1N1  flu,  call  for  common 
global  strategies 
that  developed  and 
developing  countries  alike  can  respond  rapidly  and 
effectively.  As  a  result  of  the  global  economic  crisis, 
accessibility  and  affordability  of  essential  medicines 
are  expected  to deteriorate in developing countries. In 
this  regard,  however,  it  is  anticipated  that  developing 
countries  will  have  access  to  the  forthcoming  H1N1 
vaccine at an affordable price. 

We  end  this  first  decade  of  the  twenty-first 
century  confronted  by  myriad  challenges.  These 
challenges  are  not  constrained  by  borders  and  cannot 
be confronted by States acting on their own. They can 
only  be  confronted  through  international  cooperation 
and  effective  partnerships.  But  this  can  only  be 
achieved 
through  greater  multilateralism,  with 
equitable participation by all countries, both developed 
and developing. 

Jamaica firmly believes that the United Nations is 
the  only  organization  equipped  to  undertake  this  task 
of inclusive multilateralism. With all its imperfections, 
the  United  Nations  still  enjoys  legitimacy  in  the  eyes 
of  most  people  in  the  world.  But  the  United  Nations 
cannot,  in  its  current  form  and  structure,  successfully 
tackle  this  task.  It  must  be  reformed  to  make  it  more 
responsive to all its Members.  

Multilateralism  cannot  work  effectively  if  the 
General Assembly, the most representative global body, 
is unable to assert itself as the central decision-making 
body  of  the  Organization.  Nor  can  it  work  if  the 
Security  Council 
club, 
unrepresentative  of  the  wider  membership  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  goal  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations which commenced earlier this year should 
exclusive 
remains 
an 

to 
to 
to 
come 
resolve 
conclusion  on 
renew  our  commitment 
The  United  Nations  must  assert 
be 
a  definitive 
comprehensive reform of the Council. 

The  theme  that  the  President  has  chosen  for  this 
session  is  both  apt  and  timely.  It  evokes  the  purposes 
and principles enshrined in the Charter. It calls on us to 
reaffirm  and 
joint 
responsibility for development, the realization of peace 
and security  and harmony  among peoples. It is in this 
spirit  that  we  look  forward  to  the  erection  of  the 
permanent  memorial  to  honour  the  victims  of  the 
transatlantic slave trade, which will remain an enduring 
symbol  of  our  collective 
to  eliminate 
discrimination, social inequity and prejudice. 
its  unique 

capability  as 
the  world’s  premier  multinational 
organization  to  address  the  challenges  and  meet  the 
needs  of  the  poor  and  most  vulnerable.  We  need, 
therefore, to urgently correct and reverse the tendency 
towards inaction, inertia and indifference which has so 
far  frustrated  efforts  to  address  the  development 
agenda. This would be in keeping with the ideals of the 
Charter and our shared vision for the fulfilment of the 
hopes,  aspirations  and  expectations  of  all  our  citizens 
across  the  globe.  We  dare  not  fail  to  live  up  to  those 
expectations, as to do otherwise would seriously impair 
the  very  credibility  and  relevance  of  the  United 
Nations, particularly during this time of crisis. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Michael Spindelegger, Federal Minister 
for European and International Affairs of Austria. 
Mr. Spindelegger (Austria): This has been a truly 

remarkable week, remarkable for the leadership shown 
by  the  Secretary-General  on  climate  change,  the  new 
policies  of  President  Obama,  which  he  so  eloquently 
set  out  before  us,  the  constructive  responses  to  those 
initiatives  from  many  parts  of  the  world  and  the 
historic  meeting  of 
the  Security  Council,  which 
committed  itself  to  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons. 
We have all witnessed something new and different: a 
genuine  opportunity 
renaissance  of 
multilateralism. 

There is a real chance to turn the United Nations 
once  again  into  what  was  originally  envisaged  in  the 
Charter: not just a forum for discussion, but a place for 
action,  the  central  focal  point  of  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community  to  find  common  solutions  to 
common challenges. It will depend on each  and every 
Member  of  the  Organization  to  make  sure  that  this 
for  a 
real 
20 

09-52592 


historic  opportunity  is  seized.  Cooperation  is  not  a 
mere option, but an indispensable necessity, if we want 
to succeed. 

Together,  we  must  build  a  world  based  on 
predictable  and  equitable  rules  applicable  to  every 
Member,  big  or  small,  strong  or  weak.  Adherence  to 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  principles  of  the  Charter  is 
critical to conflict prevention, stability and sustainable 
long-term development. 

A year ago, Member States entrusted my country 
with a seat on the Security Council for the years 2009-
2010. We take that responsibility very seriously. 

One important focus of our work in the Council is 
to improve the protection of civilians in armed conflict. 
Despite  significant  progress,  armed  conflicts  continue 
to  darken  the  lives  of  men,  women  and  children  in 
many parts of the world. 

Austria has been working actively with others on 
expanding  the  monitoring  and  reporting  of  serious 
violations  of  children’s  rights.  Austria  fully  supports 
Security  Council  resolution  1820  (2008)  and  the 
follow-up  resolution  to  be  adopted  next  week  as  a 
decisive  response  by  the  international  community  to 
sexual violence in conflict situations. At the same time, 
Austria  attaches  great  importance  to  the  participation 
of  women  in  the  promotion  of  peace  and  security. 
Women  must  have  a  voice  in  every  peace  process 
throughout the world. 

But  many  challenges  remain.  How  can  we 
improve  the  protection  of  civilians  on  the  ground,  in 
particular  in  situations  in  which  the  Council  has 
provided  peacekeeping  operations  with  a  clear 
protection  mandate?  How  can  we  ensure  better 
compliance by parties to conflict with their obligations 
under  international  humanitarian  law  —  for  instance, 
to  allow  full  access  for  humanitarian  assistance?  We 
will  therefore  use  our  Security  Council  presidency  in 
November to identify concrete measures to improve the 
protection  of  civilians.  In  order  to  do  so,  I  invite  all 
partners to join me in an open debate on 13 November. 
I  am  pleased  that  the  Secretary-General  has  agreed  to 
participate. 

In recent years, several peacekeeping missions — 
such as the United Nations Organization Mission in the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  —  have  been 
mandated  by  the  Council  to  ensure  the  physical 
protection of the civilian population.  
A/64/PV.10
implement 
their  mandates 

Its  role  of  providing  protection  to  refugees  and 
internally  displaced  persons  was  a  strong  factor  in 
Austria’s decision to contribute troops to the European 
Union  and  United  Nations  Missions  in  Chad  and  the 
Central African Republic. Austria has also contributed 
to the United Nations study analysing experience in the 
implementation  of  such  protection  mandates  in  peace 
operations.  We  thus  hope  to  contribute  to  the  overall 
efforts  to  reform  United  Nations  peacekeeping.  Our 
aim  must  be  to  have  more  effective  and  better-
resourced peacekeeping missions that are in a position 
to 
in  a  credible  and 
consistent manner. 

To  achieve  sustainable  peace,  security  and 
development, peacekeeping must be complemented  by 
the  rebuilding  of  functioning  institutions,  particularly 
in the judiciary and the security sector. In that context, 
we  commend  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  Office 
on  Drugs  and  Crime 
in  combating  corruption, 
organized crime and drug trafficking. 

The Peacebuilding Commission is a new form of 
partnership between  countries  emerging from  conflict, 
donors  and  main  providers  of  personnel  to  United 
Nations  missions  to  ensure  that  support  is  tailored  to 
specific local needs. Austria is committed to the work 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  and  has  recently 
joined  the  country-specific  configuration  for  Sierra 
Leone, a model case for successful peacebuilding. 

Sustainable  peace  can  be  achieved  only  when  a 
society  also  addresses  its  past.  The  establishment  of 
effective  justice  and  reconciliation  mechanisms  at  the 
national level is crucial to end impunity and to ensure 
can  be 
the 
complemented  by 
justice 
mechanisms,  such  as  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  and  the 
International Criminal Court. 

Peace, security and stability are preconditions for 
sustainable  development.  Eradicating  extreme  poverty 
and hunger continues to be one of the main challenges 
facing  the  international  community.  Achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015  is  far  from 
assured.  In  view  of 
the  global  financial  crisis, 
increased  efforts  by  the  international  community  are 
urgently  needed.  Austria  will  contribute  its  share  to 
that global endeavour. 

All those efforts will be in vain if we are unable 
to protect our planet. Climate change is a fundamental 
threat  to  humankind,  aggravating  poverty,  hunger, 
rights  of  victims.  Such 
international 
efforts 
criminal 
09-52592 

21 

the 
in  green 
threatening 
Investments 
technologies 
achievement  of 
The  Security  Council 
A/64/PV.10 

environmental  degradation  and  insecurity,  and  thus 
seriously 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  United  Nations 
Climate Change Conference to be held in Copenhagen 
in  December  must  decide  on  concrete  actions  to  curb 
climate change on the basis of mutual trust and strong 
international cooperation. 

Climate  and  energy  measures  can  also  be  an 
important part of our response to the current economic 
crisis. 
and 
sustainable,  affordable  and  stable  energy  supplies  will 
benefit both the economy and the climate. 

summit  on  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament  held  earlier  this 
week  issued  a  strong  call  for  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons.  For  that  vision  to  become  reality,  we  need 
progress on several fronts.  

Austria, as Co-Chair, together with Costa Rica, of 
the  2007  Conference  on  Facilitating  the  Entry  into 
Force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
and co-leader of the process for the past two years, is 
proud to have contributed to bringing the Treaty closer 
to entering into force.  

the  Conference  on 
Disarmament  in  Geneva,  Austria  is  working  hard  to 
translate the recent positive momentum into substantial 
progress, especially on a verifiable fissile material cut-
off treaty. 

The  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  must  be 
reinforced.  The  Review  Conference  of  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  to  be  held  next  year  will  have  to  agree  on  a 
package  of  measures  and  procedures  that  address  the 
key issues, but most of all it will need to build trust and 
confidence. 

conventional disarmament.  
First,  I  appeal  to  all  States  to  make  a  success  of 

the  Ottawa 
the  Second  Review  Conference  of 
Landmines Ban Convention, to be held in Colombia in 
December,  and,  in  particular,  to  ensure  improved 
assistance to victims.  

Secondly, I welcome the growing support for the 
Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions,  which  Austria 
ratified  in April. We  appeal  to  all  other  States  to  sign 
and ratify it as soon as possible. 
Let  me  continue  with  three  short  remarks  on 
As  current  Chair  of 
facility 

Thirdly, we must counter the illegal proliferation 
of small arms and light weapons. An arms trade treaty 
would  be  an  important  step  in  that  regard.  Hoping  to 
contribute to  speedy negotiations, Austria will host an 
international  conference  in  Vienna  in  February  next 
year. 

With regard to the Iranian nuclear programme, it 
is indispensable that Iran fully comply with all relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  closely  cooperate 
with  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  The 
most recent announcement by the Government of Iran 
concerning  an  additional  enrichment 
is 
discouraging and further increases our concern. 

As  an  important  regional  actor,  Iran  has  the 
responsibility to contribute to peace and security in the 
area. The  time  has  now  come  for  Iran  to  finally  enter 
into  a  constructive  dialogue  with  the  international 
community.  Iran  should  therefore  grasp  the  hand 
extended  by  its  international  partners  and  engage  in 
genuine  and  serious  negotiations.  The  debates  during 
this  week  have  clearly  shown  that  the  world  will  not 
accept an Iran armed with nuclear weapons. 
Let  me  also  underline  that Austria  firmly  rejects 

the  unacceptable 
remarks  made  by  President 
Ahmadinejad  during  his  speech  on  Wednesday.  We 
reject  any  abuse  of  the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly as a platform for intolerance, anti-Semitism, 
and racial hatred. 

Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium),  Vice-President  took  the 
Chair. 

Regarding  the  Middle  East,  we  saw  this  week’s 
summit  between  President  Obama,  Prime  Minister 
Netanyahu and President Abbas as a sign of hope. We 
appeal to the parties to remove any remaining obstacles 
to the early resumption of negotiations. 

After decades of hostility  and violence, time has 
come to move decisively forward. Israel’s right to exist 
in  security  and  peace  and  the  realization  of  the  rights 
of  the  Palestinian  people  to  their  own  State  are  not 
mutually  exclusive.  On  the  contrary,  they  are  both 
crucial elements of a comprehensive and just solution. 

the 
economic 
institutional 
infrastructure  of  a  future  Palestine  State.  It  will  also, 
within 
the  European  Union, 
contribute  to  the  efforts  to  promote  a  dynamic  and 
results-oriented peace process. 
Austria  will  continue 
to  help  establish 
framework  of 
foundation 
and 
the 
the 
22 

09-52592 
ready 
together  will  we  be  able 



International  cooperation  and  dialogue  are  the 
basis  for  sustainable  peace  and  development.  Only  by 
closely  working 
to 
successfully  address  the  many  challenges  of  today’s 
globalized  world.  We  therefore  appreciate  President 
Treki’s initiative to make the need for dialogue a main 
theme  of  this  week’s  debate.  Situated  in  the  heart  of 
Europe, and for most of its history at the crossroads of 
different  cultures,  religions  and  political  systems, 
Austria  has  developed  a  practice  of  constructive 
dialogue as the host country of one of the seats of the 
United Nations for the past three decades. 

I have made it one of my foreign policy priorities 
to position Austria even more firmly as a platform for 
peace  and  dialogue.  We  stand 
to  host 
international  negotiations  and  provide  our  services,  as 
we did most recently for the informal talks on Western 
Sahara.  Austria  can  be  counted  on  to  be  a  partner  in 
translating the words, ideas and initiatives of this week 
into concrete action. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Highness  Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed 
Al Nahyan,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the  United 
Arab Emirates. 
Sheikh  Al  Nahyan  (United  Arab  Emirates) 

(spoke in Arabic): Since the last session of the General 
Assembly,  we  have  witnessed  various  actions  and 
developments  that  have  left  their  negative  impact  on 
international  joint  efforts  to  address  the  threats  and 
challenges that still face our world, particularly in the 
areas 
sustainable 
development. 

Among  the  most  notable  implications  of  those 
challenges,  whose  consequences  transcend  national 
borders, 
crisis, 
deterioration  of  the  environment,  the  increase  in 
unemployment and poverty, the outbreaks of infectious 
diseases,  lack  of  security  and  stability  in  a  number  of 
countries,  and  the  stalemate  in  the  Middle  East  peace 
process. 

The United Arab Emirates would like to seize this 
opportunity  to  express  its  pride  that  the  international 
community has selected Masdar City in Abu Dhabi as a 
seat for the International Renewable Energy Agency. In 
that  context,  we  renew our commitment and readiness 
to  cooperate  fully  in  providing  all  facilities  and 
technical  resources  required  for  the  success  of  this 
international agency. 
financial 
security, 
are 
the 
international 
of 
stability 
and 
09-52592 

A/64/PV.10

We wish to stress that the United Arab Emirates’ 
interest  in  developing  a  programme  for  the  peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy stems from its desire to meet its 
growing  energy  needs  in  the  future.  By  developing  a 
peaceful  nuclear  energy  model  that  complies  with  the 
highest  standards  of  operational  transparency  while 
fulfilling  the  highest  requirements  of  nuclear  safety 
and security and non-proliferation, in cooperation with 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  and  other 
responsible  and  experienced  States,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  hopes  that  a  new  course  will  be  charted  for 
the safe and beneficial use of nuclear energy. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates’  commitment  not  to 
enrich  uranium  and  reprocess  fuels  locally  is  among 
the  most  salient  features  of  this  model,  which  is  one 
supported  by  enhanced  international  transparency  and 
cooperation mechanisms. 

The  United Arab  Emirates  renews  in  this  forum 
its  disappointment  at  the  continued  occupation  by  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  of  the  three  United  Arab 
Emirates  islands:  Greater  Tunb,  Lesser  Tunb  and Abu 
Musa  since  1971. The  United Arab  Emirates  demands 
the  return  of  those  islands  under  conditions  of  full 
sovereignty,  including  their  regional  waters,  airspace, 
continental shelf and their exclusive economic zone as 
integral parts of the national sovereignty of the United 
Arab Emirates. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  also  affirms  that  all 
military  and  administrative  measures  taken  by  the 
Iranian Government on those islands are null and void 
and  have  no  legal  effect,  regardless  of  how  long  the 
occupation might last. In that context, we call upon the 
international community to urge Iran to respond to the 
peaceful  and  sincere  initiatives  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates. These initiatives were supported and adopted 
by  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  and  the  League  of 
Arab States,  and they  call  for a just settlement of that 
issue. 

This  could  be  done  either  through  direct  and 
serious  negotiations  between  the  two  countries  or  by 
referring the issue to the International Court of Justice, 
in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the 
provisions of international law. 

We  also  hope  that  the  Iranian  Government  will 
respond  positively  and  fairly  to  this  sensitive  and 
important  issue.  Such  action  would  strengthen  good-
neighbourly relations and create a base for confidence-
building measures in the Arab Gulf region. 
23 

expresses 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
A/64/PV.10 


We note with satisfaction the gradual withdrawal 
of  foreign  troops  from  Iraq  and  the  extension  of  the 
national  authority  of  its  Government  over  all  its 
territory. In this context, we reaffirm our long-standing 
support  to  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Iraq.  In 
particular,  we  support  their  efforts  to  expedite  the 
rebuilding  of  their  security,  legislative  and  economic 
institutions  as  well  as  their  efforts  to  achieve  national 
reconciliation.  

However,  we  are  also  deeply  concerned  at  the 
deteriorating  security  and  humanitarian  situation  in 
Iraq,  and  we  strongly  condemn  the  recent  terrorist 
bombings in that brotherly country. In that context, we 
call for respect for the territorial integrity, sovereignty 
and  independence  of  Iraq  and  non-intervention  in  its 
internal  affairs.  Its Arab  and  Islamic  identity  must  be 
upheld;  we  condemn  all  attempts 
to  divide  or 
dismember the Iraqi State. 

its 
disappointment at the state of the peace process in the 
Middle  East,  which  has  deteriorated  owing 
to 
continuing Israeli aggression against and occupation of 
Palestinian and Arab territories. This includes the harsh 
blockade 
in 
particular  in  Gaza,  the  ongoing  confiscation  of  land, 
property  and  homes of the Palestinian people, and the 
building of more settlements and the separation wall in 
the  occupied  territories.  That  is  all  carried  out  with  a 
view 
to  Judaizing  occupied  East  Jerusalem  and 
changing  its  Arab  identity  in  flagrant  violation  of 
international 
international 
legitimacy. 

The United Arab Emirates welcomed the positive 
positions expressed by United States President Barack 
Obama  in  this  Hall  on  23  September. We  believe  that 
his  address  (see  A/64/PV.3)  set  out  a  firm  basis  for 
negotiations  between  the  Palestinians  and  the  Israeli 
Government. We hope that Mr. Obama will continue to 
closely pursue that important issue. 

We also welcome the cautious positions stated by 
the European Union, the other members of the Quartet 
and  the  international  community  regarding  the  Israeli 
settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories. 
However,  we  believe  that  those  positions  are  not 
sufficient. More effective efforts are needed in order to 
resume  serious  negotiations  with 
the  Palestinian 
Authority. 
law  and  resolutions  of 
the  Palestinian  people, 
imposed  on 
In 
that 
Initiative  and 
rights  of  his  people, 
that  context,  we  emphasize 

the 
achievement of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace 
in  the  Middle  East  requires  an  end  to  the  Israeli 
occupation  of  all  occupied  Arab  and  Palestinian 
territories  and  the  establishment  of  an  independent 
Palestinian State, with Al-Quds as its capital, based on 
the principle of land for peace and in accordance with 
the  Arab  Peace 
resolutions  of 
international legitimacy. 
The United Arab Emirates will continue to stand 

by 
the  Palestinian  National  Authority  and 
the 
Palestinian  people  and  to  support  their  just  cause.  In 
that  context,  we  commend  His  Excellency  President 
Mahmoud Abbas  for  his  tireless  efforts  to  restore  the 
legitimate 
to  establish  a 
Palestinian  State  with  Al-Quds  as  its  capital  and  to 
achieve development and peace there. The United Arab 
Emirates also supports all ongoing efforts, particularly 
those  undertaken  by  the  sisterly  Arab  Republic  of 
Egypt, with a view to achieving national reconciliation 
in Palestine. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  attaches  particular 
importance to African countries. It is strengthening its 
cooperation  and  partnerships  with  those  countries  in 
line  with  the  United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution 55/2), with special focus on goals to combat 
poverty and to ensure that Africa, which represents the 
largest part of the South, receives  a  fair and  equitable 
share  of  global  prosperity.  The  United  Arab  Emirates 
reiterates  its  decades-long  energy  policy,  which  is 
based on maintaining the volume and flow of its energy 
supplies without restriction or political or non-political 
impediment. 

Furthermore,  the  United Arab  Emirates  has  long 
and  consistently  been  pursuing  a  foreign  policy  based 
on  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations, 
the  settlement  of 
in  particular  with 
international 
peaceful  means, 
non-intervention in the internal affairs of States and the 
protection  of  national  sovereignty.  In  that  context,  we 
affirm  our  continued  commitment  to  the  one-China 
policy. 

The  United Arab  Emirates,  as  an  active  member 
of  the  international  community,  is  always  ready  to 
reiterate its commitment to respecting the principles of 
human  rights  in  the  light  of  its  human  values  and 
national principles and in line with the provisions and 
machinery  of  relevant  international  conventions.  The 
disputes 
regard 
to 
by 
24 

09-52592 


universal periodic review on the United Arab Emirates 
was  adopted  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  Geneva 
last December. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  conditions  of  migrant  workers  and 
the  protection  of  their  full  rights,  in  accordance  with 
the  constitution  of  the  United Arab  Emirates,  national 
legislation  and  the  standards  of  the  International 
Labour  Organization.  My  Government  has  recently 
adopted  a  set  of  policies  and  measures  aimed  at 
enhancing  many  aspects  of  labour  protection.  It  has 
taken  steps  to  intensify  regional  cooperation  among 
labour-exporting  and  labour-importing  countries  in 
Asia  with  what  is  known  as  the Abu  Dhabi  Dialogue, 
which aims to promote the protection of workers at all 
stages  of  contractual  labour.  Also,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  actively  participates  in  the  International 
Forum on Migration and Development and supports its 
activities  and  research  work.  The  forum  was  initiated 
by the High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development, held on the sidelines of the General 
Assembly in the autumn of 2006. 

Women  and  children  occupy  an  important  place 
among  the  national  priorities  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  Government,  in  particular  with  regard  to 
education, health, knowledge and human development. 
The  empowerment  of  women  and 
the  care  and 
protection  of  children  are  among  the  major  success 
stories of our national development project. The United 
Arab  Emirates  has  also  made  efforts  to  combat  all 
forms  of  violence,  extremism,  crime,  violation  of 
human 
through 
partnerships  that  are  based  on  equality  and  mutual 
respect and contribute to achieving peace, stability and 
sustainable development. 

In  conclusion,  we  hope  that  our  deliberations  on 
the  items  on  the  Assembly’s  agenda  this  session  will 
lead  to  positive  results  that  will  enhance  our  joint 
efforts  to  establish  a  more  just,  peaceful,  tolerant  and 
developed world. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Yves Leterme, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Belgium. 
in  French): 

Nothing  is  created  without  men;  nothing  lasts  without 
institutions.  Those  words  of  Jean  Monnet,  one  of  the 
founders  of  the  European  Union,  remain  as  true  as 
ever.  Security,  climate  change  and  some  effects  of 
Mr.  Leterme  (Belgium)  (spoke 
and  human 
trafficking 
rights 
A/64/PV.10
in  order 
to  enhance 
their 
those 
institutions 
the  one  hand,  about 
globalization are challenges that all our countries face. 
That is why a global approach, with the United Nations 
playing  a  central  role,  is  needed.  But  the  United 
Nations  must  earn  that  central  role.  As  President 
Barack  Obama  said  here  (see  A/64/PV.3),  we  cannot 
complain,  on 
the  so-called 
unilateral action of the United States while at the same 
time  expecting  it  alone  to  solve  all  the  world’s 
problems.  

In  that  spirit  I  would  call  for  a  new  multilateral 
commitment, as the reform of international institutions 
is  crucial 
legitimacy, 
representativeness  and  capacity  for  action.  Nothing  is 
created without men; nothing lasts without institutions. 
From  now  on, 
should  work 
efficiently,  starting  with  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
essential  to  move  ahead  rapidly  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council and of the functioning of the General 
Assembly. 

Indeed,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  improve  the 
efficiency  of  our  own  operations.  A  glance  at  the 
organizational chart of the United Nations allows us to 
see  not  only  the  overlaps  but  also  the  gaps  in  the 
system.  It  is  out  of  commitment  to  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  that  Belgium,  one  of  the  founding 
Members,  strongly  appeals  for  more  rigour  and 
transparency  in  the  management  and  budget  of  the 
United  Nations  in  order  to  better  use  its  limited 
resources.  

In  addition  to  the  fragmentation  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  two  other  trends  reveal  the  need  for 
enhanced  multilateral  commitment.  The  first  is  the 
multitude  of  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
almost  everywhere  in  the  world.  It  is  true  that  this 
multitude  enhances 
international  cooperation,  but 
regional  and  international  organizations  sometimes 
lack 
should 
henceforth  allow  the  optimal  use  of  the  resources  of 
all. 

The second trend can be summed up by the words 
“imperfect  multilateralism”.  Countries  get  together  on 
an  informal  basis  to  discuss  international  issues,  for 
example — and this is very pertinent — the economic 
and  financial  crisis.  These  informal  groups  may, 
particularly  at  first,  expedite  the  decision-making  of 
international multilateral organizations, but they cannot 
replace 
themselves  because 
multilateralism  cannot  be  exclusive.  Rather,  it  should 
harmonization.  Better 
those  organizations 
cooperation 
09-52592 

25 

A/64/PV.10 

be inclusive  and transparent. Nothing can last without 
institutions,  but  even  the  best  organized  institutions 
cannot  function  in  the  absence  of  inspiration  and 
human  will.  Even  the  best  organized  institutions  are 
powerless when men prevent them from working.  

The economic and financial crisis has been given 
a  great  deal  of  attention,  which  is  only  natural.  The 
crisis  most  severely  affects  developing  countries.  It  is 
now  more  important  than  ever  that  donor  countries 
meet their official development assistance objectives of 
0.7  per  cent  of  the  gross  national  product.  Belgium 
plans to achieve that goal in 2010. 

is  violence 
between  States  and  within  States. Within  some  States, 
violence  continues  to  kill,  maim  and  rape  millions  of 
people. The worst international disorder is reflected in 
the wars, civil conflicts, inter-ethnic fighting and harsh 
repression  that  deprive  millions  of  people  of  a  decent 
existence.  This  is  our  first  and  foremost  challenge 
because  without  peace  and  security 
is  no 
development, 
let  alone  sustainable  development. 
Without  peace  and  security,  there  can  be  no  fair 
distribution of the wealth of our Earth. 

of UNESCO,  

As stipulated in the preamble of the Constitution 
“since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the 
minds of men that the defences of peace must be 
constructed”. 
international  disorder 
The  worst 
there 
To 
function 
Indeed, conflict prevention begins with the banishment 
of  all  hate  speech  attacking  the  dignity  of  human 
beings, nations and communities, or the right of States 
to  exist.  Far  too  often,  we  have  witnessed  bloodbaths 
provoked by incitement to hatred. Such speech has no 
place  in  this  Hall  or  in  this  Organization,  whose 
primary  mission  is  precisely  to  promote  peace  and 
security through constructive cooperation. 

our  multilateral 
institutions  need  leaders  and  representatives  of  States 
who  share  basic  approaches  established  on  the  core 
belief  in  the  unique  dignity  of  each  human  being. 
National  sovereignty  implies  responsibility.  That  is 
why Belgium wholeheartedly supports the principle of 
the  responsibility  to  protect.  The  principle  requires 
Governments 
their  citizens  against 
genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes 
against  humanity.  Incidentally,  Belgium  would  like  to 
thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his excellent 
to  safeguard 
efficiently, 
international  agenda.  That 
report  on  this  topic  (A/63/677)  and  fully  supports  his 
efforts in this area. 

It  is  civilians,  and  women  and  children  in 
particular,  who  are  often  the  primary  victims  of 
violence  and  of 
indescribable  and  unacceptable 
suffering. Indeed, women constitute half of the world’s 
population,  but  too  often  we  forget  that  human  rights 
also  fully  apply  to  them.  In  situations  of  war  and 
violence,  women  are  frequently 
twofold  victims 
because of the sexual violence inflicted upon them. My 
country  is  therefore  determined  to  pursue  its  action 
against  sexual  violence  and  any  kind  of  violence 
against children. 

Wars  are  caused  by  men,  not  by  weapons. 
Nonetheless,  the  arms  control  issue  has  to  be  high  on 
the 
is  why  Belgium 
welcomes  the  meeting  of  the  Security  Council  at  the 
highest  level  on  the  subject  of  non-proliferation  and 
nuclear  disarmament  (S/PV.6191).  That  meeting  was 
undoubtedly  a  highlight  of  this  week.  Resolution 
1887 (2009),  adopted  yesterday,  represents,  in  our 
opinion,  a  milestone  for  a  world  free  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction. 

However, unfortunately, the latest news from Iran 
seems  to  be  heading  in  the  opposite  direction.  My 
country therefore endorses the very urgent call on Iran 
and  North  Korea  to  cooperate  with  the  international 
community 
the  Security  Council 
resolutions  that  pertain  to  them.  If  they  do  not,  they 
will be ostracized by the international community. 
the 

fight  against 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  should 
not  make  us  overlook  conventional  weapons,  which 
currently  kill  on  a  massive  scale.  In  particular,  I  refer 
here to anti-personnel landmines. The Convention that 
prohibits these weapons entered into force in 1999, and 
Belgium  hopes  that  it  will  be  strengthened  at  the 
Review  Conference  scheduled 
in 
Cartagena, Colombia, in early December. With respect 
to that Convention, Belgium, along with Thailand, will 
head the Standing Committee on Victim Assistance and 
Socio-Economic  Reintegration.  Furthermore,  Belgium 
has  spared  no  effort  to  push  for  the  conclusion  of  the 
Convention on Cluster Munitions. 

Human  rights  in  all  their  aspects  are  a  major 
concern for Belgium. That is why my country plays an 
active role as a member of the Human Rights Council. 
In that regard, I would like to thank the members of the 
take  place 
the  same 
respect 
time, 
and 
At 
the 
to 
26 

09-52592 
is 
for 
that 
late  2009 
in  Copenhagen 
threatened,  and 
to  preside  over 


Council  that  entrusted  my  country,  Belgium,  with  the 
responsibility  and  honour 
that 
important  institution.  That  trust  is,  in  my  view,  a 
recognition of our commitment. 

Finally,  human  rights  also  concern  the  rights  of 
future generations. We do not own this Earth; we have 
it  on  loan  from  our  children.  Today  more  than  ever, 
that  heritage 
is  why 
environmental  protection  should  be  our  main  shared 
concern  and  priority. The  Climate  Change  Conference 
scheduled 
is  an 
opportunity  that  cannot  be  squandered.  We  need  to 
make  specific  and  binding  commitments  there.  I 
believe  that  the  European  Union  has  shown  the  way 
with its ambitious package of measures adopted in late 
2008. 

Institutions  cannot  function  without  the  input  of 
men. Therefore, those who undermine the performance 
of these institutions should be held accountable. That is 
why  Belgium  has  been  particularly  active  in  the  fight 
against 
is 
required,  but  it  can  function  only  if  it  is  upheld  by 
States governed by the rule of law. I therefore reaffirm 
the need for common positions that are essential for a 
world  that  is  safer,  fairer  and  more  prosperous.  In  the 
words of former Secretary-General Kofi Annan,  

“There 
security  without 
development.  There  is  no  development  without 
security. And no society can long  remain secure, 
or  prosperous,  without  respect  for  human  rights 
release 
and 
SG/SM/10425) 
impunity.  An 
international 
legal  order 
is  no 
long-term 
(Press 
the 
rule 
of 
law.” 
a 
and 
levels 
is  more  vital 
sustainable  development, 
Strengthening  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international 
than  ever  for 
achieving a more equitable form of globalization. 
I  will  conclude  with  these  words.  Peace  and 

security, 
fair 
distribution of the wealth of the Earth are the essential, 
global  challenges 
these 
challenges, we need solid international institutions, but 
institutional  multilateralism  is  not  enough.  We  also 
need  a  multilateralism  of  minds,  and  men  and  women 
of conviction to carry it forward.  

This  will,  belief  and  ambition  motivate  my 
country, a founding Member of the United Nations, to 
offer  the  candidacy  for  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session  of  our  compatriot 
that  we  face.  To  meet 
A/64/PV.10
Louis  Michel,  former  Minister  for  Foreign  affairs  of 
Belgium and former European Commissioner in charge 
of  Development  and  Humanitarian  Aid.  We  are 
convinced  that  the  strength  of  his  conviction  and 
dedication will unite us further. It is indeed only when 
the  men  and  women  who  take  the  floor  here  are  fired 
by  a  shared  vision  of  human  rights,  peace  and 
development that our institutions will be able to deliver 
what we need: collective results rather than individual 
achievements. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  S.  M.  Krishna, 
Minister for External Affairs of India. 
Mr.  Krishna  (India):  I  offer  my  congratulations 

to Mr. Treki on his assumption of the presidency of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  My 
delegation  assures  him  of  our  fullest  cooperation 
during  his  stewardship  of 
this  Assembly,  which 
embodies  the  hopes,  aspirations  and  shared  vision  of 
peace and development of all the peoples of our planet. 

When this session of the General Assembly ends 
next  year,  the  United  Nations  will  have  completed 
65 years of existence. These past decades have seen the 
world  change 
in  fundamental  ways.  Connectivity 
defines  our  global  condition,  and  the  challenges  that 
we collectively face are truly global. The resolution of 
these  challenges,  as  we  are  aware,  requires  global 
approaches  and  solutions.  What  may  happen  in  one 
part of the world has an impact on other regions. In the 
context  of  these  rapidly  emerging  changes  and  their 
deep  and  diverse  effects,  we  must  consider  more 
deeply  whether  the  United  Nations  and  other  global 
governance structures are geared to effectively meeting 
the challenges that confront us all. 
It  is  of  concern  that,  even  after  more  than  six 

decades  of  existence,  our  international  governance 
structures  are  neither 
inclusive  nor  participatory. 
Consequently, these structures and institutions have not 
kept pace or evolved with the changed nature, intensity 
and depth of contemporary global issues. The question 
is therefore: Are these institutions able to address these 
challenges adequately or satisfactorily? The reform and 
restructuring of the global governance architecture are 
the  critical  needs  of  our  times,  and  the  voices  of  the 
developing  world,  including  those  of  the  small  island 
nations and Africa, are of principal and core relevance 
if  we  are  to  have  truly  participatory  and  global 
responses to global challenges. 
09-52592 

27 

A/64/PV.10 

One  need  not  look  very  far  to  identify  these 

challenges.  The  current  economic  and 
financial 
turmoil,  which  did  not  begin  in  the  developing  world, 
has affected developing countries the most. Growth has 
slowed, with recession overtaking many countries. The 
international  response  to  this  challenge  must  consist 
not  only  of  the  measures  that  have  been  taken  to 
stimulate  economies,  but  also,  more  importantly,  of 
finding  ways  to  restructure  the  current  international 
governance system, which has failed to respond to the 
virulence of the financial and economic crisis. 

To gloss over this structural deficit of the current 
global  financial  and  economic  architecture  would 
imperil the  future of  a vast majority of the peoples of 
this world and presage greater difficulties in the future. 
In the face of the current economic and financial crisis, 
hard-won gains in alleviating poverty, hunger, illiteracy 
and  disease  are  being  reversed.  The  achievements  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  seriously 
threatened.  Policies  of  protectionism  under  such 
already  adverse  circumstances  will  exacerbate  the 
serious situation that many countries face. 

It  is  imperative  that  the  United  Nations  act  in 
concert to coherently overcome these challenges. India, 
which is actively engaged in the Group of 20 and other 
processes,  has  always 
that  developing 
countries  must  receive  priority  in  any  global  response 
to  the  crisis.  The  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  held  in  June  was 
opportune  and  provided  a  useful  platform 
for 
collectively seeking ways and means to respond to the 
crisis.  We  now  look  forward  to  early  implementation 
during  the  course  of  this  General  Assembly  of  the 
follow-up measures agreed on at the Conference. 

the  centre  stage  of  multilateralism  and 
international  cooperation  is  the  United  Nations.  This 
Organization is a platform on which the world meets to 
express  views  and  undertake  commitments  on  global 
issues  of  mutual  concern  on  an  equal  footing.  It  is  no 
wonder,  then,  that  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
begins with the inspiring words “We the peoples of the 
United Nations”. Inclusiveness and collective action in 
all  aspects  of  the  work  of  the  Organization  are  at  the 
heart  of  its  Charter.  This  vision  must  be  our  lodestar, 
the  guiding  principle  of  all  we  undertake.  India  is 
committed to working with Member States to make the 
United  Nations  more 
to 
contemporary realities.  
relevant  and  attuned 
stressed 
At 
28 

09-52592 
be 
that 
its 
and 
permanent 

Reforming  the  United  Nations  is  a  matter  of  the 
highest  priority.  Four  years  after  the  2005  World 
Summit,  there  has  not  been  much  progress  even  as 
newer  and  more  global  crises  and  problems  have 
emerged. We should not let slowness of action weaken 
the Organization in the face of such challenges. Rather, 
we  must  work  in  concert  to  make  it  more  robust  and 
capable of effective response. 

Reform  in  the  three  essentials  of  the  Charter  — 
peace  and  security,  development  and  human  rights  — 
requires  our  collective  attention.  The  General 
Assembly  must  be  revitalized  in  full  measure,  and  its 
role  as  the  anvil  of  global  deliberation  must  be 
strengthened.  The  Economic  and  Social  Council  must 
become  the  fulcrum  of  development.  It  must  be 
accepted 
the  Security  Council  must  be 
representative  by 
strengthened  and  made  more 
expanding 
non-permanent 
membership.  Ongoing  intergovernmental  negotiations 
during 
the  past  six  months  have  unambiguously 
established that an overwhelming majority of Member 
States  share  the  perspective  that  an  expansion  in  both 
categories of Security Council membership is needed. 

Climate  change  is  one  of  the  most  important 
global  challenges  that  we  face  today.  Developing 
countries  bear  a  disproportionate  share  of  its  adverse 
effects,  even  though  they  are  not  responsible  for  it. 
Cognizant  of  the  serious  threat  that  climate  change 
poses,  India  is  engaged  in  the  ongoing  negotiations 
under  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change (UNFCCC), including at the upcoming 
Copenhagen  Conference.  India  will  work  for  an 
outcome  that  recognizes  the  development  imperatives 
of  developing  countries  and  is  rooted  in  the  principle 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  and 
respective capabilities. 

We  also  must  move  away  from  concentrating  on 
mitigation  only  and  ensure  that  there  is  a  focus  on 
adaptation,  which  is  critical  for  developing  countries. 
We  are  hosting  a  high-level  global  conference  on 
“Climate  Change:  Technology  Development  and 
Transfer”  on  22  and  23  October  2009,  in  cooperation 
with 
the 
conference  is  to  help  formulate  a  road  map  for 
technology in the context of climate change mitigation 
and adaptation to support the UNFCCC process. 

supported 
financially, technologically and  with  capacity-building 
the  United  Nations.  The  objective  of 
countries  must 
Developing 
several 
India  has  also 
island  States  and  of 


resources  so  that  they  can  cope  with  the  immense 
challenges of adaptation. Special efforts are required to 
develop  programmes  that  address  the  critical  needs  of 
small 
the  most  vulnerable 
countries. 

Poverty  alleviation  and  livelihood  security  are 
central  imperatives  for  India.  To  that  end,  accelerated 
economic  growth  and  energy  security  are  critical 
drivers.  In  pursuing  our  development  goals,  India  has 
been  successful  in  significantly  reducing  its  energy 
intensity. India will continue to pursue that path. 

India is aware that the continuing volatility in the 
fossil-fuel markets, together with the threat of climate 
change,  makes  the  development  of  all  renewable  and 
clean  energy  sources  —  including  nuclear  energy  — 
crucial.  In  that  context,  international  civil-nuclear 
cooperation is important. 

independent 
initiatives  to  address  the  issue  of  climate  change.  We 
have  put 
in  place  a  comprehensive  policy  and 
legislative framework, as well as a national action plan 
on  climate  change  with  eight  separate  national 
missions. An unprecedented afforestation campaign has 
been  launched  with  a  doubling  of  the  forestry  budget 
this year to $1.3 billion, and this increase is going to be 
sustained every year. The Prime Minister’s Council has 
approved  national  missions  for  enhanced  energy 
efficiency  and  solar  energy,  setting  ambitious  goals. 
We  are  supporting  and  facilitating  major  research  to 
assess various aspects related to climate change. 
India  attaches  the  highest  priority  to  the  goal  of 

nuclear  disarmament 
impeccable 
non-proliferation  record.  We  welcome  the  renewed 
global  debate  on  achieving  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons.  That  corresponds  with  India’s  long-standing 
and consistent advocacy of nuclear disarmament as one 
of the highest priorities of the international community. 
We have put forward a number of proposals on nuclear 
disarmament  at 
including  a 
working paper in 2006 proposing elements to fashion a 
new consensus on disarmament and non-proliferation. 
Last year, at the sixty-third session of the General 

long-standing 
Assembly,  consistent  with 
commitment as articulated in the Rajiv Gandhi Action 
Plan in 1988, India reiterated its proposal that a nuclear 
weapons  convention  be  convened 
the 
production,  development,  stockpiling  and  use  of 
nuclear  weapons  and  to  provide  for  their  complete 
the  United  Nations, 
and  has 
to  ban 
India’s 
taken 
an 
A/64/PV.10
in 
have 
the  hope 
this  debate 
contributed  more 
elimination  within  a  time  frame.  The  international 
nuclear order cannot be discriminatory. Further, States 
must  fulfil  the  obligations  that  they  have  undertaken. 
Once  more,  with  feeling  and  with  commitment,  India 
reiterates that proposal. 
We will continue to engage with key countries to 

intensify 
that  greater 
international  understanding  will  lend  itself  to  a  firm 
commitment  to  action  on  nuclear  disarmament.  It  was 
in  that  spirit  that  we  supported  the  adoption  of  a 
programme of work, including on a fissile material cut-
off treaty (FMCT), at the Conference on Disarmament 
in  May  this  year.  It  is  consistent  with  India’s  position 
to work with others at the Conference on Disarmament 
towards 
the  conclusion  of  a  non-discriminatory, 
multilaterally  negotiated  and  internationally  verifiable 
FMCT,  provided  it  corresponds  with  India’s  national 
security interests. We remain committed to a voluntary, 
unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing.  

India  stands  committed  to  the  safeguarding  of 
international  peace  and  security.  Over  the  past  five 
decades,  we 
than 
100,000 peacekeepers and have suffered a high number 
of  casualties  during 
the 
normative  basis  for  peacekeeping  operations  and 
giving major troop-contributing countries a greater say 
will serve to make peacekeeping more effective. 

Peace,  security,  stability  and  the  welfare  of  our 
neighbourhood  are  vital  for  India.  There  is  a  new 
beginning  in  Sri  Lanka;  in  Nepal,  strengthening  the 
peace  process  is  in  our  collective  interest;  and  in 
Afghanistan, the international community must remain 
intensively  engaged  and  support 
its  development 
efforts  and  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  stability. 
India  is  committed  to  establishing  good-neighbourly 
relations  and  resolving  all  outstanding  issues  with 
Pakistan through peaceful dialogue. 

The  barbaric  terrorist  attack  on  the  innocent 
people of Mumbai on 26 November 2008 reminded us 
of the daily and malignant menace that terrorism poses 
to  all  countries.  There  can  be  no 
justification 
whatsoever  for  such  mindless  terrorist  acts.  It  is  our 
collective  responsibility  and  duty  to  work  together  to 
ensure  that  terrorists  and  the  organizers,  perpetrators 
and supporters of such crimes are brought to justice. 

In  order  to  strengthen  the  international  legal 
framework  of  the  fight  against  terrorism,  India  has 
proposed a comprehensive convention on international 
time.  Strengthening 
this 
09-52592 

29 

A/64/PV.10 

terrorism. Discussions on the draft have gone on for far 
too  long.  It  is  time  that  the  convention  be  finally 
adopted.  India  earnestly  calls  upon  all  countries  to 
make serious efforts in the next few weeks to arrive at 
a consensus on the text. 

In conclusion, I wish to reiterate India’s steadfast 
commitment  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations. 
Speaking  to  this  Assembly  41  years  ago,  Prime 
Minister Indira Gandhi said:  

“The  United  Nations  is  the  trustee  of  the 

the  hopes  of 
world’s  peace  and  represents 
mankind.  Its  very  existence  gives  a  feeling  of 
assurance  that  the  justice  of  true  causes  can  be 
brought 
the  world.  This 
Assembly and the agencies of the United Nations 
should,  in  all  that  they  do,  sustain  those  hopes 
and  promote  the  causes  of  peace.”  (A/PV.1693, 
para. 150)  
fearlessly  before 
The  truth  and  conviction  of  these  words  are  more 
meaningful today than ever before. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call on Her Excellency Mrs. Rumiana Jeleva, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria.  
Mrs. Jeleva (Bulgaria): I am deeply honoured to 

address  this  audience  on  behalf  of  the  Republic  of 
Bulgaria.  I  would  like  to  convey  my  delegation’s 
congratulations  to  Mr. Ali  Treki  on  his  assumption  of 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
fourth  session,  and  wish  him  success  in  the  months 
ahead. 

Our  gratitude  goes  to  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann for his leadership and guidance during the 
previous session. Let me also thank Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  resolute  efforts  to  promote  the 
United Nations and its values. 

Bulgaria  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Sweden,  Mr.  Fredrik 
Reinfeldt, on behalf of the European Union. 

Furthermore,  Bulgaria  would  like  to  express  its 
pleasure at the election of Ambassador Irina Bokova as 
the new Director-General of UNESCO. We would like 
to thank all Member States for the trust invested in our 
candidate.  Bulgaria  takes  great  pride  in  having  such  a 
high-level representative in the United Nations system 
and  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  our 
In 
the 
principle 
of 
issues 
to 
the 
reiterates 
The  most  pressing 
the  globalized  world  of 
Government  will  continue  to  do  everything  it  can  to 
foster the policies and ideals of UNESCO. 

As  a  member  of  the  European  Union  (EU), 
Bulgaria  is  dedicated  to  the  spirit  of  multilateralism 
and  therefore  fully  supports  the  efforts  to  strengthen 
the  United  Nations  capacity 
to  deliver  effective 
international responses to global challenges. 

that  require  our 
attention  are  undoubtedly  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis  and  the  negative  impact  of  climate 
change.  In  this  light,  we  particularly  appreciate  the 
Secretary-General’s  initiative  to  convene  the  United 
Nations Summit on Climate Change on 22 September. 
Furthermore,  I  would  like  to  express  our  support  for 
the  statement  made  by  the  President  of  France  at  this 
general debate. We are indeed running out of time, and 
if  we  want  to  reach  an  agreement  in  Copenhagen, 
timely action is needed. 
twenty-first 

its 
full 
century,  my  country  strongly 
commitment 
effective 
multilateralism  based  on  international  law,  the  United 
Nations Charter and the United Nations system, which 
place the human being and human security, rights and 
dignity at the very centre of international politics. 

Bulgaria  considers  cooperation  in  South-East 
Europe and the Black Sea region to be a priority of its 
foreign  policy.  Situated  at  a  particular  geographic 
crossroads,  Bulgaria  is  in  a  unique  position  to  assess 
the areas’ pressing issues in their complexity. Together 
with  our  partners  in  the  EU  and  NATO,  Bulgaria  is 
proactively cooperating with its immediate neighbours. 

regional 
cooperation is an integral part of European integration 
of 
the 
strengthening of confidence, stability, security and the 
affirmation of European standards in the region. To this 
end, Bulgaria is committed to pursuing efforts aimed at 
combating and preventing the use of hate speech likely 
to  create  fears  and  tensions  between  groups  from 
different 
social 
backgrounds. 
We therefore call for full compliance with human 

rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
the  western 
Balkans.  In  this  context,  Bulgaria  believes  that  the 
building  of  a  stable,  peaceful,  democratic  and 
multi-ethnic  Kosovo, 
its 
the  western  Balkans. 
ethnic,  national, 
It  contributes 
to 
living 
in  peace  with 
religious  or 
Bulgaria 
strongly 
affirms 
that 
in 
30 

09-52592 
in 
involved 
the  parties 


neighbours,  is  of  primary  importance  to  the  security 
architecture  of  the  western  Balkans  and  Europe  as  a 
whole. 

Bulgaria is particularly interested in the peaceful 
long-term  development  of  the  Black  Sea  region. 
Despite  active  cooperation  among  countries  in  the 
region,  much  of  its  potential  has  so  far  not  been 
utilized  sufficiently.  In  this  light,  it  must  be  said  that 
the  South  Caucasus  remains  a  region  of  concern  for 
Bulgaria.  We  call  upon 
to 
overcome their differences and to engage in a dialogue 
to  ensure  the  peaceful  and  prosperous  development  of 
the entire Caucasus. 

Today,  it  is  our  task  not  only  to  respond  to  the 
challenges,  but  also  to  embrace  the  opportunities  that 
the  Black  Sea  region  provides.  Bulgaria  believes  that 
the  European 
the  strong  Eastern  dimension  of 
Neighbourhood  Policy  addresses 
the  needs  and 
priorities  of  all  the  partners.  We  see  opportunities  for 
launching  projects 
important  sectors,  such  as 
transport,  trade,  energy,  environmental  protection  and 
border  security.  My  country  is  one  of  the  main 
supporters  of  the  Black  Sea  Synergy  initiative,  which 
serves  as  an  inclusive  cooperation  platform  between 
the  European  Union  and  the  countries  of  the  wider 
Black  Sea 
to 
contribute to the success of those policies, in particular 
through its forthcoming chairmanship of the Black Sea 
Economic Cooperation Organization. 

Bulgaria  would,  furthermore,  like  to  thank  the 
United  States  and  our  partners  in  the  European  Union 
for  the  constructive  part  they  have  played  in  both  the 
Balkan and the Black Sea regions. We are grateful for 
their  counsel  and  support,  and  we  very  much  look 
forward  to  further  deepening  and  intensifying  our 
cooperation. 

The list of persistent grave risks and challenges to 
global  security  is,  regrettably,  not  a  short  one. We  are 
convinced  of  the  need  to  step  up  efforts  aimed  at 
achieving  progress 
international 
disarmament,  arms  control  and  non-proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  In  this  regard,  the  need 
for  the  full  and  universal  implementation  of  the 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  regime  remains  of  utmost 
importance, and my country is dedicated to supporting 
a  successful  outcome  of  the  2010  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty Review Conference. 
region.  Bulgaria  will  endeavour 
the  areas  of 
in 
A/64/PV.10

We  are  deeply  concerned  by  the  recent  turn  of 
events  regarding  Iran’s  nuclear  dossier,  and,  in  this 
respect, we strongly appeal to the Iranian authorities to 
comply  with  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council  and  to  provide  their  full  cooperation  to  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  Bulgaria  hopes 
that the forthcoming negotiations between Iran and the 
five  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  plus 
Germany  (P5+1),  scheduled  for  the  beginning  of 
October, will make it possible to renew the discussion 
on the Iranian nuclear programme and pave the way for 
a comprehensive solution before December this year. 

Bulgaria confirms its position that further reform 
of  the  main  United  Nations  bodies  is  necessary.  We 
believe it is desirable to enhance the transparency and 
effectiveness of the system. Furthermore, we need only 
recall  the  enormous  challenges  facing  Member  States 
and  the  international  community  in  the  twenty-first 
century  world  to  see  the  need  to  reform  the  United 
Nations. 

Reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  certainly 
be  a  central  element  in  any  reform  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  would  like  to  reiterate  our  position  that 
both categories of membership on the Council need to 
be enlarged. Furthermore, we believe that the regional 
Group  of  Eastern  European  States  should  be  allocated 
at least one additional non-permanent seat. 

Bulgaria  is  well  aware  of  the  need  to  pursue 
international  diplomacy  in  order  to  overcome  existing 
conflicts. As  a  consequence,  we  welcome  the  positive 
role  that  the  European  Union  plays  as  a  mediator  in 
numerous  conflict  areas  around  the  world.  One  such 
area  is  the  Middle  East.  Bulgaria  firmly  supports  the 
efforts  of  the  members  of  the  Quartet  in  the  Middle 
East  peace  process  and  believes  that  re-establishing 
direct  dialogue  between  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian 
delegations  is  of  fundamental  importance.  Bulgaria 
firmly supports the position of the European Union in 
this 
a 
comprehensive  and  lasting  peace  can  only  be  realized 
if 
live 
peacefully, side by side, each in its own sovereign State 
and in mutual recognition. 

the  United  Nations, 
supported  by  the  European  Union,  has  an  enormous 
potential  to  be  a  force  for  peace  and  stability  is  in 
Afghanistan.  Bulgaria  believes  that,  overall,  a  more 
comprehensive 
in 
Israeli  and  Palestinian  peoples  can 
and  underlines 
area  where 
coordinated 
approach 
Another 
regard 
and 
the 
fact 
that 
the 
09-52592 

31 

A/64/PV.10 

Afghanistan  is  desirable.  In  this  light,  the  Bulgarian 
Government  thanks  the  Swedish  presidency  of  the 
European  Union  for  preparing  a  blue  book  listing  all 
European  efforts  in  Afghanistan  with  the  aim  of 
helping improve coordination on the ground. 

Together  with  our  European  Union  partners, 
Bulgaria  is  strongly  committed  to  the  cause  of  human 
rights.  As  such,  Bulgaria  will  continue  to  clearly 
condemn all such violations of human rights as torture, 
slavery,  sexual  abuse  and  female  genital  mutilation. 
Additionally,  in  this  light,  we  support  the  call  by  the 
Swedish presidency of the European Union for greater 
empowerment  of  women  and  gender  equality. 
Furthermore,  we  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s 
report entitled “Implementation of the responsibility to 
protect”  of  January  2009  (A/63/677)  as  an  important 
and timely document, and we state our firm interest in 
further  discussing  and  elaborating  on  the  concept. We 
hope  that,  with  the  recent  adoption  of  resolution 
63/308, this concept will be implemented. 

In the course of the past year, the world has faced 
multiple challenges related to the global economic and 
financial  crisis.  This  crisis  has  had  a  huge  impact  on 
virtually  all  sectors  of  our  economy.  Bulgaria  firmly 
believes that  we can only overcome the crisis through 
the joint efforts of all relevant actors. We are all in the 
same  boat,  and  we  must  all  ensure  that  the  lessons  of 
our past mistakes are learned and remembered. To that 
end,  we  call 
the 
cooperation  between  developing  and  developed 
countries.  Additional  support  should  be  provided  to 
developing  countries 
further 
aggravation  of  global  poverty  and  hunger.  More 
broadly,  we  are  more  concerned  that  the  global 
recession might lead to a decrease in the total level of 
official  development  assistance.  Greater  attention 
should therefore be paid to the conclusions put forward 
in  the  Paris  Declaration  on Aid  Effectiveness  of  2005 
and the Accra Agenda for Action of 2008. Furthermore, 
while  we  are  well  aware  of  our  financial  constraints, 
Bulgaria, as a country that only recently emerged from 
the status of a recipient of foreign aid, is committed to 
live  up  to  its  international  responsibilities  and  is 
determined to be a force for peace and stability. 
It is true that the efforts of the United Nations for 

peace, 
stability  and  development  constitute  an 
impressive list of achievements. It is also true that a lot 
more could and should be achieved this year and in the 
years  to  come.  At  the  end  of  the  day,  however,  the 
intensification  of 
to  avoid 
for 
further 
in  order 
achievements  of  the  United  Nations  depend  on  what 
we,  the  Member  States,  are  willing  to  do.  We  have  a 
shared responsibility for the future of our planet. Only 
through  open  and  honest  cooperation  can  we  be 
successful in overcoming the challenges ahead. 

So let us work together, demonstrate beyond any 
doubt  our  goodwill,  flexibility  and  commitment,  and 
make this sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly 
a real success. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to His Excellency Össur Skarphéðinsson, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  External  Trade  of 
Iceland. 
Mr.  Skarphéðinsson  (Iceland):  It  is  indeed  an 

honour  for  me  to  address  this  Assembly  for  the  first 
time.  I  would  like  to  start  by  congratulating  His 
Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on his election to 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
fourth session, and I pledge him the full support of the 
Icelandic  delegation  in  the  difficult  and  arduous  work 
that lies ahead of all of us. 

Only  a  year  ago  this  weekend,  my  country, 
Iceland, found itself caught up in the beginning of the 
global  financial  storm.  It  swept  almost  the  entire 
banking  system  in  Iceland  off  the  ground  and  left  my 
country  facing  its  most  severe  economic  setback  in 
living  memory.  Iceland  was  the  first  country  to  fall 
victim  to  the  greed  and  excess  of  financiers  who 
abused rules, followed dubious ethics, hid their money 
in tax havens and introduced an irresponsible system of 
stellar bonuses that incited reckless behaviour and risk-
taking beyond anything that we had ever seen before. 

In Iceland, those  responsible left in their wake a 
scorched earth: bewildered citizens, full of sorrow and 
anger, 
imminent 
bankruptcy and the loss of their houses and jobs. I can 
tell  this  Assembly,  however,  that  Iceland  is  pulling 
through,  not  least  because  of  the  hard  work  of  our 
citizens, but also because we had friends that we could 
lean  on.  Our  Nordic  family  did  not  desert  us.  The 
Baltic countries gave us their full moral support. And I 
would especially like to mention Poland, which, out of 
the generosity of her heart, lent us a hand without ever 
being asked — which we shall never forget. 

The  International  Monetary  Fund  offered  us  a 
stabilization programme that remains broadly on track, 
although  I  have  to  use  this  opportunity  to  voice 
the  possibility  of 
scarred  by 
32 

09-52592 


that 
Iceland’s  grave  dissatisfaction  with 
the  fact 
unrelated  bilateral  disputes  have  prevented 
the 
programme  from  being  fully  implemented.  I  would 
also  like  to  mention  that  our  application  to  join  the 
European Union has been very warmly received by our 
European  neighbours,  for  which  I  am  very  thankful.  I 
can therefore stand before this Assembly and say with 
confidence in my voice that despite the hardships that 
are  behind  us,  the  financial  storms  in  Iceland  are 
beginning  to  break.  That  is  due  to  the  resilience  and 
hard  work  of  the  Icelandic  people,  but  also  because 
you,  the  international  community,  lent  us  some  very 
important support in the hour of our greatest need. 

The  salient  point  is  this.  In  a  globalized  world, 
we have to tackle problems together, globally. We need 
to  fight  together  the  corruption  that  contributed  to  the 
international  recession;  we  must  work  together  to 
ensure  that  the  financial  czars  are  not  allowed  to 
speculate  again  with  people’s  lives;  we  have  to  work 
together to obliterate the tax havens they used and we 
also  need  to  lock  arms  to  create  a  sound  global 
regulatory  framework.  The  world  has  to  fight  the 
recession together, in the spirit of the United Nations, 
but  also  within  the  framework  that  is  created  by  the 
United Nations. 

Earlier in the week I had the privilege and honour 
to  take  part  in  the  high-level  Summit  on  Climate 
Change. It touched my heart when I heard the President 
of  Kiribati  describe  the  plight  of  his  country,  which 
might literally be obliterated from the face of the earth 
without his nation being responsible for it in any way. 
This is due to the drastic climate change that the whole 
world is facing. The President of Kiribati asked for the 
only thing that every human and every nation on earth 
really deserves: he asked for justice. 

I  believe  that  the  best  way  to  give  justice  to  the 
people  of  Kiribati,  to  the  people  of  the  nations  in  the 
South Pacific and elsewhere, and to the generations of 
the  future,  is  that  we  together  put  all  our  effort  into 
reaching  a  decision  on  a  legally  binding  agreement  in 
Copenhagen that will strike at the core of this problem. 
I also believe that the best way to convince the sceptics 
to take that step is to highlight the success stories that 
we  have. We  have  to  show  the  sceptics  that  our  goals 
are realistic and that we can achieve them. 

I  remind  the  Assembly  that  at  the  beginning  of 
the general debate we heard President Lula present the 
success story of Brazil in  terms of the  sustainable use 
A/64/PV.10
of energy resources that they have achieved. Allow me 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  tell  the  success  story  of 
Iceland  in  this  regard.  A  generation  ago,  we  were  as 
dependent  on  imported  fossil  fuel  as  any  other  nation 
in  the  world. Today,  a  generation  later,  80  per  cent  of 
our  energy  needs  are  met  by  renewables.  All  our 
heating,  all  our  electricity  is  100  per  cent  renewable. 
What we did  was to use the treasures that we had not 
realized were under our feet and before our eyes, in the 
form of rivers — we used hydro and geothermal power. 
And I maintain that what we did, others can also do. 

I want especially to focus attention on the vastly 
underestimated  possibilities  of  geothermal  energy. 
Many  of  the  countries  of  the African  Rift Valley  have 
similar potential to that of Iceland. In South-East Asia 
we have the greatest geothermal potential in the world, 
and  in  Latin America  there  is  also  valuable  potential. 
Many  of  these  countries  could,  with  the  geothermal 
expertise that countries such as Iceland have, achieve a 
real  transformation  to  clean  energy;  some  could  even 
become  self-sustaining  in  terms  of  energy.  But,  of 
course,  as  always,  what  we  need  is  finance.  What  we 
really  need  is  a  global  climatic  fund  to  transfer 
renewable  technologies  to  developing  countries  to 
enable  them  to  continue  growing  on  a  sustainable, 
renewable  basis.  The  expertise  we  have  developed  in 
Iceland  is  available,  and  I  would  like  to  add  that, 
despite  our  present  financial  difficulties,  we  have 
ensured that the geothermal training programme of the 
United Nations University in Iceland remains open and 
fully funded, as it has been for the past 25 years. 
Climate  change  is  also  producing  drastic  effects 

in  the Arctic.  Iceland,  the  only  State  that  lies  entirely 
within  the Arctic  region,  has  therefore  designated  the 
Arctic  as  one  of  the  main  areas  of  her  foreign  policy. 
Science tells us, and we can read about it in the news, 
that soon a great part of the Arctic Ocean might be ice-
free  at  the  end  of  summer. This  is  a  development  that 
we have not  experienced in our lifetimes, and it bears 
both  good  and  bad  tidings.  If  it  happens  soon,  it  will 
open  a pathway for transportation between the Pacific 
and  the  Atlantic  via  the  Arctic  Ocean,  with  great 
benefits  to  trade.  For  better  or  worse,  it  will  also 
facilitate  access  to  vitally  important  resources  in  the 
Arctic. 

However, here we must tread very carefully. The 
Arctic also possesses the most fragile ecosystem of the 
world, and it will be a real challenge to strike the right 
balance between the fragile environment and the use of 
09-52592 

33 

to  address 
that 
Climate  changes  are  also 
A/64/PV.10 

its  resources.  In  Iceland,  we  believe  that  it  is  very 
important 
those  challenges  regionally 
through  the  Arctic  Council  and  that  any  territorial 
claims  —  which  we  have  already  seen  emerge  in  the 
news — should to be settled on the basis of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

to  have 
likely 
considerably  negative  effects  on  the  fishing  stocks  of 
the world. Representatives would know better than me 
that  more  than  a  billion  people,  95  per  cent  of  whom 
live  in  developing  countries,  depend  on  fish  as  their 
main  source  of  protein.  As  is  known,  Iceland’s  track 
record in the sustainable management of fishing stocks 
is  second  to  none.  In  that,  as  in  the  geothermal  field, 
we  also  have  technological  expertise  that  we  are 
willing  and  would  like  to  share.  In  that  respect,  I  am 
also  happy  to  say  that  despite  Iceland’s  current 
financial  woes,  we  have  ensured 
the  UNU 
Fisheries  Training  Programme  in  Iceland  is  fully 
funded.  It  is  available  to  Member  States,  and  I  would 
be very happy for them to take us up on that offer. 

During  the  course  of  this  week,  I  have  heard 
many  speakers  criticize  the  United  Nations,  but  I 
would  like  to  use  the  occasion  of  my  first  speech  to 
this Assembly  to  praise  the  work  of  the  Organization. 
In many fields, it has done well in times when the odds 
have  really  been  heavily  stacked  against  it.  I  want 
especially to take two examples from a great many that 
I could relate. 

Iceland and my Government have always strongly 
endorsed  the  rights  of  women.  In  particular,  we  have 
taken to heart Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) 
on the rights of women, of women in the world to take 
part  and  be  active  in  the  peace  processes  in  war-torn 
regions. I wish to remind the Assembly  that next year 
is  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  resolution 
1325  (2000)  and  to  take  this  opportunity  to  urge  the 
United  Nations  to  actively  use  that  anniversary  to 
promote the role of women as peacemakers all over the 
world. I would add that in that context, the unanimous 
decision  of  the  General  Assembly  to  create  a  new 
United  Nations  composite  gender  entity,  to  be  headed 
(resolution 
by  a  special  Under-Secretary-General 
63/311),  was  also  very  helpful.  We 
thank  all 
representatives for those important steps, and I urge the 
Secretary-General  to  move  forward  on  that  matter  as 
expeditiously as possible. 
34 

(Security  Council 

The other cause that I wish to mention as a reason 
for  my  gratitude  is  the  unanimous  decision  of  the 
Security  Council  earlier  this  week  to  call  for  global 
efforts to stop the spread of nuclear arms and to boost 
disarmament 
resolution  1887 
(2009)). I remember when I was a very young editor in 
Reykjavik 
in  1986,  when  President  Reagan  and 
General Secretary Gorbachev descended on the capital 
of  Iceland.  That  historic  meeting  really  signalled  the 
end of the cold war. I will never forget that at that time, 
for the first time in my life, a world free of the nuclear 
nightmare became a workable goal, and that goal must 
be  vigorously  pursued.  Only  15  minutes  ago,  I  heard 
the  Foreign  Minister  of  India  state  that  one  of  the 
greatest goals of the Indian Government was to support 
that  development.  Even  though  Iceland  is  a  little  bit 
smaller than India, I would add its weight to that goal. 
We  really  must  pursue  it  as  strongly  as  we  can,  and  I 
am  grateful  to  the  United  Nations  for  providing  the 
framework for that. 

There have also been other happy events for me, 
as a newcomer to this Assembly, during my first days 
here.  I  found  it  invigorating  to  hear  President  Barack 
Obama boldly describe his vision of a peace agreement 
in the Middle East based on the two-State solution and 
the cessation of all settlements. I believe that his strong 
declaration has created a fresh political momentum that 
we  who  are  assembled  here  and  the  Governments  of 
this world must not allow to fade away. 

To  sum  up,  I  have  talked  about  my  nation’s 
financial  difficulties,  but  I  have  also  said  that  we  are 
pulling through, not least because we have been able to 
seek  the  advice  and  support  of  the  international 
community. Of course, Iceland is a small nation, but I 
have  also  described  how,  even  though  we  are  a  small 
nation, we have much to offer that could contribute to 
the solution of some of the problems that, together, the 
world is facing today. Our expertise in the geothermal 
field,  for  example,  can  be  of  vital  importance  in  the 
face  of  the  climate  crisis,  and  our  experience  in 
sustainable  fishing  can  be  instrumental  in  staving  off 
the  depletion  of  fishing  stocks.  Our  geopolitical 
position  in  the  Arctic  and  our  cohabitation  with  its 
dangers and beauty for more than a thousand years can 
be of great value in striking the right balance between a 
fragile  ecosystem  in  the  Arctic  and  the  use  of  its 
resources. 
It is true that the crisis destroyed financial assets, 

but  Iceland’s  real  assets  —  natural  resources,  human 
09-52592 


capital and social welfare — remain intact. That is why 
I am so confident when I say that although Iceland was 
the first to fall victim to the global financial crisis, it is 
already on the road to recovery. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sergei  Martynov,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Belarus. 
Mr. Martynov (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): This 

General Assembly Hall is, in fact, the situation room of 
the entire world. It seems to me that over the years we 
here  in  this  Hall  have  collectively  understood  and 
known what to do. The main thing now is to agree how 
to do it. We all need an effective tool. 

There  is  hope  that  we  are  already  close  to  a 
common understanding of how and with what tool we 
can achieve our goals. For the international community 
to  emerge  from  a  series  of  multiple  crises  and  to 
overcome  multidimensional  new  threats,  we  must 
achieve  a  policy  of  partnership.  Modern  international 
relations  are  increasingly  being  built  on  the  basis  of 
horizontal  networks  that  include  all  interested  and 
constructive  stakeholders  in  today’s  world  —  States, 
international  organizations,  civil  society  and 
the 
private  sector.  Partnerships  are  a  mechanism  of 
engagement  that  has  no  reasonable  alternative  in  the 
context of a pluralistic and contradictory world. 
One  particular  political  factor  that  raises  hope 

that  that  approach  is  a  realistic  instrument  is  an 
emerging meeting of minds — involving various forces 
on different continents — that see in partnerships a link 
by  which  one  can  extend  the  chain.  By  way  of 
illustration,  I  will  cite  the  example  of  the  call  of 
Belarus,  from  this  rostrum  two  years  ago,  for  systems 
based on opposition and confrontation to become new 
international  ones  based  on 
and 
partnership  (see  A/62/PV.11).  A  year  ago,  when 
opening 
the  General 
Assembly, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon noted, 

“Nations  can  no  longer  protect  their  interests  or 
advance  the  well-being  of  their  peoples  without 
the  partnership  of  other  nations.”  (A/63/PV.5, 
p. 1) 
the  sixty-third  session  of 
engagement 
This  year  the  United  States  declared  its  readiness  to 
“build  partnerships  and  solve  problems  that  no  nation 
can  solve  on  its  own”.  The  European  Union  has  also 
addressed 
the  same 
message of cooperation and partnership. The President 
the  General  Assembly  with 
A/64/PV.10
of  Russia  spoke  from  this  rostrum  about  a  “collective 
agenda  for  unification”  (A/64/PV.4)  dictated  by  life 
itself. 

After a long break it seems that the international 
community is starting to think along the same lines on 
security,  partnership  and  development  and  that  the 
world’s  political  leaders  are  beginning  to  speak  the 
same language — that of common sense. 

An important proof of the principled readiness to 
walk  the  path  of  partnership  is  the  efforts  of  the 
20 largest world economies to combine their resources 
to lead the world out of the global economic crisis. We 
welcome  in  that  connection  recent  meetings  of  some 
regional economic and political groups of States. On a 
less positive note, it should be noted that some aspects 
of the agreements reached remain to be carried out by 
the  parties,  for  example,  the  rejection  and  removal  of 
protectionist  measures  in  international  trade.  It  should 
be  said  that  the  Group  of  Twenty  format  —  let  alone 
the Group of Eight — is too narrow to be considered a 
representative  partnership.  In  this  regard,  engaging 
economic regional groupings of States with significant 
potential,  for  example  in  our  region  —  the  Eurasian 
Economic Community — would make the format more 
representative. 

We  also  believe  there  is  great  potential  for 
dialogue  and  partnership  between  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  (NAM)  and  other  major  centres  of  power, 
as  was  discussed  recently  at  the  recent  summit  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  in  Egypt. After  all,  today  the 
Movement represents a significant international factor. 
Its  members  make 
to 
international  security  and  are  important  actors  on  the 
international socio-economic stage. 
Today I address my colleagues from the European 

Union,  the  United  States,  Russia  and  other  developed 
countries  and  call  upon  them  to  show  leadership  in 
dealing  with  the  unprecedented  global  challenges 
through  close  partnerships  and  coordination  with  all 
members  of  the  international  community,  including 
Belarus.  Members  of  the  international  community, 
especially  the  world’s  power  centres  and  leading 
political  groups,  should  give  practical  effect  to  their 
good intentions by developing global partnerships and 
crisis strategies. 

The  greatest  potential  for  responding  to  global 
threats  and  challenges  is  clearly  here  in  the  United 
Nations.  As  a  founding  member  of  the  Organization, 
contributions 
tangible 
09-52592 

35 
strategy 
after 
the 
tragic 
leading 
role 
to  play  a 
to  overcome 
the  New  Partnership 
A/64/PV.10 

Belarus  is  convinced  of  the  ability  of  the  United 
Nations 
in  generating 
partnerships 
the  most  acute  global 
problems. 

Was it not under the aegis of the United Nations 
that the foundation was laid for the establishment of an 
anti-terrorism  coalition  and  elaboration  of  a  counter-
terrorism 
events  of 
11 September 2001? And by the way, should the United 
Nations not consider proclaiming 11 September as the 
day  of  the  fight  against  terrorism?  We  would  be 
interested in hearing States’ reactions to this idea. Have 
not  the  achievement  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
establishing 
for  Africa’s 
Development  been  acknowledged  worldwide?  The 
Millennium  Development  Goals  were  also  formulated 
in the context of a global partnership for development. 

United Nations capacities have been strengthened 
by  some  of  the  progress  made  in  reforming  the 
Organization. In this regard I note, in particular, a new 
positive  element,  namely,  the  thematic  debates  in  the 
General Assembly. 
Bearing  in  mind  the  experience  and  potential  of 

the  United  Nations,  Belarus  has  proposed 
the 
establishment  of  a  global  thematic  partnership  against 
human  trafficking  and  slavery  in  the  twenty-first 
century. An  informal  mechanism  on  the  topic  initially 
took  shape  at  the  Global  Forum  to  Fight  Human 
Trafficking  in  Vienna  in  February  2008.  It  must  be 
institutionalized 
to  work  effectively  —  I  stress 
institutionalized,  not  bureaucratized  —  through  the 
elaboration and adoption by the General Assembly of a 
global plan of action to combat human trafficking. 
The idea for such a plan garnered wide support in 

the  General 
May  during 
Assembly.  We  have  also  heard  expressions  of  support 
from  high  ranking  participants  in  this  general  debate. 
We welcome the recent decision by the President of the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session  to  appoint 
the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Cape  Verde  and 
Portugal  as  facilitators  of  the  consultations  on  the 
global plan. We call on all our partners and friends to 
engage actively in this work. 

Global  economic  development  is  always  driven 
by  certain  engines,  which  are  replaced  by  new  and 
more effective ones. For example, coal and steel were 
engines  for  the  European  industrial  revolution;  the 
engine for the global economy after the Second World 
the 
thematic  debate 
in 

War  was  oil,  which  was  replaced  by  information 
technologies in the 1990s. The economic engine of the 
past  decade  was  finance.  It  is  absolutely  obvious  that 
the  global  crisis  has  demonstrated  the  need  to  replace 
the  outdated  financial  engine.  What  can  and  should 
replace it? We believe there will be not just one engine 
for the future, but a number of elements that include a 
leading  role  for  clean,  green  technologies.  Given  the 
increasing interdependence of energy and environment 
and the determining role of energy in global survival, it 
cannot be otherwise. 

This year we face an especially momentous task: 
elaboration of new post-Kyoto agreements to deal with 
global  warming  that  include  universal  introduction  of 
new  and  renewable  energy  sources.  This  issue  was 
discussed  in  depth  at  the  thematic  dialogue  of  the 
General Assembly held in June 2009. That was a good 
beginning,  yet  we  must  move  decisively  forward. The 
increasing  topicality  of  the  energy  and  environment 
agenda requires creation of a specific partnership — a 
global mechanism to improve the access of developing 
countries and countries with economies in transition to 
new and renewable energy sources. 

This  issue  must  not  be  shelved.  We  need  to  lay 
the  foundations  for  a  qualitative  breakthrough  at  this 
session of the General Assembly. Belarus will initiate a 
comprehensive study of this issue with the involvement 
of  leading  international  experts  and  include  in  its 
results conclusions and recommendations for the future 
report of the Secretary-General. We believe that, given 
current  conditions,  the  strengthening  of  the  economic 
potential and political role of middle-income countries 
could  be  yet  another  motor  of  economic  and  social 
progress. 

Experience  has  clearly  shown  that  resources  and 
capacities  of  a  narrow  circle  of  traditional  world 
leaders  are  insufficient  for  overcoming  the  crisis. The 
greatest potential for growth rests with middle-income 
countries. To a certain extent, one could draw a parallel 
here with the key role played by the middle class in the 
stable economic and political development of States. It 
is no coincidence that the majority of United States and 
European companies are turning their eyes to the Asian 
and other developing world markets. 

Mindful  of  such  importance,  let  alone  the  mere 
numerical  strength  of  this  group  of  countries,  which 
includes  more  than  100  States,  the  United  Nations 
system must take an active role. With this idea in mind 
09-52592 
36 

and 
fewer 
crises 
larger 


last year, Belarus, together with its partners, sponsored 
the  adoption  by  the  General Assembly  of  a  resolution 
on  cooperation  for  development  with  middle-income 
countries. 

This year, for the first time within these walls, a 
substantive  discussion  was  held  on  how  to  make  the 
best  use  of  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  system 
to  assist  such  countries  in  addressing  their  specific 
social  and  economic  problems,  which  are  particularly 
important for sustainable global development. 
We  hope  that  the  work  of  the  General Assembly 

on  that  topic  will  not  be  seen  simply  in  terms  of 
competition  for  the  scarce  resources  of  the  donor 
community  and  the  United  Nations.  That  is  not  the 
point.  The 
the  number  of  economically 
prosperous  States  in  the  world,  the  stronger  and  more 
predictable  the  world  economy  will  be.  There  will  be 
increased  predictability 
and 
catastrophes.  There  will  be  more  opportunities  for 
economic  growth  in  the  poorer  countries  and  an 
increase  in  international  assistance  will  be  generated. 
In the long run, everyone will be a winner. 
I cannot but turn to the subject of Kyoto and post-

Kyoto,  which  sets  the  tone  for  the  current  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  The  possible  outcome  of  the 
Copenhagen  meeting  is,  unfortunately,  not  quite  clear. 
All  of  us,  big,  medium-size  and  small  States,  have  to 
do  our  utmost  to  ensure  its  success.  But  the  perfect 
does not have to be the enemy of the good. 

Belarus  is  the  only  State  in  the  world  that,  for 
several  years,  has  been  trying  to  achieve  what  may 
seem, at first glance, to be a paradoxical goal. That is, 
to  take  on  significant  commitments  to  reduce  harmful 
emissions. The commitments we have taken happen to 
be  more  significant  than  many  of  our  neighbours,  and 
even than those of some European Union countries. 

Since  we  are  all  partners  here,  I  will  put  it  in  a 
blunt  and  straightforward  way.  We  do  not  understand 
why many States, including powerful groups of States, 
which  are,  by  the  way,  leading  the  way  in  post-Kyoto 
advocacy,  do  not  allow  us  to  assume  legally  binding 
and significant Kyoto commitments. I address this call 
to partners and colleagues. If we want to strengthen the 
Kyoto  paradigm,  let  us  not  undermine  it.  I  sincerely 
hope that the call of Belarus for speedy ratification of 
our accession to Kyoto will be heeded. 
A/64/PV.10
that  has  united 

In a year’s time, here in New York, there will be 
the  2010  United  Nations  Summit.  That  is  the  only 
forum 
the  heads  of  State  and 
Government of the G-8, the G-20, the European Union, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States  and  others.  Belarus  proposes 
considering 
the  2010  Summit  as  a  summit  of 
partnerships,  the venue for putting  forward  and acting 
upon the ideas of global partnerships. 

We  support  the  intention  of  the  President  of  the 
current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  to  start 
preparations  for  the  Summit  well  in  advance.  At  the 
Summit itself, we propose the adoption, at the level of 
heads  of  State  and  Government,  of  a  mechanism,  an 
algorithm or a plan of close cooperation on the part of 
Member  States  for  the  years  to  come  on  how  to 
overcome  global  challenges.  And  in  the  next  few 
months,  delegations  could  make  suggestions  as  to  the 
substance  of  such  a  document.  Negotiations  on  the 
document could start in January 2010. 

Sixty-five  years  after  the  signing  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  we  can  and  should  make  an 
honourable attempt to return to the roots of the United 
Nations by restoring the original meaning of the word 
“united”, which forms part of our name. It all depends 
on us. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Seyoum  Mesfin,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Democratic Republic 
of Ethiopia. 
Mr.  Mesfin  (Ethiopia):  It  is  indeed  a  great 

pleasure for me to extend my warmest congratulations 
to  Mr.  Ali  Treki  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. 

Permit me also to express my appreciation to the 
outgoing  President  for  his  effective  leadership  during 
the  course  of  the  previous  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

We are grateful to our Secretary-General, Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon, for the tireless efforts that he exerts to ensure 
that  the  United  Nations  fulfils  its  purpose  during  this 
complex and  crucial period in our collective history. I 
wish  to  thank  him,  in  particular,  for  the  initiative  he 
took to convene the special Summit on Climate Change 
this past week. 

managed 
It  has  now  been  18  years  since  we,  Ethiopians, 
remove  a  military  dictatorship  of 
to 
09-52592 

37 

A/64/PV.10 

unprecedented  cruelty.  The  consequences  of  lack  of 
democracy within the context of great diversity are all 
too  apparent.  Ethiopia’s  diversity  leaves  no  room  for 
autocracy,  dictatorship,  military  —  of  whatever 
variety — cannot mix with the sociological make-up of 
the  country.  That  was  the  explanation  why  Ethiopia 
was at the edge of the cliff during the last years of the 
military Government. 

The  last  18  years  have  not  been  easy  for 
Ethiopians.  We  had  to  begin  again  in  every  aspect  of 
our  lives,  without  exception.  There  was  hardly  any 
economic  development  throughout  the  entire  17  years 
of  military  dictatorship.  Even  prior  to  military  rule, 
Ethiopia faced not just the lack of democracy, but also 
a stagnant economy and lack of development. 

However, the challenges of the last 18 years have 
not  been  limited  to  the  weight  of  the  past,  to  our 
legacy,  in  both  the  political  and  economic  areas.  We 
also had to face other challenges which have not been 
inconsequential in terms of affecting the tempo of our 
democratization  and  development.  These  challenges, 
however  daunting  they  are,  do  not  undermine  our 
achievements,  over  the  last  18  years,  to  democratize 
our  country  and  lay  the  basis  for  rapid  economic 
development. 

In  both  areas,  the  historic  trajectory  of  the 
country  has  shifted.  No  matter  what  detractors  might 
say, Ethiopia is now a country with a future and great 
hope. During the entire long history of the country, we 
have  never  witnessed  two-digit  economic  growth,  yet 
we  are  slated  to  register  that  rate  of  growth  this  year. 
That  would  constitute  our  sixth  consecutive  year  of 
such  a  level  of  achievement,  and  it  has  been  attained 
despite  pressures  coming  from  the  global  economic 
crisis. 

In  democratic  governance,  the  new  Ethiopia  has 
irrevocably split from the old Ethiopia in terms of both 
individual  and  group  rights.  With  respect  to  the  latter 
category  of  rights,  Ethiopia,  as  has  so  emphatically 
been asserted in our Constitution, is no longer a prison 
of  nations  and  nationalities.  In  terms  of  respect  for 
individual  political  and  human  rights,  if  hard  facts  — 
and  not  an  extraneous  political  agenda  —  are  the 
measure, Ethiopia is now, all things considered, not at 
the  tail  end  of  countries,  but  in  the  vanguard,  for  its 
commitment to this value as well as in practice. 
However,  over  the  last  18  years  we  have  had 

many  challenges  whose  negative  effects  cannot  be 
overlooked. I would like to say a few words about each 
of  the  challenges  that  we  have  had,  and  continue,  to 
face. 

The  first  is  in  the  area  of  peace  and  security. 
Obviously, Ethiopia is part of the Horn of Africa. As a 
neighbour  sharing  a  longer  border  with  Somalia  than 
any  other  country  and  with  a  large  population  of 
Ethiopian Somalis, we have been affected by what goes 
on  in  that  sisterly  country;  indeed,  it  would  be  a 
miracle if that were not the case.  
Now,  speaking  of  Somalia,  it  is  time  that  we 

abandon  the  fiction  that  the  war  there  is  just  among 
Somalis. It is not. Somalia is being hijacked by foreign 
fighters  who  uninhibitedly  proclaim  that  their  agenda 
has nothing to do with Somalia. Theirs is an ambition 
that goes well beyond Somalia, and they say that loud 
and  clear.  Those  who  advise  them  not  to  be  so  blunt 
have not succeeded. 
The Somali crisis has been with us as long as the 

new  Ethiopian  Government  has  been  around.  It  is  not 
just that we lost a partner because of the absence of a 
functioning  Government  in  Mogadishu.  We  have  also 
been  directly  affected  by  the  crisis  —  a  crisis,  let  us 
not  forget,  that  is  assisted  and  abetted  by  others, 
including  by  States  whose  authorities  move  with  ease 
in and rub shoulders with members of civilized circles. 
It  is  not  only  rogue  States,  but  also  States  that  are 
ostensibly  decent  that  continue  to  fuel  extremism  in 
Somalia and to fund its activities. 

Let  us  call  a  spade  a  spade.  Today  in  Somalia, 
there  is  greater  coordination  and  cooperation  among 
those who assist the extremists than among those who 
profess 
the  Transitional  Federal 
Government  (TFG)  of  Somalia. The  consequences  are 
obvious.  As  the  latest  horrific  suicide  attack  on  the 
African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia  has  shown,  those 
destroying  Somalia  are  being  emboldened  and  their 
supporters rewarded. 
Conversely,  the TFG  authorities  continue  to  lose 

confidence, as pledged support continues to dwindle in 
practice.  The  international  community  is  being  stingy 
even  with  the  symbolic  steps  of  showing  resolve 
against  extremists  and  spoilers 
in  Somalia.  The 
countries  of 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on 
Development  (IGAD)  spoke  with  one  voice  and 
appealed  to  the  United  Nations  Security  Council. 
African  heads  of  State  and  Government  endorsed 
unanimously the IGAD call for the Security Council to 
support 
for 
the 
38 

09-52592 
the  effective 
implementation  of 


stand up and be counted in support of the fight against 
extremism  in  Somalia.  However,  it  appears  that  the 
Council does not consider Somalia to be a priority. 

In  the  meantime,  those  supporting  extremism 
have  made  Somalia  a  priority.  It  is  critical  that  the 
international  community wake up before the hijacking 
of  Somalia  by  extremism  is  fully  consummated.  It  is 
therefore unlikely that the Horn of Africa will soon rid 
itself  of  the  crisis  in  Somalia,  and  there  will  be 
consequences  for  the  work  we  have  to  do  in  our 
country in terms of development, fighting poverty and 
speeding up the process of democratization. 
That is why the peace process in the Sudan, and 

in  particular 
the 
Comprehensive Peace Agreement, is so critical for us. 
The Horn of Africa cannot afford the consequences of 
failure  in  the  Sudan  peace  process. We  are  very  close 
to both parties in the Sudan, and that is an asset that we 
want to use wisely. 

It would be naïve to believe that the conditions of 
peace and stability in our region have no influence over 
our  domestic  agenda.  They  do.  Open  societies  are 
manifestly  vulnerable 
the  kind  of  situation 
prevailing in the Horn of Africa. The mix of extremist 
forces and rogue States is not conducive to the growth 
of democracy in close proximity. 
We have other challenges as well. One has to do 

with  climate  change.  It  is  gratifying  to  us  Ethiopians 
that this challenge is drawing the attention of the world 
more 
to  reiterate  our 
appreciation  of  the  effort  deployed  by  the  Secretary-
General  in  this  regard.  We  look  forward  to  the 
international  community’s  taking  resolute  action  in 
Copenhagen  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of  common 
but differentiated responsibilities. 

We  in  Ethiopia  have  been  affected  by  climate 
change  in  the  most  difficult  and  complex  ways.  The 
effect  on  our  agriculture  and  on  our  plan  for  food 
security  has  been  enormous.  It  is  no  longer  every 
decade  or  so  that  we  face  drought,  but  rather  every 
three to four years. If not drought, then we face floods. 
Either  way,  the  consequences  have  been  enormously 
damaging to our plan to ensure food security. 

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all  those 
partners  who  have  stood  with  us  to  address  and 
mitigate  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change  on  our 
agricultural  activities.  I  wish  to  thank  in  particular 
than  ever  before.  I  wish 
to 
A/64/PV.10
and 
experimentation 
Secretary  of  State  Hillary  Clinton  for  organizing  a 
meeting  on  partnering  for  food  security  on  this  very 
day. 

As for the Copenhagen climate change summit, it 
is  indeed  gratifying  that  we  in Africa  have  decided  to 
be innovative with respect to our representation and in 
connection  with  our  approach  to  negotiation.  Africa 
has  decided  to  be  represented  by  a  single  team  of 
delegates  which  will  negotiate  on  the  basis  of  a 
common African position. It is an honour for Ethiopia, 
in the person of its Prime Minister, to lead the African 
negotiating team. We expect much from Copenhagen. 

We  have  had  yet  another  challenge  to  our 
development and to the effort we have been making to 
deepen the progress of democratization in our country 
over  the  past  18  years.  This  has  to  do  with  the  less-
than-conducive international economic — and, I might 
add, political — environment within which we have to 
operate. What we have faced on both scores, economic 
and political, has been a lack of tolerance for diversity, 
policy-space 
independent 
thinking.  Unjustified  conditionalities  have  abounded, 
both for economic and political reasons — on the one 
hand  because  of  strategies  derived  from  market 
fundamentalism  and  on  the  other  because  we  dared 
defend  ourselves  against  unjustified  aggression. 
Ethiopia’s  first  real  attempt  at  economic  development 
coincided  with  the  period  when  market  orthodoxy 
made  the  role  of  the  State  anathema.  Perhaps  times 
have changed. 

We  could  have  achieved  more  over  the  past 
18 years,  but  what  we  have  indeed  achieved  in  the 
democratization  of  our  society  and  in  economic  and 
social  development  is  not  insignificant.  In  fact,  as  I 
have  already  stated,  what  we  have  witnessed  in 
Ethiopia over the past decade and a half is no less than 
a  change 
the  country’s 
development.  Moreover,  we  have  also  continued  to 
discharge  our  multilateral  responsibilities  in  our  own 
subregion, on our continent as members of the African 
Union, and in the world beyond in connection with our 
obligations to the United Nations. 

In  our  own  region,  along  with  other  members  of 
the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development,  we 
have done whatever is necessary and within the limits 
of  our  capacity  to  help  Somalia  achieve  peace  and  to 
shield it from the onslaught of extremist forces. As part 
of  the  African  Union,  we  continue  to  discharge  our 
trajectory  of 
in 
the 
09-52592 

39 

the 
to 
to  maintain 
A/64/PV.10 

responsibilities 
pan-Africanist 
tradition, to contribute to the peace and security of the 
continent,  and  to  accelerate  the  integration  process  of 
the continent brick by brick. 

The United Nations is an Organization which we 
cannot live without. We benefit from the Organization 
in more ways than one. We also take our obligation to 
it very seriously. It is in that spirit that we continue to 
strengthen  our  contribution  to  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping efforts. In this we shall continue without 
fail.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  I  wish  to  conclude  by 
reiterating  Ethiopia’s  commitment 
the  United 
Nations and by affirming our commitment to all efforts 
at  reforming  the  Organization,  including  the  Security 
Council. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Cristian  Diaconescu, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Romania. 
Mr. Diaconescu (Romania) (spoke in French): At 

the  outset,  I  would  like  to  address  to  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki  my  warmest  congratulations  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session.  I  wish  him  every  success  in 
meeting this challenge. 

My country is proud of its historic commitment to 
tolerance,  fostering  rapprochement  and  confidence-
building  in  international  debates.  Romania  has  always 
demonstrated its resolve to enhance multilateralism, be 
it  by  bringing  parties  in  conflict  together,  overcoming 
artificial boundaries or promoting cooperation between 
developed and developing countries. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  an 
important event for Central and Eastern Europe, which 
we are commemorating this year. It has been 20 years 
since  the  autumn  of  change  that  reshaped  Europe  and 
opened the way to historic opportunities for the former 
Eastern bloc. Two decades have passed since the fall of 
the iron curtain, and we now recognize that the power 
for  change  that  democracy  represents  is  one  of  the 
most  potent  European  values.  It  remains  the  hope  of 
millions  of  young  people  throughout  the  world  who 
defend  freedom  of  expression,  multi-party  systems, 
respect for diversity and freedom of the press. We must 
never  forget  our  history.  After 
two  decades  of 
democratic  change,  we  must  never  forget  where  we 
started.  That  is  what  now  strengthens  the  values  that 
are  shared  throughout  Europe  and  that  allow  us  better 
to  understand  democracy’s  transformational  sweep 
throughout the world. 

We  now  face  the  most  important  challenges 
humanity  has  ever  faced.  The  negative  impact  of 
climate change has only been exacerbated by the global 
financial  and  economic  crisis,  the  food  crisis,  the  rise 
in  energy  prices  and  pandemics.  The  world 
is 
experiencing  increasingly  tense  situations  that  make 
our  efforts  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the  new  century 
even more sensitive. We have now to address terrorism, 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
prolonged  conflicts,  failed  States,  food  and  energy 
insecurity,  migration,  poverty  and  the  violation  of 
human rights. 

I  hope  that,  in  the  face  of  not  just  of  one  but  of 
many  challenges,  Member  States  will  make 
this 
situation an opportunity for visionary change. Through 
the  implementation  of  solutions  to  the  economic  and 
financial crisis and responses to the negative effects of 
climate  change,  we  can  aspire  to  create  greener 
economies and jobs, societies more responsible in their 
use  of  energy,  improved  infrastructure,  and  financial 
instruments strong enough to support such a transition. 
(spoke in English) 

I would like to refer to a key topic on the United 
Nations  agenda:  climate  change.  I  do  not  intend  to 
reiterate all its negative effects or the danger it poses to 
the  very  existence  of  humankind.  Members  are  well 
aware of all of them, and we have been speaking about 
them  extensively  over  this  past  week.  However,  I  do 
want  to  stress  the  principles  that  underpin  Romania’s 
approach to this issue and that we would like to invite 
Members to consider as well. 

Nature  is  part  of  our  daily  life.  If  we  respect 
nature, we can take long-term benefits from it, making 
us  better  prepared  to  design  and  build  our  future. 
Respect  is  essential.  We  are  all  affected  by  climate 
change.  There  is  no  boundary  to  protect  a  certain 
country  or  a  certain  area.  It  is  not  as  if  something 
happening  in  the  Pacific  is  not  also  the  business  of 
somebody living in a developed European capital. That 
means  that  we  all  have  a  common  responsibility 
towards  others. We  must  be  aware  that  everything  we 
do  and  any  decision  we  take  has  an  impact  on  others. 
That is why it is so important to base our decisions on 
such  values  as  human 
solidarity  and 
responsibility. 
respect, 
40 

09-52592 
We  commend 



the  Secretary-General  for  his 
dedication and commitment in dealing with this issue. 
By  bringing  us  together  as  world  leaders  seeking 
consensus on what is to be done about climate change, 
he  has  rallied  us  to  work  towards  the  Conference  in 
Copenhagen. We expect an ambitious agreement to be 
reached in Copenhagen. 

Another challenge that affects us all is that of the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis. Again,  solutions 
must  be  to  the  benefit  of  all.  We  need  to  join  forces 
rapidly  to  resume  economic  growth  and  development, 
reform financial instruments and preserve international 
stability.  The  world  financial  system  no  longer  meets 
the  needs  and  realities  of  our  time.  The  institutions 
monitoring  that  system  have  to  be  reformed. We  need 
to  create  an  early  prevention  and  early  warning 
mechanism,  and 
the  United  Nations  should  be 
entrusted  with  more  resources  and  prerogatives  as  the 
main  coordinator  for  the  delivery  of  global  public 
goods.  Our  task  will  be  to  ensure  discipline  and 
predictability  within  the  system,  while  preserving  the 
freedom of the market as the main engine of economic 
growth.  We  welcome  in  this  respect  the  commitments 
undertaken  at  the  summit  of  the  Group  of  Eight  to 
discourage protectionism and ensure the conclusion of 
the Doha negotiations by 2010. 

We  need  a  twenty-first  century  multilateralism 
that  is  both  innovative  and  pragmatic.  Romania  is 
devoted 
its 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  in  ever  more 
creative  and  pragmatic  ways.  To  illustrate  Romania’s 
interests  and  its  more  concrete  contributions  to  the 
United Nations system, I am proud to point to just two 
major  projects  that  came  to  fruition  this  year.  The 
opening  of  the  first  emergency  transit  centre  for 
refugees in Timişoara, the first such body in the world, 
was the result of excellent cooperation with the United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration.  The  second 
project  is  the  signing,  here  in  New  York,  of  a 
memorandum 
the 
Government  of  Romania  and  the  United  Nations 
regarding 
training  of  United  Nations  close 
protection  personnel  within  the  Centre  for  Excellence 
of  the  Romanian  Protection  and  Guard  Service,  to  be 
opened soon in Bucharest. 

In  all  our  endeavours  to  identify  a  stronger 
multilateral approach to guaranteeing a safer and more 
sustainable system, we should all consider at least four 
that  cause  and  seeks 
understanding 
to  expand 
between 
the 
of 
to 
A/64/PV.10
to 
as 
so 
crisis 
increasing 
essential  elements.  The  first  is  managing  the  current 
sustainable 
economic 
secure 
development  and  growth.  The  second 
is  staying 
focused on the demanding and interconnected issues of 
climate  change,  poverty,  food  security,  health,  energy, 
migration  and  the  lack  of  democracy  in  some  parts  of 
the  world,  while  maintaining 
international  peace, 
security  and  stability.  The  third  element  concerns  the 
consolidation of international law. The fourth concerns 
strengthening  and 
the  efficiency  of 
international institutions. 

The United Nations and its bodies must be at the 
centre  of  this  renewed  multilateralism  with  what  the 
Organization does best — promoting development and 
security while advancing democracy, human rights, the 
rule of law and social development. At the Millennium 
Summit, we all pledged to boost the role of this unique 
and  indispensable  Organization.  Indeed,  in  recent 
years,  the  United  Nations  has  undergone  a  wide-
ranging process of realignment and reform. However, it 
is  also  very  evident  that  reform  of  some  of  the  most 
important  United  Nations  bodies  is  still  slow  and 
inconsistent.  I  hope  that,  in  the  months  and  years  to 
come we will see more progress in this respect. 

Romania  continues  to  share  the  view  that  the 
overarching  goal  of  reforming  the  Security  Council 
should be to achieve a more effective, transparent and 
representative body,  and will join in  any effort to that 
end.  Since 
in 
February,  the  reform  process  has  shifted  into  a  higher 
gear, allowing us to pursue the mandate set forth at the 
2005 World Summit. 

Another  significant  decision  contained  in  the 
2005 Outcome Document (resolution 60/1) concerns a 
crucial  issue:  the  responsibility  to  protect.  A  few 
months  ago, 
the  General  Assembly  held  a  very 
constructive debate on how to implement this concept. 
The  responsibility  to  protect  is  one  of  the  most 
important  conceptual  evolutions 
the  United 
Nations.  This  path  should  be  thoroughly  explored  by 
Member  States,  as  it  holds  tremendous  preventive 
potential. 

Solutions  to  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century should also make more use of efficient regional 
mechanisms.  I  am  referring  to  organizations  such  as 
the African Union, the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations, 
the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 
the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council, 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
the 
for 
09-52592 

41 

the  capacity 
to  act.  This 
A/64/PV.10 

and NATO, which are either cooperative bodies or ones 
directed towards regional integration. 

The  potential  of  smaller,  knowledgeable  groups 
of States to address the problems of a region is high. If 
supported, such regional groups can more easily muster 
political  will  and 
is 
particularly  true  in  situations  related  to  peace  and 
security,  where  swift  and  decisive  action  is  often 
required. 

While serving its mandate in the Security Council 
in  2005,  Romania  promoted  the  Council’s  resolution 
1631  (2005),  which  sought  to  strengthen  cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
in maintaining peace and security. Since then, a lot has 
been  done  in  this  respect,  but  the  potential  for  action 
under  Chapter  VIII  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  is 
still to be fully unleashed. 

Unfortunately,  there  are  still  crises  around  the 
globe that cannot be resolved by regional means alone. 
We  continue  to  face  protracted  regional  security 
challenges,  such  as  those  in  the  Middle  East  and 
various parts of Africa, as well as the South Caucasus 
and  the  Black  Sea  region.  Reconstruction  efforts  in 
Afghanistan  are  turning  out  to  be  more  complex  and 
difficult  than  we  all  initially  thought.  Such  situations 
require  our  undivided  attention  and  comprehensive 
efforts. 
My  country  is  investing  a  great  deal  in  the 

than 
stability  and  security  of 
1,500 Romanian 
in  United  Nations-
mandated  and  -authorized  missions  in  all  areas  of  the 
globe,  from  Kosovo  to Afghanistan,  from  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  to  the  Sudan.  In  recent  years,  Romania 
has been honoured to be able to participate, along with 
its  allies  and  partners, 
the  stabilization  and 
reconstruction  of  Iraq. At  the  end  of  June,  Romanian 
troops concluded their mission there, leaving Iraq with 
the satisfaction of an accomplished mandate. The Iraqi 
security  framework  has  improved  significantly.  The 
same  could  be  done  in  Afghanistan.  By  keeping  its 
commitment  steady  and  deepening  it  when  needed,  it 
will  be  possible  for  the  international  community  to 
succeed in consolidating a sovereign Afghan nation. 

Among the perils that threaten us most, terrorism 
and  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
remain  of  major  concern.  Nuclear  proliferation  is  of 
particular concern, given the increasing accessibility of 
technology  capable  of  large-scale  destruction.  In  this 
the  world.  More 
troops  serve 
in 
to 
its 
in 
Treaty, 
respect 
ratification  of 
Nuclear-Test-Ban 
those  Member  States 
context,  we  urge 
that  are 
considering  nuclear  programmes  to  fully  heed  the 
concerns of the world community and to abide strictly 
by international norms and regulations. 

Lately,  there  have  been  encouraging  signs  in  the 
realm  of  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation. 
We  highly  appreciate  the  recent  agreement  of  the 
Presidents  of  the  United  States  and  the  Russian 
Federation  for  nuclear  arsenal  cuts,  confirming  the 
commitments undertaken by those two States. As there 
have  also  been  positive  indications  from  the  United 
States  with 
the 
Comprehensive 
the 
international  community  can  now  feel  confident  that 
the  biggest  nuclear  Powers  are  determined  to  advance 
the nuclear disarmament process. 
(spoke in French) 

It has been said that violence begets violence, but 
to  ignore  or  not  take  into  account  the  basic  principles 
of human rights would be to do the same. In the same 
way,  intolerance  fuels  further  intolerance.  We  can 
debate  historical  themes,  but  we  cannot  deny  history 
altogether. The tragedies, crimes against humanity and 
genocides are sins of the past, but they should also be 
lessons for the present and the future. 

We  have  already  demonstrated  our  willingness 
and  capacity  to  accept  our  past  in  a  critical  way. 
Romania  reiterates 
to  combating 
extremism,  xenophobia  and  all  forms  of  racism  and 
discrimination. At  the  same  time,  my  country  actively 
promotes  diversity  and  multiculturalism,  as  well  as 
intercultural  and 
the 
framework  of  the  International  Organization  of  la 
Francophonie and the Alliance of Civilizations. 

Unfortunately,  democracy  is  too  often  a  slippery 
term  in  the  diplomatic  framework  of  the  United 
Nations.  But  we  cannot  have  a  stable  world  and  meet 
the  challenges  that  face  us  without  promoting  certain 
values  —  freedom,  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect  for  human  rights  —  that  have  been  of  proven 
benefit to humanity. We must continue to help the men, 
women and children of the world to choose their future 
freely, enjoy decent employment and trust the authority 
of law and justice. 

Democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  constitute  the 
immune  system  of  human  society.  Just  as  it  is 
impossible  to  fight  off  disease  when  the  immune 
interreligious  dialogue 
its  commitment 
42 

09-52592 
it 
is 
is  weak,  poverty  spreads 


system 
in  a  degraded 
environment. Whether it is a matter of creating equality 
in the areas of gender and health, achieving education 
for all or ensuring a clean environment, it is not merely 
a  matter  of  funding, 
just  as  much  about 
establishing  the  basic  principles  of  human  rights  and 
democracy. 

I  should  like  to  conclude  by  expressing  my 
conviction  that  there  is  no  challenge  too  great  for  our 
countries as long as we remain united. No threat is too 
powerful to destroy us if we succeed in mobilizing our 
wisdom and our capabilities. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call on His Royal Highness Prince Mohamed Bolkiah, 
Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  Brunei 
Darussalam. 
Prince  Bolkiah  (Brunei  Darussalam):  I  would 

like  to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election,  as 
well  as  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the  outgoing 
President  for  his  contributions  over  the  past  year.  I 
would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General,  his 
staff and the agencies of the United Nations for doing 
such  a  fine  job  all  over  the  world  in  very  difficult 
situations. It is very much appreciated. 

I like the theme for this year’s debate, but it is a 
very  long  one.  So  I  would  like  to  say  a  few  things 
about the first two words, namely, effective responses. 
I think that they are the most important ones. There is 
no  problem  with  the  second  word.  We  all  know  what 
responses  are,  because  we  make  them  every  day.  But 
“effective”  is  a  far  more  difficult  word,  and  that  is 
because none of us here actually decides what it means. 
It  is  not  up  to  us  to  judge  whether  our  work  is 
successful or not. That is up to the next generation. In 
other  words,  it  is  our  children  and  grandchildren  who 
are going to look back at the past and see whether we 
did a good job. That is the way it has always been. 

That  is  what  many  of  us  in  Brunei  Darussalam 
have  been  doing  recently,  because  this  year  is  an 
important  anniversary  for  us.  It  is  now  25  years  since 
we joined the Organization. Those of us who were here 
at  that  time  remember  it  very  well.  We  remember 
exactly why we joined. It was a dangerous period, and 
a small country like ours did not want to be left on its 
own.  We  wanted  to  be  part  of  a  larger  community,  a 
world  community.  But  there  was  a  real  problem.  The 
cold war was on and nearly everyone was divided into 
A/64/PV.10
The  Secretary-General  and  his 
two  camps.  That  meant  that  we  had  to  choose  sides. 
That did not help us very much at all. 

Mr. Hackett  (Barbados), Vice-President,  took the 
Chair. 

Looking  at  the  United  Nations  today,  I  would 
judge  its  response  to  the  past  25  years  as  very 
effective. Things are much better than they were back 
then. Certainly, many of the old problems may still be 
with  us,  such  as  terrorism,  poverty,  disease,  war  and 
the  60-year  struggle  by  the  Palestinian  people  for 
justice,  hope  and  dignity.  But  we  also  have  a  lot  of 
good  things  going  for  us  nowadays.  We  have  much 
more  knowledge.  Communication  is  better  than  ever 
before. The best thing of all is that we are not divided 
into  two  camps.  As  a  result,  we  have  far  more 
opportunities. 

When  our  next  generation  looks  back  at  us  and 
judges us, I think that the question they will be asking 
will  be:  What  did  we  do  with  those  opportunities?  In 
other  words,  were  our  responses  effective  ones? 
Getting  back  to  where  we  are  now,  I  think  we  have 
opportunities to make a great response. 
staff  have 

important 
and 
development.  If  we  accept  them  and  do  something 
about them, we can take the biggest opportunity of all: 
we  can  change  the  whole  direction  of  world  affairs. 
What  is  more,  I  think  that  this  is  exactly  what  people 
want us to do. 

There  is  a  lot  of  support  for  change  outside  this 
building. No one really wants to carry on being split up 
into  developed  or  developing  nations  any  more,  or  as 
first, second or third worlds. They want us to be in one 
world, in one situation, sharing its problems and being 
part of any solution. 

That is the message many of us got after the first 
Group of 20 (G-20) meeting, back in April of this year. 
It seemed to give us a real choice — either to keep on 
doing things the way we have always done since 1946 
or to  change  directions  and all work together, big and 
small,  regardless  of  background,  culture  or  faith,  and 
find a new way into the twenty-first century. 

This  week’s  G-20  meeting  in  Pittsburgh  sent  out 
the same message, and it was good to hear. It is only a 
soft message and a small change. The big decisions are 
still being made for us, and not with us. But at least it 
is a start. It is the kind of change we want to see, and 
proposals 
for 
reform, 
change 
09-52592 

43 
A/64/PV.10 

there  is  nothing  to  stop  us  from  taking  it  a  long  way 
further. After all, it is not like 25 years ago. We have a 
real  choice  and  no  one  is  forcing  us  to  take  sides.  So 
for the moment it is up to us. The key words, however, 
are “for the moment”. 

The  G-20  are  not  the  only  ones  sending  us 
messages.  There  are  other  very  important  ones.  They 
are  coming  from  the  environment,  the  climate,  the 
global economy and energy and food supplies, and they 
all add up to a serious warning. They are telling us that 
very  soon  the  choice  will  not  be  ours  to  make.  Any 
changes will be made by forces that we cannot control. 
That  means  any  response  may  be  largely  ineffective. 
When  the  next  generation  looks  back  at  us,  they  may 
not just be judging us. They could even be condemning 
us. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Aurelia  Frick,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs,  Minister  for  Justice  and  Minister  for  Cultural 
Affairs of Liechtenstein. 
Ms. Frick (Liechtenstein): It is a great honour for 

me  to  address  the  General  Assembly,  a  body  that 
represents  the  heart  of  multilateral  diplomacy,  for  the 
first  time  tonight.  As  such,  it  is  called  to  fulfil  the 
expectations  and  hopes  of  peoples  and  individuals 
around the world — hopes for peace, hopes for an end 
to poverty and suffering and hopes to see human rights 
respected. 

Since  my  arrival  in  New  York  a  couple  of  days 
ago,  I  have  been  encouraged  by  the  multiple  calls  for 
international cooperation and the renewed commitment 
to multilateralism. For Liechtenstein, the United Nations 
has  always  been  the  epitome  of  multilateralism.  We 
believe that genuine multilateralism is needed today in 
order to address the challenges before us. 

to be finally about to enter a new era. 

On climate change, the United Nations is working 
hard  to  seal  the  deal.  Last  Tuesday,  an  unprecedented 
number  of  heads  of  State  or  Government  gathered  in 
this Hall to discuss climate change threats. We applaud 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  this  excellent 
initiative.  The  Liechtenstein  delegation 
that 
meeting with the belief that a breakthrough is possible 
because everybody seems to understand the gravity of 
the situation. We are approaching Copenhagen with the 
firm  conviction  that  we  must  listen  to  the  voices  of 
On  disarmament  and  non-proliferation,  we  seem 
left 

those  who  are  most  at  risk  —  those  whose  very 
survival is at stake. What is now required from us is a 
leap of faith — no half-hearted compromises, no more 
postponing, and no more talk about concessions either. 
Copenhagen is not about giving up something — other 
than  our  self-destructive  habits.  It  is  about  investing 
into the future of our planet. 

The  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  has 
rippled through our countries and disrupted the lives of 
people  worldwide.  It  has  also  deeply  affected  our 
progress  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  While  much  attention  has  been 
paid and much money has been mobilized to keep the 
world economy afloat, another crisis has emerged in its 
wake.  It  is  a  crisis  of  global  governance,  and  it  may 
have lasting repercussions. 

We  acknowledge  that  there  are  times  when 
concerted action by groups such as the Group of Eight 
and  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  can  bring  us  closer  to 
solutions  for  everyone.  But  we  cannot  ignore  the  gap 
between those who are taking decisions and the rest of 
us. Good and effective solutions require the support of 
those  who  are  to  implement  them.  Most  important, 
rules must apply to everyone equally, on the basis of a 
level playing field. 

The  notion  of  sovereign  equality  is  one  of  the 
core  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Indeed, 
it  is  the  main  pillar  of  genuine  multilateralism.  I  was 
therefore  pleased  to  accept  an  invitation  from  the 
Foreign  Minister  of  Singapore  to  discuss  issues  of 
global governance together with some other colleagues 
and  friends.  I  look  forward  to  continuing  those 
exchanges and I hope that the G-20 and other partners 
will  find  interest  in  our  input  and  ideas.  Our  goal  is 
positive  engagement,  productive  cooperation  and  the 
highest possible quality in decision-making. 

The  drafters  of  the  United  Nations  Charter 
understood  that  the  inclusion  of  all  States  was  a 
prerequisite  for  effective  multilateralism.  In  today’s 
interconnected  world,  we  must  uphold  this  principle 
more  than  ever.  But  the  practice  of  the  Organization 
has  sometimes  veered  away  from 
ideals  of 
inclusion, transparency and legitimacy. 

On  international  peace  and  security,  the  Security 
Council is mandated to carry out its functions on behalf 
of  all  of  us.  Our  understanding  is  therefore  that  the 
Council’s legitimacy depends on the extent to which its 
actions  reflect  a  very  wide  political  consensus.  Often, 
the 
09-52592 
44 

in 
improvements 
look  for  further 


though, the Council shows little interest in including in 
its decision-making process those who are instrumental 
for  implementation.  Together  with  the  other  members 
of the Small Five Group, we will continue to work for 
inclusion  and  transparency  in  the  Council’s  work.  We 
will  also 
the 
Council’s  sanctions  procedures.  As  numerous  judicial 
challenges  have  shown,  those  procedures  must  be 
brought  closer  to  international  standards  of  human 
rights and due process. Such improvements would go a 
long  way  in  improving  the  effectiveness,  perception 
and legitimacy of sanctions. 

The  composition  of  the  Security  Council  is 
outdated.  This  is  sadly  almost  the  only  agreement  we 
have 
found  after  many  years  of  controversial 
discussions  on  its  enlargement.  Our  position  on  the 
matter is clear. None of the proposals submitted at the 
2005 World Summit, or variations thereof, will receive 
the necessary support in the Assembly, let alone in the 
ratification process. We see only two avenues towards 
expansion.  We  can  wait  for  a  massive  institutional 
crisis  to  hit  the  Organization  and  then  expand  the 
Council  under  enormous  public  pressure,  or  we  can 
work in a cooperative manner towards a solution that is 
both  a  compromise  and  politically  sustainable.  We 
believe  that  only  the  latter  approach  is  in  the  best 
interest  of  the  Organization.  As  a  result  of  the  last 
session, there are now clear ideas on the table on how 
to  bridge  the  gap.  They  deserve  a  thorough  review 
during the coming months. 
Over  the  past  two  decades,  multilateralism  has 

the  area  of 
perhaps  been  most  successful 
international  criminal  justice.  The  first  generation  of 
international  tribunals  has  had  a  tremendous  impact, 
and  is  now  approaching  the  conclusion  of  its  work. 
Most  important,  we  have  created  the  International 
Criminal  Court  —  an  institution  that  seemed  a  distant 
dream  not  too  long  ago.  During  its  first  years  in 
operation, the Court has been remarkably successful. It 
has  also  been  subject 
to  controversial  political 
discussions. This is not surprising, because justice can 
be  difficult  and  can  seem  inconvenient.  That 
is 
particularly true in situations of ongoing conflict. But it 
is not a choice. To quote Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, 
the  debate  is  no  longer  between  peace  and  justice  but 
between peace and what kind of justice. Indeed, peace, 
development  and justice go hand in hand. These tasks 
must  be  fulfilled,  first  and  foremost,  by  States 
themselves.  We  must  therefore  galvanize  efforts  to 
in 
A/64/PV.10
strengthen  national  judiciaries,  in  accordance  with  the 
principle of complementarity. 

The International Criminal Court will not be able 
to  put  on  trial  all  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
crimes.  But  its  work  illustrates  the  world’s  consensus 
that  there  must  be  accountability  for  these  crimes  and 
that impunity is no longer an option. The 2010 review 
conference  will  give  us  the  opportunity  to  add  the 
crime  of  aggression  to  the  list  of  crimes  under  the 
active  jurisdiction  of  the  Court. We  hope  that  we  will 
find it in ourselves to seize this historic event. 

The  General  Assembly  remains  the  heart  of 
genuine  multilateral  work.  We  must  trust  that  the 
President  will  lead  the  Assembly  in  a  manner  that 
reflects  the  priorities  of  the  membership  as  a  whole. 
Important negotiations are ahead of us. We will prepare 
the  2010  summit  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  continue  discussions  on  the  arms  trade  treaty, 
move ahead with various reform processes, negotiate both 
a  new  budget  and  a  new  scale  of  assessments,  address 
human rights both in specific situations and thematically, 
keep working on the promotion of the rule of law at all 
levels, work to strengthen the framework for development 
and humanitarian assistance, and much more.  

Looking  at  the  work  programme  ahead,  it  seems 
to  us  that  the  General Assembly  does  not  need  much 
revitalization. There are numerous concrete challenges 
in  front  of  us,  to  which  we  Member  States  must  rise. 
We must look beyond our short-term domestic interests 
and work hard to make progress on our comprehensive 
agenda.  The  renewed  expressions  of  commitment  that 
we have witnessed in this Hall over the past days give 
us confidence. The Assembly will do its best to live up 
to the world’s expectations and, more than ever, strive 
in unison. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Lawrence Cannon, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Canada. 
Mr.  Cannon  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

establishment  of  the  United  Nations  came  about 
through 
our 
interdependence  as  peoples  and  nations.  Canada  was 
among its founding members, who were inspired at the 
time  by  the  need  to  create  an  international  consensus 
for the stability and security of a world ravaged by war, 
more  than  60  years  ago.  There  is  therefore  no  more 
appropriate forum than this one for me, as Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Canada,  to  reaffirm  my  country’s 
fundamental 
recognition 
the 
of 
09-52592 

45 

A/64/PV.10 

commitment  to  collective  action,  namely,  to  work 
together with all countries to pursue shared objectives 
and overcome common challenges. 

The global economic and financial crisis, as well 
as the global security and environmental threats facing us, 
have underscored the extent of that interdependence. We 
have placed economic recovery and growth at the top of 
our priorities and have taken decisive action in Canada 
to mitigate the impact of the crisis on all Canadians. 

However, the recovery of Canada’s economy cannot 
happen  in  isolation  from  economic  recovery  across  the 
world. Moreover, protectionism is a common threat to all 
of the world’s economies. History has taught us that we 
cannot  hope  to  emerge  from  the  current  crisis  if  we 
impede global trade in an effort to protect our national 
economies.  We  therefore  need  vigorous  and  effective 
consultation  at  the  highest  levels  so  that  we  can  work 
together to resist the protectionist urge. 
Since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations, 

more  than  100,000  Canadians  have  served  in  United 
Nations  missions  in  Africa,  the  Americas,  the  Asia-
Pacific  region  and  the  Middle  East.  Today,  thousands 
of  others  —  soldiers,  police,  diplomats,  aid  workers 
and others — are working in support of missions led or 
mandated by the United Nations around the world. 

Eradicating  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  is  the 
responsibility  both  of  Canadians  and  of  the  United 
Nations.  Indeed,  Canada  is  committed  to  combating 
terrorism  and  to  ensuring  that  the  perpetrators  and 
supporters  of  terrorism  are  held  accountable  for  their 
actions. The Taliban in particular are a threat to global 
peace and security. Like the United Nations, Canada is 
determined to eradicate that threat. 

Our  mission  in  Afghanistan  is  the  most  vivid 
illustration of Canada’s determination to that end. It also 
constitutes  our  most  significant  overseas  contribution. 
Canada’s  mission  is  an  efficient,  integrated,  civilian-
military  partnership  of  approximately  2,800  military 
personnel and more than 100 civilians. Those Canadians 
are  working  tirelessly  and  making  great  sacrifices  in 
support  of  the  United  Nations-mandated  Mission  to 
reconstitute  a  stable  and  secure Afghanistan  that  is  at 
last led by Afghans themselves. 

In the months ahead, Canada will expect Afghan 
political leaders to make progress on key priorities — 
from  good  governance  to  anti-corruption  efforts  and 
from reconciliation to reconstruction, economic growth 
46 

and regional cooperation, so as to promote stability in 
their  country.  As  they  tackle  the  many  challenges 
ahead,  they  must  ensure  that  their  efforts  promote, 
protect  and  improve  human  rights  in  a  concrete 
manner, in particular the rights and living conditions of 
Afghan women and girls. 

Canada is also providing significant assistance to 
Haiti,  where  our  contribution  will  total  $555  million 
between 2006 and 2011. We aim to promote democracy, 
security and economic growth and, above all, to secure a 
better future for all of Haiti’s children and young people. 

Many  other  challenges  remain.  Canada  regrets 
the  deteriorating  security  situation  in  southern  Sudan, 
and  we  call  for  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement.  Along  the  same 
lines, we encourage all parties to the Darfur conflict to 
end  hostilities  through  the  joint  mediation  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  African  Union.  Canada  is 
determined to contribute to resolving the conflict in the 
Sudan.  Since  2006,  we  have  disbursed  more  than 
$640 million  in  support  of  international  efforts  to 
achieve sustainable peace in that country. 
that  nuclear 

We  are  all  acutely  conscious 
proliferation is a global threat we all face. Canada was 
deeply  troubled  by  the  recent  revelation  that  Iran  has 
been building a covert uranium enrichment facility for 
several years. We condemn Iran’s continued refusal to 
respect  Security  Council  resolutions  and  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  obligations.  We 
therefore call on Iran to allow the IAEA immediate and 
unfettered access to all sites, including that facility. We 
expect a full investigation. 

We  hope  that  talks  between  Iran  and  the  five 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  plus 
Germany that are scheduled for 1 October will address 
the  continued  duplicity  surrounding  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme. Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada 
has  been  clear  in  his  discussions  with  President 
Obama, Prime Minister Brown, President Sarkozy and 
our  other  allies.  Canada  will  welcome  the  efforts 
deemed necessary to remove what is clearly a threat to 
international peace and security. 
In  that  regard,  Canada  commended  President 

Obama  for  having  taken  the  initiative  to  organize  a 
summit meeting of the Security Council on the issue of 
non-proliferation  and  nuclear  disarmament 
(see 
S/PV.6191). We commit ourselves to working with other 
countries  to  prevent  the  spread  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
09-52592 


new  terrorist  threats.  However,  finding  a  diplomatic 
solution to those problems will require that we mobilize 
political  will  to  ensure  that  every  country  adheres  to 
the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons. 
(spoke in English) 

At this time of the year in my country, the leaves 
on  the  trees  are  changing  colours.  That  dramatic 
display  reminds  all  Canadians  of  the  need  to  protect 
our natural heritage, which is one of the most majestic 
in the world. But neither borders nor seasons can stop 
the havoc caused by climate change. Canada therefore 
remains  committed  to  an  ambitious  post-2012  global 
climate  change  agreement  that  is  consistent  with  the 
principles  and  provisions  of 
the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and 
supports sustainable, low-carbon global growth. 

We  are  committed  to  taking  domestic  actions  to 
reduce  our  total  greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  20  per 
cent  from  2006  levels  by  the  year  2020,  and  by  60  to 
70  per  cent  by  2050.  Canada  is  a  world  leader  in  the 
development  of  clean  technologies  to  combat  climate 
change, including carbon capture and storage. We seek 
to establish a new global partnership that will advance 
the development and deployment of those technologies. 

Canada  joined  other  countries  at  the  L’Aquila 
meeting of the Group of Eight (G-8) and at the Major 
Economies  Forum  in  affirming  the  broad  scientific 
view  that  the  increase  in  global  average  temperature 
above  pre-industrial  levels  ought  not  to  exceed  two 
degrees Celsius. 

This global phenomenon needs a global response. 
That is why Canada wants to see all emitters be part of 
this international effort. We congratulate the Secretary-
General  for  convening  his  productive  Climate  Change 
Summit,  as  well  as  for  assuming  the  leadership  that 
naturally  falls  to  the  United  Nations  in  this  area.  All 
major  economies  will  be  required  to  meet  this  global 
challenge.  This  must  be  reflected  in  the  context  of  a 
fair,  equitable  and  effective  agreement  at  Copenhagen 
in December. 

Adaptation to the impacts of climate change is an 
important  issue  for  all  countries.  It  must  be  a  core 
element of a post-2012 climate change regime if we are 
to  build  resilience  to  climate  change  impacts.  Canada 
has contributed significantly to a number of initiatives, 
including the World Bank’s Pilot Program for Climate 
Resilience. We continue to support international action 
A/64/PV.10
that 
that  strengthens  the  capacity  of  the  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable to adapt to a changing climate. 

As an Arctic State and Power, Canada is proud of 
its 
long-standing  sovereignty  over 
increasingly 
promising territory. Canada also recognizes the important 
responsibility  that  we  have  to  Northerners  and  to  the 
sustainable development and environmental protection of 
the  region. Cooperation  with  our Arctic  neighbours  and 
the  peaceful  pursuit  of  our  interests  has  underpinned 
and  will  continue  to  underpin  Canada’s  arctic  foreign 
policy and to guide our actions in the region. Through 
our bilateral and multilateral engagement — whether at 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Arctic  Council  or  in 
working with our Arctic partners — Canada will continue 
to show leadership on such Arctic issues as shipping, oil 
and gas and contaminants and biodiversity. 

Since  the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights,  61  years  ago,  Canada  has  worked 
vigorously  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  human 
rights machinery to ensure the credibility and integrity 
of  fair  and  balanced  mechanisms  to  promote  human 
rights and fundamental freedoms. Human rights are an 
important  part  of  Canadian  foreign  policy  and  our 
relations  with  Member  States.  During  our  recently 
completed  term  on  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Canada 
worked to make it a forum for constructive international 
dialogue. We will continue to work towards building an 
efficient,  responsive  and  credible  Human  Rights 
Council  that  is  true  to  its  founding  principles.  Canada 
will also continue to promote respect  for basic human 
rights  and  the  freedom  of  expression  and  association. 
And  we  will  continue  to  advocate  for  those  unjustly 
detained in the world’s most abusive regimes. 

Finding the political will to translate our values into 
actions and ensuring that we continue to hold to account 
those  who  would  violate  basic  human  rights  is  in  the 
interest  of  all  Member  States.  Supporting  those  who 
are making sincere efforts to advance the human rights 
of  their  populations  is  also  one  of  our  collective 
objectives. 

Canada is meeting its international commitments. 
We  are  on  track  to  double  our  international  assistance 
to  $5  billion  by  2010.  We  have  also  already  met  our 
commitment to double aid to Africa between 2003 and 
2009.  Canada  will 
to  provide 
humanitarian  assistance  to  those  affected  by  conflict 
and natural disasters. 
continue 
also 
09-52592 

47 

of 
the 
foundation 
configuration 
country-specific 
A/64/PV.10 

Through  Canada’s  chairmanship  of  the  Sierra 

Leone 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  we  are  working  to  bridge 
the gap between humanitarian assistance and long-term 
development. As Chair of the G-8 in 2010, Canada will 
place  emphasis  on  making  the  G-8  more  accountable 
and  effective.  Accountability  means  fulfilling  our 
commitments. Effectiveness is about strengthening our 
partnerships,  including  with  the  United  Nations,  to 
tackle  challenges  such  as  the  fragility  of  States  and 
nuclear non-proliferation. Canada will also co-host the 
summit of the Group of 20 (G-20) in June 2010, along 
with our good friend the Republic of Korea. 
Our  priority  will  remain  economic  recovery  and 

building 
for  sustainable  growth, 
including  for  the  most  vulnerable.  Earlier  this  week, 
Prime  Minister  Stephen  Harper  announced  a  concrete 
and innovative contribution to that effort. Building on 
our  previous  G-20  commitments,  Canada  will  provide 
the  African  Development  Bank  with  approximately 
$2.6 billion in additional lending room. That will assist 
the  Bank  in  responding  quickly  to  the  demands  of  its 
borrowing  members  while  it  continues  its  poverty 
reduction efforts. 

I  would  urge  representatives  not  to  let  the 
dizzying  succession  of  major  events  addressed  here 
cause them to lose sight of the importance of reforming 
the Security Council. The Council is our most powerful 
means of collective action. But we can, and indeed we 
must, make  it  more  effective,  more  accessible  and more 
flexible  —  more  adapted,  in  fact,  to  the  challenges  and 
opportunities of the broader international community. 

Canada  has  long  supported  efforts  to  make  the 
Security  Council  more  responsive  to  today’s  security 
challenges  and  more  representative  of  the  world’s 
regions, 
in  particular  Africa,  which  has  been 
historically  underrepresented.  Any  real  reform  must 
lead to increased transparency and accountability. That 
will  not  be  achieved  by  extending  the  privileges  of  a 
few to a few more, but through democratically elected 
access  to  the  Security  Council  and  through  more 
consultation  with  and  openness 
the  wider 
membership of the United Nations. 

this  small 
the 
responsibility  we  all  bear  for  our  citizens’  economic, 
environmental  and  nuclear  security  can  leave  us 
perplexed  or  even  worried.  But  what  we  must  never 
forget is that, in this seemingly uneven battle, we have 
In  conclusion, 
to 
reminder  of 
relations  and 
in our arsenal the most effective weapons ever devised 
by  humankind,  namely,  freedom,  democracy,  human 
rights and the rule of law. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Xavier  Espot  Miró,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Institutional  Relations  of  the 
Principality of Andorra. 
Mr.  Espot  Miró  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  must  first 
apologize for the absence of our head of Government, 
Mr.  Jaume  Bartumeu  Cassany,  who,  due 
to  his 
institutional  agenda,  is  unable  to  attend  the  general 
debate. 

It is a great honour for the Principality of Andorra 
and  the  Government  that  I  represent  to  speak  in  the 
General Assembly Hall. We Andorrans  are  well  aware 
of  the  significance  of  being  a  small  State  within  the 
United Nations. We are not trying to make our mark on 
international  politics,  but  we  want  to  make  clear  our 
intention  to  respect  and  defend  international  law, 
standards  of  good-neighbourly 
the 
principle of solidarity between peoples. 

Europe is our natural frame of reference. We wish 
to  be  recognized  in  that  way,  not  only  in  terms  of 
cultural and historical affinity, but also in the legal and 
economic fields. In brief, our conception of solidarity, 
both  domestic  and  international,  and  our  notion  of 
international relations are the same as those of the rest 
of Europe. 

Since 1993, we have had a constitutional framework 
that allows us to translate all those principles into practice 
and 
that 
constitutional framework, on 10 August we presented a 
law for the exchange of information on fiscal matters, 
which,  once  debated  and  amended,  was  approved  by 
the parliament on 7 September. 

We have always been certain of Andorra’s loyalty 
to  the  international  community.  Yet  we  thought  it 
appropriate  to  dispel  any  doubts  and  to  follow  the 
recommendations  of  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD)  and  other 
international  institutions,  as  expressed  in  meetings  of 
the Group of 20. 

That  is  the  first  example,  but  others  will  follow, 
because  our  Government’s  priority  is  to  dispel  any 
doubts about our determination to adapt to the demands 
and  expectations  of  our  European  neighbours  and  the 
them  a  reality.  Supported  by 
to  make 
48 

09-52592 
and  other 
Incidentally,  I  would  add 


rest of the international community. We are convinced 
that  this  and  other  steps  will  be  appreciated  and 
understood by all international stakeholders that may at 
any time have harboured doubts about our community 
spirit  towards  the  rest  of  the  world.  We  are  also 
confident  that  this  new  era  will  enable  us  to  interact 
more  with  Europe 
continents  by 
international  bonds  and  our 
strengthening  our 
economic and human presence. 

In  line  with  that  legislation,  our  country  has 
already  been  in  contact,  and  even  signed  agreements, 
with  some  European  countries.  In  the  future,  we  will 
do likewise  with other  countries, including the United 
States of America, Australia and Argentina. Needless to 
say,  our  priority  has  been  to  negotiate  with  France, 
Spain and Portugal, which are our closest neighbours. 

that  Andorra  has 
suffered  from  a  lingering  structural  crisis  for  at  least 
the past four years. This has now been exacerbated by 
the world economic crisis. The world cannot solve our 
particular crisis for us. We must do it for ourselves. To 
concentrate  on  the  idea  that  interests  us,  I  assure  the 
General  Assembly 
that  our  Government’s  action 
focuses  on  clearly  demonstrating  to  the  international 
community  that  we  are  fulfilling  our  duties.  We  very 
much wish to cooperate, promote international ties and 
instil confidence. 

The  exchange  of  tax  information  will  undoubtedly 
result in the signing of double-taxation agreements. As a 
result,  we  will  boost  our  relations  with  countries  with 
which previous links were somewhat weak. Indeed, is that 
not one of the founding objectives of the United Nations? 

The legislation to which I have referred addresses 
issues that have been at the heart of OECD discussions 
for  the  past  few  months.  It  will  affect  requests  for 
information launched  after the entry into force of tax-
information  exchange  agreements  or  double-taxation 
agreements. 
Let  us  be  clear,  tax  havens  and  fiscal  opacity, 

which  have  been  identified  and  condemned  as  two  of 
the  major  financial  evils  of  the  twentieth  century,  are 
matters  that  all  Andorrans  would  like  to  overcome 
soon.  Our  strategic  position 
is  clear,  and  our 
commitment is strong. 

At the same time, we are proposing a tax reform 
that will allocate resources according to priorities that 
serve  the  general  interest  and  provide  guarantees  to 
A/64/PV.10
then  will 
Europe and to the rest of the world that we want clear, 
transparent and accountable relations. That reform will 
offer entrepreneurs and professionals an opportunity to 
export  goods  and  services  from  Andorra  on  an  equal 
international  companies 
footing.  Only 
seriously  consider  the  possibility  of  investing 
in 
Andorra within a stable juridical environment. 

I  sincerely  hope  that  there  will  be  no  doubts 
about  my  Government’s  desire  to  face  the  economic 
issues  that  have  been  at  the  heart  of  international 
debates  over  the  past  few  months.  The  need  to  move 
forward  towards  greater  financial  transparency  in 
Andorra leads us to expect the same standards from the 
international  community.  We  have  understood  and 
noted that the system that governed the world economy 
in the twentieth century has become obsolete. 

International  organizations  and  every  political, 
economic  and  social  institution  must  make  efforts  to 
guarantee  transparency.  We  believe  that  reform  of  the 
international  economic  system  should  be  immediate, 
rigorous  and  credible.  It  should  be  led  by  the  United 
Nations, in close cooperation with the World Bank, the 
International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Trade 
Organization. 

that  and  other 
challenges,  we  need  to  modernize  the  Organization, 
revitalize 
the 
Security  Council.  In  our  opinion,  those  objectives, 
along  with  so-called  system-wide  coherence,  must 
include the right to gender equality. 
We in Andorra thus understand that we need fair, 

clear  and  internationally  recognized  standards  and 
regulations 
in  Andorran 
entrepreneurs and employees alike. But we should also 
consider  the  demands  of  the  international  financial 
situation  and  the  need  to  promote  transparency  and 
regulatory mechanisms for financial activities. 

Solving the international financial crisis is one of 
our  main  priorities.  There  should  be  no  doubt  about 
that. However, we need to tackle other issues affecting 
the  international  community.  I  am  referring  to  climate 
change.  As  has  already  been  mentioned 
the 
Assembly  Hall,  this  is  one  of  the  most  serious 
challenges humankind has ever faced. 

We  in  the  Principality  of  Andorra  recognize  the 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  try  to  mobilize  the 
international  community. As  French  head  of  State  and 
the  General  Assembly  and  reform 
confidence 
instil 
in 
However, 
in  order 
to  face 
to 
09-52592 

49 

A/64/PV.10 

Co-Prince  of  Andorra  Nicolas  Sarkozy  reminded  us 
here (see A/64/PV.3), it is time that each State make a 
strong  commitment  to  solving  this  issue.  Andorra’s 
commitment to combating the effects of climate change 
is real. Progress can already be seen in such efforts as 
our ratification of the Convention for the Protection of 
the Ozone Layer. 

We hope that at Copenhagen in December it will 
be  possible  to  adopt  a  new  climate  agreement  that  is 
equitable,  efficient  and  ambitious  from  a  scientific 
point  of  view.  We  believe  that,  to  achieve  a  positive 
result  at  the  Conference,  it  is  essential  to  involve  all 
society, especially younger generations. 

We  believe  health  to  be  a  fundamental  right  that 
is  necessary  to  achieve  sustainable  development  in 
Europe  and  throughout  the  world.  We  face  new 
challenges in the health sector. The new influenza virus 
is  one  such  challenge.  The Andorran  Government  has 
decided  to  fight  it  by  making  vaccination  available  to 
the majority of our population. That decision was taken 
in  cooperation  with  our  neighbours  and  the  World 
Health  Organization.  On 
the 
Principalities  of  Monaco  and  Andorra  have  joined 
forces  to  finance  a  four-year  project  to  reduce  the 
vulnerability  of  women  of  reproductive  age  stemming 
from  the  food  crisis  affecting  Madagascar.  Those  are 
two  examples  of  fruitful  and  successful  cooperation 
between international actors. 

The  responsibility  to  protect  populations  against 
genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes 
against humanity serves to remind us once again of the 
need 
responsible  cooperation.  Neither  world 
Powers nor mid-sized and small countries can abandon 
cooperation.  We  all  are  necessary,  because  we  all  are 
inhabitants of the Earth. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker 
this  evening. 
However,  several  representatives  have  requested  to 
exercise the right of reply. May I remind members that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr. Salsabili (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 

like to place on record our position on two issues that 
were  raised  in  the  plenary  meetings  of  the  General 
Assembly  held  this  morning  and  afternoon.  I  do  so  to 
clarify  and  reject  the  allegations  and  misunderstandings 
the  general  debate  for 
another  matter, 
for 
in 
First, 
allegations 
about  Iran’s  peaceful  nuclear  activities  and  about  the 
treatment  of  individual  protesters.  With  regard  to  the 
second issue, I shall refer to the unacceptable claims to 
three Iranian islands in the Persian Gulf. 
the 
and 

concerning 
misunderstandings  about 
Iran’s  peaceful  nuclear 
activities and the treatment of individual protesters put 
forth  by  a  few  European  delegations  and  others  —  in 
particular the delegations of the Netherlands, Slovakia, 
Austria  and  Canada  —  the  delegation  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  would  like  to  place  on  record  that 
those allegations, fears and concerns are totally untrue 
and  without  any  foundation.  Iran’s  nuclear  activities 
are, and always have been, for peaceful purposes. They 
therefore pose no threat whatsoever. The reports of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  bear 
witness  to  the  peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
activities. 

As a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran observes its legal obligations under the Treaty, as 
well  as  our  safeguards  agreement  with  the  IAEA.  We 
are,  however,  determined  to  exercise  our  legitimate 
right to develop nuclear energy technology. That policy 
is  based  on  long-term  planning  to  meet  the  growing 
energy  needs  of  our  country.  On  that  basis,  the 
establishment  of  a  new  enrichment  plant  has  been 
carried out strictly in accordance with Iran’s safeguards 
agreement with the IAEA. 

Contrary to the absurd allegations of concealment 
made  against  my  country,  I  would  like  to  draw  the 
Assembly’s attention to the statement issued yesterday 
by  the  IAEA’s  spokesperson,  in  which  she  confirmed 
that Iran had already notified the IAEA of this issue. 
Rather  than  addressing  the  existing  proliferation 

threat posed by the un-safeguarded and secretive nuclear 
weapons installations of the Zionist regime, unwarranted 
focus  on  safeguarded  nuclear  facilities  for  peaceful 
purposes is counterproductive and constitutes a dangerous 
distraction. We urge members of the European Union to 
refrain from turning a blind eye to that real proliferation 
threat and, in that regard, to abandon  their  inconsistent 
approach to non-proliferation. 

As  to  the  allegations  about  the  mistreatment  of 
protesters,  it  is  worth  mentioning  that  the  laws  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran are based on the prohibition of 
any 
individuals.  That 
special 
overriding  principle  has  been  accorded 
ill-treatment  of 
form  of 
50 

09-52592 
Iranian 
eternal  parts  of 


attention  in  the  Constitution.  In  order  to  ensure 
effective  respect  for  that  principle,  not  only  has  the 
Constitution provided for the punishment of those who 
ignore  prohibitions  and  commit  acts  of  ill-treatment 
and torture, but provisions have also been made for the 
legal protection of the victims of mistreatment. 

I  should  now  like  to  turn  to  the  second  issue  on 
which  I  wish  to  exercise  my  right  of  reply  for  the 
record, namely, the unacceptable claims by the United 
Arab  Emirates  against  the  territorial  integrity  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, which was also referred to by 
a  few  other  speakers. This  afternoon,  the  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  raised 
unacceptable  claims  about  the  three  Iranian  islands 
located  in  the  Persian  Gulf,  namely  Bu  Musa,  Tonb-e 
Bozorg and Tonb-e Kuchak. The Islamic Republic of Iran 
categorically rejects those remarks as unacceptable claims 
against  Iranian  territorial  integrity.  We  emphasize  that 
those  three  islands,  which  are  located  in  the  Persian 
Gulf, 
territory. 
Consequently, they are under Iran’s sovereignty. 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  while  stressing  its 

determination 
its  good-neighbourly, 
brotherly  and  friendly  relations  with  neighbouring 
United  Arab  Emirates,  reiterates  that  all  actions  and 
measures taken in the Iranian island of Bu Musa have 
been in exercise of the sovereign rights of the Islamic 
Republic  of 
the 
arrangements 
documents 
exchanged  in  1971.  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
stands  ready  to  continue  its  bilateral  talks  with  the 
relevant  officials  of  the  United Arab  Emirates,  with  a 
view  to  removing  any  misunderstandings  that  may 
exist in this regard. 

Moreover, the Islamic Republic of Iran wishes to 
stress  that  the  only  correct  and  historically  and 
universally  recognized  name  for  the  sea  between  Iran 
and  the Arabian  Peninsula,  as  the  United  Nations  has 
itself  also  emphasized,  is  the  Persian  Gulf. Therefore, 
any  use  of  fabricated  names  for  that  body  of  water  is 
totally  groundless,  absolutely  unacceptable  and  of  no 
legal, geographical or political value. 
Mr.  Starčević  (Serbia):  The  delegation  of  the 

Republic of Serbia is compelled to exercise its right of 
reply  with  regard  to  today’s  statement  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Albania. 
It  is  regrettable  that  the  Prime  Minister  used  the 

General Assembly  rostrum  to  directly  interfere  in  the 
Iran,  and 
emanating 
in  accordance  with 
to  continue 
from 
are 
the 
A/64/PV.10
to 
the 
the 
tensions 
Contrary 
issue  of 
internal affairs of a neighbouring State Member of the 
United  Nations  by  supporting  an  attempt  at  secession 
by Serbia’s ethnic Albanian minority in our province of 
Kosovo. 

In that regard, the Prime Minister’s statement that 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence  —  which  is 
contrary to the fundamental principles of international 
law,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  Security 
Council  resolution  1244  (1999)  —  has  created  “an 
important  factor  for  peace  and  stability  in  South-East 
Europe”  (supra)  does  not  correspond  to  reality.  That 
irresponsible  act  has  only  further  aggravated  and 
complicated  the  situation  in  our  region.  It  is  also 
deplorable that the Prime Minister of Albania spoke in 
support  of  Kosovo’s  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence  while 
legality  of 
Kosovo’s  attempted  secession  is  being  considered  by 
the International Court of Justice, the supreme judicial 
authority of this Organization. 
the  Prime  Minister’s  assertion, 

inter-ethnic 
in  Kosovo  have  not  been 
significantly  reduced, but  are merely frozen in uneasy 
expectation: When will the next attack on the members 
of  the  Serb  community  in  Kosovo  come?  Today,  the 
Kosovo  Serbs  are  the  most  threatened  community  in 
Europe. In that situation, the claim that “many Serbian 
families  are  coming  back  to  Kosovo  to  build  a  future 
there” is a bitter irony. The return of forcibly expelled 
Serbs or people belonging to other non-Albanian ethnic 
groups has not even begun. 

What  Kosovo  has  become  since  its  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  is  merely  fertile  ground 
for all sorts of illicit activities, as is well known to the 
two  international  missions  in  Kosovo,  the  United 
Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo and 
the European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo. 

This  is  not  a  popular  subject,  and  we  cannot 
expect the Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania to 
speak  about it. Other European  countries do, although 
still in hushed voices. However, the truth about Kosovo 
as  a  “factor  for  peace  and  stability”  is  spreading, 
although  not  exactly  in  the  sense  in  which  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Albania meant it. 
Mr. Al Nahyan (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 

Arabic):  I  wish  at  the  outset  to  apologize  for  having 
requested  the  floor  at  this  late  hour.  However,  I  am 
obliged to exercise my right of reply after hearing the 
comments of the representative of Iran about the three 
09-52592 

51 

the  historical, 
A/64/PV.10 

occupied  islands  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates.  My 
delegation would like once again to express its regret, 
as  we  have  over  the  years,  at  all  such  claims,  which 
contradict 
legal,  democratic  and 
geographic  facts  and  documents  concerning  the  three 
islands  of  the  United Arab  Emirates  —  Greater Tunb, 
Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa — occupied by the Islamic 
Republic of Iran since 1971. 

Therefore,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and the provisions of international law, 
we  call  once  again  on  the  Iranian  Government  to 
demonstrate  its  good  intentions  towards  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  either  by  engaging  in  unconditional, 
serious and direct bilateral negotiations with us to end 
the occupation of the three islands so that they can be 
restored to the Emirates, as they are an integral part of 
its  territorial  integrity  and  national  sovereignty  and 
form  part  of  our  continental  shelf  and  our  economic 
zone, or by agreeing to resort to the International Court 
of Justice for a legal opinion on this issue, as has been 
done with regard to similar important issues. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  reiterate  that  any 
measures  carried  out  by  Iran  on  those  islands  are  null 
and  void  and  give  the  occupying  force  no  rights  or 
obligations. 
Mr.  Stastoli  (Albania):  I  am  taking  the  floor  to 

exercise my right of reply in response to the statement 
just made by the representative of Serbia. 

The Republic of Kosovo is an undeniable reality, 
and we all know that, sooner or later, we will all have 
to accept it, despite the old-fashioned political rhetoric 
that,  not  long  ago  in  the  Balkans,  fuelled  the  worst 
conflicts since the Second World War. It is time to look 
to the future with respect and integrity and to abandon 
once and for all nationalistic discourse that impedes the 
development of that region and its integration into the 
European family. 

The world is not united on this issue. Some have 
recognized Kosovo; some have indicated that they need 
more  time.  But  it  is  an  undeniable  reality  that  the 
number  of  countries  that  have  recognized  it  —  63  to 
date — has only continued to increase. 

In  our  view  and  analysis,  the  Government  of 
Kosovo has, in the space of these two years, taken very 
important  and  courageous  measures  to  create  all  the 
conditions and facilities necessary for the return of the 
Serbian  minority  to  their  homes.  Special  programmes 
have  been  designed  and  funds  allocated  to  attain  that 
objective. It is a fact that the number of returnees has 
significantly  increased.  We  are  not  the  only  ones  to 
recognize that the Republic of Kosovo has taken every 
measure not only to restore and preserve each citizen’s 
spiritual and cultural heritage, but also to promote it as 
much as possible. 

the 
independence of the Republic of Kosovo because it is a 
neighbouring country that, not long ago, felt the severe 
consequences  of  an  atrocious  war  fought  next  door  in 
which,  within  seven  days’  time,  500,000  refugees 
crossed the border to escape the horrors inflicted by a 
tyrannical  system.  We  never  want  to  return  to  such  a 
horrible  situation.  To  the  contrary,  we  are  looking  to 
the  future  —  a  future  of  cooperation,  peace  and 
stability  in  which  all  countries,  all  peoples  and  all 
nations  will  build  their  future  in  harmony,  seeking  a 
common goal: European integration. 

speaker in exercise of the right of reply. 
The meeting rose at 8.50 p.m. 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
Albania  reserves 
the  right 
to  advocate 
52 

09-52592 
