
A/64/PV.21
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

21st plenary meeting 
Monday, 19 October 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m. 



Agenda item 167 
Observer status for the International Olympic 
Committee in the General Assembly  
  Report of the Sixth Committee (A/64/458) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  If  there  is  no 

proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, may I 
take it that the General Assembly decides not to discuss 
the  report  of  the  Sixth  Committee  that  is  before  the 
Assembly today? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): Statements will 

therefore  be  limited  to  explanations  of  vote.  The 
positions of delegations regarding the recommendation 
of  the  Sixth  Committee  have  been  made  clear  in  the 
Committee  and  are  reflected  in  the  relevant  official 
records. May I remind members that under paragraph 7 
of decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that 


is 
considered  in  a  Main  Committee  and  in  plenary 
meeting,  a  delegation  should,  as  far  as  possible, 
explain  its  vote  only  once,  that  is,  either  in  the 
Committee  or  in  plenary  meeting,  unless  that 
delegation’s  vote  in  plenary  meeting  is  different 
from its vote in the Committee.” 

May I remind delegations that, also in accordance 
with  General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  explanations 
of vote are limited to 10 minutes. 
same  draft 
resolution 
“When 
the 
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 

the 
recommendation  contained  in  the  report  of  the  Sixth 
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that 
we are going to proceed to take a decision in the same 
manner as was done in the Sixth Committee. 

The  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  take  a 
decision  on  the  draft  resolution  recommended  by  the 
Sixth Committee in paragraph 7 of its report. The Sixth 
Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same? 

The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 64/3). 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I  take  it 
that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 167? 

It was so decided. 




Agenda item 45 
Sport for peace and development: building a  
peaceful and better world through sport and  
the Olympic ideal 
  Draft resolutions A/64/L.2 and A/64/L.3 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor to the representative of Canada to introduce draft 
resolution A/64/L.2.
Mr.  Furlong  (Canada):  As  President  and  Chief 

Executive  Officer  of 
the  Vancouver  Organizing 
Committee  for  the  2010  Olympic  and  Paralympic 
Winter Games, I have the honour of introducing to the 
General  Assembly  today  the  draft  resolution  entitled 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-56441 (E) 
*0956441* 


A/64/PV.21 

“Building  a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport 
and the Olympic ideal” (A/64/L.2). With just 116 days 
left  before  the  official  opening  of  the  XXI  Olympic 
Winter  Games  and  144  days  to  the  opening  of  the  X 
Paralympic  Games  in  Vancouver,  British  Columbia, 
Canada, I am pleased to be here today to highlight the 
principles and ideals that underpin the draft resolution. 

When  Vancouver  won  the  bid  to  host  the  XXI 
Olympic  Winter  Games,  our  Organizing  Committee, 
together  with  the  Government  of  Canada  and  our 
partners, set a vision of success far beyond the legacies 
of  facilities,  structures  and  economics.  For  these 
Games  to  have  true  and  lasting  meaning  for  all  lives 
that would be touched by them, we needed to ensure a 
human  legacy,  one  that  is  about  harnessing  the  power 
of  sport  to  transform  the  spirit  of  a  nation,  if  not  an 
entire world community.  

From the beginning, our vision for the Games has 
been  a  shared  vision,  supported  by  an  entire  nation:  a 
vision  grounded  in  our  collective  regard  for  sport  and 
support  for 
the  values  of  Olympism  —  mutual 
understanding,  friendship,  solidarity  and  fair  play;  a 
vision  that  has  guided  our  decisions,  our  actions  and 
our  partnerships;  a  vision  that  has  shaped  our  hopes 
and dreams for success. 

These Games are not just about 27 days of sport, 
but  also  about  a  privileged  opportunity  to  inspire  a 
generation.  And  so  we  have  endeavoured  to  capture 
that  vision, 
in  collaboration  with  all  nations 
represented here, in the draft resolution put before the 
Assembly.  The  resolution  captures  key  elements  from 
past  Olympic  Truce  resolutions:  recognizing 
the 
growing  role  that  sport  is  playing  as  a  tool  within 
United Nations agencies and Member States to support 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals;  highlighting  the  important  work  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace; 
and  encouraging  the  efforts  of  international  sport 
organizations  and  national  Olympic  and  Paralympic 
Committees 
foster  social 
development and strengthen a culture of peace. 

The  draft  resolution  also  welcomes  the  joint 
endeavours  of  the  International  Olympic  Committee, 
the International Paralympic Committee and the United 
Nations  system  in  such  fields  as  human  development, 
poverty  alleviation,  humanitarian  assistance,  health 
promotion,  HIV 
and  AIDS  prevention,  youth 
to  mobilize  sport 
to 
Canada  has  been  honoured  by 
education,  equality,  peacebuilding  and  sustainable 
development. 

In its central focus, this draft resolution finds its 
inspiration in the ancient Greek tradition of granting a 
truce  during  the  Olympic  Games,  which  ensured  safe 
passage of athletes to and from the Games. In addition 
to appealing for the observation of the Olympic Truce 
during  the  upcoming  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Winter 
Games  in  Vancouver,  the  resolution  also  calls  on 
United  Nations  Member  States  to  cooperate  with  the 
International Olympic Committee and the International 
Paralympic Committee in their efforts to use sport as a 
tool  to  promote  peace,  dialogue  and  reconciliation  in 
areas  of  conflict  during  and  beyond  the  Olympic 
Games period. 

the  helpful 
cooperation  among  other  United  Nations  Member 
States  and  by  their  many  contributions  and  ideas 
towards formulating this year’s resolution. In addition, 
we  are  very  grateful  for  the  assistance  from  the 
International Olympic and Paralympic Committees and 
the  Secretary-General’s  Special  Advisor  on  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace  and  for  their  support  in 
developing  new  elements  in  the  text,  and  for  the 
valuable counsel provided by the Group of Friends on 
Sport for Development and Peace. 

the 
longstanding  recognition  of  sport  as  a  vital  tool  for 
social  development.  Canada  recognizes  the  power  of 
sport to build sustainable communities, to advocate for 
equality, to foster social inclusion among young people 
and  to  contribute  to  a  global  culture  of  peace. To  this 
end,  Canada  is  actively  supporting  a  number  of 
effective  sport-for-development 
the 
Commonwealth, la Francophonie, the Middle East and 
South America. 

The 2010 Winter Olympic Games marks the first 
time Canada has been responsible for leading Olympic 
Truce  efforts  since  the  Truce  was  revitalized  in  1992. 
However,  the  very  nature  of  this  ancient  and  time-
honoured  tradition  calls  for  the  widest  amount  of 
cooperation  at 
the  ultimate 
objectives  of  the  draft  resolution  are  to  be  achieved. 
Once  again,  the  tremendous  level  of  support  for  and 
sponsorship of the draft resolution is a testament to the 
universal support for the principles affirmed in the text. 

The  Organizing  Committee  aims  to  pursue  the 
Olympic  Truce  goals  of  protecting  the  interests  of 
The  draft  resolution 
is  consistent  with 
the  global 
level 
if 
initiatives 
in 
2 

09-56441 
to  conflict  around 
the  world 


athletes  and  contributing  to  peaceful  and  diplomatic 
through 
solutions 
meaningful  engagement  with  Canadians  and 
the 
international  community  and  through  key  initiatives 
that  leave  lasting  legacies  locally,  nationally  and 
internationally. 

The spirit of the Olympic and Paralympic Games 
serves as a call to action for young people to embrace, 
embody  and  express  the  Olympic  values  of  fair  play, 
friendship  and  respect.  At  home,  young  Canadians 
across  the  country  are  taking  up  this  call  through  an 
initiative with the theme “Make your Peace”. Based on 
the idea that lasting peace starts at the local level, the 
initiative  encourages  individuals  to  create  everyday 
peace at home, school, work and in the community. By 
empowering  our  young  people  in  everyday  acts  of 
peace,  we  are  fostering  a  generation  of  conscientious 
global  citizens  and  creating  the  building  blocks  for 
just, inclusive and harmonious societies of tomorrow.  

The  recognition  of  the  rights  of  persons  with 
disabilities is evident in the support of the Paralympic 
Movement  in  this  draft  Olympic  Truce  resolution,  an 
important  initiative  that  Canada  sought  to  include, 
building  on  previous  versions  of  the  resolution.  The 
application  of  the  Olympic  Truce  to  the  Paralympic 
Games 
the 
International  Paralympic  Committee,  alongside  those 
of the International Olympic Committee, is for Canada 
an  important  demonstration  of  the  power  of  sport  to 
address 
inclusion  and  encourage  active 
participation  of  persons  with  disabilities  on  an 
equitable  basis  with  others  in  cultural  life,  recreation, 
leisure and sport. 

resolution  also 
highlights  Canada’s  commitment  to  full  participation 
of  our  country’s  Aboriginal  peoples.  These  Games 
mark  a  historic  level  of  participation  by  Canada’s 
Aboriginal community in a national event — achieved 
through  a  shared  desire  from  all  partners  to  staging 
Games  that  fully  reflect  Canada’s  rich  and  diverse 
society. 

The very title of this draft resolution — “Building 
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic  ideal”  —  speaks  to  the  mandate  we  have  set 
for  ourselves:  to  leave  the  world  in  better  shape  as  a 
result of our collective international efforts at the 2010 
Olympic  and  Paralympic Winter  Games  in Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada. 
The  draft  Olympic  Truce 
commitments  of 
social 
and 
the 
related 
09-56441 

A/64/PV.21
On behalf of the Government of Canada, the host 

province  of  British  Columbia, 
the  host  city  of 
Vancouver,  the  Vancouver  Organizing  Committee  and 
all our partners, I thank the Assembly for its attention 
and hope that this draft resolution will be adopted with 
the Assembly’s unanimous support. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor to the representative of South Africa to introduce 
draft resolution A/64/L.3. 
Mr. Sangqu (South Africa): I have the honour to 

introduce  on  behalf  of  my  delegation  and  other 
sponsors  draft  resolution  A/64/L.3,  entitled,  “2010 
International Federation of Association Football World 
Cup event”, which will be held in South Africa. 
I would like to announce that since the tabling of 

the  draft  resolution  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors:  Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra, 
Angola,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahrain,  Belarus,  Belize,  Benin,  Brazil,  Bulgaria, 
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Central 
African Republic, Chile, China, Congo, Croatia, Cuba, 
Cyprus,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Denmark, 
Dominica,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Germany,  Greece, 
Grenada,  Iceland,  India,  Israel,  Japan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kuwait,  Liberia,  Madagascar,  Maldives,  Mexico, 
Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Mozambique, 
Namibia,  Nigeria,  Pakistan,  Philippines,  Saint  Kitts 
and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the 
Grenadines,  San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Seychelles, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sweden, 
Switzerland, 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Togo,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Ukraine and the United States of America. 
In his statement during the general debate of the 

Assembly’s  sixty-fourth  session  (see  A/64/PV.4),  His 
Excellency  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South Africa, highlighted the importance South Africa 
and  Africa  attach  to  hosting  the  2010  International 
Federation  of Association  Football  (FIFA)  World  Cup 
in  the  middle  of  next  year.  The  historic  decision  by 
FIFA  to  award  the  hosting  of  the  2010  World  Cup  to 
South  Africa  marked  the  first  time  that  this  major 
sporting event will take place on the African continent. 

The United Nations always stood with the people 
of South Africa  during the dark days of apartheid  and 
supported  the  liberation  and  self-determination  of  our 
people. That crucial support culminated in the historic 
the 
3 
A/64/PV.21 

democratic elections of April 1994. Today, we come to 
the Assembly as free people and as a free nation. More 
than  ever  before,  our  democratic  Government 
is 
committed  to  peace  and  development  in  South Africa, 
Africa and the world at large. 
The draft resolution before us today presents the 

Assembly  with  another  opportunity 
to  provide 
necessary  political  support  to  South Africa  and Africa 
for the hosting of  a successful 2010 FIFA World Cup. 
The objective of the draft resolution resonates with the 
three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations,  namely  peace, 
development and human rights. 

There  is  global  recognition  of  the  importance, 
role and contribution that a sport like soccer can make 
in  various  domains.  Given  its  universal  popularity, 
soccer plays a positive role in bringing people together 
and  can  be  mainstreamed  into  the  strategic  agenda  of 
countries. 
The  FIFA  World  Cup  is  one  of  the  biggest 

sporting festivals of our age. It provides a global stage 
on  which  nations  and  peoples  of  the  world  come 
together  to  reaffirm  our  common  humanity.  It  creates 
the opportunity, so important in our troubled universe, 
for all of us to experience the reality that we belong to 
one  human  family,  regardless  of  race,  colour,  gender, 
age,  political  and  religious  belief  and  country  or 
continent of origin. 

South  Africa  is  committed  to  ensuring  that 
hosting  this  event  contributes  to  deepening  social 
cohesion, national reconciliation, peace and prosperity 
in Africa  and  beyond.  South Africa  is  also  committed 
to  contributing  to  the  ideals  of  freedom,  liberty  and 
hope for a better world. 

We believe that sport can effectively contribute to 
the  realization  of  social  and  economic  development, 
including 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  promotion  of  dialogue 
among civilizations. For that reason, we commend the 
continued work of the United Nations New York Office 
of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  and  the  United 
Nations Office on Sport for Development and Peace, in 
Geneva.  Both  offices  have  effectively  contributed  to 
advancing  advocacy  work  on  sports  within  the  United 
Nations system and beyond. 

Two hundred and thirty-four days away from the 
2010  FIFA  World  Cup,  we  would  like  to  assure  the 
Assembly that South Africa is ready to deliver a world-
achievement  of 
the 

of  African  Renaissance 
class soccer event that will ensure a lasting legacy for 
the  people  of Africa.  The African  Legacy  Programme 
for  the  2010  World  Cup  is  aimed  at  supporting  the 
realization 
objectives, 
including programmes of the African Union such as the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development;  ensuring 
maximum  and  effective  African  participation  at  the 
2010  event;  supporting  efforts  aimed  at  strengthening 
and  promoting  the  development  and  advancement  of 
African football; and improving Africa’s global image. 
Similarly,  we  undertake  to  ensure  that  our  continent 
shares  a  common  sense  of  hope  and  that  we  will 
sustain  the  pride  of  FIFA  and  of  all  footballers  and 
lovers  of  football  throughout  the  world  in  the  human 
festival that is the soccer World Cup. 
We thank all Member States for their constructive 

inputs and suggestions during the consultations on the 
draft  text.  On  behalf  of  the  South  African  delegation 
and  other  sponsors,  we  hope  that  the  draft  resolution 
will  enjoy  the  unanimous  support  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
reaffirm  South  Africa’s  readiness  and  commitment  to 
hosting  the  peoples  of  the  world  next  year,  who  will 
enjoy unique African hospitality and vibrancy. Working 
together, we can do more to ensure that the 2010 FIFA 
World  Cup  in  South Africa  becomes  one  of  the  most 
memorable  sporting  events.  We  will  see  everyone  in 
South Africa and Africa from 11 June to 11 July 2010 
and at all other times.  
Mrs. Kaur (India): I am honoured and privileged 

to participate in today’s discussion on “Sport for peace 
and development: building a peaceful and better world 
through sport and the Olympic ideal”.  
As  I  am  speaking  for  the  first  time  at  the  sixty-

fourth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  please  allow 
me  at  the  outset,  Sir,  to  add  my  voice  to  those  of 
preceding  speakers  in  congratulating  you  on  your 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly. 

By  its  very  nature,  sport  is  about  inclusion  and 
participation.  It  brings  individuals  and  communities 
together  and  bridges  ethnic  and  cultural  divides.  It 
transcends  social-cultural  barriers  and  geographical 
borders  and  promotes  peace  and  harmony.  It  also 
provides  for  understanding  of 
importance  of 
discipline and leadership.  
the 
4 

09-56441 
and 
campaigns. 
immunization 



Sport  is  an  inalienable  part  of  the  educational 
process  and  an  essential  component  of  a  child’s 
development.  It  also  fosters  children’s  physical  and 
emotional  health  and  the  building  of  valuable  social 
connections.  The  fundamental  elements  of  sport, 
including  the  obvious  benefits  of  physical  and  mental 
well-being,  make  it  a  most  useful  tool  for  supporting 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

Moreover,  sporting  activities  have  a  unique 
convening  power  to  spur  social  communication  and 
advocacy.  They  are  most  effective  tools  for  social 
mobilization,  supporting  such  activities  as  HIV/AIDS 
education 
In 
re-channelling  destructive 
impulses  and  harmful 
actions, such as drug abuse and involvement in crime, 
the efficacy of sport cannot be overemphasized. 

Mastery in sports was considered as important as 
knowledge of scriptures in ancient India. The education 
system in modern India is trying to continue and build 
upon  that  heritage  and  respect  for  sport  and  physical 
education. The efforts of the Government of India have 
been  aimed  at  broad-basing  sports  and  providing 
modern  sports  infrastructure.  A  national  sports  policy 
was adopted by India in 2001. 

At  the  national  level,  the  Ministry  of  Youth 
Affairs  and  Sports  in  the  Government  of  India  has 
responsibility for sports. The Sports Authority of India 
is  its  principal  arm  for  nurturing  talent  and  providing 
infrastructure, equipment, coaching and other facilities. 
Here, if I may add a personal touch, I am indeed proud 
that India’s National Institute of Sports is located in my 
constituency,  Patiala.  My  family  has  been  and  is 
intimately  connected  with  the  Olympic  movement.  In 
addition,  the  Government  has  encouraged  the  national 
sports  federations  to  function  more  efficiently  and  is 
encouraging  the  active  involvement  of  business  and 
industry in the promotion of sports. 

We are proud that New Delhi will be hosting the 
next  Commonwealth  Games  from  3  to  14  October 
2010. The Games are a unique, world-class, multi-sport 
event  held  once  every  four  years  among  the  member 
countries  and  territories  of  the  Commonwealth.  The 
three  core  values  of 
the  Commonwealth  Games 
movement  —  humanity,  equality  and  destiny  —  were 
adopted  by  the  movement  in  2001.  Those  values 
inspire and unite millions of people and symbolize the 
broad  mandate  for  holding  the  games  within  the 
A/64/PV.21
in 
reflected 
is  co-sponsoring 
Commonwealth.  India  organized  the  Commonwealth 
Youth  Games,  a  sub-event  of  the  Commonwealth 
Games, in Pune in October 2008. 

Pierre  de  Coubertin,  founder  of  the  modern 
Olympic  Games,  said,  “Sport  must  be  the  heritage  of 
all men and of all social classes”. India is steadfast in 
its  commitment  to  the  Olympic  Charter  and,  as  in 
previous  years, 
the  General 
Assembly  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Building  a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal” (A/64/L.2). 

We are also very pleased that the 2016 Olympics 
have been awarded to Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, a fellow 
developing country, and that the 2010 World Cup of the 
Fédération 
Internationale  de  Football  Association 
(FIFA)  will  be  hosted  by  South Africa  —  a  first  for  a 
country  on 
the  African  continent.  We  are  also 
co-sponsoring  the  draft  resolution  on  the  2010  FIFA 
World Cup in South Africa (A/64/L.3). In addition, we 
wish  Canada  every  success  in  organizing  the  XXI 
Winter  Olympic  Games  and  the  X  Paralympic  Winter 
Games,  and  we  commend  Singapore’s  initiative  to 
organize the Youth Olympic Games. We have no doubt 
that  the  hosting  of  major  global  sporting  events  in 
developing  countries  will  contribute  greatly  to  the 
advancement  of  sports  in  developing  countries  and 
spur development activities. 
Sport is a reflection of society. The degeneration 

of  values 
in  violence, 
corruption,  hooliganism,  deception  and  drug  abuse,  is 
also  making  inroads  into  the  area  of  sport.  Concerted 
vigilance and resolute action are needed to prevent the 
intrusion of those evils and to protect the noble ideals 
and spirit behind the Olympic Games and other sports. 
It  must  be  our  endeavour  to  promote  sports  and  a 
culture  of  sports  in  our  countries.  That  can  only 
contribute 
peace, 
friendship,  cooperation  and  understanding  among 
peoples. 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Serene  Highness 
Prince Albert II of Monaco. 

His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Serene Highness Prince Albert 
in  society,  as 
development, 
to 
promoting 
09-56441 

5 

A/64/PV.21 

II  of  Monaco  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
Prince Albert  II  (spoke  in  French):  One  month 

ago,  from  this  very  rostrum,  an  appeal  was  launched 
for  a  new  type  of  multilateralism  —  one  imbued  with 
the  values  of  cooperation,  mutual  comprehension, 
solidarity  and  tolerance;  one  that  would  be  inclusive, 
participatory,  transparent,  effective  and  constructive; 
one  that  would  bring  States  closer  so  that  they  could, 
together, fashion their common future while respecting 
their differences. 

Today,  confronted  with  crises  that  no  one  can 
resolve alone, we are obligated, perhaps urgently, to act 
to  improve  the  quality  of  life  of  millions  of  men, 
women and children, whose suffering is tarnishing the 
successes  of  our  age,  and  to  reduce  the  adverse 
consequences of the climate change and environmental 
degradation  that  threaten  the  very  existence  of  future 
generations. 

By inviting the International Olympic Committee 
(IOC) to participate in these deliberations, the General 
Assembly,  mindful  of  preserving  human  dignity,  is 
recognizing the symbol of a movement that defends an 
ideal  of  human  progress  and  promotes  a  society  of 
peace. 

The  five  interlocking  rings  representing  our  five 
continents, in the basic colours that are on all flags of 
the  States  Members  of  our  Organization,  are 
synonymous  with  hope.  Therefore,  more  than  at  any 
time in the past 16 years, the building of a world that is 
peaceful  and  better  thanks  to  sport  and  the  Olympic 
ideal  is  of  particular  importance.  Resolution  64/3 
extends cooperation between two universal institutions, 
the  values  and  ideals  of  which  it  defends  and  are 
strengthened  by  the  granting  to  IOC  of  the  status  of 
observer in our Assembly.  

Born  of  the  tradition  of  Ancient  Greece,  the 
Olympic  Truce,  known  as  ekecheiria,  cornerstone  of 
the Olympic Games, ordered in the ninth century B.C. 
the suspension of conflicts from the seventh day before 
the opening of the Games to the seventh day after the 
closing of the Games, and in this way allowed athletes 
and spectators to participate in these competitions in a 
safe and peaceful environment.  
Today,  the  Olympic  Truce  is  the  expression  of 

humankind’s  desire 
to  build  a  world  of  peace, 
respectful of the principles of fair competition. Beyond 
institutionalizes 
the 
to  promote 
sports  as  a  means 
the  contribution  of  sport  to  peace  and  development, 
which we enshrined in the Millennium Declaration, the 
official involvement of the IOC in the deliberations of 
the  General  Assembly 
link 
between ancient wisdom and the most vital objective of 
the United Nations — the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 

Thus, behind the symbol of the rings that we have 
all  come  to  recognize  is  the  temporary  calming  of  an 
armed conflict — the opportunity to spare the life of a 
child, woman or man — that we truly support. As most 
pertinently emphasized in the International Committee 
of  the  Red  Cross  report  entitled  “Our  world.  Views 
from  the  field”,  published  in  June  2009,  it  is  also  an 
all-too-brief  moment  to  spare  victims,  often  civilians, 
from  suffering,  displacement, 
the  dispersion  of 
families, lack of basic necessities, and above all fear — 
the fear of dying or, worse yet, of losing a loved one.  

As a member of the IOC, I have no doubt of the 
full  support  that  it  will  lend  to  the  work  of  our 
Assembly.  Beyond  its  involvement  in  peacekeeping 
missions 
for 
re-establishing  trust  between  parties  emerging  from  a 
conflict,  the  IOC  has  endorsed  our  commitment  to 
implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It 
has, on the one hand, based its social responsibility on 
six objectives where sports could have a strong impact, 
and, on the other hand, established relations with such 
the  United  Nations 
United  Nations  bodies  as 
the  United 
Development  Programme,  UNICEF, 
Nations  Environment  Programme,  UNESCO, 
the 
World  Health  Organization,  the  International  Labour 
Organization,  the  World  Food  Programme  and  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees.  

As  we  prepare  to  review  the  implementation  of 
these objectives, the  relevance  of the  IOC agenda  and 
its participation in our deliberations could not be more 
appropriate. The study we shall undertake in 2010 will 
reveal the strength of our determination, but we already 
know  that  if  we  are  to  implement  our  priorities,  as 
basic  as  they  might  be,  we  will  need  to  redouble  our 
efforts and enlist the support of all stakeholders and all 
people  of  goodwill,  for  it  will  be  much  more  than  an 
unprecedented effort towards general mobilization. 
We  are  convinced  that,  with  the  ongoing  and 

unfailing  support  of 
the 
personal  commitment  of  Mr.  Lemke,  his  Special 
the  Secretary-General, 
6 

09-56441 
Through 
involvement, 


Adviser  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  the 
efforts of the Bureau, and the active contribution of the 
Group of Friends of Sport for Development and Peace, 
we can help sport to realize its full potential for peace 
and development. 

The  third  annual  Peace  and  Sport  International 
Forum, to be held in the Principality of Monaco from 25 to 
27  November,  which  I  will  be  chairing,  will  once  again 
bring  together,  in  an  apolitical  context,  global  sport 
governance,  Governments,  athletes,  non-governmental 
organizations and representatives of the private sector. 

I  have  made  a 
commitment  to  ensure  that  sport  is  recognized  as  a 
means  of  promoting  and  building  peace  in  vulnerable 
communities affected by extreme poverty, the aftermath 
of  conflicts  or  the  lack  of  social  cohesion.  Peace  and 
Sport  is  involved  in  a  number  of  countries —  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Burundi,  Timor-Leste  and  Colombia  —  and 
hopes soon to be involved in many others.  

Talking about the IOC without mentioning that it 
represents  the  largest  sport  organization  for  youth 
throughout  the  world  would  be  a  failure  to  recognize 
the  intergenerational  link  that  it  embodies.  The  first 
Youth  Olympic  Games,  to  be  held  in  Singapore  in 
August 2010, will be a major event in that respect.  

Inculcating  young  people  throughout  the  world 
with  unpretentious  and  healthy  values  —  physical 
well-being, health, a balanced lifestyle, and respect for 
fair  play  and  non-discrimination  —  is  an  effort  that 
must be renewed on a constant basis. That is the spirit 
not  only  of  sport,  but  also  of  life  in  society  in  an 
interdependent world. I am very enthusiastic about the 
accomplishments  of  all  those  athletes  whose  work, 
rigour,  discipline  and  resolve  lead  them  to  surpass 
themselves  and  inspire  us  to  rediscover  the  feats  that 
people are capable of.  

the  Italian 
delegation  for  having  submitted  the  request  of  the 
International  Olympic  Committee  and  wish  our 
Canadian  colleagues  well-deserved  success  with  the 
upcoming  XXI  Winter  Olympic  Games  in  Vancouver, 
reminding  them  that  I  still  have  fond  and  moving 
memories of the XV Games in Calgary in 1988, where 
it was my honour to become an Olympian.  

In  conclusion,  I  offer  my  full  personal  support 
and  that  of  my  delegation  to  South  Africa  and  the 
continent  of Africa  for  the  holding  of  the  2010 World 
Finally,  I  would 
thank 
like 
this 
to 
A/64/PV.21
through 
sport  and 
the  Olympic 
Cup  of  the  Fédération  Internationale  de  Football 
Association, whose success will be important not only 
to  the  entire  African  continent,  but  to  all  those  who 
share the values of sport. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  His  Serene 
Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco for the statement 
he has just made. 

His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
Mr.  Mitsialis  (Greece):  It  is  a  great  honour  for 

me  to  take  the  floor  on  agenda  item  45  in  order  to 
express  my  country’s  wholehearted  support  for  the 
draft resolution entitled “Building a peaceful and better 
world 
ideal” 
(A/64/L.2). 

Since  1993,  the  General  Assembly  has  adopted 
eight resolutions on the Olympic Truce. It is important 
to  stress  that  all  these  resolutions  were  sponsored  by 
almost  all  Member  States.  This  unique  record  proves 
that Member States are fully committed to the Olympic 
ideals  and  believe  that  the  ancient  Greek  concept  of 
ekecheiria  retains  its  importance  and  can  offer  a 
constructive approach to conflict resolution. 

Promoting  peace  was,  in  fact,  the  very  reason 
why  the  Olympic  Games  were  originally  established. 
In antiquity, the implementation of the Olympic Truce 
entailed a cessation of all hostilities to allow thousands 
of  athletes,  pilgrims  and  spectators 
to 
Olympia  to  attend  the  sacred  celebration  of  human 
achievement,  and  then  return  home  in  safety  and 
security.  The  Olympic  Truce  was  upheld  for  over 
1,000 years,  making  it  the  longest  lasting  peace  treaty 
in history. 

Today,  the  Olympic  Games  should  continue  to 
offer  a  unique  opportunity  to  promote  the  culture  of 
peace and to  convey the message that it is possible to 
create a lasting peace from a pause in hostilities. With 
regard to the concept of Olympic Truce, it has become 
an  expression  of  humankind’s  desire  to  build  a  world 
based  on 
the  rules  of  fair  competition,  civility, 
reconciliation  and  tolerance.  Moreover,  it  bridges  an 
old  and  wise  tradition  related  to  the  most  essential 
objectives  of  the  world  today  —  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and the promotion of multicultural 
dialogue, cooperation and understanding. 
travel 
to 
09-56441 

7 

the 
goals, 
especially 
A/64/PV.21 


Making  the  Olympic  Truce  a  reality  in  the 
modern world is truly a challenging endeavour, and we 
have  no  illusions  that  it  will  miraculously  heal  all  the 
rifts  that  ravage  so  many  regions  of  the  world. 
However,  if  the  Olympic  Truce  could  help  to  bring 
about  even  a  brief  pause  from  conflict  and  strife,  it 
would certainly send a powerful message of hope. 

The efficient tool for achieving this goal is sport, 
which  is  substantial  to  the  notion  of  Olympic  Truce. 
Over  the  past  few  years,  sport  has  been  widely 
recognized  by  States  and  specialized  agencies  as  a 
cost-effective  instrument  for  addressing  humankind’s 
challenge.  Furthermore, 
latest  comprehensive 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  item  under 
consideration  stated  that  sport  has  been  a  powerful 
lever  in  the  pursuit  of  the  internationally  agreed 
the  Millennium 
development 
Development  Goals.  It  also  mentions 
that  sport 
successfully addresses such issues as racism, the plight 
of  street  children,  gender  inequality  and  traumatized 
youth — in other words, the root causes of violence. 

The  Olympic  Truce,  as  an  ideological  driving 
force,  and  Sport,  as  a  practical  means  to  advance 
human  development,  have  proved  to  be  the  right 
combination  for  moving  forward.  Results,  though  not 
always  impressive,  have  been  obtained,  so  let  us 
persevere in this direction and remain confident that it 
is  the  right  one,  keeping  in  mind  that  conflicts  in  the 
world will certainly not cease overnight. 
Mr.  Zhang  Yesui  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

China  supports  the  consideration  of  the  agenda  item 
“Sport  for  peace  and  development”  in  the  plenary  of 
the  General  Assembly.  China  believes  that  sport  has 
always  played  a  major  catalytic  role  in  humankind’s 
pursuit  of  peace  and  development. 
It  deepens 
understanding and exchanges among different cultures 
and promotes dialogue and cooperation. 

China  appreciates  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations to integrate the values of sport with the goal of 
peace  and  development.  We  support  the  Secretary-
General’s  Special  Adviser  and  the  United  Nations 
Inter-Agency  Task  Force  on  Sport  for  Development 
and Peace in their endeavours to mobilize all possible 
resources  to  incorporate  sport  into  activities  and 
programmes 
development, 
education,  health  and  gender  equality  and  into  the 
efforts to safeguard the  rights and interests of persons 
with  disabilities,  so  as  to  further  advance  the  role  of 
peacekeeping, 
for 
(FIFA), 
in 
to 
achieve 
the 
impact  of 
to  be  held 
the  Millennium 
sport 
in  helping 
Development Goals. 

Last  year,  the  Chinese  Government  successfully 
hosted the XXIX Summer Olympic Games and the XIII 
Paralympic  Games  in  Beijing.  Two  years  ago,  the 
Chinese  delegation  sponsored  and  submitted  for 
adoption resolution 62/4 on the Olympic Truce. Today, 
we  are  pleased  to  see  that,  under  the  agenda  item  on 
sport,  the  Governments  of  Canada  and  South  Africa 
have submitted draft resolutions on the Olympic Truce 
and the World Cup of the Fédération Internationale de 
Football  Association 
respectively  draft 
resolutions A/64/L.2 and A/64/L.3. China is willing to 
join  the  sponsors  of  the  two  draft  resolutions,  and 
hopes for the full success of the 2010 Winter Olympic 
and  Paralympic  Games,  to  be  held  in  Vancouver,  the 
2010 FIFA World Cup, to be held in South Africa, and 
the  first  Youth  Olympic  Games, 
in 
Singapore.  We  also  welcome  the  participation  of  the 
International  Olympic  Committee 
the  General 
Assembly as an observer for the first time. 
The  success  of  the  Beijing  Olympiad  greatly 

increased 
in 
developing  countries,  promoted  the  spreading  of  the 
Olympic spirit, aroused the enthusiasm of hundreds of 
millions of Chinese people for sport, and solidified the 
social  foundation  of  the  development  of  sport  at  the 
grass-roots level in China. In January 2009, in order to 
carry on the invaluable spiritual heritage of the Beijing 
Olympics and advance our national fitness programme, 
the  Chinese  Government  proclaimed  8  August,  the 
opening  day  of  the  Beijing  Olympic  Games,  as  our 
National Fitness Day. 

In  September  this  year,  the  Chinese  Government 
instituted  national 
the 
first 
comprehensive 
regulations 
focusing  on  the  development  of  a  national  fitness 
programme.  By  specifying  the  rights  of  citizens  to 
the 
engage 
and 
responsibilities  of  Government  departments 
in 
promoting  fitness  for  all,  the  regulations  provide  a 
strong 
fitness 
activities.  The  Chinese  Government  has  also  put  in 
place a national physical condition monitoring system, 
a  set  of  physical  exercise  standards  and  a  physical 
training system for the general public. 

Concerted efforts and assiduous research have led 
to  good  results  in  finding  ways  to  utilize  the  Beijing 
regulations, 
set  of  administrative 
the  Olympic  Games 
facilitate  national 
in  national 
legal  basis 
fitness 
activities 
fitness 
to 
8 

09-56441 
throughout 
2009  marks 
the  sixtieth  anniversary  of 


Olympic  Games  stadiums,  thus  reaping  social  as  well 
as economic benefits. History proves that the people of 
China  are  capable  not  only  of  hosting  a 
truly 
exceptional Olympiad, but also of wisely managing the 
invaluable  physical  heritage  of  the  Beijing  Olympic 
Games and passing on their spiritual heritage. 

the 
founding  of  the  new  China.  The  past  60  years  have 
witnessed  rapid  progress  in  our  economic  and  social 
development  and  spectacular  achievements  in  sport. 
The  advancement  of  sport 
in  China  has  greatly 
improved  our  people’s  health,  enhanced  their  self-
confidence  and  inspired  us  in  our  ceaseless  pursuit  of 
excellence.  Sport  has  also  provided  a  boost  for 
progress in all fields.  

Currently,  with  the  coordination  and  healthy 
development  of  competitive  sport,  grass-roots  sport 
activities  and  physical  education 
the 
Chinese  educational  system,  the  number  of  people 
engaged in regular physical exercise is now equivalent 
to  28.2  per  cent  of  the  entire  population.  Nationwide, 
there are over 850,000 sports facilities, or 1.02 square 
metres  of  sports  facilities  per  capita,  which 
is, 
respectively, 200 and 100 times more than in the years 
following  the  founding  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China.  Sport  activities  at  the  grass-roots  level  have 
been  consistently 
in  a  systematic  and 
scientific  way.  The  standardized  management  of  sport 
events  and 
the  public  are  also 
increasing. Throughout the nation, there are now nearly 
210,000  urban  and  rural  fitness  training  centres  and 
venues, 3,092 youth sports clubs and 176 single-event 
national, 
and 
professional sport associations. 

Guided by the scientific outlook on development, 
our  Government  will  continue  to  give  full  play  to  the 
positive  role  of  sport  in  the  building  of  a  harmonious 
society, to adhere to the goal of improving the physical 
well-being and the quality of life of all Chinese people, 
to  build  more  and  better  urban  and  rural  fitness 
facilities,  to  improve  grass-roots  sport  organizations 
and  the  national  fitness  system,  and  to  provide  better 
sport services to the public so that the people can share 
the health and development benefits of sport. 

We stand ready to work with other countries and 
continue  to  advance  the  role  of  sport  in  promoting 
international  peace  and  development, 
to  enhance 
international  cooperation  and  exchanges  in  sport,  and 
regional,  municipal 
their  appeal 
provincial, 
improved 
to 
A/64/PV.21
having 
However, 
celebrated 
to  jointly  contribute  to  world  peace,  development  and 
prosperity. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

The  San  Francisco  Charter  laid  the  basis  for  what 
would  become  a  new  system  of  international  relations 
to prevent the recurrence of the terrible experiences of 
the  two  world  wars  of  the  twentieth  century.  The 
fundamental goal set out in its first paragraph is to save 
succeeding generations from the scourge of war and to 
establish  a  democratic  and  fair  international  order 
based  on  equal  respect  for  the  dignity  of  all  human 
beings. 

With those objectives, the Organization to which 
we belong today was created, the aims of which are to 
maintain international peace and security, based on the 
principles of the sovereign equality of all its Members, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes,  the 
non-use  or  threat  of  force  and  non-intervention  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  States.  We  were  also  promised  that 
all  peoples  would  achieve  economic  and  social 
progress. 

sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  we  now  bear 
witness to a grim economic and social outlook marked 
by the combination of the economic and financial, food 
and  energy  crises,  as  well  as  the  negative  impact  of 
climate  change 
race. 
Furthermore,  the  powerful  countries  persist  in  their 
desire  to  control  natural  resources  deemed  strategic 
through wars of aggression and foreign occupation. 
As a result of those ills, responsibility for which 

lies  with  the  current  unfair  and  unequal  international 
order,  and  not  with  the  countries  of  the  South,  the 
countries  of  the  South  have  seen  our  development 
efforts undermined. That is why, today more than ever, 
it is urgent to foster a climate of international peace by 
promoting 
as 
fundamental values.  
For  Cuba,  sport  unquestionably  strengthens 

solidarity  and  friendship  among  peoples  as  crucial 
factors  in  the  promotion  of  peace,  development  and 
cooperation  among  nations.  Sport  is  an  important 
aspect  of  development  at  both 
the  national  and 
international  levels.  For  Cuba,  sport  is  no  longer 
exclusive,  but  has  become  the  right  of  the  entire 
population. Since the triumph of the Cuban Revolution, 
we  have  discovered  the  true  path  of  collective  sport, 
and  multilateralism 
the  human 
solidarity 
threatens 
the 
that 
09-56441 

9 

A/64/PV.21 

which has led to outstanding successes in regional and 
international competitions. 

Pursuant  to  that  right,  we  have  promoted  an 
educational system that includes physical education as 
an integral part of human learning. We are working to 
ensure sports training from early childhood with a view 
to  promoting  the  talents  of  those  who  stand  out  as 
future  athletes  to  champion  and  raise  the  level  of  our 
country  in  international  sport.  At  the  same  time,  we 
oppose  the  athletic  activities  whose  only  reward  is 
money,  and  therefore  condemn  the  theft  of  sporting 
talents to which developing countries are prey. 

The Cuban sport movement, headed by the Cuban 
Olympic  Committee  and  the  National  Institute  of 
Sport,  Physical  Education  and  Recreation,  has  offered 
its  selfless  cooperation  to  various  countries  of  the 
South  by  sending  technical  experts,  teachers  and 
trainers  who,  modestly  and  on  the  basis  of  bilateral 
agreements,  inculcate  new  sport  training  methods  that 
help  boost  sporting  results  and  mass  participation, 
developing  strong  links  of  brotherhood  and  friendship 
among peoples. 
also 
have 
strengthened 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
We 

international 
cooperation by making our Institute of Sports Medicine 
and Anti-doping  Laboratory  available  to  the  countries 
of the South in order to contribute to the fight against 
the  scourge  of  drugs  that  corrupt  athletes  and  hamper 
honest  competition,  as  well  as  the  reputation  and 
culture of athletes and trainers.  

Cuba  also  founded  the  International  School  of 
Physical  Education  and  Sport,  devoted  to  training 
professionals  who  value  solidarity  above  all  and  are 
capable of transforming physical education and sport in 
their  countries.  Cuba  will  host  the  Third  International 
Convention  of  Physical Activity  and  Sport  in  Havana 
from 9 to 13 November 2009. The Convention’s motto 
is  “Professional  development,  physical  activity  and 
quality of life”. 

We wish to congratulate Brazil on the selection of 
Rio  de  Janeiro  as  host  of  the  2016  Olympics.  That 
choice was fair and well deserved. The countries of the 
South also deserve to host such games of brotherhood 
and  solidarity  without  commercial  interests.  We  are 
sure that the 2016 Olympic Games will be a success for 
the entire South. 
to 
co-sponsor 
Singapore 
is  pleased 
the  XXI  Olympic  Winter  Games  and 

Let us spread world solidarity, including through 
the  Olympic  ideal,  and  all  the  weapons  that  this 
civilization has created will be superfluous. Let us sow 
ideas, and the relentless destruction of our environment 
will  be  averted.  Let  us  share  the  hope  that  a  better 
world is possible. 
Mr.  Gan  (Singapore):  The  Singapore  delegation 

would  like  to  congratulate  Canada  on  the  imminent 
adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/64/L.2,  “Building  a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal”. We are confident that Canada, as host 
of 
the  X 
Paralympic  Winter  Games,  will  spare  no  efforts  in  its 
Olympic preparation in the coming months. We would 
like  to  extend  to  the  Vancouver  Winter  Olympics 
Organizing  Committee  our  best  wishes  for  successful 
Games. 

this 
resolution. Much has been said about how sport can be 
an  agent  for  promoting  understanding  and  respect 
among people. At the community level, sport has been 
a  catalyst  for  combating  social  exclusion,  engaging 
youth, building communities and positively influencing 
social  behaviours. At  the  international  level,  sport  has 
reinforced 
regions, 
challenged  prejudice  and  found  commonalities  among 
nations  in  conflict.  Sport  is  about  values  that  are 
fundamental to us and transcend all boundaries. 

The  Youth  Olympic  Games  is  the  first  new 
product of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) 
in 80 years, the last being the Winter Olympic Games. 
The  Youth  Olympic  Games  will  attract  5,000  youth 
athletes  and  officials  from  205  National  Olympic 
Committees to compete in all 26 summer sports in 201 
events. 

At  the  119th  International  Olympic  Committee 
Session,  the  IOC  President,  Jacques  Rogge,  declared 
that the Youth Olympic Games  

“are  the  flagship  of  the  IOC’s  determination  to 
reach out to young people. These games will not 
only  be  about  competition,  they  will  also  be  the 
platform  through  which  youngsters  will  learn 
about  the  Olympic  values  and  the  benefits  of 
sport,  and  share  their  experiences  with  other 
communities around the globe”.  

In  a  sporting  arena  tarnished  by  scandals  and 
where  use  of  steroids  and  cheating  no  longer  surprise 
links  between  countries  and 
10 

09-56441 


any  of  us,  it  is  perhaps  timely  that  we  remind 
ourselves,  and  our  youth,  that  sport  is  not  just  about 
victories,  but  about  interacting  and  connecting  with 
one another, uniting people and building bridges. 

Singapore  is  privileged  to  host  the  inaugural 
Youth  Olympic  Games  from  14  to  26  August  2010. 
Similar  to  the  Olympic  Games,  the  emphasis  of  the 
Youth  Olympic  Games  will  be  on  sport  excellence. 
However,  the Youth  Olympic  Games  will  integrate  its 
sport  programme  with  a  culture  and  education 
programme. This is a first for the Olympic movement. 
It  represents  a  shift  in  thinking  and  an  opportunity  to 
do  things  differently.  Singapore  envisions  a  Youth 
Olympic Games that will inspire our youth to embrace 
the  Olympic  values  of  excellence,  friendship  and 
respect not just in sport, but their everyday life. 

Singapore  2010  is  about  taking  bold  steps.  It  is 
about  making  an  investment  in  our  youth,  our  future 
leaders.  With  the  introduction  of  the  culture  and 
education  programme, 
the  Singapore  2010  Youth 
Olympic  Games  has  been  developed  as  a  learning 
journey,  even  as  young  athletes  prepare  and  train  to 
compete  in  sport.  The  programme  comprises  five 
themes,  such  as  Olympism,  skills  development  and 
social  responsibility.  Through  that  fun  and  interactive 
programme,  Singapore  2010  aims  to  provide  young 
people with the opportunity to develop the confidence, 
belief  and  courage not only to succeed  on the playing 
field,  but  to  champion  their  values  and  convictions  to 
make a positive impact in their communities and build 
a better and peaceful world. 

The learning  journey for youth began in January 
2008  through  pre-Games  activities  and  programmes. 
For  example,  one  of  the  programmes,  Friends@YOG, 
which  was  introduced  in  March  2009,  twins  every 
Singapore  school  to  a  school  from  each  of  the  other 
204  countries  with  a  National  Olympic  Committee. 
That  provides  an  opportunity  for  interaction  among 
youth,  which  leads  to  better  understanding  of  one 
another’s culture and country. 

During  the  Games,  Singaporean  youth  will  also 
have the opportunity to exhibit what they have learned 
about their counterparts in the world culture village at 
the  Youth  Olympic  Village.  That  will  provide  a  good 
platform for visiting athletes and officials to talk about 
their own countries and cultures and exchange ideas to 
get  to  know  one  another  better.  We  are  confident  that 
the  Youth  Olympic  Games  pre-Games  activities  will 
A/64/PV.21
people 
are 
engaged 
Today’s  youth  have  diverse 
contribute  to  the  growth  of  our  young  people  to 
become better leaders for tomorrow.  

Many  international  communities  have  joined  us 
in  our  pre-Games  activities,  sharing  their  cultures  and 
experiences  in  celebration  of  Singapore  2010.  We 
invite  members  of  the  Assembly  to  join  us  in  this 
journey  as  we  lead  in  developing  a  legacy  for  future 
generations. 

interests  and 
expectations. The Youth Olympic Games will create an 
environment  where  young  people,  especially  athletes, 
will  receive  support,  will  be  encouraged  to  take 
ownership of their ideas, initiatives and responsibilities 
and  will  be  empowered  to  make  a  difference  in  their 
communities.  Young 
in 
contributing  ideas  for  Singapore  2010  and  are  given 
opportunities to take ownership in organizing events in 
support and in celebration of Singapore 2010. 
An example of that is the Singapore 2010 CAN! 

festivals.  “CAN!”  stands  for  “Create.  Action.  Now!” 
Through  the  Singapore  2010  CAN!  festivals,  young 
people  have  been  entrusted  with  planning  and 
organizing  quarterly  festivals,  each  with  a  theme, 
namely 
digital  media, 
environment, and the arts. Youth have also been active 
in other capacities, such as volunteering, administrative 
support  and  participating  in  the  many  Singapore  2010 
CAN! events. 

Singapore  is  a  young  nation  infused  with  a 
myriad  of  cultural  colours  and  societal  textures.  That 
provides  a  good  backdrop  and  environment  for  cross-
cultural  learning  and  understanding.  Similar  to  the 
Vancouver  XXI  Olympic  Winter  Games  and  X 
Paralympic  Winter  Games,  the  Singapore  2010  Youth 
Olympic Games aim to promote the Olympic values of 
excellence, friendship and respect. 

What  Singapore  hopes  to  achieve  at  the  end  of 
the inaugural Youth Olympic Games is to be successful 
in inspiring young people around the world and sowing 
the seeds of those Olympic values and for the youth to 
begin to live by them, if they do not already do so. 

In closing, allow me to relate a story to illustrate 
how  youth  can  help  or  contribute  to  building  a  better 
and peaceful world through sport.  
John  Ian  Wing  was  a  17-year-old  Chinese-

in  Melbourne.  He  was 
Australian  student 
immensely  troubled  by  the  tensions  during  the  1956 
heritage, 
culture 
and 
living 
09-56441 

11 
A/64/PV.21 

Melbourne  Games. A  near  riot  had  broken  out  during 
the USSR-Hungary water polo competition, tainted by 
the Suez Canal Crisis and the Soviet Union’s invasion 
of  Hungary.  Wing  sent  an  anonymous  letter  to  the 
Melbourne  Organizing  Committee,  suggesting  that  all 
athletes  walk  freely  as  one  nation  in  the  closing 
ceremony,  contrary  to  the  tradition  of  marching  by 
nation.  To  his  surprise,  his  idea  of  “One  World,  One 
Nation” was implemented. Today, he is still lauded for 
his role in promoting peace and global unity. 
Mrs.  Enna  Park  (Republic  of  Korea):  The 

Republic  of  Korea  wholeheartedly  supports  the  draft 
resolution  being  considered  under  agenda  item  “Sport 
for  peace  and  development:  building  a  peaceful  and 
better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”. 

Sport  is  a  powerful  tool  to  bring  diverse  groups 
together  under  the  spirit  and  values  enshrined  in  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  The  biannual  Olympics, 
Paralympic  Games  and  the  World  Cup  are  leading 
examples of this interaction. 

Last  year’s  Summer  Olympic  Games  in  Beijing 
were  a  success,  and  my  delegation  is  proud  that  the 
Games  took  place  in Asia. The  Republic  of  Korea,  as 
host  of  the  Olympics  in  1988,  knows  how  important 
hosting  the  Games  is  to  Member  States,  and  we 
congratulate  China’s  achievement  in  this  regard.  My 
delegation would like to also congratulate Canada and 
voice  our  support  for  the  Vancouver  2010  Winter 
successful 
Games 
manifestation 
and 
development through sport.  

Furthermore,  we  hope  that  Member  States  will 
uphold  the  Olympic  Truce  and  lend  their  valuable 
backing 
initiative  of  sport  and  human 
development during the build-up to and duration of the 
Games. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  full  recognition  of 
the  increasingly  important  role  of  sport  in  achieving 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
those  contained  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  as 
stated in the draft resolution. While sport alone cannot 
pave the way for peace and social development, it can 
be  an  effective  tool  when  used  in  conjunction  with 
other  existing  programmes  and  initiatives.  In  this 
regard,  my  delegation  notes  the  many  positive  ways 
sport  can  contribute  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, as reflected in the Secretary-General’s report on 
sport for development and peace (A/63/466). 
continuation  of 
international 
cooperation 
to 
the 
the 
as 
a 
of 


As  a  contribution  to  that  cause,  the  Republic  of 
Korea has actively engaged in global sports events by 
hosting  the  Olympics  and  the  World  Cup.  In  the 
coming  years  we  will  also  host  the  2011 World Track 
and  Field  Championship,  the  2014  Asian  Games  and 
the  2015  Summer  Universiade.  We  also  hope  to  host 
the  Winter  Olympics  in  2018  and  the  World  Cup  in 
2022 and have made official bids for both events.  

The Republic of Korea also considers it important 
to  contribute  to  increased  international  cooperation  in 
promoting  sports  for  development.  For  example,  we 
have  initiated  various  programmes  for  supporting 
athletic  activities  both  in  our  region  and  in  other 
regions. Such programmes include Vision 2014, which 
is  designed  to  assist  sports  projects  of  other  countries 
in the Asian region  for the  period from 2007 to 2014, 
and  the  Dream  Program  to  promote  young  athletes  in 
winter  games  worldwide  for  the  period  from  2004  to 
2010. 

Lastly, the Republic of Korea lends its support to 
draft  resolution  A/64/L.3,  on  the  2010  FIFA  World 
Cup.  We  congratulate  South  Africa  and  emphatically 
back  its  preparations  to  host  the  World  Cup.  That 
upcoming  Cup  is  an  historic  occasion,  as  it  marks  the 
first time that the pre-eminent football tournament will 
be  played  on  African  soil.  Having  successfully 
co-hosted  the  2002  tournament  alongside  Japan  — 
which  was  the  first  and  only  time  the  World  Cup  has 
come  to  Asia  —  my  delegation  fully  understands  the 
significance that the tournament will have in advancing 
the  international  recognition,  development,  tourism  in 
and  prestige  of  Africa.  We  are  looking  forward  to  a 
successful  competition  that  will  not  only  help  further 
the  global  spirit  of  competitiveness  and  sport  at  the 
highest  level  but  will  also  serve  as  an  invaluable 
opportunity  to  promote  unity,  solidarity,  peace  and 
reconciliation  and  preventive  campaigns  against 
scourges such as HIV/AIDS that affect the youth of the 
continent. 
The  Republic  of  Korea  will  remain  a  strong 

advocate for the principle of sport for development and 
peace and will continue to contribute to the realization 
of the ideals of the Olympics and sport. 
Mr. Carmon  (Israel): To  many,  sports  can  serve 

merely  as  exercise.  But  in  a  global  context,  sports 
serve  as  a  common 
foster 
international  friendship  and  harmony.  A  competitive 
sporting  experience  between  people  transcends  our 
that  can 
language 
12 

09-56441 
sports 
and 
friendly 
competition 


differences  and  reminds  us  that  as  human  beings  we 
have  far  more  that  binds  us  together  than  draws  us 
apart.  From  dusty  soccer  fields  to  the  Olympic  stage, 
people  from  diverse  backgrounds,  religions,  cultures 
and  races  can  join  together  in  a  common  cause,  in  a 
shared  experience.  In  the  words  of  the  Olympic 
Charter, 
can 
“contribute to building a peaceful and better world”. 

In  our  region,  we  seek  to  harness  the  spirit  of 
sports to forge relationships and build bridges between 
peoples  and  cultures  through  an  active  network  of 
organizations that use the medium of sports to promote 
peace  and  coexistence. All  over  the  world,  when  two 
rival  soccer  teams  prepare  to  play,  we  can  easily 
imagine  a  battle  about  to  unfold. Yet  the Abu  Ghosh-
Mevaseret  Zion  soccer  club  is  a  shining  example  of 
how  a  so-called  battleground  can  become  a  field  of 
coexistence.  

The Abu Ghosh-Mevaseret Zion team is an Arab-
Jewish  soccer  club  named  after  the  towns  on  the 
western outskirts of Jerusalem. The project sought the 
support  of  the  city  councils  of  both  Abu  Ghosh  and 
Mevaseret  Zion  in  order  to  build  widespread  public 
interest in the project. The team is managed by a joint 
Arab-Jewish  board  and  trains  hundreds  of  children 
from diverse backgrounds. This soccer club is but one 
example of how private citizens can use the medium of 
sports  to  set  aside  differences,  foster  integration  and 
develop 
through 
concerted  efforts  on  the  ground  a  brighter  future  is 
possible. 

Another success story is the sports programme of 
the Peres Center for Peace, which brings young Israelis 
and Palestinians together to learn from one another and 
to  develop  cross-cultural 
ties.  A  wide  array  of 
programmes  touches  the  lives  of  over  10,000  children 
as  they  utilize  sports  to  encourage  solidarity,  respect 
and 
the 
Center’s  sports-related  work  is  the  Twinned  Peace 
Sport  Schools  project.  Launched 
the 
programme  pairs  Israeli  and  Palestinian  communities 
as it offers weekly sports training, peace education and 
inter-language learning. The programme engages 1,600 
disadvantaged  Palestinian  and  Israeli  young  people 
who would not otherwise  have such an opportunity to 
play  sports  or  to  meet  and  learn  from  others.  Those 
successes  —  which  are  mere  examples  among  many 
others — should indicate what can be achieved through 
sports.  
interaction.  The  flagship  programme  of 
trust.  This  example  shows 
that 
in  2002, 
09-56441 

A/64/PV.21
into 

Unfortunately, not  all sporting events  are carried 
out  in  the  same  spirit.  Earlier  this  year,  Israeli  tennis 
star Shahar Peer was denied a visa in order to play in 
the  Dubai  Tennis  Championships.  While 
Israel 
commends the firm resolve displayed by the Women’s 
Tennis  Association,  as  well  as  by  those  affiliates  and 
sponsors  of  the  event  who  acted  in  the  face  of  such 
politicized  prejudice,  the  episode  reflects  a  dangerous 
trend to politicize the world of sports.  

In  a  moment  that  reminds  us  of  the  hatred  that 
can  permeate  the  world  of  sports,  we  recall  the  1972 
Olympic  Games  in  Munich,  where  gunmen  from  the 
terrorist  group  Black  September  broke 
the 
Olympic Village and killed 11 Israeli athletes, coaches 
and  referees. The  reverberations  of  that  abhorrent  and 
monstrous  act  of  terrorism  are  still  felt  in  Israel  and 
around the world to this very day. 

As  the  world  seeks  to  solve  the  most  intractable 
challenges related to peace and development, we must 
find new, dynamic ways of confronting difficulties and 
of  building  bridges  between  people. The  use  of  sports 
to promote a culture of peace and development can be 
effective. Yet  sports  cannot  achieve  such  goals  alone. 
The  support  and  involvement  of  the  media  and  civil 
society are needed for sports to be an effective vehicle 
for  peace  and  development.  Israel  strongly  supports 
that concept and calls on all Member States to use the 
opportunities  provided  by  sports  to  ensure  the  widest 
appeal. 

In that spirit, Israel is pleased to join as a sponsor 
of  resolutions  A/64/L.2  and  A/64/L.3,  “Building  a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal”, and “2010 International Federation of 
Association Football World Cup event”, respectively.  
Mr. Webb (United States of America): My name 

is  Wellington  Webb,  and  I  am  privileged  to  serve  on 
the  United  States  delegation  to  the  General Assembly 
at its sixty-fourth session, at the invitation of my friend 
President  Obama. Having  served as Mayor of Denver, 
Colorado,  I  have  long  supported  the  United  States 
Olympic  Committee,  which  has  its  headquarters  in 
Colorado.  Therefore,  I  am  pleased  to  speak  on  behalf 
of  the  United  States  today  on  the  topic  of  building  a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal. 

The  Olympic  movement’s  fundamental  goals 
have been to serve society, to place sport at the service 
to  promote  peaceful  societies 
of  humanity  and 
13 
the 
IOC 
has 

Over 
the 
to  pursue 
the  goals  and 
years, 
the  achievement  of 
A/64/PV.21 

committed  to  the  preservation  of  human  dignity.  The 
United  States  was  pleased  to  co-sponsor  the  draft 
resolution  adopted  earlier 
today  (resolution  64/3) 
inviting the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to 
participate in the General Assembly as an observer. 

In  many  resolutions  over  the  years,  Member 
States  have  called  for  United  Nations  system-wide 
cooperation  with  the  IOC  to  implement  projects  using 
sport as a tool for peacebuilding, human development, 
humanitarian  relief  and 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. The offer of observer 
status  to  the  IOC  recognizes  the  potential  of  sport  to 
inspire  us 
ideals  of 
international understanding, security and prosperity, as 
envisioned in the United Nations Charter.  

signed 
memorandums  of  understanding  with  15  United 
Nations  specialized  agencies  and  programmes  and 
cooperates  with  another  10.  In  May  2006, 
the 
Secretary-General  formalized  the  working  relationship 
that had already developed between the IOC and some 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  to  apply  sport, 
too,  in  rebuilding  confidence  between  parties  coming 
out of conflict.  

The  United  States  is  also  pleased  to  co-sponsor 
today’s  draft  resolution  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal” 
(A/64/L.2),  which  proclaims  an  Olympic  truce  for  the 
XXI  Olympic  Winter  Games  and  the  X  Paralympic 
Winter  Games,  to  be  held  at  Vancouver,  Canada,  in 
February. We have co-sponsored similar resolutions on 
nine occasions since 1993.  

international 
understanding  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  that  sports 
can  inspire  peace.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  ancient 
Games  in  776  B.C.,  athletic  competition  has  helped 
transcend  our  differences.  The  central  purpose  of  the 
Truce has been to bring people together and to permit 
the safe passage and participation of all concerned with 
the Games.  

The  International  Olympic  Truce  Foundation, 
established  by  the  IOC,  promotes  global  support  for 
and observance of the Olympic Truce. It encourages all 
to act in favour of peace and to mobilize young people 
for  the  promotion  of  the  Olympic  ideal,  establishes 
contacts  between  communities  in  conflict  and  offers 
humanitarian support in countries undergoing strife. 
The  Olympic  Truce  promotes 
Today, 
the  United  States  delegation 

is  also 
pleased  to  be  among  the  sponsors  of  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.3,  entitled  “2010  International  Federation  of 
Association Football World Cup event” and introduced 
by the delegation of South Africa. The  year 2010  will 
mark the first time that a sports event on such a scale 
has taken place in Africa. My delegation is particularly 
pleased  that  the  United  States  team  will  be  among 
those  competing.  The  attention  of  the  United  States 
will  be  all  the  greater  in  enhancing  the  2010  World 
Cup’s  legacy  of  sport  for  peace  and  development  in 
Africa. 

At  Vancouver  next  February,  athletes  will  set 
aside  their  political,  religious  and  social  differences 
and  compete  on  a  level  playing  field  in  the  pursuit  of 
excellence. As President Obama noted just a few weeks 
ago,  in  a  world  where  we  all  too  often  witness  the 
darker  aspects  of  our  humanity,  peaceful  competition 
between  nations  represents  what  is  best  about  our 
humanity.  

The theme of sport for peace and development is 
of  great  importance  to  the  United  States,  even  in 
non-Olympic  years.  The  United  States  welcomes  the 
establishment of the United Nations Office on Sport for 
Development and Peace. More and more people around 
the world understand the value of such efforts.  

Sports  United  is  a  United  States  diplomatic 
outreach  programme  to  start  a  dialogue  at  the  grass-
roots  level  with  boys  and  girls  abroad.  It  aids  young 
people  in  discovering  how  success  in  athletics  can  be 
translated  into  the  development  of  life  skills  and 
achievement  in  the  classroom.  Those  young  people 
establish  links  with  United  States  sports  professionals 
and gain exposure to American life and culture. Young 
athletes and coaches are invited to the United States to 
learn  about  sports  in  America.  American  athletes  and 
coaches go abroad to conduct clinics in sport to stress 
team-building,  education,  positive  health  and  respect 
for all. Americans learn about foreign cultures and the 
challenges that young people overseas face today. 

Our  discussions  today  remind  the  world  of  the 
importance of preparing for the forthcoming Games in 
spirit as well as in body. Sport is not simply an end in 
itself; it should also serve as a means to promote peace 
and to educate the youth of the world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda 
14 

09-56441 


item  45.  We  shall  now  proceed  to  consider  draft 
resolutions A/64/L.2, and A/64/L.3 as orally revised.  

The Assembly  will  first  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/64/L.2,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and 
better  world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”.  I 
should like to announce that since the  draft  resolution 
was  issued,  the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors:  Albania,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Barbados,  Belize,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cameroon,  Cape  Verde,  the  Central African  Republic, 
Colombia, the Comoros, the Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Denmark, 
Dominica,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Eritrea,  Finland, 
Gabon, 
the  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada,  Indonesia, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Liberia, 
Madagascar,  Mali, 
the  Marshall  Islands,  Mexico, 
Micronesia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Nauru,  Nigeria, 
Norway, Palau, the Philippines, Qatar, the Republic of 
Moldova,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saudi  Arabia, 
Seychelles,  Somalia,  the  Sudan,  Tajikistan,  Tunisia, 
Uganda,  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Vanuatu, 
Viet Nam, Yemen and Zambia. 
A/64/PV.21
May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly  wishes  to  adopt 

draft resolution A/64/L.2? 
draft 
resolution  A/64/L.3, 
entitled 
Draft resolution A/64/L.2 was adopted (resolution 
64/4). 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

General Assembly will now proceed to take a decision 
on 
“2010 
International Federation of Association Football World 
Cup  event”.  The  following  countries  have  joined  the 
list of sponsors of the draft resolution: Botswana, Cape 
Verde,  Chad,  Djibouti,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Gabon, 
Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Haiti,  Kenya,  Libya, 
Liechtenstein,  Malawi,  Mauritania,  Morocco,  Niger, 
Norway, Sao Tome and Principe, Serbia and Uganda. 

draft resolution A/64/L.3, as orally revised? 
May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly  wishes  to  adopt 
Draft  resolution A/64/L.3,  as  orally  revised,  was 
adopted (resolution 64/5). 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

General Assembly has thus concluded the present stage 
of its consideration of agenda item 45. 
The meeting rose at 5 p.m. 

09-56441 

15 
