
A/64/PV.32
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

32nd plenary meeting 
Friday, 30 October 2009, 4 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
that 
referral to the Court, which resulted in the case of The
Prosecutor  v.  Joseph  Kony,  Vincent  Otti,  Okot 
Odhiambo  and  Dominic  Ongwen.  The  defendants  in 
that case are leaders of the terrorist rebel outfit known 
as  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  (LRA).  As  we  speak, 
these fugitives no longer operate in Uganda nor on any 
territory  controlled  by  Uganda,  but 
is  no 
consolation  to  us,  since  they  have  continued 
to 
terrorize other areas in the region where they operate.  

We  are  aware  that  without  a  police  force  of  its 
own, the Court has to rely on the cooperation of States 
to execute warrants of arrest and surrender fugitives or 
the indicted persons whenever such warrants have been 
issued.  Being  a  treaty-based  body  implies  that  State 
cooperation  with  the  ICC  is  voluntary.  We  therefore 
call upon increased cooperation by Member States.  

The ICC is steadily marching on the road towards 
universality. Accordingly, we welcome the most recent 
ratifying  States  —  Chile  and  the  Czech  Republic  — 
whose ratification of the Rome Statute has brought the 
total membership to 110 States. We call on other States 
which have not done so to consider ratifying the Rome 
Statute  so  that  the  fight  against  impunity  for  the  most 
heinous  crimes  can  be  jointly  waged  by  all  States 
worldwide.  Universal  ratification  would  send  a  clear 
message  that  the  civilized  world  has  no  room  for 
impunity for anyone, anywhere. 

It  is  gratifying  to  note  that,  unlike  various 
traditional  jurisdictions,  the  Rome  Statute  recognizes 
the  victims  of  heinous  crimes  and  allows  them  to 



The meeting was called to order at 4.20 p.m. 


In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Grauls 
(Belgium), Vice-President, took the Chair.  





to 
join  others  before  me 
Agenda item 75 (continued) 
Report of the International Criminal Court 

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/356) 

  Report by the Secretary-General (A/64/363) 

Mr.  Muhumuza  (Uganda):  This  being  the  first 
time my delegation has addressed this Assembly in this 
context,  allow  me 
in 
congratulating the President and the bureau upon their 
election to lead the work of the sixty-fourth session of 
the  General  Assembly.  With  his  vast  experience  and 
diplomatic  skills,  we  have  the  confidence  that  he  will 
guide this Assembly to success. 

Allow  me  first  to  align  my  delegation  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Kenya  on 
behalf of the Group of African States. We congratulate 
Judge Sang-Hyun Song on his election to preside over 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  as  well  as  for 
his presentation of the fifth annual report of the Court 
(A/64/356). 
Uganda supports the ICC as the world’s principal 

partner  in  the  fight  against  impunity  for  the  most 
heinous  crimes  of  concern 
international 
community.  Uganda  is  thus  committed  to  the  mandate 
of the Court and appreciates its role in this endeavour. 
That  is  why  Uganda  was  the  first  country  to  make  a 

the 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-58799 (E) 
*0958799* 



in 
the  proceedings,  with  a 
A/64/PV.32 

participate  actively 
possibility of compensation for the harm inflicted. 

Justice  must  not  only  be  done;  it  must  also  be 
perceived to be done. It is mainly with that in mind that 
the  Government  of  Uganda  offered  to  host  the  first 
review  conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  will 
offer the great majority of the victims of the situations 
currently  being  considered  from  our  region 
the 
opportunity  to  interface  with  the  other  stakeholders  in 
the  fight  against  impunity.  We  applaud  the  efforts  of 
the  civil  organizations 
that  have  already  made 
arrangements  for  delegates  to  meet  with  LRA  victims 
in  northern  Uganda.  Visits  are  currently  being 
arranged, and we would encourage many more to take 
part in this effort so that victims do not remain on the 
sidelines, but rather take centre stage as they are at the 
core of the fight against impunity. 

Uganda  looks  forward  to  hosting  all  delegations 
in  Kampala  from  31  May  to  11  June  2010  for  the 
review  conference  of  the  Rome  Statute.  We  hope  that 
within  this  period,  the  crime  of  aggression  will  be 
defined and the conditions under which the Court may 
exercise  jurisdiction  will  also  be  agreed  upon.  The 
world can no longer afford to wait to deal appropriately 
with  the  perpetrators  of  aggressive  wars  which  cause 
untold suffering to innocent people all over the world. 

Finally, let me avail myself of the opportunity to 
extend  from  this  rostrum  a  hand  of  welcome  to 
Kampala  for  all  delegations,  States  parties  and 
non-State  parties  alike,  civil  society  organizations  and 
all  stakeholders  in  the  fight  against  impunity.  We 
assure 
to 
accomplishing the remaining tasks at hand.  

participation,  my 
Government  has  waived  visa  fees  for  all  delegates  to 
the  review  conference,  and  further  arrangements  are 
being  made  with  airline  companies,  transporters  and 
the general hospitality industry to ensure that their stay 
in  the  Pearl  of  Africa  will  not  only  be  fruitful  but 
memorable as well. 

(Botswana):  My  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative  of  Kenya,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States which are parties to the Rome 
Statute. 

We  wish  to  congratulate  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  International 
Mr.  Ntwaagae
atmosphere 
conducive 
facilitate 
them  of 
an 
In 
order 
to 

the  possibility  of  recourse 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  and  for  his  presentation  of  the 
report on its activities (A/64/356). 

The  preservation  of  the  integrity  of  the  Rome 
Statute  of  the  ICC  and  the  assurance  that  the  Court 
remains  impartial,  fully  independent  and  free  from 
interference  as  it  fulfils  its  primary  function  and 
delivers on its mandate are of utmost importance. 

The  Rome  Statute  provides  the  opportunity  to 
advance  the  universal  ideals  enshrined  in  the  United 
Nations  Charter  —  international  peace  and  security, 
justice and respect for human rights and the enjoyment 
of fundamental freedoms for all. 

The  fulfilment  of  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Charter  remains  the  full  responsibility  of  the 
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations.  Similarly,  by 
extension of these purposes and principles to the ICC, 
its  mandate  of  pursuing  perpetrators  of  the  grave 
crimes  that  are  of  serious  concern  to  the  international 
community has never been so compelling. 

Mankind has  never in its history faced  a time of 
greater  truth  than  the  one  we  face  today,  where,  more 
than  ever  before, 
to 
international legal institutions exists for victims whose 
States  might  be  unwilling  to  prosecute. Therefore,  the 
cooperation  extended 
fighting 
international  crimes,  impunity  and  grave  violations  of 
human  rights  is  not  without  cause  for  the  victims  of 
genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. 

Botswana, as a friend of the ICC, is committed to 
playing  its  obligatory  role  in  supporting  the  judicial 
activity  of 
in 
enforcement  measures 
that  are  compelling  as  a 
deterrent  against  acts  of  serious  crime  and  in  the 
promotion of accountability. 
Mr. Onemola (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation 

wishes  to  congratulate  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC).  We  thank  him  for  his  comprehensive 
briefing  to  the  General Assembly. We  also  extend  our 
appreciation to the Secretary-General for the report on 
the ICC contained in document A/64/356, submitted to 
the  General Assembly  in  accordance  with  article  6  of 
the  Relationship  Agreement  between 
the  United 
Nations and the International Criminal Court.  

We are appreciative of the relentless efforts of the 
Court  in  carrying  out  its  mandate  as  an  independent 
judicial  institution  charged  with  investigating  and 
the  Court  and  has  confidence 
the  Court 
to 
in 
2 

09-58799 
discharge 
international 
that  most 
to  ensuring  proper 


bringing to trial individuals accused of the most serious 
crimes  of  international  concern,  namely,  genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes. Nigeria aligns 
itself with the statement delivered by the African group 
of States parties to the Rome Statute. 

Nigeria  is  deeply  committed  to  the  ICC,  the 
establishment  of  which  we  recognize  as  one  of  the 
great  advances  of 
law.  The  Court’s 
function of ensuring accountability for grave crimes is 
vital  to  the  maintenance  of  lasting  international  peace 
and  security.  To  strengthen  the  ability  of  the  Court  to 
effectively 
important 
responsibility,  the  Court  relies  on  the  cooperation  of 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society,  in 
accordance  with  the  Rome  Statute  and  international 
agreements  concluded  by  the  Court.  That  cooperation 
the 
is  critical 
investigations, 
execution  of  outstanding  warrants  of  arrest, 
the 
surrender  of  persons,  the  protection  of  witnesses,  the 
enforcement  of  sentences  and  the  enhancement  of  the 
Court’s credibility as an effective tool to end impunity 
and contribute to the prevention of future crimes. 

We welcome the increasing number of States that 
have  become  parties  to  the  ICC  Statute.  With  110 
countries  —  more  than  two  thirds  of  the  United 
Nations  membership  —  having  signed  or  ratified  the 
treaty,  there  is  clear  movement  towards  the  Court’s 
universality.  That  welcome  development  is  worthy  of 
further support from those States that are yet to sign or 
ratify the Rome Statute. 

We  have  taken  note  of  efforts  by  the  ICC  to 
improve  geographical  representation,  gender  balance 
and representation of the different legal systems of the 
world  in  its  recruitment  activities,  in  accordance  with 
the  decision  in  ICC  resolution  ICC-ASP/1/Res.10. As 
we  commend those  efforts, we  wish to  underscore the 
need  for  the  ICC  to  achieve  the  target  of  wide 
geographical 
representation  and  gender  balance, 
especially with regard to the African region, which, in 
spite  of  the  fact  that  it  accounts  for  most  if  not  all  of 
the 
still 
underrepresented.  We  believe 
the  necessary 
balance  can  be  attained  without  compromising  the 
quality of the staff selected. 
The ICC currently has four situations — Uganda, 

the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the 
Sudan/Darfur and the Central African Republic — and 
eight cases before it. With the expected increase in the 
the  Congo, 
the  Court, 
situations 
before 
is 
that 
A/64/PV.32
into  many 
number of cases, additional funding will be needed. We 
therefore  call  on  all  States  to  defray  their  outstanding 
contributions to the Court.  
We are pleased to note that the Court has already 

entered 
relocation  of  witness  and 
enforcement  of  sentence  agreements  with  States.  In 
order  to  encourage  more  States  to  enter  into  such 
agreements  with  the  Court,  we  believe  that  the  Court 
needs to become more proactive by exploring ways to 
facilitate the participation of more developing States in 
that regard. 

The  Review  Conference  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  Statute,  scheduled  for  Kampala  in 
2010, will provide us with ample opportunity to review 
achievements  made  and  the  challenges  before  us.  As 
we  look  forward  to  the  Review  Conference,  we 
encourage  all  States  to  participate  actively  in  finding 
concrete  ways  of  further  emboldening  the  Court  to 
fulfil its crucial mandate.  

In  conclusion,  the  Nigerian  delegation  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  and  continued  support  for  the 
International Criminal Court. 
Mr.  Baghaei  Hamaneh  (Islamic  Republic  of 

Iran):  My  delegation  would  like  to  join  previous 
speakers in thanking Judge Sang-Hyun Song, President 
of 
for 
submitting the fifth report of the International Criminal 
Court (A/64/356). 

It  is  generally  recognized  that  if  it  is  to  be 
successful,  the  International  Criminal  Court  should 
remain  neutral,  independent  and  apolitical  and  avoid 
double standards. 

As many speakers have noted, next year the first 
Review Conference of the Rome Statute will be held in 
Kampala, Uganda, and the main item on its agenda will 
be  the  incorporation  of  the  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression 
the  ICC  Statute.  The  crime  of 
aggression  is  the  mother  of  all  serious  international 
crimes and, as such, both its definition and the way that 
the  Court  is  mandated  to  tackle  it  will  broadly 
influence the cause of ending impunity for such crimes 
and  affect  the  whole  architecture  of  international  law 
and international relations. 

On  the  question  of  the  relationship  between  the 
ICC  and  the  Security  Council,  my  delegation  believes 
that any decision of the Conference of the States parties 
would  have  lasting  implications  for  the  independence, 
International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC), 
into 
the 
09-58799 

3 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 
have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda 
item 75. The General Assembly has thus concluded this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 75. 



A/64/PV.32 

legitimacy,  efficiency  and  even  relevance  of  the  Court. 
Certainly, the drafters of the Rome Statute intended the 
Court  to  be  an  independent  judicial  body,  free  of  the 
influence and interference of political organs. Therefore, 
in  principle,  the  responsibility  of  the  Security  Council 
under the Charter to determine the existence of  an act 
of aggression should not in any way undermine the role 
of the Court in its judicial investigation and proceedings 
concerning  the  crime  of  aggression.  Initiating  the 
Court’s proceedings, therefore, should not be subject to 
the  Security  Council’s  permission  or  approval.  Hence, 
the determination of the crime of aggression should rest 
with the International Criminal Court itself, and States 
should have the right to refer the crime to the Court. 

My  delegation  believes  that  the  Court,  as  a 
judicial body, and its organs shall respect the laws and 
regulations  prevailing  in  the  system  to  which  it 
belongs.  In  other  words,  in  order  to  achieve  its  goals, 
in  particular 
in  collecting  evidence  or  arresting 
suspects, it must refrain from taking any measure that 
could  be  considered  an  infringement  of  international 
law. In this respect, I recall the established principle of 
international  law  that  only  the  States  parties  to  an 
international treaty are bound to its provisions. 

Likewise,  the  ICC  cannot  ignore  international 
rules  relating  to  the  immunity  of  State  officials,  as 
recognized  under  article  98  of  the  Rome  Statute. 
Moreover,  the  Court  should  take  into  account  the 
consequences  of  its  decisions  on  the  advancement  of 
peace and stability in each case. In this respect, I draw 
attention  to  the  concerns  raised  by  the African  Union, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic Conference and many countries concerning the 
recent decisions of the ICC on the Darfur situation. 

Let me touch upon another recent development — 
the  declaration  filed  on  22  January  2009  by  Palestine 
with  the  Registrar  of  the  Court  pursuant  to  article  12, 
paragraph  3,  of  the  Statute.  This  declaration  provides 
jurisdiction  to  the  Court  with  respect  to  the  crimes 
committed  on  the  territory  of  Palestine  since  1  July 
2002.  The  Prosecutor  of 
is  currently 
considering  the  capacity  of  Palestine  to  issue  that 
declaration.  It  is  expected  that  the  Prosecutor  shall 
interpret article 12 of the Statute in a manner ensuring 
that the main purpose of the Court — ending impunity 
for  the  perpetrators  of  international  crimes  of  a  grave 
nature — will be fulfilled. 
the  Court 
At 

Agenda item 72 (continued) 
Report of the International Court of Justice  


the  same 
to  express 
the  Court  reaffirms 
time,  Mexico  welcomes 
  Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/64/4) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/308) 

 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Mexican  delegation  wishes 
its  deep 
appreciation to the International Court of Justice for its 
hard work over the past year. 

the 
restructuring  of  the  Court  in  November.  The  new 
composition  of 
its  universal 
character and ensures that its decisions will be adopted 
in the framework of the world’s main legal systems and 
the multitude of regional perspectives and realities. All 
of  this  will,  without  a  doubt,  help  the  world’s  highest 
court pursue its excellent work.

Although  the  Court  has  experienced  a  steady 
increase in the number of cases under its consideration, 
we  note  with  satisfaction  that  a  backlog  has  been 
avoided, which clearly demonstrates that changes in its 
rules  of  procedure  and  working  methods  are  having  a 
positive impact. Significant proof of this is the fact that 
during  the  2008-2009  judicial  year,  six  cases  were 
under consideration by the Court simultaneously. 
Mexico  notes  that  the  Court’s  sustained  level  of 

activity  has  been  made  possible 
the 
guidelines  adopted  to  improve  its  efficiency  and,  in 
particular,  to  the  ongoing  review  of  the  practical 
guidelines  of  States  appearing  before  it.  However,  my 
delegation also notes with concern the continuing need 
for increased  support  personnel so that the judges  can 
continue to carry out their work. 

Member States are obligated to reflect on how to 
support  the  work  of  the  Court,  particularly  if  its 
caseload  continues  to  grow.  That  growth  should  be 
welcomed.  It  shows  the  willingness  of  States  to  settle 
their  disputes  by  peaceful  means.  It  also  reflects  the 
great trust of States in the world’s highest court. 
The United Nations and its Member States are at 

a moment  of  severe  financial constraint.  However, we 
thanks 
to 
4 

09-58799 
through 
in  January 
to 
to  alleviate 
to  some  extent 
the  dissemination  of 


believe that more can and must be done for the Court. 
The  Organization  must  make  more  efficient  use  of 
available  resources  and  allocate  them  where  they  are 
needed  the  most.  The  Court  most  definitely  deserves 
the  support  it  requests  and  the  General  Assembly 
should heed to its call to increase the number of clerks, 
if  only 
their  heavy 
workload. 
As we have on previous occasions, we stress the 

the  Court’s 
importance  of 
decisions 
its  publications  and  website. 
Nonetheless,  my  delegation  notes  that  there  is  an 
important  difference  between  the  Court’s  website  in 
English  and  French,  on  the  one  hand,  and  its  Spanish 
version,  on  the  other.  The  latter  is  considerably  less 
rich  in  information,  thus  hampering  the  analytic  work 
of  Spanish-speaking  scholars  and  practitioners  of 
international law. 

Mexico  welcomes  the  Court’s  decision  on  the 
Request for Interpretation of the Judgment of 31 March 
2004 in the Case concerning Avena and Other Mexican 
Nationals  (Mexico  v.  United  States  of  America).  We 
further  welcome  the  Court’s  ruling  in  regard  to  the 
provisional measures requested by Mexico. We are also 
pleased that the Court issued a binding reaffirmation of 
the obligations incumbent upon the United States under 
paragraph 153 (9) of the Avena ruling of 2004. 
In  this  vein,  we  stress  the  importance  of  the 

Court’s  ruling 
the 
obligation  of  each  Member  State  to  comply  with 
decisions  in  any  case  to  which  it  is  party.  Full 
compliance with the rulings of the Court is prerequisite 
to  the  effectiveness  of  international  law.  At  the  same 
time, such compliance promotes trust among States and 
thus  enacts,  in  the  words  of  the  recently  deceased 
eminent  professor  Thomas  M.  Franck,  the  power  of 
legitimacy among nations. 

The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  one  of  the 
keystones  in  the  construction  of  the  international  rule 
of  law.  Its  proper  functioning  is  indispensable  to  that 
end. That is why Mexico reiterates its full respect and 
support  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the 
principal  judicial  organ  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes  and 
its  central  work  as  guarantor  of 
international law. 
Mr.  Lomaia  (Georgia):  Georgia  welcomes  the 

publication  of  the  annual  report  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  (A/64/4)  and  would  like  to  thank  the 
in  connection 
A/64/PV.32
President  of  the  Court,  Judge  Hisashi  Owada,  for  his 
presentation  yesterday,  which  was  both  detailed  and 
informative.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express our appreciation to Judge Rosalyn Higgins for 
her  invaluable  contribution  to  the  strengthening  of 
international  law  through  her  work  as  Judge  and 
President of the International Court of Justice. 

President  Owada  started  his  presentation  by 
updating  the  Assembly  on  the  Court’s  ruling  last 
October  in  favour  of  the  request  submitted  by  my 
country.  The  request  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
measures was submitted in order “to protect its citizens 
against  violent  discriminatory  acts  by  Russian  armed 
forces,  acting  in  concert  with  separatist  militia  and 
foreign mercenaries”. That decision was taken in spite 
of the other side’s fierce opposition. The Court recalled 
that  the  provisional  measures  that  it  indicated  had  a 
binding effect and thus created legal obligations. 

It is solely up to the Court to determine whether 
or  not  our  northern  neighbours  complied  with  the 
ruling. We,  on  our  part,  have  provided  the  Court  with 
clear  factual  evidence  indicating  that  none  of  the 
provisional  measures  have  been  fulfilled.  Not  only 
have the forcefully displaced persons not been allowed 
to  return  to  their  houses,  they  are  being  arrested  and 
detained  merely  for  trying  to  approach  their  villages. 
Among  the  recently  revealed  facts  and  conclusions 
validating  those  arguments,  available  for  the  Court’s 
consideration, we would single out just two. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  dated  24 August, 
entitled  “Status  of  internally  displaced  persons  and 
refugees 
(A/63/950), 
confirmed  the  displacement  of  ethnic  Georgians  from 
the  Abkhazia  region.  The  Independent  International 
Fact-Finding Mission on the Conflict in Georgia stated 
in its recent report that  

“several  elements  suggest  the  conclusion  that 
ethnic  cleansing  was  indeed  practised  against 
ethnic  Georgians  in  South  Ossetia  both  during 
and after the August 2008 conflict”. 
from  Abkhazia,  Georgia” 
We  express  our  deep  confidence  that  the  International 
Court of Justice will continue its careful and competent 
consideration of all pending cases, this particular case 
included.  

In conclusion I would like to reiterate our strong 
support for the International Court of Justice in its role 
as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations. 
09-58799 

5 

of 
A/64/PV.32 

The Court plays, as has been said here, a vital role in 
the peaceful settlement of international disputes and in 
strengthening the international legal order. 
Mr.  Kuzmin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  We  welcome  the  election  of  Judge  Hisashi 
Owada  as  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  thank  him  for  presenting  to  the  General 
Assembly  the  Court’s  annual  report  (A/64/4).  At 
yesterday’s  meeting 
the  Security  Council 
(S/PV.6208), the Russian Federation voiced its general 
assessment  and  essential  approach  to  the  activities  of 
the International Court of Justice, affirming its respect 
for  the  Court’s  standing  and  recognition  of  its  special 
role in intergovernmental relations.  

Russia  plays  an  active  role  in  promoting  the 
concept of international law, including within the main 
judicial  organ  of  our  Organization,  the  International 
Court of Justice. We do so out of our great respect for 
and  trust  in  the  Court,  and  on  the  basis  of  our 
conviction that the idea of the rule of law is a deterrent 
against attempts to resolve international issues through 
reckless military and political action.  
I should like now to focus my reflections on one 

of  the  cases  on  the  Court’s  docket,  in  which  the 
Russian  Federation  is  the  respondent  and  upon  which 
the  representative  of  Georgia  commented  in  much 
detail  only  a  minute  ago.  I  refer  to  the  case  on  the 
application  of  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. It is 
in  that  claim,  which  Georgia  brought  before  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  against  the  Russian 
Federation,  that  the  wholesale  cynicism  of  Georgia’s 
action  in  South  Ossetia  in  August  2008  is  most 
apparent.  
Having failed in its reckless military gamble and 

discredited  itself  before  the  international  community, 
Georgia’s  leadership  is  now  attempting  to  repair  its 
terminally  damaged  image  through  the  authority  of 
international  judicial  bodies.  It  is  saddening  to  note 
that the claimant in this case is the party that deemed it 
acceptable  to  fire  at  night  on  the  peaceful  civilian 
population of Tskhinvali and on Russian peacekeepers, 
while  the  respondent  is  the  party  that  exercised  its 
inalienable right to self-defence, pursuant to Article 51 
of the United Nations Charter, commensurate with the 
scale  of  the  attack  and  in  the  sole  aim  of  protecting 
Russian peacekeepers and citizens in Southern Ossetia 
6 

from  the  illegal  actions  of  the  Georgian  side  and  of 
preventing future armed assaults.  

The  Russian  Federation  believes  that  the  dispute 
that  Georgia  is  attempting  to  bring  before  the  Court 
clearly  does  not  fall  within  the  framework  of  the 
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms of Racial Discrimination. The very name of the 
Convention  reveals  the  artificial  nature  of  Georgia’s 
so-called claim against the Russian Federation. It is no 
coincidence that Georgia repeatedly had to re-draft its 
statement  of  claim,  reducing  time  and  again  the 
number  of 
the  Convention’s  provisions  allegedly 
breached  by  the  Russian  Federation.  It  is  quite  clear 
that,  in  such  an  ineptly  manufactured  case  and  even 
with  the  help  of  the  experienced  judicial  practitioners 
retained  by  Georgia,  it  has  been  difficult  to  establish 
the  relevance  of  the  Convention,  in  which  very 
different issues are addressed.  

In  the  18  years  during  which  Georgia  claims  to 
have  had  an  ongoing  dispute  with 
the  Russian 
Federation falling under the Convention, it never once 
proposed holding talks on racial discrimination against 
Georgians,  nor  did  it  turn  to  the  body  specially 
established  by  the  Convention,  the  Committee  on  the 
Elimination  of  Racial  Discrimination,  pursuant  to  the 
procedures under articles 11 and 14 of the Convention. 
The  Russian  Federation  is  convinced  that  the  Court 
does not have the competence to consider this case. 

The  natural  question  is:  Why  is  the  Russian 
Federation participating in this process initiated by the 
Georgian side? As members of the Assembly know, the 
history  of  the  Court  includes  a  great  many  cases  in 
which  respondent  States  simply  did  not  appear  before 
the Court. These cases touched, inter alia, on fisheries 
jurisdiction,  nuclear  tests,  Pakistani  prisoners  of  war, 
the Aegean  Sea  and  the  United  States  diplomatic  and 
consular  staff  in  Tehran.  Our  participation  in  the 
judicial  proceedings  is  yet  further  confirmation  of 
Russia’s  adherence  to  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
the Statute of the International Court of Justice, as well 
as to the fundamental principles of international law. 

We  are  convinced  that  blurring  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  by  stepping  outside  the  clearly  defined 
framework  of  the  international  legal  instruments  on 
which  it  is  based  in  order  to  extract  from  a  narrowly 
specialized  international  treaty  —  in  this  instance,  the 
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms of Racial Discrimination — norms that apply to 
09-58799 
The  quest 
to  ensure 


completely  different  fields  of  international  law  will 
inevitably lead to a loss of confidence in the Court.  

Over the past few years, an increasing number of 
States  have  recognized  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  and  an 
expanding  range  of  issues  have  been  referred  to  the 
Court.  In  2007,  the  Russian  Federation  withdrew  its 
reservations  concerning  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  with 
regard  to  six  counter-terrorism  conventions.  However, 
this positive trend can continue only if it is based on a 
clear  understanding  of  the  limits  of  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  and  of  the  substance  of  the  cases  referred 
to it. 

the  Court’s  political 
neutrality  and  impartiality  is  reflected  in  the  unique 
vote split over the provisional measures applied in the 
Georgian-Russian  case. The  Court  took  a  constructive 
approach  to  the  issue  of  determining  the  provisional 
measures,  having  ordered  both  sides  —  not  just  the 
Russian  Federation,  as  Georgia  had  requested  —  to 
refrain from  violating the  International  Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. 
Russia  is  meeting  that  requirement  and  intends  to 
continue to do so in the future.  

facie 
that 
jurisdiction,  with  only  eight  judges  voting  in  favour 
and  seven  against. A  virtual  50-50  vote  split  has  been 
quite  a  rare  occurrence  in  the  history  of  the  Court. 
Furthermore,  for  the  very  first  time  in  its  judicial 
proceedings  on  provisional  measures,  seven  judges 
formed  a  united  front,  signing  an  opinion  dissenting 
from the position of the other eight. The conclusion of 
half  of 
the  Court’s  provisional 
measures,  as  part  of  the  recognition  of  prima  facie 
jurisdiction,  were  based  on  shaky  legal  ground  speaks 
for itself.  

Repeating the conclusion of the Russian side, the 
judges clearly stated that, at the very least, it was odd 
that  Georgia,  having  referred 
to  cases  of  racial 
discrimination  allegedly  committed  by  the  Russian 
Federation  since  the  early  1990s,  had  waited  until 
armed conflict had broken out with Russian and South 
Ossetian forces to refer this dispute to the Court. Thus, 
for nearly two decades, no one, including Georgia, had 
even considered the possibility that racial discrimination 
was taking place against Georgians.  

With  regard  to  the  role  and  the  impact  of  the 
International Court of Justice, we stress the emergence 
fragmentation  of 
of 
such  phenomena 
it  had  prima 
The  Court 
the 
judges 
that 
found 
A/64/PV.32
international  law  and  the  proliferation  of  international 
legal  bodies.  This  recent  trend  shows  that,  where 
international  legal  disputes  arise,  States  are  utilizing 
every  available  judicial  resource  —  engaging  in  so-
called  court  shopping  —  and,  as  a  result,  obtaining 
various legal decisions.  

In  addition,  tribunals  can  issue  different  rulings 
on  the  same  issue,  as  occurred,  for  example,  with 
regard  to  effective  monitoring  in  the  case  concerning 
Military  and  Paramilitary  Activities  in  and  against 
Nicaragua,  the  Tadic  case  heard  by  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former Yugoslavia,  and  the 
Loizidou  case  before  the  European  Court  of  Human 
Rights.  We  believe  that  that  is  a  negative  trend. 
Unfortunately,  international  judicial  proceedings  will 
lose  their  purely  legal  nature  and  become  forums  for 
political manipulation under the pretext of international 
law. In the case of the International Court of Justice, it 
is  particularly  important  that  it  clearly  define  its 
jurisdiction and adhere to proven practice in its judicial 
proceedings. 

We are convinced that, as a result of this process, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  —  a  unique  body 
with the last  word on legal issues of  great importance 
to various States — will not lose its iconic status as a 
standard-bearer  of  international  law  and  will  promote 
the unity and development of international law. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda 
item 72. 
I now call on the representative of Georgia, who 

wishes to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I 
remind  him  that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr. Lomaia (Georgia): I wish to make two very 

brief  remarks.  What  our  opponents  have  just  given 
themselves  the  freedom  to  call  a  decision  based  on 
shaky legal grounds is something that we read about in 
paragraph 14 of the report by the International Court of 
Justice (A/64/4): 

jurisdiction  under  article  22  of 

“After a thorough analysis of the arguments 
of  the  parties,  the  Court  found  that  it  had  prima 
facie 
the 
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of 
All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination  to  deal  with 
the  case  and  could  accordingly  address  the 
as 
the 
09-58799 

7 
A/64/PV.32 


request for the indication of provisional measures 
submitted by Georgia.” 
that  all  members  of 
Therefore,  we  expect 
the 
International Court of Justice will uphold the standard 
of respect for the Court and its decisions.  

I  should  now  like  to  cite  two  brief  quotations 
from  the  report  of  the  Independent  International  Fact-
Finding Mission on the Conflict in Georgia, to which I 
just referred. We have just heard that the aggression of 
the  Russian  Federation  was  motivated  by  its  will  to 
respond  to  what  it  ostensibly  calls  an  attack  by  the 
Georgian  forces  against  civilians,  which  the  Russian 
authorities said at that time amounted to genocide. Let 
me  read  out  a  very  brief  quotation  from  paragraph  27 
of volume I of the report of the International Mission:  

“After  having  carefully  reviewed  the  facts 

in  the  light  of  the  relevant  law,  the  Mission 
concludes  that  to  the  best  of  its  knowledge 
allegations  of  genocide  committed  by 
the 
Georgian  side  in  the  context  of  the August  2008 
conflict  and  its  aftermath  are  neither  founded  in 
law nor substantiated by factual evidence.”  
To  the  contrary,  the  Mission  found  that  the 
the 

following  had  been  carried  out  by  or  with 
participation of Russian forces:  

“[T]he  Mission 
forced 
displacements  of  ethnic  Georgians  who  had 
found  patterns  of 
remained  in  their  homes  after  the  onset  of 
hostilities.  In  addition,  there  was  evidence  of 
systematic  looting  and  destruction  of  ethnic 
Georgian villages in South Ossetia. Consequently, 
several  elements  suggest  the  conclusion  that 
ethnic  cleansing  was  indeed  practiced  against 
ethnic  Georgians  in  South  Ossetia  both  during 
and after the August 2008 conflict.” 
and 
even  Ossetian 
I  should  like  to  read  out  one  last  quotation,  from 
page 365 of volume II of the report: 

“During and, in particular, after the conflict 

a systematic and widespread campaign of looting 
took place in South Ossetia and in the buffer zone 
against  mostly  ethnic  Georgian  houses  and 
properties.  Ossetian  forces,  unidentified  armed 
Ossetians, 
civilians 
participated  in  this  campaign,  with  reports  of 
Russian  forces  also  being  involved. The  Russian 
forces  failed  to  prevent  these  acts  and,  most 
importantly,  did  not  stop  the  looting  and  pillage 
after  the  ceasefire,  even  in  cases  where  they 
witnessed it directly.” 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 

take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 72? 


It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 5.10 p.m.
8 

09-58799 
