
A/64/PV.24
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

24th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 21 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hackett 
(Barbados), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
to 
thus 
poverty 
contributing 
Malaria  continues 
commitment  and  efforts  in  the  fight  against  malaria. 
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and by 
Tunisia on behalf of the African Group. 

to  place  an  unacceptable 
burden  on  health  and  economic  development 
in 
Tanzania, 
and 
underdevelopment. Malaria is the number one cause of 
morbidity and mortality in Tanzania, with an estimated 
11  million  cases  and  80,000  deaths  per  year.  Children 
under  five  years  of  age  and  pregnant  women,  whose 
immunity is low, represent the most vulnerable groups. 

We  have,  however,  been  able  to  reduce  to  zero 
the  deaths  due  to  malaria  in  Zanzibar  by  undertaking 
residual  spraying  on  malarial  mosquito  breeding  sites, 
providing  long-term  insecticide  treated  nets  at  every 
bed  site,  early  treatment  for  those  infected  with 
malaria,  and  control  and  surveillance  measures  to 
prevent any re-emergence or epidemic. 

 The  success  in  Zanzibar  will,  however,  be  very 
fragile  if  malaria  is  not  contained  on  the  mainland. 
Malaria is a disease that knows no boundaries, and the 
Government is thus mindful of keeping up surveillance 
efforts  in  Zanzibar  to  ensure  that  malaria  does  not 
re-emerge through transmission from the mainland. 
The  Government  of  Tanzania  is  addressing  the 

problem of malaria through the implementation of our 
five-year Medium-term Strategic Plan 2008-2013. The 
Plan  has  been  developed  in  line  with  the  Global 
Malaria Action  Plan.  The  new  Plan  advocates  a  rapid 
scaling-up  of  interventions  to  reduce  the  burden  of 









The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

Agenda items 63 and 47 (continued) 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 

progress in implementation and international 
support 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/64/204 and 
A/64/208) 




  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/210) 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/302) 

Mrs.  Kafanabo  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 

This  year’s  debate  on 
is 
particularly important given that 2010 is the end of the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly  in  Africa.  We  thus  need  to  take  stock  of 
our  achievements,  challenges  and  the  way  forward  to 
ensure that we meet our 2010 goals. 

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  note  on 
this  agenda  item,  and  we  commend  his  personal 
rolling  back  malaria 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-56939 (E) 
*0956939* 


A/64/PV.24 

malaria  by  80  per  cent  from  current  levels  by  the  end 
of 2013. 

Significant progress has been made in controlling 
malaria.  New  and  more  effective  medicines  to  treat 
malaria,  namely  artemisinin  combination 
therapy 
(ACT),  are  available  in  the  public  sector,  which 
provides  60  per  cent  of  malaria  treatment.  ACT  is 
however  prohibitively  expensive  in  the  private  sector, 
where  40  per  cent  of  the  population  access  medicines 
as their first point of contact. Measures to address the 
affordability  of ACT  in  the  private  sector  through  the 
Affordable  Medicine  Facility  for  Malaria  are 
in 
progress.  These  have  drawn  lessons  from  a  pilot 
programme  that  was  done  in  collaboration  with  the 
Clinton Foundation. 

The  provision  to  vulnerable  groups  of  highly 
subsidized  insecticide-treated  nets  through  a  discount 
voucher system began in 2004 and is continuing. Some 
4.3  million  nets  have  been  purchased  using  the 
voucher.  The  Government  is  now  scaling  up  the 
programme  to  cover  all  children  under  five  through  a 
campaign  to  deliver,  free  of  charge,  7.2  million  long-
lasting  insecticide-treated  nets  by  March  2010. At  the 
beginning  of  2010,  the  National  Malaria  Control 
Programme  will  distribute  an  additional  14.6  million 
long-lasting  insecticide-treated  nets  to  all  sleeping 
places  in  the  country  free  of  charge,  thus  attaining 
universal  coverage  of  insecticide-treated  nets  by  the 
end  of  2010.  The  ownership  of  mosquito  nets  has 
increased  significantly  over  the  years,  from  less  than 
15 per cent of households in 1999 to nearly 60 per cent 
by the end of 2007. 

in 
selected  districts  where  malaria  is  highly  endemic  or 
epidemic.  In  these  districts,  more  than  90  per  cent  of 
households  have  been  sprayed  within  the  past  12 
months, with dramatic results seen in the reduction of 
malaria  prevalence,  anemia  and  the  hospitalization  of 
children  in  those  areas.  In  this  regard,  a  plan  for  the 
implementation of indoor residual spraying by the year 
2010 has been developed.  Due  care is taken  to ensure 
that the environment is not contaminated. 

We  are  now  experiencing  the  impact  of  these 
interventions.  There  is  a  noticeable  decline  in  the 
number  of  malaria  cases,  especially  among  children 
under  five. According  to  the  Tanzania  HIV/AIDS  and 
Malaria Indicator Survey for 2007-2008, there has been 
a  significant  decline  in  mortality  for  both  infants  and 
Indoor  residual  spraying  has  also  begun 
childhood 
has 
on 
interventions 
such  as 
the 
children under five years of age — from 99 per 1,000 
in  1999  to  58  per  1,000,  and,  over  the  same  period, 
from 147 per 1,000 to 91 per 1,000, respectively. 

The scale-up of malaria control interventions has 
no  doubt  contributed  to  this  decline,  as  have  other 
childhood 
integrated 
management  of 
illnesses,  vitamin  A 
supplementation, immunizations, exclusive breastfeeding, 
zinc supplementation and oral rehydration therapy. 

Success  in  the  fight  against  malaria  can  be 
attributed  to  both  leadership  and  resources.  African 
leaders  in  the  continent  have  shown  commitment  and 
leadership  in  the  fight  against  malaria.  Our  President, 
His  Excellency  Jakaya  Kikwete,  is  very  committed  in 
the fight against malaria. During the general debate of 
this  Assembly  session,  President  Kikwete  chaired  a 
meeting  that  launched  the  Africa  Leadership  Malaria 
Alliance, a forum that will provide political leadership 
in  the  fight  against  malaria  at  the  very  highest  level. 
We  thank  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General 
for  Malaria  and  his  office  for  the  support  rendered 
during the launch. 
Funding  for  malaria  has  seen  a  substantial 

increase over the years. However, there is still a large 
resource  gap.  Our  focus  has  thus  been  on  prevention, 
as it is cheaper and easy to do. While access to prompt 
effective  treatment  is  a  key  element  to  the  success  in 
fighting  malaria,  we  have  been  unable  to  guarantee 
access  to  treatment  for  the  majority  of  our  people, 
particularly in the rural areas. In order to curb malaria, 
we  need  effective  treatment  infrastructure,  and  this 
means access to a health-care facility that is adequately 
equipped  and  that  has  in  place  skilled  health-care 
workers  who  will  make  the  diagnosis  and  administer 
medication. This is our major challenge. 

a 
comprehensive programme to deal with the question of 
access to health care. The  programme will ensure that 
there is a dispensary in every village and a health-care 
centre in every ward. This programme will certainly be 
instrumental  in  the  success  of  our  anti-malaria  effort, 
as it will guarantee prompt diagnosis and treatment. It 
is  in  this  endeavour  that  we  need  partnerships  and 
support  from  the  international  community.  We  thank 
the  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners  who  have 
provided  us  with  financial  and  technical  support, 
including Japan, the European Union, the World Health 
Organization, 
to  Fight  AIDS, 
The  Government 
the  Global  Fund 
embarked 
2 

09-56939 
to 
in 
and 
of 
durable 
peace 
and 
I 
thank 
reiterate 
Mr.  Sangqu 
(South  Africa): 
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 


Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  the  Roll  Back  Malaria 
Partnership,  the  President’s  Malaria  Initiative,  the 
Clinton  Foundation  and  the  Bill  and  Melinda  Gates 
Foundation.  We  call  for  their  continued  support  to 
complement the Government’s efforts in implementing 
the  malaria  strategy  and  eradicating  malaria 
in 
Tanzania. 

the 
commitment  of  the  Government  of  Tanzania  to  work 
towards  achieving  the  2010  goals  we  have  set  to  roll 
back malaria. 
the 

Secretary-General for his reports (A/64/204, A/64/208, 
A/64/210  and  A/64/302)  on  the  items  that  we  are 
discussing  today:  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD); the causes of conflict and the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa;  and  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria 
in 
Africa. 

South  Africa  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the Sudan, on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China, and by Tunisia, on behalf of the African Group. 

The adoption of NEPAD by the African Union in 
2001 was the affirmation by Africa of a shared vision, 
conviction  and  pledge  by  its  leaders  to  place  African 
countries, both collectively and individually, on a path 
to  sustainable  economic  growth  and  development  and 
to  halt 
the 
globalization process.  

The key priorities for NEPAD, as Africa’s socio-
economic  blueprint  for  development,  remain  viable 
and 
infrastructure, 
information 
technology 
connectivity, among others. In this regard, NEPAD has, 
over the years, focused on developing programmes and 
bankable projects, mainly in these areas.  

The key challenge that NEPAD continues to face 
is  lack  of  funding  and  resources  for  its  effective 
implementation. We  believe  that  early  implementation 
of  major  projects  and  mobilization  and  injection  of 
resources  in  these  sectors  will  spur  development  and 
enhance  regional  integration  of  African  economies. 
NEPAD  and  regional  integration  are  the  cornerstones 
of  the  strategy  for  the  economic  rejuvenation  and 
prosperity  for  our  continent.  It  is  therefore  for  this 
the  marginalization  of  Africa 
communications 
development 
agricultural 
A/64/PV.24
in 
this  end,  Africa  resolved 
reason that the implementation of NEPAD programmes 
at all levels needs to be enhanced. 

As  we  have  heard  from  many  others  in  the 
developing  world,  the  lack  of  funding  has  been 
compounded by the impact of the global financial and 
economic  crisis,  which  has  been  severe  in  emerging 
and  low-income  countries,  especially  those  in  sub-
Saharan  Africa.  Africa  played  no  role  in  causing  this 
crisis and yet it bears the brunt of its impact. 

Given  this  reality,  many  African  countries  are 
struggling to meet the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  due  to,  among  other  reasons,  a  lack  of 
resource  flows.  To 
to 
undertake  the  necessary  measures  to  enhance  the 
development  of  expanded  and  integrated  national 
development  plans  and  related  policies,  and  fast-track 
the  adoption  of  NEPAD  programmes,  which  include 
reforms and increased investments in key areas such as 
agriculture, 
infrastructure,  health,  human  resource 
development  and  education,  as  a  means  of  achieving 
the MDGs. 
We  continue  to  commend  the  work  done  by  the 

special 
United  Nations 
development needs. We believe that a lot still needs to 
be  done  by  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  the 
international 
to 
collectively  implement  the  commitments  made  to 
Africa. 

In  this  regard,  we  believe  that  the  Office  of  the 
Special  Advisor  to  the  Secretary-General  on  Africa 
needs to be further strengthened to continue its critical 
role in mobilizing the entire United Nations family and 
its  organs,  agencies  and  funds  to  mainstream  the 
objectives  of  NEPAD  and  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  into  their  programmes  and  funding  for Africa. 
The United Nations should continue to raise awareness 
and  promote  NEPAD  among  stakeholders,  including 
donors,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector.  This 
advocacy role is particularly important at this juncture, 
when  international  partners,  who  are  dealing  with  the 
consequences  of  the  financial  crisis  on  their  own 
economies, 
looking 
inwards. 

Africa’s  economic  development  is  inextricably 
linked to the global economic structure. In this regard, 
South Africa  looks  forward  to  the  early  conclusion  of 
the  Doha  round  of  negotiations,  focusing  on  its 
intended and agreed development agenda. 
support  of  Africa’s 
remains  mobilized 
increasingly 
community 
themselves 
find 
09-56939 

3 
is 
in 
The  African  Union 
its  African  Peace 
including 
A/64/PV.24 


The pursuit of peace, stability and security on the 
continent  cannot  be  separated  from  the  pursuit  of 
justice, self-determination, human rights and economic 
development. My delegation therefore concurs with the 
Secretary-General when he states in his report that:  

“the  determination  of  Africa’s  peoples  to  work 
towards peace and development has driven many 
of  the  successes  and  encouraging  developments 
during the reporting period”. (A/64/210, para. 70) 

Africa  has,  in  the  past  few  decades,  made 
commendable progress in working to end conflicts and 
promote democracy and development on the continent. 
the  process  of 

implementing 
and  Security 
the  Peace  and  Security 
Architecture, 
Council,  Continental  Early  Warning  System,  Panel  of 
the  Wise  and  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism,  and 
these efforts should be supported by the United Nations 
and the entire international community. 

Despite these commendable efforts, the continent 
is  still  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  unconstitutional 
change  in  government,  lack  of  transparent  electoral 
systems,  climate  change,  rapid  urban  growth,  youth 
unemployment, drug trafficking and food insecurity, all 
of  which  could  lead  potentially  to  open  conflict.  As 
noted in the report of the Secretary-General, the global 
economic  and  financial  crises  have  threatened  the 
livelihoods,  well-being  and  development  opportunities 
of  millions  of  people  and  have  exacerbated  political 
and social tensions.

On  the  issue  of  climate  change,  it  is  well 
documented  that Africa,  the  continent  that  contributes 
the 
suffer 
disproportionately  in  terms  of  its  economic  impact. 
Africa’s  ability 
fundamental 
developmental  priorities  is  being  undermined  by  the 
impact of climate change, and it is therefore critical to 
secure an agreement on  a  comprehensive international 
adaptation  programme  as  a  priority  outcome  of  the 
current  international  negotiations  on  climate  change. 
Copenhagen  must  deliver  an  outcome  that  is  binding, 
fair, just and effective, one that balances adaptation and 
mitigation  while 
development 
imperatives with those of climate change. During those 
negotiations,  the  international  community  must  give 
serious consideration to questions relating to financing 
for  mitigation  and  adaptation,  technology  transfer  and 
building human and institutional capacity. 
global  warming,  will 
to  deliver  on 
balancing 
least 
also 
to 
its 

the 
and 
predictability 
My  delegation  welcomes 
Secretary-General  makes 

the  deepening  of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union at all levels and reiterates the Secretary-
General’s call for the international community to invest 
in  mechanisms  aimed  at  preventing  conflict  and 
supporting  partners  in  the  field  of  conflict  prevention, 
conflict management, peacekeeping and peacebuilding. 
It  is  only  by  addressing  the  deep-rooted  causes  of 
conflict  and  appropriately  addressing 
the  nexus 
between  peace  and  development  that  durable  and 
sustainable peace can be secured. 

In his related report to the General Assembly and 
the  Security  Council  entitled  “Support  to  African 
Union  peacekeeping  operations  authorized  by  the 
United Nations” (A/64/359-S/2009/470), the Secretary-
General characterizes the role of the African Union in 
supporting the prevention, management and resolution 
of  conflicts  under  Chapter  VIII  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter as a “welcome development”. In that important 
report 
critical 
recommendations  on  how  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international  community  could  further  ensure 
the 
sustainability 
of  Africa’s 
peacekeeping efforts. It is my delegation’s strong view 
that 
contribute 
significantly to building Africa’s peacekeeping facility 
and  financing  by  considering  and  acting  on  the 
recommendations  of 
the  Secretary-General.  The 
Security  Council  will  be  debating  the  same  report  on 
26 October. 

We  wish  to  once  again  commend  the  General 
Assembly  for  proclaiming  the  period  2001-2010  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly in Africa. 

We welcome and commend the initiative taken by 
African  leaders  called  Malaria  Alliance  to  protect  all 
those  at  risk  of  the  scourge  of  malaria.  Those  efforts 
seek  to  complement  measures  undertaken  by  Member 
States  that  have  committed  to  increase  Government 
spending  on  health. The  progress  towards  that  goal  is 
slow  but  progressive,  as  more  and  more  countries 
increase their budget allocation to the health sector. 

Since 2001, several initiatives to increase funding 
for  malaria  control  have  emerged  to  complement  our 
Government  expenditure  on  health  and  other  bilateral 
and  multilateral  arrangements  in  individual  countries. 
We  call  for  the  implementation  of  all  commitments 
the  General  Assembly 
could 
4 

09-56939 
for 
poverty 
initiatives 
alleviation 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 


made to Africa on health, in particular those geared to 
fighting the scourge of malaria in Africa. 

to 
South  Africa  supports  private 
address  global  health  challenges  and  expresses  its 
support for the work of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
At a national level, South Africa is committed to 

the  implementation  of  its  Comprehensive  Plan  for  the 
Treatment, Management and Care of HIV and AIDS so 
as to reduce the rate of new HIV infections by 50 per 
cent by the year 2011 and to reach 80 per cent of those 
in need of anti-retroviral treatment by 2010. 
South  Africa  reiterates  the  call  by  the  African 

Summit 
that  development 
partners  should  cancel  in  full  the  debt  of  poor  and 
heavily indebted countries in Africa in order to release 
resources 
programmes. 
Investing in Africa’s economic and social development, 
promoting  human  rights  and  strengthening  its  peace 
and  security  capacity  will  go  a  long  way  towards 
ensuring durable and sustainable peace in Africa. 

Africa is a continent where a billion people live, a 
continent  that  stood  midwife  to  humanity,  a  continent 
that,  despite 
in 
opportunities  and  pregnant  with  endless  possibilities. 
Africa has much to offer. Together, we can unlock the 
vast  economic  potential  of  that  continent  as  we 
continue  in  this  forward-looking  trajectory.  Failure  is 
not  an  option.  History  will  not  judge  us  by  the  lofty 
ideals we have for Africa but by what we do today in 
ensuring  a  better,  safer,  prosperous  and  peaceful 
Africa. 

Mr. Al  Habib (Islamic Republic of  Iran): At the 
outset, my delegation would like to align itself with the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see A/64/PV.22). 

With regard to the very important agenda items of 
today’s  deliberations,  it  is  worth  noting  that  the 
underlying  causes  of  problems  in  Africa  cannot  be 
overcome  simply  by  increasing  the  level  of  aid  or 
official development assistance. If we are truly looking 
for  a  solution  for  sustainable  economic  growth  and 
peace  and  stability  in Africa,  the  lack  of  a  conducive 
international  environment  and  chronic, 
lingering 
systematic  shortcomings  have 
to  be  effectively 
addressed.  Taking  into  account  the  fact  that  Africa  is 
the only continent not on track to meet the Millennium 
its  many  challenges, 
rich 
is 
A/64/PV.24
increased  from  $4.5  million 
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015, special attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  issues  of  providing  adequate 
financial  assistance  and  trade  opportunities  for Africa 
to favour its sustainable growth and the eradication of 
poverty and preventable diseases. 

In  this  context,  we  regard  the  2010  United 
Nations MDG summit as an opportune occasion to take 
stock of the existing gaps and to identify the measures 
needed  for  the  timely  achievement  of  the  MDGs. 
Bringing those targets and regions that lag behind back 
on the track to success should be the main focus of the 
summit  and  its  outcome.  To  this  end,  Africa  should 
receive adequate and immediate funding and attention. 
Accordingly, the unconditional and urgent fulfilling of 
commitments made is crucial. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  in  the  spirit  of 
South-South  cooperation,  has  put Africa  at  the  top  of 
its international development cooperation programmes. 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  allocated  a  total  of  
$50  million  to  financial  assistance  in  grants  to Africa 
during the period from 2005 to 2008. A growing trend 
can be seen in the assistance figures during that period, 
which 
to  
$24  million  in  2008.  In  the  past  year,  14  African 
countries received assistance. Additionally, the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  provided  $9  million  to  three African 
countries  for  the  eradication  of  malaria  within  the 
framework  of 
Islamic 
Conference.  Furthermore,  10  hospitals  belonging  to 
Iran’s  Red  Crescent  Society  continue 
to  provide 
medical services almost free of charge in a number of 
African  countries. Taking  into  account  the  importance 
of  human  resource  development,  the  Government  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  granted  several 
scholarships 
Iranian 
universities. 

the  ongoing  efforts  of  African 
countries  to  achieve  their  aspirations  and  economic 
development,  and  we  welcome 
the  encouraging 
progress  achieved  in  different  parts  of  the  continent. 
However, we are concerned about the consequences of 
the  financial  and  economic  crisis,  which  occurred,  as 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  notes,  at  the  most 
unfortunate  time.  Given  the  reliance  of  many African 
countries on the export of a few commodities, the crisis 
continues to take a heavy toll on Africa. 

The  response  of  the  international  community  to 
the challenge that Africa is facing in ensuring that the 
the  Organization  of 
for  African 
We  support 
in  2005 
students 
the 
in 
09-56939 

5 
In 
particular, 
official 

the  New  Partnership 
A/64/PV.24 

crisis  does  not  reverse  the  progress  made  should 
complement  the  national  policies  of African  countries 
and  assist  their  implementation.  In  addressing  the 
global  financial  crisis,  adequate  attention  should  be 
paid  to  the  systemic  and  structural  problems  at  the 
global level. And at the same time, the special needs of 
Africa have to be taken into account, particularly in the 
areas  of  trade,  funding,  infrastructure  and  peace  and 
security. 

Mr.  Shin  Boonam  (Republic  of  Korea):  The 
Republic of Korea is pleased to participate in the joint 
debate  on 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  health  issues  in  Africa. 
One  year  after  the  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development needs (see A/63/PV.3 and A/63/PV.4), we 
welcome the opportunity to continue making progress. 

While  Africa  has  made  steady  progress,  it  is 
disproportionately  affected  by  the  current  multiple 
crises.  As  a  result,  it  requires  additional  efforts  and 
assistance. 
development 
assistance  (ODA)  must  grow,  even  if  the  global 
financial  crisis  discourages  donor  countries  from 
maintaining  current  levels  of  aid.  The  Republic  of 
Korea has already affirmed its commitment to triple its 
ODA by 2015. 

Development  cooperation  with  Africa  should  be 
firmly  based  on  country-specific  needs  and  requests. 
To enhance our understanding of Africa’s development 
needs, the Republic of Korea has been running several 
high-level  dialogue  channels.  As  mentioned  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  (A/64/208),  the  Ministerial 
Conference  on  Economic  Cooperation  between  the 
Republic  of  Korea  and  Africa  held  last  October 
promoted 
economic  development 
experiences and dialogue on the development issues of 
mutual  interest.  In  addition,  the  Korea-Africa  Forum, 
since its inception in 2006, has served as an avenue for 
cooperation  among  Governments,  businesses  and  civil 
society  in  Korea  and Africa. The  second  round  of  the 
meeting will be jointly held with the African Union in 
Seoul next month. We anticipate the Forum will further 
contribute 
to 
for  Africa’s 
Development. 

The high-level development cooperation between 
the Republic of Korea and Africa is now complemented 
by  village  and  ground-level  support.  Through  the 
Millennium  Village  Project,  which  now  operates  in 
more  than  80  villages  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  we  are 
the  New  Partnership 
exchanges  of 
providing  financial  support  and  technical  assistance 
based  on  accumulated  knowledge  from  our  own  rural 
development  experience.  The  Millennium  Village 
Project  provides  local  ownership,  as  it  depends  on 
leadership and implementation by the communities on 
the  ground  in Africa.  The  Republic  of  Korea  believes 
that  the  focus  of  the  Millennium  Village  Project  on 
grass-roots  efforts  will  help  Africa  achieve 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

To support grass-roots efforts for Africa, we also 
send a great number of Korean volunteers to Africa and 
invite  African  trainees  to  share  our  development 
experiences.  In  particular,  the  Republic  of  Korea  will 
draw  on  the  comparative  advantage  of  its  advanced 
information  and  communication  technologies,  thus 
bolstering  Africa’s  economic  and  social  development 
by narrowing the digital gap. 

Our  own  experiences  have  demonstrated  the 
success  of  export-based  development. As  a  result,  we 
understand  that  trade  policy  also  plays  an  important 
role  in  Africa’s  integration  into  the  global  economy. 
Ultimately,  there  is  no  one-size-fits-all  solution  to 
improve  trade  in  Africa  in  a  short  time,  but  Aid  for 
Trade  and  adequate  national  strategies  will  eventually 
enhance  the  competitiveness  of African  countries.  We 
also  believe  that  successful  conclusion  of  the  Doha 
Round  will 
in  Africa  and, 
consequently, the growth of global trade. 
Africa’s population remains vulnerable to a wide 

range  of  health  issues, 
including  HIV/AIDS  and 
malaria, but we have the means to respond. The Global 
Fund  to  Fight  HIV/AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria, 
along  with  many  other  institutions  and  stakeholders, 
has  done  a  great  deal,  but  the  financing  for  health 
development assistance is still not sufficient. 

For its part, the Republic of Korea introduced an 
air-ticket solidarity levy, which is primarily earmarked 
for combating diseases and achieving MDGs in Africa. 
Such innovative development resources that go beyond 
traditional  ODA  can  have  a  significant  impact  on 
meeting our MDG targets. 
The  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  offer 

in  NEPAD’s 
congratulations  on 
implementation during the past year. We look forward 
to  seeing  additional  progress  in Africa,  particularly  in 
the  areas  of 
infrastructure  and  basic  health  and 
education,  as  recommended  by  the  Secretary-General 
in  his  report  (A/64/204).  The  Republic  of  Korea  was 
foster  development 
the  progress 
6 

09-56939 


able  to  overcome  development  obstacles  by  investing 
heavily in those fields and fully supports measures that 
would allow Africa to implement them. 

As  I  conclude  my  remarks,  let  me  reiterate  the 
commitment of the Republic of Korea to working with 
Africa to confront development challenges facing it. It 
is  in  our  common  interest  to  help  Africa  achieve 
sustainable  and  more  equitable  development  through 
an enhanced development partnership. 

As the saying goes, “Good company on the road 
is  a  shortcut”.  The  Republic  of  Korea  will  be  good 
company on the road to Africa’s development. 

Mr. Khan (Pakistan): At the outset my delegation 
wishes  to  align  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of the Sudan on behalf of the  Group of 
77 and China (see A/64/PV.22). 

The two complementary reports of the Secretary-
General  on  agenda  item  63  (A/64/204  and  A/64/208) 
contend that despite the global financial and economic 
crisis and its negative impact, some progress has been 
achieved in the implementation of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). The first of those 
reports  also  notes  that  the  main  challenge  now  for 
African  countries  is  to  ensure  that  the  financial  crisis, 
combined  with  the  latent  food  and  energy  crisis,  does 
not reverse the progress made in Africa and reduce the 
risk  of  increasing  poverty  and  hardship  for  the  most 
vulnerable groups. 

We  strongly  believe  that  the  way  forward  for 
meeting  Africa’s  development  needs  requires  more 
intense, coordinated, balanced and integrated actions in 
order 
the  development 
commitments  made  by  the  international  community  to 
comprehensively  address  all  challenges  to  Africa’s 
development.  

In  our  view,  an  urgent  and  well-coordinated 
global  action  would  help  mitigate  the  socio-economic 
impact of the crisis and help African countries recover 
ground in their progress towards the implementation of 
NEPAD and the achievement of internationally agreed 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Clearly, the international 
community has to scale up its efforts in order to meet 
all  its  commitments  towards  generating  the  resources 
needed 
to  achieve  sustainable  development  and 
sustained economic growth in Africa. 
to  effectively 
implement 
including 
goals, 
A/64/PV.24
strategy 
that 
includes 
to  efforts 
long-term 
capacities 
reconstruction 
the  fast 
track 
peace-building, 
implementation  of 
Pakistan  strongly  feels  that  further  bolstering 

investments,  expanding 
trade  by  allowing  greater 
market  access  to  exports  from  Africa,  and  building 
capacity  and  human  resources  are  the  most  important 
tools  for  putting  Africa  on 
for 
development.  Those  tools,  we  believe,  should  be  the 
three  main  pillars  for  a  strategic  partnership  between 
Africa and the rest of the world. 

Pakistan  has  consistently  supported  the  political 
and  economic  aspirations  of  Africa.  We  support 
effective  and  early 
the  New 
for  Africa’s  Development.  We  have 
Partnership 
actively  supported  and  contributed 
to 
promote durable peace and sustainable development in 
Africa. Durable peace can  be achieved only through a 
comprehensive 
conflict 
prevention,  addressing  the  root  causes  of  conflict  and 
strengthening 
for  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, peacemaking and peacekeeping; 
and  sets  up  a  coherent  system-wide  response  to  post-
conflict 
and 
development. 
regard,  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  is  an  indispensable  tool  for  restoring 
peace  and  stability  in  conflict  situations  and  has 
particularly  proved  its  utility  and  effectiveness  in  the 
African continent. 

Pakistan  is  committed  to  supporting  the  United 
Nations peace efforts in Africa. Our contribution comes 
in  the  form  of  a  contingent  of  nearly  10,000  troops, 
which  continues 
largest 
contingents deployed in Africa over the last decade. 

trade 
development,  and  its  bilateral  trade  with  countries  of 
the  continent  today  reaches  nearly  $1.8  billion  a  year. 
Furthermore,  we  provide  bilateral  assistance  in  the 
economic, social and technical spheres to a number of 
African  countries 
the  context  of  South-South 
cooperation. 
In  particular,  Pakistan  has  been 
successfully  running  the  Special  Technical  Assistance 
Programme 
that 
programme  hundreds  of  young  African  professionals 
from both the public and private sectors have received 
public 
training 
administration,  management, 
customs, 
accounting and diplomacy. 

We  are  in  the  process  of  further  expanding  the 
scope  and  scale  of  our  assistance  and  cooperation 
programmes  for  Africa.  Our  Prime  Minister  has 
Pakistan  also  has  an  Africa  plan  for 
for  Africa  since  1986.  Under 
to  be  among 
fields, 
including 
in 
different 
the 
two 
In 
this 
in 
banking, 
09-56939 

7 
are 
confident 
role.  We 
the  part  of 
to  help  Africa 
A/64/PV.24 

expressed  his  desire 
replicate 
programmes  focused  on  the  eradication  of  hepatitis-C 
and  schemes  for  providing  safe  drinking  water  and 
low-cost  housing,  which  are  being  carried  out  as  his 
special initiatives in Pakistan. 

I  wish  to  conclude  by  saying  that  the  challenges 
faced  by  Africa  are  colossal.  But  the  opportunities, 
means and resources to address them are also immense, 
though  they  must  be  harnessed  effectively.  NEPAD 
presents  a  realistic  framework  for  action. The African 
Union  is  emerging  as  a  dynamic  factor  promoting 
African  ownership  in  tackling Africa’s  problems.  The 
subregional organizations in Africa are also playing an 
that  with 
important 
commensurate  political  will  on 
the 
international  community,  in  particular  the  developed 
world, to faithfully implement the commitments made, 
Africa  can  hope  to  realize  its  full  political  and 
economic potential. 
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  express  through  me  its  high 
commendation  of  the  admirable  fashion  in  which  the 
President is conducting the Assembly’s deliberations at 
its sixty-fourth session and to thank him for organizing 
this  joint  debate  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD), the causes of conflict and the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in Africa,  and  the  implementation  of  the 
2001-2010 Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing 
Countries, Particularly in Africa. 

the  African  heads  of  State  and 
Government  adopted  NEPAD  to  endow  the  continent 
with  a  coherent  and  harmonized  development 
framework  that  would  allow  Africa  to  regain  the 
initiative in its endeavours to bring about an economic 
upswing 
and 
implementation  of 
it  requires,  while 
pledging 
to  develop  an  effective  and  efficient 
partnership  with  the  international  community  in  order 
to  achieve  that  goal.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  the  four  reports  he  has  produced  on  these  issues, 
which take stock of the progress achieved in pursuing 
the  objectives  of  NEPAD  and  the  Decade  and  which 
allow  us  a  comprehensive  view  of  the  interactions  of 
the  issues  of  concern  regarding  the  evolution  of  the 
situation  in  Africa.  It  is  an  extremely  instructive 
exercise in which my delegation willingly takes part.  
the 
the  actions 
conception 
harnessing 
In  2001, 
durable 
peace 
of 
and 

It 
levels  on 
is  a  fact 
issues  related 
technical  and 
financial  support 
the  dynamic  and 

that  with  NEPAD  Africa  has 
established  clear  priorities,  as  well  as  coherent 
strategic guidance for the efforts needed to bring about 
its  development.  The  African  countries  have  thereby 
shouldered  the  requirement  of  responsible  partnership 
with  the  international  community.  The  lines  of  action 
decided upon are manifold, but two of them seem to be 
the most dynamic and the most conducive to restoring 
economic and social progress in Africa — namely, the 
promotion  of  agriculture  and  the  development  of 
infrastructure.  

These  are  two  areas  of  activity  that  require 
substantial investment and call for the mobilization of 
substantial 
from 
partners in development.  

Several initiatives have been taken to bolster the 
capacity  to  manage  the  changes  required  in  Africa, 
judging  by  the  plethora  of  seminars  and  workshops 
organized  at  various 
to 
NEPAD. Those  initiatives  create  conditions  conducive 
to investment. The joint endeavours undertaken in this 
context  must  be  continued  without  letting  up  in  order 
to  maintain 
their 
multiplying effects for all African economies. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  stress  the  appeal 
launched by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Benin 
from this very rostrum during the general debate, at the 
8th  meeting,  for  the  establishment  of  an  investment 
fund under the auspices of the United Nations and the 
African  Union  in  order  to  carry  out  continent-wide 
infrastructure  projects  in  Africa  in  the  context  of  an 
innovative public-private partnership in order to rise to 
the  serious  challenges  posed  for  Africa  by  climate 
change.  Such  an  investment  fund  could  be  financed 
through  the  adaptation  funds  established  at  the  Bali 
Conference, held in December 2007.  

The serious threats that climate change is posing 
to  the  progress  made  in  promoting  development  in 
Africa  must  be  brought  under  control  in  order  to 
protect  the  achievements  and  preserve  the  momentum 
in the cumulative process of creating wealth, which can 
only lead to development.  
With  regard  in  particular  to  strengthening  peace 

and  security  in  Africa  as  a  precondition  for  all 
economic  and  social  progress,  despite  the  significant 
positive  advances as a result of the efforts undertaken 
to  strengthen 
international 
community  to  effectively  prevent  conflicts,  it  is  clear 
the  capacities  of 
to  maximize 
the 
by 
8 

09-56939 


that  there  are  significant  challenges  to  overcome.  We 
reiterate 
the  Secretary-General’s  call  on  Africa’s 
partners  to  help  put  in  place  useable  and  effective 
mediation  means.  That  would  help  to  bolster  the 
outstanding efforts made by the United Nations and the 
African Union to halt wars and crises on the continent. 
Benin is proud to have made a significant contribution 
to those efforts.  

Above and beyond that approach of strengthening 
capacities, when it comes to implementing the 10-year 
plan  to  assist  the  African  Union,  the  international 
community would also do well to step up its efforts to 
bring about more effective control over the underlying 
structural causes of conflict, whose continued existence 
serves  to  undermine  the  continent  and  increase  the 
likelihood  that  new  conflicts  will  break  out.  That 
would  entail 
increasing  systemic  and  structural 
prevention  efforts  by  supporting  economic  and  social 
reforms and the fight against external factors that have 
a negative impact on the situation in African countries 
when  it  comes  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security.  

Efforts  under  way  to  combat  the  proliferation  of 
small  arms  and 
light  weapons  should  also  be 
intensified.  There  is  nothing  more  pernicious  than 
cyclical  instability,  which  the  Secretary-General  has 
rightly underscored has a negative impact on progress 
towards peace and development.  

the  African  Peer 
in 
Review Mechanism deserve special attention from the 
United Nations with regard to the support they should 
be  given 
recommendations 
emanating from that process, especially when it comes 
to  taking  concrete  steps  to  emerge  from  the  situations 
of risk that are identified. 

for 
marginalized  communities,  we  are  not  only  providing 
the  services  themselves,  we  are  contributing  to  peace 
and  security.  We  should  continue  to  pay  crucial 
attention  to  supporting  efforts  to  provide  water  and 
electrical services in rural and suburban areas, as well 
as access to basic health care and school costruction, as 
effective ways of ensuring that all citizens can improve 
their  social  conditions. 
therefore  crucially 
important  that  we  combat  unemployment,  especially 
among young people, as well as fight organized crime, 
which increases insecurity in both the countryside and 
in cities. 
Countries  participating 
In  ensuring  access 
implementing 
to  basic 
services 
the 
in 
It 
is 
A/64/PV.24
to  honour 
the  NEPAD 
the  commitments 

Those  issues  have  been  the  focus  of  special 
attention in the context of the efforts made to  achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  welcome  the 
momentum  towards  that  end,  which  should  not  be 
hampered  by  virtue  of  the  successive  crises  that  have 
taken place in recent years. We urge donor countries to 
continue  their  support  for  programmes  that  have  a 
direct impact on people’s living conditions.  
  The President took the Chair. 



We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that,  for 
their part, African countries should make the necessary 
efforts 
they  have 
undertaken  when  it  comes  to  the  share  of  national 
budgets to be devoted to financing efforts in the areas 
of  health  and  promoting  agriculture,  as  well  as  in 
particular  related  areas  such  as  locally  processing 
agricultural products to increase their added value and 
the revenue they produce. 
The  policies  of  Benin’s  Government  are  firmly 

grounded in that philosophy, especially when it comes 
to agriculture. The Government of Benin fully endorses 
the  major  areas  for  priority  action  that  have  been 
identified  by 
secretariat,  namely, 
strengthening  human  resources,  providing  agricultural 
inputs,  including  seeds  and  fertilizer,  land  reform  and 
protecting  the  rights  of  agricultural  workers.  Those 
priorities  were  taken  into  consideration  in  developing 
the  strategic  outline 
the 
Government of Benin to promote rural development in 
our country. 
In that connection, our Government has just held 

a  round 
the  financing  of  our  national 
agricultural investment programme, which is based on 
concerted  agricultural  policies  at  the  continental  level 
in  the  context  of  a  detailed  African  agricultural 
development programme. Its goal is to reduce poverty 
through  growth,  improve  food  security  by  increasing 
production  and  maintaining  an  appropriate  and  secure 
production  environment  as 
the 
dignified    development  of  an  emerging  economy. 
Agriculture  in  Benin  is  responsible  for  36  per  cent  of 
gross domestic product, 75 to 90 per cent of our export 
income, 15 per cent of State revenues and 70 per cent 
of all jobs.  

The  round  table,  which  was  organized  with  the 
support of both NEPAD and the Economic Community 
of West African  States,  aimed  at  producing  consensus 
among  the  various  stakeholders  with  regard  to  the 
that  was  adopted  by 
table  on 
impetus 
the 
for 
09-56939 

9 

A/64/PV.24 

provisions  of  the  national  agricultural  investment 
programme,  identifying  which  partners  were  to  be 
supported  and,  above  all,  mobilizing  resources  to 
produce  real  investments  destined  for  the  agricultural 
sector. 

We would like to pay tribute to friendly countries 
that  have  supported  the  efforts  of  the  Government  of 
Benin  in  this  field,  especially  India,  a  country  with 
which  our  Government  is  developing  an  agricultural 
mechanization  programme  at  the  national  level.  The 
opportunities  that  exist  for  South-South  cooperation 
and for the launching of triangular cooperation in this 
area must be exploited. However, the efforts that have 
been  made  will  not  be  successful  unless  meaningful 
progress  is  made  in  resolving  the  issue  of  agricultural 
subsidies. As the Assembly is aware, that continues to 
be a stumbling block in the Doha Round of multilateral 
trade negotiations.  

There  is  good  reason  to  commend  the  progress 
made with regard to the Decade to Roll Back Malaria. 
However, we are still far from achieving the goals that 
have  been  set.  The  political  will  that  has  been 
manifested  by  affected  countries,  which  was  recently 
illustrated  once  again  by  the  establishment  of  the 
African  Leaders  Alliance  against  Malaria,  has  been 
stymied  by  the  low  level  of  necessary  financing  that 
has  been  mobilized  to  ensure  full  coverage  of  the 
population. The observations contained in the report of 
the  Secretary-General  (A/64/302)  leave  no  doubt  that 
real challenges continue to  exist when it  comes to the 
quality  of  infrastructure  to  diagnose  and  adequately 
treat malaria. 

The international community must do everything 
possible to save the lives of the millions of people who 
die  every  year  from  bouts  of  malaria.  Those  deaths 
could  be  prevented  through  the  comprehensive  use  of 
existing  tools.  We  should  continue  to  pay  particular 
attention  to  the  issue  of  the  parasite’s  resistance  to 
insecticides  and  antimalarial  medicines.  However, 
there  is  also  reason  to  celebrate.  In  particular,  we 
should  commend  those  countries  which  have  already 
reached the targets set for 2010, and the other countries 
on the way to successfully eradicating this disease, an 
achievement  which  will  make 
important 
contribution  to  improving  conditions  for  sustainable 
development in those countries. 

The  complexity  of  the  challenges  facing  Africa 
calls  for  more  coherent  and  coordinated  action,  as 
an 
system 
support 
to 
regional 
and 
subregional 
strategies 
of  African  Governments 
highlighted  by  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Joint 
Inspection  Unit  entitled  “Towards  more  coherent 
United  Nations 
to  Africa” 
(JIU/REP/2009/5).  We  support  the  recommendations 
aimed  at  improving  the  division  of  labour  among  the 
organizations of the United Nations system with a view 
to  achieving  the  operational  coherence  needed  to  be 
effective.  Regional  coordination  mechanisms  must  be 
established  as  soon  as  possible,  while  the  capacity  of 
the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  to  take  action 
should  be  strengthened  with  a  view  to  bolstering  its 
ability to provide strategic support to regional African 
institutions and Governments. 
In  this  context,  there  is  a  need  to  safeguard  the 

capacity 
harness 
mechanisms  for  defining  national  priorities  and  to 
ensure that they are fully coordinated, while seeking to 
bring  about  harmonious  integration  in  national  plans 
and 
and 
programmes.  This  would  create  the  conditions  for 
results-based  management,  which  can  serve  as  a 
guarantee  of  the  effectiveness  of  efforts  to  promote 
peace, stability and sustainable development. 

Mr. Swe (Myanmar): I wish to begin by thanking 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  seventh  consolidated 
report  regarding  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  (A/64/204).  My  delegation  is 
pleased  to  learn  from  the  report  that,  despite  the 
financial  and  economic  crisis  which  has  affected 
countries  large  and  small,  some  progress  was  still 
achieved  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD.  This  is 
reassuring, but much more needs to be done to mitigate 
the  adverse  affects  of  the  crisis,  especially  on  low-
income  countries,  to  prevent  the  risk  of  increasing 
poverty and misery for the most vulnerable groups. 

itself  with 
the 
statements made by the representative of the Sudan, on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  by  the 
representative of Thailand, on behalf of Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations, on the need to take concerted 
action  to  ensure  the  successful  implementation  of 
NEPAD  and 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) in Africa. 

the  Assembly  has  been 
considering progress in the implementation of NEPAD 
and  international  support  for  the  programme.  We 
welcome this practice. It is an effective means for the 
international  community  to  take  stock  of  the  situation 
the  achievement  of 
For  several  years, 
My  delegation 
associates 
10 

09-56939 
The 


and  to  provide  NEPAD  the  prominence  it  deserves  on 
the global development agenda. 

international  community’s  attention  and 
focus  on  addressing  Africa’s  development  needs  has 
been  demonstrated  by  the  various  high-level  meetings 
on Africa  in  the  past  year. A  number  of  key  messages 
have  already  emerged  from  these  high-level  meetings. 
First,  in  order  to  generate  broad-based,  equitable  and 
sustainable  growth,  more  intense  and  coordinated 
action  is  required  to  implement  the  commitments 
made. The international community must live up to its 
commitments on assistance to Africa, in particular as the 
crisis  has  underscored  the  need  to  guard  against  back-
sliding  in  the  implementation  of  key  socio-economic 
development programmes. 

Secondly, it is essential to help African countries 
build  their  capacity.  They  have  made  tremendous 
efforts  to  take  development  into  their  own  hands  by 
improving  their  governing  capabilities  and  increasing 
their  capacity  and  potential  for  development.  The 
international  community  should  complement  these 
efforts  by  offering  African  countries 
favourable 
conditions in debt relief, market access and technology 
transfer to help them overcome development obstacles. 
In  the  field  of  the  global  economy,  it  is  important  to 
provide  African  countries  with  an  enabling  external 
environment for their development. 

Thirdly, emergency aid and debt relief, as well as 
concessional  lending,  should  be  increased  to  mitigate 
the adverse effects of the global crisis, in particular as 
the global financial and economic downturn has placed 
additional  burdens  on  African  countries.  Official 
development assistance flows, increased debt relief and 
lending  by 
institutions 
therefore remain essential. 

Fourthly,  in  addition  to  urgently  fulfilling  all 
official development assistance commitments, new and 
additional financial resources should be made available 
to address adaptation needs arising from the effects of 
the  global crisis. In this context, the proposal made by 
the  World  Bank  to  design  a  special  stabilization  and 
development fund for Africa is positive. 
Fifthly,  sustained  and  more  intensive  efforts  are 

needed  to  achieve  long-term  debt  sustainability.  The 
recommendations  of  the  MDG  Africa  Steering  Group 
present  a  comprehensive  picture  of  the  progress  made 
in  promoting  sustainable  development  in  Africa  over 
the  past  few  years.  However,  formidable  challenges 
international  financial 
the 
A/64/PV.24
including 
in  order 
regional 
and 
its  efforts 
remain. In this regard, we welcome actions focused on 
supporting  African 
subregional 
organizations, 
the  Common  Market  for 
Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the Southern 
African  Development  Community  (SADC)  and  the 
East African Community (EAC), under the COMESA-
SADC-EAC  Harmonization  Process.  There  is  also 
concern  relating  to  the  financial  and  human  resources 
required to solve Africa’s interlinked multidimensional 
problems.  It  is  clear  that  the  international  community 
must  scale  up 
to  meet  all 
commitments  to  generate  the  resources  required  for 
achieving the MDGs. 

To  conclude,  the  challenges  faced  by  Africa  are 
formidable, but the opportunities, means and resources 
to  address  those  challenges  are  immense.  NEPAD 
presents  a  realistic  framework  for  action. The African 
Union  is  emerging  as  a  main  force  in  promoting 
African  ownership  for  solving Africa’s  problems.  The 
subregional organizations in Africa are also playing an 
important role. The international community must play 
its part and fulfil the commitments made so that Africa 
can realize its full economic and political potential. 

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
in 
French):  My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statements made by the  representatives  of Tunisia and 
the Sudan, on behalf of the Group of African States and 
the Group of 77 and China, respectively, on the agenda 
items under consideration, namely 63 (a) and (b). 

We  should  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  the  quality  of  the  reports  presented  under 
this  agenda  item  this  year  (A/64/204,  A/64/208  and 
A/64/210).  They 
range  of  measures 
undertaken by the African organizations and countries, 
the  international  community  and,  in  particular,  by  the 
organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system  in  the 
strategic  domains  defined  by  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and  by  the  various 
United Nations resolutions relating to the promotion of 
sustainable  peace  and  development  in  Africa.  By 
adopting  NEPAD  in  2001,  African  countries  were 
endeavouring  to  devise  a  plan,  or  more  specifically,  a 
vision,  of  realistic  development  drawn  up  by  African 
themselves,  determined  to  take  charge  of  their  own 
development 
the  continent 
overcome its lack of development. 

defined 
From  this  standpoint,  strategic  priorities  were 
infrastructure, 
to  helping 
following 
reflect 
the 
in  order 
in 
the 
fields: 
09-56939 

11 

information 
science 
environment, 
technologies, 
In  Central  Africa,  NEPAD  has  allowed 
A/64/PV.24 

agriculture  and  food  security,  health,  education  and 
and 
training, 
the 
communication 
and  other 
technologies,  gender  equality,  female  empowerment, 
civil society participation, and an intra-African review 
mechanism. In all those fields, the Secretary-General’s 
reports  underscore  the  progress  achieved,  and  we 
welcome this, especially when it comes to the gradual 
integration of NEPAD within African Union structures 
and processes.  

the 
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States 
(ECCAS) to lay the foundation for the development of 
priority  infrastructure  in  order  to  accelerate  regional 
integration,  to  contribute  to  economic  growth  as  well 
as to reduce poverty in member States. 

The  transportation  sector  is  one  where  the  most 
important  actions  have  been  taken.  Developments 
include the consensual master plan for transportation in 
Central Africa and a priority network that involves 55 
projects. Among  those  projects  is  the  filling  in  of  the 
missing  links  in  trans-African  routes  crossing  Central 
Africa, NEPAD priority projects, the laying down of all 
of the inter-capital routes among States, as well as the 
main 
infrastructure  which  supports 
international  trade  of  States  in  the  subregion,  that  is, 
the  main  ports,  international  airports,  railways,  and  a 
lakes and rivers transportation network. Heads of State 
or Government of the subregion set up a committee to 
monitor 
the 
those 
programmes. 

For  its  part,  Cameroon  has  established  certain 
structures  to  support  NEPAD  projects.  Institutionally, 
for example, the President of the Republic monitors at 
the  highest  level  NEPAD,  as  well  as  the  Africa  Peer 
Evaluation  Mechanism.  Cameroon  is  a  member  of  the 
NEPAD  Steering  Committee.  In 
this  context,  a 
department was set up within the Foreign Ministry and 
focal points in charge of NEPAD issues have also been 
appointed in various sectgorial ministries. 
Our  Government  has  also  adopted  a  set  of 

measures  geared 
reducing  poverty  and 
improving  the  living  conditions  of  our  population. 
Those  measures 
include  free  primary  education, 
improvements  in  health  care  options,  and  fighting 
against rising costs through a price-stabilization policy. 

As  can  be  seen,  important  strides  have  been 
achieved. It is clear that NEPAD is fully underway, and 
implementation  of 
transportation 
towards 
all  of 
that 
vigorous 
situation, 
we  have  moved  from  words  to  plans  to  projects  to 
concrete  actions. At  the  same  time,  we  should  not  be 
blinded  to  certain  difficulties  which  prevent  a  more 
extensive  implementation  of  NEPAD.  There  is,  in 
particular, a certain sluggishness when it comes to the 
level and pace of efforts which are required. 

For  example,  while  $25  billion  in  additional 
annual  aid  is  expected  by  2010  for  the  African 
continent,  only  $12.5  billion  has  been  disbursed  thus 
far. The gap between what has been promised and what 
is actually being done is widening. Another example is 
that sustained annual growth of 7 per cent for over 10 
years  is  required  for  viable  development,  but  the 
majority  of  African  countries  do  not  meet 
that 
requirement. 

Given 
corrective 
measures  are  necessary.  First  of  all,  the  repeated 
promises made by Africa’s development partners must 
be fulfilled. The continent itself must step up its efforts 
to  mobilize  resources  for  NEPAD  programmes  and 
projects. Additional efforts must also be made to speed 
up the multilateral negotiations under way, specifically, 
those  of  the  Doha  Round,  in  order  to  establish  an 
international  environment  which  is  more  conducive  to 
Africa’s  development.  The  contributions  of  various 
United  Nations  bodies  must  be  subject  to  more 
rigorous and strategic planning which would encourage 
more specific and periodically measurable goals.   

Here,  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  to  the 
Secretary-General  on Africa,  as  well  as  ECCAS,  have 
leading  roles  to  play  in  marshalling  international 
opinion  and  resources,  in  coordinating  the  efforts,  as 
well  as  the  contributions,  of  various  parties  at  the 
global,  regional  and  subregional  levels  and  in  the 
ongoing  assessment  of  those  results.  In  other  words, 
the  road  ahead  is  still  filled  with  challenges  and  must 
prompt even more efforts for, dedication and solidarity 
to Africa. 

With  respect  to  governance  and  to  peace  and 
security, 
the  Secretary-
General have also mentioned the progress that has been 
achieved  with  respect  to  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism and strengthening the African Union Peace 
and Security Council and the capacity of the continent 
to  conduct  peacekeeping  operations  and  calm  conflict 
zones.  However,  those  concerns  continue  because  of 
ongoing or new sources of tension or conflict. 
the  reports  submitted  by 
12 

09-56939 
turn, 



We  believe  that  the  search  for  solutions  in  this 
area must be coordinated around preventive diplomacy 
to prevent situations from getting worse and leading to, 
in 
incalculable  additional  costs.  Here,  we 
congratulate  the  Secretary-General  for  his  decision  to 
establish  a  permanent  office  of  the  United  Nations  in 
Central  Africa  in  response  to  the  unanimous  appeal 
made by countries in the subregion. 

Cameroon has always expressed its preference for 
the peaceful settlement of disputes, but where conflict 
has  broken  out,  our  country  has  made  its  contribution 
to  the  restoration  and  maintenance  of  peace  through 
our participation in peace mechanisms. 

Thus, we have provided the United Nations with 
several  special  representatives  and  we  are  also 
involved  in  peacekeeping  operations  in  Cambodia, 
Namibia, Burundi, Rwanda, Chad, the Central African 
Republic,  Guinea-Bissau,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  and  Haiti.  Our  country  currently  welcomes 
84,000  refugees  and  a  great  number  of  displaced 
persons  due  to  conflict  and  instability  in  Central 
Africa.  
Finally,  we  would  like  to  stress  that  with  the 

current  global  financial,  energy,  climate  and  food 
crises,  the  development  of Africa  is,  once  again,  at  a 
crossroads.  Selfishness  and  the Afro-pessimism  of  the 
1980s  threaten  us  even  as  we  harbour  the  hope  for  a 
better  future,  a  future  made  possible  by  the  modern 
instruments available to help us overcome poverty. It is 
certainly  up  to  the  African  continent  itself  to  make 
choices and to take decisive steps, but our development 
partners are just as certainly called upon to realize their 
often-repeated promises to Africa.  
In  a  world  increasingly  interdependent  only  an 

to 
ongoing  combination  of  efforts  will  be  able 
equitably rebuild the interests of each and every one of 
us. 

observer of The Observer State of the Holy See. 

In 
congratulating  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  (A/64/204),  my  delegation  would  like  to 
offer some remarks on the overall situation in Africa. 

First of all, there are certain prejudices that must 
be eliminated once and for all. Often, when one speaks 
about Africa, both journalistically and at the academic 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
Archbishop  Migliore
(Holy 
See): 
A/64/PV.24
intellectual 
life  of 
the 
to  provide 
Some  African  countries  have  succeeded 
or political level, one speaks of extreme poverty, coups 
d’état,  corruption  and  regional  conflicts.  Also,  when 
speaking  positively  of  Africa,  it  is  always  about  the 
future  of  Africa,  as  if  it  had  nothing  to  offer  at  the 
present time. 
The  reality  is  that  Africa,  even  in  its  most 

difficult  years,  has  been  able 
the 
international  community  examples  and  values  worthy 
of admiration and, today, Africa can also offer signs of 
fulfilment  of  many  of  its  hopes.  Just  think  about  the 
various  cases  in  which  Africa  has  proven  its  great 
capacity  to  manage  the  processes  of  transition  to 
independence  or  reconstruction  after  situations  of 
conflict. Consider too, the presence of so many valiant 
officials  in  the  United  Nations  and  United  Nations 
agencies  through  which  Africa  shows  the  world  the 
capability  and  talents  of  her  people  to  manage  the 
multilateral  sector.  Think  also  of 
increasing 
contribution of the sons and daughters of Africa to the 
scientific,  academic  and 
the 
developed countries. 

in 
realizing the  dream of a diversified  agriculture, which 
obtains  results  that  were  up  to  this  point  considered 
impossible.  They  have  proven  that  family  farming, 
even  on  a  very  small  scale,  can  actually  be 
multifunctional,  capable  of  ensuring  countries’  food 
security  and  even  generating  export  balance,  while 
managing 
land  and  natural 
resources. What is more, many African countries have 
made  impressive  strides  in  the  field  of  elementary 
education and improving the situation of women. 

It  remains  true,  nevertheless,  that  most  of  the 
people living in extreme poverty are in Africa and that 
the eradication of poverty and hunger, reducing by half 
the proportion of people whose income is less than $1 
a  day  by  2015,  is  beyond  the  reach  of  most  African 
countries.  

Africa  needs,  therefore,  a  hands-on,  tangible 
solidarity,  not  only  to  cope  with  the  negative  impacts 
of  its  crises,  but  to  help  eradicate  the  unacceptable 
scourge  of  poverty  and  make  available  to  other 
countries  Africa’s  true  potential.  Africa  requires  a 
strong  reinforcement  of  its  basic  economic  support, 
which  consists  of  official  development  assistance  and 
grants  for  eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  for  the 
creation  and  maintenance  of  basic  social  structures. 
Long-term 
to 
financing  programmes  are  needed 
the  conservation  of 
09-56939 

13 

to 
increase 
food 
In  addressing 
A/64/PV.24 

overcome  the  external  debt  of  the  highly  indebted  poor 
countries,  to  consolidate  economic  and  constitutional 
systems and to create social security networks. Likewise, 
international  trade  practices  have  to  adapt  to  Africa’s 
peculiar needs and economic challenges. 

In the current crisis, developed countries should not 
reduce  their  development  aid  to Africa;  on  the  contrary, 
they should embrace a farsighted vision of the world and 
the  world  economy  and  move 
their 
investments in poor countries and those who live there. In 
the  same  vein,  Africa  needs  support  for  its  agricultural 
programmes. 
insecurity,  due 
consideration must be given to structural systems, such as 
subsidies 
in  developed  countries  and  commodity 
dumping, which drive down the ability of African farmers 
to  make  a  living.  In  addition,  the  long  decline  in 
investment  in  the  agricultural  sector  in  Africa  must  be 
reversed  and  a  renewed  commitment  to  assisting  family 
farmers  to  provide  sustainable  food  production  must  be 
undertaken. Failure to assist Africans to feed themselves 
and  their  neighbours  will  only  result  in  continued 
senseless  loss  of  life  from  inadequate  food  security  and 
increased conflict over natural resources. 

its 
economies.  Recently,  the  world  observed,  both  in  a 
positive  and  negative  manner,  the  institutionalization  of 
the Group of 20 as a strong point of reference to manage 
the world economy.  

The  positive  aspect  is  that  the  large  industrialized 
countries have felt the need to call to the negotiating table 
major emerging markets of the South. The involvement of 
emerging or developing countries now makes it possible 
to better manage the crisis. The negative aspect carries the 
risk  of  excluding  small  countries  from  participating  in 
those important discussions. However, one notes that the 
emerging  economies  that  will  have  an  influence  on 
politics  and  the  world  economy  are  those  that  have 
succeeded,  to  a  greater  or  lesser  extent,  in  diversifying 
their industrial and agricultural production. 

Finally,  Africa  needs  integration  support.  NEPAD 
and  all  regional  and  subregional  initiatives  of  trade, 
economic and cultural cooperation, conflict management, 
peacekeeping and reconstruction should be promoted and 
strengthened.  The  African  Union  has  proven  to  be  a 
strong  focal  point  for  connecting Africa with the  United 
Nations  and 
trade 
organizations. Similarly, the African Union acts as a point 
Africa  also  needs  support 
in  diversifying 
financial  and 
international 
the 
The  President: 
of  convergence  in  coordinating  the  many  subregional 
multilateral initiatives in Africa.  

The integrated economy of the present day does not 
make  the  role  of  States  redundant,  but  instead  commits 
governments  to  greater  collaboration  with  one  another. 
The articulation of political authority at the local, national 
and international levels is one of the best ways of giving 
direction to the process of economic globalization. 
In  accordance  with  General 

Assembly resolution 49/2 of 19 October 1994, I now call 
on  the  observer  for  the  International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 
Mr.  Jilani  (International  Federation  of  Red  Cross 

and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  As  we  approach  the 
concluding stages of the Roll Back Malaria 2010 targets 
of  universal  coverage  for  all  populations  at  risk,  the 
International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent 
Societies  (IFRC)  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  work  in 
partnership towards achieving those targets. We are very 
active as part of the global Roll Back Malaria Partnership 
constituency.  Also,  the  IFRC  chairs  the  Alliance  for 
Malaria  Prevention,  a  partnership  of  more  than  30 
organizations including government, business, faith-based 
and  humanitarian  organizations.  Furthermore,  National 
Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies,  as  auxiliaries  to 
their  public  authorities,  are  active  in  Africa,  consistent 
with  the  strategies  outlined  by  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development,  but  also  in  parts  of  Asia,  the 
Caribbean and South America.  

The  IFRC  malaria  programmes  are  focused  on 
scaling up insecticide-treated net ownership and ensuring 
that  net  distribution  is  accompanied  by  extensive  and 
prolonged  community  education  and  empowerment 
efforts.  Follow-on  “hang  up”  campaigns  carried  out  by 
Red  Cross/Red  Crescent-trained  volunteers 
the 
community significantly reduce the incidence of malaria, 
as not only our own data but also a Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention survey confirm.  
Combining distribution with follow-on support and 

training  is  especially  crucial  in  order  to  reach  the  most 
vulnerable  groups,  such  as  those  living  in  remote  areas, 
refugees 
and 
discrimination.  Trained  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent 
volunteers  who  live  in  the  very  same  community  and 
speak the same local language are ideally placed to help 
families to overcome social or cultural barriers that may 
prevent the effective hanging and use of nets. 
affected  by 
and  people 
stigma 
in 
14 

09-56939 



Last August, the IFRC and the American Red Cross 
staff, working together with the Mozambique Red Cross 
Society,  carried  out  a  survey  of  mosquito  net  usage 
following  mass  distribution  and  a  hang-up  campaign  in 
Mozambique’s  Nampula  Province.  In  that  campaign, 
Mozambique  Red  Cross  volunteers  went  from  door  to 
door,  verifying  that  beneficiaries  were  hanging  the  nets 
properly. The survey focused on two districts targeted by 
hang-up intervention groups, compared with two districts 
in which the Red Cross was active as a control group. The 
findings  confirmed  that  mass  distribution  raised  net 
ownership from very low levels to more than 70 per cent 
in  a  very  short  time.  Otherwise,  48  per  cent  of  the 
households visited in the intervention group had their nets 
hanging,  compared  to  only  31  per  cent  in  the  control 
group.  

The  key  message  of  the  Red  Cross  and  the  Red 
Crescent is that communities must own the activities that 
support prevention. To increase ownership, families must 
have the support necessary to understand the transmission 
of  malaria,  prevention  through  nets  and  treatment.  The 
IFRC  will  replicate  and  expand  hang-up  campaigns  and 
will  team  up  with  partners  to  accelerate  the  delivery  of 
nets. 

Lastly, the IFRC also includes a malaria component 
in its emergency response activities when disasters occur 
in malaria-endemic areas or where epidemics are possible 
as a result of disaster. 
The  President:  The  debate  that  we  have  just 

concluded  has  been  a  strong  demonstration  of  goodwill, 
solidarity and support for Africa. Over two days, Member 
States and regional groups have reaffirmed their support 
for Africa’s development objectives and, particularly, for 
the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), 
the continent’s blueprint to achieve those objectives. 

The  debate  was  a  timely  opportunity  to  review 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  and  international 
support for NEPAD and to identify the ways and means 
of addressing the challenges. Many delegations spoke of 
progress in NEPAD priority areas, such as infrastructure, 
agriculture,  health  and  education,  and  highlighted  the 
challenges  faced  by  Africa  in  attaining  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  While  acknowledging  Africa’s 
primary responsibility for its own development, member 
States  renewed  calls  for  strengthening 
international 
partnership to accelerate that process. In that regard, the 
importance  of  South-South  cooperation  and  Africa’s 
strategic partnerships was highlighted. 

African  delegations  outlined  the  efforts  made  to 
advance the priorities of NEPAD, as well as to tackle the 
A/64/PV.24
role  of 
and 
their  concern  and  dismay  at 
the  African  Union, 
the  United  Nations. 
challenges  of  peace  and  security,  emphasizing  in  that 
regional 
regard 
the 
organizations 
Some 
representatives  welcomed  the  progress  made  in  the 
integration  of  NEPAD  into  the  African  Union  structure 
and  process.  The  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  was 
widely praised. 
Among the many challenges confronting Africa, the 

impact  of  the  food,  fuel  and  economic  crises,  climate 
change,  HIV/AIDS  and  other  diseases,  transnational 
organized crime, narcotic drug trafficking, and the need to 
improve  the  status  of  women  were  particularly  stressed. 
Many  expressed 
the 
continuing  toll  of  malaria  in  Africa  and  in  developing 
countries  elsewhere.  We  heard  a  number  of  specific 
proposals to address those challenges. 
It is widely acknowledged that while Africa’s own 

reform  efforts  must  be  sustained, 
international 
community  must  also  provide  the  necessary  support  in 
terms  of  investment,  trade,  debt  relief  and  official 
development  assistance  (ODA).  Africa’s  development 
partners  were  called  upon  to  meet  their  ODA  pledges, 
particularly the Gleneagles commitment to double aid to 
Africa  by  2010,  and  the  long-standing  commitment  of 
many  developed  countries  to  increase  ODA  to  0.7  per 
cent of gross national income.  

the 
implementation  of  the  political  declaration  on  Africa’s 
development needs (resolution 63/1), adopted at the high-
level  meeting  on  22  September  2008,  whereby  the 
international 
to 
reinvigorating  and  strengthening  a  global  partnership  of 
equals.  Several  delegations  mentioned  the  calls  for  a 
monitoring  mechanism  to  review  the  full  and  timely 
implementation  of  all  commitments  related  to  African 
development. 

In the light of the debate, it is my sincere hope that 
the  international  community  will  continue  to  stand  with 
Africa and to follow up on its pledges in support of Africa 
in  order to help  attain  from  the international  partnership 
more tangible results on the ground for the benefit of the 
people of Africa.  

participation. 

consideration of agenda items 63 and 43. 
The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m. 
I  thank  all  members  for  their  contribution  and 
The Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
community 
recommitted 
itself 
Several 
representatives 
the 
called 
for 
09-56939 

15 
