
A/64/PV.39
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

39th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 5 November 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.  
Agenda item 64 (continued) 
Report of the Human Rights Council  






  Report of the Human Rights Council 
(A/64/53/Add.1) 
  Note by the President of the General Assembly 
(A/64/490) 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.11) 

Mr.  Momen  (Bangladesh):  For  more  than  six 

decades we have been debating about the peace process 
in the Middle East. Despite our continuous efforts, we 
are still far from a lasting peace in the region. 

The  Bangladesh  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statements  made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  by  the 
representative of the Syrian Arab Republic on behalf of 
the Organization of the Islamic Conference. We would, 
however, like to highlight some points of interest to us. 

In  that  connection,  my  delegation  thanks  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict 
into  documented 
allegations  of  criminal  activities  and  for  presenting  a 
comprehensive  and  objective  report  (A/HRC/12/48) 
addressing  all  alleged  violations.  Our  conscience  is 
shaken by the serious violations of international human 
rights  and  humanitarian  law  committed  by  Israel,  as 
reported  in  the  context  of  its  military  operations  in 
Gaza from 27 December 2008 to 18 January 2009. 
investigation 
for 
its 
in 
law 
in  Israel  and 

We  believe  that  the  findings  and  conclusions  set 
out  in  Judge  Goldstone’s  report  will  help  create  an 
opportunity to put an end to impunity for violations of 
international 
the  occupied 
Palestinian territory and thus to eventually address the 
dispossession  experienced  by  the  people  of  Gaza.  My 
delegation endorses the findings and recommendations 
of  the  Goldstone  report  and  expresses  its  appreciation 
for their objectivity and fairness. 

The Goldstone report clearly confirms that Israel, 
whose  people  themselves  had  suffered  oppression  in 
Europe, committed serious human rights violations and 
violations  of  humanitarian  law  amounting  to  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity,  while  using 
disproportionate 
targeting 
civilian 
causing 
unspeakable losses in terms of property and the lives of 
civilians,  many  of 
them  women  and  children. 
According  to  the  Goldstone  report,  all  inhabitants  of 
Gaza  were 
targeted,  without  distinction  between 
military  personnel  and  civilians.  The  scale  of  the 
crimes described in the report should be a wake-up call 
for the international community. If its findings were to 
be  disregarded,  the  promotion  of  human  rights  would 
take  a  step  backwards  and  criticism  of  others  for 
human rights violations would be a mockery. 
The  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 

Mission on the Gaza Conflict, headed by Judge Richard 
Goldstone,  made  a  number  of  recommendations  aimed 
at  ensuring  accountability  for  perpetrators  and  redress 
for  victims.  It  called  on  the  Government  of  Israel  to 
resolve 
credible 
force  and  deliberately 
installations, 
independent 
buildings 
conduct 
and 
and 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-59485 (E) 
*0959485* 

into 
to 
discharge 
investigations 
A/64/PV.39 

investigations  into  the  many  allegations  of  serious 
violations  of  international  humanitarian  and  human 
rights law that had taken place during the Gaza conflict 
at the beginning of the year. The report also called on 
Hamas  to  initiate  genuine  and  effective  inquiries  into 
and  proceedings  to  deal  with  the  many  allegations  of 
violations. In addition, the report called for the cases to 
be  referred  to  the  International  Criminal  Court  in The 
Hague  if  Israel  and  Hamas  do  not  investigate  the  war 
crimes allegations against them within six months.  

We urge Israel and Hamas to conduct full, neutral 
and  credible 
the  allegations 
contained  in  the  report.  We  call  upon  the  General 
Assembly 
its  Charter-mandated 
responsibilities with respect to the issue. We also look 
forward to the results of the consideration of the report 
by the Human Rights Council. 

Serious  follow-up  to  the  report  at  all  levels  is 
imperative in order to bring an end to this immoral and 
repugnant  impunity  and  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of 
such  crimes  against  the  Palestinians.  Israel  should 
allow  access 
to  humanitarian  goods  and  freeze 
settlements.  We  express  our  deep  concern  over  the 
precarious  humanitarian  situation,  and  we  urge  Israel 
to 
the  Palestinians  and 
immediately open all border crossings to allow for the 
free movement of goods, persons and humanitarian aid. 
Humanitarian access to Gaza must be allowed in order 
to  avoid  a  humanitarian  disaster.  An  international 
monitoring mechanism must be established to ensure a 
ceasefire. 

We  urge  Israel  to  immediately  end  settlement 
activities, including so-called natural growth. If we are 
to  achieve  a  lasting  settlement,  it  is  very  important  to 
address the root cause, which is the Israeli occupation 
of the Arab territories. The solution, therefore, requires 
Israel’s  complete  withdrawal 
the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and 
all  other  occupied  Arab  lands.  We  reiterate  that  the 
creation  of  a  Palestinian  State,  coexisting  peacefully 
alongside Israel on the basis of the 1967 borders, with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  is  the  only  sustainable 
solution to the conflict. The Road Map, the Arab Peace 
Initiative  and 
the  best 
parameters  for  achieving  a  two-State  solution.  Thus, 
Israelis  and  Palestinians  could  live  in  peace  and 
harmony. I am hopeful that that dream will come true. 
its  embargo  against 
relevant 
resolutions  are 
from 
lift 


We  would  like  to  restate  that  it  is  only  through 
negotiations  that  a  fair  and  lasting  peace  can  be 
established  in  the  Middle  East.  Intensive  and  sincere 
work is needed to ensure a resumption of negotiations.  

Let  me  conclude  by  echoing  the  words  of  Judge 
Goldstone:  

“Now  is  the  time  for  action.  A  culture  of 

impunity  in  the  region  has  existed  for  too  long. 
The  lack  of  accountability  for  war  crimes  and 
possible  crimes  against  humanity  has  reached  a 
crisis  point;  the  ongoing  lack  of  justice  is 
undermining  any  hope  for  a  successful  peace 
process  and  reinforcing  an  environment  that 
fosters  violence. Time  and  again,  experience  has 
taught  us  that  overlooking  justice  only  leads  to 
increased conflict and violence.” 
Mr. Al Nafisee (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): 

On  behalf  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
Mr. President, I have the honour to thank you for your 
efforts in convening this urgent meeting to discuss the 
Goldstone  report  (A/HRC/12/48),  prepared  for  the 
Human  Rights  Council  by  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding  Mission  on 
the  Gaza  Conflict,  which 
investigated  violations  perpetrated  during  the  Israeli 
war against Gaza last December and the human rights 
situation in Palestine and the occupied Arab territories. 

My  country  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made,  respectively,  by  the  representative  of  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  the  representative  of  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic  on  behalf  of  the  Arab  Group,  and  the 
representative  of  the  Republic  of  Sudan  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China. 

In the view of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the 
Goldstone report is clear and transparent and demands 
appropriate action by the General Assembly, in view of 
its  condemnation  of  Israel  for  war  crimes  committed 
during its recent aggression in Gaza. The Assembly is 
now  in  the  process  of  discussing  the  report  and  will 
soon be voting on endorsing it. 

The  investigation  conducted  in  Gaza  by  Judge 
Goldstone and his international team shows that Israel 
committed war crimes and crimes against humanity in 
a  war  that  caused  the  death  of  more  than  1,400 
them  civilian  women  and 
Palestinians,  most  of 
children,  and 
thousands  more. 
Furthermore,  Israel  committed  deliberate  acts  of 
the  wounding  of 
2 

09-59485 
the  occupied 
territories,  and 
On  12  January 


aggression  against  United  Nations  facilities  in  Gaza 
and  used  bombs  and  rockets  that  increased  the  toll  of 
death  or  injury  of  unarmed  Palestinians  who  had 
sought shelter there. 

the  Human  Rights  Council 
adopted its  resolution S-9/1, condemning Israel for its 
attacks  on  Gaza  and  its  serious  violations  of  human 
rights,  and  requesting  that  a  fact-finding  mission  be 
established  to  investigate  violations  against  unarmed 
civilians in the area. We support the Mission’s findings 
in  Gaza  and 
its 
condemnation  of  the  violations  of  human  rights  and 
international humanitarian law. 

Judge Goldstone described fairly and objectively 
the scale of destruction committed by Israel in a war in 
which  it  used  weapons  of  every  kind.  He  met  with 
injured and displaced Palestinians, was shown pictures 
of the burned bodies of dead women, children and old 
people and saw for himself how Israel had deliberately 
targeted  them. At  a  press  conference  Judge  Goldstone 
said,  

“The  aim  of  holding  these  public  hearings 

… was to show the human side of the  suffering; 
to give a voice to the victims so they are not lost 
among  statistics.  No  written  words  can  by 
themselves convey human stories the way people 
can do it in their own voice and words”.  
He  has  also  said  that  the  Mission  wanted  to  show  the 
effect  of  violence  on  communities,  especially  the 
psychological effects on children.  

presented the report to the Human Rights Council:  

We  endorse  Judge  Goldstone’s  words  when  he 

“A  culture  of  impunity  in  the  region  has 
existed for too long … the ongoing lack of justice 
is  undermining  any  hope  for  a  successful  peace 
process  and  reinforcing  an  environment  that 
fosters violence.”  
We  reiterate  that  the  Goldstone  report  aims  to 

strengthen  a  culture  of  accountability  and  to  draw 
international 
attention 
principles 
international 
humanitarian law. With the publication of the report, a 
growing  culture  of  accountability  is  becoming  more 
apparent. 

The  international  community  must  shoulder  its 
responsibility and take action to achieve justice, for no 
to  disturbing  violations  of 
and 
human 
rights 
of 
A/64/PV.39
country  or  military  organization  should  be  above  the 
law.  A  failure  to  achieve  justice  in  the  face  of  the 
serious violations committed in the war on Gaza would 
have disastrous consequences for international justice. 

The Arab world, including the State of Palestine, 
has  made  every  possible  effort  to  achieve  a  genuine 
and lasting peace. The Arab Peace Initiative is still on 
the table; it offers a comprehensive route to ending the 
Arab-Israeli  conflict  and  reaching  an  agreement  on 
reciprocal  recognition,  normal  relations  and  peaceful 
coexistence for all States in the region. It is completely 
in  line  with  the  peace  process  and  embodies  the 
commitment  of  the  Arab  side  to  peace  as  a  strategic 
option,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. 

If  everyone  recognizes  such  a  solution,  they 
should  also  recognize  why  peace  has  still  not  been 
achieved.  That  is  because  of  Israel’s  perpetration  of 
massacres, arbitrary bombardments and attacks against 
the  Palestinians  in  the  occupied  territories.  Israel  has 
deliberately prevaricated and procrastinated in order to 
avoid  any  commitment  to  peace.  Peace  cannot  be 
achieved  by  imposing  punishment  and  preconditions 
on  a  people  whose  country  has  been  occupied  and 
whose rights have been violated in contravention of all 
the  principles  and  norms  of  international  law.  No 
should  be 
conditions 
imposed  before  a  peace 
settlement 
is  reached.  The  aggressor  cannot  be 
rewarded  before  negotiations  even  begin.  All  the 
international initiatives and efforts in this context have 
consistently faced a blank refusal from the Israeli side, 
embodied in its unilateral measures. This is contrary to 
international law and Security Council resolutions. 

Instead of seeking genuine peace, Israel continues 
its  daily  humiliation  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  its 
building of settlements, the separation wall and bypass 
roads.  These  are  all  actions  that  violate  international 
law  and  attempt  to  change  reality  on  the  ground,  to 
change  the  geographic  and  demographic  makeup  of 
Palestinian 
its 
environs,  in  grave  violation  of  international  law  and 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  Settlements 
encircle  most  Palestinian  cities  in  the West  Bank,  and 
also use more than half of its water resources. 

Saudi  Arabia  is  deeply  concerned  about  the 
ongoing  Israeli  blockade  of  Gaza,  resulting  in  the 
continued deterioration of Palestinian living conditions 
in the face of restricted access to services, goods, food, 
in  Jerusalem  and 
land,  especially 
09-59485 

3 

to 
serious 
through 
evidence 
indicating 
community, 
take  a  stand  against 
A/64/PV.39 

fuel  and  building  materials.  In  addition,  Israel  has 
blockaded  East  Jerusalem  and  prevented  people  from 
getting  to  their  homes  and  houses  of  worship.  Israeli 
acts  against  Islamic  sites  represent  daily  aggression 
against  unarmed  Palestinians,  provoking  distress 
among  Muslims  all  over  the  world.  Israel’s  grave 
assaults on the Al-Aqsa mosque can only have a direct 
and serious impact on international peace and security.  
In  this  regard,  my  Government  calls  upon  the 

the  General 
international 
Assembly, 
this  wanton 
aggression,  act  together  and  vote  to  adopt  the  draft 
resolution (A/64/L.11) concerning the Goldstone report 
in  order  to  prevent  any  future  repetition  of  these 
crimes. 
Mr. Pálsson (Iceland): The comprehensive report 

of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza Conflict (A/HRC/12/48) has concluded that there 
is 
violations 
of 
international  human  rights  and  humanitarian 
law, 
committed  both  by  Israel  during  Operation  Cast  Lead 
and in the West Bank, as well as by Palestinian armed 
groups  and  their  repeated  launching  of  rockets  into 
southern 
serious 
consideration  and  follow-up.  The  conclusions  drawn 
require concrete action, including the establishment of 
a  credible  system  of  investigation  into  the  alleged 
violations. We reiterate our shared principle that every 
Member  State  must  commit  itself  to  full  cooperation 
with the United Nations.  

My delegation fully recognizes Israel’s legitimate 
security  concerns,  including  concerns  over  weapons 
smuggling and the unacceptable firing of rockets from 
Gaza, which destroy and endanger the lives of innocent 
civilians. At the same time, we take the view that such 
violations  do  not  justify  the  disproportionate  use  of 
force  or  the  breaching  of  international  humanitarian 
and  human  rights  law.  The  conflict  continues  to 
threaten  stability  far  beyond  the  region  and  the 
situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  remains 
of  grave  concern.  The  people  of  Gaza  continue  to  be 
besieged through limited freedom of movement, import 
and  export  restrictions  and  the  worsening  economic 
situation.  The  situation  remains  unacceptable  by 
international standards. 

Meanwhile,  the  closure  regime  is  still  operating 
in  the  West  Bank.  Here  also  the  situation,  including 
violence  and  evictions  in  East  Jerusalem,  gives  cause 
Israel.  The 
deserves 
report 
in 
of 
to 
to 
rights 
report 
human 
international 
investigations, 
the  Assembly  on 
for deep concern. Settlement activities must be ended. 
The prolonged climate of impunity has created a crisis 
of  justice  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  that 
needs  to  be  addressed.  In  that  regard,  the  system  of 
investigation  recommended  by  the  report  of  the  Fact-
Finding Mission would be a welcome step in the right 
direction. 

In line with the report, my delegation urges both 
the  Israeli  and  the  Palestinian  parties  to  launch 
independent 
conformity  with 
international  standards,  into  the  allegations  of  serious 
violations 
and 
humanitarian  law.  We  also  support  the  requests  to  the 
High Commissioner for Human Rights to report to the 
next  session  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  the 
situation in the occupied Territory and to the Secretary-
General 
further 
developments. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

welcome the convening of this meeting on the report of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  pertaining  to  the  United 
Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict 
(A/64/53/Add.1).  The  information  contained  in  that 
report  deserves  the  General  Assembly’s  full  attention 
given not only the seriousness and the implications of 
the  conflict  in  Gaza,  but  also  on  the  grounds  that 
respect 
international 
humanitarian  law  should  be  upheld  at  all  times  and 
under any circumstance. 

the  Fact-Finding  Mission 
report  of 
(A/HRC/12/48),  headed  by  Judge  Richard  Goldstone, 
is  a  document  that  cannot  be  disregarded  and  whose 
recommendations  should  be  responsibly  and  seriously 
considered  by  all  parties,  since  impartial  and  credible 
international 
investigations 
standards  were  carried  out  with 
the 
accusations  of  serious  violations  of 
international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  committed  during 
the conflict in Gaza. Its greatest merit is that it seeks a 
balanced  approach,  taking  into  account  the  actions  of 
all parties involved. 

The civilian populations affected by that conflict, 
both  Palestinians  and  Israelis,  deserve  to  know  that 
those  kinds  of  acts  will  not  go  unpunished  and  that 
their  rights  will  be  respected  under  any  circumstance, 
in  accordance  with  international  humanitarian  law. 
That guarantees them a better future. 
conformity  with 
international 
law  and 
regard 
for 
The 
in 
to 
4 

09-59485 
the  Palestinian 
factions 
should 
international 
law  and 



Justice  should  always  go  hand  in  hand  with  the 
pursuit  of  peace.  Furthermore,  justice,  accountability 
and the fight against impunity are essential elements in 
any settlement of conflict, since they facilitate the end 
of hostilities and, at the same time, lay the foundations 
for stability and reconciliation.  

The  main  conclusion  of  the  report  of  the  Fact-
Finding Mission is that both the Government of Israel 
and 
establish 
investigation mechanisms that will make it possible to 
obtain  a  better  understanding  of  the  alleged  serious 
violations  of 
international 
humanitarian  law  committed  during  that  conflict.  We 
are  not  going  to  debate  the  composition  of  the  Fact-
Finding Mission. Rather, we wish to focus on the fact 
that  those  acts  should  be  investigated  and,  if  need  be, 
duly punished.  

The  Government  of  Israel,  like  any  democratic 
State,  has  the  resources  and  the  institutional  and  legal 
means  to  act  in  conformity  with  its  international 
obligations.  Mexico  recognizes  the  right  of  legitimate 
self-defence  of  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations, 
in  accordance  with  Article  51  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  However, 
in  any 
circumstance  exempt  the  parties  to  a  conflict  from 
international 
fulfilling 
humanitarian 
the 
obligation  to  protect  its  population.  However,  it  also 
has 
international 
humanitarian law. 

With  respect  to  the  Palestinian  side,  taking  into 
account  the  responsibility  of  the  factions  involved  in 
that  conflict  as  non-State  entities,  we  believe  that 
innovative  mechanisms  should  be  put  in  place  that 
provide  an  institutional  approach  ensuring  credibility 
and 
in  establishing 
responsibilities,  with  the  active  contribution  of  the 
international community. 

In  any  case,  the  investigations  of  both  sides 
should begin as soon as possible and should have a set 
deadline  for  submitting  their  results  in  order  to  bring 
about  the  necessary  trust  to  overcome  that  tragic 
chapter  of  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East.  Mexico 
believes 
international  community  should 
ensure that that process takes place in the best possible 
conditions  and,  for 
that,  considerable  effort  and 
commitment  on  the  part  of  the  sides  involved  is 
needed. 
under 
the  right  and 
in  accountability  and 
to  comply  with 
law.  Israel  has 
right  does  not 
the  obligation 
that 
the 
that 
their 
obligations 
trust 
A/64/PV.39
Mr.  Ould  Hadrami  (Mauritania)  (spoke 

Consideration of the Mission’s report reminds us 
that Middle East peace talks must not be postponed yet 
again, nor should they be subject to preconditions. The 
goal,  as  everyone  knows,  is  clear:  to  achieve  a 
comprehensive  and  definitive  solution  to  the  Middle 
East  conflict  that  reasserts  the  recognition  of  Israel’s 
right  to  exist  and  allows  the  establishment  of  an 
economically  and  politically  viable  Palestinian  State, 
living side by side in peace with Israel, within secure, 
internationally recognized borders, in compliance with 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  the  Road 
Map,  the  Madrid  Principles  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative.  

Today  we  have  an  opportunity  to  serve  both 
peace  and  international  justice.  Let  us  not  let  this 
unique opportunity pass.  
in 

Arabic):  Mr.  President,  I  would  like  at  the  outset  to 
thank  you  for  organizing  this  important  meeting  so 
quickly  at  the  request  of  the  Group  of Arab  States  to 
study the war of 27 December 2008 to 18 January 2009 
and  the  report  on  that  war.  The  report  of  the  United 
Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict 
(A/HRC/12/48)  that  was  prepared  pursuant  to  Human 
Rights  Council  resolution  S-12/1  is  our  topic  today. 
That  report  consists  of  more  than  450  pages  and  it 
looks  at  the  impact  of  the  catastrophic  Israeli  war  on 
the  Gaza  Strip  that  took  place  over  a  three-week 
period.  
The  international  community  must  organize  a 

comprehensive 
the 
Palestinian  people  over  the  past  60  years.  The  report 
has  shown  some  conclusive  facts  and  findings  that 
have  demonstrated  the  terrible  nature  of  the  Israeli 
crimes.  More  than  1,400  people  died  in  a  three-week 
period. The initial act of aggression took place at 11.30 
in  the  morning.  That  shows  that  it  was  a  deliberate 
attack,  as  it  targeted  children  who  were  going  to 
school — because children have to go to school — and 
came  at  a  time  when  the  streets  are  crowded  with 
people.  The  Israeli  army  killed  Palestinians,  not 
distinguishing between civilians and combatants. There 
is proof that shows that United Nations facilities were 
also  the  victims  of  that  aggression.  The  report  shows 
the  terrible  impact  of  the  unfair  blockade  of  the  Gaza 
Strip  that  is  still  in  place  today  and  that  has  a  direct 
impact  on  the  vulnerable  segments  of  society,  be  they 
elderly  people,  women  or  children.  The  report  also 
shows  that  at  the  end  of  this  past  June  —  that  is,  six 
the  suffering  of 
inquiry 
into 
09-59485 

5 
international 
law 
and 
the  United  Nations  was 
A/64/PV.39 

months  after  the  end  of  the  war  —  the  catastrophic 
consequences  were  still  clearly  in  evidence. We  could 
see  the  destruction  of  buildings,  industries,  wells, 
schools,  hospitals,  police  stations  and  the  only  flour 
mill in Gaza. International assistance and construction 
materials  are  not  reaching  civilians,  because  of  the 
closure of crossing points. That is extremely important 
because  winter  is  coming  and  the  suffering  will  only 
continue.  

founded, 
Since 
resolutions  and  legislation  have  been  adopted  to 
promote 
international 
humanitarian law. Unfortunately we are facing various 
sorts of difficulties in implementing those resolutions, 
which  requires  more  political  resolve.  The  last  Israeli 
war  against  Gaza,  which  also  caused  a  great  deal  of 
killing  and  destruction,  proved  the  existence  of  a 
climate  of  legal  impunity  and  the  lack  of  legal 
responsibility.  The  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people 
is as old as the United Nations itself — 60 years. The 
Palestinian  people  are  still  suffering  from  injustice, 
unfair  treatment  and  displacement.  We  call  on  the 
international  community 
their 
suffering and tragedy. 

The  State  of  Israel,  which  is  the  occupying 
Power, must accept the Arab Peace Initiative, which is 
based  on  the  principles  of  land  for  peace  and  an 
independent,  sovereign  and  secure  Palestinian  State, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, peacefully coexisting 
with  the  Israeli  State.  The  State  of  Israel  must 
withdraw  from  all  occupied  Arab  land,  including  the 
Golan  Heights  and  the  Lebanese  Shab’a  farms.  The 
Goldstone  report  is  extremely  comprehensive  and 
objective  and  gives  new  hope  for  implementing  its 
recommendations.  We  call  on  all  relevant  United 
Nations  bodies,  in  particular  the  Security  Council,  to 
take 
those 
recommendations  and  enforce  justice  in  order  to 
promote  accountability  and  to  punish  the  perpetrators 
of the crimes.  

Finally,  my  delegation  supports  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.11 and calls on the General Assembly to adopt 
it.  It  will  promote  peace,  strengthen  the  purposes  and 
principles  of 
the  United  Nations  and  promote 
international  justice.  Such  crimes  and  their  origins 
must not be repeated in the future. Furthermore, those 
crimes are not subject to any statute of limitations. 
the  measures  necessary 
to  put  an  end 
to 
implement 
to 

Israel’s 
Mr.  Ali  (Malaysia):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

align  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
representatives  of  Egypt  and  Syria  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  respectively.  We  would  like  to 
thank  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  United 
Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict for 
their reports (A/64/53/Add.1 and A/HRC/12/48). 

The  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  also  known  as  the 
Goldstone  report,  has  clearly  shown  the  brutality  of 
Israeli actions in the execution of Operation Cast Lead, 
unleashed  in  Gaza  for  more  than  three  weeks,  from 
27 December  2008  until  18  January  2009.  Therefore, 
while  the  purpose  of  our  meeting  is  ostensibly  to 
discuss and take action on the two reports before us, its 
real purpose is much greater. It is to ensure that Israel 
can no longer shed Palestinian blood with impunity. 

I say this because the Goldstone report makes for 
grim  reading.  The  report,  which  speaks  for  itself, 
highlights 
record  of  unbridled  barbarity 
towards the people in Gaza. Due to the paucity of time, 
I  would  like  to  point  out  just  some  of  its  most  salient 
points.  First,  the  military  operation  in  question  is  not 
an  aberration.  Rather,  it  fits  into  a  continuum  of 
policies,  based  on  or  resulting 
in  violations  of 
international human rights and humanitarian law. 

Secondly,  Operation  Cast  Lead  was  qualitatively 
different from any previous military action by Israel in 
its 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
unprecedented 
severity 
long-lasting 
consequences.  The  visible  destruction  of  houses, 
factories,  wells,  schools,  hospitals,  police  stations  and 
other public buildings proves that it was the deliberate 
aim  of  Israel  to  inflict  as  much  damage  and  suffering 
as possible.  

Thirdly,  Israeli  military  actions,  premised  on  a 
deliberate policy of disproportionate force, were aimed 
not  at  a  specific  enemy,  but  at 
the  supporting 
infrastructure.  In  practice,  that  meant  the  civilian 
population in Gaza.  

Fourthly, this operation, which led to killings and 
destruction,  was  carefully  planned  and  executed.  That 
also  indicated  that  all  aspects  of  the  operation  were 
deliberate.  Therefore,  all  killings  must  have  been 
conducted in cold blood. 
territory  by  dint  of 
and 
its 
6 

09-59485 
to 
in 
of 
be 
deserves 
violations, 
the  Gaza  Strip  and 



However,  despite  the  gruesome  situation,  we 
were  struck  by  the  courage  of  the  Palestinian  people. 
The  assiduous  work  of  Palestinian  non-governmental 
and civil society organizations in providing support to 
the  population  in  such  extreme  circumstances,  and  in 
giving  voice  to  the  suffering  and  expectations  of 
victims 
fully 
acknowledged. 

We  note  with  interest  that  there  were  also 
dissenting  voices  in  Israel  against  the  operation, 
expressed through demonstrations and protests, as well 
as  public  reporting  on  Israel’s  conduct.  Those  voices 
understood  that  Israel  could  not  purchase  peace  and 
security  for  itself  with  the  blood  and  suffering  of  the 
Palestinian people. 

We,  the  international  community,  have  thus  far 
failed  to  act  to  ensure  the  protection  of  the  civilian 
population 
the  occupied 
Palestinian territory. Hence, we must break this inertia 
by undertaking concrete actions in order to ensure that 
justice  for  the  people  of  Palestine  is  neither  delayed 
nor denied. 
The  Goldstone  report  provides  us  with  two 

options:  either  take  action  to  achieve  justice  for  the 
Palestinians  or  allow  the  abhorrent,  illegal  actions  of 
Israel  to  remain  unpunished.  In  that  regard,  as  a 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community, 
we  choose  the  former.  Accordingly,  we  urge  all 
Member  States  to  work  together  in  implementing  all 
the  recommendations  stipulated  in  the  report  of  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict. 
Mr. Sial (Pakistan): My delegation would like to 

thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening 
today’s 
meeting  to  consider  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 
Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict, also known 
as the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48). 

Early  this  year,  the  international  community  was 
horrified  by  the  events  surrounding  three  weeks  of 
Israeli  aggression  in  the  occupied  Gaza  Strip.  The 
report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  its  twelfth 
special session (A/64/53/Add.1) and periodic reports of 
the  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights 
corroborated other independent reports on those events. 
The  Goldstone  report  only  authenticated  those  reports 
with evidence. 
A/64/PV.39
has 
that 
to  keep 
the  General  Assembly 
the  Assembly  will  discharge 

The  Human  Rights  Council,  after  detailed 
discussions  at  its  twelfth  special  session,  referred  the 
Goldstone report to the General Assembly. The Council 
also  requested  the  Secretary-General  to  submit  at  its 
thirteenth  session  a  report  on  the  status  of  the 
implementation  of  the  Goldstone  recommendations.  I 
believe that, against that backdrop, the present session 
of 
three-faceted 
significance.  

First,  the  General  Assembly  must  actively  and 
constructively  consider  the  Goldstone  report,  in  terms 
of  implications  and  future  follow-up  action.  It  is  our 
hope 
that 
responsibility in an efficient and just manner. 

Secondly,  pursuant  to  the  request  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  the  Secretary-General  has  been  asked 
to submit a report on the status of the implementation 
of the Goldstone recommendations to the Council. We 
may  rightfully  expect  him 
the  General 
Assembly  informed  on  the  subject.  Therefore,  the 
Assembly’s  present  session  can  give  him  requisite 
inputs and guidelines for the preparation of his report. 
Thirdly,  the  General  Assembly,  through  this 

session, has an opportunity to position itself behind the 
growing concern of the international community at the 
stalled peace process in the Middle East. In the absence 
of  a  meaningful  and  durable  peace  process,  violence 
will continue and respect for human rights will remain 
a  distant  dream.  We  sincerely  believe 
that  our 
meaningful  deliberations  on  the  issue  will  help  to 
revive the peace process. 

the  Human  Rights 
Council,  it  is  evident  that  many  Member  States  have 
greatly  appreciated  the  Goldstone  report  for  being 
objective,  impartial  and  comprehensive.  We  see  the 
deliberations  on  the  report  as  an  opportunity  for  the 
international community to address the suffering of the 
Palestinian  people  and  for  Israel  to  rectify  its  past 
actions and policies. 
Achieving  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East  is  a 

long-held  common  objective  of 
international 
community. This meeting should bring us closer to that 
objective.  Thus,  the  overarching  message  of  the  need 
for  a 
firm 
commitment to a two-State solution must resonate from 
our deliberations. 
the  peace  process  with 
the  discussions 
revival  of 
From 
in 
the 
09-59485 

7 

in 
During 
four  parameters 
last  month’s  debate 
A/64/PV.39 

the  Security 

Council,  Pakistan  outlined 
for 
international  engagement  with  a  view  to  achieving  a 
sustained peace process in the Middle East. We called 
upon the Security Council and the Middle East Quartet 
to  utilize  their  full  potential  in  support  of  the  peace 
process through transparent and objective engagement. 
They  must  prevail  upon  Israel  to  cease  all  settlement 
activity and illegal excavation in East Jerusalem, as the 
two  actions  have  so  far  proved  the  largest  stumbling 
blocks  on  the  road  to  peace.  We  will  reiterate  that 
message. There  is  also  a  pressing  need  to  address  the 
plight  and  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  population  and 
to  rebuild  Palestinian  institutions  battered  by  conflict 
and violence.  
The foregoing measures must be supplemented by 

addressing  the  root  cause  of  all  trouble  —  that  is,  by 
ending the Israeli occupation of Arab territories. Such a 
framework  for  peace  is  not  new.  It  has  already  been 
determined  in  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council,  as  well  as  in  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference, 
the  Road  Map,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the 
understanding reached in Annapolis in 2007. 

I  wish  to  conclude  by  expressing  Pakistan’s 
sincere  hope  that  the  Goldstone  report  will  ultimately 
strengthen the initiative for peace in the region and that 
the  General  Assembly  will  be  able  to  utilize  that 
important  document  to  find  a  meaningful  basis  for 
lasting peace and security in the Middle East. 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives): The  Maldives  would 

like to welcome the report of the United Nations Fact-
Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict (A/HRC/12/48), 
headed  by  Judge  Richard  Goldstone, 
that  was 
presented  to  the Assembly  today.  It  is  regrettable  that 
the  Government  of  Israel,  as  the  occupying  Power, 
decided not to cooperate with the Fact-Finding Mission 
in its compilation of the report. 

As  a  firm  believer  in  the  principles  enshrined  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Maldives  is 
disheartened  by  the  continued  suffering  of  the  people 
of  Palestine,  who  have  been  denied  their  very  basic 
right to self-determination and the right to live in peace 
and  freedom  in  their  own  State,  their  own  homeland. 
The Maldives also supports the inalienable right of the 
people of Israel to live in peace and security alongside 
a sovereign and independent State of Palestine. 
The protection of civilians, especially women and 

children,  is  one  of  the  most  sacred  obligations  resting 
for  a 
final, 
therefore  calls 
upon  the  parties  to  a  conflict  under  international  law. 
Thus, the onus rests with us, as responsible members of 
the international community, to ensure that we uphold 
the legal standards and norms that we have prescribed 
for  ourselves.  For  any  hope  of  peace  and  stability  in 
the  Middle  East,  it  is  crucial  that  accountability  be 
established  for  the  clear  and  manifest  violations  of 
human  rights  and  humanitarian  law  that  have  been 
highlighted  in  the  report.  Justice  must  be  pursued 
independently  for  the  violations  by  both  sides  to  the 
conflict. It is also essential that such investigations and 
subsequent  prosecutions  be  monitored  by  the  Security 
Council. 
The Maldives strongly believes that a  negotiated 

outcome  based  on 
the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions is the only way to ensure long-term peace, 
security  and  stability  in  the  region.  To  this  end,  we 
support  the  current  efforts  by  the  United  States  to 
revive  the  peace  talks  between  the  two  parties.  The 
Maldives 
just  and 
comprehensive  settlement  with  the  realization  of  two 
States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace 
and within secure and recognized borders. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Government  of 
Israel must be brought to justice for crimes committed 
against  the  Palestinian  people.  Those  responsible  for 
that operation of terror and death, known as Cast Lead, 
and  for  the  criminal  blockade  against  the  people  of 
Gaza,  must  not  go  unpunished.  How  many  more 
genocides will be necessary before the United Nations 
decides  to  act?  How  long  will  the  occupying  Power 
continue to flout the resolutions adopted by this forum? 

the 
representative  of  Israel.  In  her  speech,  she  lashed  out 
against  the  findings  and  recommendations  of  the 
Goldstone  report,  claiming  that  it  was  “conceived  in 
hate  and  executed  in  sin”  (A/64/PV.36),  and  that  its 
consideration by the General Assembly was in response 
to cynical political manoeuvres and not principles.  
is  clear  and 

unambiguous 
it  strongly 
condemns all policies adopted by Israel, the occupying 
Power. It also condemns the recent violations of human 
rights  committed  by  Israel  in  East  Jerusalem.  For 
Venezuela,  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  and  the  Human 
Rights Council resolution are worthy of recognition.  
The  Human  Rights  Council 
its  resolution  when 
We  have  heard 
answers 
from 
the 
in 
8 

09-59485 
the 
the 
The 
report 
planning 
organization, 
aforementioned 



The  recommendation  of  the  Goldstone  report  is 
commendable  in  that  it  seeks  to  create  a  fund  to 
guarantee  compensation  to  the  Palestinian  victims  of 
Israel’s  criminal  acts,  with  the  understanding  that  the 
funding should come entirely from the Government of 
that country.  

conclusively 
demonstrates 
and 
implementation  of  the  policy  of  extermination  carried 
out  by  the  Israeli  State  against  the  Palestinian  nation. 
According to the report, these acts of violence generate 
individual criminal responsibility. Those on the Israeli 
side  responsible  for 
thousands  of  dead  and 
wounded should be brought to justice.  

In  its  conclusion,  the  report  emphasizes  the 
multiple  and  massive  violations  of  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention,  which  are  considered  to  be  war  crimes 
committed  by  the  Israeli  occupying  forces. The  report 
concludes that the prolonged blockade  of Gaza by the 
Israeli  Government,  which  includes  the  deprivation  of 
the  basic  means  of  sustenance,  could  be  considered 
crimes against humanity.  
in  Gaza  are  a 

lamentable example of the disastrous Dahiya doctrine, 
put  into  practice  by  Israel  during  its  invasion  of 
Lebanon in 2006 and which is characterized by the use 
of  disproportionate  force,  the  mass  destruction  of 
civilian  property  and  infrastructure  and  the  suffering 
inflicted  on  civilians.  Indeed,  the  Israel  Government 
itself has declared that the Gaza invasion was planned 
in a comprehensive manner and on a large scale. 
The  international  community  must  acknowledge 

the  willingness  of 
to 
cooperate  with  the  work  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission, 
which is in stark contrast to the position of the Israeli 
leaders, who repeatedly have ignored all resolutions of 
the  main  organs  of 
the 
Palestinian  issue. They  have  also  refused  to  cooperate 
with  the  23  United  Nations-appointed  fact-finding 
missions  since  1947.  That  clearly  demonstrates  the 
gross  violation  of  international  law  by  the  Israeli 
regime.  
The report we are discussing today reinforces the 

need  for  the  General Assembly  to  continue  to  review 
regularly  all  those  topics  in  the  area  of  international 
peace and security that the Security Council cannot or 
will not resolve.  
Israel’s  military  operations 
the  Palestinian  authorities 
the  United  Nations  on 
A/64/PV.39
in 
the 
international 
face  of  a  history  of 

The complicit tolerance shown by some members 
of  the  Security  Council  with  respect  to  the  systematic 
aggression  and  crimes  under 
law 
committed  by  Israel  against  the  Palestinian  people, 
nation and State is alarming.  

Venezuela is concerned that some members of the 
Security  Council,  in  exercising  their  right  of  veto, 
could  block  an  initiative  that  could  be  conducive  to 
prosecuting  Israeli  genocide.  Our  concern  further 
increases when a super-Power and permanent member 
of the Security Council is the main ally of the country 
responsible  for  genocide  and  is  the  chief  architect  of 
the 
irrational  and  disproportionate  arms  build-up 
developed  by  Israel  and  which  has  turned  this  nation 
into a nuclear Power. 

The financial and military resources provided by 
the United States to the Government of Israel, as well 
as  the  protection  that  is  afforded  it  in  international 
forums,  further  support  the  genocide  against  the 
Palestinian  people.  The  ineffectiveness  of  the  United 
Nations 
Israeli 
aggressiveness  must  cease.  Those  responsible  for  the 
genocide of the Palestinian people should be promptly 
punished  for  their  crimes  and  brought  before  the 
International Criminal Court.  
Israeli 

Government  violate 
the 
Palestinians  to  self-determination.  It  is  unjust  and 
absurd  to  place  on  the  same  level  the  genocidal 
Government of Israel and the Palestinian forces which, 
under  the  protection  of  their  inalienable  historical 
rights  and  in  the  exercise  of  legitimate  self-defence, 
resist  the  criminal  aggression  against  their  nation  and 
their people.  
revolutionary 

Government  of  President  Hugo  Chávez  Frías 
suspended diplomatic relations with the Government of 
Israel  as  a  result  of  the  brutal  invasion  of  Gaza  by  its 
armed forces, and is not willing to resume its relations 
until  the  inhuman  treatment  of  the  Palestinian  people 
ceases. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  reaffirms 
its  unequivocal  support  for  the  Palestinian  people’s 
right  to  self-determination.  We  support  their  struggle 
against the occupying Power, as well as their historical 
claims. The Palestinian people have a right to resist the 
occupying  Power.  Their  heroism 
is  worthy  of 
admiration  and  respect. This  is  why  we  wish  to  recall 
The  policies  and  practices  of 
inalienable  right  of 
We  wish 
recall 
that 
the 
the 
the 
to 
09-59485 

9 

the  great  poet  of 
A/64/PV.39 

the  words  of 
the  Palestinian 
resistance,  Ali  Ahmad  Said,  better  known  as  Adonis, 
who  wrote  that  darkness  is  born  kneeling  whereas, 
light is born standing up. 

Venezuela hopes that the resolution that we adopt 
will reflects the expectations of the Palestinian people 
who demand justice, without delay, for the perpetrators 
of  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  who 
repeatedly  violate  international  law,  in  particular, 
international humanitarian law. 
Israel  does  not  deserve  another  opportunity  to 

continue flouting United Nations resolutions. It should 
be  brought  without  delay  before  the  International 
Criminal Court. Israel has committed enough crimes. It 
is time for it to be held accountable under international 
law.  The  resolution  to  be  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly,  therefore,  must  accept  the  spirit  of  the 
resolution of the Human Rights Council. It is time for 
this Assembly to be the official voice of the Palestinian 
State. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  accordance 

with General Assembly resolution 477 (V) of 1 November 
1950,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the 
League of Arab States. 
Mr. Mahmassani (League of Arab States) (spoke 

in Arabic): I would like to thank you, Mr. President, for 
affording  us  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the 
General Assembly’s debate on the report of the United 
Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict 
(A/HRC/12/48). 

The seriousness of the military campaign against 
Gaza,  the  blockade  imposed  by  Israel  against  its 
inhabitants  and  the  deprivation  of  their  most  basic 
needs  has  prompted  the  international  community  to 
dispatch  a  Fact-Finding  Mission,  under  the  leadership 
of Justice Richard Goldstone, to look into alleged war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  perpetuated  by 
Israel  during  its  military  campaign  in  the  Gaza  Strip 
from  27  December,  2008  to  18  January  2009.  The 
conclusions reached by the Mission were identical with 
those  reached  by  the  independent  fact-finding  mission 
of the League of Arab States. 
In the preparation of its report, the Mission took 

into 
international 
account 
humanitarian law and human rights law, as well as the 
responsibility and obligations of States, particularly of 
occupying  Powers,  towards  civilian  inhabitants.  It 
provisions 
the 
of 
The 
for 
the 
the 
immunity 
to 
justice  and 
time  has  come 
the  consequences  of 
law  accountable  and 
reached  certain  factual  and  legal  conclusions  to  the 
effect  that  Israel,  in  its  aggression  against  Gaza, 
deliberately  killed  civilians  and  used  them  as  human 
shields. 

Israel’s  use  of  disproportionate  force  and  its 
attacks  against  civilian  inhabitants,  as  well  as  its 
destruction  of  civilian  property  and  infrastructure,  are 
all  illegitimate  means  to  realize  military  and  political 
objectives.  Such  actions  undermine  international  law 
and  run  counter  to  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Israel 
continues to act as if it were above the law; not holding 
it accountable or responsible encourages impunity and 
casts  a  shadow  over  the  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations and that of international law. 

international 
community to put an end to the culture of impunity and 
to  Israel’s 
its 
aggression against the region. The time has also come 
to  hold  the  perpetuators  of  violations  of  international 
law  and  human  rights 
to 
implement the machinery of international justice.  
The  objective  of  the  Goldstone  report  is  to 

those  accused  of 
salvage 
perpetuating  war  crimes  accountable  for  those  crimes. 
Respect  for  international  humanitarian  law  and  its 
application  does  not  impede  the  peace  process;  peace 
does  not  run  counter  to  respect  of  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people in the occupied territories.  

The  draft  resolution  before  us  (A/64/L.11)  was 
prepared  in  a  balanced  and  objective  manner  and 
represents  the  absolute  acceptable  minimum  for  the 
implementation  of 
the 
Goldstone  report.  We  would  like  to  urge  all  Member 
States  to  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  for  the 
sake of accountability and justice. 

We  express  our  deep  concern  over  the  serious 
humanitarian  crisis  faced  by  the  Palestinian  people  in 
the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  other  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  due  to  the  Israeli  blockade  and  aggression, 
as well as over the continued closing of crossing points 
and 
to  humanitarian 
assistance.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  international 
community to compel Israel to lift its blockade and to 
ensure  access  of  humanitarian  assistance  to  the  Gaza 
Strip. 

Israel  continues  its  actions  in  East  Jerusalem  in 
an  attempt  to  judaize  the  city  and  confiscate  its  land 
the  prevention  of  access 
recommendations  of 
to  hold 
10 

09-59485 
through 


and  to  isolate  it  from  the  remaining  Palestinian 
territories 
intensified  settlement  activities 
within and outside the city. Its blockade, the policy of 
house  demolitions  and  its  attempts  to  bring  down 
Al-Aqsa  mosque  through  continued  excavations  and 
tunnel-digging,  all  seek  to  change  the  features  of  the 
Arab and Islamic Old City.  

We  would  like  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that 
Jerusalem  and  the  Al-Aqsa  mosque  are  in  imminent 
danger.  We  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
put an end to Israel’s flouting of the heritage of the city 
and its desecration of the city’s sanctity. We call upon 
the international community to oblige Israel to respect 
international  law,  international  resolutions  and  the 
Fourth Geneva Convention. 

The  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  and  Arab 
territories  is  the  root  cause  of  the  suffering  in  our 
region and of so many wars and tragedies. All attempts 
and negotiations to put an end to that occupation have 
failed  due  to  Israel’s  intransigence  and  its  continued 
building  of  settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories. 
At  present,  the  Middle  East  question  is  going 

through an extremely delicate stage and current efforts 
to  establish  peace  through  negotiations  seem  to  have 
regressed  in  an  alarming  way. The  continued  faltering 
of  those  efforts  will  only  lead  to  further  deterioration 
and 
international 
community  considers 
the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories  illegitimate  and  an 
obstacle  to  negotiations,  as  stated  by  the  United 
Kingdom’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Miliband, 
a few days ago. 

Working  to  put  an  end  to  the  building  of 
settlements  —  all  settlements  —  and  ensuring  the 
re-launching of negotiations on a clear and sound basis 
in a serious and credible manner is the only way to find 
a  permanent  and  just  solution  to  the  Palestinian 
question and to establishing peace in the region. 

proceed to consider draft resolution A/64/L.11. 
(spoke in English) 

to speak on a point of order. 
Mr.  Carmon  (Israel):  I  would  like  to  take  this 

opportunity  before  the Assembly  proceeds  to  the  vote 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  shall  now 
I  call  on  the  representative  of  Israel  who  wishes 
region.  The 
settlements 
instability 
Israeli 
the 
in 
in 
A/64/PV.39
the 
to 
every 
I  give 
international 
The  President: 
to  seek  clarification  on  an  element  contained  in 
operative  paragraph  4  of  draft  resolution  A/64/L.11, 
which  is  a  matter  of  concern  to  us  and  I  suspect  to 
other delegations as well.  

More  specifically,  we  would  like  to  ask,  who 
exactly  would  be  the  accountable  “Palestinian  side”, 
that  would  be  responsible  for  undertaking  investigations 
that  are  independent,  credible  and  in  conformity  with 
international  standards?  Would  it  be  the  Palestinian 
Authority that was ousted from Gaza in a violent coup 
and is not effectively present there? Or would it be the 
Hamas  terrorist  organization,  terrorist  entity,  which 
violates 
standard,  promotes 
terrorism,  rejects  the  recognition  of  Israel  and  tries  to 
derail the region from the track of the peace process?  

Israel,  through  you,  Sir,  would  like  to  ask  the 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  to  clarify  this  critical 
aspect so that Member States of the General Assembly 
will know better what they will be voting for. 
the 
floor 

representative  of  Egypt,  who  presented  the  draft 
resolution  on  behalf  of  the  Arab  Group  and  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt): With regard to operative 

paragraph  4  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  Palestinian 
Authority itself declared that it is going to conduct its 
own  investigation  which  is  independent,  credible  and 
in conformity with international standards. And Hamas, 
which  may  be  considered  in  Israel  as  a  terrorist 
organization  but  is  considered  the  legitimately  elected 
representative  of  the  Palestinian  people,  has  already 
expressed 
to 
investigate  and  to  prosecute  those  that  are  responsible 
for such crimes. 

We  would  like  to  hear  the  same  from  the 
representative  of  Israel.  If  he  can  confirm  today  that 
Israel  is  willing  to  undertake  investigations  that  are 
conformity  with 
independent, 
international 
and 
international  humanitarian  law,  I  think  this  would  be 
very  happy  news  to  the  General  Assembly  before 
voting on this draft resolution. 
The  President: 

representative of Israel. 
Mr.  Carmon  (Israel):  I  thank  the  representative 

of  Egypt  and  will  refer  to  his  question  later  in  my 
explanation of vote before the vote. 
credible 
standards, 
to  cooperate  and 
its  willingness 
international 
I  give 
law 
the 
floor 
to 
the 
and 
in 
09-59485 

11 

floor 
to 
is 
the 
A/64/PV.39 

The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  proceed  to  take  action  on  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.11.  Before  giving 
those 
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  explanation  of 
vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind  delegations  that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Wolff  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  remains  deeply  concerned  about  the 
human  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  peoples 
that results from the ongoing Arab-Israeli conflict. The 
best  way  to  end  that  suffering  is  to  bring  about  a 
comprehensive  peace  in  the  region,  including  two 
States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace 
and security. The United States is firmly committed to 
pursuing that goal. 

As we urge the parties to restart permanent status 
negotiations  leading  to  the  creation  of  a  Palestinian 
State, we should all be seeking to advance the cause of 
peace,  and  doing  nothing  to  hinder  it.  The  United 
States  strongly  supports  accountability  for  human 
rights and humanitarian law violations in relation to the 
Gaza  conflict.  Our  goal 
to  achieve  genuine 
accountability in a way that respects internal processes 
and  the  ongoing  efforts  to  restart  permanent  status 
negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians.  

As  the  United  States  made  clear  in  Geneva,  we 
believe  that  the  Goldstone  report  is  deeply  flawed, 
including  its  unbalanced  focus  on  Israel,  its  sweeping 
conclusions of law, the excessively negative inferences 
it draws about Israel’s intentions and actions, its failure 
to deal adequately with the asymmetrical nature of the 
Gaza  conflict, 
to  assign  appropriate 
responsibility  to  Hamas  for  its  decision  to  base  itself 
and  its  operations  in  heavily  civilian-populated  urban 
areas and its many overreaching recommendations. 

First, let me point out that we appreciate that the 
draft resolution under consideration calls on both Israel 
and the Palestinians, although it does not name Hamas, 
to  pursue  investigations  of  the  allegations  that  pertain 
to each of them in the report. This is an advance over 
the original one-sided mandate provided by the Human 
Rights Council to the Goldstone Commission. 

We  will  continue  to  call  for  all  parties  to  meet 
their  responsibilities  and  pursue  credible,  domestic 
real 
investigations.  Nevertheless,  we  also  have 
concerns  about 
resolution.  Given 
the 
far-reaching legal conclusions and recommendations of 
this  draft 
failure 
its 
the 575-page Goldstone report, including findings that 
have serious implications for conflicts in other parts of 
the world, we do not think it appropriate to endorse the 
report in its entirety. 

Attempting  as  this  draft  resolution  does  to  press 
the  Security  Council  to  take  this  matter  up  is  equally 
unconstructive. The Security Council is already seized 
of  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and  holds  monthly 
meetings  on  the  topic  —  the  only  subject  on  the 
Council’s  entire  agenda  that  is  discussed  with  such 
frequency.  As  many  Member  States  have  made  clear, 
the  appropriate  forum  for  discussion  of  this  report  is 
the Human Rights Council.  

The  draft  resolution  also  unhelpfully  introduces 
international  supervision  of  the  investigations  to  be 
undertaken by the parties that would interfere with the 
parties’  ability  to  conduct  their  own  processes.  The 
proposed  convocation  of  the  High  Contracting  Parties 
to  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  is  also  unnecessary 
and  unproductive.  Convening  a  conference  of  the 
Contracting  Parties  to  the  Geneva  Convention  for  the 
purpose  of  spotlighting  one  country  would  only 
heighten  divisions  and  could  set  back  the  process  of 
restarting permanent status negotiations. That and other 
imbalanced  references  to  the  parties  throughout  the 
text, including the failure to mention Hamas by name, 
convey the impression that the Assembly is once again 
handling Arab-Israeli issues in an unbalanced manner. 

For  those  reasons,  we  will  vote  against  the  draft 
resolution, but we believe that life-saving progress can 
be  made  if  we  can  lift  our  sights  and  look  towards  a 
more hopeful future. The United States will continue to 
work resolutely in pursuit of a just and lasting peace. 
the 

revelation  of  Hamas’s  newly  improved  Iranian-made 
rockets and one day after the interception of a ship, the 
Francop,  loaded  with  hundreds  of  tons  of  rockets  and 
ammunition  destined 
Israeli 
population centres, which is a grave event — we have 
just  submitted  our  complaint  an  hour  ago  to  the 
Security  Council  —  this  draft  resolution  (A/64/L.11) 
mocks  the  reality  faced  by  democratic  States,  such  as 
Israel, that face relentless terrorist threats.  

The  draft  resolution  before  us  endorses  and 
legitimizes  a  deeply  flawed,  one-sided  and  prejudiced 
report of the discredited Human Rights Council and its 
politicized  work  that  bends  both  facts  and  the  law.  It 
disregards  Israel’s  inherent  right  to  defend  its  citizens 
Mr.  Carmon  (Israel):  Two  days  after 
launched  at 
to  be 
12 

09-59485 
to  draw  an 


in the face of ongoing terrorist attacks. It represents yet 
another pretext to bash Israel at the United Nations and 
is detrimental to any positive diplomatic engagement in 
the  region.  It  attempts  to  export  from  Geneva  to  New 
York a campaign of de-legitimization. 

While  Israel  has  been  conducting  professional, 
credible  and  thorough  investigations,  as  part  of  its 
standard  operating  procedures  and  irrespective  of  any 
United  Nations  report,  the  report  before  the Assembly 
(A/64/53/Add.1)  attempts 
implausible 
equivalence between Israel, a democracy exercising its 
inherent  right  to  defend  itself  from  terrorist  attacks, 
and those who target Israeli civilians and operate from 
behind  Palestinian  mosques,  hospitals,  schools  and 
human  shields  or,  alternatively,  those  who  effectively 
are absent from Gaza at this point.  

The draft resolution, in paragraph 4, refers to the 
“Palestinian  side”.  Yet,  although  we  have  received 
some clarification that does not resolve the issue, I will 
still  put  the  question  before  the  Assembly  as  to  who 
precisely  that  accountable  Palestinian  side  is.  Is  that 
the  Palestinian Authority  that  was  ousted  from  power 
in  the  Gaza  Strip  in  a  bloody  coup?  Is  it  the  Hamas 
terrorist  organization  that  violently  seized  control  of 
Gaza,  an  organization  that  rejects  the  recognition  of 
Israel and any peaceful solution of the conflict? 

For those and other reasons, Israel has called for 
a  recorded  vote  on  this  draft  resolution  and  will  vote 
against  the  draft  resolution.  And  we  urge  all  other 
Member States to do the same. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  have  thus 

heard the last speaker in explanation of vote before the 
vote. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 
resolution A/64/L.11, entitled “Follow-up to the report 
of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza Conflict”. A recorded vote has been requested. 

Before  proceeding  to  take  action  on  the  draft 
resolution,  I  should  like  to  announce  that,  since  the 
introduction  of  draft 
the 
following  countries  have  become  sponsors:  Algeria, 
Senegal, Somalia, South Africa and the Sudan. 

In favour: 
  A recorded vote was taken. 
resolution  A/64/L.11, 

Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
A/64/PV.39
Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belarus,  Belize,  Benin,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana, 
Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Central 
African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China,  Comoros, 
Congo,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Gabon, 
Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  India,  Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives, 
Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Suriname,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
Against: 
Israel, 
Italy,  Marshall 
Australia,  Canada,  Czech  Republic,  Germany, 
Hungary, 
Islands, 
Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Nauru, 
Netherlands,  Palau,  Panama,  Poland,  Slovakia, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Ukraine, United States of America. 
Abstaining: 
Andorra,  Austria,  Belgium,  Bulgaria,  Burkina 
Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Croatia,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji, 
Finland, France, Georgia, Greece, Iceland, Japan, 
Kenya,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  New 
Zealand,  Norway,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Republic 
of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania, 
Russian  Federation,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Spain, 
Swaziland,  Sweden,  Tonga,  Uganda,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
Uruguay. 
09-59485 

13 

the 
that 
the  need 
to  believe 
the  emphasis  on 
A/64/PV.39 


Argentina  wishes  to  point  out  that  in  general  it 
agrees  with  the  report  produced  by  Judge  Goldstone 
and  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  (A/HRC/12/48),  as  well 
as  with  the  first  periodic  report  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights (A/HRC/S-12/1), 
especially 
to  combat 
impunity through the investigation of the facts and the 
trial of the perpetrators. 
That  said,  Argentina  wishes  to  highlight  that  it 

continues 
recommendations 
contained  in  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding Mission require a level-headed analysis in the 
light  of  their  implications  and  the  complexity  and 
difficulty of implementing some of them. 
Mr.  Gatan  (Philippines):  The  Philippines  has 

always  been  unwavering  in  its  strong  support  for  the 
Middle  East  peace  process  based  on  a  two-State 
solution, with Israel and Palestine living side by side in 
peace,  harmony  and  prosperity.  It  firmly  believes  that 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  the  human  rights  of 
both Israeli and Palestinian civilians represent a critical 
and  crucial  element  for  establishing  a  just  and  lasting 
peace in the region.  

In  that  regard,  the  Philippines  welcomes  the 
submission  of  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48) 
and  its  information  on  the  human  rights  situation  in 
Gaza.  However,  in  the  higher  interest  of  truth,  justice 
and  due  process,  the  report  should  be  considered  and 
studied  seriously  and  carefully  by  the  appropriate 
United  Nations  bodies  acting  within  their  respective 
mandates, as well as by all parties concerned.  

The Philippines supports  resolution 64/10 on the 
Mission’s  report.  In  no  case,  however,  should  it  be 
considered  as  a  precedent.  It  should  only  apply  to  the 
Gaza  situation  as  part  of  the  Middle  East  conflict, 
which  has  long  been  on  the  agenda  of  the  Security 
Council  under  Chapter  VI  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  
Mr. Hoxha (Albania): Albania voted in favour of 

resolution  64/10  believing  firmly  that  its  call  would 
bring  the  international  community  one  step  closer  to 
ensuring full respect for human life and dignity and to 
the fulfilment of justice for those who lost their lives in 
the  tragic  events  of  Gaza  and  for  those  who  are 
genuinely striving to build a peaceful future.  
of 
for 
international 
humanitarian 
fact-finding  mission  has 

This resolution is not and should not be seen as a 
condemnation  of  anyone.  To  the  contrary,  we  indeed 
see  in  this  resolution  an  opportunity  to  strengthen 
peace  by  justice,  in  the  hope  that  the  events  of  2008 
will not be repeated and will serve as a reminder of the 
vital need to respect each other’s fundamental rights to 
peaceful existence and prosperity.  
We cannot remain silent observers when a United 

reported  grave 
Nations 
violations 
law, 
independent of the question of which party committed 
them. Both parties involved need to pursue a thorough, 
independent  investigation,  which  will  serve  first  and 
foremost  themselves,  will  serve  all  of  us  and,  most 
importantly, will serve reconciliation and peace, a goal 
the world has been pursuing for decades, unfortunately 
without  concrete  results.  Albania  voted  based  on  the 
principle  that  the  pursuit  of  justice  and  truth,  respect 
for international humanitarian law and the need to end 
impunity  are  fundamental  to  the  development  of 
healthy  democracy  and  the  process  of  peace-building 
within  and  among  societies,  countries  and  regions  of 
the world. 
Mr.  Wetland  (Norway):  The  significance  of  the 

decision  we  have  just  debated  goes  far  beyond  the 
Gaza  conflict.  It  is  about  our  responsibility  to  protect 
vulnerable  groups  in  armed  conflict.  It  is  about 
restoring the role of international humanitarian law and 
the 
fundamental 
principles  that  are  at  the  foundation  of  the  United 
Nations — nothing less. 
We  believe  the  main  focus  of  draft  resolution 

A/64/L.11  was 
relevant  and  constructive.  The 
investigations by the parties should be independent and 
credible  and  comply  with  international  standards.  The 
United  Nations  Secretary-General  and  the  Human 
Rights  Council  should  be  mandated  to  secure  the 
international monitoring of the national investigations.  

In  order  for  that  message  to  come  through,  we 
presented  a  very  limited  proposal  that  would  have 
allowed  for  much  broader  support.  Now  we  strongly 
regret  that  the  main  sponsors  did  not  incorporate  our 
suggestion into the draft resolution. We believe that the 
failure to do so demonstrates that the decision was not 
only  about  protecting  victims  of  armed  conflict  in 
Gaza,  in  southern  Israel  or  indeed  elsewhere.  We 
cannot  interpret  it  as  anything  but  a  wish  to  preserve 
the  politicization  of  the  Middle  East  issues,  which  we 
importance  of 
respect 
full 
14 

09-59485 


see  far  too  often. Yet  again  we  at  the  United  Nations 
are turning what is an existential question into a highly 
politicized  debate.  That  is  not  in  the  interest  of  the 
victims  we  all  claim  to  speak  for.  For  that  reason, 
Norway abstained. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): The Russian Federation was forced to abstain 
in  the  General  Assembly  vote  on  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.11 on the discussion of the report of the Human 
Rights  Council  (A/64/53/Add.1).  The  main  topic  of 
that document is the report of the United Nations Fact-
Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict (A/HRC/12/48), 
headed  by  Judge  Richard  Goldstone,  detailing  human 
rights violations committed during that winter conflict.  

When  the  Goldstone  report  first  came  out,  we 
immediately deemed it to contain some conclusions we 
could  agree  with.  At  the  same  time,  the  document 
contained assessments that we could not agree with and 
that  required  further  work.  However,  the  Goldstone 
report  was  published  and  submitted  to  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  where  work  began  on  a  resolution  on 
the report.  
Our  delegation,  along  with  a  number  of  other 

Missions  in  Geneva,  played  an  important  role  in 
ensuring that the resolution was political in nature and 
that it would support the idea of national investigations 
but  would  not  seek  to  continue  a  discussion  on  the 
matter  in  the  Security  Council.  We  remain  convinced 
that that would only complicate establishing conditions 
to  achieve  a  comprehensive  settlement  in  the  Middle 
East.  

That draft resolution was agreed to but, as we all 
know, it was then withdrawn and replaced with a new 
text 
the 
amendments  made  by  the  Russian  delegation  that 
would have kept the discussion of the matter within the 
political sphere in the Human Rights Council.  

In an emotionally charged atmosphere in Geneva, 
apart from the topics addressed in the Goldstone report, 
the draft included other important issues for the peace 
process,  including  the  need  to  cease  archaeological 
excavations  in  Jerusalem,  which  risk  damaging  the 
holy  sites,  and  the  importance  of  taking  specific  steps 
to  alleviate  the  blockade  of  Gaza  and  to  satisfy  the 
basic  needs  of  the  Palestinian  people,  who  are  in  an 
extremely  difficult  situation.  In  that  regard,  guided  by 
its 
issues,  Russia 
supported  the  Human  Rights  Council  draft  resolution, 
fundamental  stance  on 
into  consideration 
that  did  not 
those 
take 
A/64/PV.39
in 
future 
consideration 
and  possible 
but at the same time it made a statement that it did not 
agree with a part of the draft resolution that called for 
sending  the  Goldstone  report  to  the  Security  Council 
for 
action. 
Unfortunately,  despite 
the  arguments  of  many 
delegations,  mentions  of  the  Security  Council  were 
kept in the General Assembly draft  resolution. That is 
not  conducive  to  a  level-headed,  professional  analysis 
of  the  Goldstone  report’s  recommendations,  which 
should  continue  primarily 
the  Human  Rights 
Council,  including  the  importance  of  both  Israel  and 
the Palestinians conducting their own investigations. 

Russia,  as  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council  and  a  participant  in  the  Quartet,  continues  to 
be unswervingly guided by the international legal basis 
for  a  Middle  East  settlement  that  has  been  reaffirmed 
in all recent Security Council resolutions as well as by 
the  four  leading  mediators  and  the  League  of  Arab 
States.  The  basis  of  this  is  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions, the Road Map and the Arab Peace 
Initiative.  

An  important  element  that  is  now  necessary  in 
order  to  re-launch  negotiations  is  the  first  part  of  the 
Road  Map,  which  requires  the  parties  to  refrain  from 
any  steps  that  could  prejudice  the  outcome  of  final 
status 
future  of 
Jerusalem,  borders,  refugees  and  settlements. There  is 
a  need  to  continue  our  collective  work,  in  particular 
within the United Nations, to achieve those goals in the 
context of a comprehensive Middle East settlement. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  The  delegation  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic 
voted  in  favour  of  resolution  A/64/10,  which  the 
Assembly adopted a short while ago regarding holding 
Israel,  as  the  occupying  Power,  accountable  for  the 
crimes  it  committed  during  the  aggression  against 
Gaza. We did this based on our belief in the justice of 
the  cause  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  their  struggle 
for  liberation,  although  the  resolution  does  not  meet 
our minimum expectations. 

My  delegation  thanks  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
responding  quickly  to  the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
resolution 
international 
community the opportunity to condemn the war crimes 
and  crimes  of  genocide  perpetrated  by  Israel  in  full 
view of the States and peoples of the world. 
Syria  emphasizes  that  it  views  the  votes  of  the 

Member States on today’s General Assembly resolution 
issue  discussions,  namely, 
affording 
the 
and 
for 
the 
09-59485 

15 

Israel 
rights  and, 
to  continue 
frequently,  of 
A/64/PV.39 

as  an  indicator  of  the  credibility  of  those  States 
vis-à-vis  one  of  the  important  aspects  of  the  work  of 
our international Organization. We do not believe that 
there  is  any  justification  whatsoever  for  not  voting  in 
favour  of  this  modest  resolution.  The  humanitarian 
duty and responsibility required of our Organization in 
standing up to Israel’s crimes make it plain that States 
that  allow 
its  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law 
have simply shirked their responsibilities. Indeed, they 
have  gone  so  far  in  adhering  to  double  standards  that 
we  may  be  disinclined  henceforth  to  sit  together  with 
them to discuss issues of human rights or international 
humanitarian law. 

We must all realize that the picture before us has 
become  more  clear  than  ever  before,  as  issues  of 
human 
international 
humanitarian law have become mere tools in the hands 
of  some,  who  used  them  to  put  pressure  on  and  to 
blackmail  States  with  whose  political  positions, 
economic interests and types of rule and authority they 
disagree. 

For all these reasons, my delegation would like to 
register  its  rejection  of  any  suggestion  in  the  just-
adopted  resolution  implying  that  aggressor  and  victim 
may  be  equated.  Israel 
the  Power  occupying 
Palestinian land. It was Israel that used internationally 
prohibited  weapons  to  murder  women,  children,  the 
elderly and other innocents in Palestine. The distortion 
of  the  facts  is  a  denial  of  the  right  of  an  occupied 
people  to  resist  their  occupiers.  Syria,  along  with 
numerous  others  who  share  our  conviction,  will  not 
allow  the  truth  to  be  transformed  into  falsehood  or  to 
let  injustice  and  murder  triumph  over  justice  and  the 
rule of law. 

Finally,  my  delegation  urges  all  Member  States, 
as well as the Security Council, to take the content of 
this resolution to its logical conclusion and to mete out 
punishment to the Israelis, who perpetrated war crimes 
and crimes against humanity in Gaza. 
Mr. Heller (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): Mexico 

voted  in  favour  of  resolution  64/10  because  we 
acknowledge 
to  conduct  credible  and 
independent  investigations  by  all  the  parties  involved 
in  the  Gaza  conflict.  We  would  like  to  stress  how 
important  it  is  to  prevent  impunity,  guarantee  justice, 
promote peace and prevent new violations. We would, 
however,  have  preferred  language  different  from  the 
the  need 
is 
to 
as 
efforts 
the  Gaza  Conflict 
word  “endorses”  that  is  used  in  the  report  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  (A/HRC/12/48),  and  which  is 
repeated  in  operative  paragraph  1  of  the  Assembly’s 
resolution,  in  order  to  obtain  the  support  of  a  larger 
number of Member States. 
Mexico  reiterates  its  conviction  that  we  need  to 

support  United  Nations 
guarantee 
accountability  with  respect  to  violations  of  human 
rights and international humanitarian law. Our vote was 
in  favour  of  accountability  and  not  of  all 
the 
recommendations contained in this report. 
Mr.  Muñoz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Chile 

would like to thank you, Mr. President, for organizing 
this  meeting  to  discuss  the  report  on  the  Fact-Finding 
Mission  on 
(A/HRC/12/48), 
established  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  chaired 
by Justice Richard Goldstone. The report describes and 
analyses, in an international framework, the allegations 
of the violations of human rights that took place during 
Operation Cast Lead. This period saw the undermining 
of fundamental principles of international humanitarian 
law,  such  as  proportionality  in  the  use  of  force, 
distinguishing between civilians and armed forces, and 
precautions against harming civilians. 

Chile supports the establishment of a Palestinian 
State, as well as the right of Israel to live within secure 
borders,  as  recognized  by  the  relevant  resolutions  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  also  recognize  the  right  to 
legitimate  self-defence,  in  form  and  principle,  as 
articulated  in Article  51  of  the  Charter,  especially  the 
principle  of  proportionality 
in 
international  law.  In  this  context,  Chile  supports  the 
resolution  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  endorses 
the recommendations of the Fact-Finding Mission.  
the 

the  purpose  of 
recommendations  contained  in  the  report  should  be  to 
the  allegations  of  serious  violations 
investigate 
committed  by 
the  Israeli  forces  and  Palestinian 
factions. We reiterate that in our opinion, what is most 
important  is  upholding  international  humanitarian  law 
and respect  for human  rights. It is  essential that, first, 
independent  and  credible  investigations  be  conducted 
into 
those 
responsible be sent to trial; and thirdly, that reparations 
be  made  to  the  victims.  Chile  calls  on  all  parties 
concerned to comply with their obligations. 
Chile would like to take this opportunity to state 

that  we  supported  the  Assembly’s  newly  adopted 
the  alleged  violations;  secondly, 
We  understand 
established 
that 
that 
16 

09-59485 
trust  and 
they  stem  from, 
in  order 
to  renew 


resolution.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  the  role  that 
the Human Rights Council should play in ensuring the 
monitoring  of  compliance  with  the  recommendations 
of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission.  The  Human  Rights 
Council should be the body that continues to examine 
the  results  of  investigations  before  referring  them  to 
other organs of the United Nations system. 

Finally, Chile would like to appeal for an end to 
all  the  obstacles  of  provocation  and  incitement  to 
to 
violence,  wherever 
establish  conditions  of 
the 
negotiations  that  all  of  us  desire  and  have  desired  for 
so long. 
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Guatemala voted in favour of resolution 64/10. It was a 
decision  we  had  to  consider  very  carefully,  because, 
like other delegations in this chamber, we noted certain 
flaws in the report of the Fact-Finding Mission on the 
Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48)  that  the  authors  of  the 
report acknowledge themselves. 

That having been said, we value the fact that the 
Mission acknowledged the complexity of the situation 
and  condemned  both  sides  for  serious  violations  of 
human  rights  of  civilians  in  both  Gaza  and  Israel. 
Through  our  vote,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our  total 
rejection  of  impunity,  as  well  as  our  unswerving 
commitment to reaching a lasting peace in the Middle 
East  which  culminates  in  the  creation  of  a  sovereign, 
independent and viable Palestinian State within secure 
and recognized borders, like its neighbour, the State of 
Israel. 
Mr. Ali  (Malaysia):  Malaysia  voted  in  favour  of 

resolution  64/10  because  we  strongly  feel  that  Israel, 
the  main  perpetrator  in  the  Gaza  conflict,  should  be 
held  accountable  for 
the  war  crimes  and  grave 
violations 
international 
humanitarian  law  which  it  had  committed  during  the 
conflict.  In  fact,  we  would  have  wanted  stronger 
language in the resolution to reflect this view so as not 
to equate the victims with the perpetrator. 
Mr.  Quinlan  (Australia):  Australia  was  deeply 

saddened by the conflict in the Gaza Strip and southern 
Israel  last  December  and  January,  and  we  are  very 
disturbed at the loss of momentum in recent efforts to 
restart  the  peace  process.  We  ask  the  parties  to  do 
more.  
human 
of 
rights 
and 
A/64/PV.39
that 
in  Gaza,  a  situation 

We  voted  against  resolution  64/10  because  of  a 
number of genuine concerns arising from the language 
of the text and from the flawed nature of the report it is 
based  on,  which  we  simply  cannot  endorse.  However, 
this  vote  in  no  way  reduces  our  fundamental  concern 
about the humanitarian situation of the people of Gaza.  

Consistently  before,  during  and  after  the  Gaza 
conflict,  we  called  on  all  the  parties  to  take  all 
necessary steps to minimize harm to civilians, and we 
call on the parties now to act to prevent the continuing 
humanitarian  crisis 
is 
unacceptable.  
During  the  conflict  itself,  Australia  said  clearly 

investigation  of  any 
it  supported  a  proper 
that 
allegations  of  breaches  of  human 
rights  and 
international  humanitarian  law.  That  is  a  position  we 
maintain and one which we convey firmly in our recent 
statements  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  to  the 
Security Council.  

It  is  crucial  that  these  serious  matters  be  dealt 
with properly, and today we join the call on the parties 
to  credibly  investigate  all  allegations  that  have  been 
made  of  violations  of  human  rights  and  international 
humanitarian  law  and  to  inform  the  international 
community of the results of those investigations. 
(Canada):  Canada  was 

concerned about the unbalanced nature of the mandate 
of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza Conflict when it was first considered in that it did 
not clearly call for investigation of both sides and did 
not recognize that rocket fire on Israel led to the crisis. 
In  commissioning 
the  Human  Rights 
Council  pre-emptively  assumed  Israel’s  culpability. 
While  recognizing  that  the  report  that  was  released 
does  address  issues  relating  to  both  parties,  we  are 
nevertheless  concerned  about  its  overall  unbalanced 
nature.  

We were further concerned about the decision to 
proceed with the twelfth special session of the Human 
Rights Council, as we believe that the situation in the 
Middle  East  must  be  addressed  in  a  balanced  and 
that  promotes  a 
non-politicized  manner  —  one 
negotiated  solution  rather 
that  further 
antagonizes the parties. 

For these reasons, Canada voted no on resolution 
64/10. That said, Canada continues to call on all parties 
to  respect  their  obligations  under  human  rights  and 
Mr.  Normandin
this  study, 
than  one 
09-59485 

17 

to  be 
investigated  by 
A/64/PV.39 

international  humanitarian  law. We  expect  all  credible 
reports  of  wrongdoing  by  armed  forces  —  regular  or 
irregular  — 
the  relevant 
authorities,  and  we  note  that  Israel  is  carrying  out 
investigations  and  we  look  forward  to  their  full 
disclosure when concluded. 
Mr. Schaper (Netherlands): The Netherlands has 

just voted no on resolution 64/10, adopted just now. As 
we  stated  in  our  explanation  of  vote  in  Geneva  three 
weeks  ago,  we  welcomed  the  work  of  the  Goldstone 
mission, but we have difficulty in welcoming the report 
and  endorsing  all  of  its  recommendations  without 
further  restrictions.  The  Netherlands  therefore  voted 
against the resolution at the Human Rights Council in 
Geneva.  We  cannot  now  support  a  resolution  —  the 
one before us — which endorses a resolution we voted 
against only a few weeks ago. 

The  Netherlands  supports  the  elements  in  the 
resolution  that  call  for  independent  investigations  by 
the  parties.  We  are  convinced  that  concerned  parties 
should  pursue  their  own  in-depth  investigations  into 
accusations  of  violations  of  human 
rights  and 
international  humanitarian  law,  and  some  of  these 
investigations  have  already  been  initiated  by  Israel, 
including  into  the  strategic  considerations  of  parties 
during the conflict and into the humanitarian aspects of 
access  to  Gaza  as  addressed  by  the  Goldstone  report. 
Where  relevant,  the  concerned  parties  must  bring  to 
justice  those  suspected  of  violations  of  human  rights 
and international humanitarian law.  

While we are supportive of these elements, other 
parts of the resolution before us are a source of concern 
for 
the  Netherlands.  The  Human  Rights  Council 
commissioned  the  Goldstone  report,  and,  in  our  view, 
the  Human  Rights  Council  should  remain  the  primary 
organ 
the  General 
Assembly,  and  certainly  not  the  Security  Council,  as 
the resolution before us implies.  

three 
months’  time  to  investigate  possible  violations  of 
human rights and humanitarian law. We are puzzled as 
to  why  the  Secretary-General  has  to  report  on  the 
implementation  of  this  resolution  in  the  same  three 
months.  In  any  case,  we  do  not  think  the  Secretary-
General  should  be  given  a  central  role 
the 
implementation of this resolution. 
the  resolution  gives 
the  report,  not 
to  deal  with 
the  parties 
Also, 
in 
to 
time 
fully 
investigated  so  as 
the  Palestinians  must  fully  commit 

Lastly,  and  in  a  general  sense,  it  is  our  overall 
feeling that the resolution will not be conducive to the 
aim of relaunching the Middle East peace process. 
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  Brazil  voted  in  favour  of 

resolution  64/10.  We  reiterate  our  sincere  concern  for 
the violations of international humanitarian and human 
rights  law  reported  to  have  occurred  in  Gaza  and 
southern  Israel 
last  December  and  January.  The 
Goldstone  report  represents  a  serious  and  important 
account  of  those  violations  as  it  addresses  crimes 
allegedly  committed  by  both  sides.  These  violations 
should  be 
to  ensure 
accountability  and  justice,  prevent  impunity  from 
leading  to  more  violence  and  encourage  the  parties  to 
find  a  solution  to  their  differences  through  peaceful 
means.  

At this stage, we believe that the report should be 
primarily  implemented  by  the  concerned  parties  with 
the  full  support  of  the  international  community.  Israel 
and 
the 
establishment of transparent and serious investigations 
according to international standards. The parties should 
be  given  adequate 
to  conduct  appropriate 
independent 
seriousness  and 
credibility of such investigations and their conclusions, 
or  absence  thereof,  should  guide  the  consideration  of 
possible  involvement  of  other  United  Nations  bodies 
according to their respective functions and powers. 

Brazil is a friend of peace and a firm supporter of 
the  establishment  of  an  independent,  geographically 
united, democratic and economically viable Palestinian 
State  living  side  by  side  with  Israel  in  peace  and 
security  within  internationally  recognized  borders. We 
are  confident  that  today’s  decision  will  help  us  to 
achieve this goal. 
Ms.  Blum
in  Spanish): 

Colombia abstained in the vote on resolution 64/10. At 
this  meeting,  my  country  would  like  to  reiterate  its 
support  for  achieving  a  negotiated  and  peaceful 
solution to the question of Palestine and thus values all 
efforts  aimed  at  achieving  an  agreement  between  the 
parties  and 
Israel  and 
Palestine.  We  reiterate 
importance  of  direct 
dialogue  as  the  best  choice  for  continuing  to  move 
closer to peace and for ensuring positive results for the 
peoples  of  Israel  and  Palestine.  My  country  will 
continue  to  provide  its  support  to  all  initiatives  aimed 
attaining  a  result  that  is  satisfactory  to  the  parties  — 
reaching  peace  between 
investigations.  The 
(Colombia) 
(spoke 
the 
18 

09-59485 
a 
seeks 
New  Zealand 
to  move 
their 
invite  all  countries 
in  strengthening 


guided  by  Colombia’s  commitment  to  multilateralism 
and  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes.  At  the  same 
time,  Colombia  regrets  the  acts  of  violence  produced 
by  attacks  that  could  affect  the  civilian  population, 
regardless  of  their  origin.  My  delegation  reiterates  its 
commitment to achieving full defence of human rights, 
and  we 
forward 
institutional 
constructively 
capacities  to  ensure  implementation  of  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. 
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  New  Zealand  takes 

this opportunity to explain its abstention in the vote on 
resolution  64/10.  That  position  must  be  seen  in  the 
wider context of the Middle East peace process and our 
long-standing  support  for  international  justice.  Our 
position is based on a number of principles. 

enduring, 
just, 
comprehensive peace settlement based on the two-State 
solution, with Israel and Palestine living side by side in 
peace and security, and we call on all parties to resume 
negotiations to that end. New Zealand has consistently 
called  for  investigations  into  alleged  violations  of 
human  rights  and  humanitarian  law  arising  from  the 
conflict. There  should  be  no  impunity.  Perpetrators  of 
any such violations must be brought to justice. 

We  would  have  preferred  that  this  issue  be 
considered by the Human Rights Council in Geneva in 
March  next  year,  as  originally  agreed,  as  this  could 
have  created  a  better  climate  for 
required 
investigations. We object to the continued bias against 
Israel in the handling of this important question in the 
Human Rights Council.  

While  we  appreciate  its  position,  we  regret  that 
Israel did not present its version of events to the Fact-
Finding  Mission,  in  particular  after  the  Mission’s 
original  biased  mandate  was  changed  by  agreement 
between  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and  Justice  Goldstone.  All  that  having  been  said,  the 
report is here, and we must deal with it. 

We strongly support Israel’s right to defend itself 
and  its  people  from  attack  of  any  kind  and  from 
whatever quarter, in a way that avoids harm to civilians 
and  is  consistent  with  international  law.  Equally,  we 
strongly  support  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
self-determination,  consistent  with  international  law. 
We  call  for  an  end  to  Israel’s  settlement  building, 
which we regard as a serious impediment to the peace 
process.  We  are  deeply  concerned  at  the  severe 
the 
A/64/PV.39
Any 
the 
integrity  or 
the  outcome  of 
to  begin  credible 
jurist  who  accepted 
humanitarian  crisis  in  Gaza,  including  the  impact  of 
border  movement  restrictions,  and  repeat  our  calls  for 
these restrictions to be eased. We welcome the fact that 
nearly 80 truckloads of goods entered Gaza from Israel 
through  the  Kerem  Shalom  crossing,  and  we  call  for 
such  openings  to  continue.  We  condemn  Hamas’s 
indiscriminate  rocket  attacks  against  Israeli  citizens 
and the use of civilian-populated urban sites as rocket-
launch sites. 

the  Fact-Finding 
Mission’s  brief  would  have  fully  understood  the  legal 
and  political  path  ahead.  It  is  to  the  credit  of  Justice 
Goldstone  and  his  colleagues  that  they  did  not  flinch 
from that task. We consider that serious allegations are 
raised  by  the  Goldstone  report,  and  we  call  for  all 
parties 
independent  domestic 
investigations into those allegations, conducted in line 
with  internationally  accepted  standards.  We  will  not 
prejudge 
those 
investigations.  We  agree  that  this  was  a  fact-finding 
mission  and  not  a  judicial  inquiry.  The  allegations  in 
the Goldstone report have not yet been subjected to the 
independent investigation recommended in that report, 
and  we  should  not  pass  judgment  as  though  they  had: 
they must be properly and independently investigated. 

Although we call on Israel and the Palestinians to 
investigate the alleged violations, we cannot support a 
resolution 
its  first  operative  paragraph, 
endorses  a  Human  Rights  Council  report  on  a  special 
session  that  includes  a  biased,  one-sided  resolution. 
Against that background, an abstention was, for us, the 
appropriate course. 
Mr.  Al  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  My 

delegation voted in favour of resolution 64/10, adopted 
under  the  agenda  item  on  the  report  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  on  the  follow-up  to  the  report  of  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict. However, I should like to state the following. 
With  regard  to  this  resolution,  my  delegation  believes 
that there is imbalance to putting the occupying Power 
that  has  committed  so  many  abhorrent  crimes  against 
the people in Gaza with that of the Palestinian side on 
the same and equal footing. Moreover, the report itself 
reflected  only  partial  and  minimal  dimensions  of  the 
war crimes committed by the Israeli regime in Gaza.  

In response to the baseless allegation made by the 
representative  of  the  regime  in  the  occupied  territory, 
my  delegation  should  like  to  point  out  that  the 
that, 
in 
09-59485 

19 
regime  of 

credible 
and 
in 
investigations 
should  undertake 
A/64/PV.39 

illegitimate 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories tries to distort the facts and intends, through 
the dissemination of disinformation and issues that are 
irrelevant  to  the  subject  under  consideration  in  this 
body, to evade the very important dilemma facing that 
regime — that is a lack of legitimacy emanating from 
more  than  60  years  of  occupation  and  brutality  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territories. 
Mr.  Manjeev  Singh  Puri  (India):  India  has  a 

deep  association  with  and  continuing  commitment  to 
Palestine. We  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  64/10. We 
believe  that  the  recommendation  of  the  report  of  the 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  conflict  that  both 
sides 
that  are 
independent, 
conformity  with 
international standards must be implemented forthwith. 
Our  vote  should,  however,  not  be  construed  as 
endorsing referrals to the International Criminal Court 
and the Security Council. 
Mr.  Hernández-Milian  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  Costa  Rica’s  actions  in  the  international 
arena are guided by the conviction that peace between 
nations  can  only  be  achieved  through  respect  for 
international  law,  international  humanitarian  law  and 
human  rights  law.  We  believe  that  the  international 
community  must  respond  to  all  instances  in  which 
those  norms  are  broken.  Accountability  and  the  fight 
against  impunity  are  fundamental  pillars  needed  to 
strengthen  international  humanitarian  law  and  human 
rights. 
thematic  discussions  on 
accountability  and  the  fight  against  impunity,  Costa 
Rica has made its position clear, namely, that there are 
crimes  whose  nature 
international 
community’s  duty  to  intervene  and  impose  sanctions 
under 
internationally  recognized 
justice.  We  have  stated  this  more  than  once,  as 
members  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  also 
in  debates  on  the  responsibility  to  protect  and  on 
universal jurisdiction.  
It  is  the  responsibility  of  all  of  us  to  strengthen 

those institutions that promote accountability and make 
the fight against impunity possible, and to refrain from 
using  or  manipulating  those  institutions  to  political 
ends.  Reactionary  and  unjustified  recourse  to  those 
instruments and institutions can only weaken them. 

We  believe  that  the  parties  must  initiate  internal 
investigative proceedings in order to establish who was 
responsible  for  the  violations  of  human  rights  and  of 
the  standards  of 
In 
forums  and 
evokes 
the 
20 

international  humanitarian  law.  Those  investigations 
should  be  conducted  within  a  reasonable  time  frame 
and  should  lead  to  concrete  results.  Judge  Richard 
Goldstone  has  a  background  that  is  worthy  of  respect 
and that Costa Rica holds in high regard. The report of 
the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict that he headed (A/HRC/12/48) is an admirable 
attempt  to  establish  the  facts  in  an  objective  way. 
However,  that  effort  was  made  under  particularly 
difficult  circumstances,  given  the  lack  of  cooperation 
on  the  part  of  one  of  the  sides  involved.  That  could 
explain some of the limitations that have been noted in 
the  report.  Our  delegation  considers  that  there  is  no 
continuity  between  the  recommendations  in  the  report 
and the operative paragraphs of resolution 64/10. 
Costa Rica would have liked to have seen in the 

resolution  a  follow-up  mechanism  whereby  the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and  the  Secretary-
General,  with  the  cooperation  of  the  parties,  could 
submit  reports  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  The  outcome  of  what  has  been 
initiated  by  the  resolution’s  sponsors  will  most  likely 
be  yet  another  of 
the  never-ending  proceedings 
whereby the General Assembly votes year after year on 
a proposal about the Middle East that has no effect on 
the ground. For that reason we ask: Will that strengthen 
accountability  as  a  tool  to  implement  the  rule  of  law 
internationally?  Is  that  the  way  to  fight  the  impunity 
with  which  all  the  many  acts  violating  international 
standards  were  committed  in  Gaza  during  the  hostile 
actions last December and January? 
Finally,  will  what  the  sponsors  of  the  resolution 

have  initiated  work  to  enforce  international  standards, 
promote  accountability  and 
impunity?  We 
honestly do not think that it will. What all this amounts 
to is an attempt to put to frivolous use instruments and 
institutions  that  deserve  a  weightier  respect.  The  loss 
the  principle  of 
of 
consistency,  undermining 
accountability  and  weakening 
the 
fight  against 
impunity  are  not  causes  that  Costa  Rica  can  endorse. 
Recognizing  the  merits  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission’s 
report,  even  with the limitations that we are  all  aware 
of, Costa Rica is opposed to its banalization and could 
not  add  its  vote  to  a  decision  that  reflects  the  many 
errors  committed  along  the  way  that  has  led  us  to 
where we are. That is the reason for our abstention.  
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

Switzerland  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  64/10  for 
three main reasons. First, we consider the nature of the 
fight 
09-59485 
the 


conclusions contained in the report of the Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48)  require 
monitoring  by 
international  community.  The 
resolution is an important step in that direction.  

Secondly,  combating  impunity  is  crucial  because 
what is at stake is a precondition for sustainable peace 
and  preventing  future  violations  of  international  law. 
Thirdly, the resolution calls in a balanced way for both 
parties  to  carry  out  independent  inquiries  in  line  with 
international standards. Thus it gives a clear signal that 
this  responsibility  rests  first  and  foremost  with  them. 
Finally,  Switzerland  has  taken  due  note  of  the  request 
that  necessary  measures  should  be  taken  to  convene  a 
conference  of  High  Contracting  Parties  of  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention  of  1949  and  Switzerland 
is 
available to the High Contracting Parties. 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  My  delegation 

supports the main thrust of the resolution just adopted. 
In  particular,  we  endorse  the  call  for  independent  and 
credible  investigations  carried  out  in  accordance  with 
international standards by both parties. 

As  we  expressed  in  our  statement  during  the 
debate, we were  disappointed by the manner in which 
the Human Rights Council had dealt with the report of 
the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48).  Our  abstention,  which  we 
have  cast  with  much  regret,  is  therefore  due  solely  to 
the manner in which the text refers to the report of the 
Human Rights Council (A/64/53/Add.1). 
We hope that this resolution will make a genuine 

to 
contribution 
addressing violations of international humanitarian law 
documented in the Goldstone report. We look forward 
to  the  future  consideration  of  this  important  topic  by 
this Assembly. 
Mr.  Thalassinós  (Panama)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  resolution  we  have 
the 
Government  of  Israel  and  the  Palestinian Authority  to 
conduct  credible,  independent  investigations,  in  line 
with  international  standards,  on  the  alleged  violations 
within  a  time  frame  of  three  months. The  Republic  of 
Panama  has  always  respected  the  principles  of  the 
United Nations Charter and we support all multilateral 
efforts  aimed  at  achieving  a  lasting  solution  to  the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  

Panama joins the international call for renewing a 
peace  process  that  builds  on  previous  accords  and 
to  ensuring  accountability  and 
just  adopted  urges 
A/64/PV.39
international  law  and  that  respects  the  right  of  both 
peoples  to  live  in  peace,  justice  and  security  as 
sovereign,  independent  States.  However,  Panama  has 
some  serious  concerns  about  the  objectivity  of  the 
language used in the text of the resolution, because in 
fact it prejudges the outcome of the investigations that 
have to be carried out both by the Government of Israel 
and the Palestinian authority, and refers the outcome of 
those investigations to the Security Council.  

The  international  community  knows  Panama’s 
long  history  of  respect  for  human  rights.  However, 
while it is important for perpetrators of violations to be 
held accountable and face justice, that cannot be done 
on the basis of a resolution that prejudges the results of 
investigations.  The  investigative  process  should  be 
just,  objective  and  credible. That  is  why  the  Republic 
of Panama voted against the resolution. 
Mr.  Álvarez  (Uruguay)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 

Uruguay  rejects  and  condemns  all  violations  of 
international  humanitarian 
law  and  human  rights 
without  exception  and  we  hope  that  in  all  situations 
where  the  international  community  considers  such 
violations  they  are  given  equal  treatment  and  that  the 
fight continues against impunity and the perpetrators of 
such violations.  

Uruguay  has  an  unshakeable  commitment  to 
international  humanitarian  law  and  accords  a  high 
priority to the protection of civilians in armed conflict. 
Protection  of  civilians  is  a  legal  obligation  under 
international humanitarian law, but it is also an ethical 
imperative 
long  evolution  of 
humankind  towards  civilizing  standards  that  place 
respect  for  life,  integrity  and  human  dignity  at  the 
centre of their values.  
Uruguay  values  the  work  of  the  United  Nations 

Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict, headed by 
Judge  Richard  Goldstone,  and  we  endorse  its  report 
(A/HRC/12/48). It is a serious document that sought to 
investigate  the  grave  events  that  occurred  during 
Operation  Cast  Lead, 
the 
perpetrators might be. In that spirit, we deem the report 
to  require  a  careful  study  and  follow-up  of  all  the 
elements that it contains. In particular, we think that its 
recommendations  should  be  the  subject  of  a  level-
headed and thorough examination bearing in mind the 
complexity  of  its  proposals  as  well  as  their  possible 
ramifications, which may include profound consequences 
that are difficult to predict. 
regardless  of  who 
reflects 
that 
the 
09-59485 

21 

rejection  of  human 
A/64/PV.39 


Uruguay  considers  it  essential  that  the  sides 
involved conduct their respective investigations on the 
facts that are described and avoid impunity, especially 
with  respect  to  the  most  serious  violations  of  human 
rights and international humanitarian law. We appeal to 
the  General  Assembly  not  to  politicize  a  topic  as 
serious  as  this  one,  and  especially  not  to  affect 
negotiations currently under way, to remain focused on 
achieving a lasting solution to the Middle East conflict 
and  to  have  a  balanced,  equitable  approach  that  calls 
on all parties involved to live up to their commitments 
and obligations. 
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  Benin 

voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution  to  demonstrate  its 
systematic 
rights  violations, 
regardless  of  their  origin.  Benin’s  vote  proceeds  from 
its consistent foreign policy and is directed against no 
particular country.  

No  one,  under  any  circumstances,  must  exempt 
themselves from the obligation to meticulously respect 
human  rights  and  ensure  the  protection  of  civilians. 
The  principles  of  humanity  are  inviolable  and  must 
remain so under all circumstances.  

Benin  believes  that  the  authority  of  the  Geneva 
Conventions, trampled underfoot in Gaza, must prevail 
in  all  conflict  situations.  The  military  operations 
carried out in December 2008 and January 2009 led to 
intolerable 
undermined 
international  norms  and  the  principles  of  humanity. 
Such  actions  are  attributable  to  radicalism,  which  we 
cannot support.  

It  is  important  that  in-depth  investigations  be 
conducted outside the framework of any political party 
in  order  to  identify  and  punish  those  responsible  for 
proven  human  rights  violations.  That  would  make  it 
possible  to  avoid  laying  the  groundwork  for  impunity 
and  to  prevent  a  renewed  and  indefinite  spiral  of 
violence. Both parties must conduct such investigations 
with  full  transparency.  That  said,  Benin  does  not 
approve  of  any  use  of  force  to  settle  international 
disputes,  without prejudice to people’s  right to use all 
means recognized in international law to exercise their 
right to self-determination.  

Benin advocates dialogue and negotiation to seek 
the path of peace and calls upon States that are able to 
influence  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  to  do  their 
utmost  to  achieve  a  swift  settlement  of  the  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, which has lasted too long. We urge 
gravely 
abuses 
that 
and 
for 
its 
Judge  Goldstone 
a  relaunching  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  peace  process 
in order to achieve, as soon as possible, the solution of 
two  sovereign  States  living  in  peace  with  each  other 
and  their  neighbours  within  secure  and  internationally 
recognized  borders.  We  appeal  urgently  to  the  parties 
to  the  conflict  to  resume  negotiations  in  good  faith 
with a view to achieving peace as soon as possible. 
Mr.  Kelly  (Ireland):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

make clear our position on the resolution that we have 
adopted  here  today.  Ireland  supported  the  resolution 
because  of  our  support  for  the  Fact-Finding  Mission 
led  by 
report 
(A/HRC/12/48).  

That  document  is  a  serious  and  very  important 
contribution to our understanding of what took place in 
Gaza and southern Israel. It forms part of the pursuit of 
appropriate  accountability  for  actions  which  occurred 
and  is  supportive  of  the  efforts  to  ensure  that  such 
tragedies are not repeated. 

In  voting  for  the  resolution,  Ireland  wishes  to 
make clear that this does not mean that we necessarily 
support  each  and  every  recommendation  contained  in 
the  Goldstone  report.  Ireland  shares  the  concern  of  a 
number  of  delegations  that  it  was  not  helpful  or 
appropriate  for  the  General Assembly  to  be  requested 
at 
its 
recommendations  in  their  entirety.  The  report  is  a 
complex 
its 
recommendations 
extremely  wide-ranging 
actions in many national and international forums, with 
wide  and  far-reaching  political  and  legal  implications. 
Like  many  other  delegations,  we  will  need  time  to 
consider  those  implications  carefully  before  agreeing 
on the best way forward on these crucial issues. 
We  do  fully  support  the  recommendations  which 

call, in the first instance, on the parties to the conflict 
in  Gaza  to  respond  seriously  and  comprehensively  to 
the  findings  of  the  report  by  launching  appropriate 
investigations  into  all  the  allegations  of  possible 
breaches of international law that are independent and 
in conformity with international standards.  

the resolution just adopted. 

explanation of vote. 

The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
For  that  reason,  we  decided  to  vote  in  favour  of 
I now call on the observer of Palestine. 
detailed 
cover 
report  and 
to  endorse 
the 
this 
time 
document, 
and 
and 
22 

09-59485 


Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  I  wish  to  express  the 

gratitude  of  Palestine,  Mr.  President, 
for  your 
outstanding  efforts  in  facilitating  this  meeting  to 
consider  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/64/53/Add.1)  and  to  discuss  and  consider  the 
Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48). Palestine would also 
like  to  express  its  gratitude  to  all  our  Arab  brothers 
who  submitted  the  draft  resolution,  along  with  those 
who  sponsored  it.  We  are  grateful  to  all  of  them  for 
their united stand in submitting the resolution that has 
been adopted.  

We  would  also  like  to  express  our  thanks  to  all 
those countries that voted in favour of the resolution. I 
must  add  that  we  interpret  all  the  abstentions  in  the 
voting  as  supportive  of  the  essence  of  the  resolution, 
and  we  take  note  of  some  of  the  problems  that  those 
who abstained had on the procedural side. 

In  addition,  I  do  not  wish  to  demean  myself  by 
responding  to  the  comments  and  questions  by  the 
representative  of  Israel,  because  the  Palestinian  side 
cooperated  fully  with  the  members  of  the  Goldstone 
team  in  their  investigation. The  Israeli  side  did  not;  it 
obstructed 
the  Goldstone  Mission. 
Therefore, our actions speak louder than our words, in 
terms  of  not  being  afraid  of  international  law,  but 
rather of honouring, respecting and cooperating with it. 
Those who claim that theirs is a democratic country are 
afraid to subject themselves to investigation by such a 
mission. 

Be that as it may, let me just say that tonight is a 
very  important  night  in  the  history  of  the  General 
Assembly.  It  is  also  a  very  important  night  in  the 
history  of  the  fight  against  impunity  and  in  seeking 
accountability.  We  are  not  done  with  this  exercise. 
Tonight,  congratulations  go  to  all  Members  of  the 
Assembly,  because  they  have  allowed  the  process  set 
out in the Goldstone report to begin. We are preparing 
ourselves  for  the  High  Contracting  Parties  to  the 
Geneva Convention to be convened in Switzerland. In 
that  connection,  we  express  particular  gratitude  to  the 
delegation  of  Switzerland  for  that  country’s  courage 
and  its  defence  of  international  law,  international 
humanitarian law and the issue of accountability. 

Therefore,  we  will  be  ready  for  the  unfolding  of 
that segment of the recommendations contained in the 
Goldstone report. We will also be ready to come back  

the  efforts  of 
A/64/PV.39
to  the  General  Assembly  in  three  months’  time  to 
consider  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General.  We  will 
do  so  with  a  view  to  further  action  in  all  the  relevant 
organs  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  Security 
Council. This journey of fighting impunity and seeking 
accountability  is  a  long  one.  We  are  proud  that  the 
General  Assembly  has  been  so  responsible  as  to 
instruct the Secretary-General to forward the Goldstone 
report  (A/HCR/12/48)  to  the  Security  Council,  so  that 
it will be an official document before the Council. We 
will  continue  to  knock  on  the  door  of  the  Security 
Council to ask it to shoulder its responsibilities. 

While  we  are  investigating  all  the  allegations 
contained  in  the  Goldstone  report,  we  will  work  very 
closely with the High Commissioner for Human Rights 
to find modalities and ways of dealing with the issue of 
reparations  and  the  establishment  of  a  compensation 
fund.  We  will  come  back  to  that  issue  once  we  have 
obtained  all  the  expertise  and  suggestions  available 
from the Office of the High Commissioner.  

We will continue to work with the Red Cross, and 
with  appropriate  bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  to  see 
how  we  can  address  the  issue  of  dealing  with  the 
weapons  and  ammunition  that  were  used  during  the 
Gaza  conflict,  another  recommendation  contained  in 
the  Goldstone  report.  Once  we  have  that  expert 
information, we will come back to the issue. We have 
therefore started the journey today. It is a process, and 
we will continue that process until we can ensure that 
the Israeli criminals who committed war crimes against 
Palestinian civilians are brought to justice and receive 
the punishment they deserve. 

As  for  us,  on  the  Palestinian  side,  we  will 
continue to uphold international law. We are not afraid 
of  international  law,  which  is  on  our  side.  We  will 
never  accept  that  there  is  any  kind  of  symmetry 
between 
the 
Palestinian people under occupation. International law 
is  on  our  side  and  represents  the  solution  we  have  to 
impose on Israel sooner or later. 

say goodnight and that tomorrow will be another day. 

this stage of its consideration of agenda item 64. 
The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m. 

The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
I would like to thank everyone in this Hall and to 
the  occupiers  and 
the  victims  — 
09-59485 

23 
