
A/64/PV.15
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

15th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 6 October 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 






In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hackett 
(Barbados), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3:10 p.m. 


the  work  of 
Agenda item 107 (continued) 
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/64/1) 

Mr. Kim Bonghyun (Republic of Korea): First of 
all, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
annual  report  on 
the  Organization 
(A/64/1),  which  provides  a  comprehensive  and  clear 
overview of what has been achieved over the last year 
and  lays  out  a  coherent  blueprint  for  what  must  be 
accomplished  in  the  future.  As  the  Secretary-General 
said  in  his  report,  “We  are  seeing  the  convergence  of 
complex challenges across a spectrum of issues that lie 
at  the  core  of  the  United  Nations  mission”  (A/64/1, 
para. 4). 

To  confront  these  immense  challenges  and  make 
the  world  a  safer  and  more  prosperous  place,  the 
international community must work together more than 
ever  before.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  strongly 
supports  the  idea  that  we  should  build  on  a  new 
multilateralism that contains the five essential elements 
referred to in the Secretary-General’s report. We should 
engage  in  multilateral  cooperation  using  the  United 
Nations  as 
that  new 
multilateralism.  My  delegation  is  fully  committed  to 
engaging actively and constructively in order to further 
advance and restore global hope and solidarity. 

the  platform  and  hub  of 

With less than six years left until the target year 
of  2015,  the  prospects  of  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  a  timely  fashion  seem 
to be imperilled. The global economic crisis has had a 
negative  impact  on  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  It  is 
estimated that between 73 and 103 million more people 
will remain in extreme poverty this year, with women 
and  children  suffering  disproportionately  from  the 
impact of the crisis. The particularly difficult situation 
in  sub-Saharan Africa  demands  more  of  our  attention. 
Next year’s MDG Review Summit must play a crucial 
role in summoning political will and inducing Member 
States  to  redouble  their  efforts  in  order  to  make 
meaningful use of the next five years. 
Based  on  its  development  experience,  both  as  a 

partner country and a donor, the Republic of Korea will 
fulfil its pledge to triple its 2008 official development 
assistance  (ODA)  by  2015.  In  an  effort  to  support  the 
fight  against  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  malaria  in 
sub-Saharan  Africa,  we  are  mobilizing 
further 
resources  through  the  air  ticket  solidarity  levy.  In 
addition,  we  are  striving  to  improve  the  quality  of 
ODA  by 
the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD)  Development 
Assistance Committee in 2010, and we will continue to 
contribute  to  strengthening  the  global  partnership  for 
more  inclusive  and  effective  development  cooperation 
by  hosting  the  fourth  High-Level  Forum  on  Aid 
Effectiveness in 2011. 

As the Secretary-General has rightly pointed out, 
climate  change  is  the  most  pressing  challenge  of  our 
time.  Responding  to  climate  change  has  become  an 
joining 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-54411 (E) 
*0954411* 



A/64/PV.15 

indispensable and urgent priority for all of humanity. In 
that  regard,  my  delegation  greatly  appreciates  the 
leadership  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
in 
placing climate change at the top of the agenda and in 
galvanizing  global  efforts  to  ensure  a  successful 
outcome  of  the  Copenhagen  Conference  in  December. 
My  delegation  also  appreciates  such  initiatives  by  the 
Secretary-General  as  convening  the  22  September 
Summit on Climate Change, which helped demonstrate 
leaders’  strong  political  will  to  seal  the  deal  in 
Copenhagen. The Republic of Korea, as a non-Annex I 
country,  plans  to  announce  its  voluntary  midterm 
mitigation  target  for  2020  before  the  end  of  this  year. 
Korea has also proposed the establishment of a registry 
of  nationally  appropriate  mitigation  actions  of 
developing  countries  at  the  secretariat  of  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
with  a  view  to  inviting  developing  countries  to 
participate voluntarily in mitigation. We hope that our 
efforts  and  proposals  will  contribute  positively  to 
successful outcomes at Copenhagen. 

The United Nations peacekeeping operations face 
new  challenges  in  meeting  ever-growing  demands  for 
peacekeeping  with 
and 
multidimensional  mandates  —  far  beyond  what  the 
Brahimi  report  (A/55/305)  envisaged  nearly  10  years 
initiatives  of 
ago.  My  delegation  welcomes 
Member  States 
to 
reconfigure United Nations peacekeeping operations to 
meet  those  new  challenges.  With  regard  to  new 
initiatives,  my  delegation  wishes  to  emphasize  two 
factors 
success: 
strengthening  partnerships  among  all  the  stakeholders 
and partners, and setting clear, credible and achievable 
connection,  my  delegation 
mandates. 
appreciates  and  welcomes 
the  Secretary-General’s 
“New  Horizon”  initiative,  emphasizing  a  new  United 
Nations peacekeeping partnership. 

nuclear 
non-proliferation,  my  delegation  shares  the  view  that 
there is encouraging momentum in the field, especially 
towards achieving a world free of nuclear weapons, as 
stipulated  in  Security  Council  resolution  1887  (2009). 
We highly appreciate the Secretary-General’s efforts in 
this field, including his five-point proposal for nuclear 
disarmament.  The  Republic  of  Korea  is  ready  to 
cooperate  with  all  Member  States 
take  full 
advantage  of  this  window  of  opportunity  for  tangible 
progress. 
the  Secretary-General 
disarmament 
increasingly 
ensuring 
complex 
regards 
In 
this 
and 
critical 
to 
greater 
the 
and 

to 
the  responsibility 
report  of 
implementing 

Despite  significant  progress  in  the  field,  serious 
violations of human rights continue to be committed in 
many  parts  of  the  world.  The  United  Nations  system 
and Member States should be ever more determined to 
work together to promote and protect human rights. As 
the  Secretary-General  points  out,  increasing  economic 
hardship,  exacerbated  by  the  global  economic  crisis 
and other challenges, including climate change, further 
affects vulnerable groups such as minorities, migrants, 
women,  children  and  persons  with  disabilities.  The 
Organization  and  its  Member  States  should  fully 
recognize  the  relevance  of  human  rights  in  crafting 
responses to such global challenges. 

The United Nations has made significant progress 
in  preventing  and  responding  to  mass  atrocities.  The 
comprehensive 
the  Secretary-General 
(A/63/677)  on 
to 
protect  provided  a  strong  base  for  sincere  and 
productive  General  Assembly  debates,  leading  to  the 
adoption of resolution 63/308 by consensus confirming 
the  firm  commitment  of  Member  States 
the 
responsibility  to  protect.  Now  we  must  move  towards 
actual implementation of that norm on the ground. The 
Republic  of  Korea  is  convinced  that  our  continued 
deliberations  on  implementing  the  responsibility  to 
protect will produce a policy framework for the United 
Nations  system,  regional  organizations  and  individual 
Governments. 

The Republic of Korea welcomes the Assembly’s 
unanimous  adoption  of  resolution  63/311  on  system-
wide  coherence,  in  particular  the  agreement  on  the 
establishment  of  a  stronger  gender  architecture  in  the 
form of a composite entity, as a way to pursue gender 
the  empowerment  of  women  more 
equality  and 
effectively.  My  delegation  expects 
the  Secretary-
General  to  implement  the  resolution  in  a  timely 
manner, 
introduction  of  a 
comprehensive proposal on the composite entity. 

Let  me  conclude  by  renewing  the  Republic  of 
Korea’s support of the Secretariat’s efforts to make the 
United Nations a more effective, more accountable and 
better 
the  able 
leadership  of  the  Secretary-General.  A  better  world 
depends on it. 

Mr. Pálsson (Iceland): I would like, at the outset, 
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  concise  and 
valuable  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/64/1). 
functioning  Organization  under 
the  early 
including 
As 
to 
2 

09-54411 
threatening 
to  set  back 
towards  achieving 



The  past  year  has  been  a  gruelling  one  for  the 
world and for the United Nations. The global financial 
and  economic  crisis  has  affected  the  well-being  of 
millions  of  people, 
the 
development efforts of the international community by 
several  years.  At  a 
time  of  dwindling  national 
resources, the crisis is putting unprecedented strain on 
our  multilateral  system,  raising  questions  about  the 
effectiveness of our Organization in dealing with some 
of  its  manifestations.  But  the  primary  lesson  of  the 
recent  turmoil  is  hardly  that  we  should  now  turn 
inward or fall back on our individual means. Quite the 
opposite,  the  need  to  cooperate  within  the  existing 
framework  of  international  institutions  is  now  greater 
than ever. As the Secretary-General rightly observes in 
paragraph  4  of  his  report,  this  is  the  “ultimate 
multilateral moment”. 

The  world  community  must  do  its  utmost  to 
prevent  the  financial  crisis  from  turning  into  a  real 
development  emergency.  Extraordinary  efforts  will  be 
needed  to  prevent  the  financial  crisis  from  reversing 
the  hard-won  gains  made 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  areas  like  primary 
education, maternal health and the fight against hunger. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  compliment  the  Secretary-
General for the initiative he is taking in introducing the 
Global Impact and Vulnerability Alert System. 
One of the risks associated with the current global 

crisis  is  that  it  may  undermine  confidence  in  the 
international system, including the United Nations, at a 
time  when  we  can  least  afford  it.  To  prevent  this  from 
happening,  we  need,  among  other  things,  stronger  and 
more  representative  international  institutions,  sound 
global  regulatory  frameworks  and  greater  surveillance 
and supervision in the area of international finance. But 
more 
the  new 
multilateralism that the Secretary-General has called for 
in  his  report.  We  must  also  accelerate  progress  on  a 
comprehensive United Nations reform. Key to this effort 
is  the  urgent  need  to  improve  the  working  methods  of 
the  Security  Council  and  to  widen  its  membership.  A 
Security  Council  that  is  more  representative  of  the 
world  we  live  in,  including  the  developing  countries, 
will carry greater weight and authority. 

As  small  States  comprise  a  large  share  of  the 
United Nations membership, any enlargement must also 
ensure that the interests of small States are fully taken 
into  account.  The  promotion  of  greater  accountability 
and efficiency in the work of the Organization, as well 
in  order 
fashion 
is 
required 
to 
A/64/PV.15
than 
the  concept  of 
to  operationalize 
as measures to render the wider United Nations system 
more  coherent,  coordinated  and  responsive,  is  another 
important facet of the reform process. 

This  includes  strengthening  the  so-called  gender 
architecture,  long  characterized  by  fragmentation  and 
the  lack  of  accountability.  Iceland  welcomes  the 
General  Assembly’s  unanimous  decision  to  create  a 
new  and  consolidated  United  Nations  gender  entity  to 
be  headed  by  an  Under-Secretary-General  and  urges 
the Secretary-General to move forward on that decision 
as expeditiously as possible. 
However,  to  redeem  the  full  potential  of  the 

United  Nations  we  need  more 
structural 
improvements.  We  should  also  reform  the  way  our 
Organization reacts to global challenges of the highest 
order. The genocides of the twentieth century show that 
too  often  the  international  community  has  failed  to 
prevent  or  respond  adequately  to  mass  atrocities.  By 
moving 
the 
responsibility to protect, the Organization can now take 
deliberate  steps  to  shore  up  the  protection  of  basic 
human rights and the rule of law. My delegation hopes 
that  the  current  session  of  the  General Assembly  will 
work constructively towards that end. 

An extended economic crisis exacerbates the risks 
of  conflict  and  the  impacts  of  poor  food  security  and 
health  care,  and  deteriorating  living  conditions  in 
different  parts  of  the  world  threaten  to  undermine  the 
upholding  of  human  rights.  For  that  reason,  Iceland 
fully subscribes to the Secretary-General’s view that, at 
this time, it is imperative for the United Nations to make 
a special effort to promote respect for human rights. 

To  ensure  prosperity  and  peace  for  future 
generations,  it  is  also  essential  that  we  take  measures 
to  safeguard  the  earth’s  ecosystem.  While  climate 
change  may,  as  the  Secretary-General  has  said,  be  the 
defining challenge of our generation, the interlinkages 
between  climate  and  other  aspects  of  our  ecosystem, 
including  land  use,  energy  and  oceans,  should  also  be 
recognized. No country is shielded from the impact of 
climate  change,  and  an  effective  solution  to  the 
problem will require the active cooperation of each and 
every  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  join 
hands  and  work 
legally  binding 
agreement in Copenhagen. At the same time, a gradual 
but  fundamental  reorientation  of  energy  policy  should 
be  seen  as  essential  for  preventing  future  climate 
changes.  Member  States  should  work,  among  other 
to  conclude  a 
09-54411 

3 
the  world’s 
social 
and 
this  valuable 
leaders  decided  at 
A/64/PV.15 

things,  to  increase  the  share  of  renewable  energy 
resources used in meeting world energy demand, aided 
not  least  by  the  International  Renewable  Energy 
Agency established in January of this year. 

In connection with climate change, we must also 
consider the state of the oceans, which are essential to 
sustaining 
economic 
development.  A  host  of  man-made  environmental 
hazards,  including  pollution,  overfishing  and  climate 
change, are threatening the productivity of our oceans. 
If we are to eradicate poverty and hunger, reduce child 
mortality  and  combat  disease,  we  must  also  prevent 
and reverse the degradation of the oceans. Regrettably, 
there is currently no systematic effort to keep the state 
of the world’s oceans under continuing review. That is 
why  world 
the  Johannesburg 
Summit  seven  years  ago  to  launch  a  regular  process 
under  the  United  Nations  for  global  reporting  and 
assessment  of  the  state  of  the  marine  environment, 
including  socio-economic  aspects.  As  the  start-up 
phase  of 
initiative  has  now  been 
completed,  Iceland  supports  the  initiation  of  the  first 
fully integrated assessment of the regular process to be 
completed by the year 2014. 

As the Secretary-General’s report makes clear, the 
tasks  before  us  have  rarely  been  more  demanding  or 
diverse. This should not be a source of discouragement. 
Let  us  instead  make  the  best  possible  use  of  the 
opportunity  afforded  by  this  “ultimate  multilateral 
moment” to ensure a fruitful and productive session of 
the United Nations General Assembly. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of  Venezuela  warmly  welcomes 
the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  and  gratefully 
appreciates  his  introduction  of  his  report  on  the  work 
of the Organization (A/64/1). That report is part of the 
Secretary-General’s obligation to give an annual report 
to 
the  Organization’s 
activities,  in  accordance  with Article  98  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  The  Secretary-General’s 
report 
provides  an  opportunity  at  today’s  debate  to  address 
key topics on our agenda this year. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  agrees 
fully with  the Secretary-General’s observation that we 
are in a time of crisis — economic and financial crisis, 
food  crisis  and  climate  crisis  —  and  that  only  by 
strengthening  multilateralism  will  we  be  able  to  meet 
the  General  Assembly  on 
(spoke 

the 
the  challenges  before  us.  This  multifaceted  global 
crisis  has  revealed  the  exhaustion  of  the  savage 
capitalism  that  is  gripping  the  world  under  the  rubric 
“neo-liberalism”.  

Venezuela  appreciates  the  success  of  the  high-
level Conference on the World Financial and Economic 
Crisis and Its Impact on Development and hopes for a 
fruitful  follow-up.  The  Conference  was  particularly 
important  for  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
demonstrated  the  need  to  reform  and  transform  the 
world  economic  and  financial  architecture  in  order  to 
correct 
imbalances  provoked  by  speculative 
financial capital.  

My  delegation  endorses  the  statements  made  by 
various  organizations  and  Member  States  to  the  effect 
that the General Assembly is the principal organ of the 
Organization and must maintain its independence from 
the  other  organs.  We  must  therefore  reverse  the 
Security  Council’s  tendency  to  involve  itself  in  topics 
outside  its  field  of  competence,  as  that  weakens  the 
central  role  of  the  General  Assembly  within  this 
multilateral institution. 
On several occasions, Venezuela has stressed the 

need to move ahead more expeditiously and resolutely 
in reforming the United Nations. We are convinced that 
only  by  ensuring 
the 
Organization,  greater  transparency  in  its  methods  and 
its genuine accountability to Member States will fertile 
ground  be  laid  in  which  the  United  Nations  can 
flourish. 
Venezuela  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  General 

Assembly to pursue intergovernmental negotiations on 
Security  Council  reform  at  the  sixty-fourth  session. 
That is fundamental if the Organization is to restore its 
credibility before the world and no longer be seen as an 
institution  held  hostage  to  hegemonic  interests.  The 
Organization  must,  of  course,  have  a  starring  role  in 
addressing the problems that beset all humankind. It is 
precisely  by  correcting 
its  deficiencies  and  by 
faithfully adhering to the United Nations Charter that it 
will be able to present itself to the people of the world 
as a model of justice, equity and genuine commitment 
to international peace, security and development. 

We  must  reform  the  Security  Council  forthwith, 
expand its membership, eliminate the veto and improve 
its working methods, including in particular direct and 
universal  participation  of  the  General  Assembly,  by 
secret ballot, in the selection of the Secretary-General. 
the  democratization  of 
4 

09-54411 
in 
in  particular 


The  Secretariat  must  fulfil  its  mandates  from  the 
General  Assembly  and  prioritize  those  related  to  the 
comprehensive  development  of  peoples  and  the  fight 
against  poverty  in  order  to  attain  a  world  of  abundant 
justice, equality and solidarity. 

My delegation welcomes the comments made by 
various  Member  States  to  the  effect  that  the  General 
Assembly  must  remain  the  principal  forum  for  debate 
within the Organization. We must therefore prevent the 
Security Council from involving itself in issues that are 
outside its competencies but within the purview of the 
General Assembly.  

My  delegation  notes  the  progress  made  towards 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  as  described 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report,  and 
the 
increased  global 
investment in the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis 
and malaria. 
The crisis of capitalism has, however, multiplied 

its negative effects throughout the world, in particular 
in  developing  countries.  All  forecasts  indicate  that 
injustice and inequality will become more pronounced 
and  that  many  countries  will  be  unable  to  meet  the 
MDGs.  For  that  reason,  we  note  with  concern  that, 
although  we  stand  at  the  threshold  of  the  2010  MDG 
review,  no  projects  or  actions  have  been  proposed 
towards the achievement of the Goals.  

My delegation has been particularly struck by the 
fact  that  the  Secretary-General’s  report  contains  a 
section  on  genocide  prevention  and  the  responsibility 
to protect. This is a conflation of two distinct topics — 
genocide and the responsibility to protect. We are told 
that the Special Advisers to the Secretary-General have 
a mandate to work on both concepts, including, clearly, 
the  responsibility 
to  protect.  We  are  concerned, 
however,  that  initiatives  are  being  implemented  on 
which  the  General  Assembly  has  not  yet  reached 
consensus.  
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  will 

always  raise  its  voice  to  defend  the  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  of  international  law, 
including  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  of  States,  non-interference  in  internal  affairs, 
and the promotion of and protection of all human rights 
to be preserved intact. 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I thank 

the  Secretary-General  and  the  Secretariat  for  all  of 
A/64/PV.15
to 
take 
thwart  our  attempts 
(A/64/1).  Allow  me 
their efforts in preparing the report on the work of the 
Organization 
this 
opportunity  to  share  with  the Assembly  my  country’s 
views on some of the main agenda items addressed in 
the  report,  which  also  comprise  the  main  challenges 
ahead. 

At the outset, I should say that we are all facing 
this  precipice  together  in  the  same  ship  and  that 
multilateralism  is  the  only  safe  way  to  forge  ahead 
towards  a  safer  world.  Unilateralism  is  the  main 
adversary of a multilateral and integrated approach and 
will 
to  develop  a  common 
understanding  of  the  global  public  good.  That  is  why 
the  interlinkage  between  global,  regional  and  national 
objectives  should  be  drawn  in  a  completely  unbiased 
and  well-balanced  manner  that  leaves  no  room  for 
further unilateralism or polarization. 

In  this  sense,  the  existing  global  multilateral 
architecture  must  be  renovated  so  that  it  can  properly 
address  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century. 
Lessons learned from the twentieth century should not 
be  repeated  but  should  serve  as  hazard  lights  and 
guiding  torches,  allowing  a  new  global  multilateral 
architecture  to  flourish.  Yes,  the  United  Nations  can 
and should be the hub of this new world if it is able to 
restructure the global architecture to ensure that justice 
prevails  over  prejudice  and  if  the  world’s  peoples  are 
to enjoy the rule of law rather than the rule of might — 
a  world  free  from  threats,  aggression,  discrimination, 
hatred  and  poverty.  To  that  end,  the  balance  between 
the  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  should  be 
restored  and  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly 
promote 
multilateralism. 

There  is  general  agreement  that  the  international 
community must be vigilant not to let the horror of the 
mass  killings  and  genocide  of  the  past  be  repeated  in 
the  future.  This  should  in  no  way  prejudice  the 
established  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  respect  for 
the  sovereignty, 
territorial 
independence  of 
integrity  and  political 
States,  as  well  as  non-intervention  in  their  internal 
affairs.  We  should  also  be  highly  alert 
this 
humanitarian  notion  being  misused  and  abused  to 
undermine the foundational principles of Charter-based 
international  law,  in  particular  the  prohibition  of  the 
threat or use of force, as set forth in Article 2.4 of the 
Charter.  
to 
reaffirmed 
in  ways 
that 
09-54411 

5 
It 
should  be 
repeatedly 

emphasized 
the  Charter  provide 
A/64/PV.15 


After all, we should remember that the inaction of 
the international community in the face of grave mass 
atrocities  in  the  previous  decade  was  not  the  result  of 
the  absence  of  concepts  or  a  normative  framework; 
rather,  it  was  the  consequence  of  the  failure  of  the 
Security  Council  — 
in  fact,  of  certain  member 
States — to act when action was needed. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  believes  that  the 
notion  of  responsibility  to  protect  needs  to  be  further 
discussed  and  clearly  defined  and 
refined.  The 
Assembly’s  debate  of  this  item  at  the  sixty-third 
session showed that there are still many questions and 
concerns  surrounding  the  concept  that  need  to  be 
addressed.  The  General  Assembly  is  the  competent 
organ of the United Nations to continue the debate on 
the concept and to address the concerns and questions 
of many delegations concerning it and its implications. 

that 
multilateralism  and  multilateral  solutions  agreed  in 
accordance  with 
the  only 
sustainable  method  of  addressing  disarmament  and 
international  security  issues. At  the  top  of  the  United 
Nations  agenda are  the  continued  existence of nuclear 
weapons  and  their  possible  use  or  threat  of  use  as  a 
matter  of  grave  concern  and  a  threat  to  international 
peace  and  security.  Therefore,  nuclear  disarmament 
remains the highest priority. However, we regret to see 
the 
towards  nuclear 
disarmament,  as  well  as  the  lack  of  progress  by 
nuclear-weapon States towards the total elimination of 
their  nuclear  arsenals. 
in 
deployment  and  in  the  operational  status  of  nuclear 
weapons  cannot  substitute  for  irreversible,  verifiable 
and  transparent  cuts  in  and  the  total  elimination  of 
nuclear  weapons.  It  is  now  up  to  the  Conference  on 
Disarmament  to  establish  an  ad  hoc  committee  on 
nuclear disarmament to follow through. 

The 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  should  play  a  crucial  role  in  a  balanced 
approach 
towards  nuclear  disarmament,  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy.  Meanwhile,  we  wish  to  reaffirm  that  the 
choices  and  decisions  of  each  country  with  respect  to 
the peaceful use of nuclear energy should be respected. 
There should be no interference in a State’s policies or 
arrangements  for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy, 
including its fuel-cycle policies. 
slow  pace  of  progress 
In 
fact, 
reductions 
6 


With respect to paragraph 116 of the report of the 
Secretary-General, we would like to emphasize that, as 
a  result  of  Iran’s  proactive  cooperation  and  full 
transparency  in  the  implementation  of  the  workplan 
agreed  between  Iran  and  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  in  the  summer  of  2007,  all 
outstanding  safeguards  implementation  issues  have 
been  resolved  and  closed.  Naturally,  pursuant  to  the 
modality agreed to in the workplan, the implementation 
of  safeguards  in  Iran  must  become  normalized.  We 
reiterate  that  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  is  and  has 
always  been  undertaken  for  peaceful  purposes  and  in 
full  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  the  NPT. 
Therefore,  the  concern  expressed  in  paragraph  116  is 
without foundation. 
Establishing  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 

Middle  East  is  yet  another  priority  that  cannot  be 
addressed  due  to  the  non-adherence  of  the  Israeli 
regime  to  the  NPT  and  its  ongoing  development  and 
stockpiling  of  nuclear  weapons.  The  necessary  steps 
should  be  taken  in  different  international  forums, 
including  the  NPT  Review  Conference  and  IAEA,  for 
the immediate establishment of such a zone. 

With  regard  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs), we share the concerns expressed by the 
Secretary-General  in  his  report  on  the  slow  pace  of 
progress in their overall attainment. The full impact of 
the financial and economic crisis on their achievement 
has  yet  to  be  unveiled.  However,  it  is  quite  obvious 
that  negative  economic  growth,  diminished  resources, 
fewer trade opportunities for the developing countries, 
possible  reductions  in  aid  flows  and  protectionist 
tendencies will slow or reverse the progress that has so 
far been achieved. We know from past experience that 
whenever  political  will  is  complemented  by  adequate 
financial  resources  and  commitments,  progress  has 
become attainable. Otherwise, and despite all the good 
will  and  wishful  thinking,  we  may  unfortunately  miss 
the 2015 deadline for the achievement of the MDGs. 
As  the  defining  challenge  of  our  generation, 

climate  change  inflicts  serious  damage  on  the  vital 
socio-economic  infrastructure  of  countries  and  erodes 
their  progress 
in  development.  While  developing 
countries are committed to the Convention and the Bali 
Action  Plan,  concerted  ambitious  commitments  and 
measures  must  be  undertaken  by  developed  countries 
to address the needs of developing countries in all four 
major  components  of 
the  Action  Plan,  namely, 
mitigation, adaptation, finance and technology. That is 
09-54411 
sector  and 
fostering  pro-poor 
in  many  developing  countries. 


a basic requirement for the success of the Copenhagen 
Conference. 

In  the  same  vein,  investing  in  sustainable  forest 
management  will  create  10  million  new  green  jobs, 
providing  long-term  employment  opportunities  for  the 
sustainable 
rural 
development 
In 
addition, such an investment would also make a major 
contribution 
to  climate  change  mitigation  and 
adaptation  efforts,  biodiversity  conservation,  and 
combating deforestation and desertification. 
The President took the Chair. 


Finally,  one  major  regional  impact  of  climate 
change  that  has  emerged  in  recent  years  as  a  huge 
challenge to many countries, including in my region, is 
dust  storms  and  sandstorms.  Dust  storms  and 
sandstorms  are  among  the  most  serious  and  hard-to-
beat  challenges  that  have  arisen  in  recent  years. They 
inflict  substantial  damage  on 
the  socio-economic 
situation of many countries, impair the normal life and 
health  of  the  people,  erode  agricultural  lands  and 
pollute water resources throughout arid regions. It is a 
region-wide  problem  that,  in  addition  to  the  firm 
involved, 
national  determination  of  all  countries 
requires 
and 
interaction  to  combat  this  challenge.  The  post-Kyoto 
arrangements  will  have  to  look  at  the  dust  storm  and 
sandstorm  issue  closely  in  order  to  identify  the  root 
causes of the problem and eradicate it. 

Mr.  Montoya  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Allow  me,  Mr.  President,  to  reiterate  my  delegation’s 
congratulations  to  you  and  your  Bureau  on  your 
election  to  lead  our  work,  and  to  wish  you  every 
success  in  that  important  task.  You  can  count  on  our 
cooperation  and  support 
in  achieving  a  fruitful 
outcome to your work. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/1) 
reflects  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  fulfil  its 
objectives. The work  of the Secretary-General  and his 
team, 
the 
Organization,  deserves  the  recognition  of  the  Member 
States. 

There are many notable elements in the report. I 
would  like  to  refer  first  to  the  chapter  on  delivering 
results for people most in need. Despite the hard work 
to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  we 
note  with  concern,  as  the  report  states,  that  although 
results  achieved  by 
and  global 
cooperation 
reflected 
regional 
the 
in 
A/64/PV.15
for 
to 
the  creation  of  a  global 
the  overall  poverty  rates  in  the  developing  world  will 
still continue to fall, they will do so at a slower pace as 
a result of the world economic crisis. 

Furthermore, we are not encouraged by forecasts 
for  the  crisis’s  impact  on  food  security,  progress  in 
primary  and  secondary  education,  the  struggle  for 
gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment,  child 
mortality and developments in health care, in particular 
expanding  coverage 
the  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable  people.  The  economic  crisis  has  been  and 
remains  a  tough  test  of  the  goals  agreed  at  the 
Millennium Summit. 

Given  the  context  of  the  crisis  and  the  global 
economic recession, the international community must 
step  up  its  efforts  in  jointly  supporting  those  most  in 
need  and  adopting  additional  measures  that  will  make 
it  possible  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, which must be reaffirmed as a central priority of 
our Organization.  

In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  proposal  in 
paragraph  33  of  the  report  regarding  the  development 
of  a  comprehensive  response  of  the  United  Nations 
through 
impact  and 
vulnerability alert system. That tool would allow us to 
closely  follow  the  effects  of  global  crises  on  the  poor 
and most vulnerable. Member States should support the 
development, 
system-wide 
implementation  of  that  important  initiative,  and  of 
national development plans and strategies. 
For its part, the chapter on securing global goods 

the  Colombian  State  also 
addresses 
considers  to  be  essential  and  priorities  on  the  world 
agenda. Climate change, global health, the fight against 
terrorism  and  disarmament  must  indeed  be  matters  of 
particular 
the  United  Nations.  As 
President  Alvaro  Uribe  Vélez  recently  said  in  his 
address  to  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/64/PV.4), 
Colombia has made significant progress in developing 
biofuels without affecting food security; implementing 
environmentally 
transport  systems; 
conserving 
protecting 
biodiversity, 
level;  and 
developing  clean  energy.  All  those  initiatives  help  to 
combat climate change.  

The conservation of our jungle of 578,000 square 
kilometres,  over  51  per  cent  of  the  territory,  is  also  a 
significant  contribution  in  that  regard.  The  Family 
Forest  Wardens  programme  implemented  in  Colombia 
friendly  mass 
sources 
its  water 
the 
and 
the  world 
establishment 
importance 
latter  at 
topics 
that 
and 
09-54411 

7 

With 
regard 
to  health  care,  Colombia 
A/64/PV.15 

is monitored by the United Nations and has received its 
highest  approval. Through  that  programme,  more  than 
90,000  rural  families  have  become  involved  in  the 
collective  work  of  tending  the  jungle  and  preventing 
the  destruction  that  follows  upon  the  cultivation  of 
crops used to produce illicit drugs.  

We  welcome  and  note  with  hope  United  Nations 
activities  to  promote  awareness  and  the  political 
commitment  of  all  Member  States,  accompanied  by 
concrete  action,  to  address  climate  change.  We  trust 
that 
the  Copenhagen  Conference  will  produce 
substantial progress in that field. 

is 
implementing  policies  that  have  made  it  possible  to 
expand  coverage,  in  particular  for  the  least  protected, 
with tangible results. In March 2009, 90 per cent of the 
population — over 40 million Colombians — belonged 
to  a  health-care  programme.  Over  half  of  those  had 
access  to  State-subsidized  support,  which  benefits  the 
unemployed  and  people  working  in  the  informal 
sectors, those living in poverty, indigenous people and 
the  displaced,  among  others.  The  major  objective  for 
social  security  health  care  is  to  achieve  universal 
coverage by 2010. 

On  the  other  hand,  Colombia  has  supported  and 
will  continue  to  support  the  various  initiatives  of  the 
international  community  to  combat  terrorism  and  the 
danger  that  related  crimes,  such  as  arms  trafficking, 
money-laundering and the trade in illicit drugs, pose to 
the  stability  of  all  States.  We  highly  value  the  United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, a plan with 
concrete  steps  to  address  that  scourge,  in  full  respect 
for and observance of human rights. 

It  is  also  important  to  underscore  the  efforts  of 
the  Secretariat  to  institutionalize  the  United  Nations 
Counter-Terrorism  Implementation  Task  Force,  which 
would  make  it  possible  to  coordinate  and  streamline 
the entire system. Likewise, we urge all Member States 
to  revive  efforts 
to  conclude  and 
the 
comprehensive convention on terrorism. 

It  is  well  known  that  my  country  has  adopted 
strict  measures  against  the  production  and  trafficking 
of illicit drugs. We call on the international community 
to shoulder its share of responsibility in that process by 
discouraging  the  permissive  consumption  of  illicit 
drugs.  Each  gram  illicitly  consumed  fuels  violence, 
arms trafficking, death, damage to the jungle and water 
pollution. 
to  adopt 
in 
that 
that 
the  Secretary-General 

Colombia  joins  the  recent  appeal  of  heads  of 
State,  world  leaders  and  the  Secretary-General  for 
disarmament.  The  context  is  conducive  to  progress 
towards  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation. 
That will should give rise to more resolute action with 
regard  to  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons. It should also promote greater cooperation in 
combating  anti-personnel  mines.  In  a  few  weeks,  the 
Second  Review  Conference  of  the  Ottawa  Convention 
will  take  place  in  Cartagena  de  Indias,  Colombia.  We 
hope that the current resolve in favour of disarmament 
will  be  reflected 
in  full  support  for  and  broad 
participation  in  the  Cartagena  Conference  on  anti-
personnel mines. 

My  delegation  would  also  like  to  highlight  the 
effort  of  the  Secretariat  and  the  Organization  towards 
creating  a  stronger  United  Nations,  as  the  report 
suggests. Actions to change the system should produce 
the  strengthened  instruments  and  resources  that  the 
Organization  requires  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  The  steps 
taken  by 
regard, 
described  in  the  report,  constitute  support  for  the 
Organization’s efficient work. System-wide coherence, 
intergovernmental  machinery 
the 
participation  of  civil  society,  and  cooperation  with 
regional organizations must be part of that process. 
Complementary  to  that  are  the  activities  of 

the 
Member  States 
General Assembly and Security Council reform. Those 
measures, carried out in a harmonious and coordinated 
way,  can  contribute  to  the  strengthening  and  the 
flexibility that the Organization needs in order to adapt 
to  the  responsibilities  entrusted  to  it  and  to  the 
challenges  of  multilateralism 
twenty-first 
century.  

The international community needs multilateralism 
to  be  ever  more  vigorous,  genuine  and  dynamic.  In  a 
world  increasingly  interconnected  and  interdependent, 
no nation can confront alone the tremendous challenges 
imposed  by  the  new  world  realities.  We  share  one 
destiny. The United Nations is indispensable to building 
that  shared  future  and  to  ensuring  that  the  aspirations 
and hopes of future generations are fully realized. 
Mr. Sangqu (South Africa): Since this is the first 

time  that  I  am  taking  the  floor  on  behalf  of  my 
delegation at the sixty-fourth session, please allow me 
to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  assure  you  of  our 
the  revitalization  of 
towards 
ensures 
in 
the 
8 

09-54411 


delegation’s  support  in  ensuring  the  success  of  this 
session.  My  delegation  also  wishes  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization at the sixty-third session (A/64/1). 

Today the world is facing multiple challenges — 
underdevelopment, poverty and hunger, the global food 
and  financial  crises  and  the  scourges  of  war  and 
terrorism,  to  name  but  a  few.  I  believe  that  it  is  only 
through  a  strong  commitment 
to  multilateralism 
through the United Nations that we in the international 
community can address those crises in order to create a 
better  life  for  those  we  represent.  The  Secretary-
General’s report highlights many of these areas. 

The  eradication  of  dehumanizing  poverty  and 
hunger  must  remain  central  to  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  Organization  must  continue  to  work 
harder to unite the world in working towards the total 
eradication  of  poverty  and  to  put  an  end  to  the 
suffering of the world’s poor and marginalized. 

Developing countries did not cause the economic 
and financial crisis, but they are severely affected by it, 
and  this  is  especially  true  for  Africa.  South  Africa 
shares the concern expressed by the Secretary-General 
about  the  grave  impact  of  the  current  financial  and 
economic  crisis  on  the  poor  and  the  most  vulnerable, 
especially  in  Africa.  It  is  a  fact  that  the  crisis  has 
severely  affected  Africa’s  growth  rate  and  thereby  its 
capacity 
achieve 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
The report correctly states that Africa has indeed 

achieved  impressive  rates  of  growth  over  the  past 
decade,  which  has 
to 
progressively  move 
towards  achieving  sustainable 
development,  which  in  turn  has  contributed  to  the 
peace,  security  and  stability  that  we  see  on  the 
continent. However, a confluence of crises, such as the 
global  food  and  financial  crises,  has  had  a  severe 
impact on Africa and is likely to reverse these positive 
developments.  Those  crises  have  contributed  to  a 
substantial increase in unemployment and a slowdown 
in  trade  resulting  in  lower  export  earnings,  ultimately 
affecting the livelihoods of the people of the continent.  

the  United  Nations  must  play  a 
significant  role  in  finding  solutions  to  the  global 
economic  crisis.  In  this  regard,  we  concur  with  the 
Secretary-General  that  the  international  community 
must implement its renewed commitments made at the 
address  poverty 
Therefore, 
continent 
allowed 
and 
the 
to 
to 
A/64/PV.15
the 
to 
its 
from 
the 
entire 
severely 
attention 
and  will 
implementation  of 
General  Assembly  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development needs held last September. 
Similarly, the impact of climate change on Africa 

devastating 
undermine 
is 
development  and  poverty  eradication  efforts. 
In 
Copenhagen  we  must  reach  a  binding,  inclusive,  fair 
and  effective  global  agreement  on 
this  critical 
challenge. The  agreement  must  recognize  that  solving 
the  climate  change  problem  cannot  be  separated  from 
the  struggle  to  eradicate  poverty.  Developed  countries 
bear the greatest responsibility for climate change and 
its  impact.  Our  goal  should  be  to  significantly  reduce 
emissions  across 
the  globe  without  constraining 
development in the countries of the South. 

We  have  noted  with  concern  the  impact  that  the 
global  downturn  has  had  on  women  and  children 
especially.  In  this  regard,  the  Secretary-General’s 
assessment  of 
the  MDGs 
relating to child and maternal mortality is grim, and we 
agree  with  his  conclusion  that  those  areas  require 
urgent 
international 
community in order to stop and reverse the worsening 
of the situation. 
We  are  pleased  that  the  United  Nations  has 

worked 
for  Africa’s 
development  agenda.  However,  this  work  is  not  yet 
complete. Our delegation is of the opinion that we need 
to  further  enhance  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  African  Union  and  various  other 
regional  organizations  in Africa,  such  as  the  Southern 
African  Development  Community.  We  therefore  will 
work  hard  with  other  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations to ensure that the African Union’s participation 
at  the  United  Nations  will  allow  for  this  enhanced 
cooperation. 

Cooperation  between the  United Nations and the 
African  Union  is  even  more  essential  with  regard  to 
peace  and  security.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the 
Secretary-General  states 
the 
relationship between the two organizations is a steadily 
expanding strategic one. South Africa will continue its 
work  during  this  session,  within  both  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council, to further enhance 
that relationship. In this regard, we look forward to the 
Secretary-General’s  bold  report  on  the  financing  of 
peacekeeping  operations  undertaken  by  the  African 
Union, including the use of assessed contributions. 
strengthen 
support 
in  his 
report 
that 
09-54411 

9 

to 
in 
that 
continue 
participate 
A/64/PV.15 


We  agree  with  previous  speakers  that  it  is 
essential for us to move forward on the reform of this 
Organization,  especially  the  Security  Council.  South 
Africa  will 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  to  ensure  that  the  historic  injustice 
against  Africa  is  corrected  and  that  the  Council’s 
membership  is  increased  in  both  categories.  It  is  also 
essential 
the  Council’s  working  methods  be 
improved. 

With regard to disarmament and non-proliferation, 
South  Africa  remains  committed  to  the  goals  of 
disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms  control, 
including  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms,  and  will 
continue actively to pursue and promote the importance 
of  the  multilateral  approach  in  this  regard  during  this 
session.  We  appreciate  the  recent  pronouncements  by 
some  nuclear-weapon  States  of  their  intentions  to 
reduce  their  nuclear  arsenals.  We  should  take  up  this 
new momentum and utilize the opportunity of the 2010 
Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  recommit 
ourselves  to  the  full  implementation  of  obligations 
under the Treaty. 

to  reiterate  my  delegation’s 
commitment to the full and effective implementation of 
the  outcomes  of  the  United  Nations  Durban  Review 
Conference and the World Conference against Racism, 
Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related 
Intolerance.  In  our  continued  commitment  to  fight  to 
rid the world of the scourge of racism, we will continue 
to  advocate  the  set  of  values  our  continent  is  known 
for.  It  is  with  this  in  mind  that  our  delegation  will 
present  a  draft  resolution  to  this Assembly  calling  for 
the celebration of an international Nelson Mandela day 
every 18 July.  

We  will  also  submit  a  draft  resolution  in  the 
coming days on the 2010 World Cup of the Fédération 
internationale  de  football  association,  which  our 
country is proud to be hosting on behalf of Africa. The 
draft  resolution  celebrates  the  fact  that  it  is  the  first 
time  that  this  prestigious  event  will  be  hosted  by  our 
continent, Africa,  and  acknowledges  the  broad  appeal 
of  football  in  promoting  peace  and  development.  My 
delegation humbly calls for the Assembly’s support for 
these two draft resolutions. 

Observer State of the Holy See. 
The President: I now call on the observer of the 
Finally,  I  wish 
the 
about 
causes 
Mr. Swanepoel (Holy See): I make the following 

statement  on  behalf  of  the  Permanent  Observer  of  the 
Holy See, Archbishop Celestino Migliore.  

My  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his report on the work of the organization 
(A/64/1)  and  its  clear  call  for  the  membership  to 
restore  hope  and  solidarity  so  that  the  sixty-fourth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  becomes  a  point  of 
renewal for this Organization. 

This  past  year  the  global  community  became 
more  aware  of  the  fragility  of  prosperity  and  growth. 
The world was hit by an economic crisis that has led to 
their security and the ability to provide even the basic 
necessities  for  their  families.  This  crisis  raised  a 
number  of  questions 
and 
consequences  of  the  economic  downturn  and  created 
even  more  questions  as  to  what  the  future  will  hold. 
Therefore, as we begin this sixty-fourth session of the 
General Assembly, one year after the deepening of the 
financial crisis, we do so with a new sense of purpose 
to learn from the mistakes and renew our commitment 
to the need for cooperation. 
One  area  for  a  renewed  sense  of  commitment  to 

addressing  the  world’s  problems  is  in  working  to  lift 
the burdens placed upon so many in this world due to 
lack  of  economic  resources.  On  numerous  occasions, 
my  delegation  has  pointed  to  the  need  for  greater 
global  solidarity 
the  moral 
implications that currently face the world and to give a 
renewed  priority 
the 
Secretary-General’s  recognition  of  the  moral  grounds 
underlying  the  need  to  give  priority  to  the  most 
vulnerable in this endeavour. 

For  such  an  effort,  my  delegation  stresses  the 
urgency  of  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  and 
developed countries to come together to give assistance 
to  the  many  nations  that  are  unable  to  respond  to  the 
financial  crisis  and  that  continue  to  face  security  and 
development  challenges.  For  some  of  the  countries 
lagging  behind  the  rest  of  the  world,  the  precarious, 
drifting  economic  situation  was  not  created  but  rather 
exacerbated 
crisis. 
Development  aid  will  be  effective  only  to  the  extent 
that  local  governments  and  civil  society  confront  the 
situation  with  the  impetus  generated  by  the  sense  of 
responsibility  needed  to  address  chronic  political, 
administrative and social malfunctioning. 
the  poor.  We  welcome 
in  order 
financial 
current 
tackle 
by 
the 
to 
to 
10 

09-54411 
to  use 
the  world’s  resources 



My delegation welcomes the Secretary-General’s 
calls  for  an  increased  commitment  to  peacebuilding 
and  peacekeeping,  for  these  are  the  vital  cornerstones 
upon  which  the  United  Nations  was  created.  All  this 
will  be  achieved  only  in  the  context  of  a  renewed 
commitment  to  responsible  sovereignty  at  both  the 
national and international levels. 

The  upcoming  Copenhagen  Conference  on 
Climate Change will test the ability of the international 
community to work together on a problem that has both 
global  and  local  consequences.  At  the  heart  of  the 
climate-change debate is the moral and ethical need for 
individuals,  companies  and  States  to  recognize  their 
responsibility 
in  a 
sustainable manner. With this responsibility comes the 
duty  of  all  States  and  international  corporations  that 
have  somehow  disproportionately  used  and  abused 
global resources to shoulder their fair share in solving 
the problem. 

In  the  light  of  the  agreement  to  work  towards  a 
legally  binding  instrument  on  the  import,  export  and 
transfer  of  conventional  arms,  the  Convention  on 
Cluster  Munitions  and  the  recent  consensus  among 
major  nuclear  Powers  to  reduce  nuclear  stockpiles, 
there  has  been  an  increasing  commitment  by  some 
States to address this fundamental issue. However, the 
ongoing proliferation of nuclear arms and the desire by 
some  States  to  continue  to  spend  disproportionate 
amounts  of  money  on  weapons  suggest  that  further 
efforts are needed if we are to make serious progress in 
controlling 
these 
instruments of destruction. 

Our  efforts  to  renew  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations will remain unfulfilled unless the international 
organizations  and 
to 
incorporate  the  voices  of  civil  society  into  all  aspects 
of the work of the Organization. Civil society partners 
are  critical  players  in  delivering  humanitarian  relief, 
promoting  the  rule  of  law  and  bringing  to  light  gross 
violations of human rights.  

In  this  regard,  faith-based  organizations  play  a 
vital  role  in  providing  insight  into  the  local  needs  of 
communities,  delivering  care  and  fostering  solidarity 
both locally and internationally for the needs of people 
around 
the 
Secretary-General’s  recognition  of  the  critical  role  of 
civil  society  actors,  and  we  hope  to  work  with  the 
delegations to further include civil society organizations 
in providing lifesaving care to those in need. 
the  world.  My  delegation  welcomes 
individual  States  are  able 
unilaterally 
disarming 
and 
A/64/PV.15
health 
corruption, 
Widespread 
to  respond 
the  necessary  reforms 
the  United  Nations  and  other 

pandemics, 
persistent  maternal  mortality  in  some  regions  of  the 
world,  economic  crisis, 
terrorism,  food  security, 
climate  change  and  migration  all  illustrate  that  in  an 
increasingly  globalized  world,  national  solutions  are 
only one part of the  formula for contributing to peace 
and 
justice.  These  global  problems  call  for  an 
international  response,  and  it  is  therefore  imperative 
that 
international 
organizations  look  inward  and  outward  in  order  to 
make 
the 
challenges of this interconnected world.  

Secretary-General’s 
leadership,  my  delegation  looks  forward  to  working 
with  you,  Mr.  President,  and  the  membership  in  the 
next  year  to  help  create  an  Organization  guided  by 
duty, morality and solidarity with those in need. 
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 

Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  contained  in 
document A/64/1? 


this stage of its consideration of agenda item 107. 
It was so decided. 
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
commending 
the 
In 
to 




I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Agenda item 114 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.1) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  shall  now 

proceed to consider draft resolution A/64/L.1. We will 
adopt this resolution without a vote, by consensus.  

Secretariat. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and Conference Management): In connection with draft 
resolution  A/64/L.1,  entitled  “High-level  United 
Nations  Conference  on  South-South  Cooperation”,  I 
wish  to  put  on  record  the  following  statement  of 
financial  implications  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-
General,  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure of the General Assembly. 

draft resolution, the General Assembly would decide: 

Under  the  terms  of  operative  paragraph  1  of  the 
“that  the  High-level  United  Nations  Conference 
on South-South Cooperation: 
09-54411 

11 
A/64/PV.15 



“(c)  Will  have 
“(a)  Will  be  held  at  Nairobi  from  1  to 
“(b)  Will  be  held  at  the  highest  possible 

3 December 2009; 

level; 

‘Promotion  of  South-South  cooperation 
development’; 

“(d)  Will  consist  of  plenary  meetings  and 
interactive  multi-stakeholder  round  tables  on  the 
following sub-themes; 

the  overarching 
theme 
for 
“(i)  Strengthening  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  system  in  supporting  South-South 
and triangular cooperation; 
“(ii)  South-South and triangular cooperation 
for 
complementarities, 
specificities, challenges and opportunities; 
“(e)  Will  result  in  an  intergovernmentally 
development: 
“(f)  Will  also  result  in  summaries  by  the 


agreed outcome; 

Chairperson”  







and, under operative paragraph 12, would decide 

“to  postpone  the  sixteenth  session  of  the  High-
level  Committee  on  South-South  Cooperation 
from  2  to  5  June  2009  to  one  convenient  day  in 
January 2010”. 

The  High-level  Conference  on  South-South 
Cooperation — which I shall refer to as the Conference 
hereafter — had already been included in the calendar 
of  meetings  for  2009  on  the  understanding  that  the 
Conference would be held in New York, in accordance 
with  the  headquarters  principle  embodied  in  General 
Assembly resolution 40/243, and no later than the first 
half  of  2009,  according 
to  Assembly  resolution 
62/209 of  19  December  2007.  Had  the  Conference 
been  held  at  the  established  headquarters  of  its  body, 
i.e., New York, in the first half of 2009, as decided in 
resolution  62/209,  the  required  conference  services 
would have been provided from the existing conference 
service 
budget 
implications. 

The aforementioned understanding, reached at the 
time  of  drafting  the  calendar  of  meetings  for  2009,  is 
no  longer  valid,  as  the  venue  would  be  changed  from 
New York to Nairobi, from 1 to 3 December 2009. 
capacities,  without 
programme 
to  host 
Consequently, 

According  to  paragraph  5  of  resolution  40/243, 
United  Nations  bodies  may  hold  sessions  away  from 
their  established  headquarters  when  a  Government 
issuing an invitation for a session to be held within its 
territory  has  agreed  to  defray,  after  consultation  with 
the  Secretary-General  as  to  their  nature  and  possible 
extent, the actual additional costs directly or indirectly 
involved.  Therefore,  the  offer  by  the  Government  of 
Kenya 
the  High-level  United  Nations 
Conference  on  South-South  Cooperation  requires  the 
Government  of  Kenya  to  reimburse  to  the  United 
Nations the actual additional costs directly or indirectly 
involved  as  a  result  of  the  change  of  venue  of  the 
Conference from New York to Nairobi.  

the  related  programme  budget 
implications set out in this oral statement include only 
the  estimated  direct  costs  of  providing  the  required 
level of conference services as if the Conference were 
still to be held in New York — which I shall hereafter 
refer  to  as  “the  New  York  cost”  —  while  the 
Government  of  Kenya  would  defray  any  difference 
between  the  New  York  cost  and  the  actual  costs 
incurred by the United Nations in order to provide the 
required  conference 
related 
incidental  support  services, 
inter  alia, 
protocol  services,  sound  engineering,  safety  and 
security and webcasting services.  
It is estimated that the Conference would require 

meeting services for 13 meetings, with interpretation in 
all  six  official  languages  and  document  services  for 
76 pages of documentation in all six official languages. 
The costs of  providing such services in  New York are 
estimated at $333,000, including $163,600 for meeting 
services  and  $169,400  for  documentation  services. 
Since the Conference has already been included in the 
calendar of meetings for 2009, those costs in New York 
could  be  met  from  within  the  approved  appropriation 
under  Section  2,  General  Assembly  Affairs  and 
Economic  and  Social  Council Affairs  and  Conference 
Management for the biennium 2008-2009. 

As  regards  the  postponement  of  the  sixteenth 
session  of  the  High-level  Committee  on  South-South 
Cooperation  from  2  to  5  June  2009  to  one  convenient 
day in January 2010, it is determined that no additional 
resources would be required, on the understanding that 
the  specific  date  of  the  meetings  of  the  sixteenth 
session of the High-level Committee would be decided 
in consultation with the Secretariat. 
services  and  other 
including, 
12 

09-54411 
that 
the  condition 



In  summary,  should  the  General Assembly  adopt 
the  draft  resolution,  there  would  be  no  programme 
budget  implications  for  the  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium  2008-2009,  on 
the 
Government  of  Kenya  would  defray 
the  actual 
additional  costs  directly  or  indirectly  involved,  in 
accordance with resolution 40/243. 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 

decision  on  draft  resolution A/64/L.1,  entitled  “High-
level  United  Nations  Conference  on  South-South 
Cooperation”. I should like to announce that, since the 
introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following 
countries have become sponsors: Kenya, Mexico, Saint 
Lucia, Suriname and Thailand.  

draft resolution A/64/L.1? 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
Draft resolution A/64/L.1 was adopted (resolution 
64/1).
The  President:  I  shall  now  call  on 

those 
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  explanation  of 
position on the resolution just adopted.  
Mr.  Mohamad  (Sudan):  Following  the  adoption 

of  resolution  64/1,  I  have  the  honour  to  deliver  this 
statement on behalf of the States members of the Group 
of 77 and China (G-77).  
We  greatly  value  South-South  cooperation  and 

look 
the 
forward 
Conference  to  be  held  from  1  to  3  December  2009  in 
Nairobi. I  wish to take this opportunity to express the 
Group’s  gratitude  to  the  Government  of  Kenya  for  its 
generous offer to host the Conference. The Group also 
wishes  to  express  its  appreciation  to  our  dear  friend 
and  colleague  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  President  of  the  High-level  Committee  on 
South-South 
Permanent 
Representative  of  the  State  of  Qatar  to  the  United 
Nations;  Mr.  Raymond  Landveld  of  Suriname, 
facilitator;  Mr.  Nor  Eddine  Benfreha  of Algeria,  G-77 
coordinator;  and  all  delegations  for  their  support  and 
commitment in this important process. 

I wish to stress the G-77’s conceptual framework 
for  and  principles  of  South-South  cooperation  as  set 
out  in  the Yamoussoukro  Consensus  and  reaffirmed  at 
the  recent  33rd  Annual  Meeting  of  Ministers  for 
Foreign Affairs of the G-77, held here in New York on 
25 September 2009.  
to  a  successful  outcome  of 
Cooperation 
and 
A/64/PV.15
that 
the  South,  based  on 
Furthermore,  we  maintain 

South-South cooperation is a common endeavour 
of  peoples  and  countries  of  the  South  and  must  be 
pursued as an expression of South-South solidarity and 
a  strategy  for  the  economic  independence  and  self-
reliance  of 
their  common 
objectives and solidarity. South-South cooperation and 
its agenda must be driven by the countries of the South.  

We  also  maintain  that  South-South  cooperation 
must  not  be  seen  as  a  replacement  for  North-South 
cooperation.  Strengthening  South-South  cooperation 
must  not  be  a  measure  for  coping  with  the  receding 
interest of the developed world in assisting developing 
countries. In addition, cooperation between countries of 
the South must not be analysed and evaluated using the 
same standards as those used for North-South relations.  

financial 
contributions  from  other  developing  countries  should 
not  be  seen  as  official  development  assistance  from 
those  countries  to  other  countries  of  the  South.  They 
are  merely  expressions  of  solidarity  and  cooperation 
born  of  shared  experiences  and  sympathies.  South-
South  cooperation  is  a  development  agenda  based  on 
premises, conditions and objectives that are specific to 
the  historical  and  political  context  of  developing 
countries and to their needs and expectations.  

separate and independent promotion.  

national 
sovereignty in the context of shared responsibility, and 
the 
it  strives  for  strengthened  multilateralism 
promotion  of 
to 
development challenges.  

the 
exchange  of  best  practices  and  support  among 
developing  countries  in  the  common  pursuit  of  their 
broad  development  objectives,  and  not  just  in  the 
traditional  economic  and  technical  areas.  South-South 
cooperation  is  based  on  the  collective  self-reliance  of 
developing  countries.  The  modalities  and  mechanisms 
for  promoting  South-South  cooperation  are  based  on 
bilateral, 
interregional 
cooperation  and  integration,  as  well  as  on  multilateral 
cooperation. 

In conclusion, I wish to reiterate our commitment 
to,  and  support  for,  this  process. We  shall  continue  to 
work towards the successful outcome of the High-level 
South-South  cooperation  also  promotes 
South-South  cooperation  deserves 
in 
approach 
action-oriented 
regional  and 
subregional, 
its  own 
South-South 
cooperation 
respects 
an 
09-54411 

13 

to 
on 
the 
floor 
I  give 
Conference 
The  President: 
A/64/PV.15 

Conference on South-South Cooperation, as well as to 
engage in a constructive dialogue with all our partners.  

the 
representative of Qatar, who will speak in his capacity 
as  President  of  the  High-level  Committee  on  South-
South Cooperation. 
Mr.  Al-Nasser  (Qatar),  President  of  the  High-

level Committee on South-South Cooperation (spoke in 
Arabic): It is a source of great satisfaction for me that 
the General Assembly has adopted  resolution 64/1, on 
the  High-level 
South-South 
Cooperation, which is to be held at the highest level at 
Kenya’s capital of Nairobi from 1 to 3 December 2009. 
The  resolution  sets  out  the  Conference’s  timing, 
objectives, methods and organizational arrangements. I 
am  very  grateful  to  the  Government  of  Kenya  for  its 
generous offer to host the Conference in Nairobi. I am 
confident  that  it  will  live  up  to  the  expectations  of 
Member States.  

I  am  also  certain  that  the  Conference  will  be 
among the most important milestones in promoting and 
enhancing  South-South 
cooperation.  South-South 
cooperation  is  a  component  of  triangular  cooperation, 
which also includes cooperation between the countries 
of the North and the South on the economic, financial 
and technical levels. This nexus of cooperation cannot 
be  broken,  as  its  components  are  interdependent  and 
complementary to one another. 

the 
the 
culmination of the tireless efforts that I have exerted in 
my capacity as President of the High-level Committee 
on  South-South  Cooperation.  In  that  undertaking,  I 
enjoyed  the  support  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  who  will  now  launch  negotiations  on  the 
draft outcome of the Conference. I am grateful for the 
sincere desire of Member States to hold the Conference 
no later than the end of the current year, so that it can 
coincide  with  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  Buenos 
Aires Plan of Action for Promoting and Implementing 
Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries.  

I  am  also  grateful  to  the  delegation  of  Mexico, 
which  supported  one  of  the  options  raised  during  our 
meeting  last  August,  subsequently  building  upon  it 
until  Member  States  were  able  to  reach  a  consensus 
formula  on 
that  are 
important  to  all,  in  the  North  and  South  alike.  That 
took  place  in  the  context  of  a  series  of  conferences, 
the 
decisions  and  outcome  documents  related 
the  substance  of  standards 
The  adoption  of 
resolution  was 
to  achieve 
the  Conference 
As  members  are  aware, 
promotion of cooperation among developing countries. 
They  include  the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for 
Development, the Havana Programme of Action, which 
was  adopted  during  the  South  Summit,  the  Marrakesh 
Framework  for  the  Implementation  of  South-South 
Cooperation  and  the  Doha  Plan  of Action,  which  was 
adopted by the second South Summit. 

is 
intended to evaluate the progress made in South-South 
cooperation,  reaffirm  goals  and  commitments 
to 
enhance  that  cooperation,  exchange  best  practices  and 
lessons  learned  and  identify  obstacles  and  constraints 
and the necessary measures and initiatives to overcome 
them, including significant measures for implementing 
the  recommendations  and  obligations  emanating  from 
previous  conferences,  as  well  as  to  address  new 
challenges and emerging issues. The Conference is also 
intended to provide an opportunity for decision makers 
to  take  advantage  of  the  momentum  in  South-South 
cooperation,  which  can  serve  to  strengthen  their 
development  strategies 
internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

As  is  clear  from  the  text  of  the  resolution,  it  is 
proposed  that  the  Conference  be  convened  under  the 
theme  of  “Promotion  of  South-South  cooperation  for 
development”. The  Conference  will  consist  of  plenary 
sessions and round tables on the following sub-themes: 
strengthening the role of the United Nations system in 
supporting  South-South  and  triangular  cooperation; 
for 
and  South-South  and 
development.  The  Conference  will 
in  an 
intergovernmentally agreed outcome. 

I wish to express my deep gratitude to the Special 
Unit  for  South-South  Cooperation  for  its  efforts  to 
provide  substantive  and 
the 
preparatory process for the Conference, as called for by 
the resolution. 

In order to ensure that the Conference comes to a 
successful  conclusion,  I  appeal  to  Member  States,  the 
its  specialized  agencies  and 
United  Nations  and 
programmes, 
regional 
commissions,  international  financial  institutions,  civil 
society organizations and representatives of the private 
sector to contribute to the preparations and to establish 
the  conditions  necessary  for  its  success.  I  also  urge 
them to participate in it, in accordance with the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly.  
international  organizations, 
triangular  cooperation 
technical  support 
result 
to 
to 
14 

09-54411 



I  also  call  upon  Member  States  to  provide 
financial  assistance  to  developing  and  least  developed 
countries, through the United Nations Fund for South-
South Cooperation, to enable them to participate in the 
Conference.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  encourage  Member  States  to  provide  voluntary 
contributions  to  support  the  Government  of  Kenya  in 
successfully preparing for the Conference, especially in 
the  light  of  the  current  difficult  global  economic  and 
financial conditions.  

I  also  hope  that  the  outcome  of  the  Conference 
will  include  a  declaration  and  plan  of  action  agreed 
upon  by  Governments  to  strengthen  and  enhance  the 
future  of  South-South  cooperation  and  to  make  such 
cooperation pivotal in assisting countries of the South 
to achieve sustained  economic growth and combat the 
scourges  of  unemployment,  poverty  and  other 
development  challenges  that  affect  the  interests  of  the 
international community as a whole. 
Mrs.  Masot  Planas  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  delegation  of  Cuba  would  like  to  express  its 
gratitude  for  the  hospitality  of  the  Government  of 
Kenya and for the efforts made by the Government of 
Qatar 
the  High-level 
Committee  on  South-South  Cooperation,  as  well  as 
those of Suriname as facilitator of the process.  

The  delegation  of  Cuba  joined  the  consensus  on 
resolution  64/1,  which  was  adopted  today  and  which 
decides  to  convene  the  High-level  United  Nations 
Conference  on  South-South  Cooperation.  That  is  an 
illustration  of 
the 
Conference. 

Everyone is aware of Cuba’s position throughout 
the negotiations, which became unnecessarily difficult. 
The  main  goal  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  was  to 
submit  a  procedural  draft  resolution  that  set  aside 
substantive issues for consideration during negotiations 
on  the  Conference’s  outcome  document.  It  is  for  that 
reason  that  we  would  like  to  express  our  views  with 
regard  to  the  reference  in  the  resolution  to  the  Doha 
Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development.  That 
reference is intended to establish a link between the so-
called  principles  of  aid  effectiveness  and  South-South 
cooperation  —  a  goal  championed  by  developed 
countries during the process. 

step 
forward  in  the  economic  and  political  paradigms  of 
developing  countries  —  this  can  be  seen  from  the 
South-South  cooperation  constitutes  a 
importance  we  attach 
its  presidency  of 
through 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.15
in 
in 
an 
things  —  have 
efforts we undertake on our own initiative in favour of 
development,  through  the  mobilization  of  resources 
the  South.  Through  South-South 
that  exist 
cooperation,  our  countries  —  with 
their  diverse 
economic, social, cultural and geographical structures, 
their  diverse  endowment  with  natural 
as  well 
resources,  among  other 
found 
economically 
opportunities 
to  work 
complementary  fashion,  and  a  way  to  promote  the 
exchange  of  ideas,  experience,  know-how,  technical 
advances,  capacities  and  practical  results,  without  any 
conditionality  or  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
other States, and on the basis of solidarity and mutual 
respect. 

As  various  United  Nations  resolutions  reflect, 
South-South  cooperation  is  not  a  substitute  for  but  a 
complement to North-South cooperation. If there exists 
a genuine interest in helping the countries of the South 
to  achieve  their  sustainable  development  goals,  then 
we wonder: why do the countries of the North continue 
to fail to meet their commitment to give 0.7 per cent of 
GDP as part of official development assistance? Why is 
there  an  effort  to  focus  attention  on  the  so-called 
principles  for  making  “effective”  use  of  aid?  This  is 
part  of  the  tired  discourse  of  the  donors,  seeking  to 
impose  their  conditions  and  to  interfere  in  decisions 
that  should  be  taken  by  the  countries  of  the  South 
alone.  Cuba 
these 
“principles” 
for  South-South 
cooperation  —  cooperation  in  which  our  countries 
engage on the basis of solidarity and respect. 
Cuba  does  not  consider  the  specific  mention  of 

the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development 
necessary in a procedural resolution. In the same way, 
we  will  reject  any  attempt  to  prejudice  the  final 
document  of  the  Conference  with  elements  that  have 
no  relation  to  the  principles  relevant  to  South-South 
cooperation. 

I  should  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  the 
unequivocal  commitment  of  the  Cuban  delegation  to 
the  holding  of 
the  Conference  on  South-South 
Cooperation. Together with the rest of the countries of 
the South which share in such cooperation, Cuba has a 
great  deal  to  contribute  to  the  Conference,  stemming 
from the experiences and initiatives carried out by our 
country  across  the  economic,  social,  technical  and 
cultural  fields.  We  hope  that  the  Conference  will 
contribute  to  financing  intraregional  and  interregional 
agreements  on  cooperation,  and  that  it  will  be  a  step 
the  attempt 
foundation 
rejects 
as 
to  use 
a 
09-54411 

15 

A/64/PV.15 

forward  towards  achieving  the  goals  of  eradicating 
hunger,  eliminating  poverty,  providing  access,  as  a 
basic  right,  to  education  and  health  to  all  citizens,  as 
well  as  closing  the  gap  that  separates  the  countries  of 
the North and the South. 
Ms.  Loza  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation associates itself with the statement made by 
the representative of the Sudan on behalf of the Group 
of  77  and  China.  We  express  our  gratitude  to  the 
delegations of Kenya, Qatar, Suriname and Algeria for 
their efforts. 

Resolution  64/1,  entitled  “High-Level  United 
Nations  Conference  on  South-South  Cooperation”,  is 
the  result  of  broad  consultations  and  negotiations  to 
achieve  consensus.  However,  my  delegation  should 
like  to  explain  its  position  and  its  understanding 
regarding certain points contained in the resolution we 
have just adopted. 
Nicaragua  does  not  accept  and  will  never  accept 

any  type  of  conditionality  applicable  to  South-South 
cooperation.  Nor  will  it  accept  the  imposition  of 
guidelines that are not in line with the basic principles 
of  South-South  cooperation.  In  this  sense,  the  only 
reason  my  delegation  joined  the  consensus  on  citing 
the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development is 
the linkage with triangular cooperation that appears in 
that  document.  We  do  not  see  our  acceptance  of  that 
reference  as  extending  to  other  points  covered  in  that 
document. 
In our view, the notion of aid effectiveness and its 

to  South-South 
principles 
cooperation, which has its own fundamental principles. 
The  intention  on  the  part  of  developed  countries  to 
include it in this context is yet another attempt to elude 
their  responsibilities  with  respect  to  meeting  their 
official  development  assistance  commitments  and  to 
impose conditionalities on cooperation that is based on 
solidarity among the countries of the South. 
It is offensive to see how developed countries — 

in  particular,  those  that  do  not  meet  the  guideline  of 
0.7 per  cent  of  GDP 
for  official  development 
assistance — are trying to impose a series of rules that 
run  counter 
the  very  basis  of  South-South 
cooperation. That is something that we will simply not 
allow. 

Today,  more  than  ever,  the  people  of  Nicaragua 
enjoy,  among  other  things,  free  health  care  and 
applicable 
are  not 
to 
that 
of 
peoples 
Similarly, 
self-determination 
feeding  programme 
education.  Our  sons  and  daughters  benefit  from  a 
school 
the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  has 
held up as one of the four best in the world. And this is 
thanks to South-South cooperation — disinterested and 
unconditional aid from countries of the South. 

In this context, Nicaragua reaffirms the principles 
of South-South cooperation — in particular, solidarity, 
complementarity,  fair  treatment,  equal  sovereignty  of 
States, 
and 
non-interference in the internal affairs of States. All of 
those principles are contained in the various documents 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  relating  to  South-South 
cooperation, including the Buenos Aires Plan of Action 
and the Havana Programme of Action.  

strictly 
complementary nature of South-South cooperation with 
regard to North-South cooperation. When the idea of a 
United Nations conference on South-South cooperation 
arose, the point was to find a way in which the United 
Nations  could  support  developing  countries  with 
concerted  actions  and  measures  to  strengthen  and 
improve  cooperation  among  ourselves.  We  hope  that 
this  goal  will  be  met  through  an  action-oriented  final 
document  that  will  be  based  on  the  guidelines  for 
South-South  cooperation  and  will  enable  developing 
countries to strengthen our cooperative trade and reach 
our national development objectives. 
long 

negotiation  process  on  modalities,  Switzerland 
expresses  its  gratitude  to  all  the  delegations  that 
participated, 
the  High-Level 
Committee  for  South-South  Cooperation  and  to  the 
distinguished facilitator from the Republic of Suriname 
for their tireless efforts. 

As the importance of South-South cooperation, as 
a  complement  to  North-South  cooperation,  has  grown 
enormously  in  recent  years,  we  find  it  timely  for  the 
General Assembly to consider constructively what has 
been  achieved  so  far,  the  lessons  learned  and  what 
recommendations can be made for future action. 

We  believe  in  the  potential  complementarity 
between  South-South  and  North-South  cooperation, 
including through triangular cooperation, and we hope 
synergies  can  be  developed  between  them.  For  this  to 
happen, it is important to clarify the complementarities 
and  commonalities  between  South-South  and  North-
South cooperation. If traditional donors are to increase 
Mr.  Bachmann  (Switzerland):  After  a 
the  President  of 
we 
underline 
the 
to 
16 

09-54411 
like 
and 
its 
capacities 
Finally,  I  should 
thank,  again, 
to  host 


emphasis  on  South-South  cooperation,  it  is  essential 
that we understand its functioning, its potential impact 
on 
national 
accountability 
mechanisms. 

As there is only a short time left before the start 
of  the  Conference,  we  hope  that  the  preparation 
process  will  be  efficient.  The  presentation  of  a 
workplan, so that we can harmonize agendas with other 
processes, would be most welcome. 
the 

to 
this 
Government  of  Kenya  for  agreeing 
important Conference and for the patience it has shown 
throughout the process so far. Thirty years after Buenos 
Aires,  South-South  cooperation  deserves  a  successful 
international  conference  to  celebrate  its  achievements 
to  date  and  to  contribute  to  effective  and  better 
integrated South-South cooperation. 
Mr.  Muita  (Kenya):  I  take  this  opportunity  to 

express  appreciation  to  you,  Sir,  as  well  as  to  your 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, for your spirited efforts to ensure that the 
High-level United Nations Conference on South-South 
Cooperation  takes  place  as  agreed  in  resolutions 
62/209 and 63/233. I also wish to thank His Excellency 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser, 
Permanent 
Representative of the State of Qatar, in his capacity as 
President of the High-level Committee on South-South 
Cooperation,  for  his  enthusiasm  and  tireless  efforts  in 
this regard. 

the 
adoption  of  resolution  64/1  and  strongly  believes  in 
South-South  cooperation  as  a  viable  mechanism  for 
promoting  the  development  of  countries  of  the  South, 
including through sharing of experiences, promotion of 
transfer 
trade, 
affordable 
technology,  and 
the 
complementary role of South-South cooperation to the 
traditional  North-South  cooperation.  The  important 
role  played  by  development  partners  in  promoting 
South-South  cooperation  cannot  be  overemphasized. 
Equally important is the role of the United Nations in 
nurturing and promoting South-South cooperation. 
above 

understanding 
the 
Conference  as  part  of  our  contribution  to  what  we 
consider a noble objective. I wish, however, to observe 
that  negotiations  on  the  modalities  of  the  resolution 
introduced some anxious moments. For instance, there 
of 
investment.  We  underscore 
The  Government  of  Kenya  welcomes 
that  Kenya  offered 
context  of 
appropriate 
is  within 
the 
to  host 
and 
It 
the 
A/64/PV.15
to 
encouragement 
to  host 
the 
its  decision 
thanks 
to 
were  times  when  Kenya  was  tempted  to  reconsider 
the  Conference. 
altogether 
However, 
and 
determination shown by many delegations, we decided 
to stay the course.  

In  the  midst  of  global  and  national  challenges,  I 
have  the  confidence  that  the  adoption  of  resolution 
64/1  on  the  High-level  United  Nations  Conference  on 
South-South  Cooperation  this  afternoon  provides  all 
delegations  a  momentous  opportunity  to  show  the 
world that there is no crisis or issue that can shake the 
unity and focus of the United Nations. This is the spirit 
that should guide us as we proceed forward. 

With less than two months to go before the early 
December  2009  date  for  the  Conference,  the  Kenya 
delegation  calls  upon  all  Member  States,  the  United 
Nations  system  and  other  stakeholders 
fully 
cooperate  and  support  the  final  preparatory  processes 
with a view to ensuring a successful conference. 

The  adoption  of  this  resolution  brings  a  high 
sense of urgency to all stakeholders. Each one of us has 
a responsibility that we must discharge efficiently and 
effectively. As this is a United Nations conference, the 
Kenya delegation has full trust and confidence, Sir, in 
your leadership and guidance. The Kenya Government 
is ready to do its part. Furthermore, my delegation calls 
upon  all  delegations  to  demonstrate  a  high  sense  of 
commitment,  cooperation  and  diligence 
the 
negotiation of the outcome document and other related 
issues, so that the Conference will reflect our common 
endeavour for successful South-South cooperation. 

To  conclude,  I  express  our  appreciation  to  all 
delegations for accepting the offer of Kenya to host the 
Conference.  I  take  this  early  opportunity  to  welcome 
all Member States to Nairobi. We shall soon be sharing 
with  you  information  regarding  the  logistics  and 
facilitation for the Conference. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

its 
the  General  Assembly, 
Government  for  kindly  offering  to  host  this  important 
Conference  and  for  their  continued  support.  The 
Conference will undoubtedly be very successful.  

stage of its consideration of agenda item 114. 
The meeting rose at 4.55 p.m. 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
thank  Kenya  and 
in 
I 
09-54411 

17 
