
A/64/PV.18
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

18th plenary meeting 
Monday, 12 October 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Štiglic 
(Slovenia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 



Agenda item 48 (continued) 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 

  Commemoration of the fifteenth anniversary  
of the International Conference on Population 
and Development 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Her Excellency Ms. Mara Brawer, Under-Secretary for 
Equality and Quality of Education of Argentina. 
Ms.  Brawer  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 

the outset, I would like to convey to the Assembly the 
greetings  of  our  President,  Cristina  Fernández  de 
Kirchner.  Argentina  is  very  happy  to  join  in  this 
gathering as we commemorate the fifteenth anniversary 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development, which offers an important opportunity to 
assess the progress that has been made and to revitalize 
our efforts to achieve the goals agreed at Cairo with a 
view to facilitating the achievement of the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

Our  country  firmly  supports  the  Programme  of 
Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) of the International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development,  which 
The  profound 
clearly  reflects  the  close  links  among  population, 
poverty,  health,  education,  models  of  production  and 
consumption, and the environment. 

financial  crisis, 
international 
coming  half-way  to  the  deadline  for  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  seriously  jeopardizes 
our ability to achieve the Goals. Until 2008, significant 
progress  had  been  made  at  the  global  level  in  the 
reduction  of  poverty  and  the  eradication  of  hunger,  as 
well as in relation to the commitments made in the area of 
education. However, the international economic crisis has 
put  the  brakes  on  these  significant  achievements,  and 
today  international  organizations  consider  it  unlikely 
that we will be able to achieve the commitments linked 
to the Millennium Development Goals. 

In  the  case  of Argentina,  it  is  fortunate  that  our 
country is enjoying its lowest degree of economic and 
financial vulnerability in recent decades. The growth in 
Argentina’s  economy  in  recent  years  has  enabled  the 
Argentine  Government 
the  resources 
allocated  to  social  policy.  This  is  the  case  because 
Argentina promotes a socio-economic model that seeks 
to  redress  social  inequalities  and  to  promote  inclusion 
and  social  progress  by  creating  opportunities  that 
guarantee  equal  access  to  education,  health  care, 
housing  and  decent  work,  which  promotes  production 
commensurate with the increased purchasing power of 
the majority of the population. 

guided  by 
employment.  The 
As  we  understand  it,  economic  growth  must  be 
to  create  quality 
the 
rule  of  democracy  and 
the  political  will 
increase 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-55501 (E) 
*0955501* 


A/64/PV.18 

eradication of poverty are sustained by decent work, as 
evidenced  by  the  fact  that  Argentina  was  one  of  the 
first countries to identify decent work as a factor of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  Argentine 
experience indicates that when job creation is made the 
central  strategy  of  poverty  reduction,  it  is  possible  to 
achieve  highly  satisfactory  results  in  the  attempt  to 
meet the other Millennium Development Goals.  

Argentina  considers  education  to  be  a  national 
priority and a State policy. We see education as being a 
public good, a fundamental right and a joint responsibility 
of  society  as  a  whole.  The  principle  of  equality 
recognized by our National Education Law is a key pillar 
of the search for a just and democratic society. 

When  the  Millennium  Development  Goal  of 
achieving universal primary education by 2015 was set, 
Argentina came very close to achieving it very quickly, 
and  continues  to  make  progress  in  this  area,  having 
added  the  goal  of  universal  secondary  education. 
Similarly,  convinced  that  the  efforts  of  society  and 
public policy must be centred on the human being if we 
wish  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  of  peoples,  reduce 
poverty  and  social  exclusion,  and  ensure  equal 
opportunity  and  the  development  of  individuals  and 
communities, Argentina believes health to be a human 
right essential to development. 

It  is  the  responsibility  and  a  duty  of  the  State  to 
implement health-care systems and policies to that end. 
In  that  respect,  my  country  understands  that  health 
must  take  precedence  over  economic  interests.  Health 
determines  the  development  and  growth  of  a  nation, 
and  that  is  why  we  consider  health  care  to  be  an 
investment, not an expense, and a responsibility of the 
State and society as a whole. 
The  problems  of  health  go  beyond  national  and 

jurisdictional  borders.  We  must  therefore  address,  on 
the one hand, situations relating to such long-standing 
problems  as  poverty  and  social  exclusion  that  remain 
unresolved, and, on the other, new problems related to 
the  environment,  increased  longevity,  new  modes  of 
living,  new  diseases  or  the  re-emergence  of  old 
pathologies. Argentina is therefore convinced that if we 
wish  to  ensure  equitable  health  care,  we  must  ensure 
universal and comprehensive coverage in the provision 
of essential services and benefits for all peoples of the 
world, bearing in mind the variables of culture, gender, 
ethnicity, sexual orientation and personal capacities. 
subject  matter, 
and 
to 
In 
reproductive 
rights 
this  framework,  my  country  believes 

it 
necessary to guarantee comprehensive sex education at 
all  educational  levels  and  modalities.  We  approach 
comprehensive  sex  education  in  a  way  that  stresses  a 
holistic  concept  of  sexuality  and  the  promotion  of 
health.  This  approach  is  integrated  into  a  strategy  for 
improving  the  individual  quality  of  life  and  creating 
conditions conducive to the exercise of human rights in 
general,  and  sexual  and 
in 
particular.  We  also  believe  that  comprehensive  sex 
education  helps  to  equate  gender  equality  with  the 
rejection  of  all  forms  of  discrimination,  to  re-evaluate 
educational 
strengthen 
intergenerational  ties  based  on  trust  and  respect, 
thereby promoting quality education. 
Issues related to reproductive rights and universal 

access to reproductive health care are among the major 
priorities  of  our  Government,  as  reflected  in  our  laws 
and  our  implementation  of  various  measures  in  this 
area  at  the  national  and  provincial  levels.  One  of  the 
most  important  outcomes  of  our  endeavours  is  the 
Sexual  Health  and  Responsible  Procreation  Law 
enacted  in  2002,  creating  a  national  programme  for 
sexual  health  and  responsible  procreation  with  a  view 
to providing and facilitating universal access to sexual 
and reproductive health services. 
live  births 

in  2007  was 
assisted  by  doctors  or  midwives 
approximately  99  per  cent,  reflecting  Argentina’s 
commitment 
to  health  care. 
Moreover,  we  reduced  maternal  mortality  by  15.4  per 
cent  from  1999  to  2007.  Although  that  reduction  is 
significant, further reducing the rate is a challenge that 
Argentina  has  accepted  with  increasing  and  ongoing 
vigour.  It  is  also  important  to  note  that,  as  a  result  of 
the  Government’s 
initiatives  aimed  essentially  at 
improving  prevention  of  childhood 
illness  and 
paediatric care, we were able to reduce infant mortality 
by  48.2  per  cent  from  1990  to  2007.  I  also  wish  to 
point  out  that  the  trends  seen  in  infant  and  under-five 
mortality rates suggest that we will be able to achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. 

Argentina’s  efforts  to  meet  these  goals  are  also 
reflected  in  our  fight  against  disease.  In  that  context, 
having  seen  annual  increases  throughout  the  1990s  in 
cases of HIV/AIDS, calculated per million inhabitants, 
from 2002 we were able to reverse the trend and are now 
beginning to see a clear drop in the rate of infection. In 
that  context,  it  is  important  to  note  that  in  2007,  this 
to  universal  access 
In  Argentina, 
the  percentage  of 
2 

09-55501 


particular  indicator  —  36.5  cases  of  HIV  infection 
per million inhabitants — was below the goal of 37 cases 
per million inhabitants proposed for 2015. With regard to 
condom  use  in  casual  sexual  encounters  among  young 
people 15 to 24 years of age, Argentina is meeting the 
2015 goal of 75 per cent. As Argentina’s current rate is 
85 per cent, we have surpassed the goal by 10 per cent. 

Our country has integrated gender-mainstreaming 
into all public policy and  created specific institutional 
mechanisms  to  that  end.  In  that  respect,  we  would 
point  to  the  so-called  Quotas  Law,  which  in  1991 
increased the number of women in elected posts in the 
country.  Women  must  now  occupy  a  minimum  of 
33 per cent of all elected positions in our country. 

Furthermore,  women’s  empowerment  requires  a 
life free of violence against women and the recognition 
that gender violence is a violation of their human rights 
and the direct or indirect violation of many other rights 
enshrined  in  international  treaties  and  agreements.  In 
that  connection,  in  March  2009  a  comprehensive 
protection  law  was  enacted  to  prevent,  punish  and 
eradicate all forms of violence against women in areas 
where they interact with others. Complementary to that 
law,  a  campaign  was  launched  under  the  theme 
“Another  life  is  possible.  We  have  the  right  to  a  life 
without  violence”.  The  campaign  is  being  carried  out 
by the Ministry of Education, with the participation of 
many  other  State  bodies  and  international  and  civil 
society organizations. 

I also wish to recall that Argentina has stated that 
achieving  the  MDGs  will  be  possible  if  they  are 
implemented  within  the  framework  of  a  national 
development  policy  and  in  an  international  context 
where 
the 
responsibility  to  reverse  negative  trends  marked  by 
increasing  inequality  and  exclusion  and  decreasing 
flows of cooperation aid. 

To  conclude,  Argentina,  through  me,  wishes  to 
reaffirm  its  commitment  to  the  Cairo  Programme  of 
Action and to the key steps to implement it. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Mrs.  Ritva  Koukku-Ronde,  Under-
Secretary of State of Finland. 

Mrs.  Koukku-Ronde  (Finland):  I  thank  you, 
Madam  President,  for  giving  me  the  opportunity  to 
address the General Assembly. It is a great honour for 
me  to  be  present  at  this  event.  In  addition  to  the 
the  more  developed  countries  assume 
A/64/PV.18
is 
the 
ecologically, 
common  statement  of  the  European  Union,  Finland 
would like to address a few additional items. 

The  Programme  of  Action  (see  A/CONF.171/13/ 
Rev.1)  of  the  International  Conference  on  Population 
and Development (ICPD) set forth a broad agenda that is 
still very relevant. I would like to focus on the parts of 
the Programme that relate to population issues. 

It is now clearer than ever before that population 
issues  are  closely  linked  to  poverty  and  sustainable 
development.  Poverty  can  be  overcome  only 
if 
environmentally, 
development 
economically  and  socially  sustainable.  Demographic 
dynamics have a strong influence on all our aspirations 
to  sustainable  futures.  Aggregate  demand  in  world 
markets is the key to overcoming the global economic 
crisis  and 
to  achieving  economic  sustainability. 
Obviously,  poverty  reduction  among 
rapidly 
growing populations of the South is the most promising 
way to increase global demand. 

Population growth, associated with unsustainable 
production  and  consumption  patterns,  is  threatening 
poverty  eradication.  Furthermore,  the  cohesion  and 
stability  of  societies  are 
threatened  as  economic 
opportunities and service provision are unable to meet 
the demand equitably. How can we generate growth for 
all  mankind  without  compromising  sustainability?  As 
the  World  Commission  on  the  Social  Dimension  of 
Globalization of the International Labour Organization 
has  concluded,  global  governance  has  to  be  fair  and 
sustainable.  We  cannot  achieve  global  consensus  in 
climate  negotiations  unless  we  demonstrate  a  serious 
interest  not  only  in  saving  the  planet,  but  also  in 
securing  decent  work  opportunities  and 
social 
protection for the people of developing countries. 
That  said,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the  links 

among  population  growth,  climate  change  and  food 
security.  Those  are  issues  that  no  country  can  tackle 
alone.  We  have  a  shared  responsibility,  as  we  are  all 
accountable  to  future  generations  for  our  planet’s 
survival. 

The  links  between  climate  and  population  have 
basically two dimensions. On the one hand, the impacts 
of  climate  change,  from  droughts  and  floods  to 
destabilized livelihoods, are already apparent and being 
felt  most  by  those  who  are  already  impoverished.  On 
the  other  hand,  uncontrolled  population  growth  will 
further  increase  those  effects.  Most  environmental 
problems, including those arising from climate change, 
09-55501 

3 

A/64/PV.18 

tend  to  be  aggravated  by  population  size  and  growth. 
Therefore,  the  fact  that  the  world’s  population  has 
reached  almost  7  billion  and  continues  to  grow  by 
some 78 million each year is unquestionably relevant. 

The  demand  for  food  is  projected  to  double  by 
2030. It is estimated that 20 per cent of that increase is 
related  to  population  growth.  The  fastest  population 
growth  is  taking  place  in  the  poorest  nations  of  the 
world,  many  of  which  are  already  facing  serious 
difficulty in meeting current food needs. To respond to 
food  security  in  the  medium  and  long  terms,  we  need 
to  integrate  trade  and  aid  policies,  as  well  as  to 
increase agricultural production. 

At the heart of all this are the individual and the 
choices  that  she  or  he  makes.  Population  stabilization 
will occur naturally, not as a matter of coercion, when 
individual  women  and  men  have  equal  rights  to  make 
choices, access to sexual and reproductive health care, 
and security in old age through decent work and social 
pensions. Access to health care and contraceptives is a 
right that belongs to all, and it is crucial for all women, 
wed and unwed. 
The  number  of  women  of  reproductive  age  will 

rise dramatically by 2050, and we will have the largest 
ever generation of reproductive age. Maternal mortality 
is  among  the  health  indicators  that  show  the  greatest 
gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor,  both  among  and 
within  countries.  There  is  a  huge,  unmet  need  for 
family  planning.  The  need  for  services  and  education 
for young people is therefore dire. 
Healthy  women  mean  an  increase  in  both  local 

and  global  productivity.  They  play  a  central  role  in 
poverty 
sustainable 
development,  but  to  focus  on  women  alone  is  not 
enough.  We  need,  as  stated  at 
the 
constructive involvement of men. 

a 
comprehensive approach in which the social, economic 
and environmental dimensions of national policies and 
global  governance  are  developed  side  by  side.  That 
needs  to  happen  at  both  the  global  and  local  levels. 
Global governance is needed, since we are dealing with 
problems  without  passports,  but  we  must  also 
recognize that all nations are responsible for their own 
development. 

In the late nineteenth century, Finland had a poor, 
agrarian and scattered population. Births took place at 
development 
Sustainable 
the  ICPD, 
reduction 
creating 
requires 
and 
in 
The  effects  of 
The  Cairo  Programme  of  Action  and 
home  with  the  assistance  of  lay  midwives.  Today,  the 
Finnish maternity and childcare system is unique in the 
world.  After  the  Second  World  War,  legislation  was 
enacted to guarantee free maternity care for all Finnish 
women.  Nowadays,  the  service  reaches  99  per  cent  of 
all  families.  Maternity  clinics  focus  on  the  health  and 
well-being of pregnant women and their children. The 
progress  of  pregnancy  is  screened  regularly  and  the 
clinics provide information on everyday life and proper 
nutrition  for  pregnant  women.  Men  are  also  included 
and  strongly  encouraged  to  accompany  their  partners. 
After birth, the baby’s health is monitored with regular 
visits  to  a  childcare  clinic  until  she  or  he  attends 
school. 

this  system  were  and  are 
enormous.  After  the  legislation  was  enacted  in  1944, 
Finland’s infant mortality rate was more than halved in 
10 years. Since then, the infant mortality rate has been 
in  steady  decline;  today,  it  is  one  of  the  lowest  in  the 
world at 0.26 per cent. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  complement  each 
other.  The  United  Nations,  along  with  its  specialized 
agencies  and  funds,  such  as  the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund  (UNFPA),  is  essential  to  achieving 
these  goals.  The  United  Nations  system  has  a  central 
role  in  Finnish  development  policy,  both  in  terms  of 
funding  and  political  significance.  UNFPA  has  a 
unique  mandate 
rights-based 
development  goals  related  to  population  development 
and reproductive health globally. UNFPA is our valued, 
long-time  partner,  with  which  we  have  worked,  for 
example, 
and 
reproductive  health,  to  reduce  maternal  mortality  and 
to  ensure  reproductive  health  commodity  security. 
Finland  is  among  the  10  major  donors  giving  core 
support to UNFPA. 

In  conclusion,  we  should  adopt  an  integrated, 
long-term  approach  to  population  issues  —  one  that 
takes  into  account  all  aspects,  global  and  individual 
alike. We must make sure each individual has access to 
means,  care  and  information.  Success  will  then  be 
mirrored  at  the  global  level  as  sustainable  population 
growth. 

While  we  recognize  the  progress  made,  we  feel 
that  now,  more  than  ever,  we  must  keep  our  priorities 
straight.  We  must  honour  our  commitments.  Finland 
remains  committed.  We  are  increasing  our  official 
adolescent 
achieving 
improve 
sexual 
the 
to 
in 
4 

09-55501 
on 
the 
Population 
This  debate 
fifteenth  anniversary  of 


development assistance, and we also remain committed 
to the targets set in Cairo 15 years ago. We know what 
works, and the time to act is now. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Ms.  Raeda Al  Qutob,  Secretary-General  of  the  Higher 
Population Council of Jordan. 
Ms. Al Qutob (Jordan) (spoke in Arabic): It gives 

me  great  pleasure  to  speak,  on  behalf  of  both  my 
country,  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan,  and  the 
Higher  Population  Council,  in  this  special  meeting  to 
commemorate 
the 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  (ICPD),  held  in  Cairo  in  1994,  which 
represented  an  important  milestone  on  the  road  to  the 
identification  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Jordan  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  to  be  delivered 
by the representative of the Sudan on behalf the Group 
of 77 and China. 
is  of  special  global  strategic 

significance,  since  it  will  examine  and  analyse  the 
milestones  already  reached  and  assess  their  impact  on 
various  sectors  of  the  population  and  their  quality  of 
life,  especially 
international 
economic  and  financial  crisis.  Here,  I  should  like  to 
pay  tribute  to  Ms. Thoraya  Obaid,  Executive  Director 
of the United Nations Population Fund, for her tireless 
efforts  and  to  express  my  support  for  her  important 
statement this morning. 

We in Jordan reiterate our full commitment to the 
ICPD Programme of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  believe 
that they form a holistic and comprehensive package of 
objectives that will collectively raise the standards and 
quality  of  life  of  all  population  sectors  in  general  and 
the  more  vulnerable  groups  in  particular.  We  also 
believe that they will contribute to alleviating poverty, 
universalizing  education,  reducing  social  inequalities 
and raising the standard of health services provided to 
children  and  women,  in  particular  in  such  areas  as 
reproductive  health,  violence  against  women  and 
sexually transmitted diseases like HIV/AIDS. 

Jordan, a small country with a population of some 
6 million, has reached many milestones in the areas of 
population and development, yet we aspire to go even 
further. The average fertility rate in Jordan had been on 
the  decrease  in  recent  decades,  most  significantly  in 
the  1990s.  However,  that  decrease  gradually  began  to 
slow  over  the  next  decade  and  then  came  to  a  virtual 
light  of 
the 
the 
in 
A/64/PV.18
to 
the 
With 
regard 
However,  on 
for  achieving 
the  positive  side, 
reproductive  health 
halt,  until  the  fertility  rate  settled  at  3.6  births 
per woman in 2007. This represents a decrease of only 
0.1 births per woman from 2002. 

infant 
mortality  rate  also  substantially  decreased  over  this 
period,  from  34  per  1,000  in  1990  to  19  per  1,000  in 
2007.  Furthermore,  mortality  rates  among  children 
under  five  fell  from  39  per  1,000  in  1990  to  21 
per 1,000 in 2007. As a result, average life expectancy 
in Jordan now exceeds 70 years. 
Moreover,  the  maternal  mortality  ratio  resulting 

from  pregnancy  complications,  delivery  and 
the 
postpartum  period  has  also  declined  as  reproductive 
health and planned parenthood services have improved, 
and  almost  all  deliveries  now  take  place  in  hospitals 
under  the  supervision  of  qualified  medical  workers. 
This  enhances  our  potential 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goal  of  reducing  maternal 
mortality, which stood at 41 per 100,000 live births in 
1996. Work is ongoing to improve that statistic. 

and 
reproductive health rights, Jordan’s Ministry of Health, 
the  Royal  Medical  Services,  the  private  sector  and 
community health centres have all made commendable 
efforts  to  implement  reproductive  health  programmes. 
The  Ministry  of  Health  has  also  developed  a 
reproductive health commodity security plan to ensure 
sustained  family  planning  services  and  methods. 
Furthermore,  the  Ministry  has  also  established  a 
special budget line for family. This is considered to be 
a  milestone  towards  ensuring  reproductive  rights. 
Moreover,  Jordan  has  amended 
its  civil  status 
legislation to increase the minimum age for marriage to 
18 for males and females alike. 
The  Ministries  of  Education,  Higher  Education 

and  Scientific  Research  have,  over  the  past  two 
decades,  incorporated  the  concepts  of  population, 
development  and  reproductive  health 
into  school 
curricula  at  the  primary  and  secondary  levels,  as  well 
as  within  the  core  courses  of  university  study  at  all 
public and private universities. 

Access  to  and  enrolment  in  primary  education  has 
now  reached  near  optimum  levels,  and  plans  and 
strategies are being elaborated to reduce school drop-out 
rates,  increase  private  sector  funding  and  involvement, 
raise  the  standards  of  education,  and  reduce  the 
educational gap between male and female students. 
09-55501 

5 

already  developed 
to  benefit 
towards 
the 
increased  urbanization, 
is  exhausting 
the  establishment  of 
that  Jordan  has  one  of 
Jordan  has  made  great  strides 
A/64/PV.18 


The  Government  of  Jordan  has  also  made  great 
efforts  in  the  area  of  the  environment,  including 
the  Ministry  of 
through 
Environment,  which  has 
a 
comprehensive national strategy for the preservation of 
Jordan’s  environment  and  has  been  mandated 
to 
implement  legislative  reforms  to  that  end.  However, 
the  rapid  increase  in  the  urban  population,  coupled 
with 
the 
Kingdom’s  limited  natural  resources  and  negatively 
affecting the environment. 

the 
empowerment  of  women  in  the  areas  of  health, 
education  and  combating  violence  and  discrimination 
against  women.  Women’s  political  and  economic 
participation,  however,  still  requires  more  attention. 
The  Jordanian  Government  has  mapped  out  strategies 
and implemented many national programmes and plans 
to  prevent,  treat  and  create  awareness  of  AIDS.  It  is 
noteworthy 
lowest 
incidences of AIDS in the region. 
With Jordan approaching a window of demographic 

opportunity, 
the  Higher  Population  Council  has 
developed a policy document to take advantage of that 
opportunity 
the  country’s  workforce, 
especially young people and women, by training them 
in skills that can match them to the requirements of the 
job  market,  as  well  as  empowering  various  groups  to 
become producers, investors, savers and contributors to 
the  national  economy.  That  would  be  a  qualitative 
improvement  in  the  economic,  social,  technological 
and environmental life of Jordan. 

Since the Cairo Conference, Jordan has witnessed 
national,  regional  and  international  events  that  have 
caused  it  to  drastically  alter  its  consideration  of 
population  and  development  issues  in  order  to  deal 
with  the  social,  cultural  and  political  challenges  we 
face,  challenges  brought  about  by 
social  and 
demographic  change,  repercussions  of  globalization 
and the international economic downturn. In particular, 
Jordan  has  had  to  address  demographic  challenges 
peculiar  to  the  country  caused  by  several  factors, 
including waves of forced migration into the Kingdom, 
stabilization  of  the  total  fertility  rate  and  population 
in  urban  areas,  which  have  created  an 
growth 
imbalance 
the 
country’s governorates. 
in  population  distribution  among 

Jordan, like other countries, has had to deal with 
the  ramifications  of  the  international  economic  and 
financial  crisis,  which  has  already  affected  children, 
families and communities and contributed significantly 
to  a  downturn  in  the  standard  and  quality  of  life  of 
individuals  as  well  as  to  an  increase  in  poverty  and 
unemployment. We have yet to ascertain its impact on 
infant and childbirth mortality, female school dropouts 
and  violence  against  women  and  girls.  However, 
Jordan  will  continue  to  strive  to  improve  the  living 
conditions of its entire population. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Mr. Osvaldo Lapuente, Under-Secretary for Planning and 
Programming in the Office of the President of Guatemala. 

Mr. Lapuente (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): I 
would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this 
meeting  to  commemorate  a  new  anniversary  of  the 
Cairo  Conference  on  Population  and  Development.  I 
would also like to thank the Secretary-General and the 
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Population 
Fund  (UNFPA)  for  their  invaluable  contribution  to 
social development from the perspective of population 
analysis by way of the follow-up in the United Nations 
system  to  the  Programme  of  Action  adopted  at  the 
Conference (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1). 

Fifteen years is clearly not a long time, since we 
are  still  far  from  the  consensus  agreed  on  in  Cairo, 
where  we  sought  to  situate  the  world  in  a  context 
oriented towards equality and social justice. Even then, 
history  demonstrated  the  urgent  need  for  a  clear 
direction  in  the  public  policy  agenda,  one  capable  of 
avoiding 
that  result  from  poverty, 
discrimination  and  a  lack  of  equitable  access  to 
development  opportunities  in  our  countries.  Fifteen 
years 
remain,  and 
conditions  around  the  world  demand  a  new  kind  of 
development model for our countries. 

Nevertheless, it is amazing that in such a short time 
the world has progressed at a dizzying and surprising rate, 
showing  that  ingenuity  spurs  positive  processes  for 
improvement  in  people’s  living  conditions.  At  this 
point,  our  globalized  world  has  achieved  the  highest 
levels  of 
technological  development,  generating 
unprecedented  enthusiasm  for  science  and  innovation. 
At  the  same  time,  we  have  been  so  preoccupied  with 
trade  and  establishing  a  free  financial  system  that  we 
have lost sight of the true point of globalization, which 
is sustainable human development. 
later,  many  challenges  still 
tragedies 
the 
6 

09-55501 
and 
the  Caribbean, 



Today  we  are  still  in  the  turbulence  of  the 
financial  crisis.  Though  it  peaked  in  September  2008, 
we  are  still  dealing  with  the  effects  of  the  contraction 
of our economies, the loss of jobs, budget cuts in vital 
programmes  and  a  drop  in  tax  revenues,  among  other 
consequences that are affecting our peoples’ quality of 
life.  

As Guatemala’s President Colom said in a recent 
speech  to  the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission 
for  Latin  America 
our 
Administration must return to making the human being 
the  centre  of  everything  we  do. As  a  medium-to-low-
income country, Guatemala has achieved an acceptable 
rate of growth in the last five years, averaging between 
4 and 5 per cent annually, with an estimate for 2009 of 
0.4  per  cent.  The  balance  achieved  in  terms  of  our 
social  agenda  encourages  us  to  keep  working  on  the 
remaining  targets  of  the  Programme  of  Action  and 
especially  to  produce  results  in  the  agenda  for  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

Though  the  financial  crisis  has  affected  our 
growth  rate,  we  are  still  holding  to  the  strategic 
guidelines  of  the  priority  framework.  Social  policy  is 
the Administration’s  chief  driving  force  as  it  seeks  an 
area-based  approach,  with  as  broad  as  possible 
participation  by  citizens,  to  impact  indicators  in  the 
areas of health, education, housing, access to good-quality 
public 
security, 
recreation, jobs and other essential development factors. 

As  a  prelude,  I  should  mention  that  in  2001  our 
Social  Development  Law,  approved  unanimously  by 
the members of the legislature, came into effect. That law 
is without precedent in our nation’s political history, since 
it was formulated with the joint participation of organized 
civil  society,  religious  authorities,  universities,  trade 
unions and women’s organizations. 

to 
highlight the fact that we are creating the institutional 
conditions  needed  to  continue  lowering  the  mortality 
rate  in  general  and  maternal  and  infant  mortality  in 
particular.  In  1996,  the  infant  mortality  rate  was  34.8 
per thousand live births, while in 2007 that indicator had 
dropped to 24.5 per thousand. We hope that by the end of 
2009 the effects of the reduction will be even greater. 

In 2006, about 51 per cent of the population was 
living  in  poverty,  while  15.2  per  cent  faced  extreme 
poverty. The proportion of people in poverty was even 
greater  in  rural  areas,  reaching  70.4  per  cent.  Hardest 
Concerning  population,  we  would 
services  with  broader  coverage, 
like 
A/64/PV.18
For 
that 
to  2012, 
the  period 
from  2008 
identifies  areas 
hit,  at  75  per  cent,  were  the  indigenous  population, 
who historically have not  had access to education and 
whose primary source of income is agriculture. 

the 
Administration is giving priority to implementing human 
development programmes, based on a strategy of focused 
social  protection 
that  have 
concentrations  of  poverty  and  exclusion  and  that  lack 
access to basic services. The strategy is directed at the 
sectors of society with the least access to opportunities. 

The target population is families with children up 
to  15  years  of  age  and  pregnant  or  nursing  mothers, 
who  are  given  conditional  cash  allowances.  That 
support  takes  the  form  of  monetary  grants  to  poor 
families,  who  are  duly  selected  on  the  basis  of  living 
conditions  and  food  vulnerability,  on  condition  that 
their children are sent to assistance services for health, 
nutrition  and  primary  education.  The  programme  has 
reversed  the  traditional  conduct  with  regard  to  those 
who  live  in  poverty.  In  addition,  the  education  policy 
put  forward  for  that  period  aimed  at  increasing 
investment, promoting literacy, expanding the system’s 
coverage,  improving  teacher  training  and  educating 
parents  about  values,  health,  nutrition  and  social 
development management. 

In  2001,  Guatemala’s  illiteracy  rate  for  persons 
aged  15  and  higher  stood  at  30.4  per  cent,  while  in 
2008 it was 21.1 per cent. That substantial reduction is 
an improvement that resulted from greater  availability 
to 
of  resources  and 
literacy 
programmes.  Similarly, 
educational 
system’s  coverage  increased.  In  the  preschool  age 
category,  net  coverage  increased  from  41  per  cent  in 
2001 to 49 per cent in 2008. 
With  regard  to  health  services,  we  have  been 

implementing  an  aggressive  policy  of  free  services, 
eliminating  absolutely  all  charges 
services 
rendered,  which  has  triggered  an  increase  in  demand 
for  such  services.  The  policy  guidelines  on  reducing 
post-partum  mortality  for  the  period  2008  to  2012 
include  free  quality  prenatal,  labour  and  delivery  and 
postpartum care and care for newborns that, given our 
country’s rich diversity, is also culturally sensitive. 

With regard to gender equality, it is important to 
point  out  that  Guatemala  has  put  in  place  legal 
mechanisms  for  the  protection  of  women.  We  have 
done so as part of an institutional process that included 
the  establishment  of  the  presidential  secretariat  on 
the  changes  made 
formal 
the 
for 
09-55501 

7 

A/64/PV.18 

women  and  the  Office  for  the  Defence  of  Indigenous 
Women’s Rights. We have  also put in place new legal 
instruments,  including  a  law  on  femicide  and  other 
forms of violence against women.  

Also as part of that process, we have drawn up a 
development policy to create opportunities for women. 
We  have  also  harmonized  its  goals  and  operative 
components  with  those  of  other  policies,  such  as  on 
rural  development,  youth  and  environment,  as  well  as 
the population and social development policy to which 
I have referred, among others. 
The  results  point  to  an  increase  in  women’s 

participation 
in  electoral  processes  and  decision-
making positions, governmental and non-governmental 
alike.  There  has  also  been  an  increase  in  their 
participation  in  civil  society  through  representative 
bodies  such  as  our  country’s  congressional  women’s 
commission. There are now services in place to provide 
comprehensive  care  for  women  survivors  of  violence, 
with  particular  emphasis  on  survivors  of  sexual 
violence.  There  is  also  greater  access  for  women, 
adolescent girls and younger girls to health, education 
and technical assistance services. 

With  regard  to  rationalizing  the  decision-making 
process, Guatemala has in recent years made a significant 
investment  in  generating  improved  demographic,  social 
and economic data. Some examples include the carrying 
out of censuses on population,  housing  and  agriculture 
and  the  national  surveys  on  living  conditions  and 
maternal and child health.  
With that brief summary of some of the progress, 

challenges  and  expectations  of  Guatemala’s  social 
development agenda, which I know participants at this 
commemorative  meeting  share,  I  should  now  like  to 
take this opportunity to reiterate that we are convinced 
that  the  results  to  date  will  only  be  sustainable  if  we 
build upon them and assume national, State ownership 
of  them  by  putting  in  place  long-term  public  policies, 
that is to say, intergenerational policies. 

Although  we  feel  optimistic  about  news  coming 
from  various  parts  of  the  world  that  there  are  now 
initial signs of economic recovery, I should like to urge 
all  peoples,  countries,  those  who  help  us  and,  in 
particular,  our  countries’  economic  and  social  sector 
stakeholders  not  to  abandon  social  protection  efforts 
and more closely embrace their historical responsibility 
for  our  social  underdevelopment.  I  also  urge  them  to 
systematically focus attention on vulnerable groups  as 
part of national efforts and create the conditions for the 
generation of real wealth and prosperity, as that is the 
only real way of leaving poverty behind. 

My  Government’s  commitment  is  grounded  in  a 
dynamic  alliance  with  all  social,  economic  and  political 
stakeholders.  The  goal  is  to  move  from  transition 
processes  to  stable  environments  underpinned  by  the 
generation  of  wealth  and  market  competitiveness 
where there is broader and more inclusive prosperity. 

I  should  like  to  emphasize  that,  just  as  we  have 
made  structural  changes  in  our  public  investment  in 
2009, we in Guatemala need to take a step forward to 
ensure  that  our  society  as  a  whole  makes  a  change  in 
the marginal costs for the State, which hovered around 
15 per cent of our gross domestic product in 2008. 

We are well aware that it is the ethical and moral 
indicators  for  development  that  measure  real  change, 
and these can only be reflected in improved quality of 
life  for  our  citizens.  On  behalf  of  the  Government  of 
Guatemala,  allow  me  to  echo  the  words  of  our 
President to say that we are seeking a balance between 
social  cohesion  and  economic  growth  against  a 
backdrop of sustainable equality for current and future 
generations of our Central American country. 

representative of the Sudan. 
Mr. Mohamad (Sudan): The world came together 

in  Cairo  15  years  ago  at  the  International  Conference 
on Population and Development (ICPD) and agreed by 
consensus  on  a  20-year  Programme  of  Action  that 
integrated  a  comprehensive  range  of  population, 
development  and  human  rights  issues  necessary  for 
ensuring that every person lives a healthy and dignified 
life.  On  that  occasion,  179  States  agreed  to  make  a 
collective  effort,  among  other 
to  achieve 
universal  access  to  education  and  reduce  infant,  child 
and maternal mortality.  

Notwithstanding the fact that the Conference had 
a positive impact on poverty eradication and economic 
development, there remain considerable challenges and 
gaps  —  including  as  a  result  of  the  economic  and 
financial crisis — that need to be addressed in order to 
attain  the  internationally  agreed  development  goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
the 
along 
the  way 
Conference.  That 
is  an 
important  and  timely  event  and  an  opportunity  to 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
to  achieving 
is  why 
things, 
the  goals  of 
today’s  meeting 
8 

09-55501 
In 
in  primary 


recommit ourselves to the attainment of the objectives 
of the ICPD. 

According  to  the  2009  MDGs  report,  which 
incorporates many of the goals of the Conference, less 
progress has  been made towards MDGs 3, 4, 5 and 6, 
which  are  identified  in  the  Programme  of  Action 
adopted in 1994, as they relate to economic and social 
development. 
that  context,  most  developing 
countries  have  experienced  a  major  per-woman 
reduction  of  donor  funding  for  family  planning  since 
the mid-1990s. Gender parity in education has yet to be 
achieved in developing countries. 
Furthermore,  the  report  shows  that  the  target  of 

eliminating  gender  disparities 
and 
secondary  education  by  2005  in  developing  countries 
was missed. The disadvantage for girls when it comes 
to  enrolment  persists  at  higher  levels  of  education. 
With regard to health, there has been little progress in 
reducing  maternal  mortality. There  were  480  maternal 
deaths per 100,000 births in 1990, as compared to 450 
in 2005. 

While  some  regions  in  developing  countries 
experienced  a  substantial  decline  in  maternal  deaths, 
others  made  little  improvement.  Women  in  those 
regions  face  the  greatest  lifetime  risk  of  dying  as  a 
result  of  pregnancy  and  childbirth.  The  number  of 
people  newly  infected  with  HIV  peaked  in  some 
regions in 1996, declining to 2.7 million worldwide in 
2007.  Unfortunately,  in  some  areas  in  least  developed 
countries,  HIV  prevalence  has  almost  doubled  since 
2001,  with  two  thirds  of  those  living  with  HIV  in 
certain other areas being women. 

A  fully  functional,  efficient  and  quality  health 
system  is  essential  for  the  realization  of  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  MDG  health-related 
goals.  Many  countries  have  health-care  systems  that 
are deficient in infrastructure and human resources. We 
believe  that  the  achievement  of  MDG  8,  regarding  a 
global partnership for development, is crucial for those 
countries  to  improve  and  strengthen  the  capacity  of 
their health systems to ensure availability, accessibility 
and  quality  of  services,  with  the  support  of  the 
international  community.  What  we  need  is  genuine 
strong  will  to  ensure  adequate  financing  and  the 
effective  delivery  of  the  goals  set,  as  well  as  the 
streamlining and harmonization of aid operations. 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  firmly  believe  that 

the principles, goals and objectives set out in the ICPD 
A/64/PV.18
the 
With  only 
five  years 
is  crucial  for 
remaining  until 
Programme of Action, as well as in other outcomes of 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
together  provide  a  comprehensive  framework  for 
international  development.  The  implementation  of  the 
ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
the 
eradication of extreme poverty and the achievement of 
the other MDGs. 

The  Group  believes  that  population  issues  must 
be addressed in a comprehensive manner, as outlined in 
the ICPD Programme of Action. The Group of 77 and 
China  note  with  concern 
that  resources  directed 
towards  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action have consistently been below target. To address 
that  concern,  donors,  United  Nations  agencies  and 
other international organizations must work together to 
enhance  financial  and  technical  support  to  developing 
countries, including in the field of capacity-building, in 
order to ensure the realization of the ICPD Programme 
of Action. 

the 
conclusion  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  and  as 
we  are  already  past  the  midpoint  of  the  MDGs’  target 
end date, it is vital for Member States to recognize the 
gaps  and  challenges,  consolidate  lessons  learned  and 
reaffirm commitments. It is likewise essential to renew 
efforts  aimed  at  sustaining  current  achievements  and 
increasing resources to accelerate the realization of the 
Programme of Action and the MDGs. 

In conclusion, I would like to thank the President 
for  organizing  this  meeting.  I  would  also  like  to  take 
this opportunity to express our Group’s appreciation to 
Ms.  Thoraya  Obaid,  the  Executive  Director  of  the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund,  for  her  informative 
statement and her outstanding contribution. 

representative of Mexico. 
Mr.  Vélez  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is  an 

honour  for  me  to  speak  today  on  behalf  of  the  Rio 
Group on the fifteenth anniversary of the International 
Conference on Population and Development (ICPD). 

Within  the  framework  of  the  commemoration  of 
the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  Cairo  Conference  of 
1994, and in compliance with resolution 644/XXXII of 
2008  of  the  Economic  Commission  for  Latin America 
and  the  Caribbean  (ECLAC),  the  Latin American  and 
Caribbean  Demographic  Centre  — 
the  ECLAC 
Population Division and the United Nations Population 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
09-55501 

9 

The  seminar  brought 
A/64/PV.18 

Fund (UNFPA) held a regional seminar in Santiago de 
Chile  from  7  to  8  October  2009  in  order  to  study  the 
progress made in Latin America in the implementation 
of the ICPD Programme of Action and the Programme 
of Action’s relation with the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  including  Goal  5,  universal  access  to 
reproductive health. 

together  governmental, 
parliamentary, civil society and academic experts from 
all  Latin American  countries.  It  also  included  experts 
from 
the  English-  and  Dutch-speaking  Caribbean 
subregions,  who  also  attended 
the  concluding 
subregional  seminar  that  was  held  in  Antigua  and 
Barbuda during this past August. 

That  seminar  provided  a  forum  for  assessing  the 
activities  carried  out  by  the  countries  in  the  region  in 
fulfilling  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action,  which  led 
them  to  reaffirm  its  relevance.  Participants  analysed 
proposals  for  accelerating  its  implementation  over  the 
next  five  years  as  well  as  for  defining  a  road  map 
towards 2014 and beyond.  

Over the past five years, Latin America has made 
significant progress in improving the standard of living 
of  its  people.  In  2008,  the  most  significant  and 
prolonged cycle of economic expansion experienced in 
the region since 1970 came to an end. In that context, 
poverty  and  abject  poverty  had  been  reduced  and,  in 
many cases, inequality as well. Nonetheless, the region 
continues  to  have  more  than  180  million  poor  people 
and  more  than  70  million  people  living  in  abject 
poverty. 

the  global  economic  crisis  has  a 
negative impact on our development.  One of the most 
difficult 
the 
confirmation of the fact that social losses are recovered 
only  very  slowly  in  subsequent  growth  cycles.  For 
example, it took 24 years to return even to the levels of 
poverty that had existed prior to the economic crisis of 
the 1980s, which was twice the amount of time it took 
the gross national product to recover. 

In recent years, Latin America has made progress 
in its demographic transition and also in its changes in 
age  structure,  bringing  with  it,  in  many  countries,  a 
temporary  window  of  opportunity, 
is,  a 
demographic  bonus.  That  has  also  contributed  to 
improvements  in  various  social  indicators.  Likewise, 
the  high  level  of  urbanization  in  the  region  and  the 
consolidation  of  a  more  robust  system  of  cities 
lessons  of  previous 
crises  was 
Presently, 
that 
and 
society 
organizations 
thereby  reinforcing  actions  undertaken 
facilitate  implementation  of  public  policies  aimed  at 
social protection and poverty reduction. 

In  the  five  years  remaining  for  complying  with 
the  timeline  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  by 
2014,  most  of  the  countries  in  Latin  America  face 
difficulties in achieving all of their objectives, despite 
the fact that many of them have made important gains 
in the fields of population and development. The same 
applies  to  the  agreed  MDGs.  It  is  therefore  important 
to  issue  an  urgent  call  for  action  on  behalf  of  the 
peoples  and  countries  of  the  region  to  Governments, 
civil 
international 
organizations,  so  as  to  ensure  the  realization  of  the 
goals  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  and  the 
MDGs, 
in 
response to emerging issues. 

The  MDGs  will  not  be  reached  by  2015  if  the 
target of universal access to reproductive health is not 
met. That therefore makes that target a priority for the 
region,  which  requires  solid  commitment  in  terms  of 
political  will  and  financial  resources.  Over  the  next 
five  years,  Latin  America  is  going  to  be  facing  the 
double challenges of strengthening its actions so as to 
achieve  the  objectives  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of 
Action  and,  at  the  same  time,  responding  to  emerging 
challenges. 

In  that  context,  it  is  imperative  to  define  a  five-
year strategy for countries, making use of coordination 
mechanisms  that  will  allow  their  actions  to  have  a 
stronger 
among 
Governments,  parliaments,  civil  society  organizations 
and  development  agencies  should  allow  the  region  to 
make  better  progress  in  the  period  ahead,  help  us  to 
prioritize  key  challenges  identified  in  that  five-year 
review,  apply  identified  lessons  learned  and  best 
practices  and  share  information  through  South-South 
cooperation. 

It  is  fundamental  that  the  commitment  that  the 
countries  of  the  region  have  demonstrated  to  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  be  reaffirmed,  continue  and  be 
translated into concrete actions over the next five years. 
For  subsequent  decades,  we  must  start  thinking  now 
about  an  agenda  with  respect 
to  population  and 
development  at  the  global,  regional,  subregional  and 
national  levels. To  this  end,  the  technical  secretariat  of 
the  ECLAC  Ad  Hoc  Committee  on  Population  and 
Development  should  develop,  with  the  support  of 
UNFPA, a proposal to present at the next meeting of the 
strong  partnership 
impact.  A 
10 

09-55501 
instruments  and  mechanisms 


Committee.  That  agenda  for  the  future  should  address 
the debts and pending issues identified during this five-
year review process, among them inequality, adolescent 
pregnancy and maternal mortality. It should also include 
emerging themes such as the protraction of old age, the 
more complex gender and intergenerational relationships 
in some societies, the effects of the second demographic 
transition,  climate  change,  natural  disasters, 
the 
economic  and  food  crises,  the  spread  of  the  new  HIV 
epidemic, the link between productive and reproductive 
roles,  urban  segregation,  the  increase  in  international 
migration and intercultural issues. 

In sum, for the next decades, new agreements are 
needed,  new  targets  need  to  be  defined  and  new 
measures  need  to  be  put  into  practice.  Together  with 
that  agenda,  it  is  necessary  to  begin  the  process  of 
identifying  and  establishing  —  at  the  appropriate 
time — 
to  continue 
advancing  the  agenda  initiated  by  the  Programme  of 
Action  of  the  International  Conference  on  Population 
and Development.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Mia  Ventura,  Deputy  Executive 
Director  of  the  Commission  on  Population  of  the 
Republic of the Philippines. 
Ms. Ventura (Philippines): I wish to express my 

delegation’s  appreciation  to  Mr.  Treki  for  organizing 
the commemoration of the fifteenth anniversary of the 
International  Conference 
and 
Development, a conference that produced a Programme 
of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) encompassing a 
broad 
including 
population,  development  and  human  rights.  I  would 
also like to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and 
Under-Secretary-General and Executive Director of the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  Thoraya 
Obaid  for 
in 
advancing  population  awareness  activities  as  an 
instrument  for  assisting  Member  States  in  formulating 
their  respective  policies  and  strategies  aimed  at 
accomplishing  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals, including the Millennium Development Goals.  

It  would  also  be  appropriate  to  recall  the  first 
Executive Director of UNFPA — a Filipino, Mr. Rafael 
Salas, who raised global awareness on the link between 
population and development and was a catalyst for the 
establishment of UNFPA in 1969.  
their  commitment  and  engagement 
range  of  cross-cutting 
Population 
issues, 
on 
A/64/PV.18
itself  with 
The  Philippines  associates 

The participation of my delegation in this event is 
an  opportunity  to  renew  the  commitment  of  the 
Philippines  to  contribute  to  the  achievement  of  the 
goals  and  provide  solutions  to  the  challenges  outlined 
in  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action,  as  well  as  other 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  view  of  the 
time  constraint,  a  longer  version  of  this  statement 
containing the progress report of the Philippines on the 
Programme of Action will be circulated to participants. 

the 
statement  just  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of the Republic of the Sudan as Chairman of the Group 
of  77  and  China.  Allow  me  to  highlight  some  issues 
from the perspective of my delegation.  

The incidence of poverty and malnutrition among 
children  under  five  declined  significantly  to  32.9  per 
cent  and  24.6  per  cent,  respectively,  in  2006,  as 
compared  to  45.3  per  cent  and  34.5  per  cent  in  1991. 
Population  also  decreased,  by  2.04  per  cent  in  the 
period from 2000 to 2007  and by 2.36  per  cent in the 
period from 1995 to 2000, and it is projected to decline 
by  a  further  1.8  percent  by  2015.  If  these  downward 
trends  continue,  that  will  allow  the  Philippines  to 
accelerate its economic growth and development.  

that 
to 
accomplishment is the advocacy of my Government for 
population  management  as  an  avenue  for  poverty 
alleviation.  Funds  are  allocated  in  the  national  budget 
to  ensure  universal  access  to  services  in  reproductive 
health  and 
including  maternal, 
newborn  and  child  health  and  nutrition  programmes 
and other reproductive health services. Also, the Local 
Government  Units  enacted  reproductive  health  and 
family  planning  ordinances  with 
the  concomitant 
allocation  of  resources  as  part  of  their  Contraceptive 
Self-Reliance initiative.  

A strategy designed to strengthen the Responsible 
Parenthood  Programme  was  implemented  to  empower 
couples and families and assist them in achieving their 
fertility  goals  through  responsible  parenthood  and 
effective  parenting,  fertility  awareness,  responsible 
sexuality,  birth  spacing  and  scientific  natural  family 
planning.  However,  the  unmet  need  of  couples  for 
family  planning  has 
addressed  more 
comprehensively. 
Key  policy  reforms  were  instituted  to  reduce 

maternal  mortality.  We  aim  to  establish  facilities  to 
family  planning, 
contributing 
important 
to  be 
An 
factor 
09-55501 

11 
political 
participation, 
representation 
A/64/PV.18 

reduce  maternal  deaths  from  the  current  figure  of 
162 for every 100,000 live births to 52.  

There  has  been  considerable  improvement  in  the 
status  of  women  in  my  country,  as  reflected  in  their 
enhanced 
employment, 
education,  health  and  decision-making  power.  Several 
key  laws  and  programmes  were  enacted  to  empower 
women  and  promote  gender  equality,  such  as  the 
Gender  and  Development  Budget  Policy,  which 
allocates  at  least  5  per  cent  of  national  and  local 
government  budgets  for  women  and  development 
initiatives. The Magna Carta of Women is a law signed 
on  14  August  2009  to  ensure  women’s  equitable 
participation  and 
in  government, 
political parties, international bodies, civil service and 
the private sector. 

The  Philippines  is  taking  strides  to  address  all 
aspects  of  human  development,  especially  among  our 
children,  by,  among  other  measures,  arresting  the 
decline in basic education enrolment. Another measure 
is the adoption of the reform agenda for health, which 
has  four  components:  first,  more,  better  and  sustained 
financing,  second,  regulation  to  ensure  equality  and 
affordability,  third,  ensured  access  and  availability  of 
service  delivery,  and  fourth,  improved  performance  in 
governance. 

The  health  of  Filipinos  has  improved  over  time, 
as  evidenced  by  recent  data.  Lifespans  are  longer  — 
67.8  years  for  males  and  72.5  years  for  females.  The 
infant  mortality  rate  declined  from  30  infants  per 
1,000 live  births  in  2003  to  24  in  2006.  In  the  same 
period  mortality  rates  for  children  under  five  declined 
from 42 children per 1,000 surviving children to 32. 

issue of international migration and development.  

Last year, the Philippines had the singular honour 
of hosting the second Global Forum on Migration and 
Development,  which  was  graced  by  the  presence  of 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon.  The  event  was  an 
opportunity  for  the  participants  and  stakeholders  to 
renew  their  international  commitment  to  ensuring  the 
protection,  welfare  and  human  dignity  of  migrant 
workers.  The  report  on 
the  second  Forum  was 
circulated to all Member and Observer States and other 
stakeholders  and 
for 
consideration. 
I  will  conclude  my  statement  by  addressing  the 
the  Secretary-General 
to 

the 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

The Philippines continues to be engaged and will 
actively participate in various processes and forums to 
foster  cooperation  among  all  stakeholders  in  order  to 
underscore  the  positive  consequences  that  migration 
brings  to  both  sending  and  receiving  countries  and 
expresses  the  hope  that  international  migration  and 
development  remains  high  on  the  United  Nations 
agenda. 

representative of Sri Lanka. 
Mr. Chandra (Sri Lanka): I thank the Secretary-

General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  and  the 
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Population 
Fund (UNFPA), Ms. Thoraya Obaid, for organizing this 
series  of  meetings  to  commemorate  the  fifteenth 
anniversary  of 
International  Conference  on 
Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  and  for  their 
statements. 
We  have  only  five  more  years  ahead  of  us  to 

complete the  20-year  ICPD Programme  of Action that 
was  agreed  15  years  ago. Today,  I  take  the  floor  with 
mixed feelings. On the one hand, I am pleased to report 
on  the  significant  achievements  that  my  country  has 
made  over  the  past  several  years  in  the  key  areas  set 
out  at  the  ICPD.  On  the  other  hand,  regrets  naturally 
come  to  me  when  I  think  of  the  millions  of  human 
beings around the globe who are not fortunate enough 
to have a decent life free from poverty, hunger, illness 
and fear. 

The  modest  ambitions  envisaged  in  the  Cairo 
Consensus  of  1994,  following  Economic  and  Social 
Council  resolution  1989/91,  were  based  on 
the 
fundamental  principles  of  individual  freedom.  The 
Cairo  Consensus  essentially  has  a  futuristic  and 
individual-centred approach to redressing major social 
issues such as population management and sustainable 
economic  growth  and  development,  with  a  special 
focus  on  the  status  of  women  and  their  health  and 
education.  Additionally, 
ICPD 
clustered  around guaranteeing universal education and 
reducing  infant,  child  and  maternal  mortality.  Access 
by  2015  to  reproductive  health  care,  including  family 
planning, assisted childbirth and prevention of sexually 
transmittable  diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS  is  another 
prime objective of the ICPD. 

The  ICPD  marked  a  significant  shift  from  the 
traditional  focus  on  setting  demographic  targets  and 
managing population numbers to an approach built on 
the  goals  of 
the 
12 

09-55501 
in 
By 
and 
equality 
recognizing  gender 
My  country,  which  has  enshrined 


meeting the needs of individuals and families with the 
aim of improving their quality of life.  

its 
Constitution  the  core  values  of  human  freedom  and 
development,  became  a  co-signatory  to  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  (see  A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  at 
its  inception.  That  significant  step  reaffirmed  our 
commitment  to  the  fundamental  right  of  men,  women 
and  youth  to  have  access  to  information  and  support 
services and the opportunity to exercise their rights to 
the highest attainable standards of reproductive health.  

the 
empowerment  of  women,  the  process  has  enabled 
young couples to make informed decisions in planning 
their  own  families.  The  current  population  figures  in 
my  country  prove  that  the  personal  choice  given  to 
individuals  to  decide  on  their  family  size  yields 
desirable  results.  The  annual  average  population 
growth  in  the  period  from  2000  to  2007  in  Sri  Lanka 
was 0.4 per cent, which made an immense contribution 
towards achieving the Cairo principles. Investments in 
reproductive  health  have  thus  improved  prospects  for 
sustainable development and poverty reduction. 

The  Millennium  Declaration  adopted  by  our 
leaders  in  2000  (resolution  55/2)  re-energized  the 
ICPD  principles  and  Programme  of  Action.  It  is  the 
firm belief of my delegation that the foundation laid by 
the ICPD played a complementary role in accelerating 
the  progress 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015.  Therefore,  it 
would  not  be  irrational  to  assume  that  the  full 
implementation  of  the  20-year  ICPD  Programme  of 
Action will undoubtedly help in realizing the MDGs. 

Permit me to shed some light on the success story 
of my own country, Sri Lanka. To explain with figures, 
our  prevalence  rate  for  use  of  modern  contraceptive 
methods has increased from 20 per cent to 70 per cent 
since  1975,  most  significantly  over  the  last  15  years. 
More  than  96  per  cent  of  childbirths  are  attended  by 
skilled health practitioners, thus minimizing the health 
risks and complications associated with childbirth. The 
mortality  rate  of  children  below  five  years  of  age  has 
reached the lower end — from 32 per thousand in 1990 
to  13  per  thousand  in  2006.  The  percentage  of  the 
population  between  15  and  49  years  of  age  infected 
with  HIV  remains  at  a  very  low  figure,  below  0.1  per 
cent. 
towards  achieving 
A/64/PV.18
these 
Despite 
impressive 
level.  President  Mahinda  Rajapaksa, 

We have not only achieved the universal primary 
education targets but also ensured gender equality. The 
ratio  of  girls  to  boys  in  primary  education  remains 
high.  The  adult  literacy  rate  complements  that  figure 
by  exceeding  an  average  of  94  per  cent  among  both 
males and females, and the female literacy rate exceeds 
92 per cent. Life expectancy at birth remains as high as 
72 years for males and 78 years for females. 

achievements, 
challenges relating to fulfilling the MDGs remain. The 
relatively  high  child  malnutrition  rate  remains  at  an 
alarming  22.8  per  cent,  which  demands  urgent 
attention.  Additionally,  the  per  capita  expenditure  of 
the poorest quintile remains at 7.0 per cent. 

The Government of Sri Lanka has therefore given 
special  attention  to  those  areas  and  has  already 
launched  several  empowerment  projects  at  the  grass-
root 
in  his 
Government’s  policy  document  “Mahinda  Chintana”, 
has proposed pragmatic solutions. The measures being 
implemented  include  a  free midday  meal  for  students, 
women’s empowerment through providing village-level 
microcredit,  and  special  health-care  and  poverty 
alleviation programmes for the poor.  

The  commitment  demonstrated  by  our  political 
leadership has yielded positive results in changing the 
poverty  map  in  Sri  Lanka,  particularly  in  the  Eastern 
Province,  which  suffered  from  the  scourge  of  brutal 
terrorism  for  over  three  decades.  Under  the  Eastern 
Reawakening  programme 
is  currently 
experiencing rapid development. 

Since  the  Cairo  Conference,  the  Government  of 
Sri Lanka, with the generous assistance of UNFPA, has 
implemented  the  agreed  Programme  of  Action  by 
adhering  to  the  Population  and  Reproductive  Health 
Policy.  Currently,  an  advanced  phase  of  this  policy, 
which includes the training of reproductive health-care 
service  providers,  is  being  implemented.  In  addition, 
management  of 
infections, 
HIV/AIDS prevention and cancer screening have been 
added  to  the  range  of  health-care  services  provided 
under the policy’s agenda. 
In those efforts, the Government has worked hand 

in hand with all multilateral and bilateral stakeholders 
to  reach  the  current  status  regarding  ICPD  targets  in 
our  country.  In  particular,  the  United  Nations  country 
team,  with  the  support  of  UNFPA  —  which  is  the 
implementing  agency  for  the  ICPD  —  has  worked 
the  region 
transmitted 
sexually 
09-55501 

13 
on 
has 
the 
guided 
Population 
A/64/PV.18 

tirelessly  at  the  grass-roots  level.  We  thank  partner 
Governments and non-governmental agencies for their 
assistance.  On  behalf  of  my  Government,  I  wish  to 
express  my  gratitude  for  all  those  partners  for  their 
continued dedication and tremendous contributions. 
The  Acting  President:  I  call  next  on 

representative of Israel. 
Mr. Carmon (Israel): We are gathered here today 

to  commemorate  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  (ICPD).  Its  Programme  of  Action  (see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
numerous 
initiatives,  policies  and  programmes  in  the  field  of 
population  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels for the past 15 years. 

Although I am addressing the Assembly today in 
my national capacity, allow me to reflect on my role as 
Chair  of 
the  Commission  on  Population  and 
Development.  The  Commission  has  played  a  key  role 
in  the  work  of  the  ICPD  process.  Indeed,  as  early  as 
1989,  the  Commission  proposed  that  an  international 
conference  be  held  in  1994,  and  it  served  as  its 
preparatory committee. After the Cairo Conference, the 
Commission  was  strengthened  through  the  decision  to 
increase  its  membership  and  meet  in  annual  sessions, 
each focused on a specific theme related to population 
and development. 

Thanks to ongoing efforts to improve its methods 
of  work,  the  Commission  conducts  a  thorough  annual 
review of progress made in the implementation of each 
of  the  chapters  of  the  Programme  of  Action.  The 
Commission  has  thus  been  effective  in  providing 
additional  guidance  to  Member  States  on  how  to 
accelerate the implementation of the Programme. 

Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 
The Commission’s resolutions have allowed for a 

realignment 
and 
developments arise. In particular, given that several of 
the key ICPD goals and objectives became part of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  2000,  the 
Commission  has  focused  on  their  implementation.  In 
addition,  its  deliberations  have  succeeded  in  ensuring 
that all relevant indicators of achievement are included 
in the MDG framework. 

provided  a  blueprint  for  a  holistic  approach 
Since  1994,  the  ICPD  Programme  of Action  has 
to 
challenges 
priorities 
of 
as 

those 
issues 
in  my  country 
population  issues.  It  deserves  our  support  because  it 
puts  individuals  and  human  rights  at  the  centre  of 
population  and  development  issues,  and  it  provides 
comprehensive  guidance  in  all  aspects  of  population 
development while considering the important principle 
of sustainable development. 

Israel is particularly appreciative of the direction 
that  the  Programme  of  Action  provides  regarding  the 
integration of gender and the empowerment of women 
into  development  and  population  policies.  The 
importance  of 
is 
demonstrated  by  the  fact  that  the  Israeli Authority  for 
the Advancement of the Status of Women is part of the 
Prime  Minister’s  Office.  It  promotes  policies  and 
programmes  to  enhance  the  status,  health,  safety  and 
equality  of  women,  as  we  consider  such  initiatives  to 
be essential for the general well-being of society. 

Israel  fully  supports  the  right  of  couples  and 
individuals to freely decide the number and spacing of 
their children. Today, Israel’s total fertility rate is high 
for  a  developed  country:  an  average  of  3  children  per 
woman.  That  national  average  results  from  very 
different  family  sizes,  decided  upon  by  persons  with 
varied  religious  and  cultural  values.  Extreme  fertility 
gaps between different population groups — a leading 
indicator  of 
inequality  —  are 
diminishing as the distribution of, and access to, social 
and  health 
increase 
throughout  all  segments  of  society. At  the  same  time, 
Israel  is  proud  of  its  achievements  regarding  the  high 
educational attainment of women and their high levels 
of participation in the labour force and of income. 

Israel considers that the health of its population is 
a crucial public good. Our health system covers every 
resident in the country.  

A  particularly  successful  aspect  of  the  system  is 
the Mother and Child Health Clinics, known in Hebrew 
as  Tipat  Chalav.  Those  clinics  provide  prenatal,  post-
partum  and  reproductive  health  services  to  women. 
They also administer vaccinations and maintain records 
on  the  physical  and  mental  development  of  children. 
The  clinics  have  been  recognized  by  UNESCO  as  a 
successful  model  of  public  health  and  education,  and 
Israel now partners with developing countries in order 
to assist them as they replicate the Israeli model. 
As  a  country  that  has  absorbed  millions  of 

Israel  has  developed 
immigrants  and 
comprehensive  programmes  to  assist  those  particular 
services  and  opportunities 
socio-economic 
refugees, 
14 

09-55501 
in 


populations.  Since  the  Programme  of  Action  was 
adopted  in  1994,  Israel  has  successfully  integrated 
immigrants,  who  account  for  nearly  one  sixth  of  our 
population.  Throughout  that  period  of  exceptionally 
high  population  growth,  the  level  of  employment  has 
remained  stable,  while  life  expectancy,  educational 
attainment  and  income  levels  have  steadily  increased. 
As  we  move  forward,  Israel  stands  ready  to  share  its 
successful  experience 
that  respect  with  other 
countries  that  could  benefit  from  the  lessons  we  have 
learned. 

In  the  area  of  development  cooperation,  our 
Centre  for  International  Cooperation  —  MASHAV  — 
works to, inter alia, empower women around the world 
and improve their health. Israel has also partnered with 
many  United  Nations  bodies  in  the  global  effort  to 
achieve  the  MDGs.  Those  partnerships  have  led  to 
various  programmes  relevant  to  population  goals, 
including those addressing migration and health, early-
childhood  education  and  the  prevention  of  HIV/AIDS 
in Africa. 

Israel is committed to the full implementation of 
the ICPD Programme of Action, and we stand ready to 
share 
ideas  and  experiences,  confront  challenges, 
expand our partnerships and collaborate in developing 
further  initiatives.  In  that  respect,  the  interlinkages 
between  climate  change,  population  dynamics  and 
global  health  are  becoming  increasingly  important. 
Those  issues  are  of  great  concern  and  are  directly 
related to the issues of population and development. 

the  major 
contributions that the United Nations Population Fund 
has  made  to  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action and considers that the Fund’s assistance to and 
support  for reproductive health programmes can make 
a major contribution to the achievement of the MDGs. 

As a representative of the State of Israel, but also 
as  Chairman  of  the  Commission  on  Population  and 
Development,  I  look  forward  to  the  activities  of  the 
Commission  and  to  collaborating  with  all  relevant 
partners to increase the number of improvements in the 
area of population and development. 

representative of Poland. 
Mr. Herczyński (Poland): On behalf of Poland, I 

am  honoured  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  its 
commemoration  of  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
Furthermore, 
recognizes 
Israel 
the 
for 
A/64/PV.18
on 
the 
gender 
Population 
itself  with 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  (ICPD).  At  the  outset,  let  me  underline 
that  Poland  associates 
the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Sweden on behalf of 
the European Union (EU). 

The  Cairo  Conference,  held  in  1994,  has  played 
an  essential  role  over  the  past  15  years  in  the  process 
of improving the quality of life and access to health. In 
addition,  by  putting  human  beings  at  the  heart  of  all 
activities,  the  ICPD  was  a  great  step  forward  in  the 
process  of  promoting  full  respect  for  human  dignity 
worldwide. 

I  would  like  to  stress  that  the  ICPD  Programme 
of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) was adopted by 
179  countries.  Since  then  it  has  been  implemented  in 
all  continents  and  in  countries  representing  various 
cultures and historical experiences and facing different 
social  and  economic  problems. That  illustrates  a  great 
international 
common  understanding  within 
community  of  problems  pertaining 
to  population, 
development, 
shared 
the 
equality, 
responsibilities  of  men  and  women  and  reproduction-
related health issues. 

The  ICPD  was  also  a  reaction  to  the  HIV/AIDS 
epidemic, a great global threat and a challenge that the 
international community continues to face today. With 
regard  to  the  response  to  the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic,  as 
mentioned in the EU statement, Poland has high hopes 
for  progress  in  research  and  development  of  other 
forms  of  prevention,  namely,  microbicides  that  could 
significantly reduce HIV infections worldwide. 
Poland shares the view that the right to attain the 

including  sexual  and 
highest  standard  of  health, 
is  a  basis  for  action.  The 
reproductive  health, 
into  national 
incorporation  of 
development strategies — especially in national health 
policies,  strategies,  programmes  and  budgets  —  is  a 
prerequisite 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs). At  the  same  time,  while 
we support the statement made on behalf of the EU, we 
would  like  to  stress  that  in  our  understanding  any 
reference  made  to  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and 
rights  does  not  constitute  encouraging  or  promoting 
abortion on request. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century,  we 
have become more and more conscious of the fact that 
global  economic  and  social  development  still  faces 
many  impediments.  Both  the  economic  downturn, 
the  ICPD  agenda 
achieving 
09-55501 

15 

A/64/PV.18 

which  affected  developing  as  well  as  developed 
countries,  and, in the field of health, the A(H1N1)  flu 
pandemic, which crossed borders with lightning speed, 
proved  that  common  efforts  by  all  members  of  the 
international  community  are  fundamental  to  coping 
with and overcoming crises of a global nature. 

Looking  back  on  the  15  years  that  have  elapsed 
since the Cairo Conference, we can say that, although 
much  has  been  done,  many  problems  still  require 
urgent  collective  efforts.  The  cooperation  of 
the 
international  community  is  essential  to  attaining  all 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  MDGs.  It  is  our  belief  that  we  should  focus  on 
fighting  poverty  and  enabling  universal  access  to 
education. The family, as a basic unit of society, should 
be at the heart of our actions. In the field of maternal 
health, where progress towards the achievement of the 
relevant  MDGs  remains  slow  and  even  unsatisfactory, 
the main problem to be solved is how to enable access 
to health and obstetric care. 
I  would  like  to  reconfirm  Poland’s  commitment 

to 
the  effective 
ICPD 
Programme  of  Action.  Poland  expresses  its  strong 
support for the activities of the United Nations system 
in that regard, in particular those of the United Nations 
Population  Fund.  We  are  ready  to  actively  participate 
in discussions and actions leading to the attainment of 
the ICPD goals. 

representative of New Zealand. 
Ms. Graham (New Zealand): New Zealand fully 

aligns  itself  with  the  joint  Pacific  island  members’ 
statement  delivered  earlier  today  by  The  Honourable 
Vita Skilling, Secretary of Health and Social Affairs of 
the Federated States of Micronesia.  
New  Zealand  is  regarded  internationally  as  a 

the 
steadfast  advocate  of 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  (ICPD),  held  in  1994  in  Cairo.  The 
agreement  forged  at  the  ICPD  and  the  Programme  of 
Action 
(see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  were  significant  in  addressing 
some  of  the  most  sensitive  aspects  of  sexual  and 
reproductive  health  and  for  promoting  a  rights-based 
approach to dealing with population issues. 

New  Zealand  has  vigorously  pursued  the  ICPD 
goals  over  the  past  15  years  —  from  supporting 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
the  goals  agreed  at 
that  came  out  of 
implementation  of 
the  Conference 
Population 
the 
on 
the 
as 
as  well 
remaining 
Federation, 
five  years 
practical initiatives in the Pacific region, such as in the 
areas  of  adolescent  sexual  and  reproductive  health,  to 
increasing our core contributions to the United Nations 
Population  Fund  and 
International  Planned 
Parenthood 
through 
contributions  to  the  global  policy  dialogue,  including 
most recently in the Human Rights Council. In June of 
this  year,  New  Zealand  co-led  a  successful  initiative 
through  the  Council  that  resulted  in  the  consensus 
adoption  of  a  resolution  on  preventable  maternal 
mortality  and  morbidity  and  human  rights.  The  wide 
support  it  received  from  72  members  forms  a  strong 
foundation for further progress on these issues. 
However,  this  anniversary  reminds  us  that  there 

are  only 
fulfil  our 
commitments made in 1994, and much work remains to 
be  done.  The  current  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis  is  having  an  impact  on  the  lives  of  people  in 
developing countries in particular. That makes it all the 
more important to remain  focused on our goals.  If we 
do  not,  there  will  be  long-term  consequences  for 
population  issues  and  sexual  and  reproductive  health. 
We will continue to see gender inequality, high rates of 
unintended  teenage  pregnancy  and  maternal  mortality, 
as  well  as  increasing  social  and  economic  disparities. 
We  must  continue  to  promote  universal  access  to 
reproductive  health.  We  must  continue  to  reduce 
maternal  deaths.  And  we  must  continue  to  support 
programmes 
in  women’s  economic 
empowerment. 
New  Zealand  is  very  conscious  that  —  after 

the  Pacific,  and  more 
sub-Saharan  Africa  — 
specifically Melanesia, is the area of the world second 
least  likely  to  meet  the  targets  set  by  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  the 
Goals  are  inextricably  linked  to  those  of  the  ICPD 
Programme of Action. 

Perhaps  most  critically,  the  adverse  effects  of 
climate  change  will  have  direct  consequences  on 
human  welfare, 
sustainable 
development.  How  we  address  climate  change  in 
Copenhagen  will  hopefully  signal  a  renewed  effort  to 
achieve the goals of the ICPD. New Zealand wants  to 
see  any  future  international  agreement  on  climate 
change  include  responses  to  mitigation  and  adaptation 
that take into account population dynamics.  

issues  outside 
There  is  also  a  need  to  make  progress  on  those 
framework,  such  as 
the  climate 
security 
invest 
food 
that 
to 
and 
16 

09-55501 
intend 
resilience 
to  do  so 


increasing access to sexual and reproductive health and 
voluntary  family  planning  services.  Those  services 
must  incorporate  a  rights-based  approach  to  lowering 
fertility,  slowing  population  growth  and  empowering 
women.  All  those  efforts  will  contribute  to  climate 
change  mitigation  and  will  build 
for 
adaptation. 

In conclusion, New Zealand wishes to restate our 
commitment to these goals and our focus on sexual and 
reproductive  health,  HIV  and  AIDS  and  gender 
equality.  We 
through  continued 
collaboration  with  our  partners,  particularly  those  in 
the Pacific region. 
Mr.  Webb  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States would like to share its condolences with 
the  families  of  the  11  United  Nations  workers  who 
recently died in a plane crash in Haiti.  

It  is  my  great  honour  to  be  here  today  to 
commemorate  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  Cairo 
Programme  of  Action  (see  A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  of 
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  (ICPD).  We  appreciate  the  thoughtful 
remarks  of  other  delegations  today.  I  would  like  to 
recognize  all  of 
the  other  Governments  and 
organizations  represented  here,  and  others  around  the 
world,  for  their  support  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of 
Action  over  the  past  15  years.  The  United  States 
strongly supports the goals and ideals of the ICPD and, 
under  President  Obama’s  leadership,  has  renewed  our 
commitment to work with the international community 
to implement the ICPD Programme of Action.  

The  ICPD  represented  a  turning  point  in  the 
world’s  perspective  on  population  and  development. 
The 
the 
the  voluntary  decisions  made  by 
importance  of 
individuals  and  couples  about  the  number,  timing  and 
spacing  of  their  children  and  the  importance  of 
ensuring  that  information  and  services  were  available 
to  make  and  implement  informed  decisions.  It  also 
clearly  recognized  the  importance  of  population  and 
development  objectives  critical  to  achieving  the  goals 
of  sustained  economic  growth  in  the  context  of 
sustainable  development;  education,  especially  for 
girls;  gender  equity  and  equality;  infant,  child  and 
maternal  mortality;  and  the  provision  of  universal 
access to reproductive health services.  
We  stand  here  today,  15  years  on,  with  many 

accomplishments,  but  with  daunting  challenges  still 
international 
community 
recognized 
A/64/PV.18
of 
The 
towards 
I  want 
fulfilling 
community 
international 
highlight 
some  of 
some 
the 
ahead. 
to 
accomplishments,  note 
the  continuing 
obstacles and describe some of what the United States 
plans to do, moving forward. 
has  made 

significant  progress 
the  Cairo 
Programme  of Action  in  the  past  15  years. According 
to a report published by the United Nations Population 
Fund  (UNFPA),  more  births  are  now  attended  by 
skilled health personnel. In East Asia, the percentage of 
infants  delivered  with 
the  assistance  of  skilled 
personnel  has  risen  from  71  per  cent  in  1990  to 
98 percent  in  2006  —  a  tremendous  accomplishment. 
In Latin America and the Caribbean, the increase over 
the  same  period  was  from  68  per  cent  to  86  per  cent, 
and  in  North Africa,  from  45  per  cent  to  79  per  cent. 
More women and couples are choosing to plan the size 
of  their  families,  space  their  pregnancies  and  choose 
the  number  of  their  children.  The  use  of  modern 
contraception  has  increased  worldwide,  from  about 
47 per  cent  of  women  of  reproductive  age  in  1990  to 
56 per cent in 2007.  

Infants  and  children  are  also  healthier.  Infant 
mortality  has  declined  in  every  region.  In  South  and 
Central Asia, there were 80 deaths per 1,000 live births 
in the period from 1990 to 1995. UNFPA estimates that 
this rate declined to 56 deaths per 1,000 live births for 
the  period  from  2005  to  2010.  In  sub-Saharan Africa, 
the  decline  was  from  109  to  89  deaths  per  1,000  live 
births over the same period.  
The  United  States  was  heartened  that  so  many 

interest  and  actively 
delegations 
participated 
the 
Commission  on  Population  and  Development  last 
March,  which  focused  on  the  ICPD  and  produced  a 
highly  substantive  outcome  document.  That  document 
reaffirmed  the  commitment  of  Member  States  to  the 
ICPD  Programme  of Action  without  qualification  and 
provided  clarity  on 
important  commitments.  The 
document  included  an  unprecedented  emphasis  on 
human rights and a new commitment to comprehensive 
education  on  sexuality  and  gender  equality,  a  call  for 
access to reproductive health commodities and services 
for  adolescents,  an  assertion  of  the  importance  of 
integrating  programmes  that  address  HIV  with  sexual 
and  reproductive  health  and  a  strong  multilateral 
statement  that  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  is 
integrally related to the achievement of the Millennium 
took  a  strong 
in 
forty-second  session  of 
the 
09-55501 

17 
struggling 
to  meet 
including 
that  related 
infrastructure, 
A/64/PV.18 

Development  Goals.  We  look  forward  to  working 
towards the implementation of these commitments.  

The United States was particularly pleased by the 
outcome  document’s  strong  focus  on  youth  education 
and  services.  Many  developing  countries,  including 
those 
their  Millennium 
Development  Goal  commitments,  are  grappling  with 
unprecedented  surges  in  their  youth  populations.  This 
is  putting  tremendous  new  strains  on  health  and 
education 
to 
family  planning  and  maternal  and  child  health  and 
survival. 

Much  work  remains  to  be  done  to  realize  the 
promise  of  Cairo.  It  is  also  clear  that  much  more 
progress  needs  to  take  place  in  fulfilling  Millennium 
Development  Goal  5,  which  calls  for  a  two-thirds 
reduction in maternal mortality by 2015.  

Every  minute  of  every  day,  a  woman  dies  from 
conditions  related  to  pregnancy  or  childbirth.  This 
amounts to 530,000 deaths annually. Women, girls and 
their  babies  still  die  every  day  as  a  result  of 
pregnancies that are too early, a lack of skilled medical 
personnel,  inadequate  spacing  of  births  or  insufficient 
post-natal  care.  For  every  death,  20  or  more  women 
suffer  from  injury,  infection  and  disease.  The  dire 
problem  of  maternal  mortality  is  particularly  grave  in 
certain regions where, according to the United Nations 
Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM), as many as 
one  in  10  women  die  from  pregnancy-related  causes. 
As 
in 
sub-Saharan  Africa  remains  at  an  unacceptably  high 
rate of 89 deaths per 1,000 live births.  

UNFPA data shows that pregnancy is the leading 
cause of death in teenage girls in developing countries. 
Girls  ages  15  to  19  are  twice  as  likely  to  die  from 
pregnancy-related  complications  as  women  in  their 
20s, while girls under 15 are five times more likely to 
die.  These  deaths  of  mothers  occur  even  though  the 
means  for  preventing  maternal  mortality  are  cost-
effective  and  well-known, 
including  skilled  birth 
attendance,  birth  spacing  and  prenatal  care  and 
nutrition. The world needs to take additional action to 
provide 
life-saving  care.  President  Obama, 
Secretary  Clinton  and Ambassador  Rice  have  made  it 
clear  that  the  United  States  strongly  supports  human 
rights, women’s rights and reproductive rights, as well 
as  universal  access  to  reproductive  health  and  family 
planning.  
infant  mortality 
just  mentioned, 
I  have 
that 

and 

The  United  States  has  a  strong  history  of 
supporting  family  planning  as  part  of  its  foreign 
assistance  programmes.  Through  the  United  States 
Agency  for  International  Development  (USAID),  the 
United  States  provided  family  planning  assistance  to 
over 50 countries in 2009, including 35 to 40 per cent 
of  donor-supplied  contraceptives  to  the  developing 
world.  USAID  also  supports  the  Demographic  and 
Health  Surveys  Project,  which  provides  essential 
information about family planning and health dynamics 
in  many  countries.  United  States  Government 
programmes have also trained more than half a million 
medical professionals, including clinic supervisors and 
administrators,  physicians 
community-based 
workers,  so  that  the  advances  in  reproductive  health 
will belong to, and remain in, the host country. Modern 
contraceptive use prevalence rates increased from 24 to 
38  per  cent  on  average  in  36  countries  receiving 
assistance from the United States. From 1990 to 2000, 
the  percentage  of  contraceptive  users  increased  in 
every region. The United States is also funding UNFPA 
and strongly supports its life-saving work.  

In May of this year, President Obama announced 
the United States Global Health Initiative — a six-year, 
$63  billion  effort  that  emphasizes  global  health  as  an 
essential element of United States foreign policy. In his 
announcement,  President  Obama  said  that  we  cannot 
fix every problem, but that we have a responsibility to 
protect  the  health  of  our  people,  while  saving  lives, 
reducing  suffering  and  supporting  the  health  and 
dignity of people everywhere. Reproductive health and 
family planning are essential aspects of that effort. 

As  the  United  States  moves  forward  on  this 
initiative, we are pleased to join with the international 
fifteenth 
community 
in 
the 
anniversary  of 
its 
Programme of Action. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Praveen  Mishra,  Secretary  for 
Health and Population of Nepal. 
Mr.  Mishra  (Nepal):  I  should  like  to  make  this 

statement  on  behalf  of  The  Honourable  Khadka 
Bahadur  Bashyal,  Minister  of  State  for  Health  and 
Population  of 
the  Government  of  Nepal,  whose 
presence here I would like to recognize.  

First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  extend  my  special 
thanks  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
the 
organizing 
this  commemorative  meeting  on 
commemorating 
ICPD  and 
re-endorsing 
the 
18 

09-55501 
on 
broad 
addressed 
Population 
The  Conference 
economic  growth,  health, 


fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  holding  of  the  landmark 
International  Conference 
and 
Development (ICPD), held in Cairo in 1994. 

issues 
concerning  the  interrelationships  between  population, 
sustained 
education, 
economic status and the empowerment of women. The 
Programme of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) that 
was  adopted  in  Cairo  is  a  forward-looking  plan  that 
calls  for  action  at  various  levels,  including  a  strategic 
focus at the national level. 

The  implementation  of  the  Cairo  Programme  of 
Action would contribute directly to the achievement of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to reduce 
poverty,  hunger,  poor  health  and  HIV/AIDS  and 
promote gender equality. 

Some successes have been achieved in translating 
the  commitments  we  made  into  policies  and  action 
programmes,  but  much  remains  to  be  done.  At  this 
point  in  time,  we  believe  that  the  best  way  to 
commemorate the ICPD is to carry out a pragmatic and 
constructive  analysis  of  achievements,  constraints  and 
lessons  learned  so  as  to  enrich  and  accelerate  the 
implementation of the Programme of Action. 

There is no doubt that the goal of Cairo remains 
as  relevant  now  as  it  was  then.  Despite  progress  on 
many  fronts,  more  than  a  billion  people  still  live  in 
extreme  poverty,  which  is  generally  associated  with 
large family size, low use of family planning methods, 
low educational levels and poor nutrition. All of these 
factors work against the goals of the ICPD. 

Least  developed  countries  such  as  Nepal  are 
facing  formidable  challenges  to  delivering  population 
and health-care services. Nepal has undertaken various 
measures to implement the commitments undertaken in 
Cairo,  including  the  adoption  of  a  national  population 
policy  to  reduce  the  population  growth  rate  and 
regulate  migration.  In  addition,  Nepal  has  focused  on 
increasing  income-generating  activities  and  improving 
women’s status and easy access to basic education and 
reproductive  health  and  family  planning  services.  We 
have increased our health budget by about 15 to 20 per 
cent  each  year  over  the  past  three  years.  We  are 
enhancing  the  governance  of  the  health  sector  so  that 
quality  health  care  reaches  the  people  of  the  remote 
mountains and villages of Nepal. 
A/64/PV.18
in 
the 
the 
and 
three-year 
inflow  of 
remittances 

We  have  integrated  the  ICPD  Programme  of 
Action  and  the  MDGs  into  our  poverty  reduction 
strategy  paper.  Similarly,  our 
interim 
development  plan  also  continues  to  address  poverty 
reduction  goals,  with  a  focus  on  social  inclusion  and 
women’s  empowerment,  equity  and  access  to  and 
utilization of health-care services, thus complementing 
the goals of the ICPD. 

Some positive indicators have emerged in Nepal. 
Overall  poverty  and  human  development  have 
improved  significantly 
recent  past.  The 
percentage of people living below the absolute poverty 
line has fallen to 31 per cent from 42 per cent. This has 
been possible due to an increase in wages, urbanization 
and 
from  migrants. 
Furthermore,  Nepal’s  human  development  index  has 
slightly improved, although it still remains very low. 

Despite various challenges, including the decade-
long  internal  conflict  that  we  are  now  resolving 
peacefully,  Nepal  is  making  steady  progress  in  health 
care.  We  are  on  course  to  meet  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  related  to  child  survival  and 
reducing  maternal  mortality.  In  the  past  decade,  we 
have  halved  both  the  number  of  maternal  deaths  and 
deaths of children under the age of five. 

The  ICPD  Programme  of Action  recognized  that 
education  for  girls  is  a  best  practice  for  development. 
Various 
scholarship 
programmes,  especially  for 
the  poor,  dalits  and 
vulnerable  and  marginalized  people,  has  helped  to 
improve  the  literacy  rate  to  some  extent,  although  the 
school dropout rate is still high. There has also been a 
substantial  reduction  in  the  country’s  fertility  rate  in 
the  past  decade.  The  Nepal  Demographic  and  Health 
Survey  showed  a  total  fertility  rate  for  Nepal  of  3.1, 
although in rural areas it is still very high. 

Safe  motherhood  is  one  of  the  most  important 
components  of  reproductive  health,  and  the  ICPD 
accorded  it  high  importance.  Three  major  strategies 
have  been  adopted  in  Nepal  in  that  regard,  namely, 
promoting  birth  preparedness  and  the  availability  of 
encouraging 
transportation 
institutional 
24-hour 
emergency obstetric care devices at select public health 
facilities in every district. 

The maternal mortality ratio is still very high, at 
281 per 100,000 live births. In order to solve problems 
associated  with  complications  from  pregnancy,  the 
and  blood 
delivery; 
campaigns 
expanding 
literacy 
supplies; 
and 
09-55501 

19 
in 
has 
from 
given 
priority 
the  child  and 
interim  plan  and 
The  Government 
A/64/PV.18 

concept  of  basic  and  comprehensive  emergency 
obstetric care is being implemented at primary health-
care centres, health posts and hospitals. There has been 
a  progressive  reduction 
infant 
mortality  rates  during  recent  years.  However,  the 
neonatal mortality rate remains high. 

to 
reproductive  health  services  and  rights  in  our  three-
year 
in  Nepal’s  Health  Sector 
Programme-Implementation  Plan.  It  has  announced 
free  health-care  services  up  to  district-level  hospitals 
and  free  maternity  care  in  all  health  institutions.  The 
Government has recognized uterine prolapse as a major 
health  problem  and  devoted  resources  to  prevent  it 
through specialized camps in select districts that have a 
high prevalence rate of this condition. 

In  Nepal,  the  pace  of  change  in  demographic 
indicators  is  slow. The  country’s  population  is  largely 
rural,  illiterate,  poor  and  young.  There  is  an  urgent 
need  to  build  national  capacity  to  ensure  that  young 
people  benefit 
the  development  process. 
Addressing young people’s issues through the ICPD by 
making  the  most  of  their  potential  is  a  challenging 
issue. 

the  Beijing 
Declaration  and  Platform  for  Action,  as  well  as  our 
national  action  plans  on 
the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against 
Women  and  on  combating  the  trafficking  of  girls. 
Discriminatory laws have been amended. Gender focal 
points  have  been  established  in  ministries  and  at  the 
National  Women’s  Commission.  Support  has  been 
provided  in  skill  development  for  single  women  for 
their  social  and  economic  empowerment.  Mechanisms 
relating  to  gender  budgeting  have  been  initiated.  The 
involvement  of  women 
formulation  and 
implementation  of  local  development  programmes  has 
been  institutionalized.  The  Parliament  has  passed  a 
resolution stating that women’s participation must be at 
33  per  cent  in  all  State  mechanisms.  Currently,  one 
third  of  Nepal’s  601  National  Constituent  Assembly 
members are women. 

Nepal  has  achieved  a  lot  in  terms  of  human 
development  and  gender 
indicators.  The  gender 
development  index  has  improved  and  female-male 
disparities  have  been 
in 
increasing  women’s  access  to  literacy  education  and 
health-care services has been significant, yet disparities 
reduced.  The  progress 
the  Convention  on 
We  have  been 
implementing 
in 
the 

I 
and 
take 
from 
those 
gender 
equality 
emerging 
to  acknowledge 
this  opportunity 
between  men  and  women,  castes  and  ethnic  groups 
remain.  The  Government  has  prepared  a  long-term 
population  perspective  plan  for  the  period  2010  to 
2031,  which  will  serve  as  a  key  guide 
for 
mainstreaming  ICPD  issues  in  sectoral  plans,  policies 
and programmes. 

the 
important  role  of  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
in promoting and ensuring access to and utilization of 
reproductive  health  services  and  rights,  including  by 
providing  voluntary  family  planning  programmes, 
promoting 
empowerment, 
and 
eliminating  gender-based  violence, 
strengthening 
integrated  health  management  information  systems, 
and  supporting  the  carrying  out  of  population  census 
for the production of quality sociodemographic data. 

We  are  acutely  aware  that  the  present  global 
financial  crisis  makes  our  task  of  providing  basic 
reproductive  health  care  to  our  citizens  much  more 
difficult,  but  long-term  and  predictable  financing  is  a 
must to help developing countries, especially the least 
developed 
conflict, 
complement  their  national  endeavours  to  meet  the 
health-related Millennium Development Goals. 

representative of Switzerland. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

Fifteen  years  ago,  the  International  Conference  on 
Population  and  Development  marked  a  historic  break 
with  the  traditional  discourse  on  population  issues.  In 
placing individuals and their rights at the centre of the 
analysis  of  population  dynamics,  the  Cairo  consensus 
endorsed a paradigm change, thus opening the way for 
an  approach  based  on  the  dignity  and  general  well-
being of human beings. 

In  many  respects,  the  consensus  embodied  in  the 
Cairo Programme of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
remains a model of vision and justice, in terms not only 
of analysis, but also of action. Whoever takes the time to 
reread  the  Programme  of  Action  cannot  help  but  be 
inspired by the deeply humanistic spirit of its contents. 

I  should  like,  in  this  connection,  to  return  to 
what,  in  the  view  of  my  Government,  constitutes  the 
principal  achievements  of  Cairo. 
terms  of 
reproductive  rights  and  health,  the  Programme  of 
Action recognizes the fundamental right of all couples 
and individuals to freely and responsibly decide on the 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
In 
20 

09-55501 
their  status 


number  of  children  they  desire  and  on  the  spacing  of 
their births. This recognition of the freedom to choose 
as  a  fundamental  determining  factor  of  reproductive 
health represents a historic breakthrough. 

The  Programme  of Action  highlights  the  need  to 
ensure  universal  access  to  basic  health  services,  to 
involve  communities  in  health-care  policy  planning 
and  to  develop  maternal  health  services  within  the 
scope  of  primary  health-care  services.  Finally,  with 
regard  to  gender  equality,  the  Programme  of  Action 
recognizes  that  the  empowerment  of  women  and  the 
improvement  of 
in  political,  social, 
economic  and  health-care  terms  constitute  essential 
conditions for sustainable development. 

Those  are  the  central  elements,  and  we  believe 
that no new element has emerged since consensus was 
reached  on  this  text  that  would  justify  reopening  the 
debate  on  its  comprehensive  and  ambitious  contents. 
That is why we must protect the achievements of Cairo 
from the erosion wrought by time. 

I  have  spoken  of  a  text  that  is  ambitious;  is  it, 
perhaps,  too  ambitious?  This  question  is  justified  in 
view  of  the  difficulties  encountered  in  meeting  its 
objectives  and  of  the  intensity  of  the  efforts  that  we 
will have to make if we are determined to reach them 
in  due  time.  Given  the  limited  time  and  means  at  our 
disposal, what should our priorities be? 

Today,  we  know  that  responding  to  the  unmet 
needs for family planning would be sufficient to reduce 
by  one  third  the  global  rate  of  maternal  mortality  by 
avoiding  unwanted  pregnancies  and  the  dangerous 
abortions  in  which  they  often  result.  This  is  why  we 
must  provide  the  200  million  women  who,  at  present, 
would  like  to  delay  or  avoid  another  pregnancy  with 
the  assurance  that  they  can  avail 
themselves  of 
effective and safe methods of contraception. 

In  some  regions  of  the  world,  the  complications 
that  arise  during  pregnancy  or  delivery  are  still  the 
most  frequent  cause  of  death  among  women.  That  is 
why  we  must  guarantee  access  to  primary  health-care 
services  for  women,  with  the  possibility  of  obtaining 
emergency obstetrical care if needed. 

Finally,  despite  some  apparent  success,  for 
instance in school enrolment, glaring disparities persist 
between  the  sexes  when  it  comes  to  the  decision-
making  power  of  women  and  the  quality  of  their 
sources of income. That is why we must strengthen the 
A/64/PV.18
the 
fifteenth 
anniversary 
of 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
judicial,  political  and  socio-economic  mechanisms  for 
guaranteeing  the  participation  of  women  in  decision-
making  processes  and  ensuring  that  their  work  is 
adequately remunerated. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  my 
Government,  to  take  this  occasion  to  applaud  the 
unique  and  irreplaceable  work  of  the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund  in  favour  of  the  principles  and 
objectives of the Cairo Programme of Action. Be it on 
the level of promotion, acceptance of or support for the 
implementation  of  the  Programme,  the  Fund  has 
always  excelled  in  its  role  as  the  primary  partner  of 
Governments.  Switzerland  would  like  to  reiterate  its 
support for the United Nations Population Fund and to 
assure  it  of  our  continued  commitment  to  the  Cairo 
Agenda. 

representative of Kazakhstan. 
Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan): As we gather today to 

commemorate 
the 
International Conference on Population and Development 
(ICPD),  the  relevance  and  topicality  of  that  Conference 
seem  as  evident  as  when  the  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations made their unanimous pledge to progress 
on  population,  development,  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment of women in the 20-year ICPD Programme 
of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1). 

On  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  I 
should  like  to  begin  with  some  words  of  appreciation 
to  the  Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund  (UNFPA),  Ms.  Thoraya  Ahmed 
Obaid, and to UNFPA staff, both at headquarters and in 
the 
in  assisting 
Governments,  civil  society  and  local  communities 
worldwide  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) and further implement the ICPD.  

to 
Kazakhstan in ensuring universal access to high quality 
reproductive health care, HIV prevention, sexual health 
education 
services.  UNFPA 
technical  assistance  in  mainstreaming  data  related  to 
population  census  and  dynamics,  reproductive  health 
and  gender  equality 
the  national  Human 
Development 
for  All  agenda  has  helped  my 
Government to ensure adequate demographic and other 
development  strategies.  UNFPA  policy  advocacy  and 
public  awareness-raising  on 
reproductive  health 
care — including family planning, equal gender rights, 
We  highly  appreciate  UNFPA  assistance 
and  youth-friendly 
field, 
for 
their  devoted  work 
into 
09-55501 

21 

to  attain 
sustainability 
Strengthening 
environmental 
the  progress  made  on 
A/64/PV.18 

support for emergency preparedness, gender budgeting 
and  resource  mobilization  —  are  interlinked  with 
Kazakhstan’s  national  development  strategies  and 
competitiveness agenda targeting the most vulnerable. 

Although  Kazakhstan  has  entered  the  tier  of 
middle-income  countries,  access  to  certain  health  and 
social  services  for  our  population  remains  at  a  lower 
level  than  that  required  to  meet  all  current  needs  and 
costs  and 
long-term  population  and 
development objectives. As elsewhere, Kazakhstan has 
adopted  and  gradually  implemented  various  national 
policies, laws and programmes in full compliance with 
the MDGs and the Cairo consensus. 

three 
MDGs —  eradicate  extreme  poverty  and  hunger, 
achieve  universal  primary  education,  and  promote 
gender  equality  and  empower  women  —  and 
mainstreaming 
and 
socially  oriented  development  policies  in  all  national, 
sectoral  and  local  strategies  and  processes  are  the 
cornerstones  of  our  State  policy.  Results-oriented  and 
people-centred  programme 
interventions  are  being 
carried out throughout the country — especially in the 
notorious  Semipalatinsk  Nuclear  Polygon  area,  in 
eastern  Kazakhstan,  and  in  the  Aral  Sea  basin,  in 
southern Kazakhstan — with a particular focus on the 
comprehensive 
recording  of  childhood  diseases, 
reducing  maternal  and  child  mortality  and  achieving 
universal  access  to  sexual  and  reproductive  health 
education and services. 

Stable  economic  growth,  social  development, 
environmental  protection  and  an  optimal  balance 
the 
among 
implementation 
national 
commitments  in  the  economic,  social  and  related 
fields.  However,  the  ongoing  world  financial  and 
economic crisis has had an adverse impact on national 
development  trends  and  on  the  ability  of  countries  to 
strengthen  and  adequately  fund  their  social  protection 
systems. This undoubtedly raises valid concerns about 
possible 
development 
indicators, particularly social determinants. 

Kazakhstan  regards  unacceptably  high  maternal 
and child mortality rates — two interrelated MDGs in 
the  area  of  health  —  as  its  highest  priorities.  Since 
2008,  Kazakhstan  has  applied 
the  World  Health 
Organization  definition  of  live  births.  Despite  the  fact 
that 
infant 
important  preconditions  for 
this  measure 
is  aimed  at 
deterioration 
international 
improving 
them  are 
and 
of 
across 
all 
of 
the 
The 
timely 
realignment 
mortality  data,  our  country  is  seeking  to  improve 
monitoring  and  to  bring  its  health-care  system  in  line 
with  internationally  agreed  standards.  This  step  is 
being  taken  to  help  us  achieve  MDG  4:  reduce  child 
mortality. Kazakhstan already has evidence of positive 
trends in that area.  

Understanding 
importance  of  sustainable 
investments 
in  women  and  children,  Kazakhstan 
solicits  donor  funds  and  financial  assistance  from 
development partners to help cover programme costs in 
order to meet the country’s new development needs.  

programme 
interventions  and  the  redirection  of  adequate  State 
funds  have  proved  to  be  keys  to  the  successful 
implementation  of  health-related  national  programmes 
and  strategies.  In  recent  years,  the  Government  has 
redoubled  its  efforts  to  support  women  and  children, 
providing  one-time  benefits  for  childbirth  and  other 
child-care  benefits.  The  system  of  compulsory  social 
insurance  to  cover  pregnancy,  childbirth  and  health 
care for children less than one-year old was introduced 
in  2008.  Moreover,  beginning  on  1  July  2009,  the 
revised  national  budget  for  2009-2011  provides  for 
sustained increases in all social benefits and guarantees 
for  the  population.  A  9-per  cent  annual  increase  in 
State  social  benefits 
the 
allocations  for  pensions  and  other  benefits  will  have 
nearly doubled from 2008 to 2011.  

The  Government  of  my  country  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  recently  adopted  resolution  63/311, 
on a more effective and relevant United Nations entity 
focused 
and  women’s 
empowerment.  We  strongly  believe  that  the  new 
composite  entity,  with  adequate  institutional  capacity, 
will be able to become a stronger advocate for gender 
rights  and  interests  and  women’s  empowerment,  to 
promote  effective  system-wide  gender  mainstreaming, 
and  to  be  a  better  fund-raiser  for  this  key  aspect  of 
development. 

The  poor  and  vulnerable  worldwide  are  more 
powerless  than  ever,  and  therefore  should  remain  the 
focus  of  national  poverty  reduction  strategies  and 
interventions.  In  that  context,  the  legal  empowerment 
of the poor — especially women — in the community 
and  workplace  is  becoming  essential  for  the  effective 
strengthening  of  national  strategies  aimed  at  poverty 
reduction  and  sustained  economic  growth.  Each 
country  has  primary 
its  own 
is  scheduled.  In 
responsibility 
equality 
gender 
total, 
for 
on 
22 

09-55501 
in 
the 
should 
the 
to 
the 
include 
including 
in  engaging 


development  and  for  the  strengthening  of  its  social 
sector,  and  increasing  opportunities  for  citizens  is 
directly linked to effective poverty eradication. 

In  the  context  of  the  transition  towards  the 
principle  of  global  responsibility  for  the  promotion  of 
development, Kazakhstan shares the view of many that 
it  is  important  to  honour  all  previously  announced 
international commitments in the area of financing for 
development, 
the  ICPD  Programme  of 
Action.  Global,  regional  and  subregional  response 
measures 
strengthening  of 
international  cooperation  and  the  establishment  of 
innovative  forms  of  partnership 
the  area  of 
development financing — especially now, on the eve of 
the 2010 MDG summit. 
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that the 

current  pressing  challenges 
international 
community  require  ever  greater  political  will  and 
flexibility  on  the  part  of  all  United  Nations  Member 
States 
truly  global  and  regional 
cooperation  that  benefits  all.  Kazakhstan  therefore 
the 
reaffirms 
its  commitment 
International  Conference 
and 
Development,  as  well  as  to  their  implementation.  We 
look  forward  to  continuing  our  fruitful  work  with 
UNFPA through its newly opened subregional office in 
Almaty,  as  well  as  at  the  bilateral  and  multilateral 
levels. 

representative of Cuba. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

Today,  we  recall  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community  15  years  ago,  when  we  set  ourselves 
commendable  goals  to  improve  the  lives  of  all  people 
and  to  pursue  development.  The  1994  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  was  a 
turning point in international debates on population. It 
addressed social, political and cultural issues having a 
major impact on humankind, and changed the way we 
think about controlling countries’ population growth as 
a way to achieve development. 

We  wish  to  refer  today  to  the  Cuban  heroine 
Vilma Espín Guillois, prominent advocate for women’s 
rights, who headed the Cuban delegation at the meeting 
in Cairo and whose efforts were crucial to the inclusion 
of  the  universal  right  to  reproductive  health,  safe 
motherhood  and  gender  equality 
the  outcome 
The  Acting  President: 
Population 
ideals  of 
to 
on 
on 
the 
I 
call 
in 
in 
A/64/PV.18
to  blame  poor  people 
the 
documents  of  the  Conference.  Fifteen  years  ago,  the 
Cuban fighter stated: 
“We 

attempt 
for 
overpopulation, 
essential 
resources, environmental contamination and global 
climate  change.  Are  poor  people  the  cause? 
Obviously,  it  is  unsustainable  modes  of  irrational 
production  and  consumption  that  have  unleashed 
the  global  climate  change  and  huge  ecological 
problems that threaten life on the planet.” 
depletion 
of 
Her words remain as valid as ever today.  

This  could  have  been  a  day  for  congratulation, 
but it is not. As we meet here, the right to development 
is  still  an  illusion  for  poor  countries.  The  world’s 
population  includes  1.02  billion  who  are  starving. 
HIV/AIDS  affects  more 
than  36  million  people. 
Climate  change,  resulting  from  misguided  policies 
seeking  economic  growth  and  consumerism  at  any 
price, is causing an increasing number of disasters. 

According  to  the  most  recent  report  of  the 
International  Labour  Organization  (ILO),  in  2009, 
global  unemployment  could  increase  by  between  18 
and  30  million  workers  owing  to  the  economic  crisis, 
and  by  over  50  million  if  the  situation  continues  to 
deteriorate. The  ILO  report  also  maintains  that,  in  the 
latter  scenario,  nearly  200  million  workers,  mostly  in 
developing  economies,  could  join  those  living  in 
extreme  poverty.  The  ILO  message  is  realistic,  not 
alarmist. 

Maternal  mortality  remains  disproportionately 
high  in  the  countries  of  the  South.  Although  not 
necessarily  predictable,  all  complications  can  be 
prevented. Every minute, one woman dies; 100 women 
have  pregnancy-related 
and  300 
conceive  without  wanting  or  having  planned  their 
pregnancy. The goal, set out in the Cairo Programme of 
Action, is that  

complications; 
assistance 
“[t]he  international  community  should  strive  for 
the fulfilment of the agreed target of 0.7 per cent 
of  the  gross  national  product  for  overall  official 
development 
to 
increase  the  share  of  funding  for  population  and 
development programmes commensurate with the 
scope  and  scale  of  activities  required  to  achieve 
the  objectives  and  goals  of  the  Programme  of 
I, 
Action” 
annex, 14.11).  
(A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1,  Chapter 
endeavour 
and 
09-55501 

23 

resources 
international  economic  order 
A/64/PV.18 

That  goal  remains  unfulfilled,  while  the  tendency  to 
allocate  vast 
to  war  and  destruction 
continues. In 2008, spending on military weapons and 
forces was $1.4 billion. 

The  global  crisis  is  not  limited  to  the  financial 
sector.  It  is  economic  and  social.  It  is  a  global 
phenomenon with deep structural roots that negatively 
affect the rise in unemployment and poverty, and thus 
the lives and well-being of billions of human beings, in 
particular  women,  who  already  represent  the  majority 
of the poor. Globalization has not reduced poverty. On 
the contrary, poverty has increased in recent years and 
will continue to do so. 

The  cause  of  the  current  economic  and  social 
imbalances  is  the  lack  of  political  will  to  reach  a  fair 
and  balanced 
that 
resolves the largest and most complex problems of the 
world’s  people,  above  all 
those  of  developing 
countries. Although, in terms of demographic transition 
and human development indices, some Latin American 
countries are in advanced demographic transition, they 
still  need  international  support  and  cooperation.  The 
Latin American  region  has  not  escaped  the  scourge  of 
poverty.  We  note  with  regret  that  the  Latin American 
region  remains 
the  world. 
According  to  data  of  the  Economic  Commission  for 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  the  current  global 
crisis  will  result  in  a  15-per  cent  increase  in  poverty 
this year. It is almost predictable that women and girls, 
who today are the poorest of the poor, will continue to 
see their health deteriorate. 

In  talking  about  population  and  development,  I 
cannot fail to note the impact of the unilateral coercive 
policies  of 
imperial  Power.  My  country’s 
development  has  been  hampered  and,  for  over  five 
decades,  its  population  has  suffered  the  negative 
impact  of  the  commercial,  economic  and  financial 
embargo imposed against Cuba by the United States of 
America.  That  hostile  policy 
inhuman  and 
contravenes  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. 

Cuba’s  population  policies  are  based  in  a  vision 
of  development  as  a  comprehensive  economic  and 
social process. That policy is founded on the principle 
that  economic  growth  without  progress  and  social 
justice  does  not  lead  to  real  development  or  to  full 
equity  and  social  justice.  With  great  effort  and  the 
support  of  its  population,  Cuba  has  made  progress  in 
the  most  unequal 
the 
in 
is 
the 
to  sign 
to  strive 
the  Programme  of  Action 
reducing  maternal  and 
infant  mortality,  ensures 
reproductive  rights  for  all  citizens  without  distinction, 
and  continues 
to  prevent  and  control 
HIV/AIDS,  while  consistently  elevating  the  cultural 
footing of the Cuban people. 

The Cairo Programme of Action remains relevant 
as a basis for achieving the population goals on which 
development depends. Once again, we reiterate the will 
of  the  Cuban  Government  to  meet  its  international 
commitments  on  population  and  development  and  to 
foster  South-South  cooperation. We  appeal  for  an  end 
of hegemonies and for the elimination of obstacles that 
hinder the equal development of all. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 

representative of the People’s Republic of China. 
Mr.  Zhang  Yesui  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

Fifteen  years  ago,  the  International  Conference  on 
Population and Development (ICPD) was convened in 
Egypt.  Representatives  of  179  countries  gathered  in 
Cairo 
(see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1),  which  identified  goals  and 
established  timetables.  ICPD  was  a  milestone  in  the 
history  of  population  and  development,  setting  the 
direction of our efforts.  
Today,  we  are  holding  this  plenary  meeting  to 

commemorate 
the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  ICPD, 
review  the  path  that  we  have  trodden  over  the  past 
15 years,  exchange  our  experience  in  population  and 
development,  and  jointly  explore  ways  to  respond  to 
challenges in the field of population. This meeting is of 
great  significance.  It  will  certainly  give  a  strong 
impetus to the effort to achieve the goals contained in 
the  Programme  of  Action  and 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

Since the convening of ICPD 15 years ago, in an 
aim  to  realize  the  goals  set  by  the  Programme  of 
for 
Action,  Governments  have 
their 
population  development 
specific 
and 
environmental 
registered 
significant achievements in these fields. We are pleased 
to note that the past 15 years have witnessed a decline 
in the global birth rate, an increase in life expectancy, a 
decrease  in  maternal  mortality,  and  growing  literacy. 
People  now  have  more  choices  in  their  access  to 
reproductive  health  care,  and  the  principles  and  the 
spirit  advocated  by 
ICPD  have  been  widely 
disseminated and supported.  
formulated  plans 
in  accordance  with 
societal, 
resource 
have 
and 
economic, 
situations, 
24 

09-55501 
efforts 
and 
inequality 
strengthen 
still  plague 



The  United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA) 
has done a remarkable job to promote and achieve the 
goals  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  and  the 
MDGs.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation  for  the  great  contributions  of  UNFPA 
Executive Director Thoraya Obaid and her staff. 

While  celebrating  our  achievements  to  date,  we 
must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  many  difficulties 
and  challenges  remain  to  be  overcome  in  order  to 
realize the goals contained in the Programme of Action 
and  the  MDGs.  Problems  such  as  poverty,  disease, 
ageing  and  gender 
the 
development of the world’s people, especially those in 
developing  countries.  The  financial  and  economic 
crisis has severely stricken many developing countries 
anew,  seriously  hampering  their  capacity  to  address 
population and development issues. 

The  international  community  should  seize  the 
opportunity  offered  by  the  commemoration  of  the 
fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  ICPD  to  step  up  its 
population 
international 
cooperation  in  that  field.  Developed  countries  should 
honour their commitments and provide more assistance 
to help developing countries overcome their difficulties 
in  achieving  the  ICPD  goals  and  the  MDGs.  In  that 
way,  people  in  every  country  and  every  region  of  the 
world  can  enjoy  equal  opportunities  for  development, 
thus  creating  conditions  conducive  to  the  common 
prosperity of humankind. 

always 
conscientiously  implemented  the  ICPD  goals  and  the 
MDGs,  and  has  included  efforts  to  implement  those 
goals  in  its  work  in  the  field  of  population  and 
development. After  years  of  unremitting  effort,  China 
has 
the 
comprehensive  development  of  its  population,  thus 
contributing  positively  to  the  stabilization  of  world 
population  growth.  As  a  developing  country  with  a 
population  of  1.3  billion,  China  wishes  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  share  its  experience  in  the  field  of 
population  and development, as its contribution to the 
joint  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  realize 
the ICPD goals and the MDGs. 

First, we have adhered to our basic national policy 
of family planning and sought to address the question of 
population in an integrated manner. Based on its specific 
national 
the  Chinese  Government  has 
steadfastly  implemented  its  national  family-planning 
rapid  economic  growth  and 
Chinese  Government 
The 
has 
realized 
situation, 
A/64/PV.18
policy.  After  many  years  of  hard  work,  China’s 
population growth rate has fallen to 5.08 per thousand in 
2008;  the  maternal  mortality  rate  has  been  reduced  to 
36.6  per  100,000;  and 
there  has  been  marked 
improvement  in  health  care,  education  and  social 
security. 

Secondly,  we  have  always  worked  to  promote 
gender equality and to meet people’s needs for family 
planning and reproductive health care. Gender equality 
is an important policy of the Chinese Government, and 
we take an integrated approach in trying to rectify the 
unbalanced sex ratio of babies through initiatives such 
as  “Caring  for  Girls”.  We  are  providing  regular 
prenatal and perinatal care to pregnant women and new 
mothers,  and  well-baby  care  to  children  under  three. 
The  Chinese  Government  also  places  great  emphasis 
on  combating  HIV/AIDS  and  has  effectively  curbed 
the spread of the AIDS pandemic. 

Thirdly, we have endeavoured to facilitate orderly 
movements  and  a  reasonable  distribution  of 
the 
population and to enable migrants to have equal access 
to  public  services.  In  recent  years  the  number  of 
migrants in China has reached 147 million annually. In 
areas  with  large  concentrations  of  migrants,  we  have 
established  effective  forms  of  regional  cooperation, 
organized  various  methods  for  providing  care  for 
migrant  workers 
rural  areas,  continuously 
expanded free family planning services for migrants and 
effectively protected their legitimate rights and interests. 
Fourthly,  we  have  always  pursued  a  strategy  of 

sustainable  development 
to  achieve 
coordinated  development  of  population,  resources  and 
the environment. The Chinese Government has always 
tried  to  address  the  question  of  population  in  an 
integrated manner and in a way that suits our country’s 
specific situation. 

In realizing the ICPD goals and the MDGs, China 
also  faces  numerous  difficulties  and  challenges.  In 
response to those challenges, the Chinese Government 
will implement the concept of rational development in 
a comprehensive manner. It will continue to maintain a 
low  birth  rate; 
to 
addressing 
imbalance  of  newborns; 
the 
strengthen management of and services for the migrant 
population;  take  active  measures  to  respond  to  the 
question  of  an  ageing  population;  drastically  increase 
its  inputs  into  education,  health  care,  employment, 
social  security  and  urban  and  rural  housing;  and 
integrated  approach 
take  an 
sexual 
in  an  effort 
from 
09-55501 

25 

in 
account 
its  Programme  of  Action 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
A/64/PV.18 

reinforce  efforts  to  improve  people’s  lives  so  as  to 
ensure happiness for our people. At the same time, the 
Government will continue to strengthen exchanges and 
cooperation  with  other  countries 
the  field  of 
population  and  development,  support  the  work  of 
UNFPA  and  contribute  to  our  common  effort  to 
promote the realization of the ICPD goals and MDGs. 

representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran. 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 

like to begin by associating myself with the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China. 

The 1994 International Conference on Population 
and Development (ICPD) was a turning point in global 
health-care  discussions,  especially  in  promoting  the 
issue  of  reproductive  health.  Participants  committed 
themselves  to  a  new  approach  regarding  health  and 
population  development  at  the  national  level  and  took 
into 
(see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  in  developing  their  national 
policies.  Fifteen  years  have  passed  since  then,  and  I 
can  proudly  report  on  the  progress  my  country  has 
made  so  far  towards  achieving  the  goals  of  the 
Conference,  while  fully  observing  our  cultural  and 
religious  values.  And  here  I  would  like  to  mention 
briefly some of our achievements in the area. 

We  have  seen  a  significant  drop  in  illiteracy, 
particularly  among  women  and  people  in  rural  areas. 
The  growing  number  of  working  women  is  paralleled 
by  the  number  of  girls  entering  university,  which  has 
outstripped the number of boys for a number of years. 
Dissemination of public health information, especially 
in  remote  and  rural  areas,  has  helped  increase  public 
awareness  and  has  considerably  eased  implementation 
of  health  policies. A  system  of  organized  information 
gathering  is  in  effect  and  is  being  utilized  in  policy 
development. 
There  has  been  a  significant  improvement  in  the 

children’s  health-care  index,  while  free  school  food 
programmes  have  been  adopted  and  are  being 
implemented.  Coverage  of 
reliable  birth  control 
methods  has  reached  60  per  cent,  and  unmet  family-
planning  needs  stand  at  less  than  5.9  per  cent. 
Significant progress in improving maternal health care 
has been made, and the MDG target for maternal health 
is  within  reach.  In  that  regard,  we  have  recorded  a 
the  number  of  unwanted 
50 per  cent  drop 
in 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
pregnancies.  Policies  based  on  the  principles  for 
preventing  HIV/AIDS  are  being  developed  and 
implemented,  and  care  for  the  elderly  and  healthy 
living  for  senior  citizens  are  now  on  the  working 
agendas  of  the  relevant  ministries.  Last  but  not  least, 
close  to  universal  health  insurance  coverage,  free  to 
poor and needy families, is now in sight. 

In conclusion, and based on such success stories, 
we are of the view that a development-based approach 
to population issues, rather than one simply focused on 
rights,  would  be  more  conducive  to  our  common 
efforts to implement the ICPD objectives. 

representative of the Russian Federation. 
Mr.  Maksimychev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): The International Conference on Population and 
Development  (ICPD)  linked  fully,  for  the  first  time,  the 
dynamics  of  population  with  questions  of  sustainable 
development. The Cairo Programme of Action, which was 
the outcome of the Conference, has served as a powerful 
incentive  for  countries  of  the  international  community, 
including  Russia,  to  produce  comprehensive  national 
policies  for  resolving  demographic  issues  in  the  context 
of  the  needs  for  long-term  economic  growth  and  social 
development. 

We  are convinced that achieving the ICPD goals 
will  make  a  substantial  contribution  to  attaining  the 
internationally  agreed  development  objectives. 
In 
particular, we view the role of the Cairo Programme as 
one  of  encouraging  policies  designed  to  improve 
people’s well-being, broaden access to educational and 
health-care  services  and  lower  infant  and  maternal 
mortality. Over the last 15 years, considerable progress 
has  been  achieved 
ICPD 
Programme  of Action. At the same time, this progress 
has not been steady, either in terms of key indicators or 
in terms of various groups of countries. 

In  that  regard,  we  believe  we  need  to  prevent, 
despite  the  current  financial  and  economic  crisis,  a 
decrease in the amount of resources for programmes in 
the  field  of  population,  particularly  in  the  neediest 
countries.  We  highlight 
in 
implementing  the  Cairo  Programme  of  Action  played 
by the United Nations Population Fund and the United 
Nations Commission on Sustainable Development. 

Regarding  the  demographic  development  of  our 
country  since  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  there  has 
implementing 
special 
roles 
the 
the 
in 
26 

09-55501 


been a sharp decline in population, which has assumed 
a  steady  and  long-term  character.  That  decline  was 
caused by changes in families’ reproductive behaviour, 
manifested  in  a  considerable  reduction  of  population 
renewal and a very high mortality rate, the reasons for 
which are, in a number of cases, preventable. 

In order to stabilize the size of the population, the 
Government of the Russian Federation has taken active 
steps to develop a national population policy. In 2007, 
we  adopted  a  draft  demographic  policy  for  the  period 
up  to  2025.  That  policy  established  a  programme  of 
comprehensive  measures  to  support  the  population  in 
such  fields  as  health  care,  housing  and  migration. 
Demographic policy has become a central pivotal link 
in the chain of our social policies. 
In  2006,  we  adopted  a  federal  law  that  provides 

for  State  support 
to  families  with  children.  On 
1 January  2010  it  will  be  three  years  since  the 
beginning  of  work  on  the  programme  to  promote 
maternity  and  larger  family  size,  including  promoting 
the birth of second and subsequent children. Reducing 
the high mortality rate is the focus of a national project 
called  “Health”,  aimed  at  developing  primary  health 
care. It seeks to obtain wage increases for doctors and 
lower-  and  middle-ranked  primary  medical  service 
personnel  and  to  improve  equipment  and  logistics  for 
emergency  medical  assistance  services.  We  have  also 
begun building high-tech medical and perinatal centres. 
We  have  strengthened  our  preventive  care  and 
immunization services and have considerably improved 
assistance for childbirth. 

Additionally, last year marked the start of special 
programmes  for  combating  heart  disease  and  road 
transport  accidents,  which  are  the  main  culprits  in 
premature deaths. 

Thanks  to  those  measures,  we  have  achieved 
considerable  progress  in  reducing  natural  population 
loss.  In  the  light  of  migration  growth,  natural  loss  in 
2008  constituted  122,000  persons,  which  is  a  lot  less 
than 
two  years  of 
implementing  the  draft  demographic  policy,  the  birth 
rate  in  Russia  has  increased  from  10.4  to  12.1  per 
thousand.  In  August  this  year,  for  the  first  time  in 
15 years, the number of births in the country exceeded 
the number of deaths. 

in 
lowering infant and maternal mortality rates. Over the 
last two years, infant mortality has dropped by 14 per 
Considerable  progress  has  been  achieved 
in  previous  years.  After 
A/64/PV.18
An 
important  element 
in 
the 
Considerable  attention  was  also  devoted 
cent  and  maternal  by  10  per  cent.  In  2008,  Russia 
celebrated its Year of the Family. The measures held to 
mark that year were primarily aimed  at improving the 
legislative  basis  of  our  social  policy,  which  made  it 
possible  to  consolidate  positive  trends  in  supporting 
families  with  regard  to  births  and  raising  children, 
carry  out  preventive  work  with  regard  to  family 
welfare,  orphans  and  unsupervised  children,  and 
strengthen  social  support  systems  for  children  in 
difficult life situations. 

to 
measures  promoting  healthy  life  styles,  organizing 
family holidays, stays in health centres and harmonious 
family development.  

review  and 
evaluation  of  progress  achieved  in  implementing  the 
ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
is  a  comprehensive 
analysis  of  international  migration.  For  many  reasons, 
migration plays a particular role in the achievement of 
Russia’s  strategically  necessary  demographic  growth. 
Today,  an  important  task  is  to  establish  an  overall 
national migration policy that will, through legislation 
and institutions, meet the demands of the times. 

Among  the  priorities  of  the  Russian  migration 
policy is State regulation of labour migration, aimed at 
stimulating  a  migratory  influx  of  Russian  speakers 
within  the  framework  of  the  Government  programme 
to provide assistance to promote voluntary resettlement 
in  the  Russian  Federation  of  our  compatriots  living 
abroad  and  at  establishing  an  effective  system  for 
promoting 
their 
integration into Russian society. 

Remaining work that needs our attention includes 
agreements  on  readmission,  as  the  most  important 
instrument  in  combating  illegal  migration,  as  well  as 
the  establishment  of  the  infrastructure  necessary  for 
implementing those agreements. 

supports 
The  Russian  Federation 
developing  international  dialogue  on  the  problem  of 
international  migration.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
forum established as a result of the General Assembly’s 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development is an important platform for an exchange 
of experience and for giving further momentum to the 
work  on  resolving  problems  in  the  area  of  the 
international migration and development. 
The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m. 
the  adaptation  of  migrants  and 
actively 
09-55501 

27 
