
A/64/PV.50
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

50th plenary meeting 
Friday, 20 November 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 



The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m. 





Agenda items 10 and 108 (continued) 
Report of the Peacebuilding Commission (A/64/341) 
Report of the Secretary-General on the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/64/217) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/881) 

Mr. Park In-kook (Republic of Korea): Over the 

past three years, the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC) 
has  effectively  carried  out  its  mandate  of  catalyzing 
international  efforts  to  assist  countries  emerging  from 
conflict.  The  third  annual  report  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission (A/64/341), which we have before us, is a 
statement of the achievements of the Commission and 
the challenges that it has faced during its third session. 
This  report  was  prepared  with  close  consultation 
among  Member  States  and  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office.  During  this  process,  many  lessons  learned  and 
challenges  were  identified  and  have  been  reflected  in 
the  report.  My  delegation  is  pleased  to  note  this 
constructive  process  and  believes  that  this  report  will 
prove to be a valuable asset in the 2010 review process. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  on  peacebuilding 
in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict  (A/63/881) 
rightfully  articulates  the  importance  of  the  early 
engagement  of  international  efforts  in  post-conflict 
situations.  That  report  also  concludes  that  the  United 
Nations  is  increasingly  expected  to  play  a  leadership 
role 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  is  well  placed  to  assume 

that  process,  and 
I  believe 
that 
in 
in 
the 
lessons 
accumulated 
the  2010  review  process.  In 
that critical role. How to strengthen and consolidate the 
role  and  capacity  of  the  Commission  throughout  that 
process  should  be  one  of 
the  priority  subjects 
addressed 
this 
perspective,  I  should  like  to  underline  the  following 
several  points.  First,  as  an  advisory  body  to  the 
Security  Council,  the  Commission  has  a  substantive 
role  to  play  in  strengthening  the  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding  architecture.  As 
is  often  reiterated, 
peacekeepers  are  early  peacebuilders,  and  more 
peacebuilding  elements  need  to  be  integrated  into 
peacekeeping activities. The Commission has much to 
contribute  with 
and 
experiences  from  its  country-specific  activities.  The 
success  of  quick-impact  projects  in  Côte  d’Ivoire 
indicates that they are an excellent case to build on in 
the  effort 
links  between 
to  better  align 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding. 
and 

sustainable development should be pursued seamlessly 
and  not  sequentially.  This  point  has  been  constantly 
reiterated by many colleagues; but as we see, there are 
still  some  cases  where  the  peacebuilding  process  has 
been put on hold until very late in the game. This kind 
of  approach  often  increases  the  possibility  of  missing 
the critical early window of opportunity. Peacekeeping, 
peacebuilding  and  sustainable  development  should  be 
pursued side by side to create synergies in order to help 
countries overcome post-conflict situations. 

Thirdly,  we  believe  that  it  is  time  to  start 
discussing and developing entry and exit strategies for 
the  Commission. As  we  witness  encouraging  progress 
Secondly,  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding 
the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-61775 (E) 
*0961775* 




to 
its 
through 
sustainable 
look  forward 
suggested  by 
engage  more 
countries  within 
A/64/PV.50 

in  certain  agenda  countries,  we  need  to  think  of  ways 
to  help  those  countries  transfer  to  the  next  stage, 
namely, 
economic  growth. 
Meanwhile,  my  delegation  understands  that  there  are 
certain countries that wish to be put on the PBC agenda 
but  their  country-specific  configurations  have  not  yet 
been  established.  When  to  engage  and  when  to  help 
countries  move  on  to  the  next  stage  is  a  subject  that 
deserves our thorough analysis. 

Fourthly,  as  the  involvement  of  the  Commission 
is  increasingly  called  upon,  we  need  to  find  a  way  to 
incorporate  more 
agenda. 
Considering  the  Commission’s  limited  capacity  to 
engage  multiple  countries  simultaneously,  new  and 
innovative  working  methods  need  to  be  developed. A 
“light  engagement”  model 
some 
delegations could work as one of the options, allowing 
the  Commission 
countries 
simultaneously.  The  Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
discussion  paper  on  this  subject  will  serve  as  a  good 
starting  point,  and  we 
to  further 
discussion  on  this  matter  in  the  following  months  and 
in the 2010 review process.  

Fifthly, in order to prevent post-conflict countries 
from  relapsing  into  conflict  situations,  quick  impact 
results  should  be  delivered  to  the  people  in  those 
countries.  In  other  words,  our  peacebuilding  efforts 
should  be  country-specific  and  field-oriented.  Voices 
from  the  field  should  be  further  incorporated  into  the 
peacebuilding  discussions  in  New  York  and  field  trip 
opportunities  need  to  be  expanded  to  allow  Member 
States to see and hear from the field. 

Sixthly,  peacebuilding  is  not  something  that  can 
be achieved by a single player but must be orchestrated 
among  various  players.  We  cannot  emphasize  enough 
the  importance  of  linkages  between  United  Nations 
partner  organizations, 
and 
programmes,  and  cooperative  relations  with  regional 
organizations  and  international  financial  institutions. 
The  visit  of  the  PBC  Chairs’  group  to  the  African 
Union  Headquarters  in  Addis  Ababa  two  weeks  ago 
was truly an  important step to broaden  and strengthen 
these relations. I hope that that initiative will expand to 
other regional organizations so as to provide them with 
the  opportunity  to  broaden  their  relationship  with  the 
Commission. 

My  delegation  is  pleased  to  learn  from  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  that  the  donor  base  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  (PBF)  has  been  broadened  to  45 
including 
funds 
its 
the 
like 
that 
to  use 
this  occasion 
three  years  after 
its  objectives.  However,  as 
donors  and 
the  Fund’s  portfolio  has  been 
significantly increased during the reporting period. We 
believe  that  this  represents  the  confidence  and  credit 
that Member States have in the Fund. With the revised 
terms of reference and the new window structures, the 
Fund  is  now  better  equipped  to  assume  its  role  and 
perform 
report 
indicates, the catalytic function of the Fund still needs 
to be improved. My delegation looks forward to more 
discussion on ways to enhance the catalytic role of the 
Fund in the next session. 
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands):  Let  me  begin  by 

aligning  my  delegation  with  the  statement  of  Sweden 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The  Netherlands 
would 
to  make  some 
additional remarks. 

Today’s  debate  is  important  and  I  wish  to  thank 
you, Sir, for organizing it and for providing us with an 
opportunity  to  share  our  views  on  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  (PBC), 
it  became 
operational.  Our  discussion  today,  as  we  consider  the 
experiences  gained  and  the  progress  made  by  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  over  the  past  year,  is  also 
important for the 2010 review of the Commission. We 
look  forward  to  this  important  exercise  and,  as  active 
members  of  the  Commission  since  it  first  became 
operational,  we  stand  ready  to  contribute  to  this 
discussion. 

The decision to set up the Commission around the 
time of the 2005 World Summit reflected the growing 
recognition by the international community of the need 
for comprehensive and integrated strategies in support 
of 
The 
Commission —  this  year  under  the  spirited  leadership 
of the Permanent Representative of Chile, Ambassador 
Muñoz  —  has  developed  into  an  intergovernmental 
body  that  stands  at  the  forefront  of  new  thinking  on 
matters  of  peacebuilding,  drawing  on  its  practical 
experience in the field. 

Through its country-specific meetings especially, 
the Commission has developed approaches that rightly 
focus  on  areas  where  gaps  exist 
terms  of 
peacebuilding,  and  that  seek  to  address  those  gaps 
through  integrated  and  well-coordinated  cooperation 
frameworks. At  the  same  time,  such  a  comprehensive 
and  coherent  approach  is  essential  to  mobilize  the 
support  of 
the 
engagement of all relevant actors. 
international  community  and 
emerging 
countries 
conflict. 
from 
in 
the 
2 

09-61775 
It 
is 
in 
support  of 
respectively. 
and  Belgium, 
the  efforts  of 
The  country-specific  approach,  which 



is  a 
defining characteristic of the Commission’s work, is at 
this  moment  focused  on  four  countries:  Sierra  Leone, 
Burundi,  Guinea-Bissau  and 
the  Central  African 
Republic.  While  some  common  challenges  exist,  it  is 
clear  that  the  countries  on  the  PBC  agenda  require 
tailored  approaches  that  take  into  account  the  specific 
needs of each. This flexibility of the Commission is a 
major  asset  and,  as  future  approaches  are  being 
considered,  that  key  principle  should,  in  our  opinion, 
be preserved. 

Let  me  also  mention  the  important  role  of  the 
individual  Chairs  —  Canada,  Sweden/Switzerland, 
their 
Brazil 
engagement 
the 
Governments  concerned  that  has  proved  critical  in 
advancing the peacebuilding agenda in these countries. 

On  a  number  of  occasions  the  Commission  has 
been instrumental in efforts to address specific critical 
issues as they emerged in countries on the PBC agenda. 
For example, the Commission has focused international 
attention on drug trafficking in West Africa, a regional 
security  issue  affecting  Guinea-Bissau  as  well  as 
several  other  countries  in  the  region,  such  as  Sierra 
Leone.  It  is  on  issues  like  these  that  the  Commission 
can  and  must  play  a  crucial  role  as  an  advocate  for 
international 
the 
peacebuilding  agendas  in  these  countries. At  the  same 
time,  experiences  in  one  country  can  be  useful  in 
another  country.  For  instance,  the  role  of  the  PBC  in 
monitoring the presidential and parliamentary elections 
in Sierra Leone sets a good example for a similar role 
in the context of the upcoming elections in Burundi. 

We  have  always  maintained  that  the  PBC  is  the 
master  of  its  own  procedures  and  working  methods, 
such  as  the  tailored  and  country-specific  approach.  In 
the  future,  even  more  differentiated  approaches  could 
be  considered  that  would  enable  the  PBC  to  deliver 
added  value  on  specific  issues  and  within  a  shorter 
period of time. But in the end, the PBC will be able to 
significantly  contribute  to  peacebuilding  in  countries 
on its agenda only if the full range of its membership, 
including  the  whole  United  Nations  system,  is  fully 
committed  to  it.  Similarly,  the  World  Bank  and  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  must  be  fully  engaged. 
The  peacebuilding  cooperation  frameworks  that  have 
been  drawn  up  for  the  countries  in  which  the  PBC  is 
engaged  stand  as  critical  benchmarks  for  measuring 
that commitment and its real impact on the ground. 
engagement 
support 
of 
in 
A/64/PV.50
like 

If the PBC, Member States and the Peacebuilding 
Support  Office,  under  the  leadership  of  Assistant 
Secretary-General  Cheng-Hopkins,  do  indeed  draw  on 
the  valuable  experiences  that  have  now  been  gained 
and  on  the  lessons  learned,  the  PBC  should  be  well 
placed  to  enter  a  new  stage  in  its  development  —  a 
stage  in  which  it  can  be  even  more  effective  in 
furthering  the  international  peacebuilding  agenda  and 
in  which  its  activities  are  even  better  tailored  to  the 
needs of the post-conflict countries on its agenda. 
Mr. Sumi (Japan): On behalf of the Government 

of Japan, it is my great pleasure and honour to address 
the General Assembly under the presidency of Mr. Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki.  My  delegation  would 
to 
express  its  gratitude  to  Ambassador  Heraldo  Muñoz, 
Chair of the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC), for the 
in-depth report on the Commission (A/64/341). I would 
also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
on the Peacebuilding Fund (A/64/217), and to express 
our  appreciation  and  support  for  the  achievements  in 
the work of the Commission during the third session. 

Ambassador  Takasu  acted  as  the  Chair  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  during  its  third  session 
until  handing  over  responsibility  to  the  current  Chair, 
Ambassador Muñoz, in January of this year. During his 
tenure,  Ambassador  Takasu  actively  held  strategic 
discussions  with  high-level 
from 
various  organizations,  including  the  Administrator  of 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme.  We  are 
pleased 
tradition  was  continued  and 
strengthened by Ambassador Muñoz this year. 
Three  years  after  its  creation,  the  PBC  has 

deepened 
the 
Organizational  Committee  and  the  country-specific 
configurations.  The  PBC  has  helped  to  maintain  the 
political  momentum  for  the  peace  process  in  Burundi. 
The  PBC  sent  a  fact-finding  mission  to  Sierra  Leone 
after the onset of political instability in March, thereby 
helping to prevent further deterioration in the situation. 
It  also  organized  a  High-level  Special  Session  on 
Sierra Leone in June to mobilize resources for its new 
development goals. On Guinea-Bissau, the PBC held a 
series  of  discussions  and  made  recommendations  to 
avoid a relapse into conflict after the assassinations of 
the  President  and  others  early  this  year.  Those  events 
show  that  the  PBC  has  become  an  organ  that  is 
in  countries 
committed 
emerging  from  conflict.  Japan  acknowledges 
the 
to  making  a  difference 
representatives 
discussions 
strategic 
both 
that 
this 
in 
09-61775 

3 

A/64/PV.50 

support given to the PBC by the General Assembly as 
its supervisory organ. 

The  Peacebuilding  Fund  has  enjoyed  continuous 
support.  We  welcome  the  increase  in  the  number  of 
commitments  and  the  broadening  of  the  donor  base. 
The  Peacebuilding  Fund  is  supporting  12  countries  in 
building durable peace. In the meanwhile, we hope that 
the  Fund  will  strengthen  its  catalytic  role  to  attract 
additional resources for countries in need. 

Turning  to  the  way  forward,  as  envisaged  in  its 
founding  resolutions,  the  PBC  will  soon  undergo  a 
review  by  building  on  the  achievements  of  the  past 
three  sessions.  Japan  views  the  following  points  as 
essential for that review. 
First,  the  review  should  focus  on  increasing  the 

effectiveness  of  the  PBC  in  bringing  about  positive 
results on the ground. It is important to reflect on past 
experiences and to examine what has worked well and 
what  has  not. The  objective  of  the  PBC  is  to  produce 
tangible  results  on  the  ground.  We  therefore  believe 
that  the  review  should  not  turn  into  a  philosophical 
debate, but instead focus on the  pragmatic fine-tuning 
of the Peacebuilding Commission. 

Secondly,  it  is  necessary  to  discuss  how  to 
strengthen  the  advisory  role  of  the  PBC  vis-à-vis  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  as  its 
parent organs. In that regard, it is also essential that the 
General Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  make  the 
best use of the PBC’s advisory role and make concrete 
requests  of 
the 
substantive interaction between the PBC, the Assembly 
and the Council should be conducted more regularly. In 
turn,  reflection  and  review  by  the  Assembly  and  the 
Council should increase further. 

the 
functions of the PBC, the Peacebuilding Fund and the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  as 
they  constitute 
integral  parts  of  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture.  We  need  to  explore  how  to  maximize 
the 
political 
coordination  capability  of 
in 
pursuing the peacebuilding agenda. 
Fourthly,  we  need  to  discuss  how  the  PBC  can 

broaden 
to  countries  emerging  from 
conflict.  The  essential  objective  is  to  maximize  the 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
added  value  of 
engagement,  particularly 
that  are 
review  should  encompass 
the  Commission.  For 
the  United  Nations 
in  countries 
its  support 
leverage, 
instance, 
financial 
Thirdly, 
support 
the 
and 
to 
the 
the 
and 
that 
implement 
implementation  of 
experiencing  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict.  We 
also believe that extending the PBC’s work to various 
parts of the world will also increase its credibility.  
The  relationship  between  peacekeeping  missions 

and 
is  not  mutually  exclusive,  but 
the  PBC 
complementary.  In  some  cases,  collaboration  between 
peacekeeping  missions 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission can better address the needs of a country. 
In  that  connection,  the  review  of  the  PBC  should 
explore  innovative  ways  for  the  Commission  to  deal 
with countries that are on its agenda. 

Lastly,  we  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  peacebuilding  in  the  immediate  aftermath 
of  conflict  (A/63/881),  as  well  as  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretariat 
recommendations 
contained  in  the  report.  It  is  a  priority  for  the  United 
Nations to be well equipped and harmonized to address 
the  challenges  of  peacebuilding.  The  efforts  of  the 
Secretariat are of relevance to the work of the PBC. We 
therefore  believe 
the 
Secretary-General’s report should be duly linked to the 
review of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Japan is committed to contributing to the work of 

the  PBC  and  to  its  upcoming  review.  As  one  of  the 
founding members of the PBC and a current member of 
the  Security  Council,  we  believe 
is  our 
obligation  to  contribute  to  discussions  during  the 
review in a constructive manner. 
Mr.  Parham  (United  Kingdom):  I  would  like  to 

thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  organizing  this  debate, 
which  provides  a  useful  opportunity  to  take  stock  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund (PBF).  

I  should  like  to  align  myself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Sweden on behalf of 
the European Union. 
I  would  first  like  to  give  particular  thanks  to 

Ambassador  Muñoz  for  his  dedicated  efforts 
in 
chairing  the  Organizational  Committee.  I  would  also 
like to thank the Permanent Representatives of Canada, 
Belgium,  Brazil,  El  Salvador  and  Switzerland,  and 
their respective teams, for their chairing roles. I would 
also  like  to  thank  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
(PBSO) for its support. 

The  Commission’s  annual  report  (A/64/341) 
describes  many  of  the  achievements  made  during  the 
year. I would like to highlight a few of them. The PBC 
(PBC)  and 
that 
it 
4 

09-61775 
the  many  assassinations 


has  played  an  important  role  in  maintaining  the 
international  spotlight  on  all  of  the  countries  on  its 
agenda.  Its  biannual  reviews  have  served  to  maintain 
pressure on all parties to live up to their commitments 
to deliver on agreed priorities. 

In Sierra Leone, the PBC has helped to mobilize 
support for the Government’s new Agenda for Change, 
which  the  PBC  has  appropriately  taken  up  as  its 
framework for action. In Burundi, the PBC has helped 
to  support  regional  efforts  to  maintain  momentum  in 
the  peace  process,  in  which  there  have  been  many 
positive  developments,  and  is  now  closely  engaged  in 
supporting  the  upcoming  elections.  In  the  Central 
African  Republic,  the  PBC  has  assisted  with  the 
national  dialogue  and  is  helping  to  spur  progress  on 
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration. 

But  many  challenges  remain.  We  have  seen 
continued  fragility,  for  example  in  Guinea-Bissau,  as 
evidenced  by 
that  have 
occurred  over  the  past  year.  We  need  to  make  use  of 
the  current  window  of  opportunity  following  the 
inauguration  of  the  new  Government  there  to  help 
tackle some of the key peacebuilding challenges facing 
the country, notably security sector reform. 

There  are  other  examples  of  the  PBC  genuinely 
helping peacebuilding processes, but are those enough? 
In  going  forward,  we  need  to  pose  some  tough 
questions.  Why  have  we  not  seen  more  post-conflict 
countries coming forward to be on the PBC’s agenda? 
How  effective  has  the  PBC’s  advice  been  in  shaping 
the work of its parent bodies? How solid a bridge has 
the  PBC  been  in  bringing  together  political,  security, 
humanitarian and development actors? How much of a 
distinctive  role  has  the  PBC  carved  out  with  other 
country-related  forums,  such  as  groups  of  friends  and 
contact  groups? And  to  what  extent  have  the  business 
practices adopted by the PBC allowed for flexibility to 
respond to emerging needs? 

in  2010  will  provide  an 
important opportunity to take stock of those questions 
and, in so doing, to reinvigorate the PBC and clarify its 
added  value.  The  review  should  result  in  there  being 
much  better 
linkages  between  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding.  It  should  help  us  look  at  what  are  the 
incentives and disincentives for a country coming on to 
the  PBC’s  agenda,  and  what  is  the  optimum  time  for 
that to occur. It should see what role the PBC can play 
in helping to address the continued lack of progress in 
The  PBC  review 
A/64/PV.50
it  should  help 
some of the core peacebuilding areas, notably security 
sector reform, strengthening the rule of law, economic 
recovery  and  the  restoration  of  core  Government 
functions. 

The review should help determine how the PBC’s 
advice  can  have  increased  impact,  and  how  the  PBC 
can be encouraged to play a stronger role in addressing 
obstacles  to  a  sustained,  long-term  and  joined-up 
international approach to peacebuilding, while ensuring 
a  coordinated  effort  among  the  United  Nations,  the 
World  Bank  and  donors.  And 
in 
improving  how  additional  partners  and  funds  are 
mobilized behind a single nationally owned strategy. 

Another key issue for 2010 is the implementation 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  peacebuilding  in 
the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict  (A/63/881).  It  is 
important for the next Secretary-General’s report to be 
not  just  an  update  of  New  York-based  discussions; 
rather,  it  should  demonstrate  real  improvements  and 
impacts  on  the  ground.  Of  particular  importance  is 
getting real clarity on roles and responsibilities for the 
key peacebuilding sectors. 
The  Peacebuilding  Fund  also  has  an  important 

part  to  play.  We  need  to  see  evidence  that  its 
management  arrangements  allow  it  to  provide  rapid 
and  flexible  financing.  The  PBF’s  revised  terms  of 
reference, which we agreed to earlier this year, give it 
the framework to do that. What we now need to see is 
the  PBSO 
the  new  operational 
guidelines. But it is not just an issue for the PBSO. As 
we have seen in many countries to which PBF money 
has been disbursed, the very slow pace of delivery has 
been  due  to  the  limited  capacity  of  implementing 
agencies. It is important that only those agencies with 
real capacities be tasked with delivery. 

Those strands of work make 2010 a  critical year 
for  improving  the  way  we  support  countries  emerging 
from  conflict.  We  need  to  seize  this  opportunity; 
otherwise, we will continue to see countries slide back 
into  conflict. And  when  they  do,  they  have  a  habit  of 
spreading  that  conflict  and  destabilizing  neighbouring 
regions.  Countries  affected  by  conflict  and  fragility 
account  for  a  third  of  the  people  living  in  extreme 
poverty,  half  the  children  not  in  primary  school  and 
half  the  children  who  die  before  their  fifth  birthday. 
There  is  a  real  imperative  to  make  sure  that  the  new 
peacebuilding  architecture  put  in  place  at  the  2005 
implementing 
09-61775 

5 
to 
the 
Beyond  our 
in  Cairo  on 
financial  commitment 
sustainable  peace.  Our  engagement 
A/64/PV.50 

Summit  really  delivers  real  benefits  for  real  people  in 
real time. 
Ms. Anderson (Ireland): Ireland aligns itself with 

the statement made earlier today by the representative 
of Sweden on behalf of the European Union.  

Peacebuilding  is  at  the  nexus  of  maintaining 
peace  and  security,  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights  and  ensuring  sustainable  development.  It  is  at 
once one of the most complex and one of the most vital 
functions of the United Nations system. In Ireland, we 
have  first-hand  experience  of  the  complexities  of 
crafting 
in 
Northern  Ireland has taught us the  range and depth of 
the  challenges  involved.  The  long  and  painstaking 
work to build peace on our own island helps to inform 
and  underpin  our  strong  support  for  United  Nations 
peacebuilding. 
the 

to  maintain 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  we  endeavour 
substantial engagement in policy terms. In May of this 
year, together with host country Egypt, we co-chaired a 
conference 
theme  “Post-conflict 
peacebuilding:  contemporary  challenges  and  the  way 
forward”.  The  outcome  of  that  conference,  which 
included  a  range  of  specific  recommendations,  was 
presented  to  the  Organizational  Committee  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission (PBC). 

The  peacebuilding  task  is  not  only  inherently 
complex, it also has to be undertaken at a time when a 
society  is  exhausted  and  traumatized.  It  requires 
forging  strong  national  institutions  and  capacities, 
which  quite  often  are  either  non-existent  or  nascent, 
emerging  as  products  of  fragile  peace  agreements  or 
having  been  significantly  weakened  over  years  of 
conflict. In such a context, the international community 
is  challenged 
is  skilful, 
sensitive and sustained. 

established  United  Nations 
peacebuilding architecture remains a work in progress. 
The initial years have been ones of learning as well as 
of achievement. The Secretary-General’s report of last 
June  (A/63/881)  sets  out  forthright  recommendations, 
and  the  report  of  the  Commission  on  its  third  session 
(A/64/341) also contains pertinent observations on the 
way forward. Those reports have commented on some 
of the principal lessons of the experience to date. There 
have  also  been  remarks  in  that  regard  during  today’s 
that  national 
debate.  Among 
to  provide  support 
them  are 
the  facts 
that 
The 
recently 

to 
the 
that 
is  critical  and 
the  United  Nations.  Except 
The  example  of  Sierra  Leone 
the  Government’s  Agenda  for  Change, 
ownership 
international 
community’s  role  is  one  of  support.  Its  task  is  to 
strengthen  and  reinforce  national  efforts,  not 
to 
substitute for them. 

is  worth 
mentioning.  It  is  one  of  the  PBC  country-specific 
configurations  that  works  well.  Ireland  participates 
actively  in  it. As  a  significant  donor  to  Sierra  Leone, 
we  have  committed  to  aligning  all  our  future  support 
with 
the 
nationally owned development plan. 

Secondly,  the  response  must  be  timely  and 
flexible.  As  the  Secretary-General  has  pointed  out, 
successful  peacebuilding  depends  on  seizing  make-or-
break  moments  and  providing  the  right  amount  of 
support  at  the  right  time.  That  does  not  necessarily 
come  easily 
in 
emergency aid situations, we are not often fleet-footed. 
A  conscious  mode  change  may  be  required  if  those 
make-or-break moments are to be grasped. As donors, 
we  need,  at  times,  to  be  prepared  to  assume  greater 
risk. Monies should be available to fund innovative and 
catalytic  quick-impact  projects.  In  exhausted  and 
conflict-scarred  communities,  there  must  be  a  visible 
peace  dividend  to  sustain  the  energy  and  commitment 
for the long haul. 

Thirdly, with regard to continuity and coherence, 
rapid  response  has  to  be  combined  with  longer-term 
vision.  Fragility  and  instability  will  almost  inevitably 
continue  beyond  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict. 
National  Governments  face 
task  of 
moving  their  countries  along  the  continuum  from 
conflict  and  its  aftermath  to  healthily  functioning 
societies. 
The PBC is there to help after the media spotlight 

has  moved  on.  Long-term  peacebuilding  requires  a 
series of integrated and appropriately sequenced steps. 
Those  include  action  on  democratic  accountability, 
good  governance,  grievance  mechanisms  and  human 
rights frameworks. The PBC could consider developing 
appropriate standards and guidance in those areas. The 
empowerment  of  women  is  another  vital  aspect  of 
peacebuilding. The PBC should identify ways in which 
it can assist in the implementation of Security Council 
resolution 1325 (2000) and related resolutions. 

Coherence  is  critical  to  effective  peacebuilding. 
We  need  to  establish  strong  linkages  with  other, 
directly  relevant  processes.  For  example,  it  makes  no 
the  daunting 
6 

09-61775 


sense,  in  either  conceptual  or  practical  terms,  to 
compartmentalize  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding. 
Peacebuilding  experiences  and  priorities  must  fully 
feed  into  the  consultative  exercise  taking  place  in  the 
context of the New Horizon paper of the Department of 
Peacekeeping  Operations  and  the  Department  of  Field 
Support.  There  is  also  the  linkage  to  system-wide 
coherence.  From  the  outset,  Ireland  has  been  a  strong 
proponent  of  delivering  as  one.  We  believe  that 
progress  made  in  that  area  can  usefully  inform  our 
work on peacebuilding. 

The  recent  blue  paper  on  peacebuilding  by  the 
International  Peace  Institute  makes  for  interesting 
reading.  While  acknowledging  the  achievements,  it 
considers  that  “the  peacebuilding  architecture  has  yet 
to  stamp  its  authority”  and  that  the  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  “has  not  yet  been  able  to  serve  as  the 
focal point of peacebuilding within the United Nations 
system  as  originally  envisaged”.  Those  measured 
assessments  are  scarcely  surprising,  given  that  we  are 
dealing  with  such  new  constructs  in  such  a  complex 
area. 

Next  year’s  review  of  the  PBC  will  be  an 
opportunity  to  reflect  on  what  is  working  well  and 
where 
is  scope  for  adjustment  or  course 
correction.  Especially  since  procedural  issues  initially 
took up a disproportionate amount of time and energy, 
it is our hope that the review will maintain a firm focus 
on what makes a difference in the field.  

that  country-specific 
configurations  have  assumed  in  the  PBC,  the  review 
will  provide  an  opportunity  to  consider  a  number  of 
relevant issues. Is there an overall appropriate number 
of  those  configurations?  How  do  we  ensure  that 
countries  that  could  potentially  benefit  see  real  added 
value in the process, and are thus incentivized to enter? 
How  do  we  deal  with  exiting  as  well  as  entering, 
ideally in circumstances where a country has advanced 
along the spectrum but also if it has moved backwards 
to  a  point  where  the  peacebuilding  approach  is  no 
longer a fit? 

There is, of course, a wider perspective. Since the 
number  of  country-specific  configurations  will  always 
be  limited,  the  PBC  will  want  to  consider  how  it  can 
best  make  a  contribution  in  the  multiple  conflict 
situations 
those 
configurations.  The  final  observation  of  the  PBC 
report —  which  emphasizes  the  need  for  reassessment 
that  are  not  encompassed  by 
importance 
Given 
there 
the 
A/64/PV.50
in 
itself  fully  with 
My  country  associates 
to  ensure  a  more  strategic  role  for  the  Organizational 
Committee — is relevant in that regard. 

Ireland  will  continue  to  contribute  fully  to  the 
work ahead. We know that building peace on our own 
island  would  not  have  been  possible  without  the 
steadfast  support  of  the  international  community.  In 
giving back, we are determined that the endeavours of 
the  United  Nations 
this  field  will  have  our 
unwavering support. 
Ms.  Lucas  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 

Luxembourg  welcomes  the  holding  of  this  debate  on 
the  third  report  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(PBC)  (A/64/341)  and  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on the Peacebuilding Fund (A/64/217).  
the 

statement delivered by the representative of Sweden on 
behalf of the European Union. 

The  axiom  that  there  can  be  no  security  without 
development and no development without security, and 
that  both  depend  on  respect  for  human  rights,  is 
especially  true  in  post-conflict  situations.  That  is  the 
raison  d’être  for  the  mandate  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  which,  almost  four  years  since  it  was 
established, continues to be as relevant as ever. 

Drawing on the lessons learned in its early years 
of operation, it seems to us clearer than ever that there 
is  a  role  for  the  Commission  in  the  institutional 
architecture  of  the  United  Nations  and  that  the  PBC 
fills an obvious gap in the system itself.  
If  peace  is  to  be  lasting,  the  peacebuilding  and 

reconciliation effort in the aftermath of conflict should 
be  undertaken 
in  a  coordinated,  coherent  and 
comprehensive  manner.  That  entails  marshalling  all 
available  resources  and  overcoming  the  customary 
structural and organizational limitations.  

The  Commission  has  endeavoured  to  play  its 
coordinating  role within  and outside the Organization, 
and to strengthen the links between the various bodies 
of  the  United  Nations,  regional  organizations  and  the 
international  financial  institutions.  That  coordination 
undertaking 
further 
intensified, both on the ground and at Headquarters, by 
involving  all  stakeholders  —  political,  economic, 
humanitarian,  security  and  development  —  as  well  as 
civil society, in devising truly integrated strategies. 
should  be 
continued 
and 
09-61775 

7 
to 
the 

the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
to  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
A/64/PV.50 


In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  fact  that  the 
Security Council has taken on board the Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  recommendations  and  transformed  the 
missions  in  Guinea-Bissau,  Sierra  Leone  and  the 
Central African Republic into integrated peacebuilding 
missions.  The  Commission’s  consultative  role  in  the 
area  of  peacebuilding  vis-à-vis  the  Council  could  — 
and  should,  in  our  view  —  be  strengthened  in  the 
future, above all at the stage when the Security Council 
is developing mandates for peacekeeping operations. It 
seems  to  us  that  adhering  to  a  strictly  sequential 
approach 
is 
increasingly a contrived, if not counter-productive, way 
to address those matters. 
There is also a need to strengthen the relationship 

the 
between 
Economic and Social Council, another principal organ 
of  the  United  Nations.  By  virtue  of  its  unique  know-
how  and  experience  with  respect  to  the  problems 
associated  with  countries  emerging  from  conflict,  the 
Economic and Social Council can in many ways make 
a meaningful contribution to the Commission’s efforts. 
That  is  why,  in  my  capacity  as  President  of  the 
Economic and Social Council last year, I worked with 
Commission Chairperson Ambassador Muñoz to foster 
closer cooperation.  

Those  efforts  have  begun  to  produce  results. 
Thus,  the  President  participated  in  several  debates 
within the Economic and Social Council on the specific 
challenges  and  needs  of  post-conflict  countries. 
Furthermore,  on  29  October,  the  Council  and  the 
Commission,  in  partnership  with  the  World  Food 
Programme,  held  their  first  joint  meeting,  in  which 
they  examined  the  impact  of  the  food  and  economic 
crises  on  post-conflict  countries.  The  Secretary-
General  also  took  part  in  that  meeting. The  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  during  its  substantive  session, 
called for enhanced engagement with the Commission, 
including its various country-specific configurations.  
With regard to the implementation of the second 

part of the Commission’s mandate — the mobilization 
of  resources  —  the  Commission  should  continue  and 
enhance  its  awareness-raising  activities  both  with 
traditional  donors  and  non-traditional  partners  such  as 
diasporas, private foundations and the private sector, in 
particular in this time of crisis.  

The  peace  dividend  should  not  remain  a  hollow 
concept.  People  in  the  countries  affected  should  see  a 
In 
years, 
the 
for 
financing 
and 
the  use  of 
recent 
regular  development 
revised  mandate,  such  as 
specific  improvement  of  their  situation,  even  if  it 
involves  more  risk-taking  on  the  part  of  donors  with 
regard 
financing.  The 
Peacebuilding Commission should, in our opinion, also 
encourage  donors  in  post-conflict  countries  to  better 
coordinate and align their assistance with the priorities 
established in national development strategies, in close 
cooperation  with  the  countries  affected,  which  must 
shoulder their own responsibilities in peacebuilding.  

country-specific 
configurations  have  played  a  growing  role  in  shaping 
opinions  and  strategic  recommendations  on  setting 
priorities 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  commend  that  activity.  The 
effectiveness of the Fund can certainly be improved, in 
particular  by  implementing  the  key  principles  laid  out 
in 
transparency, 
flexibility,  rapid  response,  the  catalyst  effect  and 
beneficiary  ownership  of  programmes.  However,  the 
Fund  can  undoubtedly  still  play  an  important  support 
role in terms of establishing lasting peace. Luxembourg 
therefore  intends  to  maintain  its  financial  support  to 
the  Fund  and  in  more  general  terms  to  peacebuilding 
activities.  

Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

The  Commission’s  success  will  be  broadly 
measured  by  its  ability  to  ensure  that  countries  on  its 
agenda  do  not  relapse  into  conflict  and  to  produce 
concrete results for the people on the ground. It should, 
however, also be endowed with the means — more so 
than  it  is  today  —  to  advise  other  post-conflict 
countries.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  should  be 
relevant to a larger number of countries.  
If  peace  is  to  be  sustainable,  short-term  security 

goals should be targeted, while medium- and long-term 
development  objectives  are  also  pursued.  Maintaining 
peace and security requires a lasting commitment from 
the 
terms  of  both 
prevention 
and 
reconstruction.  For  this  reason,  it  is  crucial  to  invest 
simultaneously  in  mediation  and  conflict  prevention 
efforts in order to ensure that violence does not recur.  

the 
Organizational  Committee  of  the  PBC  is  to  expire  on 
31  December,  I  assure  members  that  Luxembourg 
intends  to  remain  fully  engaged  in  the  work  of  the 
While  Luxembourg’s  membership 
international  community, 
in 
re-establishing 
and 
of 
peace 
in 
8 

09-61775 
peace 
that 
to 
(PBC) 
respect 
between 
important 
relationship 
issues  pertaining 
configurations  with 
Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  The 
institution  of 
represents 


Commission, since we believe now more than ever that 
its work is crucial. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
a 
collective  recognition  by  the  Member  States  of  the 
inextricable 
and 
development  and 
the  need  for  a  comprehensive 
approach  to  peace.  As  a  founding  member,  Pakistan 
contributed  to  the  work  of  the  Commission  in  its 
formative  phase.  As  the  Commission  diversifies  its 
scope  and  area  of  work,  we  remain  deeply  committed 
to its success. 

I thank Ambassador Heraldo Muñoz of Chile for 
skilfully  guiding  the  work  of  the  Commission  as  its 
Chair  and  for  his  introduction  of  the  Commission’s 
report (A/64/341). We are also thankful to the Chairs of 
country-specific 
to 
Burundi,  the  Central African  Republic,  Guinea-Bissau 
and  Sierra  Leone.  We  note 
the  various 
configurations  of  the  PBC  have  met  regularly  and 
addressed 
their 
respective  areas.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  for  its  important 
contribution to our work. 

During  the  Commission’s  third  session,  its  main 
focus was on peacebuilding in the four situations on its 
agenda:  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone,  Guinea-Bissau  and  the 
Central  African  Republic.  In  the  case  of  the  first  two 
countries,  this  was  the  Commission’s  third  year  of 
engagement. We are happy to note the progress in terms 
of  substantive  work  to  ensure  the  durability  of  peace 
gains and that such gains respond to the socio-economic 
needs  of 
the 
Commission’s  engagement  with  those  two  countries 
prescribes 
to  specific 
workplans with targeted objectives. This is a pragmatic 
approach  that  must  be  driven  by  national  ownership, 
consultations and initiatives at the field level. 

In the case of Sierra Leone, a realignment of the 
country’s  focus  with  the  Commission’s  work  was 
carried out to address particular priority issues in terms 
of governance, role of law and employment issues. The 
realignment  points  to  the  evolving  nature  of  the 
Commission’s  work.  We  hope  that  important  lessons 
will  be  learned  in  the  process  to  the  benefit  of  the 
future work of the Commission. 
The  Commission’s  engagement  with  Guinea-

Bissau  and  the  Central  African  Republic  is  relatively 
integrated  strategies 
the  peoples.  The 
framework 
leading 
for 
A/64/PV.50
to 
to 
While 
further  strengthen 
the  United  Nations 
the  Commission  has  made 
recent.  It  is  satisfying  to  note  that  the  strategic 
frameworks  for  the  Commission’s  engagement  with 
these countries have been finalized and that work under 
both structures has started. The progress achieved thus 
far  deserves  our  appreciation,  particularly  in  the  case 
of Guinea-Bissau, where the violent incidents of March 
and  June  posed  a  significant  challenge 
the 
Commission’s work. 

Apart from describing the Commission’s work, the 
report  offers  observations  on  outstanding  issues  and 
enumerates  a  way  forward.  We  suggest  a  three-layered 
strategy 
the  structure  and 
the  Commission:  first,  build  solid 
functioning  of 
partnerships  with 
system, 
international financial institutions and individual donors 
with  a  view  to  expanding  the  Commission’s  resource 
base; secondly, seek pragmatic frameworks of operation 
with the countries on the agenda, targeting priority areas 
in  an  environment  of  national  ownership;  and  thirdly, 
enhance  the  visibility  of  the  Commission  and  its  work 
through  a  robust  outreach  plan  aimed  at  achieving  a 
profile that is commensurate with its noble work. 

important 
progress over the past three years, it is barely out of its 
formative  phase.  Accordingly,  it  may  be  too  early  to 
pass  judgment  on  its  work  in  terms  of  success  or 
failure.  Considering  the  inherent  difficulties  presented 
by 
the 
performance  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  is  by 
any measure commendable. 

is  an 
essential requirement for comprehensive peacebuilding 
efforts.  In  this  context,  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  is  an 
indispensable  component  of  the  overall  peacebuilding 
architecture.  The  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/64/217) 
notes  the  initial  success  achieved  by  this  funding 
instrument. It is gratifying to note the steady rise of the 
Fund’s  portfolio  growth  over  the  past  three  years.  A 
robust  accountability  framework,  as  suggested  by  the 
Secretary-General, is essential to ensuring transparency 
and  oversight.  In  terms  of  disbursals,  it  is  equally 
the  recipient 
important 
countries  paramount 
the  projects 
resourced  from  the  Fund. At  the  same  time,  we  hope 
that the Fund itself will be guided in its objectives and 
terms  of  reference  by  resolution  63/282.  The  Fund’s 
capacity  will  increase  if  the  Fund  is  flexible  and 
responsive  and  complements 
the 
Commission. 
The  provision  of  adequate  resources 
the  complex  situations  on 
interests  of 
in  designing 
the  work  of 
its  agenda, 
to  keep 
the 
09-61775 

9 

in 
the  complex  challenges  entailed 
A/64/PV.50 


In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  say  that  the 
Peacebuilding Commission  has  shown great promise  in 
addressing 
its 
mandate. The Commission can deliver only with our full 
support. The international community has the resources 
and  the  capability  to  offer  a  collective  solution  to  the 
problems  of  poverty,  hunger  and  disease  generated  by 
violence and conflict. The Peacebuilding Commission is 
a viable tool to offer such collective solutions. 
Mr.  Zhang  Yesui  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The  Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (A/64/341)  on  its  third 
session  and  the  report  (A/64/217)  on  the  activities  of 
the Peacebuilding Fund (PBF) submitted by Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon.  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity 
to thank Ambassador Heraldo Muñoz, Chairman of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC),  for  his  diligent 
work over the past year. 

The  establishment  of  the  PBC  is  an  important 
accomplishment  in  the  framework  of  United  Nations 
reform  undertaken  since  the  2005  World  Summit.  It 
marked  a  new  and  substantive  step  forward  in  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  endeavours.  Over  the  past  few 
years,  pursuant 
its  mandates  under  General 
Assembly  and  Security  Council  resolutions,  the  PBC 
has  provided  vigorous  assistance  of  various  kinds  to 
the  four  countries  on  its  agenda  —  Sierra  Leone, 
Burundi,  Guinea-Bissau  and 
the  Central  African 
Republic  —  in  the  light  of  their  respective  national 
situations.  The  PBF  has  provided  financial  assistance 
to  12  countries,  extending  the  exemplary  role  and 
influence of United Nations peacebuilding efforts. 

facing  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  endeavours  deserve  due  attention. 
Ensuring 
that  post-conflict  countries  embark  on 
peaceful  reconstruction  and  avoid  relapsing 
into 
conflict  and  turbulence  is  a  major  task  facing  the 
international  community.  This  has  brought 
the 
importance 
peacebuilding 
endeavours into sharper relief. I would like to make the 
following  four  points  on  how 
improve  and 
strengthen United Nations peacebuilding efforts. 

First, 
the  United  Nations  should  adopt  an 
integrated 
approach 
to  coordinate  peacemaking, 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  efforts.  The  United 
Nations  needs  to  put  more  energy  into  preventive 
diplomacy,  to  avoid  the  outbreak  of  conflicts  and 
reduce the global need for peacekeeping operations and 
of  United  Nations 
challenges 
The 
to 
to 
Thirdly, 
recipient 
Secondly, 
the  PBC 
strengthen 
take  peacebuilding 
specific  conditions. 
post-conflict reconstruction efforts. To ensure a smooth 
transition  from  peacekeeping  to  peacebuilding,  the 
Security  Council  should 
into 
consideration when it deploys peacekeeping operations. 
At  the  same  time,  there  should  be  a  clear  division  of 
labour  between  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
endeavours to avoid duplication of efforts. 
its 

partnership  with 
countries.  Recipient 
countries have the primary responsibility for their own 
peacebuilding efforts. Not  only are they the  recipients 
of assistance, but they should also become partners for 
dialogue  on  an  equal  footing  and  should  be  fully 
entitled  to  air  their  views  on  identifying  the  priority 
areas for assistance. The PBC should take full account 
of  the  priority  development  projects  identified  by 
recipient  countries  themselves  and  should  establish 
peacebuilding  strategies  in  accordance  with  these 
countries’ 
In  carrying  out 
peacebuilding  strategies,  the  PBC  needs  to  focus  on 
strengthening  capacity-building  and  human  resources 
training in recipient countries and should make full use 
of their domestic human resources and expertise. 

the  2010 
comprehensive  review  as  an  opportunity  to  make 
further progress on institutional development. We hope 
PBC members will increase consultation, accommodate 
one another’s concerns and achieve a smooth transition 
between old and new members. We also hope the PBC 
will  reduce  the  number  of  its  meetings,  improve  their 
efficiency  and  ensure  their  quality.  In  identifying  the 
priority  areas  for  peacebuilding  endeavours,  we  hope 
the PBC will not only focus on security sector reform, 
protection of human rights and promotion of the rule of 
law,  but  also  put  greater  emphasis  on  the  deep-seated 
problems  that  triggered  the  conflicts,  including  those 
having to do with economic and social development. 

Fourthly, the fund-raising role of the PBF should 
be  given  full  play.  Sufficient  financial  input  provides 
the  basic  underpinnings 
success  of 
peacebuilding  efforts.  The  PBF  and  multilateral  and 
bilateral donors have invested a great deal of resources 
in  peacebuilding  endeavours  and  have  played  a 
positive role, but they still fall short of meeting every 
need. Further play must be given to the Fund’s role as a 
catalyst  in  order  not  only  to  provide  emergency 
financial assistance to the recipient countries, but also 
to  attract  long-term  development  assistance  to  the 
countries  concerned.  China  supports  improvement  of 
should  use 
the  PBC 
should 
for 
the 
10 

09-61775 
the 
the 
institutions, 
coherence  of 


the work of the PBF to speed up financial disbursement 
and  strengthen 
the  performance  evaluation  and 
accountability of projects. 
Ms. Dumont (France) (spoke in French): I would 

like to thank the President of the Assembly for having 
organized today’s debate, which comes at a particularly 
opportune time. I fully endorse the statement made this 
morning by the representative of Sweden on behalf of 
the  European  Union,  and  I  would  like  to  add  a  few 
brief comments. 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC),  which  is 

a  significant  institutional  innovation,  is  aimed  at 
improving 
international 
community’s interventions in countries emerging from 
crisis  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict.  This 
includes the entire United Nations family, international 
financial 
regional  organizations  and 
bilateral  donors.  The  Commission’s  role  is  to  draft 
integrated strategies for peacebuilding for the countries 
on  its  agenda,  strategies  adapted  to  each  country  and 
involving  all  of  the  different  stakeholders  engaged  in 
managing  the  post-conflict  situation.  It  does  so  by 
providing  a  road  map  for  the  affected  countries  and 
their partners.  

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  already 
achieved some results in the four countries currently on 
its  agenda.  The  country-specific  configurations  mean 
that  coherence  in  international  assistance  can  be 
ensured.  Their  effectiveness,  however,  needs  further 
improvement. 
With the review planned for 2010, we are arriving 

at  a  key  stage.  France  hopes  that  through  that  review 
process,  which  was  agreed  on  by  the  entire  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  in  2005,  the  PBC 
will  be  able 
in 
coordinating  efforts  and  thus  apply  its  added  value  to 
the  key  areas  that  will  enable  the  establishment  of 
lasting peace. The Peacebuilding Fund must be a useful 
tool at the disposal of the  PBC. Through the PBF, the 
PBC must better monitor  financial project, in order to 
ensure coherence in the financial measures taken by the 
international  community.  It  would  undoubtedly  be 
beneficial  to  think  about  how  to  better  focus  the 
financial interventions of the Fund on the countries on 
the agenda of the Commission. We would also like the 
administrative  management  of 
to  be 
improved.  The  new  terms  of  reference  allow  for  this 
and should be implemented.  
to  strengthen 
the  Fund 
the  role 
it  plays 
A/64/PV.50
his 
in 
fully 
France 
supports 
in 
the 
Post-conflict  peacebuilding 
the  Security  Council,  as 
recommended 

We  also  commend  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office  and  its  new  head,  Ms.  Cheng-Hopkins,  and  we 
encourage  her  to  continue  her  work  in  support  of  the 
drawing up of peacebuilding strategies, the mobilizing 
of  resources  and  the  strengthening  of  international 
coordination.  

It  is  crucial  to  take  peacebuilding  issues  into 
account already during the first stages of dealing with a 
crisis and in planning a peacekeeping mission. We are 
in  favour  of  strengthening  the  relations  between  the 
the 
Commission  and 
Secretary-General 
report 
(A/63/881)  on  peacebuilding 
immediate 
aftermath of conflict.  

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  and  would  like  all  Member  States  to  do 
the  same.  France  supports  the  renewal  process  of  the 
Commission and encourages it to continue its work. 
Mr.  Goledzinowski  (Australia):  I  would  like  to 

thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
opportunity to speak today on this important topic. 

the 
is  one  of 
fundamental  challenges  of  our  time.  Collectively,  we 
need  to  help  prevent  post-conflict  societies  from 
slipping  once  again  into  conflict.  In  2005,  our  leaders 
emphasized  the  need  for  us  to  take  a  coordinated, 
coherent  and 
to  post-conflict 
peacebuilding.  With  that  end  in  mind,  our  leaders 
decided to establish the Peacebuilding Commission.  

We all know that the challenges of peacebuilding 
are  not  solely 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  nor  of  the  United  Nations  more  broadly. 
The  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/63/881)  on  post-
conflict peacebuilding from earlier this year provided a 
valuable  assessment  of  the  international  community’s 
engagement in peacebuilding activities and identified a 
number  of  areas 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  could 
contribute. 
Today’s  consideration  of  the  reports  on  the 

Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund  provides  us  with  an  opportunity  to  assess  the 
respective contributions of these bodies to international 
peacebuilding  efforts  and  to  assess  whether  they  have 
been  meeting  the  expectations  set  for  them  by  our 
leaders in 2005. 
integrated  approach 
in  which 
remit  of 
the 
09-61775 

11 

A/64/PV.50 


I would like to commend Ambassador Muñoz for 
his  presentation  of  the  third  annual  report  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (A/64/341).  The  report 
clearly  articulates  the  activities  of  the  Commission, 
both  through  its  Organizational  Committee  and,  more 
concretely, through its country-specific configurations. 
In the years ahead, we should be increasingly looking 
to the Commission to deliver country-specific tangible 
results  as  a  demonstration  of  its  contribution  to  the 
broader peacebuilding effort. 

We would encourage the Commission to continue 
to  evaluate  the  contribution  that  it  brings  to  the 
countries  on  its  agenda  and  to  engage  in  outreach  to 
promote this contribution. We would further encourage 
the Commission to continue to refine and diversify its 
working  methods  to  ensure  that  it  remains  responsive 
to the needs of those countries on its agenda, as well as 
those perhaps looking to be included on its agenda. 

One  issue  that  is  raised  in  the  Commission’s 
report  and  in  the  Secretary-General’s  earlier  report  on 
post-conflict  peacebuilding  is  the  need  to  broaden  and 
deepen the pool of civilian expertise and volunteers for 
peacebuilding.  My  country,  Australia,  has  recently 
announced  the  establishment  of  a  deployable  civilian 
capacity to assist with stabilization and recovery efforts 
in post-conflict countries. We look forward to working 
closely with the United Nations and the Commission to 
ensure  that  our  deployable  civilian  capacity  fits  well 
with  others  and  contributes  to  broadening  the  pool  of 
civilian  expertise,  including  through  mobilization  of 
capacity from the global South. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  (A/64/217). 
The  report  demonstrates  that  the  Fund  is  filling  a 
critical  niche  in  the  area  of  peacebuilding.  The  Fund 
has  undergone  significant  improvement  in  the  past  12 
months. Australia  welcomes  the  revision  of  the  terms 
of  reference  for  the  Fund,  which  has  strengthened  its 
capacity  to  serve  as  a  flexible,  responsive  and  risk-
taking resource for peacebuilding support. We continue 
to  support  the  use  of  the  Fund  as  a  catalytic  tool  for 
key peacebuilding priorities. 

Peacebuilding 
Commission  in  2005,  we  undertook  to  review  it  in 
2010. That review will provide all Member States with 
an  opportunity  to  reinvigorate  their  engagement  with 
the  Commission  and  to  assess  further  its  place  in  the 
broader international peacebuilding architecture. It will 
When  we 
established 
the 
to 
take 
through 
countries, 
stock  of 
the  report  on 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
also  be  an  opportunity  to  listen  to  the  experiences  of 
post-conflict 
the 
Commission’s successes and to demonstrate to Member 
States  and  other  peacebuilding  actors  the  valuable 
contribution the Commission can make to countries on 
its agenda. 
Mrs.  Gallardo  Hernández  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 

in Spanish): I wish to express my delegation’s gratitude 
for  the  initiative  of  holding  this  joint  debate  on  the 
annual  report  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  on  its 
third  session  (A/64/341)  and 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/64/217). We are also grateful to 
the  Secretary-General  for  the  documents  and  reports 
provided and for his valuable contribution to the work 
of 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office.  We  also  welcome  his 
leadership at the head of the Peacebuilding Fund.  

El  Salvador  has  been  committed  from  the  outset 
to  the  very  essence  of  the  Commission,  in  the  belief 
that the establishment of this body constitutes a crucial 
building  block  for  the  international  peacebuilding 
architecture,  as  it  assists  countries  in  post-conflict 
situations  to  entrench  lasting  peace  with  sustainable 
development.  

Today,  the  General  Assembly  is  considering  the 
report  on  the  third  session  of  the  Commission.  In 
chronological  terms,  we  are  about  to  close  the  first 
five-year  cycle  of  the  Commission,  which,  since  its 
inception, has supported post-conflict countries.  
At  this  point,  my  delegation  does  not  intend  to 

the  achievements,  obstacles  and 
take  stock  of 
challenges the Peacebuilding Commission has faced in 
its  first  years  of  existence. The  time  for  doing  so  will 
be during the review process to take place in 2010, in 
which  my  country  wishes  to  participate  actively.  We 
would  like  to  do  so,  as  members  are  aware,  based  on 
our  own  experience  as  a  post-conflict  country.  My 
country  has  demonstrated  its  political  will  without, 
however,  forgetting  that  we  must  remain  alert,  as  any 
post-conflict  country,  in  order  to  prevent  any  new 
outbreaks  of  violence  that  could  be  generated  by 
globalization and the new geopolitical context.  
El Salvador believes that the establishment of the 

Peacebuilding Commission represented a turning point 
in the perception and management of the inherent links 
between  peacekeeping  operations,  peacebuilding  and 
the  promotion  of  development  in  countries  emerging 
from conflict. 
12 

09-61775 
El  Salvador 
acknowledges 
the 



Likewise,  the  Commission’s  work  gives  us  the 
opportunity to focus afresh, and perhaps with a broader 
perspective, on the various components that contribute 
to propagating, maintaining and suppressing conflict in 
the  countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda.  It  also 
enables  us  to  recognize  that  each  conflict  has  its  own 
particular  features  that  can  be  overcome  only  with  a 
specific  approach.  Otherwise  we  run  the  risk  of 
generalizing  the  particular  causes  and  dynamics  that 
led to conflict in each of the countries the Commission 
is currently working with. 
leadership 

demonstrated 
by  Ambassador  Heraldo  Muñoz, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Chile,  as  Chair  of  the 
Commission,  and  of  the  other  members  of  the  Bureau. 
We  wish  to  highlight  particularly  his  commitment  to 
strengthening  the  Commission’s  relationships  with  the 
principal organs of the United Nations. In particular, he 
has  worked  to  strengthen  the  links  with  the  Economic 
and Social Council. My delegation has frequently stated 
that  the  Commission  must  truly  interact  with  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  and  in  particular  has 
called  on  the  PBC  to  make  the  most  of  the  Council’s 
accumulated  experience  in  the  area  of  operational 
development  activities,  as  well  as  the  work  of  the 
Ad Hoc Advisory Groups on African countries emerging 
from conflict and the Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Haiti. 

In  this  context,  we  welcome  the  Economic  and 
the 
Social  Council’s 
invitation 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
the 
substantive  part  of  its  session,  as  well  as  the  special 
event  on  food  and  economic  crises  in  post-conflict 
countries,  jointly  organized  by  the  Commission,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  World  Food 
Programme  in  Geneva.  These  activities  are  a  positive 
step  in  the  task  of  strengthening  the  Commission’s 
relations  with  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations.  Similarly,  we  support  the  Chair’s  efforts 
towards  improving  public  awareness  and  the  visibility 
of the work of the Commission. 

With  regard  to  the  work  of  the  Commission  on 
the  country-specific  configurations,  El  Salvador 
acknowledges  the  efforts  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Belgium,  Brazil,  Canada  and 
Switzerland 
country-specific 
configurations. We also note with a degree of optimism 
the  major  progress  made 
in 
responding to the enormous challenges of post-conflict 
peacebuilding.  We  also  acknowledge  the  importance 
to 
to  participate 
the  Chair  of 
in 
in 
those  countries 
as  Chairs  of 
the 
A/64/PV.50
the  Commission  gives  to  the  full  application  of  the 
principle  of  national  ownership,  which  constitutes  the 
fundamental  basis  for  directing  international  efforts 
towards  the  national  priorities  established  by  the 
Governments of the countries in question. Beyond this, 
our participation in the Addis Ababa meeting with the 
African  Union  compels  us  to  stress  the  need  to  build 
better  synergy  for  coordination  and  communication 
with regional organizations. 

El  Salvador  remains  convinced  of  the  great 
importance of the role played by the Working Group on 
Lessons  Learned,  which  we  have  been  honoured  to 
chair.  In  our  opinion,  this  Working  Group  is  an 
essential component, due to the broad role it has played 
in  the  PBC  architecture  as  a  discussion  forum  open 
both  to  Member  States  and  to  civil  society.  In  this 
forum we can examine the various elements that come 
together  to  create  or  worsen  conflict,  as  well  as  the 
actions  undertaken  to  deal  with  them  by  various 
players.  This  is  a  forum  for  considering  the  medium- 
and  long-term  strategic  issues  that  the  international 
community  should  be  focusing  on  in  order  to  learn 
from  the  mistakes  —  or  from  the  best  practices  that 
have  made  it  possible  to  tackle  successfully  different 
situations in various countries — by incorporating such 
experience  into  the  Commission’s  broad  strategy  and 
policies.  It  is  also  important  to  recognize  the  need  to 
make  more  effective  use  of  this  valuable  experience 
and incorporate it into specific actions implemented in 
the  current country-specific configurations, so  that we 
can  contribute  to  a  faster  transition  from  conflict  to 
peacebuilding and sustainable development. 

Concerning  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  El  Salvador 
acknowledges  the  generosity  and  solidarity  of  the 
donor  countries  and  highlights  the  contribution  the 
Fund has made to the peacebuilding efforts in the four 
countries  on  the  PBC  agenda.  We  also  consider  it 
important  that  it  has  contributed  to  five  additional 
countries,  since  it  has  been  determined  that  they  meet 
the  requirements  for  being  a  part  of  the  programme. 
Despite these important achievements, however, we are 
convinced that there is room for improvement, in order 
to  continue  increasing  the  Fund’s  effectiveness  and 
catalytic effect, which in future should definitely take a 
degree  of  geographic  balance  into  consideration.  We 
also  believe  that  coordination  between  the  Fund  and 
the  PBC,  and  their  shared  strategic  vision,  can  be 
further  strengthened, 
the  spirit 
established in the Commission’s founding resolutions. 
in  keeping  with 
09-61775 

13 

in 
In 
(PBC). 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
A/64/PV.50 


In conclusion, my delegation hopes that this issue 
and others we have mentioned will be considered in the 
review process planned for 2010. Allow me to reaffirm 
the  willingness  of  the  Government  of  El  Salvador  to 
continue to contribute its experience as a post-conflict 
country.  I  assure  the  international  community  that  we 
know that, although almost 18 years have passed since 
our  peace  agreements  were  signed,  many  challenges, 
born of the post-conflict situation, remain. We must be 
on  our  guard  to  ensure  that  violence  does  not  return 
again. 
Mr. Momen (Bangladesh): I would like to thank 

the  President  for  convening  this  joint  debate  on  post-
conflict peacebuilding and the Peacebuilding Fund. My 
delegation aligns itself with the statement delivered by 
the representative of Jamaica on behalf of the caucus of 
the 
countries  of 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
addition, 
however,  I  would  like  in  my  national  capacity  to 
highlight the following points. 

We  welcome  the  third  annual  report  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  contained  in  document 
A/64/341,  reflecting  the  activities  of  the  Commission 
from 23 June 2008 to 30 June 2009. We commend the 
work  of  the  Commission  in  the  third  year  since  its 
founding, 
configuration 
meetings,  including  utilizing  the  evolving  integrated 
peacebuilding  strategies  as  frameworks  for  advancing 
peacebuilding  in  ways  that  respond  to  the  differing 
needs of the four countries now on its agenda. 

the 
following notable outcomes of the Commission’s work 
during  the  reporting  period:  first,  the  adoption  of 
Strategic  Frameworks  for  Peacebuilding  in  Guinea-
Bissau and the Central African Republic; secondly, the 
adoption  of  conclusions  on  the  second  and  third 
biannual reviews of the implementation of the Strategic 
Framework  for  Peacebuilding  in  Burundi;  and  thirdly, 
approval of the Government of Sierra Leone’s Agenda 
for Change as the core strategic document for guiding 
all  future  national  and 
international  development 
efforts. 

The  PBC  has  continued  to  strengthen  its  links 
with  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  My  delegation 
particularly  welcomes 
its 
relationship with the Economic and Social Council on 
the  important  nexus  among  security,  recovery  from 
My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction 
country-specific 
its  efforts 
intensify 
through 
to 
the  Commission  Chair’s  conclusion 
conflict  and  development.  My  delegation 
endorses 
presenting the report that  

fully 
in 
flexibility 
“The  Commission  combines  a  unique  link  to  the 
three  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  a 
unique composition of membership and a unique 
degree  of 
to  engage  non-United 
Nations  and  non-governmental  actors.  Thus,  the 
Commission  could, 
in  particular,  promote  a 
seamless  transition  from  humanitarian  to  early 
recovery 
between 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  mandates  and 
national 
critical 
in 
peacebuilding priorities.” (A/64/PV.49) 
capacity  development 
assistance, 
synergy 
financial 
institutions, 
We  further  welcome  the  Commission’s  continued 
efforts  towards  expanding  partnerships  with  different 
national,  regional  and  international  actors,  including 
United  Nations  agencies,  funds  and  programmes, 
international 
regional 
organizations, the private sector and civil society. 
We  are  encouraged  by  the  important  discussions 

that 
the  Committee  convened  on  enhancing 
the 
capacity of the PBC to fulfil its resource mobilization 
mandate,  employment  and  income  generation  and 
private  sector  development  in  post-conflict  countries; 
on the implications of the financial crisis for countries 
emerging  from  conflict;  and,  most  recently,  on  the 
prospects for the mandated 2010 review of the United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture  and  on  improving 
engagement  with  countries  seeking  the  Commission’s 
advice. We also take note of the Chair’s tireless efforts 
in  undertaking  a  number  of  activities  in  order  to  raise 
global  awareness  of  the  challenges  that  countries 
emerging  from  conflict  face  and  to  enhance  the 
Commission’s visibility on the ground. 

its 
principled  position  on  the  following  issues.  First,  the 
Peacebuilding Commission should have the central role 
in  post-conflict  peacebuilding  and  reconciliation.  The 
PBC,  in  institutional  harmony  with  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund and the Peacebuilding Support Office, should act 
as  the  spearhead  for  a  coordinated,  coherent  and 
integrated peacebuilding architecture as outlined in its 
founding  resolutions,  General  Assembly  resolution 
60/180 and Security Council resolution 1645 (2005).  

Secondly, my delegation strongly emphasizes the 
principle  that  post-conflict  societies  must  take  charge 
of  their  own  destiny. The  work  of  the  PBC  should  be 
My  delegation  would 
reiterate 
like 
to 
14 

09-61775 
institutions 
financial 
the  private 
and 
sector,  civil 


based on national ownership and national priorities. We 
recommend  that,  to  further  the  work  of  the  PBC, 
pluralist  political 
institutions  be  built,  peace 
constituencies be created, the root causes of conflict be 
identified,  an  environment  of  mutual  trust,  confidence 
and 
tolerance  be  restored,  a  process  of  societal 
reconciliation  and  healing  be  established,  justice  and 
fair rule of law be allowed to take root and government 
machinery  be  overhauled  to  lead  the  process  of 
democratization. We also emphasize the importance of 
governmental  efforts  being  properly  supported  by  the 
international 
other 
organizations, 
society, 
development  partners  and  all  other  stakeholders,  both 
external and domestic. 
Thirdly, we very much agree with the concept of 

a  more 
funding  mechanism. 
Disbursement of the multi-donor trust funds and other 
funds  should  be  rapid  and  immediate  to  ensure  early 
stabilization  of countries  emerging from conflict. This 
is required for support to national and local authorities 
in  delivering  a  peace  dividend.  However,  we  reiterate 
that one of the main purposes of the PBC, as depicted 
in its founding resolutions, is to marshal resources for 
reconstruction  and  institution-building  in  countries 
emerging  from  conflict.  Therefore,  the  PBC  should 
have  a  central  role  in  any  discussion  regarding  the 
creation of new rapid funding mechanisms. 

Finally, for early recovery, our focus should be on 
identifying  approaches  that  would  offer  a  sustainable 
national  political  dialogue  aimed  at  reconciliation 
among  the  parties  to  the  conflict  with  participation 
from all stakeholders — local, national and regional — 
including international partners. Women’s involvement 
would  be  key 
that  process.  Integrated  needs 
assessment, including prioritization, should be conducted 
in  consultations  with  all  stakeholders.  Unity  of  vision 
should  be  maintained  while  designing  a  clear  and 
coordinated  mandate  to  define  the  leadership  role  of 
the United Nations agencies on the ground. This should 
be articulated in the early stages to avoid duplication of 
efforts and inefficient use of scarce resources. 

We strongly feel that women’s empowerment and 
the involvement of civil society and non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs)  in  development  activities  at  the 
local level could significantly contribute to the process 
of  achieving  sustainable  economic  growth  leading  to 
sustainable  peace  and  development  in  post-conflict 
countries.  Bangladesh  offers  to  share  its  tested  and 
rapid  and 
flexible 
to 
A/64/PV.50
in  Bangladesh, 
the  poor,  health, 
well-recognized  practices  in  integrating  civil  society 
and  development  NGOs  with  public  authorities  in 
nation-building endeavours. In this context I am happy 
to  note  that  a  leading  non-governmental  organization 
based 
the  Bangladesh  Rural 
Advancement  Committee  (BRAC)  —  which  is  the 
largest NGO in Bangladesh and probably in the world, 
with its wide-ranging operations in poverty alleviation, 
empowerment  of 
education, 
community development, agriculture and microfinance 
development  projects  —  has  recently  begun  to  help 
residents of Kroo Bay and other communities in Sierra 
Leone and other countries in Africa. 

We  would  further  like  to  refer  to  our  post-
liberation  experiences,  whereby  we  have  learned  the 
importance of domestic initiatives such as home-grown 
ideas like microcredit to address poverty and non-formal 
primary education. In a similar vein, proven initiatives 
such  as  cooperative  arrangements  for  agriculture 
development,  establishment  of  targeted  small  and 
medium-sized  enterprises  through  community-based 
organization  and  microfinancing  projects  could  be 
pursued. These would provide invaluable opportunities 
for creating jobs, which, in effect, can re-engage young 
people,  ex-combatants  in  particular.  My  delegation 
would  be  happy  to  share  our  experiences  regarding 
cooperative  arrangements  in  agriculture  development 
as  well  as  microfinancing  projects  in  establishing  and 
creating successful small enterprises.  

Countries  emerging  from  conflict  at  times  need 
national  digital  identification  cards,  or  IDs,  that  help 
the  Government  and  election  commissions  to  prepare 
non-controversial,  transparent  and  accurate  voter  lists. 
Bangladesh  has  the  experience  and  expertise,  having 
issued  nearly  90  million  national  IDs  in  recent  years, 
and  we  can  share  our  expertise  with  emerging 
countries. 

Peacebuilding  is  an  area  that  may  contribute  to 
further  defining  the  image  of  the  Organization  in  the 
coming  years.  The  envisaged  2010  review  of  the 
Commission  called  for  in  its  founding  resolutions,  in 
this context, will provide a good opportunity to further 
build on the experiences it has gained and lessons that 
have  been  learned,  define  its  potential  role  in  support 
of an expanding United Nations peacebuilding agenda 
and  enhance  its  support  to  countries  emerging  from 
conflict. The 2010 review will be charting an important 
course for the future relevance of the United Nations in 
tackling  post-conflict  situations.  My  delegation  looks 
09-61775 

15 

the 
recognizes 
A/64/PV.50 

forward  to  working  in  close  collaboration  with  all 
concerned. 

A  key  element  of  the  vision  that  led  to  the 
creation  of  the  PBC  was  the  need  for  a  new  twenty-
first-century  machinery  that  could  energize  all  to 
actively integrate peacebuilding tools in order to allow 
peace processes to bear fruit. The efforts of the PBC to 
achieve  coherence  have  attracted  increased  attention. 
Also, the recent decisions of the Security Council to set 
up integrated peacebuilding missions have been widely 
recognized. We  welcome  such  successful  steps  in  that 
regard. 

The  need  for  further  coherence  in  peacebuilding 
efforts gradually seems to be beginning to take hold at 
the  United  Nations.  The  penultimate  paragraph  of  the 
Security  Council  presidential  statement  of  5  August 
(S/PRST/2009/24) 
importance  of 
introducing  peacebuilding  elements  into  peacekeeping 
operations before they are transferred to the PBC. But 
that  recognition  remains  to  be  translated  in  any 
country-specific context. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  say  that  Bangladesh’s 
commitment  to  peace  and  security  in  post-conflict 
countries  has  a  deep  emotional  basis,  given  that 
Bangladeshi  peacekeepers,  while  serving  in  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in  such  countries, 
often under very difficult situations, have been able to 
establish  strong  bonds  with  ordinary  local  residents, 
thereby winning their confidence and, more important, 
their  hearts.  We  would  not,  and  therefore  cannot,  shy 
away from any effort aimed at the overall well-being of 
the people of post-conflict societies. 
Mr. Loulichki (Morocco) (spoke in French): It is 

a real pleasure to take the floor under your leadership, 
Sir.  We  commend  your  commitment  and  your  very 
valuable contribution to the work of the Peacebuilding 
Commission, of which both our countries are members.  

thank 
Ambassador Heraldo Muñoz, Permanent Representative 
of  Chile,  for  his  outstanding  work  as  Chair  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and for his tireless efforts to 
improve the operation of the Commission and to inform 
the public and his potential partners of his mission. 

As a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  naturally  associates  itself  with 
the statement delivered this morning by the Permanent 
Representative of Jamaica on behalf of the Movement. 
the  outset,  I  should  also 
like 
At 
to 
The 
annual 
to 
report  of 
rehabilitate 
take  stock  of 
reintegrate  and 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  (A/64/341),  which  is  now  before  us, 
allows  us  to  assess  the  scope  of  the  Commission’s 
work  and  its  progress  in  carrying  out  its  mandate.  It 
also  allows  us 
the  difficulties 
encountered  by  the  Commission  as  it  fulfils  the  tasks 
assigned to it. No one can deny that, as the cornerstone 
of  the  intergovernmental  architecture  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  Commission  has  made  it  possible  to 
address the needs  and priorities of countries  emerging 
from conflict, to lay the foundations for the economic 
recovery of post-conflict countries, and to socially and 
economically 
former 
combatants. 

We  commend  the  Commission’s  country-specific 
configurations  for  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone,  the  Central 
African  Republic  and  Guinea-Bissau.  Despite  the 
challenges  and obstacles they have encountered, those 
configurations  have  proven  that  they  are  able  to  help 
those countries to undertake a number of reforms in the 
areas of good governance, justice and the rule of law. 

As a member of the Peacebuilding Commission’s 
Organizational Committee, my delegation can attest to 
the  many  advances  made  by  the  Commission  —  in 
particular with regard to partnerships with other United 
Nations  bodies,  such  as 
the  General  Assembly, 
the Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council — with the aim of improving the coherence of 
its strategies and improving its operations. For its part, 
the  Working  Group  on  Lessons  Learned  continues  to 
serve  as  an 
the 
the  views  of  competent 
Commission 
stakeholders  from  within  and  outside  the  United 
Nations  system,  including  national  specialists,  with 
experience in post-conflict peacebuilding. 

Despite  the  fact  that  it  was  established  not  long 
ago, the Commission has demonstrated the added value 
it  brings  to  stabilizing  post-conflict  situations.  Its 
contribution  could  be  more  effective  and  robust  if  it 
were to take the following points into consideration. 

First,  the  partnership  established  between  the 
Commission’s Chair and the main organs of the United 
Nations should be expanded to include a larger number 
of Commission members, including the countries of the 
various  country-specific  configurations.  Such  an 
approach  would  make  it  possible  to  involve  more 
countries  in  the  partnership  and  create  more  visibility 
while improving interaction. 
informal  mechanism 
to  gather 
to  allow 
16 

09-61775 
in 
its 
the 
the 
the 
coherence 
context  of 
effectiveness, 
should  update 


Secondly,  in  the  same  vein,  my  country  believes 

that 
the  Commission 
rules, 
procedures  and  working  methods  with  a  view  to 
improving 
and 
transparency of its work. 

Thirdly  and  lastly,  with  regard  to  the  country-
specific configurations, great attention must be paid to 
education, training, infrastructure development, private 
sector reform and the promotion of investment. 
Given  its  valuable  contribution  to  the  efforts 

country-specific 
made 
configuration,  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  deserves  our 
ongoing support. The Fund should endeavour to ensure 
greater transparency and flexibility in its operations. In 
that  regard,  the  role  played  by  the  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  in  revising  the  Fund’s  mandate  and 
acting as the conduit for information about the Fund’s 
activities  deserves  to  be  highlighted,  appreciated  and 
supported. 

The Peacebuilding Commission is a manifestation 
of the international community’s desire to stabilize and 
bring  peace  to  countries  emerging  from  conflict.  The 
success  of  its  missions  transcends  the  borders  of  the 
States concerned and has an impact on all neighbouring 
countries.  It  is  up  not  only  to  the  members  of  the 
Commission but to the entire international community 
to  support  the  Commission  as  it  carries  out  the  noble 
tasks for which it was established. 

For  our  part,  on  the  basis  of  the  ongoing 
commitment  of  His  Majesty  the  King  to  South-South 
cooperation,  my  country  remains  ready  to  share  its 
modest  peacebuilding 
experience  with  African 
countries on the Commission’s agenda, just as we have 
done with regard to peacekeeping.  
Mr. Cancela (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): First 

of  all,  allow  me  to  thank  the  President  for  convening 
this  truly  important  debate  to  receive  the  report 
(A/64/341) of the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC) on 
its third session as we prepare to begin the process of 
reviewing  that  body.  Secondly,  I  congratulate  our 
colleague  Ambassador  Heraldo  Muñoz,  Permanent 
Representative of Chile, for his excellent work as Chair 
of  the  Commission.  I  also  welcome  Ms.  Judy  Cheng-
Hopkins,  who  recently  became  the  head  of  the  very 
active Peacebuilding Support Office. 

the  work  of 
The  report  illustrates  several  relevant  aspects  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
A/64/PV.50
that 
that 
to  highlight 
reconstruction, 
examples  of  the  success  and  tangible  results  of 
peacebuilding in several countries, several of which we 
have  heard  about  today.  Were  it  not  for  the  action  of 
the PBC, such progress would certainly not have been 
achieved.  Beyond  individual  cases,  we  also  believe  it 
important 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission has progressively provided another added 
value  —  the  increasing  awareness  among  Member 
States of the crucial importance of peacebuilding tasks 
to the maintenance of international peace and security 
and  to  the  promotion  of  sustainable  development,  two 
core objectives of our Organization.  

It is true that peacebuilding did not begin with the 
PBC. We are aware that this young body of the United 
Nations  is  one  of  many  multilateral,  regional  and 
individual  players, and not even  the  most  influential in 
this  area.  However, 
the  PBC  has  certain  salient 
characteristics. It is probably the only intergovernmental 
forum  that  brings  North  and  South  together  to  discuss 
peacebuilding  and 
integrates 
political aspects with those of security and development, 
that  is  so  intensely  involved  in  specific  countries  and, 
above  all,  that  enjoys  unparalleled  legitimacy.  These 
features  give 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  a 
privileged  position  in  addressing  one  of  the  most 
egregious  deficiencies  of  the  system  as  a  whole —  the 
lack  of  coordination  and  coherence  in  peacebuilding 
actions worldwide.  

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  is  a  fundamental  tool  for 
improving  this  situation.  We  hope  that,  during  the 
review  process  in  2010,  Member  States  will  seize  the 
opportunity  to  create  greater  space  for  the  PBC  to 
improve  coordination  both  inside  and  outside  the 
Organization. 

But  such  coordination  should  begin  at  home.  In 
that  regard,  while  we  highlight  the  progress  that  has 
been  made,  such  as  the  creation  of  single  national 
strategies  and  integrated  peacebuilding  missions,  we 
understand 
for 
improvement,  as  for  example  with  regard  to  the 
relationship  between  the  PBC  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund,  and  as  is  clearly  revealed  by  the  need  to 
strengthen 
and 
peacebuilding. 

Accordingly,  the  role  of  peacekeeping  personnel 
as  actors  in  early  peacebuilding  is  essential  and 
practically 
the  Organization’s 
irreplaceable,  given 
is  still  much 
peacekeeping 
convinced 
therefore 
between 
room 
links 
that 
there 
We 
are 
that 
09-61775 

17 

on 
the 
ground 
the 
the 
and 
strengthen 
disarmament, 
demobilization 
it  would  be  useful 
A/64/PV.50 

capacities 
difficult 
circumstances  in  which  they  work.  The  support  that 
peacekeeping personnel can offer in such key areas as 
providing security and strengthening the rule of law — 
including 
and 
reintegration,  security  sector  reform,  extending  State 
authority  and  rapid-impact  projects,  inter  alia  — 
should  be  better  exploited.  There  are  more  than 
100,000 women and men deployed in 16 missions who 
can  make  a  decisive  contribution,  especially  to  the 
stabilization  of  a  country  and  in  the  first  phases  after 
stability returns. 

With respect to the upcoming review process, my 
delegation  believes  it  important  to  highlight  two  key 
aspects, bearing in mind that the objective is to use that 
opportunity 
Peacebuilding 
Commission.  The  Commission  must  be  made  a  more 
effective tool and its legitimacy enhanced. 

When  it  comes  to  greater  effectiveness,  beyond 
what  I  have  said  about  improving  coordination  and 
consistency, 
its 
involvement  with  countries  where  peacebuilding 
efforts  are  made.  The  benefits  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  work  should  be  extended  to  more 
countries  and  regions,  certainly  not  by  replicating  the 
models  of  current  configurations  but  perhaps  through 
activities in specific work areas. 

The second aspect is related to the legitimacy of 
the  PBC,  which  is  linked  to  a  concept  of  great 
importance 
that  of 
ownership.  We  have  already  noted  that,  given  the 
Commission’s  very  nature,  no  other  body  devoted  to 
this issue enjoys greater legitimacy. But we should ask 
ourselves  frankly  how  we  are  doing  internally.  The 
PBC  Organizational  Committee  and  the  members  of 
the configurations are the most representative sampling 
of the whole that it was possible to obtain at the time. 
They  personify  the  collective  political  will  of  the 
Organization in this field. However, we believe that we 
should all do more to effectively extend to all Member 
States the sense of ownership of peacebuilding efforts.  

We therefore feel that it would be very positive to 
extend  the  basis  of  support  for  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  efforts.  In  this  regard,  the  Commission 
should  actively  encourage  the  participation  of  other 
countries 
through 
triangular  and  South-South  cooperation,  which  would 
have  a  very  positive  impact  in  terms  of  renewing 
to  our  day-to-day  work  — 
these  efforts,  for  example, 
to 
review 
in 
to 
in 
Poland 
(PBC). 
to  post-conflict  peacebuilding 
remains  a  strong  supporter  of 
Since 
commitment  to  and  increasing  the  real  legitimacy  of 
the  PBC.  The  reference  to  this  topic  in  the  current 
report of the Peacebuilding Commission, and the stress 
placed in the Secretary-General’s report (A/63/881) on 
the  need  for  the  United  Nations  to  make  better  use  of 
the  capacities  of 
the  southern  hemisphere,  are 
encouraging precedents. 

Finally, we reiterate  our  commitment to  working 
constructively  in  the  upcoming  review  process  to 
strengthen the Peacebuilding Commission so that it can 
continue to contribute to the stabilization, institutional 
strengthening and economic and social development of 
societies affected by conflict. 
Mr.  Towpik  (Poland):  Poland  fully  aligns  itself 

with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  today  by  the 
representative  of  Sweden  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  I  shall  therefore  limit  myself  only  to  a  few 
points. 
the 

Peacebuilding  Commission 
its 
establishment  in  2005,  the  PBC  has  made  important 
contributions 
in 
countries  on  its  agenda.  It  has  provided  input  to  the 
development  of  new  partnerships  and  more  holistic 
approaches  that  integrate  peace  processes  and  the 
development agenda. 
The  Commission  has  already  proven  its  added 

value as a platform for policy coordination with respect 
to  international  support  for  post-conflict  countries.  It 
has also become a framework for mutual accountability 
on  the  part  of  host  Governments  and  the  international 
community. Its periodic reviews of the implementation 
of integrated peacebuilding strategies provide excellent 
opportunities to assess progress, identify obstacles and 
gaps, and decide on urgent actions to be taken. 
Poland attaches great importance to the principle 

in 
of  national  ownership  and 
peacebuilding  processes  not  only  of 
international 
stakeholders  and  Governments,  but  also  of  various 
groups  from  civil  society  and  non-governmental 
organizations. There is also scope for a greater role for 
regional and subregional organizations.  

Peacebuilding is not limited to peacekeeping and 
political peace processes. It also includes development 
activities  and  establishing  the  economic  foundations 
for countries on the Commission’s agenda. 
involvement 
the 
18 

09-61775 



I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  Ambassador 
Heraldo Muñoz of Chile, Chair of the Commission, as 
well  as  to  the  Chairs  of  the  Commission’s  country-
specific  configurations,  including  you,  Sir.  We  highly 
appreciate  your  chairmanship.  We  also  recognize  the 
important  role  of  the  Working  Group  on  Lessons 
Learned.  The  invaluable  personal  involvement  of  all 
those  persons  sets  the  pace  for  the  PBC’s  cooperation 
with the countries on its agenda. They have contributed 
to  the  further  development  of  both  the  practice  and 
concept  of  peacebuilding.  I  would  like  to  thank  them 
for their outstanding service and devotion. 

Poland  looks  forward  to  the  2010  review,  which 
will  be  another  strategic  opportunity  to  reflect  on  and 
further improve the work of the PBC. One of the areas 
that  can  be  enhanced  is  the  so-called  instrument  of 
engagement  of  the  PBC  with  the  countries  concerned. 
The development of such an instrument should not put 
an  additional  burden  on  the  Governments  of  the 
countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda.  It  could  be 
based to a greater extent on existing national strategies 
and  programmes  and  might  be  limited  to  only  some 
areas  of  peacebuilding 
international 
support.  It  could  also  make  use  of  existing  local 
civilian capacity. 

We  also  think  that  sharing  experiences  and 
building  on  previous  activities  is  important.  In  that 
regard,  it  would  be  useful  to  keep  records  of  the 
projects 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund in order to make continued use of 
the capacities built at the country level. 

involves  providing  adequate 
support  to  the  Chairs  of  the  various  configurations  of 
the PBC, in New York and in the field. There should be 
sufficient 
the 
continuation  of  the  work  of  country-specific  meetings 
in case of a change in chairmanship or membership. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  welcome  Assistant  Secretary-General 
Judy  Cheng-Hopkins  as  head  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Support Office. I wish her success in her work. 
Mr. Scott (United States of America): The United 

States  welcomes  the  report  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  on 
third  session  (A/64/341)  and 
commends  the  Commission  for  its  work  over  the 
course  of  the  past  year. We  thank Ambassador  Muñoz 
for his dedicated chairmanship, and would also like to 
institutional  memory 
implemented  with 
financing 
Another 
require 
enable 
issue 
from 
that 
its 
to 
A/64/PV.50
in 
In 
track 
supported 
its  agenda. 
In  Burundi, 
record.  We  particularly  note 
the  Central  African  Republic, 
to  bring  coherence  and  coordination 
express  our  appreciation  for  the  committed  efforts  of 
the Chairs of the country-specific configurations. 
The  United  States  appreciates  the  Commission’s 

the 
growing 
Commission’s  achievements 
instituting  more 
flexible  methods  of  work,  mobilizing  resources  from 
traditional  and  non-traditional  donors 
to  support 
national  peacebuilding  priorities  and  strategies,  and 
facilitating  coordination  among  all  stakeholders  in 
order to have a concrete impact. 
As  the  report  describes,  the  Commission  has  in 

that way contributed to the lives of ordinary citizens of 
the  countries  on 
the 
Commission has added its voice to regional institutions 
and others in helping Burundi create the conditions for 
the  resumption  of  the  political  process.  In  Sierra 
Leone,  the  Commission  has  helped  to  broaden  the 
the  Peacebuilding 
donor  base.  In  Guinea-Bissau, 
Commission  has 
the  organization  of 
legislative  elections  and  helped  to  secure  crucial 
funding. 
the 
Commission has supported the national dialogue and is 
helping 
to 
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration efforts. 

As those accomplishments show, the Commission 
is  capable  of  bringing  together  all  stakeholders  to 
support  countries  emerging  from  conflict  and 
to 
prevent fragmentation of effort. It can provide a unique 
forum  for  mobilizing  our  best  collective  efforts, 
helping  us  to  stay  focused  on  essential  priorities  and 
sending messages about the need for action. 

As we look ahead to the Commission’s future, we 
believe  that  we  need  to  set  our  sights  high  to  see  the 
Commission react quickly and flexibly, to add value to 
countries  on  its  agenda  without  adding  burdens,  to 
prioritize and to innovate, and to push all of us to raise 
the  bar 
the 
importance of the agenda: helping Governments restart 
critical 
reviving 
economies,  restoring  the  rule  of  law,  reforming  the 
security  sector,  tackling  crime  and  transborder  causes 
of instability, and putting an end to sexual and gender-
based  violence.  Whether 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  or  elsewhere,  those  issues  are  among  the 
highest  on  our  agenda  at  the  United  Nations,  and  we 
see  a  pressing  need  to  strengthen  ways  of  working 
together to address them successfully. 
in  our  common  efforts.  We  know 
services,  generating 
jobs  and 
in 
09-61775 

19 
to 
the 
relapse 
of 
the 

informal 
discussion 
A/64/PV.50 


We  look  forward  to  the  launch  of  the  five-year 
review.  Like  others,  we  believe  the  first  step  is 
information-gathering, 
and 
consensus-building  about  the  scope  and  core  elements 
of  the  review.  The  United  States  is  committed  to  a 
serious  process.  The  review  should  be  ambitious, 
evidence-based  and  open-minded.  It  should  also  keep 
foremost  in  mind  the  views  and  experiences  of  post-
conflict  countries,  both  on  and  off  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s agenda.  

The Commission was created because of gaps in 
the  international  response  that  left  too  many  countries 
violence.  The 
vulnerable 
Peacebuilding  Commission  has  already  helped 
to 
shrink  those  gaps,  but  many  remain.  The  review  can 
help  us  in  closing  them  if  we  stay  focused  on  the 
imperative  of  helping  post-conflict  countries  establish 
the foundations for peace and long-term development. 
Mr.  Midekssa  (Ethiopia):  My  delegation  would 

like  to  thank  Ambassador  Heraldo  Muñoz  of  Chile, 
Chairperson  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC), 
for  presenting 
the 
Commission,  as  contained  in  document A/64/341,  and 
also  wishes  to  express  its  appreciation  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his report (A/64/217) on the 
operations  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  (PBF).  My 
delegation aligns itself with the statement made by the 
representative of Jamaica on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the  PBC 
as  it  continues  to  implement  its  core  mandates  by 
adapting  to  the  existing  global  conditions  and  by 
developing  mechanisms  that  are  vital  to  the  priorities 
of  peacebuilding.  Ethiopia’s  involvement  with  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  and  peacemaking  since  1948 
underpins our commitment to peacebuilding. 

the  Commission  has 
accomplished significant tasks over the past year in its 
efforts  to  rebuild  nations  emerging  from  conflict.  My 
delegation  believes  that  the  international  community’s 
recognition that the fragility of States in the aftermath 
of  a  crisis  signifies  a  development  challenge  and  a 
potential  risk  to  global  stability  is  a  measure  of 
progress 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission was established in the hope 
of  bringing  peace  to  people  destabilized  by  conflicts, 
we  are  convinced  that  the  PBC  remains  true  to  the 
international  community  that  created  it  to  deal  with 
The  report  notes 
strengthened.  As 
third  annual 
should  be 
report  of 
that 
that 
the 
and 
agenda, 
focus  of 
should  work 
their  performance 
challenges  to  peace,  security  and  development  in  a 
practical and effective way. 

Through the PBC, the international community is 
expected  to  provide  the  necessary  assistance  to  all 
countries emerging from crisis by building partnerships 
with other stakeholders. The shared conviction that the 
PBC 
in  partnership  with  other 
international  actors  and  promote  the  ownership  of  the 
countries concerned should be given serious emphasis. 
The concerned parties need to participate in the process 
to make that endeavour successful. 

My  delegation  is  convinced  that  the  PBC’s 
Organizational Committee will continue to include new 
countries  on  its  agenda.  As  the  major  conflicts  in 
Africa account for over 60 per cent of the items on the 
Security  Council’s 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission’s  activities  is  on  Africa. 
The  PBC  should  work  hand  in  hand  with  the African 
Union and give serious consideration to the prevailing 
conditions  on  the  continent.  The  number  of  African 
nations  benefiting  from  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  is 
increasing 
the 
Commission’s achievements. 

Even  though  the  PBC  has  made  some  progress, 
challenges  are  still  unfolding.  The  increasing  number 
of conflicts in Africa calls for more engagement on the 
part  of  the  international  community  substantively  to 
address the  early recovery of fragile States, which  are 
at greater risk of relapsing into violence and could pose 
real  threats  to  regional  and  international  stability.  In 
that  regard,  it  is  important  to  stress  that,  unless  the 
international community is determined to bring lasting 
peace to our subregion, the situation will deteriorate in 
the future. 
As  a  body,  the  PBC  is,  of  course,  in  its  early 

years  and  is  expected  to  draw  lessons  from  past 
activities  and  benefit  from  the  experience  of  the 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Commission 
should coordinate with other United Nations bodies so 
as  to  increase  its  effectiveness.  The  PBC’s  strategic 
in  country-specific  cases  administered  by 
work 
country-specific  configurations  and 
the  working 
methods  employed  in  the  integrated  strategies  need  to 
be  streamlined  with  the  country  teams.  In  order  to 
respond  to  the  needs  of  the  different  countries  on  its 
peacebuilding  agenda,  the  PBC  has  to  address  the 
current managerial and operational challenges. 
reflects 
20 

09-61775 
in 
launching 
through  cooperation 



The PBC’s readiness to improve its work assures 
us  that  it  will  vigorously  strengthen  its  peacebuilding 
activities. The mandate review in the coming year will 
seek  to  improve  various  approaches  to  integrated 
peacebuilding  strategies  in  terms  of  objective  and 
scope,  strengthening  and  diversifying  the  approach  to 
resource  mobilization,  and  calibrating  responses  to 
emerging  situations  in  the  field,  all  of  which  are 
important  factors  that  need  serious  consideration.  We 
believe  that  the  PBF  will  continue  to  be  of  great 
importance 
relevant  peacebuilding 
programmes. The key role of the Fund as a channel for 
the  effectiveness  of  the  PBC’s  operations  in  recent 
years should not be overlooked. 

We  all  acknowledge  that  peace  is  more  precious 
than  anything.  Hence,  the  approach  that  we  took  in 
building  peace 
is  a  noble 
foundation.  The  PBC  embodies  our  common  goal  of 
building  the  conditions  for  a  peaceful  life  for  those 
who are in crisis. 
Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri (India): We welcome the 

joint debate on today’s agenda items, all of which have 
an  underlying  substantive  connection.  The  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  over  the  past  three 
years  has  sought  to  draw  on  the  synergies  of  the  three 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  —  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and 
Social Council — in handling post-conflict situations. 

record  our 
appreciation  for  the  good  work  done  by  Ambassador 
Heraldo Muñoz, who brings to the Commission his rich 
experience  in  dealing  with  complex  issues  at  the 
United  Nations.  We  will  gladly  continue  to  cooperate 
with  him 
to 
congratulate  the  new  Chairs  of  the  country-specific 
configurations,  as  well  as  the  Chair  of  the  Working 
Group  on  Lessons  Learned, 
their  work. 
Furthermore, I would like to extend congratulations to 
Ms.  Judy  Cheng-Hopkins  on  her  appointment  as  head 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office.  My  delegation 
looks forward to working with all of them in a spirit of 
constructive and positive cooperation. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  has  contributed  to  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund.  We  will  continue  our  active  association  both 
with the Commission and with the Fund with a view to 
enabling those institutions to fulfil in their entirety the 
tasks  assigned  to  them  by  the  General  Assembly  and 
Let  me  begin  by  placing  on 
in  his  efforts.  I  would  also 
is  a  member  of 
India 
like 
for 
A/64/PV.50
the 
three 
reports 
relevant 
capacities 
in  particular 
We  welcome 
the  Security  Council.  We  have  always  held  the  view 
that  the  setting  up  of  the  PBC  filled  an  important 
institutional  gap  and  that  the  Commission  can  and 
should make an important contribution to the recovery, 
reconstruction and development of countries emerging 
from conflict whenever it agrees to act upon a request 
for advice and assistance from any such Member State. 

India has unique experience of nation-building in 
a large, complex and very  diverse setting as we strive 
to give our people a better life. That has allowed us to 
develop  multifaceted 
to 
peacebuilding  and  development.  We  have  shared  that 
experience  and  expertise  with  a  number  of  countries 
transiting from conflict to peace. We are very happy to 
continue  to  make  our  capabilities  in  nation-building 
available to countries in post-conflict situations and to 
cooperate with the United Nations in its peacebuilding 
activities, including with regard to development, social 
sector reform, the rule of law and security. 
under 

consideration, 
the  new  one  on 
peacebuilding  in  the  aftermath  of  conflict  (A/63/881). 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  peacebuilding 
in the immediate aftermath of conflict has as its central 
theme the imperative of national ownership and rightly 
notes  that  peacebuilding  efforts  must  be  anchored  at 
the  country  level. We  are  hopeful  that  a  sincere  effort 
will  follow  during  the  implementation  phase,  so  that 
the advisory function of the Peacebuilding Commission 
can  be  thoroughly  exploited  for  the  benefit  of  the 
countries  and  regions  concerned  and  for  the  cause  of 
international peace and security in general. 

India  co-sponsored  General Assembly  resolution 
63/282  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  last  spring.  This 
reflects our determination to ensure that the Fund is so 
structured  as  to  enable  it  to  serve  as  a  flexible, 
responsive  and  focused  recourse  for  peacebuilding 
support. In this context, we are happy to note that the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
(A/64/217)  observes 
terms  of 
reference,  which  essentially  transformed  the  Fund’s 
three-window  architecture  into  two  facilities,  namely 
the Immediate Response Facility and the Peacebuilding 
and Recovery Facility, has enabled the Fund “to serve 
as  a  fast-disbursing,  agile,  responsive  and  risk-taking 
peacebuilding 
(A/64/217,  para.  55). 
Equally heartening is the fact that these improvements 
have  been  effected  as  a  result,  among  other  things,  of 
introspection within the Commission on its working. 
instrument” 
revised 
that 
the 
09-61775 

21 

A/64/PV.50 


We are also happy to note that the Commission is 
taking a comprehensive approach to handling its tasks. 
Quite  notable  is  the  fact  that  it  is  trying  to  cooperate 
and coordinate with other United Nations agencies, as 
well as with other international institutions such as the 
World  Bank.  Equally  praiseworthy  are  the  efforts  to 
expand  the  web  of  stakeholders  as  well  as  their 
involvement in the process of peacebuilding. 

At the same time, I would  be remiss if I did not 
stress  two  very  important  imperatives.  First,  we  must 
always strive to ensure that there is effective two-way 
dialogue between countries on the PBC agenda and the 
Commission  itself  during  all  stages.  This  dialogue 
should  help  bring  the  requisite  assistance  at  the 
appropriate  time  and  should  be  flexible  enough  to 
allow for mid-course corrections where necessary. This 
dialogue  will  also  ensure  that  relevant  information  is 
constantly 
the 
peacebuilding architecture for the best results. 
Secondly,  we  need  to  constantly  improve  the 

governance 
peacebuilding 
architecture.  In  our  view,  such  improvements  must 
seek  to  ensure  that  all  available  resources  that  are 
geared 
post-conflict 
situations  are  properly  harnessed 
the  shortest 
possible time. This, we believe, is the sine qua non of 
peacebuilding. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  India’s 
commitment  to  the  peacebuilding  architecture.  India 
will  continue  to  be  constructively  engaged  in  the 
process of perfecting this architecture to the benefit of 
the countries concerned. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  these 
items. 

consideration of items 10 and 108. 
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
absorbed  within 
peacebuilding 
structures 
towards 
relayed 
in 
in 
and 
of 
the 



Agenda item 118 (continued) 
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  I  would  like  to  congratulate 

Mr.  Jorge  Argüello,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Argentina, 
and  Ms.  Sanja  Štiglic,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Slovenia,  for  their  appointment  as 
co-facilitators  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly. We assure them 
of our full cooperation and support. 
focus  of 
the  main 
therefore,  be 

A first step on how best we can carry forward the 
process  of  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
during  the  current  session  would  be  to  deal  with  the 
issue  of  the  implementation  of  General  Assembly 
resolutions,  to  see  how  far  we  have  reached  in  this 
regard and to discuss why we could not achieve more. 
A thorough evaluation of the status of implementation 
of the General Assembly resolutions and identification 
of  underlying  causes  for  their  lack  of  implementation 
should, 
the 
deliberations of the Ad Hoc Working Group during the 
sixty-fourth  session.  Towards  this  end,  an  efficient 
follow-up  mechanism  could  be  useful.  This  could 
consist of a special unit in the Office  of the President 
of the General Assembly. 
It must also be borne in mind that rationalization 

of  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda  is  essentially  a 
political  exercise.  Therefore,  the  Assembly’s  agenda 
must  remain  open  to  the  insertion  of  new  issues  in 
consultation  with  Member  States  interested  in  certain 
items, and any criteria utilized to guide these decisions 
will  have  to  apply  equitably  to  all.  In  this  regard,  we 
would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  notion  of  the  sunset 
clause  should  be  very  carefully  examined.  We  should 
examine ways and means to assess the extent to which 
the  mandates  approved  by 
intergovernmental 
bodies  have  been  implemented  and  what  should  be 
done  for  their  better  implementation.  We  would  not 
wish  to  see  an  exercise  in  the  application  of  sunset 
clauses  to  United  Nations  mandates  without  prior 
approval  of  the  Member  States.  Any  such  attempt 
would  certainly  undermine 
the 
intergovernmental 
mandates and cannot be accepted. 

We should also be mindful of our commitment to 
further  enhance  the  General  Assembly’s  role  in  the 
selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General  in 
accordance  with  Article  97  of 
the  Charter.  Our 
discussions in this regard should be aimed at achieving 
a  consensus  rather  than  an  open-ended  process  of 
deliberations. 

It  would  be  fitting  that  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group also focus on further strengthening the Office of 
the President of the General Assembly so as to enable 
the President to more effectively play a leadership role 
and  take  initiatives  and  decisions.  Some  of  these 
encouraging trends include the holding of informal and 
formal meetings and thematic debates to discuss issues 
of  critical  importance  to  the  international  community. 
Steps  in  the  right  direction  would  include  requesting 
the 
22 

09-61775 
the 
time-consuming 
resources, 


briefings by the Secretariat on issues pertaining to the 
mandates  of  the  General  Assembly,  including  on 
matters  of  peace  and  security,  and  convening  press 
conferences to highlight particular issues discussed by 
or  decisions  adopted  by  the  Assembly.  As  with  any 
other  institution,  the  Office  of  the  President  could 
function  more  effectively  and  efficiently  if  it  were 
provided  adequate  human  and  financial  resources  to 
carry  out  its  responsibilities.  In  every  other  area  the 
Organization’s  budget  has  grown,  whereas  the  budget 
of the President’s Office has remained unchanged since 
1998. Given the complexity and diversity of the issues 
and 
negotiations,  which 
necessitate  stronger  secretariat  support  and  a  larger 
quantum of resources, the Office of the President of the 
Assembly  should  have  dedicated 
for 
example  for  conference  servicing,  in  order  to  enable 
the Office to organize informal discussions and debates 
on  issues  of  urgent  importance  without  being  bogged 
down by procedures. 

We  fully  support  the  strengthening  of  the  Office 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  this 
context, we believe that the Assembly President should 
have  the  flexibility  to  deploy  human  and  financial 
resources  as  he  deems  appropriate  for  the  session. 
Moreover,  there  is  a  need  for  better  transitional 
arrangements  for  the  President,  perhaps  by  using  a 
troika  consisting  of  the  past  and  future  General 
Assembly Presidents. 

We must sustain the progress achieved during the 
sixty-third  session  with  the  adoption  of  resolution 
63/309 on this important agenda item. We expect that, 
through constructive dialogue and engagement, we will 
be  able  to  build  on  all  previous  resolutions  on  this 
matter  and  identify  further  ways  to  enhance  the  role, 
authority,  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the  General 
Assembly.  The  delegation  of  Pakistan  extends  its  full 
cooperation  and  support 
in 
achieving a successful outcome of our deliberations on 
this agenda item. 
Mr.  Morejón  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): The 

Ecuadorian  delegation  associates 
the 
statements of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Rio 
Group  (see  A/64/PV.48)  and  wishes  to  make  the 
following additional comments. 

We  cannot  discuss  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
without  a  true  revitalization  of  the  General Assembly. 
And that does not consist just of ratifying its role as the 
the  co-facilitators 
itself  with 
to 
A/64/PV.50
main  deliberative  and  representative  body  of  the 
United  Nations  when  it  comes  to  adopting  policies;  it 
also  requires  the  political  will  to  make  its  actions 
increasingly effective and democratic. 

For Ecuador, it is essential that implementation of 
resolutions  be  an  integral  part  of  our  discussions  on 
revitalization so that the General Assembly will regain 
its  central  role  in  the  Organization,  as  well  as  the 
public  visibility  that  should  distinguish  it.  Issues  that 
belong  to  the Assembly  should  not  for  any  reason  be 
transferred  to  the  purview  of  the  Security  Council.  In 
that context, the simple logic of action is to proceed in 
accordance  with  the  principles  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter, bearing especially in mind that the only body 
in  charge  of  establishing  the  norms  is  the  General 
Assembly. 

In  that  order  of  things,  it  is  important  to  define 
the Assembly’s role and responsibility in the process of 
selecting  the  Secretary-General.  Based  on  existing 
resolutions  and  the  provisions  of  the  Charter,  the 
Assembly  should  have  an  active  presence  in  the 
selection  of  the  Secretary-General.  Times  change  and 
the  General  Assembly  should  go  along  with  those 
changes, which enable it to act in accordance with the 
new dynamics of international relations. That being the 
case,  and  considering  its  strengthened  powers,  it  is 
important that the Assembly take on a direct role in the 
handling  of  issues  related  to  international  peace  and 
security. 

We are pleased to note that the General Assembly 
was able to act quickly and efficiently on topics of vital 
interest  to  the  international  community,  such  as  the 
resolution  in  which  it  condemned  the  coup  d’état  in 
Honduras  (resolution  63/301)  and  the  conference  on 
the  financial  and  economic  crisis.  That  is  one  of  the 
dynamics that the Assembly should maintain. Ecuador 
is firmly committed to that task. We firmly believe that 
revitalization is on the right track, as demonstrated by 
the  results  achieved  by  resolution  63/309,  which  the 
Assembly adopted by consensus thanks to the political 
will shown by all Member States. 

I  would  like  to  use  this  opportunity  to  thank  all 
delegations and the President for the recognition of the 
work of Ecuador and Norway. We offer our support and 
congratulations  to  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Argentina  and  Slovenia  for  their  appointment  as 
co-facilitators  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  also 
09-61775 

23 
topics  on 
the  agenda  of 
the 
its  will 
important 
revitalization  of 
the  expected  progress  on 
Finally,  my  delegation  reiterates 
A/64/PV.50 

important  to  highlight  that  analysis  of  the  working 
methods  should  not  focus  only  on  the  Assembly  but 
also on each of its committees, especially those which 
have  not  made 
the 
Organization’s priority topics. 

to 
actively and constructively participate in this essential 
process,  as  it  already  has  in  coordinating  the Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group.  The  most  important  thing  is  for 
Member  States  to  express  their  commitment  and 
political will. 
Mr.  Escalona  Ojeda  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My  delegation  aligns 
itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the  Algerian 
representative on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement 
and  the  Mexican  representative  on  behalf  of  the  Rio 
Group (see A/64/PV.48). 
We meet in this historic Hall to discuss one of the 

this 
most 
Organization: 
the  General 
Assembly. If  that reform, the cornerstone of a process 
of genuine reform of the United Nations, does not take 
place,  the  democratization  of  this  forum,  called  for 
today  by  the  peoples  of  the  world,  will  not  become  a 
reality. 

During the previous session this topic received an 
important  boost. The  effective  work  of  the  facilitators 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of 
the General Assembly — Ambassador Maria Fernanda 
Espinosa, Permanent Representative of the Republic of 
Ecuador, and Ambassador Morten Wetland, Permanent 
Representative  of  Norway  —  encouraged  the  debate, 
which addressed substantive issues that should serve as 
a  reference  for  this  new  session.  We  appreciate  the 
work  carried  out  by  both  representatives  and  their 
teams.  We  wish  success  to  the  new  facilitators  in 
carrying  out 
functions:  Ambassador  Jorge 
Argüello,  Permanent  Representative  of Argentina,  and 
Ambassador  Sanja  Štiglic,  Permanent  Representative 
of Slovenia. 
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a 

central  aspect  of 
the  process  of  changes  and 
transformations that must take place within the United 
Nations.  Today,  the  Organization  does  not  meet  the 
democratization  expectations  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world.  The  changes  to  the  international  system  in 
recent  years  are  expressed 
in  a  new  political 
configuration.  Inevitably  a  unipolar  world  will  fall 

apart.  New  national  and  social  actors  that  nourish  the 
configuration  of  a  multipolar  world  have  arisen.  The 
struggles  of  the  peoples  of  the  South  are  being 
revitalized.  Unilateralism  and  imperial  pretensions  of 
imposing a single model of democracy on the world are 
being  questioned.  Peace  movements  are  gaining  new 
strength.  Those  new  realities  must  be  reflected  in  the 
composition  of  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations. 

The  political  configuration  resulting  from  the 
Second World War  is  maintained  in  this  Organization. 
In  that  framework  we  are  witnessing  the  progressive 
stripping  of  the  functions  of  the  General Assembly  in 
issues of international peace and security, and many of 
its  functions  are  absorbed  by  the  Security  Council. 
That undemocratic trend must be reversed. 

The people are calling for the democratization of 
the United Nations. Thus a revitalization of the General 
Assembly  that  democratizes  decision-making  in  this 
forum  is  a  paradigmatic  issue.  In  that  sense,  all 
countries  should  be  able  to  genuinely  influence  the 
course  of  world  affairs,  and  thus  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly has become a fundamental challenge 
in democratizing international relations. 

Through  the  adoption  of  resolution  63/309  in 
September,  Member  States  pledged  to  seek  new  ways 
to  enhance 
the  role,  authority,  effectiveness  and 
efficiency of the General Assembly. 

My  delegation  highlights  the  value  of  resolution 
11  (I)  of  24  January  1946  at  this  time.  It  sets  out  the 
procedures  for  selecting  the  Secretary-General  and 
emphasizes the responsibility of the General Assembly 
on  that  important  issue.  Some  proposals  on  the 
selection  of  the  Secretary-General  were  considered 
during the previous session, including the possibility of 
amending 
those 
proposals be considered by the Ad Hoc Working Group 
during the current session. 
Venezuela  believes  that  the  Security  Council 

monopoly  on  selecting 
is 
undemocratic. Selection should be the responsibility of 
all  Member  States  making  up  the  General  Assembly. 
The  selection  process  should  be 
inclusive  and 
transparent and have the full involvement of this body. 

My country reiterates the need for the Secretary- 
General to act in accordance with the terms established 
in the Charter of the United Nations and in the rules of 
the  resolution.  We  suggest 
the  Secretary-General 
that 
their 
24 

09-61775 
those 
importance  of 


procedure of the General Assembly and on the basis of 
requests  from  Member  States.  Going  beyond  those 
parameters reduces the credibility and legitimacy of his 
functions and, ultimately, of the Organization itself. 

The revitalization of the General Assembly is not 
only a procedural issue. Some delegations try to focus 
discussions  on  improving  working  methods  and  on 
issues such as the modernization of the voting process. 
The 
issues  should  not  be 
overlooked.  But  a  true  revitalization  process  should 
include questions of substance that require appropriate 
and  timely  responses  and,  by  their  nature,  call  for 
concerted  actions  that  are  discussed  in  a  universal, 
transparent and inclusive manner. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  questions 
the  intention  to  move  to  the  Security  Council  issues 
that  should  be  addressed  by  the  General Assembly,  or 
any  initiative  seeking  to  diminish  the  role  of  the 
Assembly,  which  by  its  nature  is  more  inclusive  and 
representative. The Charter is very clear on that point, 
and  under  no  circumstances  does  it  give  the  Security 
Council the authority to address issues that fall within 
the competence of the Assembly. 

Strengthening  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly 
requires  the  full  exercise  of  its  powers  in  the  field  of 
peace  and  security,  as  provided  in  the  provisions  in 
Articles  10,  11,  12,  13  and  14  of  the  Charter.  Those 
issues should not be exclusively under the authority of 
the Security Council. 

the  Assembly  must 
continue  to  be  the  Organization’s  principal  forum  for 
discussion,  maintaining  its  independence  from  other 
bodies. The tendency of the Security Council to become 
involved  in  matters  outside  its  jurisdiction  must  be 
reversed, as it weakens the Assembly’s central role. 

The  negotiations  to  revitalize  the  Assembly  are 
only  beginning.  Venezuela  is  committed  to  that  end. 
The Assembly  can  depend  on  our  support  in  boosting 
the  debate  which  we  will  soon  resume  on 
the 
revitalization of the General Assembly. 
(Plurinational  State  of 

Bolivia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
thanking the President for convening this meeting on a 
topic of great importance. 

The  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  by  the  delegation  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/64/PV.48). 
Mr.  Solón-Romero
Venezuela  believes 
that 
A/64/PV.50
To 
revitalize 
periodic 
Revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly 
the  General  Assembly, 

is 
fundamental  to  strengthening  its  role  as  the  main 
representative, deliberative and normative organ of the 
United Nations system. It is essential to re-establish the 
balance  among  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations, ensuring that their mandates are respected and 
that  they  confine  themselves  to  what  is  set  out  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations. 

If we carefully read Article 24 of the Charter, we 
will  see  that  it  does  not  give  the  Security  Council  the 
competence  to  consider  topics  that  fall  within  the 
purview  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic 
and Social Council. In order to re-establish the balance 
of powers in the United Nations system, it is essential 
that the Security Council confine itself to the functions 
assigned  to  it.  My  delegation  firmly  believes  that 
re-establishing the balance among the principal organs 
of the Organization will ensure that the mandates given 
will be fully respected and legitimized. 

the 
implementation of its resolutions must be strengthened 
through  closer  monitoring,  promotion  and  assessment. 
For  that,  it  is  necessary  to  strengthen  the  Assembly 
presidency  and  provide  it  with  greater  means,  and  to 
promote 
and 
transmission  of  institutional  memory,  seeking  to  deal 
with  the  new,  emerging  problems  and  not  confining 
ourselves to repeating already agreed positions. 

The  role  of  the  Assembly  needs  to  be  more 
visible in the media and in our own countries through 
actions that highlight its role as a main representative, 
deliberative and normative body of the United Nations. 

When  it  comes  to  the  election  of  the  Secretary-
General,  we  wish  to  state  that  the  1946  resolution 
(resolution  11  (I))  has  to  be  modified. That  resolution 
in  actuality  affected  the  Assembly’s  mandate  to  elect 
the  Secretary-General. 
the 
Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  the  Assembly  should 
elect  from  a  list  of  two  or  three  candidates,  and 
building  a  consensus  around  the  Secretary-General  to 
be  elected  should  take  place  here,  in  the  Assembly, 
where  192  Member  States  participate,  and  not  in  a 
body where there are only 15 States, five of which are 
permanent  members  with  the  right  to  veto.  The 
Assembly  has,  in  fact,  lost  its  power  to  name  the 
Secretary-General.  For  a  true  revitalization  to  happen, 
it must recover that mandate. 
the  opinion  of 
evaluation 
processes 
In 
09-61775 

25 

that 
legitimizes 
A/64/PV.50 


What  my  country  expects  of  this  process  is  not 
just  changes  in  the Assembly’s  procedures  to  make  it 
function in a more dynamic, effective manner. What we 
really wish for are changes in the very concept of what 
the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  should  be,  in  the 
selection  of  topics,  in  the  conduct  of  negotiations  and 
in  the  election  of  its  President  —  all  that  in  order  to 
strengthen  this  body  and  give  its  resolutions  the 
political  and  moral  authority 
its 
actions. 

We  have  undoubtedly  made  progress  in  the 
process  with  some  specific  tasks.  We  all  wish  to 
improve  the  voting  system,  but  we  have  to  carefully 
reflect  on  establishing  digital  voting  systems  that 
imperil  the  integrity  and  confidentiality  of  voting. 
There is a series of other simple measures, such as cell 
phone  access  to  the  Journal  or  specific  events  on  the 
agenda, which could be very easily implemented. 
Mr. Aguiar Patriota (Brazil): First and foremost, 

I wish to thank the former Permanent Representative of 
Ecuador,  Ambassador  Maria  Fernanda  Espinosa,  and 
the Permanent Representative of Norway, Ambassador 
Morten Wetland, for their work as Co-Chairs of the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly during its sixty-third session. I also 
seize this opportunity to warmly welcome Ambassador 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jorge  Argüello, 
Argentina,  and  Ambassador  Sanja  Štiglic, 
the 
Permanent Representative of Slovenia, as the incoming 
Co-Chairs  of  the  Working  Group,  and  I  pledge  my 
delegation’s full support for their endeavours. 

The General Assembly is the most representative 
decision-making  body  of  the  United  Nations.  Its 
legitimacy  is  drawn  from  the  universal  nature  of  the 
membership,  operating  under  a  democratic  statute, 
wherein  all  Member  States  are  treated  as  equals  and 
interact with  each other as such. Ensuring the vitality, 
efficacy and significance of the work of the Assembly 
is therefore tantamount to protecting multilateralism in 
its  purest  form  and  highest  expression.  Strengthening 
the  role  and  authority  of  the Assembly  should  always 
be  at  the  heart  of  any  process  of  reform  of  the 
multilateral system. 
The  General  Assembly  has  several  roles.  It 

coordinates,  oversees  and  instructs  multiple  bodies  of 
the United Nations system subordinate to it. It is also a 
political forum for the consideration of all issues on the 
international agenda falling within its purview. Efforts 
aimed  at  revitalizing  the Assembly  should  support  the 
transparent  and  accountable 
full  breadth  of  its  role  and  responsibilities.  The 
relationship  among  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations  should  be  mutually  reinforcing.  For 
the 
optimum  functioning  of  the  system,  the  main  bodies 
must  fulfil  their  respective  duties  and  exercise  their 
powers in the manner provided for by the Charter. 

However, there are issues to be addressed. While 
the  Security  Council’s  agenda  shows  a  distinct 
tendency to expand in new directions over time, we are 
witnessing  a  General  Assembly  overburdened  by  a 
proliferation of resolutions and agenda items, not all of 
them  necessarily  contributing  to  raising  the  standards 
of performance and relevance of the main body of the 
United  Nations.  The  same  could  be  said  of  the 
Economic and Social Council, which is seen by many 
as  falling  short  of  its  original  mandate.  Of  course, 
certain complaints about the so-called encroachment of 
the  Security  Council  on  the  work  of  the  Assembly 
could  be  mitigated  if  the  Council  were  made  more 
representative, 
to  a 
broader membership, including of the permanent kind. 

The role of the Assembly as an interface between 
Member  States  and  the  United  Nations  Secretariat 
should  also  be  reinforced,  so  that  the  policies  and 
priorities  set  by  Members  are  better  reflected  and 
accounted 
the  United  Nations 
machinery. More frequent and direct dialogue between 
the  Assembly  and  internal  system-wide  coordination 
mechanisms,  such  as  the  Chief  Executives  Board, 
would be an important step in that direction. 

The renewed process of selecting and appointing 
the  Secretary-General  deserves  our  full  support  and 
continued  attention.  In  addition,  we  would  welcome 
closer  consideration  of  the  procedures  for  selecting, 
appointing  and  confirming  the  heads  of  the  major 
specialized  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  with  a 
view 
legitimacy  and  a 
balanced representation. 

We  must  also  consider  strengthening  the  role  of 
the  President  of  the  General Assembly  as  part  of  our 
efforts  towards  revitalization.  Initiatives  taken  by  the 
President  often  allow  the  United  Nations  to  respond 
better  to  particular  needs  and  situations,  such  as  the 
world  financial  and  economic  crisis.  Brazil  was  an 
enthusiastic supporter of a stronger role for the United 
Nations  in  the  debate  about  the  crisis.  Only  in  the 
General Assembly can countries without a voice in the 
existing  financial  governance  structures  put  forward 
their views. It is often the case that special conferences 
from  within 
transparency, 
for 
to  ensuring 
26 

09-61775 
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau)  (spoke  in  French): 


convened  under  the  auspices  of  the Assembly  require 
complex follow-up actions for which the President and 
his office are insufficiently equipped. That is  a matter 
relevant  to  the  revitalization  of  the Assembly,  and  we 
would support giving it further consideration. 

At this late hour, I will try to be as brief as possible.  

On  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would  like  to  say 
that the revitalization of the General Assembly is not a 
slogan.  First  and  foremost,  it  is  the  recognition  that 
there  are  problems,  there  are  difficulties,  and  that  we 
need  to  make  changes.  That  requires  a  great  deal  of 
attention,  but  it  requires  above  all  that  we  examine 
ourselves. 
It has often been said that the General Assembly 

has  lost  the  role  assigned  to  it  by  the  terms  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. But who is responsible 
for  that?  That  is  the  real  question  we  need  to  ask 
ourselves here.  

If  we  take  a  look  at  the  Charter,  we  see  that 
Article 7 establishes the principal organs of the United 
Nations  system. There  are  six  of  them. There  is,  first, 
the  General Assembly,  and  then  the  Security  Council, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  Trusteeship 
Council.  Then  you  have  the  International  Court  of 
Justice and the Secretariat. 

How  is  it  that  since  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations we have seen, voluntarily or sometimes against 
our  will,  this  lessening  of  the  importance  of  the 
General  Assembly?  We  need  to  ask  ourselves  that 
question.  And  that  self-examination  that  I  mentioned 
earlier requires that we should be willing to practice a 
kind of self-criticism.  

The  General  Assembly  is  very  often  reproached 
for  having  become  a  sort  of  automatic  system  where 
resolutions  are  voted  on  year  after  year,  where 
Members  ask  the  Secretariat  to  furnish  report  after 
report.  It  is  often  said,  and  rightly  so,  that  we  do  not 
even 
the  results  and 
take 
conclusions 
reports.  And, 
automatically,  at  the  end  of  every  resolution,  we  ask 
the Secretary-General to present a report. Those are the 
criticisms  directed  at  the  Assembly  —  redundancy, 
duplication and the superficial nature of the resolutions 
that are adopted here. 

Well,  if  we  want  to  breathe  new  life  into  the 
General Assembly, let us do so, and if we need to make 
to  examine 
those 
the  care 
contained 
in 
A/64/PV.50
the  Council 
that  conferred  on 
a  decision,  let  us  display  the  will  and  determination, 
because  things  change.  We  must  change  our  attitude. 
We  must  ensure  that  the  role  that  is  given  to  the 
Assembly is completely fulfilled.  

We  often  hear  criticisms  here;  we  often  hear 
certain distinguished colleagues say that the Assembly 
is  a  victim  of  encroachment  by  the  Security  Council. 
Why is that? It was the Assembly, under Article 24 of 
the  Charter, 
the 
prerogative  of  handling 
security  questions  and 
international peace. But that same Article 24 also says 
that  the  Security  Council  must  account  to  the  General 
Assembly.  Are  we  demanding  enough?  Are  we 
adequately  assuming  our  responsibilities  when  we 
discuss  issues  of  international  peace  and  security? 
Nowhere  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  does  it 
say that the Security Council has the exclusive right to 
deal with issues of international peace and security. On 
the contrary, when we look at Article 10, it clearly says 
that the General Assembly, this Assembly — which, it 
has been correctly stated, is the plenary Assembly — is 
where power needs to be exercised. 

Article  10  says  that  the  General  Assembly  may 
discuss any questions related to international peace and 
security  except,  of  course,  for  issues  that  fall  under 
Article  12,  but  do  we  really  do  that?  Change  is  good, 
but in order to change properly we need to be ready to 
take  appropriate  measures.  There  should  be  fewer 
documents here, fewer resolutions. We need to be seen 
as a serious body. There is work that needs to be done, 
and we can get a new image and breathe new life into 
the General Assembly, provided we decide to do so. 

As  regards  documentation,  for  example,  I  would 
say  that  we  produce  too  many  documents,  some  of 
which  at  least  are  fairly  useless.  We  live  in  an  era  of 
information technology, and each delegation is able to 
use  the  Internet,  the  United  Nations  website,  for 
example,  to  find  and  to  examine  a  document.  I  think 
that we could make an effort in that area. If we were to 
do so, we could decrease expenditures. 

Now, we have been told that we need to shore up 
the role of the President of the General Assembly. My 
delegation agrees. We agree that an appropriate budget 
needs to be earmarked for that, but I think, as regards 
the  choice  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
we  could  also  ask  the  regional  groups  that  have  the 
task  and  responsibility  of  proposing  the  name  of  a 
person  for  that  job  to  propose  several  names,  since 
what  we  want  to  do  is  establish  a  degree  of  pluralism 
09-61775 

27 

the  General  Assembly  upon 
A/64/PV.50 

here. These ideas relating to the choice of the President 
of the General Assembly need to be linked in with the 
choice of the Secretary-General. We should not ask the 
Security Council to propose several names for us, if we 
ourselves  in  the  General  Assembly  do  not  do  that. 
Others have said, and my delegation agrees, that that is 
not  a  correct  reading  of  resolution  11  (I)  of  1946 
regarding the mechanism for appointing the Secretary-
General of the United Nations. 

I  would  just  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  that, 
according to the Charter, in particular Article 97, which 
says  that  the  Secretary-General  is  appointed  —  not 
elected  —  by 
the 
recommendation  of  the  Security  Council.  I  would  like 
us  to  think  about  the  shade  of  difference  between 
appointment and election. I have heard colleagues here 
say that we need to ask the Security Council to request 
that the General Assembly propose several names to the 
Council.  I  think  it  should  be  the  opposite.  I  think  we 
should  ask the Security Council  to  recommend  several 
names, but we basically cannot, in the humble opinion 
of  my  delegation,  present  names  to  the  Security 
Council, given what Article 97 of the Charter says. That 
Article  states  that  “The  Secretary-General  shall  be 
appointed  by 
the 
recommendation  of  the  Security  Council”.  So,  in  my 
delegation’s opinion, the General Assembly should not 
be presenting names to the Security Council, but rather 
the  opposite.  We  would  like  the  Security  Council  to 
present  various  names 
to  us,  bearing  specifically 
resolution 11 (I) of 1946 in mind. We should look to see 
what is  written there, because the Assembly wanted to 
facilitate the process when it asked the Security Council 
at  that  time,  in  1946,  to  submit  only  one  name  rather 
than  several  names.  So  we  really  need  to  decide  what 
are the best mechanisms for achieving our purposes. 

I  would  now  like  to  say  that  we  need  to  reach 
agreement on recognizing the fact that the functioning 
of the General Assembly does not meet the needs of the 
twenty-first  century.  We  have  talked  about  voting 
methods here, and it is true that sometimes we feel that 
we are using a rather archaic voting system. We should 
not  be  scared  of  technology.  I  am  frankly  convinced 
that if the Secretariat decides that it will propose to us 
a computerized system — once it has been checked, of 
course,  to  make  sure  that  all  security  checks  are  in 
place — that would be good. I have to say that in many 
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations,  people  vote 
using computerized systems, and I think that we could 
use such a system as well. 
the  General  Assembly  upon 
the  United  Nations.  The 

In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I 
would  like  to  say  that  I  thank  my  colleagues  from 
Ecuador  and  Norway  for  the  excellent  work  that  they 
have  carried  out,  and  before  them,  their  predecessors 
did exactly the same thing. I very much hope that our 
two  colleagues  from  Argentina  and  Slovenia  will  be 
able to do the same. We are available to assist them in 
every  possible  way.  Having  heard  many  delegations 
here  take  the  floor,  I  hope  that  everybody  will  do  the 
same in order to ensure that we can breathe greater life 
into the General Assembly and deserve the confidence 
of  the  people  who  send  us  here  to  speak  and  act  on 
their behalf. 

I think it might be useful to remind delegates here 
that  rather  than  working  or  acting  in  a  spirit  of 
confrontation  with  the  Security  Council,  we  need  to 
find what the possibilities  are for complementarity, so 
that  we  can  work  together,  basing  our  work  on  the 
Charter  of 
roles  and 
responsibilities  are  clearly  defined  there.  I  think  that 
collectively  we  can  shoulder  the  responsibilities  that 
are ours. 
Mr. Bodini (San Marino): I would like to extend 

my  gratitude  to  the  President  for  convening  this 
meeting  today  to  discuss  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
previous  Co-Chairs,  the  Ambassador  of  Ecuador  and 
the Ambassador of Norway, for their excellent work. 

the  Ambassador  of 
Slovenia and the Ambassador of Argentina, with whom 
I will be delighted to work together closely. Like many 
small  States,  San  Marino  is  committed  to  having  a 
vibrant and efficient General Assembly, and therefore, 
each  year,  we  look  forward  to  participating  in  the 
General Assembly revitalization process. 

We  are  delighted  that  during  the  sixty-third 
session of the General Assembly we were able to have 
so many thematic debates, including those on the world 
financial crisis and the food crisis. We believe that over 
time,  these  debates  will  make  the  General  Assembly 
even more relevant and will reinforce and re-establish 
the General Assembly’s role in global governance. 

San Marino strongly believes in the fundamental 
role  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
welcomes any improvements that could be made to the 
selection  process  for  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  any  enhancements  that  might  assist  the 
President in carrying out his duties. 
to  welcome 
Allow  me 
28 

09-61775 



We are grateful to Security Council members for 
their increased openness to the members of the General 
Assembly  and  we  believe  strongly  that  an  equitable 
reform of the Security Council will enhance the role of 
the  General  Assembly  as  well.  Moreover,  we  are 
convinced that the General Assembly should work even 
more  closely  with  the  Secretariat  to  enhance  the 
efficiency  and  transparency  of  the  work  of  the  entire 
United  Nations,  including  special  projects  such  as  the 
one  we  are  undertaking  right  now,  the  Capital  Master 
Plan.  I  believe  that  under  the  leadership  of  President 
Treki  much  will  be  accomplished,  and  I  look  forward 
to  working  with Ambassadors  Štiglic  and Argüello  on 
revitalizing our General Assembly even further. 
Mrs.  Gallardo  Hernández  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 

in  Spanish):  My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statement of Mexico on behalf of the Rio Group. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
very important to El Salvador, as part of advancing the 
democratization of the United Nations as a whole. This 
is also  an important basis  for our  future deliberations. 
We are especially pleased with the appointment of the 
Ambassadors  of  Slovenia  and Argentina  as  Co-Chairs 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the revitalization of 
the General Assembly, and we express our full support 
for them. 
El Salvador supports the Assembly’s timely action 

the 
on  political 
issues  of  enormous 
international  community,  such  as 
resolutions 
adopted  on  issues  such  as  the  situations  in  Honduras 
and the Middle East, among others. Allow me to point 
out,  however,  that  despite  progress  in  this  area,  my 
delegation  considers  it  imperative  that  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly continue its discussions of substantive issues. 

These  include  the  role  and  responsibility  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  the  selection  process  for  the 
Secretary-General.  Indeed,  a  transparent,  inclusive 
process  should  be  established  in  which  the  Assembly 
plays  a  more  important  part,  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter of the Organization. 

Concerning the application of resolutions relating 
to  the  revitalization  of  the  Assembly,  we  believe  it 
appropriate 
the 
implementation  of  resolutions,  which  would  make  it 
possible  to  rationalize  the  work  of  the  Assembly  and 
also  to  rely  on  the  support  of  delegations  that  have 
proposed specific topics. 
to  keep  an  updated  chart  of 
interest  for 
the 
A/64/PV.50
With 
regard 
to 
strengthening 
it  possible 
to  guarantee 
to  promote  better 

the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the 
Assembly,  we  should  add  that  the  more  the Assembly 
is  revitalized  and  fully  realizing  its  deliberative, 
normative  and  policy-defining  role,  the  more  we  will 
also  be  strengthening  multilateralism.  It 
is  also 
important  that  other  United  Nations  bodies’  functions 
not overlap those of the General Assembly. However, it 
is  appropriate 
interaction  and 
coordination with the presidencies of other organs. 

My delegation believes it is important to increase 
the  public  visibility  of 
the  General  Assembly’s 
activities,  by  using  the  web  page  on  substantive  areas 
of  its  agenda  in  all  the  official  languages  of  the 
Organization.  We  also  support  the  development  of 
thematic  debates,  since  these  respond  to  issues  of 
interest  to  the  international  community  and  that  are  a 
focus of concern and interest for the Organization as a 
whole.  We  also  support  an  expansion  of  human  and 
financial resources for the Office of the President. 

Regarding the voting system, it is imperative that 
we modernize the system itself so that it is transparent, 
making 
the  credibility, 
reliability  and  confidentiality  of  the  voting  process.  It 
is  also  worth  reconsidering  the  procedures  for  voting 
on candidatures, in order to make the process speedier 
and more effective. 
On the question of documentation, I would like to 

point  out  once  more 
importance  of  getting 
documentation  in  time  to  review  the  necessary  and 
specific  points  before  the  discussions  take  place  and, 
especially, 
the 
Organization. 

In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  my  country’s  full 
support  for  continuing  to  work  actively  during  the 
current  session  on  this  issue,  seeking  a  precise  focus 
conducive  to  the  genuine  strengthening  of  this  world 
forum, which all our countries need. 
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 

heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item.  One 
representative has requested permission to exercise the 
right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members  that  statements 
made in the exercise of the right of reply are limited to 
10 minutes  for the  first intervention and 5 minutes  for 
the  second,  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. I now give the floor to the representative of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
in  all  six  official 
the 
languages  of 
09-61775 

29 
A/64/PV.50 

Mr.  Ileka  (Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo) 

(spoke  in  French):  Permit  me,  Sir,  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  the  congratulations  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  on  Belgium’s 
election to the presidency of the European Council. 
(spoke in English) 
I  am  taking  the  floor  in  my  capacity  as  Chair  of 

the  Southern  African  Development  Community 
(SADC) and in response to the statement made by the 
representative  of  Madagascar  on  19  November 
concerning  agenda  item  118,  “Revitalization  of  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly”.  We  have  noted  with 
concern  the  content  of  the  statement  in  which  the 
representative  of  Madagascar  referred  to  an  action  by 
SADC during the general debate segment of the sixty-
fourth  session  of  the  Assembly  that  prevented  the 
leader  of 
the  High  Transitional  Authority  of 
Madagascar from participating in the debate. We would 
like to offer the following points in response. 

Madagascar has been suspended from SADC and 
the  African  Union  (AU)  since  March  of  this  year, 
owing to an unconstitutional change of Government in 
that  country, 
international 
community,  led  by  SADC,  the  AU  and  the  United 
Nations, among others, undertook a mediation process 
to restore constitutional governance. 
In August, the main parties to the dispute agreed 

on a settlement and the establishment of a transitional 
Government representative of all parties to the dispute. 
However, the leader of the High Transitional Authority 
defied 
that  agreement  and  appointed  his  own 
Government.  This  was  the  basis  for  the  action  SADC 
took during the general debate. It was not interference 
in the domestic affairs of a Member State of the United 
Nations,  as  the  representative  of  Madagascar  stated, 
but  should  rather  be  seen  as  part  of  the  broader 
mediation  efforts  in  that  country  aimed  at  ensuring 
Madagascar’s  return  as  a  full  member  of  the  regional 
organizations to which it belongs. 

With regard to the process in the United Nations, 
the Assembly  should  note  that  the  members  of  SADC 
the  Credentials 
requested  an  urgent  meeting  of 
Committee 
the 
unconstitutional  representative  of  Madagascar  and  his 
delegation.  However,  the  Committee  was  unable  to 
meet, and the President of the General Assembly ruled 
that  he  would  allow  the  representative  of  Madagascar 
to  speak  in  spite  of  the  objections  raised  by  SADC. 
following  which 
credentials  of 
the 
to 
review 
the 

Based  on  that  decision,  SADC  utilized  rule  71  of  the 
Rules  of  Procedure  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
challenge  the  decision  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly. That rule states that: 


“A  representative  may  rise  to  a  point  of 
order, and the point of order shall be immediately 
decided  by  the  President  in  accordance  with  the 
rules  of  procedure.  A  representative  may  appeal 
against  the  ruling  of  the  President.  The  appeal 
shall  be  immediately  put  to  the  vote,  and  the 
President’s ruling shall stand unless overruled by 
a majority of the members present and voting.” 

I  repeat:  “present  and  voting”.  I  emphasize  that 
the  action  undertaken  by  SADC  was  not  aimed  at 
undermining  the  person,  office  or  stature  of  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  as  claimed  by  the 
representative of Madagascar in his statement. 

I should like to assure the President of the General 
Assembly that it was a difficult decision for SADC, and 
one  which  we  took  reluctantly.  However,  that  action 
was  necessary  in  order  to  save  the  outcome  of  the 
mediation process, and it was based on firm principles. 

Under  this  agenda  item,  we  are  discussing  the 
revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly.  Many 
delegations  pointed  out  that  the  General  Assembly  is 
the representative legislative body of the world. Many 
also stated that it is essential for the General Assembly 
to become more  responsive to matters  of international 
peace  and  security.  SADC  has  identified  democratic, 
stable  and  constitutional  governance  as  a  priority  for 
ensuring regional and international peace and security. 
It has worked tirelessly over the past years to achieve 
that,  as  the  many  elections  in  the  region  attest.  There 
have been problems and difficulties, but it is our aim to 
address  these  through  mediation  and  dialogue.  It  is 
essential for the General Assembly to do the same. 

Finally, SADC has continued its mediation efforts 
in Madagascar and, as representatives of the region, we 
have  noted  with  interest  the  recent  developments  in 
that  process.  We  reiterate  that  it  is  important  for 
Madagascar  to  continue  implementing  the  agreements 
reached  in  order  to  ensure  the  return  to  constitutional 
governance in that country. 

Assembly  has 
thus  concluded 
consideration of agenda item 118. 

The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
its 
this  stage  of 
30 

09-61775 
