
A/64/PV.36
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

36th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 4 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 

Agenda item 64 (continued) 
Report of the Human Rights Council 






  Report of the Human Rights Council 
(A/64/53/Add.1) 
  Note by the President of the General Assembly 
(A/64/490) 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.11) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Members  will 

recall  that,  at  its  31st  plenary  meeting,  on  30  October 
2009, the Assembly held a debate on the report of the 
Human Rights Council contained in document A/64/53. 

Members will also recall that, at its 27th plenary 
meeting,  on  28  October  2009,  the  Assembly  decided, 
without  setting  a  precedent,  to  consider  directly  in 
plenary  meeting  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  on  its  twelfth  special  session,  contained  in 
document A/64/53/Add.1. 

In this connection, a note by the President of the 
General Assembly, transmitting the report of the United 
Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict, in 
English only, has been issued as document A/64/490. 

as President of the General Assembly. 

We  meet  today  to  consider  the  report  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  on  its  twelfth  special  session 
(A/64/53/Add.1). In that context, we shall also consider 
I shall now make a brief statement in my capacity 
The  report  before 
the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission 
on the Gaza  Conflict. The Mission was headed by the 
distinguished international jurist Richard Goldstone. 

The  question  before  us  is  simple,  despite  the 
political  sensitivities  associated  with  it.  We  have  to 
answer  the  question  of  whether  or  not  respect  for 
human  rights  is  universal  and  whether  we  should  be 
divided on human rights issues or united in advocating 
respect for human rights around the world. 

the  Assembly  documents 
serious  violations  of  international  human  rights  law 
and  humanitarian  law  perpetuated  against  civilians. 
The report calls upon the General Assembly and other 
United Nations organs to take concrete action to ensure 
redress  for  victims,  protection  of  the  vulnerable  and 
accountability  for  all  perpetrators.  Today,  the  General 
Assembly is fulfilling its responsibility and undertaking 
its role. 

the  Human  Rights  Council 
welcomed the report and endorsed its recommendations. 
The  report  called  on  us  to  help  to  bring  an  end  to 
impunity. Let us be clear on what is at stake here. The 
human rights of nearly 2 million civilians are at stake. 
Without  justice,  there  can  be  no  progress  towards 
peace. 
Let  us  together  commit  ourselves  to  leaving  all 

politics  and  selectivity  at  the  door  and  take  up  the 
cause of justice based on one universal set of rules. We 
should protect the rights of the victims. A human being 
should be treated as a human being regardless of his or 
her religion — whether a Muslim, a Christian, a Jew or 
On  16  October 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-59287 (E) 
*0959287* 


I  have 
to  address 
the  honour 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
A/64/PV.36 

a Buddhist — regardless of his or her race — white, black 
or yellow — and regardless of his or her nationality. 

For the sake of human rights, let us stand together 
in  unity.  I  hope  that  the  outcome  of  this  debate  will 
fully reflect such unity and will meet the expectations 
of the entire international community. 

Egypt who will introduce draft resolution A/64/L.11. 
Mr. Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  Before  I  introduce  draft 

resolution  A/64/L.11,  I  shall,  with  your  permission, 
Mr. President,  make  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). 

the  General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  I 
would  like  to  start  by  expressing  our  appreciation  for 
your  rapid  response,  Sir,  in  convening  this  important 
plenary  meeting  at  the  request  by  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  and  the Arab  Group  to  consider  the  report 
of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza Conflict, the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48), as 
recommended  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  its 
resolution S-12/1, adopted at its twelfth special session 
on 16 October 2009. 

The Non-Aligned Movement is gravely concerned 
by  the  findings  of  the  investigation  carried  out  by  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict, as contained in the Goldstone report, as well 
as  by  conclusions  reached  by  the  Secretary-General’s 
Board  of  Inquiry  and  the  conclusions  of  the  Arab 
League  fact-finding  mission.  The  findings  of  those 
investigations  confirm 
that  serious  human  rights 
violations and grave breaches of international law were 
committed  during  the  Israeli  military  operations  that 
were  launched  on  27  December  2008  on  the  Gaza 
Strip. Those operations caused high civilian casualties, 
especially 
and  women,  grave 
humanitarian  suffering  among  the  civilian  population 
and  widespread  destruction  of  homes,  vital  civilian 
infrastructure,  public 
infrastructure,  economic  and 
agricultural property and United Nations facilities. 

targeting  of 
civilians  and  civilian  infrastructure  and  institutions, 
including  United  Nations  facilities,  and  in  that  regard 
recalls the prohibition of reprisals against civilians and 
civilian objects under the Fourth Geneva Convention. 
Moreover, the Movement affirms the responsibility 

of  the  international  community  to  promote  human 
The  Movement  condemns  all 
children 
among 
rights  and  calls  for  serious  follow-up  action  on  the 
recommendations  set  forth  in  the  report  regarding 
bringing  an  end  to  flagrant  violation  of  international 
law,  including  international  humanitarian  law  and 
international  human  rights  law,  ending  impunity  and 
ensuring  justice.  All  concerned  parties,  including  the 
relevant United Nations organs and bodies, must make 
the  necessary  efforts  to  ensure  accountability  for  all 
breaches of international humanitarian law and human 
rights  law,  to  prevent  and  deter  further  violations  and 
to promote justice and peace. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  stresses  that  the 
utmost  priority  should  continue  to  be  given  to  the 
promotion  of  the  respect  for  and  observance  by  all 
Member  States  of  their  obligations  assumed  under 
international humanitarian law, including, in particular, 
the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention.  In  that  regard,  the 
Movement  takes  into  account  the  magnitude  and 
persistence  of 
the  violations  and  breaches  of 
international  law,  including  international  humanitarian 
law,  being  committed  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power, 
against  the  defenceless  Palestinian  civilian  population 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including  East 
Jerusalem.  In  that  regard,  all  available  legal  remedies 
should  be  applied  to  end  impunity  and  end  human 
rights  violations  and  grave  breaches  by  Israel  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territory. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  urges  the  General 

Assembly and other principal and subsidiary organs of 
the United Nations to seriously consider and act on the 
report and findings of the United Nations Fact-Finding 
Mission on the Gaza military action in accordance with 
Human  Rights  Council  resolution  S-12/1.  Immediate 
measures  are  required  to  secure  the  adoption  of  a 
resolution  calling  on  the  Government  of  Israel  to 
launch  independent  investigations,  in  conformity  with 
international  standards,  into  the  serious  violations 
reported by the Mission. At the same time, and in line 
with  the  recommendations  made,  the  Palestinian  side 
should  also 
in 
conformity  with 
the 
serious  violations  reported  by  the  Mission.  Moreover, 
appropriate  monitoring 
such 
investigations  must  be  ensured  in  order  to  determine 
the  course  of  further  action,  if  necessary,  including 
action by the Security Council. 

the  General 
Assembly  demonstrate  its  unequivocal  support  for 
human rights and the protection of civilians on both the 
investigations, 
into 
international  standards, 
reporting  of 
We  believe 
independent 
imperative 
launch 
and 
it 
that 
2 

09-59287 


Palestinian  and  Israeli  sides.  Credible,  independent 
investigations of the serious violations of human rights 
law  and  grave  breaches  of  international  humanitarian 
in 
law,  as  contained 
the  Goldstone  report,  will 
contribute  significantly 
the  promotion  of 
towards 
accountability  for  the  perpetration  of  such  violations 
and  crimes  and  ultimately  towards  bringing  an  end  to 
the culture of impunity that has prevailed for too long. 

The  international  community  must  demonstrate 
resolve  on  the  issue  of  accountability  and  ensure  that 
international law is upheld in all circumstances, with a 
view  to  strengthening  the  chances  of  peace  in  the 
region. This must include respect for the Fourth Geneva 
Convention,  which  is  applicable  to  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  as 
reaffirmed repeatedly in more than two dozen Security 
Council  resolutions  and  countless  General  Assembly 
resolutions.  In  this  regard,  we  recall  the  obligation  of 
the  High  Contracting  Parties  to  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention  to  respect  and  ensure  respect  of  the 
Convention in accordance with common article 1, and 
call  for  the  appropriate  and  necessary  measures  to  be 
taken to this effect. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  its  firm 

conviction 
that  respect  for  and  compliance  with 
international  law,  including  international  humanitarian 
and  human  rights  law,  as  well  as  United  Nations 
resolutions,  will  positively  influence  and  advance 
efforts  for  achieving  a  just,  lasting,  peaceful  and 
political settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  once 
again its call on Israel, the occupying Power, to end its 
collective  punitive  measures  imposed  on  the  civilian 
population  in  Gaza,  which  have  caused  immense 
suffering among the Palestinian people, amounting to a 
dire humanitarian crisis, and the continued deterioration 
of the situation on the ground, including, inter alia, the 
obstruction of the desperately needed reconstruction of 
the Gaza Strip. In this regard, the United Nations Fact-
Finding Mission found that Israel has been imposing a 
blockade  amounting  to  collective  punishment  and 
carrying out a systematic policy of progressive isolation 
and deprivation of the Gaza Strip. Further, the Mission 
states 
its 
investigation, the Israeli military operation was directed 
at the people of Gaza as a whole, in furtherance of an 
overall  and  continuing  policy  aimed  at  punishing  the 
Gaza  population  and 
in  a  deliberate  policy  of 
disproportionate force aimed at the civilian population. 
that,  as  determined 
the  course  of 
in 
A/64/PV.36
require 
the 
in  order 
Such  alarming 
findings  clearly 
the 

attention  of 
international  community.  Serious 
measures must be taken to ensure the protection of the 
civilian  population  in  the  entire  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  to  break  the 
vicious cycle of impunity that has permitted such gross 
and  flagrant  breaches  of  international  law  to  persist 
unpunished. 

Immediate  measures  are  also  required  to  address 
the  pressing  humanitarian  and  economic  needs  of  the 
Palestinian  people  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  Such  measures 
include the sustained and permanent opening by Israel 
of Gaza’s border crossings in full compliance with the 
terms  and  provisions  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1860  (2009), 
to  ensure  free  access  of 
humanitarian  aid  and  other  essential  supplies  and 
goods,  including  commercial  supplies  and  necessary 
reconstruction  materials,  and  to  facilitate  people’s 
crossing to and from Gaza. 

The Non-Aligned Movement regrets the continued 
obstruction  of  the  importing  of  essential  construction 
materials  into  Gaza  as  a  result  of  the  ongoing  Israeli 
blockade.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  stresses  the 
urgent  need  for  reconstruction  to  begin  in  the  Gaza 
Strip, 
the  Secretary-
General’s  proposal  for  the  commencement  of  United 
Nations-led  civilian  reconstruction  activities  and  the 
completion  of  numerous  suspended  projects  managed 
by  United  Nations  agencies  working  on  the  ground. 
Immediate  and  urgent  efforts  are  necessary  to  address 
the needs of the Palestinian civilian population in this 
regard, especially since almost a year has passed since 
this devastating military operation occurred and winter 
is rapidly approaching. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  calls  on  the  parties 
to take all appropriate steps, within their national legal 
systems,  and  within  a  period  of 
three  months, 
according to the complementarity between national and 
international  jurisdiction,  to  undertake  independent, 
credible investigations, in conformity with international 
standards,  into  the  serious  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law  reported  by  the 
Fact-Finding  Mission,  and  to  report  back  to  the 
monitoring  mechanism  to  help  ensure  accountability 
and justice. 

Nothing justifies a policy of collective punishment 
of  a  people  under  occupation,  destroying  their  means 
of living a dignified life, or the vast trauma caused by 
including  by 
implementing 
09-59287 

3 

in 
that 
self-determination 
A/64/PV.36 

the  merciless  military  aggression  carried  out  by  the 
Israeli  Government,  the  so-called  “Operation  Cast 
Lead”.  This  contributes  to  a  situation  where  young 
people  grow  up  in  a  culture  of  hatred  and  violence, 
with little hope for change in the future, perpetuating a 
futile,  destructive  and  hopeless  cycle  of  violence, 
misery and loss.  

The  ongoing  lack  of  accountability  and  justice 
further  undermines  the  possibilities  for  a  successful 
peace  process  aimed  at  finally  bringing  an  end  to  this 
tragic,  prolonged  conflict  by  ending 
the  Israeli 
occupation  since  1967  of  the  Palestinian  territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  and  ensuring 
the 
Palestinian  people  realize  their  inalienable  right  to 
freedom  and 
their  viable 
independent State. This is essential for achieving peace 
and stability, not only in the region, but also globally. 

The  parties,  United  Nations  organs  and  the 
international community must seriously and collectively 
confront the realities highlighted in the Goldstone report 
and act accordingly and responsibly in accordance with 
all obligations under the Charter and international law, 
including international humanitarian and human rights 
law. In this regard, the Non-Aligned Movement remains 
ready  to  actively  engage  in  any  possible  action  to 
guarantee the investigation and prosecution of all those 
responsible  for  crimes  against  the  civilian  population 
in the Gaza Strip. The Non-Aligned Movement stresses 
that  criminal  justice  must  take  its  course  and  that  the 
culture of impunity must cease to exist. 

Turning  now  to  speak  in  my  national  capacity, 
and  on  behalf  of  the  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution, 
which  include  Senegal  and  all  the  States  members  of 
the League of Arab States except three, I would like to 
introduce  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Follow-up  to 
the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding Mission 
on the Gaza Conflict”, the Goldstone report, contained 
in  document  A/64/L.11.  The  draft  resolution  affirms 
the  obligation  of  all  parties  to  respect  international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  and  to  emphasize 
the  importance  of  the  safety  and  well-being  of  all 
civilians  and  the  protection  of  civilians  in  armed 
conflict,  as  well  as  preventing  impunity  and  applying 
justice. 

The  draft  resolution  endorses  the  report  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  adopted  at  its  twelfth  special 
session,  on  15  and  16  October  (A/64/53/Add.1),  and 
requests the Secretary-General to transmit the report of 
in 
and 
credible 
the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict (A/HRC/12/48) to the Security Council. 

The  draft  resolution  calls  upon  the  Government 
of Israel to take all appropriate steps within a period of 
three  months  to  undertake  investigations  that  are 
independent, 
conformity  with 
international  standards  into  the  serious  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  and  international  human 
rights  law  reported  by  the  Goldstone  report,  towards 
ensuring accountability and justice. 
The  draft  resolution  urges,  in  line  with  the 

recommendation  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 
Mission,  the  undertaking  by  the  Palestinian  side  of 
investigations  that  are  independent,  credible  and  in 
conformity  with  international  standards,  also  within  a 
period  of  three  months,  into  the  serious  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  and  international  human 
rights law reported by the Fact-Finding Mission.  
It  further  recommends  to  the  Government  of 

Switzerland, in its capacity as depositary of the Fourth 
Geneva  Convention,  to  undertake  the  necessary  steps 
as soon as possible to reconvene a Conference of High 
Contracting  Parties  to  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention 
on measures to enforce the Convention in the occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  to 
ensure its respect in accordance with common article 1. 

Finally, it requests the Secretary-General to report 
to  the  General  Assembly,  within  a  period  of  three 
months, on the implementation of the draft resolution, 
with a view to considering further action, if necessary, 
by  the  relevant  United  Nations  organs  and  bodies, 
including the Security Council. Last, but not least, the 
Assembly decides to remain seized of the matter.  

In  view  of  the  procedural  nature  of  the  draft 
resolution  and 
the  rules  of 
international  law,  international  humanitarian  law  and 
international  human  rights  law  against  the  waves  of 
impunity,  selectivity  and  double  standards,  we,  the 
sponsors,  believe  that  all  States  members  of  the 
General Assembly  will  be  in  a  position  to  support  the 
draft resolution. 

Permanent Observer of Palestine. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the  outset  and  on  behalf  of  Palestine,  I  extend  our 
gratitude  and  appreciation  to  you,  Sir,  for  your  wise 
and  effective  efforts  and  guidance  of  the  General 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  call  on  the 
its  compliance  with 
4 

09-59287 
for 
that 
justice 
significant 
is  no  doubt 
represented  a 


Assembly  and  for  promptly  responding  to  the  request 
to  convene  this  important  meeting  of  the Assembly  to 
consider the report of the United Nations Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48),  also 
known  as  the  Goldstone  report.  In  this  regard,  I  also 
express our thanks and appreciation to the Arab Group, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  the  Al  Quds  Committee  and  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People  for  their  valuable  efforts  and 
support  on  this  issue.  We  also  thank  all  States  that 
supported  Human  Rights  Council  resolution  S-12/1  of 
16 October 2009, adopted at its twelfth special session 
in Geneva. 

the  Human  Rights 
There 
Council’s endorsement of the Goldstone report and its 
recommendations 
step 
towards  ending  the  insidious  culture  of  impunity  that 
has prevailed for too long, ensuring  accountability for 
the  perpetration  of  crimes  and 
the 
Palestinian  people,  who  have  suffered  too  long  the 
grave injustice committed against them. 

I stand before the Assembly today to convey the 
suffering of the Palestinian people, who for more than 
four  decades  have  languished  under  Israel’s  brutal 
military  occupation,  deprived  of  their  rights  to  self-
determination  and  sovereignty  and  repeatedly  subject 
to  forced  displacement,  injury,  death,  imprisonment, 
destruction,  oppression  and  collective  punishment, 
including  a  suffocating  blockade,  confiscation  of  their 
land and possessions, and incessant settler colonization in 
violation  of 
rights  and 
freedoms.  In  addition,  more  than  half  of  the  Palestinian 
people are stateless and live as refugees, deprived of their 
property and the right to return for more than six decades. 

Over the decades, the Palestinian people and their 
leadership have appealed to the world to stand on the side 
of  justice  and  right,  to  bring  an  end  to  the  injustice  and 
aggression inflicted upon them, to hold Israel accountable 
for its crimes and violations and to implement resolutions 
of international legitimacy. But such appeals have been to 
no  avail.  Despite  all  our  efforts,  the  international 
community,  including  the  United  Nations,  has  failed  to 
implement its resolutions and thus fostered a culture of 
impunity that has enabled Israel to continue its crimes 
against the Palestinian people.  

in 
countless  reports  by  various  investigative  committees, 
Israel’s  crimes  have  been  documented 
fundamental  human 
their 
A/64/PV.36
the 
to 
law  and 
successive 
throughout 
territory, 
international 
including  East  Jerusalem, 
commissions of inquiry, fact-finding missions and United 
Nations  bodies,  yet  nothing  has  been  done  to  seriously 
follow  up  these  reports  and  their  findings  in  order  to 
actually  bring  an  end  to  the  occupation  and  all  of  the 
attendant Israeli crimes and violations against our people.  

Without  fear  of  being  held  accountable  and  with 
flagrant  impunity,  Israel  has  continued  its  illegal 
policies  and  practices 
the  occupied 
Palestinian 
in 
breach  of 
the  norms  and 
principles governing the civilized world. 

No  other  country  in  the  world  but  Israel  denies 
the right to self-determination and the human rights of 
an  entire  people,  as  recognized  by  the  United  Nations 
nearly 62 years ago in its adoption of resolution 181 (II) 
in  1947  on  the  partition  plan.  Moreover,  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  have  attempted 
throughout  the  years  to  address  this  issue  through  the 
adoption of hundreds of resolutions, with which Israel 
has  refused  to  comply. The  occupying  Power  has  thus 
been  empowered  by 
failure  of 
institutions,  including  the  Security  Council,  that  are 
mandated to monitor the implementation of resolutions 
and 
to  ensure 
compliance with them. 

Thus,  the  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  the  reality  of 
the illegal practices of the Israeli occupation, the most 
recent  and  longest  in  modern  history,  continue  to  test 
the United Nations and the international community. It 
is  a  test  to  judge  the  true  commitment  of  the 
international  community  to  upholding  human  rights 
and the relevant instruments of international law.  

In this regard, I must reiterate that the situation in 
occupied East Jerusalem has been sorely aggravated by 
Israel’s illegal and provocative actions and incitement, 
including  its  flagrant  pursuit  of  settlement  activities 
and  its  construction  of  the  separation  wall  in  and 
around the city, its transfer of more Israeli settlers, its 
demolition  of  more  Palestinian  homes,  its  further 
excavations  in  the  city  and  near  holy  sites,  and  the 
actions of extremist settlers at the Al-Haram Al-Sharif 
compound, which have inflamed religious sensibilities 
not only in the holy city but far beyond and throughout 
the Arab and Islamic world. We have repeatedly drawn 
the  attention  of  the  international  community  to  the 
escalating 
in  occupied  East 
Jerusalem and do so once again from this rostrum.  
the  necessary  measures 
Israeli  aggression 
take 
09-59287 

5 

A/64/PV.36 


If  we  fail  this  test  by  not  demonstrating  our  full 
and  serious  commitment  to  the  human  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people, then the international human rights 
movement  —  which  thus  far  has  promoted  human 
rights  throughout  the  world  and  has  proved  to  be  the 
international  community’s  greatest  achievement  over 
the past 60 years — will truly be at risk. Furthermore, as 
history has taught us, an ongoing lack of accountability 
and  justice  only  leads  to  further  conflict  and  violence 
and dashes hopes for peace and coexistence. 

The  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip  is  unacceptable 
and  must  be  condemned.  For  more  than  two  years, 
Israel, the occupying Power, has collectively punished 
and  imprisoned  more  than  1.5  million  Palestinians  in 
the Gaza Strip, depriving them of all their basic rights. 
Despite  repeated  international  appeals  for  an  end  to 
those  illegal  measures,  the  Israeli  blockade  continues 
to be imposed, as the occupying Power has no fear of 
being held accountable for its crimes.  

In  December  2008,  not  content  with  imposing 
that brutal blockade, Israel launched a brutal war against 
the besieged and defenceless civilian population. Over 
the course of three weeks, the Israeli occupying forces 
killed  or  injured  thousands  of  civilians,  including 
children and women, and deliberately destroyed homes, 
infrastructure,  public  institutions,  economic,  industrial 
and agricultural property and United Nations facilities. 

From the first day of Israel’s military aggression, 
appeals  came  from  the  entire  international  community 
calling on Israel to halt its aggression and commit itself 
to the principles and rules of international humanitarian 
law.  The  Security  Council  adopted  resolution  1860 
(2009),  and  the  General  Assembly  adopted  resolution 
ES-10/18, both of which remain unimplemented to this 
day.  The  Human  Rights  Council  held  an  emergency 
meeting  and  adopted  a  resolution  establishing  a  Fact-
Finding  Mission,  which  was  ultimately  composed  of 
prominent  jurists  and  experts,  led  by  Judge  Richard 
Goldstone  of  South  Africa.  Shortly  after  the  Mission 
was  established,  it  faced  its  first  major  challenge:  the 
decision by the Government of Israel not to cooperate 
with  it.  Yet,  the  Mission  went  to  the  Gaza  Strip  and 
conducted a thorough and professional investigation of 
all alleged violations by all parties.  

In  that  regard,  the  investigation  carried  out  by 
Judge Goldstone reached incontrovertible conclusions, 
emphasizing  yet  again  that  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power, had committed against the Palestinian people in 
the  Gaza  Strip  serious  human  rights  violations  and 
grave  breaches  of  international  humanitarian  law, 
including the Fourth Geneva Convention, amounting to 
war  crimes  and  even  crimes  against  humanity.  This 
includes  the  wilful  killing  of  civilians,  torture  and 
inhuman treatment, wilfully causing great suffering or 
serious injury to body or soul and extensive destruction 
of  property,  not  justified  by  military  necessity  and 
carried out unlawfully and wantonly, all of which give 
rise to Israeli criminal responsibility. 

That shocking finding, which remains undisputed, 
has  been  confirmed  thousands  of  times  over  by  the 
depth of the trauma and anguish still being suffered by 
the  Palestinian  people  in  the  Gaza  Strip:  men,  women 
and  children,  including  refugees,  the  elderly  and  the 
disabled.  It  is  extremely  deplorable  that  these  same 
civilians continue to live in misery and hardship amid 
the  ruins  of  their  homes  and  communities  because  of 
Israel’s  continuing  blockade  and  its  obstruction  of  all 
real reconstruction and recovery efforts. That has only 
increased  their  humanitarian  hardship  and  further 
intensified  the  feelings  of  grave  injustice  among  the 
Palestinian population in the region and beyond. 

These actions are part and parcel of a succession 
of  policies  aimed  at  achieving  Israel’s  political  goals 
regarding  Gaza  and  the  entire  occupied  Palestinian 
territory.  Those  policies  have  systematically  involved 
Israel’s  deliberate  violation  of  international  human 
rights law and international humanitarian law, including 
its obligations as an occupying Power under the Fourth 
Geneva Convention. In this regard, we believe that the 
High Contracting Parties must carry out their obligation, 
including  under  common  article  1,  to  respect  and 
ensure respect for the Convention in all circumstances, 
including in the occupied Palestinian territory.  

We  are  aware  that  the  Mission  investigated  all 
allegations of violations of international law committed 
during the  Gaza  conflict, including  allegations  against 
the  Palestinian  side.  From  this  rostrum,  we  wish  to 
clearly 
is  no  symmetry  or 
proportionality  between  the  occupying  Power  and  the 
Palestinian victims living under the yoke of occupation. 
We  take  very  seriously  the  allegations  set  out  in  the 
Goldstone 
report  concerning  possible  Palestinian 
violations. Furthermore, we reaffirm our utmost respect 
for and belief in the rule of law and our commitment to 
international humanitarian law. We also emphasize our 
commitment  to  the  investigation  of  this  important 
matter through local legal mechanisms.  
reaffirm 
that 
there 
6 

09-59287 
sustainability  of 



Nevertheless, the Goldstone report is yet another 
damning record of Israeli crimes committed against our 
people  under 
the  occupation.  Its  recommendations 
represent  a  significant  contribution  to  the  quest  for 
accountability and justice. In that regard, we believe that 
serious  and  responsible  follow-up  on  this  matter  is  vital 
and urgently needed at all levels so that such crimes will 
never again be committed against our people.  

We must not allow today’s discussion to become 
merely  another  opportunity  to  express  our  sympathies 
and  display  our  respect  for  international  law  and 
international humanitarian law. We must stand together 
and  united  to  face  the  most  important  test  of  the 
credibility, 
the 
international  order  based  on  the  laws  that  we  have 
promulgated.  Words  of  sympathy  will  not  suffice  to 
compensate  for  decades  of  violence,  oppression  and 
gross  violations  of  international  law  carried  out  with 
impunity.  It  is  now  time  to  swiftly  and  decisively  put 
an  end  to  the  culture  of  impunity  if  justice  and 
international peace and security are to prevail. 

Today,  on  behalf  of  all  Palestinian  victims  who 
have  suffered  from  Israeli  crimes,  we  call  upon  the 
international  community  to  take  a  clear  stand  in 
support of justice and international law. The occupying 
Power  must  know  that  the  international  community 
will no longer tolerate its illegal actions, violations and 
crimes  because  the  commitment  to  the  principles  of 
international law must surpass any other considerations 
that  flout  the  international  order. A  firm  stand  against 
such  crimes  and  a  principled  commitment  to  the  law 
will help us break that cycle of impunity and to bring 
an end to crimes that have caused much suffering and 
prolonged that tragic conflict. 

We  call  on  all  Member  States  to  join  us  in  our 
efforts to achieve justice and peace so that we can live 
up 
international 
Organization  was  established.  We  appeal  to  them  to 
join us in seeking to protect our international political 
and  legal  system,  prevent  its  moral  collapse  and 
safeguard its substance and credibility.  

Today,  the  peoples  of  the  world  are  watching  us 
closely, hoping that this Assembly is committed to the 
rights  and 
lives  of  all  peoples,  no  matter  how 
vulnerable they may be. Their judgment will make no 
allowance  for  the  luxury  of  political  rhetoric  or  the 
illogical  consideration  of  the  issue  under  discussion. 
Following this test, the peoples of the world will divide 
the  principles  on  which 
this 
integrity 
and 
to 
A/64/PV.36
to  endure 
us  into  two  camps:  those  who  are  faithful  to  the 
principles of international law and those who are not — 
not even to the value of human life and equal rights.  

The draft resolution before the General Assembly 
(A/64/L.11)  represents  a  serious,  responsible  and 
collective  effort  to  address  the  serious  human  rights 
violations  and  grave  breaches  of 
international 
humanitarian law committed during the Israeli military 
operations  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  In  considering  it,  we 
appeal  to  Member  States  to  think  of  the  thousands  of 
Palestinian  children  who  continue 
the 
manifold consequences of the practices of terror, death 
and  destruction  inflicted  upon  them  by  the  occupying 
Power. While representatives prepare to vote, I appeal 
to  them  to  remember  our  children,  who  continue  to 
suffer  the  devastating  injuries,  terror  and  destruction 
inflicted  on  them  by  the  occupying  Power;  to  live  in 
panic and fear of the bombardment of their homes and 
communities;  and  to  suffer  the  devastating  injuries 
inflicted  on  them  by  the  use  of  lethal  weaponry, 
including white phosphorous, that have physically and 
psychologically  maimed  or  traumatized  them.  They 
look  to  the  international  community  to  help  them 
overcome  the  crisis  and  to  prevent  such  crimes  from 
being committed against them ever again. 

Despite  all  their  suffering  under  the  Israeli 
violence, criminal attacks and brutality, the Palestinian 
people  are  determined  to  ensure  a  decent  future  for 
their  children,  free  of  occupation,  violence  and  pain. 
Our  people  will  rise  like  the  phoenix  to  rebuild  their 
lives and construct a future of peace, freedom, stability 
and  security  for  our  children.  Thus,  we  will  remain 
committed to our pursuit of justice and will continue to 
call  for  the  Assembly’s  support  in  that  endeavour, 
because peace cannot be achieved without justice. 

that 
the 
prosecution  of  the  perpetrators  of  war  crimes  and  the 
achievement of justice require perseverance, principled 
positions and a commitment based on international law 
and  moral  principles.  We  will  therefore  continue  to 
pursue  justice  and  to  reject  the  impunity  that  has 
allowed  Israel  to  commit  mass  crimes  against  the 
Palestinian  people  for  all  these  years  without  fear  of 
punishment.  We  would  like  to  end  that  culture  of 
impunity,  turn  the  page  on  that  horrific  and  tragic 
chapter  for  Palestine,  and  cross  the  threshold  into  a 
new era in which our people can live in peace, freedom 
and  dignity  in  an  independent,  sovereign  and  viable 
State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
that  regard,  history  has  shown 
In 
09-59287 

7 

A/64/PV.36 

exercising  the  rights  to  which  all  human  beings  are 
entitled but which have so long been denied them. 

To that end, we will act individually, collectively 
and  with  the  utmost  urgency  and  responsibility  to 
promote respect for human rights and international law, 
which are essential to making that new era a reality and 
to  achieving  genuine  peace  and  coexistence  in  the 
region. Unchecked impunity and the absence of justice 
will only continue to obstruct peace and to prolong that 
tragic conflict and the suffering of civilians. 
In conclusion, we express our hope that Member 

States will strongly support the draft resolution before 
us  as  an  important  step  in  that  direction.  We  express 
Palestine’s  gratitude  to  the  General  Assembly  for  its 
support in that effort, confident that it will continue to 
take  principled  positions  on  this  serious  matter,  in 
particular at this very critical time in history, which, if 
we  succeed,  may  be  a  real  turning  point  that  will 
ultimately allow our united efforts for justice and peace 
to  converge,  taking  us  truly  over  the  threshold  into  a 
new era for our peoples and the region. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Badji  of  Senegal, 
Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal),  Chairman,  Committee  on 

the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (spoke in French): On behalf of the Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People,  I  welcome  the  convening  of  this 
debate  on  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/64/490, 
annex),  whereby  the  General  Assembly  has  followed 
up  without  delay  on  a  recommendation  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. 

The  violent  events  that  took  place  in  Gaza  in 
December 2008 and January 2009 are still very vivid in 
our minds, particularly since the chaos provoked by the 
Israeli military operation remains the same. The tragic 
situation on the ground has barely changed. Almost 10 
months  after  the  hostilities  ended,  there  has  been  no 
progress on reconstruction or the reopening of borders. 
On 31 December 2008, immediately after the start of the 
Israeli  offensive  on  Gaza,  our  Committee  condemned 
the deadly military attack and the destruction unleashed 
by  the  occupying  Power  in  total  disregard  of  its 
obligations  and  responsibilities  under  international 
humanitarian law. 
and 
calls 
those 
supported 

The  international  community  reacted  promptly 
and responded in a single voice to the violations in the 
Gaza  Strip.  Several  investigative  missions  have  been 
dispatched  by  various  international  entities  over  the 
past  several  months  to  establish  the  facts  surrounding 
the  events  of  December  2008  and  January  2009.  Our 
Committee  commended 
the  Secretary-General  for 
swiftly  establishing  a  Board  of  Inquiry  into  incidents 
that  affected  United  Nations  personnel  and  property. 
The League of Arab States also set up an independent 
fact-finding committee on Gaza.  

The  results  of  those  enquiries  have  revealed 
widespread  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
and human rights law, including the possibility that war 
crimes had been committed by both sides. Civil society 
organizations  have  produced  a  number  of  reports, 
which concur that egregious violations of international 
law had indeed taken place. 

The  Committee  commended  the  work  of  those 
fact-finding  missions 
for 
accountability.  Last  July  in  Geneva,  our  Committee 
convened the United Nations International Meeting on 
the Question of Palestine to look into the initial results 
of 
the  stated  goal  of 
strengthening  adherence  to  the  norms  of  international 
humanitarian  law.  The  Meeting  brought  together  the 
expertise  of 
jurists  and 
representatives of Member States and intergovernmental 
and civil society organizations. The participants called 
for  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  all 
United Nations investigative mechanisms and urged all 
Governments  to  live  up  to  the  legal  obligations  that 
they  had  entered 
the  Geneva 
ratifying 
Conventions and other legal instruments. 

Last September, the United Nations Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  established  by  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  led  by  Justice  Richard 
Goldstone, a distinguished and internationally respected 
South  African  lawyer,  presented  its  comprehensive, 
balanced  and  authoritative  account  of  the  events  in 
Gaza (A/64/490, annex).  

The scope of the investigation and the quality of 
legal  analysis  are  impressive.  The  team  has  analysed 
the  facts  in  the  light  of  applicable  international 
standards. We note that Israel refused to cooperate with 
the  Mission,  denied  it  access  to  its  own  territory  and 
the  West  Bank,  and 
to  a 
comprehensive list of questions submitted by the team. 
investigations,  with 
international 
renowned 
failed 
to 
respond 
into 
in 
8 

09-59287 
force 
against 
systems, 
sanitation 
excessive 
increased  closures, 


Israel  has  also  vigorously  condemned  the  report. 
Palestinian authorities in both Gaza and the West Bank 
cooperated with the Mission. 

The  report  concludes  that  the  Israeli  military 
operation was directed at the people of Gaza as a whole, 
in furtherance of an overall and ongoing policy aimed at 
punishing the Gaza population, and in a deliberate policy 
of  using  disproportionate  force  against  the  civilian 
population.  The  destruction  of  food  and  water  supply 
facilities,  water 
factories  and 
residential  houses  was  the  result  of  a  deliberate  and 
systematic policy that has made daily life for the civilian 
population  even  more  difficult.  The  Mission  found  that 
the incidents and patterns of events considered were the 
result of deliberate planning and policy decisions. 

The  report  also  covers  violations  arising  from 
Israeli  treatment  of  Palestinians  in  the  West  Bank, 
including 
Palestinian 
demonstrators, 
restriction  of 
movement  and  house  demolitions.  According  to  the 
report, the detention of Palestinian Legislative Council 
members  has  paralysed  political  life  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem. 

The Mission also found that the repeated firing of 
rockets  and  mortar  rounds  into  southern  Israel  by 
Palestinian  armed  groups  constituted  war  crimes  and 
might amount to crimes against humanity by virtue of a 
failure  to  distinguish  between  military  targets  and  the 
civilian  population.  I  recall  that  our  Committee  has 
consistently  condemned  all  attacks  indiscriminately 
targeting  Israeli  civilians  and  civilian  property.  The 
Goldstone  report  also  urges  the  release  of  Israeli 
corporal Gilad Shalit, a demand fully supported by our 
Committee. 
the  Fact-Finding  Mission 

With 
submitted ample and unbiased evidence that Israel and 
Palestinian  armed  groups  alike  had  committed  serious 
violations 
and 
humanitarian  law  during  the  fighting,  including  some 
that should be prosecuted as war crimes. Our Committee 
supports  the  Mission’s  pre-eminent  recommendation 
that  Israel  and  the  Palestinians  conduct  impartial 
investigations and prosecute those found responsible. 

Most  importantly,  the  report  calls  for  follow-up 
action by various parties, including the United Nations. 
Specifically, it requests the Security Council to create a 
committee  of  experts 
those  domestic 
investigations.  If  —  and  only  if  —  the  parties  do  not 
international 
to  monitor 
its 
report, 
of 
human 
rights 
A/64/PV.36
that 
is  of 
the  view 
Our  Committee 
undertake  credible  inquiries  within  six  months,  the 
report  recommends  pursuing  accountability  through 
international judicial action. 

The report challenges the international community 
to break with past practice and take bold steps to uphold 
international  law  for  the  ultimate  benefit  of  achieving 
peace.  It  provides  the  international  community  with  the 
opportunity  to  demand,  in  the  context  of  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict,  the  same  degree  of  accountability 
that  is  applied  to  other  conflicts.  Failure  to  demand 
justice  would  be  to  betray  the  rights  of  Israeli  and 
Palestinian  victims  and  to  undermine  the  broader 
international  legal  principles  supported  by  the  vast 
majority of Member States. The report also represents a 
significant moral and ethical challenge to the parties. 

the 
perpetrators  of  serious  crimes  on  either  side  must  be 
brought to justice and held accountable for their actions. 
It  encourages  principled  action  by  the  international 
community  to  ensure  respect  of  and  adherence  to  the 
norms of international humanitarian law. In particular, 
the Committee appeals to all high contracting parties to 
the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention 
their 
obligations  under  common  article  1  to  respect  and 
ensure respect for the Convention in all circumstances.  

The  General  Assembly  may  wish  to  consider 
adopting  a  resolution  requesting  the  convening  of  a 
conference  of  the  high  contracting  parties  to  consider 
ways  to  implement  article  1  of  the  Convention.  The 
United  Nations,  and 
the 
Security  Council  and  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
particular,  should  be  invited  to  consider  how  to  deal 
effectively with breaches of international law.  

A  negotiated  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict  must  be  firmly  rooted  in  the  principles  of 
international law, which must be applied scrupulously. 
It  is  only  by  respecting  and  ensuring  respect  for 
international  law,  including  international  humanitarian 
and  human  rights  law,  that  the  international  legal 
system  can  attain  its  goal.  International  justice  can  be 
restored  only  through  the  commitment  of  all  actors  of 
the international community to uphold the principle of 
accountability for breaches of international law and to 
put an end to impunity. Sixty years after the entry into 
force  of  the  Geneva  Conventions,  the  international 
community  is  challenged  to  take  concrete  steps  to 
revalidate  them  as  norms  of  international  law  to  be 
adhered to by all of its members. 
the  General  Assembly, 
fulfil 
to 
09-59287 

9 

the  convening  of 
I  would  like  to  make  the  following  statement  on 
A/64/PV.36 


behalf of my country, Senegal. 

In  response  to  the  call  of  the  General Assembly, 
my  delegation  welcomes 
this 
crucially  important  debate  on  the  report  of  the  United 
Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict 
from  December  2008  to  January  2009,  following  the 
recommendation of the Human Rights Council. 

Indeed,  the  United  Nations  was  founded,  in  the 
words  of  its  Charter,  on  a  real  “faith  in  fundamental 
human  rights,  in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human 
person, in the equal rights of men and women”. Taking up 
that challenge is one of its most important duties, and it is 
to a large extent the criterion by which it is often judged 
by  the  peoples  in  whose  service  it  labours.  While  our 
global  Organization  has  sometimes  failed  to  rise  to  that 
challenge,  the  recommendations  of  the  Goldstone  report 
place it squarely face to face with its responsibilities.  
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  the  utmost 

appreciation  of  the  delegation  of  Senegal  for  the 
members  of  the  Mission  led  by  Justice  Richard 
Goldstone  of  South  Africa.  The  choice  of  those 
luminaries,  whose  life  experience  is  highly  valued  in 
national  and  international  legal  circles,  serves  to 
validate  the  objectivity  and  balance  of  the  report, 
which,  we  can  all  agree,  defends  the  principles  of 
justice, responsibility and the fight against impunity by 
shedding light on violations committed in the course of 
Operation Cast Lead in the Gaza Strip. 

Israel’s  deadly  and  disproportionate  bombing  of 
the  Gaza  Strip  from  December  2008  to  January  2009, 
in  the  guise  of  defending  its  citizens  from  rocket 
attacks  by  Palestinian  groups,  have 
laid  bare 
unacceptable  violations  on  Israel’s  part  of  the  most 
elementary  rules  of  international  humanitarian  and 
human  rights  law.  Those  bombings  are  unacceptable 
also  because  numerous  corroborating  indications  lead 
to the conclusion that the military invasion of Gaza by 
the  Israeli  army  exacerbated  breaches  of  international 
law  by  reason,  among  others,  of  the  blockade  of  the 
Gaza  Strip,  which  has  taken  on  the  dimensions  of 
collective  punishment,  and  of  the  increased  illegal 
settlement in the occupied Palestinian territory, notably 
in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. 

these  and  other  Israeli  policies  and 
measures,  which  are  as  brutal  as  they  are  illegal,  are 
perpetuated and even intensified in direct contradiction 
to the provisions of international law, in particular the 
Today 
The 
immediate 
of 
Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949, which, need I recall, 
applies to the occupied Palestinian territory. The State of 
Israel, as the occupying Power, must strictly abide by the 
provisions of international humanitarian law. 

In responding to these repeated violations in Gaza, 
several  international  and  civil  society  organizations 
promptly dispatched fact-finding missions with a view 
to establishing the facts surrounding the Israeli military 
operation.  The  conclusions  of  those  inquiries  have 
revealed 
the  commission  of  many  breaches  of 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  and 
even of war crimes, on the part of the two parties to the 
conflict. 

Unable to stand idly by in the face of such huge 
violations,  the  United  Nations  created,  through  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
the  Gaza  Conflict.  The  Mission’s  report,  presented 
15 September 2009, contains a set of recommendations 
on  steps  to  be  taken  by  the  parties  to  the  conflict  and 
the  international  community.  In  that  regard,  we  note 
the  obligation  of  the  parties  promptly  to  undertake 
impartial and in-depth inquiries into the violations. 
those 

recommendations  by  the  parties  concerned  should 
under  no  pretext  be  delayed.  It  is  important  in  this 
context to uphold and, as much as possible, bolster the 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations,  especially  the  General 
Assembly, the Security Council and the Human Rights 
Council, to ensure full adherence to and respect for the 
standards  of  international  humanitarian  law.  We  also 
recall once again that the high contracting parties to the 
Fourth Geneva Convention must meet their obligations 
in  accordance  with  common  article  1  of  the  1949 
Convention,  which  requires 
the 
Convention in all circumstances.  

In  that  connection,  and  aware  of  the  importance 
of  the  fight  against  impunity  in  the  context  of 
promoting 
law,  Senegal  appeals  for 
appropriate  measures  to  be  taken  to  ensure  strict 
observance of the rules of international law. Moreover, 
the fight against impunity should in no way affect our 
resolve  to  make  progress  in  settling  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict.  Rather,  it  should  encourage  us  to 
strive alongside the parties to the conflict to find a just, 
lasting  and  comprehensive  solution  to  that  protracted 
conflict of modern history. 

turning  point 
It  is  now  time  to  change  course.  We  are  at  a 
the  history  of  humankind.  The 
implementation 
the  rule  of 
to  respect 
them 
in 
10 

09-59287 
law, 
including 


Goldstone  report  offers  the  best  hope  for  justice  and 
redress for the victims. On the basis of that conclusion, 
my country here and now launches a solemn appeal to 
the international community to join the effort to lay the 
groundwork for a just and lasting peace in the Middle 
East. 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak on 

behalf of the European Union (EU). Turkey, Croatia, the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Albania, 
Montenegro, Serbia, Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova 
and Armenia align themselves with this statement. 

The European Union is deeply concerned over the 
deteriorating  humanitarian  and  human  rights  situation 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories.  The  EU  again 
urges the Palestinian Authority and the Government of 
Israel  to  enter  into  serious  peace  negotiations  as  soon 
as  possible  and  to  respect  previous  agreements  and 
international 
all  Road  Map 
commitments.  We  reiterate  the  need  to  ensure  a 
political  solution,  with  two  States  —  Israel  and  an 
independent,  democratic,  contiguous  and  viable 
Palestinian  State  —  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security. If there is to be genuine peace, a way must be 
found  to  share  Jerusalem  as  the  future  capital  of  two 
States.  The  European  Union  will  not  recognize  any 
changes  to  the  pre-1967  borders  other  than  those 
agreed by both parties. 

We  call  upon  both  parties  to  fully  adhere  to 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law.  All 
allegations of human rights violations and of violations 
of  international  humanitarian  law  must  be  thoroughly 
investigated,  and  those  responsible  must  be  held 
accountable. 

A  durable  solution  to  the  Gaza  crisis  has  to  be 
achieved  through  the  full  implementation  of  Security 
Council  resolution  1860  (2009).  The  European  Union 
remains  gravely  concerned  at 
the  humanitarian 
situation in Gaza and calls for the sustained, immediate 
and unconditional opening of crossings for the flow of 
humanitarian  aid,  commercial  goods  and  persons  to 
and  from  Gaza.  The  EU  reaffirms  its  support  for  the 
proposed  United  Nations-led  civilian  reconstruction 
activities  in  Gaza.  The  European  Union  calls  for  a 
complete stop to all violence, including a sustained halt 
of rocket attacks on Israel. We reiterate our call for the 
immediate  release  of  Israeli  soldier  Gilad  Shalit. 
Palestinian  prisoners  should  be  released  in  greater 
numbers, with priority given to the minors. 
A/64/PV.36
takes 
note 
of 
European  Union 

The United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the 
Gaza  Conflict  reports,  in  document  A/HRC/12/48, 
grave  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law, 
including deliberate attacks on civilians. It is a serious 
report. The  EU  is  committed  to  assessing  it  seriously. 
The 
the 
recommendations  of  the  Mission  and  emphasizes  the 
obligation  of  all  parties  to  the  conflict  to  respect 
international humanitarian law and international human 
rights  law.  The  EU  deeply  deplores  the  loss  of  life 
during  the  Gaza  conflict,  particularly  the  civilian 
casualties.  We  also  condemn  all  targeting  of  civilians 
and United Nations facilities during the conflict. 

The  European  Union  has  consistently  reminded 
all  parties  to  the  conflict  of  the  urgent  need  to  ensure 
accountability for all violations of international human 
rights law and international humanitarian law in order 
to  deter  further  violations.  An  overarching  human 
rights  priority  for  the  EU  is  to  combat  impunity.  The 
EU  urges  the  parties  to  launch  appropriate,  credible 
and independent investigations into possible violations 
of  international  human  rights  law  and  international 
humanitarian  law,  in  accordance  with  international 
standards. In that regard, the European Union believes 
that appropriate follow-up will be necessary. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian Arab  Republic):  I  have  the 

honour  to  make  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) member 
States. Let me begin by expressing the appreciation of 
the  OIC  group  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  bringing  this  urgent  matter  to  the 
Assembly  for  its  consideration,  in  response  to  Human 
Rights Council resolution S-12/1. 

international  community  has  witnessed 
illegal  and  intensified  Israeli  colonization  measures  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  ongoing  settlement 
activities,  persistent  aggression  against  Islamic  and 
Christian  holy  sites  in Al-Quds Al-Sharif,  the  transfer 
of  more  Israeli  settlers,  the  continued  construction  of 
the separation wall in and around the holy city, changes 
to  the  city’s  demographic  and  geographic  character, 
restrictions on the freedom of movement of Palestinian 
citizens,  their  unlawful  detention,  and  the  demolition 
of Palestinian houses. Here, I would like to recall what 
happened  in  recent  days,  when  illegal  Israeli  settlers 
entered  Palestinian  houses  in Al-Quds Al-Sharif  early 
in the morning and threw their inhabitants out into the 
streets  under 
the  Israeli  forces  of 
occupation.  We  have  also  seen  continued  digging  and 
the  eyes  of 
The 
09-59287 

11 
of 
rights 
human 
including 
international 
A/64/PV.36 

excavation work in and around Al-Aqsa mosque and its 
vicinity. 

The OIC strongly condemns those violations, and 
expresses its serious concerns about the grave situation 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  especially  the 
continuing  inhuman  Israeli  blockade  and  the  dire 
humanitarian  crisis  being  imposed  on  the  Palestine 
civilian population in the Gaza Strip. 

Early  this  year,  the  international  community 
witnessed with horror the events in the occupied Gaza 
Strip. All  independent  reporting  on  the  23-day  Israeli 
aggression  pointed  to  the  commission  of  serious 
violations 
and 
humanitarian  law  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power. 
Reports following the Human Rights Council’s special 
session  on  the  human  rights  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  particularly  in  the  occupied 
Gaza  Strip, 
the  High  Commissioner’s 
periodic  report  (A/HRC/12/37)  and  the  combined 
report  of  special  procedures,  have  all  confirmed 
significant  prima  facie  evidence  revealing  serious 
violations of international humanitarian law, as well as 
gross  human  rights  violations,  during  that  Israeli 
military aggression. 

The  Goldstone  report  (A/64/490,  annex)  has 
authenticated  and  confirmed  these  violations  with 
evidence.  Most  importantly,  the  report  confirmed  the 
international  community’s  worst  fears  —  war  crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity  had  been  committed, 
including wilful killings, deliberate attacks on civilian 
objects,  wanton  destruction  of  civilian  property, 
indiscriminate  attacks,  the  use  of  human  shields,  and 
collective 
civilian 
population  in  the  form  of  a  continuing  blockade  by 
Israel during its occupation of the Gaza Strip. In short, 
Israel has committed a variety of crimes, including war 
crimes, 
law  and 
international humanitarian law, as well as of the Fourth 
Geneva Convention. 

in  operative 
paragraph 3 of part B of its resolution S-12/1, endorses 
the  recommendations  contained 
the  Goldstone 
report, and calls upon the “United Nations … bodies to 
ensure  their  implementation”.  The  recommendations 
made  in  that  report  were  addressed  not  only  to  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  but  also  to  the  Security 
Council, as stated in paragraph 1969 of the Goldstone 
report, whereby the report makes an inevitable request 
The  Human  Rights  Council, 
in  violation  of 
against  Gaza’s 
international 
punishment 
in 

the 
fulfil 
to  deal  with 
the  Special  Committee 
the  Security  Council  must 
to the Security Council to shoulder its responsibilities. 
Therefore, 
its 
responsibilities  as  mandated  in  the  Charter,  take  all 
necessary  actions  to  bring  the  Israeli  perpetrators  of 
these war crimes to justice and put an end to the Israeli 
mindset of inhumanity. 

The  OIC  once  again  expresses  its  regret  at  the 
continued  non-cooperation  on  the  part  of  Israel,  the 
occupying  Power,  with  all 
independent  and 
international  missions  that  have  been  mandated  to 
investigate  violations  of  the  human  rights  of  the 
occupied  Palestinian  people.  Such  an  attitude  reflects 
an  above-the-law  mentality  and  constitutes  a  clear 
refusal  to  acknowledge  the  international  community’s 
human rights concerns.  

To  mention  only  some  among  the  incalculable 
number  of  cases,  I  should  like  to  recall  the  Israeli 
refusal 
to 
Investigate  Israeli  Practices  Affecting 
the  Human 
Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the 
Occupied Territories, established in 19 December 1968 
to  monitor  the  human  rights  of  the  people  under 
occupation in the occupied territories; the Israeli denial 
of access to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on 
the  situation  of  human  rights 
the  Palestinian 
territories occupied by Israel since 1967, established in 
1993; Israel’s non-compliance with a Security Council 
call  to  cooperate  with  a  fact-finding  mission  sent  to 
Jenin,  established  pursuant 
to  Security  Council 
resolution  1405  (2002),  adopted  19  April  2002;  the 
Israeli refusal to deal with the High-Level Fact-Finding 
Mission  to  Beit  Hanoun,  established  1  September 
2008; and many other missions. Since 1947, Israel has 
refused  to  cooperate  with  23  United  Nations  fact-
finding and other missions. 

Israel  has  left  behind  much  more  than  dead  and 
injured  Palestinians  in  the  bloodstained  Gaza  Strip. 
Israeli  jets,  tanks  and  battleships  could  see  only  one 
target  on  their  radar  screens  —  civilians  —  and  yet 
they  fired. This  was  documented  by  a  United  Nations 
team.  Israel  has  thus  left  the  United  Nations  in  a 
situation in which the Organization must either react or 
tell us why it has not. 
The inability of the United Nations to bring Israel 

under 
law  has 
unfortunately harmed the image of the United Nations 
throughout the world, especially as we watch the daily 
desecration  of  our  holy  places  in  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif. 
the  umbrella  of 
international 
in 
12 

09-59287 
to  address 
that  Israel’s 
in  particular, 


The  continuing  Israeli  non-compliance  with  United 
Nations  resolutions  and  non-cooperation  with  dozens 
of  United  Nations  fact-finding  missions  put 
the 
credibility of the United Nations itself at stake. 

The  humanitarian  and  human  rights  situation  is 
getting  worse  for  the  Palestinian  people  living  under 
illegitimate occupation. They live in terror and fear. The 
OIC  has  repeatedly  cautioned 
illegal 
measures undermine the contiguity, unity and integrity of 
the Palestinian territory and imperil the establishment of 
an  independent,  sovereign  and  viable  State  of  Palestine, 
with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, on the basis of the 
two-State solution in accordance with international law 
and relevant United Nations resolutions.  

We reiterate our call for the urgent intensification 
of  efforts  by  the  international  community,  and  by  the 
Security  Council 
the 
continuing political and humanitarian crises and to lend 
crucial support to the resumption and early conclusion 
of  a  credible,  sustained  and  results-oriented  peace 
process, to the satisfaction of the Palestinian people. 
Ms.  Shalev  (Israel):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 

convey the condolences of the Government and people 
of  Israel  to  the  most  recent  victims  of  terrorism.  Our 
thoughts  are  with  the  more  than  150  innocent  men, 
women and children slaughtered in Baghdad by suicide 
terrorists.  Our  sorrow  is  with  the  more  than  100 
victims  of  the  brutal  terrorist  attacks  in  Peshawar  and 
Rawalpindi, Pakistan. Our grief is with the families of 
the six United Nations employees, working in the name 
of  peace,  who  were  murdered  by  terrorists  in  Kabul. 
We  will  not  forget  the  victims  of  terrorism  in  New 
York,  Washington,  D.C.,  London,  Madrid,  Bali, 
Lockerbie,  Riyadh,  Amman,  Mindanao, 
Istanbul, 
Nairobi,  Jerusalem,  Tel  Aviv,  Buenos  Aires,  Mumbai, 
Beslan,  Islamabad  and  Algiers,  and  so  many  others 
who have endured the evil of terrorism. 

Terrorism  deprives  people  of  their  most  basic 
human right: the right to life. States have not only the 
right, but indeed the duty to pursue those who engage 
in  the  barbaric  tactics  of  terrorism.  States  sponsoring 
terrorism  —  Members  of 
that 
actively  engage  in  activities  such  as  the  smuggling  of 
weapons,  ammunition  and  terrorists  by  sea,  air  and 
the 
land  —  must  be  held  accountable  before 
international  community.  Yet 
rather 
than 
confront  terrorism,  the  General  Assembly  has  chosen 
once again to detach itself from reality. 
this  Organization 
today, 
A/64/PV.36
it 
led 

Today’s  debate  is  anything  but  genuine  and 
candid. Rather than discuss how better to stop terrorist 
groups  that  deliberately  target  civilians,  this  body 
launches  yet  another  campaign  against  the  victims  of 
terrorism — the people of Israel. 

The  report  before  the  Assembly  (A/HRC/12/48) 
was  conceived  in  hate  and  executed  in  sin.  From  its 
inception  in  a  one-sided  mandate,  the  Gaza  Fact-
Finding  Mission  was  a  politicized  body  with 
predetermined  conclusions.  It  is  the  product  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  Geneva,  a  body  whose 
obsession  with  Israel  has 
to  adopt  more 
resolutions  against  Israel  than  on  all  other  United 
Nations Member States put together. This same Human 
Rights Council rejected any investigation regarding the 
constant  firing  of  12,000  rockets  and  mortars  by 
Hamas,  over  eight  years,  on  towns  and  villages  in 
Israel.  The  basic  human  rights  of  nearly  1  million 
Israeli  citizens  did  not  matter  then.  Are  we  now  to 
believe  that  the  Council’s  latest  incarnation  is  honest, 
objective and fair? 

Cynical  political  manoeuvres,  not  principles, 
have brought the Human Rights Council to export this 
report to New York. But the flaws of the report before 
the  Assembly  are  not  merely  procedural.  It 
is 
irreparably tainted. It bends both fact and law. 

Justice Goldstone himself publicly conceded that 
if his Fact-Finding Mission had been a judicial inquiry, 
a member of his team would have been disqualified for 
outright  bias  against  Israel.  Nevertheless,  the  report 
makes  sweeping  judicial  determinations  of  criminal 
wrongdoing  in  the  absence  of  crucial  information.  It 
makes  explosive  charges  against  Israel,  yet 
the 
evidence  provided  to  support  such  accusations  is  at 
best  uncorroborated,  and  at  worst  false.  In  certain 
cases, the report comes to conclusions based upon the 
absence  of  evidence  to  the  contrary.  In  others,  the 
authors’ mere opinions serve as the evidence. Time and 
again, 
Israel’s  unprecedented 
extensive efforts to save civilian lives as proof that any 
civilian casualties were therefore deliberate. This is not 
honest fact-finding. But that is not all. 

the 
Mission  deliberately  selected  incidents  so  as  to  evade 
the complex dilemmas of confronting threats in civilian 
areas. The report ignores the reality of terrorist activity 
and  the  complexity  of  military  challenges  in  fighting 
terrorists  in  urban  warfare.  It  ignores  overwhelming 
Justice  Goldstone  himself  admitted 
inverts 
report 
that 
the 
09-59287 

13 

to 
that  Hamas 
A/64/PV.36 

evidence 
intentionally  operated  from 
densely populated areas and from within hospitals and 
mosques, and that it booby-trapped civilian structures. 
The  report  makes  no  reference  to  the  recruitment  and 
exploitation  of  civilians  by  Hamas,  or  to  its  use  of 
human  shields. 
It  undermines  every  democracy 
defending  itself  against  terrorist  attacks.  It  concedes 
that  the  rule  of  law  will  be  replaced  by  the  rule  of 
terrorism. But that is not all. 

The  report  dismisses  Israel’s  independent  legal 
system,  of  which  I  am  a  proud  member.  It  disregards 
Israel’s  extensive  criminal  investigation  process  of 
allegations of misconduct by Israeli armed forces. In so 
doing,  it  effectively  calls  into  question  the  internal 
investigation  procedures  of  the  armed  forces  of  most 
democratic States. 

Israel  is  committed  to  acting  in  accordance  with 
international  law. The  rules  of  armed  conflict  are  part 
of  the  training  of  every  Israeli  soldier.  Israel  is 
committed 
investigating  every  allegation  of 
misconduct  by  its  forces.  These  commitments  are 
derived  from  our  timeless  values  and  our  longing  for 
peace. 

Israel believes in a vision of peace. We believe in 
the  vision  established  by  the  United  Nations  of  two 
States  for  two  peoples.  But  the  Goldstone  report  and 
this  debate  do  not  promote  peace.  They  damage  any 
effort  to  revitalize  negotiations  in  our  region.  They 
deny Israel’s right to self-defence. If Israel is asked to 
make concessions for peace, we must be assured of our 
right to defend ourselves. We must know that terrorists 
will  not  have  impunity  as  they  turn  our  gestures  of 
peace into weapons of war. 
Mr.  Mohamad  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

barbaric Israeli war against Gaza was no secret. It was 
watched  by  people  near  and  far.  Millions  of  people 
around  the  world  followed  it  through  various  mass 
media. That the Israeli forces terrorized and murdered 
innocent  Palestinian  civilians  is  not  in  question.  The 
Israeli  occupying  Power  waged  a  destructive  war 
against  Gaza  that  killed  thousands  of  civilians  and 
destroyed  infrastructure  and  civilian  property.  Major 
and  widespread  violations  of 
law, 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law, 
as  well  as  of  the  Geneva  Conventions  of  1949,  were 
committed. 
Israel’s actions represent simply the latest episode 

in  a  criminal  record  that  has  continued  since  its 
international 
heinous  occupation  of  Palestinian  and Arab  territories 
began.  This  episode  is  an  expression  of  Israel’s 
ultimate defiance and contempt for the United Nations 
and its resolutions. It is yet another episode in a series 
of  killing  and  destruction  —  destruction  of  life  and 
property — in a war of genocide against the Palestinian 
people.  In  this  war,  Israel  has  been  unable  to  kill  the 
will  and  resolve  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Its  wall  of 
separation  has  been  unable  to  separate  the  Palestinian 
people from their aspiration to live in dignity. 

The  discussion  of  this  report  (A/HRC/12/48)  by 
the  General  Assembly  has  the  added  importance  of 
restoring  the  required  credibility  to  our  international 
Organization, in particular the General Assembly as the 
pulse of the international community, in expressing its 
hope  of  deterring  Israel  and  putting  an  end  to  the 
suffering of the Palestinian people. 

The  Fact-Finding  Mission  established  by  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  as  explained  in  the  report 
before  us,  came  to  many  legal  and  documentary 
conclusions of great importance and impact. The report 
clearly  details  the  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity  committed  by  Israel  and  demonstrates  that 
the conduct of the Israeli occupying forces constituted 
a  grave  violation  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention, 
due  both  to  wilful  killings  and  to  the  infliction  of 
wanton  suffering  on  civilians.  The  report  also  states 
that  the  Palestinians  were  directly  and  intentionally 
targeted,  which  is  a  violation  of  the  right  to  life.  The 
report  also 
the 
blockaded people of Gaza  and designates such  acts  as 
crimes against humanity. 
investigated  many 

reports 
of  manufacturing 
infrastructure  by  Israel,  including  food  production 
facilities,  water  and  sanitation  installations,  houses, 
and  even  flour  mills.  The  report  concludes  that,  in 
addition  to  the  excessive  illegal  destruction,  Israel’s 
grave violations of the Fourth Geneva Convention and 
other laws indisputably amounted to war crimes. With 
regard to the destruction of Government buildings and 
infrastructure, the report states that attacks against such 
facilities  were  deliberate,  as  were  attacks  against 
civilian 
the  norms  of 
international humanitarian law.  

Israeli 
occupying  authority  has  a  systematic  policy  of 
targeting  civilian  sites. The  Fact-Finding  Mission  also 
The  Fact-Finding  Mission 
destruction 
lists  acts  of  oppression  against 
in  violation  of 
report  also 
indicates 
that 
the 
of 
the 
targets, 
The 
14 

09-59287 
With  regard 
to  violations  of 


found that, in addition to the widespread destruction of 
homes  during  the  incursion,  Israeli  forces  undertook 
another  deliberate  campaign  of  destruction  of  houses 
before  withdrawing,  in  violation  of  families’  right  to 
life and their right to pursue a living. 

the  rights  of 
civilians,  the  Goldstone  report  states  that  the  conduct 
of  Israeli  occupying  forces  amounted  to  a  grave 
violation  of 
the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  and 
constitutes a war crime. The report also concludes that 
the  targeting  of  Palestinian  civilians  with  the  aim  of 
killing,  humiliating,  terrorizing,  collectively  punishing 
and  using  them  as  human  shields,  also  constituted  a 
war crime. The report further states that Israel’s strikes 
against  mosques  and  hospitals  were  direct  and 
deliberate acts that violated the rights of the Palestinian 
people.  

The Commission concludes that Israeli occupying 
authorities were responsible for war crimes and crimes 
against humanity, and that 
“Israel’s continuing occupation of the Gaza Strip 
and  the  West  Bank  emerged  as  the  fundamental 
factor  underlying  violations  of 
international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law  against  the 
protected  population  and  undermining  prospects 
for  development  and  peace.  Israel’s  failure  to 
acknowledge  and  exercise  its  responsibilities  as 
the  occupying  Power  further  exacerbated  the 
effects  of  occupation  on  the  Palestinian  people, 
and  continue[s]  to  do  so.  Furthermore,  the  harsh 
and  unlawful  practices  of  occupation,  far  from 
quelling  resistance,  breed  it,  including  its  violent 
manifestations.  The  Mission  is  of  the  view  that 
ending occupation is a prerequisite for the return of 
a dignified life for Palestinians ...” (A/HRC/12/48, 
para. 1897) 
Occupation  is  the  basic  cause  of  suffering  for  the 
Palestinian people and thus this occupation should end. 
Under  no  circumstance  should  we  equate  the  victim 
with the perpetrator. 
The  conclusions  of  the  Goldstone  report  amount 

to  an  ongoing  challenge 
international 
Organization  to  meet  its  international  responsibilities 
recommendations.  The 
and  address 
the 
Organization  must 
the 
Palestinian  people  referred  to  by  the  Mission,  and 
uphold  that  people’s  legitimate  rights,  including  its 
right  to  self-determination,  to  establish  its  own  State 
report’s 
support 
resolve  of 
the 
to 
this 
A/64/PV.36
for 
and  to  achieve  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  by 
ensuring  Israel’s  withdrawal  from  all  Arab  territories 
occupied  in  1967  and  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations.  

The defence of the occupying forces mounted by 
some  in  the  international  community  has  sent  an 
erroneous  message  to  Israel,  which  not  only  did  not 
stop  its  destructive  war  against  Gaza,  but  recently 
launched  another  war  against  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif,  in 
which it has demolished homes, Judaized the holy city 
and  continued  to  build  settlements.  Israel  has  also 
continued to excavate beneath the Al-Aqsa Mosque and 
to  prevent  worshipers  from  fulfilling  their  religious 
duties.  That  presages  another  disaster 
the 
Palestinian people. 

The  General  Assembly  must  condemn  Israel’s 
actions in Al-Quds Al-Sharif. It must also declare null 
and void any Israeli effort or action to change the legal, 
material, demographic and institutional character of the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan.  Israel’s  steps  to  impose  its 
legal  and  administrative  authority  there  are  null  and 
void. That  includes  the  construction  and  expansion  of 
Israeli  settlements,  which  are  both  in  defiance  of  the 
will  of  the  international  community  and  a  grave 
violation  of  international  law,  including  the  Fourth 
Geneva Convention and the resolutions and Charter of 
the United Nations, including Security Council resolution 
497 (1981). We must also ensure Israel’s full withdrawal 
from Lebanese territory, including the Shaba’a farmlands, 
Kfar Shuba and the village of Al-Ghajar. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
steadfastness  of the thousands of Palestinian prisoners 
languishing  in  the  prisons  of  the  Israeli  occupying 
authorities. 
The  Goldstone  report  has  not  only  exposed 

Israel’s  crimes  and  war  of  genocide  against  the 
defenceless  Palestinian  people,  it  has  also  brought  to 
light the double standards employed by those who pay 
lip service to justice and the need to end impunity. The 
report  highlights  that  hypocrisy  and  illustrates  Israel’s 
selectivity and dual approach to credibility and justice. 
Those  who  behave  in  a  like  manner  are  harming  the 
reputation  of 
international  Organization.  Our 
peoples  aspire  to  the  justice  and  wisdom  that  the 
Organization is supposed to pursue. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  commend  the 
efforts of the Human Rights Council. We call upon the 
General Assembly to endorse the Goldstone report and 
the 
09-59287 

15 
serious 
violations 
of 

session  of 
in  connection  with 
A/64/PV.36 

its recommendations and to implement them and adopt 
a  resolution 
the  report.  The 
Assembly should also remain seized of this matter. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 

Islamic Republic of Iran welcomes today’s meeting of the 
General  Assembly  to  consider  the  report  of  the  twelfth 
special 
the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/64/53/Add.1), which was held on 15 and 16 October. 

We  are  grateful  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
convening  this  meeting.  We  would  also  like  to  thank 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  holding  its  twelfth 
special  session,  as  well  as  for  adopting  its  resolution 
S/12-1  on  16  October.  Among  other  things,  the 
resolution endorsed recommendations contained in the 
report  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict (A/HRC/12/48), also known as the Goldstone 
report,  whose  implementation  requires  the  General 
Assembly to take concrete actions. 
The  Goldstone  report  has  authenticated  and 

confirmed 
international 
humanitarian law, as well as gross violations of human 
rights, during the military aggression by the occupying 
regime.  Most  important,  the  report  confirms  that  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  were  indeed 
committed  by  that  regime.  During  that  aggression, 
some  1,400  Palestinians  were  killed  and  500  injured, 
and  many  maimed  for  life.  Hundreds  of  those  killed, 
including  some  300  children  and  more  than  115 
women,  were  defenceless  civilians.  Much  of  the 
destruction  was  wilful  and  resulted  from  direct  and 
indiscriminate attacks on civilian targets. Such attacks 
violated  not  only  basic  human  rights  but  also 
fundamental  provisions  of  international  humanitarian 
law,  in  particular  the  prohibition  of  direct  attacks  on 
civilians  and  civilian  objects, 
the  prohibition  of 
indiscriminate  or  disproportionate  attacks,  and  the 
prohibition of collective punishment. 

In the course of its investigation, the Fact-Finding 
Mission  examined  an  attack  in  which  a  mosque  was 
targeted with a missile during the early-evening prayer, 
resulting  in  the  death  of  15,  as  well  as  an  attack  in 
which  flechette  munitions  were  launched  against  a 
crowd  of  family  members  and  neighbours 
in  a 
condolence  tent,  killing  five.  The  Mission  found  that 
both  attacks  constituted  intentional  attacks  against  the 
civilian population and civilian objects. 
Moreover,  during  the  Gaza  conflict,  the  Zionist 

regime used weapons that included white phosphorous 
16 

and  flechette  missiles.  Israeli  forces  also  coerced 
Palestinian  civilians  at  gunpoint  to  take  part  in  house 
searches  during  military  operations.  Palestinian  men 
were  blindfolded,  handcuffed  and  forced  to  enter 
houses ahead of Israeli soldiers. According to the Fact-
Finding  Mission,  that  practice  amounts  to  the  use  of 
Palestinian civilians as human shields and is therefore 
prohibited by international humanitarian law. 

The  military  aggression  against  Gaza,  together 
with  the  protracted  blockade  of  its  population,  blatantly 
and grossly violated every human right of the Palestinian 
people.  The  economy,  employment  opportunities  and 
family livelihoods had already been severely affected by 
the  blockade  when  the  Israeli  offensive  began.  The 
insufficient  supply  of  fuel  for  electricity  generation  has 
had a negative impact on industrial activity, the operation 
of hospitals and the supply of water to households. 

From the  facts ascertained  in all these  cases, the 
Fact-Finding  Mission  found  that  the  conduct  of  the 
Israeli  armed  forces  constituted  grave  breaches  of  the 
Fourth Geneva Convention in respect of wilful killings 
and  wilfully  causing  great  suffering  to  protected 
persons. As such, they give rise to individual criminal 
responsibility. It also found that the direct targeting and 
arbitrary killing of Palestinian civilians was a violation 
of the right to life. 

The  resolution  adopted  at  the  twelfth  special 
session of the Human Rights Council provides a crucial 
opportunity  for  the  United  Nations  to  hold  the  Israeli 
regime accountable for the crimes it committed against 
the innocent people of Palestine, in particular in Gaza, 
and to end the culture of impunity that has long denied 
justice  to  the  victims  of  Israel’s  war  crimes  and  gross 
violations  of  human  rights.  It  is  only  by  holding  that 
regime  accountable  for  its  actions  and  by  launching  a 
genuine  independent  criminal  investigation  that  the 
United  Nations  can  bring  an  end  to  the  prolonged 
situation  of  de  facto  impunity  that  the  occupying 
Power has long enjoyed. 

We support the recommendations of the report to 
the  General  Assembly,  including  on  taking  measures 
with  regard  to  ensuring  accountability  for  serious 
violations of international humanitarian law and human 
rights committed by the Israeli regime. We also support 
having  the  General  Assembly  remain  seized  of  the 
matter  until  it  is  satisfied  that  appropriate  action  has 
been  taken  in  order  to  ensure  justice  for  victims  and 
accountability for perpetrators. 
09-59287 
that 
recommendation 
in  a  densely  populated  area 



The General Assembly should be able to consider 
whether additional action within its powers is required 
in  the  interests  of  justice.  We  are  supportive  of  the 
Fact-Finding  Mission’s 
the 
General  Assembly  should  ask  for  the  convening  of  a 
conference of the high contracting parties to the Fourth 
Geneva Convention of 1949 on measures to enforce the 
Convention’s related articles, in particular article 1, in 
the occupied Palestinian territories. 
Mr. Apakan  (Turkey):  Turkey  aligns  itself  with 

the  statement  delivered  by 
the  representative  of 
Sweden  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  I  shall 
therefore keep my remarks brief. 

We  started  this  year  in  the  Middle  East  with  the 
trauma of intense fighting in Gaza. A large-scale Israeli 
operation 
inevitably 
resulted  in  huge  numbers  of  civilian  casualties  and  a 
true  humanitarian  tragedy.  From  the  very  start  of  the 
operations,  we  condemned  the  disproportionate  use  of 
force and the punitive measures that harmed the well-
being  of  the  entire  population  of  Gaza. As  a  result  of 
such  acts  and  policies,  the  people  of  Gaza  were  left 
without  civic  infrastructure,  livelihoods  or  proper 
means to lead a dignified life. 

Although  a  ceasefire  has  been  declared,  the 
suffering  of  the  Palestinians  in  Gaza  has  not  come  to 
an  end.  Security  Council  resolution  1860  (2009)  has 
not been implemented. The people of Gaza continue to 
live  under  siege.  Tight  restrictions  at  the  crossings 
hinder efforts to redress the deep wounds caused by the 
Israeli  operation  and  the  return  to  normal  life.  Basic 
infrastructure,  schools  and  clinics  are  still  in  ruins. 
Reconstruction  is  at  a  standstill.  Public  health  is  in 
jeopardy.  There  is  no  economic  or  trade  activity  to 
speak of. 

The  report  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  led  by 
Justice  Goldstone  (A/HRC/12/48)  vividly  depicts  the 
scene in Gaza and gives us a very detailed account of 
the events that took place at the start of this year. Some 
say that the report is a threat to the peace process. We 
prefer to see it as an opportunity — an opportunity for 
Israel 
in  Gaza  and  an 
opportunity for the international community to address 
the  deprivation  and  hardship  of  the  Palestinian  people 
and  not  look  the  other  way.  We  need  to  seize  that 
opportunity and follow up on the recommendations of 
the  report.  In  fact,  credible  investigations  into  alleged 
violations  could  help  to  build  confidence  between  the 
to  rectify 
the  situation 
A/64/PV.36
than  60  years, 
parties,  thereby  contributing  to  peace  efforts  in  the 
region. 

Turkey  believes  in  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle 
East.  We  firmly  support  the  efforts  to  reactivate  the 
peace process in all its tracks within the framework of 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  the  Madrid 
principles, the Arab Peace Initiative and the Road Map 
obligations.  However,  we  also  believe  that  it  is  no 
longer possible to remain indifferent to the situation in 
Gaza, which long ago became a matter of humanity and 
integrity. The burden of responsibility is building up on 
the  shoulders  of  the  international  community.  It  is 
therefore  time  for  the  United  Nations  to  combat 
impunity,  uphold  accountability  and  act  in  concert. 
After  all,  justice  and  peace  are  two  sides  of  the  same 
coin.  Peace  cannot  be  achieved  without  delivering 
justice. 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  There  is  no  doubt  that  this  meeting  is  of 
particular importance, as it constitutes the first serious 
attempt  to  make  the  Zionist  occupiers  face  their 
responsibilities.  For  more 
those 
occupiers have employed every method to inflict terror 
and  oppression  upon  the  Palestinian  people.  This 
meeting is also an effort to restore the credibility of the 
United  Nations  and  international  law.  The  Zionists 
disregard and trample upon the international law, and it 
is  our  hope  that  the  outcome  of  this  meeting  will  not 
again be a disappointment to the peoples of the world 
and  to  human  rights  organizations,  which  do  their 
utmost  to  uphold  right  and  justice  and  to  prosecute 
criminals. 

Zionist  crimes  in  Palestine  are  nothing  new.  In 
fact,  they  began  with  the  arrival  of  the  first  Zionist 
settlers  and  became  systematic  with  the  establishment 
of  what  is  referred  to  as  Israel. As  we  are  all  aware, 
that  established  State  was  based  on  genocide,  ethnic 
cleansing  and  the  collective  expulsion  of  Palestinians 
from their land and preventing them from returning to 
their  homes.  Those  crimes  continue  to  this  day  and 
include 
the  building  of  new 
settlements,  the  demolition  of  Palestinian  homes,  the 
razing  of  agricultural  land  and  the  categorical  refusal 
to allow Palestinian refugees to return to their land.  

Moreover, we should mention briefly some of the 
numerous  massacres  to  which  the  Palestinian  people 
have been subjected. We must not forget the victims of 
Zionist terrorism. The Palestinian people have been the 
land  confiscations, 
09-59287 

17 

and 
Modern 
information 
the  1994  massacre  at 
A/64/PV.36 

victims  of  several  massacres  since  1947,  beginning 
with 
the  1947  Baldat  al-Sheikh  massacre  and, 
subsequently,  the  1948  massacres  at  Deir  Yassin, 
Bushusha and Tantura, the 1953 massacre at Qibya, the 
1956  massacre  at  Khan  Younis,  the  1990  massacre  at 
the  Al-Aqsa  mosque, 
the 
Al-Brahimi  Mosque,  the  2002  massacre  at  the  Jenin 
refugee  camp,  the  Beit  Hanoun  massacre  in  2006,  the 
1982 massacres at the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps 
and the two massacres at Qana, in 1996 and 2006, with 
the massacre at Gaza being the latest example. 

communications 
technology has made it possible for the entire world to 
witness the crimes of the Zionist entity. All of us have 
seen  how  children  have  been  directly  targeted. We  all 
witnessed  live  the  killing  of  Mohammed  Al-Durra,  a 
small  boy.  Unfortunately,  there  were  no  television 
cameras  present  during  hundreds  of  similar  incidents. 
We  have  also  seen  how  Israeli  soldiers  intentionally 
break  the  limbs  of  Palestinian  civilians.  We  saw  the 
crimes  committed  at  Sabra,  Shatila,  Qana,  Beit 
Hanoun,  Jenin  and,  most  recently,  Gaza.  All  those 
crimes  have  been  documented  in  reports  published  by 
neutral  parties.  Unfortunately,  however,  where 
is 
justice? Where  is  the  conscience  of  the  world? Where 
are those countries that have for many decades claimed 
to uphold human rights?  
Unfortunately,  what  we  call  Israel  has  always 

been  above  the  law  and  beyond  all  criticism.  In  that 
regard, there is a history of evidence and proof. Allow 
me merely to mention that Boutros Boutros-Ghali was 
sacked at the end of his first term as Secretary-General 
because  he  insisted  on  publishing  proof  of  the  first 
massacre  at  Qana,  when  Israeli  troops  intentionally 
bombed  United  Nations  facilities 
there  with  full 
knowledge  of  the  fact  that  hundreds  of  civilians  had 
taken refuge in them from artillery bombardments. 

in 
followed 
establishing the facts and evidence with regard to what 
took  place  in  Gaza  leaves  no  room  for  doubt  when  it 
comes 
the 
conclusions  reached  by  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  (see 
A/HRC/12/48).  Nor  is  there  any  doubt  as  to  the 
integrity  and  professionalism  of  the  members  of  the 
Mission  or  its  leader.  The  report  before  us  reflects 
justly  all 
its  conclusions 
impartially and fairly. It is an important document that 
seeks  to  uphold  justice  and  bring  the  perpetrators  to 
justice. The report enumerates the crimes committed by 
the  credibility  of 
facts  and  draws 
the  report  and 
comprehensive 
approach 
The 
to 
the 
to 
the 
regard 
capacity 
tremendous 
army  with 
Secondly,  with 
the  Israeli  occupation  army  against  the  Palestinian 
people.  It  concludes  that  a  very  modern  and  well-
equipped 
for 
destruction  committed  war  crimes  against  a  hungry 
people  under  siege  and  occupation,  who  are  being 
deprived of basic necessities for living and who have at 
their disposal only the will to resist and crude mortars 
and home-made missiles to defend themselves.  

The  report  also  recalls  that  resisting  foreign 
occupation is the inalienable right of every people. One 
therefore  cannot  draw  parallels  between  the  oppressor 
and the oppressed. The Fact-Finding Mission examined 
a  number  of  incidents,  including,  first  of  all,  the 
destruction  of  the  sole  flour  mill  that  provides  Gaza 
with  flour.  In  that  regard,  the  Mission  concluded  that 
that  was  done  in  an  effort  to  deprive  the  civilian 
population  of  food,  which  may  constitute  a  war  crime 
and is a violation of international law and norms.  

systematic 
destruction  of  poultry  farms  by  armed  Israeli  troops, 
the  Mission  determined  that  that  was  a  premeditated 
act  of  excessive  destruction,  which  was  a  war  crime 
and unjustified by any military objective. 

Thirdly,  there  is  the  matter  of  the  destruction  of 
wells.  The  report  noted  that  the  Fact-Finding  Mission 
found  no  reason 
justify  any  military 
advantage from the destruction of the wells. The Fact-
Finding Mission also mentioned that there is no proof 
that armed Palestinian groups were using the wells for 
any  particular  aggressive  purpose.  The  Mission  also 
concluded  that  drinking  water  is  a  fundamental  right 
for civilian populations and the destruction of the wells 
is a war crime.  

Fourthly,  there  were  four  incidents  when  the 
Israeli army threatened Palestinian civilians and forced 
them to take part in the search of houses in the course 
of 
their  military  operations.  The  victims  were 
threatened  and  forced  to  enter  the  houses,  they  were 
blindfolded and their hands were tied. In this case the 
Fact-Finding  Mission  again  concluded  that  the  use  of 
civilians  as  human  shields  in  such  an  operation 
constitutes a war crime.  
Fifthly,  it  is  important  to  emphasize  that  it 

became  clear  from  a  number  of  incidents  that  are 
discussed in various parts of the report that humiliation 
and  horrible  treatment  of  Palestinians  took  place  that 
contravenes  international  humanitarian  law  and  the 
principles  of  human  rights.  The  occupying  forces 
that  could 
18 

09-59287 


treated Palestinians in an inhumane way, and measures 
taken to terrorize and intimidate the civilian population 
represent collective punishment against  civilians. That 
is a serious breach of the Geneva Convention and also 
constitutes a war crime.  

It  is  also  worth  noting  that  the  Fact-Finding 
Mission  found  no  proof  that  confirms  allegations  that 
point  to  the  authorities  in  Gaza  or  armed  Palestinian 
groups  using  mosques,  hospitals  or  ambulances  to 
transfer  armed  combatants  or  to  engage  in  military 
activities. So, according to United Nations reports and 
those of the Mission, it is not possible that Palestinians 
launched military activities from civilian facilities such 
as United Nations buildings, which were only used for 
shelter.  

Furthermore,  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  points  to 
11 incidents in which the Israeli army launched  direct 
attacks  against  civilians,  causing  considerable  injury 
and loss of life. Facts have confirmed those allegations, 
and in every case the attacks had not targeted military 
installations.  So  the  conclusion  that  can  be  drawn  is 
that  Israel  violated  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  by 
wilful killing, torture, inhuman treatment and suffering, 
with  no  justification  whatsoever.  Israel  also  used 
civilians  as  human  shields,  which  constitutes  a  war 
crime, according to the Rome Statute. Also, the report 
concludes  that  the  blockade  of  Gaza  is  a  form  of 
persecution and constitutes a crime against humanity.  

The Mission also concludes that there are serious 
doubts about whether Israel is serious about conducting 
an  independent,  fair,  swift  and  effective  inquiry,  in 
accordance with the requirements of international law. 
The Mission concludes that the Israeli regime is based 
on discrimination, which means that the justice system 
will  not  provide  satisfaction  when  Palestinian  victims 
seek  redress.  The  Mission  further  considers  that  in 
those  circumstances 
the 
perpetrators  to  be  held  accountable  for  their  crimes, 
according to humanitarian law and international human 
rights  law  in  Israel  itself.  The  Mission  considers  the 
grave  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law 
documented in the report to fall within the competence 
of the International Criminal Court. This matter should 
be referred to the Court if the international community 
is  serious  and  sincere  about  dealing  with 
these 
violations. 

the  Israeli-
Palestinian  peace  process  is  important.  They  are 
We  will  hear  people  say 
is  no  way 
that 
there 
for 
A/64/PV.36
speaking  about  a  peace  that  does  not  exist. The  peace 
process for the entity we call Israel has already begun 
and  finished.  Israel  obtained  everything  it  wanted 
without exchanging anything for it. Israel obtained the 
recognition  by  Palestinians  of 
its  existence  on 
Palestinian land. It obtained guarantees for its security 
without  any  restrictions  or  limits.  That  security  is 
guaranteed  by  major  Powers  even  if  Israel  were  to 
occupy  all  the  countries  in  the  region,  because  those 
who  say  that  they  guarantee  Israel’s  security  do  not 
mention  any  specific  borders,  even  though  Israel 
continues  to  occupy  Palestinian  land,  build  more 
settlements  and  change  the  demographic  situation  in 
the occupied territories.  

It  is  also  important  to  add  that  Palestinians  are 
besieged by everyone, and they are denied the right to 
resist the occupation. They have to justify every bullet 
they  fire  against  the  occupiers  and  the  Arab  States 
unfortunately have declared that peace is their strategic 
choice.  That  means  that  those  Arab  States  will  no 
longer  fight.  Does  the  Zionist  entity  need  any  better 
guarantees  than  that  for  its  security?  Given  all  those 
factors,  is  there  anything  that  would  encourage  Israel 
to  withdraw  from  the  occupied  territories  and  stop  its 
crimes? I do not believe so.  
A  rational  and  realistic  analysis  of  what  is 

happening 
the  Oslo 
Agreement  proves  without  a  shadow  of  a  doubt  that 
there is no peace process. What does exist is a political 
process  that  aims  at  chiselling  away  Palestinian  and 
Arab  land  and  deceiving  Palestinians  and Arabs  while 
Israel  tightens  its  control  over  historical  Palestinian 
land. Israel is well on its way to achieving that goal.  

We  are aware that tremendous pressure  has been 
applied and continues to be applied on Member States 
to undermine the initiative under way to implement the 
recommendations  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  — 
recommendations that aim to uphold justice, prosecute 
criminals and put a stop to the horrors imposed on the 
Palestinian  people.  However,  we  warn  all  those  who 
seek  to  undermine  the  recommendations  of  the  Fact-
Finding Mission headed by Justice Goldstone, because 
a  failure  to  implement  those  recommendations  would 
send  a  message  to  the Arabs  and  the  Palestinians  that 
so-called  Israel  is  above  the  law  —  a  situation  that 
absolutely  must  not  continue.  If  the  United  Nations 
does not play its proper role, then its motto should be 
that  the  powerful  are  never  held  accountable  and  it 
should enshrine that principle in its Charter. 
the  Middle  East  since 
in 
09-59287 

19 

tireless 
Despite 
the  Goldstone 
A/64/PV.36 


Those  who  think  that  Israel  has  absolute  power 
are  wrong,  because  Israel  draws  its  power  from  the 
weakness  of  its  adversaries  and  from  the  absolute 
support 
it  receives  from  a  certain  super-Power. 
However,  this  will  not  last  forever. There  is  no  doubt 
that  the  result  of  the  vote  on  the  draft  resolution 
submitted to us (A/64/L.11) will give us an idea of who 
is working for the cause of peace, justice and security, 
and  who  is  seeking  to  obstruct  it.  We  therefore  hope 
that  the  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  will  be 
unanimous. 
Mr. Bui The Giang  (Viet  Nam): I would like to 

thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the Vietnamese 
delegation,  for  convening  this  meeting  to  discuss  the 
report  of  the  Independent  International  Fact-Finding 
Mission,  also  known  as 
report 
(A/HRC/12/48). 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
delivered by the Permanent Representative of Egypt on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

international  efforts  geared 
towards  regional  peace,  this  year  started,  regrettably, 
with  Israeli  forces’  military  incursions  into  Gaza, 
leaving thousands of Palestinians killed or injured amid 
the  wanton  ruins  of  their  homes,  hospitals,  schools, 
mosques  and  other  vital  infrastructure  facilities.  Even 
United  Nations  premises  and  personnel  fell  victim  to 
Israel’s  heavy  and  lethal  weaponry.  The  continued 
Israeli  blockade  and  collective  punishment  against 
Gaza has deepened the Palestinian people’s trauma and 
plight  to  this  day.  And  just  tens  of  miles  away,  the 
civilian population in southern Israel have been living 
under constant threat of rocket and mortar attacks. 
In  this  context,  following  the  report  of  the 

the 
Secretary-General’s  Board  of 
conclusions 
Fact-Finding 
Committee  on  Gaza  to  the  League  of Arab  States,  we 
welcome the timely release of the Goldstone report, the 
related  investigations  and  the  ensuing  decision  by  the 
Human Rights Council to transmit a resolution and the 
report to the present session of the General Assembly.  

In  this  regard,  we  commend  the  great  efforts  of 
the Fact-Finding Mission under difficult circumstances, 
particularly  in  the  absence  of  Israel’s  cooperation,  to 
gather the testimony of witnesses and establish facts to 
ensure  the  balanced,  comprehensive  and  objective 
nature  of  the  report  and  its  recommendations.  We 
remain  concerned  by  the  report’s  findings  regarding 
Independent 
Inquiry 
and 
of 
the 
law, 
Israel 
international 
Israeli  failure  to  take  the  precautionary  measures 
required by international law to avoid or minimize loss 
of  civilian  life,  injury  to  civilians  and  damage  to 
civilian property — a flagrant violation of the principle 
of  proportionality  and  distinction.  Similarly,  we  share 
the report’s concerns that the rocket and mortar attacks 
presented a threat to southern Israeli communities. 
We  support  the  report’s  call  for  respect  for  and 

compliance  with 
including 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  and  its  emphasis 
on  the  need  to  end  impunity  and  establish  justice  and 
responsibility  through  accountability  machinery.  All 
these  are  not  only  necessary  but  also  urgently  needed 
to  help  avoid  a  recurrence  of  reprehensible  violations 
and contribute to efforts aimed at a peaceful settlement 
of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  We  recognize  the 
pledges  made  by  both  Palestine  and 
to 
investigate the reported violations and we look forward 
to their subsequent proper prosecution. 

The  current  explosive  nature  of  the  regional 
situation  makes  it  all  the  more  imperative  for  the 
parties concerned to renounce the use of force and acts 
of violence, and take the necessary steps to ensure the 
utmost safety and security for civilians, diplomatic and 
United  Nations  premises  and  personnel,  as  well  as 
humanitarian  workers.  Good-faith  dialogue  and 
peaceful  negotiations 
the  only  viable 
framework to help the parties put aside military options 
and  abandon  confrontation. We  urge  Israel  to  respond 
to the international community’s appeals by freezing its 
illegal  activities 
the 
separation  wall,  opening  all  crossing  points  into  Gaza 
and  ensuring  the  unimpeded  delivery  to  Gaza  of 
humanitarian  assistance  and  reconstruction  materials. 
We  also  urge  the  Palestinian  factions  to  proceed  with 
efforts  for  reconciliation  and  the  formation  of  a 
Government of national unity in the interests of future 
statehood  and  the  Middle  East  peace  process  as  a 
whole. 
Finally,  Viet  Nam  reaffirms  its  steadfast  support 

for achieving a two-State  solution and  stands ready  to 
further  contribute  to  a  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the 
Middle  East  on  the  basis  of  the  Road  Map,  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative, the Madrid terms of reference and the 
relevant  Security  Council 
including 
resolutions 1850 (2008) and 1860 (2009). 
Mr. Almansoor  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): At 

the outset, Mr. President, I wish to express my sincere 
to  settlements  and 
resolutions, 
remain 
related 
20 

09-59287 
to 
the 
report’s  call 
the  Goldstone 
laws.  We  affirm 


gratitude  and  appreciation  to  you  for  holding  this 
special  meeting,  at  the  request  of  the  Arab  Group, 
concerning the follow-up report of the United Nations 
Fact-Finding Mission in the Gaza Strip. My delegation 
associates itself with the statements of the Chairman of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Head  of  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference. 

The Kingdom of Bahrain welcomes the adoption 
by  the  Human  Rights  Council  of  the  report  of  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict,  also  known  as 
report 
(A/HRC/12/48).  We  hope  that  this  will  bring  more 
momentum  to  serious  action  aimed  at  serving  justice 
and  dealing  with  the  Israeli  crimes,  which  violate 
human  rights  and  all  international  norms,  principles 
and 
the 
international community to take the appropriate action 
to  protect  Palestinian  civilians,  especially  in  the  Gaza 
Strip. 

The report is a significant milestone in the quest 
for accountability and justice, as well as a wake-up call 
to the international community that cannot be ignored. 
On 27 December last year, the whole world watched as 
Israel’s  three-week  military  act  of  aggression  against 
the  Gaza  Strip  led  to  the  murder  of  more  than  1,400 
innocent  Palestinians,  most  of  them  women,  children 
and  the  elderly.  It  also  led  to  the  injury  of  more  than 
5,500  Palestinian  civilian  victims  of  this  unjustifiable 
and unjustified act of aggression, in which Israel used 
advanced,  sophisticated  and 
internationally 
prohibited  weapons  against  defenceless  and  totally 
vulnerable civilians. The destruction caused by this act 
of aggression is still proof of what Israel is still doing 
to  impede  the  reconstruction  of  destroyed  houses, 
schools,  hospitals,  mosques,  infrastructure  and  basic 
services in the Gaza Strip. Not even the facilities of the 
United  Nations  —  most  notably  the  school  of  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East — escaped this brutal act of 
aggression. 

This  wanton  act  of  aggression  has  been  widely 
condemned  by  the  international  community  and  the 
United Nations. The Human Rights Council established 
the  Fact-Finding  Mission, 
Justice 
Goldstone, to gather facts and information on what had 
happened  in  Gaza.  Through  this  Mission,  Justice 
Goldstone was able to present a comprehensive report, 
unprecedented  in  many  aspects,  as  well  as  for  its 
courage.  There  are  certain  significant  points  that  are 
chaired  by 
indeed 
A/64/PV.36
and 
for 
their 
intimidate 
increasing 
to  deepen 
to  undermine 
irrefutable;  in  discussing  them,  I  shall  endeavour  to 
quote verbatim as much as possible from the report. 

The operations in Gaza came as part of a series of 
policies  aimed  at  implementing  Israeli  political  goals 
vis-à-vis  Gaza  and  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories 
as  a  whole.  The  Mission  concluded  that  what  took 
place in the three-week period at the end of 2008  and 
the  beginning  of  2009,  were  in  fact  wilful  and 
disproportionate  acts  of  aggression  meant  to  punish, 
the  Palestinian  civilian 
humiliate  and 
population 
economic 
opportunities  to  work  and  meet  their  needs  in  such  a 
way  as 
feelings  of 
their 
dependence and vulnerability. 

The Mission was fully convinced that justice and 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law  are  indispensable  for  the 
achievement  of  peace.  Long-established  impunity  has 
created  a  crisis  of  justice  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  —  a  matter  which  would  require  taking 
action. 

The Mission maintains that the serious violations 
of  international  humanitarian  law,  as  stated  in  the 
report,  fall  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  The  report  is  an  irrefutable  record  of 
the crimes perpetrated by Israel against civilians in the 
Gaza  Strip,  especially  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity.  This  matter  is  of  paramount  importance:  it 
cannot  be  condoned  or  ignored.  The  international 
community is required to stress the immediate need to 
prosecute  the  perpetrators  of  these  violations  and 
crimes. 
The  report  rightly  maintains  that  prosecuting  the 

persons 
the  gross  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  law  would  help  to  end  the 
violence  and  contribute  to  the  protection  of  civilians 
and to the restoration and maintenance of peace. In this 
respect,  we  wish  to  refer  to  the  recommendation 
contained  in  the  Mission  report  that  the  Security 
Council  consider  the  situation  upon  receiving  the 
report of the Mission and refer the situation in Gaza to 
the  Prosecutor  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  in 
accordance  with  article  13  of  the  Rome  Statute.  If, 
within  six  months  of  the  adoption  of  the  resolution, 
Israel did not carry out an independent investigation in 
good  faith  and 
international 
standards, the Security Council would act on the basis 
of Chapter VII of the Charter. 
in  conformity  with 
responsible 
09-59287 

21 
A/64/PV.36 


We  believe  that  the  quest  for  accountability  for 
war crimes serves the cause of peace, which cannot be 
realized  until  justice  is  done.  The  highly  credible 
Goldstone  report  places  before  us  a  stringent  test, 
especially  for  the  Security  Council.  Compelled  to 
answer  the  urgent  question  posed  by  international 
instruments  and  norms,  will  we 
to  our 
responsibilities?  Will  we  also  enjoy  a  similar 
credibility? 

The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m. 

rise 
22 

09-59287 
