
A/64/PV.53
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

53rd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 1 December 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m. 

Agenda item 16 (continued) 
Question of Palestine 







  Report of the Committee on the Exercise  
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (A/64/35) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/351) 
  Draft resolutions (A/64/L.20, A/64/L.21, 
A/64/L.22 and A/64/L.23) 

Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  At  the  outset,  Canada 
wishes again to reiterate its commitment to the goal of 
a  negotiated  two-State  solution  and  a  comprehensive 
and lasting peace in the Middle East. Canada supports 
Israel’s  right  to  live  within  secure  borders  and  the 
establishment  of  a  sovereign,  independent  and  viable 
Palestinian State as part of the negotiated settlement. 

In  that  light,  Israel  has  recently  announced  a 
10-month  suspension  of  private  construction  of 
settlements 
the  West  Bank,  excluding  East 
Jerusalem.  While  that  is  not  the  complete  settlement 
freeze 
is, 
nevertheless, a significant step and it is a starting point. 
We  hope  that  announcement  will  be  accepted  by  the 
Palestinians and lead to the resumption of negotiations. 

While  the  situation  on  the  ground  has  remained 
largely  calm  since  the  Gaza  conflict,  there  have  been 
sporadic  rocket  attacks  on  Israel  emanating  from 
southern  Lebanon  and  from  Gaza,  which  we  strongly 
that  Canada  would  have  preferred, 
in 
it 
condemn as severely obstructing the resumption of the 
peace process. It is important that spoiler elements not 
be  given  the  opportunity  to  derail  the  chance  for  both 
peoples  to  have  a  future  where  they  can  live  in  peace 
and security. 

In  order  for  the  peace  process  to  succeed,  it  is 
essential  that  the  parties  take  the  necessary  steps  to 
foster  the  conditions  for  peace.  It  is  vital  that  the 
parties continue to make efforts towards meeting all of 
their  road  map  obligations.  While  the  Palestinian 
Authority  has  made  real  progress,  more  needs  to  be 
done.  That  is  why  Canada’s  assistance  is  focused 
clearly on the security and justice sectors. 

At the same time, further action is needed by the 
Government of Israel to address its serious obligations 
regarding settlements, and access and movement. 
(spoke in French) 

Canada continues to recognize the important role 
of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  in 
supporting the peace process. United Nations agencies 
are at the forefront of providing assistance to those in 
need 
remains 
concerned  about 
the  number  of  United  Nations 
resolutions  that  single  out  Israel,  as  well  as  the 
disproportionate  focus  placed  on  the  Middle  East.  We 
strongly  believe  that  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
and  its  Member  States  should  complement  efforts 
towards a comprehensive settlement. 

In conclusion, Canada urges the parties to take a 
gamble  on  peace  by  restarting  negotiations.  We  stand 
region.  However,  Canada 
the 
in 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-62814 (E) 
*0962814* 


As 
the  people  of 
A/64/PV.53 

ready to assist, if requested. It is the duty of the parties, 
with  support  from  the  international  community,  to 
return  to  the  negotiating  table  so  that  Israelis  and 
Palestinians  may  enjoy  a 
future  of  peace  and 
prosperity. 
Mr. Mohamed  (Maldives):  On  behalf  of  the 

Government  and 
the  Republic  of 
Maldives, I wish to reiterate the steadfast solidarity of 
the people of Maldives with our brothers and sisters in 
Palestine  and  our  unwavering  commitment  to  the 
realization  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people. 

My  delegation  also  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People  as  contained  in  document 
A/64/35  and  the  work  carried  out  by  the  United 
Nations  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  in  advancing 
the just cause of the Palestinian people. 
the  Maldives 

the  Assembly  will  recall, 
welcomed the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48), which 
was  presented  to  the  Assembly  last  month,  and  the 
Maldives  voted  in  support  of  the  resolution  on  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict (resolution 64/10). We firmly believe that the 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  norms  of  international  law  must  be 
upheld and respected by all Member States, if we wish 
to alleviate the suffering of the Palestinian people that 
occurs on a routine basis in the occupied territories. 

The  Maldives  also  wishes  to  raise  concern  over 
the  aggravated  suffering  and  hardship  experienced 
especially  by  Palestinian  women  and  children  as 
vulnerable 
social  groups.  Social  and  economic 
instability  has  the  greatest  impact  on  those  groups  in 
any  region  of  the  world.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  the 
Maldives urged the Special Rapporteur on the situation 
of  human  rights  in  the  Palestinian  territories  occupied 
since 1967 to include a gender perspective in his work. 
My  delegation  believes  that  the  legitimacy  of  such  a 
perspective can be derived from existing principles and 
norms of international law. 

The  Maldives  is  particularly  disheartened  by  the 
deadlock  in  the  peace  negotiations  between  Palestine 
and Israel and reiterates the necessity of an immediate 
freeze  on  all 
the 
occupied  territories.  We  believe  that  a  return  to  the 
peace process in pursuit of a comprehensive settlement 
of the Arab-Israeli dispute remains the best solution for 
illegal  settlement  activities 
in 
realizing  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people. 

The  Maldives  welcomes  the  renewed  efforts  by 
the international community to revitalize the process of 
dialogue  between  Palestine  and  Israel  in  pursuit  of 
finding a two-State solution to the Palestinian question. 
However, it is clear that more needs to be done to help 
the Palestinian people, who, for more than six decades 
now,  have  been  denied  their  most  basic  rights  to 
self-determination  and  their  right  to  live  in  their  own 
State in peace and freedom. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 

the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  16.  I 
would  like  to  remind  members  that  action  on  draft 
resolutions  A/64/L.20  to  A/64/L.23  will  be  taken 
immediately  after  the  debate  on  agenda  item  15, 
entitled “The situation in the Middle East”. 

exercise of its right of reply, and I give him the floor.  
Mr.  Ramadan  (Lebanon):  Since  mention  has 

been made of Hizbullah, which is part of my country’s 
National  Unity  Government  at  this  time,  allow  me  to 
remind  the  Assembly  that  what  had  prompted  the 
creation  of  the  resistance  movement  that  is  Hizbullah 
was  nothing  other  than  the  occupation  of  parts  of  my 
country by Israel. 

Assembly  has 
thus  concluded 
consideration of agenda item 16. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  General 
its 
The representative of Lebanon has asked to speak in 
this  stage  of 



Agenda item 15  
The situation in the Middle East 



  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/64/343  
and A/64/351) 
  Draft resolutions (A/64/L.24 and A/64/L.25) 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  Egypt  to  introduce  draft 
resolutions A/64/L.24 and A/64/L.25. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): Today, 

the  General Assembly  is  considering  the  agenda  item 
entitled  “The  situation  in  the  Middle  East”.  In  so 
doing,  it  exercises  its  inherent  role  in  addressing  the 
conflict  in  the  Middle  East  region  and  the  constant 
tension resulting from Israel’s illegal occupation of the 
Arab territories occupied since 1967 and its refusal to 
2 

09-62814 
to  reach  a 
lasting  and 
international 
law,  despite  all 


accept  the  will  of  the  international  community  by 
implementing  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions 
regional  and 
and 
international  efforts 
just 
negotiated  peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of 
Palestine, the core of the conflict. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Middle  East  has  been 
going through an extremely serious phase this year, at a 
crossroads  between  achieving  peace,  security  and 
coexistence,  on  the  one  hand,  and  having  more 
violence, destruction and extremism, on the other. This 
is due to a deep impasse despite political efforts aimed 
at  reaching  a  negotiated  two-State  solution  based  on 
1967  borders  and  is  a  result  of  the  new  Israeli 
Government’s rejection of the basic terms of reference 
and the core issues of the peace process and its refusal 
to 
implement  previous  commitments  on  freezing 
settlements  and  commencing  serious  negotiations  on 
borders, refugees and all the other issues that must be 
resolved  in  a  final  solution  adopted  by  the  United 
Nations  and 
for 
that  have  been  sought  after 
implementation by the Quartet for years and years. 

In  the  light  of  the  intransigent  positions  of  the 
Israeli  Government,  the  international  community,  as 
represented  in  the  General  Assembly,  is  called  upon 
today  more  than  ever  to  provide  political  support  for 
the  efforts  aimed  at  resuming  the  negotiating  process, 
to  emphasize  the  illegality  of  the  acquisition  of  the 
territories  of  others  by  force,  and  to  compel  Israel  to 
fulfil 
serious 
negotiations  on  the  six  core  issues,  leading  to  a  just, 
lasting  and  comprehensive  peaceful  solution  to  the 
Arab-Israeli  conflict  on  all  tracks,  on  the  basis  of  the 
principle  of  land  for  peace,  the Arab  Peace  Initiative, 
the road map and relevant United Nations resolutions. 

community’s 
rejection  of  Israel’s  ongoing  occupation  and  illegal 
practices in the occupied Arab territories and to address 
the grave deterioration in the peace process, two highly 
important  draft  resolutions  A/64/L.24  and  A/64/L.25 
are  being  presented  by  the  sponsors  under  the  agenda 
item entitled “The situation in the Middle East”. 

The  first  draft  resolution,  A/64/L.24,  deals  with 
the  occupied  city  of  East  Jerusalem,  which  has  been 
witnessing  a  fierce  assault  of  Israeli  settlement  in 
Israel’s  attempt  to  alter  the  city’s  geographic  and 
facto 
demographic 
annexation, 
illegal 
its  commitments  and  enter 
to  create  de 
its 
to  consolidate 
features  and 
international 
in  order 
into 
To 
express 
the 
A/64/PV.53
the 
occupation. Israel has acted in this manner despite the 
opposition  and  denunciation  of 
international 
community  which  has  emphatically  referred  to  all 
relevant  international  resolutions  on  the  illegality  of 
this  settlement  activity  and  the  need  to  maintain  the 
particular  character  and  status  of  East  Jerusalem  as 
occupied  Palestinian  Arab  territory.  The  international 
community  has  also  emphasized  the  illegality  of  all 
actions  taken  by  successive  Israeli  Governments  to 
change  East  Jerusalem’s  status  before  the  negotiation 
of a final solution. 

The second draft resolution, A/64/L.25, is related 
to  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan.  It  confirms  the  will  of 
the international community by expressing the General 
Assembly’s  continued  determination  to  see  Israel’s 
illegal  occupation  of  the  occupied  Syrian  territories 
come  to  an  end,  with  full  Israeli  withdrawal  from  the 
Golan Heights to the borders of 4 June 1967. The draft 
resolution  also  emphasizes  the  illegality  of  Israel’s 
decision  to  impose  Israeli  laws  and  Israeli  settlements 
on this territory. 

The  aim  of  the  two  draft  resolutions  —  each 
within its framework — is to exhort Israel to commit to 
stopping settlement activity, to put an end to its illegal 
practices  in  occupied  East  Jerusalem  and  its  illegal 
blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip,  to  accept  to  resume 
negotiations 
terms  of 
reference  and  within  an  internationally  defined  time 
frame,  in  order  to  reach  an  agreement  that  allows  for 
the  establishment  of  an  independent,  sovereign  and 
viable Palestinian State on the West Bank and in Gaza, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, and pave the way for 
a  comprehensive  settlement  of  the  conflict,  end  the 
illegal  occupation  by  Israel  of  all  Arab  territories 
occupied  since  1967,  including  East  Jerusalem,  the 
Syrian Golan and the occupied Lebanese territories, in 
order  to  achieve  just  and  comprehensive  peace  and 
establish  normal  relations  between  the  Arabs  and 
Israel,  in  accordance  with  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative 
which  is  based  on  the  principles  of  complete  Israeli 
withdrawal  and  settlement  of  the  refugee  issue  in 
exchange for full peace. 

the  goal  of  a 
comprehensive  peace  is  primarily  dependent  on  the 
extent  to  which  Israel  is  serious  about  committing  to 
reaching  the  desired  settlement,  and  about  taking 
action to demonstrate that commitment. This should be, 
first  and  foremost,  a  complete  cessation  of  all 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
settlement  activities 
in  accordance  with  clear 
is  no  question 
There 
that 
in 
09-62814 

3 

including  East 
Jerusalem,  and 
Jerusalem;  a  halt 
the  separation  wall;  an  end 
A/64/PV.53 

to 
territory, 
construction  of 
to 
deepening  the  gap  between  the  West  Bank  and  the 
Gaza  Strip;  and  promotion  of  endeavours  to  start 
fruitful negotiations to settle all final status issues. 

In this regard, the unilateral declaration by Israel 
on a freeze on construction of housing units in the West 
Bank for a period of 10 months is not enough. What is 
needed  is  an  end  to  the  occupation  of  the West  Bank, 
the  Gaza  Strip  and  East 
the 
establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  on  all  territories 
occupied  by  Israel  since  1967.  Similarly,  we  look 
forward to the resumption of negotiations on the Syrian 
track,  and  to  reaching  an  agreement  that  allows  for 
Israel’s  full  withdrawal  from  the  occupied  Syrian 
Golan  to  the  borders  existing  on  4  June  1967,  on  the 
basis  of  all  the  relevant  terms  of  reference  and  what 
was  accomplished  during  the  previous  rounds  of 
negotiations,  in  order  to  achieve  a  comprehensive 
peace in the region. 

I  have  the  pleasure  today  of  presenting  to  the 
General Assembly  two  draft  resolutions  under  agenda 
item  15,  “The  situation  in  the  Middle  East”:  these  are 
draft  resolution  A/64/L.24,  on  Jerusalem,  and  draft 
resolution A/64/L.25, on the Syrian Golan. The first of 
these  recalls 
the  relevant  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  resolutions,  which  remain  the  main 
terms  of  reference  for  the  special  status  of  occupied 
East Jerusalem and which have repeatedly affirmed the 
renunciation  and  repudiation  of  all  legislative  and 
administrative  measures  and  actions  taken  by  Israel, 
the  occupying  Power,  aimed  at  altering  the  character 
and legal status of the city. 

Moreover,  draft  resolution  A/64/L.24  confirms 
that  any  just  and  comprehensive  solution  to  the 
question  of  Jerusalem  must  include  provisions  for 
its 
international  guarantees  assuring 
inhabitants 
independent  of 
freedom  of  religion  and  worship 
settlement  activity,  Israel’s  unlawful  attempts 
to 
impose a Jewish character on the city, violations of the 
right  of  Palestinians  to  worship,  and  their  repeated 
attacks  on  and 
the 
foundations of the Al-Aqsa Mosque. 

The  second  draft  resolution,  A/64/L.25,  on  the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan,  reaffirms  Security  Council 
resolution  497  (1981)  and  underlines  the  General 
Assembly’s  deep  concern  regarding  Israel’s  continued 
non-compliance  with 
It  also 
threatened  destruction  of 
implementation. 
its 
reached 
commitments 
reaffirms the applicability of the Hague Convention of 
1907 and the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 to the 
Syrian  territories  occupied  since  1967.  It  stresses  the 
illegitimacy  of  both  the  decision  to  apply  Israeli  laws 
in this territory and the settlement activities there. The 
draft  resolution  also  renews  the  Assembly’s  call  on 
Israel  to  withdraw  completely  from  the  occupied 
Syrian  Golan  to  the  lines  of  4  June  1967,  to  resume 
direct  peace  negotiations  on  the  Syrian  track  and  to 
respect 
the 
in  previous 
negotiations. 

The  sponsors  of  these  two  draft  resolutions 
believe  that  it  is  high  time  for  the  international 
community to deal with the situation of the conflict in 
the  Middle  East  through  a  comprehensive  approach. 
The peoples of the region, who are still suffering under 
the  scourge  of  war  and  aggression,  aspire  to  peace, 
stability  and  coexistence.  These  cannot  be  achieved 
without  Israel’s  political  will  and  serious  commitment 
to  withdraw  completely  from  all  occupied  Palestinian 
and Arab territories, based on the principle of land for 
peace,  rules  of  international  law,  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative and the road map, as well as all the terms of 
reference  in  the  Madrid  principles  and  the  relevant 
Security Council and General Assembly resolutions. 

To  achieve  all  this,  the  sponsors  look  to  all 
Member  States  of  the  General  Assembly  to  vote  in 
favour of these two draft resolutions, and to support the 
important goals they set out, in order to underscore the 
determination  of 
to 
achieve  those  goals  and  to  uphold  the  lofty  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  endorsed  over  the  years 
by the Member States of the United Nations. 
(spoke in English) 
In  coordination  with  my  dear  colleague,  the 

Permanent  Representative  of  Senegal,  Ambassador 
Paul  Badji,  who  yesterday 
the  draft 
item  16,  “Question  of 
resolutions  under  agenda 
Palestine”, 
in  documents  A/64/L.20, 
A/64/L.21, A/64/L.22  and A/64/L.23,  and  on  my  own 
behalf,  we  would  like  to  request  that  action  on  those 
draft  resolutions,  and  on  draft  resolutions  A/64/L.24 
and A/64/L.25, under agenda item 15, “The situation in 
the  Middle  East”,  be  taken  at  10  a.m.  tomorrow,  
2  December,  before  the  pledging  conference  for  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). 
international  community 
introduced 
contained 
the 
4 

09-62814 
to 
impose 
its 
laws, 
its 
the  occupying  Power 
The  General  Assembly, 


Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): Since 1947, the United Nations, especially the 
General Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  has  been 
dealing  with  different  aspects  of  the  situation  in  the 
Middle  East.  The  General  Assembly  has  been 
considering the item “The situation in the Middle East” 
since  its  twenty-fifth  session,  in  1970,  and  is  still 
considering  it  today.  At  each  and  every  session,  the 
Assembly  has  repeated  its  request  to  Israel,  the 
occupying  Power,  to  put  an  end  to  its  occupation  of 
Arab territories, and has emphasized that any measures 
taken  by  Israel, 
in  Arab 
territories, 
jurisdiction  or 
administration  on  the  occupied  city  of  Jerusalem  and 
the occupied Syrian Golan are illegal acts that lack any 
legitimacy and are in fact null and void. 

repeated 
in 
resolutions,  has  been  in  full  concert  with  the  position 
expressed  by  the  Security  Council  in  its  unanimous 
adoption  of  the  two  famous  resolutions,  namely,  478 
(1980),  concerning  occupied  East  Jerusalem,  and  497 
(1981),  concerning  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  —  two 
resolutions  that  rejected  the  unilateral  decision  by  the 
occupying  Israeli  authorities  to  annex  Jerusalem  and 
the  Golan  and  considered  them  null  and  void  and 
without  any  legal  effects  whatsoever.  From  this  very 
rostrum,  global  leaders  have  repeatedly  expressed 
unanimously  that  the  Middle  East  is  the  most  tense 
region  in  the  world  and  that  achieving  a  just  and 
comprehensive  peace 
to 
maintaining international peace and security. 
Talking about the need for peace, however, is one 

thing; working for peace is something else. For reasons 
that are well known to all, peace has been elusive, due 
to  Israel’s  actual  practices,  both  in  the  region  and 
outside it. In the last several years, Israel has launched, 
with external support, two destructive wars on Lebanon 
and Gaza. It has continued to violate international law, 
as  we  have  seen  in  the  blockade  of  the  unarmed 
Palestinian people; the murder of women and children; 
the  violation  of  places  of  worship;  the  application  of 
policies  of  collective  punishment,  detention  and 
scorched  earth;  the  building  of  settlements;  and  the 
construction  of  the  racist  separation  wall.  It  has  also 
continued  its  occupation  of  Palestinian  and  Lebanese 
land and of the Syrian Golan.  
Today,  the  new  and  more  prominent  chapter  is 

the 
Israel’s  aggression  against 
population  of  occupied  Jerusalem  and  an  oppressive 
immediately 
is  essential 
the  character  and 
09-62814 

A/64/PV.53
blockade  that  is  proving  to  be  the  most  formidable  in 
its  history.  The  city 
is  suffering  a  fierce  and 
unprecedented  oppression,  along  with  an  intensified 
and  cancerous  settlement  activity  that  is  targeting  its 
Islamic and Christian character. 

In  view  of  the  symbolic  status  of  Jerusalem  for 
the  Arab  and  Islamic  worlds  and  because  it  is  an 
occupied  city,  which  would  give  it  some  protection 
under the provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention 
of 1949, the Israeli violations constitute a provocation 
against  those  peoples  and  exacerbate  tensions  in  the 
region and around the world. 

From  this  rostrum  of  the  General  Assembly,  we 
renew our call to the international community to put an 
immediate  and  decisive  end  to  those  Israeli  practices, 
in fulfilment of the will of the international community 
to  create  peace  in  the  region  and  to  abort  the  Israeli 
escalation, which seeks explosion and conflict. 
Over  the  past  year,  we  have  seen  yet  another 

chapter  of  Israeli  barbarity  manifested  in  the  war 
crimes committed by Israel against the people of Gaza 
at the end of 2008 and beginning of 2009. During that 
aggression,  the  Israelis  used  lethal  weapons  that  are 
internationally  banned.  That  aggression  left  behind  in 
its wake thousands of dead and wounded, most of them 
children,  women  and  the  elderly.  Israel  also  used 
civilians  as  human  shields  to  implement  its  criminal 
plans. 

The United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the 
Gaza  Conflict,  chaired  by  Justice  Richard  Goldstone, 
has  collected  convincing  evidence  on  the  commission 
of  those  crimes,  including  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against  humanity.  The  evidence  gathered  by  that 
Mission  was  not  the  only  one  to  condemn  Israel 
regarding 
its  aggression  against  Gaza.  Several 
international committees and international envoys have 
submitted dozens of reports, including the report of the 
United Nations Board of Inquiry, led by Ian Martin, on 
the targeting by Israel of the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
(UNWRA) buildings. That report presents the facts in a 
manner that makes Israel’s denial of those legally and 
conscientiously  obtained  facts,  in  face  of  the  entire 
international  community  and  all  laws  of  international 
legitimacy, all the more incredible. 

Perhaps  the  best  example  of  that  attitude  can  be 
found in the statement by the Prime Minister of Israel 
on 20 October 2009, in which he announced that Israel 
5 

repeatedly  pursued 
A/64/PV.53 

wants to reconsider all international humanitarian laws 
regarding  war  crimes.  That  statement  by  the  Israeli 
Prime  Minister  came  directly  after 
the  General 
Assembly endorsed the Goldstone report. 

Could the United Nations ever forget the number 
of  times  Israel  has  refused  to  receive  and  cooperate 
with  United  Nations  investigation  and  fact-finding 
missions? Could the United Nations forget the number 
of  times  Israel  has  denied  its  permission  to  United 
Nations rapporteurs seeking to visit the occupied Arab 
territories, or the number  of United Nations personnel 
and peacekeeping forces killed in our region by Israeli 
fire?  

Could  the  United  Nations  forget  the  way  Israel 
has  dealt  with  eminent  international  personalities  like 
Count  Bernadotte,  Archbishop  Desmond  Tutu,  former 
Finnish  President  Ahtisaari  and  former  United  States 
President  Carter,  as  well  as  the  Special  Rapporteurs 
Jean  Ziegler,  John  Dugard  and  Richard  Falk?  Could 
Israel  have 
its  policy  of 
non-implementation  of  resolutions  of  international 
legitimacy  had  it  not  been  assured  of  impunity  for  its 
actions? Had the Security Council implemented one of 
its  35  resolutions  adopted  on  the  Middle  East,  Israel 
could not have continued its disregard for international 
law and United Nations resolutions. 

adopted 
resolution  64/10,  by  which 
the 
recommendations  of  the  Goldstone  report,  calling  on 
all  United  Nations  organs 
those 
recommendations.  Thus,  the  Security  Council  is  now 
required  to  assume  its  responsibilities  and  to  pursue 
Israeli  officials  for  the  crimes  that  they  committed  in 
Gaza, in conformity with legal standards. The impunity 
and  double  standards  that  Israel  enjoys,  despite  its 
crimes,  must  come  to  an  end.  Justice  must  be  sought 
for  the  victims  of  the  barbarous  Israeli  aggression  — 
the martyrs, the wounded and the disabled. 

We  also  call  on  the  international  community, 
especially the Security Council, to immediately lift the 
unjust  blockade  imposed  on  the  Palestinian  people  in 
Gaza and to open all the crossing points. Gaza must be 
rebuilt  and  international  guarantees  must  be  put  into 
place 
that 
reconstruction, including reconstructed infrastructures. 

Since  its  occupation  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Golan, 
Israel  has  used  different  methods  to  change  its  nature 
and  character  by  expelling  Arabs  from  their  land, 
the  General  Assembly 
from  destroying 
to 
implement 
to  prevent 
Israel 
Recently, 
it 
approved 
in 
villages  and  towns.  Israel  has  continued  to  build 
settlements  and  to  fill  them  with  newly  arrived 
immigrants  at  the  expense  of  the  people  of  the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan  while  depriving  them  of  all 
their basic humanitarian freedoms and rights. 

Israel, the occupying Power, has indeed exceeded 
its own policies against the civilian Syrian nationals of 
the occupied Golan and has crossed serious red lines in 
its grave violations of prisoners’ rights. The people of 
the  Golan  are  subject  to  indiscriminate  and  inhumane 
detention.  Israel, 
its  oppressive  practices,  has 
adopted  unimaginable  policies.  It  has  imposed  house 
arrest on an infant who is no more than two years old, 
Fahid  Lu’ay  Shqeir,  on  the  pretext  that  he  was  born 
outside  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  when  his  parents 
were studying at the University of Damascus. 

Israel continues its policies of disconnecting and 
blocking  all  sorts  of  communication  between  Syrian 
families  who  were  separated  from  one  another  as  a 
result of the occupation. For example, Golan nationals 
are  prevented  from  visiting  the  homeland,  Syria, 
through  the  Quneitra  crossing.  Israel  continues  to 
detain the Syrian journalist, Atta Farhat and the citizen 
Youssef Shams and others who have been detained for 
more  than  20  years  on  fabricated  charges  meant  to 
weaken their belief in their country and their call for an 
end to occupation.  

The  clear,  glaring  reality,  as  stated  by  President 
Bashar Al-Assad, is that peace has never been the main 
preoccupation 
Israeli  Governments.  Their 
preoccupation  has  always  been,  rather,  security  in  the 
narrowest sense of the word: their security, which can 
never be  realized, in their  view, except at the expense 
of  our  security  and  our  rights.  It  is  illogical  and 
unacceptable  that  we,  the  Arabs,  are  requested  to 
continue  providing  evidence  of  our  desire  for  peace 
despite  the  fact  that  we  have  repeatedly  declared  and 
expressed  that  wish  on  various  occasions,  especially 
since the Madrid Conference of 1991. 

Israelis  should  prove  that  they  have  the  same 
intentions and express in a concrete way their readiness 
for  peace,  and  should  try  to  convince  us,  the  Arabs, 
that  they  are  sincere.  They  are  the  ones  who  are 
occupying  our  land.  They  are  the  ones  who  are 
committing  aggression  against  our  people,  who  are 
displacing  millions  of  our  people,  not  the  other  way 
around. They are the ones who are committing all these 
infractions  and  yet  they  are  calling  for  protection  and 
of 
6 

09-62814 
The  situation 
the  Middle  East 


guarantees  and  using  them  as  pretexts  for  more 
concessions and for blackmail. 

The world is unanimous in stating that a just and 
comprehensive peace can only be realized on the basis 
of the terms of reference for peace that are well known, 
including resolutions of international legitimacy. Those 
terms mean, by definition, that there must be an Israeli 
partner to realize such terms. That partner is not there 
now. What is called for is the return of all the occupied 
Arab  territories,  including  the  Syrian  Golan,  to  the 
borders  of  4  June  1967,  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  Palestinian  State,  with  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital, because the continuation of the occupation runs 
contrary  to  peace,  and  therefore  all  methods  to  put  an 
end to this occupation must be mobilized. 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Cuba  is  a  sponsor  of  and  supports  the  two  draft 
resolutions  on  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  just 
introduced  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  (A/64/L.24 
and A/64/L.25). 

remains 
complex,  in  particular  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, which is 
characterized  by  the  expansion  of  Israeli  settlements 
and  the  ongoing  construction  of  the  separation  wall. 
Israel’s violations of international law and its ongoing 
illegal  occupation  of  Arab  territories  remain  the  key 
obstacles  to  achieving  a  just,  lasting  and  widespread 
peace in the region. 
Cuba  reiterates  its  deep  concern  for  the  ongoing 

the  occupied 
deterioration  of 
Palestinian territory, in particular as a result of Israel’s 
excessive  and  indiscriminate  use  of  force  against  the 
Palestinian  civilian  population  and  many  other  illegal 
policies  and  practices. These include the inhuman  and 
destructive  measures  of  collective  punishment  against 
the  Palestinian  civilian  population,  in  particular  in 
Gaza, which violate the rights of the Palestinian people 
and which worsen their socioeconomic circumstances.  

Israel  continues  to  build  the  separation  wall  in 
flagrant  defiance  of  and  disregard  for  the  advisory 
opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/ES-
10/273)  and 
in  violation  of  General  Assembly 
resolution  ES-10/15,  which 
illegal 
character  of  the  construction  of  the  wall  in  the  West 
Bank  and  East  Jerusalem.  Cuba  remains  concerned 
about 
social 
devastation that the wall has caused, dividing occupied 
the  vast  physical,  economic  and 
reaffirms 
situation 
the 
the 
in 
in 
A/64/PV.53
the 
the 
The 
take 
including 
to  change 
Palestinian territory into isolated and enclosed cantons, 
destroying entire communities.  

illegal  settlement  activities  are  equally 
unacceptable,  impeding  the  continuation  of  the  peace 
negotiations  and  the  search  for  a  two-State  solution. 
Cuba reaffirms that all actions that Israel has taken or 
may 
legal,  physical  and 
demographic  status  and  the  institutional  structure  of 
the occupied Syrian Golan, are null and legally void, as 
are  any  attempts  on  its  part  to  exercise  administrative 
jurisdiction over that area. 
We  reaffirm  as  well  that  all  these  measures  and 

actions, 
illegal  construction  and 
expansion  of  Israeli  settlements  in  the  Syrian  Golan 
since  1967,  are  violations  of  international  law,  of 
international agreements, of the Charter and resolutions 
of  the  United  Nations,  including  Security  Council 
resolution  497  (1981),  and  of  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention.  We  demand  that  Israel  respect  Security 
Council  resolution  497  (1981)  and  withdraw  entirely 
from  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  to  the  borders  of 
4 June 1967. 
Cuba  reiterates  its  hope  that  current  efforts  and 

those that the international community might deploy in 
the  future  will  put  an  end  to  the  occupation  of  all  the 
Arab 
Israel  since  1967, 
including  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  with  East 
Jerusalem and the occupied Syrian Golan. We trust that 
sooner  rather  than  later  the  independent  State  of 
Palestine  will  be  established,  based  on  the  1967 
borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr.  Bu  Dhhair  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-General 
for  his  great  efforts  to  support  peace  efforts  in  the 
Middle  East.  I  have  the  pleasure  to  declare,  on  behalf 
of  my  county,  our  full  support  for  our  Palestinian 
brothers,  whose  cause  we  honoured  yesterday  on  the 
occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with the 
Palestinian People. 

The General Assembly is discussing an important 
issue  on  its  agenda,  given  the  intrinsic  link  between 
this  issue  and  international  peace  and  security,  in 
particular in the Middle East. For that reason, this is a 
very important issue. Six decades after the founding of 
the  Israeli  State,  our  region  has  not  yet  seen  stability, 
despite its strategic and historic importance, because of 
the  successive  wars  that  the  region  has  suffered  and 
that  have  drained  its  energy  and  its  resources.  The 
territories  occupied  by 
09-62814 

7 

its 
that 
Israel 
is  unceasingly  pursuing 
A/64/PV.53 

Middle East as a region is suffering in particular from a 
political  and  security  situation 
is  constantly 
deteriorating, given the fact that the occupying Power, 
Israel,  is  continuing  its  illegal  and  immoral  policies 
and practices.  

illegal 
settlement  policy  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  by  grabbing  land,  building 
new  and  expanding  existing  settlements  under  the 
pretext  of  so-called  natural  growth,  which  is  not 
acceptable  under  international  law  and  is  strongly 
rejected  by  the  United  Nations  and  all  States  of  the 
world.  Israeli  initiatives  seeking  to  complicate  the 
situation  regarding  the  settlements  present  an  obstacle 
to all hopes for negotiations aimed at bringing about a 
comprehensive  and  just  peace.  Israel  called  for  a 
10-month freeze on settlements in the West Bank, but it 
excluded  Jerusalem  from  that  initiative.  That  is  a 
flagrant manoeuvre that Israel is using to blackmail the 
Quartet  and  the  international  community,  using  the 
pretext that it is making concessions, but in fact, those 
concessions  do  not  meet  any  of  the  demands  of  the 
Palestinian people.  

Israel continues to build the racist separation wall 
despite the advisory opinion of the International Court 
of  Justice,  which  was  adopted  on  9  July  2004,  and 
despite  the  illegal  nature  of  that  construction,  which 
runs  counter  to  international  resolutions.  The  Court’s 
opinion  calls  for  the  dismantling  of  the  wall  and  for 
compensating Palestinians affected by its construction. 
Israel  continues 
its  almost  daily  detentions  and 
assassinations  of  Palestinians  and  the  demolition  of 
their  homes  in  flagrant  violation  of  international  laws 
and norms. 

Israel’s  closing  of  crossing  points,  continuing  its 
blockade  of  Gaza,  and  its  imposition  of  collective 
punishment  on  Gaza,  before  and  after  the  invasion, 
shows that Israel’s total disregard for international law 
and  highlights  the  enormity  of  the  war  crimes  that 
amount  to  crimes  against  humanity,  which  Israel 
committed  against  the  Palestinians,  as  was  stated 
clearly in the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48).  

We would like to reiterate our support for General 
Assembly  resolution  64/10,  adopted  on  5  November 
2009, after numerous intensive meetings where most of 
the nations of the world denounced these violations by 
Israel.  We  welcome  the  report  that  the  Secretary-
General has submitted to the General Assembly and the 
in 
situation 
territories, 
the  situation 
Security  Council  (A/64/351),  in  which  he  draws 
attention  to  the  problem  of  impunity  and  argues  that 
Israel  should  realize  that  it  is  not  exempt  and  is  not 
beyond the reach of international law.  

Israel  pursues  violations  of  provisions  of  the 
Fourth  Geneva  Convention  adopted  in  1949  on  the 
protection  of  civilians  during  times  of  war.  States 
parties  to  the  Convention  need  to  take  practical 
measures  to  activate  the  provisions  of  the  Convention 
as part of their full commitment to impose respect for 
this Convention by Israel. In this regard, we would like 
to thank the Government of Switzerland for expressing 
its determination to call the High Contracting Parties to 
the  Convention  to  a  meeting  in  Geneva  as  soon 
possible. 
More than 40 years after the Israeli occupation of 

Arab 
the  occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, remains 
very  dangerous.  The  humanitarian 
is 
constantly  deteriorating  as  is  the  economic  situation. 
The  Palestinian  people  are  struggling  to  exercise  their 
inalienable  rights  that  they  should  enjoy,  including 
their  right  to  self-determination  and  the  establishment 
of an independent State.  

In  this  context,  the  State  of  Kuwait  reiterates  its 
commitment  to  support  the  struggle  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  recover  all  its  legitimate  political  rights  by 
setting  up  an  independent  State  on  its  land,  with 
Jerusalem  as 
the 
Palestinian  people  do  not  recover  their  legitimate 
rights,  in  accordance  with  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions,  namely 
(1967),  338 
(1973), 1397 (2002) and 1515 (2003) and 1860 (2009), 
and the principle of land for peace, not to mention the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative,  which  must  not  remain  a  dead 
letter  just  because  of  the  obstinacy  and  refusal  of 
Israel.  Without  these  resolutions  being  enforced,  we 
will  not  be  able 
lasting  and 
comprehensive  settlement  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict,  which  is  at  the  core  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict.  

The  State  of  Kuwait  once  again  calls  for  Israeli 
withdrawal  from  the  occupied  Syrian  Arab  Golan,  a 
return  to  the  borders  of  4  June  1967,  pursuant  to 
Security Council resolution 497 (1981), with a view to 
reaffirming  the  illegal  nature  of  Israeli  activities  in 
Syrian Golan. When Israel pursues the occupation of a 
part  of  the  Syrian  Arab  territory  and  declares  the 
its  capital.  We  affirm 
resolutions  242 
that 
if 
to 
find  a 
just, 
8 

09-62814 
the  conference 
in  2006,  and  after 
integrity  and  political 


annexation  of  this  area,  Israel  is  putting  sticks  in  the 
spokes of the wheel of progress ensuring that there will 
be no peace in the Middle East. 

As  regards  Lebanon,  my  delegation  reiterates  its 
commitment to Lebanon and to the security, unity and 
territorial 
independence  of 
Lebanon.  We  call  upon  Israel  to  stop  its  violations  of 
Lebanese  land  and  air  space  and  we  call  upon  it  to 
enforce  Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006),  to 
withdraw  from  occupied  Lebanese  territory,  namely, 
the  Sheba’a  farms,  the  village  of  al-Ghajar  and 
Kafarshuba.  We  urge  the  international  community  to 
assist the Lebanese Government to expand its authority 
across the totality of its territory.  

The  international  community  continues  to  assist 
Israel,  but  Israel  responds  with  more  denial  and 
rejection. Thus, after the Arab Peace Initiative and the 
initiative of the United States president, as represented 
by 
the  road  map.  Israel  responded  by  bombing 
Lebanon 
in 
Annapolis, Israel responded with Operation Cast Lead 
against Gaza. After President Barack Obama appointed 
Senator  George  Mitchell  as  his  special  envoy  to  the 
Middle East, and after the will expressed in his speech 
given  at  the  University  of  Cairo  that  really  did 
encourage  us  a  great  deal,  Israel  responded  by 
expanding  its  settlement  policy  and  declared  the 
construction  of  hundreds  of  residential  units 
in 
Jerusalem 
in  breach  of  all  conventions  and  all 
international instruments and norms.  

At  a  time  when  we  are  extending  a  hand  to  the 
new  American  policy  in  the  Middle  East  and  to  the 
efforts of the Quartet, without forgetting other options 
related 
Israel  simply 
responds  by  more  intransigence  and  procrastination 
and  is  using  initiatives  that  are  cobbled  together  to 
convince  the  world  that  it  is  making  hard  choices  by 
temporarily freezing the settlements. This only leads to 
pessimism  on  our  part  and  convinces  us  that  Israel  is 
not a genuine partner in the peace process. 

The  negotiations  on  Jerusalem,  the  freezing  of 
settlement  activity  there  and  the  return  of  refugees  in 
accordance  with  resolution  194  (III)  are  opportunities 
that  the  Israeli  Government  should  take  seriously.  We 
cannot  go  back  to  the  starting  point  because  of  a 
change  in  Government  in  Israel.  The  Palestinian 
Authority came to an advanced stage of understanding 
with the previous Israeli Government, namely, with the 
two-State  solution, 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.53
in  order 
Mr.  Okuda
the  Quartet  and 
the  peace  process 
(Japan):  Japan  welcomes 
Madrid  terms  of  reference  and  the  Oslo Accords,  but 
the current Israeli Government has taken a step back in 
terms of the negotiation process, which means that the 
peace-loving international community must express its 
despair and concern about reaching a new agreement or 
a new initiative.  

The  world’s  seriousness  regarding  the  settlement 
of the Palestinian cause and the Arab-Israeli conflict is 
being  put  to  the  test.  We  call  upon  the  international 
community, 
the  United  States 
Government to pursue their efforts to give new impetus 
to 
to  achieve  a 
comprehensive,  lasting  and  just  peace  in  the  Middle 
East.  We  call  upon  Israel  to  listen  to  the  calls  of  the 
international  community  and  its  repeated  demands  to 
find  diplomatic  solutions  and  to  reject  violence  and 
extremism,  which  will  naturally  bring  about  peace  for 
the  Israelis,  Palestinians  and  the  peoples  in  the  entire 
Middle East. 
this 

opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
situation in the Middle East. 
For  Japan,  relations  with  the  Middle  East  have 

always  been  a  matter  of  the  highest  priority. We  have 
been  making  serious  efforts  to  enhance  our  ties  with 
the region through cooperation in various fields. Japan 
and the Arab League have decided to launch the Japan-
Arab Economic Forum, the first meeting of which will 
be  held  in Tokyo  next  week,  with  the  participation  of 
the economic ministers of Arab States. Japan strives to 
deepen mutual understanding between the Japanese and 
Arab  peoples  through  such  projects  as  the  Dialogue 
among  Civilizations  between  Japan  and  the  Islamic 
World  and 
Japan-Arab  Women’s  Exchange 
Programme. 

further 
strengthen our multi-layered relations with Arab States, 
going  well  beyond  the  area  of  economics  to  embrace 
the  full  spectrum  of  other  fields,  including  politics, 
culture,  and  science  and  technology.  In  particular, 
Japan has been willing to strengthen its cooperation to 
benefit  future  generations  in  the  areas  of  science, 
technology  and  education;  examples  of  this  include 
contributing  to  the  establishment  of  the  Egypt-Japan 
University  of  Science  and  Technology,  extending 
technical  support  to  the  Saudi-Japanese  Automobile 
High  Institute,  and  granting  scholarships  to  Arab 
students  and  assisting  scholarship  programs  in  Arab 
We  shall  continue  such  efforts 
the 
to 
09-62814 

9 

to  support  President  Abbas  and 
A/64/PV.53 

countries.  Under  these  programmes,  Saudi Arabia,  for 
example,  has  already  dispatched  approximately  250 
Saudi students to Japan to study. Through such efforts, 
Japan  intends  to  help  forge  the  foundations  for  peace 
and  prosperity  in  the  region  and  deepen  its  relations 
with 
the  Arab  League,  a  framework  of  critical 
importance for our regional cooperation. 

Achieving peace in the Middle East based on the 
two-State  solution  is  essential  to  both  regional  and 
global peace and prosperity. Japan remains determined 
to  continue 
the 
Palestinian Authority,  under  his  leadership,  in  seeking 
peaceful coexistence and mutual prosperity with Israel, 
leading to a just and lasting peace. Japan believes it is 
incumbent  upon  both  the  Israelis  and  the  Palestinians 
to  fulfil  their  obligations  under  previous  agreements, 
such  as  the  road  map,  in  order  to  achieve  steady 
progress  in  the  peace  process,  and  calls  upon  both 
parties to do so. 

Japan is concerned about the current situation, in 
which  peace  talks  have  yet  to  be  resumed.  We  call 
again  upon  Israel  to  halt  its  settlement  activities, 
including “natural growth” in the West Bank, including 
East  Jerusalem,  while  acknowledging 
the  Israeli 
Government’s  recent  decision  to  freeze  settlement 
activities for 10 months as a positive move in the right 
direction.  Japan  is  convinced  that  we  should  make 
every  effort  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  peace  in  the 
Middle  East.  In  this  regard,  Japan  appreciates  and 
supports the Arab Peace Initiative, and will continue to 
call  on  Israel  to  cooperate  with  Arab  States  in  its 
implementation. 
In order to create a viable  Palestinian State, it is 

the  security  situation, 
indispensable 
improve  economic  conditions  and  build 
judicial, 
legislative and administrative governance structures. In 
this regard, we greatly welcome the Programme of the 
Thirteenth  Government,  published  by  the  Palestinian 
Authority in August as a blueprint for nation-building, 
and  we  are  steadily  implementing  our  assistance, 
amounting to $200 million, announced last March. By 
means  of  the  “Corridor  for  Peace  and  Prosperity” 
initiative  and  other  efforts  aimed  at  helping  the 
Palestinian Authority to implement the Programme, we 
will support the creation of a viable State economy and 
will  continue  to  make  efforts  towards  the  ultimate 
establishment of a Palestinian State. 
to  stabilize 
about 
in 
concerned 
With regard to the situation in the Gaza Strip, we 

are  deeply 
the  humanitarian 
conditions,  which  have  not  shown  improvement,  even 
10  months  after  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1860  (2009).  The  humanitarian  and  human 
rights situation in Gaza, especially the plight of women 
and  children,  remains  dire  and  precarious.  Japan 
believes that international humanitarian law and human 
rights law must be respected by the parties concerned. 
We share the  concerns of the international community 
and hope that every effort will be made by the parties 
concerned to improve the situation. 

In  that  context,  Japan  urges  Israel  to  ensure 
smooth  access  of  people  and  goods  to  the  Gaza  Strip, 
and encourages the international community, including 
the Arab States, to enhance assistance to the Palestinian 
people  there. At  the  same  time,  Japan  calls  on  Hamas 
to renounce its policy of armed struggle against Israel 
and reaffirms its support for Egypt’s initiative towards 
reconciliation between Fatah and Hamas. 

The normalization of relations between Syria and 
Lebanon is important for ensuring the overall stability 
of the region. Japan welcomes the establishment of full 
diplomatic  relations  between  Syria  and  Lebanon 
through their exchange of ambassadors this year. Japan 
also  welcomes  the  establishment  of  the  new  Lebanese 
Government  headed  by  Prime  Minister  Saad  Hariri, 
and hopes it will bring a new impetus to the efforts for 
peace  and  stability  in  Lebanon  and  the  region  as  a 
whole. 

In conclusion, I reiterate our hope that all parties 
concerned in the international community will enhance 
their efforts to realize a just, comprehensive and lasting 
peace  in  the  Middle  East,  including  on  the  Syria  and 
Lebanon  tracks.  We  must  explore  ways  to  secure  a 
breakthrough 
in  peace 
negotiations  between  Israel and the Palestinians under 
President Abbas,  who  seeks  to  establish  a  Palestinian 
State living side by side in peace with Israel. Japan will 
continue to provide support to that end. 
Ms. Grau (Switzerland) (spoke in French): Not a 

day goes by that we are not reminded of the urgency of 
the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and  of  the  need  to 
provide concrete responses. In this context I would like 
to stress the following five points. 

First,  Gaza:  Switzerland  is  deeply  concerned  by 
the economic and humanitarian situation in Gaza. With 
winter approaching, more than a million inhabitants of 
the  current  stalemate 
10 

09-62814 
the 


Gaza  are  still  living  in  precarious  conditions,  despite 
the  promises  made  by  the  international  community  in 
Sharm El Sheikh in March. We call on Israel to end the 
blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip,  to  guarantee  regular 
humanitarian  access  and  to  authorize  the  delivery  of 
building  materials  immediately.  In  order  to  facilitate 
this  process,  the  United  Nations,  through  its  agencies, 
has  offered  Israel  strict  guarantees  about  the  use  of 
those  materials,  as  well  as  meticulous  monitoring  of 
the projects. 

The  ceasefire  with  respect  to  the  rocket  attacks 
against 
Israeli  civilian  population  must  be 
maintained.  A  lasting  and  duly  formalized  ceasefire 
agreement that includes access to the Gaza Strip should 
also  be  put  in  place  to  enable  reconstruction  and 
development.  Such  measures  would  be 
the  best 
guarantees of security. 

Secondly,  the  peace  process:  strict  compliance 
with the requirements of the road map is the only way 
to achieve a two-State solution. We call on the parties 
to resume peace negotiations on the basis of a defined 
framework and precise timetable. Practical solutions do 
exist,  as  eminent 
Israeli  and 
Palestinian  civil  society  demonstrated  recently  by 
publishing  the  annexes  to  the  Geneva  Accord.  This 
document  outlines  clear  terms  and  conditions  for 
achieving the shared vision of a just and lasting peace. 
The way has thus been cleared. However, the political 
will  to  follow  this  path  resolutely  is  still  lacking.  A 
total  freeze  on  settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
including  East  Jerusalem,  as  well  as 
territory, 
intra-Palestinian 
create 
conditions 
of 
negotiations. The decision by the Israeli Government to 
put  a  brake  on  new  settlements  is  a  gesture  in  this 
direction. 

the 
destruction  of  houses  and  the  expulsion  of  their 
inhabitants, 
the  free 
movement of persons and goods as well as the violent 
and  unpunished  behaviour  of  certain  settlers.  Those 
actions  not  only  violate  international  law  but  place 
further obstacles on the path of peace. 

the 
settlement of Gilo, to the south of East Jerusalem, is a 
violation  of 
law,  which  can  only 
aggravate  the  political  and  security  climate.  With 
regard to the holy places, we call on the parties to the 
reconciliation, 
the 
Thirdly,  Switzerland 
would 
resumption 
representatives  of 
the  restrictions 
The  decision 
imposed  on 
substantially 
international 
favourable 
strongly 
regrets 
to 
to 
extend 
A/64/PV.53
it 
essential 
considers 
Ms.  Solbakken  (Norway):  Once  again, 
conflict  to  refrain  from  any  provocation  that  could 
trigger a spiral of violence. 

Fourthly,  regarding  the  Goldstone  report,  justice 
and the efforts to achieve peace are inseparable. In that 
context,  Switzerland 
to 
implement  the  recommendations  of  the  Goldstone 
report.  In  the  near  future,  Switzerland  will  hold 
consultations on the possibility of calling a conference 
of  the  High  Contracting  Parties  to  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention, 
in  accordance  with  resolution  64/10 
adopted by this Assembly on 5 November. 

Ms.  Štiglic  (Slovenia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

Fifthly, as for Lebanon, I would like to conclude 
by congratulating it on its newly formed Government. 
We look forward to the forthcoming resumption of the 
national  dialogue.  We  wish  every  success  to  this 
process, which is essential for the future of the country 
and of the entire region. 
the 

situation in the Middle East calls for close attention. As 
the  Security  Council  heard  in  the  briefing  by  the 
Assistant Secretary-General on 24 November, political 
efforts  towards  a  negotiated  two-State  solution  have 
reached  a  deep  and  worrying  impasse.  The  Assistant 
Secretary-General  further  warned 
that  without  a 
political  horizon  —  where  commitments  are  made, 
monitored and kept — destructive forces could fill the 
vacuum, putting both the Palestinian Authority and the 
two-State solution at peril. 

President Abbas’ decision  not to seek re-election 
is  a  wake-up  call.  His  decision  reflects  a  situation  in 
which  confidence 
in  a  process  with  meaningful 
negotiations,  from  the  Palestinian  perspective,  has 
eroded.  An  abrupt  and  disorderly  change  in  the 
Palestinian  leadership  could  seriously  undermine  the 
stability of the Palestinian Authority. 

It  could  also  lead  to  a  reassessment  by  the 
international  community  of  its  economic  and  political 
relations  with 
thereby 
the  Palestinian  State-building  project 
undermining 
itself.  It 
the 
international community stand united in its support for 
the Palestinian political forces devoted to peace. 

At this time, our first and foremost challenge is to 
avoid  a  political  vacuum  in  the  Palestinian  territory. 
We should therefore strengthen our efforts to re-engage 
the  Palestinian  Authority, 
than  ever 
important 
is  more 
that 
09-62814 

11 
that  a 
to 

However, 
in  order 
re-launch  of 
increasingly  difficult 
A/64/PV.53 

President Abbas politically and send a clear message to 
the  Palestinian  people 
the 
negotiations is the only way forward. 

restore  Palestinian 
confidence in the political process, the situation on the 
ground must improve. This includes implementation of 
road-map  obligations  in  terms  of  settlement  activity 
and  security.  The  international  community  and  Israel 
should  also  make  concerted  efforts  to  strengthen 
economic  development  and  institution-building,  as  set 
out  in  the  Fayyad  plan,  in  order  to  improve  economic 
growth and living standards. 

This is, however, not enough. In addition, there is 
an urgent need to establish a common understanding of 
the terms of reference for negotiations. Those terms of 
reference  must  be  based  on  all  earlier  commitments 
and  with  a  clear  timeline  as  to  ending  the  occupation 
and resolving the final status issues. 
Let me briefly turn to Norway’s role as Chair of 

is 
the  Ad  Hoc  Liaison  Committee  (AHLC).  It 
becoming 
the 
motivation of donors to contribute the necessary funds 
to  ensure  that  the  Palestinian  Authority  is  able  to 
sustain  its  institution-building  efforts.  Donors  have  so 
far  lived  up  to  their  commitments.  But  without  a 
political horizon, without a credible political process, it 
is increasingly harder for  donors to justify high levels 
of contributions to the Palestinian Authority. 

Prime  Minister  Fayyad’s  two-year  plan  for  the 
establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State,  presented  to  the 
AHLC meeting here in New York on 22 September this 
year,  received  strong  and  unanimous  support  from 
donors.  In  the  current  political  situation,  the  Fayyad 
plan 
important  as  a  platform  for 
international  support  and political development on the 
Palestinian side. This is not the time to let the plan and 
Palestinian  institutions  falter  owing  to  a  lack  of 
funding. However, in a longer-term perspective, only a 
credible, political process can ensure donors’ continued 
support for the two-State solution. 
Mr. Apakan  (Turkey):  Turkey  fully  aligns  itself 

with 
the  statement  delivered  yesterday  by 
the 
representative  of  Sweden  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union,  under  the  agenda  item  16,  “Question  of 
Palestine”. Therefore, my remarks will be brief. 

Today, in the Middle East, we are confronted with 
many  challenges.  Although  they  differ  in  nature,  all 
is  even  more 
to  maintain 
and 
completely 
temporarily,  but 
those challenges are somewhat related to or result from 
the  fact  that  we  have  no  functioning  peace  process  in 
place.  We  have  to  address  this  issue  immediately  and 
reactivate  the  peace  process  on  all  its  tracks.  It  is  a 
must  for  a  peaceful  future  in  the  region  and  we  are 
duty-bound for future generations. To achieve this, we 
need to remove the obstacles on the way to peace. 

In  this  respect,  the  main  impediment  is  the 
continuing  Israeli  settlement activities  in  the  occupied 
territories,  particularly 
in  East  Jerusalem.  Israeli 
practices  related  to  housing,  as  well  as  the  evictions 
and  demolitions  of  Palestinian  homes,  are  illegal  and 
unacceptable. 

We  call  on  Israel  to  meet  in  full  its  road-map 
commitments and to cease all settlement activities, not 
partially 
and 
permanently. The status of Jerusalem is one of the core 
issues  of  the  peace  process,  along  with  borders  and 
refugees, and is subject to final status negotiations. 

In  the  meantime,  Jerusalem  is  a  city  held  sacred 
by  three  monotheistic  religions.  Any  unilateral  act 
affecting the nature of Jerusalem can easily have much 
broader  ramifications.  Therefore,  we  reemphasize  the 
importance  of  preserving  the  status  as  well  as  the 
cultural  and  religious  fabric  of  Jerusalem  and  call  on 
Israel to refrain from any provocative action in the city. 

With a view to preparing the ground for an early 
resumption  of 
the  negotiations,  we  should  also 
continue  to  uphold  the  basic  framework  for  peace,  as 
embodied in the relevant Security Council resolutions, 
the  Madrid  Principles,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and 
road-map obligations. 
those 

fundamental  parameters.  What 
is  a 
comprehensive peace based on two States — Israel and 
an  independent,  democratic  and  viable  Palestinian 
State — living side by side, with agreed borders based 
on  those  of  1967  and  Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  both 
States and a just settlement for refugees. 

At  the  current  stage,  the  reaffirmation  of  that 
broad end result should help us as we work on how to 
reach 
for  a 
comprehensive  peace,  since  all  issues  in  the  Middle 
East  are 
the  Syrian  and 
Lebanese  tracks  require  our  attention  too.  For  the 
resumption  of  the  Syrian-Israeli  track,  both  parties 
should display the necessary will to make progress. 
is  a  general  convergence  on 
is  needed 
it.  We  have  always  been  aiming 
intertwined.  Therefore, 
There 
12 

09-62814 
At 
full 
the  opening  of 
Turkey  will  continue 
the  current  stage,  empowerment  of 



It  is  all  the  more  difficult  to  move  ahead  on  the 
path to peace when there is an ongoing tragedy in the 
region. The  wounds  caused  by  the  Israeli  operation  in 
Gaza  early  this  year  are  far  from  being  healed  and  in 
fact are still bleeding. As the winter sets in, the dismal 
living  conditions  of  the  Palestinians  in  Gaza  will  be 
implementation  of 
starkly  manifested.  The 
resolution  1860  (2009)  and 
the 
crossings is a must for putting an end to the persistent, 
unbearable  situation  in  which  Gaza’s  1.5  million 
Palestinians are living. As long as there is no return to 
normal  daily  living  and  socio-economic  activity  in 
Gaza, efforts to build confidence and ensure stability in 
the region will have little chance of succeeding. 

the 
Palestinians  is  increasingly  important.  Member  States 
must support Palestinian State-building. Prime Minister 
Fayyad’s  two-year  plan  in  preparation  for  Palestinian 
statehood 
is  very  encouraging  and  requires  our 
backing.  Turkey  is  also  determined  to  maintain  its 
support and cooperation in this field.  

to  make  every  effort 
towards  comprehensive  and  permanent  peace  in  the 
Middle  East.  As  we  go  through  yet  another  critical 
period in the Middle East, there is no alternative but to 
reactivate  the  peace  process  and  carry  forward  with 
determination.  We  must  work  harder.  Otherwise, 
another failed attempt will only sow greater anger and 
despair in a region already drowning in both. 
Mr.  Quinlan  (Australia):  Australia  had  hoped 

that this year’s debate on the Middle East would have 
been preceded by genuine progress towards peace. But 
it  has  not.  The  tragedy  of  the  Gaza  conflict  of  last 
December  and  January  was  another  compelling 
reminder of the simple, ineluctable truth that a lasting 
resolution to the Israel-Palestinian dispute can only be 
brought  about  through  peaceful  means.  And  yet  we 
face  a  situation  where  the  new  dynamic  that  has  been 
created  by  United  States  President  Obama’s  efforts 
towards seeking a solution has not met with the success 
it merits, and we are facing a continuing humanitarian 
crisis in Gaza — a situation that is unacceptable. 

Negotiations  for  peace  need  to  be  relaunched. 
They must be. This obviously requires strong political 
leadership and courage, as well as the vision that it is 
only by both sides taking substantive measures that we 
will  achieve  the  confidence  and  trust  necessary  for 
genuinely productive negotiations. 
A/64/PV.53
right 
It  has 
an  unambiguous 
the  Australian  Government’s 

There  are  some  simple  existential  truths  that 
underline  this  conflict.  Israel  has  a  sovereign  right  to 
exist  within  secure  and  internationally  recognized 
boundaries. 
to 
self-defence,  under  international  law,  including  in  the 
face of Hamas’ rocket attacks into southern Israel. But 
equally,  the  Palestinians  have  an  inalienable  right  to 
self-determination and to a viable, independent, secure 
State. So an enduring peace must be predicated on the 
viable two-State solution. 

Australia’s Deputy Prime Minister Gillard visited 
both Israel and Palestine earlier this year to meet with 
the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  leaderships  in  order  to 
reaffirm 
strong 
commitment to the Middle East peace process. We urge 
all  parties  to  begin  negotiations  as  soon  as  possible, 
addressing  final  status  issues,  including  the  status  of 
Jerusalem  and  the  settlements.  We  call  on  all  parties 
not  to  undertake  any  unilateral  actions  that  seek  to 
predetermine  the  outcome  of  those  negotiations.  Our 
strong position remains that Israel and the Palestinians 
need  to  meet  their  obligations  under  the  road  map  for 
Middle East peace.  

Israel  must  halt  settlement  activity  and  work  to 
normalize  the  day-to-day  life  of  Palestinians.  The 
Palestinians  must  continue 
terrorist 
infrastructure and halt violence and incitement.  

Australia has welcomed the Arab Peace Initiative 
as  an  important  constructive  contribution  towards  a 
comprehensive  peace,  and  we  look  forward  to  the 
active, supportive engagement in the peace process, of 
Israel’s neighbours. We support those who are standing 
strongly against others who only offer the nihilism and 
the  dead  end  of  confrontation,  violence  and  terrorism. 
Hamas’  continuing  rejection  of  the  Quartet  principles 
and its refusal to recognize Israel is a major obstacle to 
peace. 

We  commend  the  positive  role  of  Egypt  and  the 
Arab  League  and  the  role  they  have  played  in  Gaza. 
The  situation  in  Gaza  remains  dire,  as  I  have  said  — 
unacceptable. It should be of real concern to all of us. 
It  must  be  addressed.  Israel  must  do  all  it  can  to  help 
increase the flow of humanitarian goods and necessary 
supplies  into  Gaza.  It  should  continue  to  ensure  the 
safety  of  United  Nations  and  humanitarian  workers. 
Equally, arms smuggling must stop. We call on Hamas 
to release unconditionally Gilad Shalit without delay.  
to  dismantle 
09-62814 

13 

A/64/PV.53 


Australia  welcomed  the  announcement  of  the 
formation  of  Lebanon’s  new  unity  Government  on 
9 November.  The  successful  holding  of  parliamentary 
elections in June was an important and positive step in 
Lebanon’s  democratic  development.  Australia  will 
remain firm in our support for the sovereignty, political 
independence  and  unity  of  the  Lebanese  State  and  its 
people.  

We  reiterate  our  call  for  Hizbullah  to  disarm,  in 
accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1559 
(2004). We also welcome the efforts being undertaken 
to  bring  new  life  to  discussions  between  Israel  and 
Syria.  Syria  must  continue  to  move  towards  playing  a 
constructive, regional role — a role that it should have.  

Australia  remains  concerned  by  International 
Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA)  reports  of  undeclared 
nuclear  material  in  Syria  and  urges  Syria  to  provide 
maximum cooperation and transparency to the IAEA to 
allow it to complete its assessment. 

Australia  will  continue  to  provide  what  help  we 
can  to  achieve  peace.  We  recognize  that  a  viable 
Palestinian  State  will  require  strong  and  effective 
institutions.  

We  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority  to  strengthen  those  institutions,  and  we 
remain committed to supporting those efforts. Over the 
last 
than  
in  development  and  humanitarian 
$A75  million 
assistance 
to 
the  Palestinian 
territories  and  over 
$A40 million  since  the  Gaza  conflict  earlier  this  year. 
We  will  remain  a  longstanding  contributor  to  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East and form part of the United 
Nations  Truce  Supervision  Organization  and  other 
peacekeeping operations in the region. 

To  conclude, Australia  again  urges  the  parties  to 
recommence  negotiations  that  address  final  status 
issues as soon as possible, and we urge people to move 
now so as to stop the unacceptable humanitarian crisis 
in Gaza. 

Australia  will  do  what  it  can  to  support  this 
process and we urge all Member States to do the same. 
The absence of peace in the Middle East is a threat to 
all  of  us  and  frankly,  our  failure  to  achieve  it,  despite 
the  burden  of  more  than  60  years  of  conflict,  should 
shame all of us. 
two  years  we  have  donated  more 
a  member  of 
Israel,  which  persists 
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke 

in Spanish): Nicaragua aligns itself with the statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  continues  to 
seriously  deteriorate  owing  to  the  expansionist  and 
colonialist  policies  of 
in 
disregarding the will of the international community, in 
violation  of  international  law  and  all  United  Nations 
resolutions in that regard. 
The  illegal  occupation  in  Palestine  and  in  the 

occupied  Arab  territories  of  Syria  and  Lebanon  must 
cease immediately. That is the only way to put an end 
to  all  the  flagrant  violations  of  human  rights  in  the 
Middle East. 

We  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  of  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People  and  of  its  Chairman,  who  have 
been playing a very important role in the establishment 
of an independent, free and sovereign Palestinian State. 
As 
the  Committee,  Nicaragua 
co-sponsored all the draft resolutions that are before us 
on those issues. 

The  question  of  Palestine  is  at  the  heart  of  the 
deteriorating  situation  in  the  Middle  East.  General 
Assembly  resolution  181  (II)  divides  Palestine  into 
two,  one  Jewish  State  and  the  other  Arab.  After  so 
many years, the Palestinian people are still waiting for 
their  independent  State  to  be  established.  Since  the 
1980s, Nicaragua has recognized the Palestinian State.  

The greatest desire of the Palestinian people is to 
find peace and to live in  harmony  with  its neighbours 
in  a  free,  independent  and  viable  State.  However,  that 
cannot  be  achieved  as  long  as  the  Israeli  occupation 
and  aggression  continue  and  the  Palestinian  people, 
who  are  struggling  heroically  and  resisting  in  very 
difficult  conditions,  is  unable  to  regain  its  legitimate 
ancestral rights and to recover its occupied lands. 

The intolerable situation to which the Palestinian 
people are subjected has deteriorated even further since 
the  armed  aggression  of  Israel,  the  occupying  Power, 
from  27  December  2008  to  18  January  2009,  which 
resulted  in  nearly  1,500  dead,  the  majority  of  those 
innocent  civilians,  and  several  thousands  injured. 
Moreover,  it  caused  a  serious  environmental  crisis 
owing  to  the  toxic  chemical  gases  and  the  white 
phosphorus used by the occupying Power and the waste 
14 

09-62814 
Israel,  with 
the  most 
fundamental 
rights  of 
including  East  Jerusalem,  where 


products  produced  by  other  high-explosive  missiles, 
which  will  affect  the  Palestinian  people,  in  particular 
children, for many years because of the contamination 
that they have produced. The international community 
demands  that  the  perpetrators  of  those  massacres  and 
disasters be tried by impartial courts. 

Despite  the  various  criticisms  in  international 
forums, 
the  complicity  of  certain 
permanent members of the Security Council, continues 
to  violate 
the 
Palestinian people, including ongoing violations of the 
right  to  life  and  of  the  Palestinians’  personal  safety 
through the indiscriminate use of force, which violates 
international  law,  international  humanitarian  law  and 
the  most  basic  norms  of  human  rights.  That,  in  turn, 
has created an extremely difficult economic, social and 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, 
Israel 
continues to expel the population of Palestinian origin 
from their homes and to extend its illegal settlements. 

Nicaragua  believes  it  important  to  adopt  urgent 
confidence-building  measures  necessary  in  order  to 
promote effective negotiation by the parties, making it 
possible to progress towards ultimately achieving a just 
peace  based  on  the  recognition  and  existence  of  two 
free and sovereign States. 

There  is  a  need  for  a  politically  just  solution  to 
the  Palestinian  problem,  based  on 
the  various 
resolutions adopted by the United Nations, in particular 
the resolution that establishes the Palestinian refugees’ 
right  of  return  (resolution  194  (III))  and  those  that 
demand  Israel’s  withdrawal  from  the  Arab  territories 
occupied in 1967, in full accordance with the principle 
of 
the  Madrid 
Conference,  and  the  Arab  Peace  Plan,  which  would 
allow the establishment of a Palestinian State.  

Yesterday,  we  commemorated  the  International 
Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  and  I 
would like to conclude by quoting part of the message 
of 
the  Republic  of  Nicaragua, 
Commander Daniel Ortega Saavedra, on that occasion: 


“The  Government  of  Reconciliation  and 
National  Unity  of  Nicaragua  and  the  Nicaraguan 
people  support  the  just  cause  of  the  Palestinian 
people  as  a  question  of  principle,  and,  together 
with  the  rest  of  the  international  community,  we 
deem it necessary to enhance international efforts 
in pursuit of a peaceful solution that results in the 
for  peace,  established  at 
the  President  of 
land 
A/64/PV.53
establishment of an independent Palestinian State, 
with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  in  order  to 
achieve  a  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle 
East.” 

We  also  express  our  solidarity  with  the  peoples 
and  Governments  of  Lebanon  and  Syria  in  their 
struggles  for  and  defence  of  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  all  their  territories  occupied  by 
Israel.  In  order  to  achieve  a  climate  of  peace  and 
justice,  Israel  must  cease  its  expansionist  policies  and 
immediately  withdraw  from  those  territories.  All  the 
measures or actions that Israel has taken or those new 
steps that it tries to impose on those territories are null 
and have no legal effect. 

As  in  previous  years,  jointly  with  the  rest  of  the 
international  community,  we  reaffirm  our  hope  and 
commitment  to  seeking  a  solution  to  the  Palestinian 
problem,  which  lies  at  the  heart  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict, as well as in all the occupied Arab territories, 
and  to  the  need  to  achieve  a  comprehensive,  just  and 
lasting peace in the Middle East. 
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau)  (spoke  in  French): 

We  all  concur  in  recognizing  that  the  Palestinian 
question  is  at  the  very  heart  of  the  conflict  in  the 
Middle East.  Quite simply, no Arab country or citizen 
of that region of the world can feel free as long as the 
Palestinians,  the  Palestinian people,  continue  to  suffer 
the torments of the illegal occupation by Israel.  
In 1981, the Security Council adopted resolution 

immediate 
497  (1981),  which  demanded  Israel’s 
is  now 
withdrawal  from 
December  2009  and,  to  date,  nothing  has  happened  to 
encourage us to believe that that problem will soon be 
settled.  

It is absolutely crucial that we realize the need to 
rally together, given the obstinate refusal of the Israeli 
authorities to recognize that in today’s world — we are 
in  the  twenty-first  century  —  one  cannot  base  one’s 
relations with one’s neighbours on any  principle other 
than  those  recognized  under  international  law  and 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. 

Not being able to acquire territories by force has 
become  a  fundamental  principle.  I  would  like  to 
explain  myself.  The  inadmissibility  of  the  acquisition 
of territories by force is stipulated by international law. 
We  cannot  accept  the  fact  that  since  1967  the  Israeli 
authorities  have  illegally  occupied  Arab  territories. 
the  Golan  Heights.  It 
09-62814 

15 

A/64/PV.53 

Clearly, our Israeli friends need to realize that we must 
all work to achieve a lasting peace. Together we must 
persuade  them  that  it  is  necessary  to  look  objectively 
and constructively at what has to be done right now to 
preserve present and future generations.  

We, the international community, have wasted too 
much time. We have missed many important occasions 
and caused many hopes to fail. There are people there 
who  are  suffering  and  cannot  wait  any  longer.  There 
are  generations  of  Palestinian  refugees  stagnating  in 
the  camps.  Yesterday,  some  of  us  attended  an 
exhibition  of  photographs  highlighting  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East,  which  has  existed  for 
60 years.  Can  you  imagine  that  that  agency  has  been 
dealing  with  the  Palestinian  people  and  their  fate  for 
60 years? That shows the extent of the efforts we must 
make  together  to  resolve  the  issue.  In  order  for  peace 
to  be  restored  to  the  Middle  East,  each  and  every 
person must shoulder the necessary responsibility. 

Now  I  wish  to  address  our  friends  the  Arab 
countries. Unity must exist as a tangible reality in the 
Arab world. Together, the countries that stand for unity 
in  the  Arab  world  must  support  the  Palestinians  and 
make  their  resources  available  to  the  Palestinians,  in 
order to complete the necessary reconstruction. 

But  our  friends  must  also  be  able  to  express  to 
our  Palestinian  friends  —  as  I  said  this  morning  and 
allow  me  to  return  to  that  important  aspect  of  the  
issue  —  that  the  Palestinians  need  to  come  back 
together  and  reconcile  with  each  other.  They  need  to 
unite around the essential issue, which is the liberation 
of their people. 

We  need  to  say  to  our  friends  from  Hamas  that 
they  need  to  return  to  reason. Today,  at  the  beginning 
of the twenty-first century and given the distribution of 
power in the world and all that we understand and must 
accept — we cannot deny the existence of Israel. I say 
that  here  with  sincerity.  We  must  recognize  the 
existence  of  Israel.  That  is  something  many  Arab 
countries  have  done.  We  need  to  base  ourselves  upon 
that  principle  in  order  to  see  the  future  and  to  see  the 
prospects for this important region of the world, which 
is  also  at  the  epicentre  of  contemporary  international 
relations. 

I encourage each and every person making efforts 
in this area. This morning I spoke about the efforts that 
continue to be made, and incidentally, successfully, by 
the Quartet. But I also wish to say here that we greatly 
appreciate the efforts of President Sarkozy of France to 
ensure  that  even  in  the  heart  of  the  Arab  family 
reconciliation can prevail, in particular in the relations 
between Syria and Lebanon. 

As  my  colleague  noted  earlier,  we  are  also 
delighted by the accession of the unity Government in 
Lebanon.  That  can  make  a  significant  contribution  to 
peace in the Middle East. 

But we will continue to reiterate that Israel must 
recognize that it is in the interest of its own people to 
build  a  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  It  is  in  the 
interest  of  the  countries  in  the  region  to  realize  that 
building  peace  is  necessary.  No  individual  can  close 
himself  off  within  the  territorial  boundaries  of  his 
country.  No  one  can  live  in  isolation  today,  given  the 
status of international relations and the links that exist 
between  the  countries  of  the  international  community. 
We cannot live in isolation. We cannot fail to take into 
account  events  taking  place  in  our  neighbouring 
countries. We must take the steps needed to ensure that 
together  we  can  build  a  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle 
East. 

Much  has  already  been  done  since  the  Oslo 
conference  and  then  the  Madrid  conference,  the Arab 
Peace  Initiative  and  other  equally  valuable  and 
pertinent initiatives; but there have been many failures 
as  well.  Despite  all  of  those,  we  have  not  seen  an 
encouraging  result  that  might  lead  us  to  think  that  we 
have emerged from the crisis. 
For that reason, we have continued year after year 

before  the  General  Assembly  and  also  in  the  Main 
Committees to stress the need to strengthen the efforts 
to  ensure 
legal  standards  are 
recognized  and  to  make  it  possible  for  Israel  to 
withdraw from the Syrian Golan Heights and from the 
occupied  Lebanese  territories.  That  must  be  done, 
because we cannot accept — as I noted at the outset of 
my  statement  —  Israel’s  continued  occupation  of  the 
territories, as has been the case since 1967. That is not 
admissible; it is unacceptable. 

It  would  be  counter-productive  here  to  focus 
solely  on  pointing  a  finger  at  the  events  or  people 
deemed to be responsible for the situation in that area 
of  the  world.  We  are  all  responsible  in  some  manner, 
because  as  the  international  community  we  must 
encourage everybody to sit down around a table and to 
have a dialogue. All wars all over the world have ended 
international 
that 
16 

09-62814 


around  a  negotiating  table  and  with  the  signing  of  an 
agreement  —  unfortunately  after  the  parties  have  torn 
each other apart. And why do these parties continue to 
tear  each  other  apart? Why  should  we  allow  men  and 
women  to  continue  to  die?  Why  should  we  allow  the 
situation  in  Gaza  to  exist  today,  where  children 
continue to die of hunger or from lack of medication or 
vaccinations? That is inadmissible. It is a situation that 
strikes  at our universal  conscience  and  the conscience 
of each and every person here today. 

That does not require taking a stance in favour of 
Hamas. No. It requires taking a stance in favour of the 
human condition and defending human beings — men, 
women, children and the elderly — in those territories 
who  continue  to  suffer  the  effects  of  unimaginable 
violence. That is what we must do. 

Again  I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General, 
who,  on  behalf  of  us  all,  is  undertaking  ongoing  and 
praiseworthy  efforts  and  who  deserves  not  only  our 
support  but  our  deep  appreciation.  We  encourage  him 
to continue his efforts to ensure that dialogue continues 
unhindered,  over  and  beyond 
the  distractions, 
hesitation  and  procrastination  that  were  alluded  to 
earlier.  

We  encourage  each  and  every  person  to  gather 
around  a  table;  because  ultimately,  it  is  not  only  the 
people in the region who will reap the benefits of those 
efforts. As  people  who  believe  in  peace  and  justice  in 
the  world,  we  will  become  the  great  beneficiaries  of 
the  era  of  peace  and  national  reconciliation  in  that 
region  of  the  world.  Because  we  cannot  continue  to 
impassively witness the injustice meted out against the 
people  of  that  region  of  the  world.  We  said  this 
morning  that  we  cannot  only  observe  the  suffering  of 
the  Palestinian  people.  We  cannot  continue  to  only 
observe  the  arbitrary  confiscation  of  private  property, 
the destruction of houses, the cordoning off of people. 
We  cannot  observe 
the 
suffering  of  human  beings.  We  are  all  alike,  you  and 
me, and we must do something.  

We  need  to  encourage  the  Israeli  authorities  and 
our  Arab  friends  to  unite  and  to  get  together  so  that 
they  can  speak  with  one  voice. We  need  to  encourage 
them  to  foster  the  unification  of  the  Palestinians.  The 
Palestinians  must  be  able  to  speak  with  one  voice. 
Furthermore, the Palestinians who consider themselves 
hardliners need to realize peace will not come from the 
barrel  of  a  gun  or  through  launching  rockets  against 
this  without  reacting 
to 
A/64/PV.53
innocent Israeli civilians. That must also be denounced 
and we must be courageous enough to denounce those 
actions and, in that manner, support peace.  

Yes,  we  do  criticize  Israel  when  it  should  be 
criticized.  But  that  criticism  must  also  address  those 
who  launch  rockets  indiscriminately  against  innocent 
civilians.  Because  human  life  —  whether  that  of  an 
Israeli  child  or  an Arab  child  or  a  child  from  Guinea-
Bissau or from Pakistan — is the same throughout the 
world. And  I  believe  the  same  strength,  determination 
and vigour should be used to defend peace worldwide, 
based on the principles of the United Nations Charter, 
which all of us as Member States uphold. 
Mr. Manjeev Singh Puri (India): It is indeed an 

honour to address the General Assembly. and to do so 
twice in one day is indeed very special. I am honoured 
by  this.  But  I  speak  with  a  heavy  heart  because,  the 
reason for my speaking twice today before the General 
Assembly  is  because  of  these  two  interlinked  agenda 
items, which have festered on our agenda for decades. 

As a nation with age-old historic and cultural ties 
with  the  Middle  East,  India  has  an  abiding  interest  in 
the early  resolution of the  unresolved issues that  have 
troubled  the  region  since  the  inception  of  the  United 
Nations. 

The  West Asian  region  is  of  vital  importance  to 
India. It is home to nearly 5 million Indians and is an 
important source of India’s energy and fertilizer needs. 
India’s  commitment  to  the  Palestinian  cause  and  its 
solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people  are  well  known. 
Our  ties  with  the  friendly  people  of  Palestine  are 
rooted in our common history and go back to the days 
of  our  struggle  for 
independence.  India  remains 
unwavering  in  its  support  to  the  Palestinian  people  in 
their struggle for their legitimate rights. 

The  conflict  in  West  Asia  being  essentially 
political  in  nature  cannot  be  resolved  by  force.  We 
have  consistently  supported  the  Middle  East  peace 
process on all its tracks and wish to see the creation of 
an  environment  conducive  to  the  earliest  possible 
resumption  of  dialogue  in  the  Middle  East  peace 
process. 

We  favour  a  negotiated  solution  wherein  a 
sovereign,  independent,  viable  and  united  State  of 
Palestine  can  exist  within  secure  and  recognized 
borders,  side  by  side  and  at  peace  with  Israel,  as 
09-62814 

17 

to 
in 
and 
issues  on 
capacity-building 
We  are  also  supportive  of 
A/64/PV.53 

endorsed in the Quartet road map and Security Council 
resolutions 1397 (2002) and 1515 (2003). 

the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  and  have  called  for  an  end  to  Israeli 
settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  along 
with  early  easing  of  restrictions  within  Palestine  on 
free movement of persons and goods. 
India  is  aware  that  genuine  peace  in  the  region 

also  requires  resolution  of  other 
the 
remaining  tracks  of  the  Middle  East  peace  process, 
including  restoration  of  other  Arab  lands  that  remain 
under occupation. Progress on the Lebanese and Syrian 
tracks  of  the  peace  process  is  important  for  achieving 
comprehensive  and  durable  peace  in  the  region.  Our 
leadership  is  in  touch  with  our  interlocutors  in  the 
region at the highest level. 
India  remains  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to 

the  Palestinian  people, 
rendering  assistance 
national 
including 
reconstruction.  We  have  also  contributed  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping efforts in the region. 

Given  the  complexity  of  the  task,  unprecedented 
determination,  goodwill  and  capacity  to  offer  and 
accept compromises and concessions are needed on all 
sides.  It  is  here  that  the  members  of  the  international 
community have a collective duty to help in creating a 
favourable  environment  within  which  the  negotiations 
can  move  forward.  Concerted  and  all  round  action  is 
necessary  to  invigorate  the  peace  process,  with  the 
objective  of  achieving  a  durable,  comprehensive  and 
just settlement. We remain convinced that lasting peace 
in  the  region  will  contribute  to  global  stability  and 
prosperity. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on agenda item 15. At the request 
of the sponsors, the General Assembly will take action 
on  draft  resolutions  A/64/L.24  and  A/64/L.25  under 
agenda 
tomorrow  morning  at  10  a.m., 
immediately after taking action on the draft resolutions 
under agenda item 16, “Question of Palestine”. 

One  representative  has  requested  to  speak  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members 
that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to 
five  minutes  for  the  second  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
item  15 
Consequently, 
I  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Syrian  Arab 

Republic. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

colleague,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Australia, 
mentioned  my  country  by  name  in  his  statement  and 
called upon my country to play a positive regional role. 
He also expressed what he called his country’s concern 
with regard to the contents of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  report  on  the  presence  of 
nuclear activities in Syria.  
I  wish  to  clarify  to  the  Assembly  and  to  my 

colleague,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Australia, 
the  following:  first,  it  seems  that  the  Permanent 
Representative of Australia missed the point in that the 
agenda  item  before  the  Assembly  today  is  entitled, 
“The  situation  in  the  Middle  East”.  It  is  an  item  that, 
according to the dozens of statements we have heard, is 
basically  focused  on  the  Israeli  occupation  of  Arab 
territories and the ways and means to put an end to that 
occupation  and  to  the  repeated  Israeli  aggression 
against the Palestinian people and its neighbours Syria 
and Lebanon. 
the  representative  of  Australia 

deviated from the subject of the debate, thus diverting 
attention  from  the  main  focus  of  the  debate.  In 
addition,  his  statement  avoided  the  issue  of  the 
expansionist  occupation  policies  of  Israel,  which 
contravene efforts towards peace, by referring to issues 
that are of no relevance to the content and form of the 
agenda item.  
the  Permanent 

Representative  of Australia  favours  swimming  against 
the  tide.  He  is  acting  outside  the  consensus  that  we 
have  seen  yesterday  and  today  as  the  Assembly 
addressed  issues  concerning  the  question  of  Palestine 
and 
the  Middle  East.  He  went 
completely  off  the  track.  In  his  intervention  he  called 
on my country to play a positive regional role, and with 
that  unfortunate  call  he  ignored  the  reality  of  the 
political  situation  and  all  of  the  important  political 
achievements  that  have  made  Damascus  a  hub  for 
Arab,  regional  and 
international  politicians.  The 
Permanent  Representative  of  Australia  has  shown  a 
complete  lack  of  knowledge  of  the  positive  changes 
that  have  taken  place  in  our  region  as  a  result  of  the 
dynamic  and  wise  policies  of  the  Syrian  leadership, 
which  have  had  a  positive  effect  on  the  geopolitical 
dynamic in our region. 
the  situation 
Secondly, 
is  clear 
that 
in 
it 
18 

09-62814 
to 
to  accede 
the  Treaty  on 



Only  two  months  ago,  the  IAEA  adopted  two 
important  resolutions  on  Israel’s  nuclear  weapons 
arsenal.  The  resolutions  called  on  Israel  to  submit  its 
nuclear facilities to supervision and monitoring by the 
IAEA  and 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  as  a 
party  that  does  not  possess  nuclear  weapons.  The 
resolutions  also  called  on  the  Director  General  of  the 
IAEA to carry out that international request.  

Regrettably and as usual, the Israeli Government 
has rejected the two resolutions. David Danieli, Deputy 
Director  General 
Israel’s  Atomic  Energy 
Commission,  stated  after  its  adoption,  “The  State  of 
Israel  will  not  cooperate  in  any  matter  with  these 
resolutions”.  

One  can  imagine  how  concerned  we  are  that  the 
Permanent Representative of Australia has ignored the 
real  and  current  threat  posed  by  Israel’s  nuclear 
weapons  in  our  region  and  beyond  and  has  distracted 
attention  from  the  Israel’s  violations  of  international 
of 
A/64/PV.53
I 
to 
colleague, 
remind  my 
law and the provisions of the United Nations Charter in 
its aggression against Syria. 

This  twisted  behaviour  shows  that  Australia 
supports Israel’s excessive and grotesque actions in the 
area of nuclear proliferation and is seeking to cover up 
the  military  nuclear  programmes  of  Israel,  which 
threaten peace and security in the region and globally.  

the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Australia,  of  the  position  of  my 
country  with 
the  NPT  and  nuclear 
non-proliferation:  my  country’s  position  on  nuclear 
non-proliferation is clear, steadfast and transparent and 
cannot  be  upset  by  any  smokescreen  issues  raised  by 
one representative or another in the service of Israel. 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 15. 


The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m. 
regard 
09-62814 

19 
