
A/64/PV.19
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

19th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 13 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 


Agenda item 48 (continued) 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of  
and follow-up to the outcomes of the major  
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
  Commemoration of the fifteenth anniversary of 
the International Conference on Population and 
Development 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I should like to 
inform the Assembly that, although the list of speakers 
was  closed  yesterday  morning,  the  representative  of 
Uganda  has  requested  to  participate  in  the  debate  on 
this item. 

to include Uganda in the list? 
It is so decided. 


The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
Permanent Representative of the Kingdom of Norway. 
Mr.  Wetland  (Norway):  The  Cairo  International 

Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD) 
marked a watershed moment in that reproductive health 
and rights became an essential priority of development. 
Fifteen  years  after 
ICPD 
Programme of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1), we 
note  that  there  has  been  progress  in  some  fields,  but 
also that much remains to be done. 
the  adoption  of 
the 
to 
adopt 

After Cairo, we met in Beijing and Copenhagen, 
and  from  there  we  went  through  a  sequence  of 
important  meetings 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  2000.  Rightly,  the 
rights  and  needs  of  women  and  children  figure 
prominently in those Goals. The implementation of the 
ICPD Programme of Action is crucial to achieving the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Looking  ahead 
towards the United Nations summit next year, we note 
that substantial progress has been made. However, it is 
striking  that  we  have  hardly  made  any  progress  at  all 
towards  reaching  MDG  5,  on  maternal  mortality  and 
reproductive health.  

Every single minute, a woman dies somewhere in 
the  world  as  a  result  of  pregnancy  and  birth-related 
complications.  Almost  all  of  those  deaths  could  be 
prevented  if  basic  health  services  had  been  available. 
From  the  facts  available,  most  recently  in  the  Human 
Development  Report,  it  is  clear  that  it  is  possible  to 
make pregnancy and birth something that women need 
not  fear,  but  it  is  also  clear  that  we  have  far  to  go 
towards that  vision. In many countries,  giving birth is 
the most dangerous thing a woman can do. A day that 
should  be  a  celebration  of  life  is  still  for  too  many  a 
day of sorrow and agony.  

Why?  The  answer  is  that  we  have  not  taken  the 
issue  seriously.  In  many  parts  of  the  world,  including 
developed  nations,  women  are  seen  as  second-class 
citizens. The men who make decisions do not allocate 
enough  resources  to  meet  the  particular  needs  of 
women. As  a  result,  half  a  million  young  mothers  die 
of conditions that could have been prevented. The low 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-55571 (E) 
*0955571* 


A/64/PV.19 

status  of  women  and  lack  of  gender  equality  are  the 
causes of this disgraceful situation. We welcome in this 
regard  resolution  63/311  establishing  a  new  gender 
entity to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations 
to  promote  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women.  Concerted  and  coordinated  action  is  urgently 
needed  to  make  progress  on  MDG  5.  We  know  what 
needs  to  be  done,  but  to  do  it  requires  significantly 
enhanced  political  will  and  leadership,  community 
engagement and mobilization of resources.  

The  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  highlights  “the 
right  of  men  and  women  to  be  informed  and  to  have 
access  to  safe,  effective,  affordable  and  acceptable 
methods  of  family  planning”  (A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1, 
Chapter  I,  annex,  para.  7.2).  While  a 
lack  of 
reproductive  health  services  makes  sexual  activity 
more  risky  for  both  sexes,  it  does  do  particularly  for 
women. However, we are up against ancient and deeply 
rooted prejudices. Our guiding principle should be that 
every pregnancy is wanted.  

The  rights  and  needs  of  young  people  must  also 
be  addressed.  A  stronger  focus  on  young  girls  would 
also  reduce  teenage  pregnancies,  a  major  cause  of 
death  among  young  girls.  Lack  of  education  and 
services  does  not  stop  those  who  are  young  or 
unmarried  from  having  sex.  There  is  absolutely  no 
evidence that suppressing information about sex, health 
and  reproduction  reduces  sexual  activity.  On  the 
contrary,  there  is  evidence  from  many  countries  that 
sex  education  promotes  responsible  sexual  behaviour. 
Funds  available  for  family  planning  have  gone 
substantially down in recent years. There is now hope 
that this trend can be reversed. 

I would also like to touch briefly on the issue of 
abortion. We all know that this is a sensitive issue, but 
regardless  of  this  sensitivity,  unsafe  and  clandestine 
abortions  do  happen  and  too  often  end  in  death.  It  is 
therefore imperative to make sure that abortions that in 
fact  are  taking  place  are  carried  out  in  a  safe  manner. 
The decriminalization of abortion is clearly needed. 

Governments,  international  agencies  and  civil 
society  have  recently  started  to  move  the  health  of 
mothers  and  children  higher  on  the  agenda.  This  has 
given hope for accelerating progress towards achieving 
Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5.  
The  new  Norwegian  Government  of  Prime 

to 
Minister  Jens  Stoltenberg 
maintaining  official  development  assistance  at  a  high 
remains  committed 
2 

09-55571 
that 
The  delegation  of 
Japan 
joins  others 
relevant 
in 
implementing 
the  past  15  years 
(UNFPA)  and  other 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  the  representative 
level.  Today,  we  presented  the  State  budget  for  2010. 
In  it,  we  have  allocated  1.09  per  cent  of  next  year’s 
estimated  gross  national  income  to  development. This 
is an increase of 4 per cent and a sign of solidarity with 
the poor parts of the world, not least in the face of the 
financial  crises.  The  Government  is  also  maintaining 
earlier commitments to take on a special responsibility 
regarding  MDG  4  on  child  mortality  and  MDG  5  on 
maternal  mortality  and  reproductive  health,  and  this 
high level of support will be maintained by Norway. 

of Japan. 

Mr.  Osuga  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
thanking you, Sir, for convening this important meeting 
and  by  congratulating  the  United  Nations  Population 
Fund 
international 
organizations  on  all  their  efforts  and  achievements 
during 
the 
Programme  of  Action  (see  A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  of 
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD). 

in 
celebrating this fifteenth anniversary and in sharing its 
views  on  what  needs  to  be  done  in  the  years  that 
remain. 

The world has made great progress in the field of 
global health during the past 15 years. Japan raised the 
issue  of  infectious  diseases  for  the  first  time  at  the 
Group  of  Eight  summit  it  hosted  in  Kyushu-Okinawa 
in  2000,  and  again  last  year,  at  the  Hokkaido  Toyako 
Summit, Japan focused on the issue of global health, in 
particular  the  importance  of  maternal  and  child  health 
and the strengthening of health systems.  

Global  health  is  now  a  top  priority  issue  being 
discussed at the highest levels. As a result, foreign aid 
in the field of health has doubled, under-five mortality 
rates  have  gone  down,  and  access  to  HIV/AIDS 
treatment has seen major progress. 
However, a number of international goals related 

to  global  health 
remain  unmet.  Maternal  and 
reproductive health, in particular, requires a redoubling 
of our efforts. While directing sufficient funding to this 
area  remains  a  major  challenge,  we  must  also  take  all 
necessary  steps  to  ensure  that  the  allocated  funding  is 
used  in  the  most  effective  way  so  that  it  is  fully  and 
promptly  delivered  to  those  people  in  need  on  the 
ground.  My  delegation  believes 
the  donor 
redouble 
its  efforts 


community  should 
to  seek 
modalities  of  implementation  that  ensure  access  to 
appropriate  health  care  and  services  for  all  those  in 
need. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  touch 
upon several issues pertaining to the ICPD Programme 
of Action, as well as to global health in general, which 
are of importance to Japan. 

First, Japan has made human security one of the 
major  pillars  of  its  foreign  policy. That  is  because  we 
believe  that  the  human  security  approach  provides  us 
with  pertinent  insight  as  well  as  practical  tools  for 
tackling  the  global  issues  that  we  face  today,  which 
range  from  poverty  to  peacebuilding,  from  infectious 
diseases to environmental degradation. 

The  ICPD  Programme  of Action  emphasizes  the 
integral linkages between population and development, 
and focuses on meeting the needs of individuals rather 
than  on  achieving  demographic  targets.  The  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  underscores  the  importance  of 
reproductive  health,  as  well  as  the  empowerment  of 
women  in  general,  by  providing  them  with  more 
choices  through  expanded  access  to  education  and 
health  services,  skill  development  and  employment, 
and through their full involvement in decision-making 
processes at all levels. 
What  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  aims  to 

achieve coincides precisely with the ultimate objective 
of  promoting  human  security,  namely,  to  build  a 
society  where  all  people  are  protected  from  threats 
against  their  lives,  livelihoods  and  dignity  and  are 
empowered  to  realize  their  full  potential. That  is  why 
Japan believes that the international community should 
reinvigorate  its  determination  and  its  efforts  to  fulfil 
the ICPD Programme of Action. 

The  second  issue  I  would  like  to  raise  is  the 
strengthening  of  health  systems.  Health,  in  particular 
the health of the most vulnerable people in the world, 
is undoubtedly a major human security issue. If we are 
to achieve improvements in maternal and child health, 
infectious 
reproductive  health  and 
diseases,  all 
to 
necessary health care. To this end, national health-care 
policies should be drafted with a bottom-up perspective 
and  implemented  so  as  to  allow  the  allocation  of 
limited financial resources commensurate with the real 
needs  on  the  ground.  That  is  the  key  challenge  in 
strengthening health systems. 
individuals  should  have  access 
in  combating 
in 
In 
The 
third  and 
last 
like 
concert  with 
theme  I  would 

It is Japan’s firm belief that only qualified human 
resources can lay the cornerstones of sustained national 
capacity  and  country  ownership.  Therefore,  my 
Government  intends  to  contribute  actively  to  the 
development of human resources in the health sector of 
developing countries. At the fourth Tokyo International 
Conference  on  African  Development  in  2008,  Japan 
committed  to  train  up  to  100,000  health-care  workers 
and  to  help  them  to  stay  in  the  country.  In  order  to 
nurture  the  sense  of  ownership  of  individual  health 
workers,  Japan’s  assistance  will  focus  not  only  on  the 
number of trainees, but also on training higher-quality 
health workers. 

to 
emphasize is collaboration with international and civil 
society  partners.  International  organizations,  including 
UNFPA  and  the  International  Planned  Parenthood 
Federation, 
non-governmental 
organizations  and  civil  society  organizations,  continue 
to  play  an  important  role  in  implementing  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  with  their  expertise,  field-level 
mobility and political neutrality. Japan will continue to 
place high priority on partnering with international and 
civil  society  organizations,  private  foundations,  the 
corporate  sector,  academia  and  parliamentarians  in 
order to contribute to the implementation of the ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  achievement  of  the 
related Millennium Development Goals.  

the 
like 
Assembly’s  attention  to  the  2009  Rafael  M.  Salas 
Commemorative  Lecture  scheduled  to  take  place  on 
23 November,  in  which  Mr.  Yasuo  Fukuda,  former 
Prime  Minister  of  Japan  and  Chairman  of  the  Asian 
Forum  of  Parliamentarians  on  Population  and 
Development,  will  present  his  lecture  on  population 
and development. 

Finally, the delegation of Japan, as the vice-chair 
of  the  United  Nations  Commission  on  Population  and 
Development at its forty-third session and representing 
the Asian  regional  group,  looks  forward  to  having  in-
depth  discussions  on  population  and  development 
during the 2010 session of the Commission which will 
focus on maternal and child health. 

representative of the Netherlands. 

I  make 
statement  on  behalf  of  Burkina  Faso  and 
Netherlands.  
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
this  regard,  I  would 
Mr.  Schaper
(Netherlands): 
to  draw 
A/64/PV.19
this 
the 
09-55571 

3 

on 
Population 
for 
commemoration 
Let  me  start  by  thanking  the  organizers  of  this 
A/64/PV.19 


important meeting. 

This  year  marks  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  (ICPD)  and  the  fortieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA).  It  is  a 
time 
and  well-deserved 
congratulations, but definitely not a time to sit back. A 
lot remains to be done. 

Fifteen years ago, representatives at the ICPD in 
Cairo  shifted  the  population  debate  away  from  a  top-
down  approach  focused  on  population  numbers  to  a 
bottom-up  approach  focused  on  human  rights  and 
people’s  individual  needs.  We  consider  this  paradigm 
shift to be a success story. We reiterate our full support 
for  the  Cairo  consensus  and  the  entire  Programme  of 
Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1). 

After the Millennium Summit, it took six years of 
hard work before the Cairo agenda was fully reflected 
in  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The 
MDG target on universal access to reproductive health 
by 2015 was not added until 2007. Regrettably, family 
planning  and  reproductive  health  continue  to  pose 
challenges.  If  the  two  MDG  5  targets  on  maternal 
health and on reproductive health are not achieved, the 
other  MDGs  will  not  be  attained  either.  It  is  smart 
economics to invest in MDG 5. 

We  aim  at  concrete  actions  and  results  at  the 
country level, but in order to achieve that we also need 
to place maternal and reproductive health higher on the 
global  development  agenda.  The  upcoming  action-
focused  High-level  Meeting  on  MDG  5,  sexual  and 
reproductive  health  and  rights,  in  Addis  Ababa  on 
26 October, co-hosted by UNFPA and the Netherlands, 
is one example of the efforts to do so. 

There  is  a  growing  awareness  that  population 
issues  have  long  been  neglected  in  the  development 
debate  and 
in  national  planning.  Demographic 
developments  often  mean  fast-growing  populations,  a 
fact  that  offers  both  opportunities  and  threats. Access 
to  reproductive  health  services,  including  the  widest 
possible  choice  of  contraceptives, 
is  of  crucial 
importance  to  help  minimize  social  and  economic 
problems at the national and household levels. There is 
also  a  need  to  strengthen  the  involvement  of  men  and 
to  increase  their  awareness  of  the  importance  of 
reproductive  health  services  for  the  health  of  their 
wives,  children  and  themselves,  and  consequently  for 
supporting  countries 
many other aspects of family life, including economic 
prosperity. 

Addressing  the  needs  of  young  people  is  also 
essential.  The  unprecedented  number  of  young 
people —  more  than  half  of  the  world’s  population  is 
under 25 years old — compels us to make their future 
our priority. 

In  April  this  year,  an  international  coordination 
meeting on the UNFPA Global Programme to Enhance 
Reproductive  Health  Commodity  Security  was  held  in 
Burkina Faso. The Global Programme has broken from 
an  ad  hoc  technical  assistance  approach  and  moved 
towards 
to  develop  more 
predictable,  planned  and  sustainable  policies.  Country 
leadership  and  the  strengthening  of  national  planning, 
funding  and  logistic  systems  are  key  features  in  that 
approach, as is making commodity security an integral 
part  of  national  health  policies.  Further  efforts  are 
needed,  including  strengthening  UNFPA’s  capacity  to 
provide  upstream  advice  and  support,  and  sufficient 
donor funding to do so. 

In Burkina Faso — under Government leadership 
and  with  the  support  of  bilateral  and  international 
partners  —  progress  has  been  made  in  several  ICPD-
related areas. For example, prenatal care has improved 
considerably, with an increase from 61 per cent in 2004 
to 75 per cent in 2008; the rate of skilled attendance at 
childbirth rose from 33 per cent in 2004 to 65 per cent 
in 2008; and the contraceptive prevalence rate evolved 
from 16 per cent in 2004 to 28 per cent in 2008. 
to  experience  high 

fertility  rates  at  6.1  children  per  woman,  and  high 
population  growth.  Additionally,  the  unmet  need  for 
family  planning  services  remains  considerable  at  29 
per  cent. There  is  political  commitment  at  the  highest 
level,  which  puts  access  to  reproductive  health  and 
HIV/AIDS  supplies  at  the  top  of  the  political  agenda. 
HIV/AIDS  prevalence  and  female  genital  mutilation 
are declining but remain high. 

On  1  September  this  year,  Burkina  Faso  was 
affected  by  unprecedented  rainfall  that  resulted  in 
floods.  In  Ouagadougou  alone,  150,000  people  lost 
their homes and all their belongings. Women, children 
and  elderly  people  were  severely  affected.  The  main 
hospital  was  shut  down,  and  its  patients  and  services 
were  relocated.  That  situation  affects  mainly  the 
poorest  and  will  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  well-
being  of  the  population,  including  health  and  the 
Burkina  Faso  continues 
4 

09-55571 
in 
A/64/PV.19

framework 
for 
“have  become  a  universal 
development  and  a  means 
for  developing 
countries and their development partners to work 
together in pursuit of a shared future for all.” 
Yesterday, 

the  State  Secretary  of  Sweden 
addressed  this  commemorative  meeting  on  behalf  of 
the  European  Union  member  States.  My  delegation 
would like to make a few remarks in addition to those 
of Sweden, whose statement generally reflects Malta’s 
position  on  the  ICPD  and  its  outcome.  Before  doing 
that,  however,  I  would  like  to  clarify  Malta’s  position 
with  respect  to  the  issue  of  sexual  and  reproductive 
health and rights. 

As it did in Cairo 15 years ago, Malta would like 
to reaffirm today its position that any position taken or 
recommendation regarding women’s empowerment and 
gender  equality  should  not  in  any  way  create  an 
obligation  on  any  party  to  consider  abortion  as  a 
legitimate form of reproductive health right, service or 
commodity. Malta continues to hold the view that any 
discussion  of  rights  and  services  in  connection  with 
reproductive  health  cannot  take  place  outside  the 
framework  of  one  of  the  most  fundamental  human 
rights — the right to life. 

Malta  strongly  believes  that  the  right  to  life 
extends  to  the  unborn  child  from  the  moment  of 
conception, and that therefore the use of abortion as a 
means of resolving health or social problems is a denial 
of  that  right.  It  is  within  this  framework  of  human 
rights  —  the  right  to  life  —  that  Malta  has,  over  the 
past  15  years,  placed  high  priority  on  the  Cairo 
Declaration 
(see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1). In that spirit and in fulfilment 
of that commitment, Malta will continue to implement 
the values and objectives of the ICPD. 

Economic and social development continues to be 
an  integral  part  and  a  pillar  of  the  Cairo  legacy  and  a 
dominant  factor  on  today’s  development  agenda.  For 
many  years  now,  United  Nations  Member  States  have 
worked assiduously to address the many critical issues 
that the world population continues to face. The world 
population  is  experiencing  difficult  and  challenging 
times.  The  financial  and  food  crises,  climate  change, 
diseases  such  as  malaria  and  HIV/AIDS,  the  AH1N1 
influenza  pandemic,  terrorism,  natural  disasters,  the 
trafficking  of  persons,  particularly  women  and 
children,  and  the  illegal  trafficking  of  arms  and  drugs 
are  all  compounding  the  risks  that  our  generation  is 
and  Programme 
of  Action 
However, 
other 
communication 
and  monitoring 
cooperation  with 
results.  We  welcome  and 
inter-agency  coordination  and  at 


development  efforts  of  the  Government,  including  in 
sexual  and  reproductive  health  services,  the  need  for 
which is too often overlooked in emergency responses. 

While  thanking  all  partners  for  their  prompt 
reaction 
supporting  Burkina  Faso’s  national 
endeavour to address the needs of the victims, we urge 
the  international  community  to  stay  mobilized  and  to 
take  concrete  actions  to  help  overcome  the  mid-  and 
long-term effects of that disaster. 

The  Netherlands  and  Burkina  Faso  call  for  more 
alignment of the United Nations and other international 
actors  with  national  policies  and  systems,  further 
decentralization,  high  quality  human  resources,  the 
of 
improved 
development 
support 
UNFPA’s active and leading role in initiatives aimed at 
improving 
the 
harmonization  of  business  practices  and  joint  actions, 
such  as  “The  Health  4”  mechanism  of  UNFPA,  the 
World  Health  Organization,  UNICEF  and  the  World 
Bank. 

similar 
initiatives  and  a  focus  on  concrete  results  at  the 
country  level  are  urgently  required.  We  would  also 
underline  the  importance  of  working  with  the  private 
sector 
not-for-profit 
organizations. 
Given  today’s  food  and  financial  crises  and 

the  visionary  and  holistic  Cairo 
climate  change, 
agenda —  with 
its  focus  on  people,  population, 
poverty,  the  environment  and  the  health  and  rights  of 
women — remains more relevant than ever. We expect 
UNFPA  to  continue  to  lead  and  all  Member  States  to 
honour the promises of Cairo together. 

of Malta. 
Mr. Borg (Malta): It is an acknowledged fact that 

the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  (ICPD)  held  in  Cairo,  and  the  fifteenth 
anniversary of which we are commemorating today, is 
one of the principal achievements of the Organization. 

The  1994  Cairo  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action  (see  A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  were  reconfirmed 
six  years  later  when  world  leaders  endorsed  the 
Millennium  Declaration 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  as  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon said,  
The  President: I  now  call  on  the  representative 
and  with 
for-profit 
and 
and 
09-55571 

5 

that 
there 
threats 
those  crises  and 
A/64/PV.19 

facing, and at times even threatening the very existence 
is  a  prevalent 
of  our  populations.  Indeed, 
recognition 
are 
marginalizing  the  Cairo  Programme  of Action  and  the 
MDGs  and  could  even  place  them  beyond  our  reach 
unless a renewed effort is made by all of us to turn the 
tide of our current predicament in the protection of our 
present and future generations. 

Today’s commemorative meeting comes at a time 
when  we  note  with  satisfaction  the  number  of  high-
level  conferences,  interactive  thematic  dialogues  and 
other  events  organized  throughout  the  past  year  to 
address  the  issues  to  which  I  just  referred,  as  well  as 
others.  Through 
the  active  participation  of  all 
stakeholders,  the  international  community  is  breaking 
new  ground.  With  the  direct  involvement  of  all 
concerned,  we have been  able to identify many of the 
ills  besetting  our  societies  and,  in  many  cases,  have 
singled  out  possible  cures  and  remedies  that  could 
contribute to a revitalization of the global economy, to 
the  protection  and  upholding  of  the  rights  of  the  poor 
and  vulnerable,  to  the  adaptation  and  mitigation  of 
climate change, to combating impunity and promoting 
the  rule  of  law,  to  addressing  the  responsibility  to 
protect  and  to  strengthening  democracy  and  good 
governance.  
In  addition,  we,  as  States  Members  of  this 

numerous 
Organization, 
declarations to commit ourselves to delivering what the 
Secretary-General  has  described  as  “global  goods” 
through  a  new  global  agreement  in  Copenhagen, 
advancing 
terrorism, 
addressing the needs of Africa, achieving the goal of a 
world  free  from  nuclear  weapons  and  creating  a 
stronger United Nations. 

Fifteen  years  ago,  the  Cairo  Conference  gave 
hope  to  those  millions  and  millions  of  people  around 
the  world  who,  unfortunately,  continue 
find 
themselves 
interminable  unrest, 
destruction,  misery,  poverty,  internal  displacement, 
violence  and  deprivation  of  their  basic  human  rights. 
Through renewed and concerted efforts, we must make 
sure  that  the  Cairo  commitments  and  the  MDGs  are 
faithfully implemented and enable our Organization to 
continue  to  establish  itself  as  a  major  custodian  of 
human  endeavours  for  the  equal  and  common  benefit 
of  all.  That  is  a  goal  to  which  our  countries  and  all 
stakeholders  must 
this 
anniversary.  It  is  a  goal  that  we  must  seek  and 
themselves  on 
the  midst  of 
countering 
recommit 
health, 
agreed 
global 
have 
our 
in 
in 
to 
I 
in 
on 
that 
take 
integrated 
Population 
implementing 
this  opportunity 
The  President:  I  call  now  on  the  representative 
accomplish  together.  It  is  a  goal  that  Malta  will 
continue to honour and protect. 

of Kenya. 
Mr.  Muita  (Kenya):  My  delegation  is  indeed 

grateful  to  you,  Mr.  President,  and  to  the  General 
Assembly  for  convening  this  important  meeting  to 
commemorate  the  passing  of  15  years  since  the 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  (ICPD)  was  held.  Members  will  recall 
that  we  agreed  thereon  a  Programme  of  Action  (see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
a 
comprehensive  range  of  issues  related  to  population, 
development and human rights issues.  
My delegation associates itself with the statement 

made  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China. 

to  reaffirm  Kenya’s 
commitment  to  the  continued  implementation  of  the 
ICPD Programme of Action and its key actions. Kenya 
has  been  consistent 
ICPD 
Programme  of Action  and  recognizes  that  its  effective 
implementation  requires  the  commitment  of  financial 
resources, which have continued to decline in the face 
of  competing  priorities  and  the  global  recession.  The 
Programme  has  been  useful  in  providing  an  important 
framework  for 
to  population 
development  in  Kenya  and  is  recognized  as  a  key 
component 
internationally 
agreed  goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). 

At  the  national  level,  Kenya’s  scorecard  on  the 
implementation  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
indicates that significant achievements have been made 
in  all  areas,  particularly 
the  development  and 
implementation 
policies, 
frameworks, 
legal 
guidelines  and  plans  of  action.  Critical  innovative 
interventions  such  as  the  Constituency  Development 
Fund, the Youth Enterprise Development Fund and the 
Women  Development  Fund  have  continued  to  spur 
economic  growth  and  to  promote  job  creation  and 
participation  at  the  grass-roots  level  throughout  the 
country.  Other  achievements  include  the  creation  of  a 
budget  line  item  for  reproductive  health  commodities 
and  the  adoption  and  sustenance  of  free  primary  and 
tuition-free secondary education.  
the  achievement  of 
the  agenda  related 
the 
of 
in 
6 

09-55571 
those  meant 
institutional  capacity 



As  far  as  population  growth  is  concerned,  it  is 
important  to  note  that,  during  the  1990s  and  early  in 
this  decade,  Kenya  made  significant  progress 
in 
lowering  its  fertility  and  overall  population  growth 
rates.  That  momentum,  however,  slowed  somewhat 
during  the  mid-2000s.  Key  demographic  indicators 
have  stagnated,  while  others  have  deteriorated.  It  is 
therefore  uncertain  whether  some  goals  of 
the 
Programme  of  Action  and  some  MDGs  will  be 
achieved as expected. 

A  number  of  challenges  and  constraints  have 
been  encountered  that  continue  to  hamper  the  smooth 
implementation  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action.  I 
believe  that  these  could  serve  as  lessons  from  which 
we  could  all  learn.  They  include  the  failure  to  fully 
integrate  population,  gender  and 
environmental 
concerns  into  development  planning  at  all  levels;  the 
slow  and  ineffective  pace  of  the  implementation  of 
to  address 
programmes,  particularly 
poverty  reduction;  weak 
to 
effectively  implement  or  enforce  formulated  policies 
and  laws  aimed  at  promoting  gender  equity  and  the 
empowerment  of  women;  low  levels  of  domestic 
resource mobilization and allocation for population and 
reproductive  health  programmes,  and  hence  an  over-
reliance  on  donor  funding;  inadequate  linkage  of 
HIV/AIDS prevention strategies with care and support; 
and  a  weak  institutional  framework  for  implementing 
integrated  population-  and  health-related  programmes 
and projects. 

The  task  ahead,  particularly  in  the  area  of 
population  and  development  is  daunting,  and  even 
more  so  in  these  challenging  times.  However,  we 
always  draw  inspiration  from  the  fact  that  we  have 
made  commendable  progress  even  in  the  face  of  the 
toughest  of  situations.  The  critical  factors  in  all  the 
modest  gains  are  the  partnerships  that  have  been 
created  and  the  exemplary  leadership,  guidance  and 
effective  participation  of  all  stakeholders  throughout 
the 15 years of implementing the ICPD outcome.   

Kenya commends the United Nations for leading 
the  way.  We  especially  appreciate  the  stewardship  of 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  in  the  promotion 
of the rights of every woman, man and child to enjoy a 
life of health and equal opportunity. My delegation also 
acknowledges the contribution that the United Nations 
Development  Programme, 
the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the World Food 
Programme  and  others  continue  to  make  in  Kenya’s 
the  Office 
for 
A/64/PV.19
these 
There 
challenges, 
Notwithstanding 
is  profound  apprehension 
and other developing countries’ quest to implement the 
Programme of Action.  In this respect, special mention 
needs to be made of the focus on and positive results in 
the  areas  of  reproductive  health,  including  HIV/AIDS 
prevention initiatives and advances on gender. 

that  many 
countries  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  will  not  attain  the 
Millennium Development Goals by the 2015 target. In 
the  context  of  a  number  of  MDG  goals  and  targets, 
Kenya  shares  that  fear.  The  statistics  suggest  that  the 
achievement  of  universal  primary  education, 
the 
promotion  of  gender  parity,  the  empowerment  of 
women  and  the  reversal  of  HIV/AIDS  infections  by 
2015  is  within  reach,  but  efforts  to  eradicate  extreme 
hunger  and  poverty,  reduce  child  mortality  and 
improve maternal health continue to face considerable 
challenges. 

the 
Government  has  a  responsibility  to  deliver  and  be 
accountable. We are convinced that success will largely 
depend  on  the  individual  as  well  as  collective  actions 
of  the  community  of  nations.  The  Kenya  Government 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  keeping  its  part  of  the 
bargain. We urge all other stakeholders, especially the 
main development partners, to do the same. 

We feel that some areas require urgent follow-up. 
The  sustainability  of  HIV/AIDS  funding  is  critical. 
Antiretroviral  treatment  is  a  life-long  commitment; 
therefore,  people  undergoing  treatment  should  have 
access to drugs in a sustained way. So far, funding for 
prevention  programmes  has  been 
inadequate  and 
should be enhanced, since prevention is the best way to 
fight  HIV/AIDS.  Financial  support 
fighting 
HIV/AIDS  should  be  provided  in  the  form  of  grants 
and not loans. 

Kenya  and  other  deserving  developing  countries 
should be considered for debt relief and/or cancellation 
without  conditionalities.  The  funds  mobilized  should 
be channelled to priority areas that promote economic 
growth  and  development, 
infrastructure 
development,  increasing  agricultural  productivity,  job 
creation initiatives and improving health-care systems. 
There is a need for enhanced resource allocation for the 
Programme.  To 
commitments, 
particularly those undertaken by donors, have not been 
honoured.  Unless  the  international  assistance  rises  to 
the  levels  agreed  in  Cairo,  ICPD  goals  will  not  be 
achieved. 
for 
including 
date, 
financial 
09-55571 

7 

the 
in 
joint 
to 
in  order 
to  achieve 
initiatives 
to  address 
to  develop 
inadequate  response 
A/64/PV.19 


As  we  reflect  on  the  achievements  made  in  the 
15 years  since  Cairo,  we  must  also  acknowledge  the 
missed  opportunities  and 
to 
multiple  unmet  needs.  We  must  strengthen  our  shared 
determination  to  finish  what  we  started  15  years  ago, 
so that in the next five years no one will be denied his 
or her reproductive rights. Similarly, no one should go 
hungry.  It  is  therefore  crucial  for  us  to  reassess  the 
strategies  we  have  used 
ICPD 
Programme of Action and the MDGs. 

Finally, while acknowledging that we are making 
significant  strides  in  the  areas  under  discussion,  we 
note  that  success  will  be  slow  if  we  do  not  develop 
strong partnerships among key stakeholders, including 
development  partners,  Governments,  civil  society  and 
the private sector. 
In  this  regard,  my  delegation  calls  for  concerted 

efforts 
transfer 
appropriate technologies and to foster engagement with 
all  sectors  of  society 
the 
internationally agreed goals, including the MDGs. The 
Kenya  Government  will  remain  engaged 
this 
endeavour. 

representative of Pakistan. 
Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  Fifteen  years  ago,  we,  the 

people of the world,  achieved an important agreement 
at  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development  (ICPD)  in  Cairo  on  the  link  between 
population and development. The consensus reached at 
Cairo  placed  individual  human  rights  at  the  centre  of 
the  development  process.  It  also  acknowledged  the 
central  role  of  women  and  young  people  in  the 
development process. 

Today, as we meet to commemorate the fifteenth 
anniversary of this consensus, we remain conscious of 
the  progress  made  thus  far  and  of  the  challenges  we 
will face in achieving the ICPD goals in the next five 
years. We are indeed faced with increased challenges in 
the  wake  of 
the  current  multiple  global  crises, 
including that of finance. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China. 

I  thank  the  Executive  Director  of  the  United 
Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA),  Ms.  Thoraya 
Obaid, for her introductory statement. I avail myself of 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
this opportunity to commend the role of UNFPA in the 
advancement  of  goals  and  objectives  related 
to 
population  and  development.  UNFPA  is  one  of  the 
major  sources  of  financial  and  technical  assistance  to 
the  population  programmes  in  Pakistan.  Our  long-
standing  partnership  with  UNFPA  dates  back  to  1971, 
when UNFPA opened its first office in Pakistan. Since 
then,  seven  country  programmes  have  been  jointly 
implemented. 

As  we  all  know,  the  hard-earned  reduction  in 
global  poverty  and  efforts  made  towards  development 
have  now  been  overshadowed  by  the  current  financial 
crises.  More  than  ever  before,  improvement  in  socio-
economic  development  will  depend  on  addressing  the 
population challenge. 

Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

In  the  area  of  population  planning,  like  other 
developing countries Pakistan faces similar challenges 
of  internal  migration,  rapid  urbanization,  youth  bulge 
and  a  high  rate  of  unmet  needs,  inter  alia.  Pakistan’s 
urban  population  has  also  doubled.  The  focus  of  the 
Government’s  policy,  therefore,  is  to  generate  work 
opportunities  in  urban  and  rural  areas  alike.  To  slow 
down the pace of internal migration from rural to urban 
areas,  more  work  opportunities  are  being  created  in 
rural areas. 
Following  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  (see 

of 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
Pakistan’s  national  population  policy, 
the  main 
objective  of  our  country  programme  has  been  to  lead 
towards population stabilization and sustainable human 
development,  with  a 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals and poverty reduction. 
Responding  to  the  population  challenge,  the 

Government  of  Pakistan  has 
formulated  various 
policies in the areas of population, health, environment 
and  education  by  integrating  population  concerns  into 
development  strategies.  Pakistan’s  population  policy 
seeks  to  attain  a  balance  between  population  and 
resources. Its goals are set out in three major areas of 
the  ICPD:  expanded  access  to  education,  particularly 
for  girls,  reduced  mortality  rates  and  increased  access 
to  quality  reproductive  health  services  and  family 
planning. That  policy  sets  out  a  broad  framework  that 
provides  a  forward-looking  vision  to  achieve  the 
ultimate  aim  of  economic  development  by  raising  the 
quality  of  life  for  the  common  man  and  for  women 
elaboration 
focus  on 
and 
the 
8 

09-55571 
the 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 


through  focusing  on  family  planning  under 
the 
umbrella  of  reproductive  health,  especially  in  rural 
areas.  The  policy  is  the  outcome  of  a  participatory 
process  and  enjoys  the  consensus  of  all  stakeholders, 
including  non-governmental  organizations  and  civil 
society. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that 
Pakistan is fully committed to the goals and objectives 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development.  Our  objectives  are  clearly  articulated, 
and  we  are  confident  and  ready  to  accept  the  current 
challenges and to achieve international commitments. 

representative of Turkey. 
Mr. Çorman (Turkey): At the outset, I would like 

to  associate  myself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  the  European  Union  presidency  (see 
A/64/PV.17). I would like to make some brief remarks 
in my national capacity to highlight the importance that 
my  Government  gives  to  the  International  Conference 
on Population and Development (ICPD). 

It  is  indeed  a  great  pleasure  to  address  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  commemoration  of  the 
fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  International  Conference 
on  Population  and  Development.  The  Programme  of 
Action 
(see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1), held in Cairo in 1994, remains 
a guiding light in population and development policies, 
highlighting  gender  equality,  the  empowerment  of 
women,  reproductive  health  and  the  need  to  address 
maternal  mortality  as 
the 
empowerment  and  for  the  full  and  equal  participation 
of women. 

Over the years, much has been achieved to attain 
those  goals.  However,  we  need  to  make  further 
progress to attain the 2015 targets on gender and sexual 
reproductive  health  because,  as 
the 
Programme  of  Action,  we  believe  that  reproductive 
rights  are  human  rights.  That  is  why  my  country 
remains  a  firm  and  dedicated  supporter  of  the  ICPD 
Cairo  agenda.  The  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
(UNFPA)  has  a  special  responsibility  in  leading  the 
promotion  and  implementation  of  that  agenda. We  are 
pleased to see that UNFPA is making strong efforts to 
fulfil that responsibility in different parts of the world. 
With only five years to 2015, we remain committed to 
enhancing  our  cooperation  with  concerned  partners  in 
Conference 
road  map 
adopted 
stated 
the 
for 
at 
the 
in 
A/64/PV.19
order to achieve universal access to reproductive health 
and to enable women’s empowerment. 

Within  that  framework,  we  look  forward  to 
welcoming to Istanbul the participants in the high-level 
regional  meeting  on  maternal  health  —  Millennium 
Development  Goal  5  —  which  is  being  organized  by 
the  UNFPA  Regional  Office  for  Eastern  Europe  and 
Central  Asia  for  11  November  2009.  The  aim  of  the 
meeting  is  to  reinforce  the  political  and  financial 
commitment  to  improving  maternal  health  and  access 
to reproductive services for disadvantaged populations 
in  Central  Asia  and  Eastern  Europe.  The  meeting 
immediately  precedes  the  high-level  regional  forum 
that will take place in Istanbul on 12 and 13 November, 
marking 
the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  ICPD.  The 
Government  of  Turkey  is  working  closely  with  the 
UNFPA  Regional  Office  for  Eastern  Europe  and 
Central Asia to ensure the success of those meetings. 

Finally,  in  today’s  globalized  world,  migration 
and  development  are  becoming  even  more  closely 
linked.  Considering  that  the  fundamental  cause  of 
illegal  migration  is  poverty  and  underdevelopment  in 
countries of  origin, it would be more realistic that the 
countries  of  origin  and  of  destination  jointly  develop 
initiatives  aimed  at  the  root  causes  of  the  problem. 
While  we  agree 
in  migration 
management should be based on partnership, given the 
magnitude  of 
the 
solutions  are  beyond  the  means  of  a  single  country, 
thus requiring burden-sharing. 

representative of Jamaica. 
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  The  convening  of  this 

commemorative meeting is indeed timely, offering us a 
unique  opportunity  to  take  stock  of  our  achievements 
over the last 15 years and to underline our expectations 
for  the  years  ahead.  As  the  Assembly  is  about  to 
undertake  preparations  for  next  year’s  high-level 
meeting to review the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs),  this  meeting  will  also  serve  to  assist  in  that 
the 
endeavour,  as 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  (ICPD)  (see  A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  is 
not only by and large  encompassed in the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) but forms part and parcel 
of  the  global  development  agenda.  Fifteen  years  after 
the  Cairo  Conference,  we  continue  to  hold  the  view 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
the  Programme  of  Action  of 
illegal  migration  problem, 
that  cooperation 
Population 
the 
the 
on 
09-55571 

9 

A/64/PV.19 

that  the  Programme  of  Action  remains  relevant  in  a 
dynamic globalized environment. 

The  timing  of  this  meeting  is  also  apt  in  that  it 
coincides with an inauspicious period characterized by 
unprecedented  turmoil  in  the  global  environment. 
Developing  countries,  in  particularly  small  island 
developing States like my own, have never been more 
buffeted  by 
the  complex  and  multidimensional 
challenges  that  we  have  been  forced  to  confront 
through  no  fault  of  ours.  We  are  faced  with  a  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis  of  an  enormity  that  far 
transcends  our  limited  capacities  to  respond  and  that 
therefore  threatens  to  decimate  our  fragile  economies. 
We  are  saddled  with  an 
inordinately  high  and 
unsustainable  level  of  indebtedness  and  have  limited 
or, worse still, no access to liquidity, and with extreme 
vulnerability  to  external  shocks  and  susceptibility  to 
natural  disasters.  We  are  challenged  to  address  food 
security. Because of all that, our capacity to attain our 
national  development  objectives  and  internationally 
agreed development goals is seriously compromised. 

Notwithstanding  the  myriad  challenges,  Jamaica 
has recorded several important accomplishments in our 
efforts  to  implement  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
and to make it the cornerstone of all our policies, plans 
and  programmes  on  population  and  development 
matters.  
Jamaica  was  among  the  first  countries  in  the 

developing  world 
to  develop  an  explicit  and 
comprehensive  national  population  policy  following 
the 1994 Conference. In 2006, our Government made a 
paradigm  shift  from  five-year  medium-term  planning 
to  a  long-term  planning  horizon,  encapsulated  in  the 
long-term  population  plan  Vision  2030.  Preparations 
are  currently  under  way  for  implementation  of  the 
Population  Plan 
three-year  medium-term 
planning frameworks. 

Jamaica  had  a  relatively  well-developed  family 
planning  programme  even  prior  to  the  ICPD.  Since 
then  the  Government  of  Jamaica,  with  the  kind 
assistance  of  UNFPA  and  USAID,  has  embarked  on  a 
strategic programme targeting the reproductive health-
care needs of adolescents and youth. To a large extent, 
those groups were excluded from the main focus of the 
national  family  planning  and  reproductive  health 
programme.  Since 
implementation  of 
adolescent  and  youth-friendly  clinics  and  health  and 
family  life  education  programmes  in  schools  and 
through 
the 
ICPD, 
communities  has  resulted  in  substantial  reductions  in 
fertility and unwanted and unintended pregnancies and 
higher contraceptive prevalence among adolescents and 
youth. 

With  the  support  of  UNFPA  and  the  European 
Commission,  Jamaica  has  also  embarked  on  another 
strategic  programme,  one  that  targets  the  reproductive 
health needs of persons with disabilities and focuses on 
adolescents and youth with disabilities. The success of 
that  programme  has  been  regarded  as  a  best  practice 
and  is  being  piloted  in  other  countries.  I  am  also 
pleased to report that Jamaica is on target for achieving 
universal access to reproductive health by 2015. 

Jamaica  was  among  the  first  countries  following 
the  ICPD  and  the  social  summit  to  develop  a  national 
poverty eradication policy and programme of action. In 
the  early  1990s,  absolute  poverty  was  estimated  at 
around  30  per  cent  of  the  population,  with  rural  areas 
accounting for higher levels, at about 50 per cent. The 
latest estimates indicate that absolute poverty is around 
10  per  cent  of  the  population,  well  below  the  levels 
recorded in the 1990s. 
The  Government  of  Jamaica  has  pursued  a 

multi-pronged strategic approach in targeting the poor. 
Various  programmes 
for  vulnerable  groups  — 
including 
lactating  women,  children,  adolescents, 
youth,  the  elderly  and  persons  with  disabilities  —  are 
being  pursued.  The  MDG  target  for  reducing  extreme 
poverty  and  hunger  between  1990  and  2015  was 
achieved  by  2007,  and  Jamaica  is  well  on  its  way  to 
eradicating absolute poverty. However,  there are well-
founded  fears 
the  current  global  economic 
recession  may  undermine  some  of  our  gains  in  that 
area. 
The  HIV/AIDS  epidemic,  which  started  in  1982 

in Jamaica, is among the greatest challenges facing the 
country. Jamaica has  formulated a national HIV/AIDS 
strategic  plan  in  line  with  a  CARICOM  HIV/AIDS 
strategic  plan.  Other  initiatives  implemented  include 
the  integration  of  programmes  relating  to  HIV/AIDS 
and other sexually transmitted diseases into the family 
planning and maternal and child health programmes. 
the  Millennium  Summit,  Jamaica 

undertook  a  more  systematic  and  comprehensive 
approach  to  the  epidemic. That  was  greatly  facilitated 
by  the  availability  of  increased  funding  through  the 
Global Fund and similar funding initiatives. 
Following 
that 
10 

09-55571 
the 
these 
sexually 
improved 
transmitted 
level  have 
the  national 
infections  and 
important  gains, 



Over  the  past  five  years,  Jamaica  has  finally 
started  to  see  tangible  gains.  Deaths  from AIDS  have 
started to decline as a result of greater public access to 
antiretroviral treatment, the use of prophylaxis against 
opportunistic 
laboratory 
capacity  to  conduct  investigations.  Paediatric  AIDS 
cases have also declined, indicating the success of the 
programme  for 
the  prevention  of  mother-to-child 
transmission.  

level  of 
Despite 
infection  remains  fairly  high,  at  around  1.5  to  1.7  per 
cent of the population 15 years and over. Jamaica is of 
the  view  that  with  enhanced  support  and  adequate 
funding, we should be able to achieve the targets. 

In  relation  to  the  ICPD  and  the  MDG  goal  of 
reducing  maternal  mortality  by  two  thirds  between 
1990 and 2015, some programmes implemented to date 
at 
integrated  projects 
concerning maternal  and child health, family planning 
and 
infections.  We  have 
established  baby-  and  mother-friendly  clinics  and 
provided  antiretrovirals  to  prevent  mother-to-child 
transmission  of  HIV.  Free  health  care  has  been  made 
available  in  public  hospitals  and  clinics  island-wide. 
Although  there  has  been  much  progress,  it  is  highly 
unlikely  that  Jamaica  will  achieve  all  the  targets  by 
2015. 

Jamaica  has  an  enviable  record  of  promoting 
gender  equality,  equity  and  empowerment  of  women. 
Among  our  most  important  achievements  are  the 
establishment  in  the  1970s  of  various  institutions 
dedicated  to  the  advancement  of  women  and  the 
introduction  of  the  Women  in  Development  Studies 
Programme at the University of the West Indies. Those 
programmes  have  contributed  significantly 
the 
progress  of  women  in  many  spheres.  Girls  have 
surpassed  boys  in  both  enrolment  and  performance  at 
the secondary and tertiary levels. Major initiatives will 
have  to  be  implemented  to  bridge  the  disparity  as  it 
relates to males in education. 

in  education  for  women, 
progress in some areas still lags behind that of males. 
The  share  of  women  in  wage  employment  in  the 
non-agriculture  sector  has  reflected  steady  progress 
since the 1990s and is close to parity, at 49 per cent in 
2007.  Women’s  representation  at  the  highest  levels  in 
both the public and private sectors and  as it relates to 
Despite  successes 
to 
A/64/PV.19
the 
international  community, 
political  representation  is  grossly  below  par  vis-à-vis 
their male counterparts. 

Jamaica’s path to progress has been characterized 
by  challenges  in  several  areas,  including  funding. 
However,  over  the  next  five  years  Jamaica  will 
concentrate  its  efforts  on,  inter  alia,  developing  a 
national  policy  on  migration  and  development, 
reviewing 
the  existing  draft  policy  on  gender, 
expanding  programmes  to  achieve  universal  access  to 
family  planning  services  by  2015,  evaluating  and 
redesigning our services to meet 2015 targets for infant 
and  maternal  mortality  and  expanding  programmes  to 
reduce the rate of HIV/AIDS infections.  

We  note  that  funding  in  some  areas  has  either 
been reduced or has dried up altogether. At this critical 
juncture, especially in this time of crisis, we caution — 
indeed,  urge  — 
in 
particular  the  developed  countries,  to  provide  the 
resources  necessary  to  facilitate  the  full  and  effective 
implementation  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action. 
Despite  the  odds,  Jamaica  is  determined  to  remain  on 
course  in  our  relentless  pursuit  of  a  better  quality  of 
life for current and future generations. 

representative of Serbia.

the  statement  delivered  by 
Sweden  on  behalf  of 
A/64/PV.17). 

Fifteen  years  ago,  we  reached  an  important 
consensus  on  an  issue  that  used  to  be  divisive:  the 
relationship 
and 
development.  Today  we  should  be  proud  of  the 
progress  that  has  been  made  in  carrying  forward  the 
agenda  of  the  International  Conference  on  Population 
and Development (ICPD).  

The  vast  majority  of  countries  have  adopted 
national  policies,  laws  and  programmes  to  advance 
women’s  health  and  rights,  including  reproductive 
health.  Many  have  embraced 
the  concept  of 
reproductive  health  and  are  moving  at  a  respectable 
pace to reduce infant, child and maternal mortality and 
HIV  infection.  The  majority  of  nations  are  using 
population data and  analysis to inform their  economic 
and 
programmes. 
Furthermore,  thanks  to  the  work  of  all  of  us,  but 
especially the United Nations system, more women are 
Mr. Milanović (Serbia): Serbia aligns itself with 
the  representative  of 
the  European  Union  (see 
The  Acting  President:  I  call  next  on 
population 
between 
policies 
growth 
plans, 
social 
and 
the 
09-55571 

11 

A/64/PV.19 

choosing  to  use  family  planning,  more  infants  survive 
and more girls are going to school. Finally, the General 
Assembly resolution to establish a new gender entity in 
the  Secretariat  is  an  additional  important  step  towards 
the realization of our obligations to women. All of this 
shows how far we have advanced in the past 15 years. 

However,  notwithstanding  the  evident  progress, 
much  still  has  to  be  done.  While  a  solid  policy  has 
been  devised  and  the  legal  foundation  has  been  laid, 
the implementation continues to be a real challenge. In 
many  countries,  mandates  remain  unfunded:  national 
budgets  can  usually  not  meet 
the  demand  and 
international  assistance  is  insufficient.  Nevertheless, 
some progress has been achieved and Serbia welcomes 
the fact that the funding for United Nations Population 
Fund (UNFPA) work is increasing. 

But  we  should  always  bear  in  mind  that,  unless 
urgent action is taken, it is estimated that, over the next 
10  years,  there  will  be  2.5  million  maternal  deaths  in 
Africa  alone.  It  should  be  noted  that,  while  there  has 
been  an  increase  in  resources  mobilized,  funding 
overall  is  significantly  short  of  what  is  necessary  to 
meet  current  needs  and  costs,  which  have  increased 
tremendously since the targets were agreed on in 1994. 
In a time of crisis, however, the effective and efficient 
use  of  resources  and  increased  coherence  among 
development partners are of utmost importance. 

It  is  evident  that  the  current  economic  crisis  hit 
all  of  us  very  hard.  It  is  now  threatening  the  progress 
we have made in the past several years, and assistance 
will be needed more than ever before. According to the 
latest  statistical  data,  in  the  first  half  of  2009  the 
number of infant deaths per 1,000 live births in Serbia 
rose  by  almost  25  per  cent  compared  to  2008.  These 
examples  should  not  be  overlooked,  and  we  hope  that 
we still have an opportunity to reverse this trend. 

Unfortunately,  we  have  to  note  that  we  are  still 
far  from  meeting  Millennium  Development  Goal 
(MDG)  5.  Maternal  mortality  remains  our  biggest 
problem, and addressing it will require a multisectoral 
approach.  It  is  encouraging  that  coordination  at  the 
country  level  among  UNFPA,  UNICEF,  the  World 
Health Organization and the World Bank is increasing, 
and we expect further progress in that regard. Of all the 
health indicators, maternal mortality reveals the largest 
gap  between  rich  and  poor;  we  have  to  close  that  gap 
and  improve  social  justice.  Serbia  welcomes  the  fact 
of 
the 
implementation 
that UNFPA is paying special attention to the issue of 
maternal health. 

The  rise  in  natural  disasters  requires  better 
emergency preparedness and more work in disaster risk 
reduction.  Climate  change  is  the  main  reason  for  this 
increase,  and  effective  responses,  based  on  scientific 
analysis,  must  be  developed.  In  that  regard,  we  are 
pleased  that  the  theme  of  the  2009  UNFPA  Report  on 
the  State  of  World  Population,  to  be  released  on 
18 November,  is  “Facing  a  Changing  World:  Women, 
Population and Climate”.  
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 

successful 
UNFPA 
regionalization  plan.  We  also  hope  that  UNFPA  will 
come  up  with  an  adequate  solution  for  the  Regional 
Office  for  Eastern  Europe  and  Central Asia,  based  on 
the  same  principles  that  led  to  the  relocation  of  other 
regional offices. 
The  Cairo  Consensus  is  fully  aligned  with  the 

Millennium Development Goals and provided much of 
the groundwork for them. It is important that the goals 
and  principles  of  ICPD  continue  to  move  forward 
through  Member  States’  active  cooperation  and 
resolve,  and,  in  that  regard,  I  want  to  emphasize  once 
again Serbia’s full and firm support. 

representative  of 
Republic. 
Ms.  Phommachanh  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 

Republic):  At 
to  express  our 
gratification  at  the  convening  of  this  meeting  to  mark 
the 
International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD) 
and 
the 
Secretary-General  for  his  inspiring  statement  on  this 
occasion.  I  would  also  like  to  express  our  special 
thanks  to  Executive  Director  Thoraya  Obaid  of  the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  for  her 
remarks and for the assistance extended by the Fund in 
support of the implementation of the ICPD Programme 
of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1). 

As we commemorate the fifteenth anniversary of 
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  strong 
support  of  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  for 
the ICPD Programme of Action, which underscores the 
integral  and  mutually  reinforcing  linkages  between 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
the  outset  I  wish 
to  express  our  sincere  appreciation 
to 
fifteenth 
anniversary  of 
the 
12 

09-55571 
in 
the 
led 
implementation  has 


population  and  development  and  sets  forth  a  series  of 
important  population  and  development  objectives  and 
goals.  Its 
to  significant 
lives  of  women,  men  and 
improvements 
children. 

Since  the  1994  adoption  of  the  Programme  of 
Action  and  its  implementation  in  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  the  country  has  seen  a  notable 
improvement  in  health  in  general  and  reproductive 
health  in  particular.  In  2005,  35  per  cent  of  married 
women  practised  family  planning,  representing  a 
steady increase of 15 per cent in the decade since 1995. 
Maternal  mortality  decreased  from  650  per  100,000 
live  births  in  1995  to  405  in  2005.  During  the  same 
period,  infant  mortality  fell  from  104  per  1,000  live 
births to 70. In this regard I would like to express my 
Government’s appreciation for the support provided in 
this  area  by  the  international  community,  especially 
UNFPA,  which  took  the  lead  in  implementing  the 
ICPD vision that has helped us make this progress. 

The Government of the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic  is  committed  to  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals  (MDGs). While we  recognize and 
appreciate the progress that has been made, we are also 
mindful  of  the  challenges  that  still  lie  ahead.  We  are 
keenly aware that, while we are on track in such areas 
as reducing child mortality and combating tuberculosis 
and  malaria,  maternal  mortality  is  still  very  high. 
Although  the  rate  has  decreased  in  the  past  15  years, 
405  deaths  per  100,000  live  births  is  too  many. Also, 
progress  varies  between  urban  and  rural  areas  and 
socio-economic quintiles. 

is 
transforming  itself  from  a  landlocked  country  to  a 
“land-linked”  country  with  the  development  of  road 
networks.  Our  population  is  very  young,  with  more 
than  half  below  20  years  of  age.  With  declining 
fertility, the country is expecting the proportion of the 
population that is of working age to grow for the next 
few  decades.  My  Government 
the 
opportunity  that  these  factors  create  for  social  and 
economic  development,  but  also  of  their  potential  for 
putting our population at greater risk of reproductive ill 
health. 

There  is  a  great  need  to  continue  to  invest  in 
universal access to reproductive health care for women, 
men  and  youth  in  order  to  protect  them  from  disease, 
give  them  greater  opportunities  for  education  and 
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
is  aware  of 
A/64/PV.19
through 
employment,  alleviate  population  pressure  on  our 
precious environment, and contribute to improved food 
security  and  reduction  of  poverty.  Universal  access  to 
reproductive  health,  a  cornerstone  of 
the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action,  is  the  key  to  achieving  and 
facilitating all of the MDGs, not only MDG 5. 

My Government has recently begun to implement 
evidence-based strategies and action plans, such as the 
integrated  package  of  maternal,  neonatal  and  child 
health  services  and 
the  skilled  birth  attendant 
development  plan.  We  are  expanding  the  availability 
and  use  of  adolescent  and  youth  reproductive  health 
counselling  and  clinical  services,  but 
they  need 
acceleration. Successful implementation of these plans 
and  interventions  is  indispensable  to  achieving  ICPD 
and  MDG  goals.  Despite  the  financial  and  economic 
crisis,  investment  in  reproductive  health  must  not 
diminish, since it would derail MDG achievement. For 
our  part,  we  are  making  efforts  to  attain  greater  aid 
effectiveness 
improved  coordination  of 
development assistance by implementing the Vientiane 
Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness,  a  localized  version 
of the Paris Declaration. 

To  this  end,  we  encourage  UNFPA  to  further 
fulfil its commitments in leading implementation of the 
ICPD Programme of Action. We welcome the outcome 
of  the Asia-Pacific  High-level  Forum  on  ICPD  at  15, 
held in Bangkok on 16 and 17 September, and call for 
effective  implementation  of  the  Forum  Declaration, 
which  outlined  the  challenges  we  face  and  the  way 
forward to achieving the ICPD goals by 2014 through 
concerted  action  in  areas  such  as  maternal  health, 
family  planning,  sexual  and  reproductive  health, 
empowerment, 
gender 
population 
and 
strengthening health systems. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express  our  sincere  gratitude  to  the  UNFPA  and 
development  partners  for  assisting  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic 
population, 
reproductive  health  and  gender  issues  into  national, 
sectoral  and  provincial  policy,  plans  and  programmes 
in  line  with  our  national  population  and  development 
policy.  We  wish 
the  unwavering 
commitment  of  the  Government  of  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic  to  further  cooperation  with  the 
international community and United Nations agencies, 
particularly  UNFPA,  in  the  fulfilment  of  the  ICPD 
Programme of Action and MDGs. 
international  migration 
and  women’s 
integrate 
reaffirm 
equality 
ageing, 
to 
to 
09-55571 

13 
to 
the 
anniversary  of 
the  statement  made  by 
join  with  previous  speakers 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
A/64/PV.19 


representative of Bulgaria. 
Mr. Raytchev (Bulgaria): The commemoration of 

the 
fifteenth 
International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD) 
and  its  Programme  of  Action  gives  me  the  welcome 
opportunity 
in 
emphasizing  the  importance  and  the  achievements  of 
its  outcome.  My  delegation 
the  Conference  and 
welcomes 
the  Executive 
Director  of 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
(UNFPA),  Ms.  Thoraya  Obaid,  and  we  congratulate 
UNFPA  for  its  dedicated  work  on  the  implementation 
of the ICPD Programme of Action.  

Bulgaria aligns itself with the statement made by 
Sweden on behalf of the European Union. I would like 
to  provide  some  brief  additional  remarks  from  a 
national perspective. 
One  of  the  main  achievements  of  the  ICPD 

Programme  of Action  is  that  it  put  people  and  human 
rights  in  the  limelight  and  articulated  the  connections 
among  many  interrelated  factors,  such  as  human 
development, 
empowerment  of  women,  health, 
population  dynamics,  economic  growth,  urbanization, 
migration 
environment. 
Therefore, given the interdependence of our world and 
in  the  light  of  today’s  financial,  climate,  food  and 
energy crises, the ICPD agenda remains more relevant 
than ever.  

As  was  pointed  out  by  many  previous  speakers, 
numerous  examples  can  be  cited  to  illustrate  progress 
towards  achieving  the  ICPD  goals  over  the  past 
15 years.  However,  equally  abundant  is  the  proof  that 
we  are  lagging  seriously  behind.  Hence,  there  can  be 
no doubt that a lot more ought to be done and that we 
all  ought  to  be  more  committed,  more  active  and 
involved during the five years that remain until 2015. 

For its part, Bulgaria is proud of its participation 
in  the  Conference  and  of  having  remained  firmly 
committed to the implementation of the Plan of Action 
that  was  its  outcome.  Besides  our  active  involvement 
in  the  work  of  the  Commission  on  Population  and 
Development  (CPD)  as  Chair  and  Vice-Chair  of  the 
Commission’s  forty-first  and  forty-second  sessions, 
respectively,  I  would  like  to  provide  three  further 
illustrations of my country’s continued commitment to 
the fulfilment of the  ICPD goals and objectives at the 
national, regional and global levels. 
and  protection  of 
the 

is 
on 
up 
and 
Secondly, 
responding 
comprehensive  document 
First,  in  2006,  Bulgaria  developed  its  National 

a 
Demographic  Strategy  2006-2020,  which 
fundamental 
that 
incorporates  the  recommendations  of  both  the  ICPD 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  European  Commission 
on 
to  demographic  challenges.  The 
Government of Bulgaria considers the goals contained 
in the Strategy not only to be a blueprint for reversing 
negative  demographic 
trends,  while  guaranteeing 
women’s and men’s sexual and reproductive health and 
rights,  but  also  to  be  vital  to  our  efforts  to  constantly 
improve the living standards of the population at large. 
following 

ICPD 
recommendations 
regarding  youth,  Bulgaria  has 
developed partnerships with various organizations that 
are targeted at young people and their health, education 
and  welfare,  in  order  to  improve  adolescents’  sexual 
and  reproductive  health.  In  the  framework  of  this 
partnership, the peer education network called Y-PEER 
Bulgaria,  which  stands  for  Youth  Peer  Education 
Network  Bulgaria,  was  established  in  2000  with 
support  from  the  Bulgarian  authorities  and  UNFPA. 
The  network  is  designed  to  develop  successful  youth-
adult  partnerships  between  peer  educators  and 
supportive  adults.  In  addition,  through  the  regional 
Y-PEER  International  Centre  for  Peer  Education 
Training  and  Research,  which  was  opened  in  Sofia  in 
October  2007  and  connects  more  than  5,000  young 
people from 42 countries, Bulgaria is cooperating with 
countries  from  Eastern  Europe  and  Central  Asia  by 
exchanging experience, knowledge and good practices. 

Lastly,  Bulgaria  takes  its  responsibilities  as  an 
emerging  donor  very  seriously.  The  promotion  of 
health  services,  education  and  training  of  specialists, 
cultural  diversity  and  tolerance,  and  socio-economic 
reforms  are  among  the  priority  areas  of  the  new 
Bulgarian  development  cooperation  policy  aimed  at 
contributing  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals at the global level. 
It is clear to all of us today, with only five years 

remaining  in  the  countdown  to  the  2015  deadline,  we 
must  continue  to  act  with  urgency  to  achieve  our 
common goal — to put our world into greater balance 
and  to  improve  the  lives  of  present  and  future 
generations. Bulgaria remains committed to sharing the 
experience  drawn  from  our  manifold  activities  in  the 
fields  of  population  and  development  as  well  as  to 
providing assistance to those in need. 
14 

09-55571 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 



representative of Chile. 
Mr.  Del  Campo  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

should  like  to  begin  by  thanking  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for having organized this important 
commemorative  meeting.  My  delegation  also  aligns 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
the Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and 
the statement made by the representative of Mexico on 
behalf of the Rio Group.  
I also wish to reiterate my country’s commitment 

to  the  20-year  Programme  of  Action  agreed  15  years 
ago at the International Conference on Population and 
Development 
(ICPD) 
in  Cairo,  which  we  are 
commemorating today.  

A  commemoration  like  this  one  should  be  a 
happy occasion, and looking back we should appreciate 
the  efforts  and  the  achievements  made  so  far  in  the 
field  of  population  and  development.  But  we  are 
celebrating  this  commemoration  in  the  middle  of  the 
greatest economic and financial crisis since the 1930s, 
a  crisis  that  is  strongly  affecting  many  regions  of  the 
planet, despite some hopeful indicators.  

Earlier speakers have repeated the message of the 
2009  report  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  namely,  the  lack  of  sufficient  progress  when 
it comes to MDGs 3, 4, 5 and 6, the failure to reach the 
goal  of  eliminating  gender  disparities  in  primary  and 
secondary  education  by  2005,  a  lack  of  sufficient 
progress  in  reducing  maternal  mortality,  and 
the 
persistence of diseases such as AIDS. Furthermore, the 
fact that a half million women have died for maternity-
related reasons is unacceptable.  

This  should  lead  us  to  think  more  deeply  about 
the  importance  of  renewing  our  commitment  and  our 
efforts  to  achieve  those  goals  in  the  next  five  years. 
Accordingly,  I  would  like  to  highlight  once  again  my 
country’s  contribution 
International  Drug 
Purchase  Facility.  I  would  also  like  to  reaffirm  my 
country’s  gratification  at 
the  recent  adoption  of 
resolution 63/311 on system-wide coherence.  

Gender equality and the autonomy of women are 
fundamental pillars of the Government of my country. 
Recently, President Michelle Bachelet Jeria reaffirmed 
my country’s commitment to meeting the targets set in 
our  pro-gender-equity  agenda  entitled  “Commitments 
to Advance  in  Gender  Equity  2006-2010”. Among  the 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.19
achievements  in  that  agenda  we  highlight  gender-
oriented reforms in social security. They will guarantee 
a basic pension to women who are heads of household 
and a bonus per child born or adopted. The number of 
childcare  centres  will  expand  from  the  700 when 
President  Bachelet  took  office  to  more  than  4,000  by 
the  end  of  her  term.  A  law  guarantees  a  progressive, 
gradual  increase  in  the  minimum  salary  of  household 
workers.  Ninety  women’s  centres  and  25 shelters  for 
women  and  their  children  who  are  victims  of  serious 
domestic violence are in full operation.  

Among the achievements of my country, I would 
like  to  highlight  women’s  average  rate  of  finishing 
school:  54.4  per  cent  in  1990,  80.6  per  cent  in 
2000 and  the  same  percentage  in  2006.  That  positive 
trend  is  also  seen  in  the  large  number  of  women  who 
begin  and  complete  university  programmes,  which  in 
turn improves women’s entry into the labour market. In 
the field of health, I would like to highlight the benefits 
of  the  health  plan  known  as  AUGE,  which  provides 
guarantees  to  pregnant  women  at  risk  of  premature 
delivery,  to  women  affected  or  potentially  affected  by 
cervical cancer or breast cancer and to pregnant women 
with  AIDS.  Those  are  examples  of  my  country’s 
commitment to the goals we are discussing. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  renew  my  country’s 
commitment  to  continue  contributing  to  the  United 
Nations Population Fund.  

representative of Nicaragua. 
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke 

in Spanish): The delegation of Nicaragua welcomes the 
commemoration  of  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the 
and 
International  Conference 
Development 
our 
commitment to working together for the success of the 
achievements  made  and  goals  agreed  at 
that 
Conference, held in Cairo in 1994.  
Fifteen  years  have  passed,  and  we  must  now 

examine  the  achievements  to  date  and  prioritize  the 
most  important  objectives  for  our  countries.  Our 
Government  places  the  highest  importance  on  the 
fulfilment of the goals and objectives established in the 
ICPD Programme of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
for  the  eradication  of  extreme  poverty,  as  well  as  the 
other Millennium Development Goals. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Population 
reiterate 
(ICPD).  We 
on 
also 
09-55571 

15 

A/64/PV.19 


My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  by  the  Sudan  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China  (see  A/64/PV.18)  and  with  the  statement  made 
by Mexico on behalf of the Rio Group (ibid.). 

We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  for  its 
cooperation with Nicaragua for almost 40 years. It has 
implemented  a  series  of  cooperative  programmes, 
offering technical and financial assistance in important 
areas and in the neediest communities and territories. 
On  this  occasion  I  would  especially  like  to 

highlight  that  during  2009  our  country  has  received 
two  awards  from  UNFPA.  One  is  for  the  Movimiento 
Comunal  for  its  promotion  of  health,  particularly  in 
protecting  and  promoting  sexual  and  reproductive 
health,  with  emphasis  on  the  human  rights  of  women, 
young  people  and  adolescents,  and  for  its  work  to 
eradicate  domestic  violence,  teenage  pregnancy  and 
HIV/AIDS and to promote equitable gender relations at 
the  community  level.  Last  week  we  received  another 
UNFPA  prize,  the  International  Award  for  the  Health 
and  Dignity  of  Women.  That  award  is  given  to  those 
whose work has made a significant impact on the lives 
and  health  of  women  and  girls.  It  manifests  the 
engagement,  dedication  and  commitment  realized 
through 
the  national  network  of  women’s  health 
centres with regard to health issues and the prevention 
of violence in Nicaragua. That is incontrovertible proof 
of our compliance with the goals we set in Cairo.  

In  January  2007,  when  President  Ortega  once 
again  took  up  the  administration  of  our  country,  we 
placed  a  priority  on  the  fight  against  poverty  and 
hunger,  universal  access  to  education  and  health  care 
free  of  charge  and  citizen  participation  in  decision-
making.  In  other  words,  our  goal  is  the  restoration  of 
the  rights  of  Nicaraguan  citizens,  both  men  and 
women. Our Government has set in motion a process to 
review the poverty reduction strategy and the national 
plan for sustainable human development.  

Those  are  precisely  the  premises  on  which  we 
base  our  priorities,  which  are  to  eradicate  poverty  in 
the  country  and  to  advance  inclusive  economic  and 
social  development  plans  that  take  into  account  the 
most  disadvantaged  classes,  which  have  been  ignored 
under the preceding neo-liberal Governments. We have 
worked  to  create  and  implement  citizen  participation 
mechanisms  that  guarantee  the  inclusion  of  the  needs 
and 
the 
the  most  dispossessed 
interests  of 
in 
The  Special  Food  Security  Programme 
formulation of public policy. We fully agree with what 
UNFPA Executive Director Thoraya Obaid said in  her 
statement (see A/64/PV.17) about the absolute primacy 
of human development; that is the central tenet of our 
Government. 

I would like also to underline that on 16 July our 
Government  officially  announced,  after  its  passage  in 
the  National  Assembly,  the  Sovereignty  and  Food 
Security  Act,  and  later  a  directive  for  its  execution, 
leading to its implementation at the national level. That 
initiative  complements  the  commitments  made  at  the 
ICPD,  since  it  aims  to  guarantee  the  right  of  all  men 
and  women  in  Nicaragua  to  enough  nutritious,  safe 
food for their vital needs.  

in 
Nicaragua — PESA — has been described by the Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
(FAO) as an outstanding and recognized model among 
the 62 food security programmes that FAO is carrying 
out  around  the  world  because  it  operates  across  many 
sectors. That  has  earned  it  FAO’s  recognition  and  has 
led to a memorandum of understanding for future joint 
actions between FAO and Nicaragua. 

Aware  that  improving  access  to  basic  services  is 
an  important  element  in  promoting  social  integration 
and  equitable  economic  development  for  all,  our 
Government  has  declared  that  health  and  education 
will  be  provided  to  all  free  of  charge.  The  National 
Martí-to-Fidel  Literacy  Campaign  has  drastically 
reduced illiteracy in Nicaragua, and UNESCO recently 
declared our country free of illiteracy. 

In the area of health, to guarantee access, the care 
paradigm  was  reformulated  to  produce  a  community 
and  family  health  model  based  on  systematic  care  for 
families  in  their  own  homes.  As  a  result  we  have 
achieved  a  significant  reduction  in  maternal  mortality, 
dropping  from  90  deaths  per  100,000  live  births  in 
2006  to  64  per  100,000  in  2008.  The  World  Health 
Organization  estimates  that  Nicaragua  has  already 
surpassed 
the  Millennium  Development  Goal  of 
halving the prevalence and death rate of tuberculosis as 
compared to 1990. 
In addition to the Sovereignty and Food Security 

Act,  our  Government 
implementing  concrete 
measures  in  the  field  of  agriculture,  promoting  the 
organization  of  agricultural  and 
livestock  public 
services  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of 
Government programmes for rural areas, as well as the 
is 
16 

09-55571 
that 
improve 
practices 
productive 


organization  of  research  and  transfer  of  technology  in 
rural areas, with special emphasis on respect for ethnic 
groups and communities of people of African descent, 
to 
are 
environmentally  friendly  and  respectful  of  Mother 
Earth.  In  2007,  we  implemented  a  food  production 
bonus  for  impoverished  rural  families  as  part  of  our 
Zero  Hunger  programme,  whose  direct  beneficiaries 
have  been  rural  women.  We  have  handed  out  almost 
40,000 bonuses.  

These concrete measures are making a difference. 
That  is  precisely  what  my  Government  hopes  to  hear 
from the international community. We must move from 
rhetoric and discourse to concrete and practical action 
that directly benefits those most in need. 

The  chaotic  situation  into  which  we  have  been 
plunged  by  the  capitalistic  system  requires  solidarity 
among  brotherly  countries,  in  full  respect  for  dignity 
and  sovereignty.  The  Bolivarian  Alternative  for  the 
Americas  has  become  a  genuine  example  of  unity, 
complementarity  and  solidarity  in  confronting  current 
challenges. 
We appeal to the developed countries to shoulder 

their  share  of 
towards  developing 
countries  and  to  address  the  effects  of  a  crisis  that 
originated in those countries and was caused by them. 
The impact of the crisis should not serve as an excuse 
not 
for  official 
development  assistance,  which  could  endanger  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 

representative of the Republic of Ecuador. 
Mr.  Chiriboga  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Allow me to reiterate the full support of my delegation 
for  the  work  of  the  President  at  this  session  and  to 
endorse  the  statements  made  by  the  representative  of 
the Sudan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and 
by  the  representative  of  Mexico  on  behalf  of  the  Rio 
Group. 

International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  and  its 
Programme  of  Action  (see  A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
created 
identify 
development  and  human  rights  as  complementary 
elements  in  achieving  a  life  of  dignity  for  all.  While 
there  are  many  obstacles to  overcome,  many  resulting 
from the economic and financial crisis generated in the 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
the  mechanisms  necessary 
the  pledges  made 
is  no  doubt 
responsibility 
to  honour 
There 
that 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.19
in 
in 
in 
social, 
cultural 
political, 
economic, 
Based  on 
the  context  of 
these  objectives, 
tipping  point  and  changes 
North,  it  is  no  less  certain  that  a  coordinated  effort  at 
the  international  level  will  successfully  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals.  

In  Ecuador,  we  have  proposed  a  more  inclusive 
and  non-predatory  development  strategy  to  eradicate 
poverty  and  guarantee  a  life  with  dignity.  In  that 
context  and  with 
the  2008  adoption  of  a  new 
Constitution,  we  in  Ecuador  understand  development 
as an organized, sustainable and dynamic convergence 
of 
and 
environmental  systems  that  guarantee  the  condition  of 
good  living,  or  sumak  kawsay.  Good  living  requires 
individuals,  communities,  peoples  and  nationalities 
effectively  to  enjoy  their  rights  and  exercise  their 
responsibilities 
interculturality, 
respect  for  diversity  and  harmonic  coexistence  with 
nature. 

the  national 
Government  created  a  national  development  plan  as  a 
strategic  instrument  to  implement  in  a  systematic  and 
organized  manner  the  changes  promoted  by  the  new 
constitutional  framework. The  plan  outlines  and  seeks 
to concretize a road map that will allow us to identify 
the 
the  historical 
trajectories of development and democracy in Ecuador 
in the context of ethical and political guidelines and a 
new type of civic conviviality. 

the  national 
development  plan  set  up  important  technical  and 
political  challenges,  as  well  as  methodological  and 
structural 
a 
conceptual  rupture  with  old  development  paradigms 
that 
structural 
adjustment, a State reduced to its minimal expression, 
and neo-liberal policies that weakened the political and 
institutional  system  and  unleashed  a  profound  socio-
economic crisis.  

The  plan  restores  a  vision  of  development  that 
prioritizes  the  achievement  of  good  living  and  its 
concomitant  expanded 
liberties,  opportunities  and 
human  potential  and  the  recognition  that  each  of  us 
must  work  towards  a  shared  future  for  all.  That  will 
necessarily  entail  a  change  in  the  modalities  of  the 
State  that  will  restore  its  capacities  to  manage,  plan, 
regulate and redistribute, and intensify the processes of 
devolution, decentralization and citizen participation. 
In  its  conceptual  break  with  the  concept  of 

development  and  the  modality  of  the  State,  the  plan 
innovations.  The  plan 
stabilization  policies, 
The  proposals 
represents 
advocated 
contained 
09-55571 

17 
eight 
for 
change: 

in 
increased 
strategies 
investment 
the  State; 
capacity  of 
intercultural  and 
A/64/PV.19 

the 
promotes 
democratization  of 
the  means  of  production; 
international sovereign relations through an active and 
strategic integration with the world; the diversification 
of  production;  integration  and  territorial  development; 
the 
ensuring 
sustainability  of  natural  heritage; 
the  effective  planning,  regulation  and 
increasing 
management 
economic 
democratization,  social  activism,  guaranteed  rights; 
and  the  transformation  of  the  higher  educational 
system  with 
science, 
technology  and  innovation. The  plan  is  not  conceived 
as  the  sum  of  its  parts  and  diverse  elements.  It  is 
holistic  and  based  on  a  rights-oriented  approach  that 
transcends  the  traditional  sectoral  perspective  and  is 
towards  environmental  sustainability  and 
oriented 
gender,  generational, 
territorial 
equality. 

The  harmonization  of  the  sectoral  with  national 
objectives  involved  considerable  coordination  efforts 
and  inter-State  streamlining  to  align  problem-solving, 
policy  and  sectoral  visions  with  the  major  national 
interests.  The  plan  proposes  12  major  national 
development objectives, consistent with the provisions 
of  the  2008  Constitution,  which  promote  equality  and 
social  cohesion  based  on  diversity,  pool  the  potentials 
of  the  population  and  their  quality  of  life,  promote  a 
healthy  and 
sustainable  environment,  guarantee 
sovereignty,  promote  integration,  create  stable  and 
dignified work, strengthen the public polity, guarantee 
the prevalence of human rights and justice, establish a 
socio-economic  system  based  on  solidarity  and 
sustainability, and consolidate the transformation of the 
State for the sake of good living.  

In  the  current  context,  planning  for  development 
faces  new  challenges:  understanding  and  acting  in  a 
context of systemic global crisis, formulating strategies 
to  minimize  its  impact  on  the  country  without  hurting 
the  poorest,  and  simultaneously  crafting  policies  that 
will generate structural change more rapidly and more 
appropriately as a mechanism to achieve development. 

These  proposals  do  not  require  us  to  ignore  the 
world  community.  At  the  global  level,  we  must 
promote  planetary  coordination  based  on  mutual 
respect,  international  law  and  multilateralism  as  tools 
of  conviviality  among  countries. At  this  juncture,  it  is 
imperative  that  we  redefine  the  world  financial  order, 
which has been distorted by speculation and privilege, 
rights  and 
the  vision  of  human 
in 
line  with 
development. 

The  devastating  effects  of  climate  change  have 
compelled  our  countries  to  rethink  their  development 
models, and Ecuador wishes to contribute its solutions. 
Ecuador has launched the Yasuní-ITT initiative in order 
to  forgo  extraction  of  nearly  900,000  barrels  of  oil  in 
the  Yasuní  National  Park,  thereby  preventing  the 
environmental  contamination  of  410  million  metric 
tons  of  carbon.  The  Yasuní  area  is  also  home  to 
voluntarily  isolated  populations  and  one  of  the  most 
megadiverse  areas  of  the  world.  The  Yasuní-ITT 
initiative  thus  represents  concrete  action  to  combat 
global  warming,  prevent  fossil  fuel  exploitation  in 
areas of high biological and cultural sensitivity, protect 
biodiversity  in  the  Amazon,  and  respect  the  rights  of 
the indigenous cultures in voluntary isolation. 

The  problem  of  world  hunger  is  one  not  of 
resources,  but  of  systems.  Poverty  and  exclusion 
continue to grow even as many regions are raising their 
consumption  of biofuels  and continue to subsidize the 
expansion  of  biofuel  crops.  These  systems  of 
extraction,  commerce,  finance  and  global  governance 
are  exhausted  and  will  not  lead  to  viable  long-term 
alternatives  or  overcome  the  crisis,  and  are  even  less 
likely  to  achieve  the  good  living  that  our  peoples 
deserve.  That 
for  urgent 
consideration  of  how  to  give  effect  to  the  proposals 
that we have made in this statement.  

representative of Antigua and Barbuda. 
Mr.  Hunte  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  I  welcome 

the  opportunity  for  Antigua  and  Barbuda  to  join  the 
international  community 
the 
fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  International  Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD). Antigua  and 
Barbuda  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
Chairman  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China  (see 
A/64/PV.18).  

At the seminal International Conference in Cairo 
in  1994,  the  international  community  agreed  on  an 
ambitious,  far-reaching  and  worthy  plan  of  action  for 
20 years. Now, with five years left to fully achieve the 
goals and commitments of ICPD, the time is opportune 
for us to take stock of the progress that we have made, 
to  assess  the  challenges  that  remain  and  to  determine 
what  is  needed  to  ensure  that  the  next  five  years  will 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
is  why  we  appeal 
in  commemorating 
the 
18 

09-55571 
implementation  and 
in  full  and  complete 
the  Programme  of  Action 
In  August,  we  were  honoured 
to 


result 
achievement.  

ICPD  resulted  in  an  international  agreement  in 
the 
form  of 
(see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) setting out what we consider to 
be  some  of  humankind’s  most  worthy  human 
development  goals:  providing  universal  education; 
reducing  infant,  child  and  maternal  mortality  rates; 
universal  access  to  reproductive  health  care;  and 
prevention of transmission of infectious diseases, such 
as HIV/AIDS. Today, those goals remain a fundamental 
part  of  our  economic  and  social  development  plan. 
Like many of our Caribbean neighbours, we have made 
modest but significant and measurable progress on the 
achievement of those goals in the past 15 years. We are 
therefore  determined  not 
to  become  complacent, 
recognizing  that  full  and  effective  implementation  of 
the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  by  2014  will  require 
significant  resources  and  commitment,  as  we  build  on 
what  we  have  achieved  thus  far.  Much  remains  to  be 
done within the remaining five years. 
the 

Caribbean 
the 
implementation  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action 
15 years  after  its  adoption,  with  the  support  of  the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund  and  the  Economic 
Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
(ECLAC).  The  meeting  involved  the  participation  of 
from  15  Caribbean 
Government 
from 
countries 
non-governmental  organizations 
fields  of 
population  and  development,  sexual  and  reproductive 
health,  and  rights  and  gender.  The  objective  of  the 
meeting  was  to  discuss  the  achievements,  challenges 
and  gaps  experienced 
the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of Action  resulting 
from the ICPD agenda. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  meeting  showed 
that  the  countries  of  our  region  have  made  significant 
progress 
human 
development.  That 
that  our 
Governments  have  put  in  place  programmes  and 
policies on social protection to address the needs of our 
most  vulnerable  populations,  such  as  children,  youth, 
women  and 
the  elderly.  However,  such  social 
protection  programmes  are  under  severe  threat  as  a 
result of the current economic and financial crisis. We 
are  currently  faced  with  extremely  tough  choices  to 
make, including reducing social expenditure in order to 
representatives 
number 
subregional  meeting 
and 
the  fact 
to  host 
assess 
the  Caribbean 
experts 
the 
is  due 
to 
of 
in 
in 
achieving 
economic 
and 
a 
in 
in 
A/64/PV.19
make  up  for  severe  revenue  shortfalls  and  lack  of 
financing for development programmes.  

The  sustainability  of  what  we  have  achieved  is 
now  in  doubt,  and  progress  could  be  reversed  as  a 
result  of  the  economic  crisis.  That  is  why  it  is  so 
important  for  us  to  assess  the  way  forward  and 
determine  how  we  will  achieve  what  remains  to  be 
achieved,  as  well  as  how  we  will  consolidate  and 
secure the progress made and prevent a reversal of the 
positive  human  development  trends.  Despite  those 
tremendous  challenges,  my  Government 
remains 
committed to the ICPD agenda, to the principles of the 
Cairo  consensus,  and  to  moving  forward  in  the  next 
five  years  with  our  ambitious  and  worthy  social 
development  programmes,  which  will  help  us  achieve 
effective implementation by 2014. 
Given  the  impact  of  the  global  economic  and 

financial  crisis  and 
the  changing  population  and 
development dynamics, which bring new and emerging 
challenges, an urgent call for action for the Caribbean 
subregion  for  2014  and  beyond  was  issued  at  the 
conclusion of the subregional meeting held in Antigua 
and Barbuda this August, calling for the establishment 
of  a  five-year  subregional  strategy.  Such  a  strategy  is 
necessary,  so  that  our  Governments,  working  together 
and  in  collaboration  with  civil  society  organizations, 
parliaments  and  United  Nations  agencies,  can  achieve 
the  ICPD  targets  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  by  establishing  clear  priorities  for  results, 
benchmarks  and 
implementation  and  monitoring 
mechanisms. 

the 
commemoration of the fifteenth anniversary of ICPD to 
repeat 
international 
community  and  to  urge  the  United  Nations  system, 
including  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  and 
ECLAC, to support us in that urgent call to make such 
a subregional strategy for the Caribbean a reality. With 
only five short years left in the plan of action and with 
human  development  indicators  turning  increasingly 
negative  owing  to  the  global  recession,  we  must 
galvanize  and  coalesce  our  energies  and  meagre 
resources 
into  a  firm  strategy  for  success,  and 
recommit  ourselves,  at  all  levels,  to  the  worthy 
objectives of ICPD. 

the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund  and  other  development  partners, 
which have worked so tirelessly in advancing the ICPD 
Finally,  we  commend 
this  opportunity  of 
for  action 
that  call 
therefore 
take 
the 
to 
I 
09-55571 

19 

the 
(ICPD) 
(Maldives): 
Mr.  Mohamed
and  Development 
A/64/PV.19 

Programme  of Action  over  the  past  15  years,  and  we 
look  forward  to  their  continued  support  and  advocacy 
in implementing our national development goals. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 

representative of the Republic of Maldives. 

The  Cairo 
in 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development 
1994 was  instrumental  in  injecting  a  very  necessary 
multidimensional impetus to the global efforts aimed at 
population  and  development.  The  important  goals  of 
universal  primary  education  by  2015,  enhanced 
reproductive  and  sexual  health,  and  the  reduction  of 
infant and maternal mortality rates continue to serve as 
important  objectives  that  contribute  to  the  national 
development of Member States. 

The  Maldives  is  a  small  island  developing  State 
with  a  population  of  just  over  a  quarter  million. 
Population  development  forms  an  integral  part  of  the 
country’s  overall  national  developmental  strategy.  As 
such, many of the goals of the International Conference 
on  Population 
find 
expression  in  the  overall  developmental  objectives  of 
the  Maldives.  The  provision  of  health,  education, 
housing  and  youth  employment  and  addressing  other 
social 
issues  and  environmental  management  are 
crucial elements of the country’s population strategy. 
However, the available resources and the inherent 

social  and  economic  situation  of  the  country  do  not 
match the determination of the Government to advance 
its  developmental  goals.  For  instance,  the  quarter 
million  people  in  the  archipelago  live  in  dispersed 
island communities among 196 inhabited islands. Very 
high costs  are attached to  ensuring service delivery to 
the  remote  islands.  As  such,  the  unique  geophysical 
characteristics  of 
the  geographical 
dispersion  of 
limited  natural 
resources  and  the  patterns  of  global  consumption  and 
population  growth  present  numerous  economic,  social 
and environmental challenges. 

Over the past five years, the Maldives has seen a 
10  per  cent  increase  in  its  population,  which  has 
severely  stretched  the  demand  for  housing  and  other 
economic  and  social  services  in  the  country.  The 
unequal access to education and health facilities in the 
country  has  drawn  more  than  a  third  of  the  total 
population  to  the  capital,  Malé. The  resulting  extreme 
overcrowding  in  the  capital  has  led  to  increased 
island,  owing 
environmental  degradation  on 
the  population, 
the 
the 
islands, 
the 
primarily  to  over-extraction  of  groundwater  and  a 
contaminated aquifer. 

Disparities  exist  within  the  population  in  areas 
such  as  poverty,  income  equality,  child  nutrition, 
adequate  and  affordable  housing,  and  employment  for 
women  and  young  people.  The  Maldives  is  also 
currently grappling with the menace of drug addiction 
and  the  growing  violence  among  youth,  as  well  as  a 
disturbing  and  growing  level  of  violence  against 
women.  The  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime  has  declared  the  use  of  illicit  narcotics  as  the 
single  greatest  challenge  facing  the  development  of 
Maldivian  society.  With  a  large  proportion  of  the 
population  under  the  age  of  25  affected  by  drug  use 
and abuse, the Government faces a hard journey ahead 
in combating trafficking in and use of illicit narcotics. 

In  addition  to  those  issues,  gender  equality 
remains  an  immense  challenge.  Though  gains  have 
been made towards ensuring gender equality, women’s 
participation  in  public  life  and  leadership  positions 
continues  to  be  low.  For  instance,  even  with  the 
removal  of  the  constitutional  gender  bar,  which  had 
traditionally prevented women from competing for the 
office  of  President,  the  total  number  of  women 
fallen.  Cultural  stereotyping  and 
politicians  has 
inadequate 
to 
women’s  successful  participation  in  public  life. Those 
issues can largely be attributed to the fact that women 
bear  a  large  share  of  domestic  responsibilities.  The 
situation  is  further  exacerbated  by  the  prevailing  high 
divorce  rate,  which  leads  to  a  situation  where  many 
single  women  bear  the  brunt  of  childcare.  Flexible 
working hours, together with an adequate social safety 
net,  are 
the  complete 
economic and social empowerment of women. 
Despite  the  challenges  I  have  highlighted,  the 

Maldives  has  made 
to  meet 
international  development  goals.  In  that  regard,  the 
country  has  adopted  a  rights-based  approach 
to 
development.  Two  small  achievements  can  be  seen  in 
the considerable progress made in reducing population 
growth  to  1.7  per  cent  and  in  stabilizing  the  fertility 
rate, which stands at 2. Noteworthy strides in reducing 
birth rates and child and maternal mortality rates have 
also been made. We have also had some success in our 
efforts  to  achieve  higher  antenatal  health  coverage, 
which rose from 62 per cent in 1999 to 91 per cent in 
2004. 
support  networks  create  barriers 
therefore  a  necessity  for 
strenuous  efforts 
20 

09-55571 
and 
the 
treatment 
of 
initiative 
inadequate 
knowledge 
decentralizing 
contraception; 



Under  the  national  reproductive  health  strategy 
mapped out for the period 2008-2010, issues that need 
to be further addressed include high levels of anaemia 
and malnutrition among pregnant women; unmet needs 
for 
of 
reproductive  tract  and  sexually  transmitted  infections; 
prevention;  and the limited availability of services for 
other  aspects  of  reproductive  health  care,  such  as 
infertility  management 
of 
reproductive  organ  cancers.  While  increased  health 
awareness,  as  well  as  access  to  health-care  services, 
has  led  to  a  decrease  in  communicable  diseases, 
changing  lifestyles  have  contributed  to  an  increase  in 
non-communicable  illnesses  such  as  heart  disease, 
cancer and diabetes. 
Extensive work needs to be undertaken to address 

these  challenges,  which 
jeopardize  our  overall 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  To  meet  the  growing  demands  caused  by 
urban migration, the Government has embarked on the 
unprecedented 
the 
governance  system. This  is  expected  to  lessen  income 
inequality, improve the quality of health and education 
services,  increase  employment  opportunities  outside 
the  capital  and  reverse  the  tide  of  internal  migration. 
The large and rapid displacement of the population has 
not been met with an equal response by Government in 
the  provision  of  economic  and  social  services,  which 
has created several social problems. 

Resource  mobilization  is  a  central  focus  of  the 
new  Administration’s  development  policy.  The 
Maldives currently allocates more than a quarter of its 
development  budget  to  social  development,  of  which 
education  and  health  share  a  significant  portion. 
Substantial  investment  is  being  made  in  infrastructure 
development to facilitate the provision of key services 
in  strategic  areas  of  the  country.  However,  stepped-up 
international  developmental  assistance  to  low-  and 
middle-income  countries  is  a  prerequisite  for  the 
successful  implementation  of  population  development 
policies  and 
in  achieving  national 
development objectives in line with the MDGs. 

While  some  progress  has  been  made  in  reaching 
the  ICPD  goals,  the  Maldives  wishes  to  reiterate  the 
importance  of  strong  partnerships  between  civil 
society,  corporations  and  Governments  in  overcoming 
the challenges of population development. It is further 
imperative  that  we  fully  utilize  this  opportunity  to 
create greater understanding and recommit ourselves to 
for  success 
A/64/PV.19
the 
Mr.  Ould  Hadrami  (Mauritania)  (spoke 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
international  cooperation  in  achieving  our  common 
objectives and fulfilling shared aspirations for a better 
world. 

representative of Mauritania. 
in 

French):  My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  President  Treki  on  his  excellent  opening 
address  and  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  the  steadfast  support  he  has  given  the  Programme 
of  Action  of 
International  Conference  on 
Population and Development (ICPD). 
In  our  view,  the  commemoration  of  the  fifteenth 

anniversary of the ICPD is important because it allows 
us to take stock of progress made in implementing the 
ICPD Programme of Action (see A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
and  the  principal  results  that  have  been  achieved.  For 
my country, Mauritania, this is an opportunity to share 
with you various steps related to the ICPD Programme 
of Action  taken  by  our  Government,  which  adopted  a 
National  Policy  Declaration  on  Population  in  1995. 
Before so doing, I would like to pay special tribute to 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  and  in 
particular  to  its  Executive  Director,  Ms.  Thoraya 
Obaid,  for  her 
leadership  and  vision  concerning 
population and development issues. 
On  the  political  level,  we  wish  to  note  the 

strengthening 
to 
promoting  and  respecting  women’s  rights  by  adhering 
to  international  conventions  relating  to  human  rights, 
in particular those concerning children’s rights and the 
elimination  of  all  forms  of  discrimination  against 
women.  The  number  of  women  in  elected  office  has 
grown,  largely  owing  to  the  introduction  in  July 
2006 of  a  quota  system  requiring  that  20  per  cent  of 
Mauritanians  elected  be  female,  which  has  allowed 
women to hold 18 of 95 National Assembly seats, nine 
of  56  in  the  Senate,  and  more  than  1,120  seats  on 
municipal  councils  and  even  a  rural  mayor.  It  is  also 
highly symbolic that two months ago we nominated six 
female  ministers,  including  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, for the first time in our country’s history. 

The strong involvement of women at the level of 
civil society, reflected in the high number of women’s 
non-governmental  organizations  and  cooperatives,  of 
which there are about 4,500, and their diverse areas of 
of  Mauritania’s 
commitment 
09-55571 

21 

at 
laws 
aimed 
taboo,  such  as 
A/64/PV.19 

activity, is an excellent indicator of the dynamism and 
readiness of Mauritanian women to play a leading role 
in grass-roots development. 
At  the  institutional  level,  we  have  seen  the 

adoption  of  new 
combating 
discrimination against women, particularly through the 
Personal  Status  Code  and  the  laws  on  compulsory 
primary  education,  HIV/AIDS  and  the  20  per  cent 
quota  for  parliamentary  and  municipal  council  seats. 
We  have  drawn  up  a  national  strategy  for 
the 
institutionalization of gender issues, and we are taking 
into account the gender aspect in the review process of 
our  strategic  framework  to  combat  poverty  and  the 
establishment  of  a  group  for  gender  follow-up.  The 
public authorities have taken on various issues that had 
been  considered 
female  genital 
mutilation,  force-feeding  and  tattooing,  and  cases  of 
gender-based  violence.  Despite  social  constraints,  we 
have  seen  an  increase  in  the  awareness  of  women,  as 
some claim their rights in areas such as spousal abuse. 

On  economic  and  social  levels,  we  should  note 
that  although  there  have  been  relatively  important 
gains  in  the  advancement  of  women,  progress  in  the 
economic sphere remains far below expectations. After 
the  assessment  of  the  first  stage  of  the  strategic 
framework  to  combat  poverty,  it  turned  out  that 
women’s  economic  participation  saw  only  a  slight 
improvement  in  terms  of  their  access  to  production 
factors,  in  particular  at  the  level  of  micro-financing, 
through  the  Nissa  Bank,  small  and  medium-sized 
enterprises and other revenue-generating activities. 

Mauritania  has  paid  particular  attention  to  the 
education  sector  in  general  and  to  girls’  education  in 
particular,  with  their  rate  of  enrolment  exceeding 
90 per  cent.  However,  that  has  been  hampered  by  a 
high  rate  of  school  dropouts  among  girls,  which 
reduces their chances of integrating into active life.  

Regarding  health-care  issues,  there  have  been 
improvements  in  conditions  for  mothers  and  children. 
For example, maternal mortality dropped from 747 per 
100,000  live  births  in  2001  to  686  in  2007.  Pregnant 
women  also  enjoy  greater  access  to  health  care 
throughout 
including  pregnancy 
package plans and the elimination of obstetric fistulas, 
and  to  health  care  in  rural  areas  in  particular. A  road 
map  has  been  developed  to  reduce  maternal  and 
neonatal  mortality,  and  now,  in  cooperation  with 
UNFPA  and  UNICEF,  there  is  a  strategy  for  the 
their  pregnancy, 
hampers 
survival  of  children.  Health  centres  for  pregnant 
women have opened, including the hospital for mothers 
and children in Nouakchott. 

There are still constraints and challenges. We see 
that  a  long  road  still  lies  ahead  of  us  to  meet  those 
challenges  and  to  overcome  the  obstacles  to  the  full 
and  complete  participation  of  Mauritanian  women  at 
all  institutional,  political,  economic,  and  social  levels. 
The  major 
remaining  constraints  and  challenges 
include the following.  
First, the compulsory education law has not been 

supported  by  accompanying  measures 
that  would 
guarantee the continuity of studies, and that has led to 
a  rise  in  drop-out  rates  among  girls.  Secondly,  health 
indicators  are  showing  rather  disquieting  signs.  The 
rate  of  maternal  mortality  remains  among  the  highest 
in  the  subregion,  and  access  to  health  care  remains 
very weak. Thirdly, the literacy rate of women is 49 per 
cent,  while  for  men  it  is  66.5  per  cent.  Fourthly,  the 
poverty  rate  of  households  led  by  women  has  gone 
from  40  to  45  per  cent.  Fifthly,  women  still  face 
enormous  difficulties  accessing  credit  —  a  lack  of 
guarantees, capital and confidence, for example — and 
that 
the 
unemployment  rate  remains  at  the  very  high  rate  of 
47.3 per cent. 

Additionally, there are still numerous obstacles to 
gender mainstreaming. Coordination of national efforts 
to implement the strategy needs further reinforcement. 
The effective implementation of gender mainstreaming 
and  the  desired  measures  for  positive  discrimination 
require the mobilization of greater human and financial 
resources.  

It  is  clear  that  Mauritania  faces  difficulties  that 
prevent it from achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals, in particular Goals 2, 3, 4 and 5, which relate to 
population.  My  country  will  continue  its  own  efforts 
within  this  framework  and  hopes  to  see,  to  this  end, 
increased support from development partners. 

representative of Afghanistan. 
Mr.  Tanin  (Afghanistan):  At  the  outset,  let  me 

thank  the  President  for  convening  this  meeting  to 
the 
commemorate 
International  Conference 
and 
Development  (ICPD)  and  its  resulting  Programme  of 
Action.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
fifteenth  anniversary  of 
productivity.  Sixthly, 
Population 
their 
the 
on 
22 

09-55571 
and 
people 
between 
informed 
itself  with 
Afghanistan  aligns 


General  for  his  remarks  yesterday  and  Ms.  Thoraya 
Ahmed Obaid for her stirring call to action on behalf of 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  (see 
A/64/PV.17). 

the  statement 
delivered on behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see 
A/64/PV.18). 

Afghanistan thanks UNFPA for its leadership role 
in  implementing  the  ICPD  Programme  of Action  (see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  since  its  inception,  including 
its assistance  to Afghanistan. We hope that all nations 
will  take  this  opportunity  to  recognize  our  substantial 
progress and take stock of our remaining challenges. 

The  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development,  held  15  years  ago  in  Cairo,  was  a 
breakthrough in the way we collectively understood the 
relationship 
economic 
development. It ushered in a revolution in our attitudes 
towards  reproductive  health  and  human  rights.  That 
understanding  greatly 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  whose  tenth  anniversary 
we will be celebrating next year. 
Afghanistan  remains  strongly  committed  to  the 

ICPD  Programme  of  Action, 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals and to other internationally agreed 
development  goals.  Through  the  framework  of  the 
Afghanistan  National  Development  Strategy  and  other 
national 
to 
systematically  rebuild  the  shattered  infrastructure  of 
the  country,  build  a  dynamic  national  economy  and 
improve  the  daily  lives  of  Afghans  by  providing 
security  and  access  to  basic  services  and  health  care 
and by focusing on human rights, particularly the rights 
of women and girls. We have made progress in each of 
these areas, and we are certain that with the help of the 
international community we will eventually be able to 
guarantee a dignified, healthy life for all Afghans. 

Health  indicators  in  particular  in  Afghanistan 
have  improved  since  the  fall  of  the  Taliban  in  2001. 
The  percentage  of  those  with  access  to  basic  health 
services  has  increased  from  9  per  cent  in  2001  to 
85 per  cent  in  2008.  Use  of  contraceptives  in  rural 
Afghanistan has tripled, from 5 per cent in the multiple 
indicator  cluster  survey  (MICS)  conducted  in  2003  to 
16 per cent in the Afghanistan health survey conducted 
in 2006. 
strategies,  Afghanistan 
aiming 
is 
A/64/PV.19
in 
threefold 
education, 
institutions 
and  more 
increase  was  observed 

Trends in prenatal care in rural Afghanistan show 
a  several-fold  increase,  from  5  per  cent  in  the 
2003 MICS  to  32  per  cent  in  the  2006  Afghanistan 
health  survey.  Use  of  skilled  birth  attendants  was 
substantially  lower  than  use  of  skilled  prenatal  care, 
but  a 
in  rural 
Afghanistan,  from  6  per  cent  in  the  MICS  to  19  per 
cent 
the  Afghanistan  health  survey.  Overall, 
approximately 15 per cent of women who delivered in 
the last two years had their delivery in an institution. 

In  addition,  over  6  million  children  are  now  in 
primary and secondary school in Afghanistan, up from 
1 million in 2001. Tens of thousands of students are in 
higher 
to 
accommodate  them  are  being  built  every  year.  Most 
notably,  more  than  30  per  cent  of  those  students  are 
women  and  girls,  something  unthinkable  under  the 
Taliban. 

However,  high  rates  of  maternal  and  infant 
mortality remain a particular challenge in Afghanistan. 
Illiteracy,  lack  of  roads  and  transportation,  inadequate 
financing  for  many  key  programmes,  inadequately 
trained  health  staff  at  all  levels,  including  a  general 
lack  of  female  health  staff,  have  all  contributed  to 
impeding access to health services. 

the  security 
situation  in  certain  parts  of Afghanistan,  especially  in 
the  south  and  south-east,  has  impacted  on  the  gains 
made in the past years in the areas of health and gender 
and  is  impeding  the  successful  achievement  of  MDGs 
in Afghanistan. Finally, the lack of comprehensive, up-
to-date data is a serious impediment to our efforts, and 
we ask UNFPA to continue to support us with technical 
and  financial  assistance  as  we  seek  to  undertake  the 
Afghanistan 
census, 
rescheduled from 2008. 

Globally, according to the most recent MDG Gap 
Task  Force  Report,  we  are  still  lagging  behind  in 
several  areas,  particularly  in  MDGs  3,  4,  5  and  6. We 
encourage  the  international  community  to  take  this 
conference  as  a  call  to  redouble  our  efforts  towards 
achieving  the  MDGs  and  the  other  internationally 
agreed  development  goals  in  the  larger  framework  of 
the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action.  In  particular,  South-
South  cooperation,  through  regional  groups  and  other 
multilateral organizations,  will be crucial to achieving 
our goals. We must also ensure that the financial crisis 
and  other  constraints  do  not  restrict  the  technical  and 
the  deterioration  of 
population 
Moreover, 
housing 
and 
09-55571 

23 

15 
past 
years 
Though 
Mrs.  Dunlop
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
A/64/PV.19 

financial  aid  to  developing,  least  developed  and  post-
conflict countries.  

have 
the 
seen 
groundbreaking  progress,  we  must  sustain 
those 
achievements and recognize that all of our efforts will 
be required if we are to be successful in achieving the 
ambitious goals we have set for ourselves. 

representative of Brazil. 

(Brazil):  Fifteen  years  ago, 
179 countries  met  in  Cairo  and  adopted  by  consensus 
an  ambitious  20-year  Programme  of  Action  (see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) that contributed to the progress 
of  the  international  agenda  in  such  relevant  issues  as 
population,  development,  human  rights,  reproductive 
and  sexual  health  and  rights,  gender  equality  and 
migration.  It  is  only  fitting  that  we  gather  today  to 
commemorate that major achievement. I would like to 
take the opportunity of this historic moment to reaffirm 
Brazil’s commitment to the principles and objectives of 
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development (ICPD). 

The  importance  of  the  principles  and  plan  of 
action  adopted  in  the  Cairo  Conference  is  highlighted 
by  the  fact  that  a  substantive  part  of  that  agenda  was 
further consolidated and expanded upon in subsequent 
United  Nations  conferences.  Many  of  the  Cairo  goals 
have  in  fact  become  key  elements  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), particularly those related 
to health, gender, education and cooperation. 
It  is  also  important  to  highlight  how  the  Cairo 

Conference 
economic 
development  as  a  critical  component  of  long-term 
sustainability,  particularly  one  that  is  balanced  in 
gender  terms,  socially  inclusive  and  environmentally 
sensitive,  and  one  that  provides  equal  treatment  and 
opportunities to different age groups.  

In  the  light  of  recent  trends  in  global  economic 
growth  and  development,  in  which  the  effects  of  the 
financial and economic crisis of 2008 and 2009 are still 
hanging over us, it is all the more urgent that the Cairo 
platform  be  renewed  and  that  implementation  of  the 
commitments  made  therein  be  given  impetus.  We 
should recast those commitments against the backdrop 
of the work yet to be done in the United Nations with 
respect to reshaping the global financial and economic 
architectures under the ongoing processes we agreed to 
perceived 
social 
and 
for 
concerned  with 
the  prospects  of 
in  last  June’s  conference  on  the  financial  crisis,  and 
with  respect  to  the  preparations  for  the  conference  on 
South-South  cooperation  to  be  held  next  December  in 
Kenya  and  our  preparations 
the  September 
2010 high-level  meeting  to  review  progress  on  the 
MDGs,  among  other  activities  of 
the  General 
Assembly.  A  people-centred  and  employment-led 
global  economic  recovery  would  do  justice  to  the 
aspirations set out in Cairo 15 years ago. 

Brazil  recognized  the  importance  of  the  Cairo 
themes  even  before  1994.  In  1988  our  Constitution 
recognized  health  as  a  right  of  all  citizens  and  the 
provision  health  services  as  an  obligation  of  the 
Brazilian State. Our Government created the Universal 
Health System, which guarantees free, universal public 
health care and services to everyone who suffers from 
disease  and  infections,  including  sexually  transmitted 
ones such as HIV/AIDS.  

Currently,  however,  the  Brazilian  Government  is 
deeply 
the 
feminization of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. In response to 
that  new  trend,  measures  and  specific  programmes  to 
reduce the vulnerability of women and teenagers to the 
virus have been put in place.  

Looking back over the last few years, Brazil has 
achieved  remarkable  progress  in  many  areas  with 
regard  to  the  advancement  of  women.  Since  the 
creation in  2003 of the Special Secretariat on Policies 
for  Women,  the  Brazilian  Government  has  adopted  a 
series of cross-cutting policies, plans and programmes 
aimed  at  empowering  women, 
reducing  gender 
inequalities and promoting social inclusion. 

in 
Important  steps  have  also  been 
combating  violence  against  women.  The  Second 
National  Plan  of  Policies  for  Women  resulted  in  the 
adoption of the National Pact to Curb Violence Against 
Women and the enactment of the Maria da Penha Law, 
which  helped  to  enforce  legal  protection  in  cases  of 
domestic  violence  against  women  and  girls.  Another 
priority 
the 
empowerment  of  women  through  education  and  the 
promotion  of  women’s  participation  in  all  areas  of 
decision-making.  The  reality  in  Brazil  is  that  women 
outnumber men in schools at all levels. 

In  Brazil  the  agenda  for  sexual  and  reproductive 
health and rights in accordance with the principles and 
objectives agreed in Cairo is being fully implemented. 
Social  policies  have  incorporated  the  outcome  of 
the  National  Plan 
stressed 
taken 
in 
is 
24 

09-55571 
for 
in 
Despite 
through 
The  Brazilian  national  policy 


various  national  debates  in  which  Brazilian  civil 
society  participated  actively 
the  national 
thematic  conferences.  Several  advisory  councils  were 
created  to  follow  up  on  the  implementation  of  those 
initiatives.  

integral 
assistance to woman’s health, established in the 1980s, 
includes  strategies  for  reducing  maternal  and  neonatal 
mortality  and  incorporates  initiatives  inspired  by  the 
agenda  of  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights. 
Through a human rights perspective, family planning is 
understood as a matter of individual choice rather than 
a strategy for population control. 
the 
progress 

achieved 
the 
implementation  of 
in  Cairo, 
the  goals  set  out 
formidable  challenges  remain.  We  must  do  more  to 
promote  gender  equality.  We  must  do  more  to  reduce 
maternal  and  neonatal  mortality.  We  all  need  to 
redouble  our  national  efforts  and  also  to  recommit  to 
increased  cooperation  towards  the  fulfilment  of  the 
Cairo  Programme  of Action  during  the  five  remaining 
years. 
Brazil  will  continue  to  do  its  part.  We  will  also 

work  with  all  Member  States  and  with  the  United 
Nations  system,  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
and  the  Commission  on  Population  and  Development, 
at  whose  forty-third  session  we  have  the  honour  to 
serve  as  Vice-Chair,  in  order  to  further  our  common 
goals. 

representative of Uganda. 
Mr. Rugunda (Uganda): It is with great pleasure 

that  Uganda  joins  the  rest  of  the  United  Nations 
community 
to 
International  Conference  on 
commemorate 
Population and Development (ICPD).  

I  would  like  to  associate  Uganda  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. I would also like 
the  ICPD 
to  reaffirm  Uganda’s  commitment 
(see 
principles 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
the 
importance  of  implementing  them  in  the  achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

Uganda participated actively in the events leading 
to  the  ICPD  and  in  the  Conference  itself,  which  took 
place in Cairo, Egypt, in 1994. As it did for many other 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
of  Action 
acknowledge 
Programme 
and 
auspicious 
occasion 
on 
this 
the 
and 
to 
A/64/PV.19
to 
for 
policy 
the 
to 
population 
ICPD  presented  Uganda  with  an 
countries, 
opportunity 
learn 
from  other  developed  and 
developing countries how to make progress on matters 
of reproductive health, population and development.  
After  the  ICPD,  Uganda  formulated  and  adopted 

a 
national 
sustainable 
development.  In  2007,  the  policy  was  revised  in  line 
with  our  national  development  plan,  which  runs  from 
2007 to 2015, and is part of the country’s blueprint for 
action to improve maternal, neonatal  and reproductive 
health for the purposes of achieving MDG 5. 

An  evaluation  of  the  implementation  of  the 
national  population  policy  has  shown  that,  like  many 
other  nations  on 
the  African  continent,  Uganda 
continues 
to  have  high  maternal  mortality.  A 
strengthened  partnership  between  all  stakeholders  is 
required  if  countries  like  Uganda  are  to  meet  their 
target 
lower  maternal  mortality  by  2015.  In 
finalizing  its  national  action  plan,  Uganda  aims  to 
accelerate  the  reduction  of  maternal  and  neonatal 
morbidity  and  mortality  and  to  undertake  all  actions 
agreed under the Maputo Plan of Action. 
In this regard, Uganda is committed to continuing 

to  increase  the  allocation  of  resources  to  programmes 
and  activities  geared  to  achieving  the  implementation 
of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action.  There  is  also 
increased recognition of the need for up-to-date data on 
population  and  development 
in  our 
decision-making.  All  these  issues  have  been  given 
priority  attention 
in  our  draft  five-year  national 
development plan. 

We  have  identified  some  key  critical  areas  to 
which  immediate  attention  should  be  given.  We  have 
put  in  place  programmes  to  accelerate  economic 
growth and eradicate poverty and to provide universal 
primary  and  secondary  education,  a  road  map  for 
reducing maternal and infant mortality, and a draft bill 
for  the  elimination  of  female  genital  mutilation,  inter 
alia.  In  addition,  Uganda  is  also  taking  other  positive 
steps  in  respect  of  reproductive  rights  and  closing  the 
large gap in unmet needs for family planning. 

Uganda’s  success  in  reducing  HIV  prevalence 
from a high 18 per cent to a relatively low 6.7 per cent 
will  be  sustained 
through  strengthened  focus  on 
prevention, especially among those in union, as well as 
continued  efforts  in  treatment  and  care  through  an 
integrated approach. 
to  guide  us 
09-55571 

25 

A/64/PV.19 


The  aforementioned  measures  show  the  very 
tangible and concrete ways that Uganda is reaffirming 
its commitment to delivering on the ICPD Programme 
of  Action  and  to  achieving  the  health-related  MDGs, 
including  the  new  target  on  universal  access  to 
reproductive  health,  consistent  with  our  national 
development  plan. Addressing  unmet  needs  for  family 
planning  in  Uganda  would  allow  upwards  of  60  per 
cent  of  women  to  gain  access  to  reproductive  health 
services  —  a  level  comparable  to  that  of  any  middle-
income country in the world. 

We are convinced that our initiative for universal 
access to secondary education will strengthen efforts to 
delay  marriage  and  give  girls  better  career  and  family 
choices,  which  is  good  for  women’s  empowerment, 
gender  equality,  reproductive  rights  and,  ultimately, 
economic development. 

Finally, we recognize that there are still a number 
of  challenges  hindering  the  smooth  implementation  of 
the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action.  Uganda  therefore 
reiterates its commitment to work with all development 
partners in order to continue its implementation. 

of the Observer State of the Holy See. 
Father  Bené  (Holy  See):  I  make  the  following 

statement  on  behalf  of  the  Permanent  Observer  of  the 
Holy See, who unfortunately is not able to be with us 
here this afternoon. 
As  we  call  to  mind  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of 

International  Conference  on  Population  and 
the 
the  many 
Development 
challenges  facing 
to 
achieve  the  goal  of  greater  sustained  economic  and 
social development. 

When  States  came  together  in  Cairo  in  1994, 
many  of  them  were  under  the  impression  that  a 
population  explosion  was  going  to  occur  and  hamper 
the  ability 
to  achieve  adequate  global  economic 
development.  Now,  15  years  later,  we  see  that  this 
perception was unfounded.  

countries,  population 
demographics  have  declined  to  the  point  where  some 
national legislators are now encouraging an increase in 
birth  rates  to  assure  continued  economic  growth. 
Similarly,  in  many  parts  of  the  developing  world, 
development  has  been  occurring  at  previously 
unachieved rates and the greatest threat to development 
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
international  community 
In  many  developed 
(ICPD),  we 
recognize 
the 
in 
the 
ICPD 
report 
results  not  from  a  population  explosion  but  from 
irresponsible  world  and  local  economic  management. 
For nearly a century, attempts have been made to link 
global  population  with 
the  food,  energy,  natural 
resources  and  environmental  crises.  Yet,  on 
the 
contrary,  it  has  been  consistently  demonstrated  by 
human  ingenuity  and  the  ability  of  people  to  work 
together  that  human  persons  are  the  world’s  greatest 
resource. 

(A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) 
The 
reiterated the need for States to promote and strengthen 
the  family  as  a  vital  element  of  producing  greater 
social and economic development. The ever-increasing 
presence  of  women  in  the  job  market  has  raised  new 
challenges for the family and women both in the work 
sector and at home. Sexual and economic exploitation, 
the trafficking of women and girls, and discriminatory 
practices 
job  market  have  challenged 
Governments  to  promote  and  apply  policies  to  end 
those injustices and to support the family in its proper 
responsibilities. 

Demographic policies must also take into account 
the  needs  of  migrants  as  part  of  an  overall 
responsibility  to  place  the  human  person  at  the  centre 
of  all  development  policies.  Too  often  migration  is 
seen  by  Governments  and  individuals  as  an  unwitting 
consequence of globalization, and negative stereotypes 
of  migrants  are  used  to  promote  policies  that  have  a 
dehumanizing 
create  unconscionable 
divisions within families.  
As noted in the most recent Human Development 

Report,  migration  exists  in  all  regions  of  the  world, 
with  migrants  often  providing  necessary  skills  and 
talents to destination countries while at  the same  time 
ensuring  valuable  support  to  their  countries  of  origin. 
While other aspects of the ICPD Programme of Action 
(see  A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  have  received  greater 
attention 
the 
constructive  proposals  of  the  ICPD  report,  greater 
efforts  must  be  made  to  enact  human-centred  policies 
that  recognize  the  shared  benefits  of  migration.  More 
must  be  done 
the  ICPD’s  appeal  for 
development in all countries a means of addressing the 
reasons  behind  migration  and  to  enact  policies  that 
protect migrants from illegal trafficking. 

The  ICPD’s  call  for  universal  access  to  quality 
education  continues  to  serve  as  the  most  effective 
means  of  promoting  sustainable  economic,  social  and 
truly  achieve  all 
the  past, 
to  make 
effect 
and 
in 
to 
26 

09-55571 
includes  a  right 


political development. It also goes without saying that 
access to education for women and girls at all levels is 
at the heart of empowering women within society and 
promoting equality between men and women. 

Too  often  in  addressing  the  role  of  the  ICPD  on 
maternal health, attempts are made to promote a notion 
of sexual and reproductive health that is detrimental to 
unborn human life and to the integral needs of women 
and  men  within  society.  Efforts  to  address  maternal 
mortality, obstetric fistula, child mortality, prenatal and 
antenatal care, sexually transmitted diseases and other 
health  matters  are  hampered  by  sanitary  policies  that 
fail to take into account the right to life of the unborn 
child  and  that  promote  birth  control  as  a  development 
policy  and  disguised  health  service.  Suggesting  that 
reproductive  health 
to  abortion 
explicitly  violates  the  language  of  the  ICPD,  defies 
moral  and  legal  standards  within  local  communities, 
and divides efforts to address the real needs of mothers 
and children. 

Renewing  our  effort  to  respond  to  the  integral 
health and social needs of the community entails taking 
into  account  the  social,  cultural  and  spiritual  needs  of 
all and adhering to the international standard set in the 
ICPD,  which  calls  for  national  laws  to  be  fully 
respected.  For  its  part,  the  Catholic  Church  remains 
committed  to  providing  access  to  health  care  for 
everyone.  Through 
their  over  5,000  hospitals, 
18,000 health clinics and 15,000 homes for the elderly 
and disabled, as well as other health-care programmes 
throughout  the  world,  Catholic-based  institutions  are 
committed  to  providing  the  right  to  quality  and 
effective and morally responsible health care for all. 
Ultimately,  the  ICPD  final  report,  like  many 

development 
to  assure 
especially  the  development  of  the  most  vulnerable 
within society. In that regard, providing for the overall 
physical, emotional and spiritual well-being of children 
is paramount in order to ensure that future generations 
may  know  abject  poverty  and  child  mortality  as  a 
historical remnant rather than a daily reality. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  57/29  of  19  November 
2002,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  Partners  in 
Population and Development. 
and 
(Partners 

Development):  The  historic  International  Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD),  the  fifteenth 
instruments,  must 
in  Population 
Mr.  Singh
seek 
A/64/PV.19
definition 
far-reaching, 
comprehensive 
formulation  and 
implementation  of 
anniversary  of  which  we  are  celebrating  today,  has 
many firsts to its credit. At the ICPD, for the first time, 
a 
of 
reproductive  health,  including  family  planning,  was 
established  by  179  member  countries.  Though  it  is 
based  on  a  working  definition  used  previously  by  the 
World  Health  Organization,  it  incorporates  significant 
revisions  of  many  of  the  concepts  included  in  the 
working  definition  and 
links  reproductive  health 
services  to  primary  health  care.  There  is  clear  and 
unambiguous  recognition  of  the  right  of  men  and 
women  to  be  informed  and  to  have  access  to  safe, 
effective, affordable and acceptable methods of family 
planning  of  their  choice.  Since  1994,  the  ICPD 
definition of reproductive health has been increasingly 
adopted  and  used  by  countries  all  over  the  world  for 
the 
relevant 
policies and programmes. 

The  Conference  set  a  quantitative  goal,  for  the 
first  time,  for  the  universal  delivery  of  reproductive 
health  services,  proposing 
that  such  services  be 
provided to all individuals of appropriate ages as soon 
as possible and no later than 2015. At the same time, it 
specified  qualitative  goals  for  improving  the  quality, 
outreach  and  effectiveness  of  family  planning  and 
other  reproductive  health  services.  It  also  provided  a 
set  of  fairly  precise  estimates  for  the  mobilization  of 
domestic and international resources needed to achieve 
those goals. 

A  new  definition  of  reproductive  rights  was 
established,  going  well  beyond  that  formulated  at  the 
World  Population  Conference  in  Bucharest  on  the 
rights  of  couples  and  individuals.  In  that  context,  the 
inclusion  in  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  (see 
A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1)  of  the  right  to  obtain  the 
highest  standard  of  sexual  and  reproductive  health  is 
highly  significant. Among  its  other  recommendations, 
the  Conference  sought  to  delineate  the  role  of  men  in 
sexual 
the 
international  community’s  growing  concern  with 
HIV/AIDS,  assigned  high  priority  to  action  on  unsafe 
abortion  as  a  major  health  concern,  emphasized  the 
need  to  give  particular  attention  to  the  sexual  and 
reproductive  health  needs  of  adolescents,  and  clearly 
linked the high incidence of maternal mortality to other 
issues relating to family planning, women’s health and 
safe motherhood. 

other 
The Cairo Conference broke new ground in many 
integral 
areas.  While 
and 
gender 
relations, 
crystallized 
emphasizing 
the 
09-55571 

27 

A/64/PV.19 

relationship  between  population  and  development,  it 
underscored  the  importance  and  urgency  of  instituting 
and  implementing  population  policies.  It  endorsed  a 
holistic view of social development and a whole range 
of  quantitative  and  qualitative  goals  within  a  20-year 
framework,  covering  health  care,  education  — 
particularly for girls — and a complement of legal and 
social measures aimed at promoting gender equality. It 
gave  full  and  unequivocal  support  to  the  concept  of 
partnership  between  Governments  and  civil  society. 
But, above all, it will be remembered for the clear links 
it  established  between  women’s  right  to  choose  and 
their empowerment.  

The  Conference  also  gave  unstinting  support  to 
the  concept  of  South-South  cooperation,  and  the 
Partners  in  Population  and  Development  (PPD)  was 
established  at  the  Conference  itself  as  a  practical 
demonstration of the relevance and importance of that 
concept.  Today, 
together  with 
24 Governments  of  developing  countries  and,  through 
a series of programmes in the areas of policy dialogue, 
training,  research,  information  exchange  and  technical 
assistance,  seeks  to  promote  and  strengthen  South-
South  cooperation  with  respect  to  population  and 
development. 

The  goals  of  ICPD  are  now  firmly  linked  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  But,  as  in 
the  case  of  the  MDGs,  there  has  been  insufficient 
progress  towards  achieving  the  ICPD  goals  by  2015, 
particularly  in  the  areas  of  universal  reproductive 
health  services  and  maternal  health.  The  current 
economic  crisis  makes  that  task  doubly  difficult, 
particularly in the poorer countries, most of which are 
in Africa.  
groups 
PPD 

Before  I  close,  I  would  like  to  pay  a  special 
tribute to Ms. Nafis Sadik, Secretary-General of ICPD, 
under  whose  visionary  leadership  ICPD  achieved  its 
historic  results,  and  to  Ms.  Thoraya  Obaid,  Executive 
Director  of 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
(UNFPA),  under  whose  direction  UNFPA  has  sought, 
in a steadfast and consistent manner, the promotion of 
and support for the achievement of the ICPD goals.  

The  commemoration  of  the  fifteenth  anniversary 
of  the  ICPD  gives  us  all  the  opportunity  to  reflect  on 
how  much  remains  to  be  done  and,  as  the  Secretary-
General pointed out at the beginning of this debate, to 
recommit  ourselves  to  achieving  the  ICPD  goals  and 
the MDGs through increased political commitment; the 
implementation  of  effective  policies  and  programmes 
at 
level,  with  sustained  support  by 
international  organizations  such  as  UNFPA;  and  the 
allocation  of  adequate  domestic  and 
international 
resources to get the job done. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  to  commemorate  the  fifteenth 
anniversary  of 
International  Conference  on 
Population and Development.  

stage of its consideration of agenda item 48. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
the  national 
the 
28 

09-55571 
