
A/64/PV.41
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

41st plenary meeting 
Monday, 9 November 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Aitimova 
(Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.  




Agenda item 11 
Support by the United Nations system of the efforts 
of Governments to promote and consolidate new or 
restored democracies 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/372) 

  Draft resolution (A/64/L.12) 

The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative  of  Qatar  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.12. 
Ms.  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 

honoured  to  speak  under  agenda  item  11  to  introduce 
the  draft  resolution  contained  in  document A/64/L.12, 
entitled “Support by the United Nations system of the 
efforts  of  Governments  to  promote  and  consolidate 
new or restored democracies”.  
Since  the  draft  resolution  was  introduced,  the 

following  countries  have  joined  as  sponsors:  Estonia, 
Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Germany,  Greece,  Honduras, 
Hungary, 
Japan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kuwait,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Madagascar, 
Mali,  Malta,  Morocco, 
the  Netherlands,  Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Poland,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of 
Korea,  Saudi  Arabia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain, 
Sweden,  Thailand,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Togo,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  the  United  Arab 

Iceland, 
Ireland, 
India, 
Italy, 
to 
its 
Based  on 
commitment 
Emirates,  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern  Ireland  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela. 

The International Conference of New or Restored 
Democracies  (ICNRD)  has taken on  an  important  role 
in strengthening democracy. Governments, parliaments 
and civil society organizations participating in the New 
or Restored Democracies Movement are determined to 
use  the  Conferences  as  a  source  of  inspiration  and  a 
forum to exchange experiences and best practices.  

implement 
systematically  the  recommendations  and  follow-up  to 
the  Conferences,  the  State  of  Qatar  hosted  the  Sixth 
International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies in November 2006. Qatar has begun work 
to  establish  an  international  advisory  board  with 
members from various regional groups.  
Since  2007,  the  Advisory  Board  of  the  Sixth 

important 
International  Conference  has  held  four 
meetings 
the 
chairmanship  of  Mr.  Mohammed  Bin  Abdullah  Bin 
Mutib Al-Rumaihi,  Deputy  Foreign  Minister  of  Qatar, 
and has helped to ensure implementation and follow-up 
to  the  meetings  of  the  Movement  for  the  years  2007-
2009 and to assess the progress made in achieving the 
goals set at the Conference. 

The New or  Restored Democracies Movement is 
an important factor in promoting international dialogue 
the  concepts,  principles  and  basic  values  of 
on 
democracy  and 
strengthening  a  culture  of 
the 
partnership  with  Governments,  parliaments, 
in  New  York  under 
in  Doha  and 
in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-59928 (E) 
*0959928* 




to 
ensure 
is  working 
A/64/PV.41 

International  Civil  Society  Forum  for  Democracy  and 
the  United  Nations.  We  have  also  set  up  a  national 
secretariat  and  chairmanship  with  a  database  of 
information  on  democracy  to  provide  electronic  and 
other  information  on  progress  being  made  on  the 
Movement’s programme of work.  

Within  that  framework,  Qatar  has  also  set  up  a 
structure to ensure implementation of the Movement’s 
programme  of  work  that  can  be  used  by  future 
Conference  chairs.  It  has  also  led  meetings  at  the 
expert  level  to  address  methods  of  coordination  and 
information  exchange,  and  another  meeting  that  has 
succeeded  in  developing  national  committees  of  the 
democracy Movement and supplying all of its members 
with reference documents.  

In  the  context  of  General  Assembly  resolution 
62/7, adopted in November 2007, the first International 
Day  of  Democracy  was  celebrated  on  15  September 
2008.  Qatar,  as  Chair  of  the  Sixth  International 
Conference, 
systematic 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  made  at  the 
Conference and to ensure conditions favourable to the 
future of the New or Restored Democracies Movement 
through various mechanisms set up for that purpose. 

Qatar  has  encouraged  meetings  among  member 
States to exchange points of view on that topic because 
we  consider  it  important  to  take  action  outside  the 
framework  of  the  Conferences.  Thus,  Qatar  has  also 
organized  meetings  of  States  members  of  the  New  or 
Restored  Democracies  Movement  on  the  margins  of 
United Nations sessions.  

Qatar  held  a  ministerial  meeting  of  the  New  or 
Restored  Democracies  Movement  on  the  sidelines  of 
the sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly under 
the  chairmanship  of  Mr.  Khaled  bin  Mohamed 
International 
Al-Attiyah,  Minister  of  State 
Cooperation, 
to  consider  ways 
the 
Movement  as  an  institutional  movement  akin  to  other 
political  and  regional  groups  at  the  United  Nations. 
Participants  at  the  meeting  addressed  initiatives  to 
ensure  the  Movement’s  future  sustainability  as  an 
institution,  agreed  to  ensure  a  more  effective  and 
efficient  follow-up  to  the  recommendations  of  the 
International  Conferences  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies,  and  engaged  in  discussions  on  the 
institutionalization of the Movement.  
The  draft  resolution  before  the  Assembly  today 

(A/64/L.12)  welcomes  the  work  carried  out  by  the 
for 
to  strengthen 
particularly 
Conference, 
the  Advisory  Board  of 
follow-up  mechanisms  of 
the  Sixth  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  and  the 
efforts  of  the  Chair  to  make  the  Conference  and  the 
follow-up  thereto  more  effective  and  efficient,  and  in 
this  regard  takes  note  of  the  outcomes  of  the  four 
the  Sixth 
meetings  of 
International 
the 
implementation  of  the  programme  of  work  of  the 
Conference  for  2007-2009  and  the  convening  of  the 
ministerial  meeting  of 
the  New  or  Restored 
Democracies  Movement  on  the  sidelines  of  the  sixty-
fourth session of the General Assembly.  

In addition, the draft resolution renews its call to 
follow  up  on  the  work  of  the  Sixth  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  by 
inviting  interested  parties  to  inform  the  Secretary-
General of measures taken to that end.  

Qatar attaches great importance to the Conference 
and  urges  effective  and  efficient  follow-up  of  its 
recommendations.  The  draft  resolution  notes 
the 
achievement of the International Conference of New or 
Restored  Democracies,  under  the  chairmanship  of 
Qatar, of the establishment of the International Day of 
Democracy  on  15  September.  In  addition,  it  reaffirms 
the  central 
the  active 
involvement  of  civil  society  organizations  and  media 
and their interaction with Governments at all levels in 
promoting democracy.  

the  Secretary-
General to take necessary measures for the observance 
of  the  International  Day  of  Democracy  and  urges  him 
to  examine  options  for  strengthening  the  support 
provided  by  the  United  Nations  system  for  the  efforts 
of  Member  States  to  consolidate  democracy  and  good 
governance,  including  the  provision  of  support  to  the 
President of the Sixth International Conference. 

Qatar  has  achieved  many  successes  during  its 
chairmanship  of  the  Conference,  which  is  to  expire 
shortly,  and  the  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution 
welcome  the  decision  of  the  Government  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  to  host  the  Seventh 
International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies in 2010. 
the  Secretary-

resolution 
General,  Member  States, 
the  relevant  specialized 
agencies and bodies of the United Nations system and 
other intergovernmental organizations to collaborate in 
the  holding  of  the  Seventh  International  Conference. 
The  draft  resolution  requests 
role  of  parliaments  and 
The  draft 
invites 
2 

09-59928 
the 
of 
take 
this  opportunity 
to  congratulate 
recommendations 
that  participated 
in 


We 
the 
Government  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela 
on  its  decision  to  host  the  Seventh  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  and 
affirm the  need for follow-up efforts to systematically 
implement 
previous 
Conferences. 

The  Government  of  Qatar  has  held  two  informal 
consultation meetings with Member States on the draft 
resolution  before  us  today.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  Member  States 
the 
discussions.  Qatar,  as  Chairman  of 
the  Sixth 
International  Conference,  thanks  all  Member  States 
that sponsored the draft resolution and hopes to gather 
the  greatest  number  of  sponsors. We  urge  adoption  of 
the draft resolution by consensus. 
Mrs.  Dunlop  (Brazil):  Before  Brazil  became 

independent in 1822, many political movements fought 
for our independence. In 1789, one of these movements 
adopted  a  Latin  motto 
taken  from  Virgil’s  first 
Eclogue:  “Libertas  quae  sera  tamen”,  which  means 
“freedom albeit late”. When Brazil became a Republic 
in 1889, the motto was engraved on the flag of one of 
the  states  of  our  federation.  Two  hundred  years  later, 
Brazil  is  very  proud  to  be  a  consolidated  democracy. 
Not  only  in  our  country,  but  all  over  the  world,  these 
ideals  of  freedom  and  democracy  have  inspired  many 
visionaries.  

the 
importance  of  democracy  and  fundamental  freedoms 
and  are  fully  committed  to  their  implementation. 
Hence, we strongly support all the efforts made by the 
United  Nations,  regional  organizations  and  Member 
States 
the 
promotion and consolidation of democracy, taking into 
account innovative approaches and best practices. 

I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
report on support by the United Nations system of the 
efforts  of  Governments  to  promote  and  consolidate 
new or restored democracies (A/64/372). We appreciate 
his continued efforts and the assistance provided by all 
United Nations bodies to new or restored democracies 
in  their  commitment  to  the  rule  of  law  and  to  the 
universal  core  values  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations. 

of 
We 
15 September  as  the  International  Day  of  Democracy, 
as  we  firmly  believe  that  the  marking  of  this  day  will 
to  strengthen  programmes  devoted 
As  Brazilians,  we 
have  welcomed 
fully 
understand 
the 
designation 
A/64/PV.41
Last  but  not 
least,  I  would  also 
serve  as  a  reminder  of  the  importance  of  democracy. 
Moreover, we value the report of the Secretary-General 
and  his  recommendations  aimed  at  improving  the  role 
of the United Nations in democracy assistance. 

We  would  also  like  to  recognize  and  commend 
the  leadership  of  the  State  of  Qatar  as  Chair  of  the 
Sixth  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies.  We  appreciate  all  the  progress  achieved 
in  the  past  few  years,  particularly  the  process  of  the 
institutionalization of the Movement. The commitment 
of the Qatari Government was pivotal to promoting the 
goals of the International Conference. 

Brazil  is  honoured  to  be  a  sponsor  of  resolution 
62/7 and of draft resolution A/64/L.12, which has been 
introduced today. 
to 

like 
congratulate  our  South  American  neighbour, 
the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  for  taking  the  lead 
of  the  Seventh  Conference.  We  sincerely  wish  great 
success for its chairmanship. 

As  President  Lula  once  reminded  us,  Brazil  is  a 
democracy that is proud of its multi-ethnic population, 
which  draws  on  rich  and  varied  cultural  heritages  but 
shares  a  strong  sense  of  national  identity.  We  live  in 
peace  at  home  and  with  neighbouring  countries,  and 
this  is  something  we  will  not  surrender.  Indeed,  with 
over  100  million  voters,  all  our  representatives  are 
elected  by  secret  ballot  at  all  levels  of  Government. 
The  press  and  media  work  freely.  Moreover,  in  the 
most recent presidential election, the undisputed results 
were announced just a few hours after the polls closed, 
as  Brazil  has  developed  an  electronic  secret  voting 
system that allows their prompt release. 

Our  Parliamentarians  therefore  follow  elected 
mandates.  Our  judges  undergo  public  examinations  to 
be 
of 
1988 recognizes all fundamental freedoms, such as the 
freedom of speech and the freedom of assembly. 
We fully support the General Assembly in its role 

to  encourage  Governments 
to  strengthen  national 
programmes  to  promote  and  consolidate  democracy, 
including  through  increased  bilateral,  regional  and 
international cooperation. More importantly, in view of 
the  special  meaning  of  democracy  and  freedom  to 
Brazilians, we will continue to uphold all efforts of the 
United  Nations  system  towards  the  development  of 
democratic governance and the building and promotion 
appointed.  The  Brazilian  Constitution 
to 
09-59928 

3 

processes, 
strengthening 
organizations.  As 
in  collaboration  with 
A/64/PV.41 

of  inclusive  national  dialogue  and  reconciliation  in 
countries where they may be necessary. 
Ms. Ochir (Mongolia): My delegation welcomes 

the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  support  by  the 
United Nations system of the efforts of Governments to 
promote  and  consolidate  new  or  restored  democracies 
(A/64/372). As seen in the report, Member States have 
made  good  progress  in  promoting  and  consolidating 
regional  and 
democracy, 
intergovernmental 
democracy 
represents a key principle and core value of the United 
Nations, underpinning much of its work, the support by 
the  United  Nations  system  is  vital  to  new  or  restored 
democracies. 

Since 1994, when the General Assembly adopted 
its  first  resolution  in  support  of  new  or  restored 
democracies (resolution 49/30), United Nations support 
and  assistance  in  the  area  of  democracy  promotion 
have  increased  in  both  scope  and  content. They  range 
from  electoral  assistance,  supporting  constitution-
making 
democratic 
governance institutions and the rule of law, promoting 
human rights and anti-corruption initiatives, improving 
gender  responsiveness  and  women’s  empowerment, 
enhancing  civic  engagement  in  democratic  processes, 
and  providing  good  offices  in  overcoming  political 
crises and preventing their escalation. 

My  delegation  commends  here  the  establishment 
last year of a standby team of mediation experts within 
the  Mediation  Support  Unit  of  the  Department  of 
Political Affairs on a wide variety of issues, including 
power-  and  wealth-sharing,  constitution-making  and 
natural  resource  management.  That  team  could  serve 
the needs of  Member States as a  powerhouse of high-
calibre  expertise  in  relevant  areas,  to  be  deployed 
promptly at the request of Member States. 

Mongolia  has  been  enjoying  solid  and  fruitful 
cooperation in consolidating its democratic gains with 
the entities of the United Nations system, in particular 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP) 
and  its  Oslo  Governance  Centre,  the  Department  of 
Political  Affairs  and  the  United  Nations  Democracy 
Fund,  as  well  as  with  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
and  the  International  Institute  for  Democracy  and 
Electoral Assistance (International IDEA). 

This year marks the twentieth anniversary of the 
onset  of  Mongolia’s  democratic  revolution.  For  us, 
these  have  been  demanding  yet  rewarding  years  of 
to 
reform 
to  seek 
in  which 
in  2003  and  chaired 
is  also  a  member  of 
learning  and  doing  marked  by  the  building  of  solid 
institutions  of  democracy  and  by  a  relentless  effort  to 
simultaneously 
the  nation’s  political  and 
economic  systems.  We  believe  that  the  democratic 
system  of  Government  is  the  best  model  to  ensure  a 
liberties 
framework  of 
lasting 
solutions 
the  political,  economic  and  social 
problems  that  our  society  faces.  It  is  therefore  our 
belief 
that  democratic  consolidation  must  come 
through  pursuing  sustained  economic  reform  aimed  at 
ensuring  better  living  standards  for  the  people.  The 
goal  of  human  development  is  high  on  the  agenda  of 
the  Government  of  Mongolia  and  was  reaffirmed  yet 
again by our Prime Minister in his inaugural address on 
29 October. 
Our  steadfast  drive  towards  the  consolidation  of 

democracy  at  home  has  been  duly  recognized  by  the 
international community. Mongolia successfully hosted 
the Fifth International Conference of New or Restored 
Democracies  (ICNRD) 
that 
international  movement  until  November  2006.  We  are 
proud to serve currently as an Advisory Board member 
of  ICNRD.  Mongolia 
the 
Convening  Group  of  another  international  movement 
for  democracy,  the  Community  of  Democracies,  and 
was  humbled  by  the  Community’s  decision  to  have 
Mongolia serve as Chair from 2011. 
We  are  also  grateful  to  Secretary-General  Ban 

Ki-moon  for  selecting  us  to  serve  on  the  Advisory 
Board of the United Nations Democracy Fund. As one 
of  the  main  sponsors  of  resolution  62/7,  Mongolia 
celebrated  the  International  Day  of  Democracy  on 
15 September this year with days on which Parliament 
opened  its  doors  to  the  public  and  with  a  special 
thematic  debate  with  youth  organizations  on 
democracy  and  political  tolerance  issues  and  future 
directions  of  democracy  in  Mongolia.  We  also  kicked 
off a three-month nation-wide campaign on democracy 
education. 
Since  Manila,  ICNRD  has  grown  into  a  truly 

global movement. We welcome the emphasis placed by 
Qatar, as Chair, on ensuring a systematic follow-up on 
and  implementation  of  the  decisions  of  the  Sixth 
Conference,  reflected  in  the  relevant  programme  of 
work. The productive outcomes of the four meetings of 
the ICNRD Advisory Board have proven the usefulness 
of that mechanism. We also commend the efforts of the 
Chair in setting up a national secretariat, a website and 
the  ICNRD  democracy  databank  to  facilitate  the 
4 

09-59928 
Secondly,  my 


exchange of experience and expertise among States on 
their democratization efforts. 

As  we  discuss  the  multifaceted  support  provided 
by  the  United  Nations  family  organizations  and  other 
relevant stakeholders to the efforts exerted by the new 
and  restored  democracies,  let  me  share  some  ideas  in 
relation  to  the  recommendations  and  observations 
outlined in the Secretary-General’s report.  

First,  on  ensuring  continued  momentum  and 
support for the International Day of Democracy, based 
on  the  widespread  support  expressed  globally  over  the 
past  two  years  for  celebrating  this  important  occasion, 
it might be advisable to designate a specific theme each 
year  so  that  the  United  Nations  system  organizations 
and Member  States  can  harness  their  efforts in  a  more 
systematic manner. In 2010, when we will focus on the 
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  the  international  community  may  choose  to 
celebrate  the  International  Day  of  Democracy  by 
highlighting the deliverables of democracy, specifically 
in poverty reduction and the attainment of other MDGs. 

the 
recommendation of the Secretary-General to encourage 
complementarity  between 
the 
Community  of  Democracies.  During  its  chairmanship 
of the ICNRD from 2003 to November 2006, Mongolia 
attempted 
two  global  democracy 
movements  closer  together,  inter  alia,  by  introducing 
the  relevant  recommendations  in  both  ICNRD  and 
Community 
documents, 
conducting  consultations  and  developing  a  non-paper 
to that effect.  

Today,  in  our  view,  momentum  is  gathering  in 
favour  of  exploring  avenues  of  possible  cooperation 
between  the  two  global  movements  for  democracy, 
ICNRD  and  the  Community  of  Democracies.  As  we 
know,  the  Community’s  new  Chair,  Lithuania,  has 
made  synergy  with  ICNRD  one  of  its  priorities.  The 
Secretary-General  in  his  report  has  also  suggested 
providing  assistance  in  this  regard.  Therefore,  we 
believe  that  circumstances  are  conducive  to  further 
discussions  on  possible  cooperation  between  ICNRD 
and the Community of Democracies. 

We  also  believe  that  international  efforts  to 
promote  democracy  will  further  benefit  if  the  ICNRD 
enjoys  robust  collaboration  and  coordination  at  the 
multilateral  level  with  other  actors,  for  example  the 
European  Union,  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
delegation  welcomes 
ICNRD  and 
ministerial 
to  bring 
outcome 
the 
the 
A/64/PV.41
of 
owned 
and 
nationally 
Thirdly,  as 
report  mentions, 
ICNRD  Conferences, 
to  ensuring  effective 
Fourthly,  my  delegation  believes 
Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  Council  of  Europe,  the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union,  the  African  Union,  the 
Organization  of American  States,  International  IDEA, 
the Asia-Pacific Democracy Partnership and others. 
follow-up 

between 
the  practices  and 
experiences  amassed  in  the  past,  especially  since  the 
Fifth  Conference,  should  be  sustained  further.  As  the 
Secretary-General’s 
the  Fifth 
Conference  follow-up  was  effective  in  implementing 
the  Ulaanbaatar  Conference  decisions 
through  a 
number  of  pioneering  initiatives  as  a  substantive 
follow-up to the Fifth Conference, which included the 
development 
democratic 
governance  indicators,  the  country  information  note 
and a national plan of action to consolidate democracy 
in Mongolia. Those follow-up experiences were shared 
with  other  countries  and  democracy  experts  at  the 
International  Follow-Up  Conference  on  New  or 
Restored  Democracies  held  in  Ulaanbaatar  in  June 
2006, as well as at the Sixth Conference in Doha. 

the 
that 
institutionalization  of  ICNRD  is  essential  to  ensuring 
effective 
the 
recommendations  adopted  at  each  Conference  and  to 
revitalizing  the  movement  in  the  twenty-first  century. 
In  order  to  build  sustainable  institutional  mechanisms 
to  advance  the  political  standing  of  ICNRD  in  the 
world  and  provide  better  services  to  its  members,  we 
need  a  lean  and  effective  secretariat  in  New  York, 
coupled with a trust fund to support ICNRD activities. 
We  applaud 
to 
support  the  Movement’s  institutionalization  in  this 
regard. 

Fifthly,  with  the  increased  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  fostering  democracy  and  good  governance, 
strengthening  United  Nations  democracy  assistance 
and  addressing  its  coherence  and  coordination  have 
become  important  issues  in  our  discussion.  In  this 
regard,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  recent 
issuance of a guidance note on democracy. 

In  his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  in 
September (see A/64/PV.8), the President of Mongolia 
underlined  democracy  as  inherently  woven  into  the 
MDGs,  noting  that  Mongolia  was  the  first  country  to 
adopt MDG 9 on strengthening human rights, fostering 
democratic  governance  and  zero 
for 
corruption. That pioneering initiative, supported by the 
the  Secretary-General’s  readiness 
systematic 
tolerance 
follow-up 
to 
09-59928 

5 
take 
up 
the 
thus 
could 
issues 
coherence 
bringing  more 
A/64/PV.41 

United Nations Democracy Fund and UNDP, could be 
a  useful  tool  in  ensuring  that  democracy  assistance  is 
more effectively integrated into the work of the United 
Nations, 
and 
coordination to the Organization’s efforts.  

Here,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  once  again  the 
suggestion  made  by  my  delegation  at  the  sixty-third 
session to the effect that it would be advisable to have 
a study on the inter-agency coordination and coherence 
of  democracy  promotion  efforts  undertaken  by  the 
United  Nations  system.  Such  a  study  should,  in  our 
view, present concrete proposals and recommendations 
on  streamlining  and  bringing  more  coherence  into  the 
actions  of  different  United  Nations  stakeholders  in 
democracy promotion.  
My  delegation  also  believes  that  the  General 

Assembly 
and 
recommendations  raised  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report,  especially  those  related  to  the  coherence  and 
coordination  of  United  Nations  democracy  assistance 
through a thematic debate. That would not only engage 
us in a thorough discussion on the United Nations role 
in  democracy  promotion,  but 
effectively 
contribute 
implementation  of  draft 
resolution A/64/L.12, to be adopted shortly, on support 
of the United Nations system to the efforts of new and 
restored democracies. 
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  my  Government  I 

would 
congratulate  Qatar  on  having 
successfully  chaired  the  Movement  for  the  past  three 
years,  and  to  welcome  Venezuela  as  a  host  of  the 
Seventh ICNRD. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We are grateful that the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  has  been  proposed 
by  numerous  countries,  by  way  of  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.12,  to  be  adopted  today,  for  the  chairmanship 
of  the  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies 
2009-2011.  We 
congratulate  the  State  of  Qatar  and  its  Permanent 
Representative,  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  on 
the  advances  accomplished  during 
Qatar’s  chairmanship  of  the  Movement. Among  them, 
we highlight  the designation by the United Nations of 
15 September  as  the  International  Day  of  Democracy, 
the  successful  organization  of  the  Sixth  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  in  2006 
in  Qatar,  and  the  ministerial  meeting  held  during  the 
towards 
period 
like 
to 
for 
the 
also 
the 

revitalized  and 
general  debate  of  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the 
General Assembly. 

We  also  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
entitled “Support by the United Nations system of the 
efforts  of  Governments  to  promote  and  consolidate 
new or restored democracies” (A/64/372). 
The  innovative  public  policy  programmes  being 

implemented in Venezuela have laid the foundation for 
our  efforts  to  build  democracy  with  social  justice. 
These  programmes,  which  are  aimed  mostly  at  the 
disadvantaged,  the  poor  and  those  who  have  always 
been  excluded,  have 
rekindled 
Venezuelan democracy. 

The  Venezuelan  Government  promotes  social 
programmes  that  are  intended  to  address  the  root 
causes  of  the  economic,  political,  social  and  cultural 
problems facing society. Significant achievements have 
been  made  to  that  end  in  Venezuela.  According  to 
UNESCO, illiteracy has been eliminated in my country 
thanks to the concerted efforts of our Government and 
the  unparalleled  cooperation  extended  by  the  sister 
Republic  of  Cuba.  According 
the  Economic 
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, our 
country 
in 
resounding 
overcoming inequality on our continent. 

Venezuela  has  already  achieved  the  Millennium 
Development  Goal  on  reducing  extreme  poverty. 
Latinobarómetro,  an  organization  that  conducts  public 
opinion  surveys  in  Latin  America,  has  identified  our 
country as one of the most democratic countries of the 
region. That organization also ranks Venezuela first in 
terms  of  economic  and  social  indicators,  such  as 
equality  of  opportunities,  social  security, 
income 
distribution and employment opportunities. 

The  2008  reports  of  the  Economic  Commission 
for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  and  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme 
the 
understanding of the men and women of Venezuela that 
our  country’s  strengthened  democracy  enjoys  broad 
popular support. Today,  all political and social sectors 
enjoy  democratic  freedoms  and  civil  and  political 
rights  that  would  have  been  unimaginable  in  the  past. 
Over  the  past  11  years,  for  example,  under  the 
Government  of  President  Hugo  Chávez  Frias, 
12 national  electoral  processes  have 
taken  place, 
including  three  presidential  elections  and  five  popular 
referendums, among which was one presidential recall 
achieved 
confirm 
success 
has 
to 
6 

09-59928 
is 
that 
Recalling 
responsible 
for  establishing 


referendum. We can therefore say that Venezuela holds 
a world record for elections. 
The President took the Chair. 


In the spirit of the Doha Declaration of the Sixth 
International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies,  held  in  Doha  in  2006,  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  reaffirms  the  richness  and 
diversity  of  political  systems  around  the  world  and 
emphasizes  the  importance  of  democratic  reforms 
being  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  national, 
regional,  religious  and  cultural  particularities  of  each 
country. 

the  Doha  Declaration,  Venezuela 
reiterates  its  belief  that  it  is  the  will  of  the  sovereign 
people 
the 
democratic institutions of a nation and that, as a result, 
there is no single model of democracy or single set of 
democratic  institutions.  There  is  a  rich  diversity  of 
democracies around the world.  

Venezuela reaffirms the importance of having the 
International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies creatively coordinate the activities of the 
Governments, parliaments, civil society and social and 
popular  movements  of  the  world  to  strengthen  and 
bolster democracies around the world. Venezuela again 
thanks  Member  States  for 
their  support  for  our 
assumption  of  the  chairmanship  of  the  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies,  and  is 
firmly committed to promoting this movement with the 
help of all Member States. 
Mr.  Waghmare  (India):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like  to  congratulate  the  delegation  of  Qatar  on  having 
introduced  the  draft  resolution  (A/64/L.12)  on  the 
importance of support by the United Nations system of 
the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate 
new  or  restored  democracies.  We  are  happy 
to 
co-sponsor the draft. 

We  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank Qatar for its successful stewardship of the Chair 
of  the  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies  (ICNRD)  over  the  past  three  years,  and 
would  like  to  assure  Venezuela  of  our  support  during 
its forthcoming chairmanship of this process. 

The  ICNRD  process  has  come  a  long  way  since 
its  inception,  with  only  13  countries,  in  Manila  more 
than  21  years  ago.  Today,  the  process  enjoys  the 
its 
participation  of  more 
than  100  countries 
in 
A/64/PV.41
identify  means 
activities,  and  its  membership  is  open  to  all  United 
Nations  Member  States.  This  underscores 
the 
importance  of  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
Conference  and  the  success  of  this  initiative.  We  are 
also  happy  to  note  that  this  process  has  helped 
countries  to  share  their  experiences  of  democracy  and 
to 
to  promote  pluralistic  and 
participatory  democracy.  We  look  forward  to  the 
institutionalization of ICNRD activities. 

India  is  the  world’s  largest  democracy,  and  we 
have  been  proud  to  uphold  the  highest  traditions  of 
democracy since our independence more than 60 years 
ago.  We  draw  particular  satisfaction  from  the  manner 
in  which  we  conduct  our  elections.  In  the  past  few 
years,  we  have  begun  using  electronic  voting 
machines. This has allowed our election commission to 
declare results within hours of the start of the counting 
process,  even  though,  on  average,  our  constituencies 
are  comprised  of  over  a  million  voters. A  few  months 
back,  we  elected  the  fifteenth  Lok  Sabha,  the  lower 
house  of  Parliament,  in  a  mammoth  process  that 
involved more than 700 million voters exercising their 
franchise to elect 543 members of Parliament. 

We  are  also  proud  of  yet  another  democratic 
process  at  the  grass-roots  level  in  India. We  have  had 
an  institutionalized  system  of  local  self-governance  in 
rural 
the  system  of 
panchayati  raj.  A  unique  feature  of  this  grass-roots 
empowerment 
gender 
empowerment, which involves one third of the elected 
seats  being  reserved  for  women. As  a  result,  we  have 
over  a  million  elected  women  representatives  in  the 
country. 

Our experience has also shown that democracy is 
a  powerful  tool  for  successfully  involving  people  in 
meeting  the  challenges  of  development.  It  allows  the 
people  to  participate  actively  in  and  to  influence 
Government  actions 
their 
aspirations.  It  also  ensures  a  voice  for  the  most 
vulnerable  and  weakest  sections  of  society.  Our 
experience  also  corroborates  that  implementation  of 
proactive development policies and economic reforms, 
when coupled with a liberal democratic polity, leads to 
the overall stability and growth of the country. 

As  a  developing  country  itself,  India  is  in  a 
unique  position  to  understand  the  problems  that  other 
developing countries face while embracing democracy. 
We  have  been  sharing  our  experience,  institutional 
India  since  1993 
the  direction  of 
component 
through 
the 
in 
is 
of 
09-59928 

7 

the 
(spoke 
(Togo) 
inspiring 
Mr.  Menan
A/64/PV.41 

capabilities and training infrastructure with nations that 
share our democratic values and beliefs and would like 
to benefit from the experience of other democracies. 

In  this  context,  we  are  happy  to  be  one  of  the 
major  contributors  to  the  United  Nations  Democracy 
Fund and to serve on its Advisory Board. We have also 
been  offering  our  expertise  bilaterally  and  through 
other multilateral forums, promoting democratic ideals 
and  the  rule  of  law.  We  have  also  been  active 
the  United  Nations 
supporters  of  activities  of 
Development  Programme 
in 
the 
field  of  good 
governance. 
India  is  strongly  committed  to  the  underlying 

values  and  principles 
International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies.  We 
would  continue  to  support  the  Conference  and  to 
provide  necessary  assistance  to  further  consolidate, 
strengthen and support it. 
in  French): 

Mr. President,  it  is  always  a  great  pleasure  for  the 
Togolese delegation to see you presiding over the work 
of  the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  with 
such skill, pragmatism and wisdom.  

in the debate on the agenda item before us.  

The report of the Secretary-General on support by 
the  United  Nations 
the  efforts  of 
Governments  to  promote  and  consolidate  new  or 
restored  democracies  (A/64/372)  notes  the  numerous 
activities  undertaken  bilaterally  and  multilaterally 
within 
implementation  of 
resolution  62/7.  My  delegation  welcomes 
these 
developments,  which  demonstrate  the  vitality  of  the 
movement  and  the  commitment  of  the  international 
community, in particular the United Nations, to seeing 
it  through.  My  delegation  particularly  welcomes  the 
celebration  of  the  International  Day  of  Democracy  on 
15 September  2008,  a  felicitous  initiative  adopted  at 
the Sixth Conference of New or Restored Democracies, 
held in Doha, Qatar, in November 2006. 

The  United  Nations  is  built  on  principles  that 
offer  special  guarantees  and  protection  to  the  dignity 
and  value  of  each  human  being,  and  establish 
conditions  conducive  to  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
peace and development. The remarks we have heard so 
far  confirm,  on  the  one  hand,  the  existence  of  a 
growing  consensus  on  the  fundamental  values  that 
The Togolese delegation is pleased to participate 
the  framework  of 
system  of 
the 
this 
is  a 
national 
sovereignty, 
sustain democracy, and on the other, the need for each 
nation to proceed with prudence and circumspection as 
it adapts to the nature and rhythm of the consolidation 
of its own democratic process. There is no one model, 
and  different  democratic  practices  must  respect  the 
specific characteristics of each people and each culture. 

Thus,  the  United  Nations  cannot  but  encourage, 
sustain and reinforce democracy wherever it is worthy 
of  promotion  through  various  forms  of  assistance. All 
countries need such assistance, because it is not always 
clear  that  democratic  principles  are  observed  in  their 
entirety  throughout  the  world.  It  is  also  true  that  the 
democratic  process 
long-term  process  and 
eminently perfectable. 

For  its  part,  Togo  has  always  enjoyed  such 
assistance  from  the  United  Nations.  Even  before  we 
achieved 
assistance 
contributed  to  the  organization  of  consultations  that 
helped to determine our future, and after independence 
we  continued  to  benefit  from  assistance  whenever  we 
sought it. As a democracy under construction, Togo is 
firmly  committed  on  the  path  towards  a  system  of 
Government  based  on  democratic  principles  that  will, 
no doubt, lead to the further consolidation of a country 
that is free, united and prosperous. 

the  general  debate  on 
29 September (see A/64/PV.13), I dwelled at length on 
the  Togolese  Government  policy  of  undertaking  bold 
and  universally  hailed  institutional  and  constitutional 
reforms  aimed  at  the  promotion  of  democracy,  the 
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the  protection  of 
human 
the 
institutional  framework  of  democracy  cannot  be 
reduced  to  its  basic  functioning  or  continuity  through 
such  mechanisms  as  periodic  elections  or 
the 
multiparty  system.  It  requires  Governments  to  invest 
more  heavily  in  the  freedom  of  speech,  which  is 
essential for democracy and guarantees the rule of law 
and  successful,  sustainable  development.  Thus,  the 
interdependence of these two necessities — democracy 
and development — has brought Governments and the 
entire political class of Togo to agree on essential rules 
that  will  govern  elections  and 
the  economic 
governance of the country.  

On this matter, in a speech given on 28 July 2007 
in  Atakpamé,  a  city  situated  in  the  centre  of  our 
country,  the  Togolese  Head  of  State,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Faure  Gnassingbé,  solemnly  proclaimed  to  the 
the  strengthening  of 
In  my  statement 
Indeed, 
rights. 
in 
8 

09-59928 
successful 
the  conditions  set  by 
Further,  members  have  been  named 


people of Togo and the international community that he 
was  firmly  committed  to  doing  all  in  his  power  to 
ensure  that  elections  in  Togo  never  again  lead  to 
sanguinary  violence.  The 
legislative 
elections  of  October  2007,  which  were  certified  by 
international  observers  as honest, credible, transparent 
and  non-violent,  were  the  most  tangible  result  of  the 
resolve of the Togolese Government.  

In  the  first  quarter  of  the  coming  year,  my 
country  will  hold  presidential  elections  in  which  all 
citizens  who  meet 
the 
Constitution and the electoral code will be free to vote. 
To  that  end,  in  order  to  promote  dialogue  among  the 
political actors of our country and at the instigation of 
President  Blaise  Compaore  of  Burkina  Faso,  the 
facilitator  of  the  inter-Togolese  dialogue,  the  electoral 
code was modified by consensus to relax conditions for 
voter eligibility. 

to  our 
independent national electoral commission tasked with 
holding and supervising the elections. This mechanism, 
so  critical  to  the  organization  in  2010  of  credible 
presidential elections that meet international standards, 
has elected its bureau and already started its work. As 
our Head of State emphasized in his speech before the 
diplomatic  corps  at  the  beginning  of  the  year,  the 
Togolese  Government  plans  to  spare  no  effort  in 
ensuring  the  success  of  the  upcoming  presidential 
election,  which  will  consolidate  the  gains  already 
obtained by the Togolese democracy.  

We all know that the road to democracy is fraught 
with  pitfalls  and  that  the  most  difficult  task  is  to 
persuade 
imposes 
responsibilities  on  everyone  and  that,  above  all,  it  is 
always  a  work  in  progress.  Democracy  is  an  evolving 
process that is vulnerable to social imbalances and that 
we  must  tirelessly  sustain  with  our  efforts,  innovation 
and  imagination.  That  is  undoubtedly  what  makes  it 
superior  to  other  forms  of  Government.  It  is  the  only 
political  system  capable  of  correcting 
its  own 
dysfunctions.  That  is  why  my  delegation  would  like 
once again to thank Togo’s partners, the United Nations 
and the European Union, for participating actively with 
our national electoral commission in the preparation of 
our  elections  and  for  assisting 
the  Government 
financially and materially to that end. It is encouraging 
that,  today,  young  democracies  are  growing  stronger 
across  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin  America.  For  its  part, 
Togo will collaborate fully with a view to meeting the 
that  democracy 
the  citizenry 
A/64/PV.41
an 
into 
targets  set  by  the  International  Conference  of  New  or 
Restored Democracies (ICNRD). We invite all member 
States  of  the  ICNRD  Movement  to  take  into  account 
the  proposals  put  forward  during 
the  ministerial 
meeting  held  in  New  York  on  29  September  2009  in 
order to breathe new life into the Movement.  

It  is  the  profound  belief  of  Togo  that  the 
transformation of the International Conference of New 
or  Restored  Democracies 
organized 
institutional  group,  akin  to  other  political  groups  and 
regional entities, will contribute to the revitalization of 
its actions and to enabling the promotion of democracy 
within its member States. 

I  cannot  conclude  my  remarks  without  paying 
tribute to all the countries and people of good will that 
are  at  the  forefront  of  this  initiative,  in  particular  the 
State  of  Qatar  and  its  leaders,  which  have  held  the 
presidency of the Movement for several years and have 
spared no effort to further strengthen it. 

Our greatest wish is that these various initiatives 
will  enable  the  International  Conference  of  New  or 
Restored  Democracies,  in  the  context  of  bilateral  and 
multilateral  cooperation,  to  fully  realize  its  objectives 
and thus to preserve peace and security for the benefit 
of our populations. 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives):  These  solemn  words 

of Mahatma Gandhi resonate in the island communities 
of the Maldivian archipelago: “The spirit of democracy 
cannot  be  imposed  from  without.  It  has  to  come  from 
within.” 

Just a year ago, Maldivians stood in long queues 
to  cast  their  ballots  in  the  first  ever  multiparty 
democratic  election  in  the  history  of  the  country.  The 
election  saw  a  record  voter  turnout  and  was  won  by 
President  Mohamed  Nasheed,  now  the  leader  of  the 
first  legitimate  and  democratic  Government  of  our 
island  nation.  In  September 
this  year,  President 
Nasheed  stood  at  this  very  podium  and  repeated  his 
pledge for a Government by the people for the people. 
The election was the culmination of a four-year period 
of intensive democratic and human rights reform in the 
introduction  of  a  new 
Maldives 
constitution 
three  powers  of 
Government,  strengthened  human  rights  safeguards, 
ushered  in  multiparty  politics,  promoted  free  media 
and  created  a  range  of  independent  oversight  bodies 
and institutions. 
that  separated 
that  saw 
the 
the 
09-59928 

9 
from 
the 
infant  democratic 
the  globe  and  by  observers 
A/64/PV.41 

The  Maldivian  election  was  watched  by  nations 

across 
the 
Commonwealth and the European Union, as well as an 
Expert Assessment Team from the United Nations. The 
emerging electoral and democratic processes have also 
received  the  continued  support  and  assistance  of  our 
partners. In short, the Maldives has worked laboriously 
to ensure that the winds of freedom and liberty prevail 
for its people. 

The  Maldives  understands  that  the  election  of 
2008  is  not  the  final  destination  of  this  journey.  One 
democratic  election  is  not  enough  to  declare  that  a 
country is democratic. With a modern new constitution 
in place, the Maldives is mindful of the urgent need to 
consolidate 
institutions,  as 
modern history is evidence that there is a trend for new 
democracies to revert to authoritarian rule. Indeed, the 
2002  Human  Development  Report  found  that  one 
elected  government  is  overturned  by  military  force 
almost  every  year.  Our  people  need  the  reassurance 
that the spirit of democracy is here to stay. 

Democracy  is  intertwined  with  political  stability 
and  economic  prosperity.  Thus,  in  financial  terms, 
sustaining  democracy  is  expensive.  The  Maldives,  for 
instance,  is  experiencing  the  crunch  of  the  ongoing 
global  financial  crisis  and  severe  austerity  measures 
have,  therefore,  already  been  introduced  to  save  the 
country from economic collapse. Legal lacunae exist in 
important  areas,  which  would  strengthen  the  rule  of 
law  and  guarantee  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms.  Enhanced  mechanisms  are  required 
to 
combat corruption and ensure accountability and good 
governance. 

Unfortunately,  new  democracies  are  inherently 
unstable  in  their  infant  stages.  We  are  concerned  lest 
the new democracy succumb to the extremist seeds that 
are  being  cultivated  in  deep  pockets  of  our  society.  If 
unchecked,  those  elements  pose  a  grave  threat  to  the 
smooth 
fledgling  democratic 
system. 

In  the  midst  of  the  economic  hardship  and 
emerging social issues, the Government is anxious for 
assistance 
international 
community to guarantee that we can provide the better 
life that our people have worked for. The Maldives has 
always  had  faith  in  the  goodwill  of  our  international 
partners.  Since  the  inception  of  the  United  Nations 
Democracy  Fund,  the  Maldives  has  been  an  ardent 
functioning  of  our 
support 
and 
from 
the 

the  Office  of 
supporter  of  it.  Reinvigorated  funds  are  necessary  to 
develop the capacity of civil society groups, especially 
in  emerging  democracies  such  as 
the  Maldives. 
Advanced  civil  society  activities  provide  the  requisite 
check against the reversal of democracy. 

The  United  Nations  Human  Rights  Council 
should  also  be  given  due  support  for  its  ability  to 
address  emerging  issues.  The  Maldives  believes  that 
the  Council  strives  to  perform  well  and  contributes 
extensively  to  strengthening  human  rights  worldwide. 
The  special  procedures  mechanisms  have  also  proven 
successful for new democracies, such as the Maldives, 
as they provide an external audit of specific aspects of 
democracy  consolidation.  Therefore, 
the  Maldives 
issued  a  standing  invitation  to  the  United  Nations 
special procedures mechanisms in 2006 and as of today 
we have hosted four mandate holders. 
I  wish  to  express  appreciation  for  the  invaluable 

work  carried  out  by 
the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  in  assisting  the 
Government  to  tackle  democracy  spoilers.  In  the  case 
of the Maldives, the Office continues to stand shoulder 
to  shoulder  with  the  Government  in  facilitating  the 
nurturing of the democratic culture in the Maldives. 
Though the United Nations has not established a 

international 
law 
specific 
treaty  on  democracy, 
enshrines  democratic  principles 
through  existing 
conventions, especially the International Bill of Rights. 
Norms  such  as  equality,  non-discrimination  and 
fundamental rights and liberties, including the right to 
vote  and  political  participation,  are  entrenched  norms 
that  prescribe  democratic  standards  for  all  people 
across the globe. Hence, as responsible members of the 
international  community,  we  need  to  work  together 
coherently  to  ensure  that  the  rights  and  freedoms  we 
have agreed upon at the global level are fully translated 
into reality for our people. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  should  like  to  state  that  the 
Maldives  has  been  an  ardent  supporter  of 
the 
International  Conference 
for  New  or  Restored 
Democracies. The Conference provides a crucial forum 
for  countries  to  share  experiences  and  participate  in 
active  dialogue  on  ways 
fragile 
democracies.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  the  Maldives  is 
proud to sponsor the draft resolution before us today. 

An  active  legislature,  a  free  judiciary,  free  and 
fair  elections  and  a  vibrant  civil  society  are  the 
bulwarks  of  democracy.  All  around  the  world  we  are 
to  strengthen 
10 

09-59928 
(ICNRD), 
in  steering 


experiencing  a  renewed  embracement  of  democratic 
change. And thus, at the end of the day, it is a vital test 
for  the  international  community  to  ensure  that  the 
winds of democracy continue to blow across our lands. 
Mr.  Gatan  (Philippines): At  the  outset,  I  should 

like  to  convey  my  delegation’s  congratulations  and 
gratitude for the very able leadership demonstrated by 
the  delegation  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  in  its  capacity  as 
Chair of the  sixth International Conference of New or 
Restored  Democracies 
the 
members of the Conference in their efforts to promote 
and consolidate their new or restored democracies. 

The  Philippines  has  sponsored  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.12, introduced by the delegation of the State of 
Qatar,  as  it  has  sponsored  past  resolutions  on  the 
International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies,  in  keeping  with  its  commitment  to  the 
principles and goals of the Conference, which was born 
in Manila in 1988. 

The  Philippines  convened  the  first  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  after  its 
bloodless  revolution  of  1986,  which  ended  years  of 
martial rule in our country. 

to  actively 
participate  in  the  work  of  the  Conference  and  will 
continue to do so, in view of the necessity of continued 
cooperation,  not  only  among  countries  in  similar 
situations  but  also  with  the  United  Nations  system. 
That  is  required  in  order  for  those  countries  to  share 
their experiences and assist each other in ensuring the 
durability  of  their  democracies  so  that  they  can  be 
counted  upon  as  constructive  members  of 
the 
international  community  and  more  ably  provide  the 
needed  assistance  and  services  to  their  respective 
constituencies. 
The  Philippines  commends  the  delegation  of  the 

State  of  Qatar  for  organizing 
the  first  ICNRD 
Ministerial Meeting in September on the margins of the 
general  debate  of  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  That  high-level  meeting  was 
historic,  as  it  produced  positive  outcomes,  including 
the  decision  to  hold  the  first  ICNRD  summit  and  the 
creation of an ICNRD secretariat in New York so as to 
be able to more effectively assist the ICNRD Chair and 
the  member  countries.  We  also  commend 
the 
delegation of the State of Qatar for organizing several 
initiatives  that  help  to  institutionalize  the  ICNRD  and 
to ensure its sustainability in the future. 
My  delegation  has  continued 
A/64/PV.41
this  plenary  meeting  of 

Before  I  conclude,  the  Philippines  wishes  to 
congratulate  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela, 
which  will  assume  the  chairmanship  of  the  ICNRD 
next  year.  In  that  regard,  the  Philippines  wishes  to 
reaffirm  its  full  support  to  the  delegation  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  as  the  Seventh 
Conference Chair. 
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  is  very  grateful  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
convening 
the  General 
Assembly,  devoted,  inter  alia,  to  the  consideration  of 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  efforts  of 
Governments  to  promote  and  consolidate  new  or 
restored democracies (A/64/372). 

It is almost a decade since Benin had the honour 
to host on its soil the Fourth International Conference 
of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  (ICNRD).  The 
Cotonou event, coming at the dawn of the twenty-first 
century, was a decisive turning point in confirming the 
role  of  the  Conference  as  a  forum  for  thought  and 
dialogue  among  the  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations on the promotion of democracy. 
The strategic approach adopted was firmly based 

on the embrace of the principles and values of pluralist 
democracy  by  developing  countries,  but  also  on  the 
pathways to follow and the means of implementation to 
adopt in order to ensure that that political system took 
root in the new or restored democracies and to promote 
a  democratic  culture  in  the  world,  as  a  way  to 
strengthen  international  peace  and  security  and  boost 
development. 

Since  then,  other  countries  have  taken  up  the 
torch  and  the  successive  International  Conferences  of 
New  or  Restored  Democracies  have  rapidly  evolved 
into  a  movement  of  effective  solidarity  among  the 
countries  concerned  and  the  development  partners, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  The  very 
informative  report  of  the  Secretary-General  describes 
the  progress  made  in  that  context,  in  particular  since 
the  Sixth  Conference,  held  in  Doha  at  the  end  of 
October and the beginning of November 2006. 

there  was  placed  firmly  on 
institutionalizing the movement with the establishment 
of an Advisory Board, a high-level annual meeting and 
a core secretariat to support the Chairman in executing 
his  duties.  Here,  we  welcome  the  commitment  of  the 
Government  of  Qatar,  which  has  worked  tirelessly  to 
those  decisions.  One  notable 
give  substance 
The  emphasis 
to 
09-59928 

11 

to 
coordinate 
implementation  of 
A/64/PV.41 

achievement  in  that  area  was  the  General Assembly’s 
declaration  of  an  International  Day  of  Democracy 
(resolution  62/7),  which  has  already  been  celebrated 
twice. In addition to regularly convening intersessional 
bodies,  Qatar  has  striven  to  clarify  the  modalities  for 
institutionalization, so that the next Conference will be 
in a position to take decisions on specific proposals.  

In that context, my delegation would like here to 
reiterate its support for actions in that direction and its 
agreement  with  the  establishment  of  a  permanent 
structure 
the 
recommendations of the Conferences, so as to provide 
robust strengthening of action to strengthen democracy 
in our countries. Benin has no difficulty in supporting 
the  principle  of  establishing  a  secretariat  to  assist  the 
Chairman  here  in  New  York;  creating  a  special  Trust 
Fund to finance the work of that secretariat, using the 
model  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China;  and  of 
establishing  a  clearly  identified  tripartite  structure 
responsible  for  coordinating  implementation  of  the 
ICNRD’s  recommendations  nationally,  acting  as  an 
interface with the secretariat on the basis of guidelines 
drawn up under the leadership of the Chairman of the 
Sixth Conference. 

Implementing  those  specific  steps  would  ensure 
the ICNRD’s greater visibility and the mobilization of 
greater resources, so as to strengthen the follow-up of 
the  recommendations  and,  above  all,  to  encourage 
exchange  of  experiences  and  the  spread  of  good 
practices at the level of member States.  

The  Secretary-General’s  report  underscores  the 
multifaceted action of the United Nations in support of 
the  new  or  restored  democracies.  The  United  Nations 
has been very flexible in supporting the developments 
in  the  new  democracies,  providing  a  framework  for 
efforts  to  restore  democracy  in  countries  where  it  has 
temporarily  overturned  or  fundamentally  challenged, 
paying  particular  attention  to  the  crucial  issue  of 
unconstitutional changes of Government.  

The  international  community  under  the  United 
Nations  has  to  a  great  extent  been  mobilized  through 
agreed activities and offering good offices, in order to 
ensure  the  resumption  of  dialogue  among  the  parties 
involved 
thus 
facilitating the emergence of a national consensus for a 
return  to  order.  Some  recent  slippage  has  shown  the 
need  to  strengthen  the  rapid  reaction  capability  of  the 
United  Nations  in  situations  of  danger,  so  as  to  deal 
in  national  political  processes, 
in 
indeed 
justify 
subregions  where 
Overall,  cooperation  with 
with  developments  before  countries  become  involved 
in violence. 

The Secretary-General rightly posed the question 
in his report of how to tackle political crises and avoid 
them deteriorating, as one of the main problems facing 
the United Nations. We should give greater attention to 
that  aspect  of  United  Nations  action,  which  brings  us 
back to the issue of conflict prevention. We should note 
that  United  Nations  activities  in  political  crises  have 
been  more  effective 
the 
Organization’s offices are set up to respond quickly, for 
example,  through  regional  offices  that  can  ensure  a 
regular  presence  and  can  liaise  closely  with  regional 
and subregional organizations. 

international  and 
regional  organizations  has  quite  often  proved  to  be 
very  useful,  not  only  in  dealing  with  crisis  situations, 
but, above and beyond those situations, as an excellent 
means  of  providing  specific  assistance  by  using  input 
from all parties and, thus, enhancing effectiveness. As I 
said,  this  has  been  demonstrated  not  only  in  crisis 
management,  but  also  in  ongoing  support  to  efforts  at 
promoting  human  rights,  strengthening  democratic 
institutions,  empowering  women  and  promoting 
participation by young people. 

the 
this  does 
recommendations made by the Secretary-General in his 
report.  Benin  fully  agrees  with  them,  particularly  on 
the issue of ensuring the complementarity between the 
ICNRD and the community of democracies in order to 
strengthen  cooperation  for  democracy.  We  agree  this 
would  require  some  kind  of  coordinating  mechanism 
and  strategic  partnerships,  so  that  we  can  break  free 
from restrictive labels and ensure broader ownership of 
democratic processes.  

First of all, we have to mobilize effective support 
for  local  processes  leading  to  democratization  and  the 
consolidation of democracy. We must ensure the strict 
coherence  and  coordination  of  assistance  for  new  or 
restored  democracies  from  the  United  Nations  and  its 
partners.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  accordance 

of 
with  General  Assembly 
19 November 2002, I give the floor to the observer of 
the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 
Mrs.  Filip  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  It  gives 

me great pleasure to address the General Assembly on 
So  all  of 
resolution 
57/32 
12 

09-59928 
system  of 
the  host  of 
to  working  with 


the  occasion  of  the  debate  on  the  report  “Support  by 
the  United  Nations 
the  efforts  of 
Governments  to  promote  and  consolidate  new  or 
restored  democracies”,  as  contained 
in  document 
A/64/372. 

Please  allow  me  to  begin  by  commending  the 
efforts of the State of Qatar. Over the past three years, 
the State of Qatar has ensured a substantive follow-up 
to the recommendations of the successful International 
Conference on New or Restored Democracies (ICNRD) 
in Doha in 2006. Let me also express our appreciation 
for the Secretary-General’s report. 

The  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  is  proud  to 
be  part  of  the  ICNRD  process.  As  convener  of  the 
parliamentary component of the ICNRD, the IPU looks 
forward 
the  next 
Conference, Venezuela, to ensure a strong parliamentary 
input. 
We are supportive of the initiatives considered for 

the  future  sustainability  and  institutionalization  of  the 
ICNRD movement. Indeed, there is a clear need to plan 
for  and  carry  out  work  in  between  the  conferences. 
From this perspective, a small secretariat based in New 
York  and  with  a  mission  to  engage  with  and  bring 
together  all  the  ICNRD  partners  on  a  regular  basis 
could be very effective. 
the  Sixth  International 

Conference of New or Restored Democracies in Doha, 
each  of  the  stakeholders  meetings  issued  a  plan  of 
action  by  Governments,  parliaments  and  civil  society 
to 
and 
internationally. All  those  who  have  signed  onto  those 
commitments should also be held to account, and there 
is value, we believe, in an annual review of progress in 
meeting  commitments,  not  just  by  the  ICNRD  Chair, 
but  by  all  members. A  small  ICNRD  secretariat  could 
provide valuable assistance in this regard.  

The tripartite configuration, that is, Governments, 
parliaments and civil society of the ICNRD movement, 
has  undeniably  allowed  for  an  integrated  and  all-
encompassing approach to the promotion of democracy 
worldwide.  We  would  like  to  see  further  progress 
towards a more systematic articulation among the three 
components during the seventh ICNRD. 
Indeed,  the  movement  draws  strength  from  the 

constructive  engagement  of 
its 
inclusive  approach.  As  we  move  ahead,  we  would 
further  promote  democracy  nationally 
its  partners  and 
the  occasion  of 
On 
A/64/PV.41
there 
the 
have 
a 
series 
formulated 
The  results  of 
in  actual  practice, 
welcome  the  development  of  enhanced  modalities  for 
more  regular  dialogue,  exchange  and  joint  action  to 
enable  those  partners  to  come  together  and  interact  as 
equals.  We 
of 
recommendations in that regard. 

As  we  know,  we  are  still  witness  to  public 
disillusionment with democracy  and, as the Secretary-
General’s  report  recognizes,  the  perception  among 
some  that  democracy  has  failed  to  improve  people’s 
lives.  Concerned  by  that  reality  and  in  an  effort  to 
further  explore  and  measure  public  attitudes  towards 
democracy, the IPU commissioned a global survey this 
year  on  the  critical  theme  of  political  tolerance.  The 
overall  finding  was  that,  while  there  is  overwhelming 
support  for  political  tolerance  in  all  regions  of  the 
world, 
is  a  widespread 
perception of a serious lack of political tolerance. 

that  survey  uncovered  some 
problematic  areas  that  will  need  to  be  addressed  with 
greater focus. The freedom of political expression, the 
role  of  the  opposition,  protecting  the  parliamentary 
mandate  and  promoting  greater  representation  of 
minority and indigenous groups in political life will all 
be  mainstreamed  into  the  IPU  agenda  of  work  for  the 
months and years to come. We trust that this will have 
an impact at the level of national parliaments, but also 
on the other partners active on the democracy front. 
of 
huge 

transformational 
information  and 
communications  technology  (ICT)  has  for  the  further 
development  and  promotion  of  democracy  worldwide. 
We are therefore forging a robust partnership with the 
United Nations in that area through the Global Centre 
for  ICT  in  Parliament.  Just  last  week,  the  United 
Nations  and  the  IPU  joined  in  convening  the  third 
World  e-Parliament  Conference,  hosted  by  the  United 
States  House  of  Representatives  on  Capitol  Hill  in 
Washington, D.C. 

and 
communications  technology  can  help  not  only  to 
connect parliaments and citizens, but also to strengthen 
democracy by rendering public institutions more open, 
transparent, 
effective,  while 
improving  the  delivery  of  key  public  services.  Last 
week’s Conference led to a series of recommendations 
that will guide our work ahead. 
IPU  remains  committed  to  its  efforts  to  build 

capacity within parliaments through advisory services, 
convinced 
that  new 
accountable 
information 
also 
role 
Certainly, 
IPU 
is 
modern 
and 
09-59928 

13 
to 
the 
It 
invitation 
IPU  also 
remains  committed 
training  programmes. 
A/64/PV.41 

technical  assistance  and  capacity-building  seminars, 
workshops  and 
is  also 
determined  to  continue  efforts  towards  promoting  the 
political  participation  of  women,  defending  and 
promoting human rights and contributing to the setting 
of  internationally  accepted  standards  in  the  field  of 
democracy. 

to  ensuring 
continued momentum and support for the International 
Day  of  Democracy. As  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
points  out,  the  response  of  Member  States  and, 
particularly,  of  parliaments, 
to 
celebrate the first International Day of Democracy was 
truly impressive.  

Parliaments  around  the  world  are  using  the 
International  Day  of  Democracy,  15  September,  to 
engage  citizens,  and  particularly  young  people,  in 
dialogue  on  the  achievements  of  and  challenges  to 
democracy  in  their  respective  countries.  IPU  will 
continue  to  work  with  and  encourage  action  by 
parliaments  aimed  at  ensuring  democratic  practices, 
principles and precepts. 
Moreover,  IPU  is  committed  to  its  partnership 

with 
the 
the  United  Nations,  notably, 
Peacebuilding Commission, to build strong parliaments 
in post-conflict societies. Parliaments in countries such 
as  Sierra  Leone,  Burundi  and  the  Central  African 
Republic need to show strong leadership in their efforts 
to 
and  post-conflict 
reconstruction.  We  have  a  common  responsibility  to 
support  them  in  those  endeavours,  as  that  will  help 
people  reap  the  dividends  of  peace  and  will  mitigate 
the  public  mistrust  of  governing  institutions.  Indeed, 
democracy should be seen to deliver to the people. 
In  light  of  the  above,  we  look  forward  to  our 

continuing partnership  with the  United  Nations system 
and  with  Member  States  in  our  joint  efforts  to  further 
promote and consolidate new and restored democracies. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  accordance 

with General Assembly resolution 58/83 of 9 December 
2003,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  for  the 
International  Institute  for  Democracy  and  Electoral 
Assistance. 

for 
Democracy  and  Electoral Assistance):  I  should  like  to 
commend  the  State  of  Qatar  for  its  leadership  of  the 
Sixth  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
achieve  national  healing 
Mr.  Tommasoli
(International 
Institute 
through 

since 
strong 
(IDEA)  has  a 
Democracies (ICNRD) and for fostering progress on its 
agenda  in  the  period  from  2007  to  2009. As  indicated 
in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/372),  the 
International  Institute  for  Democracy  and  Electoral 
Assistance 
tradition  of 
collaborating  with  and  supporting  the  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies.  We 
contributed to policy debates in Doha, Ulaanbaatar and 
Cotonou,  based  on  the  Institute’s  democracy-building 
experience and knowledge, and we stand committed to 
continuing  to  do  so  at  the  next  Conference,  to  be 
hosted by the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 
This  year,  we  recall  multiple  anniversaries  of 

democracy’s  achievements:  30  years 
the 
beginning  of  the  third  wave  of  democratizations  in 
Latin  America,  20  years  since  the  fall  of  the  Berlin 
Wall,  15  years  since  the  end  of  apartheid  in  South 
Africa,  and  10  years  since  the  first  elections  of  the 
reform era in Indonesia. 

At the same time, we should also remain wary of 
the  shortcomings,  insufficient  depth  and  persistent 
fragility  of  democracy  in  many  countries.  Transition 
processes  have  often  stalled  at  the  stage  of  electoral 
democracy,  stopping  short  of  guaranteeing  citizens  a 
broader  enjoyment  of  civic  and  political  rights,  equal 
access  to  justice  and  full  freedom  of  expression  and 
association.  Democratic  checks  and  balances  remain 
weak  in  many  countries,  while  electoral  processes 
themselves  are  often  riddled  with  fraud.  Attempts  by 
their  country’s 
incumbent  presidents 
constitution 
in  order 
in  power  have 
proliferated. Formal mechanisms of democracy remain 
populated  by  political  elites,  which  do  not  always  act 
in  the  interest  of  their  citizens.  Finally,  both  domestic 
shortcomings  and  external  constraints  have  often 
prevented  young  democracies  from  delivering  a  better 
quality of life to their citizens, thus failing to build the 
critical  amount  of 
for 
entrenching democracy and guaranteeing its long-term 
sustainability. 
While  the  ideal  of  democracy  remains  a  driving 

force  of  political  change  across 
the  globe,  a 
discrepancy  persists  between  the  high  value  attributed 
to 
the  mistrust  of 
democratic  institutions,  such  as  political  parties  and 
legislatures,  which  are  often  seen  as  elitist,  gender-
imbalanced,  ineffective,  unresponsive  and  lacking  in 
inclusiveness and representation. 
idea  of  democracy  and 
to  change 
to  remain 
is  necessary 
trust 
that 
the 
14 

09-59928 
and 
and 
increase 
consequently 
recession  are 
inter-institutional 
The  global  financial  crisis  and 
The  financial  and  economic  crisis  and 


the  ensuing 

economic 
severe  and  potentially 
dangerous  blows  to  a  number  of  young  democracies, 
particularly  in  Africa,  as  they  further  reduce  their 
delivery  capacity  in  terms  of  development  and  social 
protection, 
their 
vulnerability to authoritarian alternatives.  

the 
changing political environment should both be seen as 
opportunities and incitements to address, through broad 
international, 
interregional 
partnerships, the issue of democracy assistance, with a 
view to consolidating its legitimacy and credibility and 
to enhancing its effectiveness. 

Efforts  to  strengthen  international  democracy 
assistance should benefit from the rich fund of lessons 
learned  and  the  new,  more  effective  approaches  that 
these  lessons  allow  us  to  distill.  These  lessons  point 
essentially to the need for context-sensitive, long-term 
and  process-based  democracy-support  policies  that 
help  the  building  of  democracy  from  within  and 
through  real  partnerships  and  sharing  of  knowledge 
and  experiences, not least  from the global South, thus 
overcoming the obsolete and often paternalistic donor-
beneficiary relationship. 

In  this  perspective,  the  ICNRD  process  has  a 
great  potential  to  foster  collaboration  and  the  sharing 
of  experiences  in  the  field  of  democracy-building. 
IDEA  underlines  two  issues:  the  need  to  ensure 
effective  follow-up  between  conferences  and 
the 
importance  of  sharing  experience  on  democratization 
efforts. 
In  terms  of  follow-up,  there  is  a  need  to  move 

them 
to  actual 
beyond  conferences  and 
link 
the  ground.  The 
democracy-building  efforts  on 
initiative  of  Qatar  to  establish  the Advisory  Board  of 
the  Sixth  Conference  and  to  implement  the  three-year 
2007-2009  programme  of  work  are  steps  in  the  right 
direction. Another  example  of  follow-up  action  is  the 
implementation  of  self-assessments  of  the  state  of 
democracy  by  member  States,  which  are  aimed  at 
identifying areas for action and entry points for policy 
reforms. The experience of Mongolia, host of the Fifth 
Conference, is relevant in this respect. At the request of 
Mongolia, 
technical 
advice to that process, based on the state-of-democracy 
assessment methodology that IDEA had developed. 
IDEA  provided 
International 
A/64/PV.41
is 
the 
in 
The 
issue 
second 
sharing 
including 
issues  of  how 
the  Conference  and 

of 
democratization  experiences.  There  is  a  need  for  the 
to  make  better  use  of  concrete 
ICNRD  process 
experience-sharing, 
a  South-South 
perspective,  on 
the  challenges  and  successes  of 
democratic  reform  processes.  This  could  build  on  a 
more  systematic  articulation  among  the  governmental, 
parliamentary  and  civil  society  segments  of  ICNRD, 
based on a multi-year strategy with a clear definition of 
the roles and responsibilities of all the actors involved 
in the new or restored democracies process. 

The  celebration  of  the  International  Day  of 
Democracy  has  proved  an  excellent  opportunity  for 
further  fostering  dialogue  among  national  actors,  thus 
contributing  to  democracy-building  on  the  ground. 
Such  an  approach  could  facilitate  strategic  and 
operational  links  between  periodic  high-level  forums, 
such  as 
the  Community  of 
Democracies,  and  the  mainstream  work  of  agencies 
engaged in democracy-building, including those within 
the  United  Nations  system.  This  would  enhance  the 
policy  and  strategic  relevance  of  the  new  or  restored 
democracies  process  by  taking  fully  into  account  the 
broader 
revitalized 
democracy-building  agenda  at  the  United  Nations  and 
how to increase the effectiveness of the United Nations 
system in this respect, as indicated in the guidance note 
recently issued by the Secretary-General. 

Effective  experience-sharing  could  be  based  on 
the  following  criteria:  how  to  make  best  use  of  and 
capitalize  on  existing  knowledge  bases,  practitioner 
networks  and  institutional  capacity-building  tools,  in 
particular  those  that  are  already  the  result  of  effective 
partnerships  among 
the 
democracy-building  arena;  and 
to  define  focused 
agendas for the high-level segment of the process, and 
make  sure  that  action  plans  originated  by  them  are 
shaped  in  clear  and  measurable  frameworks,  with 
responsibilities assigned to relevant actors, both within 
and  outside 
funding, 
implementation and follow-up. 

In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  International  IDEA’s 
commitment  to  continuing  to  provide  support  to  the 
ICNRD process. 

the last speaker in the debate on this item.  

A/64/L.12. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
the  United  Nations, 
institutions  engaged 
to  pursue  a 
in 
for 
09-59928 

15 

A/64/PV.41 


The following countries have become sponsors of 
the  draft  resolution: Afghanistan, Argentina, Armenia, 
Austria,  Bahrain,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Brazil,  Bulgaria, 
Cape  Verde,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Cyprus,  the  Czech 
Republic,  Denmark,  Guatemala,  Luxembourg  and  the 
Republic of Moldova. 

to adopt draft resolution A/64/L.12? 

Draft 
(resolution 64/12). 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I  take  it 

that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly  to  end  its 
consideration of agenda item 11? 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
resolution  A/64/L.12  was 
It was so decided. 
adopted 




Agenda item 49 
Culture of peace 





  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/325) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/312) 
  Draft resolutions (A/64/L.5, A/64/L.13, 
A/64/L.14 and A/64/L.15) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Today,  the 

General  Assembly  will  consider  an  agenda  item  of 
importance  to  the  United  Nations,  namely,  the  culture 
of  peace.  Fostering  a  culture  of  peace  is  the  core 
message  of  the  United  Nations,  which  calls  for 
rejecting  violence  and  preventing  conflicts  through 
dialogue and negotiations. The Preamble to the United 
Nations  Charter  states  the  determination  of  Member 
States “to practice tolerance and live together in peace 
with one another as good neighbours”.  
The  culture  of  peace  is  based  on  respect  for 

human rights, democracy and tolerance, the promotion 
of  development,  education  for  peace,  the  free  flow  of 
information and the wider participation of women as an 
integral  element  in  preventing  violence  and  conflicts. 
Sadly,  the  many  quiet  ways  in  which  the  United 
Nations  advances  the  culture  of  peace  are  often 
drummed  out  by  violent  conflicts  that  demand  our 
immediate attention. 

At  the  outset  of  the  general  debate,  I  suggested 
that  we  reflect  on  dialogue  among  civilizations  and 
multilateralism  as  ways  of  strengthening  international 
peace and security and of achieving development. After 
years  of  deepening  distrust  among  civilizations,  I  am 
let 
encouraged  by  renewed  calls  for  dialogue  and  mutual 
respect. It is my deeply held belief that civilizations are 
enriched  and  evolve  through  dialogue  with  other 
civilizations.  Respect  for  the  diversity  of  cultures  and 
religions is necessary in order to prevent conflicts and 
to  foster  peace.  In  this  context,  I  commend  the  many 
initiatives  here  at  the  United  Nations  and  among 
Member States on interreligious dialogue and dialogue 
among civilizations. 

The observance of the International Decade for a 
Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of 
the  World  is  nearing  its  completion.  Before  the 
Assembly  is  the  report  of  the  Director-General  of 
UNESCO  (see A/64/312)  on  the  progress  achieved  so 
far  and  containing  further  recommendations  in  this 
regard.  The  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  is 
taking its toll on investments in education, culture and 
development  everywhere.  We  cannot 
those 
developments  weaken  our  efforts  to  strengthen  a 
culture  of  peace. We  owe  it  especially  to  the  children 
of the world  to educate them about other  cultures and 
religions  so  they  can  see  the  common  humanity  that 
underlie all differences. 

Fostering  a  culture  of  peace  and  promoting 
tolerance  should  not  be  limited  to  today’s  debate,  but 
should  guide  all  our  debates  here  at  the  General 
Assembly. I therefore propose to organize an informal 
thematic  debate  on  dialogue  among  civilizations, 
religions  and  cultures  at  the  beginning  of  next  year.  I 
look  forward  to  working  with  Member  States  to 
stimulate  a 
fresh 
perspectives to this important issue. 

Bangladesh to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.5. 

you,  Mr.  President,  for  your 
remarks on agenda item 49, “Culture of peace”. 

It  is  my  privilege  to  introduce,  on  behalf  of  its 
sponsors,  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “International 
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-Violence  for 
the  Children  of  the  World,  2001-2010”,  contained  in 
document A/64/L.5, dated 3 November 2009. Since the 
draft 
following 
46 countries  have 
list  of  co-sponsors: 
Angola,  Azerbaijan,  the  Bahamas,  Bhutan,  Bolivia, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Burundi,  Brazil,  Cambodia, 
Cameroon,  Cape  Verde,  Chile,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica, 
El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Gabon,  Guatemala,  Guyana, 
Mr. Momen (Bangladesh): I would like to thank 
introductory 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
lively  discussion  and  bring 
resolution  was 
submitted, 
lovely 
joined 
the 
the 
16 

09-59928 


Honduras, 
Jamaica,  Lebanon,  Malawi,  Mali, 
Mauritania,  Mexico,  Montenegro,  Myanmar,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Qatar,  Saint  Lucia,  Samoa, 
Seychelles,  Singapore,  Solomon  Islands,  the  Sudan, 
Swaziland,  Tajikistan, 
the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania, Togo, Turkey, Turkmenistan, the United Arab 
Emirates, Uruguay and Viet Nam. 

Since  2001,  this  draft  resolution  has  been  tabled 
and  adopted  every  year  by  consensus. This  shows  the 
commitment of the entire world community to making 
the world safe for our future generation. 

The culture of peace is a set of values, attitudes, 
modes  of  behaviour  and  ways  of  life  that  reject 
violence and prevent conflicts through dialogue among 
individuals, groups and nations. We firmly believe that 
a world order that is informed by a culture of peace is 
conducive to the attainment of our development goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals.   We 
see  great  value  in  the  principles  of  tolerance,  respect 
for  diversity,  democracy  and  understanding.  Those 
ideals  were  endorsed  by  the  Member  States  in  the 
Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of 
Peace  (resolution  53/243)  in  1999.  Bangladesh  was 
privileged to steer the process. 

As  we  near  the  end  of  the  International  Decade 
for a Culture of Peace, we need to start taking stock of 
what  we  have  achieved  since  the  beginning  of  the 
Decade.  I  believe  that  this  10-year  exercise  has  had 
some  impact  on  our  psyche  as  we  strive  to  make  a 
peaceful world for our future, the children. 
We  wish  to  express  our  profound  gratitude  to  all 

the  stakeholders  who  have  contributed  and  are 
contributing to the promotion of a culture of peace. We 
specially  thank  UNESCO,  the  lead  agency  which  has 
carried out programmes to promote the idea worldwide. 
Our  sincere  thanks  go  to  the  non-governmental  and 
civil  society  organizations  who  take  the  idea  of  a 
culture  of  peace  around  the  world.  In  this  pursuit, 
academics and the media also have an important role to 
play. We  need  to  involve  youth  in  the  process  and  the 
children as well. We should first listen to them and then 
take  measures  accordingly  for  the  betterment  of  their 
lives. 

There  has  been  no  major  change  in  this  year’s 
draft  resolution  on  the  International  Decade  for  a 
Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of 
the World,  2001-2010. We  added  one  new  preambular 
paragraph  and  two  new  operative  paragraphs.  In  the 
A/64/PV.41
new  preambular  paragraph,  we  welcome 
the 
appointment  of  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General on Violence against Children. In that 
connection,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity,  as  a 
member  of  the  Bureau  of  the  Executive  Board  of 
UNICEF and as next Chair of the Bureau, to assure her 
of our fullest support in carrying out her activities. 

Of  the  two  new  operative  paragraphs,  paragraph 
11 refers to an initiative of the Special Unit for South-
South Cooperation of the United Nations Development 
Programme  during  the  2010  World  Exposition  to  be 
held  in  Shanghai.  We  believe  that  we  should  take 
advantage of such mega-events to promote the idea of 
a culture of peace. The other new operative paragraph 
is  paragraph  17,  in  which  we  request  from  the 
Secretary-General  a  summary  report  on  the  activities 
carried out in the past 10 years by UNESCO and other 
United  Nations  entities,  Member  States  and  civil 
society,  including  non-governmental  organizations,  to 
promote and implement the Programme of Action on a 
Culture of Peace. I believe that the report will suffice if 
someone  asks  what  we  have  achieved  in  the  past 
10 years. 

Immediately after the independence of Bangladesh 
in  1971,  the  father  of  the  nation,  Bangabandhu  Sheikh 
Mujibur Rahman, pursued the policy of friendship to all, 
malice 
the  country’s 
international relations. That principle has always guided 
us in shaping our relations with countries all around the 
globe,  especially  our  neighbours.  Our  peacekeepers 
have  been  risking  their  lives  in  various  parts  of  the 
world  in  difficult  terrain  in  the  pursuit  of  peace.  They 
also  carry  in  their  hearts  the  idea  of  a  culture  of  peace 
and  put  that  idea  into  action.  As  a  member  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  we  are  discharging  our 
responsibilities. We believe that a culture of peace holds 
the  key  to  sustainable  peace  in  post-conflict  societies. 
Even in societies that are in a state of peace or apparent 
peace,  we  have  to  nurture  that  idea  so  that  no  one  can 
think about violating the peace. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our 
profound  gratitude  to  all  Member  States  that  have 
shown  their  solidarity  by  serving  as  sponsors  of  this 
annual  resolution  over  the  past  nine  years.  Last  year, 
we  had  as  many  as  124  sponsors,  and  I  hope  that  the 
number  will  be  even  higher  this  year. The  increase  in 
the  number  of  sponsors  in  each  successive  year  has 
been a source of great encouragement to the delegation 
of Bangladesh to the United Nations.  
the  conduct  of 
to  none 
in 
09-59928 

17 

to 
and 
divides 
overcome 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 
representative  of  Turkey 
introduce  draft 
A/64/PV.41 


the 
resolution A/64/L.14. 
Mr. Apakan (Turkey): At the outset, I would like 

to  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding 
and cooperation for peace (A/64/325), which highlights 
activities carried out by the United Nations system and 
provides an overview of regional and global initiatives 
taken in this field. 
The  Prime  Ministers  of  Turkey  and  Spain 

launched  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  initiative  in 
2005 in  an  effort  to  galvanize  international  action 
against intolerance and extremism through intercultural 
and 
interreligious  dialogue  and  cooperation.  The 
initiative  is  intended  to  respond  to  the  need  for  a 
concerted  effort  by  the  international  community  to 
bridge 
prejudices, 
misconceptions  and  polarization  between  different 
cultures. Since then, the Alliance has made substantial 
progress  in  moving  into  the  implementation  stage  and 
in  strengthening  its  institutional  basis.  Today,  we  are 
pleased  to  see  that  the  Alliance  has  a  structure  that 
produces concrete projects and solutions. 

We are grateful to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon,  who  has  placed  this  initiative  under  his 
auspices  since 
Indeed,  his 
contributions  and  his 
leadership  have  played  an 
important  role  in  the  progress  that  the  Alliance  has 
made in such a short time. I would also like to express 
our  great  appreciation  to  High  Representative  Jorge 
Sampaio,  whose  dedicated  efforts  greatly  contributed 
to the development of the initiative. Today, the number 
of  countries  and  institutions  represented  in  the  Group 
of Friends has grown to more than 100, and we believe 
that each country in the Group is now a sponsor of this 
initiative.  That  is  a  reflection  of  the  international 
community’s will for global peace and harmony.  

We believe that no one has a monopoly on efforts 
for dialogue on cultural and religious issues. We are all 
members of a family working for the same noble cause. 
In  that  context,  we  welcome  similar  initiatives  that 
complement  the  work  of  the Alliance.  We  are  pleased 
that  specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  and 
other  multilateral  organizations  are  showing  an  active 
interest  in  the  Alliance.  In  that  regard,  we  appreciate 
the role played by UNESCO. We believe that UNESCO 
the  very  beginning. 
of 
the 
that 
heads 
international 
and  its  new  Director-General,  Ms.  Irina  Bokova,  will 
continue to be important partners of the Alliance. 

The  first  Forum  of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
which  was  held  in  Madrid  in  January  2008,  was  a 
milestone for the initiative. The Forum initiated several 
projects  and  mechanisms  and  provided  an  opportunity 
for  the  Alliance  to  conclude  partnership  agreements 
with  several  international  organizations.  The  second 
Forum,  held  in  Istanbul  in  April  2009,  was  indeed 
another milestone for the Alliance. The Forum made it 
possible  to  establish  a  powerful  network  of  global 
leaders, 
organizations, 
corporations,  media,  civil  society  and  youth  groups. 
The  action-driven  event  provided  participants  with  a 
unique international platform on which to develop joint 
initiatives  and  forge  partnerships.  The  success  of  the 
Istanbul  Forum  confirmed 
the  Alliance  had 
completed  its  institutionalization  phase  and  was  now 
ready for the implementation of its objectives. 

The third Forum will be held in Rio de Janeiro on 
28  and  29  May  2010.  We  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  thank  the  Government  of  Brazil  for 
hosting the next Forum. It will enrich the global scope 
of the Alliance with the Latin American experience of 
cultural  diversity.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  Qatar 
and Austria for their offers to host subsequent Forums 
in 2011 and 2012. 

We consider national plans and regional strategies 
to  be  important  instruments  for  the  implementation  of 
the  Alliance’s  objectives.  That  is  why  we  attach 
particular importance to the inclusion of those goals in 
national  agendas 
implementation  of 
national plans. The third meeting of focal points, to be 
held  in  Rabat  on  10  and  11  November  2009  by  the 
and  Cultural 
Islamic 
Organization,  will  be  yet  another  opportunity 
to 
promote broader ownership of the Alliance’s goals. 

I  would  also  like  to  highlight  the  importance  of 
regional strategies in creating synergies among various 
stakeholders.  In  that  respect,  we  look  forward  to  the 
approval of the regional strategy for South-East Europe 
in Sarajevo this coming December. 
As  sponsors,  Turkey  and  Spain  believe  that, 

having  made  sound  progress  on  the  ground,  it  is  now 
time  for  the  Alliance  to  have  the  backing  and  the 
recognition  of  the  General Assembly.  That  is  why  we 
have  prepared a  focused  and balanced  draft resolution 
Educational, 
Scientific 
through 
18 

09-59928 
Scientific 
The fourth preambular paragraph would thus read 


for  the  consideration  of  Member  States,  and  we  very 
much hope that it will be adopted by consensus. 

It  is  therefore  my  pleasure  to  introduce  to  the 
Assembly  the  draft  resolution  on  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  contained  in  document  A/64/L.14.  The 
preambular  part  of  the  draft  resolution  before  the 
Assembly  reflects  agreed  language  from  one  of  the 
most  relevant  documents  that  the  United  Nations  has 
produced in the past few years, namely, the 2005 World 
Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1).  
I would like to take this opportunity to introduce 

an oral revision to the fourth preambular paragraph, so 
that the role of UNESCO, as one of the main partners 
of the Alliance of Civilizations, is accurately reflected 
in  the  text.  To  that  end,  we  would  like  to  replace  the 
words  “including  the  programmes  led  by  the  United 
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural 
Organization  in  this  regard”  with  the  words  “and 
emphasizing  the  important  role  of  the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  in 
this regard”. 

as follows:  


of 
intercultural and interreligious and intra-religious 
dialogue in promoting tolerance in matters related 
to  religion  or  belief,  and  emphasizing 
the 
important role of the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
this 
regard.” 

The  draft  resolution  already  has  the  sponsorship 
of  73  Member  States  from  all  regional  groups.  I  am 
glad  to  announce  that,  in  addition  to  those  listed  in 
document  A/64/L.14,  the  following  Member  States 
have  expressed  their  willingness  to  sponsor  the  draft 
resolution:  Benin,  Bolivia,  Bulgaria, 
the  Central 
African  Republic,  the  Congo,  Cyprus,  the  Dominican 
Republic, 
Eritrea,  Gabon,  Haiti,  Honduras, 
Liechtenstein, Mali, Norway, the Republic of Moldova, 
Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Seychelles, 
Thailand,  Togo,  Turkmenistan,  Ukraine,  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Viet  Nam.  This  brings  the  total  to 
96 sponsors.  

We  are  encouraged  by  this  broad  support.  We 
believe that it shows that the Alliance of Civilizations 
is a noble cause. We would like to express our thanks 
to our fellow sponsors, and we very much hope that the 
“Recognizing 
importance 
the 
in 
A/64/PV.41
regional 
and 
including 
themselves 
to 
the  wider 
international 
taking  action 
draft  resolution  will  be  embraced  by 
membership of the General Assembly. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 
floor  to  the  representative  of  Spain,  also  to  introduce 
draft resolution A/64/L.14. 

Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 
The  promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace  is  one  of  the 
fundamental  purposes  of  the  United  Nations.  In  the 
2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), heads 
of  State  or  Government  and  United  Nations  Member 
States  committed 
to 
promote  a  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue  at  the  local, 
national, 
levels. 
Furthermore,  on  that  occasion,  they  welcomed  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  recognized  the  value  of 
the various initiatives on dialogue among cultures and 
civilizations, 
interreligious  dialogue  and 
cooperation for peace. 
In  that  context,  it  is  a  great  pleasure  for  me  to 

address the General Assembly to introduce for the first 
time,  together  with  Turkey,  a  draft  resolution  devoted 
to the Alliance of Civilizations, under agenda item 49, 
“Culture of Peace”. Allow me to highlight the fact that 
the draft resolution, contained in document A/64/L.14, 
with 
the 
representative  of Turkey,  enjoys  the  support  of  almost 
100  sponsors.  Let  me  convey  to  them  our  sincerest 
gratitude for their support in the promotion of this draft 
resolution. 

Five years ago, on 21 September 2004, during the 
general debate of the fifty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly  (see  A/59/PV.4), 
the 
Government  of  Spain,  Mr.  José  Luis  Rodríguez 
Zapatero, proposed an alliance of civilizations in order 
to  promote  greater  understanding  and  cooperation 
among  nations  and  peoples  of  differing  cultures  and 
religions,  as  a  way  to  counteract  the  forces  that  feed 
extremism and endanger peace. 
In order to achieve that objective, the President of 

the  Government  of  Spain  soon  joined  his  efforts  to 
those  of  the  Prime  Minister  of  Turkey,  Mr.  Recep 
Tayyip  Erdoğan.  Since  then,  Spain  and  Turkey  have 
worked  hand  in  hand  to  strengthen  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  as  a  useful  tool  in  the  context  of  the 
United Nations. 

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
the  slight  oral  revision 
the  President  of 
just  made  by 
09-59928 

19 

A/64/PV.41 


Since  the  beginning,  and  despite  criticism  from 
some quarters and scepticism from others, the Alliance 
of  Civilizations  has  grown  and  further  developed  its 
goals. It has become a United Nations initiative, thanks 
to  the  commitment  of  successive  Secretaries-General, 
Mr. Kofi Annan and Mr. Ban Ki-moon, who have made 
this initiative their own. 

Furthermore, the Alliance of Civilizations has, in 
a  short  time,  gained  the  support  and  credibility,  not 
only of the entire international community, but also of 
numerous actors within our societies. That is, to a large 
extent, due to the fact that the Alliance has been able to 
identify  problems  that  affect  our  coexistence  and  has 
filled  a  gap  for  which  there  was  no  instrument  before 
its  creation.  In  just  a  few  years,  it  has  become  a 
platform for action in reaching common goals such as 
respect,  tolerance,  dialogue,  understanding  and  peace 
among  individuals  and  peoples  from  diverse  cultures 
and  religions.  It  is  based  on  universal  values  that 
govern  its  action  and  spirit,  inspired  by  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights,  among  other  basic  instruments  of 
international law.  

As  the  President  of  the  Government  of  Spain 
noted at the opening meeting of the first Forum of the 
Alliance, 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations seeks to mobilize those great majorities in 
our  societies  who  want  to  live  in  peace  and  to  help 
prevent the use of diversity for political purposes. The 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  wants  to  help  fight  against 
extremist and intolerant discourse by those who preach 
an  ideology  of  hatred  and  confrontation  by  invoking 
supposedly insoluble cultural and religious conflicts. 

In  our  view,  the Alliance  of  Civilizations  should 
work through dialogue and intercultural cooperation to 
create  a  propitious  atmosphere  for  reaching  political 
objectives.  We  believe  that  that  political  and  cultural 
orientation,  together  with  the  capacity  to  produce 
practical results, represents the added value offered by 
this initiative. 

I  would  like  to  highlight  the  extraordinary  work 
done  by  the  Secretary-General’s  High  Representative 
for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  Mr.  Jorge  Sampaio. 
He  is  working  very  hard  to  make  the  Alliance  a 
credible,  solid  and  dynamic  initiative,  able  to  produce 
real results. Thanks to his leadership, commitment and 
dedication,  he  has  been  able  to  mobilize  States, 
international  organizations,  representatives  of  civil 
in  Madrid 
in  2008, 
that 
the 
indicator  of 
the  Secretary-General 
society, the media, the private sector, religious leaders 
and others, to work together to achieve the goals of the 
Alliance of Civilizations. The two  reports of the High 
Representative 
has 
conveyed  to  the  General Assembly  (see A/63/336  and 
A/63/914) describe in detail the many activities carried 
out by the Alliance of Civilizations in recent years.  

Furthermore,  the  credibility  of,  respect  for  and 
political soundness of the Alliance of Civilizations are 
due  in  large  part  to  its  sizable  and  active  Group  of 
Friends. The Group now has more than 100 members, 
including States and international organizations, which 
is  a  good 
initiative’s  political 
relevance. 

The  designation  of  focal  points  for  the  Alliance 
by  the  States  members  of  the  Group  of  Friends  has 
made  it  possible  to  establish  a  broad  and  active 
network  of  contacts.  Tomorrow,  more 
than  70 
designated  focal  points  will  meet  in  Rabat  to  share 
ideas  and  proposals.  In  addition,  the  adoption  of 
national  plans  by  States  is  making  it  possible  to 
promote  the  incorporation  of  Alliance  objectives  into 
public policies at the domestic level.  

With  regard  to  cooperation  with  international 
organizations,  the  Alliance  has  a  full  work  slate  and 
has  entered  into  a  diverse  range  of  cooperation 
agreements.  In  particular,  I  wish  to  emphasize  the 
important  role  played  by  such  organizations  as 
UNESCO, whose programmes and activities in the area 
of cultural cooperation are undoubtedly of value to the 
Alliance. 

I should also highlight the holding of Alliance of 
Civilizations forums in Madrid in 2008 and in Istanbul 
this  year.  At  the  Forums,  States  and  international 
organizations  met  with,  inter  alia,  representatives  of 
civil  society,  the  private  sector  and  the  media  in  an 
innovative  and  dynamic  format.  The Alliance  Forums 
have  also  made 
launch  specific 
initiatives,  projects  and  activities  that  are  now  fully 
operational.  Our  next  meeting  will  be  held  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro, Brazil, in May 2010, in a clear demonstration 
of the spirit of universality pervading and prevailing at 
the Alliance of Civilizations. We warmly welcome the 
offers  of  Qatar  and Austria  to  host  successive  Forums 
in  2011  and  2012,  respectively,  because  they  ensure 
that the initiative will continue in the coming years.  
Another  aspect  that  I  wish  to  highlight  is  the 

regional  dimension  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations. 
it  possible 
to 
20 

09-59928 
done 
by  Governments, 
the  conference  will  be 


The  forthcoming  Sarajevo  conference,  to  be  held  in 
December, will enable us to lay the groundwork for the 
development  of  a  regional  strategy  for  South-Eastern 
Europe  within  the  framework  of  the  Alliance.  The 
objectives  of 
to  share 
experiences and promote the adoption of initiatives and 
projects  to  enhance  intercultural  and  interreligious 
understanding,  tolerance,  dialogue  and  cooperation  in 
order to help prevent or overcome conflicts in an area 
of the European continent greatly in need of just such 
initiatives.  Moreover,  in  the  effort  to  enhance  the 
Alliance’s regional aspect, much commendable work is 
being 
international 
organizations  and  civil  society  in  the  Mediterranean 
region and Latin America. 
Given  the  growth  and  the  potential  of  the 

Alliance  of  Civilizations,  we  believe,  together  with 
Turkey,  that  the  General Assembly  must  now  provide 
renewed  support  and  momentum  to  the  initiative  by 
adopting this draft resolution. As the Secretary-General 
recalled in his letter dated  23 June 2009 conveying to 
the President of the General Assembly the report of the 
High  Representative  (A/63/914), 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations was established under the auspices of the 
United Nations, at the initiative of the Governments of 
Spain  and  Turkey, 
to  counteract  divisions  and 
polarization within and between societies. The Alliance 
of Civilizations seeks to be an instrument of preventive 
diplomacy  that  works  to  reduce  tensions  and  bridge 
cultural divides. 

I wish to conclude by thanking all sponsors of the 
draft resolution and by expressing our hope that it will 
be adopted by consensus by the General Assembly.  
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative  of  the  Philippines  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/64/L.15. 
Mr.  Davide  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  let  me 

place  on  record  how  pleased  we  were  to  note  the 
announcement  in  the  opening  statement  made  by  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  under  agenda 
item 49,  of  his  decision  to  convene  an  informal 
thematic  debate  on  the  dialogue  among  civilizations, 
religions and cultures next year. We thank him for that 
very wise decision. It will enhance all initiatives on the 
culture of peace. 

I  have  the  honour  and  the  special  privilege  to 
introduce, on behalf of Pakistan and the Philippines, as 
the  main  sponsors,  and  of  the  other  sponsors,  draft 
A/64/PV.41
entitled 
in  draft 
“Promotion 
tolerance  and 
live 
the  new  elements 
resolution  A/64/L.15, 
of 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding 
and  cooperation  for  peace”,  under  agenda  item  49, 
“Culture of peace”. It is our modest contribution to the 
global and collective effort to put an end to the culture 
of hate, violence, distrust, intolerance and religious and 
cultural misunderstanding that still plagues many parts 
of  the  world,  and  instead  to  build  a  world  and 
civilization  of  love,  understanding,  respect,  tolerance, 
harmony and peace. It is a vision inspired by one of the 
goals  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter:  to 
practice 
together  as  good 
neighbours.  It  is  a  recognition  of  God’s  plan  for  the 
world as one human family. It is an expression of our 
fidelity  to  the  opening  paragraph  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  which  affirms  that 
recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and 
inalienable rights of all members of the human family 
is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace. 
The  draft  resolution  updates  resolution  63/22, 

bearing  the  same  title,  which  the  General  Assembly 
adopted  last  year  by  consensus.  Allow  me  to  briefly 
highlight 
resolution 
A/64/L.15. 

First,  let  me  recall  that,  in  resolution  63/22,  the 
General  Assembly  invited  UNESCO,  in  consultation 
with  Member  States,  to  play  a  leading  role  in  the 
preparations  for  the  celebration  of  the  International 
Year  for  the  Rapprochement  among  Cultures  in  2010. 
In  that  connection,  we  welcome  the  decision  taken  by 
the  General  Conference  of  UNESCO  on  23  October 
2009  approving  the  action  plan  for  the  celebration  of 
the  International  Year  of  Rapprochement  among 
Cultures in 2010. In our draft resolution, we encourage 
UNESCO,  as  well  as  United  Nations  Member  States, 
other organizations and institutions and civil society, to 
join the celebration of the Year to demonstrate our firm 
commitment 
and 
intercivilizational  dialogue  for  peace.  We  also  request 
the  Secretary-General  to  organize  a  special  event  to 
launch the celebration of the Year.  
in 

interreligious, 
intercivilizational 
matters  in  the  Secretariat  for  ably  discharging  its 
mandate.  At 
the 
importance for it to interact and coordinate further with 
the  relevant entities of the  United  Nations system and 
to  coordinate  their  contributions  to  the  expanding 
and 
intergovernmental 
Secondly,  we  commend 
intercultural  and 
the  focal  point 
the  same 
time,  we 
recognize 
to 
interreligious, 
intercultural 
processes 
on 
interfaith 
09-59928 

21 

A/64/PV.41 

intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for peace. With the proliferation of interfaith dialogue 
processes  around  the  world,  including  at  the  national, 
regional  and  interregional  levels,  and  the  increasing 
interaction  of  United  Nations  agencies  with  faith 
communities  as  their  vital  partners  in  the  pursuit  of 
their  respective  mandates,  the  focal  point  in  the 
Secretariat could more effectively deliver on its tasks if 
it were adequately empowered. 

Thirdly, we call for further work on the proposal 
for  a  United  Nations  decade  of  interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for  peace,  for  which  civil  society  has  clamoured, 
spearheaded  by  a  coalition  of  more  than  60  religious 
bodies  and  multi-faith  and  values-based  organizations 
representing  all  the  world’s  faith  traditions  uniting 
millions of their faithful across the globe.  

The increasing plurality of spiritual and religious 
initiatives seeking to achieve peace and harmony in the 
world  represents  a  positive  development  in  expanding 
the  frontiers  of  our  partnerships  with  all  relevant 
stakeholders.  The  proposed  United  Nations  decade 
would  thus  bring  together  diverse  initiatives  and 
activities  around  a  defined  set  of  shared  objectives 
espoused  principally  by  the  United  Nations:  peace, 
development and the promotion of human dignity. 

Fourthly,  we  request  that  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly, in keeping with one of the priorities 
of  his  presidency,  to  hold  an  interactive  thematic 
debate 
and 
intercivilizational  understanding,  inviting  leaders  of 
the  world’s  major  religions  and  representatives  of 
faith-based organizations to participate in this event. 

Fifthly  and  finally,  we  celebrate  this  year  the 
International  Year  of  Reconciliation,  in  accordance 
with  resolution  61/17,  which  was  a  response  by  the 
General Assembly to the urgent need for reconciliation 
processes  in  countries  and  regions  of  the  world  that 
have  suffered  or  are  suffering  conflicts  that  have 
divided  societies.  This  process  would  rely  on  such 
mechanisms  as  dialogue  among  opponents  as  an 
essential element of peace and reconciliation. 
Reconciliation  is  the  pervasive  theme  of  our 

updated  draft  resolution.  We  should  not  let  this 
International Year of Reconciliation pass by as a mere 
footnote for the future. We should ensure that there be 
follow-up on this work, given the sheer importance of 
interreligious, 
intercultural 
on 
to 
further 
following 
the 
2009, 
the  United  Nations, 
reconciliation  not  only  to  our  national  life  but  also  in 
our individual and personal lives. 
Our  draft  resolution  therefore  calls  on  States 

the 
Members  of 
International  Year  of 
commemoration  of 
Reconciliation 
promote 
in 
reconciliation  to  help  to  ensure  durable  peace  and 
sustained  development  through  such  reconciliatory 
steps as forgiveness and compassion. 

Many  of  us  pray  daily  for  forgiveness  as  we 
forgive  others. There  can  be  no  reconciliation  without 
forgiveness  and  compassion.  Let  me  stress,  however, 
that forgiveness and compassion should never condone 
injustice.  There  can  be  no 
forgiveness  without 
dialogue. There can be no dialogue without respect and 
mutual understanding. 

Let  me  conclude  by  stressing  that  the  United 
Nations  must  pursue  peace  along  two  separate  but 
parallel routes or means: the political, through the tools 
of  politics,  and  the  faith-driven,  through  interfaith  or 
interreligious  dialogue.  This  dialogue  provides  the 
internal  force  that  can  work  out  a  faster  and  surer 
formula  for  building  a  world  of  freedom,  justice  and 
peace, and a civilization of love, thereby giving life to 
what  the  Psalmist  envisioned  —  a  world  where  love 
and truth will meet and justice and peace will kiss.  
Since religions are united in one abiding faith —

faith in One God, holy, immortal and sovereign — this 
interfaith  dialogue  has  internal  force  no  Government 
can  provide.  That  power  can  fortify  our  faith,  unite 
peoples  of  different  religions  and  cultures  and  make 
them understand each other better, deepen humility and 
erase  pride,  hate  anger  and  intolerance.  It  uplifts  our 
hopes  in  times  of  crisis.  I  would  thus  like  to  request 
once more, on behalf of the main and other sponsors of 
our  draft  resolution,  that  we  adopt  it,  after  adequate 
consultations, by consensus, as we have done annually 
since 2004. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative  of  Pakistan  to  also  introduce  draft 
resolution A/64/L.15. 

Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  The  agenda  item  entitled 
“Culture  of  peace”  recalls  the  commitment  made  by 
our fellow brothers and sisters 64 years ago under the 
Charter of the United Nations to practise tolerance and 
live  together  in  peace  with  one  another  as  good 
neighbours, 
to  maintain 
their  strengths 
to  unite 
22 

09-59928 


international peace and security, and to promote social 
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.  

The  General  Assembly  adopted  the  Declaration 
on  a  Culture  of  Peace  on  13  September  1999 
(resolution 53/243) to reaffirm these objectives and to 
cause  a  new  era  of  hope  and  peaceful  coexistence  to 
unfold. The Declaration is a set of values, attitudes and 
behaviours. It is based on the principles of multilateral 
cooperation  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, respect for life, the ending of violence 
and 
the  promotion  and  practice  of  non-violence 
through  education,  dialogue  and  cooperation,  and 
commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes. 
Religions  and  cultures  share  a  common  set  of 

universal  values.  Concepts  of  peace, 
tolerance, 
equality, sharing and respect for humanity are the core 
message of all world religions. Therefore, religion and 
culture  must  not  be  allowed  to  become  a  source  of 
division,  as  they  are  sometimes  portrayed  in  the 
context  of  contemporary  life.  We  must  cherish  the 
unity  and  indivisibility  of  the  human  race  and  all 
humankind,  regardless  of  what  religion  or  particular 
culture we belong to. 

Throughout  history,  greed  and  self-interest  have 
resulted in inequities and tension among societies. This 
ultimately  leads  to  situations  of  conflict.  Conflict  can 
be  avoided  only 
through  understanding,  sharing, 
sacrifice and dialogue among the parties concerned. We 
are  aware  that  peace  cannot  be  achieved  without 
dialogue. The challenge we face every day is to replace 
fear  with  acceptance,  harassment  with  tolerance,  and 
hatred  with  respect.  Cooperation  —  and  not  the  clash 
of  civilizations  —  must  be  the  paradigm  for  our 
collective 
of 
understanding,  harmony  and  cooperation  among 
religions  and  cultures  is  the  indispensable  avenue 
through  which  we  can  lift  the  veil  of  ignorance, 
misconception  and  prejudice  that  has  become  so 
tragically pervasive in recent times. 

In today’s world, the need for interfaith dialogue, 
cooperation and harmony cannot be overemphasized in 
the context of ongoing political and security disputes.  

The multiple crises of finance, fuel and food have 
further  aggravated  the  divide.  In  order  to  make  our 
world  a  better  place,  we  must  all  share 
the 
responsibility  to  highlight  and  propagate  our  common 
values of peace, tolerance, equality, sharing and respect 
for humanity. 
endeavours. 
promotion 
The 
A/64/PV.41
initiatives 
the  draft 
resolution  we  have 
to  promote  dialogue 
Pakistan  fully  recognizes  the  growing  need  to 

promote  religious  and  cultural  harmony  and 
the 
necessity of interfaith dialogue. We have taken several 
important 
and 
understanding among various faiths and religions at the 
national  level  and  in  all  major  international  forums, 
including 
jointly 
sponsored  with  the  Philippines  entitled  “Promotion  of 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding 
and cooperation for peace” (A/64/L.15). 

I  am  confident  that  the  draft  resolution,  as  at 
previous sessions, will be adopted unanimously by the 
General Assembly. This in a way will be an affirmation 
by the members of the international community of their 
shared commitment to advancing the goals of universal 
understanding, harmony and peace, as well as security 
and  prosperity  among  all  nations  and  peoples  of  all 
faiths and cultures. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative  of  South  Africa  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/64/L.13. 
Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa):  On  behalf  of  the 

Government  and  people  of  South  Africa,  I  have  the 
honour  and  privilege  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.13 designating 18  July, the birthday of Nelson 
Mandela, as Nelson Mandela International Day. I do so 
on  behalf  of  all  the  sponsors  listed  in  document 
A/64/L.13,  and  I  thank  these  countries  for  their 
sponsorship and unwavering support. In particular, we 
would like to thank the heads of State and Government 
of the Non-Aligned Movement for their support for and 
endorsement of this initiative. 

Since  the  publication  of  this  document,  the 
following countries have joined in sponsoring the draft 
resolution:  Albania,  Armenia,  Austria,  Barbados, 
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, 
Chad,  Colombia,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia,  France,  Germany, 
Greece,  Guyana,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Kazakhstan, 
Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  the 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Paraguay,  Poland,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Saint  Lucia,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Seychelles,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Spain,  Sweden,  Turkmenistan  and  the  United 
Arab Emirates. The total is thus over 160 sponsors. We 
thank them all equally.  
On 18 July 2009, millions of people from across 

the globe came together to give 67 minutes or more of 
09-59928 

23 
During 
A/64/PV.41 

their time in community service, their actions inspired 
by  the  life’s  work  of  Nelson  Mandela.  In  turn,  the 
actions  of  these  million  of  people,  men,  women  and 
youth across the globe and from all sectors of society, 
have inspired us to introduce this draft resolution to the 
General Assembly. 

the  dark  days  of  apartheid,  Nelson 
Rolihlahla  Mandela  said,  “To  be  free  is  not  merely  to 
cast off one’s chains but to live in a way that respects 
and enhances the freedom of others”. When the chains 
of apartheid were severed in our country, he embodied 
these  words,  showing  that  both  the  victors  and  the 
vanquished  could  live  in  peace.  Mandela’s  leadership 
through  South  Africa’s  most  terrible  and  triumphant 
times  is  enough  to  make  him  an  enduring  hero  in  our 
history books.  

His  legacy  however,  is  even  larger  than  this. 
Through  his  extraordinary  actions  and  personality,  he 
has become a moral compass that we can all look up to. 
Indeed, Nelson Mandela is an international icon and a 
symbol of hope for oppressed and marginalized people 
across  the  globe.  He  has  dedicated  his  life  to  the 
service of humanity and has contributed greatly to the 
promotion  of  the  culture  of  peace  throughout  the 
world.  Nelson  Mandela  worked 
the 
struggle  for  democracy  and  for  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights  internationally.  Nelson 
Mandela’s 
resolution, 
reconciliation,  the  rights  of  children  and  uplifting  the 
poor  is  acknowledged  across  the  world.  He  has  been 
bestowed  with  numerous  awards  and  honours, 
including  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize.  But  even  at  such 
times  of  great  recognition,  he  has  been  selfless.  A 
memorable example of that was when he dedicated his 
Nobel  Peace  Award  to  “all  the  courageous  people  of 
my  country,  black  and  white,  who  have  suffered  and 
endured so much”.  

Nelson  Mandela  has  become  one  of  the  greatest 
leaders  who  have  supported  and  steadfastly  promoted 
the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations.  The  ideals  of  the 
United  Nations,  represented  by  the  victory  of  unity 
over division and of negotiation over confrontation, are 
the ideals mirrored by Nelson Mandela throughout his 
life. 

Perhaps the only fitting way to pay tribute to this 
great  man  is  to  look  back  at  his  public  and  political 
life. Therefore, permit me to provide some glimpses of 
Nelson Mandela through his own words.  
contribution 
conflict 
tirelessly 
in 
to 


On  20  April  1964,  standing  trial  in  Rivonia  for 
treason  for  leading  the  African  National  Congress’s 
struggle  against  the  apartheid  State,  Nelson  Mandela 
spoke  for  hours  in  his  own  defence,  knowing  that  a 
sentence of death was a possibility. He said, 


“I have fought against white domination and 
I  have  fought  against  black  domination.  I  have 
cherished  the  ideals  of  a  democratic  and  free 
society  in  which  all  persons  live  together  in 
harmony  and  with  equal  opportunities;  it  is  an 
ideal, which I hope to live for and to achieve. But 
if needs be, it is an ideal for which I am prepared 
to die.”  

Upon  his  release  from  brutal  and  inhumane 
incarceration  for  27  years,  Nelson  Mandela  addressed 
the South African people and said, 


“I stand here before you not as a prophet but 
as  a  humble  servant  of  you,  the  people.  Your 
tireless  and  heroic  sacrifices  have  made 
it 
possible for me to be here today. I therefore place 
the remaining years of my life in your hands.”  

He had one regret that day, however. There were 
so  many  reporters  and  cameras  and  supporters  around 
him the moment he set foot from prison that he did not 
have a chance to say goodbye to the prison staff, whom 
he  cherished  because  they  had  been  his  only  link  to 
humanity for so long. 

On  10  May  1994,  Nelson  Mandela  stood  tall 
before  a  crowd  of  people  in  Pretoria  after  taking  the 
oath  of  office  as  the  first  democratically  elected 
President  of  a  free  South Africa,  and  said,  “The  time 
for  the  healing  of  the  wounds  has  come. The  moment 
to bridge the chasms that divide us has come. The time 
to build is upon us”.  

Having  decided  to  retire  from  public  office, 
Mandela addressed the General Assembly of the United 
Nations  on  21  September  1998  for  the  final  time.  He 
stated that the social ills of the world do not stem from 
the forces of nature or a curse of the deities, but from 
the decisions that people make or refuse to make, and 
he urged that all those in this great Hall 

“not  allow  that  any  should  be  denied  their 
freedom,  as  we  were;  that  any  should  be  turned 
into  refugees,  as  we  were;  that  any  should  be 
condemned  to  go  hungry,  as  we  were;  that  any 
should be  stripped of their  human dignity, as we 
were” (A/53/PV.7, p. 16). 
24 

09-59928 


He went on to say: 

“Then  would  history  and  the  billions  throughout 
the  world  proclaim  that  it  was  right  that  we 
dreamt  and  that  we  toiled  to  give  life  to  a 
workable dream” (ibid.). 

Nelson  Mandela  is  not  a  god  or  a  saint.  He  is 
simply a man who has acted in a manner that is a little 
wiser, a little stronger and a little better than the rest of 
us.  This  is  evident  from  his  words  in  his  seminal 
biography, Long Walk to Freedom: 


“I have walked that long road to freedom. I 
have  tried  not  to  falter;  I  have  made  missteps 
along  the  way.  But  I  have  discovered  the  secret 
that after climbing a great hill, one only finds that 
there are many more hills to climb. I have taken a 
moment  here  to  rest,  to  steal  a  view  of  the 
glorious vista that surrounds me, to look back on 
the distance I have come. But I can rest only for a 
moment, for with freedom comes responsibilities, 
and I dare not linger, for my long walk is not yet 
ended.”  

It  is  in  this  spirit  that  we,  the  people  of  South 
Africa, pledge to work together in reviving ubuntu, to 
create  a  better  society  for  all  and  to  make  a  positive 
contribution 
to  humanity,  built  on  compassion, 
humility, respect, forgiveness and unity. 

The  adoption  of  this  draft  resolution  by  the 
General Assembly should serve as a constant reminder 
of  the  need  to  answer  the  question  Nelson  Mandela 
posed to this Assembly when he said, 


“The  great  challenge  of  our  age  to  the 
United  Nations  is  to  answer  the  question  ‘Given 
the  interdependence  of  the  nations  of  the  world, 
what is it that we can and must do to ensure that 
democracy, 
prevail 
everywhere?’” (A/49/PV.14, p. 8) 

It  is  our  hope  that  the  entire  membership  of  the 
United  Nations  will  support  and  sponsor  the  draft 
resolution before us, and that every year, beginning in 
2010,  the  United  Nations  and  the  billions  of  people 
represented  here  will  celebrate  18  July  as  Nelson 
Mandela  International  Day.  In  doing  so,  we  make  the 
moral compass of Nelson Mandela a little brighter and 
bigger so that we can see it all the more clearly as we 
strive  in  this  great  Hall  to  realize  the  workable  dream 
of Nelson Mandela. Halala, Madiba, Halala.  
prosperity 
peace 
and 
A/64/PV.41
Mandela’s 
to 
the  emergence  of  a 
steadfast  perseverance 
these 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 

on behalf of the European Union. 

Not  every  generation  is  fortunate  enough  to 
witness 
figure  of  unique 
international standing who has a profound impact on the 
lives  of  people  across  the  world.  The  European  Union 
would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  extensive  personal 
achievements  of  Nelson  Rolihlahla  Mandela  —  a  man 
who  has  come  to  symbolize  the  triumph  of  hope  over 
despair,  of  justice  over  oppression  and  of  peace  over 
conflict. 

Nelson  Mandela’s  incredible  story  of  personal 
sacrifice  and  his  achievements  for  South  Africa  are 
well known to everyone in this Hall and will forever be 
remembered with the greatest respect by all democratic 
nations.  As  the  representative  of  South  Africa  just 
quoted, Nelson Mandela was ready to die for his ideals 
of  a  democratic  and  free  society  in  which  all  persons 
live together in harmony and with equal opportunities. 
Fortunately, he has had a long life, and throughout his 
life he has lived to realize those ideals.  
and  his 

in  a 
commitment 
democratic  and  free  society  continue  to  stand  out  for 
all  those  around  the  world  who  are  still  denied  their 
human rights and their fundamental freedoms. We hope 
that all prisoners of conscience, wherever they are, will 
one day be able to enjoy the freedom that is denied to 
them  and  that  was  denied  to  Mandela  for  too  many 
years. 
Mr.  Mandela’s  work  to  build  peace  and  to 

promote reconciliation at the national level has rightly 
been  recognized  by  awards  of  the  most  prestigious 
nature, including the Nobel Peace Prize. The legacy of 
his struggle for social justice and his efforts to combat 
HIV  and  AIDS  continue  to  this  day.  We  salute  these 
achievements. 

What sets him apart is also his ability to touch the 
hearts  of  ordinary  people.  Many  of  us  remember  the 
long  years  of  Mr.  Mandela’s  incarceration,  and  we 
were shaped by the example he set for us. His dignity 
and compassion in the face of seemingly overwhelming 
challenges  have  made  people 
realize  what  an 
individual  and  what  humankind  as  a  whole  can 
achieve. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  I  have  the  pleasure  of 

speaking today on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement 
ideals  and 
to 
living 
09-59928 

25 

commitment 
their  vision, 
institutionalized.  It  was 
A/64/PV.41 

in  the  general  debate  under  agenda  item  49,  entitled 
“Culture  of  peace”,  to  convey  the  Movement’s  full 
endorsement of the initiative to designate 18 July every 
year  as  Nelson  Mandela 
International  Day,  as 
stipulated in draft resolution A/64/L.13. 
Many  leaders  have  changed  the  future  of  their 

countries  with 
and 
determination, but few leaders have affected the course 
of history. From a small village on the outskirts of the 
city  of  Umtata,  Transkei,  in  the  Kaffraria  region  of 
South Africa, the young Mandela learned the meaning 
of life and freedom. Named Nelson on his first day of 
school  by  his  teacher,  Mandela  still  proved  to  be 
worthy  of  the  name  given  him  at  birth,  Rolihlahla, 
which can be translated as Troublemaker.  

With  the  enactment  of  apartheid  laws  in  1948, 
one  of  the  worst  forms  of  racial  discrimination  in 
history  was 
thus  not  a 
coincidence  that  Mandela  joined  the  freedom  fighters 
of his homeland in pursuit of justice and equality. The 
price  was  high,  but  his  sense  of  purpose  was  much 
higher.  Despite  his  initial  commitment  to  non-violent 
resistance,  like  many  generations  in  South Africa  that 
were  influenced  by  Mahatma  Ghandi’s  teachings  and 
methods,  Mandela  was  detained  for  five  years  on 
charges  of  treason.  After  his  acquittal,  he  found  no 
alternative  but  to  resort  to  armed  struggle  against  the 
racist regime. He became the leader of the Spear of the 
Nation,  the  armed  wing  of  the  African  National 
Congress, only to be convicted of treason a year later.  

Mandela’s  philosophy  in  life  was  forged  on 
Robben  Island,  from  which  he  emerged  a  mediator,  a 
Nobel Peace Prize laureate and the first black President 
of South Africa. Twenty-seven years behind bars made 
him  a  worldwide  symbol  of  resistance  to  racism  who 
lives on to inspire ongoing efforts all around the world 
to eliminate all forms of racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance.  

the  Non-Aligned 
Mandela  has  been  one  of 
Movement  leaders  who  have  played  an  instrumental 
and active role over the years on issues of concern and 
vital importance to its members, such as decolonization, 
apartheid,  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security,  disarmament  and  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East, including the question of Palestine.  

The  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement, at their fifteenth summit, held 
in Sharm el-Sheikh, recognized Mandela’s leading role 
and  unity 
in  service  of  humanity.  The 
in and support for Africa’s struggle for liberation, self-
determination 
and  his  outstanding 
contribution to the creation of a non-racial, non-sexist 
and  democratic  South Africa. They  further  recognized 
his values and dedication to the service of humanity as 
a humanitarian in the fields of conflict resolution, race 
relations,  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights, reconciliation, gender equality, and the rights of 
children and other groups in vulnerable situations, and 
in uplifting the poor and underdeveloped communities.  

In an unprecedented move, the heads of State and 
Government of the Non-Aligned Movement unanimously 
adopted  a  special  declaration  at  the  Sharm  el-Sheikh 
summit,  expressing  their  support  for  and  solidarity 
with the Nelson Mandela International Day campaign. 
They called on Non-Aligned Movement member States 
and  peoples  to  join  in  the  campaign,  including  by 
contributing 67 minutes of their time in service to their 
communities,  in  recognition  of  Madiba’s  67  years  of 
contribution 
leaders 
endorsed  the  call  to  designate  18  July,  Madiba’s 
birthday,  as  Nelson  Mandela  International  Day  and 
requested  that  a  draft  resolution  to  this  effect  be 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session. 

Humankind  has  suffered  various  social  maladies 
that have, regrettably, been related more often that not 
to  race,  colour,  sex  and  religion,  and  which  have 
resulted  in  numerous  historic  atrocities.  Despite  the 
serious steps taken by many countries to implement the 
United Nations Convention on the Abolition of Slavery 
and the International Convention on the Elimination of 
All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination,  and  despite  the 
progress made so far in realizing the universality of the 
international  covenants  on  human  rights,  we  continue 
to  witness  the  growth  of  new  forms  of  bigotry  and 
racism in our world today. Guided by Mandela’s vision 
and  struggle,  the  ongoing  deliberations  within  the 
Human Rights Council on the development of standards 
complementary  to  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination are 
thus  of  paramount 
they  would 
contribute  to  rebuilding  confidence  and  combating  all 
forms of discrimination across the globe. 

It  is  indeed  necessary  to  complement  our  efforts 
in  implementing  our  common  commitments  under  the 
2001  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
and  the  outcome  document  of  the  Review  Conference 
in  April  2009.  Our  endeavours  in  this  regard  should 
importance,  as 
26 

09-59928 
the 
consolidation  of 


avoid any attached conditionalities that seek to impose 
controversial  notions which lack legal grounds, fail to 
take  into  account  the  divergent  social,  cultural  and 
value  systems  of  different  societies,  or  link  such 
notions  to  development  assistance  programmes.  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement  believes 
it  will  be 
possible  to  eliminate  these  negative  phenomena  only 
through 
international 
community’s  resolve  and  action  in  the  context  of  a 
multifaceted  approach,  in  tandem  with  our  efforts  to 
reinforce  the  principles  of  democracy  and  respect  for 
human rights and fundamental freedoms.  

Enhancing  cooperation  at  the  international  level 
to  promote  dialogue,  mutual  understanding  and 
enlightened  education  is  of  equally  great  importance 
and should be based on a framework of partnership and 
cooperation  among  non-governmental  organizations, 
the  private  sector  and  national 
institutions  and 
associations. It is crucial in this regard to continue our 
that 
the 
A/64/PV.41
efforts to promote the freedom of expression according 
to our commitments under existing international human 
rights  instruments  in  a  manner  that  prevents  the 
exacerbation  of  the  sentiments  of  hatred  and  racism 
and  that  encourages  intellectuals  and  the  media  to 
shoulder  their  responsibilities  in  building  awareness, 
educating communities and confronting the trends that 
promote intolerance and conflict. 

The Non-Aligned Movement looks forward to the 
designation  by  the  United  Nations  of  18  July  as  the 
annual  Nelson  Mandela 
International  Day.  The 
Movement  hopes  that  the  observance  of  this  day  will 
not only acknowledge the history of his great leadership, 
but  also  become  a  reminder  of  the  international 
community’s commitment to exerting its utmost efforts 
to fulfil its pledge to combat all forms of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and 
to spread the culture of peace. 

The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
09-59928 

27 
