
A/64/PV.5
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

5th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 24 September 2009, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 






In the absence of the President, Mr. Salahuldeen 
(Sudan), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m. 


  Address by Mr. Ahmed Abdallah Sambi, 
President of the Union of the Comoros  

The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Union  of  the 
Comoros. 

Mr.  Ahmed  Abdallah  Sambi,  President  of  the 
Union  of  the  Comoros,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmed  Abdallah  Sambi, 
President  of  the  Union  of  the  Comoros,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 

President Sambi (spoke in French): I wish to pay 
tribute  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Secretary-General  for  their  dedication  to  their 
noble missions.  

For once, I do not wish to conclude my statement 
with the issue of the Comorian island of Mayotte, as I 
usually do. I should like to address that sensitive issue 
first.  It  affects  not  only  the  unity  and  integrity  of  the 
Comoros and its history and international law, but also 
peace in the region of the Indian Ocean.  

The General Assembly has condemned the French 
presence  on  the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte  several 

to 
the 
island 
island,  France  continues 
times,  because  the  Comoros  was  admitted  to  the 
international  community  with  its  colonial  borders, 
which include the islands of Mayotte, Anjouan, Moheli 
and  Grand  Comore.  Despite  many  relevant  and  final 
United  Nations  resolutions  and  several  consultations 
held  on 
to  hold 
referendums  on  Mayotte  to  definitively  anchor  that 
Comorian 
the  French  Republic.  Those 
consultations  have  made  it  possible  to  change  the 
status  of  the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte  several 
times — only within the framework of internal French 
law — until, through the most recent consultation, the 
island became the 101st French department.  

Moreover,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  relations 
between  France  and  the  Comoros  are  unique.  Indeed, 
despite  the  dispute  arising  from  the  separation  of  one 
island  from  its  three  sisters  —  thus  handicapping  the 
Comoros  Archipelago  by  changing  it  into  a  three-
legged cow, as President Ahmed Abdallah Abderemane 
said — the Comoros, contrary to what one might think, 
enjoys a special partnership with France.  

France  is  present  on  the  Comoros  in  the  sense 
that,  in  the  international  community,  it  is  always 
associated  with  major  decisions 
that  affect  my 
country’s future. France remains the primary economic 
partner  of  the  Comoros.  It  is  one  of  the  largest 
contributors  of  development  assistance  to  my  country. 
More  than  200,000  Comorian  citizens  live  on  French 
soil. Those are just a few examples to demonstrate that 
no hostility exists between our two peoples or our two 
countries.  And  we  are  firmly  resolved  not  only  to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-52320 (E) 
*0952320* 



A/64/PV.5 

continue that special partnership, but also to reaffirm it 
even more.  

However,  this  desire  for  harmony  in  no  way 
constitutes a renunciation of our firm attachment to the 
territorial  integrity  of  our  country. That  is  why  I  have 
taken the initiative to come here to solemnly present to 
France,  before  the  entire  international  community,  a 
proposal to resolve this dispute.  

In fact, I propose to France that it recognize that 
the four islands of the Comoros Archipelago remain an 
indivisible  nation  based  on  the  principle  of  one 
country, two administrations. By that principle, I mean 
that  France  recognizes  the  full  sovereignty  of  the 
Union  of  the  Comoros  throughout  its  territory  while 
continuing  to  administer  the  Comorian  island  of 
Mayotte.  

Obviously, both parties must reach agreement on 
the  duration  of  the  French  presence  on  the  Comorian 
island  of  Mayotte.  On  the  other  hand,  we  request  that 
France actively assist in the economic development of 
the  three  other  islands  to  achieve  a  certain  balance 
throughout  the  Archipelago  —  a  balance  that  will 
necessarily  encourage  a  harmonious  rapprochement 
among  them  and  will  enable  the  Comorian  island  of 
Mayotte  to  finally  return  to  its  natural  home.  This 
process will enable our brothers and sisters of Mayotte 
to  maintain  their  social  advantages  and  their  standard 
of living and the other three islands to rise to the many 
development challenges they face. 

I am convinced that with the active participation 
of the whole of the international community these new 
proposals,  which 
the 
negotiations  between  France  and  the  Comoros,  would 
lead to a happy outcome. France and the Comoros have 
nearly  two  centuries  of  life  together,  two  centuries  of 
shared  history,  culture  and  language.  We  do  not  have 
the 
that  patrimony  by  allowing 
misunderstandings to persist, by continuing to let play 
out  the  tragedies  that  make  of  the  sea  lane  between 
Anjouan  and  Mayotte  one  of  the  greatest  maritime 
cemeteries  in  the  world.  For  all  of  these  reasons  we 
come  here, 
to 
demonstrate our good will, which we dare to hope will 
never  be  obliterated  by  an  attitude  of  inflexibility  or 
intransigence. 

these  prestigious 
surroundings to debate questions of peace, security and 
development.  Unfortunately,  we  have  to  acknowledge 
should  become  part  of 
We  meet  every  year 
the  world, 
in 
the  full  view  of 
right 
to  spoil 
in 
catastrophes  whose 
that  our  joint  efforts  do  not  always  lead  to  conclusive 
results, since as of today numerous challenges remain, 
and  their  consequences  for  our  countries  and  our 
peoples are becoming ever more dire.  

Certainly,  some  progress  can  be  seen  here  and 
there,  yet  our  people  continue  to  suffer  hunger, 
malnutrition and sickness. Our children do not have the 
benefit  of  an  education  of  the  quality  necessary  to 
assure  them  a  better  future.  Health  care  remains  a 
luxury  for  most  of  our  citizens.  Some  of  our  villages 
and  even  cities  suffer  a  cruel  lack  of  basic  social 
services, indeed even of potable water and electricity.  

Finally, many of our countries, particularly small 
island  States  like  my  own,  are  threatened  by  multiple 
natural 
consequences  only 
aggravate  an  already  fragile  socio-economic  situation. 
Certain  of  our  nations  are  even  at  risk  of  no  longer 
appearing on the map of the world in a few years. That 
catastrophic  situation,  which  prevails  in  an  era  when, 
paradoxically,  every  day  sees  enormous  technical  and 
technological advances, must challenge and incite us to 
redouble our efforts to find appropriate responses. 
Thus  a  genuine  international  mobilization  — 

especially on the part of those countries most equipped 
to face the challenges confronting us all — is required. 
We  must  take  concrete,  urgent  and  concerted  action 
and make a determined stand against the consequences 
of the economic, financial and food crises that lash all 
our countries without distinction. 

I  believe  now  is  the  time  to  demonstrate  active 
solidarity  and  pragmatism  if  we  want  our  words  to 
translate  into  concrete  actions  and  if  we  want  to 
rekindle hope in our peoples, who have suffered more 
than enough. Obviously our developing nations are not 
asking for the moon — at least not for now. We merely 
ask  that  we  join  our  efforts  to  satisfy  the  legitimate 
demands of our peoples, who only aspire to live better 
and with dignity, peace and peace of mind. 
Our  Organization  has  a  great  role  to  play  in  the 

realization of that goal, and for its voice to reach as far 
as necessary we must all agree on the need to bring to 
its  various  branches  the  necessary  reforms.  Indeed, 
only an organization that is more representative, more 
democratic  and  more  equitable 
its  various 
institutions  will  be  in  a  position  to  better  address  the 
problems  all  countries  face,  to  understand  them  and 
conceive  the  solutions  most  likely  to  produce  more 
peace, stability and development. 
in 
2 

09-52320 



Furthermore,  in  the  framework  of  respect  for 
human  rights  and  good  international  governance,  the 
abusive  use  of  universal  jurisdiction  should  be  fought 
by working for a better structure for such jurisdiction, 
but  also  to  put  in  place  an  organ  to  regulate  the 
principle of jurisdiction itself. A better definition of the 
concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  should  also  be 
sought,  with  sufficient  time  allocated  to  seriously 
consider its implementation. 

Peace and security remain essential conditions for 
the  promotion  of  socio-economic  development.  Thus 
the conflict conditions that prevail in numerous regions 
of the world call out a challenge to us. We must show 
greater  solidarity  in  regard  to  the  populations  of 
regions  that  for  years  on  end  have  known  only 
desolation, despair and humiliation. 

We should also celebrate the initiative undertaken 
by President Barack Obama in the Middle East, which 
offers the hope of seeing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict 
resolved  through  a  solution  that  is  just,  equitable  and 
acceptable  to  the  parties  involved  —  notably  the 
solidification  of  the  two-State  principle,  as  stipulated 
by  the  various  United  Nations  resolutions  on  the 
matter. 

Moreover,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  applaud  the 
presence among us of His Excellency President Barack 
Obama,  whose  charisma,  dynamism  and  sense  of 
justice  renew  our  hope  to  see  the  United  States  of 
America act with more engagement and pragmatism in 
the  service  of  peace,  justice  and  development  in  the 
world.  

I  will  not  neglect  to  mention  Iraq,  Afghanistan, 
Somalia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Great 
Lakes  region  and  Darfur,  where  fratricidal  conflicts 
only further exacerbate poverty and underdevelopment. 
We therefore urge the international community to offer 
its assistance to those brother countries so as to put an 
end to that unfortunate situation. 
I cannot close this chapter on crises and conflicts 

without  wishing  my  Malagasy  brothers  and  sisters 
complete  success  in  the  ongoing  negotiations  for  a 
peaceful  transition  that  quickly  leads  to  peace  and 
stability  being  restored  in  this  sister  island  and  to 
renewed efforts for its economic prosperity. 

the 
unwavering support of the Union of the Comoros to the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  and  to  the  Kingdom  of 
I  would  also 
reiterate 
Here, 
like 
to 
A/64/PV.5
Morocco  in  their  legitimate  efforts  to  recover  their 
territorial integrity. 

To conclude, I am greatly honoured to express the 
warm  thanks  and  deep  appreciation  of  the  Comorian 
delegation to all the American authorities, in particular 
those  of  the  State  of  New  York,  for  the  good 
arrangements to ensure us a pleasant stay in this great 
and beautiful country.  
(spoke in Arabic) 

humanity.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Union of 
the Comoros for the statement he has just made. 

I beseech God that we have a session that serves 
Mr.  Ahmed  Abdallah  Sambi,  President of  the 
Union  of  the  Comoros,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 



  Address by Mr. John Evans Atta Mills, 
President of the Republic of Ghana 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Ghana. 

Mr.  John  Evans  Atta  Mills,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Evans  Atta  Mills, 
President of the Republic of Ghana, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Mills:  I  bring  very  warm  greetings 

from  the  people  of  Ghana. Allow  me  to  join  previous 
speakers in congratulating the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session  on  his  election. 
His  long  distinguished  service  to  his  country  and  to 
Africa  gives  us  confidence  that  we  are  in  experienced 
and  capable  hands.  I  also  wish 
to  express  my 
delegation’s  appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  for  the 
able  manner  in  which  he  presided  over  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-third session.  

Last  Monday,  21  September,  Ghana  celebrated 
the centenary of the birth of an illustrious son of Ghana 
and  of  Africa,  our  first  President,  Mr.  Kwame 
09-52320 

3 
and 
before 
declaration 
far-reaching 
implications 
A/64/PV.5 

Nkrumah,  under  whose  leadership  Ghana  became  a 
Member of the United Nations on 8 March 1957, only 
two  days  after  achieving  independence.  We  recall 
Mr. Nkrumah’s 
the  General 
Assembly  on  23  September  1960  that  the  United 
Nations was the only organization to hold out any hope 
for  the  future  of  mankind.  At  the  same  session,  he 
called for the reform of the Security Council in order to 
bring  it  in  line  with  a  rapidly  changing  world.  Those 
views  were  expressed  almost  50  years  ago,  but  they 
remain relevant.  
Then,  as  now,  Africa  faced  a  deep  crisis,  with 

profound 
for 
international  peace  and  stability.  Today,  the  combined 
effects of climate change, high food and energy prices 
and  the  current  financial  and  economic  crisis  threaten 
to erode the  modest but hard-earned economic growth 
and democratic achievements of the past two decades. 
Africa  remains  volatile,  and  violent  conflicts  still 
persist. Therefore, it is my humble proposal that we all 
support the United Nations and its regional allies, such 
as  the African  Union,  in  living  up  to  those  and  to  the 
other  pressing  challenges  facing 
international 
community.  

While  we  acknowledge  that  globalization  has 
expanded  and  accelerated  economic  interdependence 
among  States,  the  truth  is  that  the  benefits  for  many 
developing countries have been negligible. Indeed, the 
economies of many developing countries have not been 
transformed in any significant manner.  Despite  almost 
a decade of impressive growth of about 5 per cent, only 
a few countries have been able to reduce the proportion 
of  their  population  living  on  less  than  $1  per  day. 
Consequently,  most  of 
remain 
vulnerable to the various external shocks that continue 
to pose threats to their growth. 

In  fact,  over-reliance  on  high  commodity  prices 
and  mineral  exports  has  not  lessened,  but  rather 
exposed  structural  impediments  to  food  security.  That 
is  particularly  true  of  sub-Saharan  Africa,  where  the 
ongoing  world  financial  and  economic  crisis  threatens 
to erode decades of modest growth, and thereby make 
the Millennium Development Goals unattainable in any 
meaningful way.  
Ghana, therefore, reiterates its support for global 

integration 
inclusive  and  equitable 
development  and  also  leads  to  a  substantial  reduction 
those  countries 
that  ensures 
the 
the 
financial 
financial 
facilities; 
institutions, 
in  poverty,  including  full  and  productive  employment 
and broad access to social services. 

A  number  of  developing  countries  have  adopted 
various measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis on 
their  economies,  including  interest  rate  reductions, 
recapitalization  of 
trading 
reforms,  and  increased  liquidity  to  banks.  Ghana  has 
also exercised fiscal restraint in response to the crisis, 
by  cutting  out  all  low-priority  public  spending  and 
shifting  the  balance  from  recurrent  expenditure  to 
infrastructure investment. 

In  addressing  the  impact  of  the  crisis  on  their 
economies,  African  countries  would  like  to  see  the 
following:  rich  countries  making  a  greater  effort  to 
meet existing commitments on aid and debt reduction; 
the acceleration of disbursements and improved access 
to  existing 
International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  being  urged  to  put  in  place  a 
new  facility  with  relaxed  conditions  to  help  African 
development  during 
this  crisis  period;  a  capital 
increase for the African Development Bank to enable it 
to  scale  up  its  interventions  in  support  of  African 
development;  the  sale  of  IMF  gold  reserves  to  release 
more  resources  to  help  African  development  during 
this  period;  and  finally,  the  issuance  of  new  Special 
Drawing Rights. 

International trade carries enormous potential for 
poverty reduction and alleviation as well as for driving 
economic growth so that millions of our people can be 
lifted  out  of  the  quagmire  of  poverty.  The  ongoing 
Doha  Round  of  trade  talks  promises,  at  least  in 
principle, to improve market access for poor countries. 
This  commitment,  in  our  view,  is  very  important, 
especially  in  low-skill  and  labour-intensive  sectors 
such  as  garment  manufacturing,  from  where  most 
African exports come. 

Sustained  economic  growth  requires  that  poor 
countries  increase  their  exports  to  rich  countries. 
Unfortunately, 
trade 
discriminates  against  poor  countries,  hinders  their 
participation  in  the  global  economy  and  damages  the 
earning 
rural 
communities in those countries. 
These developments do not work in the interest of 

our  developing  countries.  Indeed, 
trade-distorting 
subsidies,  as  well  as  tariff  and  non-tariff  barriers 
instituted  by  most  advanced  countries,  discriminate 
against  African  products.  Developing  countries, 
opportunities 
potential 
current 
and 
the 
system 
of 
of 
4 

09-52320 
self-interests  are 
threatening 


including  Ghana,  though  we  accept  that  liberalization 
is, indeed, required, believe that liberalization must be 
accompanied  by  predictable  access 
to  markets, 
elimination  of  the  abuse  of  anti-dumping  measures  as 
well as the reduction of tariffs and non-tariff barriers. 

In  the  face  of  all  these  developments,  we  in 
Africa  acknowledge  and  recognize  that  all  our  efforts 
to  achieve  social  and  economic  development  will  not 
yield  much 
result  unless  we  demonstrate  our 
commitment  to  good  governance.  In  spite  of  the 
difficulties  and  challenges,  I  can  say  without  fear  of 
contradiction  that,  leaders  across  the  continent  have 
embraced  democratic  values,  except  in  a  few  cases 
where  narrow 
the 
commendable  gains  that  we  have  made  in  the  past 
decade. 

We  are  also  confronted  with  the  grave  risks  to 
environmental,  social  and  economic  development 
posed by climate change. The need for concrete, timely 
and  decisive  measures  to  enable  us  to  deal  with  this 
largely  man-made  problem  is  obvious,  and  meeting 
that need must not be deferred any longer. 
As  we  proceed  to  the  United  Nations  Climate 

Change  Conference  scheduled  for  December  2009  in 
Copenhagen,  the  issue  of  financing  mitigation  and 
adaptation  to  climate  change  in  developing  countries 
will  remain  central  to  the  deliberations.  In  fact, 
progress on these issues will be crucial in determining 
any outcome in Copenhagen. 

and 
development  has  been  generally  recognized  by  the 
international  community.  Despite 
the  pivotal  role 
played by the United Nations in identifying the threats 
confronting 
and 
marshalling the necessary international support to deal 
with  those  challenges,  humanity’s  hope  and  aspiration 
for a peaceful and prosperous world are weakened by a 
litany of unfulfilled promises and failures. 
these 

shortcomings,  we  in  Ghana  are  unwavering  in  our 
conviction  that,  though  daunting,  the  challenge  to  the 
community  of  nations  could  be  surmounted  through 
innovative, bold, and achievable measures. 

Peacekeeping  operations  have  played  a  pivotal 
role  in  the  Organization’s  efforts  to  fulfil  its  core 
mission  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and 
security.  Ghana,  as  one  of  the  oldest  and  most 
than  being  discouraged  by 
link  between 
The 
intrinsic 
security 
the 
international 
community 
Rather 
A/64/PV.5
Ghana  cannot  but  commend 
consistent  troop-contributing  countries,  deems  it  a 
matter  of  privilege  and  honour  to  be  associated  with 
this  success  story  of  our  Organization.  We  equally 
acknowledge  that  increasing  demands  have  placed 
further strain on an overstretched system. 

It  is  for  this  reason  that  we  applaud  and  renew 
our support for the reform process that is in place and 
also acknowledge the fruitful dividends that have come 
out of it, even though we admit that much more needs 
to be done if we are to achieve our objectives.  
the  growing 

cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations. We call for its intensification to enable it 
to  take  advantage  of  the  cooperative  strength  of  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations 
in  a 
mutually complementary manner. 

Next  year  marks  the  fifteenth  year  since  the 
adoption,  at  the  Fourth World  Conference  on Women, 
of the 1995 Beijing Platform for Action. In view of the 
huge  gap  between  policy  and  practice  and 
the 
unyielding progress in implementing that international 
convention  on  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment 
of  women,  it  is  our  suggestion  that  we  need  to  take  a 
coherent, integrated and multisectoral approach to this 
problem. 

Over  the  years,  Ghana  has  demonstrated  its 
commitment to implementing in an accelerated manner 
the  goals  of  the  Beijing  Platform  for  Action,  and  we 
have  done  so  by  adopting  concrete  administrative, 
legal  and  constitutional  means.  Our  efforts  have 
yielded some measure of success, as clearly testified to 
by  the  appointment  of  our  first  female  speaker  of 
parliament, the first female attorney-general, and quite 
a number of female ministers and deputy ministers.  

At  its  sixty-third  session,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted  resolution  63/194,  urging  us  to  improve  our 
efforts  and  join  the  international  initiative  against 
human trafficking and for the protection of victims. We 
in  Ghana  concur  with  those  who  view  the  elaboration 
and adoption of a United Nations global plan of action 
as an effective and practical way to give life and effect 
to  the  international  initiative  against  this  despicable 
crime.  It  is  our  expectation  that  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session will make 
this  an  urgent  and  priority  issue.  I  can  assure  him  of 
Ghana’s commitment and support. 
09-52320 

5 
to 
in 
We 
its  role 
in  Ghana 
in  playing 
therefore  want 
A/64/PV.5 


In  conclusion,  I  note  with  regret  that  conflicts, 
particularly in the developing world, have robbed us of 
an  opportunity  to  improve  the  circumstances  of  our 
peoples.  Indeed,  it  is  well  known  that  sustainable 
development  can  only  be  achieved  in  an  international 
environment characterized by peace and stability. 

this 
take 
opportunity  to  renew  our  commitment  to  the  ideals  of 
the United Nations and to fulfil our Charter obligations 
by joining together with other Member States to assist 
the  United  Nations 
the 
maintenance of international peace and stability and in 
the promotion of fruitful international cooperation. We 
are convinced that the United Nations remains the ideal 
multilateral 
international 
peace and security and promoting fruitful international 
cooperation.  I  would  therefore  want  all  of  us  to 
strengthen  our  resolve  and  muster 
the  necessary 
political  will  to  assist  the  United  Nations  to  more 
effectively  discharge  its  obligation  to  redeem  our 
peoples from war, disease and poverty. 

We  in  Ghana  have  pledged  to  build  a  better 
Ghana. We therefore want to assist the United Nations 
to build a better world. May God bless  us in all these 
efforts. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Ghana for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  John  Evans  Atta  Mills,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Ghana,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
instrument  for  achieving 
from 



  Address by Mr. Željko Komšić, Chairman of 
the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Presidency  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

Mr.  Željko  Komšić,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Željko Komšić, Chairman 
of  the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
(spoke 
Mr.  Komšić

in  Bosnian;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): It is a great 
honour for me to address the General Assembly today 
in  my  capacity  as  the  Chairman  of  the  Presidency  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the very outset, allow me 
to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session  and  the  other  members  of  the 
Bureau  on  their  election,  and  to  express  our  full 
support to their future work. Furthermore, I would like 
to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  whom  I  met  on  several  occasions,  on  the 
results  achieved  during  his  presidency  of  the  sixty-
third  session  of  the  General Assembly  at  a  time  when 
this  body  and  the  international  community  in  general 
were  facing  an  array  of  challenges  related  to  pressing 
global issues.  

Sessions  of  the  General  Assembly  have  always 
served  as  opportunities  for  leaders  of  States  to  gather 
and  exchange  their  opinions  about  the  situation  in  the 
world  with  the  aim  of  finding  the  most  suitable 
solutions for current global issues. The United Nations, 
like  other  organizations,  depends  upon  the  collective 
strength  of  its  Members;  that  strength  needs  to  be 
based on consensus among Member States. One of the 
most  pressing  issues  that  has  marked  the  past  year  is 
the  global  economic  and  financial  crisis,  which  has 
become the biggest threat to global peace and stability. 
If we miss the opportunity to tackle its negative effects 
immediately, 
unimaginable 
consequences throughout the world. 

Even though there are indicators which show that 
recession in developed countries is slowly abating, it is 
evident that recovery will be slow and time-consuming. 
With  regard  to  the  developing  and  less  developed 
countries,  we  can  only 
the  harmful 
consequences that this crisis could produce in the times 
ahead.  It  is  more  than  obvious  that  countries  cannot 
combat  these  crises  on  their  own,  regardless  of  the 
efficiency of their Governments. Global crisis requires 
global solutions.  

Ms.  Koirala  (Nepal),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
We  welcome 

the  outcome 
document  of  the  recent  high-level  Conference  on  the 
World Financial and Economic Crisis and Its Impact on 
Development 
annex).  The 
Conference  confirmed  once  again  that  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  —  and  especially  of  the  General 
the  adoption  of 
(resolution 
produce 
imagine 
63/303, 
could 
it 
6 

09-52320 
are 
to 
for 
goals, 
achieving 
prerequisites 
development 
their  activities 
that  had  failed 


Assembly, as one of the most democratic of forums — 
is  to  lead  this  process  and  find  new  modalities  for 
improvement  of  cooperation  with 
the  aim  of 
establishing effective mechanisms for preventing crises 
and  alleviating  and  eliminating  their  consequences,  as 
well  as  for  eradicating  poverty  and  establishing  social 
justice in the world. 

It  is  accurate  to  say  that  the  present  global 
economic crisis — the severest since the establishment 
of the United Nations — has heavily compromised and 
even  jeopardized  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, one of the noblest tasks set by the 
Organization  since  its  foundation.  This  applies  in 
particular  to  the  poorest  countries,  and  especially  to 
sub-Saharan  African  countries 
to 
achieve  positive  results  even  before  the  onset  of  the 
crisis.  I  stress  that  besides  the  responsibility  borne  by 
those  countries  pertaining 
in 
establishing  good  governance  and  the  rule  of  law, 
which 
the 
aforementioned 
huge 
a 
responsibility lies with the developed countries. 

It  is  exactly  the  developed  countries  that  are 
expected  to  do  everything  in  their  power  in  order  to 
overcome  the  global  economic  crisis.  We  think  that 
during  the  crisis  it  is  necessary  to  reform  the  global 
financial  system  and  make  it  more  transparent,  to 
develop mechanisms for market monitoring and thus to 
avoid the mistakes that occurred in the period prior to 
the current decrease in the global GDP.  

State  institutions  in  my  country  —  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  —  have  made  systematic  efforts 
to 
accomplish  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  and 
we  believe  that  other  than  the  difficulties  caused  by 
global  economic  volatility,  there  possibly  will  be  no 
other obstacles in the context of finalizing the defined 
tasks by 2015. At the moment, Bosnia and Herzegovina 
is  preparing  a  development  strategy  and  a  social 
inclusion  strategy.  The  anti-poverty  strategy  was 
drafted  earlier  and  has  been 
implemented.  Such 
projects  have  been  carried  out  in  cooperation  with 
relevant  United  Nations  agencies 
in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  and  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express my gratitude for that intensive cooperation. 

Climate  change  is  one  of  the  key  issues  that 
require  an  urgent  response  from  the  international 
community. Bosnia and Herzegovina aspires to end the 
year  2009  with  successful  completion  of  international 
A/64/PV.5
result 
should 
reform 
today  agree 
the  Copenhagen 
All  of  us  gathered  here 
negotiations on climate change. Furthermore, we hope 
that 
summit  will  produce  an 
agreement that outpaces the Kyoto Protocol and that it 
will  gain  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  Member 
States.  

However,  it  is  not  only  island  countries  that  are 
affected by this problem. It is a universal challenge and 
threat.  Humanitarian  catastrophes  caused  by  weather 
conditions  that  have  affected  parts  of  our  planet  over 
recent  years  should  serve  as  a  warning  to  all  of  us. 
Neither  economic  nor  political  interests  must  be 
allowed  to  obstruct  the  achievement  of  a  global 
consensus as the true beginning of a global struggle to 
prevent the loss of the natural balance of our planet. 

that 
consensus  and  comprehensive  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  system  is  necessary  and  that  it  ought  to  be 
carried  out  in  a  careful,  prudent  manner  that  ensures 
the  broadest  consensus  of  the  Member  States.  United 
Nations 
in  efficient  and 
coordinated  functioning  of  all  bodies  of  the  system. 
However,  a  widely  accepted  perspective  is  that  the 
reform of the Security Council is of key importance for 
substantive  reform  of  the  entire  system  of  the  world 
organization.  

I  am  convinced  that  the  majority  agree  with  me 
that  Security  Council  reform  ought  primarily  to  result 
in better transparency of that body and its activities and 
should  provide  for  a  considerably  larger  spectrum  of 
non-member  States  to  participate  in  its  work.  That 
applies  in  particular  to  countries  that  are  most  on  the 
Council’s  agenda,  countries  that  are  directly  affected 
by  a  particular  crisis,  as  well  as  countries  that  could 
use  their  expertise  or  experience  gained  in  similar 
situations  that  contribute  to  following  the  best  and 
most acceptable solutions. 

We all have to be aware that any further delay in 
Security Council reform will undermine the credibility 
of  that  body,  whereas  the  willingness  to  reach  a 
compromise  must  be  an  imperative.  Dialogue  and 
compromise  are  the  only  way  to  ensure  the  broadest 
possible support for reforms.  
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  of  the  opinion  that 

Security Council reform should urgently commence. In 
any  case,  we  believe  that  in  the  future  reformed 
Council, the group of Eastern European countries must 
have  another  non-permanent  seat,  considering  that  the 
09-52320 

7 
left 
it 
the 
is  necessary 
A/64/PV.5 

number  of  countries  in  that  group  has  more  than 
doubled in the last two decades. 

I  wish  to  emphasize  that  I  expect  the  Council  to 
engage  more  strongly  in  preventive  diplomacy.  We 
believe  that  taking  that  new  course  of  action  would 
mean  that  many  issues  and  crises  could  be  solved 
before  they  become  aggravated,  thus  increasing  the 
Council’s  efficiency.  Ensuring  timely  and  efficient 
conflict  prevention,  rather  than  reacting  once  a  crisis 
has  already  escalated,  is  a  more  efficient  and  less 
expensive method for preserving peace and security. 

Unfortunately, armed  conflicts remain the reality 
of our world, and those most in danger are the poorest 
to  fend  for 
peoples  and  nations,  who  are 
themselves.  Therefore, 
to  foster 
additional  United  Nations  early  warning  mechanisms 
and  establish  multiple  sources  of  information  in  order 
to create a true picture of the situation and at the same 
time strengthen countries’ abilities to resist enticements 
that lead to genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and 
crimes against humanity. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  remains  committed  to 

International  Criminal 
full  cooperation  with 
Tribunal  for 
those 
indicted for war crimes in the former Yugoslavia must 
be prosecuted. Meanwhile, a legal framework has been 
set  up  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  the  Court  of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has  begun  to  prosecute  war 
crimes.  That  is  one  of  the  requirements  for  building 
mutual  confidence  and  reconciliation  in  post-conflict 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

The  number  of  refugees  has  been  growing  daily 
around  the  globe,  but  less  effort  and  fewer  means  are 
devoted  to  finding  a  concrete  solution  to  this  global 
issue.  We 
in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  are  well 
acquainted  with  the  destiny,  pain  and  suffering  of 
refugees,  and 
to 
systematically  resolve  the  global  refugee  crises.  We 
support  the  joint  and  continued  endeavours  of  all 
United  Nations  agencies  and  the  non-governmental 
sector  that  directly  deal  with  this  problem.  We  are 
willing to offer cooperation in every aspect. 
With  regard  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 

missions,  we  believe 
foresight  and 
considering  the  best  practices,  each  crisis  has  to  be 
carefully  examined,  taking  into  consideration  all  its 
causes,  if  we  are  to  find  a  sustainable  and  justifiable 
solution.  We  believe  that  there  are  no  universal 
thus  we  urge  maximum  effort 
the  Former  Yugoslavia,  since 
that,  with 
in 
the  decision-making  process  of 
importance 
solutions applicable to every crisis, to the requirements 
of each particular case. 

Various  cultures  and  traditions  have  coexisted  in 
the Balkans for centuries. We are willing to share both 
our  positive  and  negative  experiences  in  the  post-
conflict peacebuilding aspect.  
The foreign policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 

aimed at preserving and improving long-lasting peace, 
security  and  stability,  democratic  and  comprehensive 
social  development  and  contributions  to  international 
peace and stability. 
The  presence,  participation  and  actions  of  small 

the 
countries 
Security  Council  are  of  great 
in 
maintaining  balance  within  the  Council.  However, 
apart  from  the  views  of  the  permanent  members  and 
world Powers, the Council needs to encourage smaller 
countries  to  present  their  views  and  participate  in  the 
decision-making  process  of  that  body,  which  in  some 
ways represents global government. That is one of the 
reasons  why  we  decided,  after  careful  consideration 
and  for  the  first  time  in  our  history,  to  run  for  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
period 2010-2011. Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has 
been  the  main  topic  of  numerous  debates  of  the 
international  community,  today  wants  to  have  the 
capacity to actively participate in and contribute to the 
work of the Security Council.  

As  a  small  but  multi-ethnic,  multinational  and 
multireligious  country  with  a  rich  historic  heritage, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  conversant  with  a  plethora 
of  sociopolitical  systems  and  cultural  and  historical 
contexts. Bosnia and Herzegovina is willing to share its 
experience in peacebuilding in a post-conflict situation, 
particularly  in  the  area  of  confidence-building  among 
multicultural communities, and thus actively contribute 
to better understanding and long-term reconciliation in 
such regions.  
actively 

participates in the work of international organizations, 
especially the work of the United Nations. It has been a 
member of the Human Rights Council since June 2007, 
and  within  the  Council’s  framework  it  has  been 
working  on  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights 
throughout  the  world.  Since  2000,  members  of  the 
armed  forces  and  police  forces  from  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  have  been  equal  participants  in  United 
Nations  international  military  and  police  missions  in 
and  Herzegovina 
Today,  Bosnia 
8 

09-52320 
and 
it 
suffering,  bloodshed, 
stability.  Furthermore, 


the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Ethiopia, 
Eritrea, Liberia, Sudan, East Timor, Cyprus and Haiti, 
thus  contributing  to  the  preservation  of  international 
peace 
supports 
international  efforts  to  stabilize  the  situations  in  Iraq 
and Afghanistan. 

Finding  a  solution  to  the  Middle  East  crisis 
remains one of the priorities of the world Organization. 
We believe that positive momentum ought to be used in 
the  best  possible  manner  to  establish  equitable  and 
comprehensive  peace  in  this  region.  After  so  many 
years  of 
tension,  mutual 
misunderstanding  and  conflict,  we  must  support  the 
latest  activities  of  the  Quartet  members,  as  well  as 
regional  initiatives  aimed  at  taking  the  crucial  step 
forward  leading  to  sustainable  peace,  which  implies 
creation  of  a  sovereign, 
independent  and  self-
sustaining Palestinian State. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has  been  closely 
following  the  situation  in  Africa.  We  expect  that 
despite  the  hard-hitting  global  economic  crisis,  the 
world’s  most  developed  countries  will  continue  to 
increase the percentage of their gross domestic product 
that  they  contribute  to  official  development  assistance 
and  to  contribute  the  other  expertise  necessary  for 
strengthening the capacities of poor African countries. 
We  therefore  welcome  the  efforts  by  the  United 
Nations  through  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  intended  to  lead  Africa  to  stable  and 
sustainable  development  and  to  fulfil  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.  

This particularly relates to sub-Saharan countries. 
We  support  the  efforts  of  the  African  Union,  African 
Governments,  the  United  Nations,  the  United  Nations 
Office  for  West  Africa  and  other  regional  initiatives 
designed to improve the rule of law and democracy and 
to 
society  and 
institutions,  and  thus  to  upgrade  all  aspects  of  social 
life.  We  underline  the  importance  of  the  continued 
provision  of  material  aid  for  Africa,  as  well  as 
improved  use  of  these  resources  towards  sustainable 
development. 

Nowadays,  when  political  and  social  processes 
are  more  dynamic  than  ever  and  we  are  facing 
challenges quite opposite from those of several decades 
ago,  it  has  become  more  obvious  that  only  a  strong, 
multilateral  approach  can  provide  the  right  answers. 
The United Nations has faced numerous challenges, yet 
strengthen  capacities  of  civil 
A/64/PV.5
it remains the only path leading to a better  future  and 
the  only  Organization  able  to  offer  adequate  solutions 
to the array of global issues we are facing. If we work 
together to implement the conclusions  reached here  at 
this high-level event, we will undoubtedly live in better 
and more equitable conditions than is the case today. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  willing  to  fully 
contribute  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  I  would 
like to express my gratitude to all Member States who 
supported Bosnia and Herzegovina and who are willing 
to elect my country as a non-permanent member of the 
Security Council for the period 2010-2011. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Željko  Komšić,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
for 


  Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda  

The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda. 

Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of 
the  Republic  of  Rwanda,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 

President  Kagame: This  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  offers  further  opportunity  to  reflect  on  how 
best  to  reconcile  what  at  times  mistakenly  appears  to 
be  irreconcilable:  socio-economic  development  and  a 
healthy environment. Leaders, experts and citizens the 
world  over  ask  how  we  can  grow  our  economies  and 
spread  prosperity  to  more  of  the  world’s  citizens,  yet 
not degrade our oceans, rivers and the air we breathe? 

times  of  extraordinary 
scientific,  technological  and  business  innovations  that 
can  help  address  those  challenges,  if  we  have  the 
courage  to  put  into  proper  perspective  and  indeed 
harmonize our national, regional and global priorities.  
these  are  also 
But 
09-52320 

9 
trustful 
an 
We  have 
exceptional  opportunity 
A/64/PV.5 


History  is  replete  with  illustrations  of  how 
nations  immersed  in  crises  changed  the  underlying 
assumptions  by  which 
they  acted,  created  new 
institutions  and  tools  to  solve  problems  and  emerged 
from  the  process  as  stronger  societies.  While  those 
innovations  are  always  different,  the  challenges  to 
surmount  the  crises  are  always  the  same:  forging  a 
shared  vision,  increasing  the  social  capital  required  to 
enhance  predictability,  having 
relations 
between  peoples,  being  receptive  to  doing  things  in 
new  ways  and  adopting  an  explicit  moral  purpose  in 
order to achieve common goals. 

to 
simultaneously  address  our  environmental  challenges, 
improve  our  economies  and 
reform  our  global 
multilateral  institutions  for  better  global  governance. 
For  example,  the  Group  of  Twenty  (G-20)  is  now 
playing  a  crucial  role  in  restoring  global  economic 
stability.  But  should  we  not  even  broaden  the  base  to 
include  many  nations  that  are  most  vulnerable  to  the 
decisions  of  the  few?  All  nations  should  be  part  of 
those  important  discussions  and  decisions,  because 
they  have  valuable  contributions  to  make.  This  is  the 
time to embrace true multilateralism.  

the 
corrective  measures  taken  by  the  G-20  and  the  Group 
of Eight to accelerate global economic recovery. But it 
is evident that most of their proposals fall short of the 
concrete  steps  needed  to  address  challenges  that  are 
specific to low-income countries. 

Multilateralism  has  always  been  the  key  tenet  in 
forging  a  fairer  international  community  based  on 
equitable global governance. The United Nations itself 
is  based  on  that  very  sound  and  tested  principle,  and 
that  should  be  the  practice.  The  rise  of  worldwide 
networks  of  trade,  industry,  prosperity  and  social 
values,  together  with  the  creation  of  multilateral 
institutions  to  guide  and  harmonize  those  processes, 
has  no  doubt  contributed  to  a  fairer  and  improved 
global  decision-making  system. That  is  what  needs  to 
be rendered more inclusive. 

Improving global governance has also to address 
international justice. International justice should be fair 
to  all  —  rich  and  poor,  strong  or  weak.  We  are  all 
pleased  to  note  that  at  its  sixty-third  session  the 
General 
examine 
comprehensively the issue of universal jurisdiction. We 
in  developing  nations  appreciate 
undertook 
Assembly 
We 
to 
regard 
this  session  of 
look  forward  to  the  resolutions  on  that  matter  during 
the Assembly’s current session.  

It  is  also  fitting  that  we  recognize  the  recent 
creation of a single entity within the United Nations to 
advance  the  work  on  women’s  rights  and  gender 
equality.  Rwanda  has  always  made  that  one  of  its 
priorities and has achieved good results.  

With  regard  to  socio-economic  challenges  in  our 
East  African  Community  region,  we  are  making 
progress in key areas. For instance, we are preparing to 
inaugurate, in January 2010, the East African Common 
Market  to  facilitate  greater  trade,  investment  and  the 
free  movement  of  almost  130  million  people.  We 
believe  that  there  is  no  better  strategy  for  mitigating 
economic  difficulties  than  building  larger  regional 
markets that bring about improved productivity, which 
increases  purchasing  power  and,  in  turn,  strengthens 
our societies. 
the  global  environmental 
With 

challenge, 
the  General  Assembly 
provides  an  important  platform  for  preparing  for  the 
Copenhagen  climate  change  summit.  Every  nation 
should  have  co-equal  status  and  be  considered  a 
concerned  nation  at  the  forthcoming  summit.  That 
implies that each nation has both rights and obligations 
and should be open to burden-sharing according to its 
ability. This  is  the  time  to  address  in  a  timely  fashion 
such  key  issues  as  how  much  the  industrialized 
countries  are  to  reduce  their  emissions  of  greenhouse 
gases, how much the developing countries are to limit 
the growth of their emissions, and how to finance and 
support strategies to conserve energy, mitigate risk and 
build  green  technologies  that  counteract  the  impact  of 
climate change in the developing world. 
We  in  Rwanda  have  been  making  a  modest  but 

proportionate  contribution  by,  among  other  things, 
hosting  African  preparatory  meetings 
the 
Copenhagen summit in order to encourage a strong and 
essential  African  voice  at  that  critical  meeting.  We 
have  also  been  actively 
implementing  national 
environmental  policies  for  reforestation,  terracing  and 
the rehabilitation of wetlands that supply lake and river 
systems  in  our  country,  to  name  a  few  areas  in  which 
we have had good results. 

On  the  matter  of  peace  and  security,  the  world 
faces  a  number  of  regional  threats.  The  Great  Lakes 
region has its share of peace and security problems, but 
in 
we  continue 
significant  progress 
to  make 
for 
to 
10 

09-52320 
the 


fundamentally addressing that question. The leaders of 
the  region  recognize  that,  most  crucially,  home-grown 
solutions,  beginning  with  a  joint  regional  effort,  can 
bring about sustainable peace. It is in that context that, 
together  with  our  colleagues  and  neighbours  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  we  are  dealing 
with  the  root  cause  of  instability  in  our  area,  namely, 
the  negative  forces  that  have  been  a  menace  since 
1994. 

If history teaches us anything, it is that we cannot 
apply  the  same  strategies  to  different  problems  and 
expect  satisfactory  outcomes  all  the  time.  We  have  to 
think  differently  on 
fundamental  questions, 
including the urgent imperatives of, first, strengthening 
the future of all nations by fostering economic growth 
and  development  while  investing  in  the  environment. 
That should be our moral purpose. Secondly, we must 
improve  peace  and  stability  in  all  regions  by  learning 
from,  and  supporting, 
legitimate  regional  actors. 
Finally,  we  must  engage  and  embrace  the  majority 
world  in  terms  of  multilateralism  in  decision-making, 
trade and prosperity.  

These  should  be  our  shared  vision.  Future 
generations  will  then  know  how  leaders  of  nations  in 
the year 2009, immersed in crises, focused on the most 
difficult  challenges,  including  the  global  economic 
crisis,  climate  change  and  greater  peace  and  security, 
and how they acted with resolve. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Rwanda for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 



  Address by Ms. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President 
of the Republic of Lithuania 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Lithuania. 

Ms.  Dalia  Grybauskaitė,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency Dalia  Grybauskaitė,  President 
A/64/PV.5
of  the  Republic  of  Lithuania,  and  to  invite  her  to 
address the Assembly. 

President Grybauskaitė: Today the international 
community  is  striving  to  meet  challenges  that  the 
founders  of 
the  United  Nations  could  not  have 
envisioned  some  65  years  ago. At  the  same  time,  the 
founding  principles  of  the  United  Nations  have  not 
changed. The provision of joint security and prosperity 
and  the  safeguarding  of  human  rights  remain  the 
impetus  for  United  Nations  activities  as  they  were 
60 years ago. Countries that gather here, big and small, 
have  a  common  responsibility  as  members  of  the 
United  Nations  to  uphold  and  cherish  the  ideals 
expressed in the United Nations Charter.  

The  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  is  not 
the only problem today. Terrorism, the proliferation of 
weapons, energy challenges, climate change and many 
other  issues  must  be  addressed  in  order  to  make  the 
goals  of 
the  United  Nations  a  reality.  Complex 
challenges  require  comprehensive  responses.  It  is 
obvious we cannot benefit from isolationist or egoistic 
policies. 
The  United  Nations  must  come  of  age.  It  must 

become  the  visible  and  credible  expression  of  the 
globalization  of  politics.  The  modern  world  dictates 
that  we  are  dependent  on  each  other.  Either  we  work 
with each other or suffer in isolation.  

Today more than ever before, the United Nations 
has  to  play  the  leading  role  in  strengthening  our 
societies  by  promoting  the  shared  values  of  humanity 
and tolerance. It is our responsibility to make sure that 
such  phenomena  as  anti-Semitism,  xenophobia  and 
racism are eliminated from our lives. There can be no 
excuse for not bearing this responsibility. Countries big 
and small alike have duties not only towards their own 
citizens  but  also  towards  global  society.  But  it  is 
usually  the  poor  and  vulnerable  who  suffer  the  most, 
especially  as  the  current  crisis  and  the  lag  in  donor 
commitments push back the hopes of implementing the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
schedule. 
Therefore,  with  all  due  regard  for  the  domestic 
concerns  and  needs  of  national  taxpayers,  we  need  to 
adapt to the reality of global complexity and to respect 
our 
international 
commitments.  We  need 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  do  not  become  the 
prime  victims  of  the  current  global  economic  and 
financial situation.  
to  make  sure 
responsibility 
common 
on 
and 
that 
09-52320 

11 
in 
strengthen 
its 
policy 
ranging 
entail  many  dimensions, 
A/64/PV.5 


What  particular  steps  should  be  taken?  I  will 
mention  several.  First,  recent  United  Nations  peace 
operations show that efforts to achieve and consolidate 
peace 
from 
peacebuilding  to  nation-building.  Despite  its  current 
economic limitations my country is determined to meet 
its  obligations.  We  will  contribute  to  peace-keeping 
missions  and  operations  working  to  ensure  global 
security  and  stability,  specifically  by  continued 
participation 
the  European  Union  missions 
in 
Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Afghanistan. 

Second, the proliferation of nuclear, chemical and 
biological weapons will never be halted unless there is 
an  international  consensus  to  do  so.  The  United 
Nations  must 
against 
proliferation;  in  particular  we  need  to  find  ways  to 
allow  nations  to  develop  civil  nuclear  power  but  not 
nuclear  weapons.  Therefore  the  upcoming  Review 
Conference  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  next  year  will  provide  a  good 
opportunity  to  seek  diplomatic  solutions  and  work  for 
full  compliance  with  international  commitments  and 
requirements. 

Third, better and more responsible governance at 
the  global,  regional  and  local  levels  is  crucially 
important  for  a  steady  and  sustainable  economic 
recovery.  Protectionism  and  isolationism  have  never 
worked and will never work in the future.  

Fourth,  realizing  the  fact  that  global  climate 
change calls for global solutions, we will do our best to 
reach an international consensus at the Climate Change 
Conference  in  Copenhagen.  Fully  aware  of  the  global 
impact  of  climate  change,  we  support  the  ambitious 
European  Union  commitment  to  cut  carbon  dioxide 
emissions  by  20  per  cent  by  2020,  within 
the 
framework of an international agreement. 

Fifth,  I  think  that  global  responsibility  has  to  be 
addressed  regionally  as  well  —  this  is  the  rule  for 
effective 
the  United  Nations 
Charter.  Regional  organizations  should  assume  a 
greater  responsibility  for  taking  care  of  their  regions. 
They  must  share 
their 
neighbours and other regional organizations. 

Lithuania 
responsibility 
through 
understanding  and 
Aware  of  being  a  comparatively  small  State, 
regional  and  global 
to  promote  United  Nations  values 
the  core  principles  of  dialogue,  respect, 
the 
their  best  practices  with 
implementation  of 
tolerance,  as 
it  assumes 
is  assuming 
its 
presidencies  of  regional  and  global  organizations. 
Lithuania began its one-year presidency of the Council 
of the Baltic Sea States as well as the presidency of the 
Community of Democracies on 1 July 2009, and it will 
take  on  the  chairmanship  of  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  in  2011.  A 
Lithuania  representative  will  then  assume  the  yearly 
presidency of the United Nations General Assembly in 
September  2012  and  will  complete  that  term  as 
Lithuania  takes  on  the  European  Union  presidency  in 
the second half of 2013.  

It  is  an  immense  responsibility  to  guide  the 
Community  of  Democracies  forward  at  this  point  in 
time.  In  our  view,  real  progress  in  development  is 
linked  directly  to  the  institution  of  democratic  norms 
and principles. We believe democracy to be inseparable 
from peace, the rule of law, respect for individual and 
human rights, equal opportunity and overall prosperity.  

Allow me to reiterate that small or less developed 
States  can  no  longer  avoid  global  responsibility  and 
that  all  of  us  are  responsible  for  our  common  present 
and  future.  Let  us  all  recognize  from  now  on,  in  each 
of  our  capitals,  that  the  global  interest  is  our  national 
interest  and  global  responsibility 
is  our  national 
responsibility. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Lithuania for the statement she has just made. 

Ms.  Dalia  Grybauskaitė,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 



  Address by Mr. Dimitris Christofias, President 
of the Republic of Cyprus 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus. 

Mr.  Dimitris  Christofias,  President  of 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Dimitris  Christofias, 
President of the Republic of Cyprus, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
the 
the 
12 

09-52320 


President  Christofias  (spoke  in  Greek;  English 

text provided by the delegation): I would like to extend 
to  Mr.  Ali  Treki  my  sincere  congratulations  on  his 
election as President of the sixty-fourth session of the 
General Assembly of the United Nations. I would also 
like to express my appreciation for the excellent work 
done  by  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann.  I  should  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  (A/64/1)  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization,  as  well  as  to  congratulate 
him  on  his  initiative  in  convening  the  high-level 
Climate Change Summit. 

Since  its  independence,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus 
has  been  committed  to  multilateral  diplomacy  and  the 
strengthening of the role of the United Nations. World 
stability  and  welfare  have  been  threatened  by  the 
recent  global  economic  crisis.  The  crisis  revealed  the 
weaknesses  of  our  collective  oversight  systems.  It  is 
only  through  collective  international  action,  and  not 
through  economic  nationalism,  that  we  can  overcome 
such  challenges.  The  same  is  true  of  action  against 
disease  and  poverty,  as  well  as  the  prevention  of 
further  damage  to  the  environment,  which  affects  the 
lives of us all. 

The most important lesson to be learned from the 
financial  crisis  is  that  the  economy  cannot  be  seen  in 
isolation  from  the  needs  of  society.  Despite  the 
remarkable  development  of  production  forces  that 
could  have  secured  decent  living  conditions  for  all, 
people in many parts of the world are still deprived of 
basic  needs  such  as  drinking  water,  health  care  and 
access  to  education  and  work.  The  magnitude  of  the 
financial  crisis  shows  that  it  is  a  crisis  of  the  system 
and  of 
its  most  extreme  manifestation,  namely, 
neo-liberalism  and  market  lawlessness.  In  its  present 
form,  globalization  is  not  the  realization  of  the  vision 
of  philosophers  and  social  revolutionaries  for  global 
brotherhood  and  prosperity  for  all.  That  is  because 
globalization  is  driven  by  the  pursuit  of  excessive 
profits.  As  a  result,  the  rich  are  becoming  richer  and 
the poor poorer. 

More  than  half  way  to  the  2015  deadline  for  the 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the 
financial  crisis  is  forcing  States  and  institutions  to 
reassess  global  priorities.  The  United  Nations  is  the 
most  important  international  body  able  to  tackle  the 
effects  of  the  global  financial  crisis  and  to  act 
collectively  and  effectively  to  prevent  their  most  dire 
consequences. 
A/64/PV.5
regional 
increased 

The  world  today  faces  multiple  challenges  and 
threats,  including  climate  change,  the  depletion  of 
resources,  human  rights  abuses,  the  failure  to  protect 
vulnerable  populations, 
and 
inter-State  conflict,  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction and pandemics. From this rostrum, we 
have  heard  the  desperate  voices  of  those  who  live  on 
small-island  States,  the  despairing  appeal  of  young 
people  and  the  dramatic  warnings  of  scientists  about 
climate  change.  If  we  do  not  take  measures  now,  we 
face the risk of extinction. We join our voice and lend 
our support to the proposals for taking concrete action. 
We  must  take  measures  now.  Tomorrow  will  be  too 
late.  The  December  meeting  in  Copenhagen  must 
become  a  historic 
turning  point 
in  effectively 
addressing catastrophic climate change. 

Since  its  independence,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus 
has  relied  on  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  in 
maintaining  its  independence,  its  sovereignty  and  its 
territorial  integrity. After  the  dual  crime  of  a  military 
coup and the foreign invasion of Cyprus in 1974, when 
military  forces  attempted  to  obliterate  our  statehood 
and  violated  the  integrity  of  our  State,  the  United 
Nations  responded  with  a  number  of 
important 
resolutions 
international 
community’s moral and legal support for the Republic 
of  Cyprus.  The  plethora  of  Security  Council  and 
General Assembly  resolutions  on  Cyprus  provided  my 
country  with  the  necessary  support  to  continue  its 
struggle  for  a  solution  to  its  political  problem  on  the 
basis of those resolutions, the principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations and international law. 

Shortly  after  my  election  to  office,  I  undertook 
the initiative of bringing the stalemate to an end. As a 
result of that, and on the basis of the relevant Security 
Council resolutions and under the auspices of the good 
offices mission of the Secretary-General, a year ago we 
embarked  upon  intensive  negotiations  with  the  leader 
of 
the  Turkish  Cypriot  community,  Mr.  Mehmet 
Ali Talat.  

Trusting in the sincerity of Mr. Talat’s intentions, 
we have engaged in a common effort to bring an end to 
the division of our country. We agreed that the process 
would be in the hands of Cypriots, without arbitration 
or  artificial 
timetables.  Some  progress  has  been 
achieved in the negotiations, but not such as to make us 
confident  that  we  are  close  to  a  final  solution  to  the 
Cyprus  problem.  Our  goal  is  the  restoration  of  the 
independence  and 
sovereignty, 
expressed 
territorial 
integrity, 
that 
the 
09-52320 

13 
the  unity  of 
the  State  and 
the  Republic  of  Cyprus, 
A/64/PV.5 

unity  of 
the  common 
homeland of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. It is 
also  our  goal  to  restore  the  human  rights  and  basic 
freedoms  of  all  citizens  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus, 
regardless of their ethnic background. 

We are committed to the evolution of the unitary 
State  into  a  federal  State  consisting  of  two  largely 
autonomous  regions.  One  region  will  be  administered 
by the Greek Cypriot community and the other by the 
Turkish  Cypriot  community.  The 
the 
population of Cyprus lived intermingled throughout the 
island  constituted  for  us  a  great  historical  concession 
on  the  part  of  the  late  President  Makarios  to  our 
Turkish  Cypriot  compatriots.  We  remain  true  to  that 
commitment.  The  united  federal  republic  of  Cyprus 
must  safeguard 
its 
institutions, as well as of the economy and the people. 

Unfortunately,  despite  our  common  efforts,  the 
Turkish  Cypriot  side,  supported  by  Turkey,  continues 
to present positions and proposals that take us outside 
the  framework  of  the  United  Nations  resolutions  on 
Cyprus  with  regard  to  the  termination  of  military 
occupation, the illegal possession of properties and the 
presence  of  settlers.  Acceptance  of  those  positions 
would lead to acceptance of many consequences of the 
occupation 
international 
conventions  on  human  rights,  basic  freedoms  and  the 
principles on which federations are built. It is clear that 
such a solution would be neither viable nor functional 
and would not ensure the continuing unity of the State 
and the country. 

We  sincerely  hope  that  during  the  second  round 
of  negotiations,  which  has  just  started,  the  Turkish 
positions will be reconsidered so that we can, as soon 
as possible, reach an agreed solution that we can then 
present 
in  separate  simultaneous 
referendums. That solution must be by the Cypriots for 
the Cypriots. It is clear that we will not present to the 
people a solution that originates from outside, nor can 
we  accept  arbitration  or  pressure  being  exercised 
through artificial timetables.  
the 

Secretary-General, 
the 
negotiations are taking place. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank once again the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his good offices mission and for 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  facilitator  in  the 
negotiating process. 
Those  preconditions  were  agreed  with 
auspices 
to  violations  of 
under  whose 
the  people 
and 
to 
fact 
that 
the 
transfer  of 
the  part  of  Turkey  would  have  been 

After  the  1974  invasion  and  the  occupation  of 
30 per cent of the territory of the Republic of Cyprus, 
Turkey has become a key player in the solution of the 
Cyprus  problem. The  success  of  our  efforts  towards  a 
solution  of  the  problem  depends  on Turkey’s  political 
will  and  on  the  policies  that  it  implements.  It  is  not 
enough for the Turkish leadership to publicly state that 
it supports the negotiating process. 
Turkey  should  contribute  in  a  practical  way  to  a 

solution 
that  seeks  a  bizonal  and  bicommunal 
federation  with  political  equality,  as  defined  in  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  Instead,  Turkey 
pursues  a  confederal  solution. A  measure  of  goodwill 
the 
on 
resolution 
implementation  of  Security  Council 
550 (1984),  which  stipulates 
the 
occupied  ghost  town  of  Varosha  to  the  administration 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  return  of  its  legal 
inhabitants  to  their  homes  and  property.  In  addition, 
Turkey  should  proceed  with  normalizing  its  relations 
with the Republic of Cyprus and with recognizing it, as 
stipulated in the decisions of the European Union. 

I ask if it is not a paradox for a country that is a 
member  of  the  Security  Council  not  to  recognize  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  a  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations, of the European Union and of all international 
organizations. Is it not a paradox for a  member of the 
Security  Council  to  keep  occupation  troops  on  the 
territory of another United Nations Member State and a 
member State of the European Union for 35 years? Is it 
not a paradox to undermine the unity and the territorial 
integrity  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  by  promoting  the 
creation of a second State on the island in violation of 
(1983),  which 
Security  Council 
unanimously 
unilateral 
declaration  of  independence,  calling  it  null  and  void, 
and  calls  on  all  States  to  respect  the  sovereignty, 
independence  and  territorial  integrity  of  the  Republic 
of Cyprus? 
Yes, it is a paradox, and it is also illegal. Cyprus 

has never sought, nor wishes, to have hostile relations 
with  its  neighbour, Turkey,  but  it  is  our  responsibility 
to  defend  the  independence,  territorial  integrity  and 
sovereignty of our State. 

Nevertheless,  before  this  body,  I  would  like  to 
express  my  readiness  to  initiate  dialogue  with  the 
Turkish leadership, in parallel to our negotiations with 
Turkish  Cypriot  leader,  and  to  share  ideas  on  a  future 
resolution  541 
condemns 
illegal 
the 
14 

09-52320 
A/64/PV.5





that would greatly enhance the possibility of a positive 
outcome  to  the  negotiations.  Cyprus  has  consistently 
supported Turkey’s accession to the European Union in 
the  belief  that  the  entire  adaptation  process  and 
Turkey’s  eventual  membership  would  benefit  our 
neighbours, our region and us. However, that support is 
not  unconditional.  Turkey  should  fulfil  its  obligations 
towards  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  and  towards  the 
European Union. 

I would like to state once  again that our Turkish 
Cypriot compatriots are equal citizens of the Republic 
of Cyprus and that I personally will consistently strive 
for their rights and for finding their rightful place in all 
organs  of  the  State.  My  political  roots  are  in  the 
progressive  people’s  movement  of  my  country,  which 
has  always  stood  by  our  Turkish  Cypriot  compatriots 
for peace and harmonious coexistence.  

Nevertheless,  the  rights  of  our  Turkish  Cypriot 
compatriots  cannot  be  implemented  at  the  expense  of 
those  of  the  larger  community,  which  is  the  Greek 
Cypriot  one.  There  must  be  mutual  respect.  I  want  to 
affirm that I  will spare no effort in order to achieve  a 
balanced and just solution that would restore the rights 
of the people as a whole.  

We  have  all  paid  a  heavy  price  —  human, 
political  and  economic  —  and  continue  to  do  so.  The 
gains  of  lasting  peace  will  benefit  the  people  of 
Cyprus, of Turkey and of  our region as a whole. True 
political  leaders  are  not  those  who  think  of  the  next 
election,  but  of  the  next  generation.  We  have  the 
responsibility  to  work  together  to  achieve  a  lasting 
peace in our region. 

I  wish  the  family  of  the  United  Nations  a 
successful outcome to the deliberations of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Cyprus for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Dimitris Christofias, President of the Republic 
of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 

  Address by Mr. Fradique Bandeira Melo de 
Menezes, President of the Democratic Republic 
of Sao Tome and Principe 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the President of the Republic of Sao 
Tome and Principe. 

  Mr.  Fradique  Bandeira  Melo  de  Menezes, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Fradique Bandeira Melo de 
Menezes, President of the Democratic Republic of Sao 
Tome  and  Principe,  and  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  De  Menezes  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation): 
Before  anything  else,  allow  me  to  congratulate  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Treki  of  Libya,  a  country  with 
which  we  maintain  excellent  relations  of  brotherhood, 
for his election to the important post of President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  which 
role he will certainly carry out with his  usual level of 
excellence.  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  for  his 
excellent work on the world economic crisis during his 
presidency at the sixty-third session. 

A  year  has  passed  since  the  opening  of  the 
Assembly’s  sixty-third  session,  and  yet  we  have  still 
not  recovered  from  the  full  effects  of  the  global 
economic crisis, despite enormous efforts on the part of 
developed  countries.  The  same  distortions  in  the 
world’s economy remain.  
But it is not just economic and financial problems 

that  we 
is 
guaranteeing  the  future  of  our  planet,  not  just  in  the 
economic  sense,  but  also  resolving  climate  change 
issues  that  threaten  the  very  survival  of  small  island 
nations like Sao Tome and Principe. Though our carbon 
emissions  are  insignificant  and  our  forests  play  a  key 
role  as  part  of  the  world’s  lungs,  rising  sea  levels  are 
already causing coastal erosion around our country. 
Time is no longer on our side but has become our 

unforgiving 
for  more 
unfounded  justifications  for  the  non-fulfilment  of  the 
Kyoto  Protocol.  We  cannot  continue  evading  these 
face.  Our  biggest  challenge 
judge.  There 
is  no 
today 
time 
09-52320 

15 
A/64/PV.5 

essential  environmental 
issues,  which  are  not  a 
question  of  developing  countries  against  developed 
ones.  We  need  urgent  measures  that  are  global  and 
concrete to save us from this crisis. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work 
of  the  Organization  (A/64/1)  contains  some  important 
points  to  which  we  have  given  considerable  attention, 
because  my  country  shares  similar  concerns.  I  am 
referring  to  the  urgent  need  for  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  system.  Africa,  especially  its  small  countries 
on  the  periphery,  continues  mired  in  the  deepest 
poverty. Our problems are particularly difficult to solve 
due to a combination of adverse factors that deserve an 
approach  from  the  international  community  that  is 
more systematic, more diligent and more coordinated. 

There  have  been  several  crises  in  2009,  and  we 
have  to  re-think  together  the  future  of  the  new  world 
economic  order.  Those  crises  affect  all  countries  and 
demand a global response. Sao Tome and Principe is a 
micro-State with a micro-economy, and thus it is poor 
and vulnerable. As such, it is not immune to the effects 
of those crises. 
We need to reinforce the merits of multilateralism 

as  an  instrument  through  which  the  international 
community  can  promote  peace  and  development. 
Therefore,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  wants 
to 
demonstrate  its  support  for  the  institutionalization  of 
this  agenda  within  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations. In a world confronting a global economic and 
financial  crisis,  along  with  the  negative  impact  of 
climate  changes,  there  is  a  need  to  guarantee  food 
security  and  energy  security,  to  deal  with  migrations 
and  pandemics  and  numerous  regional  conflicts  of 
increasing complexity and associated risks.  
The only way we can face these crises is through 

active  multilateralism,  based  on  international  law  and 
on  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  and 
through  reaffirming  our  commitment  to  achieving  the 
goals  set  out  in  the  United  Nations  2005  World 
Summit. We are well aware that we will achieve those 
goals  only  through  a  renewed  multilateral  system, 
integrated  in  a  world  organization  that  is  stronger, 
more egalitarian and with more solidarity. 

In this framework we call for support for the oft-
repeated  proposal  for  reforming  the  United  Nations 
system,  and  particularly 
issue  of  permanent 
members of the Security Council. We believe that this 
issue cannot be endlessly put off. There must be more 
the 
that 
said 
from 
this 
tribune  yesterday,  at 
justice  in  the  context  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
African States must have a voice and cannot be ignored 
in  this  process  of  reform  of  our  Organization. That  is 
why I want to state my complete agreement with what 
was 
the 
3rd meeting, by the President of the African Union, our 
brother-leader  Qadhafi,  reclaiming  better  participation 
by the African countries as permanent members of the 
Security Council.  

We  are  beginning  the  last  five  years  in  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs).  The  past  five  years  have  presented  us  with 
the  biggest  challenges  facing  global  society:  poverty, 
pandemics,  environmental  degradation  —  everything 
that galvanized the world’s position that was translated 
into the declaration that we heard yesterday. The goals 
and  hopes 
this  declaration  embodies  need 
attention. I  can say that in Sao Tome  and Principe  we 
have made determined efforts, especially to achieve the 
Goals  in  the  areas  of  health  and  education.  We  are 
almost  there,  although  we  are  yet  not  completely 
satisfied. 

The  biggest  debates  related  to  global  warming 
concentrate on substitutions for fossil fuels in order to 
reduce  carbon  emissions 
the 
greenhouse  effect.  This  debate  has  gone  on  as 
temperatures have risen, causing the glaciers and polar 
ice caps to melt, which in turn has already caused a rise 
in  the  sea  level.  As  I  mentioned  earlier,  that  is 
threatening our country. 

These  environmental  changes  present  a  strategic 
challenge 
increasing  global 
insecurity  caused  by  the  effects  of  violent  storms, 
droughts,  massive  migrations  and  pandemics,  which 
lead 
in  poverty,  environmental 
degradation  and  weakening  national  Governments. 
Experts  in  this  field  call  our  attention  to  the  fact  that 
these  climate  changes  may  result  in  an  unprecedented 
need to provide emergency food aid, which could cause 
a  crisis  of 
international 
community.  

The negotiations in the framework  of the United 
Nations are aimed at creating a substitute for the 1997 
Kyoto Protocol, which establishes limits on greenhouse 
gas  emissions  by  2012  for  37  countries 
the 
developed world and is an  attempt to profoundly alter 
the world climate situation. 
for  countries,  with 
that  contribute 
to 
to  an 
increase 
sustainability 
for 
the 
in 
16 

09-52320 



We  hope  the  2020  objectives  can  be  formalized 
during  the  Copenhagen  summit.  Even  in  the  meetings 
this  week,  at  the Assembly’s  current  session,  we  have 
seen  growing  concern  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community, at the level of the Secretary-General and in 
the  Alliance  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  with 
regard to the success of this process. 

Whenever I speak before the General Assembly, I 
conclude  by  mentioning  two  continuing  cases  of 
injustice: that of the Republic of China on Taiwan and 
that of the trade embargo against Cuba.  

Despite everything, there are positive signs on the 
international  scene,  for  which  we  are  grateful.  We 
welcome the recent positive developments between the 
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  and 
the  People’s 
Republic  of  China.  We  continue  to  support  increased 
participation at the United Nations for the Republic of 
China  on  Taiwan.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
admission  of  that  nation  of  23  million  people  as  an 
observer  at  the  World  Health  Organization.  We  hope 
that other United Nations agencies, such as the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
and  the  International  Civil Aviation  Organization,  can 
also  take  advantage  of  the  valuable  contributions  that 
that  developed  country  can  make  with  respect  to  the 
urgent needs of the Organization. 

Unfortunately,  however,  while  we  can  express  a 
certain  satisfaction  concerning 
the 
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  we  cannot  do  so  with 
regard  to  the  trade  embargo  against  Cuba;  indeed,  we 
are  greatly  disappointed  in  that  area.  But  we  dare  to 
remain  hopeful 
the  new  United  States 
Administration  will 
and 
have 
determination to shortly address this issue in the same 
manner as it has dealt with that of Guantánamo.  

  Mr.  Parham  (United  Kingdom),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 

I wish to stress that the road ahead of us is very 
difficult and long. There must be global cooperation in 
a  context  of  availability  and  responsibility  to  ensure 
sustainable  development  for  all  countries.  I  therefore 
appeal  for  greater  cooperation  between  donor  and 
beneficiary countries and greater consultation not only 
with Government institutions, but also with institutions 
more familiar with the needs of people on the ground. I 
am 
rural  communities, 
teachers,  doctors,  nurses,  farmers,  fishermen  and  all 
those in the productive sectors of our countries.  
referring  specifically 
issue  of 
courage 
that 
the 
the 

to 
A/64/PV.5


the  United  Nations 
For the Government and the people of Sao Tome 

and  Principe, 
remains  an 
indispensable  Organization  where  there  should  be  no 
differences among Member States. The United Nations 
must  continue  its  mission  of  maintaining  peace  and 
security  and  promoting 
international  development. 
Those  are  the  Organization’s  objectives  to  ensure  the 
betterment of our world. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe for the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Fradique  Bandeira  Melo  de  Menezes, 
President of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome 
and  Principe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 



 Address by Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President 
of the Republic of Sierra Leone 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Sierra Leone. 

  Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ernest  Bai  Koroma, 
President of the Republic of Sierra Leone, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Koroma:  I  feel  highly  honoured  to 

address the Assembly once again. I would like to start 
by  congratulating  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  on  his 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fourth  session  and  to  assure  him  of  my 
delegation’s  support  and  cooperation  as  he  performs 
the demanding task of presiding over our deliberations. 
Through  him,  I  would  also  like  to  convey  my  sincere 
gratitude 
to  His  Excellency  Monsignor  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann  for  the  efficient  and  effective 
manner in which he conducted the previous session. In 
addition,  my  appreciation  goes  to  the  Secretary-
General for his comprehensive account of the work of 
the  Organization  and  his  analysis  of  the  challenges 
facing the global community. 

The  theme  for  this  year’s  session  is  apt  and 
timely.  It  is  only  through  dialogue  among  the  various 
09-52320 

17 
to 
the  world 
represented 
the  world’s  civilizations 
that  we  can  effectively  meet 
in 
the  strengthening  of 
A/64/PV.5 

this 
civilizations  of 
deliberative  body  and 
the 
institutions and architecture responsible for  promoting 
such  dialogue 
the 
challenges posed by the current global crisis. Dialogue 
promotes  understanding;  understanding 
enhances 
cooperation;  and  cooperation  gives  vitality  and 
legitimacy to the institutions and mechanisms that have 
been  structured  to  meet  our  common  challenges  and 
goals. 

Civilizations  began as magnificent blueprints  for 
meeting  challenges  that  were  specific  to  particular 
regions  of  the  world,  but  advances  in  technology  and 
communications  have  made  problems  no 
longer 
specific  to  particular  regions.  Climate  change;  the 
HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  swine  flu  pandemics;  the 
food  and  fuel  crises,  including  the  present  global 
economic  meltdown;  terrorism;  nuclear  proliferation; 
and drug trafficking are all beyond the capacity of any 
of 
tackle  without 
international  cooperation.  While  the  major  causes  of 
those  challenges  may  arise  from  particular  regions, 
their  impacts  are  global  and  affect  the  lives  and 
fortunes  of  peoples  of  all  civilizations.  Dialogue 
among  civilizations  will  create  the  synergies  required 
to tackle the causes and impacts of the global crises. 

My Government fully subscribes to and supports 
the promotion of dialogue, as well as the facilitation of 
mechanisms that will help  to ameliorate the impact of 
the global crises. Among some population groups, that 
impact  may  be  on  the  size  of  their  bonuses;  among 
others, it may be on whether they acquire a second car 
or  not.  But  for 
the  vast  number  of  people  — 
particularly  in  Africa  —  the  impact  of  the  crises  is 
creating life-threatening situations.  

Years  of  conflict  had  increased  the  number  of 
poor  and  vulnerable  people  in  my  country.  However, 
stable  economic  growth,  remittances  and  international 
financial  and 
increasing 
prospects for ameliorating the situation, but the present 
global  crisis  has  suddenly  decreased  those  prospects, 
pushing  greater  numbers  of  our  people  into  extreme 
poverty. 
We in Sierra Leone are saddled with the effects of 

trade 
international  commerce.  Our 
imbalances 
economy continues to be vigorously challenged by the 
falling prices of our exports in the international market. 
This  includes  diamonds  and  cash  crops.  The  effect  of 
support  were 
security 
in 
that 
this  intractable  problem  is  that  we  are  not  able  to 
garner  enough  foreign  exchange  to  meet  the  basic 
import requirements for our sustenance. We are on the 
threshold of the tenth year of the implementation of the 
Millennium  Declaration  and  yet  the  prospects  for 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 
remain dismal for Africa. 

Many countries in Africa, including mine, have in 
the  last  few  years  registered  important  improvements 
in the essential areas of governance and economic and 
social indicators. My country, Sierra  Leone, is putting 
in  place  mechanisms  to  ensure  a  stable  democratic 
regime. Worldwide indicators show that we have made 
extremely  fast  progress  in  political  stability.  Our 
economic growth remains strong at 6 to 9 per cent. My 
Government  has  firmed  up  the  aspirations  of  our 
people in an Agenda for Change that sets out four clear 
priority  areas:  agriculture,  energy,  infrastructure  and 
reforms  to  improve  delivery  of  health  and  education 
services.  We  are  already  delivering  results  in  our 
priority  areas.  Key  roads  are  under  construction,  we 
have  completed  a  hydroelectric  project 
is 
supplying clean, affordable power to Freetown for the 
first time, and our reforms have ensured that we are the 
best 
countries 
according to the Doing Business Index. 

My  Government  could  not  sustain  these  results 
without  multilateral  support.  On  18  and  19  November 
of  this  year,  we  are  organizing  a  Consultative  Group 
Meeting  on  Sierra  Leone  in  London  to  dialogue  with 
investors,  donors  and  other  partners,  and  to  mobilize 
support for our efforts in tackling the many challenges 
facing our country. We see the Sierra Leone conference 
as  a  problem-solving  dialogue;  we  aspire 
to  a 
conference 
action-oriented 
multilateral  framework  for  meeting  the  challenges  we 
face.  My  country  believes  in  multilateralism;  we 
believe in dialogue among nations as the most effective 
means  of  tackling  our  problems.  We  call  upon  all 
countries to ensure that the current financial crisis does 
not  deny  the  many  African  nations  only  recently 
removed from violent conflict the security and prospect 
of  prosperity  that  we  have  all  worked  so  hard  to 
achieve. 

issue  my 
delegation takes very seriously, one that is interwoven 
with  the  financial  crisis,  poverty  and  development  — 
the  serious  threat  that  climate  change  poses  to  human 
in 
development 
in  general  and  African  nations 
to  address  another 
that  will  build 
neighbouring 
performer 
I  would 
among 
an 
like 
18 

09-52320 


particular.  Despite  the  scientific  consensus  that  the 
earth  is  warming  at  an  alarming  rate,  progress  in 
reducing greenhouse-gas emissions and limiting global 
warming  to  below  an  increase  of  2  degrees  Celsius 
per year has proved elusive. Today, the poorest nations, 
which  contribute  the  least  to  the  phenomenon,  are  the 
most  vulnerable.  The  recent  torrential  rainfall  in 
Freetown,  the  capital  of  Sierra  Leone,  left  scores  of 
people  dead,  homeless  or  seriously  injured.  Drought, 
hurricanes, floods, changing rainfall patterns, rising sea 
levels  and  low  crop  yields  rank  high  among  the  key 
challenges  facing  the  world’s  poor.  Unfortunately, 
those  nations  with  the  least  resources  are  the  most 
unprepared for such challenges. 

It is our obligation to reverse the alarming rate of 
environmental destruction and depletion of our natural 
resources.  It  is  in  this  regard  that  I  wish  to  reiterate 
Africa’s  common  position  on  climate  change,  which, 
among  other  things,  urges  developed  countries  to  cut 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  by  40  per  cent.  This  is 
certainly not an ambitious goal. It is the least that we, 
the most vulnerable, deserve. 

We  believe  that  in  addition  to  the  necessity  of 
investing 
the 
world’s  developed  countries  must  take  a  leadership 
role,  providing  adequate  and  predictable  financial  and 
technical support for less developed countries to foster 
effective adaptation as well as mitigation measures. We 
share  the  Secretary-General’s  vision  that  the  Climate 
Change  Summit  in  Copenhagen  represents  a  unique 
and  powerful  opportunity  at  a  critical  moment  in 
human  history  to  steer  humankind  towards  a  safer, 
more stable and more sustainable future. 

A  final  threat  critical  to  the  future  stability  of 
nations around the world is the increasing proliferation 
of  small  arms  and  light  weapons,  which,  as  former 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  recently  emphasized, 
are tantamount to weapons of mass destruction in slow 
motion,  capable  of  destabilizing  countries  and  entire 
regions.  Given  that  many  African  countries  routinely 
face political instability and violent threats, we need to 
the  national,  regional  and  subregional 
strengthen 
conflict-resolution  mechanisms 
it 
becomes possible for Africa to control small weapons. 
Peace  and  development  can  be  achieved  in Africa,  in 
part,  by  exploration  of 
the  peace  and  security 
architecture  evolving  within  the  African  Union,  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States,  the 
in  clean  development  mechanisms, 
through  which 
is 
rooted 
in 
the 
09-52320 

19 
A/64/PV.5
efforts 
of 
spearheaded 
by 
among  members 
Southern  African  Development  Community  and  the 
Peacebuilding Commission. 

Against  this  background,  I  wish  to  reiterate  that 
collaborative 
the 
international  community  are  crucial  to  addressing  our 
global problems, and that international support remains 
critical  for  the  consolidation  of  hard-won  gains  by 
nations  emerging  from  war.  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
United  Nations  and  our  development  partners  will 
continue  to  be  our  steadfast  allies  in  our  ongoing 
struggle  for  economic  progress  and  development.  In 
this regard, I  urge that we continue to forge  enhanced 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African  Union,  as  well  as  subregional  organizations, 
cooperation  that  goes  beyond  rhetoric  and  translates 
into concrete efforts. 

As  I  intimated  before  the Assembly  at  the  sixty-
third  session,  we  have  come  a  long  way,  thanks  to 
multilateral  and  bilateral  efforts  in  favour  of  our 
survival  as  a  nation.  The  ongoing  peacebuilding 
efforts, 
the  United  Nations 
Peacebuilding Commission, continue to strengthen the 
peace-consolidation  process  in  the  country.  I  am 
pleased  to  announce  that,  in  return  and  in  a  spirit  of 
reciprocity,  Sierra  Leone  has  joined  the  ranks  of  the 
troop-contributing 
countries  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations. 

is 
international 
cooperation and for responding to global crises. In the 
bid 
effective  multilateralism,  my 
Government  has  continued  to  urge  the  international 
community 
reforms  aimed  at 
strengthening  our 
intergovernmental  organizations, 
including  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  with  a  view 
to  making 
transparent  and 
democratic in their decision-making processes.  

An  effective,  legitimate  and  democratic  United 
Nations  cannot  be  achieved  without  a  true  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  The  ongoing  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the question of equitable representation 
on,  and  increase  in  the  membership  of,  the  Security 
Council and other matters relating to the Council have 
progressed  through  three  informal  plenary  rounds  at 
the last session of the General Assembly. We in Africa 
have consistently demanded that the historical injustice 
in  our  underrepresentation  and 
that 
non-representation 
and 
permanent  categories  of  the  Council  be  addressed 
to  effect  various 
them  more 
inclusive, 
Multilateralism 
non-permanent 
to  promote 
vital 
for 
that 
the  outcome  of 
A/64/PV.5 

without  any  further  delay.  It  is  in  this  respect  that  we 
have  continued  to  negotiate  in  good  faith  and  mutual 
trust.  I  am  hopeful 
these 
negotiations  will  lead  to  a  meaningful  reform  of  this, 
the  principal  decision-making  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  We 
in  Africa  stand  ready,  willing  and 
prepared, as always, to resume negotiations during this 
session. 

Let us promote multilateralism and strengthen our 
collaborative efforts to contain the rising threats to our 
planet. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Sierra Leone for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 





into 
  Address by Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, 
President of the Republic of Panama 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Panama. 

  Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, President of the 
Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ricardo  Martinelli 
Berrocal, President of the Republic of Panama, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
in 

Spanish):  The  people  of  Panama  welcome  the  very 
sound  decision  to  elect  Mr.  Ali  Treki  to  serve  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  current 
session.  We  are  sure  that  he  possesses  the  vision  and 
the  leadership  to  guide  the  nations  represented  here 
today. 

I should also like to thank the Secretary-General 
for  his  tireless  pursuit  of  dialogue  in  the  interests  of 
peace, security and the peaceful coexistence of peoples 
and brothers. 

Yesterday  saw  the  conclusion  of  the  Summit  on 
Climate  Change.  I  congratulate  all  nations  for  their 
collaborative efforts in confronting the global-warming 
President  Martinelli  Berrocal
(spoke
crisis.  The  beauty,  resources  and  biodiversity  of  our 
shared heritage are in peril. 

Global warming is the most serious symptom of a 
crisis  caused  by 
the  excessive  exploitation  of 
resources.  We  must  apply  new  formulas,  change  our 
behaviour  and  learn  to  value  our  relationship  with 
nature.  Our  options  are  clear:  we  can  talk  or  we  can 
act.  If  we  do  not  act  with  global  responsibility,  the 
consequences will be irreversible.  

Three  million  years  ago,  the  Isthmus  of  Panama 
emerged  from  the  sea.  We  are  one  of  the  youngest 
countries  on  Earth.  As  a  result  of  our  birth,  a  land 
bridge  was  formed  between  North  and  South America 
and  constituted  the  narrowest  stretch  of  land  between 
the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  Oceans.  Panama  parted  the 
seas  to  unite  continents,  and  generated  a  new  global 
network of ocean currents that transformed the climate 
of  the  entire  planet.  The  whole  world  changed  when 
Panama came into being. 

Today,  all  forms  of  life  upon  this  planet  are  the 
result  of  an  evolutionary  process  that  adapted  to  our 
birth.  The  great  African  savannahs  and  deserts  came 
forth  from  these  changes,  and  modern  man  evolved 
from those new savannahs. 

Panamanians  have  always  played  an  important 
role  for  our  neighbours  and  for  the  world  at  large.  In 
the  next  five  years,  it  is  our  duty  to  demonstrate  how 
our economic and governmental model can serve as an 
example for all who aspire to prosperity and progress. 

I am an entrepreneur, not a politician. I went into 
politics to change how things are done. I am a simple 
and  direct  man.  I  believe  that  time  is  very  short  and 
very  valuable.  I  will  expand  upon  my  experiences  in 
the  private  sector  and  put  them  to  work  in  the  public 
sector. 

the  presidency  with  an 
unprecedented mandate. Panamanians gave me a  clear 
mandate  to  deliver  change  to  our  country  and  build  a 
better  Panama  for  all.  We  are  placing  the  interests  of 
the  people  first  and  foremost,  above  personal  or 
partisan interests, because a country is more important 
than a political party.  
I  have  selected  the  best  people  to  work  in  our 

Government  without 
their  political 
affiliations.  I  have  plans  for  the  nation.  We  want 
capitalism which is based on opportunities and rewards 
responsible  entrepreneurs  who  show  solidarity,  but 
I  was  elected 
regard 
to 
to 
20 

09-52320 
financial 
it  will  be 
the 
the  collapse  of 
framework.  The 


capitalism  which  also  strongly  demands  responsibility 
and  solidarity  from  any  old-fashioned  entrepreneurs 
who do not satisfy those two criteria.  
We formed this Government during a crisis. Less 

the 
than  a  year  ago,  we  saw 
international 
global 
economic  model  was  forever  changed.  Our  guiding 
light is the improvement of our peoples’ quality of life. 
That is why, during the first 100 days, we increased the 
salaries of all public officials and distributed $100 per 
month to senior citizens over the age of 70 who do not 
have a pension and require economic aid.  
We  will  be  building  a  modern  new  metro  in 

Panama,  and 
largest  employment 
programme  in  the  history  of  the  country  after  the 
expansion of the canal currently under way. 

We have launched a construction project for low-
cost  housing  which  will  not  only  provide  a  safe  roof 
over  the  heads  of  thousands  of  Panamanians,  but  will 
generate jobs at difficult times during a crisis.  

The promises we have made meet the demands of 
our  people.  But  beyond  that,  they  are  part  of  the  plan 
we need to boost our economy.  

America  is  a  recently  populated  continent,  and 
Panama  was  the  bridge  across  which  the  first  native 
Americans crossed to South America. They built great 
cultures and civilizations such as those of the Incas and 
the Chibchas. When the Spanish arrived, they made our 
country  into  the  commercial  hub  of  their  colonies. 
When  Panama  separated  from  Spain,  the  first  railroad 
in  the  world  between  the Atlantic  and  the  Pacific  was 
built,  and  that  in  turn  led  to  the  construction  of  our 
canal.  Today,  Panama  is  the  gatekeeper  of  the  global 
economy. 

We are a small country, with less than 3.5 million 
inhabitants,  and  services  represent  more  than  75 
per cent  of  our  gross  national  product.  The  United 
States dollar is our currency. We have a solid banking 
and  financial  centre  which  is  very  conservative  and 
strictly regulated. The Colón Free Zone is the largest in 
the  hemisphere, 
important 
commercial  maritime  route  in  the  world,  and  this 
makes  us  the  most  efficient  logistical  hub  in  the 
Americas.  

We shall soon begin the construction of a third set 
of  locks  to  expand  the  capacity  of  the  Panama  Canal, 
thanks 
to 
the  most 
09-52320 

A/64/PV.5
thereby opening an important gateway for international 
trade.  

Panama  is  an  ideal  place  to  invest,  to  establish 
enterprises  and  also  to  live.  We  will  be  transforming 
Panama  into  the  Hong  Kong  or  the  Dubai  of  the 
Americas.  Within  the  new  Panama-Pacific  Special 
Economic  Area,  labour  and  immigration  laws  are 
welcoming  and  flexible.  Throughout  our  national 
territory,  there  are  fantastic  incentives  for  investors. 
Our  spirit  of  service  and  open  door  policy  make 
Panama  an  enjoyable,  exciting  place  of 
true 
opportunities.  

And despite the crisis Panama is growing. Talent 
and  creativity,  social  assistance,  infrastructure  and 
investment  in  human  capital  will  allow  us  to  weather 
the storm.  

Panama was born to serve the world. Everyone is 
more  than  welcome  in  Panama.  We  are  open  for 
business. 

We  believe  in  free  trade  as  a  tool  to  improve 
people’s lives. We want to do business with all nations 
and  have  signed  free  trade  agreements  with  our 
strategic partners. We have already signed one with the 
United  States.  To  be  ratified,  it  just  needs  one  small 
“push”, and I believe that President Obama will deliver 
that push very shortly. 

In  Panama,  we  are  proud  of  our  history  and  our 
heritage,  our  freedom  of  expression  and  thought,  our 
freedom  to  determine  our  country’s  direction,  and  our 
tradition of peace.  

Peace  is  the  best  sentiment  that  any  country  or, 
indeed, the whole planet can have. Peace brings with it 
tranquillity,  stability  and  growth.  There  is  absolutely 
no reason why neighbouring peoples should offend one 
another,  because  no  one  wins  and  we  all  lose.  The 
children of Bolívar share the same history and the same 
challenges. We  have  the  same  blood  in  our  veins. We 
are  a  single  nation.  Here,  anyone  who  attacks,  attacks 
only himself. Anyone who  retaliates, retaliates against 
himself.  Anyone  who  bears  arms  does  so  against 
himself. Because here we are all siblings. 
Weapons  of  war  bring  poverty.  They  steal  the 

bread  from  our  mouths  and  the  future  from  our 
children. These  weapons  are  not  necessary,  and  at  the 
end  of  the  day  they  solve  nothing.  Let  us  sit  down 
together,  for  there  is  nothing  that  we  cannot  solve 
together.  There  is  nothing  like  peace.  And  peace  is 
21 
A/64/PV.5 

what all countries of the world should be pursuing until 
it is achieved. 

I would like to talk here about our sister country 
of Honduras, and the need for it to return to the rule of 
law,  which  is  necessary  for  its  well-being  and  that  of 
Central America. That is why we are closely following 
the reconciliation in Honduras.  

The  San  José  accord  constitutes  the  best  method 
for  formulating  a  consensus  Government  that  can 
oversee  new  elections  and guarantee  a  peaceful return 
to  democracy.  Let  us  allow  the  Honduran  people  to 
solve  their  destiny  and  future  with  one  another.  We 
Panamanians  have  the  utmost  trust  in  the  Honduran 
society’s capacity for reconciliation. 
Nothing is stronger than words,  either spoken  or 

written,  and  through  dialogue  we  understand  one 
another, to paraphrase the  poet. Communication is the 
best conduit for cultures, education, ethnicities, history, 
religions and politics. In Panama, we are a melting pot 
of  races,  nationalities  and  ideologies  that,  through 
communication  and  mutual  respect,  has  created  a 
diverse society with common interests. That is part of 
our idiosyncrasy and is what makes us who we are.  

Tolerance  is  the  secret  to  the  coexistence  of 
peoples. Nuclear tests make us all nervous, and living 
in  a  state  of  alert  only  serves  to  increase  tensions 
between  nations  whose  relations  are  already  less  than 
stable.  That  is  why  we  live  in  constant  fear  and 
mistrust,  which  has  a  significant  impact  on  dialogue 
between us. 

In Panama, we respect the use of science as a tool 
for human development, but we reject its use as a front 
to  conceal  nuclear  proliferation  and  the  production  of 
weapons of mass destruction.  

A  challenge  to  global  peace  and  security  lies  in 
the  war  on  drug  trafficking,  money-laundering  and 
arms trafficking. Because it is a crossroads, Panama is 
used by organized crime for drugs and arms trafficking. 
But we are declaring our own war. We have become an 
active partner with Mexico and Colombia in the battle 
against narco-terrorists. Alongside President Uribe and 
President Calderón, we are committed to strengthening 
the ties of cooperation, so that Panama can be an active 
source of intelligence.  

The many efforts and improvements that Panama 
has  achieved  in  this  field  have  been  recognized  in 
reports  by  the  Financial Action Task  Force  on  Money 
22 

Laundering  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund. 
Panama  has  information  exchange  agreements  with 
39 countries  to  combat  money-laundering  and  the 
financing of illicit activities. 

Drugs are not good business. Those who dedicate 
themselves to them are destined to jail or the cemetery. 
They have no future. 
Mr. Nasheed (Maldives), Vice-President, took the 

Chair. 


Everyone knows Panama as a banking centre, as a 
place to do business, and because of our canal. But in 
fact,  we  are  nature’s  best-kept  secret  in  the  world. 
Tourism  is  our  new  passion.  Panama  City  has  the 
highest concentration of migratory birds on the planet. 
We are the hub for America’s flying species. The Gulf 
of Chiriquí has the greatest biodiversity of any spot in 
the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean. Forty percent of our 
national  territory  is  protected.  This  includes  over 
1.5 million  hectares  of  uninterrupted  forests  between 
Chagres and Darién. 

Our national parks have been declared biosphere 
reserves  and  world  heritage  sites,  as  has  the  island  of 
Coiba, a natural jewel where they are still discovering 
new  species  and  where  whales  from  the  Arctic  and 
Antarctic meet to give birth to their calves. 

Over  1,000  islands  and  coral  reefs  beautify  our 
seas,  and  we  are  framed  by  over  2,500  kilometres  of 
coastline,  many  of  them  as  pristine  and  untouched  as 
when  Christopher  Columbus  first  arrived 
the 
Americas. 

But the very best resource we have is our people. 
We  are  a  multiethnic  and  friendly  people.  Our 
indigenous peoples of the comarcas are an example of 
resistance  to  mistreatment  at  the  hands  of  nature  and 
cultural assimilation.   

All  the  countries  represented  in  this  Hall  have 
their  own  wonders  that  the  entire  world  admires.  We 
must  unite 
to  protect  and  conserve  our  beauty, 
resources,  biodiversity,  world  heritage  and,  first  and 
foremost, our peoples. 

I  am  an  eternal  optimist.  I  see  my  country, 
Panama, providing more jobs for its men and women. I 
see  a  middle  class  that  keeps  growing  and  earning 
more. I see new technologies spawning unprecedented 
economic  growth.  I  see  the  first  country  in  the  world 
with free internet access for all its citizens. 
in 
09-52320 
In  the  five  years  ahead  of  us,  we  are  going  to 



I  see  Panama  with  better  health  care,  better 
education, better transportation, and with families that 
are happier and more unified. We Panamanians can do 
anything we dream of. And if each and every one of us 
achieves our dreams, we will have a better world. 

dream big. Our best days are yet to come. 

If I had to describe Panama in just a few words, I 
would  say  we  are  a  country  and  a  people  full  of 
surprises.  Panama  will  amaze  you,  and  Panama  will 
amaze the world. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Panama for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, President of the 
Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
  Address by Mr. Hans-Rudolf Merz, President of 
the Swiss Confederation 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
the  Swiss 
the  President  of 



  Mr.  Hans-Rudolf  Merz,  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hans-Rudolf  Merz, 
President of the Swiss Confederation, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President Merz (spoke in French): We look back 

on  a  year  that  has  been  exceptional  in  so  many 
respects.  Twelve  months  ago,  a  bank  only  a  few 
hundred metres away from here collapsed and brought 
the global financial system to the verge of breakdown. 
The  ensuing  turbulence  in  the  finance  sector  led  to  a 
severe global economic downturn. 

This  illustrates  the  interconnectedness  of  our 
world. It reminds us that other issues, such as climate 
change, 
food  crisis,  migration,  pandemics, 
terrorism  and  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  are  not  confined  by  national  borders. 
Rising  to  these  global  challenges  requires  determined 
and  coordinated  action  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international 
levels.  International  cooperation  has 
the 


hear  an  address  by 
Confederation. 

A/64/PV.5
become  vital.  The  United  Nations  is  the  place  where 
this  cooperation  happens.  Today,  the  world  needs  the 
United Nations more than ever. 

The  United  Nations  should  continue  along  its 
path  of  reform  in  order  to  reinforce  its  legitimacy. At 
the same time,  exchanges between the  United  Nations 
and  other  forums  such  as  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  — 
which  is  meeting  today  —  must  be  strengthened. The 
G-20  has  taken  over  a  role  in  discussing  important 
global issues. This development must not take place at 
the expense of other nations or global institutions such 
as  the  United  Nations.  The  G-20  lacks  legitimacy; 
basic  considerations  of  due  process  are  absent  in  the 
sanctions  procedures.  The  members  of 
the  G-20 
themselves  are  not  subject  to  the  same  scrutiny. 
Switzerland advocates a level playing field. 

The financial and economic crisis continues to be 
of concern to all of us. Governments and central banks 
have put together vast stabilization packages. However, 
quantity  is  not  everything.  What  counts  is  quality. 
Economic  activity  must  revert  to  fundamental  values 
and  virtues.  It  must  focus  on  economic,  social  and 
environmental sustainability. Through institutions such 
as  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Bank 
and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP), the United Nations has the knowledge and the 
instruments  needed 
the  financial  and 
economic  crisis.  It  is  important  to  ensure  that  the 
voices  of  these  institutions  too  be  heard  within  the 
G-20. 

The  present  crisis  has  occasionally  been  used  in 
some quarters as an opportunity to question the market 
economy  and,  indeed,  globalization.  I  do  not  dispute 
that reform is necessary. The failures and abuses have 
been  too  big  to  ignore.  Nevertheless,  we  must  remind 
ourselves  that  it  is  also  thanks  to  a  liberal  economic 
order  and  open  markets  that  much  of  the  world’s 
population  has  been  lifted  out  of  poverty.  Here,  we 
share the concerns of those who believe that the current 
growing  trend  towards  protectionism  will  lead  us 
straight 
therefore 
welcomes  the  call  made  at  the  United  Nations  World 
Conference  on  the  Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  for 
the swift conclusion of the Doha Round. 

People in the developing countries have been hit 
particularly hard by the financial and  economic crisis. 
There  is  a  significant  risk  that  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals will be delayed. As for 
towards  disaster.  My  country 
to  combat 
09-52320 

23 
to 
improve 
this  partnership  and 
A/64/PV.5 

Switzerland, we have pledged to maintain our level of 
development  aid  despite  stringent  budget  constraints. 
Developing  and  developed  countries  are 
jointly 
responsible for achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals.  Next  year,  the  United  Nations  conference 
marking  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration  will  provide  us  with  the  opportunity  to 
reinvigorate 
the 
effectiveness of development aid. 

Sustainable  development  must  also  be  our 
guiding  principle  in  the  fight  against  climate  change. 
This  is  why  the  climate  conference  in  Copenhagen 
must be a success. Switzerland wants and is able to set 
a  good  example.  We  will  achieve  our  CO2  reduction 
targets  for  2012.  For  the  period  until  2020,  we  are 
prepared to cut our CO2 emissions by 20 per cent. At 
the  global  level,  the  costs  of  adaptation  to  climate 
change  will  amount  to  several  tens  of  billions  of 
dollars per year of which more than half will be at the 
expense  of  developing  countries.  Switzerland  has 
therefore  proposed  the  creation  of  a  global  carbon  tax 
which is based on the polluter-pays principle, in order 
to deal with these emerging needs. 

Violent  conflicts  continue  to  plague  the  planet, 
rendering  a  life  in  dignity,  peace  and  security  elusive 
for  too  many  people.  The  unique  legitimacy  of  the 
United  Nations  allows  it  to  play  an  active  role  in 
conflict  prevention,  mediation, 
the  protection  of 
civilians, peacekeeping and peacebuilding. My country 
welcomes  the  greater  involvement  of  the  United 
Nations  in  these  areas  and  especially  advocates  the 
strengthening  of  United  Nations  prevention  and 
mediation  capacities.  Switzerland  is  also  active  in  the 
area  of  peacebuilding. 
the 
chairmanship  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
country-specific  configuration  on  Burundi  and  will 
continue 
initiative  on  armed  violence  and 
its 
development. 

This year we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of 
the  Geneva  Conventions.  Since  their  creation,  the 
Geneva  Conventions  have  set  indispensable  rules  for 
situations  of  armed  conflict.  New  forms  of  armed 
conflict and new means and methods of warfare make 
it  increasingly  difficult  to  ensure  respect  for  these 
rules.  It  is  unacceptable  that  civilian  populations 
should  be  so  often  the  target  of  deliberate  attacks  and 
that  humanitarian  aid  personnel  should  be  so  often 
denied  rapid  and  unimpeded  access  to  populations  in 
need.  
taken  over 
It  has 

In  an  effort  to  identify  ways  of  improving 
compliance with the Geneva Conventions, Switzerland 
is organizing a ministerial side event on Saturday here 
in  New  York. 
In  November  we  will  hold  an 
international conference of experts in Geneva, open to 
all  State  parties  to  the  Geneva  Conventions.  The 
conference  will  focus  on  the  current  and  future 
challenges faced by international humanitarian law. 

Human  dignity  is  an  inalienable  right  of  all 
human  beings,  regardless  of  their  gender,  origin  or 
religion.  The  Human  Rights  Council  is  the  principal 
forum  for  discussing  human  rights  within  the  United 
Nations.  Both  its  special  procedures  and  its  universal 
periodic  review  process  have  demonstrated 
their 
effectiveness.  This  said,  a  great  many  challenges 
remain.  Switzerland  will  continue  to  work  vigorously 
for an effective Human Rights Council and will present 
its candidacy for a second term starting in 2010.  

The  protection  of  human  rights,  along  with  the 
promotion  of  democracy  and  the  strengthening  of  the 
rule  of  law  will  also  be  priorities  of  the  Swiss 
presidency  of  the  Council  of  Europe  from  November 
2009 to May 2010. Under the Swiss presidency, efforts 
will  be  made  to  increase  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and the Council of Europe. 

2010 will thus be a symbolic year for the United 
Nations. Five years will have passed since the adoption 
of the 2005 World Summit Outcome Document and ten 
years since the signing of the Millennium Declaration. 
Next year’s summit will be an opportunity to assess the 
status  of  implementation  of  these  declarations  and  to 
initiate  new,  more  comprehensive  reforms.  These  are 
necessary  steps  because  only  a  reformed  United 
Nations  will  be  in  a  position  to  find  appropriate 
responses to the global challenges.  

In  this  context,  it  is  my  great  pleasure  to 
announce  to  Member  States  that  Switzerland  has  put 
forward  the  candidature  of  Joseph  Deiss,  former 
President  of 
the 
presidency  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

I will conclude with the following: the challenges 
to  be  met  are  huge,  however  we  must  not  yield  to 
pessimism.  Throughout  history,  human  beings  have 
demonstrated 
that  with  courage, 
imagination  and  persistence  they  are  capable  of  great 
achievements. The Swiss writer Max Frisch once said: 
“A crisis can be a productive state. You just have to get 
the  Swiss  Confederation, 
time  and  again 
for 
24 

09-52320 



Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 



rid of the aftertaste of disaster.” I absolutely agree. So 
let us be productive and seize the opportunity to create 
a prosperous, just, peaceful and sustainable world. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Hans-Rudolf  Merz,  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 


  Address by Mr. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, 
President of the Government of the Kingdom of 
Spain 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the President of the Government of 
the Kingdom of Spain. 

  Mr.  José  Luis  Rodríguez  Zapatero,  President  of 
the  Government  of  the  Kingdom  of  Spain,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Luis  Rodríguez 
Zapatero, President of the Government of the Kingdom 
of Spain, and inviting him to address the Assembly. 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Zapatero  (Spain)  (spoke 
in 

Spanish): A  little  more  than  a  year  ago,  we  witnessed 
with great concern the  collapse of some of the largest 
financial 
the  world’s  wealthiest 
countries.  That  financial  fissure  precipitated  a  global 
economic  crisis  which,  despite  the  emerging  signs  of 
recovery, all of us continue to experience. We faced the 
stark  reality  that  we  lacked  the  necessary  guidelines 
and  rules  to  prevent  what  was  occurring  in  the  global 
financial  system,  even  though  it  already  was  a  global 
in 
system.  Now, 
Washington  and  London,  where  we 
the 
foundations  to  resolve  the  problems,  it  is  up  to  the 
Pittsburgh conference to finish the work.  

Despite  what  has  been  said,  this  is  not  the  first 
globalization  crisis.  Instead,  it  is  the  first  crisis  of 
global  governance,  that  is  to  say,  a  crisis  of  an 
insufficiently  governed  globalization.  We  have  an 
obligation to learn from this experience — certainly to 
learn  a  lesson  with  regard  to  the  financial  and 
economic  crisis,  but  also  about  the  other  global 
the  G-20  summits 
laid 
institutions  of 
following 
A/64/PV.5
to 
in 
responding 
the  conflicts  and 
interrelated.  We  cannot  aspire 
challenges  that  require  both  collective  determination 
and coordinated multilateral political efforts. For those 
challenges  are 
to 
economic and social development unless countries and 
peoples enjoy adequate peace and security. Conversely, 
it  will  not  be  possible  to  build  lasting  peace  and 
security unless there is sustainable development.  

That  same  willingness  to  take  responsibility  for 
both  problems  and  solutions,  which  has  re-emerged 
strongly in recent months, should ensure that we do not 
fail 
threats 
confronting world peace and security. That willingness 
should  also  ensure  that  we  do  not  fail  in  dealing  with 
extreme hunger and poverty; in effectively committing 
ourselves  to  combating  the  effects  of  climate  change; 
or  in  tackling  organized  crime,  terrorism  and  piracy. 
We therefore have a great opportunity before us.  

Here  at  the  general  debate,  one  year  after  the 
beginning  of  the  financial  crisis  that  nearly  engulfed 
the  well-being  of  developed  countries  and  dashed  the 
hopes  of  many  others,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that 
Spain is a country committed to multilateralism and the 
need  to  continue  to  develop  a  system  of  global 
governance  —  and  that  applies  to  every  one  of  the 
challenges  to  which  I  have  just  referred.  But  before 
turning  to  those  challenges,  I  should  like  to  begin  by 
saying  that  multilateralism  is  not  just  a  process  for 
taking  decisions  and 
the 
international  level.  It  is  indeed  that;  but  in  order  for 
multilateralism  to  be  effective  and  lasting,  it  must 
above all include two fundamental elements. 

First of all, multilateralism is intrinsically linked 
with  the  faithful  observance  of  democratic  values, 
human  rights  and  effective  equality  between  women 
and  men  throughout  the  world.  In  that  regard,  I  very 
much  welcome  the  last  resolution  adopted  by  the 
General Assembly  at  the  previous  session,  which  will 
make a single body responsible for all gender issues.  

Today,  however,  standing  firmly  for  democracy 
elicits  a  single  name:  Honduras.  Our  Latin  American 
brothers  in  that  country  have  in  recent  years  seen  the 
strengthening of both democracy and the prospects for 
the  future.  With 
the 
international  community,  they  have  now  decided  that 
they  are  going  to  overcome  the  challenge  before 
Honduras. We will not accept an anti-democratic coup. 
We  will  not  accept  it,  and  democracy  must  return  to 
Honduras. 
the  support  of  Spain  and 
resolving  conflicts  at 
09-52320 

25 
A/64/PV.5 


Secondly,  but  no  less  important,  multilateralism 
requires,  if  not  a  culture,  an  atmosphere  of  dialogue, 
respect and acceptance between countries, regions and, 
more broadly, civilizations. Five years ago, I addressed 
the General Assembly for the first time to propose the 
establishment of an alliance of civilizations focused on 
promoting  understanding  and  cooperation  between 
countries  and  peoples  of  different  cultures  and 
religions, as well as on countering the forces that breed 
extremism and endanger peace.  

We  cannot  be  satisfied  solely  at  the  fact  that  the 
group  of  friends  for  that  initiative  has  since  grown  to 
over  100  members,  or  that  there  are  now  associated 
networks  of  individuals  and  representatives  of  civil 
society  organizations  who  are  ensuring  the  continued 
existence of the project, or that the third forum of the 
Alliance will be held next year in Rio de Janeiro. Nor 
can we be satisfied at the fact that those developments 
clearly  illustrate  the  universality  of  the  principles 
underpinning the initiative. Respect for the diversity of 
civilizations,  cultures  and  traditions  are  crucial  to  the 
effectiveness  and  sustainability  of  the  multilateralism 
that we wish to see strengthened on the basis of human 
rights  and  the  universal  values  that  we  share  as 
responsible members of the international community. 

When  I  launched  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
initiative from this very rostrum five years ago, it was 
at  a  less  favourable  time  than  the  present.  Yesterday, 
having heard statements by the President of the United 
States  of  America  and  other  international  leaders,  I 
thought to myself that this effort has been worthwhile. 
Today the Alliance is able to deploy its full potential in 
order  to  promote  the  effective  multilateralism  we 
desire.  We  are  now  able  to  build.  The  initiative  was 
worth it and — if I may put it this way — it was also 
right  that  the  United  Nations  made  it  its  own  through 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  his  predecessor, 
Kofi Annan.  

Spain  is  therefore  pleased  that  the  President  of 
the  General Assembly  has  proposed  that  the  debate  at 
this  new  session  focus  on  “Effective  responses  to 
global  crises: 
strengthening  multilateralism  and 
dialogue  among  civilizations  for  international  peace, 
security  and  development”.  We  must  now  take  a  new 
step.  

The Alliance of Civilizations, which sets out and 
promotes  those  values  throughout  the  entire  United 
Nations, should be a structural component of the main 
in 
should 
bodies  and  all  other  entities  of  the  Organization.  The 
time  has  come  for  the  General  Assembly  to  adopt  a 
resolution  conferring  that  structural  character  on  the 
Alliance of Civilizations through a constitutive charter. 
Spain  will  work  with  Turkey  and 
the  wider 
membership of the Alliance’s group of friends in order 
that such a resolution can be adopted by the end of this 
fall.  I  am  convinced  that  it  will  make  a  very  positive 
contribution to the work of such bodies as the Human 
Rights Council, the Economic and Social Council and 
even 
the  Security  Council.  The  dialogue  among 
civilizations should be the mother tongue of the United 
Nations. 
The  new  multilateralism  has  been  essential  for 

taking  significant  steps  forward 
the  area  of 
disarmament  and  arms  control,  such  as  prohibiting 
anti-personnel landmines and cluster bombs.  

Now,  the  world  has  the  opportunity  to  take  a 
great  step:  abolishing  nuclear  weapons.  President 
Obama has had the courage to put that on the table, and 
the  United  States  and  Russia  —  a  country  that  is  and 
will  remain  key  to  Euro-Atlantic  security  —  are 
negotiating the largest cuts ever made to these arsenals. 
We encourage them. We are hopeful about the initiative 
to  convene  a  special  summit  of  the  Security  Council 
devoted to the fight against nuclear proliferation.  

Spain,  a  nation  that  renounced  the  development 
and  possession  of  nuclear  weapons,  fully  shares  that 
objective  and  will  support  it  with  every  means  at  our 
disposal.  We 
to 
strengthen  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), whose Review Conference in 
May 2010 will coincide with Spain’s presidency of the 
European Union. I pledge to do everything possible, as 
far as Spain and the European Union are concerned, to 
ensure  that  this  important  conference  has  concrete 
results that will enable us to advance the perspective of 
a world free from nuclear weapons.  

Let  us  continue  to  act  with  determination  and 
without discouragement to build and consolidate peace 
in  all  areas  and  regions.  My  country  is  proud  to  have 
been  contributing  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions  for  20  years.  Over  those  20  years,  we  have 
taken  part  in  22  missions  comprising  a  total  of  more 
than 100,000 troops.  

in  Afghanistan. 
international  community  will  be  able 
Currently, we share the concern over the situation 
the 
to  find  a 
immediately  undertake 
I  am  sure,  however, 
that 
26 

09-52320 
time  and  again  as 
leaders  of 


solution — a solution that is not and cannot be purely 
military. The shared conviction as to the strategic value 
of  the  region  and  the  internal  solidarity  among  the 
countries present there is stronger than ever and will be 
decisive in the face of the difficulties before us.  

I  also  wish  to  reiterate  the  need  to  persevere  in 
seeking formulas for peace in the Middle East because 
of  that  conflict’s  potential  to  spread  and  affect  other 
regional  conflicts  such  as  those  just  mentioned.  The 
world  has  an  unresolved  task:  peace  in  the  Middle 
East, with two secure States — the State of Israel, but 
also  the  State  of  Palestine,  which  the  international 
community  must  consider  and  recognize  within  a 
reasonable period of time. Peace in the Middle East has 
been and continues to be the first strategic priority for 
the international community.  

According  to  the  most  recent  estimates,  more 
than  1  billion  people  throughout  the  world  —  nearly 
one  sixth  of  its  total  population  —  suffer  hunger.  We 
must say this as often as possible: figures such as that, 
reflecting  unfathomable  human  suffering,  assault  our 
consciences 
the 
international  community  and  as  citizens.  It  is  unjust 
and  unacceptable  to  proceed  further  into  the  twenty-
first  century,  as  we  are  doing,  with  such  a  radical 
imbalance  in  the  living  conditions  of  humanity.  It  is 
unjust,  unacceptable  and  also  unsafe  —  a  permanent 
source  of  instability.  It  is  not  possible  to  aspire  to  a 
secure  world  if  the  current  levels  of  inequality  and 
poverty persist.  

That  is  why  our  commitment  to  international 
peace  and  security  must  go  hand  in  hand  with  a 
renewed  effort 
to  eradicate  poverty,  using  our 
leadership responsibly and with solidarity and avoiding 
the  temptation,  in  times  of  economic  crisis,  to  lessen 
our  commitment  to  the  world’s  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable.  

The achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals  must  be  a  central  aspect  of  the  international 
agenda. Five years before 2015, the Goals can still be 
achieved,  with  sustained  collective  effort. At  the  next 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  must  reach 
specific 
their 
achievement.   

I  wish  to  strengthen  the  appeal  for  that  urgent 
joint  effort  by  citing  the  commitment  of  my  country 
and  its  citizens.  I  refer  in  particular  to  Africa.  The 
twenty-first  century  should  belong  to  a  continent  that 
that  will  guarantee 
agreements 
A/64/PV.5
Over 
has  been  dispossessed  for  too  long  in  the  history  of 
humanity: the African continent. Spain has become the 
seventh-largest  international  donor  and  the  eighth-
largest United Nations contributor, and we have made a 
clear commitment in the area of food security. 

the  past  few  years,  we  have  raised 
humanity’s  awareness  about  the  seriousness  of  the 
effects  of  climate  change.  There  is  now  sufficient 
awareness  about  the  need  to  combat  climate  change 
and also about the opportunities it provides us to create 
a new model of economic development — sustainable 
development.  

With  climate  change,  the  time  for  awareness-
raising  is  over  and  the  time  for  commitments  has 
arrived. We do not need any more words; it is time for 
action.  We  must  take  everyone’s  circumstances  into 
account, but, if we are to make collective progress, we 
must not delay. Although we have been able to see the 
effects  of  the  economic  crisis,  we  still  find  it  difficult 
to  react  to  the  effects  of  a  phenomenon  much  more 
devastating  for  entire  future  generations.  That  is 
paradoxical  and  incomprehensible  —  even  more  so 
when  we  consider  that  to  emerge  from  the  economic 
crisis means ensuring the only kind of growth possible: 
sustainable growth.  

We have 75 days before the Copenhagen summit 
begins.  They  can  be  75  days  for  the  future  or  for 
failure,  75  days  for  responsibility  or  for  impotence, 
75 days  for  agreement  or  for  the  useless  defence  of 
selfish interests. Copenhagen should give two answers 
to  the  world,  regarding  what  and  when:  an  ambitious 
reduction  of  emissions  —  the  what  —  and  a  horizon 
that is near and defined — the when. 

In  order  to  attain  those  objectives,  we  also  need 
to  think  about  how.  We  know  that  technological 
research,  innovation  and  development  in  the  area  of 
energy assist  in the  fight  against  climate change. That 
is  why  Spain  has  proposed  that  every  State  should 
devote  at  least  0.7  per  cent  of  its  gross  domestic 
product to research, development and innovation in the 
area  of  technology  and  energy.  That  is  a  reference 
figure  that,  as  in  the  area  of  development  cooperation 
policy, will help us determine a commitment before the 
international  community.  My  country  also  proposes  to 
promote,  when  we  assume 
the  European  Union 
presidency in the first half of 2010, the agreements that 
we must all adopt at Copenhagen.  
09-52320 

27 
and 
above 
all, 
such 
responsible  — 
favourable  circumstances 
A/64/PV.5 


Finally,  only  one  year  ago  we  were  struck  by  a 
financial  crisis  that  shook  every  corner  of  the  world. 
Since  then,  all  of  us  have  suffered  the  effects  of  that 
crisis,  but  we  have  also  become  aware  of  the  need  to 
move  ahead  in  building  global  governance  and  have 
taken  resolute  steps  in  that  direction.  Let  us  continue 
on  that  path,  not  just  to  continue  fighting  against  the 
crisis and for employment, but to overcome it together 
and successfully address the other global challenges.  

Let  us  use  this  time  for  clarity;  let  us  take  this 
opportunity.  Let  us  build  a  multilateralism  that  is 
effective 
a 
multilateralism  of  solidarity.  Since  1945,  there  have 
never  been 
for 
translating  the  desires  of  the  founders  of  the  United 
Nations  into  the  reality  of  the  international  order. 
Those 
succeeding 
generations.  And  we  are  the  first  generation  that  has 
within  its  reach  the  ability  to  fulfil  the  old  and 
beautiful dream of a world governed by all. Let us do 
so.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain for the statement 
he has just made. 

  Mr.  José  Luis  Rodríguez  Zapatero,  President  of 
the  Government  of  the  Kingdom  of  Spain,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
  Address by Mr. Yukio Hatoyama, Prime 
Minister of Japan 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of Japan.
desires  were 
intended 
for 




Mr.  Yukio  Hatoyama,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan, 
was escorted to the rostrum.


The  Acting  President: I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Yukio Hatoyama, Prime 
Minister  of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 

Mr.  Hatoyama  (Japan):  I  should  like  to  extend 
my heartfelt congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki  on  his  assuming  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I 
to  His 
should  also 
to  express  my  respect 
Excellency  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann 
for  his 
excellent  leadership  at  the  previous  session.  I  also 
like 
highly  commend  the  dedication  and  leadership  of  His 
Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in tackling 
the  various  challenging  issues  that  the  United  Nations 
faces at the present time. 

It  was  120  years  ago,  in  1889,  that  an  electoral 
system, while limited, was initiated in Japan. From that 
time  forward,  the  change  of  governments  through 
elections  has  been  a  matter  of  course  in  Japan.  Japan 
also  enjoyed  a  period  in  the  early  twentieth  century 
known as the Taisho democracy. 
Japan  is  thus  a  nation  with  a  solid  heritage  of 

democracy and elections. Since the Second World War, 
however, Japan has not experienced changes of power 
through  the  ballot  box.  Tensions  between  politicians 
and  bureaucrats  disappeared.  It  cannot  be  denied  that 
as  a  result,  Japan’s  foreign  policy  has  been  somewhat 
deprived of vitality. 

However,  on  30  August  this  year,  the  Japanese 
people  finally  chose,  through  a  general  election,  to 
have  a  change  of  power.  This  is  a  triumph  for 
democracy  in  Japan  and  a  victory  for  the  Japanese 
people.  

Last week, on 16 September, I assumed the office 
of Prime Minister of Japan, and thus I stand before you 
today. My new Administration embodies the dynamism 
of democracy and will exert all efforts to address both 
domestic affairs and foreign policy challenges through 
our all-Japan agenda. 

Japan’s  membership  in  the  United  Nations  was 
approved on 18 December 1956. The Prime Minister at 
the time was Ichiro Hatoyama, my grandfather. At the 
eleventh session of the General Assembly, where Japan 
made 
then-Foreign  Minister 
Mamoru Shigemitsu stated: 


Japan’s  political, 
economic  and  cultural  life  is  the  product  of  the 
fusion within the last century of the civilizations 
of  the  Orient  and  the  Occident.  In  a  way,  Japan 
may  well  be  regarded  as  a  bridge  between  the 
East  and  the  West.  It  is  fully  conscious  of  the 
great 
such  a  position.” 
(A/PV.623, para. 80) 

My  grandfather  Ichiro,  Prime  Minister  at  that 
time,  was  an  advocate  of  the  concept  of  “yu-ai”,  or 
fraternity.  This  “yu-ai”  is  a  way  of  thinking  that 
respects  one’s  own  freedom  and  individual  dignity 
while  also  respecting  the  freedom  and  individual 
its  maiden  speech, 
responsibilities  of 
substance  of 
“The 
28 

09-52320 
the  bridge 
the  concept  of 


dignity  of  others.  There  is  a  remarkable  resonance 
between 
in  Mamoru 
Shigemitsu’s  address  and  Ichiro’s  concept  of  “yu-ai”, 
or fraternity.  

Now,  53  years  later,  here  before  the  very  same 
General  Assembly,  I  declare  with  firm  determination 
that Japan will again  play  the role of  a  bridge. Today, 
the  world  faces  numerous  arduous  challenges.  This  is 
not an easy era by any means, but the new Japan will 
not  turn  its  back  on  such  challenges.  Based  upon  the 
spirit of “yu-ai”, or fraternity, Japan will make utmost 
efforts  to  become  a  bridge  for  the  world,  between  the 
Orient  and  the  Occident,  between  developed  and 
developing countries and between diverse civilizations.  

Today,  I  should  like  to  address  the  Assembly 
regarding five challenges that Japan intends to take on 
in serving as this bridge. 

The  first  is  seeking  measures  to  respond  to  the 
global  economic  crisis.  While  the  global  economy 
appears  to  have  emerged  from  the  worst  stage  of  the 
crisis, it is still difficult to predict its future prospects, 
including  the  issue  of  employment.  What  Japan  must 
do  in  this  area  is,  first  of  all,  to  revive  its  own 
economy. The new Japan has a plan for achieving this. 
Child allowances totalling 5.5 trillion yen per year will 
serve not only as an investment in education but also as 
a means of stimulating consumption and addressing the 
low birth rate in Japan. 

The  abolishment  of  provisional  rates  on  auto-
related  taxes  will  provide  tax  relief  amounting  to 
2.5 trillion  yen  per  year  and  at  the  same  time  is 
expected  to  enhance  the  cost  competitiveness  of 
Japanese  industries  through  the  revitalization  of  the 
distribution infrastructure. 

On a topic I will return to later, we are setting a 
very  ambitious  target  to  tackle  climate  change,  which 
should result in the creation of new markets, including 
for electric vehicles, solar power generation and clean 
energy  businesses.  Furthermore,  we  will  ensure  stable 
potential  for  growth  through  the  creation  of  new 
industries  and  new  technologies  in  maritime,  space, 
next-generation 
technology  and  other 
fields. 

By  reviewing  economic  policies  through  this 
change of power, Japan is sending a clear signal of the 
forthcoming revival of its economy.  
information 
A/64/PV.5
in 
short-term 
The  new  Japan  will  also  need 
to  respond 

appropriately 
to  globalization.  The  deepening  of 
worldwide  interdependence  described  by  the  term 
“globalization”  includes  aspects  of  both  light  and 
shadow.  Expanding  the  light  while  controlling  the 
shadow has become a task on a global scale for today’s 
world.  As  we  advance  the  liberalization  of  trade  and 
investment,  international  coordination  is  necessary  to 
forge  systems  to  rein  in  the  issues  of  poverty  and 
economic disparity — which are difficult to coordinate 
by simply leaving them to market mechanisms — and 
excessive money-making games. Japan will play a role 
as  a  bridge  in  international  forums,  including  the 
Group of 20, towards the formulation of common rules 
to that end. 
The  second  challenge  is  to  address  the  climate 

change  issue.  As  is  apparent  from  the  increased 
incidence  of  extreme  weather  events,  rising  sea  levels 
and  other  phenomena,  climate  change  is  a  danger  that 
is  already  confronting  us.  Furthermore,  efforts  by  one 
country can produce only limited effects. However, due 
to  differences 
interests  between 
developed  and  developing  countries,  and  among 
developed  countries  as  well  as  among  developing 
countries,  the  path  towards  creating  a  post-2012 
framework  will  be  anything  but  smooth.  The  new 
Japanese  Government  has  set  a  very  ambitious  target 
for a greenhouse gas emissions reduction of 25 per cent 
by 2020, as compared to the 1990 level. 

It  has  also  made  it  clear  that  it  is  prepared  to 
provide  more  financial  and  technical  assistance  to 
developing  countries  than  in  the  past,  in  accordance 
with  the  progress  of  international  negotiations.  This 
international 
the 
formulation  of  a  fair  and  effective 
international 
framework  by  all  major  economies  and  agreement  on 
their  ambitious  targets.  Japan  has  announced  this 
ambitious pledge because it wishes to serve as a bridge 
among  countries  with  varied  interests  and  to  preserve 
the planet for future generations. I would like to appeal 
strongly  to  the  representatives  present  today  —  let  us 
work  together  to  ensure  the  success  of  the  upcoming 
Copenhagen meeting. 
that  of  nuclear 

disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  I  welcome  the 
progress  being  made  in  the  negotiations  on  nuclear 
weapons  reduction  between  the  United  States  and  the 
Russian  Federation.  I  also  commend 
the  United 
Kingdom  and  France  for  their  initiatives.  It  is  urgent 
is  premised  on 
commitment 
challenge 
The 
third 
is 
09-52320 

29 
In  April 
in  efforts 
this  year 
A/64/PV.5 

that  all  nuclear-weapon  States  take  concrete  measures 
on  nuclear  disarmament.  There  are  States  currently 
engaged 
to  develop  nuclear  weapons. 
Furthermore,  there  is  an  increasingly  greater  risk  that 
nuclear  materials  and  nuclear  technologies  will  be 
passed onto terrorists or even actually used. 

In  this  area  as  well,  Japan  has  the  potential  to 
become  a  promoter  of  nuclear  disarmament  and  to 
serve  as  a  bridge  between  States  possessing  nuclear 
weapons and those without them. Japan can speak with 
the  greatest  persuasiveness  in  urging  nuclear-weapon 
States  towards  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-nuclear-
weapon  States  to  avoid  the  temptation  to  acquire 
nuclear weapons. Japan can do so because it is the only 
country  which  has  ever  suffered  the  devastation  of 
atomic bombs and, as such, has never ceased to appeal 
for no more Hiroshimas and no more Nagasakis. Japan 
has  also  continued  to  maintain  its  three  non-nuclear 
principles,  despite  its  potential  capability  to  acquire 
nuclear weapons. 

in  Prague,  President 
Barack Obama  articulated  a  vision  of  a  world  without 
nuclear  weapons,  inspiring  people  throughout  the 
globe. I am one of those people. In order to ensure the 
success of the Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
to be held next year in May, we must take action now 
towards 
the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the  early 
commencement  of  negotiations  on  a  fissile  material 
cut-off treaty. 

Here, I must touch upon the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  Its  nuclear  tests  and  missile 
launches are a threat to the peace and stability not only 
of  the  region,  but  also  of  the  international  community 
as  a  whole,  and  cannot  be  condoned  under  any 
circumstances.  It  is  imperative  that  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  comply  fully  with  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  that  the 
international community implement these resolutions. 

Japan  will  continue  its  efforts  to  realize  the 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  through  the 
Six-Party  Talks.  Japan  seeks  to  normalize  relations 
with  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  in 
accordance  with  the  Pyongyang  Declaration  issued  by 
our 
the  comprehensive 
resolution of the outstanding issues of concern with the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  including  the 
two  countries, 
force  of 
through 
entry 
early 
into 
the 
in 
For 
the 
stability 
and 
serious 
situation 
the  abduction 
is  particularly 
in  partnership  with 
relations  between  our 
In  particular,  regarding 
abduction,  nuclear  and  missile  issues,  as  well  as  by 
sincerely moving beyond the unfortunate past. 

issue, 
constructive  actions  by 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  including  swiftly  commencing  a 
full investigation as agreed last year, will be an avenue 
towards  progress 
two 
countries.  If  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  takes  such  constructive  and  sincere  actions, 
Japan is ready to respond positively. 
The fourth challenge is posed by issues related to 

peacebuilding,  development  and  poverty.  Even  in  the 
twenty-first  century,  the  world  has  not  been  liberated 
from  the  problems  of  poverty,  infectious  diseases, 
health, education, water and sanitation, food and illegal 
drugs.  The 
in 
developing countries. 

I am also compelled to point out the unfortunate 
reality that fragile or failed States can become breeding 
grounds for terrorism. The global economic crisis that 
began last year has exacerbated the situation. The new 
Japan  should  also  become  a  bridge  in  this  area.  Japan 
will  work 
international  and 
non-governmental  organizations  and  strengthen  its 
assistance  to  developing  countries  in  terms  of  both 
quality and quantity. 

Mr.  Žbogar  (Slovenia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
Japan  intends  to  continue  and  strengthen  the 

Tokyo 
on  African 
Development process, and redouble its efforts towards 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
and the promotion of human security. 
of 

Afghanistan,  Japan  has  provided  assistance  in  a  broad 
range  of  fields,  such  as  strengthening  the  security 
sector,  including  through  assistance  for  police,  and 
developing  social 
infrastructure.  Japan  has  also 
extended  agricultural  assistance  and  capacity-building 
support,  including  vocational  training,  through  the 
Japan 
its  aid 
implementation agency. 

Japan will proactively support Afghanistan’s own 
efforts  to  ensure  its  stability  and  reconstruction,  in 
conjunction  with  the  international  community.  It  goes 
without  saying  that  the  primary  actors  in  achieving 
in  advancing  national 
peace 
International  Cooperation  Agency, 
in  Afghanistan  and 
reconstruction 
International 
Conference 
30 

09-52320 
to 
are 
have 
people  who 
the  people  of  Afghanistan 


reconstruction 
themselves. 

As  progress  is  made,  the  reconciliation  and 
reintegration  of insurgents will become  critical issues. 
Japan  will  make  vital  contributions  in  these  areas, 
including  possible  reintegration  assistance,  such  as 
vocational  training  aimed  at  providing  a  means  of 
livelihood 
undergone 
reconciliation.  The  stability  of  the  surrounding  region 
is  also  important,  and  Japan  is  steadfastly  providing 
support for Pakistan and other countries in the area. 

In  the  world  in  which  we  now  live,  national 
security and human security are becoming increasingly 
intertwined. The path  forward that will save humanity 
is one which can bring about shared security in which 
various nations, ethnicities, races and religions coexist 
while  acknowledging  the  differences  among  them.  In 
other words, it is to bring about shared security through 
the principles of yuai, or fraternity.  

The  fifth  challenge  is  to  build  an  East  Asian 
community.  Today,  there  is  no  way  that  Japan  can 
develop without deeply involving itself in the Asia and 
Pacific  regions.  Reducing  the  region’s  security  risks 
and  sharing  in  one  another’s  economic  dynamism, 
based on the principle of open regionalism, will result 
in tremendous benefits not only for Japan but also for 
the region and the international community. Given the 
historical  circumstances  arising  from  its  mistaken 
actions  in  the  past,  Japan  has  hesitated  to  play  a 
proactive role in this region. It is my hope that the new 
Japan  can  overcome  this  history  and  become  a  bridge 
among the countries of Asia. 

I look forward to an East Asian community taking 
shape  as  an  extension  of  the  accumulated  cooperation 
built  up  step  by  step  among  partners  who  have  the 
capacity to work together, starting with fields in which 
we  can  cooperate  —  free  trade  agreements,  finance, 
currency,  energy,  the  environment,  disaster  relief  and 
more. Of course, Rome was not built in a day, so let us 
seek  to  move  forward  steadily  on  this,  even  if  at  a 
moderate pace. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  representatives  to  recall 
that the United Nations is the forum in which bridging 
diplomacy  is  made  manifest.  In  resolving  various 
issues of international peace and stability, development 
and the environment, among others, the United Nations 
has  an  immense  role  to  play.  I  intend  to  make  greater 
use  of  the  Organization  and  to  work  to  enhance  the 
A/64/PV.5
in 
the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the United Nations as a 
whole. 

I  firmly  believe  that  Japan  has  the  capacity  to 
play  an  even  greater  role  in  the  United  Nations,  and 
above all at the Security Council, as a bridge between 
various  countries.  Japan  will  continue  to  participate 
actively 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform,  pursuing  the  expansion  of 
both permanent and non-permanent membership and of 
Japan’s  permanent  membership  in  the  Council.  This 
concludes my message from the new Japan. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Japan 
for the statement he has just made. 


Mr.  Yukio  Hatoyama,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Turkey 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Turkey. 
Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister of the 

Republic of Turkey, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming His Excellency Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Erdoğan (Turkey) (spoke in Turkish; English 

interpretation provided by the delegation): It is a great 
pleasure  for  me  to  address  and  greet  the  General 
Assembly once again from this rostrum in my capacity 
as  Prime  Minister  of  Turkey  on  the  occasion  of  the 
general debate of the Assembly’s sixty-fourth session. 

I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr. Ali Abdussalam 
Treki  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I  also  wish  to 
express  my  appreciation  and  thanks  to  Mr.  D’Escoto 
Brockmann  for  his  able  and  prudent  conduct  of  the 
presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-third session. I 
take  this  opportunity  also  to  thank  all  the  Member 
States for the high degree of trust and approval shown 
to  my  country 
last  year  as  a 
non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  by  a 
wide margin of support. 
in  electing 
it 
09-52320 

31 
in 
A/64/PV.5 


The  global  problems  of  our  age  necessitate 
solutions  on  a  global  scale,  and  we  therefore  need  to 
work in a determined fashion. From wars to economic 
crises,  from  hunger  and  poverty  to  terrorism,  from 
energy security to climate change, the problems of our 
world  are  extremely  challenging.  However,  none  of 
them is insurmountable. 

If  we  are  to  resolve  these  problems,  we  need  a 
fair  and  inclusive  global  order  that  is  based  on  trust 
and  regards  diversity  as  a  source  of  wealth.  It  is 
possible  to  make  the  transition  from  a  conception  of 
the  world  based  on  risk  and  perceptions  of  threats  to 
one  that  is  based  on  trust  and  solidarity.  Indeed,  this 
has  become  a  necessity  for  all  of  us.  To  do  so, 
however,  we  need  a  new  kind  of  leadership.  We  can 
indeed  make  the  twenty-first  century  an  era  ruled  by 
peace  instead  of  war;  trust  instead  of  fear;  justice 
instead  of  injustice;  tranquillity  instead  of  terror  and 
violence; and prosperity instead of hunger and poverty. 
It  is  our  common  responsibility  and  historic  duty  to 
participate 
the  construction  of  such  a  world, 
regardless  of  our  differences  of  language,  religion  or 
nationality. 

Threats such as terrorism and the proliferation of 
nuclear  weapons  have  become  sources  of  worldwide 
concern.  Problems  such  as  hunger  and  poverty,  the 
increased  frequency  of  pandemics,  food  and  energy 
security,  growing  xenophobia  and  radicalism  remain 
grave  challenges.  In  addition,  global  warming  and  the 
financial  crisis  are  fundamental  issues  that  demand 
substantial solutions. 

relevance  and 
indispensability  of  the  United  Nations  has  become 
even  more  evident.  In  order  to  establish  a  fair  and 
participatory  global  order,  we  must  work  together  to 
enhance the Organization’s efficiency. We certainly do 
not despair. We maintain our hope that the achievement 
of  global  peace  and  stability  is  within  our  grasp.  We 
therefore  wish  to  see  the  United  Nations  serve  as  the 
voice  and 
the  global  public 
conscience.  We  believe  that  a  more  representative, 
democratic,  transparent,  just  and  effective  United 
Nations will  be able to make a greater contribution to 
global peace and stability. 

The  United  Nations  must  become  a  much  more 
effective institution on such matters as climate change, 
sustainable  development,  the  struggle  against  poverty, 
gender equality and the protection of human rights and 
spokesperson  of 
that  backdrop, 
Against 
the 
the  non-permanent  membership  of 
dignity, and we fully support reform efforts to that end. 
However,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  system  will  be  incomplete  if  not 
accompanied by Security Council reform. I would like 
to  underscore  once  again  that  Turkey  is  in  favour  of 
enlarging 
the 
Security Council. 

Another important aspect of reform that I wish to 
underline  is  the  need  to  improve  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  system.  In  this  context,  we  want  the 
views  and  expectations  of  the  United  Nations  troop-
contributing  countries,  in  particular,  on  such  issues  as 
early and effective coordination, capacity-building and 
enhanced cooperation with regional organizations to be 
taken into full account. 

Turkey  continues  to  be  a  force  for  peace  and 
stability  in  its  region.  Especially  in  the  course  of  the 
past  seven  years,  we  have  made  every  effort  to  settle 
our  problems  with  our  neighbours.  Thanks  to  this 
approach,  which  we  call  a  zero-problem  policy  with 
our  neighbours,  Turkey  has  made  significant  progress 
in  solving  outstanding  issues  with  its  neighbours  and 
has greatly improved its bilateral relations. 

region  have  global 
implications  as  well.  Therefore,  our  constructive  and 
peaceful  regional  policies  serve  not  only  our  own 
neighbourhood  but  also  world  peace.  However,  we  do 
not  consider  those  efforts  to  be  sufficient. We  seek  to 
relationship  of  passive  good-
move 
a 
neighbourliness 
to  one  of  active  friendship  and 
cooperation.  The  positive  impact  of  this  approach  on 
regional and world peace is well appreciated by all our 
friends in the East and the West.  

Another concrete example of this approach is our 
ongoing dialogue with our neighbour, Greece. Another 
case  in  point  is  our  quest  to  normalize  our  relations 
with  Armenia,  which  has  gained  fresh  momentum  of 
late and begun to bear fruit.  
We also believe that the conflicts and disputes in 

the Caucasus, including but not limited to the problems 
between Armenia  and Azerbaijan,  are  issues  that  need 
to be resolved. In this regard, we hope that our regional 
partners  will  share  Turkey’s  vision  for  region-wide 
peace,  security  and  stability.  We  believe  that  the 
Caucasus  Stability  and  Cooperation  Platform,  which 
we  launched  in  the  aftermath  of  the  crisis  of  August 
2008, can make a substantial contribution to efforts in 
that direction. 
The  problems  of  our 
from 
32 

09-52320 
this 
is 
importance 



Another issue of great interest to us and the world 
is Iraq’s territorial integrity, political unity and internal 
peace. We  attach  great  importance  to  the  continuation 
of  the  political  dialogue  process  encompassing  all 
groups in Iraq and the establishment of national unity. 
A  clear  manifestation  of 
the 
neighbouring  countries  process  regarding  Iraq,  which 
was initiated by Turkey. 

In  this  connection,  I  also  wish  to  emphasize  the 
significance of the strategic dialogue mechanism set up 
between Turkey  and  Iraq,  which  is  important  in  terms 
of both the fight against terrorism and other aspects of 
our  bilateral  relations.  We  are  fully  committed  to 
maintaining and further developing this process. 

Another  area  to  which Turkey  is  sensitive  is  the 
Palestinian-Israeli  conflict.  In  our  view,  the  resolution 
of  the  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict,  based  on  the  vision 
of  two  States  existing  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security,  is  an  indispensable  element  of  regional  and 
global  peace. The  achievement  of  Palestinian  national 
unity will expedite the establishment of an independent 
Palestinian  State.  Turkey  has  always  stood  by  the 
Palestinian people and will continue to do so.  

I  wish  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the 
following  facts.  The  aggression  against  Gaza  carried 
out  at  the  end  of  2008  quickly  turned  into  a  human 
tragedy  and 
the  deaths  of  nearly 
1,400 people, most of whom were women and children, 
as  the  result  of  phosphate  bombs.  Over  5,000  people 
were  injured  and  the  infrastructure  of  Gaza  was 
completely  destroyed.  Even  United  Nations  buildings 
in  Gaza  did  not  escape  this  destruction.  Secretary-
General  Ban Ki-moon  personally  witnessed 
the 
devastation  and  voiced  his  reaction.  The  575-page 
United  Nations 
(A/HRC/12/48), 
released  on  15 September  2009,  clearly  confirms  this 
fact. 

It has been eight months since the declaration of 
the ceasefires that ended the hostilities in Gaza and the 
adoption  of  resolution  1860  (2009).  Similarly,  six 
months  have  elapsed  since 
the  Sharm  el-Sheikh 
conference,  at  which  the  international  community 
pledged  billions  of  dollars  for  the  reconstruction  of 
Gaza. However, I regret to say that the human tragedy 
in Gaza continues.  

tents  and  cannot  find 
drinking  water.  In  the  face  of  this  situation,  are  we 
fulfilling  our  humanitarian  responsibility?  What  can 
report  on  Gaza 
People  are 
living 
in 
resulted 
in 
A/64/PV.5
it 
destruction 
suffered.  Currently, 
the  United  Nations  or  the  Security  Council  do?  What 
measures  have  the  United  Nations  and  the  Security 
Council really enacted? We really must think about that 
because  the  promises  made  in  Gaza  have  not  been 
fulfilled.  

As at the time of aggression, Gaza has once again 
been  left  to  its  own  devices  in  the  aftermath  of  the 
heavy 
the 
importation  of  construction  materials  to  Gaza  is  not 
permitted;  only  food  and  medication  are  allowed  to 
pass  through,  and  the  suffering  of  the  people  of  Gaza 
continues. 

We  demand  that  these  obstacles  be  immediately 
lifted and normalcy restored to Gaza for the sake of the 
peace  and  security  of  Israelis  and  Palestinians  alike. 
The  Palestinian  question  cannot  be  resolved  solely  by 
satisfying the demands of one party alone. The security 
of  the  Palestinians  is  as  important  as  the  security  of 
Israel. The  Palestinian  people’s  quest  for  freedom  and 
peace is as legitimate as Israel’s quest for stability. 

The settlement of the Palestinian question, which 
is  one  of  the  greatest  obstacles  to  regional  and  global 
peace,  will  be  possible  only  when  everyone  is  treated 
fairly  and  equitably.  On  every  possible  occasion, 
Turkey  has  stressed  that  it  is  not  possible  to  turn  a 
blind  eye  to  the  appalling  conditions  in  Gaza,  and  we 
will  continue  to  make  that  point.  It  is  our  common 
humanitarian  and  moral  responsibility  to  ensure  that 
the tragedy unfolding in Gaza is brought to an end and 
that  an  atmosphere  of  lasting  peace  is  created  in  the 
region. 

It  is  extremely  important  that  the  international 
community  remain  engaged  in  this  matter  and  inject 
new  vigour  and  momentum  into  efforts  to  resolve  the 
problem. We call on all parties concerned not to remain 
indifferent to this question and not to condone  further 
suffering. 

We also believe that the resumption of the Israeli-
Palestinian  talks,  which  have  been  disrupted  by  the 
Gaza  conflict,  is  of  the  utmost  importance.  We  hope 
that the peace process will be revitalized as quickly as 
possible.  To  date,  Turkey  has  made  every  possible 
effort to contribute to the peace process in the Middle 
East.  The  indirect  negotiations  between  Syria  and 
Israel,  which  we  hosted  in  2008,  are  a  case  in  point. 
Depending on the mutual desire of both parties, we are 
ready to resume our active role in the future. 
09-52320 

33 
intensive 
efforts 
to 
ensure 
follow 
We  also  believe 
that 
We  also  closely 
A/64/PV.5 


We  have  always  said  that  our  neighbouring 
country Syria is a very important country in our region 
and is in a position to play a key role in the search for 
regional peace, security  and stability. Lebanon, too, is 
of  critical  importance  to  regional  stability. Turkey  has 
a 
expended 
that 
comprehensive  political  compromise  prevails 
in 
to  strongly  support 
Lebanon.  We  will  continue 
Lebanon’s stability in the future. 

the  dispute  over  our 
neighbour  Iran’s  nuclear  programme,  which  has  long 
preoccupied  the  international  community,  should  be 
resolved through dialogue. Turkey defends the right of 
all countries to benefit from the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy. On the other hand, we also call on all countries 
to  act  responsibly  and  to  bear  in  mind  the  serious 
consequences  of  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons 
for  the  whole  world.  In  that  spirit,  we  supported  the 
adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution  1874  (2009), 
on North Korea’s nuclear test last May. 

in 
the 
Afghanistan and developments in Pakistan. We support 
the  struggle  against  extremism  by  the  peoples  of 
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan,  with  whom  we  enjoy 
historical  and  brotherly  ties.  We  are  maintaining  our 
infrastructure  investments  in  order  to  help  those  two 
countries  achieve  the  prosperity  they  deserve.  The 
ministerial-level  meeting  of  friends  of  a  democratic 
Pakistan that we convened in Istanbul in late August is 
an indication of the importance we attach to Pakistan’s 
stability and prosperity.  

I would like to take this opportunity to announce 
that,  in  addition  to  becoming  the  lead  country  on 
Afghanistan in the Security Council in  2010, we shall 
also  assume 
the  Council’s 
Counter-Terrorism  Committee.  Our  strong  support  for 
efforts to achieve security and stability in Afghanistan 
and to combat terrorism will continue unabated during 
the  course  of  our  performance  of  those  duties  on  the 
Council. 

The  Balkans  is  another  region  that  we  follow 
closely. We believe that the integration of the countries 
of 
is 
important. That perspective should be maintained. 
Turkey  and  the  Turkish  Republic  of  Northern 

Cyprus  support  efforts 
to  find  a  comprehensive 
solution  on  the  island.  The  basis  upon  which  such  a 
solution should be built is right here under the roof of 
the  chairmanship  of 
into  Euro-Atlantic 
the 
region 
institutions 
situation 
the  United  Nations.  If  all  the  parties  to  the  current 
negotiations  were  to  act  constructively,  it  would  be 
possible to reach a comprehensive solution by the end 
of 2009. We believe that the Secretary-General should, 
as  he  did  in  2004,  play  a  role  in  bridging  the 
differences  on  which  the  parties  themselves  cannot 
agree. 

It should be our common objective to submit the 
solution to be reached to a referendum in the spring of 
2010,  at  the  latest.  However,  at  this  juncture,  I  would 
also  like  to  stress  that,  if  a  solution  cannot  be  found 
due to Greek Cypriot intransigence, as was the case in 
2004,  the  normalization  of  the  status  of  the  Turkish 
Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus  will  become  a  necessity 
that can no longer be delayed. It is therefore essential 
to  realize 
that  negotiations  cannot  be  sustained 
ad infinitum,  that  the  current  window  of  opportunity 
cannot  remain  open  forever,  and  that  efforts  must  be 
deployed to ensure the success of the process. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
emphasize once again that a comprehensive solution to 
be achieved on the basis of established United Nations 
parameters,  which  will  secure  the  founding  of  a  new 
partnership  in  Cyprus,  will  enjoy  the  open  support  of 
Turkey  as  a  guarantor  Power.  A  fair  and  lasting 
solution  in  Cyprus  will  make  a  major  contribution  to 
the transformation of the  eastern Mediterranean into a 
zone  of  peace,  stability  and  cooperation.  I  call  upon 
everyone to do their utmost to help achieve that goal. 

In the meantime, the Turkish Cypriot side is still 
subject to unfair measures of isolation, despite the fact 
that in 2004 it accepted all the sacrifices that the Annan 
plan entailed. It is not fair to expect the Turkish side to 
pay  the  price  for  a  lack  of  a  solution.  The  lifting  of 
such  restrictions  on  Turkish  Cypriots  will  not  only 
remove  an  unjust  practice,  but  also  accelerate  the 
process of resolution. 

in 
peacekeeping  operations  around  the  world  under  the 
umbrella  of  the  United  Nations,  NATO,  the  European 
Union  and 
for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe. We also strongly support least 
developed and developing countries in their struggle to 
resolve development problems. 

In  addition,  as  a  party  to  the  Kyoto  Protocol, 
Turkey  is  ready  to  live  up  to  its  responsibilities  with 
respect  to  a  vital  issue  that  concerns  the  future  of  our 
world.  We  support  the  determined  efforts  being  made 
to  participate  actively 
Turkey  continues 
the  Organization 
34 

09-52320 
through 
the 
flourishes 


by  the  Secretary-General  in  the  process  of  devising  a 
new climate change regime. 

I  should  also  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  another  very  important  issue  that  poses  a 
threat  to  our  world.  We  should  not  forget  that  each 
culture  and  civilization 
the 
inspiration provided by the successes of other cultures 
and  civilizations.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  our  common 
values today, as well as our science, law and art, have 
been  influenced  not  only  by  the  ancient  Greek  and 
Roman  civilizations,  but  also  by  ancient  Eastern 
civilizations.  From  Al-Khwarizmi, 
father  of 
algebra,  to  Al-Farabi,  who  laid  the  foundations  of 
music;  from  Ibn  Sina,  who  ushered  in  a  new  era  in 
medicine,  to  Sinan  the  architect,  who  produced  the 
finest engineering examples of his time, many Turkish 
and Islamic scholars, men  of learning  and artists have 
made  significant  contributions  to  the  progress  of 
humankind. 

It  is  therefore  essential  to  regard  and  understand 
diverse  cultures  not  as  the  other,  but  as  individual 
elements  of  humankind’s  cultural  inheritance,  as  well 
as  to  inculcate  that  spirit  in  new  generations.  That  is 
the  philosophy 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  which  has  become  a  United  Nations 
initiative 
institutional 
structure  under  the  co-sponsorship  of  Turkey  and 
Spain.  I  have  no  doubt  that  the Alliance  will  make  a 
significant contribution. We should ensure that it has a 
meaningful  place  in  the  Organization,  as  it  can  make 
important contributions to shaping a global civilization 
based  on  universal  values  centred  on  democracy,  the 
rule  of  law,  good  governance,  human  rights,  gender 
equality, young people and media. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my  hope 
that  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General Assembly 
will  serve  the  best  interests  of  all  humankind,  as  well 
as the interests of peace. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Turkey for the statement he has just made.  
Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister of the 


Republic 
from 
the rostrum. 

of  Turkey,  was 
that  underlies 
strengthened 
escorted 
that  has 
its 

09-52320 

A/64/PV.5


The  United  Nations  was  founded  after 
  Address by Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime 
Minister of the State of Israel 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of 
Israel. 
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 

State of Israel, was escorted to the rostrum. 


The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu, 
Prime Minister of the State of Israel, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Netanyahu (Israel): Nearly 62 years ago, the 

United  Nations  recognized  the  right  of  the  Jews,  an 
ancient people 3,500 years old, to a State of their own 
in  their  ancestral  homeland.  I  stand  here  today  as  the 
Prime Minister of Israel, the Jewish State, and I speak 
to  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  my  country  and  my 
people. 

the 
carnage  of  the  Second  World  War  and  the  horrors  of 
the  Holocaust.  It  was  charged  with  preventing  the 
reoccurrence  of  such  horrendous  events.  Nothing  has 
undermined that mission, nothing has impeded it more, 
than the systematic assault on the truth. Yesterday, the 
President of Iran stood at this very rostrum spewing his 
latest  anti-Semitic  rants.  Just  a  few  days  earlier,  he 
again claimed that the Holocaust was a lie. 

Last month, I went to a villa in a suburb of Berlin 
called  Wannsee.  There,  on  20  January  1942,  after  a 
hearty  meal,  senior  Nazi  officials  met  and  decided  to 
exterminate  my  people.  They  left  detailed  minutes  of 
that meeting that have been preserved for posterity by 
successive German Governments. I have here a copy of 
the  minutes  of  the  meeting  of  senior  Nazi  officials 
instructing  the  Nazi  Government  exactly  how  to  carry 
out  the  extermination  of  the  Jewish  people.  Is  that 
protocol  a  lie?  Are  the  German  Government  and  all 
German Governments lying? 
The day before I was in Wannsee, in Berlin I was 

given 
the 
Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp. I now hold in 
my  hand  the Auschwitz-Birkenau  plans.  They  contain 
the  signature  of  Heinrich  Himmler,  Hitler’s  deputy, 
himself.  Are  those  plans  for  the  Auschwitz-Birkenau 
concentration  camp,  where  1  million  Jews  were 
murdered,  a  lie  too?  In  June,  President  Obama  visited 
another  concentration  camp,  one  of  many  —  the 
the  original  construction  plans 
for 
35 
A/64/PV.5 

Buchenwald concentration camp. Did President Obama 
pay tribute to a lie? 

And  what  of  the  Auschwitz  survivors,  whose 
arms  still  bear  the  tattooed  numbers  branded  on  them 
by the Nazis? Are those tattoos a lie, too? One third of 
all  Jews  perished  in  the  great  conflagration  of  the 
Holocaust.  Nearly  every  Jewish  family,  including  my 
own,  was  affected.  My  wife’s  grandparents,  her 
father’s  two  sisters  and  three  brothers,  and  all  the 
aunts, uncles and cousins were murdered by the Nazis. 
Is that a lie?   

Yesterday, the man who calls the Holocaust a lie 
spoke from this rostrum. I commend those who refused 
to  come  and  those  who  left  in  protest.  They  stood  up 
for moral clarity and brought honour to their countries. 
But  to  those  who  gave  that  denier  of  the  Holocaust  a 
hearing,  I  say  on  behalf  of  my  people,  the  Jewish 
people, and of decent people everywhere: Have they no 
shame?  Have  they  no  decency?  A  mere  six  decades 
after the Holocaust, they give legitimacy to a man who 
denies  the  murder  of  6  million  Jews,  while  promising 
to wipe out the State of Israel, the State of the Jews. 
That is a disgrace. It is a mockery of the Charter 

of  the  United  Nations.  Perhaps  some  representatives 
think that that man and his odious regime threaten only 
the Jews. If they believe that, they are wrong — dead 
wrong. History has shown us time and again that what 
starts  with  attacks  on  the  Jews  eventually  ends  up 
engulfing many, many others.  

For  this  Iranian  regime  is  fuelled  by  an  extreme 
fundamentalism  that  burst  onto  the  world  scene  three 
decades  ago  after  lying  dormant  for  centuries.  In  the 
past  30  years,  that  fanaticism  has  swept  across  the 
globe with a murderous violence that knows no bounds 
and  with  a  cold-blooded  impartiality  in  the  choice  of 
its  victims.  It  has  callously  slaughtered  Muslims, 
Christians,  Jews,  Hindus  and  many  others.  The 
adherents  of  that  unforgiving  creed,  although  it  is 
comprised  of  different  offshoots,  seek 
to  return 
humanity  to  medieval  times.  Wherever  they  can,  they 
impose a backward, regimented society where women, 
minorities, gays or anyone else deemed not to be a true 
believer is brutally subjugated.  

The  struggle  against  that  fanaticism  does  not  pit 
faith against faith, or civilization against civilization. It 
pits  civilization  against  barbarism,  the  twenty-first 
century  against  the  ninth,  and  those  who  sanctify  life 
against those who glorify death. The primitivism of the 
ninth century ought to be no match for the progress of 
the  twenty-first.  The  allure  of  freedom,  the  power  of 
technology  and  the  reach  of  communications  should 
surely win the day. Ultimately, the past cannot triumph 
over  the  future,  and  our  future  offers  all  nations 
magnificent  bounties  of  hope  because  the  pace  of 
progress is growing, and growing exponentially.  

It took us centuries to get from the printing press 
to the telephone, decades to get from the telephone to 
the  personal  computer,  and  only  a  few  years  to  get 
from  the  personal  computer  to  the  Internet.  What 
seemed impossible a few years ago is already outdated, 
and we can scarcely fathom the changes that are yet to 
come. We will crack the genetic code. We will cure the 
incurable.  We  will  lengthen  our  lives.  We  will  find  a 
cheap  alternative  to  fossil  fuel,  and  we  will  clean  up 
the planet.    

I  am  proud  that  my  country,  Israel,  is  at  the 
forefront  of  many  of  those  advances  in  science  and 
technology,  medicine  and  biology,  agriculture  and 
water,  and  energy  and 
the  environment.  Those 
innovations  in  my  country  and  in  many  others  offer 
humanity a sunlit future of unimagined promise. 

However,  if  the  most  primitive  fanaticism  can 
acquire the most deadly weapons, the march of history 
could  be  reversed  for  a  time  and,  like  the  belated 
victory  over  the  Nazis,  the  forces  of  progress  and 
freedom  prevail  only  after  a  horrific  toll  of  blood  and 
fortune  has  been  exacted  from  mankind.  That  is  why 
the  greatest  threat  facing  the  world  today  is  the 
marriage  between  religious  fundamentalism  and  the 
weapons of mass destruction.  

The most urgent challenge facing this body today 
is  to  prevent  the  tyrants  of  Tehran  from  acquiring 
nuclear  weapons.  Are  the  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  up  to  that  challenge?  Will  the  international 
community confront a despotism that terrorizes its own 
people  as  they  bravely  stand  up  for  freedom?  Will  it 
take  action  against  the  dictators  who  stole  an  election 
in  broad  daylight  and  then  gunned  down  Iranian 
protesters, who died on the sidewalks and in the streets 
choking  in  their  own  blood?  Will  the  international 
community thwart the world’s most pernicious sponsor 
and  practitioner  of  terrorism?  Above  all,  will  the 
international  community  stop  the  terrorist  regime  of 
Iran  from  developing  atomic  weapons  and  thereby 
endangering the peace of the entire world? 
36 

09-52320 



The people of Iran are courageously standing up 
to  this  regime.  People  of  goodwill  around  the  world 
stand  with  them,  as  do  the  thousands  who  have  been 
protesting  outside  this  Hall  throughout  the  week. Will 
the United Nations stand with them? 

The jury is still out on the United Nations. Recent 
signs are not encouraging. Rather than condemning the 
terrorists  and  their  Iranian  patrons,  some  here  in  the 
United  Nations  have  condemned  their  victims. This  is 
exactly  what  a  recent  United  Nations  report  on  Gaza 
did,  falsely  equating  the  terrorists  with  those  they 
targeted. 

For  eight  long  years,  Hamas  fired  rockets  from 
Gaza on nearby Israeli cities and citizens — thousands 
of  missiles  and  mortars  hailing  down  from  the  sky  on 
schools,  homes,  shopping  centres  and  bus  stops.  Year 
after year, as  these missiles were deliberately  fired on 
our civilians, not one single United Nations resolution 
was  passed  condemning  those  criminal  attacks.  We 
heard  nothing  —  absolutely  nothing  —  from  the 
Human  Rights  Council  of  the  United  Nations,  a 
misnamed institution if ever there was one. 
Israel 

unilaterally withdrew from every inch of Gaza. It was 
very  painful.  We  dismantled  21  settlements,  really 
bedroom  communities  and  farms.  We  uprooted  over 
8,000 Israelis; we just yanked them out of their homes. 
We  did  this  because  many  in  Israel  believed  that  it 
would  win  peace.  Well,  we  did  not  get  peace. Instead 
we  got  an  Iranian-backed  terror  base  50  miles  from 
Tel Aviv.  But  life  in  the  Israeli  towns  and  cities 
immediately adjacent to Gaza became nothing less than 
a  nightmare.  The  Hamas  rocket  attacks  not  only 
continued  after  we 
increased 
dramatically.  They  increased  tenfold.  And  again,  the 
United Nations was silent — absolutely silent. 

Well, after eight years of this unremitting assault, 
Israel  was  finally  forced  to  respond.  But  how  should 
we  have  responded?  There  is  only  one  example  in 
history  of  thousands  of  rockets  being  fired  on  a 
country’s civilian population. This happened when the 
Nazis  rocketed  British  cities  during  the  Second World 
War. During that war, the Allies levelled German cities, 
causing  hundreds  of  thousands  of  casualties.  I  am  not 
passing judgement; I am stating a fact, a fact that is the 
product  of  the  decisions  of  great  and  honourable 
men — the leaders of Britain and the United States — 
fighting an evil force in the Second World War. 
to  advance  peace, 
In  2005,  hoping 
left, 
they  actually 
A/64/PV.5
legitimately  defending 

It  is  also  a  fact  that  Israel  chose  to  respond 
differently. Faced with an enemy committing a double 
war  crime  —  firing  on  civilians  while  hiding  behind 
civilians  —  Israel  sought  to  conduct  surgical  strikes 
against  the  rocket-launchers  themselves.  That  was  no 
easy  task  because  the  terrorists  were  firing  their 
missiles  from  homes  and  schools,  using  mosques  as 
weapons  depots  and  missile  caches,  and  ferreting 
explosives in ambulances. 

Israel, by contrast, tried to minimize casualties by 
urging  Palestinian  civilians  to  vacate  the  targeted 
areas. We  dropped  countless  flyers  over  their  homes. 
We  sent  thousands  and  thousands  of  text  messages  to 
the  Palestinian  residents.  We  made  thousands  and 
thousands  of  cellular  phone  calls  urging  them  to 
vacate,  to  leave.  Never  has  a  country  gone  to  such 
extraordinary  lengths  to  remove  the  enemy’s  civilian 
population from harm’s way.  

Yet  faced  with  an  absolutely  clear-cut  case  of 
aggressor  and  victim,  who  do  you  think  the  United 
Nations  Human  Rights  Council  decided  to  condemn? 
Israel.  A  democracy 
itself 
against terror is morally hanged, drawn and quartered, 
and  given  an  unfair  trial  to  boot.  By  these  twisted 
standards,  the  Human  Rights  Council  would  have 
dragged  Roosevelt  and  Churchill  to  the  dock  as  war 
criminals. What  a  perversion  of 
truth! What  a 
perversion of justice! 

The  delegates  to  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Governments  that  they  represent  have  a  decision  to 
make. Will they accept this farce? Because if they do, 
the  United  Nations  would  revert  to  its  darkest  days, 
when  the  worst  violators  of  human  rights  sat  in 
judgement  against  the  law-abiding  democracies,  when 
Zionism  was  equated  with  racism  and  when  an 
automatic  majority  could  be  mustered  to  declare  that 
the Earth is flat. If you had to choose a date when the 
United Nations began its descent, almost a freefall, and 
lost  the  respect  of  many  thoughtful  people  in  the 
international  community,  it  was  the  day  in  1975  it 
decided to equate Zionism with racism. 

Now  this  body  has  a  choice  to  make.  If  it  does 
not  reject  this  biased  report,  it  would  vitiate  itself,  it 
would  recommence  the  process  of  vitiating  its  own 
relevance  and  importance.  But  it  would  also  do 
something else. It would send the message to terrorists 
everywhere  that  terrorism  pays:  all  you  have  to  do  is 
09-52320 

37 
A/64/PV.5 

launch your attacks from densely populated areas, and 
you will win immunity. 

A  third  point:  in  condemning  Israel,  this  body 
would also deal a mortal blow to peace. Let me explain 
why.  When  Israel  left  Gaza,  many  hoped  that  the 
missile  attacks  would  stop.  Others  believed  that,  even 
if they did not stop, at the  very least Israel, in having 
made this extraordinary gesture for peace, would have 
international  legitimacy  to  exercise  its  right  of  self-
defence  if  peace  failed.  What  legitimacy?  What  self-
defence? 

The same United Nations that cheered Israel as it 
left  Gaza  and  promised  to  back  our  right  of  self-
defence now accuses us — my people, my country — 
of  being  war  criminals?  And  for  what?  For  acting 
responsibly  in  self-defence?  For  acting  in  a  way  that 
any  country  would  act,  with  a  restraint  unmatched  by 
many? What a travesty! 
Israel  justly  defended  itself  against  terror.  This 

biased and unjust report provides a clear-cut test for all 
Governments.  Will  the  Assembly  stand  with  Israel  or 
will  it  stand  with  the  terrorists?  We  must  know  the 
answer to that question now. Now, not later. Because if 
Israel  is  again  asked  to  take  more  risks  for  peace,  we 
must know today that the Assembly will stand with us 
tomorrow. Only if we have the confidence that we can 
defend ourselves can we take further risks for peace. 

Make  no  mistake:  all  of  Israel  wants  peace. Any 
time  an Arab  leader  genuinely  wanted  peace  with  us, 
we  made  peace.  We  made  peace  with  Egypt  led  by 
Anwar Sadat. We made peace with Jordan led by King 
Hussein. And  if  the  Palestinians  truly  want  peace,  my 
Government  and  I,  and  my  people,  will  make  peace. 
But  we  want  a  genuine  peace,  a  defensible  peace,  a 
permanent peace.  

In  1947,  this  body  voted  to  establish  two  States 
for  two  peoples  —  a  Jewish  State  and  an Arab  State. 
The  Jews  accepted  that  resolution. The Arabs  rejected 
it  and  invaded  the  embryonic  Jewish  State  with  the 
hopes of annihilating it. 

We  ask  the  Palestinians  to  finally  do  what  they 
have  refused  to  do  for  62  years: say  yes  to  a  Jewish 
State. It is as simple, as clear and as elementary as that. 
Just as we are asked to recognize a nation-State of the 
Palestinian  people,  the  Palestinians  must  be  asked  to 
recognize  the  nation-State  of  the  Jewish  people.  The 
Jewish  people  are  not  foreign  conquerors  in  the  Land 
of Israel. It is the land of our forefathers. 

Inscribed on the walls outside this building is the 
great Biblical vision of peace: “Nation shall not lift up 
sword  against  nation.  They  shall  learn  war  no  more.” 
These words were spoken by the great Jewish prophet 
Isaiah 2,800 years ago as he walked in my country, in 
my  city,  in  the  hills  of  Judea  and  in  the  streets  of 
Jerusalem.  

We  are  not  strangers  to  this  land.  This  is  our 
homeland.  But  as  deeply  connected  as  we  are  to  our 
homeland, we also recognize that the Palestinians also 
live there and they want a home of their own. We want 
to  live  side  by  side  with  them  —  two  free  peoples 
living in peace, living in prosperity, living in dignity.  

Peace,  prosperity  and  dignity  require  one  other 
element:  we  must  have  security.  The  Palestinians 
should have all the powers to govern themselves except 
a handful of powers that could endanger Israel. That is 
why 
the  Palestinian  State  must  be  effectively 
demilitarized. I  say  “effectively”  because  we  do  not 
want  another  Gaza,  another  south  Lebanon,  another 
Iranian-backed  terror  base  abutting  Jerusalem  and 
perched on the hills a few kilometres from Tel Aviv. 

We want peace. I believe  that with goodwill and 
with  hard  work  such  a  peace  can  be  achieved. But  it 
requires that all of us roll back the forces of terror led 
by  Iran  that  seek  to  destroy  peace,  that  seek  to 
eliminate Israel and to overthrow the world order.  The 
question facing the international community is whether 
it  is  prepared  to  confront  those  forces,  or  will  it 
accommodate them. 
Over  70  years  ago,  Winston  Churchill  lamented 

what  he  called 
the  “confirmed  unteachability  of 
mankind”.  By  that  he  meant  the  unfortunate  habit  of 
civilized societies to sleep and to slumber until danger 
nearly  overtakes  them.  Churchill  bemoaned  what  he 
called the  

“want  of  foresight,  unwillingness  to  act  when 
action  would  be  simple  and  effective,  lack  of 
clear  thinking,  confusion  of  counsel  until  the 
emergency  comes,  until  self-preservation  strikes 
its jarring gong …”. 

I  speak  here  today  in  the  hope  that  Churchill’s 
assessment  of  the  “unteachability  of  mankind”  is  for 
once proven wrong. I speak here today in the hope that 
38 

09-52320 


we can learn from history, that we can prevent danger 
in time. 

In  the  spirit  of  the  timeless  words  spoken  to 
Joshua  over  3,000  years  ago,  let  us  be  strong  and  of 
good  courage.   Let  us  confront  this  peril,  secure  our 
future  and,  God  willing,  forge  an  enduring  peace  for 
generations to come. 
(spoke in Hebrew) 

May God bless his people with peace; may God  
A/64/PV.5
give strength  to his people; may God bless his people 
with peace. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The meeting rose at 1.40 p.m. 

09-52320 

39 
