
A/64/PV.46
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

46th plenary meeting 
Friday, 13 November 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 



Agenda items 9 and 119 (continued) 
Report of the Security Council (A/64/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 
Mr. Urbina (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): The 

convening of a joint debate on Security Council reform 
and  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly  (A/64/2)  is  a  wise  initiative  because,  in  the 
light  of  the  report,  concrete  aspects  of  the  Council’s 
reform  stand  out  with  greater  clarity  and 
the 
everlasting discussion on the number and quality of its 
members is set aside, at least momentarily. 

Consistent  with  its  desire  for  an  international 
order  in  which  institutional  development  and  the  rule 
of 
law  prevail,  Costa  Rica  historically  has  had 
particular  interest  in  the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods.  In  keeping  with  this  interest,  we  are  part  of 
the  group  of  five  small  nations  (S-5),  which  acts  to 
promote changes in the Council’s working methods. 

As a member of the Security Council since 2008, 
Costa Rica has tried to meet the expectations of those 
who  supported  our  candidacy.  They,  like  us,  were 
aware  of 
to 
in  seeking 
influence  the  Council’s  working  methods  and 
in 
working  with  nine  other  elected  members  and  the 
powerful  permanent  members.  However,  we  believe 
that our actions have contributed to promoting greater 
the  difficulties 
inherent 
the 
illustrated 
the  Council 
the  members  of 
the  S-5,  at  which 
respect  from  the  Council  towards  non-member  States, 
increased transparency in its work, improved access to 
the  Council  for  all  and  extended  participation  in 
decision-making. 

The  period  under  review  was  especially  notable 
with regard to the consideration of the issue of working 
methods.  Under  the  Belgian  presidency  in  August 
2008, the first open debate in 14 years on the question 
of  working  methods  took  place.  In  addition,  the 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Questions  agreed  to  engage  in  a  fruitful 
debate  with 
level  of 
representation on the delegations and the participation 
of 
the 
willingness  on  the  part  of  some  to  learn  and  improve, 
as  well  as  the  stubbornness  and  arrogance  of  others. 
We  hope  that  we  have  successfully  carried  out  the 
mandate  given  to  us  by  the  General Assembly  a  little 
more than two years ago. 

We  are now  considering  the  annual report of the 
Security Council to the General Assembly. We reaffirm 
the  shared  perception  that,  in  and  of  itself,  the  report 
does  not 
the  purpose  of  broadly  and 
comprehensively informing us either about the actions 
of the Council or of the reasons for which it did not act 
on certain occasions when it should have. Once again, 
it is worth recalling here that, in Article 24, the authors 
of the Charter stipulated that the Council would inform 
the Assembly by means of its annual report as well as 
through  special  reports.  The  latter  is  a  tool  that  the 
Council has used only to recommend the admission of 
new  Members  to  the  Organization.  Pure  and  simple, 
serve 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-60665 (E) 
*0960665* 

Given 
that 
fact,  we  wish 
A/64/PV.46 

that  fact  reflects  the  reluctance  of  the  Council,  and  in 
particular  of  its  permanent  members,  to  inform  the 
General Assembly of its actions. 

regrettable 
to 
acknowledge  the  additional  efforts  made  this  year  by 
the  delegation  of  Uganda  in  the  preparation  of  the 
report before us. That work included the convening, in 
late  October,  of  an  innovative  informal  meeting  with 
members of the General Assembly. That is no doubt a 
laudable practice that must be repeated in the future in 
order  to  take  advantage  of  the  designated  period 
between  July  and  October  for  the  preparation  of  the 
report  as  a  way  to  increase  awareness,  understanding 
and the legitimacy of the Council’s work through more 
intense interaction. 

Although  Costa  Rica  understands  the  difficulties 
involved  in  persuading  actors  with  opposing  interests 
to agree to a more analytical text, we are all aware that 
the  quality  of 
the  annual  report  has  gradually 
improved.  However,  we  would  urge  the  Council  to 
make  greater  efforts  to  better  inform  the  members  of 
the Assembly of what it is doing on their behalf. We all 
know that is possible. 
Allow  me  to  make  a  few  brief  comments  with 

regard 
to  be 
insufficiently reflected in the report. First of all, it has 
not  been  easy  to  ensure  greater  respect  for  countries 
that  contribute  military  and  police  contingents  to 
peacekeeping operations. Countries which contribute in 
that  way  to  the  work  of  the  Organization  know  that, 
until  recently,  they  were  invited  to  formal  meetings 
only once the terms had been agreed for the renewal of 
peacekeeping  mandates.  Thanks  to  the  efforts  of  a 
group of  countries that includes Costa  Rica, today the 
consultation  process  begins  earlier  and  benefits  from 
increased interaction with the Secretariat. 

in 
connection  with  peace  missions.  The  Council  has 
considered  that  issue  on  an  ongoing  basis,  and  all 
Members  of  the  Organization  have  been  invited  to 
attend.  The  Secretariat  has  provided  a  concrete  basis 
for  discussion.  The  Departments  of  Peacekeeping 
Operations  and  Field  Support  and  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  have  made 
considerable  efforts.  Non-governmental  organizations 
have  contributed  to  those  efforts.  Their  invaluable 
support,  and  especially  that  of  the  International  Peace 
Institute  and  Security  Council  Report,  must  not  be 
ignored. 
the  progress  made 
that  we  believe 
That 
is 
just  part  of 
to  some 
issues 

the  most 
that  have  sponsored 

As a result of that exercise, drafting and renewing 
mandates  will  be  better  linked  with  the  planning  and 
deployment  of 
the  missions.  Peace  consolidation 
efforts  will  begin  earlier  and  be  better  linked  to  the 
peacekeeping  phase.  We  hope  that  we  can  thereby 
reduce the rate at which conflicts recurred in the past. 

This assessment would be incomplete if I were to 
fail  to  refer  to  the  revitalization  of  the  comprehensive 
framework  for  the  protection  of  civilians,  especially 
women  and  children,  or  to  stress  that  protection  is  a 
cross-cutting priority of peace missions. That progress 
is  satisfactory,  but  still  insufficient.  In  our  view,  the 
difficult  conciliation  of  different  positions  should  be 
reflected  in  the  report.  As  it  is,  it  has  been  made  to 
disappear. The members of the Assembly must guess at 
what  those  differences  are  by  referring  to  the  list  of 
those 
important 
resolutions of the Council in this area. 

I would like to end my remarks on the substance 
of the report by referring to the progress that was made 
with  regard  to  working  methods  during  the  informal 
meetings  that  took  place  between  Council  members 
and 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Sri  Lanka. 
Despite the fact that my delegation regrets the inability 
of  the  Council  to  take  action  in  connection  with  that 
case, we would nevertheless highlight the readiness of 
its  members  to  engage  in  an  informal,  direct  and 
ongoing  dialogue  with  the  representative  of  a  country 
in  connection  with  a  situation  that  was  a  source  of 
anguish for a large part of the international community 
for  several  weeks.  As  with  any  other,  that  important 
innovation will be worthwhile only to the degree that it 
is  repeated  in  the  future  and  integrated  fully  into  the 
Council’s practices. 

I cannot conclude my intervention without saying 
a few words about Security Council reform. First of all, 
however, I would like to acknowledge your interest and 
willingness,  Mr.  President,  to  seek  progress  on  that 
important  issue.  The  members  of  the  Assembly  are 
grateful for that commitment. 

I  have  already  explained  the  importance  that  my 
delegation  attaches  to  the  issue  of  working  methods. 
Our  positions  on  the  non-extension  of  the  so-called 
veto and the limitations that should be placed on its use 
are  well  known.  Equally  known  is  the  fact  that  my 
country  believes  that  no  new  permanent  members 
should be admitted to the Council. An increase in that 
category  would diminish even further the influence of 
2 

09-60665 


the  Council’s  elected  members,  be  detrimental  to 
Member States that will never be permanent members, 
and  reduce  access  to  decision-making  processes  by 
virtue of the so-called cascade effect, as demonstrated 
by Costa Rica some time ago. 

We  remain  cautious  with  regard  to  the  issue  of 
increasing  the  number  of  Council  members.  Our 
experience  with  efforts  in  that  regard  has  confirmed 
that  the  current  number  of  members  already  makes  it 
difficult to achieve the necessary consensus. However, 
we recognize the need for more equitable geographical 
representation. 

Costa  Rica  wants  Council  reform.  We  have 
shown  flexibility  by  agreeing  to  discuss  the  so-called 
intermediate  formula,  which  would  establish  a  new 
category  of  elected  members  that  would  serve  for 
longer  terms,  albeit  not  to  exceed  three  years,  and  be 
eligible for one-time re-election. We believe that that is 
the only proposal for expansion that can realistically be 
expected  to  generate  a  broad  and  viable  consensus, 
including,  of  course,  the  necessary  consent  of  the 
permanent  members.  We  urge  the  small  group  of 
countries who aspire to become permanent members to 
take  an  equally  flexible  stance  and  to  make  efforts  to 
contribute to a decision-making process that will allow 
the  Organization  to  better  achieve  its  objectives  of 
peace and security. 
Mr.  Al-Allaf  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Jordan 

would  like  to  express  its  gratitude  to  the  Security 
Council  for  its  annual  report  (A/64/2)  and  to  welcome 
its presentation to the General Assembly. We would like 
to take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation 
to the delegation of Uganda for their efforts in preparing 
this report and our gratitude to Viet Nam and Austria for 
contacting  the  membership  of  the  Organization.  We 
thank  the  members  of  the  Security  Council  for  the 
valuable  informal  discussions  they  held  with  the  S-5 
group  —  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Liechtenstein,  Singapore 
and Switzerland — while the report was being drafted. 

The  report  before  us  today  is  an  important 
element  in  the  relationship  between  the  Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  a  necessary 
channel  of  communication  between 
two 
important bodies of the United Nations. Moreover, our 
discussions  today  in  and  of  themselves  represent  a 
healthy  forum  in  which  to  exchange  views  about  the 
report, in order to accomplish the goals hoped for in its 
development.  
these 
A/64/PV.46
like 
to  note 
First,  I  would 

the  significant 
improvements  made  in  this  report  over  the  past  few 
years, such as increasing the comprehensiveness of its 
introduction,  and  also  the  efforts  of  the  Security 
Council  President,  who  is  charged  with  drafting  the 
report  and  with  contacting  States  that  are  not  Council 
members  and  eliciting  their  opinions  on  the  report’s 
contents  and  form.  We  wish  to  thank  the  Council 
President  for  his  briefings  on  the  report  before  and 
after it was issued. 

The  basic  function  of  this  report  is  to  draw  a 
comprehensive and considered picture for presentation 
to  the  General  Assembly  on  the  Security  Council’s 
work and accomplishments in the field of international 
peace and security. Naturally, we always hope that the 
report will be analytical in nature and will be drafted in 
a  coherent  and  comprehensive  manner.  However,  we 
must  be  realistic  as  well,  and  we  must  understand  the 
political  and  logistical  difficulties  that  prevent  the 
report from becoming an integrated political document 
that  would  include  a  strategic  evaluation  of  the 
situation of international peace and security. 

We  do  not  expect  the  report  to  acquire  such  a 
form  within  the  next  few  years,  but  we  believe  that 
there  is  more  room  for  positive  steps  and  reasonable 
improvements that can be made to enhance the report. 
The  issues  presented  to  the  Security  Council  are 
important and are greatly relevant to the interests of the 
wider membership of the Organization. 

For  example,  the  report  could  benefit  from 
dealing with how the Council handled several thematic 
issues,  such  as  peacekeeping  operations.  It  could 
discuss  the  lessons  learned  that  would  enable  the 
Council to build on positive steps and elements that it 
has  taken  throughout  the  year  and  to  develop  those 
lessons.  Moreover,  the  Council  would  be  able  to  deal 
with  the  challenges  and  obstacles  that  might  present 
themselves  again.  An  accurate  description  and  a 
realistic  analysis  are  important  for  maintaining  the 
institutional memory necessitated by the rotation of the 
non-permanent members of the Council. 
The  Security  Council  is  charged  with  defending 

and  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security, 
which  means  that  the  issues  on  its  agenda  are  closely 
tied  —  most  often  directly  tied  —  to  the  interests  of 
States  not  members  of  the  Council.  Therefore,  a 
comprehensive  and  objective  annual  report  on  the 
activities  of 
requires  effective  and 
the  Council 
09-60665 

3 
in  dealing  with  changing 
A/64/PV.46 

organized communication with members of the General 
Assembly  in  its  drafting,  especially  since  most  of  the 
issues  the  Council  examines  —  perhaps  even  all  of 
them  —  give  rise  to  legal,  political  and  financial 
obligations.  

The report also gives members of the Council the 
opportunity  to  monitor  the  improvements  that  have 
been  introduced  to  the  Council’s  working  methods, 
especially those aspects that require further improvement. 
Those  aspects  should  not  necessarily  be  dealt  with 
from  the  perspective  of  self-criticism,  though  we  do 
not believe that there is anything wrong with that. They 
can  be  handled  through  an  objective  evaluation  of  an 
organ  that  seeks  to  enhance  effectiveness  and  to 
develop methods that are in line with developments in 
the issues and topics that it examines. 

Now  more  than  ever  before,  our  world  requires 
efforts to guarantee a more effective role for the United 
Nations 
international 
challenges,  to  democratize  it  through  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  Jordan  regards  Council  reform  as  a 
vital  issue  and  a  high  priority.  In  its  national  capacity 
and within the S-5 group, Jordan will continue to play 
a 
and 
implementable  visions,  especially  with  regard 
to 
reforming  the  Council’s  working  methods.  Ideas  and 
visions on reform of the working methods must not be 
held hostage  to progress that we seek  in other  aspects 
of  Security  Council  reform,  such  as  categories  of 
membership,  expansion  or  the  use  of  the  veto.  In  our 
opinion,  the  ideas  and  visions  on  reforming  the 
working methods are potential areas of work in which 
we can achieve quick gains. 

The S-5 group presented a paper earlier this year 
that incorporated several of those ideas, which we hope 
the  whole  membership  will  support  so  that  we  can 
bring  about  a  concrete  and  genuine  change  to  the 
Council’s working methods. 
Mr.  Zhang  Yesui  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

Over the past year, the Security Council has deliberated 
on a host of issues touching on international peace and 
security.  It  has  made  tireless  efforts  to  facilitate  the 
settlement of regional hot-spot issues, promote regional 
stability 
in 
peacebuilding endeavours, and has achieved many good 
results.  While  fulfilling  its  obligations,  the  Security 
Council  has  also  endeavoured  to  improve  its  working 
methods and increase the transparency of its operations. 
post-conflict 
constructive 
countries 
realistic 
assist 
offer 
and 
role 
and 

international 
It  has  also  enhanced  exchanges  with  other  relevant 
parties. 

The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  entrusts  the 
sacred responsibility of maintaining international peace 
and  security  to  the  Security  Council.  Given  the 
complicated 
circumstances,  various 
security  challenges  and  the  expectations  of  Member 
States, the Security Council is now shouldering a great 
responsibility.  

Pursuant  to  the  mandate  bestowed  on  it  by  the 
Charter,  the  Security  Council  should  devote  more 
energy  to  addressing  the  major  pressing  issues  that 
threaten  international  peace  and  security.  It  should 
refrain from discussing issues that in essence belong to 
the  internal  affairs  of  a  country  and  pose  no  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security.  The  Council  should 
also avoid deliberating issues that in essence do not fall 
within  the  scope  of  its  responsibilities,  so  as  not  to 
affect  the  efforts  of  other  United  Nations  organs  and 
agencies to perform their normal functions. 

The  Security  Council  should  also  tap  its  full 
potential  to  strengthen  its  capacity  for  peacemaking, 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding, and thus make greater 
efforts towards the peaceful settlement of disputes. The 
Security  Council  should  also  strengthen  its  dialogue 
and cooperation with other United Nations organs and 
agencies,  as  well  as  with  regional  and  subregional 
organizations.  The  Security  Council  should  place 
greater  emphasis  on 
regional  and 
subregional  organizations  in  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security,  encourage  and  support 
their 
mediation  and  good  offices  endeavours,  and  establish 
effective  information-sharing  mechanisms  with  these 
organizations. 
The  Security  Council  should  also  vigorously 

promote  the  reform  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations,  which  are  now  facing  new  circumstances 
and  challenges.  As  the  decision-making  body  that 
authorizes the deployment of peacekeeping operations, 
the  Security  Council  should  improve  its  working 
methods  and  decision-making  mechanism  in  order  to 
help  peacekeeping  operations 
their 
missions more effectively. 

the  necessary  and 
reasonable reform of the Security Council. One of the 
core  objectives  of  Security  Council  reform  is  to 
increase  the  Council’s  representativeness  so  that  its 
membership reflects the tremendous changes that have 
to  carry  out 
supports 
role  of 
firmly 
China 
the 
4 

09-60665 
the 
increasing 
Security  Council  reform 


taken  place  in  the  size  and  composition  of  United 
Nations  membership.  Reform  should  give  top  priority 
to 
representation  of  developing 
countries,  in  particular  those  of  Africa.  It  must  also 
reflect  the  trend  of  democratization  in  international 
relations  and  give  medium-sized  and  small  countries 
greater  access  to  the  decision-making  process  of  the 
Security Council. 

The  five  clusters  of  issues  involving  Security 
Council  reform  are  interrelated  and  therefore  should 
not  be  addressed  with  a  step-by-step  or  piecemeal 
approach.  Only  an  integrated  approach  or  a  package 
solution  will  accommodate  the  interests  and  concerns 
of Member States on different issues. 

is  a  complex  and 
sensitive  issue,  and  a  systematic  project  involving  the 
interests  of  192  Member  States.  The  will  to  move 
ahead  and  a  flexible  and  pragmatic  approach  that 
accommodates  the  interests  of  all  parties  and  stresses 
democratic consultation are necessary to achieving the 
aims  of  Council  reform.  Only  in  this  way  can  a 
solution  be  found  that  bridges  the  differences  of  all 
parties and serves the common and long-term interests 
of  all  Member  States,  and  can  the  outcome  of  reform 
be sustainable, vigorous and dynamic. 

The  sixty-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
launched 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  During 
the  negotiations, 
parties candidly exchanged views on the five clusters of 
issues  on  Security  Council  reform.  China  appreciates 
the  overall  approach  adopted  by  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third session,  and Ambassador Zahir Tanin,  chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  in  handling  the 
issue  of  Security  Council  reform.  We  hope  that  the 
General  Assembly  at  this  session  will  continue  to 
adhere  to  the  principle  of  ensuring  ownership  by 
Member States and fully accommodate the concerns of 
all  parties  while  striving  for  the  widest  possible 
consensus. 
Mr.  Soborun  (Mauritius):  I  join  colleagues  in 

thanking  you,  Sir,  for  convening  today’s  meeting  on 
agenda  item  9  on  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council  and  agenda  item  119  on  the  question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. 
increase 
the 
in 
A/64/PV.46
in 
in 
to 
further 
and 
improving 
I  also  wish 
to  express  my  appreciation 

to 
Ambassador  Shekou  Touray  of  Sierra  Leone,  in  his 
capacity  as  coordinator  of  the  committee  of  10  of  the 
African  Group, 
to  Ambassador  Thomas 
Mayr-Harting of Austria, in his capacity as President of 
the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of  November,  for 
the  comprehensive  and  candid  presentation  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council,  contained  in 
document A/64/2. 

As far as the annual report is concerned, we share 
the view expressed by many delegations that it is once 
again  a  mere  compilation  of  events  in  chronological 
order. We therefore reiterate our request that it be made 
more analytical with a view to enabling Member States 
to  assess  the  strengths  and  failures  of  the  Council  in 
tackling  the  various  conflict  situations.  We  also  share 
the  growing  concern  of  many  delegations  over  the 
gradual  encroachment  by  the  Security  Council  on  the 
powers and mandates that fall under the purview of the 
General Assembly.  Furthermore,  we  believe  that,  with 
a  view 
transparency  and 
accountability in the working methods of the Council, 
it  is  more  than  high  time  to  finalize  the  rules  of 
procedure  of 
the  Council,  which  have  remained 
provisional over the past six decades. 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  the  most 

important  organ  of 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  can 
never be overemphasized. It remains at the heart of the 
reform  of 
it  more 
transparent,  legitimate  and  accountable.  The  reformed 
Security Council of the twenty-first century should be 
able to meet the aspirations and legitimate rights of the 
different geographical regions of the world in an open, 
transparent  and  equitable  manner.  It  should  be  able  to 
respond  expeditiously  in  an  effective  and  efficient 
manner to the rapidly changing geopolitical realities of 
the world. 

However, it is our considered view that there can 
be  no  meaningful  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
without  an  expansion 
the  categories  of  both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  membership.  The 
permanency  and  the  veto  rights  conferred  upon  the 
permanent members have placed them in a category of 
members  that  are  more  equal  than  the  others  in  an 
Organization  whose  Charter 
is  based  on  equal, 
sovereign rights.  
the  United  Nations 
the  United  Nations 
to  make 
09-60665 

5 

to 
the  key 
to  shoulder 
A/64/PV.46 


This  being  the  case  —  and  there  is  every 
likelihood that it will continue to be so for decades to 
come — one way to remedy the situation would be to 
enhance  the  legitimacy,  equitability  and  effectiveness 
of the Council by adding new permanent members. In 
any case, almost 64 years after the establishment of the 
United Nations, it is time that the powers of the current 
permanent  five be shared  with newcomers in the  field 
that  are  ready 
their  fair  share  of 
responsibilities  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  and  in 
the larger interests of the international community. The 
expansion of the Group of Eight into the Group of 20 is 
a  vivid  example  of  the  efforts  to  coordinate  global 
economic  and  financial  governance  at  the  summit 
level. The expansion of the Security Council cannot lag 
behind. 

While  improvements  in  the  working  methods  of 
the Security Council are essential if it is to increase its 
transparency  and  accountability, 
the 
comprehensive  and  meaningful  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  remains  in  its  expansion,  particularly  in  the 
category  of  permanent  membership. A  decisive  action 
on  the  expansion  of  membership  in  the  permanent 
category  will  in  turn  unleash  the  dynamics  to  address 
issues  of  common  concern, 
regional 
representation, equitable geographical distribution, the 
small  and  medium-sized  States  and  the  rotational  seat 
devoted  to  the  small  island  developing  States,  as 
suggested  by  the  Caribbean  Community,  and  the  right 
of veto. 

The  historic  decision  62/557  of  the  General 
Assembly, which, inter alia, called for the commencement 
of intergovernmental negotiations, broke the stalemate 
in the reform of the Security Council, which had been 
stuck  in  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  for  over 
14 years.  In  this  context,  I  should  like  to  take  this 
opportunity 
to  commend  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third  session,  for  expeditiously  implementing 
decision 62/557 to start intergovernmental negotiations 
by appointing Ambassador Zahir Tanin of Afghanistan 
to  chair  such  negotiations  in  informal  plenary  of  the 
General Assembly on his behalf. 
However, we have to admit that the three rounds 

of negotiations held during the sixty-third session were 
more  in  the  nature  of  debate  and  discussions,  with 
Member  States  and  groups  of  States  restating  their 
positions  and  proposals  rather  than  engaging  in  real 
negotiations. Nonetheless, one of the positive results of 
such  as 
the three rounds of negotiations has been the narrowing 
of  the  options  that  could  garner  the  widest  possible 
support.  This  view  was 
implicitly  reinforced  by 
Ambassador Tanin himself who, in his letter of 16 July 
2009,  stated  that  the  model  that  commanded  the  most 
support was an expansion in both categories. 

We  fully  agree  with  this  conclusion,  as  it  really 
translates  his  oft-repeated  commitment 
to  remain 
impartial to any of the positions yet partial to progress. 
In this respect, we encourage Ambassador Zahir Tanin, 
who has been reappointed chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations by the President of the General Assembly, 
to pursue his efforts in a positive direction and produce 
a text that would garner the widest possible support to 
guide Member States in the negotiations. 

We  consider  this  approach  to  be  all  the  more 
logical and rational in the light of the power, trust and 
confidence that the President of the General Assembly 
has placed in him and which we have all unanimously 
approved.  However,  in  the  event  that  the  chair  should 
continue  to  hesitate  to  come  up  with  a  text,  an 
approach driven by Member States will remain a viable 
alternative. In any case, we have no excuse to fail the 
expectations  of  the  heads  of  State  and  Government 
contained 
the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
Document (resolution 60/1), which, inter alia, calls for 
an  early  and  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  that 
Mauritius  remains  steadfast  in  its  support  for  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus,  which  calls  for  two  seats  for 
Africa in the permanent membership category, with all 
the  rights  and  privileges  which  that  category  confers, 
including  the  right  of  veto  so  long  as  it  exists. 
Furthermore,  we  reiterate  our  unequivocal  support  for 
India and for a Latin American and Caribbean country 
as candidates for permanent membership in a reformed 
Security Council. 

for  consultations  and  exhaustive 
time 
deliberations are over. We need to act and act now, as 
was 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of 
the  Philippines  yesterday  (see 
A/64/PV.44).  In  this  context,  we  look  forward  to  the 
resumption of the intergovernmental negotiations, with 
your blessing, Sir, at the earliest possible date. 
Mr. Muita (Kenya): On behalf of my delegation, 

I  wish  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  having 
the  General 
convened 
important  meeting  of 
pointed 
rightly 
The 
this 
in 
out 
by 
6 

09-60665 
that 
statement  with 
that  made  by 
the  Security  Council  has  paid 


the  outset  associate  my 
Assembly.  Let  me  at 
delegation’s 
the 
Permanent Representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of 
the  Group  of  African  States  and  that  made  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  I  also  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Security Council for the report he has 
presented  (A/64/2),  as  well  as  the  Permanent  Mission 
of Uganda for its efforts in drafting this year’s report.  
My  delegation  has  taken  note  of  the  focus  and 

attention 
to 
situations of conflict in Africa, including the high-level 
debate  on  peace  and  security  in Africa  held  in  March 
2009  (see  S/PV.6092).  We  welcome  the  Council’s 
mission  to  Africa,  which  included  visits  to  Ethiopia, 
Rwanda,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and 
Liberia,  to  learn  first-hand  about  the  situation  on  the 
ground.  We  also  note  with  appreciation  that  the 
Council adopted a number of important resolutions on 
fighting piracy off the coast of Somalia, which sends a 
clear signal to the world of the international resolve to 
combat this menace. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  progress  made  in  the 
improvement  of  the  Council’s  working  methods.  The 
report fulfils the Council’s obligation under the United 
Nations Charter and constitutes part of its commitment 
to  increasing  transparency  and  accountability.  We 
welcome  the  measures  that  the  Council  has  taken  to 
conduct  its  business  in  a  more  open  and  inclusive 
manner.  It  is  our  hope,  therefore,  that  this  spirit  of 
engagement with the general membership of the United 
Nations  is  an  indication  of  the  Council’s  intention  to 
genuinely  and  substantially 
its  working 
methods  in  order  to  meet  the  expectations  of  this 
Assembly.  Like  others,  we  note  that,  while  there  has 
been  progress  in  the  working  methods  of  the  Council, 
there  is  still  much  room  for  improvement  so  as  to 
enable 
transparency, 
accountability and inclusiveness. 
Turning  to  agenda  item  119  on  the  question  of 

the 
equitable  representation  on  and 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters, we note that this item has been on the agenda 
of  this  Assembly  for  over  10  years  now.  Progress  on 
this  issue  has  been  slow  and  difficult  because  of  the 
different 
that 
Members  have.  However,  if  we  are  serious  about  the 
need  to  democratize  the  United  Nations,  we  have  to 
work  harder  to  bring  closer  our  different  viewpoints 
interests,  aspirations  and  objectives 
the  Council 
improve 
increase 
achieve 
to 
in 
A/64/PV.46
privileges 
commensurate  with 
towards  a  common  point  of  convergence  that  would 
address the hopes and aspirations of all. 

As our challenges become more and more global, 
the world is increasingly turning to the United Nations 
to  find  a  common  global  path  to  resolve  the  most 
intractable  difficulties  facing  humanity.  There  is  clear 
recognition of the  central  role that the  United Nations 
plays in mapping out common solutions. Therefore, in 
order to better equip the United Nations to meet these 
challenges, it is imperative that the Organization adapt 
and change to reflect current realities. In particular, the 
Security  Council  must  be  enlarged  and  made  more 
democratic and representative of today’s world. In that 
enlargement,  Africa  needs 
to  be  accommodated, 
including in the permanent category, with all the rights 
and 
permanent 
membership. 

As  the  Prime  Minister  of  Kenya  reminded  this 
Assembly  during  his  address  on  Friday,  25  September 
2009,  

“The  world  can  no  longer  continue  to 
marginalize a continent that is home to nearly one 
billion  people.  That  is  wrong  in  principle,  but 
even more, it is wrong in practice. We cannot find 
sustainable solutions to our challenges when such 
a  large  part  of  humanity  is  given  so  little  voice 
and role in that quest for peace” (A/64/PV.8). 

Member States have demonstrated a keen interest 
in  the  process  of  reform,  as  evidenced  by  the  robust 
engagement  throughout  the  first,  second  and  third 
round of negotiations, and we believe that the spirit for 
further  debate  on  the  matter  is  still  alive  and  burning. 
The momentum thus generated during the course of the 
sixty-third  session  of 
to  be 
maintained,  and  indeed  we  need  to  move  forward 
towards concrete proposals aimed at democratizing the 
United Nations. 

In conclusion, let me reiterate that, after years of 
discussions and negotiations on this crucial issue, it is 
now  time  that  we  strive  for  consensus,  bring  together 
those  elements  that  unite  us  and  strive  for  a  solution 
that will garner the widest possible political acceptance 
for a reformed Council. 
Mr. Onemola (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation 

wishes 
you, 
Mr. President,  for  scheduling  this  joint  debate  on 
agenda  item  9,  on  the  report  submitted  to  the  General 
the  Assembly  has 
appreciation 
express 
its 
to 
to 
09-60665 

7 
introducing 
We  appreciate 
the  attention  given 
A/64/PV.46 

Assembly on the activities of the Security Council for 
the period 1 August 2008 to 31 July 2009 (A/64/2), and 
on agenda item 119 on the question of Security Council 
reform.  We  equally  thank  Austria’s  presidency  of  the 
Security  Council  for 
the  report,  and 
Uganda,  whose  duty  it  was,  in  presiding  over  the 
Council for the month of July, to compile the report. 

It  is  evident  from  the  report  before  us  that  the 
Security  Council  had  a  busy  and  productive  session, 
with 228 formal meetings, of which 205 were open to 
the  public  and  18  were  specifically  with  troop-
contributing countries. In addition, 53 resolutions were 
adopted, while 43 presidential statements and 35 press 
statements were issued during the period under review. 

At  this  juncture,  let  me  ally  my  delegation  with 
the statement made by the Permanent Representative of 
Sierra Leone on behalf of the African Group. 

the  opportunity  provided  for 
informal  consultations  with  non-Council  members 
during  the  compilation  of  the  report,  a  laudable 
precedent  set  by  Viet  Nam  in  July  2008.  We  further 
commend 
the 
appropriate  actions  taken  on  some  conflict  situations 
on that continent, as well as the continuous review on a 
regular  basis  of  the  ongoing  peacebuilding  efforts  in 
four African countries.  
The  strengthening  of  the  strategic  partnership 

between the United Nations and regional organizations, 
including the African Union, is much appreciated, as is 
the  ongoing  debate  on  that  issue  in  the  Council.  It  is 
our  fervent  hope  that  all  the  thorny  problems  will  be 
resolved  in  due  course  so  that  the  issue  can  be  given 
the priority attention it deserves. 

The visit of Council members to the headquarters 
of  the  African  Union  and  some  of  the  hotspots  in 
Africa should not only facilitate an exchange of views 
and  interaction  but  also  provide  the  opportunity  for  a 
first-hand  assessment  of  the  situation  on  the  ground. 
We  hope  that  these  exchanges  and  interactions  will 
continue and be improved upon, and we thank Council 
members  for 
their  enduring  contributions 
the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 

Notwithstanding  these  facts,  we  observe  that  the 
format of the report has not changed from the previous 
years.  In  its  present  form,  it  is  more  of  a  narrative, 
lacking 
information  and  analysis.  My 
delegation  would  therefore  prefer  to  see  a  situation 
to  Africa  and 
in-depth 
to 

whereby  the  informal  consultations  with  non-Council 
members commence during the first draft of the report. 
We  also  want  to  emphasize  the  need  for  the  report  to 
reflect the issues that the Council has deliberated upon 
but on which no decisions have been taken. 

As  regards  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  we 
would  like  to  reiterate  the  following.  First,  the  great 
strides  made  during  the  sixty-second  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  gave  birth  to  decision  62/557  and 
ushered  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  That 
decision remains a watershed after the lacklustre period 
of  the  Open-ended Working  Group.  In  this  regard,  we 
would  like  to  pay  glowing  tribute  to  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann for the report of the Open-ended 
Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the 
Security  Council,  contained  in  document  A/63/47. 
Mr. Zahir  Tanin,  our  indefatigable  chairman,  also 
deserves  our  commendation  for  his  outstanding  work 
during the past year, which has no doubt contributed to 
his reappointment. 

Delegations and groups have been given adequate 
opportunity 
their  views  and  positions 
exhaustively on all five variables contained in decision 
62/557. We therefore see no use for the continuation of 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group,  notwithstanding 
paragraph 17 (c) of the Working Group’s report. 

We  maintain  the  view  that  any  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  will  not  be  complete  without  an 
increase  in  the  size  and  composition  of  the  Security 
Council  so  as  to  reflect  current  global  trends  and 
realities.  Such  a  reform  should  make  the  governance 
structure  of  the  Council  more  representative,  more 
efficient,  more  transparent  and  more  legitimate,  given 
the  series  of  changes  that  have  taken  place  in  power 
relations  over  the  past  60  years. This  will  also  enable 
the Council to gain in stature and credibility, especially 
as several political and economic actors have emerged 
on 
to 
contribute 
of 
international  peace  and  security  and 
to  regional 
stability. A reformed Security Council should therefore 
provide an opportunity for greater access and effective 
participation for small and large States alike, such that 
no  Member  State  should  be  marginalized  or  given 
undue representation. 
the  capacity 
the  maintenance 
international  scene  with 
to  express 
immensely 
the 
to 
8 

09-60665 
their  preferences  during 



Nigeria  supports  the  ongoing  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We 
deplore, however, the foot-dragging approach of some 
members,  which  have  formed  the  habit  of  introducing 
inexplicable  variables  to  distract  from  the  ongoing 
negotiations  process.  We  believe  that  the  time  has 
come for us to work towards achieving concrete results 
on  those  elements  on  which  Member  States  have 
expressed 
the  series  of 
negotiations. 

The case of Africa is a clear demonstration of the 
lack  of  equity  in  the  Council.  A  region  with  53 
members  remains  unrepresented  in  the  permanent-seat 
category of the Security Council; nor has it fared better 
in the non-permanent category, with only three seats. It 
is in this regard that we call for this historical injustice 
to  be  redressed,  so  that  for  the  26  seats  proposed  for 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories,  Africa 
will  be  given  special  consideration,  with  at  least  two 
representatives  in  the  permanent  category  and  five  in 
the  non-permanent  category.  Other  regions  currently 
underrepresented, such as the Caribbean, the Group of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  Asia  and  the 
small  island  developing  States,  should  be  given  their 
fair due. 

The  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council 
should  not  be  the  prerogative  of  members  of  the 
Council  alone,  especially  given 
the  expanding 
activities  undertaken  by 
their 
attendant  financial,  legal  and  security  implications  for 
Council  and  non-Council  members  alike.  We  further 
call  for  the  Council’s  decision-making  process  to  be 
transparent and accountable. This will encourage more 
non-Council  members  to  develop  more  interest  in  the 
activities  of  the  Council  and  get  more  involved  in 
sharing its burden. In this regard, Nigeria supports the 
proposals  on  transparency,  accountability  and  other 
measures proposed by the group of five small nations. 
We  urge  Member  States  to  deeply  reflect  on  those 
proposals and give them the necessary support. 
Nigeria equally supports an enhanced relationship 

between 
the  Security 
Council,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  The  Council 
must  avoid  encroaching  on  the  responsibilities  and 
competencies of the General Assembly.  

We believe that the time is ripe for the chairman 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  to  produce  a 
composite  paper  containing  proposals  and  views  of 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Council  with 
A/64/PV.46
I  also  wish 
to  express  our  appreciation 
Member States and assessing the level of acceptability 
of those proposals. 

To conclude and on behalf of the Government and 
people  of  Nigeria,  allow  me  to  express  our  profound 
gratitude to all Member States for the mandate given to 
us through their votes on 15 October 2009 to contribute 
to  the  efforts  to  promote  and  maintain  international 
peace  and  security.  We  will  guard  this  mandate 
jealously  and  put  it  to  the  service  not  only  of Africa, 
but of the international community at large. Our efforts 
in  the  Council  will  be  characterized  by  solidarity, 
cooperation, commitment and consultation. We believe 
that, through forthright determination, we can all stand 
together and  muster the desired political will that will 
lead to a reformed Security Council. 
Mr. Apakan  (Turkey):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

thanking  you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this  joint 
meeting,  which  provides  a  good  opportunity  to  reflect 
on the activities of the Security Council as well as on 
the Council’s ongoing reform process. 
to 

Ambassador  Thomas  Mayr-Harting, 
Permanent 
Representative of Austria and President of the Security 
Council  for 
the  month  of  November  2009,  for 
presenting  the  annual  report  of  the  Council  to  the 
General Assembly (A/64/2). I would also like to thank 
the delegation of Uganda for its efforts in preparing the 
report and coordinating it with Member States. 

The  report  provides  an  accurate  account  of  the 
Council’s  work  and  demonstrates  the  multiplicity  of 
the  issues  that  are  on  its  agenda.  It  also  points  to  a 
heavy  workload  whereby  African  issues,  particularly 
within  the  context  of  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
efforts,  remain  at  the  forefront.  Finally,  the  report 
points,  albeit  indirectly,  to  many  of  the  important 
challenges  that  lie  ahead  for  the  Council  and,  indeed, 
for our Organization as a whole.  
As  a  member  of  the  Council  for  the  term  2009-

its  own 
2010,  Turkey  will  continue 
perspective  and  contributions 
those 
challenges during its Council membership and beyond. 
We have also carefully listened to the views expressed 
by  Member  States  regarding  the  nature  of  the  report. 
As a member of the Council, we will do our utmost in 
taking  them  on  board,  to  the  extent  possible,  in  the 
preparation of next year’s report. 
to  provide 
in  addressing 
09-60665 

9 

A/64/PV.46 


I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
briefly reiterate Turkey’s position on Security Council 
reform.  Turkey  remains  fully  committed  to  reform  of 
the  Council  that  will  render  it  more  democratic, 
representative,  accountable  and  transparent.  Although 
much has been accomplished in this direction in recent 
years, there is still much room for improvement of the 
working methods of the Council to further enhance its 
transparency,  accountability  and  inclusiveness.  We 
therefore encourage the Council to continue its efforts 
to  that  end.  In  addition,  we  also  believe  that  Security 
Council  reform  is  closely  related  to  the  revitalization 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  that,  hence,  these  two 
processes should continue to proceed simultaneously. 

My  country  has  taken  an  active  part  in  the  work 
of the Open-ended Working Group on Security Council 
reform  as  well  as  the  subsequent  intergovernmental 
negotiations that began in February 2009. Although the 
past  three  rounds  of  intergovernmental  negotiations 
have been useful in examining the negotiable elements 
and  exploring  the  basic  linkages  among  them,  we 
believe  that  the  membership  remains  divided  on  such 
issues  as  the  categories  of  membership  and  the 
question of the veto. 

We do not see much merit in dwelling too much 
on  those  issues  in  the  forthcoming  rounds  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Rather,  we  should  try 
to make progress by setting aside for the moment those 
divergent  views  and  concentrating  instead  on  those 
ideas  that  have  the  potential  to  secure  the  widest 
possible  political  support  among  members.  Let  me 
briefly explain how we could still make progress in the 
face of our differences.  

As a member of the Council which began serving 
on it after almost half a century of its existence, Turkey 
benefits  immensely  from  this  unique  experience  and 
responsibility.  We  believe  that  that  experience  should 
not be the sole prerogative of a privileged minority, but 
has to be available to all aspiring Member States, large 
or small, developed or least developed. 

In  particular,  those  Member  States  that  are 
endowed  with  the  means  and  capabilities  to  provide 
peace  and  stability  in  their  region  and  beyond  should 
be allowed to take a more active part in the work of the 
Council.  We  would  therefore  be  supportive  of  the 
extended representation of such Member States on the 
Council.  We  believe  that  the  intermediate  approach, 
consisting  of  renewable  or  longer-term  seats,  could 
Another  way 
provide  such  an  extended  representation.  We  stand 
ready to further explore this idea in subsequent rounds 
of the intergovernmental negotiations. 
to  move  forward  despite  our 

differences  of  opinion  as 
regards  categories  of 
membership  may  be  to  think  of  ways  to  uphold  the 
principle of regional representation and to reach a more 
equitable  geographical  distribution  in  the  Council. 
Such an approach could be less objectionable to many 
of  us  than  discussing  if  and  how  the  permanent 
membership  of  a  particular  group  of  Member  States 
could enhance regional representation in the Council. 

The  present  composition  of  the  Security  Council 
reflects a certain balance of power — that of the post-
Second  World  War  period.  Most  of  the  proposals  that 
are  presently  on  the  table  aim  to  continue  to  modify 
that  balance  of  power  and  adapt  it  to  the  realities  of 
today’s world. However, we also believe that there is a 
need  for  the  reformed  Council  to  reflect  a  set  of 
common  values,  in  addition  to  a  broader  power 
structure. 

Indeed, the composition of the Council should be 
based  more  on  values  and  principles.  Democracy, 
multilateralism, accountability and regional representation 
are  some  of  these  values  and  principles.  They  fully 
coincide with the principles and values that our group 
advocates  and  stands  for.  In  the  future,  we  will 
continue  to  build  upon  and  be  guided  by  those 
principles in a constructive manner. 
Mr.  Shalgham  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  associate 
ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Group.  I  would  like  to  add  some  observations  which 
Libya  believes  are  important  for  Security  Council 
reform. 

There is no doubt that the Security Council, in its 
current composition, reflects the balance of power that 
prevailed  in  1945,  when  most  current  Member  States 
were  under  the  yoke  of  colonization.  The  African 
continent  was  most  affected  by  those  arrangements, 
which  were  reached  after  the  Second  World  War, 
including  the  composition  of  the  Security  Council, 
which  was  achieved  without 
input  of  most 
Members of the United Nations.  

Now  that  African  countries  have  achieved  their 
independence,  they  represent  more  than  one  fourth  of 
the 
10 

09-60665 


the  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  give 
them  their  fair  share  and  recognize  their  rights.  We 
must  rectify  the  historic  injustice  done  to  those 
countries  and  put  an  end  to  their  marginalization.  To 
give those countries the chance to be fairly represented 
in  the  Security  Council,  we  should  give  Africa  two 
permanent seats with all the competence and privileges 
of  the  current  permanent  seats,  including  the  veto 
privilege, and five non-permanent seats, in accordance 
with  African  demands  as  contained  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. One of those two 
permanent seats should be given now, before the end of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  so  that Africa  can 
be  on  an  equal  footing  with  other  regional  groups  in 
the process of intergovernmental negotiations. 
The  current  composition  of  the  Security  Council 

in  the  permanent  category,  made  up  as  it  is  of  certain 
countries  acting  in  their  national  capacity,  has  been 
unsuccessful. We all know that the Security Council in 
its  current  composition  has  failed  to  be  a  democratic, 
transparent  means  for  achieving  international  peace 
and  security.  This  is  due  to  the  control  exerted  by 
certain permanent members over the Council who have 
abused  the  veto  to  promote  their  narrow  national 
interests.  

It  is  incumbent  on  all  of  us  to  rectify  this 
situation,  to  put  an  end  to  national  selfishness  and  to 
think  of  a  way  to  preserve  the  United  Nations  as  a 
forum  for  collective  work, 
to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  achieve  development 
and prosperity and ensure the enjoyment of basic rights 
and freedoms for all. We must all work together so that 
the Security Council is credible and a radical change is 
brought about in the permanent seats by replacing these 
seats  with  others  allocated  to  regional  groups  such  as 
the European Union, the African Union, a confederation 
of Latin American States, the Association of Southeast 
Asian  Nations,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  United 
States and the League of Arab States.  
All  States  representing  such  groups  should  have 

the same rights and obligations. The veto right should 
belong  to  all  or  to  none.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
competencies  of 
the  Security  Council  should  be 
transferred to the General Assembly so that the Council 
can be the tool for the implementation of resolutions of 
the  General  Assembly,  which 
legitimate 
representative  of  all  States.  We  still  believe  that  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  does  not  give  a  clear 
picture  about  what  actually  happens  in  the  Security 
in  order 
is 
the 
A/64/PV.46
to  General  Assembly 
Council.  It  does  not  reflect  the  stated  commitment  of 
the  Council 
resolutions, 
particularly  the  commitment  to  refrain  from  too  much 
narrative and to include an analysis of  the bases upon 
which  the  resolutions  of  the  Council  were  adopted.  It 
should reflect the position of other States, particularly 
permanent-member  States.  The  report  should  indicate 
the reasons that prevented the Council from taking firm 
positions concerning important questions having to do 
with international peace and security. 

We  hope  that  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
will in the future be more useful. It should include the 
details of what is preventing the Council from carrying 
out  its  mandate  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security. We hope that the General Assembly 
will act within the appropriate time  frame to make  up 
for  the  occasional  failure  of  the  Security  Council 
owing to the use of the veto privilege. 
Mr.  Goledzinowski  (Australia):  The  advantage 

of  speaking  so  late  in  this  debate  is  that  most  things 
have already been said, so I will at least try to keep my 
comments brief. 
First,  we  thank  the  Security  Council  for  the 

submission  of  its  annual  report  (A/64/2)  and  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Austria,  Ambassador 
Mayr-Harting, for his introduction of the report to the 
General Assembly. 

We do appreciate the consultation process offered 
to  non-members  of  the  Security  Council  by  the 
delegations of Uganda, Viet Nam and Austria, but, like 
so  many  others  who  have  spoken  before  me,  we  do 
regret  the  absence  of  robust  analysis  of  the  Council’s 
work,  which  we  think  would  make  it  a  much  more 
valuable document. 

On  the  vexed  question  of  Security  Council 
reform,  while  the  exchange  today  and  yesterday  has 
been  intellectually  very  interesting  and  substantively 
very  important,  we  wonder  about  how  useful  it  has 
really been. This is not intended as a criticism of any of 
those who have participated in this debate. It is merely 
an observation of the fact that little progress has been 
achieved  thus  far  in  closing  the  gaps  between  our 
respective positions. Nevertheless, as a delegation, we 
have  paid  very  close  attention  to  what  has  been  said 
today and yesterday. 

Mr.  Mohamad (Sudan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.  
09-60665 

11 
take 
to 
should 
A/64/PV.46 


We have followed the debate very closely and we 
have  paid  very  close  attention  to  all  of  the  views  that 
have been expressed. Against that background, Australia 
continues  to  support  an  enlargement  of  the  Council  in 
both categories: permanent and elected members. 
In  terms  of  permanent  membership,  we  believe 

into  account 
that  expansion 
that 
representation 
and 
appropriate 
geographic 
acknowledge  contributions 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  On  that  basis,  in  our 
view,  a  country  like  Japan,  for  example,  should  be 
included  as  a  permanent  member,  because  of  the 
weight  it  carries  in  the  international  system  and  the 
contribution that it makes.  

We  also  envisage  that  an  expanded  Council 
would  include  appropriate  representation  for Africa,  a 
region that includes more than a quarter of the United 
Nations  membership.  African  delegates  have  told  us, 
over recent meetings, that they are seeking a minimum 
of  two  seats  in  the  Council  as  permanent  seats.  That 
seems to us reasonable. One of the very early speakers 
yesterday  referred  to Africa’s  absence  from  the  ranks 
of the permanent membership as an historical injustice. 
That does not seem to be an unreasonable observation. 
We  also  support  redressing  the  absence  of  permanent 
representation for Latin America. 

Separate  from  the  question  of  expansion  of  the 
Council,  we  as  a  delegation  are  very  focused  on  the 
issue of reform of the working methods of the Security 
Council,  which  we 
to 
enhancing the credibility of the United Nations and its 
capacity to fulfil the goals set out in our Charter. 

I would like to take this opportunity to also thank 
Ambassador  Tanin  of  Afghanistan  for  his  continued 
efforts  and  diligence  as  chair  in  the  negotiations 
seeking to bring Member States closer to a consensus. 
He has a very difficult job, and we would like to assure 
him of Australia’s continued support and confidence. I 
would  also  like  to  welcome  the  offer  made  at  the 
opening of this debate by the President of the General 
Assembly to take a greater role in the proceedings and 
his  offer  to  help  lead  us  towards  a  consensus  on  this 
important issue. 

We look forward to contributing constructively to 
the  next  round  of  negotiations,  with  the  guiding 
principle of  achieving a Security Council that is more 
representative and therefore acts with greater authority, 
unity and credibility. However, there is also one danger 
is  absolutely  vital 
think 

in  our  proceedings,  which  we  think  we  have  be 
cognizant of. That is that if we fail to make progress, it 
is entirely possible that the increasing divisions among 
Member  States  and  the  increasing  focus  on  that  one 
issue  —  that  nut  that  we  fail  to  crack  —  may  start  to 
distract  us  from  other  important  elements  of  business 
and  could  begin  to  negatively  affect  the  tone  and 
atmosphere  in  which  we  do  our  other  work.  That  is 
something we have to be very careful of, and we must 
ensure that we are wary of that trap. 
Mr. Bodini (San Marino): I should like to thank 

the President for organizing this joint debate on agenda 
items  9  and  119.  I  also  wish  to  thank  Ambassador 
Mayr-Harting  of Austria  for  introducing  the  report  of 
the Security Council (A/64/2). 

I want to briefly address agenda item 119, on the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. I take note of the President’s strong interest in 
advancing such reform, and I am delighted that he has 
retained Ambassador Tanin as the facilitator for such a 
difficult task. 
Over the past 12 months we noticed a substantial 

improvement 
the  negotiation  process  on  such 
fundamental reform. We strongly believe that we have 
to 
to  achieve  a  satisfactory 
compromise  on  Security  Council  reform  within  a 
reasonable  period  of  time.  A  larger  Council,  more 
geographically  balanced 
representation  and  more 
transparent  working  methods,  taking  account  of  new 
world  realities  —  these  are  very  fundamental  and  just 
issues.  Our  difficulty  in  reaching  a  comprehensive 
agreement  lies  on  our  inability  to  subordinate  our 
national interests to international ones. 
We have to work towards a compromise solution 

that will not please any of us at a national level but will 
enhance  the  confidence  of  all  of  us  in  the  Security 
Council and its crucial role at the United Nations. San 
Marino  is  ready  to  do  its  part  in  this  collegial  effort. 
We Member States do not have the luxury to fail again 
and  again  and  again.  We  must  move  forward  in  the 
interests of the Security Council, the General Assembly 
and the United Nations. 
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 

Spanish): We thank the President for having convened 
this  meeting. At  the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, under the guidance and leadership of Father 
Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  the  intergovernmental 
renew  our  efforts 
in 
12 

09-60665 


negotiation process finally began to seriously consider, 
once  and  for  all,  the  pressing  reforms  needed  in  the 
Security  Council.  We  express  our  deepest  recognition 
to Father Miguel and to our brother Ambassador Zahir 
Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan,  for 
their efforts. We welcome the continuity of this reform 
process in the person of Ambassador Tanin, whom we 
thank for his valuable leadership. 

As  I  have  just  mentioned,  we  have  finally  seen 
the  beginning  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
which  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States  had  been 
demanding  for  several  decades.  The  position  of 
Nicaragua  on  this  matter  has  been  expressed  with 
sufficient clarity in the past. We will, therefore, be very 
brief and to the point. 

There  exists  an  almost-universal  consensus 
favouring  abolition  of  the  veto  right.  We  believe  that 
we  must  move  forward  accordingly.  The  use,  abuse 
and/or threat of the use of the veto — an anachronism 
and  anti-democratic  practice  —  must  be  corrected  in 
these reforms. As we move forward with these reforms, 
which we hope will ultimately result in the elimination 
of the veto, we support proposals aimed at limiting or 
restraining  its  use.  In  any  case,  the  General Assembly 
should  have  the  right  to  override  any  veto  by  the 
permanent members of the Security Council. 

An  enormous  majority  agrees  on  the  need  for  a 
genuine,  profound  reform  that  includes  the  expansion 
of  Council  membership  in  both  categories  —  that  of 
permanent  members,  with  all  attendant  prerogatives 
and privileges, including the right to the veto, and that 
of  non-permanent  members.  Expansion 
in  both 
categories  should  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with 
genuine equitable geographical distribution. 
Nicaragua  firmly  supports  the  initiatives  and 

demands  of  our  brothers  of  the  African  Union.  The 
African  positions  on  the  veto  should  be  incorporated 
and  Council  membership  should  be  enlarged  to  25  or 
26.  We  also  support  the  initiative  of  our  brothers,  the 
members of the Caribbean Community. 

The  relationship  between  the  General  Assembly 
and the Security Council is a topic of vital importance 
in 
representative 
nature  and  efficiency  of  the  United  Nations.  That 
relationship  should  therefore  be  examined  in  all  its 
dimensions,  including  all  the  proposals,  which  should 
be  taken  very  seriously  into  account  if  we  want  to 
achieve genuine reform of the Security Council. 
the  democratization, 
legitimacy, 
A/64/PV.46
interfere 

A  matter  of  particular  concern  is  the  need  to 
democratize  the  process  for  electing  the  Secretary-
General, which should be done through a real election 
in  the  General  Assembly.  Similarly,  the  Security 
Council  must  not 
in  affairs  which  fall 
exclusively  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

We have already said that the working methods of 
the Security Council leave much to be desired. There is 
a need for working methods that transform the Council 
into  a  more  transparent,  inclusive  and  participatory 
organ,  and  which  render  it  accountable  to  the  General 
Assembly in an effective way. Nicaragua supports and 
will support proposals put forward with that intent. 

The  historic  aspirations  and  demands  of  Africa, 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  and  Asia  in  these 
Security Council reforms must no longer be blocked or 
denied.  To  that  end,  we  hope  for  the  immediate 
continuation  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  It 
is  indispensable  that  we  have  for  that  a  document  to 
serve  as  a  basis  for  our  work  and  which  summarizes 
the  positions  of  Member  States  that  have  received 
broad support. 
Mr.  Goutondji  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  is  grateful  to  the  President  for  having 
convened this plenary meeting to examine items 9 and 
119  of  the  agenda  of  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the 
General Assembly.  

My  delegation  endorses  the  statement  made  on 
these items by the Permanent Representative of Sierra 
Leone  on  behalf  of 
(see 
A/64/PV.43). 

sincere 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  Security  Council 
for  his  brilliant  presentation  of  the  Council’s  annual 
report. And  it  is  clear  when  one  reads  the  report  that 
during the  reporting period the Council carried  out  an 
important 
tackle  serious 
challenges  linked  to  peacekeeping  and  international 
security.  The  Council  took  very  significant  decisions, 
such  as  increasing  the  number  of  staff  of  the  United 
Nations  Organization  Mission 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and adopting two resolutions to 
combat sexual violence against women and children, a 
criminal practice that has been turned into a weapon of 
war. 
the  African  Group 
express  our 
range  of  activities 
to 
in 
We 
should 
like 
to 
09-60665 

13 

as 
that 
such 
Strengthening 
cooperation  with 
remarkable  progress, 
A/64/PV.46 


regional 
organizations, in particular the African Union, has also 
seen 
following 
consideration  of  the  Prodi  report  on  peacekeeping  in 
Africa  (see  A/63/666).  This  made  it  possible  to 
establish  terms  and  conditions  for  the  financing  of 
peacekeeping  operations,  carried  out  by  the  Union 
under a Security Council mandate. 

The Council should continue to think more about 
various  aspects  of  this  question  in  order  to  contribute 
to  ensuring 
the  10-year  capacity-building 
programme  for  the AU  is  fully  implemented.  We  also 
welcome  the  regular  visits  by  the  Council,  as  well  as 
the joint sessions with the Peace and Security Council 
in Addis Ababa. 

Over  and  beyond  what  the  Council  has  done  in 
terms  of  fulfilling  its  mission,  there  are  critical 
situations in which the expectations of Member States 
have either still not been met or have not been met on 
time,  because  of  differences  of  opinion  within  the 
Council.  If  the  Council  were  to  establish  a  uniform 
practice  for  dealing  with  the  same  kinds  of  acts  and 
were  to  focus  on  preventive  rather  than  reactive 
measures,  it  would  significantly  increase  its  clout  and 
its credibility. 

In  that  regard,  it  is  important  that  the  Security 
Council  find  the  right  method  to  react  promptly  to 
situations  that  endanger  thousands  of  people,  as  was 
the  case  in  the  Gaza  conflict.  When  the  lives  of 
civilians are in danger, one day of dithering or arguing 
is one day too much, and it is better to take early action 
or warn the actors than to vote on sanctions afterwards 
or  prosecution  as  retribution for  abuse  committed that 
could  have  been  avoided  had  a  credible  deterrent 
stance been taken. 

We commend the efforts made by the Council to 
promote  transparency  of  its  decisions  by  applying 
corrective  measures 
its  activities  more 
inclusive  and  more  accessible  to  Member  States. This 
is  part  of  the  role  of  listening  and  openness  that  we 
expect from the Council. We encourage the members of 
the  Council  to  continue  their  consideration  of  its 
working  methods  and  to  closely  examine  the  various 
proposals  made  by  Member  States  seeking 
to 
strengthen the Council’s effectiveness. 

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  believes  in  the 
principle  that  the  bodies  must  remain  masters  of  their 
own procedure. But that prerogative must be exercised 
to  make 
in  a  way  that  makes  their  work  predictable  and  thus 
more  credible.  In  other  words,  the  Security  Council 
should  be  at  the  forefront  in  reforming  its  working 
methods.  Member  States  are  urgently  calling  for  such 
reform, so that they can feel a part of how the Council 
deals  with  situations  falling  within  its  remit,  and  the 
Council  cannot  avoid  this  if  it  wishes  to  continue  to 
enjoy their confidence.  

A  revision  of  the  Council’s  working  methods 
could  compensate  a  bit  for  the  lack  of  legitimacy 
stemming  from  the  Council’s  inappropriate  structure, 
given the current geopolitical situation. The significant 
changes that followed the end of the cold war must be 
borne in mind. 

Over  and  above  the  nearly  fourfold  increase  in 
the  number  of  States  Members  of  the  Organization, 
from 50 to approximately 200, there has also been the 
emergence of new Powers that are able and willing to 
shoulder  their  global  responsibilities.  The  collective 
security system must integrate them at the appropriate 
level,  so  that  it  maintains  its  full  credibility  as  the 
universal  framework  for  tackling  challenges  facing 
humanity.  Thus,  indefinitely  postponing  reform  of  the 
Council, 
equitable 
representation  of  Member  States  within  it,  is  likely  to 
be fraught with risks.  

Benin supports expanding the Council in both the 
permanent 
the  non-permanent  membership 
categories, and it is not the only country that thinks so. 
The intergovernmental negotiations that took place this 
year  have  shown  one  thing:  the  vast  majority  of 
Member  States  are  in  favour  of  the  formula  of 
expanding the Council in both categories. 

Clearly,  this  is  not  the  time  for  experimentation, 
which  is  what  the  intermediary  or  interim  formula 
proposes. Such schemes stem from national constraints 
rather than from an awareness of the challenges facing 
humanity  and 
international 
community as a whole. So, in this  regard, moving the 
Council  away  from  the  realm  of  decision-making  and 
taking responsibility into the realm of experimentation 
is only going to weaken it and lead to an erosion of its 
authority.  

We want a representative Council that has its full 
legitimacy,  so  that  it  can  take  action  that  is  both 
decisive  and  responsible 
the 
challenges facing humanity, because humanity needs to 
to  credibly  manage 
interests  of 
seeks 
have 
that 
one 
and 
to 
the 
the 
14 

09-60665 
if 
their  worthy 
The  Council  cannot  be  representative 


have  a  constitutive  integrated  authority  to  cope  with 
those challenges. 

Let  us  make  progress  based  on  certainties  rather 
than  suppositions.  One  thing  is  certain,  because  it  is 
part  of  the  logic  of  functionality  and  capacity:  the 
Security  Council  consists  of  its  permanent  members 
and  non-permanent  members  and  nothing  else,  and  it 
cannot  embody  the  legitimacy  required  if  it  continues 
to  exclude  Africa  from  the  category  of  permanent 
members  and  thereby  prolongs  the  historic  injustice 
done  to  that  continent  when  the  Organization  was 
established.  

it 
continues to impose on Africans the agony of enduring 
the  absence  of 
representatives  at 
conclaves in which their destiny is being decided. The 
demands  of  Africa  are  well  known.  The  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration  are  unequivocal: 
at  least  two  permanent  seats  and  five  non-permanent 
seats.  It  is  a  matter  of  arithmetic,  not  variable 
geometry. 

That  said,  we  must  adopt  the  best  methods  for 
negotiation in order to make rapid progress on working 
out  a  consensual  definition  of  the  shape  of  Council 
reform.  We  urge  the  facilitator  to  present  a  summary 
document  at  the  start  of  the  next  negotiation  cycle. 
That  would  mean  that  we  could  start  the  decision-
making process as soon as possible. 

The  reform  will  either  be  democratic  or  not.  In 
either case, we will be making a choice. It is a choice 
between  order  and  disorder,  salvation  and  perdition. 
Let us make sure that we take the right decision at the 
right time. 
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau)  (spoke  in  French): 

Year  after  year,  an  impressive  number  of  colleagues 
come up to this rostrum, one after the other, to express 
their views on the report of the Security Council. That 
is  a  good  thing,  because  we  all  understand  the 
importance of the role of the Security Council. I think 
that  we  have  heard  here  what  we  in  my  delegation 
consider to be the expression of exasperation, a degree 
of  frustration  and  prudent  optimism.  I  personally  here 
would like to express optimism.  

The report introduced to us excellently illustrates 
the  significant  work  accomplished  by  the  members  of 
the  Security  Council.  Here,  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to 
them.  I  would  like  to  thank  the  members  of  the 
A/64/PV.46
to 
respond  promptly  and  efficiently 
Security  Council  for  the  work  that  they  have  carried 
out  over  the  period  under  review:  53  resolutions, 
43 presidential  statements,  55  press  releases.  I  am 
mentioning  just  a  few  of  them,  because  that  is  not  all 
the work that they have performed. We know how the 
Security  Council  works,  because  our  country  was 
represented on it about 13 years ago.  

But everyone knows the degree of determination 
and  conviction  required  to  reach  agreement  on  a 
resolution.  The  number  53  does  not  by  itself  indicate 
the  amount  of  work  required.  Much  negotiation  and 
discussion is needed, in private, of course. Much work 
is needed, and I think the General Assembly should be 
willing  to  recognize  that  work,  insofar  as  it  is  we 
ourselves,  the  General Assembly,  who  have  conferred 
on  the  Security  Council  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.  

Article  24  of  the  Charter  is  clear.  We  have  not 
abdicated  our  duties  and  obligations  as  the  General 
Assembly — the Assembly of all nations, all seated on 
an equal plane — but we judged that it was essential to 
create  an  instrument,  an  organ  able,  as  the  Charter 
says, 
to 
emergencies. That is the specific nature of the Security 
Council.  

When we take up the discussion of the report — 
and  I  will  come  back  to  this  point,  which  is  tied  to 
questions  of  reform,  et  cetera  —  we  must  retain  that 
central  idea  of  primary  responsibility,  which  means 
that somewhere there exists a subsidiary responsibility. 
There  is  no  primary  responsibility  without  subsidiary 
responsibility.  We  here  are  responsible  for  what 
happens,  and  it  falls  to  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly to fulfil our obligations and to fully assume 
that  responsibility.  Article  10  of  the  Charter,  for 
example,  is  very  clear.  Article  10  provides  that  — 
allow  me  to  repeat  very  briefly  —  the Assembly  may 
discuss  questions  relating  to  international  peace  and 
security, with the understanding that we are careful to 
exclude matters that are the exclusive responsibility of 
the Council, as foreseen in Article 12.  

We also have the responsibility to address certain 
situations,  and  I  think  that  in  this  matter  too  there  is 
much to do here in the General Assembly to ensure that 
we fulfil our responsibilities, that we proceed to urgent 
reforms  in  the  matter  of  the  Assembly’s  working 
methods  to  be  in  tune  with  those  responsibilities  that 
are shared.  
09-60665 

15 

illustrates 
A/64/PV.46 


I would like to thank the President of the Security 
Council  for  his  report,  which,  as  I  said  earlier,  quite 
amply 
the  work  accomplished  by  our 
colleagues who sit on the Council. We are most pleased 
that  among  them  there  are  three  representatives  of  the 
African  continent.  We  know  that  the  Council  turns  its 
attention  very  often  —  perhaps  even  too  often  —  to 
conflict  situations  in  Africa.  That  is  why  we  Africans 
believe  we  have  a  specific  responsibility  in  relation  to 
the  Security  Council,  and  not  only  as  participants  in 
debates when the debates are open. Here, we are pleased 
to note that open debates are more and more common — 
and that needs to be stated as a simple fact — and that, 
fortunately,  we  whose  countries  appear  on  the  Council 
agenda  are  increasingly  involved  in  the  discussions. 
That is as it should be. 

The  work  that  went  into  preparing  the  Security 
Council’s  report  shows  the  progress  that  has  been 
made. Under the auspices of the representative of Viet 
Nam last year, fruitful communication was established 
that  allowed  our  ideas  and  opinions  to  be  taken  into 
account  in  the  preparation  of  the  report,  which  was 
very  well  handled  by  the  representative  of  Uganda, 
whom we thank. 

Indeed there is much yet to do, but we should not 
be in too great a rush. Those who are here long enough 
know that even if we have not entirely reached our goals 
there  has  been  progress  in  the  matter  of  the  increased 
transparency  that  we  have  wanted  for  the  Security 
Council;  in  the  matter  of  respecting Article  31  and  32, 
which  deal  with  the  participation  of  non-members;  and 
even in the matter of rule 48 of the provisional rules of 
procedure  —  still  provisional,  as  a  colleague  has  just 
remarked,  a  colleague  who  would  like  open  debates  to 
be  more  common  than  closed  meetings.  But  what 
matters  is  results.  We  should  encourage  the  Council 
members  to  make  still  more  progress,  but  more  than 
anything else we should try to foment a dynamic that is 
conducive  to  the  changes  that  we  call  for  with  all  our 
hearts.  
I  would  like  to  address  a  question  that  is  tied  to 

equitable 
the  expansion  of 
membership  in  the  Council.  We  have  heard  brilliant 
ideas  and  suggestions  that  we  believe  are  capable  of 
pushing the process we have embarked on forward into 
a  much  more  official  sphere.  We  finally  decided  to 
carry  on 
the 
energetic  instigation  of  our  colleague  Mr.  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan.  
intergovernmental  negotiations,  at 
representation  and 
in 

Now we should not only take an interest in these 
matters  but  demonstrate  more  rationality.  We  need  to 
know  how  not  to  lose  our  heads  in  addressing  the 
question  of  fundamental  reforms 
the  Security 
Council. We believe that no one should come here with 
preconceptions,  with  ideas  already  formed.  We  are  in 
the midst of  a negotiation  dynamic, which is no place 
for  unbending  positions.  Of  course  we  all  started  out 
with negotiating positions, as we should, but we should 
come  here  in  a  spirit  of  open-mindedness,  willing  not 
just to listen to what is said around us but to take it into 
account when that is what is called for. It is a matter of 
a process of give and take.  

We cannot come here to impose our point of view 
on others, but it goes without saying that the Security 
Council  as  it  exists  today  cannot  continue.  We  must 
recognize, as was rightly said earlier, the changes that 
have occurred in the world. We are no longer in 1945; 
that  is  obvious.  We  must  act  so  that  the  Council, 
through  representation  that  is  more  democratic,  can 
take those changes into account. We must act so that a 
more  open  space  can  enable  other  Members  to  enter 
and play the role envisaged for them today, given their 
economic  and  financial  clout,  surely,  but  above  all 
given  the  role  that  they  are  already  playing  as  troop 
contributors  and  financial  providers  in  the  budgetary 
realm  —  because  there  must  be  a  budget  and  there 
must  also  be  countries  that,  fortunately,  contribute  to 
financing the activities of the United Nations.  

Therefore,  we  must  take  all  of  that  into  account 
so  that  —  taking  inspiration  from  the  provisions  of 
Article  23,  which  clearly  defines 
the  conditions 
according  to  which  a  State  can  accede  to  the  Security 
Council  —  we  open  the  Council  in  a  way  that  is 
democratic  but  not  brutal. We  must  act  in  such  a  way 
that  everyone  is  included  in  the  give-and-take  process 
so  that  we  arrive  at  the  same  conclusion.  That  is,  the 
Security  Council  will  be  better  able  to  respond  to  its 
obligations, to fulfil the role that devolves to it by the 
terms of Article 24, inter alia, and to be more effective 
in responding to conflicts and challenges.  

To  do  that  we  must  demonstrate  a  constructive 
spirit  here  in  this  Assembly.  We  must  enter  the 
negotiations  with  enough  open-mindedness  so  that  we 
can move forward.  
As  I  said  earlier,  however,  let  us  act  wisely.  We 

are  not  going 
that  upsets 
everything  or  turns  everything  upside  down. We  must 
to  have  a  revolution 
16 

09-60665 


ensure that the structures can be maintained in terms of 
their  effectiveness  and  usefulness.  We  need  to  ensure 
that  while  we  reconcile  democratic  representation,  we 
can  also  preserve  the  primary  characteristic  of  the 
Security  Council,  namely  its  efficiency  and  its  ability 
to respond promptly to the urgent needs that crop up. 

It  has  been  rightly  pointed  out  here  that  we  are 
increasingly  observing  that  the  Security  Council  is,  to 
put  it  politely,  looking  at  far  too  many  questions. 
Perhaps  it  might  be  interesting  to  look  at  why  the 
Council looks at all those issues. We are in a globalized 
world. We  are  all  in  it. When  there  is  a  food  crisis  in 
one  country,  that  food  crisis  can  endanger  peace  and 
stability  in  that  country.  When  women  are  raped  in  a 
country, that is a cause for concern for everybody. So I 
think  that,  without  moving  away  from  the  principles 
that we all should observe, and while bearing in mind 
the prerogatives of the various bodies here, we need to 
ensure  that  we  can  work  together  in  a  holistic, 
coordinated,  cooperative  way  to  ensure  that  global 
peace and stability are maintained. 

I  would  like  to  believe  that  we  have  made 
progress  even  if  the  progress  is  not  as  visible  as  one 
would  like.  But  I  think  that  if  we  maintain  the 
momentum 
the 
negotiations, 
the  dynamic  work  of 
Ambassador Tanin and to  the resolve of each regional 
group, I think we will be in a good position to achieve 
our objectives, in other words, to be able to proceed to 
structural  reform  that  takes  into  account  the  need  to 
safeguard the principal role of the Security Council in 
the maintenance of international peace and security. 

To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  say  that  we  have 
always  shown  a  lot  of  interest  in  this  issue.  We  will 
demonstrate  the  necessary  constructive  spirit  in  the 
dynamic that we want to create and engage. I hope that 
all  delegations  here  will  do  the  same  so  that  we  can 
finally undertake the reform of the Security Council in 
a  responsible,  efficient  and  certainly  progressive  way 
as well as in a definitive way. 
Mr.  Kaiser  (Czech  Republic):  Let  me  start  by 

thanking the current President of the Security Council, 
Ambassador  Thomas  Mayr-Harting,  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Austria,  for  his  presentation  of  the 
report of the Security Council (A/64/2). I would like to 
also  acknowledge 
the 
delegation  of  Uganda  in  the  preparation  of  the  report. 
In  our  opinion,  the  annual  reports  are  an  important 
that  we  have 
thanks 
the  efforts  deployed  by 
already  given 
to 
A/64/PV.46
a  more 
analytical  overview, 
means  to  ensure  the  necessary  transparency  of  the 
Council  and  its  accountability  to  the  broad  United 
Nations  membership.  Further  improvements  in  the 
quality of the reports, namely, from the perspective of 
providing 
should 
nevertheless  be  encouraged.  Such  efforts  are  an 
indispensable  part  of  broader  efforts  to  improve  the 
Council’s working methods. 

I  would  like  to  express  the  appreciation  of  my 
delegation for the Assembly President’s commitment to 
move forward the process of the reform of the Security 
Council. We  believe that during the Assembly’s sixty-
third  session,  momentum  was  created  that  should  not 
be lost.  

After 15 years of consultations in the Open-ended 
Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the 
Security  Council,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
were  launched,  as  mandated  by  decision  62/557. 
During three rounds of these negotiations, all the main 
elements of the reform were thoroughly examined from 
various  perspectives.  The  vast  majority  of  Member 
States took an active part in those deliberations. In this 
context,  I  would  like  to  commend  the  dedication, 
determination  and  impartiality  that Ambassador  Tanin 
has  displayed  when  steering  our  debates.  We  are 
thankful  to  the  President  for  reappointing  him,  as 
communicated to us in his letter of 13 October.  

There is a broad agreement that Security Council 
reform  is  long  overdue  and  that  we  have  to  redouble 
our efforts in order to fulfil the task laid upon us by our 
political  leaders  at  the  most  recent  World  Summit, 
namely,  to  expeditiously  conduct  a  genuine  reform  of 
this  key  body  of  the  United  Nations  system.  It  is 
therefore crucial that we resume the intergovernmental 
process  without  unnecessary  delays,  as  envisaged  in 
decision  63/565.  We  have  to  set  up  an  ambitious 
workplan that would enable us to arrive at tangible and 
substantive results by the end of the current session of 
the Assembly. 

The  debates  held  over  past  years  have  provided 
ample opportunity to clarify the positions of all actors. 
We  all  know  very  well  what  the  main  issues  are.  In 
order  to  avoid  an  impasse,  we  should  now  focus  on 
options  that  garner  broad  support  and  thus  may  serve 
as  a  point  of  departure  for  building  consensus. 
However, those options that have acquired only limited 
09-60665 

17 
and 
loudly 
during 
clearly 
A/64/PV.46 

support  should  not  become  stumbling  blocks  to  the 
advancement of the reform. In other words, we have to 
narrow  down 
the  options  for  a  meaningful  and 
achievable restructuring of the Council.  

As  we  stated  during  the  most  recent  round  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations, we believe that the best 
catalyst for such a process would be a paper prepared by 
the Chair. Such a document should be further developed 
and should only serve as a tool used by Member States 
in  identifying  the  possible  common  ground  without 
prejudicing  the  final  outcome.  In  this  regard,  we  have 
full  trust  that  the  Chair  will  continue  to  carry  out  his 
functions in full transparency and impartiality. 

The position of the Czech Republic on the reform 
is well known, and therefore I will not go into details. 
However,  let  me  underline  that  we  share  fully  the 
conviction  of  a  vast  majority  of  Member  States, 
expressed 
the 
intergovernmental  process,  that  the  basis  of  a  genuine 
reform  of  the  Council 
is  its  expansion  in  both 
categories: permanent and non-permanent.  

The reform of the Council should also redress the 
underrepresentation  of  some  regional  groups,  namely 
Africa.  Therefore  we  endorse  allocation  of  two  new 
permanent seats each to the regions of Africa and Asia, 
one  to  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States  and  one  to  the  Western  European  and  other 
States group. However, the enlargement  should not be 
designed  at  the  expense  of  the  small  and  mid-sized 
countries,  which  represent  the  vast  majority  of  the 
United  Nations  family.  Therefore,  the  enlargement 
should  also  involve  the  addition  of  non-permanent 
seats,  including  one  seat  for  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European States. 
in  both 

categories is, as I said, at the core of a genuine reform. 
At the same time, it is only one part, albeit an essential 
one,  of  a  more  complex  task. The  enlargement  should 
be  accompanied  by  other  measures,  inter  alia  the 
improvement of its working methods, while the overall 
objective  is  to  make  it  more  representative  as  well  as 
more  accessible  and  accountable  to  the  whole  United 
Nations membership.  

The  Czech  Republic,  a  mid-sized  country  that 
strongly believes in effective multilateralism, supports 
such a solution, which would balance the adaptation of 
the  Council  to  the  realities  of  today’s  world  and  the 
strengthening  of  its  legitimacy  on  the  one  hand,  with 
The  enlargement  of 
the  Council 

the 
idea  of  an 
an  increase  of  its  effectiveness  and  capability  to  fulfil 
its primary responsibility to maintain global peace and 
security on the other hand. 

We  very  much  look  forward  to  the  speedy 
resumption  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  and 
continue  to  stand  ready  to  join  them  in  a  spirit  of 
much-needed  flexibility  and  compromise.  We  commit 
ourselves  to  examining  all  proposals  with  an  open 
mind, especially those aimed at breaking the deadlock, 
including 
intermediary  solution, 
provided  such  solutions  prove  capable  of  serving  as  a 
means to bridge the gaps between entrenched positions.  

Let  me  conclude  by  appealing  to  all  of  us  to 
engage  constructively  in  the  substantive  negotiations 
with  a  sense  of  urgency,  so  that  we  will  be  able  to 
adapt the Security Council, the key organ of the United 
Nations, to the new realities and challenges of today’s 
world and ensure its role and legitimacy in the twenty-
first century. 
Ms. Ome (Bhutan): I would like to join others in 

thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening this meeting and in thanking the Permanent 
Representative of Austria, the President of the Security 
Council,  for  presenting  the  Security  Council’s  annual 
report (A/64/2).  

My  delegation  appreciates  the  extensive  work 
carried out by the Security Council. The achievements 
of  the  Security  Council  are  impressive  and  have 
contributed greatly to the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 

The Security Council is the principal organ in the 
United  Nations  with  the  primary  responsibility  of 
maintaining 
in 
accordance  with  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
United Nations. Therefore, it is important that we give 
priority  to  bringing  about  the  much-needed  reform  of 
the  Council,  especially  with  regard  to  its  composition 
and  working  methods.  The  reform  will  make  the 
Council  more  representative  and  accountable  and  will 
reflect the changing international scene. 

Over  the  past  year,  much  has  been  achieved  on 
the issue of the question of equitable representation on 
and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council. 
intergovernmental 
negotiations have been conducted, and Member States, 
regional  groups  and  other  groups  have  made  known 
their positions and proposals. The five key issues and a 
international  peace  and  security, 
rounds 
Three 
of 
18 

09-60665 
Zahir 
the 
to 
facilitate 


number  of  options  have  been  debated.  What 
is 
important  now  is  to  build  upon  the  progress  we  have 
achieved  and  work  towards  moving  on  to  the  next 
stage,  by  closing  ranks  and  narrowing  our  options  to 
our  commonalities.  Some  of  the  commonalities  that 
could be considered are those that have overwhelming 
support,  for  example,  the  expansion  of  both  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  membership  categories 
and  ensuring 
representation  of  underrepresented 
regions and developing countries in both categories. 

In  addition,  a  document  or  text  prepared  by  the 
Chair or Member States would help to serve as a basis 
for our next round of negotiations. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  reappointment  of 
Ambassador 
Tanin, 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan, 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  are  confident  that 
he  will  continue  to  ably  discharge  his  responsibility. 
We offer him our fullest cooperation. 
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I call on 

the  Permanent  Observer  of  the  Observer  State  of  the 
Holy See. 
Archbishop  Migliore  (Holy  See):  In  thanking 

you, Mr. President, for convening this important debate 
on the reform of the Security Council, I gladly take this 
opportunity 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin, for his skilled and determined conducting of the 
negotiations.  Among  the  topics  of  the  reform,  my 
delegation would like to concentrate particularly on the 
question of the veto power. 

Many  valid  and  clear  positions  and  views  have 
been expressed with regard to the right of veto. At this 
stage  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  however, 
the  abolishment  of  the  veto  seems  to  be  the  least 
feasible.  Hence,  its  reform  is  more  suitable  and 
realistic.  Experience  teaches  us  that  there  is  good 
reason  for  advancing  positions  in  favour  of  reform  of 
the  veto  with  the  aim  of  limiting  its  exercise.  On  so 
many occasions in history, its use has slowed down and 
even  obstructed  the  solution  of  issues  crucial  to 
international  peace  and  security,  thereby  allowing  the 
perpetration  of  violations  of  freedom  and  human 
dignity.  Too  often,  it  is  the  failure  to  intervene  that 
does the real damage. 

The reform of the  veto is  all the more  necessary 
at a time when we experience the obvious paradox of a 
the  Chairman  of 
to  congratulate 
A/64/PV.46
call 
the  world’s  problems 
multilateral consensus that continues to be in jeopardy 
because  it  is  still  subordinated  to  the  decisions  of  a 
few,  whereas 
for 
interventions  in  the  form  of  collective  action  by  the 
international community. 

Against this background, the Holy See recognizes 
the  importance  of  the  view  put  forward  by  other 
delegations  that  the  Security  Council’s  permanent 
members  should  commit  themselves  to  a  practice  of 
not casting a veto in situations where genocide, crimes 
against  humanity,  war  crimes,  serious  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  law  or  similar  acts  are 
involved. 

At  the  minimum,  in  an  effort  to  reach  a  timely 
and  more  representative  solution  for  such  grave 
situations,  the  number  of  affirmative  votes  supporting 
the  Security  Council’s  resolutions  should  require  the 
concurring  vote  of  no  more  than  two  permanent 
members.  Otherwise,  as  already  suggested  by  other 
delegations, a permanent member could cast a negative 
vote,  stating  that  voting  against  a  given  proposal 
should  not  be  understood  as  a  veto  and  that  his 
opposition  is  not  of  such  a  nature  as  to  warrant  the 
blocking of a decision. 

Many  agree  that  the  permanent  members  should 
show great accountability and transparency in using the 
right of veto. Before casting such a vote, transparency, 
flexibility, confidence and political will should already 
have been a part of the drafting process of a resolution, 
in order to ensure that States are not effectively vetoing 
texts before they can be considered by the Council.  

Indeed,  when  it  is  known  that  a  permanent 
member  would  vote  against  their  adoption,  many 
proposed  drafts  are  never  formally  presented  to  the 
Council 
for  a  vote.  More  open  dialogue  and 
cooperation between the permanent and other members 
of  the  Security  Council  is  crucial  to  avoid  any  later 
obstructions  in  adopting  a  resolution. A  deeper  search 
for  ways  of  pre-empting  and  managing  conflicts  is 
needed by exploring every possible diplomatic avenue 
and by giving attention and encouragement to even the 
faintest sign of dialogue or desire for reconciliation. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


The  decision  to  extend,  limit  or  abolish  the  veto 
lies in the hands of the Member States and will depend 
on  the  broadest  possible  consensus  on  one  of  the 
options.  We  trust  that  such  a  decision  would  be  right 
09-60665 

19 

in 
in 
is  evident 
transparent  and  effective  manner 
This  has  been  an  absorbing  debate, 
It was so decided. 
The  President:  Allow  me  to  now  make  a  few 
A/64/PV.46 

and  would  favour  transparency,  equality  and  justice, 
reflecting the values of democracy and mutual trust in 
the work of a reformed Security Council. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I  take  it 

that  the  General Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of 
the Security Council (A/64/2)? 


remarks at the end of this debate.  
the 

importance  of  which 
the  strong 
participation  of  the  Member  States.  The  value  and 
relevance  of  considering  these  two  agenda  items 
together  is  clear  from  the  substantive  nature  of  the 
views expressed in the debate. 

Member  States  have  reiterated  the  importance 
that  they  attach  to  the  work  of  the  Security  Council, 
which they would like to see perform even better, in a 
more 
the 
promotion of international peace and security, which is 
its  primary  responsibility.  The  numerous  valuable 
suggestions  for  improving  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council will, I am sure, receive due consideration. 

The  debate  has  also  reaffirmed  the  commitment 
of Member States to the objective of achieving an early 
and  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  in 
all its aspects. In that regard, there is strong interest in 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process.  There  is 
broad  expression  of  support  and  confidence  for 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  who  will  chair 
these 
negotiations  on  my  behalf.  The  positions  and  views 
expressed  in  the  debate  will,  I  am  sure,  contribute  to 
productive work in the intergovernmental negotiations. 

Two  representatives  have  asked  for  the  floor  to 
exercise the right of reply. May I remind members that 
the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  should  be  limited  to 
10 minutes for the first intervention and 5 minutes for 
the  second  intervention,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr. Okuda (Japan): Thank you, Mr. President, for 

allowing us to exercise our right of reply. My comments 
are related to the statement by the representative of the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  

It  is  regrettable  that  we  have  to  respond  to  what 
the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea said when all other delegations are seriously 
the 
regarding 
Secondly, 
reference  by 
engaged  in  the  debate  on  today’s  topic.  I  have  to  say 
that  Japan  cannot  accept  the  baseless  allegations 
presented  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea about the militaristic ambitions of Japan. 

First, Japan firmly believes that the qualifications 
of  a  given  country  for  permanent  membership  in  the 
Security Council should be based on that country’s real 
contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security. Since its accession to the United Nations, 
Japan, as a nation committed to peace, has been trying 
its best to live up to that standard, contributing actively 
and  constructively  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  Despite  the  claims  made  by  the 
representative  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  this  morning,  I  believe  Japan’s  policies  and 
practices  in  this  regard  to  date  speak  for  themselves 
and  I  trust  the  judgement  of  the  representatives  of 
Member States here. 

the 
representative  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  to  the  denial  of  the  past,  my  delegation  cannot 
accept that either, because Japan has been facing up to 
its past with sincerity and consistency since the end of 
the  Second  World  War.  With  this  in  mind,  Japan  has, 
for  over  60  years,  consistently  dedicated  itself  to 
promoting 
international  peace  and  prosperity  and 
demonstrating  its  respect  for  democracy  and  human 
rights. 

In  that  context,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
reiterate  Japan’s  intention  to  seek  a  normalization  of 
relations  with  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea 
in  accordance  with  Japan  —  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea Pyongyang Declaration, by 
comprehensively  resolving  the  outstanding  issues  of 
concern  with  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea and by sincerely settling the unfortunate past, as 
Prime  Minister  Hatoyama  stated  during  his  address 
during 
the  General 
Assembly, this year. 

With  regard  to  Japan’s  position  on  Security 
Council reform, it has been publicly stated many times 
in  the  United  Nations  and  other  forums  and  is  well 
known.  Japan  stands  ready  to  contribute  actively  and 
constructively  to  international  peace  and  security  at 
any time. 

of  Korea):  Throughout 
representative  of  Japan 
Mr.  Sin  Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
the 
the 
that 
the 
just  made,  we  had 
the  sixty-fourth  session  of 
intervention 
20 

09-60665 
that 
Japan 
is 
that 
issues  between 
the  outstanding 
tactfully  claiming 
issue,  my  delegation  deems 


impression  that  the  Japanese  delegation  is  not  fully 
aware  of  why  Japan  is  not  yet  the  appropriate  choice 
for  a  permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council.  In  order 
to  clarify 
it 
appropriate to stress a few points. 

Japan committed massive crimes, such as forcibly 
drafting 8.4 million Koreans, killing over 1 million and 
imposing  on  more  than  200,000  Korean  women  a  life 
of  slavery  as  comfort  women  for  the  Japanese  army. 
Japan has claimed that it has done everything it had to 
do  in  terms  of  apologizing  for  its  past  crimes.  Japan 
has  abused 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  Japan, 
while 
it  was  making  an 
“apology”  for  its  past  crimes,  whenever  it  feels 
required  to  redress  its  unfavourable  domestic  political 
situation.  

In  March  2007,  former  Japanese  Prime  Minister 
Abe made the reckless remark that there is no evidence 
proving the forcible recruitment of comfort women for 
the  Japanese  army,  and  the  Deputy  Minister  of  the 
Cabinet of Japan asserted that the comfort women were 
prostitutes — I repeat, prostitutes — who were sold — 
I  repeat,  sold  —  by  their  parents.  These  are  truly 
inhumane, insane and irresponsible remarks.  

that  has  neither 
sincerely  reflected  on  nor  made  reparations  for  its 
crimes against humanity. Fearing that its crimes would 
be uncovered and made known to the public, Japanese 
authorities disposed of archives related to such crimes 
covering  several  consecutive  years  and  deleted  and 
distorted  facts  about  its  past  crimes  from  school 
textbooks  through  an  official  collusion  with,  and  with 
the  approval  of,  the  Government.  Most  recently,  a 
number  of  well-known  Japanese  political  figures  paid 
tribute to and honoured war criminals and butchers of 
human beings as heroes at the Yasukuni shrine. This is 
the true attitude of Japan towards its blood-stained past 
crimes.  To  date,  most  of  the  victims  of  Japanese  sex 
slavery still live in suffering. Japan’s persistent denial 
of  its  criminal  history  means  that  it  could  certainly 
commit  the  same  crimes  as  those  of  the  past  again. 
Granting  a  permanent  seat  to  such  an  irresponsible, 
brazen  and  two-faced  Japan  would  only  result  in 
encouraging  that  country’s  long-standing  ambition  of 
realizing  a  Greater  Asia  Co-Prosperity  Sphere,  which 
would  have  very  dangerous  consequences  for  United 
Nations Member States. 
the  only  country 
A/64/PV.46
It 
the 

If  Japan  genuinely  wishes  to  be  a  responsible 
member  of  the  international  community,  it  should 
sincerely  apologize  and  make  reparations  for  the 
crimes  it  committed  in  the  past.  This  is  the  only  way 
for  Japan  to  be  recognized  as  a  very  responsible 
Member  State  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  not  the 
money  —  or  whatever  contribution  a  Member  State 
might  make  —  that  really  counts,  but  its  truly  sincere 
and responsible attitude. This is the official and formal 
position of the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea on this issue. 
Mr.  Okuda  (Japan):  We  have  explained  our 

position  many,  many  times,  as  well  as  when  we 
exercised our right of reply today, and do not intend to 
do so again. However, we have to put it on record that 
we  cannot  accept  the  baseless  allegations,  full  of 
insulting  language,  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea. 
is 
regrettable  that  the  representative  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  should  use  this  valuable 
opportunity  for  discussing 
issue  of  Security 
Council  reform  as  a  platform  for  promoting  unfair 
allegations against Japan. 

It  is  simply  not  possible  for  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea to invoke issues of the past 
in order to justify its reckless policy of military build-
up, including its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile 
development,  with  no  regard  for  a  series  of  Security 
Council  resolutions,  as  well  as 
the  norms  and 
regulations  of 
international  community.  The 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea also pursues a 
policy of systematic and wanton violation of the human 
rights  of  its  own  citizens  that  is  so  heinous  that  the 
report  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of 
human  rights  in  that  country  says,  in  paragraph  72, 
“The  violations  compromise  and  threaten  not  only 
human 
international  peace  and 
security” 
(A/64/224).  The  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  must  totally  change  its  policies  on 
its nuclear weapons development and on human rights 
before it can talk about the policies of other Members 
of the United Nations. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic of Korea): Just as the representative of Japan 
has  said,  it  is  precisely  because  of  the  august  and 
auspicious nature of this Hall, where we are discussing 
a  very  important  issue,  Security  Council  reform,  that 
my  delegation  wanted  to  clarify  these  issues,  because 
the  issues  really  merit  discussion.  With  regard  to  the 
Mr.  Sin  Song  Chol
rights,  but  also 
the 
09-60665 

21 

A/64/PV.46 

remarks of Japan’s representative, I would like to make 
some  further  points.  Japan  is  the  very  country  that  is 
destroying  the  strategic  balance  of  our  region  and 
threatening peace. Japan, which has neither apologized 
nor made reparations for its past crimes, now joins the 
United  States  in  developing  a  missile  defence  system. 
This  is  to  clarify  who  really  is  the  agent  threatening 
peace  and  stability  in  our  region.  In  May  2005  Japan 
annulled  its  domestic  law  on  the  demilitarization  of 
outer space, which had been in force for more than 40 
years, thus opening the door for the use of outer space 
for  military  purposes  by  adopting  a  new  main  law  on 
outer space. 

Since the 1990s, Japan has launched four military 
spy satellites and has run fanatical intelligence activities 
against  its  neighbouring  countries.  It  now  plans  to 
launch an early-warning satellite that is to be the eye of 
a  missile  defence  system,  giving  Japan  a  pre-emptive 
strike  capability  in  outer  space.  More  recently,  within 
Japanese  political  circles,  arguments  have  emerged  in 
favour  of  pre-emptive  strikes  against  enemy  military 
bases.  It  is  worth  noting  that  Japan  has  persisted  in  its 
evil intentions by, for instance, condemning the peaceful 
satellite launch of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea,  conducted  last  April  in  conformity  with  every 
established international legal framework. Japan was the 
first in line to come knocking at the door of the Security 
Council in the middle of the night to get the Council to 
adopt its resolution against my country. 
this 
From  the  point  of  view  of  the  delegation  of  the 

Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
is 
ridiculous  and  naïve.  Japan  is  not  in  any  kind  of 
position  to  blame  other  countries  or  urge  action  on 
their part. Unless Japan is excluded from the process of 
reforming the Security Council, reform itself will never 
be  achievable. As  we  have  said  repeatedly,  the  crimes 
Japan  has  committed  are  not  just  in  the  past  but 
continue today. Though time moves on, Japan’s crimes 
cannot fade away naturally or be in any way excused. 
Japan’s  lack  of  action  regarding  its  shameful  past  has 
led  even  its  closest  allies  to  despair  of  resolutions 
urging Japan to purge its past crimes. 

A  bid  for  a  permanent  seat  on  the  Security 
Council does  not gibe with the true picture of Japan’s 
nature at all. Rather than trying to occupy a permanent 
seat on the Council, it would be advisable for Japan to 
give  more  thought  to  how  to  atone  for  its  bloody, 
criminal  past  once  and  for  all,  and  to  act  wisely  and 
appropriately, so that this issue need never be debated 
at  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly.  This  is  the 
only way for Japan to regain the full credibility of the 
international community. 
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
9 and agenda item 119. 

The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m. 
22 

09-60665 
