
A/64/PV.22
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

22nd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 20 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 







The meeting was called to order at 10:10 a.m. 

Agenda items 63 and 47 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 

progress in implementation and international 
support 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/64/204 and 
A/64/208) 




  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/210) 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/302) 

The President (spoke in Arabic): This important 

debate  is  a  clear  testimony  to  the  special  status 
accorded Africa in the work of the General Assembly, 
under  an  agenda  that  ranges  from  matters  related  to 
peace  and  security  to  those  concerning  social  and 
economic development. 

The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD),  established  in  2001,  lent  a  new  dynamism 
and  vision  to  the  African  agenda  for  peace  and 
development. It signified Africa’s willingness, capacity 
and determination to assume full control of its destiny. 
The  entire  international  community  has  welcomed 

NEPAD  as  an  African-owned  and  African-driven 
political,  economic  and  social  development  blueprint 
for  the  continent’s  future.  In  this  context,  the African 
Peer Review Mechanism has been widely acclaimed as 
a  positive  and  innovative  approach  to  ensuring  good 
governance.  Thirty African  countries  have  acceded  to 
the  Mechanism,  and  12  of  those  have  been  peer-
reviewed. 

In September of last year the General Assembly’s 
high-level  meeting  on African  development  adopted  a 
declaration  (resolution  63/1)  that  not  only  underlined 
its  full  commitment  to  meeting  Africa’s  development 
needs  but  also  called  for  a  mechanism  to  ensure  that 
Member  States  continued  to  address  those  challenges, 
taking into account that a stronger Africa also requires 
a  stronger  United  Nations  system.  In  this  regard,  we 
need  to  strengthen  our  commitment  and  consider  the 
best  ways  to  advance  NEPAD  —  a  comprehensive, 
African 
the 
consolidation  of  democracy  and  good  governance — 
by  implementing  eight  priority  areas:  infrastructure; 
political, 
corporate  governance; 
agriculture; education; health; science and technology; 
market access and tourism; and environment. 

Special  attention  to  Africa  is  vital  to  achieving 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
those set out in the Millennium Declaration (resolution 
55/2),  and is  essential  for  putting the continent  firmly 
back on the world’s development agenda and on a path 
to irreversible and sustainable development.  
continental  programme  based  on 
economic 
and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-56757 (E) 
*0956757* 



risk 
those  at 
from  malaria  with 
A/64/PV.22 


It  is  encouraging  that  there  has  been  progress  in 
implementing  the  various  components  of  NEPAD’s 
updated Programme for Infrastructure Development in 
Africa,  which  focuses  on  energy,  transport,  water  and 
information  and  communications 
sanitation,  and 
technology.  On 
the  environment 
front,  African 
environment  ministers  have  adopted  a  common 
platform  for  the  global  climate  change  negotiations 
leading  up  to  Copenhagen  in  December.  Under  the 
leadership  of  the  African  Union  Commission,  in 
collaboration  with  the  Economic  Commission  for 
Africa  and  the  African  Development  Bank,  good 
progress  has  also  been  made  in  the  preparatory  phase 
of the Climate for Development in Africa programme, 
including  progress  in  the  establishment  of  the African 
Climate Policy Center as the programme’s policy arm. 

I  welcome  the  efforts  to  implement  the  African 
Leaders Malaria Alliance initiative, aimed at protecting 
all 
lifesaving 
interventions  by  the  end  of  2010.  It  is  tragic  and 
unacceptable 
that  malaria  kills  almost  a  million 
Africans every year and affects over 200 million more, 
mostly  women,  pregnant  women  and  children  under 
five years of age. 

It  is  therefore  essential  that  the  international 
community  provide  enhanced  support  for  NEPAD’s 
proposed agenda in order to tackle poverty, disease, the 
food  crisis,  climate  change  and  the  financial  and 
economic crisis, all of which have undermined Africa’s 
efforts 
its  development  objectives, 
especially  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Those 
crises 
livelihoods,  well-being  and 
development  opportunities  of  millions  of  people, 
exacerbate political and social tensions and hamper the 
capacity  of  States  to  deliver  basic  services  to  their 
citizens. 

Thus  it  is  essential  to  create  an  environment 
conducive  to  investment  and  long-term  economic 
growth  in  Africa,  fired  with  a  sense  of  urgency  and 
backed  by  concrete  actions. Africa’s  own  efforts  must 
be  complemented  by  a  substantial  commitment  from 
the international community, a better understanding of 
the  special  needs  of  Africa  and  greater  coordination 
between  policies  and  programmes.  The  international 
community  must  redouble  its  efforts  to  ensure  full, 
effective 
the 
commitments made for Africa’s development. I believe 
the  September  2010  high-level  meeting  will  be  an 
important  occasion  to  review  and  re-energize  the 
implementation 
threaten 
achieve 
timely 
the 
and 
of 

pursuit  of  development  objectives,  particularly  in 
Africa, and I therefore encourage all Member States to 
work  for  its  success.  I  hope  this  debate  will  provide 
useful input and insight for that process. 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 

on behalf of the European Union. Turkey, Croatia, the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Albania, 
Montenegro,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Ukraine, 
Republic of Moldova and Serbia align themselves with 
this statement. 
We  welcome  this  opportunity  to  jointly  discuss 

development and health, as well as peace and security 
in Africa. 
Africa  is  a  major  partner  of  the  European  Union 

two  continents’ 
(EU).  Through  globalization  our 
opportunities and challenges are becoming increasingly 
intertwined.  The  EU  wants  to  make  common  cause 
with Africa  in  tackling  problems  and  making  the  best 
of our joint opportunities. 
The EU-Africa Joint Strategy agreed in 2007 is a 

very  good  basis  for  our 
increasingly  deepening 
cooperation.  Last  week,  the  ministerial  troikas  of  the 
EU  and  the African  Union  (AU)  met  at Addis Ababa. 
They  addressed  situations  of  common  concern  in 
Somalia  and  the  Sudan  and  expressed  deep  concern 
over  the  situation  in  Guinea.  They  agreed  to  work 
together  on  climate  change 
to 
Copenhagen. 

There  are  reasons  for  optimism  about  Africa’s 
development despite many unresolved challenges and a 
global  financial  crisis.  Peace,  political  freedom  and 
economic growth have progressed in recent years. But 
Africa,  like  no  other  continent,  is  heavily  affected  by 
the  current  economic  downturn.  It  also  carries  a 
disproportionate weight when it comes to food security 
and climate change. 

to 
supporting African countries and their peoples in their 
quest  for  peace,  democracy,  respect  for  human  rights 
and sustainable development. The EU will continue to 
build on the positive developments in Africa of the last 
decade. Despite slow progress in many areas, reaching 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in Africa 
seems possible if all of us accelerate our efforts for the 
final stretch leading to 2015. 

indispensable 
In  only  seven  years,  the  AU  has  become  an 
regional 
The  European  Union 
is  fully  committed 
actor.  Africa’s 
lead  up 
regional 
the 
in 
to 
2 

09-56757 
between  Africa 


cooperation  is  gaining  momentum.  This  is  a  positive 
signal, as Africa’s problems can best be solved through 
joint  efforts,  by  Africans  themselves.  The  EU  praises 
the  assessment  of  AU  member  States  through  the 
African Peer Review Mechanism. 

Africa’s  voice  in  international  trade  negotiations 
can  be  strengthened  through  regional  cooperation. 
African  integration  leaves  Africa  better  equipped  to 
deal  with  peace  and  security  issues,  economic  and 
social questions, as well as climate change.  
Climate  change,  food  security  and  development 

are  global  concerns  and  should  not  be  dealt  with 
separately,  as  was  pointed  out  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report.  The  specific  nature  of  the  concerns 
may differ, but we share some fundamental challenges 
in how to address them in an effective manner. 

The  African-European  strategic  partnership  is 
guided  by  basic  principles  of  the  unity  of Africa,  the 
interdependence 
and  Europe, 
ownership  and  joint  responsibility,  respect  for  human 
rights,  democratic  principles  and  the  rule  of  law,  as 
well as the right to development. 

It is clear that the African continent is responsible 
for its own development. This is the core  approach of 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD).  Support  from  the  international  community 
must be aimed at helping the African continent develop 
its potential on the basis of its own resources. Our aim 
should  be 
to 
cooperation and trade as soon as possible. 

The aim of the partnership is to facilitate an open, 
broad-based dialogue and cooperation on human rights 
and  democratic  governance, 
full 
enjoyment  of  such  rights  by  women  and  children.  I 
would  like  to  draw  particular  attention  to  women  in 
Africa.  Women’s 
are 
fundamental  for  peacebuilding,  economic  growth, 
development and well-being. 

The  EU  reaffirms  its  overall  collective  official 
development  assistance  target  of  providing  0.56  per 
cent of gross national income (GNI) by next year, and 
0.7 per cent of GNI by 2015. Of the increases, we will 
channel  at  least  50  per  cent  to  Africa.  We  are  also 
improving coherence among EU policies in the areas of 
resource mobilization and more effective development 
assistance. 
the  emphasis  from  aid 
and  opportunities 
to  switch 
including 
the 
rights 
A/64/PV.22

Trade  is  a  necessary  prerequisite  for  economic 
growth  and  sustainable  efforts  against  poverty. 
Together  we  must  continue  promoting  a  market-
oriented  world  trading  system.  Access  for  African 
goods  and  services  to  international  markets,  including 
the  European,  needs  to  be  improved.  A  successful 
conclusion of the Doha Round in 2010 is crucial and a 
top priority for the European Union. 

Another  challenge  for  us  all  in Africa  is  health. 
Africa  faces  a  huge  burden  of  potentially  preventable 
and treatable diseases which cause unnecessary deaths 
and  untold  suffering,  while  simultaneously  blocking 
economic  development  and  damaging  the  continent’s 
social fabric. Experts increasingly agree that infectious 
diseases  are  the  most  negative  factor  for  Africa’s 
development and seriously hamper efforts to reach the 
MDGs. 

AIDS  remains  the  leading  cause  of  death  in 
Africa;  an  unimaginable  number  of  300,000  African 
children  are  born  with  HIV  each  year. Another  health 
challenge  relates  to  Africa’s  women.  Nineteen  of  the 
20 countries  with  the  highest  maternal  mortality  rate 
are  in  Africa.  Last  year,  more  than  250,000  women 
died of complications during pregnancy and childbirth. 
This is simply unacceptable. 

Malaria  inflicts  a  great  toll  on  Africa.  Every 
30 seconds, a child somewhere in the world is killed by 
malaria. Approximately  1  million  people  are  killed  by 
malaria each year, with the majority of those deaths in 
Africa.  It  is  estimated  that  malaria  costs  Africa  more 
than $12 billion each year in direct losses. 

In  recent  years,  significant  progress  has  been 
made in the fight against malaria. Rwanda, Eritrea and 
Zambia have shown how it is possible to roll back this 
disease.  A  clear  focus  on  effective 
intervention, 
increased  funding  and  political  determination  have 
proven to be successful. We welcome the establishment 
of  the  African  Leaders  Malaria  Alliance  (ALMA) 
formed  to  ensure  political  championing  of  action 
against malaria. 

However,  significant  financial  gaps  remain.  As 
the  world’s  largest  donor  both  in  general  and  in  the 
health sector in particular, the EU will continue to lead 
global  efforts  to  sustain  financial  commitments  in 
response to malaria. 

Combating  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  malaria, 
through strengthening of national health systems, will, 
09-56757 

3 
for 
poverty 
equitable 
and  promote 
the  possibility 
A/64/PV.22 

in  our  view,  be  one  of  the  most  effective  ways  to 
alleviate 
and 
sustainable  economic  progress.  The  burden  of  those 
three  diseases  severely  affects  the  poorest  countries. 
We need to further invest in the health-care workforce 
and build capacity for prevention, treatment and care. 

In the past decade a number of armed conflicts in 
Africa  have  ended. We  have  seen  peaceful  resolutions 
to brutal conflicts in Angola, Sierra Leone and Liberia. 
Also, progress is being made in Burundi with elections 
planned for next year. A settlement of the crisis in Côte 
d’Ivoire  seems 
to  be  within  reach.  The  recent 
diplomatic  reconciliation  between 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  its  neighbours,  still  to  be 
consolidated,  opens 
regional 
cooperation to pave the way for long-term stabilization 
of the Great Lakes region. 

At  the  same  time,  however,  armed  conflicts 
continue  in  the  Sudan,  Somalia  and  the  eastern 
Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  with  great 
suffering  of  civilians.  The  European  Union  is  also 
seriously concerned at the increasingly violent political 
climate in Guinea.  

We  have  also  seen  a  disturbing  resurgence  of 
unconstitutional changes of government in Africa. That 
development threatens to undermine the stability of the 
continent  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development. On a more positive note, we 
welcome  the  swift  action  taken  by  the African  Union 
and  the  regional  economic  communities  following  the 
unconstitutional  changes  of  government  in  Guinea, 
Madagascar and Mauritania. 
Members  of  the  European  Union  support  and 

the  Peacebuilding 
participate 
country-specific 
Commission, 
configurations  for  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone,  Guinea-
Bissau  and 
the  Central  African  Republic.  The 
Commission  can  lend  important  support  to  national 
priorities  and  be  an  effective  forum  for  strengthened 
mutual accountability. The diversity of the membership 
of  the  Commission  has  provided  broad  international 
legitimacy to the peacebuilding agenda. 
the 

African  Union  and  the  African  agenda  for  peace  and 
development.  Such  cooperation  could  be  further 
facilitated  by  a  strengthened  dialogue  between  the 
European  Union  and  Africa  in  the  framework  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  support  for  Africa’s  search  for 
The  European  Union  actively  supports 
the  work  of 
especially 
in 
in 
its 

an 
committed 
the  New  Partnership 
peace is one of the European Union’s priorities. Under 
the  framework  of  the  African  Peace  Facility,  the 
European  Union  has 
additional 
€300 million  for  the  period  from  2008  to  2010.  In 
addition, 
the  European  Union  currently  has  four 
missions deployed on the African continent within the 
framework  of  the  European  Security  and  Defence 
Policy.  

To  conclude,  after  decades  of  lost  growth,  there 
are now signs that Africa is turning a corner. Africa is 
finding its place on the global arena, not least through 
the  African  Union  engagement  in  finding  solutions 
both  to  African  and  to  international  challenges.  The 
European  Union  joins  the  countries  and  people  of 
Africa in their endeavour to realize their ambitions. 
Mr. Sharif (Sudan): I have the honour to deliver 

this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of  the 
Group of 77 and China on agenda items 63 and 47. We 
wish to thank the Secretary-General for his reports on 
the items that we are discussing today. 
African  countries  have  taken  concrete  steps  to 

implement 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  through  the  development  of 
sectorial  policy  frameworks,  the  design  of  specific 
projects and the establishment of expenditure targets in 
NEPAD  priority  areas.  Much  has  been  achieved  in 
Africa 
the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  in  2000,  NEPAD  and  an 
African  Union  programme  that  is  now  under  way. 
African leaders have taken ownership and leadership of 
the  continent’s  socio-economic  renewal  agenda  and 
have  transformed  the  content  of  the  development 
agenda through NEPAD. 

The  NEPAD  policies  and  priorities  have  become 
an  acceptable  and  approved  framework  for  Africa’s 
development. Through NEPAD, African countries have 
fundamentally changed the development paradigm. The 
narrow  approach  of  the  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy 
Papers has been expanded to include a comprehensive 
and  holistic  approach  to  development  through African 
ownership.  In  fact,  most  African  countries  now  have 
their  own  national  development  strategies.  Those 
efforts  require  an  enabling  national  and  international 
environment  conducive  to  growth  and  development, 
with 
the  multi-stakeholders. 
Despite efforts in implementing NEPAD, Africa is still 
far from realizing the levels of support required under 
that partnership. 
the  participation  of 
the  adoption  of 
since 
4 

09-56757 
the 



In  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  (resolution 
60/1),  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  stated  that 
Africa was the only continent not on track to meet the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015. 
That  was  reiterated  in  the  follow-up  resolutions  (63/1 
and  63/239,  annex),  which  emphasized  that  vigorous 
implementation of the development commitments were 
needed without delay, in particular those commitments 
made  in  support  of African  development,  which  faces 
serious  challenges  requiring  collective  action  on  the 
part  of  African  countries  and 
international 
community.  

Resources  must  be  mobilized  for  African  States 
to support efforts aimed at achieving the MDGs within 
the  framework  of  national  development  programmes 
and  at  implementing  the  NEPAD  programme.  Urgent 
and  concerted  action  by  developed  countries  and  the 
international  community  is  needed  to  succeed  in 
eradicating  poverty  and  hunger  in  Africa.  In  that 
regard,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  reiterates  that  the 
main  challenge  remaining  for  the  development  of 
Africa  is  a  global  partnership  for  development  that 
must  be  fully  implemented.  It  has  become  clear  that 
despite  all  the  actions  and  commitments  by  African 
countries,  the  main  constraint  to African  development 
remains the lack of adequate resources. 

The African Union has made substantial progress 
in conflict prevention by creating mechanisms that are 
instrumental  for  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  on  the  continent.  African 
resolving  conflicts  has  produced 
ownership 
remarkable 
the 
consolidation  of  peace  must  benefit 
the 
coordinated,  sustained  and  integrated  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations  system,  Member  States  and  regional 
and  subregional  organizations,  as  well  as  from 
international  and 
institutions. 
Development  is  the  best  contributor  to  peace;  hence, 
achieving  development,  economic  growth  and  poverty 
eradication should be at the heart of conflict prevention 
strategies.  At  the  same  time,  there  should  be  a 
coordinated  and  comprehensive  approach 
towards 
combining  peacebuilding,  emergency  assistance  and 
longer-term development support measures. 

in 
Africa  requires,  among  other  steps,  writing  off  the 
unsustainable  debt  of  African  countries,  both  by 
bilateral  and  by  multilateral  donors.  Reaching  the 
target  of  reducing  poverty  by  half  by  2015  would 
in 
results.  Conflict  prevention  and 
from 
towards  sustaining  development 
financial 
Progress 
regional 
A/64/PV.22
the 
therefore, 
strongly 
calls 
in 
their 
fight 
against 
and  China, 
importance  of  addressing, 
require  an  average  growth  rate  of  7  to  8  per  cent  per 
annum. To achieve that rather high rate of growth, we 
call  for  a  number  of  measures  towards  mobilizing 
external resources. 
As  far  as  the  environment  is  concerned,  we 

recognize 
in  an 
interrelated and mutually supportive manner, the three 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development. The  Group  of 
77 
for 
strengthening  measures  to  enhance  assistance  to  the 
African  countries 
land 
degradation, drought and desertification by multilateral 
and  bilateral  donors  and  through  public  and  private 
partnership. 

HIV/AIDS  and  malaria  pandemics  are  taking  a 
catastrophic toll on many African societies, paralysing 
their  economies  and  ruining  their  social  fabric.  The 
international  community  should  be  acutely  aware  that 
much  more  substantial  collective  effort  is  needed  for 
effective  prevention,  care  and  impact  mitigation  of 
these  deadly  pandemics.  There 
is  now  growing 
awareness of  the tragedy and its ruinous impact; what 
is  badly  needed  is  genuine  political  commitment,  the 
commensurate  provision  of  requisite  funds  and  a 
programmatic response to these pandemics.  

We  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
continue  supporting  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  as  well  as  country-led 
initiatives  to  create  conditions  for  full  access  to 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets, 
for 
indoor  residual  spraying  for  malaria  control  and 
effective 
treatments, 
including through the free distribution of mosquito nets 
where appropriate. 

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.  

Finally,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  urges  the 
international  community  to  remain  conscious  of  the 
fact  that  the  food  crisis,  the  energy  crisis  and  climate 
change  are  having  some  of  their  worst  impacts  in 
Africa.  The  global  financial  economic  crisis  has 
produced  profound  adverse 
impacts  on  African 
development.  Poor  African  countries,  with  their  high 
dependence  on  agricultural  commodity  exports,  are 
among  the  most  adversely  affected  by  the  failure  of 
global trade negotiations and the continued application 
of  massive  subsidies  by  developed  countries.  Official 
to 
development 
(ODA)  has 
anti-malarial 
combination 
insecticides 
assistance 
shrunk 
09-56757 

5 
A/64/PV.22 

historically low levels, representing less than one third 
of  internationally  agreed  targets.  It  is  imperative  that 
ODA be increased, and, of course, combined with a set 
of  other  policy  measures 
that  would  enhance 
development in the countries of Africa.  
Mr.  Jomaa  (Tunisia):  I  have  the  honour  of 

delivering  this  statement  on  agenda  items  63  and  47, 
which  deal  with  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  2001-2010  Decade  to 
Roll Back Malaria, respectively, on behalf of the Group 
of African States.  

The  African  Group  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. We wish to thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  the  three  comprehensive 
reports  under  consideration  (A/64/204,  A/64/208  and 
A/64/210).  

The political declaration on Africa’s development 
needs  (resolution  63/1),  adopted  at  the  high-level 
meeting  on  22  September  2008  (see  A/63/PV.4), 
reflects the resolve of Member States to strengthen and 
intensify  international  cooperation  to  find  a  long-term 
solution to Africa’s development needs. 
that 

tremendous  gains  were  possible 
the  global 
community  translated  its  commitments  into  concrete 
results.  Unfortunately,  the  Secretary-General’s  reports 
remind us that most African countries remain off-track 
with respect to achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs). The combined effect of  the economic, 
financial and food crises, as well as climate change and 
high  energy  prices,  has  undermined  gains  in  poverty 
reduction  and  threatens  to  reverse  the  gains  achieved 
over  the  last  seven  years  in  meeting  some  of  the 
MDGs. 

for  Africa’s 
development  than  the  African  people  themselves,  as 
well  as  their  States  and  institutions. African  countries 
have taken huge steps to implement NEPAD. The past 
year  has  witnessed  progress  in  achieving  NEPAD 
projects  in  key  sectors  such  as  infrastructure,  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme,  education  and 
training,  environment, 
information  and  communication  technologies,  science 
and  technology.  Equally,  there  has  been  progress  in 
moving  the African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  forward, 
with  30  countries  acceding  and  12  countries’  peer 
reviews  completed.  In  addition,  strategies,  tools  and 
The  high-level  meeting  acknowledged 
responsible 
is  more 
No  one 
if 

increase  aid  disbursement 
approaches  to  gender  mainstreaming  within  NEPAD 
have been under development since 2004 and progress 
has been made in the implementation of some NEPAD 
programmes  aiming  at  the  empowerment  of  African 
women. 

Similarly, the international community, including 
the  United  Nations,  should  take  concerted  and  urgent 
action  to  mitigate  the  socio-economic  impact  of  the 
financial  and  economic  crisis  and  help  African 
countries recover ground in their progress towards the 
implementation of NEPAD and the achievement of the 
MDGs.  In  particular,  development  partners  should 
deliver  on  their  aid  commitments.  The  Secretary-
General  recommends  in  his  report  on  NEPAD  that 
donors  significantly 
in 
2009 and 2010 in order to maintain their commitments 
to  provide  Africa  with  an  additional  $25  billion  in 
official  development  assistance  per  year  by  2010,  at 
2004 prices. 

Moreover,  developed  country  partners  should 
take  further  steps  and  concrete  measures  to  increase 
their foreign direct investment and technology transfer 
levels  into Africa  and  successfully  conclude  the  Doha 
Round  of  trade  negotiations  with  a  development 
dimension by honouring their promises to reduce tariff 
and  non-tariff  barriers  to  African  products  and  to 
eliminate  agricultural  subsidies  that  distort  global 
trade, without undermining food aid to Africa. The full 
implementation  and  operationalization  of  the  Aid  for 
Trade  initiative  in African  countries  is  needed,  if  they 
are  to  implement  and  benefit  from  World  Trade 
Organization  agreements  and  expand  their  trade  and 
markets. 

By the same token, African countries attach great 
importance to South-South cooperation, particularly in 
infrastructure,  technical  support  and  other  productive 
and innovative sectors. 

is  concerned, 
development  partners  should  lend  strong  support  to 
addressing  its  effects  by  investing  in  mitigation  and 
adaptation measures for the prevention of deforestation 
and  by  increasing  funding  for  renewable  energy  in 
Africa,  such  as  solar,  wind  and  geothermal  power. 
Every effort should be made to move away from coal-
based  projects  towards  these  energy  sources.  In  doing 
so,  development  partners 
take  Africa’s 
development needs into full account in the negotiations 
far  as  climate  change 
should 
As 
6 

09-56757 
to 
strengthen 


leading  up  to  the  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Conference. 

Although  some  progress  was  seen  in  2008  in 
trade liberalization and ease of doing business, African 
States are still far from achieving the agriculture target 
of  allocating  10  per  cent  of  their  national  budgets  to 
agricultural  development  and  exceed  the  6  per  cent 
agricultural  sector  growth  target.  With  respect  to 
health, at a time of multiple crises, African States were 
not in a position to spend 15 per cent of their budgets 
on health, as was called for in the African Union Abuja 
Declaration. These two sectors present examples where 
development  partners  should  work 
together  with 
African States to address their specific needs. 

The world financial and economic crisis presents 
a  unique  challenge  to  African  countries  as  their 
economies are heavily dependent on exporting a small 
number  of  commodities.  In 
this  regard,  Africa’s 
development  partners  should  enhance  their  assistance 
to  African  Governments 
regional 
integration and diversify their exports in order to cope 
with the demands of global markets. 
The  continent  is  exploring  ways  and  means  to 

restore  and  consolidate  peace  and  stability  as  a 
prerequisite  for  the  achievement  of  internationally 
agreed development goals and Africa’s integration into 
the global economy. Fortunately, many volatile regions 
have attained sustainable levels of stability, and others 
have witnessed a reduction in the level of conflict. 

That  has  been  due,  among  other  reasons,  to 
transformations  in  the  African  Union  (AU)  and  its 
Peace  and  Security  Architecture,  the  United  Nations 
multidimensional  approach 
the 
renewed  commitment  of  the  international  community 
to confront the scourge of conflict, the establishment of 
the AU’s Panel of the Wise, the deepening cooperation 
among  the  AU,  the  United  Nations  and  subregional 
the 
organizations 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
to 
countries emerging from conflict. 

We  believe  that  ensuring  economic  and  social 
development  is  the  best  way  to  prevent  conflicts  in 
Africa.  In  this  regard,  the  African  Group  agrees  with 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  that  new  and  creative 
programmes  must  be  found 
to  generate  human, 
financial  and 
resources  and  effective 
partnerships to ensure that the link between peace and 
establishment 
to  provide  support 
to  peacekeeping, 
technical 
and 
the 
of 
A/64/PV.22
development is appropriately addressed at all stages in 
all peace efforts. 

All  stakeholders  should  therefore  work  together 
with an integrated approach to address the root causes 
of  tension  on  the  continent,  such  as  unemployment, 
food insecurity and the effects of climate change, such 
as  water  scarcity  and  desertification.  The  continent  is 
aware  of  the  need  to  enhance  democratic  governance 
and  to  pursue  legitimate  interests  and  respect  for 
human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  To  that  end,  the 
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
is  providing 
innovative  safeguards  to  improve  governance  and 
promote accountability. 

Malaria places a heavy burden on Africa. Indeed, 
nine  out  of  10  cases  of  malaria  worldwide  occur  in 
sub-Saharan  Africa,  and  90  per  cent  of  Africa’s 
population is  at risk. Children under five years  of  age 
and  pregnant  women  are  the  most  vulnerable  to 
malaria.  With  approximately  250  million  cases 
annually,  malaria  is  the  cause  of  death  of  almost  a 
million  Africans  every  year,  most  of  them  children. 
Malaria is said to be a disease of poverty and a cause 
of poverty. Its impact on socio-economic development 
is  immense  —  approximately  $12  billion  annually  — 
and  consequently,  the  disease  has  slowed  economic 
growth  by  up  to  1.3  per  cent  per  year  through  death 
and  lost  hours  of  economic  productivity,  as  well  as 
having an impact on public funds and family incomes. 
African leaders are highly committed to the fight 

against  malaria.  In 
they 
committed themselves, inter alia, to “halve the malaria 
mortality for Africa’s people by 2010”, and resolved to 
“initiate  appropriate  and 
to 
strengthen the health systems to ensure that by the year 
2005 ... at least 60 per cent of those at risk of malaria, 
particularly  children  under  five  years  of  age  and 
pregnant women”, benefit from protective measures.  

At the 2000 ordinary session of the Assembly of 
the  African  Union,  meeting  at  Lome,  African  leaders 
declared 25 April as African Malaria Day, a date which 
has now become World Malaria Day.  

While  much  progress  has  been  achieved  in  the 
fight  against  malaria,  many  challenges  still  remain. 
These  include  the  development  of  resistance  to  drugs 
which  has  forced  countries  to  change  their  drug 
policies  to  combination  therapies,  which  are  more 
expensive.  It  is  a  matter  of  concern  that  resistance  to 
combination  therapies  has  begun  to  occur.  Moreover, 
the  Abuja  Declaration, 
sustainable  action 
09-56757 

7 

from  bilateral  and 
financing  mechanisms 
A/64/PV.22 

the  emergence  of  counterfeit  and  substandard  drugs 
will  further  compound  this  problem.  Other  challenges 
include  weak  procurement  and  distribution  systems, 
inadequate access to medical equipment, especially for 
rapid diagnostic testing, and inadequate availability of 
skilled medical personnel. 

The  current  financial,  energy  and  food  crises 
further  constrain  Member  States’  ability  to  allocate 
sufficient funds for malaria control. Climate change is 
another  challenge  that  has  to  be  taken  into  account  in 
the  fight  against  malaria,  as  it  may  lead  to  other 
geographical  areas  that  were  not  originally  malaria 
endemic to become so. 
We are encouraged by the increase in funding for 

malaria  control 
international 
organizations,  including  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  the  World  Bank’s 
booster  programme,  the  United  States  President’s 
Malaria  Initiative  and  the  Islamic  Development  Bank. 
We  also  commend 
the  Bill  &  Melinda  Gates 
Foundation  for  funding  research  as  well  as  other 
innovative 
the 
International  Drug  Purchase  Facility  for  improving 
availability of malaria medicines. 

Malaria-related  ill-health  and  death  throughout 
the world can be substantially eliminated with political 
commitment and commensurate resources if the public 
is educated and sensitized to malaria and if appropriate 
health  services  are  made  available,  particularly  in 
countries where the disease is endemic. It is important 
to  remind  ourselves  that  we  just  have  a  year  to  2010, 
the  Roll  Back  Malaria  target  for  halving  the  malaria 
burden  and  the  target  for  universal  access  to  health 
services and for malaria elimination in Africa. We thus 
need  to  redouble  our  efforts  if  we  are  to  achieve  the 
2010 goals. It is also imperative that we begin looking 
beyond 2010 in our fight against malaria. 

Africans are committed to working hard in order 
to turn Africa into a zone  of active partnership and to 
establish  conditions  on  the  continent  conducive  to 
peace  and  sustainable  development.  The  priority  task 
now  is  for  all  stakeholders  to  effectively  honour  the 
commitments  they  have  undertaken  with  regard  to 
Africa. 
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  10  member  States  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
namely  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the 
such 
as 
the  New  Partnership 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia, 
Myanmar,  the  Philippines,  Singapore,  Viet  Nam  and 
Thailand. 

ASEAN aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China. ASEAN  would  like  to  thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
regarding 
for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) (A/64/204). 

ASEAN stands firm in solidarity with Africa and 
is  committed  to  supporting  Africa’s  aspiration  for 
growth,  development  and  prosperity,  as  reflected  in 
NEPAD.  We  fully  support  the  main  objective  of 
NEPAD: 
to  generate  broad-based  and  equitable 
economic  growth  that  would  allow  Africa  to  reduce 
poverty  and  be  better  integrated  into  the  global 
economy.  In  this  spirit,  I  have  the  honour  to  share 
ASEAN’s views on some key issues. 
First,  ASEAN  welcomes  progress  achieved  in 

recent years  by African  countries  and organizations in 
implementing various sectoral priorities of NEPAD, for 
example  in  areas  of  infrastructure,  agriculture,  public 
health,  education  and  human  resources  development, 
information  and  communications 
technology  and 
science  and  technology,  as  reported  by  the  Secretary-
General. 
ASEAN  commends  the  leaders  and  peoples  of 

Africa  for  their  unwavering  determination  to  achieve 
the  noble  goals  they  have  set  for  themselves.  We 
welcome  the  assessment  of  the  Secretary-General  in 
his  report  (A/64/204)  that  progress  in  these  priority 
areas has put African countries in a stronger position to 
achieve  many  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  by  the  year  2015.  We  also  agree  that  there 
should be no room for complacency. 

Secondly, like developing countries in other parts 
of  the  globe,  African  countries  have  faced  multiple 
challenges  arising  from  the  multiple  crises  that  have 
affected  the  world  in  the  past  few  years.  The  current 
financial and economic crisis; food and energy security 
concerns;  stalled  multilateral  trade  negotiations;  the 
spread  of  pandemics  and  deadly  infectious  diseases; 
and the adverse impacts of climate change, particularly 
desertification,  have 
reverse  many 
African  countries’  hard-won  progress  towards  the 
MDGs  as  well  as  towards  sustainable  growth  and 
development  as  envisaged  by  NEPAD.  Addressing 
those challenges is a matter of great urgency. 
threatened 
to 
8 

09-56757 
in 
the 
those 
Thirdly, 
stronger 
and  more 



ASEAN  believes  it  important  to  keep  reminding 
all parties  concerned of the human  face of the  current 
financial  and  economic  crisis,  especially  in  its  impact 
on  vulnerable  populations  in  developing  countries. 
ASEAN  has  made  this  point  clear  at  every  meeting 
relating  to  this  issue,  for  example,  at  the  United 
Nations  and  Group  of  20  Summits  in  London  and, 
more  recently,  in  Pittsburgh. ASEAN  will  continue  to 
emphasize  this  human  dimension  of  the  financial  and 
economic  crisis,  not  only  because  we  feel  strongly 
about the issue, but because we ourselves lived through 
a similar crisis in the late 1990s. 

the  face  of  such  complex  and 
intertwined  crises  and  challenges,  ASEAN  firmly 
international  community  should 
believes 
that 
respond  with 
coordinated 
international  cooperation  and  partnership.  The  current 
financial  crisis  in  developed  countries  should  not  lead 
donors  to  cut  back  on  their  pledged  commitments  to 
developing  countries, 
in  Africa. 
including 
Commitments  made 
in  L’Aquila,  London  and 
Pittsburgh must be honoured. 

In  the  view  of  ASEAN,  developing  countries 
should  be  assisted  with  capacity-building  and  projects 
aimed at, inter alia, strengthening social safety nets to 
cushion  vulnerable  societies  and  populations  from  the 
impacts  of  the  current  global  economic  downturn  and 
strengthen  their  resilience  to  weather  future  shocks. 
ASEAN  calls  upon  all  parties  to  implement  fully  the 
Political  Declaration  on  Africa’s  Development  Needs 
(resolution 63/1), adopted at the close of the high-level 
meeting  held  in  September  2008.  With  the  high-level 
conference to review progress on the MDGs scheduled 
for  September  2010  (resolution  63/302),  we  urge  all 
Member States to take full advantage of that meeting to 
reflect  on  achievements  and  shortcomings  thus  far, 
with  a  view  to  reenergizing  national,  regional  and 
international efforts vis-à-vis the MDGs within the five 
years remaining until 2015. Next year will be vital for 
us to add further momentum before it is too late. 

that  South-South 
cooperation  and  tripartite  partnership  can  positively 
complement  traditional  North-South  cooperation  in 
supporting  development  in  Africa.  ASEAN  is  of  the 
view that, in many cases, developing countries are in a 
better position to understand one another  and to share 
their experiences regarding successes and challenges in 
their  development  efforts.  We  strongly  believe  that 
development assistance and partnerships should aim to 
Fourthly,  ASEAN  believes 
A/64/PV.22
In 
recognize 
cooperation 
in 
to  promote 
the  basis  of 
this  context,  we 
their  potential  on 
in  economic  and 
their  peoples  by 
empower  African  countries  and 
unlocking 
their 
comparative  strengths,  national  priorities  and  national 
ownership. 
the 
importance  of  South-South 
among 
countries  of  ASEAN  and  Africa,  as  well  as  tripartite 
partnerships  between  ASEAN,  African  countries  and 
donors,  as  an  effective  way 
trade, 
agriculture, food security and health care in Africa. 

Fifthly,  the  nations  of ASEAN  are  committed  to 
strengthening  relations  and  partnerships  with  Africa. 
As  fellow  developing  countries,  we  stand  ready  to 
share  our  experience 
social 
development  with  our  African  partners.  As  I  speak, 
individual  ASEAN  member  States  are  working  with 
their African  partners  in  such  diverse  areas  as  human 
resources  development, 
capacity-building,  public 
health — including combating infectious diseases such 
as malaria — fisheries and agricultural development. 

ASEAN also welcomes the progress made in the 
New Asian-African Strategic Partnership with a senior 
officials’  meeting,  held 
in  Jakarta  on  12  and 
13 October,  with  the  aim  of  maintaining  the  Strategic 
Partnership’s  momentum  and  reaffirming  ASEAN’s 
strong  commitment 
to  strengthening  cooperation 
through  the  implementation  of  concrete  activities  and 
programmes under the Strategic Partnership framework. 

to 
become  an ASEAN  community,  we  also  fully  support 
efforts  to  deepen  regional  integration  in  Africa.  We 
note  with  interest  that  the  latest  report  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  on 
economic  development  in  Africa  in  2009,  released  in 
July  (UNCTAD/ALDC/AFRICA/2009),  recommends 
that  Africa  deepen  regional  economic 
integration 
initiatives  as  a  means  of  building  stronger  and  more 
resilient  economies.  While  we  believe 
the 
importance  of 
reaching  a  development-oriented 
outcome  of  the  Doha  Round  to  ensure  a  free  and  fair 
global trade regime beneficial to developing countries, 
we  also  believe  that,  like  other  regions, Africa  would 
benefit  enormously  from  closer  intraregional  trade  as 
well  as  better  integration  and  harmonization  in  the 
areas of infrastructure and trade policy. We agree with 
the  UNCTAD  report’s  recommendation  that  regional 
countries’ 
integration 
productive 
economic 
diversification and improve their competitiveness. 
enhance  African 
their 
As  we  ourselves  deepen  our 
could 
capacity, 
integration 
increase 
09-56757 

9 

integration  between  Africa’s 
A/64/PV.22 


As shown by the results of integration among the 
10 ASEAN  member  States,  and  between ASEAN  as  a 
group  and  its  partners  in  East  Asia,  pooled  resources 
and economies of scale would allow African countries 
to  enhance  their  respective  comparative  advantages 
while  participating  more  fully  and  effectively  in  the 
global economy. ASEAN fully supports ongoing efforts 
to  promote 
three 
subregional groups — the Common Market for Eastern 
and Southern Africa (COMESA), the Southern African 
Development Community (SADC) and the East African 
Community  (EAC)  —  under  the  COMESA-SADC-
EAC  Harmonization  Process.  Here  ASEAN  stands 
ready to work with and share its experience on regional 
integration with its African partners. 
Finally,  ASEAN  believes  that  the  association 

between  the  nations  of  ASEAN  and Africa  should  be 
strengthened  so  as  to  encompass  more  than  just  the 
relations  between  the  Governments  of  both  regions. 
The  peoples  of  ASEAN  and  Africa  should  be 
encouraged  to  learn  and  understand  more  about  one 
another.  At  the  moment,  there  are  many  men  and 
women  from  ASEAN  who  are  working  with  their 
African  partners  in  various  development  and  business 
projects  in  Africa.  Likewise,  there  are  also  many 
African  professionals  and  students  who  are  working 
with  their  ASEAN  partners  or  studying  in  various 
fields  in ASEAN  member  States.  Further  educational, 
business  and  cultural  exchange  programmes  between 
the two regions should be further promoted in order to 
bring  their  peoples  closer  together.  ASEAN  strongly 
believes  that  closer  people-to-people  contacts  would 
form  a  strong  and  lasting  foundation  for  partnership 
and friendship between ASEAN and Africa. 
Mr. Tharoor (India): I am happy to participate in 

today’s  joint  debate  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  Allow  me  to  thank 
the Secretary-General for his comprehensive report on 
implementation  and  international  support  with  regard 
to  NEPAD  (A/64/204)  and  for  the  other  reports 
prepared for this joint debate. 

India’s ties with Africa are historic. Trade across 
the  Indian  Ocean  has  linked  us  for  hundreds  of  years. 
For  the  people  of  India,  Africa  is  also  the  land  of 
awakening  of  the  father  of  our  nation,  Mahatma 
Gandhi.  In  the  past,  we  have  shared  the  pain  of 
subjugation and the joy of freedom and liberation. We 
have  worked  shoulder  to  shoulder  in  the  fight  against 
apartheid  and  racial  discrimination.  India  was  at  the 
and 
international 
that 
in 
into  a 
support”, 
towards  Africa’s  development 
international  development  partners 
vanguard of the struggle against colonialism, apartheid 
and  racial  discrimination  —  a  struggle  that  helped 
transform the lives of millions of people in Africa and 
Asia.  During  our  march  together,  we  have  traversed 
similar  paths,  shared  similar  values  and  cherished  the 
same  dreams.  Our  long  and  historic  relationship  has 
now  evolved 
sustainable  and  enduring 
partnership. 

In  his  report,  “New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development: seventh  consolidated progress  report  on 
implementation 
the 
Secretary-General  underscored 
international 
cooperation  is  vital  for  Africa’s  development.  The 
report  emphasizes  the  need  for  concerted  and  urgent 
action  by 
to 
mitigate  the  socio-economic  impact  of  the  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis  and  help  African 
countries in their progress towards the implementation 
of  NEPAD  and  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. The report also highlights India’s 
contribution 
the 
context of South-South cooperation. 

India has a long-standing, close and multilayered 
relationship  with  Africa.  A  vibrant  India  and  a 
resurgent  Africa  are  witnessing  an  intensification  of 
relations  and  a  growing  convergence  of  interests  in 
their  common  quest  for  sustainable  economic  growth 
and  development.  Our  partnership  encompasses 
priority  sectors  integral  to  the  developmental  goals  of 
Africa in the twenty-first century. India is committed to 
working  together  with  Africa  in  accordance  with  the 
priorities of the continent. Priority areas of cooperation 
include  infrastructure  development,  capacity-building, 
agriculture,  health  and  food  security  and  technology 
cooperation.  We  have  accorded  high  priority  to  the 
development  of  economic  infrastructure,  including 
railways,  information  technology,  telecommunications 
and power. 

The  First  India-Africa  Forum  Summit,  held  in 
Delhi  in April  2008,  was  a  major  milestone  in  India’s 
engagement with Africa. The Delhi Declaration and the 
Africa-India  Framework  for  Cooperation,  adopted 
during  the  Summit,  highlighted  our  shared  vision  and 
world  view.  Taken  together,  these  provide  a  sound 
foundation for the intensification of our engagement in 
the years to come. 

India has so far extended more than $3 billion in 
concessional  lines  of  credit  to  countries  in  Africa. 
10 

09-56757 
training  courses 
such  as  agriculture 


During  the  India-Africa  Forum  Summit,  India  also 
decided to increase the available concessional lines of 
credit for Africa to $5.4 billion for the next five years. 

Since  the  inception  of  the  Indian  Technical  and 
Economic  Cooperation  (ITEC)  programme  in  1964, 
capacity-building  and  human  resource  development  in 
Africa  have  been  areas  of  high  priority  for  the 
Government  of  India.  The  ITEC  programme  has 
benefited  thousands  of  experts  and  students  from 
Africa  who  have  come  for 
in 
professional  institutions  in  my  country. Those  courses 
cover  diverse 
and 
agro-processing,  entrepreneurship  development,  tool 
design, small-business creation, the promotion of rural 
industries  and 
technology.  We  have 
increased  the  number  of  training  slots  for  African 
countries from 1,100 to 1,600 under the programme. In 
addition,  several 
thousand  African  students  are 
currently  studying  in  Indian  universities  and  colleges. 
We  have  also  doubled  the  number  of  scholarships  for 
African countries to 500. 

Over the next five to six years, India will also be 
undertaking  in  Africa,  on  a  grant  basis,  projects  in 
critical areas  such as higher and vocational education, 
science, 
technology,  agriculture  and 
renewable  energy.  A  sum  of  $500  million  has  been 
allocated for that endeavour. 

The Pan-African e-Network project, which seeks 
to bridge the digital divide between Africa and the rest 
of the world, is one of the most far-reaching initiatives 
undertaken by India. Already, 42 countries have joined 
this  programme,  which 
to  provide 
telecommunication, 
e-services,  with  priority  on 
tele-education 
and 
connectivity for extremely important persons — VVIP 
connectivity  —  through  a  satellite  and  fibre-optic 
network  among  the  heads  of  State  of  all  53  countries. 
The project would give major benefits to Africa in the 
area  of  capacity-building 
the  skill  and 
knowledge  development  of  students  and  medical 
specialists, as well as for medical consultation. 

India  has  been  actively  engaged  with  NEPAD 
since  the  very  beginning.  The  Government  of  India 
announced  a  $300  million  line  of  credit  for  NEPAD 
during  the  India-Africa  Forum  Summit.  That  line  of 
credit  is  in  addition  to  the  $200  million  in  lines  of 
credit for NEPAD extended in 2002. 
telemedicine 
information 
is 
intended 
and 
services 
fields 
information 
through 
A/64/PV.22
in 
the  areas  of 
Indian  companies  have  made 
in  Africa 
The Indian private sector is increasingly engaged 

large 
in  Africa. 
investments 
industry, 
agriculture, services, human resource development and 
infrastructure.  India’s  trade  with  Africa  has  been 
growing  rapidly.  India’s  bilateral  trade  with  Africa 
totalled more than $36 billion in the period 2008-2009, 
which  represented  an  almost  sixfold  increase  in  as 
many  years.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  our 
African  partners  to  take  those  trade  and  investment 
levels to new heights. 

In  his  report  on  NEPAD,  the  Secretary-General 
called  for  a  long-overdue  successful  outcome  to  the 
Doha  Round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations. At  the 
India-Africa  Forum  Summit,  India  and Africa  decided 
to  work  together  on  pressing  global  issues  of  shared 
interest  and  concern,  including  those  involving  the 
World Trade  Organization,  such  as  the  issue  of  cotton 
subsidies.  India  has  unilaterally  announced  duty-free 
and  quota-free  market  access  to  goods  from  34  least 
developed  countries  (LDCs)  in  Africa.  This  covers 
94 per  cent  of  India’s  total  tariff  lines  and  provides 
preferential  market  access  on  tariff  lines  comprising 
92.5 per cent of the global exports of all LDCs. 

As indicated in the Secretary-General’s report, an 
important  factor  in  addressing  the  causes  of  conflict 
and  contributing  to  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa  is  the  commitment  of  the 
international  community,  including  United  Nations 
organizations,  to  allocate  increased  financial,  human 
and technical resources for regional strategies. 

For  its  part,  India  has  been  extensively  involved 
in  peacekeeping  efforts  in  Africa  over  the  past  six 
decades.  At  present,  India  has  more 
than  7,000 
peacekeepers  serving  in  Africa,  including  a  5,000-
strong  contingent  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo.  India’s  first  full  all-female  formed  police  unit 
is  currently  deployed 
to 
peacekeeping, this unit has been successful in reaching 
out  to  the  most  vulnerable  sections  of  society  — 
women  and  children  —  and  in  inspiring  women,  who 
have  so  often  been  the  victims  of  war,  to  see 
themselves  also  as  sources  of  succor  and  strength  in 
this recently war-torn society. 

As  a  founding  member  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  India  remains  actively  engaged  with  the 
work of the  Commission. The report of the Secretary-
General  (A/64/210)  mentions  that  92  per  cent  of 
in  Liberia.  In  addition 
09-56757 

11 

A/64/PV.22 

Peacebuilding  Fund-allocated  funds  have  gone  to 
African  countries.  We  are  hopeful  that,  with  the 
revision of the terms of reference for the Peacebuilding 
Fund, the efficiency and effectiveness of the Fund will 
be further improved. 

Africa’s fight against malaria is dealt with in the 
World  Health  Organization  report  on  “2001-2010: 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly  in  Africa”,  transmitted  in  a  note  by  the 
Secretary-General  (A/64/302).  It  is  a  matter  of  deep 
regret  that  more  than  1  million  malarial  deaths  still 
occur  each  year  when  the  disease  is  preventable, 
treatable and perfectly curable. 

While  we  are  happy  to  note  that  a  number  of 
preventive measures, such as the distribution of treated 
mosquito  nets,  are  being  undertaken  on  a  much  larger 
scale, it also remains a fact that the developing world’s 
ability to combat public health crises of this nature has 
at  times  been  circumscribed  under  the  pretext  of 
intellectual  property  rights.  Access 
to  affordable 
medicines is a fundamental part of the right to health, 
and this has even been recognized by the trade-related 
aspects  of 
regime. 
Unfortunately, this remains more in the realm of theory 
than that of practice. 
The  Africa-India  Framework  for  Cooperation 

2008 
for 
medical and health specialists to tackle pandemics like 
malaria, filariasis, polio, HIV and tuberculosis. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  state  that  India 
envisions  an  Africa  that  is  self-reliant,  economically 
vibrant  and  at  peace  with  itself  and  the  world.  While 
highlighting  the  vitality  of  the  African  continent,  the 
first Prime Minister of India, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, 
said:  

“Of  one  thing  there  can  be  no  doubt,  and 
that  is  the  vitality  of  the  people  of  Africa. 
Therefore, with the vitality of her people and the 
great  resources  available  in  this  great  continent, 
there can be no doubt that the future holds a great 
promise for the people of Africa”. 

It is this promise that our partnership with Africa 
seeks to fulfil. India will offer its fullest cooperation to 
harness the great potential of the African people for the 
cause of Africa’s progress and development. 
Mr. Talbot (Guyana): I have the honour to speak 

on agenda item 63 on behalf of the States members of 
includes  capacity-building  programmes 
intellectual  property 
rights 
to  promote  development 
the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
that  are 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  namely: Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  the  Bahamas,  Barbados,  Belize,  Dominica, 
Grenada,  Haiti,  Jamaica,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Suriname, 
Trinidad and Tobago and my own country, Guyana. 

The States members of the Caribbean Community 
are pleased to renew our solidarity with Africa and its 
people,  with  whom  we  share  strong  bonds  of  history 
and  culture  and  a  sense  of  common  purpose.  As  we 
strive 
in  our  respective 
regions,  we  envisage  increased  prospects  for  mutual 
cooperation and exchange. Africa can continue to count 
on CARICOM’s full support for the achievement of the 
objectives  of 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  promotion  of  durable 
peace and sustainable development on the continent. 

The  high-level  meeting  on Africa’s  development 
needs,  held  one  year  ago,  took  account  of  the  state  of 
implementation of various commitments as well as the 
In  adopting  a  political 
challenges  encountered. 
declaration  on  Africa’s  development  needs, 
the 
international community recommitted itself  
strengthen 
the  New  Partnership 
reinvigorate 
and 
and 
mutual 
determination 
accountability, 
the 
“to 
a  global 
partnership  of  equals  based  on  our  common 
shared 
values, 
responsibility 
to 
collectively  act  for  our  common  future  and  to 
including  human, 
mobilize 
the 
financial  and 
to  end 
poverty, hunger and underdevelopment in Africa, 
with  the  explicit  objective  of  turning  existing 
commitments  into  concrete  actions”  (resolution 
63/1, para. 3). 
resources, 
technological,  required 
those 
later,  we  can  rightfully  revisit 
One  year 
commitments to take account of progress to date. 

CARICOM is therefore grateful to the Secretary-
General  for  the  reports  before  us  on  this  agenda  item 
(A/64/204,  A/64/208  and  A/64/210).  Taken  together, 
they provide a mixed picture of progress accompanied 
by  setbacks.  The  reports  point  to  the  achievement  of 
some  progress  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD 
despite  the  negative  impact  of  the  various  crises  — 
financial  and  economic,  food,  climate  change  and 
energy — that beset the world and Africa. But coming 
as they do at a time when African countries are poised 
for 
crises 
contributed to some setbacks in key areas in 2008, such 
economic  growth, 
significant 
these 
12 

09-56757 
the 
serious, 
socio-economic  performance  across 


as  economic  growth,  agricultural  development  and 
poverty eradication, as well as in several other human 
development indicators. 

CARICOM has observed with interest the actions 
taken  by  Africa  and  its  partners  to  advance  the 
implementation  of  varied  national  and  subregional 
development  plans  and  strategies  in  the  framework  of 
the  New  Partnership.  However,  we  also  note  that  the 
gap  between  promise  and  delivery  remains  wide  and 
that  the  countries  of Africa  will  continue  to  need  the 
invaluable  support  of  the  international  community  if 
they are to realize the objectives of NEPAD. 

Africa’s  fundamental  challenges  are  well  known 
and  have  been  well  articulated  by  the  international 
community.  The  ongoing  multiple  global  crises,  the 
variable 
the 
continent and the emergence of new challenges pose an 
even  more  formidable  obstacle  to  the  sustainable 
development  prospects  for  Africa.  The  inadequacy  of 
resources  remains  a  major  constraint  on  African 
development.  Despite 
sincere  and 
consistent  efforts  of  African  countries  to  implement 
NEPAD, Africa is still far  from enjoying the levels  of 
support  required  under 
the 
international community.  

CARICOM is of the view that considerable gains 
would be possible if the international community were 
to  translate  its  commitments  into  concrete  results. 
Official  development 
foreign  direct 
investment  and  trade  are  key  engines  of  growth  in 
Africa.  For  that  reason,  there  is  a  need  for  great 
vigilance  to  ensure  that  the  upward  trend  of  foreign 
direct investment flows to Africa is maintained and that 
development  partners  meet  their  pledge  to  raise  aid 
flows to Africa to $66 billion annually, at 2008 prices, 
by 2010. 

Africa’s  debt  sustainability  challenges  must  also 
be tackled coherently. Various multilateral and bilateral 
debt  reduction  initiatives  have  lowered  debt-servicing 
costs for many African countries. However, the current 
crisis  presents  new  debt  sustainability  challenges.  In 
addition,  the  manifest  lack  of  progress  in  the  Doha 
Round  of  multilateral  trade  talks  also  constrains  the 
vistas of Africa’s development progress. CARICOM is 
convinced  that  the  international  community  should 
ensure  that  multilateral  agreements  address  Africa’s 
needs 
and 
incorporate  appropriate  development 
provisions. 
its  partnership  with 
assistance, 
09-56757 

13 
to 
A/64/PV.22
that 
economic 
and 
in 
address 
between 
governance 
rural 
the 
diversification 
especially 
to 

The  development  of  agriculture  is  critical  to 
Africa’s  development  prospects.  More  collaborative 
action  is  therefore  necessary  to  assist  the  continent  in 
coping  with  the  food  crisis  and  to  embark  on  a  truly 
African  green  revolution.  As  elaborated  during  this 
year’s  session  of  the  Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development, where a focus on Africa was included in 
one  of  the  thematic  clusters,  helpful  action  in  that 
regard  should  include  encouraging  and  facilitating 
infrastructure 
investments, 
specifically 
socio-economic 
development  of  rural  communities  and  vulnerable 
groups;  increasing  research  and  development  efforts; 
promoting  land  reform  and  security  of  tenure;  and 
supporting 
the 
improvement of income distribution. 
CARICOM  is  ever  mindful  of  the  complex 

interrelationship 
and 
development.  We  support  the  continued  efforts  of 
African  countries  to  improve  economic  and  political 
governance  and  to  strengthen  mechanisms  for  the 
participation, 
inclusion  and  empowerment  of  all 
segments  of  African  society,  including  civil  society, 
women and girls, and communities and households, in 
the  political  and  development  processes  on 
the 
continent. CARICOM also believes that focused efforts 
must continue to be made to eliminate the combination 
of  internal  and  external  factors  that  engender  conflict 
and stymie development. 

CARICOM continues to endorse the requirement 
identified  in  the  political  declaration  on  Africa’s 
development  needs 
all 
commitments  to  and  by  Africa  to  comprehensively 
address the special development needs of the continent 
be  effectively  implemented  and  given  appropriate 
follow-up  by  the  international  community  and  by 
Africa itself. CARICOM emphasizes the importance of 
enhanced  and  improved  monitoring  of  the  NEPAD 
implementation  process.  As  the  Secretary-General’s 
report points out, “[t]oo often in the past, Governments 
have  convened  high-level  summits  on  development, 
adopted  bold  targets,  and  then  failed  to  deliver” 
(A/64/208, para. 47).  
We  have  taken  particular  note  of  the  fact  that, 

rather than devising new mechanisms, the results of the 
various  existing  monitoring  processes  will  be  brought 
together  more  effectively.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome 
the  enhanced  support  provided  by  the  United  Nations 
the  NEPAD 
system 
the  African  Union  and 
(resolution  63/1) 
the 
that 
to  again  call  on 
The  States  members  of  CARICOM 
A/64/PV.22 

programme,  especially  through  the  auspices  of  the 
inter-agency  task  force  on  Africa  and  the  efforts  to 
mainstream NEPAD into United Nations normative and 
operational activities. 

are 
encouraged by the recognition that Africa is capable of 
and  has  made  dedicated  efforts  towards  resolving  the 
many  challenges  that  it  faces.  The  progress  in  the 
implementation  of  NEPAD  projects  and  in  moving 
forward the African Peer Review Mechanism is fitting 
testimony 
recognition.  African  countries 
themselves  and  their  development  partners  must  now 
continue, including through stronger linkages with the 
private sector and civil society, their prudent action to 
ensure  that  the  progress  achieved  so  far  is  not  unduly 
undermined.  CARICOM  therefore  avails  itself  of  this 
opportunity 
international 
community  to  significantly  enhance  its  support  for 
Africa’s  development  through  NEPAD.  In  that  regard, 
we  see  an  important  role  for  South-South  cooperation 
as part of the international response.  

The CARICOM countries work with our brothers 
and  sisters  in  Africa  in  various  forums,  here  at  the 
United  Nations 
the 
Commonwealth  and  of  the  African,  Caribbean  and 
Pacific  group,  among  others.  We  are  honoured  to 
partner  with  Africa  and  with  other  countries  and 
regions 
to  establish  a  permanent 
memorial to the victims of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave  trade.  We  will  continue  to  work  with  Africa  to 
further  strengthen  the  institutional  mechanisms  for 
collaboration between our two regions  and among our 
peoples and for the consolidation of our long-standing 
relationships  and  the  productive  linkages  between 
Africa and the Caribbean in economic, social, cultural 
and other domains. 
Mr.  Loh  (Singapore):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

aligning  myself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives of the Sudan, on behalf of the Group of 
77  and  China,  and  of  Thailand,  on  behalf  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  on 
this agenda item. 

The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) has grown from strength to strength since its 
adoption  in  2001.  The  Secretary-General’s  seventh 
consolidated progress report on the implementation and 
international  support  of  NEPAD  (A/64/204)  indicates 
that,  despite  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis 
context  of 
in 
the  project 
and 
in 
the 
to 

showcases 
standards,  but  also 
it  possible  for  African  countries 
and  its  negative  impact, Africa  has  achieved  progress 
in  the  past  year  in  areas  such  as  infrastructure, 
agriculture,  education,  health,  the  environment  and 
science and technology. We applaud the good work that 
is being done through NEPAD. 

At  the  recent  briefing  by  the  United  Nations 
Office of the Special Adviser on Africa on the African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism  (APRM)  established  under 
NEPAD,  we  were  heartened  to  note  that  30  countries 
had  voluntarily  acceded  to  the  Review  Mechanism. 
Seventeen  of  those  30  member  countries  have  also 
launched  the  process  for  themselves.  The  APRM  not 
only  makes 
to 
benchmark  good  governance  in Africa  to  international 
norms  and 
the 
innovation  in  African  thinking  on  governance.  From 
the  case  studies  highlighted,  it  is  clear  that  much 
progress has been made in the areas of governance and 
socio-economic development in Africa. 

However,  such  hard-earned  progress  could  be 
rolled  back  as  African  countries  are  increasingly 
affected  by  the  financial  crisis,  the  latent  food  and 
energy  crisis  and  the  effects  of  climate  change.  Many 
African countries are already behind schedule towards 
meeting  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015. 
In  such  circumstances,  while  NEPAD’s  principle  of 
anchoring  the  development  of  Africa  on  its  resources 
and  the  resourcefulness  of  its  people  should  not 
change, there is a real danger that Africa will continue 
to 
lag  behind  without  concerted  and  sustained 
international cooperation and assistance. 

Official  development  assistance,  foreign  direct 
investment  and  trade  are  key  engines  of  growth  in 
Africa. Africa’s development partners therefore need to 
take  serious  steps  to  maintain  the  upward  trend  of 
foreign  direct  investment  inflows  to  the  continent.  In 
this  regard,  the  Singapore  Minister  of  Trade  and 
Industry,  along  with 
the  business  delegations  of 
31 Singaporean  companies,  visited  Nigeria,  South 
Africa  and  Ghana  just  two  weeks  ago.  Foreign  direct 
investment from Singapore in Africa has also grown at 
an average of 146 per cent a year over the past 22 years 
to reach $36 billion in 2007.  

Besides  investing  in  Africa,  Singapore  has  also 
provided  technical  assistance  and  cooperation  to  our 
African  friends  under 
the  Singapore  Cooperation 
Programme  (SCP),  which  was  established  under  the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Singapore to coordinate 
14 

09-56757 
shared 


and  strengthen  our 
technical  assistance  under  a 
centralized framework. When it became independent in 
1965,  Singapore  was  fortunate  to  have  friends  from 
many  countries  who 
their  development 
experience  with  us.  Without  their  assistance,  our 
progress would have been much more difficult. Having 
benefited from the assistance rendered to us, and in the 
same  spirit  of  assisting  friends,  Singapore  is  glad  to 
share  our  experience  and  competencies  with  fellow 
developing countries through the SCP. 

For  example,  in  2008  participants  from  seven 
countries  across  Africa  learned  about  environmental 
management,  urban  development  and  town  planning 
through  a  course  jointly  sponsored  by  the  Singapore 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  the  United  Nations 
Centre  for  Regional  Development.  Seventy  senior 
officials  and  education  specialists 
from  Ghana, 
Madagascar  and  Mozambique  also  attended  a  two-
week  workshop  entitled  “Leaders  in  Education  and 
Training  for  Sustained  Growth  in Africa”,  which  was 
jointly  organized  by  the  World  Bank,  the  Ministry  of 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Singapore  and 
International 
Enterprise Singapore. 

More  recently,  Singapore  welcomed  a  high-level 
group  of  35  senior  policymakers  from  Ghana,  Kenya, 
Mozambique,  Nigeria,  Rwanda  and  Tanzania 
to 
Singapore  for  the  Third  South-South  Study  Visit  on 
skills  and  knowledge  for  sustained  development  in 
Africa,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Singapore-World 
Bank  Third  Country  Training  Programme.  The  South-
South Study Visit was organized with the objective  of 
sharing Singapore’s experience in skills and knowledge 
development.  The  programme  focused  on  how  formal 
education and training systems are linked to the skills 
associated  with  a  country’s  development  strategy  and 
the growth of industry and private enterprise. 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  NEPAD  should 
continue  to  be  driven  by  African  ownership  and 
leadership.  Nonetheless,  the  international  community 
should  do  more  to  support Africa’s  efforts  to  achieve 
sustainable  development.  In  this  regard,  Singapore  is 
committed  to  doing  our  part  as  a  responsible  global 
citizen  to  assist  fellow  developing  countries  in  human 
resource  capacity-building. We  are  happy  to  share  the 
lessons 
from  our  own 
development journey, and we know that we have much 
to  learn  from  our African  counterparts  as  we  progress 
forward together. 
expertise  gained 
and 
A/64/PV.22
the 
agenda 
Mr. Liu Zhenmin (China) (spoke in Chinese): At 

the  outset,  I  welcome  the  reports  submitted  by  the 
Secretary-General  on 
items  under 
discussion  (A/64/204,  A/64/208  and  A/64/210).  The 
Chinese delegation supports the statement made by the 
representative of the Sudan on behalf of the  Group of 
77 and China. 

Africa is home to most developing countries, and 
African  countries  account  for  a  quarter  of  the  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Without  peace  and 
development  in  Africa,  there  will  be  no  world  peace 
and development.  

The  international  community  should  offer  more 
understanding  and  care  in  addressing  the  special 
challenges faced by African countries in the process of 
development.  It  is  the  consistent  view  of  the  Chinese 
delegation  that,  given  the  difficulties  confronted  by 
African  countries,  the  international  community  should 
take Africa’s  concerns  seriously,  respect  its  positions, 
heed its calls and support its requests.  

In September 2008, the United Nations convened 
the high-level meeting on Africa’s development needs, 
which adopted a political declaration (resolution 63/1) 
demonstrating  the  common  will  of  all  countries  to 
strengthen  cooperation  in  helping African  countries  to 
speed up their development. 
This  year  marks  the  eighth  anniversary  of  the 

launch  of 
for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD). Over the past eight years, with 
the  strong  support  of  the  international  community, 
African countries have made progress in areas such as 
infrastructure, agriculture, health, education, environmental 
protection,  information  and  communication  technology, 
gender  mainstreaming  and  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism.  

Nevertheless,  the  impact  of  the  financial,  food 
and energy crises and of climate change has unleashed 
an  unprecedented  development  crisis  on  the  African 
continent,  causing  concern  over 
the  prospect  of 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
there.  The 
take 
immediate  action  to  reduce  the  implications  of  the 
crisis  for  the  economic  and  social  endeavours  of 
African  countries  and  help  them  to  make  progress  in 
implementing NEPAD and achieving the MDGs. In this 
regard,  we  maintain  that  the  international  community 
should place great emphasis on the following areas. 
international  community  should 
the  New  Partnership 
09-56757 

15 
to 
the 
assistance, 
A/64/PV.22 

First,  with  respect  to  the  prompt  delivery  on  its 

commitments 
international 
community should follow through on all its assistance 
commitments 
to  Africa.  In  particular,  developed 
countries  should  increase  their  official  development 
assistance (ODA) to 0.7 per cent of their gross national 
product.  For  many  African  countries,  ODA  provides 
the  main  source  of  funding  for  their  economic  and 
social development. This external assistance should be 
targeted  at  and  serve  the  fundamental  and  long-term 
needs of people of Africa. 
Secondly,  the  international  community  should 

provide  additional  financing.  Due 
the  global 
financial  crisis,  most  developing  countries  have 
witnessed  a  sharp  decrease  in  fiscal  revenue  and 
experienced difficulties in securing external financing. 
They are finding it impossible to adopt countercyclical 
policies  to  stimulate  economic  growth.  International 
financial  institutions  should  forge  a  mechanism  to 
provide  rapid  and  effective  financial  assistance  and 
financing 
to  African  countries  without 
conditionalities,  so  as  to  help  them  overcome  their 
economic difficulties. 

international  community  should 
respect  African  ownership.  The  countries  of  Africa 
have  worked  assiduously  to  achieve  strength  through 
unity,  seek  regional  peace  and  stability,  and  revitalize 
their economies. While rendering assistance to African 
countries,  the  international  community  should  also 
have  confidence 
the  African 
Governments  and  peoples,  and  respect  the  ownership 
and leadership of the recipient countries. 
Fourthly,  the  international  community  should 

expand 
seeking 
development, developing countries have always sought 
mutual  understanding  and  support.  As  a  useful 
complement  to  North-South  cooperation,  the  South-
South cooperation has emerged as an effective driving 
force  for  Africa’s  economic  development.  We  should 
explore  various  forms  of  South-South  cooperation  for 
the benefit of African development. 

Fifthly, the international community should assist 
African 
capacity-building.  African 
development 
enhanced 
for 
sustainable development to take hold. The international 
community  should 
in  African 
countries  in  the  areas  of  infrastructure,  agriculture, 
education, health and environmental protection. In the 
the  wisdom  of 
in 
requires 
South-South 
cooperation. 
increase 
its 
input 
Thirdly, 
the 
countries 
resources 
support 
in 
to 
In 

and 
regional 
its  NEPAD  Programme 
the  African  Union, 
Bank 
meantime, the international community should increase 
aid  for  trade  to  African  countries  to  enhance  their 
ability  to  engage  in  foreign  trade  and  ultimately 
promote their economic and social development. 

Sixthly,  the  role  of  international  organizations 
needs  to  be  strengthened.  The  United  Nations  system 
has  a  unique  role  to  play  in  supporting  NEPAD.  We 
need to take advantage of the United Nations Regional 
Coordination  Mechanism  in  Support  of  the  African 
to  strengthen 
Union  and 
coordination  among  United  Nations  agencies 
in 
providing assistance to Africa at the regional level and 
in increasing efficiency. 

The  partnership  between  the  United  Nations 
system 
and 
the  African 
Development 
economic 
communities  should  also  be  strengthened  to  ensure 
consistency  between  the  focus  of  the  United  Nations 
agencies  and  the  priorities  of  NEPAD.  International 
financial and development institutions should also step 
up their support for Africa. 

The  experience  of  countries  around  the  world 
shows  that  peace  and  stability  are  the  anchors  of 
development, and African development, too, calls for a 
peaceful  environment.  Most  armed  conflicts  in  and 
among African countries are rooted in poverty and lack 
of  development.  Armed  conflicts  not  only  impede 
African  development,  but  also  exacerbate  poverty  on 
the continent. 

We also believe that, in order to resolve conflicts 
and  achieve  sustainable  development  in  Africa,  great 
emphasis  should  be  placed  on  preventive  diplomacy. 
The Secretary-General points out in his report that “the 
cost  of  armed  conflict  in  Africa  is  equivalent  to  or 
exceeds the amount of money the continent receives in 
international  aid”  (A/64/208,  para.  34).  If  it  is  not 
squandered by armed conflict, that money can no doubt 
be used to serve Africa’s growing development needs. 
China  supports  the  United  Nations  and  the  African 
Union in their efforts to resolve conflicts in Africa and 
to  create  a  peaceful  and  stable  environment  for  the 
development of African countries. 
The traditional friendship between the peoples of 

China  and Africa  dates  back  to  ancient  times.  China-
Africa  cooperation  is  an  important  component  of 
South-South  cooperation.  It 
is  China’s  consistent 
foreign  policy  to  further  develop  and  strengthen  its 
partnership  with  Africa,  characterized  by  long-term 
16 

09-56757 
cooperation 
of  China-Africa 
forms  of  assistance 


stability,  equality,  mutual  benefit  and  all-round 
cooperation, as well as to support Africa with concrete 
action  in  its  efforts  to  establish  peace  and  promote 
development. 

Since  the  onset  of  the  financial  crisis,  China, 
while overcoming its own difficulties, has continued to 
provide  various 
to  African 
countries,  including  grants,  interest-free  loans  and 
concessional loans. China focuses its assistance on the 
strengthening 
in 
agriculture, infrastructure, human resource training and 
public health, which are all priority areas of NEPAD. 

At  the  2006  Beijing  Summit  of  the  Forum  on 
China-Africa  Cooperation,  the  Chinese  Government 
announced  its  decision  to  exempt  33  heavily  indebted 
poor and least developed countries in Africa that have 
diplomatic  relations  with  China  from  repaying  their 
interest-free  loan  debts  to  China  that  matured  at  the 
end  of  2005.  By  the  end  of  the  first  quarter  of  2009, 
China  had  successfully  exempted  150  matured  debt 
accounts owed by 32 countries. 

The  Chinese  Government  also  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  concerns  of  African  countries  over 
market  access  and  trade  imbalances,  and  has  taken  a 
host  of  measures  to  promote  trade  with  African 
countries.  In  2008,  total  trade  between  China  and 
Africa stood at $106.84 billion, an increase of 45.1 per 
cent  over  the  previous  year.  Of  this  amount,  China’s 
imports  from  Africa  accounted  for  $56  billion, 
registering an increase of 54 per cent over the previous 
year. 

further 
assistance  and  support  to  African  countries  in  such 
areas as agriculture, education, health, health care and 
clean energy. We will also continue to support African 
countries  in  their  conflict  prevention,  reconciliation 
and peacebuilding endeavours. 
Mr.  Midekssa  (Ethiopia):  As  I  am  taking  the 

floor  for  the  first  time,  allow  me,  on  behalf  of  my 
delegation, to congratulate Mr. Treki on his election as 
President  of  the  General Assembly,  and  to  assure  him 
of my delegation’s full support in ensuring the success 
of this session. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  compelling  and  in-depth  reports  (A/64/204, 
A/64/208  and  A/64/210)  on  both  agenda  items  under 
discussion. 
future,  China  will  provide 
the 
In 
to 
for 
It 
A/64/PV.22
associates 
itself  with 
focusing  on 
revitalization. 
It 
renewal  and 
My  delegation 
international  community. 

the 
statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Tunisia,  on 
behalf  of  the  African  Group,  and  of  the  Sudan  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China. We  attach  great 
importance 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  I  should  therefore  like  to 
make the following points. 

In recent years, there has been an unprecedented 
number of new activities aimed at fast-tracking African 
development  and  improving  the  position  of  Africa  in 
the 
is  perhaps  no 
exaggeration to say that the main driving force behind 
this  thrust  is  the African  Union,  whose  work  since  its 
inception in  2001 has developed into a process that  is 
internationally  recognized  as  the  primary  framework 
for African development.  
The  NEPAD  framework  has  provided  Africa  a 

basis 
is  a 
comprehensive and integrated development framework 
that  addresses  key  social,  economic  and  political 
priorities  in  a  coherent  and  balanced  manner.  It  is 
designed  to  address  the  challenges  facing  the African 
continent, 
issues  such  as  poverty, 
underdevelopment,  backwardness  and  the  continued 
marginalization of the continent. 

The  framework’s  prime  objective  is  to  eradicate 
poverty;  to  place  African  countries,  both  individually 
and  collectively,  on  a  path  of  sustainable  growth  and 
development;  to  halt  the  marginalization  of  Africa  in 
the  globalization  process,  and  to  enhance  its  full  and 
beneficial integration into the global economy. 

Partnership  and  cooperation  between  and  among 
African countries and through regional and continental 
integration,  as  well  as  forging  a  new  international 
partnership 
lopsided 
relationship between Africa and its partners, including 
public-private  partnerships,  are  paramount  principles 
of  NEPAD.  The  same  goes  for  ensuring  that  all 
partnerships are linked to the Millennium Development 
Goals and other agreed development targets. As a long-
term  goal, 
to  establish  and  strengthen 
partnership  between  Africa  and  a  greater  number  of 
development  partners  has  been  acknowledged  all 
along. 

Since  2000,  Africa  has  had  an  average  growth 
rate  of  real  output  above  5  per  cent  and  inflation  has 
declined 
to  single  digits.  There  have  also  been 
in  governance  and  a 
significant 
that  changes 
improvements 
the  existing 
the  need 
09-56757 

17 
in 
turn  will 
to  private  capital 
to  undertake  social  expenditures 
A/64/PV.22 

reduction  in  armed  conflicts,  making  the  region  more 
attractive 
flows.  This  strong 
performance  was,  however,  buffeted  last  year  by  high 
food and oil prices and the economic crisis that ensued.  

The  current  global  financial  and  economic  crisis 
represents  a  serious  setback  for  Africa  because  it  is 
taking  place  at  a  time  when  the  region  is  making 
progress  in  economic  performance  and  management 
and  when  it  is  slowly  recovering  from  the  negative 
effects  of  the  fuel  and  food  crises.  The  impacts  on 
African economies, initially expected to be less severe, 
are  profound.  Growth  rates  in  African  countries  have 
slowed,  as  the  crisis  is  hitting  the  key  drivers  of 
growth,  especially  trade  flows,  capital  inflows,  the 
natural 
resource  sector  and  agricultural  exports. 
Household incomes are falling owing to job losses and 
decreased  remittances  from  family  members  working 
abroad. There is also a concern that budget pressures in 
donor  countries  will  reduce  aid  flows.  The  ability  of 
Governments 
to 
protect  the  most  vulnerable  groups  will  also  be 
constrained,  which 
impede  progress 
towards achieving the MDGs. 

the 
functioning of the global economy and has led to calls 
for 
financial 
architecture.  While  the  worst  of  the  recession  may  be 
over, the global economy is likely to enter a protracted 
period of low growth and volatility until the structural 
problems are addressed.  

We wish to reiterate that NEPAD will continue to 
serve  as  a  framework  that  provides  a  good  basis  for 
revitalization  of  Africa’s  development.  The  current 
situation makes more apparent than before the need to 
reinvigorate  the  global  partnership  in  order  for Africa 
to continue in its development path. 

We  also  must  not  forget  that  this  crisis  was 
brought about by failures of regulation and the inherent 
volatility  in  the  international  financial  system  as 
currently configured. The future international financial 
architecture  must  be  transparent  and  inclusive,  with  a 
greater  voice  and  representation  for  emerging  and 
developing economies, including those of Africa. That 
will 
in 
policymaking at the global level and will assist Africa’s 
endeavour to attain the objectives enshrined in the NEPAD 
framework.  We  also  feel  that  a  pro-development  and 
speedy  conclusion  to  the  Doha  Round  of  global  trade 
The  crisis  has  exposed  weaknesses 
international 
coordination 
reform  of 
the 
improve 
coherence 
and 
the 
in 

in 
the 
and 
organizations 
talks  will  facilitate  much-needed  changes 
international financial system. 

We  also  attach  great  importance  to  the  issue  of 
infectious  diseases 
like  malaria.  Malaria  claims 
millions  of  lives  in Africa.  Of  the  500  million  people 
afflicted  with  malaria  worldwide,  450  million  are  in 
sub-Saharan  Africa.  In  addition,  malaria  costs  the 
continent over $10 billion annually. Over the past few 
years  there  has  been  a  change  in  attitude  that  has  put 
the  agenda  of  Governments, 
malaria  high  on 
international 
development 
programmes.  

Further,  there  is  a  new  form  of  cooperation 
between  the  low-income  countries  and  the  developed 
donor community. The important debates under way in 
different  forums  are  further  indication  that  malaria 
control  and  prevention  are  receiving  due  attention 
throughout  the  international  community.  Since  the 
World Health Organization and its partners funded the 
Roll Back Malaria project and held the Abuja Summit 
in 2000, malaria has become one of the foremost areas 
of concern worldwide. 
The  Ethiopian  Government,  cognizant  of  the 

impact  of  the  disease,  implemented  the  Roll  Back 
Malaria  project  as  a  social  movement  at  the  national 
level  in  2000,  one  year  after  finalizing  the  country’s 
five-year strategic plan. So far, the Ministry of Health 
and  Roll  Back  Malaria  partners  in  Ethiopia  have 
undertaken a malaria prevention and control campaign 
as  an  integral  part  of  the  Plan  for  Accelerated  and 
to  End  Poverty,  which 
Sustained  Development 
ultimately  contributes 
the  achievement  of 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. In the past few years 
there  has  been  remarkable  success  in  curbing  the 
spread of malaria and its death toll. 

Although infection and mortality rates for malaria 
have significantly declined, the cooperation among the 
Ethiopian  Government,  its  development  partners  and 
the international community is still vital to meeting the 
ultimate  objectives  of  the  Roll  Back  Malaria  project. 
We  therefore  urge  donors  to  respond  to  the  financial 
and human resources needs that this crisis presents in a 
more coordinated, systematic and comprehensive way, 
commensurate with the magnitude of the problem. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on  the  progress 
achieved in the implementation of the New Partnership 
to 
18 

09-56757 
on 
the 
forward 
the  way 
(A/64/208), 


for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  (A/64/204),  on 
Africa’s  development  needs  and 
state  of 
implementation  of  various  commitments,  challenges 
and 
the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in Africa  (A/64/210),  and  on 
the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Developing 
Countries, Particularly in Africa (A/64/302).  

In this context, I would like to align myself with 
the  statements  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Tunisia  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group  and  by  the 
representative of the Sudan on behalf of the  Group of 
77 and China. 

More than a year has passed since we gathered in 
the General Assembly at the level of heads of State and 
Government  on  22  September  2008,  when  our  leaders 
adopted  by  consensus  the  political  declaration  on 
Africa’s  development  needs  (resolution  63/1).  That 
declaration constitutes a road map that reflects the joint 
vision  of  the  international  community  on  how  to 
improve  the  development  situation  of  Africa  in  a 
manner  complementary  to  the  outcomes  of  major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
the 
economic and social fields.  

Since  then,  the  development  challenges  facing 
developing  countries  have  intensified,  especially  on 
our  African  continent.  They  include  the  increase  in 
food  and  energy  prices  and  climate  change.  Those 
challenges  have  in  turn  been  exacerbated  by  the 
negative  impact  of  the  world  financial  and  economic 
crisis,  making  African  countries  the  most  afflicted, 
particularly in light of that impact on the efforts of the 
continent 
to  achieve 
sustainable  development  and  sustained  economic 
growth. 

Accordingly,  Egypt  stresses  the  importance  of 
devoting  a  specific  segment  of  the  outcome  document 
to be adopted by the summit that the Secretary-General 
has  called  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) to a precise and comprehensive review of the 
development  situation  in Africa  and  how  to  rectify  it. 
That  is  particularly  necessary  because  our  continent 
has the largest number of the least developed countries, 
and  most  of  its  countries  are  far  from  achieving  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  especially 
the MDGs.  
to  eradicate  poverty  and 
in 
A/64/PV.22
in 
for 
resources 
Undoubtedly, 
the  continent 
the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  system  — 

especially 
the  Special  Adviser  on 
Africa — will  have  a  central  role  in  those  actions,  in 
parallel  with  the  African  Union  and  the  regional  and 
subregional organizations and institutions and with the 
full  support  of  developed  countries  and  international 
financial institutions. All this should be carried out in a 
manner  that  confronts  the  negative  effects  of  those 
crises  and  challenges  and  mobilizes  the  international 
political will  to improve the conditions  of the peoples 
of  the  continent  on  the  ground,  in  order  to  meet  their 
legitimate aspirations. 

From  that  perspective,  Egypt  believes  that  our 
actions should be premised on two central interrelated 
and  complementary  tracks.  The  first  is  the  immediate 
and  full  implementation  of  commitments  to  Africa 
contained 
the  outcomes  of  United  Nations 
conferences and summits and in decisions, in addition 
to  the  international  commitments  to  Africa  by  the 
Group of Eight (G-8), the Group of Twenty (G-20) and 
other  relevant  international  financial  institutions  and 
forums.  The  second  is  the  allocation  of  new  and 
additional 
to  help 
strengthen the development finance channels available 
to  its  countries  in  order  to  alleviate  the  added  burden 
imposed on their internal budgets because of the crises 
facing  us  all,  which  hinder  the  abilities  of  those 
countries to achieve those goals. 

Furthermore,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the 
improvement in development on the continent remains 
incomplete  without  affirming  and  seriously  moving 
forward  on  reform  of  the  existing  deficiencies  in  the 
international  economic  and  financial  system  —  a 
reform  that  ends  the  marginalization  of  the  African 
continent  in  international  economic  decision-making 
and  enhances  its  voice  and  participation.  The  status 
quo,  which  deprives  the  countries  of  the  continent  of 
their right to participate actively in the management of 
the global economic system, cannot continue at a time 
when  that  system  gravely  affects  their  economic 
situation.  We  also  cannot  agree  to  establish  a  new 
system  that  reinforces  that  marginalization  instead  of 
addressing it. Therefore, we appreciate the efforts and 
commitments of the G-20.  
Egypt  believes  it  is  necessary  to  expand  the 

G-20’s  membership 
it  more 
representative of the African continent, in parallel with 
coordinating its efforts with the United Nations system. 
Undoubtedly, the participation of Ethiopia, as Chair of 
to  make 
in  order 
09-56757 

19 
requires 
establishment 
that  each  party  meet 
A/64/PV.22 

NEPAD,  and  of  the  Chairperson  of  the African  Union 
Commission  in  meetings  of  the  G-20  constitutes  a 
significant  addition,  but  it  is  not  sufficient.  Africa’s 
representation  remains  low  in  that  group  and  needs  to 
be expanded as soon as possible. 

From  another  perspective,  I  would  like  to  point 
out that international development cooperation with the 
African  continent  is  premised  on  the  concept  of 
equitable  partnership.  Accordingly,  NEPAD  was 
designed to be a central forum for a global partnership 
with  Africa  in  the  economic  and  social  fields.  That 
partnership 
its 
commitments faithfully and fully.  

Thanks to the partnership, African countries have 
taken long strides in various aspects of development. I 
to 
refer 
and 
in  particular 
operationalization  of 
the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  —  now  comprised  of  30  countries, 
including Egypt — which reflects the improvement and 
progress achieved by the continent in the fields of good 
governance,  human  rights  and  democracy.  Africa’s 
commitment  to  the  three  pillars  agreed  upon  in  the 
2005  summit  —  development,  security  and  human 
rights  —  forms  the  basis  of  its  achievements  and 
progress.  

On  the  other  hand,  we  note  the  slow  pace  with 
which  our  development  partners  have  implemented 
their  development  commitments  to  the  continent,  for 
example,  the  commitment  by  the  G-8  industrialized 
countries to reach the goal of doubling aid to Africa by 
2010,  in  addition  to  numerous  commitments  in  the 
areas  of  foreign  direct  investment,  international  trade, 
official development assistance, external debt and other 
sources of development finance, all of which still need 
to be implemented immediately. 

All  of  those  aspects  suggest  that  the  first  step  is 
to  overcome  the  gap  between  what  was  agreed  upon 
and  what  has  been  delivered.  In  this  context,  we 
reiterate our call for an international consensus on the 
establishment  of  an 
follow-up 
mechanism before the end of the sixty-fifth session of 
the  General  Assembly,  based  on  what  our  leaders 
agreed  to  on  22  September  2008.  That  mechanism 
would  review  the  implementation  of  all  development 
commitments related to Africa, assess the fulfilment of 
each 
a 
comprehensive  framework  for  all  existing  processes 
that monitor the implementation of those commitments. 
intergovernmental 
commitments 
constitute 
side’s 
and 
the 

in 
the 

Egypt supports the efforts of the United Nations, 
in  coordination  with  the  African  Union,  to  address 
conflicts  in  Africa,  whether  through  addressing  the 
causes of conflict and carrying out conflict prevention 
measures  such  as  early  mediation,  or  by  providing 
support  to  the  political  processes  in  a  number  of 
hotbeds of tension. The latter approach has contributed 
to  reaching  peaceful  settlements  in  several  conflicts, 
notably the crises in Kenya and Zimbabwe, to restoring 
constitutional order in Mauritania, and to the efforts to 
deal with the situations in Madagascar, Guinea and the 
Horn  of Africa,  as  well  as  other  conflict  situations  in 
Africa. 

From  that  perspective,  Egypt  is  committed  to 
supporting peacekeeping operations undertaken by the 
United Nations to promote peace and stability in many 
African  countries.  Egyptian  participation  in  several 
peacekeeping  operations  on 
continent  — 
particularly  the  significant  Egyptian  participation  in 
the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in 
Darfur,  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  the  Sudan  and 
the 
the  United  Nations  Organization  Mission 
Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  — 
is  a 
manifestation of that commitment. 

Here,  Egypt  welcomes  the  steps  undertaken  to 
deepen  the  level  of  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the African Union and among their organs, 
especially with regard to the United Nations support to 
building  the  African  Union’s  capacity  in  the  areas  of 
mediation, conflict prevention and promotion of human 
rights,  as  well  as  the  Organization’s  support  for  the 
African  Union  peacekeeping  operations  established 
under the mandate of the United Nations.  

Egypt underlines the importance of enhancing the 
predictability  and  sustainability  of  funding  of  those 
operations 
in  accordance  with  Security  Council 
resolution  1809  (2008)  and  the  statement  by  the 
Council 
2009 
(S/PRST/2009/3).  In  this  regard,  Egypt  looks  forward 
to a fruitful discussion during the meeting to be held by 
the  Security  Council  later  in  October  2009  on  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  that  was  issued  in 
response to that statement (A/64/359), as well as on the 
Prodi report (A/63/666).  

Similarly,  Egypt  looks  forward  to  enhancing  the 
role that the United Nations plays in responding to the 
situation  in  Somalia,  in  order  to  achieve  stability  and 
prepare  the  ground  for  the  process  of  reconstruction 
18  March 
President 
dated 
20 

09-56757 
also 
and 
its 
Since 
Egypt 
supports 
launched 
in  Africa, 
the  Millennium  Summit 


and development in a way that enables the Transitional 
Federal  Government  and  the  international  community 
to  address  the  repercussions  of  two  decades  of  chaos, 
in  particular  the  problem  of  piracy  off  the  coast  of 
Somalia. 

the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  efforts 
in  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone, 
Guinea-Bissau  and 
the  Central  African  Republic 
through  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  as  well  as 
through  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  projects  that  benefit 
more  African  countries.  Egypt  stresses  the  need  to 
upgrade  the  level  of  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the African Union in peacebuilding, along 
the  lines  of  the  existing  cooperation  in  the  fields  of 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  peacekeeping. 
Egypt  looks  forward  to  participating  actively  in  the 
review  of  the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
scheduled  for  2010,  after  the  completion  this  year  of 
the review process for the Peacebuilding Fund. 

the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly 
international  efforts  have 
succeeded  in  increasing  the  number  of  malaria-free 
countries  to  93  and  have  tangibly  reduced  infection 
rates  in  a  number  of  countries.  That  was  a  result  of 
programmes  implemented  through  cooperation  among 
the  United  Nations 
relevant  bodies, 
international  financial  institutions,  non-governmental 
organizations,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector,  and 
of  the  increase  in  funding  for  such  programmes. 
However,  the  continuance  of  the  disease  in  109 
countries  reaffirms  the  need  for  ongoing  support  to 
ensure the sustainability of funding in order to cut the 
mortality rate by half by 2010, with a view to reducing 
mortality by 75 per cent by 2015. 

Those  facts  underline  the  dire  need  to  support 
efforts  to  revamp  the  infrastructure  of  the  economic, 
education  and  health  systems  in  developing  countries. 
Also,  the  technical  knowledge  needed  to  support  such 
efforts  and  ensure  the  early  diagnosis,  treatment  and 
prevention  of  the  disease  through  the  participation  of 
all sectors of society must be shared.  

intensifying  national 
awareness  campaigns,  along  with 
implementing 
prevention  and  treatment  programmes.  At  the  same 
time,  it  also  means  working  to  improve  health-care 
systems  and  to  train  qualified  cadres,  a  matter  that 
exceeds the capacities of the Governments of many of 
That  approach  entails 
A/64/PV.22
In 
the 
this  context  we  commend 
those  countries  unless  foreign  assistance  is  provided. 
That is particularly true in Africa, whose countries are 
overwhelmed by the burden of malaria. 

recent 
declaration  issued  by  donor  industrialized  countries 
during the G-8 summit in Italy in 2009, which resulted 
from  Egypt’s  recent  intensive  coordination  effort  for 
the  allocation  of  $2  billion  to  support  projects  to 
combat  the  spread  of  malaria.  Furthermore,  Egypt 
commends the initiative of the President of Tanzania to 
establish  the African  Leaders  Malaria Alliance,  which 
was  launched  in  New  York  on  23  September  2009. 
Those  efforts  require  parallel  commitment  on  the  part 
of  the  international  community  to  support  them  at  all 
levels. 
In  addition  to  national  capacity-building,  it  is 

imperative 
to  concentrate  on  enhancing  regional 
capacities  to  confront  the  transboundary  aspects  of 
malaria.  That  was  one  of  the  motivations  of  the 
decision of the African Union Summit in Sirte in 2005, 
based on an Egyptian initiative to establish an African 
centre  to  promote  cooperation  and  share  knowledge 
and expertise in the fight against malaria and to liaise 
with  specialized  centres  in  this  field  all  over  the 
continent.  

In  addition, further  enhancement  of international 
efforts  is  needed.  Egypt  thus  looks  forward  to  the 
granting of observer status in the General Assembly to 
the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria as an additional step towards the strengthening 
of the existing relationship between the United Nations 
and the private sector in this arena. It is also imperative 
to  resolve  the  trade-related  aspects  of  the  intellectual 
property  rights  to  malaria  medications  and  vaccines 
currently in circulation or being developed. Indeed, the 
international 
this 
responsibility  so  as  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  our 
efforts to eliminate malaria and avoid risking its spread 
again if we are to realize our common goals, especially 
MDG  6,  in  every  State  without  exception  and  by  the 
target date. 
Mr. Kleib (Indonesia): It is an honour for me to 

speak  on  this  important  agenda  item.  Indonesia  has  a 
historic  link  with  the  African  continent  through  the 
Asia-Africa  Bandung  Conference  of  1955.  We 
therefore welcome the opportunity for the international 
community  to  lend  its  support  to  the  development 
efforts  of 
the  New 
the  region  as  embodied 
community  must 
shoulder 
in 
09-56757 

21 

A/64/PV.22 

Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  I 
thank the Secretary-General for the progress reports on 
the  implementation  of  NEPAD  (A/64/204)  and  on  the 
causes of conflict and promotion of durable peace and 
sustainable development in Africa (A/64/210). 

Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  Sudan  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China and by Thailand on behalf of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). 

The  Secretary-General’s  reports  in  documents 
A/64/204  and  A/64/208  point  to  several  significant 
developments  under  NEPAD.  The  important  progress 
made  on  several  fronts  speaks  to  the  unswerving 
commitment  of African  leaders  to  ensure  that African 
priorities  are  defined  and  truly  owned  by  Africa. 
Undeniably,  however,  like  other  developing  regions, 
Africa faces emerging and persistent challenges. 

First,  while Africa  was  far  from  the  epicentre  of 
the  economic  and  financial  crisis,  its  impact  has 
certainly  added  to  the  ongoing  financial  impediments 
that the continent confronts. Secondly, food security in 
Africa continues to lag. The food crisis in 2008 drove 
more  people  in Africa  into  poverty.  In  the  meantime, 
the  continent’s  population  continues  to  rise.  Thirdly, 
climate  change,  which  is  expected  to  cause  prolonged 
drought, is likely to seriously affect the availability of 
food.  The  combination  of  those  problems,  together 
with  other  development  challenges,  has  slowed 
Africa’s  momentum  towards  internationally  agreed 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

Urgent,  bold  policy  measures,  with  short-  and 
long-term  objectives  that  recognize  the  interlinked 
nature  of  those  crises,  can  contribute  to  regaining  and 
accelerating  momentum  towards  the  MDGs  and  other 
internationally  agreed  development  goals  in Africa.  In 
this  context,  the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development Programme is an important initiative that 
should  be  given  full  support,  in  view  of  its  important 
aim  of  launching  a  new  green  revolution  in  Africa. 
Furthermore,  achieving  critical  momentum  towards 
development goals also requires effective adaptation to 
climate change so as to avoid its adverse effects. Africa 
and  other  developing  countries,  however,  lack  such 
adaptive  capacity.  My  delegation  therefore  urges  the 
completion of an ambitious agreement on adaptation in 
Copenhagen. 
including 
goals, 
preventive 
diplomacy 
solidarity, 
economic 
cooperation 

Permit  me  to  make  some  brief  remarks  on 
sub-item (b) of agenda item 63: causes of conflict and 
the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa.  We  note  from  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  in  document  A/64/210  the  steady 
progress  that  has  been  made  in  promoting  peace  in 
Africa. Given the advantages that African regional and 
subregional  organizations  possess  in  their  potential  to 
influence the prevention and resolution of conflicts, the 
United  Nations  should  enhance  their  capacity  for 
capacity-building, 
and 
peacemaking. 

Based  on  our  shared  and  long-standing  history 
with  the  peoples  of  Africa,  Indonesia  renewed  its 
commitment  to  strengthen  cooperation  at  the  2005 
Asia-Africa  Summit.  That  Summit  gave  rise  to  the 
New  Asia-Africa  Strategic  Partnership 
(NAASP), 
whose implementation is centred on the three pillars of 
political 
and 
sociocultural  relations.  To  further  the  two  regions’ 
mutual  commitment,  a  meeting  held  in  Indonesia  on 
12 October  adopted  the  Jakarta  Statement  on  the  New 
Asian-African  Strategic  Partnership. That  document  is 
further  measure 
a 
solidify 
cooperation  between 
the 
implementation of  concrete activities and programmes 
in 
looks 
forward  to  the  second Asia-Africa  Summit,  to  be  held 
in  South  Africa  next  year,  representing  a  major 
milestone for the two regions. 
Through  this  series  of  events,  we  hope  to  fully 

the  eight  areas  of 
and  effectively 
cooperation  under  the  NAASP:  food  security,  energy 
security, 
tourism,  small  and  medium  enterprises, 
counter-terrorism,  combating  transnational  organized 
crime, 
the  Asian-African  Development  University 
and  women’s 
Network, 
and 
empowerment. 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement Training Centre, has also been 
promoting  and  enhancing  capacity-building  in  the 
NAASP areas, as well as in other areas such as health, 
disaster  management  and  risk  reduction.  We  further 
encourage the use of the Training Centre as a means to 
strengthen and promote closer cooperation between the 
regions of Asia and Africa. 

Through  NEPAD, Africa  has  taken  bold  steps  to 
determine  and  take  full  control  of  its  destiny.  Africa 
has  taken  important  measures,  and  the  international 
the  NAASP  framework.  Indonesia  also 
strengthen  and 
Indonesia,  as 
the  host  of 
the 
regions 
through 
gender 
equality 
to 
implement 
22 

09-56757 
the 
for  Africa’s  Development 


community  needs  to  fully  support  its  home-grown 
efforts. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  Senegal 

would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  to  the  General Assembly  on  the 
progress  achieved  in  the  implementation  of  the  New 
Partnership 
(NEPAD) 
(A/64/204) and for his note on the Decade to Roll Back 
Malaria  on  the  African  continent  (A/64/302).  We  are 
once again grateful for their quality. 
I  would  also  like  to  stress  that  my  delegation 

associates  itself  with  the  declarations  made  on  behalf 
of  the  African  Group  and  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China. 
The reports highlight Africa’s efforts to free itself 

from  underdevelopment,  but  they  also  present  the 
existing  gaps  and  constraints,  including  in  the  area  of 
essential  international  support.  In  creating  NEPAD  in 
2001, Africa’s leaders wished to give a new impetus to 
the response to the continent’s problems by identifying 
innovative  home-grown  strategies 
that  would  put 
Africa  on 
for  development.  Beyond 
recognizing the dire need for an indigenous culture of 
development,  NEPAD  remains  a  vision  of  a  new 
concept of the nature and direction of Africa’s relations 
with  the  rest  of  the  world,  which  must  henceforth  be 
based  on  the  principle  of  genuine  partnership.  That 
reconsideration  of  what  Africa  brings  to  the  table  of 
giving and receiving sets out the changes necessary for 
the arrival of the global New Deal that is so desired. 
The whole world recognizes that Africa has made 

significant  progress  on  several  fronts  during  the  first 
eight years of this ambitious development programme. 
This  is  true  of  the  progressive  transformation  the 
continent  has  made  towards  stability,  despite  some 
persistent  hotbeds  of  latent  or  resurgent  conflict. This 
is  also  true  of  the  strengthened  governance  and 
transparency and increasing democratization of African 
society,  as  it  is  true  of  the  promotion  of  gender  and 
human rights issues. 

This  positive  picture  cannot  hide  the  harsh  and 
bitter  reality  of  a  continent  where  serious  food, 
economic  and  financial  crises  continue 
to  cause 
persistent 
seriously 
difficulties 
insurmountable 
compromising Africa’s future. 

If  it  is  indeed  true  that  the  crises  affect  all 
developing  and  developed  countries,  it  is  no  less  true 
track 
A/64/PV.22
for 
third  of 
themselves  here.  Out  of  more 
that  Africa  has  been  hit  particularly  hard  by  this 
alarming situation because of its vulnerability. Figures 
speak 
than 
920 million  people  —  60  per  cent  of  whom  are  under 
25 years of age — more than two fifths live under the 
poverty  threshold.  There  are  between  21  million  and 
23 million  people  infected  with  HIV/AIDS,  with  an 
additional  1.7  million  infected  each  year.  There  are 
alarming  health  indicators  with  regard  to  high  infant 
and  maternal  mortality  rates  and  90  per  cent  of  the 
deaths due to malaria on the planet occur in Africa. 

In  2009  the  growth  rate  fell  to  0.9  per  cent, 
whereas  it  was  at  6  per  cent  between  2004  and  2008. 
More  worrying  and  even  more  serious  are 
the 
frightening  statistics  on  the  status  of  food  worldwide. 
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of 
the  United  Nations,  more  than  1  billion  people  suffer 
from  hunger  and  nearly  one 
them  — 
300 million — are in Africa.  
Given this complex international environment the 

challenges  facing  Africa  have  only  continued 
to 
increase, placing it today at a crossroad when it comes 
to 
implementing  NEPAD  sectoral  priorities  and 
achieving African development.  

It is easy to imagine the magnitude of the task, in 
particular when, in addition to the current crises, there 
are  other  nearly  insurmountable  obstacles  —  disasters 
which  shake  our  economies  almost  daily  —  further 
distancing us from the signs of a possible recovery.  

Here  I  refer  in  particular  to  the  absence  of  any 
outcome  of  the  Doha  trade  negotiations,  which  were 
supposed  to  give  momentum  to  the  exports  of  the 
countries of the South. It is clear that without limits on 
the agricultural subsidies which so severely distort free 
trade, the frontiers of poverty will not be pushed back. 
I  also  refer  to  the  crushing  burden  of  debt  and 
weakened  foreign  direct  investment  (FDI),  both  of 
which  cast  dark  shadows  over  prospects  for  economic 
growth. 

Lastly,  I  refer  to  the  unfair  and  unjustifiable 
situation  affecting  many  African  countries  due  to  the 
untimely  and  uncontrolled  fluctuations  in  the  price  of 
oil. Even if development aid, debt cancellation or free 
trade  remain  valuable  for  the  countries  of  the  South, 
particularly those in Africa, they will only be of limited 
impact in the current situation without further specific 
measures  to  correct  the  detrimental  effects  of  the 
constraints. 
09-56757 

23 
promote 
lasting 
in 
growth, 
A/64/PV.22 


Here I welcome the joint initiative of NEPAD and 
the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development (OECD) which aims to bring the level of 
FDI to $60 billion, as intended by the OECD, to foster 
investment, 
create 
employment and reduce poverty. The Group of 20 has 
also  announced  helpful  measures,  in  particular  with 
regard to Africa, in reaffirming its resolve to attain the 
MDGs and to meet its aid commitments. Among these 
measures  is  the  commitment  to  provide  $50  billion 
per annum  for  social  welfare,  to  foster  trade  and  to 
maintain  development 
low-income  countries. 
Despite  these  efforts  by  our  partners,  a  real  deficit  of 
appropriate international support remains.  

But  that  is  not  the  only  obstacle  in  the  path  of 
Africa’s  economic  resurgence. The  failure  to  integrate 
NEPAD’s  priorities  with  the  actions  of  the  United 
Nations  system  of  organizations  is  another  situation 
deserving  criticism.  These  bodies  must  act  effectively 
and  in  a  manner  that  fits  with  the  development  model 
established  by  NEPAD  in  accordance  with  resolution 
57/7. This is an urgent and indispensable matter.  

I  cannot  conclude  without  expressing  Senegal’s 
support  for  the  Secretary-General’s  recommendations 
on  the  implementation  of  prudent  borrowing  policies 
with improved management of foreign debt in order to 
attenuate  the  socio-economic  impact  of  the  current 
crisis, and on the Global Impact and Vulnerability Alert 
System,  which  is  designed  to  react  in  a  coordinated 
manner to crises in order to mitigate their effects. 

in  Africa  can  be 
achieved  only  with  the  establishment  of  lasting  peace 
and  stability.  Aware  as  it  is  of  this,  my  country  has 
spared  no  effort  to  provide  its  good  offices  in  several 
conflict  situations  in  West  Africa  and  we  are  pleased 
today  to  see  our  brothers  in  Mauritania  and  Guinea-
Bissau return to a climate of peace, fostering economic 
and social development. This is the same ideal of peace 
and  fraternity  that  my  country  hopes  to  see  prevail  in 
our  sister  Republic  of  Guinea  so  that  this  country,  so 
dear  to  mine,  can  once  again  be  set  on  the  path  to 
peace,  stability  and  development  so  fervently  desired 
by its great people.  

The  same  must  be  true  of  Somalia,  plunged  into 
interminable  chaos;  Madagascar  whose  stability  has 
been so severely shaken, as well as for the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Darfur,  where  we  are 
participating 
operations.  The 
Sustainable  development 
peacekeeping 
in 

international community must therefore remain vigilant 
and attentive to all these situations so that lasting peace 
can  be  established  definitively  in  these  countries  and 
regions of our continent.  

International  action  is  also  absolutely  necessary 
to halt the devastating malaria pandemic which claims 
so  many  victims  every  year  in  Africa  —  more  than 
1 million  —  and  causes  enormous  losses  in  the 
continent’s  gross  national  income,  estimated  at  more 
than $12 billion. 
African  efforts  must  be  further  supported  with 

greater mobilization of resources, in particular through 
the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria  and  implementation  of  the  quick  impact 
initiatives agreed upon at the 2005 World Summit. 

In concluding, I would like to recall that NEPAD 
provides  the  world  a  unique  and  effective  framework 
for implementing a partnership for development for the 
benefit  of  Africa.  We  hope  that  the  international 
community and the United Nations system will be able 
to  lend  further  support  to  the  realization  of  the 
ambitious  hope  that  NEPAD  holds  for  the  leaders  of 
Africa, which is to propel Africa on the upward path to 
development and prosperity. 
Mr.  Scott  (United  States  of  America):  In  the 

context  of  this  important  meeting,  I  would  like  to 
address  one  key  element  to  which  we  are  pleased  to 
make  a  special  contribution.  For  many  years,  the 
United  States  has  been  committed  to  the  prevention 
and treatment of malaria,  HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, 
and  we  remain  determined  to  combat  those  diseases 
worldwide,  as  part  of  our  commitment  to  attain  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

The  United  States  Government’s  commitment  to 
fight  malaria  is  a  key  component  of  our  foreign 
assistance 
in  close 
collaboration  with  host  countries,  other  donors, 
community 
non-governmental, 
organizations, 
the  United 
Nations. The United States Government’s assistance in 
the fight against malaria and in the wider health sector 
in  developing  countries  has  helped  bring  about 
unprecedented  improvements  in  public  health.  To 
strengthen 
those  efforts,  President  Obama  has 
announced  a  six-year,  $63  billion  global  health 
initiative that will allow the United States Government 
to  continue  to  lead  in  the  fight  against  malaria, 
HIV/AIDS  and  tuberculosis.  We  will  do  so  while 
and 
the  private  sector  and 
strategy.  We  have  worked 
faith-based 
24 

09-56757 
that  malaria  accounts 


focusing  increasing  attention  on  strengthening  health 
systems  and  broaching  broader  health  challenges, 
including  child  and  maternal  health,  family  planning 
and neglected tropical diseases. 

Malaria is one of the major causes of illness and 
death  among  children  under  the  age  of  five  in Africa 
and  adversely  affects  productivity  among  all  age 
groups.  Malaria  places  a 
tremendous  burden  on 
national  health  systems  as  well  as  individual  families. 
Economists  estimate 
for 
approximately  40  per 
cent  of  public  health 
expenditures  in  Africa  and  annual  economic  costs  of 
1.3 per cent of the continent’s gross domestic product. 

The  United  States  is  a  major  supporter  of  the 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, 
and  a  portion  of  those  United  States  contributions 
support  malaria  programmes  through  the  President’s 
Malaria  Initiative.  The  United  States  is  helping  15 
high-burden  countries  in  Africa  to  scale  up  effective 
malaria  prevention  and  treatment  interventions,  in  the 
form of insecticide, treated mosquito nets, combination 
treatments,  indoor  residual  spraying  with  insecticides 
and preventive treatment of pregnant  women. In  close 
cooperation with host countries and other development 
partners,  we  are  seeking  major  reductions  in  the 
number  of  people  infected  with  malaria  in  Rwanda, 
Zambia  and  Zanzibar.  Declines  at  the  district  level 
have  also  been  reported  from  Mozambique,  Tanzania 
and Uganda. These achievements have been associated 
with  substantially  reduced  mortality  rates  of  children 
under the age of five in both Rwanda and Zambia. 

During  the  first  three  years  of  implementation, 
the United States reached more than 32 million people 
with  malaria  prevention  or  treatment  measures.  In 
2008,  we  procured  more  than  6.4  million  long-lasting 
insecticide-treated nets for free distribution to pregnant 
women and young children and a total of 15.6 million 
artemisinin-based  combination 
Indoor 
residual  spraying  activities  covered  6  million  houses 
and  protected  nearly  25  million  people  at  risk  of 
malaria.  In  addition,  the  President’s  Malaria  Initiative 
supported  a  broad  range  of  programmes  to  strengthen 
health systems and health education in host countries. 

By  reducing  the  burden  of  malaria  in  highly 
endemic countries, where the disease is a leading child 
killer  and  often  accounts  for  30  to  40  per  cent  of 
outpatient  visits 
admissions,  our 
assistance through the Malaria Initiative allows critical 
treatments. 
and  hospital 
A/64/PV.22
resources  and  overstretched  health  workers 
to 
concentrate  on  controlling  other  childhood  illnesses 
such as diarrhoea and pneumonia. In addition to the 15 
focus  countries,  the  United  States  has  anti-malaria 
programmes  in  four  non-focus  countries  and  two 
regional  platforms  —  the  Amazon  Malaria  Initiative, 
covering eight countries making up the Amazon Basin 
of  South  America,  and 
the  Mekong  Malaria 
Programme,  covering  five  countries,  plus  the  Yunnan 
Province of China, in the Greater Mekong subregion of 
South-East Asia. 
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  note  that  while  the 

United  States  Government  has  had 
significant 
anti-malaria  programmes  for  years,  the  current  focus 
and funding is unprecedented. The President’s Malaria 
Initiative  represents  a  historic  $1.2  billion,  five-year 
expansion  of  United  States  Government  resources  to 
fight  malaria  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  the  region  most 
affected by the disease. The goal of this initiative is to 
reduce  malaria-related  deaths  by  50  per  cent  in  the 
15 African  countries  with  high  burdens  of  the  malady 
—  leading  to  the  possibility  of  a  better  life  for  those 
spared the ravages of this dread disease. 
Mr.  Benitez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Cuba  wholeheartedly  endorses  the  statement  made  on 
this  important  item  by  the delegation  of  the  Sudan  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  

Today, 20 October, our country celebrates Cuban 
Culture  Day.  On  today’s  date  in  1868,  in  the  city  of 
Bayamo,  which  had  recently  been  taken  by  rebel 
troops,  the  Bayamesa  —  Bayamo’s  song  —  was  sung 
for the first time in Cuba. This marching song became 
our  national  anthem.  Barely  10  days  after  the  start  of 
our  First  War  of  Independence,  Carlos  Manuel  de 
Céspedes, the father of our country, set his slaves free. 
This was one of the most significant acts of justice in 
the  early  history  of  our  country.  The  historical  bonds 
between Cuba and Africa go back five centuries, when 
over 1.3 million African slaves arrived on our soil. It is 
not  possible  to  grasp  the  cultural  and  political  history 
of  the  Cuban  archipelago  without  taking  into  account 
the African stamp on our genes and social life.  

Before  the  revolutionary  triumph  in  1959,  the 
neocolonial  political  elites  in  Cuba,  controlled  by 
foreign capital interests, did very little to allow Africa 
to take its rightful place in our society. Only the zeal of 
the  Cuban  Revolution  to  build  a  new  society  gave 
validation  to  what  our  national  poet  Nicolás  Guillén 
09-56757 

25 

for  centuries 
A/64/PV.22 

called  our  Cuban  colour,  giving  expression  in  that 
image to what we are and what we aspire to be. Africa 
is  an  inseparable  part  of  our  existence,  of  our  island 
ethos.  For  Cubans,  Africa  is  an  extension  of  our 
homeland. 

The  National  Museum  of  the  Slave  Route  is 
located  in  the  San  Severino  Castle,  in  the  city  of 
Matanzas. Inaugurated this past June, it perpetuates the 
memory of the rebel spirit of African ethnic groups like 
Lucumis,  Carabalis,  Congos,  Gangas,  Mandingas, 
Minas,  Bibis  and  Yorubas  who,  after  being  dragged 
from their homelands, refused to allow their destiny to 
be decided by the colonizers of that time. Therefore, no 
one  should  be  surprised  at  our  coming  here  today  to 
proclaim  with  just  pride  that  the  Cuban  people  has 
directly  and  naturally  inherited  the  gallantry,  bravery, 
and  culture  of  the African  resistance,  which  has  been 
heroically  struggling 
to  overcome 
challenges that still exist today. 

Very  shortly  after  the  triumph  of  the  revolution, 
Cuba  began  modestly  repaying  its  huge  debt  to  those 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  African  slaves  who  made 
Cuba  their  homeland  and  dedicated  their  lives  to  its 
independence.  The  profound  internationalist  ideals  of 
the Cuban revolution have enabled our country to stand 
firmly  at Africa’s  side  with  unconditional  support  for 
matters  ranging  from  anti-colonialist  struggles 
to 
cooperation  projects  in  many  fields  for  the  economic 
and social development of the continent. 
More  than  381,000  Cuban  soldiers  and  officials 

fought  unselfishly 
integrity  and 
sovereignty  of  our  brotherly  African  nations  over  a 
period  of  almost  three  decades.  And  from  Africa  we 
brought  back  only  the  remains  of  our  dead  comrades 
and  the  honour  of  having  accomplished  our  duty. 
Today,  more  than  2,400  Cubans  provide  services  in 
35 African  nations  with  a  view 
to  promoting 
development  in  areas  as  diverse  as  public  health, 
education, agriculture, sports, construction and others. 

As in the past, Cuba will continue contributing its 
human  capital  and  experience  in  collaboration  with 
many  countries  of  the  continent.  Today  as  part  of  the 
Comprehensive  Health  Care  Programme  alone,  more 
than  1,120  Cuban  medical  doctors  and  health 
technicians  work  in  23  African  countries,  providing 
services  to  a  population  of  over  48  million  people. At 
present,  more  than  2,200  youths  from  45  African 
countries  are  studying 
in  our  universities  and 
to  defend 
the 
polytechnic  institutes.  To  date,  over  32,000  young 
people  from  the  continent  have  graduated  in  various 
specialities. 

For  its  part,  Africa  has  always  stood  by  Cuba’s 
side. During more than 50 years of an unjust and cruel 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
by  the  United  States  on  Cuba,  African  Governments 
and  peoples  have  closed  ranks  17  times  at  the  United 
Nations  General Assembly  to  demand  the  right  of  the 
Cuban people to decide their destiny. We are confident 
they will do so once again on 28 October in this very 
Hall.  

Likewise, Africa demonstrated its strong bonds of 
solidarity with the Cuban people after the country was 
lashed  by devastating  hurricanes in 2008. Once again, 
we  express  our  thanks  for  the  moral  and  material 
support  we  received  from  our  African  brothers  and 
sisters in such difficult circumstances. 
The  need  for  Africa’s  development  will  not  be 

met  by  the  rhetorical  lamentations  of  powerful  people 
or  by  the  repeated  review  of  statistics  referring  to 
various  calamities.  Inevitably,  there  must  be  a  change 
in  the  current  international  system  —  a  system  that 
plunges  80  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population  into 
poverty,  while  the  remaining  20  per  cent  of  that 
population,  living  in  the  rich  countries,  squanders  the 
world’s  resources.  It  is  that  same  system  that  requires 
African countries to continue spending five times more 
of their resources in servicing a shocking foreign debt 
than on health and education programmes. 
system  where  powerful 

multinationals  strive 
to  control  African  mineral 
resources; where, with a few exceptions, rich countries 
fail to comply with the humble commitments of official 
development assistance and where an unjust regime of 
patents and trade prevents the development of African 
nations.  

To address African problems, we must at all costs 
rid ourselves of the philosophy of profit that underpins 
the  current 
international  order.  Our  country  will 
continue  to  support  the  African  Union  and  all  of  the 
regional  coordination  mechanisms  in  their  efforts  to 
find their own solutions to African problems. However, 
Africa  also  needs  the  determined  support  of  the 
international  community.  Africa  needs  an  integrated 
approach from the United Nations to solve all problems 
related  to  peace,  security  and  development  on  the 
continent. 
same 
that 
is 
It 
26 

09-56757 
agenda 


To  conclude,  I  wish  to  emphasize  that  Cuba 

advocates  a  more 
just,  equitable  and  peaceful 
international  order.  That  is  the  only  requirement  for 
Africa and the rest of the developing nations to face the 
challenges  of  working  for  the  well-being  of  our 
peoples without confronting absurd obstacles. 

We  do  not  call  for  a  paternalistic  approach  to 
Africa,  but  rather  equal  opportunities. Africa  requires 
and deserves, first and foremost solidarity and respect. 
Our African  brothers  and  sisters  can  always  count  on 
the unwavering solidarity and unconditional support of 
Cuba. 
Mr.  Sumi  (Japan):  It  is  my  great  pleasure  and 

honour  to  address  the  Assembly  today  to  discuss  the 
important 
to  African 
development.  Before  I  begin,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  and  his  staff  for  their  diligent  work 
in consolidating the reports we have received. Also, let 
me congratulate the integration of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development into the African Union. 

African  development  is  one  of  the  most  urgent 
priorities  for  the  world  today  and  for  the  United 
Nations. At the Fourth Tokyo International Conference 
on  African  Development  (TICAD  IV)  held  in  May 
2008, we heard the voices of Africa’s leaders, and now 
it is time for us to explain  how we have responded to 
those voices.  
Japan pledged at TICAD IV to double its official 

development 
to 
proactively and flexibly provide up to $4 billion in soft 
loans  and 
to  double  Japanese  private 
investment  to Africa  over  the  following  five  years.  In 
implementing  its  commitments,  the  Government  of 
Japan established a TICAD Follow-up Mechanism as a 
framework  for  monitoring 
the 
Yokohama Action Plan and putting it into practice. Last 
March, the TICAD Ministerial Follow-up Meeting was 
held in Botswana to review and assess TICAD-related 
activities,  and 
to 
accelerate implementation of the Action Plan. 

Japanese  ODA  to Africa  covers  a  wide  range  of 
sectors, including infrastructure, agriculture, trade and 
investment,  community  development,  health  care, 
education, water and combating climate change. These 
areas  correspond  to  the  key  sectoral  priorities  of 
NEPAD  and  reflect  the  genuine  needs  of  Africa.  For 
example, food security in Africa is an important issue. 
On the occasion of TICAD IV, the Japan International 
recommendations  were  made 
implementation  of 
to  Africa, 
assistance 
to  work 
items 
relating 
(ODA) 
A/64/PV.22
that 
shared 
Cooperation Agency launched the Coalition for African 
Rice  Development  initiative  in  partnership  with  the 
Alliance  for  a  Green  Revolution  in Africa  (AGRA)  to 
support the efforts of African countries to increase rice 
production. The initiative has already been activated in 
12 African countries. 

On  the  occasion  of  the  general  debate,  Japan 
hosted  a  side  event  entitled  “Promoting  Responsible 
International  Investment  in  Agriculture”,  along  with 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development,  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  International  Fund  for 
the  World  Bank. 
Agricultural  Development  and 
Participants 
the  view 
responsible 
investment in agriculture will harmonize and maximize 
the interests  of receiving  countries, local communities 
and investors.  

This  meeting  marked  the  first  step  towards 
developing  principles  and  an  international  framework 
to  promote  such 
investment.  Furthermore,  as  an 
important  pillar  of  the  TICAD  IV  follow-up,  public-
private partnerships are being actively promoted with a 
view to improving the investment climate in Africa.  

At  TICAD  IV,  the  Japan  Bank  for  International 
Cooperation (JBIC) announced it would  provide up to 
$2.5  billion  over  five  years  to  encourage  Japanese 
private sector investment in Africa. By September this 
year,  the  disbursement  of  $1.2  billion  had  been 
approved.  The  JBIC  Facility  for  African  Investment 
was  established  in  April  this  year  with  a  view  to 
supporting  Japanese  firms  to  engage  in  business 
development 
them  equity 
investments,  guarantees  and  local  currency  financing. 
In  addition,  $300  million  in  soft  loans  has  been 
extended to the African Development Bank to assist the 
private sector in African countries. 

Another  example  of  public-private  partnership  is 
the  fifth  Africa-Asia  Business  Forum,  which  Japan 
co-organized  in  collaboration  with  the  Government  of 
Uganda  and  relevant  United  Nations  agencies  in 
Kampala  in  June  this  year. The  Forum  focused  on  the 
theme  of  forging  business  linkages  for  sustainable 
tourism  development  in Africa.  Over  250  participants 
from more than 30 countries, including representatives 
from  government,  business, 
and 
international organizations participated in this event. 
In  promoting  cooperation  between  Africa  and 

Japan, we fully respect local leadership, ownership and 
in  Africa  by  offering 
society 
civil 
09-56757 

27 

A/64/PV.22 

partnership,  as  enshrined  in  the  core  principles  and 
values  of  NEPAD.  We  regard  these  principles  as 
essential  to  the  promotion  of  sustainable  development 
in Africa.  The  concept  of  human  security  needs  to  be 
taken  into  consideration  in  the  implementation  of 
policy  measures  aiming  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) in order to ensure that the 
desired  accelerated  growth  will  benefit  and  empower 
individuals  and  communities  and  not  aggravate  social 
and  economic  disparities.  As  Prime  Minister  Yukio 
Hatoyama  stated  at  the  General Assembly  last  month, 
Japan  intends  to  redouble  its  efforts  towards  the 
achievement of the MDGs and the promotion of human 
security in Africa. 

The  Government  of  Japan  is  pleased  to  see  the 
Secretary-General’s  note  on  the  2001-2010  Decade  to 
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa (A/64/302). My delegation is also 
pleased to learn about malaria control achievements in 
Africa  last  year,  particularly  in  five  specific  African 
countries  —  Eritrea,  the  Gambia,  Rwanda,  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe  and  Zambia.  These  countries  are 
approaching  or  have  reached  the  2010  World  Health 
Organization  World  Health  Assembly  and  Roll  Back 
Malaria  Partnership  morbidity  and  mortality  reduction 
impact  target  of  50  per  cent  or  greater.  We  note, 
however, 
seen  many 
improvements,  most  countries  have  not  yet  achieved 
universal  coverage  with  insecticide-treated  nets  and 
other malaria control interventions. The Government of 
Japan,  as  a  major  donor  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis 
its 
commitment  to  international  cooperation  on  malaria 
control. 
that,  although  we  have 
and  Malaria, 
renews 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
and 
the  development  of  Africa  as  a 

reaffirm 
contribution 
continent of hope and opportunity. 
commitment 
long-term 
Japan’s 
to 


the  period  15  October 
the  General  Assembly 
contains 
Programme of work 
The Acting President: I  should like to draw the 

to  document 
attention  of 
A/INF/64/3/Rev.1,  which 
revised 
the 
programme  of  work  of  the Assembly  and  schedule  of 
plenary  meetings  for 
to 
15 December 2009, and which was issued on Monday, 
12 October 2009. 

Concerning  agenda  item  110  (b)  on  the  election 
of members of the Economic and Social Council that is 
scheduled to take place on Monday, 26 October 2009, I 
should like to draw the attention of members to a letter 
dated  16  October  2009  and  circulated  in  document 
A/64/493  from  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
in  his  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Western 
European and Other States. In this regard, I should like 
to  inform  members  that  on  Monday,  26  October,  the 
General  Assembly  will  first  conduct  a  by-election  to 
fill  the  four  vacancies  of  the  Western  European  and 
other  Group,  and  then  proceed  to  the  election  of 
18 members of the Economic and Social Council. 

Members are also informed that, at the request of 
the sponsors, consideration of agenda item 46, “Global 
road safety crisis”, scheduled for Tuesday, 27 October 
2009,  has  been  postponed  to  a  later  date  to  be 
announced.  Finally,  I  should  also  like  to  remind 
members  that  the  lists  of  speakers  for  items  listed  in 
document A/INF/64/3/Rev.1 are open. 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 


28 

09-56757 
