
A/64/PV.16
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

16th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 8 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
the  draft 
representatives that we shall proceed to take a decision 
in the same manner as in the Fifth Committee. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  the 
draft  resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee 
in  paragraph  6  of  its  report.  The  Fifth  Committee 
adopted 
resolution,  entitled  “Scale  of 
assessments  for  the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of 
the  United  Nations:  requests  under  Article  19  of  the 
Charter”, without a vote. 

same? 

The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
64/2). 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 136. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the 

Agenda items 73 and 74 
Report of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide 
and Other Serious Violations of International 
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of 
Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for 
Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed 
in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 
1 January and 31 December 1994  

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/206)  







The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 



Agenda item 136 
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations  
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/64/482) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  If  there  is  no 

proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, may I 
take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  not  to  discuss  the 
report of the Fifth Committee that is before it? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): Statements will 

therefore  be  limited  to  explanations  of  vote.  The 
positions of delegations regarding the recommendation 
of  the  Fifth  Committee  have  been  made  clear  in  the 
Committee  and  are  reflected  in  the  relevant  official 
records. 

I  remind  members  that  under  paragraph  7  of 
decision  34/401  the  General  Assembly  agreed  that 
when the same draft resolution is considered in a Main 
Committee and in plenary meeting a delegation should, 
as far as possible, explain its vote only once, either in 
the  Committee  or  in  the  plenary  meeting,  unless  that 
delegation’s  vote  in  plenary  meeting  is  different  from 
its vote in the Committee.  I  remind  delegations  that, 
also  in  accordance  with  General  Assembly  decision 
34/401, explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes. 

the 
recommendation  contained  in  the  report,  I  advise 
Before  we  begin 
take  action  on 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-54853 (E) 
*0954853* 




A/64/PV.16 

Report of the International Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia 
since 1991  
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/205) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I  take  it 

that it is the wish of the Assembly to take note of the 
fourteenth  annual  report  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for Rwanda? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I  take  it 

that it is the wish of the Assembly to take note of the 
sixteenth annual report of the International Tribunal for 
the Former Yugoslavia? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  call  on 

Mr. Dennis  Byron,  President  of 
the  International 
Tribunal for Rwanda. 

members of the General Assembly today. 

I  extend  my  sincere  congratulations  to  you,  Sir, 
on  your  election  as  President,  and  wish  you  a 
successful tour of duty. 

The  year  2009  marks  a  sad  anniversary.  Fifteen 
years ago, between April and July 1994, genocide was 
committed  in  Rwanda;  800,000  or  more  people  were 
killed,  and  still  more  were  mutilated,  raped  and 
tortured.  Fifteen  years  later,  efforts  on  all  levels 
continue,  in  Rwanda  and  elsewhere,  to  cope  with  this 
past  and  to  prevent  similar  atrocities  from  happening 
again anywhere in the world. Courts and tribunals, on 
the national and international levels, make up just one 
of  many  tools  that  are  required  in  these  efforts,  but 
they are essential for the aim of bringing justice to the 
victims. 

This year also marks the fifteenth anniversary of 
the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, which 
was  established  by  Security  Council  resolution  955 
(1994).  The  resolution  gave  the  Tribunal,  an  organ  of 
justice,  a  unique  mandate,  which  included  not  only 
conducting trials, but also assisting with the restoration 
and  maintenance  of  peace  and  contributing  “to  the 
process  of  national  reconciliation”  (Security  Council 
Mr. Byron: I am greatly honoured to address the 
955 
(1994), 
seventh 
preambular 
the 
The 
report,  covering 
fourteenth  annual 
intense  work  continuing  at 
resolution 
paragraph) — an ambitious political goal. 

Looking  back  to  where  international  criminal 
justice was 15 years ago, I do not think I exaggerate if 
I call the achievements of the Tribunal a milestone — 
both  for  international  law  and  for  the  international 
striving for justice in the broader sense. 

the 
Tribunal’s activities from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009, 
which  I  have  the  honour  to  present  today,  gives 
evidence  of 
the 
Tribunal. Every effort is being put into completing the 
first  instance  to  the  maximum  extent  possible  in  2010 
without  compromising  on  strict  standards  of  fair  trial 
rights for the accused. 

Currently,  seven  trials  involving  10  accused  are 
in the evidence phase. Four of them will be completed 
this year. Two more trials will commence shortly. This 
intense trial activity involved the rendering of over 800 
written and oral decisions and orders.  

In  parallel,  the  Trial  Chambers  focus  on  the 
delivery  of  judgements.  Since  1  July  2008,  they  have 
rendered  final  judgements  in  eight  cases  involving  11 
accused. By the end of this year, four more judgements 
will be delivered.  

In  2010,  we  expect  the  judgements  in  nearly  all 
currently  pending  first-instance  trials  —  that  is,  in  14 
trials  against  24  accused.  Possible  spillovers  concern 
mainly  the  Karemera  et  al.  trial,  which  has  been 
delayed  by 
the  adverse  health  condition  of  one 
accused. 

While  the  Tribunal  is  putting  every  effort  into 
handling  efficiently  this  enormous  workload,  three 
judges,  from  Fiji,  Argentina  and  the  Czech  Republic, 
left the Tribunal at the  end of last year. Three new  ad 
litem  judges,  from  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Madagascar  and  Turkey,  as  well  as  a  new  permanent 
judge  from  the  Russian  Federation,  have  since  joined 
us and have been assigned to a number of cases. Their 
mandates have been extended until the end of 2010. 

All judges work on several cases simultaneously. 
Many hear the evidence in one case while working on 
judgements  in  other  cases.  The  judges  have  taken  on 
this challenging task with full commitment, and benefit 
from the  essential support  of very dedicated legal  and 
administrative 
its 
the  Tribunal  and 
staff.  For 
2 

09-54853 


completion  strategy,  it  is  essential  to  ensure  that  all 
judges complete their current assignments. 

The 11 ad litem judges and the seven permanent 
judges at trial level handle a comparable workload and 
responsibility. The remaining differences in their terms 
and conditions of service, in particular concerning their 
entitlement  to  a  pension  after  many  years  of  service, 
are  therefore  a  serious  source  of  concern.  I  sincerely 
hope  that  the  Assembly  will  address  this  matter  in  a 
resolution as soon as possible. 
The  Chambers  of  the  Tribunals  continue  their 

efforts  to  improve  the  judicial  management  of  trials, 
but  are  always  mindful  that  the  ultimate  limits  to  all 
management efforts have to be, and indeed are, the fair 
trial rights of the accused. 

From  1  July  2008  to  date,  the Appeals  Chamber 
of  the Tribunal,  which  is  shared  with  the Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia,  has  delivered  two  judgements 
and  more  than  30  interlocutory  and  other  decisions, 
including three which confirmed the denial of requests 
for  the  referral  of  cases  to  national  jurisdictions. 
Currently,  eight  appeals  from  judgement  are  pending, 
with further appeals expected in most, if not all, cases 
currently  at  first  instance.  In  order  to  enable  the 
Appeals  Chamber 
this  high  workload, 
Security Council resolution 1878 (2009), of last July, is 
therefore  of  critical  importance.  It  authorized  an 
enlargement  of  the Appeals  Chamber  over  the  coming 
years by up to eight additional judges. 
The  high  intensity  of  activity  at  both  trial  and 

involved  a  particularly  high 
appeals 
workload  for  Prosecutor  Hassan  Jallow  and  Registrar 
Adama Dieng and their respective offices. 

The Office of the Prosecutor focuses on securing 
the  arrest  of  the  remaining  fugitives.  As  of  today, 
11 fugitives remain at large. I am pleased to report the 
successful arrest and transfer of two accused from the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Uganda  to 
Arusha in recent weeks. Grégoire Ndahimana made his 
initial  appearance  before  a  judge  of  the  Tribunal  last 
week,  pleading  not  guilty  on  all  charges  against  him. 
Idelphonse Nizeyimana, who was arrested last Monday, 
will  make  his  initial  appearance  next  week.  He  is  one 
of  the  four  fugitives  who  are  considered  high-rank 
responsible in the genocide and who are to be brought 
to  trial  before  the  Tribunal.  For  the  other  eight, 
Prosecutor  Jallow  and  Registrar  Dieng  continue 
working  with  national  authorities  in  order  to  ensure 
level  also 
to  handle 
09-54853 

3 
regard 
to 
A/64/PV.16
to  obtain, 
to 
The  Office  of 
in  particular,  access 
that  the  conditions  for  a  referral  of  their  cases  to 
national jurisdictions are met.  

As  the  Assembly  may  recall,  two  cases  were 
transferred from the Tribunal to France in 2007, while 
previous  requests  for  referral  to  Rwanda  were  denied 
by the Trial and Appeals Chambers because of fair trial 
concerns. The  emphasis  of  the Tribunal,  supported  by 
many  Member  States,  is  now  on  technical  support  to 
enable  renewed  requests  for  referral  to  the  country 
where the horrendous crimes alleged were committed. 
The Office of the Prosecutor also responds to an 

increasing  number  of  requests  for  cooperation  from 
national  authorities  that  are  themselves  investigating 
cases  of  genocide  and  crimes  against  humanity,  and 
wish 
the 
comprehensive archives of his Office. 

the  Registrar  coordinates  all 
matters  of  judicial  and  other  cooperation  between  the 
Tribunal and Member States. As the Assembly knows, 
the Tribunal depends on State support and cooperation, 
and  not  only  financially.  I  should  only  mention  that 
indictees  have  been  arrested  and  transferred  to  the 
Tribunal  from  26  countries,  in  Africa,  Europe  and 
North  America.  Seven  countries  have  concluded 
agreements with the Tribunal allowing those convicted 
to serve sentences in their prisons. 
In the reporting period, I have rendered decisions 

for  the  transfer  of  18  convicts  to  Mali  and  Benin  for 
the  enforcement  of  their  sentence.  Two  acquitted 
persons remain for the time being in Arusha while the 
Registrar  continues  his  efforts  to  find  a  country  of 
relocation.  I  call  once  more  for  the  support  of  all 
Member  States 
in  previous  cases, 
sustainable solutions in this matter. 

In  the  pre-closure  phase,  the  downsizing  process 
has  begun.  At  the  end  of  September,  the  contracts  of 
over  50  staff  members  were  not  extended  in  sections 
where services were no longer considered essential. At 
the same time, it is critical to ensure an adequate level 
of  competent  and  experienced  staff  for  the  core 
activities  of  the  Tribunal  —  the  conduct  of  trials  and 
the preparation of judgements. We are confronted with 
a  high  departure  rate  in  the  face  of  the  forthcoming 
closure.  The 
the  December  2008 
Assembly  resolution  63/256,  which  encouraged  the 
extension of contracts “in accordance with the relevant 
prevailing 
remove 
future  employment” 
uncertainty  with 
trial  schedules, 
importance  of 
in  order 
to 
to 
find,  as 
take  over 
A/64/PV.16 

(resolution  63/256,  para.  5),  can  therefore  not  be 
overestimated. It has been a key political guideline for 
providing  staff  with  contract  security  and  facilitating 
staff retention. 

While  we  work  on  meeting  the  targets  of  our 
completion strategy, we also prepare the closure of our 
Tribunal.  Closing  down  an  international  court  means 
navigating in uncharted waters. We have been working 
intensively  with  United  Nations  Headquarters  —  in 
particular,  the  Office  of  Legal  Affairs  —  and  the 
Member  States  in  the  Security  Council,  in  discussing 
and assisting the drafting of the report of the Secretary-
General  to  the  Security  Council  on  the  residual 
mechanism 
remaining  and 
continuous  tasks  after  the  Tribunal  has  closed  down. 
Such  tasks  could  include  trials  if  remaining  fugitives 
are  arrested,  but  also  the  supervision  of  witness 
protection  orders,  the  enforcement  of  sentences  and, 
very  importantly,  the  management  of  the  Tribunal’s 
vast archives. 

But,  beyond  the  structure  that  will  follow  the 
Tribunal in its concrete tasks, we will have to look and 
think further past the legal achievements. What legacy 
will  the  Tribunal  leave  to  the  victims,  to  the  Great 
Lakes region and to the international community? 

and 
continuous 
comprehensive  fight  against  impunity  for  those  who 
committed  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity  in  Rwanda  in  1994.  The  Tribunal  was 
established by the Security Council to prosecute those 
most  responsible  for  the  genocide.  Those  at  lower 
levels  must  be  dealt  with  by  national  jurisdictions,  in 
Rwanda  and  third  countries  where  genocide  suspects 
are still residing.  
Closure of the Tribunal must not send the wrong 

signal  to  the  many  suspected  of  the  worst  crimes  still 
on  the  run  that  they  can  now  breathe  more  easily. 
Rather,  national  jurisdictions  need  to  ensure  that 
genocide  suspects  are  not  finding  sanctuary.  The 
Tribunal stands ready to assist national jurisdictions in 
their  efforts  to  ensure  that  impunity  does  not  prevail. 
Therefore, the Tribunal continues to work on capacity-
building, 
the  opening  of 
information  centres,  training  activities  and  awareness-
raising  in  Rwanda,  but  also,  for  example,  through 
conferences  with  national  prosecuting  authorities  and 
other prosecutors of international crimes from all over 
the world. 
answer  must  be 
in  particular 
through 
The 
a 


I  thank  the  members  of  the  Assembly  for  their 
support  for  the  Tribunal  over  the  last  one  and  a  half 
decades. Recently, we submitted our budget request for 
the  next  biennium,  2010-2011,  and  I  call  upon  the 
international community to continue its support for our 
efforts  to  complete  our  mandate  by  providing  us  with 
the  necessary  funds.  I  also  ask  for  support  in  our 
efforts to ensure equity in the terms and conditions for 
all our judges. 

I  say  to  the  members  of  the  Assembly:  “Your 
Governments  have  been  our  faithful  and  trustful 
supporters,  even  in  difficult  times.  We  will  not  cease 
our  efforts  to  deserve  your  trust  and  support,  because 
your  support  and  our  efforts  have  the  same  goal:  to 
ensure  that  impunity  of  those  who  commit  genocide, 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity 
is  not 
acceptable for an international community that is based 
on the rule of law.” 

The ad hoc Tribunals for Rwanda and the former 
Yugoslavia  were  the  starting  point  of  an  amazing 
development of international criminal justice in the last 
15  years,  followed  by  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra 
Leone,  the  Extraordinary  Chambers  in  the  Courts  of 
Cambodia,  the  Special  Tribunal  for  Lebanon  and  the 
permanent  International  Criminal  Court.  At  the  same 
time,  more  and  more  countries  have  changed  or 
enacted  national  legislation  so  as  to  allow  dedicated 
prosecutors  and  judges  in  their  own  jurisdictions  to 
bring  to  justice  the  perpetrators  of  horrendous  crimes, 
even  if  they  are  former  prime  ministers,  military  or 
religious leaders or wealthy businessmen. 

Let  us  continue  working  together,  nationally  and 
internationally,  to  make  the  ambitious  goal  of  ending 
impunity  for  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity more and more of a reality every year. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. 

the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. 
Mr.  Robinson:  At  the  outset,  Mr.  President,  I 

take  the  opportunity  to  congratulate  you  on  your 
election  to  the  high  office  you  now  hold  in  the 
Assembly and to wish you every success. 

It  is  an  honour  to  appear  before  the  General 
Assembly  today  in  my  capacity  as  President  of  the 
United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for the 
I now call on Mr. Patrick Robinson, President of 
09-54853 
that  will 
4 

the 
reporting  period, 
During 
international  humanitarian 


Former Yugoslavia and to present to the Assembly the 
Tribunal’s sixteenth annual report. 

I  am  proud  to  speak  on  behalf  of  an  institution 
that  has  had  an  unprecedented  impact  upon  the 
development  of 
law, 
international  criminal  law  and  international  criminal 
procedure. During the nearly 16 years of its operation, 
the Tribunal has shown that international justice works, 
and it has led the way in putting an end to the culture 
of  impunity.  The  Tribunal’s  achievements  would  not 
have been possible without the support of the members 
of the Assembly, and I take this opportunity to convey 
my gratitude to them for the support they have given to 
the  Tribunal,  support  that  remains  essential  to  the 
completion of our work. 

The  Tribunal’s  commitment  to  its  completion 
strategy remains steadfast, and all our efforts are aimed 
at finishing the Tribunal’s work as quickly as possible 
in accordance with our mandate.  

three  appeal 
judgements  were  rendered,  bringing  to  86  the  number 
of  appeal  cases  fully  completed.  Additionally,  three 
trial  judgements  were  rendered,  bringing  to  50  the 
number of trials that have been heard. At our peak, we 
ran  eight  trials  simultaneously  in  three  courtrooms, 
taking advantage of gaps in trial schedules.  
to  give  a  special 

commendation to the indefatigable efforts of the newly 
appointed Registrar and the staff of the Registry for the 
very  competent  support  they  provide  to  the  Chambers 
of  the  Tribunal  and  to  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor. 
Without translation and interpretation, both in and out 
of court, without the support for victims and witnesses, 
without 
the  endless 
that  are  quietly  and 
number  of  other  services 
consistently  delivered  by  the  Registry,  the  Tribunal 
would immediately cease to function. 

Currently,  only  two  cases  remain  at  the  pretrial 
stage,  and  they  will  commence  this  year.  Our  current 
estimates  are  that  all  but  four  of  our  trials  will 
conclude  in  2010,  with  three  finishing  in  early  2011, 
and the final trial, that of Radovan Karadžić, ending in 
early 2012. Unfortunately,  there are two fugitives still 
at  large:  Ratko  Mladić  and  Goran  Hadžić.  Failure  to 
bring them to justice will leave a stain  on the historic 
contribution of the United Nations to peacebuilding in 
the former Yugoslavia. I therefore urge Member States 
technical  assistance  and 
that  regard,  I  wish 
In 
the 
A/64/PV.16
all  present 
assessment  of 
to do all within their power to ensure the apprehension 
of those fugitives as a matter of urgency. 
During  my  presidency,  I  have  taken  measures  to 

the  orderly  completion  of  our  work.  A 
ensure 
comprehensive 
and 
anticipated  appellate  work  has  been  carried  out,  and 
mid-2013 has been identified as the completion date of 
our proceedings. It is important to bear in mind that the 
downsizing of the Tribunal, which commences in 2010, 
will result in a reduction of staff by 40 per cent by the 
end of 2011. 

At  the  same  time,  the  Tribunal  is  continually 
looking  for  new  and  creative  ways  to  increase  the 
productivity  of  our  work.  While  it  is  impossible  to 
foresee  all  causes  of  delay  in  a  judicial  environment, 
responsible  management  dictates 
that  potential 
obstacles  be  identified,  controlled,  and  ultimately 
dispelled. 
One  specific  factor  of  critical  concern  to  the 

Tribunal  is  the  retention  of  its  highly  qualified  staff. 
This  I  wish  to  stress  because  it  is  a  factor  that  is  not 
entirely  within  the  Tribunal’s  control.  The  importance 
of  retaining  the  staff  necessary  for  completing  the 
Tribunal’s  work,  while  downsizing  those  whose  tasks 
have  been  discharged,  places  the  Tribunal  in  an 
extraordinarily difficult position.  
Upholding the morale of an institution during the 

final  stages  of  its  lifespan  is  a  great  challenge.  Many 
staff members will be tempted to seek more permanent 
employment  elsewhere,  long  before  their  posts  in  the 
Tribunal  are  abolished.  This  is  a  great  risk  to  the 
productivity  of  our  work.  In  fact,  many  have  already 
left, and currently we are losing staff at a rate of one a 
day. If that rate of attrition continued, by the end of the 
year we would have lost 30 per cent of our staff. 
In  that  regard,  I  am  extremely  grateful  to  the 

General  Assembly  for 
last  year  of 
resolution  63/256,  which  recognizes  the  difficulty  and 
allows  the  Tribunal  to  offer  contracts  to  staff,  in  line 
with  the  dates  of  planned  post  reductions  and  in 
accordance  with  trial  schedules.  However,  while  that 
measure is beneficial, it is not enough. Highly qualified 
and  professional  staff,  essential  for  the  completion  of 
the  Tribunal’s  work,  continue  to  depart  at  alarming 
rates.  When  a  staff  member  who  has  served  at  the 
Tribunal  for  a  number  of  years  decides  to  leave,  the 
problem  that  arises  involves  more  than  just  filling  a 
its  adoption 
09-54853 

5 

the 
Our 
staff. 
retain 
jurisdiction 
In  particular, 
A/64/PV.16 

vacant  post,  a  process  that,  incidentally,  consumes 
precious Tribunal resources in and of itself.  

is  a  very  specialized  one, 
requiring  a  high  level  of  expertise  and  hands-on 
experience,  so  that  even  a  very  knowledgeable  and 
experienced  professional  person  needs  time  to  obtain 
the  skills  required  to  successfully  function  at  the 
Tribunal.  The  flow  of  essential  staff  away  from  the 
Tribunal  needs  to  be  stemmed  now.  Failure  to  take 
swift action in this regard will extend the time needed 
for  the  completion  of  the Tribunal’s  mandate,  because 
of its impact on the efficiency of our work. 

The Tribunal has long been active in bringing this 
matter  to  the  attention  of  Member  States,  but,  other 
than  in  resolution  63/256,  to  which  I  referred  earlier, 
no further supportive action has been taken. I am aware 
that significant changes to the contractual regime in the 
United  Nations  are  on  the  Assembly’s  fall  agenda, 
changes that could be of great assistance to our efforts 
to 
continuing 
appointments  will  offer  some  of  the  stability  that  we 
sorely  need.  The  end-of-service  grant 
is  another 
initiative  that  could  help  us  to  slow  our  attrition  rate 
and  ensure  that  we  can  complete  our  mandate  as 
expeditiously  as  possible.  I  also  urge  the Assembly  to 
assist the Tribunal in devising other measures to retain 
its highly qualified staff. 

Another  matter  that  I  wish  to  bring  to  the 
Assembly’s  attention  is  the  work  the  Tribunal  is 
carrying  out  to  ensure  that  it  fulfils  its  mandate  of 
contributing  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security 
in  the  former  Yugoslavia  and  to  ensure  that  local 
jurisdictions  have  the  capacity  to  continue  with  the 
prosecution  of  war  crimes  cases  in  accordance  with 
Security  Council  resolutions  1503  (2003)  and  1534 
(2004).  

While  working  full  speed  on  its  trials  and 
appeals, the Tribunal has enlisted the expertise of other 
international  organizations  and  engaged  in  a  series  of 
capacity-building initiatives. I am happy to report that 
the  projects  brought  to  the  Assembly’s  attention  last 
year  by  my  predecessor  have  now  been  concluded, 
resulting in the publication of a manual that describes 
the practices of the Tribunal in unprecedented detail, as 
well  as  giving  a  comprehensive  assessment  of 
capacity-building  efforts 
jurisdictions 
throughout the former Yugoslavia. 
in  domestic 
reconciliation 
for  Democratic 

On  the  basis  of  that  assessment,  the  Tribunal  is 
deepening  its  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute and 
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  Office 
Institutions.  And, 
together  with  them,  we  are  preparing  an  ambitious 
project to guarantee that the national justice systems in 
the region have the capacity to deal with their growing 
war crimes caseload, as the Tribunal heads towards the 
completion  of  its  core  activities.  Generous  funding 
from  the  European  Commission  is  expected  for  this 
timely undertaking.  

The Prosecutor’s Office has also been active in its 
capacity-building  efforts,  forging  strong  partnerships 
with  its  counterparts  in  the  region.  To  this  end,  the 
Prosecutor  —  again,  with  funding  from  the  European 
Commission — has established a visiting professionals 
programme,  under  which  prosecutors  from  the  region 
work with the Office of the Prosecutor on cases at the 
Tribunal in The Hague. 

There  is  another  matter  that  I  feel  obliged  to 
bring  to  the Assembly’s  attention,  one  that  I  strongly 
believe must be addressed if there is to be lasting peace 
and 
to 
compensation to victims for the atrocities they suffered 
during  the  conflicts  in  the  former  Yugoslavia.  As 
President  of  the  Tribunal,  I  have  met  on  numerous 
occasions  with  victims’  groups,  which  have  expressed 
their  anguish  at 
international 
community  to  provide  any  kind  of  compensation  for 
their suffering.  

In many respects, the victims feel that they have 
been forgotten by the international community and that 
their rights have been disregarded. With respect to their 
right 
the 
international community has forgotten them. Currently, 
there  is  no  effective  mechanism  by  which  victims  can 
seek  compensation  for  their  injuries,  despite  the  fact 
that their right to such compensation is firmly rooted in 
international law.  

the  Assembly’s  1985 
Declaration  of  Basic  Principles  of  Justice  for  Victims 
of  Crime  and  Abuse  of  Power  (resolution  40/34, 
annex),  but  reference  can  also  be  made  to  the  “Basic 
principles and guidelines on the right to a remedy and 
reparation  for  victims  of  violations  of  international 
human rights and humanitarian law”, referred to by the 
Commission  on  Human  Rights 
its  resolution 
I  need  only  refer 
to  compensation, 
I  must  agree 
the  failure  of 
region. 
refer 
that 
the 
in 
the 
I 
to 
in 
6 

09-54853 
Those 
instruments  were  established  by 


2000/41,  adopted  in  April  2000.  The  Statute  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  provision  addressing 
victim compensation contrasts sharply with the absence 
of comparable provisions in our Statute. 

the 
international  community  because  justice  is  not  only 
about  punishing  perpetrators,  but  also  about  restoring 
dignity to victims by ensuring that they have concrete 
means  to  rebuild  their  lives.  The  Declaration  itself 
identifies  sources  of  compensation, 
the 
offender, or national funds, but in circumstances where 
the State is unable to compensate the victim it proposes 
that other funds be established for the purpose.  

Former  Tribunal  President  Jorda  brought  the 
matter  to  the  attention  of  the  Security  Council  in 
November 2000, in a letter suggesting that 
including 
A/64/PV.16
if  the  Tribunal  is  to  meet  its  current  target  dates  it 
needs  the  help  of  Member  States  in  ensuring  that  the 
orderly completion of its work is not hampered by the 
departure  of 
its  highly  qualified  and  still  very 
necessary staff. 

Together  we  strive  towards  the  same  objective: 
fighting  impunity  and  bringing  justice  to  victims  of 
gross  violations  of  international  law.  As  the  Tribunal 
completes  its  mandate,  the  torch  will  be  passed  to  the 
judges,  prosecutors  and  defence  counsel  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia to continue this ambitious endeavour. 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, in his remarks on 17 July 2008 

at 
the  commemoration  here  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption 
of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court, stated that the  
of 
“the  President 
the  Security  Council 
recommend  to  the  Council  and  to  the  Secretary-
General that methods of compensating victims of 
crimes in the former Yugoslavia, notably a claims 
commission,  be  considered  by  the  appropriate 
organs  of  the  General Assembly”.  (S/2000/1063, 
appendix, para. 48)  
in 
the 
But,  sadly,  to  date  nothing  has  been  done,  and  I  fear 
that  failure  by  the  international  community  to  address 
the  needs  of  victims  of  the  conflicts  that  occurred  in 
the  former  Yugoslavia  will  undermine  the  Tribunal’s 
efforts to contribute to long-term peace and stability in 
the  region.  That  is  why  I  implore  the  Assembly  to 
support the establishment of a claims commission as a 
method  of  complementing  the  Tribunal’s  work  by 
compensating  victims  of  crimes 
former 
Yugoslavia. 

In closing, I would like to reflect once again upon 
the  tremendous  achievements  of  the  Tribunal.  Its 
establishment  in  1993  ushered  in  a  new  era  in 
international  affairs  and  led  to  the  establishment  of 
other international  criminal justice institutions. In that 
regard, the impact of the Tribunal on the development 
of  international  justice  has  been  profound.  I  urge  the 
General  Assembly  to  ensure  that  this  work  is  not 
unnecessarily  tarnished  by  the  continuing  flight  from 
justice of the remaining two fugitives. 

I  would  also  like  to  re-emphasize  that  the 
Tribunal  is  doing  all  it  can  to  complete  its  work 
expeditiously  and  fairly,  while  upholding  the  highest 
standards  of  a  United  Nations  international  court.  But 
the 
justice,  and 
international  criminal 
“fight against impunity started in earnest with the 
establishment  of 
International  Criminal 
Tribunals  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  for 
Rwanda.  These  courts  pioneered  the  emergence 
of 
the 
enforcement of international humanitarian law”. 

It is our hope that the entrenchment of justice and 
the rule of law will lead to lasting peace and prosperity 
in  the  former  Yugoslavia,  a  peace  and  prosperity  so 
justly deserved.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the Assembly, I thank the President of the International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  Croatia,  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina,  Montenegro,  the  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Armenia  and  Georgia  align  themselves  with  this 
statement. 

This  year,  once  again,  the  European  Union 
reaffirms  its  unwavering  support  for  the  work  of  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  As  Judge  Patrick  L.  Robinson, 
President of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former Yugoslavia and Judge Charles Michael Dennis 
Byron, President of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda, have just shown in their presentations, the 
Tribunals  are  making  invaluable  contributions  to  our 
shared  goal  of 
serious 
international crimes. The European Union thanks them 
impunity 
ending 
for 
09-54853 

7 
in 
the 
reach 

regarding 
law  and 
definitions 
invaluable  contributions 
their  development  of  case 
The  Tribunals  have  played  key 
A/64/PV.16 

both  for  their  excellent  reports,  and  commends  them 
for  their  efforts  to  successfully  complete  the  work  of 
the  Tribunals.  The  European  Union  also  pays  special 
tribute  to  the  relentless  work  of  all  the  staff  of  the 
Tribunals. 

Since  their  establishment  the  Tribunals  have 
served as an inspiration to the international community 
by refusing to let perpetrators of heinous crimes escape 
justice.  This  sends  a  clear  signal  that  war  crimes, 
genocide  or  crimes  against  humanity  will  not  go 
unpunished, and fosters a culture of accountability.  

in 
roles 
strengthening the rule of law and promoting long-term 
stability and reconciliation, and not only in the Balkans 
and Rwanda. Their work has had far wider effects than 
that. The Tribunals have been forerunners and ground-
law  and 
breakers 
jurisprudence,  making 
to 
international  humanitarian 
international 
criminal  law.  Their  contributions  span  from  making 
essential 
of 
international humanitarian law to the important finding 
that rape and sexual violence with the intent to destroy 
a protected group as such can constitute genocide. 

The  work  of  the  two  Tribunals  has  shown  that 
international  criminal  law  is  an  enforceable  body  of 
law. This contributed to and accelerated the elaboration 
and  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  in  1998,  to  which  the  European 
Union  reaffirms  its  strong  commitment.  Neither  the 
Tribunals  nor  the  ICC  were  ever  intended  to  replace 
national courts. This principle has guided them and the 
international community also to engage actively in the 
strengthening of national judicial systems. 
In recognition of strengthened domestic capacity, 

the Security Council in its resolutions 1503 (2003) and 
1534  (2004)  called  on  the  ICTY  and  ICTR  to  transfer 
all  lower  and  mid-level  accused  back  to  competent 
national jurisdictions in the region for trial by domestic 
courts.  The  ongoing  strengthening  of  the  Rwandan 
legal system and its ability to adjudicate cases from the 
ICTR will, hopefully, permit the ICTR to transfer such 
defendants  to  the  Rwandan  courts  and  thus  allow  the 
Tribunal 
its  completion  strategy.  These 
strengthening efforts have been fully supported by the 
European Union. We note with appreciation the efforts 
made  by  Rwanda  to  meet  the  demands  regarding  the 
right to a fair trial. 
to  fulfil 
to  urge  all  States 
the  cooperation  of 
The  EU  commends 
The  European  Union  remains  committed 

Despite  continuing  appeals  by  the  international 
community,  13  accused  remain  at  large,  2  indicted  by 
the ICTY and 11 indicted by the ICTR. The failure to 
arrest  these  accused  remains  a  grave  concern  to  the 
European  Union.  Among  those  still  at  large  are  key 
indictees  allegedly  responsible  for  the  most  serious 
atrocities, such as Ratko Mladić and Félicien Kabuga. 

the 
Ugandan  authorities  and  INTERPOL  which  led  to  the 
very  recent  arrest  and  transfer  to  the  ICTR  of  one  of 
the  top  accused  who  is  facing  multiple  charges  of 
genocide and crimes against humanity. While there are 
many  commendable  instances  of  cooperation,  the 
European  Union  continues 
to 
cooperate  immediately  and  unconditionally  with  both 
Tribunals in full adherence with their obligations under 
the relevant Security Council resolutions regarding the 
arrest  and  surrender  of  remaining  fugitives,  and  the 
transfer of any documents requested by the Prosecutor. 

to 
ensuring  that  all  indictees  face  justice.  In  this  regard, 
the  EU  recalls  that  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  is 
essential  in  relation  to  the  EU  stabilization  and 
association process. 

conclude 
agreements on the enforcement of sentences and on the 
relocation of witnesses, indispensable for the effective 
implementation of the Tribunals’ work. 

The  Tribunals  are  approaching  the  end  of  their 
work.  They  were  not  intended  to  be  permanent,  and 
will  cease  to  exist  when  the  Security  Council  deems 
that  the  work  for  which  they  were  set  up  has  been 
accomplished.  We  look  forward  to  that  moment,  as  it 
will  mark  the  end  of  the  Tribunals’  mission  and 
confirm their undisputed success. 

The  European  Union  takes  note  of  the  estimated 
delay  in  meeting  the  original  completion  strategy 
deadlines due to a number of factors, including the late 
capture and transfer of fugitive indictees. The EU urges 
the  Tribunals  to  continue  to  identify  further  measures 
to  complete  their  work  as  efficiently  and  promptly  as 
possible.  We  acknowledge  the  importance  of  the 
Tribunals’  being  granted  appropriate  resources 
to 
enable  them  to  complete  the  proceedings  as  soon  as 
possible without compromising due process. 

The  European  Union  is  committed  to  preserving 
the  legacy  of  the  Tribunals  after  their  closure.  As 
encourages  States 
The  EU 
to 
8 

09-54853 
transferred 
to  continue  after 


already  stated,  their  contribution  has  not  been  limited 
to  the  development  of  case  law.  Their  practice  and 
experience  on  how  to  prosecute  and  prevent  crimes 
against  humanity,  genocide  and  war  crimes  have  been 
equally  extensive,  and  should  be 
to 
international and national jurisdictions. 

The European Union therefore warmly welcomes 
the  publication  by  the  ICTY,  assisted  by  the  United 
Nations  Interregional  Crime  and  Justice  Research 
Institute, of a manual of its developed practices for use 
by  other  domestic  and  international  courts.  We  also 
welcome  the  report  produced  collaboratively  by  the 
ICTY,  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe  and  the  United  Nations  on  the  capacity-
building needs of the local judiciaries dealing with war 
crimes proceedings in the region concerned. 

The  EU  further  welcomes  the  work  on  residual 
issues  by  the  Security  Council’s  Informal  Working 
Group on International Tribunals, including identifying 
which  functions  need 
two 
Tribunals have completed their work. We highly value 
the  open  and  transparent  discussions  under  Austrian 
chairmanship  on  those  issues.  The  EU  fully  supports 
the establishment of mechanisms to deal with residual 
functions. We stand ready to work with the Council to 
find  the  most  appropriate,  cost-effective  solutions  to 
the residual and legacy issues. 
Mr.  Morrill  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

the honour to speak on behalf of Canada, Australia and 
New Zealand — the CANZ delegations. 
First,  Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  pay 

tribute  to  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the 
the  International 
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and 
Criminal  Tribunal 
for  Rwanda 
(ICTR),  whose 
pioneering  work  has  made  a  significant  contribution 
towards  ensuring  accountability  by  those  responsible 
for  the  most  serious  international  crimes:  genocide, 
crimes against humanity, and war crimes. 
By  bringing  to  justice  the  perpetrators  of  such 

crimes, the Tribunals have helped to strengthen the rule 
of 
long-term  stability  and 
reconciliation  in  the  Balkans  and  in  Rwanda.  Their 
work shows that peace and justice can go hand in hand. 
The  jurisprudence  of  both  Tribunals  also  forms  a 
significant  part  of  their  legacy,  one  which  will  be 
drawn upon for many years to come. 
to  promote 
law  and 
the 
A/64/PV.16
CANZ  welcomes 

the  capture  of  Idelphonse 
Nizeyimana and his transfer to the ICTR, and commends 
the  remarkable  cooperation  of  the  Government  of 
Uganda in that endeavour. In order for the Tribunals to 
complete  their  work  it  is  imperative  that  all  the 
remaining indictees be surrendered, particularly Ratko 
Mladić, Goran Hadžić and Félicien Kabuga. States that 
continue  to  help  these  fugitives  escape  international 
justice  undermine  not  only  our  common  fight  against 
impunity, but their own commitment to the rule of law. 
(spoke in English) 

CANZ appreciates the efforts being made by both 
Tribunals towards achieving the goals outlined in their 
respective  completion  strategies.  We  note  as  well  the 
recent Security Council resolutions extending the terms 
of  office  of  the  judges  of  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR. 
CANZ  continues  to  urge  both  Tribunals  to  identify 
measures that will enable them to complete their work 
as  efficiently  and  promptly  as  possible,  including  the 
transfer  of  cases  to  national  courts  where  appropriate. 
We  hope  that  the  further  steps  that  Rwanda  has  taken 
over the last year to strengthen its judicial system will 
see  the  first  cases  referred  to  Rwanda  in  the  near 
future. 

With  both Tribunals  working  towards  the  end  of 
their  mandates,  a  vital  aspect  of  concluding  the 
Tribunals’  work  is  how  to  address  the  associated 
residual issues of completion, including enforcement of 
sentences,  the  continuing  protection  of  witnesses, 
detention  issues,  future  applications  by  convicted 
persons, and the preservation and protection of archives. 

CANZ  welcomes  the  important  steps  that  have 
been taken already by both the ICTR and the ICTY to 
deal  with  residual  issues.  In  fact,  residual  issues 
flowing  out  of 
the 
ICTR/ICTY  are  the  subject  of  an  informal  meeting 
convened  by  Austria  as  the  Chair  of  the  Security 
Council’s  Informal  Working  Group  on  International 
Tribunals that is taking place on this very day. 
While every situation is different, CANZ believes 

that 
lessons 
the 
ICTR/ICTY  context  may  also  be  applicable  to  other 
tribunals,  such  as  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone, 
the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia 
and  the  Special  Tribunal  for  Lebanon.  Equally,  the 
work  being  done  in  other  tribunals  on  residual  issues 
can  help  to  inform  the  discussions  relating  to  the 
ICTR/ICTY.  We  note  past  and  current  efforts  of 
learned  and  solutions  found 
the  ending  of 
the  work  of 
in 
09-54853 

9 

to 
Mr.  Starčević
the  fight  against 
(Serbia):  Having  heard 
A/64/PV.16 

exchange  between  the  tribunals.  We  also  encourage 
further  discussion  within  the  international  community 
to ensure that the lessons learned and the mechanisms 
developed  in  one  tribunal  are  examined  for  potential 
application  to  others. We  are  also  pleased  to  note  that 
Canada  will  support  a  workshop  on  residual  issues  to 
be held here in New York early next year. 
The  ICTY  and  the  ICTR  continue  to  contribute 

significantly 
impunity.  The 
successful  completion  of  their  work  relies  on  the 
cooperation  and  support  of  all  States.  We  call  upon 
States to give practical effect to their commitment to an 
effective  system  of  international  criminal  justice.  For 
our  part,  Canada,  Australia,  and  New  Zealand  will 
continue  to  offer  the  Tribunals  our  full  support  and 
cooperation in this vital dosing stage of their existence. 
the 

presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY), 
by its President, Judge Patrick Robinson, I would like 
to  express  my  satisfaction  with  the  comprehensive 
approach  taken  in  the  report,  as  well  as  with  the 
appraisal  given  to  the  efforts  of  my  Government.  In 
this  connection,  I  once  again  pledge  Serbia’s  full 
commitment  to  fulfilling  its  international  obligations 
with regard to cooperation with the ICTY. A successful 
conclusion  of  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  remains  one 
of the utmost priorities of the Government of Serbia. In 
that respect, we attach importance to the visit of Judge 
Robinson to Belgrade last July, the first such visit of a 
President  of  the  ICTY  to  Serbia.  The  visit  provided 
additional  impetus  and  encouragement  to  the  efforts 
that my country is making. 
The level of cooperation with the ICTY, especially 

as  regards  access 
to  archives  and  provision  of 
documents  to  the Tribunal,  witness  protection  and  the 
provision  of  waivers  for  testifying  in  the  proceedings, 
provides  ample  proof  of  the  commitment  of  the 
Government  of  Serbia  and  its  relevant  authorities  to 
full cooperation with the ICTY.  

We  also  note  with  appreciation  the  assessment 
that the professionalism and efficiency of our services 
involved  in  the  search  for  fugitives  has  generally 
improved.  Cooperation  with,  and  monitoring  by,  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor,  as  well  as  other  relevant 
international  factors, give  further testimony that every 
effort  is  being  made  in  tracking  down  the  last  two 
remaining  fugitives,  apprehending  them  and  bringing 
them  to  justice.  The  capture  of  Ratko  Mladić  and 
Goran  Hadžić,  for  my  country,  remains  not  only  an 
international  obligation,  but  also  an  indication  of  our 
acceptance  of  international  standards  with  respect  to 
individual  responsibility  for  war  crimes  and  other 
violations of international humanitarian law. 

Let me express our firm conviction that the fight 
against  impunity  is  in  the  common  interest  of  all  the 
peoples  of  the  former Yugoslavia.  Having  witnessed  a 
trend of increased regional cooperation in the processing 
of  persons  indicted  for  war  crimes,  we  are  convinced 
that further strengthening of national judicial capacities 
contributes  in  the  best  way  to  the  realization  of 
universal principles of justice and fairness.  

In that sense, it is important to acknowledge that, 
15  years  following  the  conflict,  new  realities  have 
emerged  in  our  region,  especially  improved  relations 
and  cooperation  between  States,  as  well  as  restored 
administrative  capacities.  We  therefore  believe  that 
what  is  needed  is  that  the  competent  organs  of  the 
United Nations reconsider and revise their position on 
the serving of prison sentences by convicted persons in 
their home countries. We hope that the ICTY will lend 
its  support  to  the  aspirations  and  intentions  of  the 
countries of the region in this regard. 

Speaking  about  cooperation  within  our  region,  I 
would also like to remind the General Assembly of one 
negative  example.  Media  in  Serbia  and  neighbouring 
countries  have  widely 
that  documents, 
including  United  Nations 
Interim  Administration 
Mission  in  Kosovo  documents,  pertaining  to  the 
existence  of  clandestine  clinics  where  abducted  Serbs 
from  Kosovo  were  taken  to  suffer  the  worst  fate  of 
being  subjected  to  the  forced  harvesting  of  organs  till 
death,  the  practice  highlighted  in  the  book  of  former 
ICTY prosecutor Carla Del Ponte, were destroyed. The 
legal  bodies  of  Serbia  issued  an  appeal  for  assistance, 
including  by 
its 
investigation of this grave matter. 

Serbia’s unequivocal support for the Tribunal was 
demonstrated by the adoption of an official position by 
the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 13 March 
2009  in  relation  to  the  residual  mechanism  and 
completion  strategy  of  the  ICTY.  That  position  has 
been  duly  circulated  to  the  members  of  the  Security 
Council. We also remain committed to our position on 
the  issue  of  ICTY  archives,  circulated  in  November 
the  conduct  of 
the  ICTY, 
reported 
in 
10 

09-54853 
The  Tribunals’  work  has  been  crucial 
the  achievements  and  high  standards  of 


2008,  and  stand  ready  to  support  all  initiatives  that 
could expedite the remaining work of the Tribunal. 
Mr.  Wetland  (Norway):  I  start  by  expressing 

Norway’s  continuing  support  for,  and  full  recognition 
of, 
the 
International  Criminal  Tribunals  for  Rwanda  and  the 
Former Yugoslavia, as reflected in the Tribunals’ well-
reasoned judgements and the annual reports before us. 
We  thank  the  Presidents  of  the  two  Tribunals,  Judges 
Byron and Robinson, for their detailed and informative 
reports,  which  describe  the  progress  made  during  the 
last year. 

in 
advancing  justice  and  the  rule  of  law  in  Rwanda  and 
the  former  Yugoslavia.  The  Tribunals  will  leave  a 
legacy  of  international  jurisprudence  that  can  guide 
courts  and  deter  the  future  commission  of  grave 
crimes, as well as prevent impunity. 
As  the  completion  dates  for  the  Tribunals  draw 

nearer,  I  would  like  to  focus  on  three  specific  issues, 
all  of  which  are  significant  for 
the  successful 
completion of the Tribunals’ work: continued efforts by 
the Tribunals to implement their completion strategies; 
the  cooperation  of  Member  States;  and  the  agreement 
in the Security Council concerning residual issues. 

Both  Tribunals  are  continuing  the  hard  work  to 
complete their mandates. The Yugoslavia Tribunal has 
concluded proceedings against 120 of the 161 indicted 
persons. The Rwanda Tribunal has delivered judgements 
for 45 of the accused at the first instance, and for 27 of 
the  accused  at  the  appellate  level.  We  commend  both 
Tribunals  for 
the 
completion  strategies,  while  ensuring  that  due  process 
standards  and  fundamental  legal  principles  are  fully 
respected.  We  urge  the  Tribunals  to  continue  their 
efforts in this regard. 

The Tribunals cannot successfully complete their 
mandates  without  the  full  cooperation  of  States.  It  is 
crucial at this point that States give both Tribunals their 
unreserved  support.  All  States  must  honour  their 
obligations  with  regard 
to  requests  for  full  and 
effective assistance to the Tribunals. This applies with 
regard to witnesses, financial and material support and 
practical  assistance  in  the  enforcement  of  sentences. 
Moreover,  the  important  responsibility  for  enforcing 
sentences must be shared by more States. We welcome 
the  conclusion  of  new  agreements  by  the  Yugoslavia 
their  commitment 
to  meeting 
A/64/PV.16
The 
failure 
remaining 
to  arrest 
Tribunal,  and  look  forward  to  additional  agreements 
being concluded. 

fugitives 
continues  to  be  of  concern  to  us.  It  is  not  acceptable 
that  perpetrators  of  serious  international  crimes  are 
evading  legal  proceedings.  We  therefore  welcome  the 
arrest this week of Idelphonse Nizeyimana, one of the 
remaining  accused  by  the  Rwanda  Tribunal,  and  his 
prompt  transfer  to  Arusha  from  Uganda.  This  is  an 
important  step  forward.  We  urge 
the  continued 
cooperation and support of all Member States in order 
to fulfil their obligation to arrest and transfer fugitives 
to the Tribunals without delay. 

Lastly,  I  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the 
issue pending in the Security Council, namely, how the 
residual issues should be dealt with after completion of 
the Tribunals. We have read with interest the report of 
the  Secretary-General  (S/2009/258),  dated  21  May 
2009.  While  we  are  fully  aware  of  the  ongoing 
deliberations in the Council’s Informal Working Group 
on  International  Tribunals,  we  urge  the  Council  to 
conclude its work on these important issues as soon as 
possible.  This  will  help  to  ensure  a  proper  transition 
from two Tribunals to one or possibly two mechanisms 
that  can  perform  the  necessary  tasks  after  the  closure 
of the Tribunals. 

One  of  the  key  outstanding  issues  concerns  the 
location of such a mechanism or mechanisms. Norway 
would 
fully 
incorporated the needs of other United Nations-assisted 
courts. 

One  should  take  full  advantage  of  possible 
synergies. As  we  all  know,  the  International  Criminal 
Court is expected to move into its permanent premises 
in  2014.  According  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  the  current  relocation  plans  for  the  Court 
could  still  be  adapted  to  accommodate  the  needs  of  a 
residual mechanism. Without prejudice to the outcome 
of  the  discussions  in  the  Security  Council,  I  suggest 
that  that  is  one  of  many  issues  that  indicate  the  need 
for expeditious action by the Council. 
Mr.  Vilović  (Croatia):  I  begin  by  welcoming 

President  Robinson  and  President  Byron  and  thanking 
them for presenting the Tribunals’ respective reports.  

Croatia continues to support the Tribunals’ efforts 
to  ensure  early  and  orderly  completion  of  their  work. 
We recognize that they have entered a critical period in 
support  an  approach  which  also 
09-54853 

11 

remaining 
cases 
the 
for 
some  of 
it  remains 
imperative 
that 
For  Croatia 
to  work  on 
the  Tribunals,  but  for 
A/64/PV.16 

which it will be necessary to begin to downsize while 
continuing 
and 
transitioning towards an appropriate infrastructure that 
will take up their residual issues in the future. 

Allow  me  to  make  a  few  remarks  regarding  the 
activities of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  over  the  past  year,  given 
the importance that my country attaches to its work.  

the 
transition  towards  the  Tribunal’s  closure  leave  no 
impunity  gaps.  Notwithstanding  the  impressive  trial 
figures quoted in the report by President Robinson, the 
mandate  of  the  ICTY  cannot  be  declared  completed 
without bringing to justice two remaining fugitives — 
Ratko  Mladić  and  Goran  Hadžić  —  who  bear 
responsibility 
the  gravest  crimes 
committed  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  in  Croatia: 
the  massacres  in  Srebrenica  and  Vukovar.  The  arrest 
and trial of high-level fugitives must be a priority, not 
just  for 
international 
community. We therefore welcome the recent arrest of 
high-level  fugitives 
the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), and hope to see 
an early beginning of their respective trials.  

than  a  year  ago  another  high-profile 
fugitive, Radovan Karadžić, was arrested. We regret to 
note  that  his  case  is  still  in  the  pretrial  phase,  despite 
the fact that more than a dozen years have passed since 
his indictment.  

We  take  note  of  the  anticipated  dates  for  the 
closure  of  the Tribunals,  which  will  slip  well  into  the 
next decade. While we share concerns expressed about 
lengthy  trials,  we  also  recognize  the  need  to  be 
realistic.  The  early  closure  of  the  two  Tribunals  is  a 
legitimate objective, but not at the expense of the  fair 
trial guarantees.  

Croatia  welcomes  steps  that  the  Tribunals  are 
taking towards redeploying resources and personnel in 
order  to  better  respond  to  new  circumstances  after 
2010,  when  an  influx  of  appeals  is  expected.  We  are 
also aware of the problem of the attrition of personnel, 
as  highlighted  by  Presidents  Byron  and  Robinson.  In 
order to bring their mandate to an orderly closure, the 
Tribunals  have 
to  have  sufficient  capacity  and 
resources. 

We  are  cognizant  that  justice,  and  in  particular 
international justice, is costly, complex and, sometimes, 
indicted  by 
More 
the  Tribunals’ 
for  discharging 
slow. While the Tribunals’ mandates are slowly coming 
to  a  close,  the  trials  before  national  courts  will 
continue.  It  is  the  courts  of  our  region  that  will 
continue  the  work  started  by  the  ICTY.  The  Croatian 
judiciary has clearly demonstrated its ability to conduct 
trials  of  even  the  most  sensitive  cases,  including  the 
one case that was transferred to it by the ICTY.  

As  the  processing  of  war  crimes  is  likely  to 
continue in the foreseeable future, Croatia has a special 
interest  in  finding  sustainable,  just  and  practical 
solutions 
residual 
functions,  notably  those  related  to  the  future  of  the 
Tribunals’  archives,  liaising  with  the  Prosecutor’s 
Office, and the modalities of serving the sentences.  

Croatia  will  continue  to  insist  on,  and  fully 
support,  the  fulfilment  of  the  mandate  of  the  ICTY, 
recognizing  it  as  a  key  force  in  a  process  of  restoring 
the  victims  by  providing  justice,  which  in  turn  paves 
the way for a better future, a future of peace, security, 
cooperation and prosperity, for the whole region.  

We are glad that the present report has confirmed 
Croatia’s  overall  good  cooperation  with  the  ICTY. 
Croatia’s  commitment  to  full,  open  and  unequivocal 
cooperation with the Tribunal is unwavering, including 
in  the  Gotovina  et  al.  case,  as  demonstrated  by  the 
close  and  intense  working  relationship  developed 
between the Office of the Prosecutor and the Croatian 
Government  on  all  levels.  In  the  case  that  I  have  just 
mentioned,  the  Croatian  authorities  have  continued  to 
take concrete administrative, investigative and judicial 
measures, in close consultation with the Prosecutor, in 
order  to  meet  to  the  maximum  extent  possible  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor’s  requests  regarding  missing 
documents. We believe that recent steps, in conjunction 
with  the  earlier  measures  undertaken  as  part  of  an 
administrative  investigation,  and  the  ensuing  criminal 
proceedings, will prove once again that the cooperation 
with the Office of the Prosecutor is full and open. 

The  crimes  committed  in  the  former  Yugoslavia 
and Rwanda over the past decade continue to haunt our 
collective conscience. The two Tribunals have already 
made  a  profound  impact  through  the  process  of 
individualizing  guilt 
for  crimes  committed  and 
building  a  body  of  law  as  their  lasting  legacy  to  the 
regions  affected  and  to  the  world,  not  least  as  a 
precursor  to  the  establishment  of  the  International 
Criminal Court. 
12 

09-54853 
for 
for 
to 
to  preside  over 
I  begin  by 
thanking 
issues, 
including 
trials  of 
the  President  of 
the  President  of 
Judge  Patrick  Robinson, 



The  Tribunals’  success  and  their  legacy  will  be 
judged  by  their  credibility.  That  is  why  it  is  essential 
that  there  be  no  closure  without  a  credible  strategy 
which will ensure that impunity cannot outlast justice. 
The  Tribunals’  mandates  should  not  be  terminated 
before  putting  in  place  appropriate  structures  for 
managing  residual 
the 
remaining high-profile fugitives. Croatia will continue 
to work with others to that end. 
Mr. Muita (Kenya): My delegation congratulates 

you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
the 
Assembly’s  deliberations,  and  also  congratulates  the 
other  members  of  your  Bureau.  We  assure  you  of  our 
full commitment and support as you discharge the task 
before you. 

the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR), 
Judge  Dennis  Byron,  and 
the 
the  Former 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
Yugoslavia, 
their 
comprehensive  annual 
the 
Assembly  in  conformity  with  the  respective  Statutes 
establishing the Tribunals. 
Kenya notes the numerous challenges facing both 

Tribunals,  which 
judicial 
workloads  during  their  winding-up  phase.  We  are, 
however, encouraged that, due to exceptional leadership, 
commendable  progress  has  been  made 
towards 
achievement  of  their  respective  completion  strategies. 
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  measures 
taken by both Tribunals, including amending their rules 
of procedure, with a view to expediting the delivery of 
justice.  That  is  a  positive  step  towards  reducing  the 
pending workload. 
Enforcement of sentences by the ICTR is a matter 

of  concern.  In  this  respect,  my  delegation  is  pleased 
that  some  countries  have  agreed  to  host  persons 
convicted by the Tribunal for purposes of serving their 
sentences.  Kenya  believes  this  support  and  assistance 
helps  ease  congestion  in  the  Tribunal’s  detention 
facilities,  and  is  critical  to  the  proper  discharge  of  its 
functions. We continue to  urge Member States to give 
enhanced cooperation, and in this connection welcome 
the positive development noted in paragraph 54 of the 
report, where we learn that during the reporting period 
the ICTR continued to receive a number  
include  unprecedented 
reports  submitted 
“of  requests  for  mutual  legal  assistance  from 
national  jurisdictions  conducting  investigations, 
A/64/PV.16
to 
immensely 
with  a  view  to  the  prosecution  or  extradition  of 
Rwandan  fugitives  appearing  on  the  INTERPOL 
wanted list”. 

Kenya  will  consistently  continue  to  support  the 
international  criminal  justice  system.  Through  the 
relevant  Government  departments  and  agencies,  my 
country has been working  closely with  both the ICTR 
and the International Criminal Court in all areas. 

I  am  happy  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  on 
30 September  Kenya  signed  an  extradition  treaty  with 
Rwanda.  That  is  a  positive  development  as  the  ICTR 
draws  closer  to  completion  of  its  mandate,  because  it 
will  facilitate  further  cooperation  between  the  two 
countries during the Tribunal’s post-closure period. 
My  country  believes  that  both  Tribunals  have 

contributed 
the  development  of 
international criminal law. Their jurisprudence provides 
useful reference material for various stakeholders.  

My delegation encourages  the efforts to promote 
dissemination  of  information  on  the  activities  of  the 
Tribunals.  The  issue  of  providing  safe  custody  of  the 
records  and  material  emanating  from  both  institutions 
is  a  challenge 
to  be  resolved.  The 
Government  of  Kenya  is  looking  very  favourably  into 
this question with respect to the ICTR. 

The  official  visits  to  both  Tribunals  by  high-
ranking  officials 
from  Governments  and  other 
organizations,  in  our  view,  reflect  the  recognition 
conferred  on  the  Tribunals.  We  also  believe  that  they 
play an important role in enhancing the image of both 
institutions  as  central  organs  for  international  dispute-
resolution.  We  encourage  such  visits  as  part  of  the 
awareness  programmes,  and  appreciate  the  measures 
put in place to educate officials from Member States. 

Kenya  supports  the  case  put  forward  by  the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda  on  behalf  of  the  ad  litem  judges,  who 
discharge  the  same  functions  as  the  permanent  judges 
of the Tribunals. We urge the Assembly to resolve the 
matter. 

Finally,  my  delegation  appreciates  support  for 
training provided by the EU to both Tribunals. We are 
convinced  the  training  will  promote  understanding  of 
international  criminal  law  and  the  need  to  prevent 
future  occurrences  of  the  heinous  crime  of  genocide. 
We  urge  the  EU  and  other  development  partners  to 
that  needs 
09-54853 

13 

the 
the  contribution  of 
A/64/PV.16 

consider  extending  the  training  programmes  to  wider 
regions. 

I  once  again  reaffirm  my  country’s  commitment 
to the ideals and principles of the international criminal 
justice system.  
Mr. Gasana (Rwanda): My delegation thanks the 

President  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda (ICTR) for the presentation of his report to the 
General Assembly. 

The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Rwanda 
appreciates 
international 
community  to  justice  and  reconciliation  in  Rwanda  in 
the aftermath of the 1994 genocide, and recognizes the 
contribution  the  ICTR  has  rendered  to  this  end.  I  also 
take this opportunity to commend the authorities of the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Government of 
Uganda  and  INTERPOL  for  their  concerted  efforts  in 
arresting  genocide  fugitives  Grégoire  Ndahimana  and 
Idelphonse  Nizeyimana,  both  of  whom  are  now  in 
Arusha, Tanzania, awaiting justice. 

My  delegation  is  of  the  firm  view  that  the  best 
way  to  give  the  strongest  impetus  to  justice  and 
reconciliation  in  Rwanda  would  be  by  justice  being 
done, and being seen to be done, where the crimes took 
place.  Rwanda  on  its  part  has  done  everything  within 
its  modest  means  to  provide  justice  to  its  people, 
through  a  combination  of  traditional  and  more  formal 
systems  of  justice.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  my 
Government  insists  that  no  residual  mechanism  of  the 
ICTR should have a trial capacity after 2010.  

All cases for which trial has not begun by the end 
of 2010 must be transferred to the national courts of a 
State in whose territory the crime was committed or in 
which  the  accused  was  arrested,  or  to  any  other  State 
willing  and  able  to  accept  them. That  is  the  only  way 
for  the  international  community  to  ensure  that  the 
global  fight  against 
the  remaining 
fugitives  is  carried  on  while  achieving  the  stated 
objective of putting an end to the work of the ICTR. 

Rwanda  has  long  called  for  the  transfer  of 
accused in the custody of the ICTR for trial before our 
domestic  courts.  Public  administration  of  justice  in 
Rwanda  is  clearly  preferable  to  any  form  of  justice 
outside  Rwanda,  either  in  third-party  States  on  the 
basis of universal jurisdiction or before an international 
tribunal.  The  international  community  has  a  singular 
opportunity  to  achieve  this  through  adequate  joint 
impunity  for 
future 
for  our 
collaboration 
efforts of the ICTR and the Government of Rwanda to 
ensure that the requirements for transfer are satisfied. 

Recent  suggestions  by  the  ICTR  that  domestic 
justice  in  Rwanda  is  somewhat  below  standard  are 
unacceptable.  The  Government  of  Rwanda  has 
undertaken  wide-ranging  reforms  of  legal  instruments 
to  accommodate  and  clarify  aspects  of  the  law  that 
were  hindering  the  transfer  of  cases  to  Rwanda. 
Whereas  the  Tribunal’s  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  has 
been  transferring  files  of  unindicted  suspects  to  the 
Rwandan Public Prosecution Authority, recent requests 
by  the  ICTR  Prosecutor  to  transfer  outstanding  cases 
involving  lower-rank  accused  to  Rwanda  were  denied 
by  the  Trial  Chambers.  Those  decisions  are  not 
encouraging 
and 
cooperation. 

We  look  forward  to  the  ICTR  reviewing  its 
rulings  that  resulted  in  preventing  domestic  courts  in 
other  countries  from  extraditing  fugitives  to  Rwanda 
for  trial.  From  experience,  it  is  noticeable  that  the 
usefulness of international prosecutions is limited. The 
ICTR has prosecuted a handful of cases, and, with the 
exception  of  the  few  cases  in  Belgium,  Switzerland, 
the  Netherlands,  Canada  and  Finland,  there  is  a  total 
lack  of 
in  prosecuting 
Rwandan  genocide  suspects  abroad.  Those  countries 
that  have  the  appropriate  laws  perhaps  lack  the 
resources, but mostly lack the political will to do so. 

As I have mentioned, Rwanda has over the years 
modernized  its  domestic  justice  system,  modelled  on 
international  standards,  including  prison  conditions, 
training  of  judicial  personnel  and  promoting  judicial 
independence  and  impartiality.  Because  the  Tribunal 
was  never  meant  to  provide  justice  for  the  masses, 
genocide  justice  has  been  essentially  a  domestic 
process. 

Rwanda  is  of  the  view  that  the  ICTR  residual 
mechanism  must  be  entrusted  with  unfinished  or 
ongoing  business  that  relates  back  to  proceedings 
already  conducted  or  ongoing  at  the  cut-off  date  of 
31 December 2010, bearing in mind that, for consistency 
and  fairness,  no  new  trials  should  commence  past  the 
first quarter of 2010. 

All  other  matters  must  be  transferred  to  national 
systems.  Hence,  should  the  defence  of  an  accused 
transferred  within  a  national  system  seek  access  to 
records  in  a  previous  case  which  are  material  to  its 
case,  and,  of  course,  which  are  not  available  to  the 
interest  and  enthusiasm 
14 

09-54853 


public, the residual mechanism would be competent to 
handle the request. 

The  same  goes  for  variations  of  protective 
measures  and  so  on.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that 
just  because  some  cases  have  been  conducted  before 
the  ICTR  that  does  not  create  a  requirement  that  the 
accused  in  other  cases  must  have  access  to  ICTR 
archives  for  them  to  have  a  fair  trial. Those  that  have 
been tried before our domestic courts did not have such 
access, nor was it necessary or required.  
The  Government  of  Rwanda  has  also  expressed 

its preference that those convicted by the ICTR should 
serve their sentences in Rwanda, a call which thus far 
has gone unheeded, despite our willingness and efforts 
to  meet  all  the  conditions  required  for  Rwanda  to 
accommodate  ICTR  convicts, 
in  accordance  with 
international  standards.  Rwanda,  with  the  support  of 
members  of  the  international  community,  has  invested 
resources  in  the  legal,  physical,  professional  and 
logistical  infrastructures  to  meet  the  requirements  of 
international judicial standards. 

Rwanda maintains that if the work of the ICTR is 
to  have  any  significance  for  Rwandans,  at  least  some 
of  the  convicts  ought  to  serve  their  sentences  in  the 
country where the crimes were perpetrated. That could 
go  a  long  way  to  demonstrate  the  importance  of 
international  accountability  in  a  manner  that  most 
Rwandans can understand and relate to. 

In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  my  Government,  I 
commend  the  representative  of  Sweden,  who  said, 
speaking  on  behalf  of 
the  EU,  “We  note  with 
appreciation  the  efforts  made  by  Rwanda  to  meet  the 
demands regarding the right to a fair trial.” 
join  other 
I 

delegations in expressing our appreciation for the work 
of the International Criminal Tribunals for the Former 
Yugoslavia  and  for  Rwanda,  and  their  respective 
Presidents  Judge  Patrick  L.  Robinson  and  Judge 
Charles Michael Dennis Byron. We all agree that their 
work  throughout  the  years  has  been  and  remains  of 
vital  importance  in  creating  a  legacy  for  the  future  of 
international criminal justice and international law as a 
whole. 

My  delegation  aligned  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Sweden on behalf of 
the  European  Union.  In  addition,  in  my  national 
capacity, I would like to emphasize the following. 
(Albania):  First, 
Mr.  Hoxha
A/64/PV.16
for 
the 
responsible 

Albania strongly supports all efforts to strengthen 
international  criminal  justice.  We  must  ensure  that 
those 
serious  crimes  are  held 
accountable  and  brought  to  justice.  In  this  regard,  we 
commend  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and 
the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  for  their  irreplaceable 
role  in  combating  impunity  in  fulfilment  of  their 
mandates  and  at  the  same  time  establishing  standards 
for global justice in the interest of peace and security. 

Albania  supports  the  efforts  of  the  Tribunals  to 
complete their work at the earliest date and accomplish 
the  completion  strategy  pursuant  to  Security  Council 
resolutions  1503  (2003)  and  1534  (2004)  by  adopting 
concrete  measures  to  enhance  the  efficiency  of  the 
proceedings.  The  courts  must  have  full  support  from 
the  Security  Council  and  the  international  community 
in  order  to  maintain  high  dedication  and  efficiency  in 
prosecuting  and  bringing  to  justice  the  remaining 
fugitives.  

On  the  other  hand,  we  also  consider  the  referral 
of cases to competent national jurisdictions an essential 
part  of  the  completion  strategy.  In  this  regard,  we 
welcome 
judicial 
institutions  in  conducting  fair  trials  for  all  lower  and 
mid-level  accused  in  the  respective  regions.  We  take 
note of the efforts made by Rwanda in order to meet all 
the benchmarks for fair trials. 

Albania  has  signed  an  agreement  with  the  ICTY 
and  offered  its  prison  facilities  for  the  sentenced 
persons  to  serve  their  prison  terms  in  Albania  as  a 
concrete measure of support for the ICTY. 

Albania considers that the arrest of the remaining 
fugitives — Ratko Mladić and Goran Hadžić as well as 
Félicien Kabuga — should remain a top priority for the 
successful accomplishment of the Tribunals’ work. We 
call on the States in the region, especially those where 
fugitives are suspected to be at large, to fully cooperate 
with and render all necessary support to the Tribunals. 
The  arrest  of  the  fugitives  will  mark  the  ending  of  a 
tragic period in the history of the Balkan region and the 
region concerned in Africa, and at the same time pave 
the  way  for  long-term  reconciliation.  We  owe  this  to 
the  victims  and  their  families,  and  we  owe  it  to 
ourselves,  as  there  can  be  no  peace  and  prosperity 
without a resolute fulfilment of justice. 
My delegation also wishes to echo the  particular 

concern of President Robinson regarding compensation 
improvements  of  domestic 
09-54853 

15 

than  15  years  ago,  as 
The  position  of  principle  of 
A/64/PV.16 

of  the  victims.  We  fully  subscribe  to  his  concern  and 
remarks,  and  believe  that  the  matter  needs  to  be 
properly  addressed  as  an  important  part  of  making 
justice. 
Mr.  Kuzmin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): First, I express my gratitude to the Presidents 
of the Tribunals for their reports. 
The  Tribunals  set  up  by  the  Security  Council 

more 
temporary  courts, 
undoubtedly  have  done  considerable  work  in  order  to 
bring  to  justice  those  persons  guilty  of  international 
crimes  on  the  territories  of  the  former Yugoslavia  and 
Rwanda.  The  history  of  their  creation  shows  that  the 
Security Council considered their function in a broader 
context,  as  one  of  the  measures  designed  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  and  for  post-conflict 
settlement  in  the  regions.  By  its  very  nature,  the 
international,  ad  hoc  tribunal  cannot  and  should  not 
endlessly  take  the  place  of  the  existing  courts  and 
tribunals of individual countries.  

the  Russian 
Federation is that the Tribunals should keep within the 
time  limit  for  a  completion  strategy.  Both  should  be 
guided  by  the  time  frames  laid  down  by  the  Security 
Council and do everything possible to ensure that their 
substantive work is concluded by the end of 2010.  
language  of  both  reports 

suggests  that  the  Tribunals,  for  various  reasons,  offer 
discouraging  prospects  of  their  observing  those  time 
frames.  Security  Council  resolutions  1877  (2009)  and 
1878  (2009)  once  again  extended  the  functions  of  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal 
time  until 
31 December 2010. We stress the exceptional nature of 
those  measures,  which  were  made  necessary  by  the 
need to  bring cases already under  way  to their logical 
conclusion. 
We  welcome  the  Tribunals’  efforts  to  locate 

fugitives  from  justice.  In  this  context,  we  note  the 
success  of  the  Rwanda Tribunal,  which,  together  with 
INTERPOL  and  the  law  enforcement  agencies  of 
various States, has succeeded in arresting two suspects 
over the last few months. We share the concern of the 
international community that two suspects in the ICTY 
dossier still remain at large, as well as eleven suspects 
of the ICTR. 
Unfortunately, 
for  Rwanda 
(ICTR), 
this 
the 
for 
it  possible 

However,  the  real  difficulties  in  finding  and 
arresting  fugitives  should  not  be  used  to  drag  out  the 
Tribunals’ work for an indefinite period. Completion of 
their  work  is  closely  connected  with  the  transfer  of 
cases  to  national  jurisdictions,  which  is  the  thrust  of 
Security  Council  resolutions  1503  (2003)  and  1534 
(2004).  Unfortunately,  the  Tribunals  approach  the 
matter  with  caution,  the  grounds  for  which  are  not 
always  solid.  We  call  on  them  to  activate  their 
mechanisms  for  bringing  national  courts  into  taking 
over outstanding cases.  

In  this  context,  we  note  the  work  done  by  the 
Tribunals  to  develop  the  potential  to  transfer  to  local 
courts their accumulated experience and carry out legal 
research  which  will  make 
to  adapt 
international  precedents  to  national  criminal  court 
procedures. We would also encourage the efforts of the 
Tribunals  to  accelerate  the  tempo  of  the  judicial 
processes  and  to  attempt  to  rationalize  the  work  of 
courts for parallel consideration of a number of cases. 

This  year  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Fifth 
Committee  will  have  to  discuss  and  adopt  draft 
resolutions on the budget for the Tribunals for the next 
two-year  period.  We  believe  that  during  a  universal 
financial crisis the Tribunals’ attention should be drawn 
to  the  need  to  stay  within  the  indicated  budgetary 
in  forthcoming 
limits,  and 
expenditure 
their  heritage, 
particularly  their  archives,  and  transform  themselves 
into mechanisms of their own residual competence. 
Mr.  Mahiga  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  At 

the outset, I thank both Judge Charles Michael Dennis 
Byron, President of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for  Rwanda 
(ICTR)  and  Judge  Patrick  Lipton 
Robinson,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  for 
presenting 
the  General 
Assembly. Tanzania appreciates their ability to lead the 
Tribunals and ensure that the purposes for which they 
were established are fully met.  

Furthermore, we commend the Presidents’ efforts 
in  implementing  the  completion  strategies  for  both 
Tribunals,  and  express  our  strong  support  for  their 
important  work  in  ending  impunity  in  Africa  and  the 
world  over.  The 
ICTY  have 
demonstrated their significant role in fighting impunity 
and  promoting  the  rule  of  law.  They  have  further 
shown  that  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war 
into  account 
to  preserve 
to 
the  need 
their  annual 
ICTR  and 
reports 
take 
the 
to 
16 

09-54853 


crimes and other crimes under international law cannot 
be  tolerated,  and  that  perpetrators  of  such  atrocities 
must face retribution. 
As  the  host  State  of  the  International  Criminal 

Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  Tanzania  has  continued 
to 
perform its inherent obligation in ensuring the smooth 
running  of  the  Tribunal’s  activities.  That  support  has 
taken  the  form  of  making  logistical  arrangements, 
issuing  visas  and  permits,  processing  applicable  tax 
exemptions  and  ensuring  the  security  of  both  the 
premises of the court and its staff.  

We  extend  our  condolences  over  one  of  the 
judges  who  met  his  death  in  Tanzania.  Investigations 
were properly carried  out,  and the  results were shared 
with the United Nations and his home country. 

Tanzania  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  continuing 
to discharge its duties as the host State of the Tribunal 
until  the  completion  of  its  work  in  the  remaining  few 
years. 

Having  thoroughly  gone  through  the  reports  of 
the  two  courts,  we  have  noted  with  appreciation  the 
achievements  so  far  in  ensuring  that  the  purposes  of 
their establishment are fully met. Tanzania appreciates 
the difficulties of the two Tribunals, as reflected in the 
reports  before  us,  and  we  are  prepared  to  continue 
cooperating  with 
to  overcome  any 
inconvenience or difficulties that may persist. 

As  we  are  all  aware,  the  smooth  running  of  the 
court, and thus delivering justice to both the acquitted 
and  the  convicted,  largely  depends  on  the  mutual 
cooperation and assistance of Member States. Tanzania 
has  noted  with  concern  the  hurdles  which  the  court 
faces with regard to the relocation of acquitted persons 
to  third  States  and  of  convicted  persons  to  serve  their 
sentences. Since the court is one of our own creations, 
and  since  it  is  our  desire  and  common  goal  to  ensure 
that the ends of justice are met, we call on all Member 
States  to  cooperate  with  it  by  accepting  convicted 
persons  to  serve  their  sentences  in  States’  detention 
facilities,  as  part  of 
responsibility-
sharing. 

We note with concern that there remain at large in 
our  region  a  number  of  fugitives  who  are  still  to  face 
justice  for  crimes  alleged  to  have  been  committed  in 
Rwanda.  We  call  on  the  Member  States  in  our  region 
on whose territory those fugitives have been located to 
cooperate with the court by assisting in their arrest and 
international 
ICTR 
the 
A/64/PV.16
As 
the  Tribunal 
is  now 
the 
the  Tribunal’s  archives  with 
implementing 
issue  of  maintaining 
transfer as soon as possible to face justice at the ICTR 
in  Arusha.  We  commend  the  efforts  and  initiatives, 
prompted  by  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
and  Uganda,  to  arrest  and  transfer  the  fugitives  who 
were  apprehended  in  those  countries  two  weeks  ago, 
and who are already in Arusha facing justice before the 
ICTR. 
its 

completion  strategy, 
its 
archives  and  the  residual  function  are  of  the  utmost 
importance. Tanzania  is  willing  and  ready  to  continue 
hosting 
the  same 
dedication  and  commitment  as  we  did  throughout  the 
operation of the court from its inception more than 10 
years  ago.  We  strongly  believe  that  the  infrastructure 
already in place makes Arusha an ideal location to keep 
the  records  of  the  court  as  an  important  historical 
learning institution for the benefit of future generations 
in the subregion and the African continent as a whole. 
Already the court archives have been made available to 
many  universities  in  our  region,  and  they  are  an 
integral  part  of  capacity-building  and  the  training  of 
future generations of lawyers in our region. 

Tanzania  has  been  designated  by  the  African 
Union as the  seat of the African Court on Human and 
Peoples’ Rights. The cases to be handled by that Court 
will benefit immeasurably from the precedents of cases 
and  judgements  handled  and  rendered  by  the  ICTR  in 
Arusha. 

We  are  following  with  interest  the  deliberations 
of  the  Security  Council’s  Informal Working  Group  on 
International Tribunals, chaired by Austria, with regard 
to  the  Tribunals’  residual  mechanisms.  We  trust  that 
consideration  will  be  given  to  preservation  of  the 
archives,  and  access  to  them,  in  order  to  support 
successful  mechanisms,  such  as 
the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC).  The  experience  of  the  African 
Tribunal,  preserved 
in  Arusha, 
Tanzania, would offer ready-made facilities to support 
the ICC, should that be one of the recommendations of 
the Informal Working Group. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I  take  it 

that the Assembly wishes to conclude its consideration 
of agenda items 73 and 74? 

The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m. 

It was so decided. 
the  archives 
in 
09-54853 

17 
