
A/64/PV.34
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

34th plenary meeting 
Monday, 2 November 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
the 
support  the  IAEA  in  its  dual  mission  of  expanding 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  while  preventing  the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We thank Mr. Mohamed 
ElBaradei,  Director  General  of 
International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  presenting  the 
annual report on the work of the Agency. On behalf of 
the  Government  of 
the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela,  we  wish  to  give  him  our  cordial,  fraternal 
greetings.  We  also  wish  to  acknowledge  the  presence 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Malaysia, 
of 
Ambassador  Hamidon  Ali,  who 
this  morning 
introduced  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency”  (A/64/L.7),  as 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  IAEA. 
Venezuela supports the report and the draft resolution.  

The IAEA has consolidated itself as a competent 
body  for  scientific  and  technical  cooperation  in  the 
area  of  nuclear  energy  and  for  verifying  compliance 
with  the  obligations  contracted  to  in  accordance  with 
the  respective  safeguards  agreements  with  member 
States.  

My  delegation  expresses  its  concern  at  actions 
which  seek  to  undermine  the Agency’s  legitimacy.  No 
other international body can assume the responsibilities 
which  States  parties 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  have 
given as sovereign States to the IAEA when it comes to 
nuclear matters. 
the  Treaty  on 
to 




The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m. 




Agenda item 85 (continued) 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 

  Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/64/257) 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.7) 

Mr.  Camp  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States would like to make a brief explanation of 
its  position  on  draft  resolution A/64/L.7  on  the  report 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA). 
The  United  States  has  co-sponsored 
this  draft 
resolution as an expression of its strong support for the 
Agency  in  all  facets  of  its  work  and  its  determination 
to  cooperate  with  other  Member  States  to  strengthen 
the Agency’s capabilities. 
However, we would like to note our reservations 

as 
to  a  particular  resolution,  on  Israeli  nuclear 
capabilities,  GC(53)/RES/17,  adopted  at  the  IAEA 
General  Conference  in  September.  The  United  States 
believes  that  any  effort  to  address  the  complexities  at 
play  regarding  nuclear-related  issues  in  the  Middle 
East  must  be  done 
in  a  comprehensive  and 
non-politicized atmosphere. 

to  seeking 
multilateral  solutions  to  global  challenges,  and  it  is  a 
sponsor of this resolution as a symbol of its support for 
the Agency as an institution. The United States remains 
committed  to  working  with  other  Member  States  to 

The  United  States 
is  committed 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-59092 (E) 
*0959092* 



the 
in 
in 
the 
their 
economies, 
their 
A/64/PV.34 


At  times,  when  undue  interference  has  occurred, 
there  were  serious  violations  of  the  principles  of 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law. 
Peoples  have  experienced  acts  of  aggression  and 
the 
crimes  against  humanity  and  suffered  from 
destruction  of 
cultural 
development and their political and religious systems.  

Last 24 September, the Security Council adopted 
resolution  1887 
(2009)  on  non-proliferation.  By 
attempting to take jurisdiction solely over questions of 
non-proliferation,  the  transparency  required  by  the 
entire disarmament and non-proliferation mechanism is 
endangered,  especially 
technical  process  of 
verification. 

My delegation rejects any initiative that attempts 
to ignore and delegitmize the multilateral disarmament 
regime  previously  negotiated 
relevant 
multilateral  forums  or  that  seeks  to  undermine  the 
technical, non-political character of institutions created 
to deal with this matter. 

The  IAEA  works  on  the  basis  of  the  inalienable 
right  of  States  to  develop  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy 
international 
commitments made in accordance with article IV of the 
NPT.  For  this  reason,  we  stress  that  any  attempt  to 
the  rights  and 
redefine 
obligations  contained 
in 
undermining the system that the Treaty has established — 
a system which relies on general acceptance. 

My  delegation  recognizes  the  laudable  efforts  of 
the  IAEA  to  strengthen  international  cooperation  in 
nuclear safety, radiation safety, safe transportation and 
the management of nuclear waste.  

We  wish  to  highlight  the  progress  made  in  the 
various  activities  intended  to  maintain  and  increase 
security, 
the 
networks  of 
information  and  communication  for 
nuclear  and  radiation  security  and  those  oriented 
towards 
the  strengthening  of  national  regulatory 
infrastructures  with  jurisdiction  over  the  control  of 
radioactive sources. 

As  a  signatory  to  the  NPT,  Venezuela  has 
maintained 
established 
cooperation  machinery.  In  2007-2008,  it  chaired  the 
technical  cooperation  body  for  Latin America  and  the 
Caribbean,  known  as 
the  Regional  Cooperation 
Agreement  for  the  Advancement  of  Nuclear  Science 
the  delicate  balance  of 
the  NPT  can  result 
compliance  with 
participation 
including 
those  having 
to  do  with 
active 
in 
the 

and  Technology  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
(ARCAL),  and  it  held  the  chair  of  the  ARCAL 
representatives body, known as ORA, and the so-called 
tripartite forum. 

Our  country  has  benefited  from  technical  and 
financial  cooperation  provided  by  the  IAEA  through 
ARCAL.  Several  projects  moved  forward  within  the 
framework  of  that  cooperation  in  the  biennium  2007-
2008. We viewed as highly significant Mr. ElBaradei’s 
visit to Venezuela last March, where he had extremely 
productive  meetings  with  senior  authorities  in  the 
energy,  oil  and  science  and  technologies  sectors.  He 
was  welcomed  by  Ms.  Cilia  Flores,  Speaker  of  the 
Venezuelan National Assembly.  

Our  country  was  elected  by  acclamation  as  a 
member  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  IAEA  for 
2009-2010 in elections held from 14 to 18 September. 
Venezuela  will  contribute  to  maintain  the  Agency  as 
the single forum with jurisdiction over nuclear energy, 
and the promotion and defence of all of its objectives, 
including  disarmament,  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
verification, and the sovereign right to assist all States 
to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. 
Allow me to express again our appreciation of the 

efforts  made 
outgoing  Director  General 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei  during  the  12  years  that  he 
led  this  organization.  We  also  wish  to  express  the 
support of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela for the 
new Director General, Mr. Yukiya Amano. 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  This  is  the  last  time  that  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei  will  submit 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  to  the 
General Assembly. Allow  us,  at  the  outset,  to  express 
to  him  our  deepest  appreciation  and  gratitude  for  the 
exemplary  efforts  he  has  made  to  enhance  the  role  of 
the  IAEA  and  expand  its  activities,  especially  in 
strengthening its role in verifying information with the 
utmost credibility and honesty. 

I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
Agency  itself  in  assisting  developing  countries  in  the 
area  of  the  peaceful  use  and  development  of  nuclear 
technology.  Libya  reaffirms  the  right  of  all  States  to 
obtain  nuclear 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes, 
without  discrimination,  and  to  receive  the  assistance 
both  of  the  IAEA  and  other  countries  able  to  extend 
such assistance. 
the  annual  report  of 
by 
in 
2 

09-59092 
responsible 
for 
verification 
in  preventing 


We  believe  in  the  important  role  that  the  IAEA 

plays 
the  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons. At the same time, however, we regret that the 
role  of  the Agency  is  not  universal,  since  it  does  not 
include  oversight  of  the  nuclear  activities  of  nuclear-
weapon  States,  a  shortcoming  for  an  Agency  that 
should  be  universal  and  not  exclude  any  States.  We 
hope  the  international  community  can  succeed  in 
reviewing  the  IAEA’s  mandate  so  that  it  can  oversee 
nuclear  activities  without  discrimination,  especially 
regarding the reductions in nuclear arsenals announced 
by nuclear-weapon States and aimed at achieving total 
and comprehensive nuclear disarmament. 

Libya affirms the need to bolster the credibility of 
the  IAEA  in  its  vital  role  as  the  only  specialized 
authority 
and 
implementation  of  the  safeguards  arrangements  by 
member  States  within  the  framework  of  the Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  in 
order to prevent channelling nuclear power away from 
peaceful uses towards use in nuclear weapons or other 
forms of nuclear explosives. 

international 
coordinator  for  technical  cooperation  in  the  nuclear 
field and must continue to play this role alone, with no 
competition. My country would like to take the path of 
dialogue  and  negotiation 
in  dealing  with  certain 
pending  issues  with  some  States  so  that  adequate 
solutions can be found through peaceful means. Libya 
affirms  the  need  to  designate  regions  free  of  nuclear 
weapons and to strengthen such regions. We also stress 
the importance of strengthening the NPT.  

We  are  deeply  concerned  that  there  has  been  no 
progress  in  making  the  Middle  East  a  region  free  of 
nuclear weapons, only because the Israelis, as the only 
entity  in  the  region  possessing  nuclear  weapons, 
continue  to  be  obstinate  in  this  regard.  Unfortunately 
this  country  still  refuses  to  place  all  its  nuclear 
facilities  under  the  IAEA’s  comprehensive  safeguards 
regime.  The  international  community  must,  therefore, 
deter  this  country  and  force  it  to  place  its  nuclear 
facilities  under 
international  oversight.  Such  an 
intransigent position will keep the region in a constant 
state  of  tension  and  hamper  the  achievement  of 
security and stability both in the region and around the 
world.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  resolution 
adopted  by  the  IAEA  in  September  on  Israeli  nuclear 
capabilities, and we call for its implementation. 
is  considered 
The 
IAEA 
the 
A/64/PV.34
Mr.  Sin  Song  Chol
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  have  now 

Libya  has  excellent  cooperative  ties  with  the 
IAEA,  and  we  look  forward  to  continued  cooperation 
so that Libya may gain maximum benefit from peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy after its voluntary disposal of its 
weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
including  nuclear 
weapons. 

heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. 

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/64/L.7. Before giving the floor to the representative 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  who 
wishes  to  speak  in  explanation  of  position  before  we 
take  action  on  the  draft  resolution,  may  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  or  position  are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic of Korea): The delegation of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  wishes  to  highlight  the 
following  position  with  regard  to  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.7,  entitled “Report  of the  International Atomic 
Energy Agency”  (IAEA).  The  current  draft  takes  note 
of the IAEA report and its resolution GC(53)/RES/15, 
adopted  at  the  General  Conference  of  the  Agency, 
which  refers  to  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean 
peninsula. 
Regrettably,  the  IAEA  has  once  again  shown  its 

prejudice  and  has  taken  an  unfair  position  by  urging 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
to 
implement  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council  and  return  to  talks  without  preconditions.  My 
delegation categorically rejects this. Such behaviour by 
the  IAEA  is  nothing  but  intentional  disregard  of  the 
nature  of  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula. 
Acting  in  concert  with  one  side,  it  places  artificial 
obstacles in the way of resolving the issue. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  point  out  the 
following  for  the  better  understanding  by  United 
Nations Member States on the nuclear issue. First, the 
nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is  a  direct 
product of United States nuclear threats and its hostile 
policy  towards  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.  The  United  States  nuclear  threat  against  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is no fiction at 
all.  The  threat  began  as  early  as  the  Korean  War  of 
1950 to 1953, and consequently inflicted on millions of 
Koreans the  new sufferings of  separated families. The 
United States has gone even further today to target the 
09-59092 

3 

launch  of 
the  satellite 
A/64/PV.34 

Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  within  its 
pre-emptive  nuclear  strike  zone,  making  its  threat  all 
the more realistic. 

Secondly,  the  hostile  policy  of  the  United  States 
towards  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
has  now  become  so  reckless  that  the  United  States 
wants to deprive our country, by means of force, of its 
right  to  explore  and  use  outer  space  for  peaceful 
purposes.  Although 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea was conducted 
pursuant to the relevant international legal procedures, 
the  United  States  committed  unprecedented  hostilities 
such  as  singling  out  the  launch  only  at  the  Security 
Council  to  condemn  it  and  translate  sanctions  into 
concrete actions. 

Thus far, the process aimed at denuclearizing the 
Korean peninsula had been undertaken on the basis of 
the  principle  of  sovereign  equality.  Nevertheless,  the 
hostile  acts  of  the  United  States  resulted  in  the 
breakdown  of  the  whole  process  of  dialogue  and 
unavoidably pushed the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  to  take  strong  countermeasures,  such  as 
conducting the second nuclear test. 

The  United  States  pushed  the  situation  on  the 
Korean  peninsula  to  the  brink  of  war  by  ignoring  the 
repeated demands of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea for the conclusion of a peace treaty to replace 
the  current  armistice  agreement  and  by  deliberately 
staging  nuclear  war  exercises  with  our  country  as  the 
target.  
the  United  States,  which  had 

aggravated  the  tension  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and 
systematically  obstructed  the  process  of  improving 
inter-Korean relations and reunification, came recently 
to pledge to provide a so-called expanded deterrence to 
South  Korea. That  surely  increases  the  tension  on  the 
Korean  peninsula  and  darkens  the  perspective  of 
denuclearization.  It  is  not  at  all  in  harmony  with  the 
current  climate  of  dialogue  resumption  and  is  making 
the security environment on the peninsula escalate into 
an unpredictable phase. 

That being the case, the IAEA remains indifferent 
to  the  hostile  acts  carried  out  against  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea by the United States, which 
have  pushed  our  country  into  possessing  nuclear 
weapons, 
the  Korean 
peninsula  by  worsening  the  confrontation  and  called 
into  question  the  exercise  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
the  situation  on 
Moreover, 
reversed 
the 
towards 
Thirdly, 
the  past  process  of  dialogue, 
Republic of Korea of its sovereign right. This stance of 
the Agency can in no way be justified. 

the  Democratic 
the  Government  of 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  remains  unchanged  in  its 
position aimed at denuclearizing the Korean peninsula 
and  the  rest  of  the  world. The  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean  peninsula  was 
lifelong  wish  of  our 
President Kim Il Sung. As we know from looking back 
to  the  origin  of  the  nuclear  issue,  and  as  we  have 
learned  from 
the 
prerequisite  for  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean 
peninsula is, first and foremost, the termination of the 
hostile  policy  of 
the 
the  United  States 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  

The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
already  made  it  clear  that  it  is  ready  to  participate  in 
the  multilateral  talks,  depending  on  the  outcome  of 
bilateral  talks  with  the  United  States,  and  that  such 
multilateral talks must also include the Six-Party Talks. 

As we have reiterated time and again, the mission 
of  the  nuclear  deterrence  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea is aimed purely at deterring war by 
safeguarding  the  peace  and  security  not  only  of  the 
Korean  peninsula,  but  also  of  the  region,  from  the 
nuclear threat and military attacks of the United States. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  does  not 
pursue  a  nuclear  arms  race  and  will  fulfil 
its 
responsibilities vis-à-vis the management and use of its 
nuclear  weapons  and  with  regard  to  non-proliferation 
and  nuclear  disarmament  while  possessing 
those 
nuclear weapons. 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  stands  in  full  support  of  and 
solidarity with the majority of United Nations Member 
States that  aspire to  a nuclear-free  world and calls  for 
the complete dismantlement of nuclear weapons. At the 
same  time,  we  reiterate  once  again  that  the  IAEA 
should  observe  the  principle  of  impartiality  in  all  its 
activities. 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea would like to request the Secretariat 
to  duly  and  correctly  reflect 
the  aforementioned 
position of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
in the official records of this meeting. 

the only speaker in explanation of position.  
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 
The  delegation  of 
The  delegation  of 
4 

09-59092 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 



The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/64/L.7.  I  should  like  to  announce  that, 
since  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
following  countries  have  become  sponsors:  Benin, 
Chad,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Madagascar  and  the 
United Republic of Tanzania.  

draft resolution A/64/L.7? 

  Draft resolution A/64/L.7 was adopted (resolution 
64/8).
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 

the  representative  of  Israel,  who  wishes  to  speak  in 
explanation of position on  the resolution just adopted. 
May I remind delegations that explanations of vote are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr. Itzchaki (Israel): Israel asked for the floor to 

express  its  disappointment  at  the  results  of  this  year’s 
General Conference of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA). Israel believes that this year’s General 
Conference has impaired the ability of the Conference 
to  constructively  address  issues  pertaining  to  the 
Middle East. 

Unfortunately,  at  the  IAEA  General  Conference 
this year, States in the region failed to demonstrate the 
necessary  will  to  promote  regional 
talks  on  the 
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone,  as 
demonstrated  by  the  resolutions  on  the  Middle  East, 
including  the  one-sided,  discriminative  resolution  on 
the  so-called  Israeli  nuclear  capabilities,  which  was 
adopted  by  a  narrow  majority.  That  resolution  sought 
to  divert  attention  away  from  the  blatant  cases  of 
non-compliance by several Middle Eastern States with 
obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons. 

It  should  be  noted  that,  prior  to  and  during  the 
General Conference, Israel made every effort to regain 
a  consensus  on  the  Middle  East  package.  Israel  trusts 
and hopes that the unfortunate circumstances that have 
cast  a  dark  shadow  over  the  handling  by  the  IAEA 
General Conference of the resolutions pertaining to the 
Middle  East  will  not  recur  next  year.  Israel  will 
continue to dedicate all its efforts to achieving a stable 
environment of peace and reconciliation in the Middle 
East. We call upon our neighbours to do the same. 
Finally,  Israel  wishes  to  disassociate  itself  from 

the reference in the report with regard to the so-called 
A/64/PV.34
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 
Israeli  attack  on  the  Dair  Alzour  site  in  Syria.  That 
politically  motivated  reference  contradicts  the  long-
standing practice of the Agency’s professionalism. 

the only speaker in explanation of position.  

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 85? 

It was so decided.





Agenda item 116 
Follow-up to the commemoration of the two-
hundredth anniversary of the abolition of the 
transatlantic slave trade  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/299) 

  Draft resolution (A/64/L.10) 

The President (spoke in Arabic): Slavery and the 

400-year-long  transatlantic  slave  trade  were  abhorrent 
and  inhumane  and  marked  the  lowest  point  in  the 
history  of  humanity.  The  horrific  and  dehumanizing 
nature  of  the  slave  trade,  whereby  the  captives  were 
shackled  and  forced  into  detention  and  transported  as 
human  cargo  and  mere  chattels  across  the Atlantic  to 
the so-called New World, constituted the worst form of 
moral  depravity  on  the  part  of  the  captors  and  is  a 
source of shame for all of humanity. 

That  loathsome  human  disaster  engendered  the 
destruction  of  human  possibility  and  necessitated  the 
redefining  of  African  humanity  to 
the  world.  It 
poisoned  the  relations  of  Africans  with  others,  who 
only saw African people through the stereotyping lens 
of  slavery,  thus  hobbling  any  truly  human  relations 
among peoples. 

that  horrendous  practice  has  been 
Although 
brought  to  an  end,  its  effects  and  consequences 
continue to be with us. That remains true in spite of the 
adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
in 1948, the Slavery Convention Protocol in 1955, the 
Durban  Declaration  in  2001  and  more.  Racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  other  related  forms  of 
intolerance  are  still  rife  today,  200  years  after  the 
abolition in 1808 of the slave trade. 

At  today’s  commemoration,  therefore,  we  must 
resolve  to  take  concrete  steps  not  only  to  ensure  that 
this  dark  aspect  of  human  history  never  resurfaces 
09-59092 

5 

towards 
the 
A/64/PV.34 

again,  but  that  its  consequences  are  fully  addressed. 
Tangible efforts must be made to redress the imbalance 
caused  by  the  slave  trade.  Lest  we  forget,  the  United 
Nations  and  the  entire  international  community  must 
continue to inform the world of this conscience-jolting 
chapter in our history.  

In  this  regard,  Member  States  may  wish  to 
support  the  voluntary  fund  established  pursuant  to 
General  Assembly  resolution  62/122 
the 
erection  of  a  permanent  memorial  in  honour  of  the 
victims of slavery and the slave trade. 

Let  us  also  applaud  the  unbelievable  magnanimity 
and  generosity  of  the  victims,  who  managed  to  retain 
their humanity and the ability to forgive in the face of 
indescribable suffering and dehumanization. 

I now give the floor to the representative of Saint 
Kitts and Nevis to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.10. 
Mr. Bart (Saint Kitts and Nevis): I would like to 

announce that since the submission of draft  resolution 
A/64/L.10 
following  countries  have  become 
sponsors: Albania, Armenia, Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria, 
Canada,  China,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Ecuador, 
Estonia,  France,  Georgia,  Greece,  Hungary,  India, 
Israel,  Japan,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Malta,  Monaco, 
Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  the 
Philippines,  the  Russian  Federation,  Serbia,  Slovenia, 
the  Solomon  Islands,  Sri  Lanka,  Thailand,  Turkey, 
Ukraine, 
the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 

I  have  the  honour,  on  behalf  of  the  14  States 
members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM), 
along  with  the  54  members  of  the African  Group  and 
the  other  Members  of  the  United  Nations  sponsoring 
this text, including those that I have just identified, to 
introduce draft resolution A/64/L.10, entitled “Permanent 
memorial to and remembrance of the victims of slavery 
and the transatlantic slave trade”. 

The  draft  resolution  before  us  today  contains 
some procedural updates and also provides information 
on  developments  that  have  taken  place  during  the 
course of the past year. We have maintained a focused 
text that serves a dual purpose. It speaks to the annual 
remembrance  as  well  to  as  the  initiative  to  erect  a 
permanent  memorial  to  honour  the  victims  of  slavery 
and the transatlantic slave trade, both endorsed by the 
General Assembly.  
the  United  States  of  America  and 
6 


The States members of CARICOM are justifiably 
proud  that  as  a  result  of  our  initiative  the  United 
Nations  acknowledged  in  2006  that  the  system  of 
slavery and the transatlantic slave trade, which spanned 
the  1500s  to  the  1800s,  represent  one  of  the  lowest 
points in the history of humankind. As we gather once 
again to contemplate the issue, we pause and recall the 
forced  removal  of  more  than  18  million  people  from 
Africa  to  the  Americas,  the  Caribbean,  the  United 
States, Brazil and other parts of Latin America, as well 
as to Europe.  

With  this  in  mind,  we  deeply  appreciate  the 
designation  of  25  March  as  the  annual  International 
Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Slavery and the 
Transatlantic Slave Trade. In this context and on behalf 
of  the  States  members  of  CARICOM,  I  wish  to  thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  the  update  provided  in  his 
report in document A/64/299, on activities held earlier 
this  year  to  commemorate  the  anniversary  of  the 
abolition of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade.  

We look forward, Mr. President, to deepening our 
collaboration  with  you,  the  Secretary-General,  the 
Secretariat and, in particular, the Department of Public 
Information,  for  similar  commemorative  activities  on 
25 March 2010, reflecting the solemnity that should be 
accorded  to  such  events,  with  due  regard  for  the 
dignity  of  a  race  and  people  that  were  mercilessly 
robbed of their human dignity and worth and plundered 
and pillaged under the pernicious system of slavery. 

As  we  reflect  on  our  shared  history,  CARICOM 
member  States  are  mindful  of  the  resulting  legacy  of 
social and economic inequality, hatred, bigotry, racism 
and  prejudice  —  a  legacy  that  is  linked  to  current 
economic  and  social  inequalities  worldwide  and  that 
continues  to  pervade  the  international  community. We 
highlight  with  pride  the  fact  that  our  initiative  is  a 
tangible  outcome  of  the  process  of  the  Durban  World 
Conference  against  Racism,  Racial  Discrimination, 
Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance,  as  indicated  in 
the  fourth  and  fifth  preambular  paragraphs.  The 
General Assembly will note that for structural reasons 
we have sought to keep the Durban-related paragraphs 
together. As  a result, we have moved the former sixth 
preambular  paragraph  of  resolution  63/5  to  its  current 
place  as  the  fifth  preambular  paragraph  of  the  text 
before the Assembly today. 

We  have  included  a  new  paragraph,  the  eighth 
preambular  paragraph,  to  highlight  the  fact  that  our 
09-59092 
in 
terms  of  both 
the  States  members  of 


initiative, 
the  commemorative 
activities  and  the  permanent  memorial,  complements 
the work being done at UNESCO. Here, I make special 
reference  to  the  existing  UNESCO  International  Day 
for  the  Remembrance  of  the  Slave  Trade  and  its 
Abolition, and the UNESCO Slave Route Project. 

We  are  pleased  with  the  progress  made  by  the 
committee  drawn  from  all  geographical  regions  of  the 
United  Nations  that  oversees  the  permanent  memorial 
project.  Importantly, 
the 
Caribbean  Community  and  the  African  Union  are 
playing  a  primary  role  in  advancing  the  work  of  the 
Committee under the chairmanship of Jamaica. 

In the interest of transparency and accountability, 
the  voluntary  fund,  the  Permanent  Memorial  Fund, 
established  in  keeping  with  resolution  62/122,  under 
the custody of the Permanent Mission of Jamaica, has 
now  been  closed,  and  the  United  Nations  Trust  Fund 
for  Partnerships  —  Permanent  Memorial  has  been 
established  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations 
Office  for  Partnerships.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
Trust  Fund  ensures  enhanced 
transparency  and 
accountability  of  the  Fund’s  management  in  a  manner 
that will be acceptable to all Member States. That new 
information  is  indicated  in  operative  paragraph  3,  and 
we  are  pleased  to  report  that  voluntary  contributions 
received  from  Member  States  currently  amount  to 
$346,118. Additionally, this week we were advised that 
the  first  private  contribution  of  $10,000  was  made  to 
the Trust Fund. 

In  response  to  enquiries  about  the  budgetary 
implications  arising  from  the  adoption  of  this  draft 
resolution,  let  me  clarify  that  there  are  no  such 
implications for the permanent memorial initiative. It is 
our  hope  that  the  permanent  memorial  will  become  a 
reality  through  the  generous  contributions  received 
voluntarily  from  Member  States,  as  well  as  the 
resource  mobilization  activities  that  will  be  organized 
by  the  Permanent  Memorial  Committee.  On  behalf  of 
the  group  of  CARICOM  States,  I  wish  therefore  to 
acknowledge  with  appreciation  the  contributions  and 
pledges  already  received  towards  the Trust  Fund  from 
Member States, while also encouraging Member States 
and  other  interested  parties  to  join  in  this  important 
effort. 

One  of  several  initiatives  to  mobilize  resources 
for  the  permanent  memorial  was  the  appointment  in 
May of this year of a Goodwill Ambassador to assist in 
conducting 
A/64/PV.34
for 
the 
importance 
of 
sustained 
the  Committee 
the  members  of 
that  effort,  as  indicated  in  paragraph  4. The  Goodwill 
Ambassador  is  the  businessman,  entertainment  mogul 
and philanthropist Mr. Russell Simmons. We anticipate 
that  next  year  we  will  be  in  a  position  to  provide  a 
comprehensive  report  on  his  efforts  and  on  the  other 
fund-raising initiatives and their outcomes. At the same 
time, 
voluntary 
contributions in order to achieve the goal of erecting a 
permanent  memorial  in  honour  of  the  victims  of 
slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  cannot  be 
overstated;  hence  the  inclusion  of  a  new  paragraph, 
paragraph 5, to highlight that. 

CARICOM  continues  to  be  appreciative  of  the 
invaluable  support,  technical  advice  and  assistance 
received  from  the  Secretary-General,  the  Secretariat 
and 
the 
implementation of the permanent memorial project. An 
important  element  to  move  the  project  forward  is  the 
launch  of  an  international design  competition to make 
this a truly global effort. We feel that UNESCO could 
undertake that on our behalf. It is to be noted that we 
are  in  a  position  to  mobilize  resources,  et  cetera,  for 
UNESCO  headquarters  to  run  the  initial  phase  of  the 
competition, which, we envisage, could take place over 
a  two-  or  three-month  period.  The  intention  is  for 
UNESCO  to  collect  a  pool  of  applications,  using  its 
global  network  of 
field  offices  and  National 
Commissions,  and  to  provide  the  Committee  with  a 
short  list  of  designs,  from  which  an  international  jury 
can  select  the  winning  entry.  That  international  jury 
would,  of  course,  comprise  individuals  with  some 
expertise in contemporary art, sculpture, design and/or 
related  disciplines.  The 
the 
competition  would  be  convened  by  the  Committee  in 
New  York.  Initial  discussions  have  begun  with  the 
organization, hence the references made in paragraphs 
9 and 10. 

Mr.  Christian  (Ghana),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
In view of UNESCO’s unique experience with the 

Slave  Route  Project,  its  extensive  history,  its  tradition 
of 
its 
international  standing  and  its  status  as  part  of  the 
United  Nations  family,  we  are  convinced  that  such  a 
partnership 
this  global  project. 
Moreover,  as  part  of  the  United  Nations  system,  it 
makes it infinitely easier to deal with the organization 
in  a  seamless  manner,  rather  than  negotiating  with  an 
second  phase  of 
is 
imperative  for 
competitions, 
international 
09-59092 

7 
A/64/PV.34 

outside entity, since the Committee is obliged to follow 
United Nations rules and procurement guidelines. 

It  is  clear  that  racism,  racial  discrimination  and 
prejudice continue to cast  a destructive  stain on many 
societies  across  the  globe,  and  the  genesis,  as  well  as 
the  linkages  with  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade  are  undoubtedly  established.  In  that  context,  in 
paragraph  11,  we  seek  to  continue  our  collaboration 
with  the  Department  of  Public  Information  to  take 
appropriate steps to enhance world public awareness of 
the  commemorative  activities  and 
the  permanent 
memorial initiative, as well as to continue to facilitate 
efforts  to  erect  the  permanent  memorial  at  United 
Nations Headquarters. 

The  horrific  and  dehumanizing  nature  of  slavery 
and  the  slave  trade,  whereby  the  captives  were  forced 
into  detention  and 
transported  as  human  cargo, 
continues to jolt the conscience. The horrific images of 
human  beings  emasculated,  sold  and  robbed  of  their 
culture,  their  skins  branded  by  hot  irons,  recall  and 
reinforce  the  depths  of  man’s  inhumanity  to  man. 
Consequently,  we  have  reiterated  the  request  made  in 
resolutions 61/19 and 63/5 for Member States that have 
not already done so to develop educational programmes, 
including  through  their  school  curricula,  designed  to 
educate  and 
future  generations  an 
understanding of the lessons, history and consequences 
of slavery and the slave trade. 
Through the present draft resolution, the General 

in 
Assembly  will  request 
collaboration  with  and  building  upon 
the  work 
undertaken  by  UNESCO  through  the  Slave  Route 
Project, to continue the outreach programme in order to 
inculcate  future  generations  with  an  understanding  of 
the  causes,  consequences  and 
the 
transatlantic slave trade and to inform of the dangers of 
racism  and  prejudice.  The  General  Assembly,  by  its 
adoption  of 
resolution  by 
consensus,  will  acknowledge  the  continued  impact  of 
slavery and the horrific transatlantic slave trade on the 
African  diaspora  and  its  descendants,  many  of  whom 
are in this Assembly today. 

In  conclusion,  the  group  of  CARICOM  member 
States  sincerely 
the  many  sponsors  and 
supporters of the current draft resolution and now calls 
upon  the  General  Assembly  to  give  its  unequivocal 
support to its adoption within the forthcoming week. In 
closing,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  remind  the  General 
the  Secretary-General, 
important  draft 
lessons  of 
inculcate 
thanks 
this 
in 

to 
for 
the  outset, 
(CARICOM) 
Allow  me  at 
the  permanent  memorial 
to 
the  victims  of  slavery  and 
Assembly  of  the  theme  of  the  permanent  memorial 
initiative: “Acknowledging the tragedy, considering the 
legacy, lest we forget”. 
Mr. Kapambwe (Zambia): The African Group is 

pleased to take part in this important debate on agenda 
item 116, entitled “Follow-up to the commemoration of 
the  two-hundredth  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade”. We  also  lend  our  support  to 
the  draft  resolution  contained  in  document A/64/L.10, 
and 
relating 
remembrance  of 
the 
transatlantic slave trade, at the time of its introduction 
and adoption by the Assembly. 

to  convey  our 
appreciation  and  commend  the  States  members  of  the 
Caribbean  Community 
their 
commitment and efforts in ensuring that we continue to 
reflect  and  examine  the  past  injustices  that  had  an 
adverse  impact  on  our  history.  But,  more  importantly, 
we  celebrate  the  resilience  of  the  human  spirit  to 
survive  such  adversity  and  the  efforts  that  ensued  to 
bring this unfortunate period of history to an end. 
Resolution  62/122  designated  25  March  as  the 

International  Day  of  Remembrance  of  the  Victims  of 
Slavery  and  the  Transatlantic  Slave  Trade.  This  year 
the  United  Nations  observed  the  second  International 
Day  to  commemorate  the  victims  of  the  slave  trade, 
which  was  celebrated  under  the  theme  “Breaking  the 
Silence: Beating the Drum”. The occasion was marked 
by  a  cultural  evening  of  dance  and  concert  and  other 
events,  including  documentaries  and  discussions  with 
producers. A  briefing  by  NGOs  was  designed  to  raise 
awareness  about  the  slave  trade  and  its  aftermath. 
Other  activities  were  also  organized  throughout  the 
year,  targeting  various  communities. Through  education, 
therefore,  present  and  future  generations  will  learn 
about  the  causes  and  consequences  of  the  slave  trade 
and will be cautioned about the dangers of racism and 
prejudice, which unfortunately confront us to this day. 

We commend the Department of Public Information 
for  implementing  resolution  63/5,  which  called  for  a 
programme of educational outreach on the transatlantic 
slave trade. 

The slave trade had a tragic impact on the African 
people and continent. Its scars still remain. It is indeed 
our  collective  responsibility  —  and  more  particularly 
that  of  Africans  and  those  of  African  descent  —  to 
commemorate the abolition of slavery and to recall its 
8 

09-59092 
things, 
several  African  countries  are  among 


historical legacy in order to ensure that this unfortunate 
episode  in  our  history  is  not  forgotten  and  will  never 
recur.  The  African  Group  therefore  welcomes  the 
important  initiatives  that  have  taken  place  since  the 
adoption  of  the  previous  year’s  resolution,  including: 
the establishment of a committee of interested States to 
oversee the permanent memorial project, with member 
States  of  the  Caribbean  Community  and  the  African 
Union  playing  a  primary  role  in  collaboration  with 
UNESCO,  representatives  of  the  Secretariat  and  other 
institutions;  the  establishment  of  a  Trust  Fund  for  the 
Permanent  Memorial;  the  appointment  of  a  Goodwill 
Ambassador 
garner 
international attention to the dangers of slavery and its 
legacy  of  discrimination,  raise  awareness  through 
media outreach and mobilize the necessary resources. 

Several  countries  have  contributed  to  the  Trust 
Fund for the Permanent Memorial. I am glad to report 
that 
the 
contributors.  In  this  regard,  the African  Group  would 
like to congratulate all those who have contributed and 
we  invite  other  countries  to  contribute  to  this  worthy 
project. 

The African  Group  remains  firmly  committed  to 
this project. As we indicated last year in this Assembly, 
the Permanent Memorial will serve to remind us of the 
heroic actions of the slaves and other abolitionists, who 
in the face of grave danger and adversity stood up to be 
counted.  It  will  also  serve  as  an  educational  resource 
and a statue of lifelong learning, a reconstruction of the 
past  moulding  the  future  and  a  constant  reminder  of 
how vulnerable humanity is. 

Regrettably,  in  spite  of  international  efforts  in 
developing  the  normative  framework  to  guard  against 
human rights abuses, we continue to face challenges in 
the 
rights 
instruments, in particular the International Convention 
the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Racial 
on 
Discrimination, 
and 
Programme of Action of the World Conference against 
Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and 
Related  Intolerance.  New  forms  of  slavery,  such  as 
human  trafficking  and  sexual  exploitation,  are  also 
emerging. There are also several incidences of bias and 
hate  crimes  in  our  societies.  It  is  therefore  incumbent 
upon  us  to  firmly  stand  up  to  and  reject  any  and  all 
notions  of  supremacy  or  supremacist  ideology.  We 
have  to  guard  against  such  vices  and  the  danger  of 
slipping  back  into  the  past.  We  must  strive  to  be  our 
the  Durban  Declaration 
implementation 
various 
human 
to, 
among 
other 
of 
A/64/PV.34
to  ensuring 
brother’s  keeper  and  work  relentlessly  towards  unity 
and  development,  by  which  all  persons  may  be 
guaranteed a life of dignity. 

By adopting this draft resolution, we shall further 
be  pointing  out  the  importance  of  gaining  a  better 
understanding of slave trade and slavery in general. We 
shall  be  committing  ourselves 
that 
information  relating  to  the  slave  trade  and  slavery  is 
available  and  disseminated  as  appropriate 
to  all 
sections  of  society,  in  particular  in  institutions  of 
learning,  so  that  they  too  can  join  efforts  in  the 
promotion  of  a  cohesive  society  based  on  knowledge 
and  understanding  of  our  history  and  so  as  to  ensure 
that society does not slip back into the brutality of the 
past.  By  encouraging  learning  about  slavery,  we  will 
reduce  the  danger  of  making  in  the  future  the  same 
mistakes we made in the past. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  African 
Group’s  support  for  draft  resolution A/64/L.10  and  to 
express  support  for  the  efforts  by  the  United  Nations 
system  and  countries  to  create  awareness  of  issues 
relating to slavery and the transatlantic slave trade over 
the  past  year.  It  is  our  sincere  hope  that  more  will  be 
done  in  the  coming  year  to  honour  all  those  gallant 
victims  of  slave  trade,  the  brave  abolitionists  and  the 
collective international efforts that led to the abolition 
of the slave trade and slavery. 
Mrs.  Kolontai  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  have  been 
among  the  most  flagrant  violations  of  human  rights. 
The 
trade  was  an  exceptional 
phenomenon  in  the  history  of  slavery  —  exceptional 
because of its duration, scope and legal basis, including 
its legitimacy embodied in law. There can be no doubt 
that  the  result  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  was  the 
destruction of a wide range of languages, cultures and 
religions of millions of enslaved Africans. It has left a 
legacy of racism and stereotypes. 

The  Republic  of  Belarus  endorses  the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General 
of 
educational  outreach  on  the  transatlantic  slave  trade 
and slavery” (A/64/299). We agree with the view that, 
despite the fact that the transatlantic slave trade enjoys 
considerable attention in world history, we still do not 
know enough about its long-term results as they are felt 
in  today’s  world  or  about  the  important  contribution 
that slaves made to the building of the socio-economic 
prosperity  of  the  countries  that  enslaved  them.  We 
transatlantic  slave 
“Programme 
entitled 
09-59092 

9 
to 
the 
in 
threat 
inherent 
racism  and 
the  awareness  of 
the  Silence:  Beating 
A/64/PV.34 

believe  that  the  problems  of  history  must  be  solved  by 
filling  gaps  and  enhancing 
the 
descendants  of  those  who  were  enslaved  and  other 
people as to the historic aspects of that tragedy, as well 
as 
racial 
discrimination.  We  are  certain  that  these  goals  can  be 
effectively  served  in  the  outreach  programme  proposed 
by the Secretary-General in cooperation with UNESCO. 

We welcome the holding this year of a number of 
activities together with the United Nations on the theme, 
“Breaking 
the  Drum”.  Those 
activities have enabled us to shed light on the history of 
slavery and the transatlantic slave trade and stimulate a 
discussion  of  the  reasons,  consequences  and  legacy  of 
the slave trade.  

We support the efforts of the member States of the 
Caribbean Community and the African Union to erect at 
the United Nations a permanent memorial to those who 
have  suffered  from  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade and to name a goodwill  ambassador to coordinate 
these  activities.  We  welcome  also  the  adoption  by  the 
General  Assembly  of  a  resolution  that,  inter  alia, 
International  Day  of 
proclaimed  25  March 
Remembrance  of 
the 
Transatlantic Slave Trade (resolution 62/122).  

Today, we commemorate the abolition of the slave 
trade  but  we  must  recognize  the  fact  that  the  struggle 
against  slavery  continues.  Two  hundred  years  later, 
millions of people are still being taken from their homes 
and families to be transported hundreds or thousands of 
miles  and  sold  into  slavery.  According  to  International 
Labour  Organization  data,  at  least  12.3  million  people, 
adults and children, are subjected to forced labour, or are 
forced  to  work  to  pay  off  debts  or  to  offer  sexual 
services.  It  must  be  acknowledged  that  illicit  human 
trafficking is nothing other than a contemporary form of 
the slave trade that cannot be ignored. 

Bearing in mind the experience and potential of the 
United  Nations,  Belarus  has  in  fact  advocated  for  the 
creation of a thematic global partnership against human 
trafficking  and  slavery  in  the  twenty-first  century.  This 
partnership  is  still  an  informal  mechanism  that  took 
shape  at  the Vienna  Forum  to  Fight  Human Trafficking 
held  in  February  2008.  For  such  a  mechanism  to  be 
effective, it would have to take some sort of institutional 
form  as  part  of,  for  instance,  a  global  plan  of  action 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  to  combat  human 
trafficking.  In  the  Third  Committee  at  the  sixty-fourth 
the  Victims  of  Slavery  and 
the 

As  we  support 
to  combat  human 
session  Belarus  has  proposed  a  draft  resolution  to 
improve  coordination  of  efforts 
to  combat  human 
trafficking.  We  believe  that  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions of the draft resolution, one of which contains 
a call for active participation in drafting a global plan of 
action 
trafficking,  would  be  a 
significant contribution to the international efforts aimed 
at eliminating this shameful contemporary phenomenon. 
We  call  upon  States  to  join  the  sponsors  in  supporting 
this draft resolution. 

the  noble  goal  of  ending 
contemporary forms of slavery and recognize the need to 
coordinate  a  United  Nations  approach  to  dealing  with 
that problem, the Republic of Belarus has also joined the 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  to  erect  a  permanent 
memorial  to the victims of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave trade (A/64/L.10). 

The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
proclaims that no one should be held in slavery or kept 
in servitude and that  slavery and  the slave trade should 
be  banned  in  all  its  forms.  Our  duty  is  to  see  to  it  that 
such a situation never arises again in the future. 
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

associate 
the 
representatives  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  who  spoke  on 
behalf  of  the  14  member  States  of  the  Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM), and of Zambia, who spoke on 
behalf of the 54 members of the Group of African States. 

It  is  an  honour  to  participate  in  the  discussion  on 
slavery and the transatlantic slave trade, particularly as I 
represent  the  country,  and  indeed  the  region,  from 
whence  the  idea  to  include  this  issue  on  the  United 
Nations agenda originated. It is with a distinct sense of 
honour  and  pride  that,  given  our  historical  realities  and 
ancestral links, I draw attention to the strong partnership 
that  has  developed  between  the  member  States  of 
CARICOM, on the one hand, and the Group of African 
States,  on  the  other,  as  we  jointly  seek  to  make  the 
erection of a permanent memorial at the United Nations 
a  reality.  It  is  on  this  basis  that  our  68  member  States 
jointly  co-sponsor  the  annual  resolution  under  this 
agenda item (A/64/L.10). 
Although much had been said about the tragedy of 

slavery  and 
the  grave 
humanitarian  injustice  of  the  pernicious  system  nor  the 
attendant  human  rights  abuses  have  ever  been  properly 
addressed at the global level. Additionally, the legacy of 
hatred, bigotry, racism and prejudice, have, among other 
its  horrific  nature,  neither 
the  statements  made  by 
itself  with 
10 

09-59092 
future 
generations 
about 
the 
collaboration,  with 
focus  has  been  on  establishing 


things,  given  rise  to  social  and  economic  inequalities 
that exist in many countries today. 

For  these  reasons,  the  intention  is  to  secure 
continued  international  recognition  and  acknowledgement 
of the tragedy of slavery, which represents a dark period 
in  the  history  of  humankind;  to  educate  and  inform 
current 
causes, 
consequences and lessons of slavery and the transatlantic 
slave  trade;  and  to  inculcate  new  values  in  successive 
generations  so  that  this  mammoth  historical  tragedy  is 
never repeated. 

Let  me  solemnly  state  that,  as  chairman  of  the 
committee  established  to  oversee  the  initiative,  I  will 
now take a few moments to provide an overview of some 
of the work we have been undertaking behind the scenes 
with  a  view  to  implementation.  During  the  course  of 
2009,  our 
the 
administrative  framework  and  on  mobilizing  resources. 
Against  this  background,  the  committee  concluded  a 
memorandum of understanding with the United Nations 
Office  for  Partnerships  (UNOP)  and  outlined  a  broad 
framework 
to 
implementing 
to  erect  a  permanent 
memorial.  Just  recently  —  about  a  week  ago  —  and 
following  very  lengthy  and  detailed  consultations,  the 
committee came to an agreement on a budget. 

As stated in the draft resolution (A/64/L.10) to be 
adopted 
voluntary 
contributions  are  encouraged  from  Member  States  and 
other interested parties. However, in order to achieve the 
target of approximately $4 million, the project will also 
target  corporations,  philanthropists  and  other  private 
individuals. 

It is with that in mind that the committee appointed 
a goodwill ambassador to assist with  the dual objective 
of 
international  awareness  and  mobilizing 
resources.  In  the  next  couple  of  weeks,  with  the 
assistance  of  UNOP,  we  will  also  establish  an  advisory 
board 
the  previously  stated 
objectives.  In  the  not-too-distant  future,  we  also  intend 
to  find  a  mechanism  through  which  we  can  obtain 
contributions  from  ordinary  citizens  around  the  world, 
since we believe this project to be a truly global effort. 

During  the  course  of  this  month,  our  first  fund-
raising event will be held at the Ana Tzarev Gallery, here 
in  New York.  Members  of  the  public  will  be  invited  to 
participate  in  a  silent  auction  of  paintings  exhibited 
under the theme “Grace of Africa” to raise funds for the 
the  General  Assembly, 
to  follow 
through  on 
the  decision 
a  view 
for 
by 
raising 
A/64/PV.34
initiative. A high-level grand gala event is scheduled for 
February 2010, in keeping with the celebration of Black 
history month, and a number of other creative events for 
raising funds will also be held during 2010. Information 
on these activities will be shared with Member States, as 
appropriate. 

Since we last discussed voluntary contributions by 
Member  States  in  this  Hall,  the  Citibank  account  under 
Jamaica’s control has been closed. We worked in tandem 
with  the  United  Nations  Office  for  Partnerships  to 
establish  the  Trust  Fund  for  Partnerships  —  Permanent 
Memorial, to which the funds from Citibank and interest 
accruing  thereto  were  transferred. As  mentioned  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  and 
reflected  in  the  draft  resolution  before  us  today,  the 
number  of  countries 
that  have  made  voluntary 
contributions  now  stands  at  34  and  that  the  amount 
contributed  has  reached  $346,118.  We  are  equally 
pleased that the first private contribution of $10,000 was 
recently made to the Trust Fund. 

May  I  thank  the  Governments  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Australia,  the  Bahamas,  Barbados, 
Belize,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
India, 
Indonesia,  Haiti,  Luxembourg,  Libya,  Malaysia,  Malta, 
Mozambique  —  which  contributed  on  behalf  of  the 
Southern African Development Community — Namibia, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  South Africa,  Spain,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  the 
Sudan,  Suriname,  Syria,  Turkey,  the  United  Kingdom 
and  my  own  country,  Jamaica,  for  their  contributions. 
We  envisage  that  other  countries  will  follow  in  their 
footsteps  in  making  contributions  to  the Trust  Fund  for 
the  Permanent  Memorial.  I  would  also  like  to  make 
special  mention  here  of  Denmark  and  the  Netherlands, 
which have made pledges to the Fund. 

Let me take this opportunity to encourage Member 
States  to  lend  support  to  the  permanent  memorial 
initiative within the context of UNESCO. As we seek to 
take  steps  towards  implementation  of  the  decision  to 
erect 
the  permanent  memorial  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters,  we  feel  that  collaboration  with  UNESCO 
headquarters  is  of  critical  importance  to  the  conduct  of 
the  international  design  competition.  This  view  was 
already specifically mentioned in the statement made by 
the  Chairman 
Permanent 
Representative of Saint Kitts and Nevis. 

Jamaica and other CARICOM member States have 
been  given  a  mandate  by  the  Council  of  CARICOM 
of  CARICOM, 
the 
09-59092 

11 
global 
deserves 
recognition 
A/64/PV.34 

Foreign  Ministers  to  engage  the  Caribbean  diaspora  in 
this  initiative.  Accordingly,  the  Permanent  Memorial 
Committee  will  undertake  steps  to  do  so  in  the  first 
quarter of 2010. We anticipate that this engagement will 
extend  to  other  sections  of  the  African  diaspora,  and 
indeed  to  non-governmental  and  other  civil  society 
groups  within  the  African  continent.  In  so  doing,  we 
hope to connect with and secure the support of Africans 
and persons of African descent under the theme we have 
selected:  “Acknowledging  the  tragedy,  considering  the 
legacy, lest we forget”. 

In  closing,  I  note  that  the  lingering  consequences 
of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  continue  to  impact  the 
descendants  of  the  victims  even  today.  It  has  far-
reaching  implications  at  the  international  level  and 
therefore 
and 
acknowledgment.  Consequently,  the  placement  of  the 
permanent  memorial  at  United  Nations  Headquarters 
will  be  an  appropriate  symbol  of  what  the  United 
Nations represents — the promotion and preservation of 
the dignity and worth of all human beings — principles 
that are central to the Charter of the United Nations. 
Mrs. Viotti (Brazil): During his first visit to Africa 

in  2003,  President  Lula  acknowledged  our  historic  debt 
to Africa and referred to the millions who were victims 
of the transatlantic slave trade. Many of them had Brazil 
as their destination. 
This tragedy has marked our history, but it has also 

the  extraordinary 
left  a  positive 
contribution  of 
to 
Brazilian society. We are proud of our African heritage, 
which  has  permeated  our  culture  in  all  its  aspects.  We 
are  furthermore  particularly  committed  to  promoting 
social  equality  for  the  Afro-descendant  population  and 
combating  racial  discrimination  in  our  country  and 
elsewhere.  At  the  regional  level,  we  have  sponsored 
many  initiatives,  including  an  enhanced  convention  on 
the fight against racism in the Organization of American 
States. 

two-hundredth 
anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade should also remind us that a worldwide consensus 
on  the  relevance  of  that  date  is  not  enough. We  should 
spare no effort to achieve genuine equality of rights for 
all.  Prejudices  of  all  sorts  still  defy  us.  Individuals, 
enterprises,  non-governmental  organizations  and  States 
must  work  together  to  eradicate  intolerance  and,  in 
legacy 
the  Afro-descendant  population 
remembrance 
through 
The 
the 
of 

of 
by 
the 
victims 
suffered 
to  fulfil 
the  Durban 
the  provisions  of 
particular, 
Declaration. 

The  Brazilian  Government  has  put  in  practice 
many  of  the  measures  contained  in  the  Declaration  and 
its  Programme  of  Action.  The  promotion  of  racial 
equality  is  consistent  with  basic  features  of  Brazilian 
culture  and  an  integral  part  of  our  own  social  and 
economic  development  process.  Issues  such  as  the 
interaction among different ethnic groups and the history 
of  Afro-Brazilian  and  African  cultures  are  increasingly 
being  incorporated  into  school  curricula.  They  are  now 
part  of  policies  intended  to  promote  social  integration. 
Special  attention  has  been  devoted  to  traditional  Afro-
Brazilian  communities  known  as 
the  Quilombola 
communities, with positive results having been achieved 
in  the  promotion  of  their  rights  during  the  past  few 
years.  These  policies  are  aimed  at  redressing  the 
injustices 
racial 
discrimination. 

I wish to thank the Secretary-General for his report 
on  the  programme  of  educational  outreach  on  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade  and  slavery  (A/64/299).  We 
appreciate  his  continued  efforts  and  the  Secretariat’s 
contribution  to  promoting  the  initiative  of  creating  a 
permanent  memorial  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  to 
acknowledge the tragedy of slavery and the slave trade. 
The  report  calls  for  the  implementation  of  an  outreach 
programme  aimed  at  educating  present  and  future 
generations about the causes, consequences, lessons and 
legacy of a transatlantic slave trade that endured for 500 
years  and  to  communicate  the  dangers  of  racism  and 
prejudice.  Brazil  fully  supports  those  goals.  We  would 
also  like  to  recognize  and  commend  the  leadership  of 
Jamaica in this matter.  

Brazil  is  honoured  to  be  a  sponsor  of  draft 
resolution A/64/L.10,  just  introduced  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Saint Kitts and Nevis. We welcome the 
commemoration  since  2008  of  25  March  as  the  annual 
International  Day  of  Remembrance  of  the  Victims  of 
Slavery  and  the  Transatlantic  Slave  Trade.  We  also 
welcome the appointment of a Goodwill Ambassador to 
help raise awareness of the legacy of slavery and help in 
other  activities  supported  by  the  Permanent  Memorial 
Committee. As  a  member  of  the  Committee  and  initial 
contributor  to  the  Trust  Fund  for  Partnerships  — 
Permanent Memorial, Brazil is fully committed to efforts 
to  raise  awareness  and  re-engage  international  attention 
on  the  horrific  nature  of  slavery,  the  transatlantic  slave 
12 

09-59092 


trade  and  its  legacy  of  discrimination,  while  honouring 
the victims.  

In  1910,  Brazil  lost  Joaquim  Nabuco,  a  statesman 
and  a  leading  voice  of  the  abolitionist  movement  in 
Brazil. The centennial of Nabuco’s death will remind us 
of  the  struggle  for  the  abolition  of  slavery  in  Brazil. 
Nabuco  campaigned  against  slavery  in  the  House  of 
Representatives 
the  Brazilian 
Anti-Slavery  Society  in  1880.  As  a  columnist  for  the 
Journal  of  Commerce  of  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Ambassador 
Nabuco once wrote:  
established 
and 
“Slavery  is  a  word  which  may  have  lost  all  its 
meaning for certain people, but which marks, like a 
red-hot iron, a sign of degradation on the foreheads 
of others.” 

Almost 100 years after his death, his example still 
inspires  us  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  eliminate  racial 
discrimination.  One  step  in  that  direction  would  be  the 
full  implementation  of  the  Durban  Declaration.  More 
importantly,  we  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  will 
continue  to  play  a  prominent  role  in  advising  future 
generations  of  the  consequences,  lessons  and  legacy  of 
slavery and the transatlantic slave trade and the dangers 
of racism and prejudice. 
Mr. Núñez  Mosquera  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  bloody  historical  chapters  written  by 
the 
transatlantic  slave  trade,  which  are  undeniably  part  of 
our  contemporary  history,  can  be  neither  justified  nor 
ignored. In Cuba, as in almost the entire Latin American 
continent  and  the  West  Indies,  we  can  clearly  see  the 
traces of the slave trade, the fruit of the colonizing drive 
and greed of European traffickers who used slave labour 
to  build  their  colonial  empires.  Five  centuries  ago,  as 
part  of  that  cruel  trade,  approximately  1.3  million 
African slaves arrived on our island, most of them from 
sub-Saharan Africa.  

We  Cubans  are  proud  of  our  African  roots.  The 
identity  of  the  Cuban  people  is  the  fruit  of  the 
transcultural  forces  set  in  motion  by  the  arrival  of  the 
Lucumi,  Carabali,  Congo,  Ganga,  Mina,  Bibi,  Yoruba 
and other African ethnic groups in the colonial society of 
that  time.  We  are  a  mixture  of  Hispanic  and  African 
roots.  The  cultural  wealth  of  my  country  and  the 
idiosyncrasy  of  my  people  are  also  expressions  of  the 
cultural  heritage  of  African  peoples.  They  enriched  us 
with their wisdom, their traditions, their languages, their 
religious  beliefs,  their  music,  their  temperament  and 
their rebellious spirit. Those slaves who rose up against 
A/64/PV.34
order 
institutional 
exploitation and fled the lash of the overseer to become 
fugitives  laid  the  foundation  for  the  freedom-loving 
spirit  of  my  people.  The  courage  and  daring  of  those 
runaway slaves nourished Cubans’ deep-rooted sense of 
independence.  Africa  is  an  indissociable  part  of  our 
existence.  For  Cubans,  Africa  is  an  extension  of  our 
homeland. 

We  are  therefore  proud  to proclaim  today  that  the 
people  of  Cuba  are  direct  natural  heirs  of  the  gallantry, 
valour and culture of resistance of Africa, which fought 
heroically  for  centuries  to  confront  challenges  that 
persist to this day.  

The slave route was an intrinsic part of the ruthless 
exploitation and impoverishment of Africa and the cruel 
discrimination  that  its  descendants  endured  too  long  in 
the  Western  hemisphere.  The  former  colonial  capitals 
must  honour  their  historical  debt  to  those  who  suffered 
under  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  for 
centuries.  

This  is  all  the  more  true  in  the  midst  of  the 
worldwide  crisis  we  are  facing  today  as  a  result  of  an 
international 
the 
impoverishment  and  exclusion  of  many  countries, 
including  those  that  were  victims  of  slavery. We  affirm 
that  the  former  colonial  capitals  cannot  disassociate 
themselves  from  their  past  through  some  sort  of  self-
imposed  historical  amnesia  now  that  those  who  were 
rich in years past are even more powerful today and the 
overwhelming  majority  of  nations  are  relegated  to 
squalid underdevelopment.  
We recognize the importance of the activities being 

carried out by the Department for Public Information in 
conjunction  with  Member  States,  particularly  members 
of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  and  the 
African Union, to plan future commemorative events on 
this  subject.  We  also  support  the  initiative  to  build  a 
permanent  memorial  to  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade at United Nations Headquarters. 
We  commend  the  role  of  UNESCO  in  distributing 
educational  material on this topic and the efforts of  the 
United Nations information centres.  

Many are the efforts being carried out by Member 
States to promote the 200th anniversary of the abolition 
of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  Unfortunately,  a  small 
number  of  countries  decided  to  unilaterally  withdraw 
from 
international 
community in the fight against racism during the Durban 
Review Conference held in Geneva in April 2009. Such 
the  collective  action  of 
built 
on 
the 
09-59092 

13 

A/64/PV.34 

behaviour  undermines  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community  to  develop  communities  of  understanding 
and  to  fight  intolerance,  objectives  that  were  reiterated 
in the Declaration and Programme of Action adopted in 
Durban  in  2001  and  the  outcome  document  adopted  at 
the Review Conference.  

Shortly  after  the  triumph  of  the  Cuban  revolution 
in 1959, Cuba began to pay off — in a modest way — its 
enormous debt to those hundreds of thousands of African 
slaves  who  made  Cuba  their  homeland  and  dedicated 
their  lives  to  its  independence.  Over  381,000  Cuban 
soldiers and officers have fought selflessly to defend the 
sovereignty  and  integrity  of  brotherly African  countries 
over almost three decades. We returned from Africa with 
only the remains of our fallen comrades and the honour 
of  having  fulfilled  our  duty.  Almost  2,400  Cubans  are 
currently  serving  in  35  African  countries  to  foster 
development  there  in  areas  as  diverse  as  public  health, 
education, agriculture, sports, construction and others.  

Cuba will continue to contribute, as it has to date, 
its human capital and its experience in cooperation with 
many  African  countries.  Through  its  comprehensive 
health  programme  alone,  almost  1,120  Cuban  doctors 
and  medical  personnel  are  working  in  23  African 
countries. Their services reach a total of over 48 million 
individuals.  There  are  currently  over  2,200  youth  from 
45  African  countries  attending  our  universities  and 
polytechnic  institutes,  and  to  date  almost  32,000  young 
Africans have graduated from our universities in various 
specializations.  

We call not for paternalism towards Africa, but for 
equality  of  opportunity.  Above  all,  Africa  needs  and 
deserves  solidarity  and  respect.  For  all  these  reasons, 
and  as  in  previous  years,  Cuba  firmly  supports  and 
sponsors the draft resolution (A/64/L.10) on this subject 
presented  to  the  Assembly  by  the  CARICOM  member 
States. 
Mr. Webb (United States of America): The United 

States  is  proud  to  be  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution 
regarding  a  permanent  memorial  to  the  victims  of 
slavery and the transatlantic slave trade (A/64/L.10).  

On  19  June  1865,  over  140  years  ago,  Union 
soldiers rode into Galveston, Texas, to carry the news of 
the end of the United States civil war. With their arrival, 
word  finally  reached  the  frontiers  of  the  United  States 
that  the  war  had  ended  and  that  the  slaves  of  the 
Confederacy were free. The ratification of the thirteenth 
amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution  later  that 
14 

year  guaranteed  the  end  of  slavery  in  the  United States. 
We  continue  to  struggle  with  overcoming  the  legacy  of 
slavery  as  we  pursue  our  efforts  to  eliminate  racial 
discrimination. 

Speaking at the conclusion of his trip to Ghana this 
summer,  President  Obama  reflected  on  seeing  his 
daughters walk through the doors at Cape Coast Castle, a 
place  where  men,  women  and  children  were  sold  into 
slavery, saying: 
“It was a remarkable reminder that while the future 
is  unknowable,  the  winds  always  blow  in  the 
direction of human progress.” 

The  United  States  remains  committed  to  this 
progress,  to  educating  our  youth  about  the  slave  trade 
and  to  honouring  both  the  victims  and  the  efforts  of 
those who sought to end this despicable practice. We are 
happy to sponsor this draft resolution. 
Mr.  Sardinha  (India):  As  the  representative  of 

India, I am indeed honoured to address the Assembly on 
the  subject  of  the  follow-up  to  the  commemoration  of 
the  two-hundredth  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the 
transatlantic slave trade. 

Two  years  ago,  when  resolution  62/122  on  the 
commemoration of the two-hundredth anniversary of the 
abolition of the transatlantic slave trade was adopted by 
consensus by the General Assembly, India was proud to 
sponsor it. We are again happy to co-sponsor the follow-
up  draft  resolution  (A/64/L.10)  that  has  been  presented 
by the Caribbean Community today. In this connection, I 
would  also  like  to  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
report on the programme of educational outreach on the 
transatlantic slave trade and slavery (A/64/299). 

Slavery  is  one  of  the  greatest  scars  on  the  history 
of nations and humanity. For one man to enslave another 
is  truly  a  crime  of  the  highest  degree.  It  is  therefore 
imperative that we commemorate the great struggles and 
battles that have been fought to get rid of this scourge. A 
Greek  historian  noted  of  ancient  India  that  “it  is 
remarkable  in  India  that  all  Indians  are  free,  and  no 
Indian is a slave”. However, this changed after we were 
colonized  and  India  was  forced  to  endure  a  form  of 
indentured servitude for nearly 200 years. The agony of 
slavery and the degradation that it leads to are therefore 
well understood by us. 

The  transatlantic  slave  trade  ravaged  African  and 
Caribbean  nations  to  satisfy  the  rapacious  economic 
greed  and  exploitation  of  the  colonizers.  The  effects  of 
09-59092 
the 
to 
the 
the 
transatlantic  slave 
international  community 


its  violence  and  of  the  human  suffering  it  inflicted  are 
still visible today. 

Lest we forget, it is important that the international 
community take at least a first step in the right direction 
by paying homage to the victims of slavery and the slave 
trade  and  by  acknowledging 
tragedy.  We  are 
humbled and honoured to be part of the initiative to erect 
a memorial in honour and memory of the various victims 
of  slavery  and 
trade.  The 
permanent memorial will be a small commemoration of 
the  millions  of  victims  who  suffered  silently,  with  no 
hope of freedom, before they disappeared into the night. 

The memorial will not only serve as a hallmark to 
which  we  may  pay  our  respects,  but  will  also  be  a 
reminder  for 
to  raise 
awareness about the issues surrounding the great evil of 
slavery, of which the transatlantic slave trade was one of 
the most abhorrent manifestations. 
We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the  Committee 

led  by  the  Caribbean  and  African  countries  to  oversee 
the permanent memorial project. In this context, we feel 
that it would be befitting for UNESCO to undertake the 
task of launching the international design project for the 
permanent memorial. 

We  also  recognize  the  importance  of  education  to 
current  and  future  generations  about  the  history,  causes 
and  impact  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade. 
We  support  the  initiatives  undertaken  by  the  United 
Nations  and  recognize  that  the  appointment  of  the 
Goodwill  Ambassador  is  a  step  forward  in  spreading 
awareness about this important issue. 
We welcome the initiatives undertaken by States in 

reaffirming 
implementing 
paragraphs 101 and 102 of the Durban Declaration of the 
World 
Racial 
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
aimed  at  countering 
legacy  of  slavery  and 
contributing  to  the  restoration  of  the  dignity  of  the 
victims of slavery and the slave trade. 

Slavery and the slave trade are symptomatic of the 
evils that are still manifested in the form of racism and 
xenophobia. Our work at the United Nations will not be 
complete  unless  we  can  abolish  all  forms  of  slavery, 
including  its  present  manifestations.  This  requires  that 
we work together in a spirit of international cooperation 
to rid our world of these modern forms of slavery. 
commitment 
Conference 
Racism, 
against 
their 
the 
A/64/PV.34
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on this item.  

At  the  request  of  the  sponsors,  action  on  draft 
resolution A/64/L.10 will be taken at a later stage, to be 
announced. 

consideration of agenda item 116. 
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 




to 
listed 
the  93  countries 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Agenda item 75 (continued) 
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.9) 

The  Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 

the Assembly  held  the  debate  on  agenda  item  75  at  its 
29th  and  31st  plenary  meetings,  held  on  29  and 
30 October 2009, respectively. 

Netherlands to introduce draft resolution A/64/L.9. 
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands):  I  have  the  honour  to 

introduce,  under  agenda 
item  75,  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.9, entitled “Report of the International Criminal 
Court”.  In  addition 
in 
document A/64/L.9, which contains the text of the draft 
resolution,  the  following  countries  have  indicated  their 
wish to be included as sponsors of the resolution: Chad, 
the  Dominican  Republic,  Georgia,  Mongolia,  San 
Marino and Timor-Leste. This brings the total number of 
sponsors to 99. 

On  29  October,  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  presented  the 
fifth  annual  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(A/64/356) to this body. We had a very constructive and 
in-depth debate then, and I would like to highlight a few 
elements.  

First of all,  the debate once again  made clear that 
the  establishment  of  the  Court  was  the  most  significant 
development of the past decade in our long and ongoing 
struggle 
that 
continues.  For  success 
this  struggle,  universal 
adherence  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) will be crucial.  

We  are  therefore  very  pleased  to  welcome  the 
countries that have recently become parties to the Rome 
Statute:  Chile and the Czech Republic. It is our sincere 
hope  that  others  will  join  soon.  We  look  forward  to 
welcoming  many  more  States  as  parties  to  the  ICC  by 
impunity  —  a  struggle 
to  eradicate 
in 
09-59092 

15 
Secondly, 
the 
to 
justice.  Peace  and 
A/64/PV.34 

the  2010  Review  Conference,  which  will  be  held  in 
Kampala.  

International  Criminal  Court’s 
annual report and the debate in the Assembly last week 
also  underlined  the  role  of  the  Court  in  our  common 
efforts to build an international community characterized 
not only by the rule of law and respect for human rights, 
but also by peace and security. Sustainable peace cannot 
be achieved if perpetrators of the most serious crimes are 
not  brought 
justice  are 
complementary requirements.  

Thirdly,  as  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  pointed  out,  the  biggest  obstacle  to  the 
conduct  of  judicial  proceeding  remains  the  lack  of 
arrests  and  surrender  of  suspects.  The  cooperation  of 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society  is 
essential to the Court’s functioning, in relation not only 
to  arrests  and  surrender,  but  also  to  the  provision  of 
evidence,  the  protection  and  relocation  of  victims  and 
witnesses, and the enforcement of sentences.  

We  are  therefore  pleased  that  the  United  Nations 
continued  to  assist  the  Court  over  the  past  year  in  its 
endeavours  through  implementation  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement.  We  also  welcome  the  assistance  provided 
thus far by the States parties and the non-States parties, 
and call on all States to continue to support the Court’s 
efforts in this regard.  

Last but not least, the President of the Court, in his 
address  to  the  General Assembly,  stressed  the  fact  that 
the  hallmark  of  the  Court  is  its  independent  judicial 
nature.  At  the  same  time,  that  judicial  institution 
operates within the political world and it needs States to 
not just cooperate with it, but also to respect, to protect 
and to enhance its judicial independence.  

Allow me now to turn to the draft resolution itself, 
which  serves  three  main  objectives.  First,  it  provides 
political support for the International Criminal Court as 
an  organization  and  for  its  mandate,  its  aims  and  the 
work 
the 
importance of the relationship between the Court and the 
United  Nations  on 
the  Relationship 
Agreement. As the President of the ICC rightly pointed 
out last week, both the United Nations and the ICC have 
an  equally  central  role  in  enhancing  the  system  of 
international criminal justice. Lastly, the draft resolution 
serves  to  remind  States  and  international  and  regional 
organizations  of 
the 
International Criminal Court in carrying out its tasks.  
it  carries  out.  Secondly, 
to  cooperate  with 
the  basis  of 
it  underlines 
the  need 

The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  proceed  to 

The  Netherlands  hopes  that  the  draft  resolution 
will be adopted by consensus and that it will lead to even 
greater  support  for  the  Court  in  the  fight  against 
impunity  and  its  attempts  to  hold  the  perpetrators  of 
serious crimes accountable for their actions.  

consider draft resolution A/64/L.9.  

Before giving the floor to speakers in  explanation 
of position before action is taken on the draft resolution, 
may  I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  or 
position  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made 
by delegations from their seats? 
Ms.  McLeod  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States  is not in  a position at  this time  to join  in 
the adoption of draft resolution A/64/L.10. If a vote had 
been  called  on  the  draft  resolution,  we  would  have 
abstained.  We  emphasize,  however,  that  the  United 
States  remains  steadfastly  committed  to  promoting  the 
rule of law and helping to bring violators of international 
humanitarian law to justice, wherever the violations may 
occur,  and  will  continue  to  play  a  leadership  role  in 
righting  these  wrongs.  As  we  have  emphasized,  we 
cannot  ignore  the  terrible  crimes  that  have  occurred  in 
places like Darfur and the massive human suffering that 
the world has witnessed. 
Mr.  Sanusi  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  My  country  will  join  the  consensus  on  draft 
resolution  A/64/L.10,  keeping  in  mind  the  general 
inclination  of  the  majority  of  the  Member  States. 
However,  Libya  reaffirms  its  position  on  the  Rome 
Statute and its reservations with regard to its content. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  explanation  of  position  before  the Assembly 
takes action on the draft resolution.  

The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/64/L.9.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly 
decides to adopt draft resolution A/64/L.9? 

  Draft resolution A/64/L.9 was adopted (resolution 
64/9).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 

wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 75? 


It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 5.05 p.m. 
16 

09-59092 
