
A/64/PV.26
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

26th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 27 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 




Agenda items 7 and 135 (continued) 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 
Pattern of conferences 

  Letter from the Chairman of the Committee  
on Conferences (A/64/348/Add.1) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Members  are 

aware  that,  pursuant  to  section  1,  paragraph  7,  of 
resolution 40/243, of 18 December 1985, no subsidiary 
organ of the General Assembly should be permitted to 
meet  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  during  the  main 
part  of  a  regular  session  of  the  Assembly,  unless 
explicitly authorized by the Assembly. 

Members  will  recall  that  at  its  1st  plenary 
meeting, on 15 September 2009, the General Assembly 
authorized  a  number  of  subsidiary  organs  to  meet 
during  the  main  part  of  the  regular  session  of  the 
Assembly. Authorization is now sought  for the United 
Nations Forum on Forests and the Executive Board of 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
United  Nations  Population  Fund  to  meet  during  the 
main  part  of  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  on  the  strict  understanding  that  meetings 
would  have  to  be  accommodated  within  available 
facilities and services.  

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  authorize  the  United  Nations  Forum  on 
Forests  and  the  Executive  Board  of  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and 
the  United  Nations 
Population Fund to meet during the main part of the sixty-
fourth session of the General Assembly in New York? 

It was so decided. 


Agenda items 42 and 48 (continued) 
Report of the Economic and Social Council 

  Report of the Economic and Social  
Council (A/64/3) 
  Notes by the Secretary-General (A/64/207  
and A/64/335) 






Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 

  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/64/87  
and A/64/263) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  connection 

with  agenda  item  48,  I  would  like  to  remind  the 
members  of  the  General  Assembly  that,  pursuant  to 
General Assembly resolution 57/270 B, of 3 July 2003, 
the Assembly,  on  the  recommendation  of  the  General 
Committee,  decided  at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  on 
18 September 2009,  to  consider  the  chapters  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
relevant 
coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
including  the  participation  of  the  President  of  the 
Council in its discussion. 
integrated 
and 
the 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-57817 (E) 
*0957817* 

Ms.  Lucas  (Luxembourg),  President  of 
A/64/PV.26 


At the same meeting, with regard to agenda item 
42, the Assembly took note of the clarification that, in 
implementing  resolution  58/316,  the  relevant  parts  of 
chapter  I  of  the  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  that  are  under  agenda  items  already  allocated 
to  the  Main  Committees  will  be  considered  by  the 
Committee  concerned  for  final  action  by  the  General 
Assembly.  

I now give the floor to Her Excellency Ms. Sylvie 
Lucas,  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
to introduce the Council’s report. 
the 

Economic and Social Council (spoke in French): I have 
the  honour  to  introduce  the  2009  report  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  which  is  contained  in 
document A/64/3. 

The  most  severe  global  financial  crisis  since  the 
Great  Depression  has  had  devastating  effects  on  the 
world  economy.  We  have  noted  that  progress  towards 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  has 
slowed, and even reversed. The adverse impacts could 
be long-lasting and damaging for human development. 
The  Council’s  work  this  year  is  generally  centred  on 
the overall effort to help countries overcome the crisis. 
My  comments  will  focus  first  on  some  of  the  main 
outcomes  of  the  Council’s  work  to  date,  and  then  on 
areas for future action. 

The  2009  annual  ministerial  review  focused  on 
global  public  health.  The  review  provided  major 
political  impetus  for  the  implementation  of  global 
public health goals. It also helped to place the issue of 
health  at  the  centre  of  the  development  agenda.  By 
from 
promoting 
non-communicable 
diseases, 
neglected  tropical  diseases,  health  systems  and  health 
literacy, to intellectual property rights,  climate change 
and health, the ministerial declaration opened up vistas 
for new collaborative efforts and new partnerships and 
engagement by new and diverse stakeholders. 

The  national  voluntary  presentations  made  by 
Bolivia,  China,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Mali,  Sri  Lanka  and 
the  Sudan  demonstrated 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  as  a  platform  to  engage 
the  global  community  in  exchanging  critical  lessons 
learned in the implementation of the MDGs. 

The annual ministerial review attracted a diverse 
range  of  actors  from  Governments,  civil  society  and 
the  added  value  of 
consensus  on 
communicable 
and 
issues 
ranging 

institutions, 
the  special  high-level  meeting  with 
the  private  sector.  The  review  generated  political 
momentum  for  collective  action  to  advance  the  global 
health agenda. That is a strong rallying point; we need 
to  utilize  that  potential.  Many  other  outcomes  of  the 
work of the Economic and Social Council this year are 
of key relevance to the work of the General Assembly. 

By  bringing  together  all  concerned  parties,  the 
special  high-level  meeting  of  the  Council  with  the 
Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade and Development provided a first opportunity to 
have  an  inclusive  exchange  of  views  on  the  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis.  It  highlighted  the  need 
to  address  the  crisis  in  a  coherent  and  coordinated 
manner,  as  well  as  the  urgency  of  dealing  with  its 
human  impact  in  order  to  prevent  it  from  becoming  a 
large-scale human tragedy. The summary record of the 
discussions  was  transmitted  to  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for the preparation of the draft final 
document of the International Conference on the World 
Economic  and  Financial  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development. 
Another  issue  that  the  Council  considered,  both 

the 
during 
international  financial  and 
institutions  and 
throughout a large part of the year, is closely linked to 
the question of an effective response to the crisis, that 
is,  the  need  to  ensure  follow-up  to  the  Monterrey 
Consensus and the Doha Declaration on Financing for 
Development and the commitments made therein. 

In line with the mandate given to the Council by 
heads  of  State  and  Government  at 
the  Doha 
Conference,  which  was  reaffirmed  at  the  International 
Conference  on  the  World  Economic  and  Financial 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development,  the  Council 
made  recommendations  to  the  General  Assembly  for 
strengthening  and  ensuring  a  more  effective  and 
inclusive  intergovernmental  process  to  carry  out  the 
financing for development follow-up. Some of the key 
recommendations  pertained  to  the  holding  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council’s  special  high-level 
spring  meeting  with  international  financial  and  trade 
institutions,  including  the  suggestions  of  holding  the 
meeting at least five weeks earlier and extending it to 
take place over two days, allowing up to two full days 
of the Council’s annual substantive session to the issue 
of 
for  development  and  giving  more 
pre-eminence  to  the  Assembly’s  consideration  of  this 
issue. 
financing 
trade 
2 

09-57817 
to 
to 
the 
the 
During 
implement 
substantive 
initiative  of 
the  Council’s 
the  role  of 
the 



Several  other  mandates  were  entrusted  to  the 
Council by the Conference on the World Financial and 
Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development, 
which  was  held  in  New  York  last  June.  The  Council 
intends  fully 
those  mandates.  The 
Council  has  requested  me  to  conduct  open-ended 
informal  consultations  on 
the  matter,  which  are 
currently  under  way.  I  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to 
make recommendations to the Assembly in the not-too-
distant future. 
Finally in that context, I would like to emphasize 

the 
the  Council’s  welcome  of 
International  Labour  Organization  on 
theme 
“Recovering  from  the  crisis:  a  global  jobs  pact”.  The 
Council  also  welcomed  the  request  made  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  report  on  the  follow-up  and 
implementation of the Global Jobs Pact by all relevant 
actors at the Council’s session in 2010. 

session, 
Member States recognized and encouraged the ongoing 
strengthening  of  humanitarian  coordination,  with 
the  Emergency  Relief 
references 
Coordinator, 
the  Resident 
Coordinator/Humanitarian  Coordinator  function,  the 
issue  of  gender  mainstreaming  and  the  need  for 
improved 
also 
emphasized  the  need  for  humanitarian  actors  and 
donors to strengthen coordination with Governments. 
The  Council  also  took  up  the  issue  of  the 

implementation  of 
the  Assembly’s  guidance  on 
operational  activities.  The  concrete  outcomes  attested 
to the continued strong commitment of Member States 
to the 2007 General Assembly triennial comprehensive 
policy review of operational activities for development.  

Some  of  the  Council’s  recommendations  also 
reflected the broad consensus that exists with regard to 
the  General  Assembly’s 
system-wide  coherence 
process. They also served to contribute to the Council’s 
informal consultations, in particular in connection with 
the  governance  and 
funding  of  United  Nations 
operational activities. 

addressing  United  Nations  operational 
activities, the Council will not lose sight of the global 
dynamics 
The 
Development  Cooperation  Forum 
is  now  widely 
recognized as the focal point within the United Nations 
system  for  holistic  consideration  of  development 
cooperation  issues.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to 
assessments.  Members 
strengthening  of 
development 
cooperation. 
needs 
In 
of 
A/64/PV.26
and 
transparent 
including  with 
the  World  Food  Programme, 
mention  the  first  high-level  symposium  on  the  theme 
“Accountable 
development 
cooperation:  towards  a  more  inclusive  framework”, 
which will be hosted by the Government of Austria on 
12  and  13  November.  In  order  for  the  Development 
Cooperation  Forum  to  be  able  to  advance  the  global 
dialogue on this important issue in 2010, it is important 
that  Member  States  and  other  stakeholders  actively 
participate in the upcoming preparatory process. 

I  am  pleased  that  our  efforts  to  strengthen 
interaction and institutional links between the Council 
and the Peacebuilding Commission are  also beginning 
to bear fruit. Therefore, during its substantive session, 
the  Council  called  for  enhanced  engagement  with  the 
Commission, 
the  various  country-
specific  formations.  On  29  October,  the  Council  and 
the  Commission  will  hold  their  first  joint  event,  in 
partnership  with 
to 
consider the impact of the food and economic crises in 
post-conflict countries. The Secretary-General will also 
participate at that meeting. I very much hope that this 
relationship will be further strengthened in the years to 
come, as the Council undoubtedly has a role to play in 
peacebuilding  and  post-conflict  development.  The 
Council’s recent renewal of the mandate of the Ad Hoc 
Advisory  Group  on  Haiti,  which  was  intended  to 
support that country when it comes to its medium- and 
long-term development, is a vivid reflection of that. 

that  have 
volunteered to make national presentations next year is 
a  clear  reflection  of  the  Council’s  role  as  a  forum  for 
discussion  and  the  exercise  of  mutual  accountability. 
Next  year  could  therefore  be  a  unique  opportunity  to 
further  strengthen  voluntary  national  presentations  as 
an  accountability  mechanism  to  help  the  international 
community  to  review  and  fine  tune  development 
policies  and 
the 
achievement of the MDGs. 

Through  those  activities,  the  Council  has  been 
able  to  expand  the  range  of  stakeholders  with  whom 
the  United  Nations  can  establish  partnerships 
to 
advance  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  The  special 
philanthropy  event  that  was  held  last  February  — 
which  was  well  attended  by  Member  States,  members 
of  the  corporate  world  and  representatives  from  the 
academic 
philanthropic, 
communities  — 
how 
philanthropy  can  contribute  to  advancing  the  global 
public  health  agenda.  The  Council  intends  to  further 
The  high  number  of  countries 
non-governmental 
in 
and 
particular 
implementation 
discussed 
towards 
their 
09-57817 

3 

A/64/PV.26 

expand  its  outreach  to  the  philanthropic  community. 
Another special event, focusing on gender equality and 
the empowerment of women, is already being prepared. 

My experience as President of the Economic and 
Social  Council  has  shown  me  the  potential  of  the 
Council  to  generate  momentum  towards  the  timely 
realization  of  the  MDGs  by  bringing  together  many 
diverse  constituencies  on  issues  of  global  importance, 
while maintaining focus on results. I urge the General 
Assembly  fully  to  utilize  that  potential  to  mobilize 
efforts that can contribute to the realization of the great 
vision embodied in the MDGs. 
Mrs.  Osman  (Sudan):  I  have  the  honour,  under 

agenda item  42 and on behalf of the Group of 77  and 
China,  to  deliver  this  statement  on  the  2009  report  of 
the Economic and Social Council. 

The Group of 77 and China welcomes the report 
on  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
during  2009  (A/64/3).  On  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and  China,  let  me  first  express  our  gratitude  to  Her 
Excellency Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  of  Luxembourg, 
President of the Economic and Social Council, for the 
leadership  provided  by  her  and  the  members  of  the 
Council’s  Bureau  during  the  entire  year,  but  most 
particularly  during  the  Council’s  substantive  session. 
We  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  extend 
our  gratitude  to  all  the  facilitators  of  draft  resolutions 
for  their  great  efforts  in  reaching  consensus  on  very 
difficult issues. 

The  year  2009  has  been  a  critically  relevant  one 
for  the  work  of  the  Council.  A  string  of  crises  has 
placed  the  United  Nations  at  the  centre  of  global 
discourse  and  policy  responses. The  current  economic 
and  financial  crisis  and  the  issues  of  food  security, 
climate  change  and  energy  have  again  served  to 
underscore  the  centrality  of  inclusive  multilateralism 
and the unparalleled convening role and legitimacy of 
the  United  Nations  with  regard  to  those  matters.  The 
world body must step up to the challenge. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  indeed 
made important contributions to the work of the United 
Nations  in  addressing  those  challenges.  The  spring 
meeting with the Bretton Woods institutions, the World 
Trade Organization and the United Nations Conference 
on  Trade  and  Development  was  an 
important 
opportunity  for  a  discussion  on  the  international 
financial crisis and its impact on development.  
on 
produced 
trade 
Summit 

The  Group  believes  that  the  current  crisis  has 
further highlighted the urgent need for substantive and 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  international  economic 
and  financial  system  and  architecture.  It  has  also 
stressed  that  international  financial  institutions  should 
have  a  clear  development  orientation.  The  G-77  and 
China  will  continue  to  work  to  make  the  Council’s 
spring meeting more relevant and productive. 

We  are  concerned  that  the  implementation  of 
agreed  commitments  continues  to  be  the Achilles  heel 
of 
the  United  Nations  development  agenda.  The 
decisions  of 
the  2005  United  Nations  Summit 
encapsulated  the  agreed  commitments  of  all  Members 
on development. Those commitments include both the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  other 
development  goals  internationally  agreed  upon  during 
the  series  of  major  international  conferences  and 
summits  held  over  the  past  decade,  such  as  the 
Financing 
International 
for 
Development,  which 
the  Monterrey 
the 
conference, 
Consensus, 
Johannesburg  World 
on 
Sustainable 
Development  and,  more 
the  high-level 
Conference  on  the  World  Economic  and  Financial 
Crisis and Its Impact on Development. 

the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  adopted  by  consensus 
the  ministerial  declaration  on  the  theme  of  global 
public health (see A/64/3, para. 56), which was a major 
landmark.  It  called  for  concerted  action  on  critical 
issues related to global public health and referred to the 
need 
international  cooperation.  The 
ministerial  declaration  augurs  well  for  a  stronger 
Council  and  is  considered  to  be  ground-breaking  in 
many  ways.  It  paves  the  way  ahead  for  concerted 
action  on  many  critical  issues  related  to  global  public 
international 
health, 
cooperation 
threats  and 
epidemics, such as the current H1N1 pandemic, and for 
strengthening political will to achieve MDGs 4 and 5. 

Most important, the declaration acknowledges the 
impact  of  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  on 
developing  countries  and  calls  for  strengthening  the 
global  partnership  for  development.  It  further  stresses 
that 
in 
particular  external 
to  be  more 
predictable  and  better  aligned  with  national  priorities. 
The G-77 and China believes that ensuring a conducive 
the 
international  environment 
strengthening 
to  confront  unforeseen 
international  cooperation  and  assistance, 
During 
this  year’s  substantive  session 
is 
imperative 
for 
funding,  need 
to  strengthen 
Conference 
the  Doha 
recently, 
calling 
for 
4 

09-57817 


achievement of the MDGs and critical for assisting our 
global  efforts  to  advance  global  public  health.  The 
G-77 and China looks forward to the full and effective 
implementation of the ministerial declaration on global 
public health. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  indeed 
made  further  strides  towards  its  own  strengthening  by 
convening  annual  ministerial  reviews,  which  are 
evolving  into  an  effective  forum  for  an  exchange  of 
experiences and best practices. They are also helping to 
shed  light  on  obstacles  facing  countries  in  achieving 
the MDGs and exploring ways and means to overcome 
them.  The  number  of  presentations  by  developing 
countries,  and  the  depth  and  diversity  of  the  issues 
discussed in those presentations, is a clear signal of the 
seriousness  with  which  developing  countries  are 
approaching  the  annual  ministerial  review.  We  look 
forward  to  a  greater  level  of  participation  by  the 
developed  countries  to  further  enhance  the  review 
process and its outcomes. 

The  G-77  and  China  equally  believes  that  the 
annual  ministerial  review  can  further  be  enriched  by 
the  contribution  and  active  engagement  of  United 
Nations  funds,  programmes  and  agencies,  in  addition 
to the international financial and economic institutions. 
The  Group  has  always  maintained  that  the  Council 
should seek to make the annual ministerial review and 
the  Development  Cooperation  Forum  action-  and 
results-oriented.  We  believe  that  the  review  would  be 
more  fruitful  if  its  themes  could  emerge  from  the 
information  and  data  provided  by  functional  and 
regional  commissions,  with  a  view  to  monitoring  the 
implementation 
and 
commitments. 

The  G-77  and  China  welcomes  the  Council’s 
adoption  of  decision  2009/240,  which  set  in  motion  a 
process  to  conclude  discussion  in  the  United  Nations 
Forum  on  Forests  on  the  means  of  implementing 
sustainable  forest  management.  The  G-77  and  China 
welcomes  the  consensus  agreement  reached  recently 
pertaining  to  means  of  implementation  of  sustainable 
forest  management.  We  believe  that,  without  the 
necessary  financing,  the  global  objectives  on  forests 
and  the  non-legally  binding  instrument  on  all  forests 
will  be  but  empty  words.  Furthermore,  inadequate 
funding  diminishes  the  effectiveness  of  the  United 
Nations Forum on Forests as an international forum for 
the implementation of sustainable forest management. 
development 
goals 
of 
A/64/PV.26
in  motion 
for 
financial 
crisis 
outcome 
Jobs  Pact, 
the  Global 
the  process 

We  equally  welcome  the  agreements  reached 
during  this  session  on  key  mandates  on  the  economic 
and 
document 
(resolution 63/303).  We  have  made  progress  and  have 
fulfilling  our 
set 
responsibilities  on 
the 
implementation  of  agreements  with  Bretton  Woods 
institutions,  the  promotion  and  enhancement  of  the 
United  Nations  development  system  and  the  ad  hoc 
panel  of  experts.  We  look  forward  to  further  progress 
on that matter. 

We hope that the Council will be able to redouble 
its  work  on  crafting  global  policy  responses  to  the 
development challenges we now face. The Group of 77 
and  China  will  remain  constructively  engaged  in  that 
effort. 
Mr.  Fries  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 

on behalf of the European Union (EU). The following 
countries align themselves with this statement: Turkey, 
Croatia,  the  former Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, 
Ukraine,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Armenia  and 
Georgia. 

The  European  Union  thanks  the  Secretariat  for 
the  comprehensive  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  (A/64/3).  It  is  indeed  useful  to  have  in  one 
place  such  a  compilation  of  all  of  the  Council’s 
activities,  resolutions  and  decisions.  We  also  thank 
Ambassador  Lucas,  President  of  the  Council,  for 
introducing  the  report.  We  congratulate  her  for  her 
skilful and productive leadership of the Council. 
The  European  Union  would  like  to  take  this 

opportunity 
the 
Economic and Social Council as the principal organ for 
the  coordination  of  the  economic,  social  and  related 
work  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  the  central 
forum for discussing international economic and social 
issues. The  report before us shows the broad scope of 
the  activities  of  the  Council.  In  my  statement,  I  will 
comment on some of the activities and achievements of 
the  Council  during  its  substantive  session  last  July.  I 
will  also  make  a  few  comments  on  the  working 
methods of the Council. 

First, on an overall note, I would like to express 
the  appreciation  of  the  European  Union  for  the 
constructive 
the 
the  Council.  Good  results  were 
negotiations 
achieved  and,  with  just  a  few  exceptions,  consensus 
its  full  support  for 
to  reiterate 
spirit 
in 
that 
prevailed 
during 
09-57817 

5 
including 
inequality  and 
for  economic  and 
A/64/PV.26 

agreements  could  be  reached  on  the  many  draft 
resolutions that were introduced during the session. 

The  Council’s  high-level  segment  this  past  July 
was a milestone in the recognition of the importance of 
global  public  health 
social 
development.  Never  before  has  global  public  health 
been  discussed  at  that  level  in  the  United  Nations 
system.  The  ministerial  declaration  on  global  public 
health  (see  A/64/3,  para.  56),  which  the  Council 
adopted  by  consensus,  creates  new  opportunities  to 
take  forward  health  issues  in  both  the  Council  and 
other parts of the United Nations system. The European 
Union will continue to be a key actor in joint efforts to 
tackle  global  health  problems, 
those 
aggravated  by  gender 
the  current 
financial  and  economic  crisis.  We  will  maintain  our 
commitment to global health for all. 

The discussions in the high-level segment stayed 
focused  on  the  theme  of  the  segment  and  benefited 
greatly from the active participation of Member States, 
United  Nations  organizations,  other 
international 
organizations and members of civil society. During that 
segment, the Council showed its usefulness as a high-
level  forum  for  debating  key  issues  in  the  economic, 
social and related fields. 

The  European  Union  recognizes  the  central  role 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  promoting  the 
integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations 
conferences.  We  appreciate  the  discussion  in  the 
coordination  segment  on 
the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  that  subject.  We  look 
forward  to  the  further  review  of  that  issue  in  the 
Council. 
the  Council 

resolution  on 
implementation  of  system-wide 
reforms  in  United  Nations  operational  activities  for 
development  within 
triennial 
comprehensive  policy  review  (resolution  2009/1).  It 
gives key guidance for further reforms in this area. The 
European  Union  underscores 
importance  of 
strengthened  support  by  the  United  Nations  system  to 
national development priorities. In that regard, the EU 
reiterates  its  support  for  delivering  as  one  and  is 
pleased to see that that approach is being replicated in 
an increasing number of countries, on their request. 
The European Union also welcomes the Council’s 

adoption  by  consensus  of  the  resolution  on  United 
The  European  Union  welcomes 
the  periodicity  of 
the  context  of 
the 
the 
the 

Today’s 
(Assembly 
the  humanitarian  agenda.  The 
included  high-level  participation  from 
Nations emergency humanitarian assistance (resolution 
2009/3).  It  sends  a  clear  message  of  global  unity 
around 
interactive 
dialogue  during  the  humanitarian  affairs  segment, 
which 
the 
United Nations system and representatives of Member 
States  participating  from  capitals,  proved  to  be  very 
useful  and  could  serve  as  a  model  for  further 
deliberations in the Council. 

complex  humanitarian 
increasingly 
challenges  call  for  a  deeper  and  more  engaged  global 
partnership  on  international  emergency  humanitarian 
assistance,  involving  the  United  Nations,  its  Member 
States  and  all  relevant  regional  organizations  and 
humanitarian  actors.  The  European  Union  remains 
firmly committed to that global partnership. 

The  European  Union  appreciates  the  adoption  of 
the  resolution  on  the  Global  Jobs  Pact  (resolution 
2009/5),  in  line  with  paragraph  58  of  the  outcome 
document  of  the  June  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
resolution  63/303).  The 
Development 
resolution  highlights 
importance  of 
employment  and  a  well-functioning  labour  market  in 
the efforts to limit the negative impact of the economic 
and  financial  crisis.  We  call  on  the  United  Nations 
system to follow up on that resolution. 

the 
resolution  on  a  strengthened  and  more  effective 
process  for  the  follow-up  to  the  Monterrey  Consensus 
and  the  Doha  Declaration  (resolution  2009/30),  which 
will  contribute  to  improved  quality  of  discussion, 
increased 
interaction  and  enhanced  cooperation 
between all stakeholders. We reaffirm our commitment 
to stay fully engaged in that process, including through 
our  active  participation  in  the  Council’s  special  high-
level meeting with the Bretton Woods institutions, the 
World  Trade  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development.  That  is  a 
critical vehicle for strengthening the dialogue between 
the United Nations and the key stakeholders.  

The EU also looks forward to participating in the 
deliberations  on  financing  for  development  in  the 
Second  Committee  and  in  the  high-level  dialogue  of 
the General Assembly that is to take place on 23 and 24 
November.  The  high-level  dialogue  should  focus  on 
substantive  issues,  in  particular  new  challenges  and 
The  European  Union 
also  welcomes 
the  crucial 
6 

09-57817 
reaffirming 
in 
the  holistic 
issues,  while 


emerging 
approach of Monterrey and Doha. 

The  European  Union  is  pleased  with  the  action 
that  the  Council  took  as  follow-up  to  the  outcome  of 
the  Conference  on  the World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis and Its Impact on Development. The EU is now 
actively  engaging  in  the  consultations  on  the  three 
reports of the Secretary-General that were mandated by 
the Council in its decision of 31 July (decision 2009/258). 
We stand ready to review progress on those discussions 
at the Council’s resumed substantive session to be held 
before  the  end  of  this  year  in  accordance  with  the 
decision. 

The training institutes of the United Nations play 
an  important  role  in  advancing  the  know-how  and 
coherence  of  individual  agencies  and  their  staff.  The 
EU welcomes the Council’s reaffirmation of reforms in 
the  United  Nations  System  Staff  College  and  the 
United Nations Institute for Training and Research, as 
well  as  its  support  for  results-based  management  in 
those institutions. 

Unfortunately,  as  the  European  Union  stated  in 
the Council, we see a negative trend in the working of 
the  Committee  on  Non-Governmental  Organizations. 
We  are  concerned  that  the  guiding  principles  for 
granting  consultative  status 
the  Council  are 
gradually  being  undermined.  Civil  society  actors 
should  be  allowed  to  support  and  enrich  the  work  of 
the  United  Nations  by  providing  perspectives  that 
complement,  and  sometimes  differ  from,  those  of  the 
Member  States.  The  EU  urges  the  members  of  the 
Committee to work together to defend and uphold the 
guiding  principles  agreed  by  the  Member  States  in 
Council resolution 1996/31. 
Important  steps  have  been  taken  to  improve  the 

effectiveness and relevance of the Economic and Social 
Council. We saw good results in that regard during the 
July  session  in  Geneva,  but  more  needs  to  be  done. 
Further clarity is needed with regard to the division of 
labour between the Council and the General Assembly 
in  order  to  focus  the  agenda  of  the  Council  on  issues 
where it can add value. It would also be useful to look 
into the allocation of items to the different segments of 
the  substantive  session  —  to  avoid  overlaps,  for 
instance. 

There  is  a  worrying  trend  of  introducing  draft 
resolutions at a very late stage. That creates difficulties 
for delegations, particularly smaller ones, in preparing 
A/64/PV.26
for the consultations on the drafts. It  also has the risk 
of  leading  to  decisions  of  poor  quality.  Before  any 
consideration  of  changing  the  rules  of  procedure,  the 
EU would urge better discipline in that regard. 

Furthermore,  we all need to make greater efforts 
to adhere to the assigned deadlines for each segment of 
the Council.  For example, the negotiations on the two 
draft resolutions for the coordination segment were not 
concluded until two weeks after the segment was over. 
That creates difficulties for delegations in participating 
effectively in the negotiations and, again, risks leading 
to poor-quality decisions. 

An  inherent  problem  with  the  organization  of 
work  of  the  substantive  session  of  the  Council  is  that 
negotiations  on  draft  resolutions  take  place  in  parallel 
with  the  plenary  meetings,  panel  discussions,  round 
tables,  et  cetera.  Many  representatives  who  could 
contribute  to  an  interactive  and  fruitful  debate  in  the 
plenary  sessions  are  tied  up  in  negotiations.  It  is 
difficult  to  see  how  this  problem  can  be  fully  solved, 
but better discipline in introducing resolutions in time 
and in keeping deadlines  for the segments would help 
to minimize the problem. 

The  European  Union  stands  ready  to  discuss 
those  and  other  ways  of  improving  the  working 
methods of the Council. 
Mrs. Kolontai (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

all-encompassing  nature  of  the  current  global  crises, 
including the food, financial and energy crises, has led 
to  a  sharp  decrease  of  capital  flows  to  the  developing 
countries  and  has 
international 
the 
community’s 
the  Millennium 
achievement 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

Belarus  highly  commends 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council 
the  current 
environment.  We  consider  it  necessary  to  continue  to 
strengthen the Council’s role as the body mandated  to 
enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  work  of  United 
Nations  institutions,  funds,  programmes  and  related 
organizations. That work should place special emphasis 
on  ensuring  system-wide  conditions  to  encourage 
equitable  international  trade  and  provide  consultative 
and  technical  assistance  to  developing  and  middle-
income countries. 

In the current context, the main objective for the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  the  area  of  financing 
for  development  should  be  the  implementation  of  the 
jeopardized 
of 
the  work  of 
in 
09-57817 

7 
IMF, 
The  adoption  by 
lending  mechanisms 
A/64/PV.26 

outcome documents of the United Nations Conference 
on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its 
Impact on Development, which was held in June 2009, 
and  of 
the  Doha  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development,  held 
in  December  2008.  Belarus 
welcomes  the  establishment  of  an  ad  hoc  open-ended 
working  group  of  the  General Assembly  to  follow  up 
on issues pertaining to the financial crisis and is ready 
to contribute to its activities. 

We  also  welcome  the  decisions  to  considerably 
increase International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World 
Bank  financial  resources  for  expanded  lending  to 
needy  countries.  We  support  the  proposals  aimed  at 
developing  new 
to  provide 
effective  assistance 
to  countries  facing  financial 
problems, including middle-income countries. 

the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  of  new  forms  of  partnership  between  the 
United  Nations  and  other  organizations  opens  up 
additional  possibilities  for  enhancing  the  efficiency  of 
international  efforts.  We  hope  that  the  practice  of 
holding  high-level  meetings  with  the  participation  of 
the 
the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade and Development will continue. 

A  summit  will  take  place  here  in  New  York  in 
2010  that  will  be  a  unique  forum  to  bring  together 
heads of State and Government of the Group of Eight, 
the  Group  of  Twenty, 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement, 
the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States  and  others.  Belarus  believes  that 
the  2010  summit  should  be  viewed  as  one  of 
partnership that serves as a platform for exploring and 
putting into practice the idea of global partnership.  
We suggest that the 2010 United Nations summit 

for  close 
adopt  a  mechanism,  system  or  plan 
cooperation  among  Member  States 
to 
overcome global challenges. Over the coming months, 
delegations 
and 
contributions for such a document. Negotiations could 
begin  as  early  as  January  2010.  We  call  on  the 
Economic and Social Council to take an active role in 
the preparation of that document.  
in 

Russian):  Given  the  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  universal 
platform  for  finding  collective  ways  to  approach  the 
current  problems  facing  the  international  community 
Mr.  Pankin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
the  European  Union, 
the  World  Bank, 
their  proposals 
in  order 
could 
submit 

for 
principles 
sustainable 
only continues to grow. Now more than ever, we need a 
coordinated international policy aimed at implementing 
the  main  agreements  on  international  development. 
That  will  provide  a  real  and  solid  basis  for  a  safer, 
more  stable  and  more  equitable  future. The  Economic 
and  Social  Council  can  become  one  of  the  effective 
instruments for developing such a policy, as well as the 
necessary forum for discussing at the political level the 
overall 
economic 
development,  thereby  providing  a  basis  for  a  new 
global economic order.  

The  main  task  facing  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  in  the  context  of  international  efforts  to  deal 
with  the  crisis  continues  to  be  that  of  ensuring  a 
coordinated  response  by  the  United  Nations  system  to 
challenges  in  the  area  of  development,  while  taking 
into  account  the  work  being  done  by  the  leading 
international  financial  and  trade  bodies,  as  well  as  by 
regional, subregional and other multilateral forums. 

Achieving the potential of the United  Nations as 
a  useful  mechanism  to  advance  global  anti-crisis 
efforts  first  and  foremost  requires  more  effective 
cooperation with the Bretton Woods institutions in the 
context  of  following  up  the  Monterrey  and  Doha 
Conferences  on  Financing  for  Development.  It  also 
requires a qualitative improvement in the coordinating 
function  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  the 
context  of  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation 
of the decisions taken at the major social and economic 
United Nations conferences.  

We believe that the Economic and Social Council 
can  make  an  important  contribution  to  preparing  for 
the September 2010 high-level plenary meetings of the 
General Assembly, which will include the participation 
of  heads  of  State  and  Government.  At  that  forum, 
particular importance should be attached to promoting 
development  cooperation  during  the  Council’s  2010 
substantive session. We hope that that forum will result 
in  an  interesting  and  results-oriented  dialogue  that 
includes  the  participation  of  the  broadest  possible 
spectrum of partners. 

Russia commends the outcome of the work of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  over  the  past  year,  in 
particular  during  the  substantive  session. That  session 
produced  political  guidelines  for  further  work  on  the 
key 
sustainable 
development,  with  emphasis  on  helping  countries  to 
issues  of  global  health 
and 
8 

09-57817 
the 
into  practice 
implementation  of 
to  make  an  effort 


overcome the negative consequences of the crisis in the 
social sphere.  

The  high-level  segment,  in  particular  the  annual 
ministerial  review  on 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  was  of  practical 
importance  for  the  entire  United  Nations  system.  For 
the  first  time  at  the  United  Nations  —  outside  of  the 
context of the World Health Organization (WHO) — a 
comprehensive  discussion  took  place  on  the  issue  of 
health  in  all  its  aspects.  Without  impinging  on  the 
leading  role  and  mandate  of WHO,  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  was  able 
to 
mainstream  the  health-care  agenda  at  the  United 
Nations  and  clarify  the  policy  strategy  to  address 
existing  health  challenges.  The  ministerial  declaration 
adopted  during  that  segment  (see  A/64/3,  para.  56) 
provides a good normative basis for stepping up efforts 
in  the  area  of  health  and  for  increasing  coordination 
between  the  various  bodies  of  the  United  Nations 
system.  
A  good  foundation  was  also  established  for  at 

long 
last  putting 
the  principle  of 
delivering  as  one  at  the  United  Nations  to  respond  to 
global challenges while respecting the very nature and 
mandate of independent agencies of the United Nations 
system  and  the  division  of  labour  within  the  existing 
institutional global health system.  

Another  important  outcome  of  the  session  was 
the  reaffirmation  of  the  role  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  as  the  central  mechanism  for  ensuring 
system-wide coherence with regard to follow-up efforts 
on  the  outcome  of  the  major  conferences  in  the 
economic and social fields.  

We  welcome  the  adoption  of  Economic  and 
Social  Council  resolution  2009/29,  which  points  out 
the need to step up the work of the substantive session 
in  order 
the 
coordinating  and  general  segments.  The  coordinating 
segment  should  be  an  effective  mechanism 
for 
monitoring  the  effectiveness  of  the  work  of  the  many 
inter-agency  thematic  groupings,  including,  of  course, 
Secretariat coordinating bodies.  
The  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 

Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development  (resolution 
63/303)  assigns  important  tasks  to  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  including  supporting  the  coordinated 
efforts of the Organization to respond to the crisis and 
to  avoid  any  duplication  between 
A/64/PV.26
the  General  Assembly  should  be 
ensuring  the  effectiveness  of  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and international financial institutions.  

For  our  part,  we  are  ready  for  constructive 
dialogue with all partners to reach consensus decisions. 
We  believe  that  an  ad  hoc  open-ended  working  group 
of 
the  main 
intergovernmental  platform  for  follow-up  to  the  June 
Conference. We believe that it would be appropriate to 
combine discussion of the key issues on the anti-crisis 
agenda  within  the  work  of  that  working  group.  In 
particular,  that  entails  establishing,  under  the  aegis  of 
the  United  Nations,  a  panel  of  experts  on  the  world 
financial  and  economic  crisis  and  its  impact  on 
development.  
Mrs.  Dunlop  (Brazil):  Brazil  associates  itself 

with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
the  Sudan  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China. 
Brazil also commends Ms. Sylvie Lucas’s leadership of 
the Economic and Social Council, in particular during 
the Council’s substantive session.  

Both  the  report  of  the  Council  (A/64/3)  and  the 
very existence of an agenda item on integrated follow-
up  to  the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  in  the  economic,  social  and  related  fields 
underscore the importance of the Council in promoting 
coordination, coherence and cooperation in the United 
Nations system.  

As  President  Lula  has  indicated  on  a  number  of 
occasions,  most  recently  at  the  Assembly’s  general 
debate,  Brazil  believes  that  the  Council  needs  to  be 
strengthened  with  a  view  to  ensuring  that  it  plays  a 
more  prominent 
in  policy  discussions  and 
deliberations  on  substantive  development  issues.  The 
financial and economic crisis has further demonstrated 
the urgent need to improve coordination and coherence 
in the United Nations system — including the General 
Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, the funds, 
programmes,  specialized  agencies  and  the  multilateral 
financial 
the  policy  and 
operational levels.  

Brazil recognizes that there have been initiatives 
over  the  past  few  years  to  improve  inter-institutional 
and intergovernmental coordination, as exemplified by 
the  ministerial  declaration  on 
the 
internationally  agreed  goals  and  commitments  with 
regard  to  global  public  health,  which  was  adopted  by 
the Economic and Social Council this year. The annual 
ministerial  review  can  be  an  important  occasion  for 
institutions  —  both  at 
implementing 
role 
09-57817 

9 
agencies 
the 
the 
follow-up 
taken  by 
institutions,  often 
issues.  Furthermore, 
the  United  Nations 
A/64/PV.26 

reviewing progress on specific policy questions and for 
the making of concrete recommendations.  

The  Development  Cooperation  Forum  also 
provides  a  valuable  opportunity 
for  promoting 
coordination  and  exchanging  information  on  relevant 
development  cooperation 
the 
Chief  Executives  Board  for  Coordination  (CEB)  is 
playing an increasing role in promoting coordination at 
the  administrative  level  between  the  28  agencies  that 
form the United Nations system. 
However,  it  is  clear  to  my  delegation  that 

additional  measures  are  warranted.  The  actions  and 
initiatives 
funds, 
programmes  and  specialized  agencies,  including  the 
Bretton  Woods 
to  be 
disconnected  from  the  guidelines  adopted  by  Member 
States  at  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
responsibilities  of 
General  Assembly.  Given 
specialized 
in 
to, 
implementation  and  monitoring  of  the  outcomes  of 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
is 
particularly  important  to  foster  closer  cooperation 
among  the  governing  bodies  at  the  United  Nations, 
most notably the Economic and Social Council. 

The CEB has taken important steps to implement 
common strategies and methodologies, but it seems to 
suffer  from  a  deficit  of  accountability  to  Member 
States.  The  nine  joint  actions  adopted  to  address  the 
financial  and  economic  crisis  were  timely.  Looking 
ahead, the response of the United Nations system to the 
crisis  needs  fully  to  take  into  account  the  outcome  of 
the  Conference  on  the World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis (resolution 63/303), which was adopted in June.  

The Secretary-General’s report on the response of 
the  United  Nations  development  system  to  the  crisis 
clearly  indicates  that  that  has  not  yet  taken  place.  In 
the  establishment  of  an  enhanced 
that 
intergovernmental 
the 
financing  of  the  development  process  is  an  important 
step  in  the  right  direction,  aimed  at  engaging  the 
Bretton  Woods  institutions  in  substantive  discussions 
with the members of the Economic and Social Council 
and other relevant United Nations bodies, including the 
General Assembly.  
the  Monterrey 

It  should  be 
Conference 
the  only  major  United  Nations 
conference in the economic and social fields that does 
not  have  a  permanent  intergovernmental  body  to 
follow-up  mechanism 
recalled 
that 
regard, 
is 
seem 
it 
for 

In 
a 
towards 
tremendous  catalyst 
issues  addressed  by 
for  his  continued  commitment 
oversee  the  implementation  of  its  outcome.  That 
certainly  is  an  issue  that  merits  further  study  and 
discussion by the membership.  
Mrs. Wahab (Indonesia): Allow me first of all to 

thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  reports  under 
consideration  today  (A/64/3,  A/64/87  and  A/64/263) 
and 
to  ensuring 
coordinated  and  integrated  follow-up  of  the  major 
United  Nations  economic  and  social  conferences  and 
summits. 
Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statement 

delivered by the representative of the Sudan on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China. 

The broad vision of shared development priorities 
reflected  in  the  historic  United  Nations  conferences 
and  summits  remains  a  vital  benchmark  for  achieving 
same  vein, 
equitable  development. 
the 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  whose 
purpose  is  to  sharpen  our  focus  on  some  of  the  most 
the  conferences  and 
urgent 
summits,  has  been 
in 
accelerating  progress 
the  wider  goal  of 
equitable growth. 

Significant  advances  have  been  made  over  the 
past 20 years, in large part because of the MDGs. Yet, 
in  addition  to  the  ever-increasing  number  of  new 
challenges  awaiting  solution,  perceivable  challenges 
still  stand  out  in  every  region. The  financial,  fuel  and 
food  crises,  climate  change  and  new  viruses  and 
diseases are some of the emerging problems that, if not 
addressed  fully  and  effectively,  could  contribute  to 
undermining our efforts. 

Against  that  backdrop,  we  need  to  build  global 
partnerships  within  a  new  spirit  of  multilateralism. To 
impart new impetus to global partnerships, the first key 
step  is  to  implement  reforms  in  all  key  areas  of  the 
international  economy.  Greater  efforts  should  be 
devoted  to  the  workings  of  the  international  financial 
architecture  so  that  it  becomes  a  force  for  equitable 
growth. 

Along  the  same  lines,  key  structural  reforms  in 
trade  and  development  are  particularly  crucial  to 
realizing  a  more  open,  free  and  equitable  trading 
system.  The  need  to  reach  a  successful  conclusion  to 
the  Doha  Development  Round  and 
the 
Monterey  Consensus  cannot  be  overemphasized,  as  it 
will ensure the attainment of the MDGs. 
to  fulfil 
10 

09-57817 
A/64/PV.26
policy 



However, reforms should take into account future 
challenges as well, including the interrelated issues of 
climate  change  and  food  and  energy  security.  The 
establishment of the annual ministerial review and the 
Development Cooperation Forum three years ago was a 
vital initial step in the reform process to strengthen the 
role of the Economic and Social Council with regard to 
the  timely  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the 
major United Nations conferences and summits. 

We  therefore  welcome  the  holding  of  the  third 
annual  ministerial  review  this  year.  With  a  focus  on 
global  health,  the  review  took  a  further  step  towards 
addressing  new  challenges  facing  the  world.  We  fully 
support  and  look  forward  to  contributing  to  the 
assessment  of  the  ministerial  declaration  on  global 
health,  as well as to integrating the question of health 
into  the  development  agenda.  Given  the  many  health 
issues  we  face,  there  is  an  urgent  need  for  a  fair, 
transparent,  equitable  and  efficient  framework  for  the 
sharing  of  information  about  viruses  as  well  as 
benefits,  including  access  to  and  the  distribution  of 
affordable treatments. 

Next  year’s  ministerial  review  will  focus  on  the 
issue  of  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women.  We 
the  adoption  of 
resolution  63/311  on  system-wide  coherence,  and  in 
particular the steps that have been taken to strengthen 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  areas  of  gender 
equality and women’s empowerment. 

We also look forward to the second session of the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum,  which  will  demand 
effectiveness 
the 
national  and  international  levels.  Likewise,  we  look 
forward  to  a  more  democratic  and  transparent  United 
Nations that is accountable and operates in a coherent 
manner.  Overall,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
should  play  a  crucial  role  in  addressing  all  new 
development 
all 
development aspects in a concerted manner. 

Given  the  uneven  progress  on  all  fronts  with 
respect to the outcomes of United Nations conferences 
and summits, including the MDGs, there needs to be a 
greater effort to ensure their timely and full realization. 
That  entails  a  concerted  effort  on  the  part  not  only  of 
Member  States,  but  also  of  the  related  international 
framework. 
Indonesia  welcomes  the  recent  outcome  of  the 

United Nations Conference on the World Financial and 
in  development  cooperation  at 
therefore  welcome 
in  promoting 
challenges 
and 

It 
to 
for 
the 
The 
of 
that 
is  crucial 
to  ensuring 
outcome 
the  Conference 
is  crucial 
realize 
the 
Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development 
(resolution  63/303).  However,  the  follow-up  action 
prescribed in the outcome needs to be implemented in 
a full and timely manner. In that regard, it is our hope 
that  the  open-ended  working  group  established  as  a 
result  of  the  Conference  should  undertake  to  translate 
the  outcome  into  meaningful  measures  that  promote 
human development. It should also expedite discussion 
on  the  reform  and  strengthening  of  the  international 
financial system by providing concrete recommendations. 

also 
recommended  that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
study the possibility of establishing a panel of experts. 
While  Indonesia  recognizes  the  potential  contribution 
of  a  panel  of  experts,  clear  terms  of  reference  on  its 
work, composition and responsibility need to be further 
explored,  as 
the 
intergovernmental nature of such a panel. 

With only a short time left to achieve the MDGs, 
we  need  to  ensure  a  conducive  global  economic 
international 
environment. 
community 
entire  package  of 
development  commitments  that  serve  as  the  world’s 
engines  for  growth.  The  decision  of  the  General 
Assembly 
to  convene  a  high-level  MDG  review 
summit  with  all  stakeholders  in  2010  must  lead  to 
solutions  and  answers.  The  summit  should  provide 
solutions  on  all  development  aspects 
that  can 
contribute to translating the MDGs into a reality in all 
regions. 

the 
It 
proposal  to  prepare  a  report  on  the  major  United 
the 
Nations  conferences  and  summits  prior 
quadrennial 
of 
operational activities that will start in 2012. The report 
should better identify gaps in the implementation of the 
major  outcomes  of  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits. 

Finally, the integrated and coordinated follow-up 
of United Nations conferences and summits must reach 
and  have  an  impact  on  the  unfortunate  poor  who 
depend on us to speak on their behalf. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 

the  last  speaker  in  today’s  debate.  The  Assembly  has 
therefore  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda items 42 and 48. 
to  seriously  consider 
is  worthwhile 
comprehensive 
to 
review 
09-57817 

11 


A/64/PV.26 

Programme of work 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I would like to 

make  an  announcement  concerning  agenda  item  70, 
“Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian and 
disaster  relief  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations, 
including special economic assistance”. 
I  have  requested  Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent 

Representative  of  Luxembourg  to  the  United  Nations, 
to  be  the  coordinator  of  the  informal  consultations  on 
the draft resolutions under agenda item 70, and she has 
graciously  accepted.  May  I  request  those  delegations 
intending to submit draft resolutions under this agenda 
item  to  do  so  as  early  as  possible  in  order  to  allow 
time,  if  need  be,  for  negotiations,  with  a  view  to 
reaching  consensus  on  the  draft  resolutions.  The  first 
meeting  of  the  informal  consultations  on  this  agenda 
item  will  be  Thursday,  29  October  2009,  at  3  p.m.  in 
Conference Room 3. 
in 
meetings 
contained 

I also wish to inform members that, on Thursday, 
29  October  2009,  as  indicated  in  the  schedule  of 
plenary 
document 
A/INF/64/3/Rev.1, the General Assembly will consider, 
in the morning, agenda item 75, entitled “Report of the 
International  Criminal  Court”.  In  the  afternoon  of  the 
same day, the Assembly will consider agenda item 72, 
entitled “Report of the International Court of Justice”, 
which was initially scheduled for the morning. 

Members  are  also  informed  that  elections  and 
appointments relating to the Committee for Programme 
and  Coordination,  the  United  Nations  Commission  on 
International Trade Law, the Governing Council of the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme, 
the 
Committee  on  Conferences  and  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit  scheduled  for  Monday,  2  November  2009,  have 
been  postponed  to  Tuesday,  3  November  2009,  in  the 
morning. 
The meeting rose at 11.25 a.m. 

12 

09-57817 
