
A/64/PV.37
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

37th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 4 November 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m. 




Agenda item 64 (continued) 
Report of the Human Rights Council  






  Report of the Human Rights Council 
(A/64/53/Add.1) 
  Note by the President of the General Assembly 
(A/64/490) 
  Draft resolution (A/64/L.11) 

Mr. Al-Jarman (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 

Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  you, 
Mr. President,  for  your  initiative  to  convene  these 
meetings  to  review  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council on its twelfth special session (A/64/53/Add.1), 
held on 15 and 16 October 2009, on the human rights 
situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  and 
East Jerusalem, and of the United Nations Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  also  known  as  the 
Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48). 

The  United Arab  Emirates,  which  has  read  with 
great  interest  the  executive  summary  of  the  Mission’s 
report,  is  deeply  concerned  and  shocked  by  the 
information  contained  therein,  which  reflects,  in  one 
way  or  another,  the  gravity  of  the  human  rights 
violations and violence committed by the Israeli forces 
during  the  Israeli  war  against  the  Gaza  Strip.  The 
conclusions  and  facts  contained  in  the  report,  which 
cover  only  36  out  of  hundreds  of  tragic  incidents  that 
occurred 
the  serious  and 
systematic human rights violations committed by Israel 

there,  clearly 
reflect 
is 
an 
illegal 
internationally 
against the unarmed civilian population of Gaza. These 
violations  are  sufficient  to  legally  convict  Israel  of 
committing war crimes and crimes against humanity, as 
punishable under international criminal law. 

The  Mission’s  investigation  concluded  that  the 
comprehensive  military  operation  launched  by  Israel 
against  Gaza  by  air,  land  and  sea  under  the  name  of 
Cast  Lead  has  used  excessive  force  and  violence, 
which 
act.  The 
comprehensive,  direct  and  unprecedented  military 
strikes launched by the Israeli forces far exceeded any 
military  imperative  and  did  not  discriminate  between 
civilian  and  military  targets.  These  strikes  —  which 
targeted  houses  and  densely  populated  civilian  areas, 
including vital facilities such as hospitals — resulted in 
the killing of more than 1,400 Palestinians and injuring 
and  crippling  of  thousands  of  others,  mostly  children, 
women and the elderly. 

The  Israeli  military  operations  deliberately  and 
directly targeted United Nations facilities and buildings 
in Gaza which were being used to shelter hundreds of 
fleeing people and refugees during the war. One of the 
schools  of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East 
(UNRWA),  which  was 
than 
1,400 people at that time, was hit excessively, resulting 
in  tragic  losses  of  life.  Furthermore,  the  systematic 
economic  and  political  isolation  of  Gaza  and  the 
imposition  of  restrictions  on 
the  entry  of  basic 
humanitarian  assistance,  including  food,  medicine  and 
fuel,  dramatically  affected  the  humanitarian,  social, 
health and economic situation in the Gaza Strip. 
sheltering  more 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-59450 (E) 
*0959450* 




their 
renews 
We  also  call  for 
the  General  Assembly 
respective  mandates  and 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
A/64/PV.37 


its 
condemnation  of  the  serious  crimes  and  violations 
committed  by  Israel  in  Gaza  and  in  other  cities  and 
villages  of 
the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem 
mentioned  in  the  Goldstone  report.  These  Israeli 
violations are a new addition to its long record of war 
crimes and systematic violations of the human rights of 
the  Palestinian  people  since  1948.  We  therefore  call 
upon  the  international  community,  in  particular  all 
bodies and organs of the United Nations, to take urgent 
action  within 
in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Goldstone 
report. Such action must compel Israel immediately to 
end  its  siege  of  Gaza,  in  accordance  with  Security 
Council  resolution  1860  (2009),  and 
its  serious 
violations  of  the  human  rights  of  the  Palestinians  — 
violations  which  are  responsible  for  fuelling  violence 
and instability in the region, undermining international 
peace and security and impeding the resumption of the 
Middle East peace process. 

to 
endorse the report on the twelfth special session of the 
its  recommendations 
Human  Rights  Council  and 
(A/HRC/S-12/1),  which  call  upon 
the  Secretary-
General to refer the report of the United Nations Fact-
Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  to  the  Security 
Council for review and immediate action in accordance 
with  the  Charter  and  with  provisions  of  international 
law. The report also calls on Israel to urgently initiate 
effective,  independent  and  impartial  investigations 
within  a  specified  period  of  time  in  order  to  identify 
those  directly  responsible  for  these  violations,  hold 
them  accountable  and  ensure  that  they  do  not  enjoy 
impunity.  We  call  for  the  condemnation  of  all  acts  of 
killing,  destruction  and  crimes  against  humanity 
committed by Israel, which led to a deplorable state of 
total economic, social and environmental destruction in 
Gaza, which continues to this day. 

We  urge  the  Government  of  Switzerland,  the 
depositary  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  of  1949, 
to  urgently 
to  hold  a 
conference  for  the  High  Contracting  Parties  of  that 
Convention  to  consider  the  measures  required  for  its 
enforcement  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
including 
Israel’s 
implementation  of  its  obligations  as  an  occupying 
Power. 

We  stress  the  need  to  keep  this  matter  under 
continuous  consideration  in  the  General  Assembly  in 
the  necessary  steps 
take 
East 
Jerusalem, 
and 
for 
territories, 
the light of the reports to be submitted in this regard by 
the  Secretary-General.  We  also  call  upon 
the 
international  community  to  step  up  the  economic  and 
humanitarian  assistance  it  provides  to  the  Palestinians 
in Gaza, including efforts to rebuild basic institutions, 
and to expand the services provided by the specialized 
agencies. 

In  conclusion,  we  urge  all  Member  States  which 
support international legality to vote in favour of draft 
resolution A/64/L.11, in order to achieve human justice 
and  promote  a  culture  in  which  there  is  no  place  for 
impunity,  in  accordance  with  relevant  international 
protocols and international law. 
Mr.  Loulichki  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the outset, I should like to thank you, Mr. President, for 
having favourably responded to the request of the Arab 
Group,  supported  by  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  to 
convene  this  important  meeting  of  the  Assembly  to 
consider  the  resolution  adopted  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council  regarding  the  human  rights  situation  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian 
including  East 
Jerusalem.  My  delegation  endorses  draft  resolution 
A/64/L.11, which was introduced by the representative 
of Egypt, on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, and 
endorsed  by  the  representative  of  Syria,  on  behalf  of 
the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference.  At  the 
same  time,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  several  important 
points. 

in  a 
completely  unequivocal  manner  the  seriousness  of  the 
acts  perpetrated  by  the  occupying  Israeli  forces  in 
Gaza. The Goldstone report is merely an important one 
among  the  many  reports  dealing  with  the  persecution 
of the Palestinian people during the war waged against 
them  in  the  Gaza  Strip  between  December  2008  and 
January 2009. During this period, the Israeli forces did 
not respect the most elementary rights protected under 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law, 
leading  to  more  than  1,400  deaths  and  more  than 
5,000 injured,  not  sparing  the  elderly,  nor  women, 
children,  mosques,  schools,  hospitals  nor  even  the 
offices  of  our  Organization.  The  Goldstone  report 
contains  an  objective  assessment  of  what  took  place 
during 
the  military  attack  on  Gaza,  which  was 
described  by  the  Mission  as  serious  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  other  relevant 
international instruments. Therefore it is now important 
to  carry  out  an  effective,  swift  independent  and 
impartial  assessment  and 
that 
International  reports  have  underscored 
investigation  and 
2 

09-59450 
to 
and 
efforts 
by 
territories,  which 


responsibility  for  this  falls  on  the  parties  involved  in 
the conflict. 

The  report  deals  with  the  qualitative  difference 
between 
these  military  operations  and  previous 
military  acts  conducted  by  Israel  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
inflicted  collective 
punishment  on  all  inhabitants  of  Gaza  in  a  way  that 
was  totally  excessive  and  disproportionate.  Civilian 
targets  were  demolished,  the  means  of  subsistence  for 
Palestinians  were  destroyed  and,  as  a  result,  a  decent 
daily life became almost impossible. 

The  international  community  would  have  hoped 
that  after  the  adoption  of  resolution  1860  (2009)  the 
Israeli  war  machine  would  have  put  an  end  to  those 
practices and begun to pave the way for reconstruction, 
and  that  restrictions  on  the  movement  of  individuals 
and  goods  to  meet  basic  needs  would  be  eased. There 
was  also  hope  that  the  capacity  for  a  minimum  of 
subsistence  would  have  been  granted 
the 
Palestinians to enable them to resume their daily lives 
as  well  as  to  breathe  a  new  spirit  into  the  peace 
process. 

However,  Israel  continues  with  the  same  policy: 
closing  crossing  points  and  blocking  humanitarian 
assistance 
the 
international  community.  This  is  in  addition  to  a 
systematic policy of collective punishment against the 
Palestinian  people.  Israel  also  continues  its  illegal 
the 
policy 
expropriation of even more land in the Arab sections of 
the city, thus  forcing Arab inhabitants to leave so that 
Israeli settlements can be joined together. Furthermore, 
Arab  life  in  the  area  is  being  dismantled  by  the 
separation wall. That represents an attempt to limit the 
city’s  Arab  population 
its 
demographic character. 

In addition, Israel has continued to target and call 
into  question  Islamic  and  Christian  holy  sites,  using 
archaeological  excavations  under  and  around Al-Aqsa 
mosque and its neighbourhood as a flimsy pretext, and 
finally,  has  attempted  to  hide  the  sacrilege  committed 
against  the  holy  places  while  preventing  the  faithful 
from safely reaching those sites for worship. All of that 
is  utterly  incompatible  with  international  norms,  law 
and  resolutions  as  well  as  lacking  in  respect  for  the 
rituals of those practicing other monotheistic religions. 

King  Mohammed  VI,  Chairman  of  the  Al-Quds 
Committee, has expressed his deep concern about, and 
as  demonstrated  by 
reconstruction 
in  order 
to  change 
in  Al-Quds,
A/64/PV.37
has condemned, the hostile and aggressive practices to 
which  the  Al-Aqsa  mosque  and  East  Jerusalem  are 
subjected,  and  the  settlement  activities  around  them. 
These  pose  a  real  threat  to  the  situation  and  to  the 
demographic and urban balances in the area. 

In the context of his responsibility and due to the 
pivotal  role  that  Al-Quds  plays  in  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict,  His  Majesty  has  continually  underscored  the 
need to have the United Nations, along with influential 
Powers and spiritual leaders, including the Pope, focus 
attention  on  those  issues  and  on  the  danger  that  all 
Israeli  illegal  and  unilateral  acts  pose  for  regional 
peace and security. There is also a need to respect the 
special  nature  of  Al-Quds,  in  accordance  with  the 
resolutions  adopted  by  the  General Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  and  as  stated  in  other  commitments 
undertaken by the parties. 

The  most  recent  meeting  in  Morocco  regarding 
Al-Quds,  organized  last  week  by  the  Treasury  of  the 
Al-Quds  Committee  and  the  Yasser  Arafat  Institute, 
launched an appeal for an immediate halt to all illegal 
Israeli  practices  in  Al-Quds  and  its  holy  sites,  while 
insisting on the need to respect freedom of religion, as 
Al-Quds  is  indivisible  from  the  issue  of  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention and elements of international law apply to 
Al-Quds and its status. There is thus a need to respect 
all  religions  and  all  places  of  worship  and  to  promote 
tolerance and peaceful coexistence. 

the  Kingdom  of  Morocco’s  firm 
conviction that resorting to the logic of force and faits 
accomplis  can  serve  only  to  further  aggravate  the 
regional  situation,  we  repeat  the  call  to  resume  the 
peace process, as it is the sole option within the terms 
of  reference  adopted  by  the  international  community, 
namely,  the  Road  Map,  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  and 
other agreements and understandings among the parties 
involved. That  should  be  done  with  the  understanding 
that  negotiations  are  an  integral  process  and  must  be 
reconvened  where  they  were  halted;  otherwise,  this 
will be an absurd process that will never conclude. 

Morocco  therefore  supports  the  vision  of  the 
Quartet, that is, the two-State solution and the need to 
establish  a  Palestinian  State  in  accordance  with  the 
United States vision. In this context, we also hope that 
efforts  by  the  United  States  Administration  under 
President  Obama  to  achieve  success  in  the  peace 
process will continue while further recourse is made to 
territories.  Both 
Based  on 
09-59450 

3 

A/64/PV.37 

international  efforts,  including  the  endeavours  of  the 
European nations.  

At  the  same  time,  such  international  efforts  will 
remain  limited  unless  they  are  accompanied  by  a 
change in the parties’ attitudes towards each other and 
towards  others  in  general.  The  Goldstone  report  cites 
the  views  of  an  Israeli  teacher  and  a  Palestinian 
psychiatrist.  The  former,  Ofer  Shinar,  expresses  the 
view that there is a need to understand that both parties 
share the feeling of being victimized. The concept that 
the  other  party  is  not  only  violating  international 
humanitarian  law,  but  is  also  suffering  from  the 
violation  of  its  human  rights,  needs  also  to  be 
understood. 
The  Palestinian  psychiatrist,  Iyad  al-Sarraj, was 

equally eloquent in saying that we have here not only a 
state  of  war  but  also  a  cultural  and  psychological 
situation. He nurtures the hope that the Israelis will  

“start  to  walk  on  the  road  of  dealing  with  the 
consequences  of  their  own  victimization  and  to 
start  dealing  with  the  Palestinian  as  a  human 
being,  a  full  human  being  who  is  equal  in  rights 
with  the  Israeli. And  also  the  other  way  around: 
the  Palestinian  must  deal  with  himself,  must 
respect himself and respect his own differences in 
order to be able to stand before the Israeli also as 
a  full  human  being  with  equal  rights  and 
obligations.  That  is  the  real  road  to  justice  and 
peace”. (A/HRC/12/48, para. 1905)  

I  reiterate:  it  is  the  only  way  to  achieve  justice 
and  peace.  Mutual  awareness  of  that  obvious  and 
important  truth  only  marks  the  beginning  of  the  just 
and comprehensive solution to which we all aspire, in 
order to achieve coexistence and cooperation among all 
peoples of the region. 

Mr.  Salam  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Israel 
has  accused  Judge  Richard  Goldstone,  head  of  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict,  of  bias.  Yes,  indeed  —  Judge  Goldstone  is 
biased. In fact, he has always been biased towards only 
one thing — finding the truth. He was biased when he 
investigated acts of terror and violence in his country, 
South  Africa.  He  was  biased  when  he  participated  in 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia,  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda, the International Panel of the Commission of 
Enquiry into the Activities of Nazism in Argentina, the 
Independent International Commission on Kosovo and 
field  visits, 
report  of 
the 
Independent 
the  sake  of  argument, 
the  Volcker 
Inquiry 
Committee  to  investigate  the  oil-for-food  programme 
in  Iraq.  In  fact,  had  he  not  been  biased  only  towards 
the  truth,  he  would  not  have  been  qualified  to 
successfully  assume  any  of  these  high-level  judicial 
positions. 

Israel also accused Judge Goldstone of possessing 
a one-sided view. This is true. Judge Goldstone viewed 
the  issues  solely  with  a  view  based  on  justice  as  he 
sees  it.  He  rejected  the  first  mandate  of  the  Human 
Rights Council for the Fact-Finding Mission because it 
called  for  investigation  of  violations  committed  only 
by  Israel.  He  did  not  accept  that  assignment  until  his 
request to expand the mandate to include all violations 
of  human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law 
which  were  committed  in  the  context  of  the  military 
operations conducted in Gaza was granted. 

Inside  Israel,  there  are  some  who  attack  the 
conclusions  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  based  on  the 
assumption  that  political  objectives  were  guiding  the 
work of Judge Goldstone. The paradox here is that if we 
assume,  for 
that  political 
objectives  had  influenced  Judge  Goldstone  and  were 
thus behind the Mission’s report, those objectives would 
only serve to save Israel from itself. Richard Goldstone 
has identified himself first and foremost as “a Jew who 
has  supported  Israel  and  its  people  all  my  life”,  as  he 
wrote in an article that appeared in The Jerusalem Post
on 18 October. In fact, in an interview with Israeli army 
radio on 16 September, his daughter Nicole said that her 
father was “a Zionist who loves Israel”. 

In  addition  to  challenging  Judge  Goldstone’s 
independence,  neutrality  and  credibility,  there  were 
those in Israel who cast doubt on the work methods and 
professionalism  of  the  Mission.  In  fact,  the  Mission 
pursued  a  comprehensive  approach  and  scientific 
method  based  on  the  collection  of  data  from  original 
sources,  such  as  interviewing  victims  and  witnesses, 
making 
and 
images,  reviewing 
photographs, 
medical reports and requesting forensic analysis of the 
remnants  of  weapons  and  munitions,  and  organizing 
public hearings in Gaza and Geneva. In this regard, the 
Mission  conducted  188 
individual  interviews  and 
reviewed over 300 reports and written notes and other 
documents,  all  of  which  amounted  to  over  10,000 
pages and more than 30 videotapes and 1,200 pictures. 

In our judgement, the fierce campaign of attacks 
against  Judge  Goldstone  and  the  work  of  the  Fact-
analysing  videotapes 
including  satellite 
4 

09-59450 


Finding  Mission  have  no  purpose  other  than  to  divert 
attention  from  the  essence  of  the  matter,  namely,  the 
conclusions reached by the Mission. Therefore, we will 
focus on the most important conclusions.  

Primarily, the Mission concluded that the military 
operation in Gaza cannot be understood or assessed if 
it  is  addressed  in  isolation  from  prior  and  subsequent 
developments.  The  operation  was  part  of  continuous 
Israeli  policies  aimed  at  pursuing  Israel’s  political 
objectives in Gaza and the entire occupied Palestinian 
territory. Many of those policies are based on or result 
from  violations  of  international  human  rights  law  and 
humanitarian  law  and  the  most  important  aspect  is 
immediately  evident  when  considering  the  blockade 
policy  that  preceded  the  operation  and  that,  according 
to  the  Mission,  amounts  to  collective  punishment 
intentionally inflicted by the Israeli Government on the 
people of the Gaza Strip.  

The  Mission  points  to  the  convergence  of  the 
military  objectives  in  Gaza  and  the  numerous  Israeli 
practices  in  the  West  Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem, 
with  the  aim  of  strengthening  its  control  over  it  by 
taking  such  measures  as  increased  land  expropriation, 
house  demolitions,  demolition  orders  and  permits  to 
build  homes  in  settlements  and  greater  and  more 
formalized  access  and  movement  restrictions  on 
Palestinians. 

With  regard  to  the  nature  of  the  Israeli  military 
operations and objectives, first, the Mission concluded 
that  while  Israel  tried  to  portray  its  operations  as 
essentially  a  response  to  rocket  attacks,  in  exercise  of 
its right to self-defence, the objective was to further an 
overall  policy  aimed  at  punishing  the  population  of 
Gaza  for  their  resilience  and  apparent  support  for 
Hamas  and  possibly  with  the  intention  of  forcing  a 
change in such support. 

Secondly,  the  repeated  failure  to  distinguish 
between  combatants  and  civilians  appears  to  the 
Mission  to  have  resulted  from  deliberate  instructions 
issued  to  soldiers,  as  described  by  some  of  them. 
Thirdly,  evidence  gathered  by  the  Mission  shows  that 
the  destruction  of  food  supply  installations,  water  and 
sanitation  systems,  cement  factories  and  residential 
houses  was  the  result  of  a  deliberate  and  systematic 
policy  of  the  Israeli  armed  forces,  not  because  these 
targets were a military threat, but to make the process 
of  dignified  living  more  difficult  for  the  civilian 
population.  Fourthly,  there  seems  to  have  been  an 
assault on the people’s dignity. This was seen not only 
in  the  use  of  civilians  as  human  shields  and  unlawful 
detention,  sometimes  in  unacceptable  conditions,  but 
also in the vandalizing of inhabited houses and the way 
in  which  people  were  treated  when  their  houses  were 
entered. The graffiti on the walls, obscenities and often 
racist  slogans  all  constituted  an  overall  image  of 
humiliation  and  dehumanization  of  the  Palestinian 
population. 

Fifthly,  what  occurred  was  a  deliberately 
disproportionate  attack  designed  to  punish,  humiliate 
and  terrorize  a  civilian  population,  radically  diminish 
its local economic capacity both to work and to provide 
for itself and to force upon it an ever-increasing sense 
of dependency and vulnerability. 

With  regard  to  legal  consequences,  the  most 
important conclusions reached by the Mission were the 
following.  

First,  Israel  failed  to  take  necessary  precautions 
required  by  customary  law  to  avoid  or  minimize 
collateral  loss  of  civilian  life,  injury  to  civilians  and 
damage  to  civilian  objects.  Second,  the  deliberate 
attacks on civilians and their property were in violation 
of  the  fundamental  international  humanitarian  law 
principle of distinction, resulting in deaths and serious 
injuries. Third, by deliberately attacking police stations 
and killing large numbers of policemen during the first 
minutes of the military operations, Israel clearly failed 
to  respect  the  principle  of  proportionality.  Fourth, 
Israel’s  use  of  white  phosphorus  is  restricted  or  even 
prohibited 
in  most 
circumstances  by  virtue  of 
the  principles  of 
proportionality and precautions necessary in the attack. 
Fifth,  Israel’s  use  of  civilians  as  human  shields  is 
prohibited by international humanitarian law. It further 
constitutes a violation of the right to life, protected in 
the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights.  Sixth,  the  prolonged  detention  of  large  groups 
of 
circumstances 
constitutes  collective  punishment  in  violation  of  the 
Fourth Geneva Convention and the Hague Regulations. 
Seventh, Israel committed grave breaches of the Fourth 
Geneva Convention, including wilful killing, torture or 
inhuman 
treatment  and  extensive  destruction  and 
appropriation  of  property,  not  justified  by  military 
necessity and carried out unlawfully and wantonly, and 
individual  criminal  responsibility  attaches 
the 
perpetrators. Eighth — and this is most serious — the 
series of acts that deprive Palestinians in the Gaza Strip 
of  their  means  of  subsistence,  employment,  housing 
inappropriate 
international 
civilians 
under 
under 
law 
A/64/PV.37
to 
09-59450 

5 

the 
that 
accept 
calling 
argument 
A/64/PV.37 

and  water  and  that  deny  their  freedom  of  movement 
and  their  right  to  leave  and  enter  their  own  homes 
could  constitute  the  crime  of  persecution,  which  is  a 
crime  against  humanity.  For  all  those  reasons,  we 
cannot 
for 
accountability  could  impede  the  peace  process.  Quite 
to the contrary, an end to impunity is a prerequisite for 
the  justice  that  is  required  for  a  comprehensive  and 
lasting peace.  

My  delegation  calls  upon  all  members  of  the 
Assembly to vote in favour of the draft resolution now 
before us, which calls for the adoption of the report of 
the independent international Fact-Finding Mission on 
the Gaza Conflict. We have heard the President of the 
State  of  Israel  claim  that  that  would  deprive  Israel  of 
its right to defend itself, in particular against terrorism. 
Therefore,  I  should  like  to  conclude  by  quoting  from 
an Israeli opinion piece that appeared in The Jerusalem 
Post on 7 October 2009:  
(spoke in English)  

is 
no 
such 
thing 
“That’s the way it’s always been, that’s the 
“We’re  entitled  to  do  whatever  the  hell  we  want 
to 
the  Palestinians  because,  by  definition, 
whatever  we  do  to  them  is  self-defence.  They, 
however, are not entitled to lift a finger against us 
because, by definition, whatever they do to us is 
terrorism.  

way it was in Operation Cast Lead.  
“And there are no limits on our right to self-

defence.  There 
as 
‘disproportionate’.  We  can  blockade  Gaza,  we 
can answer Kassams with F-16s and Apaches, we 
can take 100 eyes for an eye.  

“We  can  deliberately  destroy  thousands  of 
Gazan homes, the Gazan parliament, the Ministry 
of  Justice,  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  courthouses, 
the only Gazan flour plant, the main poultry farm, 
a  sewage  treatment  plant,  water  wells  and  God 
knows what else. 


definition.  

defend themselves against this?  

“Deliberately.  
“After  all,  we’re  acting  in  self-defence.  By 
“And what right do the Palestinians have to 
“None”. 







6 

Mr.  Al-Hinai  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  thanks 
and appreciation to you, Mr. President, for holding this 
plenary  meeting  of  the  General Assembly  to  consider 
the report of the Human Rights Council on its twelfth 
special session (A/64/53/Add.1) and Council resolution 
S-12/1,  as  part  of  the  agenda  item  “Report  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council”.  My  country  is  very  grateful 
for  your  diligent  and  sincere  efforts  in  convening  this 
meeting  at 
the  request  of  many  countries  and 
geographical and political groups.  

My country aligns itself with the statements made 
by  the  representative  of  Syria  on  behalf  of  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  and  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

The  General  Assembly  is  meeting  today  to 
consider a very important issue related to the violation 
of human rights, namely, the vicious Israeli aggression 
against the occupied Palestinian territory, in particular 
the massacres of civilians in the Gaza Strip carried out 
by Israel from 27 December 2008 to 18 January 2009. 
The indescribable atrocities and aggression committed 
against the Palestinian people by the Israeli occupying 
forces claimed the lives of more than 1,400 Palestinian 
martyrs  and  wounded  thousands  of  others;  they  also 
involved  the  bombing  and  destruction  of  houses  and 
United  Nations  facilities,  which  enjoy  international 
privileges and immunities. In that regard, the Sultanate 
of Oman welcomes the findings and recommendations 
contained 
the  Independent  International  Fact-
Finding  Mission  established  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  led  by  Judge  Richard  Goldstone,  which 
were  endorsed  by  the  Council  in  its  resolution  S-12/1 
of  16  October  2009,  adopted  at  its  twelfth  special 
session. 

the 
commission by the Israeli authorities of war crimes and 
crimes  against  humanity.  It  also  confirms  that  the 
Israeli  blockade  against  the  Gaza  Strip  constitutes  a 
policy  of  collective  punishment  and  a  violation  by 
Israel,  as  the  occupying  Power,  of  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention.  The  report  also  cites  many  crimes, 
including  the  use  of  Palestinian  civilians  as  human 
shields. 
The  international  community  must  take  a  firm 

it 
stand  against 
the 
accountable  by  compelling 
victims.  That  is  an  important  issue  that  must  not  be 
Israel’s  war  crimes  and  hold 
to  compensate 
report  confirms 
than  once, 
More 
the 
in 
it 
09-59450 
through 


ignored.  It  should  be  addressed  with  all  the  necessary 
seriousness.  My  delegation  believes  that  pursuing 
perpetrators of violations of international humanitarian 
law  and  crimes  against  humanity  will  make  Israeli 
officials  understand  the  need  to  move  ahead  with  the 
Middle East peace process with a view to establishing 
just and comprehensive peace. 

My  delegation  also  believes  that  ignoring  the 
conclusions  and  recommendations  contained  in  the 
report  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict would constitute a genuine setback in the area 
of  human  rights  since  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  was  adopted.  Continued  war  and 
military  escalation  is  futile.  The  only  way  to  ensure 
Israel’s  security  is  by  negotiations  with  the  legitimate 
representative  of  the  Palestinian  people  in  order  to 
achieve  just  and  comprehensive  peace,  stability  and 
security for all parties. 

the  President,  my 
In  conclusion, 
delegation  calls  on  the  Security  Council  to  discharge 
its full  responsibilities  as  the body responsible  for the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 
Mr.  Hariprasad  (India):  India  condemns  in  the 

strongest possible terms the violations of international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law  committed 
during  the  Gaza  conflict  that  took  place  in  December 
2008  and  January  2009.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
unqualified  adherence  by  all  the  concerned  parties  to 
the  relevant  instruments  of  international  humanitarian 
law  and  human  rights  law  is  imperative.  Furthermore, 
any  refusal  by  the  concerned  parties  to  do  so  should 
rightly  be 
the  strongest  possible 
opprobrium from the international community. 

Mr.  Mohamad  (Sudan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

We note that the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48) 
was discussed by the United Nations system a number 
of times prior to our meeting today. The report, which 
was  prepared  under  the  express  mandate  of  the 
President of the Human Rights Council, was discussed 
at the Council in a special session in the middle of last 
month.  Let  us  therefore  be  clear  that  what  we  are 
discussing is the report of the Human Rights Council at 
its  twelfth  special  session,  which  was  held  in  Geneva 
last month. 

While  participating  in  the  special  session,  we 
noted  that  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  had  produced  a 
comprehensive report that merits careful consideration. 
the  subject  of 
A/64/PV.37
that 
the  discussion 
in 
the  Mission  should  have  addressed 
rights  and 
It  documented  violations  of  human 
international  humanitarian 
the  sides 
law  by  all 
involved. That is a matter of serious concern. We also 
pointed out that it was important not to lose sight of the 
weaknesses  of  the  report,  including  the  fact  that  the 
report itself admits that its findings do not necessarily 
reach the standard of proof applicable in criminal trials 
and 
its 
recommendations  to  the  Council  and  not  to  other 
institutions  in  the  United  Nations  and  multilateral 
system. 

The  report  was  also  among  the  major  issues 
discussed  by  the  Security  Council  on  14  October.  We 
carefully  watched 
the  Security 
Council, as we had the events that led to the convening 
of  the  Council’s  meeting.  We  followed  that  up  with  a 
serious  analysis  of  the  developments  that  have  since 
unfolded. 

India’s  deep  association  with,  and  continuing 
commitment  to,  Palestine  is  rooted  in  our  modern 
history  going  back  to  our  struggle  for  independence. 
We  believe  that  the  solution  to  the  Palestine  issue 
should  be  based  on  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the 
Quartet’s Road Map. That should result in a sovereign, 
independent, viable and united State of Palestine living 
within  secure  and  recognized  borders,  side  by  side  at 
peace with Israel. 

India will continue to do all within its capacities 
to  assist  Palestine  in  its  endeavours  in  capacity-  and 
institution-building.  That 
been 
has 
exemplified,  among  other 
the  recent 
enhancement of our contribution to the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East. 

The continuing atmosphere of distrust and refusal 
to talk is fast becoming a major obstacle to peace and 
security  in  the  West  Asia  region.  Terrorism  and  the 
escalating  humanitarian  crisis  are  adding  obstacles  to 
any  resumption  of  the  dialogue  process.  We  are 
convinced that all the concerned parties involved in the 
Gaza conflict that took place nearly a year ago need to 
engage  in  introspection  and  take  firm  action  against 
those 
international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law  in  a  credible 
and  speedy  manner,  as  has  been  recommended  by  the 
Goldstone  report.  The  international  community,  and 
especially  the  countries  of  the  region,  must  play  a 
intention 
things,  by 
for  violations  of 
responsible 
09-59450 

7 

of 
the 
endorsement 
the  various  efforts  at  documenting 
A/64/PV.37 

positive  role  in  creating  an  enabling  atmosphere  for 
such investigations and follow-up actions. 

In conclusion, I wish to emphasize that, while we 
welcome 
the 
injustices  and  atrocities  committed  during  the  Gaza 
conflict,  we  have  reservations  about  making  an 
unqualified 
various 
recommendations and some of the procedures adopted 
by the Goldstone report, including on the involvement 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the  Security 
Council. 
Mr.  Wenawesser  (Liechtenstein):  We  appreciate 

this  opportunity  to  address  the  report  of  the  United 
Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict 
(A/HRC/12/48).  The  substance  of  the  report  has  been 
previously  discussed,  both  at 
the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  in  the  framework  of  the  last  open  debate 
of  the  Security  Council. We  were  disappointed  by  the 
two  decisions  that  the  Human  Rights  Council  adopted 
on the important report before us. We hope that today’s 
debate  will  result  in  a  responsible  and  appropriate 
decision  by  the  only  universal  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. 

We  look  at  the  report  before  us  as  part  of  the 
larger  picture  in  the  area  of  accountability  —  a  topic 
with which United Nations organs have been struggling 
on a regular  basis. On the one hand, both the General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  have  intensified 
their  efforts  to  enhance  the  protection  of  civilian 
populations  in  times  of  armed  conflict.  One  clear 
expression  of  that  stronger  commitment  was  the 
agreement reached in the Assembly on the principle of 
the  responsibility  to  protect  civilian  populations.  That 
responsibility falls primarily on States, but also on the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  in  cases  where 
national  authorities  are  manifestly  failing  to  protect 
civilian populations.  
On  the  other  hand,  we  have  witnessed  the 

continuing  erosion  of 
international 
humanitarian law, which is the prime guarantor of such 
protection  in  practice.  Most  important,  there  has  been 
no  consistency  in  the  efforts  to  ensure  accountability. 
The question can therefore be asked as to why we have 
such a comprehensive report before us on the military 
operations in Gaza several months ago, when possible 
massive violations of international humanitarian law in 
the  context  of  counterinsurgency  operations  in  other 
parts  of  the  world  have  not  been  subject  to  any  such 
credible  investigations.  We  are  facing  a  problem  of 
respect 
for 
selectivity,  which  we  are  familiar  with  from  the 
broader human rights discourse. We need to address it. 
But  silence  on  everything  and  silence  on 
the 
information  before  us  cannot  of  course  be  our 
approach. 

Over the past decade, the Organization has made 
very  significant  progress  in  the  area  of  accountability 
and  in  the  fight  against  impunity.  It  is  generally 
accepted that there can be no immunity or amnesty for 
perpetrators  of 
the  most  serious  crimes  under 
international law — genocide, crimes against humanity 
and  war  crimes.  It  is  also  generally  recognized  that 
national  judiciaries  have  the  primary  responsible  for 
investigating and prosecuting cases where such crimes 
have  been  committed.  Where  they  fail  to  do  so, 
international  law  requires  that  other  actors  step  up  to 
ensure that there is no impunity for the perpetrators of 
those crimes. This principle is also the conceptual basis 
of the International Criminal Court, the most important 
expression of the principle of complementarity. 

The findings  contained in the report of the Fact-
Finding  Mission  are  very  serious  and  very  disturbing. 
By its mandate and its character, the Mission was not a 
criminal  investigation.  But  clearly  there  is  a  need  for 
such an investigation on the basis of the vast material 
that  the  Mission  has  collected.  In  considering  the 
report,  the  Assembly  is  now  called  upon  to  act  in 
accordance  with 
the  primary 
responsibility of the parties to the conflict, which was 
advocated by the Mission itself. We therefore hope that 
the  draft  resolution  to  be  adopted  at  the  end  of  this 
debate will focus on the responsibility of the parties to 
the conflict to investigate and prosecute allegations of 
serious violations of international humanitarian law.  
We  believe  that  that  has  emerged  as  a  strong 

in  a 
common  element 
controversial  political  discussion  over  the  past  few 
weeks.  Such  investigations  should  be  carried  out  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  international  standards, 
and  there  should  be  a  possibility  for  the Assembly  to 
consider  the  issue  again,  when  necessary,  with  a  view 
to taking further action on the basis of a report by the 
Secretary-General. 
Mr. Takasu  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  express  my 

appreciation to the President for arranging this meeting 
on  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  its 
twelfth special session (A/64/53/Add.1). 
the  principle  of 
the  positions 
taken 
in 
8 

09-59450 



Japan is seriously concerned about the increasing 
number  of  civilian  fatalities  and  casualties  that  are 
occurring  in  armed  conflict  worldwide.  The  violence 
being  done  to  civilians  by  both  State  and  non-State 
actors  is  a  violation  of  international  humanitarian  law 
and  human  rights  law,  and  all  perpetrators  should  be 
held accountable. 

Ten  months  have  passed  since  the  Security 
Council adopted resolution 1860 (2009) and expressed 
serious  concern  about  the  harm  done  to  civilians  and 
United  Nations  facilities  in  Gaza.  The  humanitarian 
and  human  rights  situation  in  Gaza,  especially  the 
plight  of  women  and  children,  remains  dire  and 
precarious.  We  must  express  our  deep  concern  and 
exhort  the  concerned  parties  to  make  every  effort  to 
improve the situation. 

The  Human  Rights  Council  adopted  a  resolution 
on  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  on 
16  October  (resolution  S-12/1)  and  recommended  that 
the  General  Assembly  consider  the  Mission’s  report 
(A/HRC/12/48). We note that the Fact-Finding Mission 
took great pains to try to ensure a degree of balance by 
investigating acts committed by the Palestinian side as 
well as the Israeli side. We would like to pay tribute to 
the efforts of the Mission. 

serious 
violations of international humanitarian law and human 
rights law by both Israelis and Palestinians. We should 
never overlook these findings. With this view, we hope 
that  both  sides  will  take  appropriate  steps  in  a  timely 
manner 
to 
credible 
investigations. 

the  Fact-Finding 
Mission  are  comprehensive  and  wide-ranging  and 
require careful examination by the relevant parties and 
United  Nations  entities.  We  strongly  believe  that  it  is 
essential  for  the  General Assembly  and  other  relevant 
United  Nations  organs 
to  conduct  discussions 
conducive to the promotion of constructive dialogue on 
the  situation  in  Gaza  and  not  to  hinder  the  efforts  the 
two  sides  are  making.  That  is  important  especially  at 
this  juncture,  when  the  parties  concerned  are  making 
serious  efforts  to  resume  peace  talks.  We  believe  the 
General Assembly should encourage both Israel and the 
Palestinian  Authority 
in  constructive 
dialogue  in  the  hope  that  that  would  contribute  to 
achieving a resolution of the situation on the ground. 
The  Fact-Finding  Mission 
recommendations  of 
internationally 
to  engage 
reported 
conduct 
The 
A/64/PV.37

We  are  convinced  that  peace  and  justice  are  and 
must always be mutually reinforcing. In this year of the 
sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  1949  Geneva  Conventions, 
the international community should do everything in its 
power  to  enhance  dialogue  on  how  to  achieve  both 
peace and justice. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly for having responded rapidly to the appeal of 
the Group of Arab States to place on the agenda of our 
meeting  consideration  of  the  recommendations  of  the 
report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
the  Israeli  aggression  against  Gaza  (A/HRC/12/48).  I 
would  also  like  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  and 
express our particular gratitude to the members of this 
Mission,  headed  by  Justice  Richard  Goldstone,  whose 
integrity,  courage  and  professional  qualities  are 
acknowledged and unanimously appreciated.  

The broad participation of Member States in this 
debate  demonstrates,  if  there  were  need  to  do  so,  the 
huge resource of solidarity, sympathy and benevolence 
that  this  Assembly  has  always  demonstrated  with 
respect  to  the  Palestinian  cause.  We  also  see  here  an 
outpouring  of  a  spirit  of  legitimate  anger  against  the 
continued  impunity  of  Israel,  which  impunity  we 
condemn  with  the  utmost  vigour.  For  its  part, Algeria 
would  like  to  emphasize  the  importance  it  attaches  to 
having  our  work  produce  specific  decisions  and 
actions.  

The  concentrated  and  well-documented  report  of 
the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  arouses 
indignation. In it is a forceful description of the way in 
which the Israeli aggressor took the civilian population 
of  Gaza  hostage,  leaving  behind  a  shameful  trail  of 
victims  and  devastation.  It  indeed  does  honour  to  the 
authors of the report to have placed the civilian victims 
at  the  core  of  their  concerns  regarding  the  plethora  of 
blatant violations of international law and international 
humanitarian law.  

It is totally understandable that their investigation 
dealt  less  with  the  status  of  the  perpetrators  of  the 
violations  than  with  the  nature  and  the  instruments  of 
the  crime  in  determining,  to  the  extent  possible,  the 
circumstances  of  events  brought  to  their  attention. 
However, it would be unjust and morally wrong to put 
the  aggressor  and  the  aggrieved  party  on  an  equal 
footing  by  dividing  equally  between 
the 
responsibility  for  their  acts.  Algeria  is  confident  that 
the  Palestinian  side  has 
the 
investigations 
them 
that 
09-59450 

9 
itself 
ideal  framework  for 
the  pointlessness  of 
to  a  civilian  population 
A/64/PV.37 

to  conduct  will 
unanimously  committed 
demonstrate 
the  quibbling 
argument regarding the right to legitimate self-defence 
put  forward  by  the  Israeli  aggressor  to  justify  its 
serious crimes.  

Regarding the bereaved survivors, Algeria refuses 
to describe the events in Gaza as a conflict. Rather, at 
issue  is  brutal  military  aggression,  yet  one  more  time 
when  Israel,  boasting  sophisticated  weaponry,  has 
waged  war  against  civilians  and  has  carried  out 
barbaric  acts  under  the  spotlight  of  the  international 
stage. 

Faced with that kind of aggression, advocating a 
sharing  of  responsibilities  would  be  to  demonstrate  a 
deplorable  naïveté.  As  stated  by  Mr.  Richard  Falk, 
United  Nations  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of 
human  rights  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
Gaza  has  provided 
the 
implementation  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  with 
regard 
that  has  been 
collectively punished by policies that are tantamount to 
a crime against humanity. 

Israel  has  never  concealed  its  deadly  plans  and 
has  certainly  not  committed  its  last  act  of  aggression. 
Its  history  is  studded  with  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against  humanity,  knowingly  perpetrated  in  pursuit  of 
an  expansionist  goal.  The  most  recent  crime  in  Gaza, 
however,  openly  committed 
the 
international  community  and  the  Security  Council  in 
particular,  is  exceptional  in  that  it  threatens  the  very 
notion of norms of law. Condemned at the time by the 
international community, that new act of aggression by 
the  Israeli  army  is  a  massive  and  flagrant  violation  of 
human  rights  without  mitigating  circumstances,  once 
again  demonstrating  that  in  order  to  achieve  its  goals 
Israel is prepared to trample the norms of international 
law and the principles on which our Organization was 
founded. 

It is, however, regrettable that this condemnation 
has not been  reinforced by decisive action on the part 
of  the  Security  Council,  despite  the  fact  that  the 
Charter  grants  such  power.  As  far  as  Israel 
is 
concerned,  the  Council  has  clearly  not  adopted  the 
firm,  strict  attitude  necessitated  by  the  seriousness  of 
the  situation  and  the  threat  it  poses  to  international 
peace and security, as well as to the peace process. 

important 
statement  at  the  beginning  of  this  meeting.  We  fully 
Algeria  welcomes 
the  President’s 
in 
the  face  of 
the 

to 
finally 
shoulder 
support the desire of the majority of delegations to see 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council 
demonstrate their responsibility and coherence in order 
to  put  an  end  once  and  for  all  to  Israel’s  policy  of 
aggression  and  threats,  which  would  never  have  been 
possible  without the impunity that Israel knows it  can 
be sure of. It is exactly that impunity and the blocking 
of any political decision by the United Nations system 
that weakens our Organization’s very credibility. 
It  is  thus  perfectly  natural  that  the  Security 

Council  be  called  on 
its 
responsibilities  and  exercise  its  prerogatives  at  a 
moment when Israel’s murderous aggression is handing 
over  the  entire  Middle  East  to  a  dangerous  revival  of 
the  spirit  of  confrontation,  to  the  detriment  of  the 
dynamic  of  the  peace  process  that  all  parties  are 
committed  to  promoting  and  that  the  international 
community is duty bound to protect. 

My delegation would like to urge the members of 
the  Assembly  to  adopt  by  an  overwhelming  majority 
the  draft  resolution  (A/64/L.11)  that  the  Arab  Group 
has  submitted  on  the  basis  of  the  recommendations  in 
the Goldstone Report. In so doing, they will be ending 
the  paralysis  that  has  for  too  long  characterized  the 
attitude  of  our  Organization  towards  Israel  and  thus 
helping to put an end to the culture of impunity. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

Switzerland  has  already  stated  its  position  in  the 
Human Rights Council and the Security Council on the 
report  (A/HRC/12/48)  of 
the  Independent  United 
Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict of 
December 2008 to January 2009. My delegation would 
therefore like simply to reiterate the following points. 

the  allegations  of 
violations  committed  by  all  parties,  not  just  one.  It  is 
thanks  to  that  balanced  approach  that  the  report  has  a 
high  level  of  credibility.  It  examines  the  events  in  an 
objective, comprehensive manner.  
Switzerland  is  concerned  about  the  Mission’s 

finding that very serious crimes were committed by the 
various parties and that it would be irresponsible not to 
follow  up  on  that. Accordingly,  the  report  proposes  a 
number of recommendations to ensure that justice can 
be done. 

It  is  crucial  at  this  stage  that  the  parties  to  the 
conflict  conduct  their  own  independent  investigations, 
in  conformity  with 
international  standards.  The 
responsibility  is,  first  and  foremost,  their  own.  If, 
The  Mission 
investigated 
10 

09-59450 
should  consider 
their  respective  mandates.  If  need  be, 


however,  the  parties  to  the  conflict  lack  the  will  or 
capacity  to  conduct  the  necessary  investigations  and 
legal  proceedings,  it  will  be  up  to  the  international 
community  to  ensure  that  the  violations  do  not  go 
unpunished. 

The  Human  Rights  Council  has  endorsed  the 
report’s  recommendations  and  called  on  the  various 
actors, including the General Assembly,  to ensure that 
they  carry  out  those  recommendations  in  accordance 
with 
the 
Assembly 
the  creation  of  an 
independent  committee  of  experts  in  international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  to  oversee  all  the 
relevant proceedings of all parties. 

In  the  interests  of  the  victims,  Israeli  as  well  as 
Palestinian,  we  must  ensure  that  this  report  does  not 
fall into oblivion or indifference. Combating impunity 
is  an  indispensable  condition  for  achieving  a  lasting 
peace  and  preventing  future  crimes.  Those  objectives 
are  mutually  reinforcing  and  should  be  pursued 
simultaneously. 

The need for a negotiated solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  is  obvious,  and  it  is  in  that  spirit 
that we call on all parties to respect their obligations in 
that regard under international humanitarian law and as 
a matter of human rights. 
(Indonesia):  Let  me  begin  by 

extending  my  delegation’s  appreciation 
the 
President,  for  convening  this  pertinent  and  timely 
meeting on such an important subject.  

My delegation wishes to associate itself with the 
statements  delivered  at  the  36th  meeting  by  the 
representatives of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement, and of Syria on behalf of the Organization 
of the Islamic Conference. 

We remain profoundly distressed by the depth of 
the human rights and humanitarian crisis that continues 
in the Gaza Strip, a crisis that will challenge our pledge 
to uphold the values of humanity if we continue to fail 
the  Palestinian  people.  Civilians  in  Gaza  have  been 
suffering  for  far  too  long,  and  our  efforts  to  come  to 
their rescue in times of danger are far too weak. 
The  illegal  blockade  and  closure  of  the  Gaza 

Israel’s 
crossings  by 
extensive  economic  blockade  and 
restriction  of 
movement  has  not  only  weakened  the  Palestinians,  it 
has inflicted long-term damage on them. Not least, it is 
Israeli  authorities  persist. 
Mr.  Kleib
to 
A/64/PV.37
the 
January  2009  worsened 
having  destructive  consequences  by  further  sowing 
seeds of animosity and driving the cycle of violence in 
the  region.  And  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  Israeli 
military operations in Gaza from 27 December 2008 to 
18 
already  dire 
humanitarian situation there. 

Indonesia  appreciates  the  thorough,  analytical 
and  comprehensive  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/64/490, 
annex).  The  report  not  only  accurately  captures  what 
actually transpired during the military campaign, it also 
reveals  many  disturbing  stories  of  atrocities.  The 
international community must not ignore that. We must 
embrace  the  report.  It  is  these  solid  facts  that  have 
Indonesia  gravely  concerned  and  dismayed  over  the 
investigation’s findings. We are in full agreement with 
the report’s observations. 

The  Israeli  offensive  was  a  deliberate  assault 
aimed  at  punishing,  humiliating  and  terrorizing  a 
civilian population, and  radically diminishing its local 
economic  capacity.  The  effect  has  been  to  force  upon 
them  an  ever-increasing  sense  of  dependency  and 
vulnerability.  The  excessive  and  disproportionate  use 
of  force,  and  a  policy  of  collective  punishment,  were 
intentionally inflicted on the people of the Gaza Strip. 

This  is  plainly  a  policy  of  humiliation  at  its 
worst.  Indonesia,  as  a  nation  that  emerged  from  the 
ashes of colonialism, knows very well that humiliation 
can  never  be  a  source  of  strength.  Such  a  policy  will 
only cause any oppressed society to grow stronger and 
eventually prevail over its oppressor. Israel should and 
must learn from history. 

Yet  there  is  no  guarantee  that  Israel  will  not  use 
that  policy  again.  Israel  has  committed  a  variety  of 
crimes: war crimes and violations of international law, 
international  humanitarian  law  and  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention,  to  name  a  few.  In  that  context,  my 
delegation  would  like  to  reaffirm,  in  the  clearest 
manner  possible,  its  outrage  and  strong  condemnation 
of the military onslaught by Israel in the Gaza Strip. 

We  therefore  commend  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding  Mission  for  their  recommendations.  We  urge 
all  parties  concerned  to  pay  their  utmost  attention  to 
the  conclusions  and 
those 
recommendations accordingly.  

the  wider 
membership of the United Nations to express its views 
on  the  grave  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  Many 
the  opportunity  for 
follow  up  on 
Today  offers 
to 
09-59450 

11 

in 
A/64/PV.37 

countries  will  passionately  support  the  report  as  it  is; 
others  might  question  some  parts  of  it.  This  is  the 
United  Nations,  where  issues  are  incessantly  debated, 
but  that  should  never  be  an  excuse  not  to  seek  justice 
for  the  Palestinian  people.  Let  us  not  make  this  yet 
another  missed  opportunity.  It  is  high  time  for  the 
General  Assembly  to  consider  the  substance  and  the 
recommendations  of  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 
Fact-Finding Mission and to take a decision on the way 
forward. 

The conflict in the Middle East has been going on 
for  far  too  long.  For  60  years  the  illegal  Israeli 
occupation has made the region a theatre of tension and 
violence.  On  the  Palestinian  side,  the  nation  has  been 
facing  hardship  and  surviving  without  a  State.  On  the 
Israeli-Palestinian  track  alone,  the  core  issues  —  the 
status  of  East  Jerusalem,  the  borders  of  a  Palestinian 
State,  settlements 
the  West  Bank,  Palestinian 
refugees,  security  and  water  resources  —  remain 
unresolved.  For  many  years,  Indonesia  has  joined  the 
international  community  in  drawing  attention  to  the 
consequences of continued illegal Israeli activity in the 
occupied  Arab  territories.  Israel  should  cease  its 
continuous  policy  of  playing  the  game  of  being  deaf. 
Too many years have passed, too many lives have been 
lost, and too many dreams have been shattered. 

Finally,  there  is  perhaps  no  international  issue 
more  important  to  Indonesia  and  closer  to  our  hearts 
than  the  effort  to  find  a  peaceful,  just,  lasting  and 
comprehensive  settlement  for  any  protracted  conflict, 
be  it  in  Asia  or  elsewhere.  The  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict  draws  our  attention  and  compassion,  and  we 
desire  an  end  to  the  illegal  occupation  that  began  in 
1967. 

We  have  therefore  consistently  supported  efforts 
to  achieve  such  a  settlement,  based  on  all  relevant 
Security Council resolutions, including resolutions 242 
(1967), 338 (1973), 1397 (2002) and 1515 (2003). Our 
commitment to an independent, viable and democratic 
Palestine, living side by side in peace and security with 
its  neighbour,  is  absolute.  It  will  be  a  tragedy  for  the 
Palestinians,  the  Israelis,  other  nations  in  the  region 
and all humankind if peace in the region is persistently 
rejected. 
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  The  consideration  by  the 

General  Assembly  of  the  report  of  the  independent 
fact-finding  mission  headed  by  Justice  Richard 
Goldstone 
and 
appropriate. The  Goldstone  report  is  an  important  and 
(A/HRC/12/48) 
is  both 
timely 
in 
investigations, 
serious  document.  Brazil  commends  the  effective  and 
professional work of the members of the mission. They 
have  investigated  potential  violations  of  international 
humanitarian and human rights law on both sides of the 
Gaza conflict in a rigorous and balanced manner. Their 
conclusions merit careful study. 

Pursuant  to  the  principle  of  complementarity, 
Brazil  is  convinced  that  the  report  should,  for  the 
moment,  be  implemented  primarily  by  the  concerned 
parties,  with  the  full  support  of  the  international 
community.  The  Israeli  Government  and  the  relevant 
authorities in Gaza must establish full, independent and 
credible 
conformity  with 
international  standards,  into  the  serious  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights 
law 
reported by the mission. Such investigations should be 
time-bound. 

Given  the  responsibility  of  the  international 
community  to  ensure  accountability  for  infringements 
of  international  law,  Brazil  believes  that  international 
monitoring of those investigations is needed. That can 
be done in a number of ways.  

In devising the most appropriate way,  we should 
be guided by the need to  seek justice and truth,  while 
laying down solid foundations for reconciliation among 
Israelis  and  Palestinians.  The  ultimate  political 
justification  for  investigating  the  alleged  violations  is 
that  putting  an  end  to  the  prevailing  culture  of 
impunity in the region will help deter further violence 
and encourage the parties to find a peaceful solution to 
their  differences.  There  must  be  room  not  for 
vengeance,  which  only  brings  more  violence,  but  for 
accountability,  which  brings  reparation  and,  therefore, 
peace. 
It is important to respond to the concerns of those 

the 
who  believe 
the  Goldstone  report  might 
recommendations  of 
jeopardize 
right 
and, 
Israel’s 
consequently,  the  support  within  that  country  for 
credible peace negotiations. Brazil fully recognizes the 
right of Israel to defend its people and territory against 
all kinds of aggression. It is a Charter-based right that 
no  one  can  deny.  We  have  also  indicated  time  and 
again that public support in Israel for the peace process 
will  erode  if  the  population,  especially  in  the  south, 
feels threatened. 

bound 
At  the  same  time,  in  defending  itself,  Israel  is 
often 
that  an  effective  follow-up 
law.  Although 
international 
by 
to 
to 
self-defence 
12 

09-59450 
of 
is  an 
the 
law 
observance 
imperative,  especially 


international 
challenging, 
humanitarian 
in 
situations  of  asymmetric  warfare  in  densely  populated 
areas,  where  civilians  are  likely  to  be  much  more 
exposed  to  the  effects  of  military  action.  Those  in 
control  of  Gaza  are  also  bound  by  international 
humanitarian 
law  and 
therefore  must  be  held 
accountable for violations. 

Some say that it is unrealistic or naïve to expect 
the  parties  to  conduct  independent  investigations.  We 
will  speculate  on  the  future  action  or  inaction  of  no 
one. It is clear, however, that the possibility of a refusal 
by any of the parties to launch such investigations,  or 
of  a  half-hearted  engagement  in  them,  if  initiated, 
should not be a cause for the international community 
to give up on the need for justice. It would fall on those 
who  deny  accountability  to  bear  the  onus  of  their 
decisions. 

The  Goldstone  report  is  particularly  eloquent 
proof  of  the  urgency  of  putting  an  end  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  and  the  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law  that  it  has  brought  about.  The  only 
lasting  solution  is  to  cease  the  occupation  of  the 
Palestinian  territories  and  to  create  an  independent, 
geographically  united,  democratic  and  economically 
viable Palestinian State, living side by side with Israel 
in peace and security within internationally recognized 
borders. 

Brazil  renews  its  strong  and  unwavering  support 
for  the  peace  process,  based  on  the  relevant  United 
Nations  resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference, 
including  the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative, the Quartet road map to peace and the 
Annapolis process. We reiterate our call for the parties 
to  take  the  measures  needed  to  restart  and  sustain 
credible  negotiations.  The  momentum  that  existed 
earlier  this  year  seems  to  be  fading  away.  We  must 
ensure  that  peacemakers  on  both  sides  of  the  conflict 
quickly regain terrain. 
Mr. Al-Allaf (Jordan) (spoke in Arabic): First of 

all,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the Assembly  for 
his quick response in convening this important meeting 
to  discuss  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  the  Goldstone 
report (A/HRC/12/48). 

The report of Justice Goldstone before us today is 
yet further evidence of the failure of military solutions 
to  conflict  in  Palestine  and  the  Middle  East.  My 
A/64/PV.37
through 
the  peace  process, 
country time and again has emphasized the failure and 
unsustainability  of  the  Israeli  military  approach  to 
dealing  with  the  question  of  Palestine.  From  this 
rostrum,  we  wish  to  reiterate  and  emphasize  that  the 
future of the Israeli State and its existence in the region 
and  its  enjoyment  of  peace  and  stability  cannot  be 
obtained  except 
the 
resumption  of  serious  peace  negotiations  on  all  tracks 
and the return of Arab territories occupied since 1967. 

The  work  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  has  been 
performed  within  the  mandate  entrusted  to  it  by  the 
Human Rights Council. Its work was characterized by 
a  professionalism  that  reflected  the  integrity  and 
impartiality  of  its  members.  The  Goldstone  report  is 
yet  another  addition  to  the  many  international  reports 
chronicling  the  conflict  and  destruction  in  the  Middle 
East.  In  general,  all  of  them  have  condemned  the 
Israeli  military  operations  against  civilian  population 
areas,  houses  of  worship  and  other  targets  prohibited 
under  international  humanitarian  law,  especially  the 
Geneva  Conventions,  regarding 
the  protection  of 
civilians in times of war. 

Furthermore,  actions  by  Israel  during  the  recent 
war against Gaza, as outlined in the Goldstone report, 
its 
represent  a 
responsibility 
under 
international  humanitarian  law.  Here,  I  would  like  to 
register  our  profound  sorrow 
lack  of 
cooperation on the part of the Israeli Government with 
the  Fact-Finding  Mission,  and  we  demand  that  Israel 
comply with the will of the international community to 
investigate  the  number  of  victims  who  lost  their  lives 
and  the  massive  destruction  caused  by  its  military 
operations  in  Gaza,  which  included  attacks  on  United 
Nations  relief  organizations,  including  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East. 

My  country  and  all  other  peoples  in  the  region 
have suffered the scourges of conflict  and occupation. 
Through too many years of conflict, it has been proven 
that  violence  and  killing  lead  only  to  more  violence 
and deepen the sense of frustration and despair among 
all peoples of the region. The time has indeed come for 
the  international  community  to  enact  criminal  justice 
and  protect  future  generations  from  the  recurrence  of 
the human tragedies that we have recently seen in Gaza 
and  before  that  throughout  the  course  of  the  ongoing 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict,  which  constitutes  one  of 
the longest running conflicts in modern human history.  
legal  and  moral  violation  of 
as 
occupying  Power 
the 
an 
for 
09-59450 

13 

and 
Therefore, 
the  United  Nations, 
A/64/PV.37 


this  Organization  has  a  grave 
responsibility  to  ensure  that  the  efforts  of  Judge 
Goldstone and his colleagues will not be mothballed. It 
is imperative therefore that the recommendations of the 
report be pursued in order to achieve justice and ensure 
the maintenance of international peace and security. In 
that  regard,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  Security  Council,  by 
virtue  of  its  responsibilities,  to  consider  the  findings 
and  recommendations  contained  in  the  Goldstone 
report. 

In Jordan, it has been our long-standing policy to 
respect  international  humanitarian  law  and  human 
rights.  Jordan  has  worked  tirelessly  to  establish  the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  order  to  preserve  the 
interests  of  humankind  and  to  establish  a  bulwark 
against  impunity.  Here,  redressing  the  culture  of 
impunity  is  a  collective  responsibility  of  all  Member 
States  of 
criminal 
responsibility  cannot  in  any  way  be  in  contravention 
with peace efforts.  

We  demand  that  Israel,  with  which  my  country 
has a peace treaty, pledge itself to peace and to peaceful 
coexistence with the peoples of the region and to cease 
all  practices  contravening  international  law,  namely, 
settlement  activities,  excavations,  displacement  of 
Palestinians,  demolition  of  houses 
in  Jerusalem, 
constant  siege  of  the  Palestinian  people  in  the  West 
Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip,  partition  and  the  seizing  by 
force  of  Palestinian  land  by  building  the  separation 
wall. 

Here,  we  would  like  to  caution  that  Israeli 
practices in Jerusalem will touch off yet another spiral 
of violence  and be a new  and severe setback to peace 
efforts, given the special religious and historical status 
of Jerusalem to both Muslim and Christian peoples. We 
would  like  to  stress  that  the  Israeli  practices  in 
Jerusalem  and  other  occupied  Arab  territories  cannot 
be  reconciled  with  a  peace  approach  and  do  not  serve 
the security and future of Israel in the region. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

Cuba attaches great importance to consideration by the 
General Assembly  of  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  known  as 
the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48). The report of the 
Fact-Finding  Mission  is  an  objective  document  of  the 
utmost  juridical  rigour  drafted  with  professionalism 
and  impartiality.  Israel’s  rejection  of  its  conclusions 
and  reluctance 
their  application 
underline  that  Government’s  disregard  for  the  will  of 
to  cooperate 
in 
the 
its 
law, 
including 
international 
the  occupied 
its  military  aggression  of 
the  overwhelming  majority  of 
international 
community and its refusal yet again to comply with the 
resolutions  of  the  General Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  

Israel’s position as the occupying Power has been 
made clear by the criminal blockade and the policy of 
closures of border crossings that it continues to impose 
on the population of Gaza, compounding the difficulty 
of the living conditions of the long-suffering people of 
Palestine.  With 
last 
December  and  January,  Israel  not  only  flagrantly 
violated 
legal 
obligations  as  occupying  Power,  but  also  committed 
war crimes and crimes against humanity.  

Those responsible for such acts of barbarism have 
not been prosecuted. They continue to enjoy impunity. 
That is possible only because of the protection enjoyed 
by  Israel  from  the  super-Power  that  continues  to 
provide  the  financial  resources  and  weapons  with 
which  Israel  can  continue  its  aggressive  policy  of 
occupation  of 
territories  and  of 
extermination  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Cuba  firmly 
believes that the impunity enjoyed by the Government 
of  Israel  is  precisely  what  has  made  it  possible  to 
continue  its  illegal  policies  in  clear  contravention  of 
international 
the 
escalation of its aggressive policies. 

The  Fact-Finding  Mission  has  confirmed  that 
both the earlier blockade and the aggression against the 
Gaza  Strip  are  forms  of  collective  punishment  against 
the  Palestinian  population  in  Gaza  and  that  they  were 
formulated  to  that  end  by  the  Israeli  authorities.  The 
report not only documents and confirms the numerous 
violations of international humanitarian law committed 
by Israel, including the principles of discrimination and 
proportionality,  but  is  also  evidence  that  there  was  a 
clear  intention  of  attacking  civilian  targets.  The  order 
given to the troops to not distinguish between civilians 
and troops confirms this.  

Cuba energetically condemns these acts and urges 
the  international  community  to  ensure  that  those 
responsible are judged with all the harshness warranted 
by  the  crimes  committed.  We  call  upon  the  General 
Assembly  to  act  without  delay  and  adopt  a  resolution 
that guarantees that appropriate measures will be taken 
to  avoid  a  repetition  of  such  situations  in  the  future. 
Impunity cannot be allowed to continue.  
laws  and  what  has  permitted 
14 

09-59450 
to 
law, 
for 
the 
law, 
request 
repeat  our 
international 
Moreover,  we 
international  community 



the 
Government of Israel to put an end to all violations of 
the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  the  settlement  policy 
in East Jerusalem, and to scrupulously comply with its 
obligations  under 
in  particular 
international  humanitarian 
law  and  human  rights 
standards.  
The facts highlighted in the report present a new 

opportunity 
to 
consider  the  Palestinian  question  in  greater  depth. We 
believe  that  the  outcome  of  this  report  will  contribute 
to  the  international  community’s  efforts  encouraging 
Israel to end its occupation of Palestinian territory and 
ensuring respect for the sovereignty of an independent 
Palestinian  State,  and  its  exercise  of  that  sovereignty 
within  the  1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital. 
Mr.  Morejón  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation aligns itself with the statement made by the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  I  would  like  to  add  the  following  in  my 
national capacity. 

Ecuador  reiterates  its  position  regarding  the 
conflict in the Middle East, which is full respect for the 
standards  and  principles  of 
in 
particular  as  regards 
the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  We  condemn  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of 
violence  and  urge  compliance  with 
international 
treaties  and  agreements  and  full  compliance  with  the 
resolutions  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  related 
bodies.  

the  acts  of 
violence  in  the  Middle  East,  which  are  in  clear 
violation  of  international  law  and  which  prevent  the 
achievement of a global and comprehensive solution to 
the  Palestinian/Israeli  conflict  and,  by  extension,  the 
Arab/Israeli  conflict  in  the  context  of  United  Nations 
resolutions  and  in  keeping  with  the  standards  and 
principles of international law.  

We  also  condemn  the  military  operations  in  the 
Gaza  Strip,  which  have  caused  tremendous  loss  of 
human  life,  particularly  among  women  and  children, 
and  extensive  material  damage.  In  addition  to  the 
imposed  on 
military  action, 
the 
Palestinian 
the  suffering  and 
devastation of a people who are struggling to achieve a 
sovereign  and  independent  State.  It  was  such  actions 
the  blockade 
territories  heightens 
My  delegation  again  condemns 
international 
A/64/PV.37
the 
rights 
blockade 
standards, 
in 
report 
(A/HRC/12/48), 
the  Mission’s  objective  report, 
including 
that led the President of the Human Rights Council to 
establish a United Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the 
Gaza Conflict. 
Ecuador takes into account the recommendations 

the 
appearing 
Goldstone 
the 
recommendations  to  various  United  Nations  bodies, 
Israel,  the  competent  Palestinian  authorities  and  the 
international  community.  These 
recommendations 
concern  accountability  for  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law,  reparations,  grave  violations  of 
human 
and 
reconstruction efforts, the use of weapons and military 
procedures,  protection  of  human  rights  organizations 
and  human  rights  defenders  and  follow-up  on  the 
Mission’s recommendations.  

Ecuador also takes note with concern of the scant 
support  forthcoming  from  Israel  to  the  Fact-Finding 
Mission,  as  stated  in  the  Goldstone  report.  There  can 
be no doubt that there are signs of grave violations of 
the  standards  and  principles  of  international  law, 
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law.  The 
United  Nations therefore  was not only  a victim of the 
attacks that caused the death of 18 of its staff members, 
but also has an obligation to open an investigation into 
war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in 
the  area  in  order  to  prevent  impunity  for  those 
presumed  responsible,  especially  taking  into  account, 
as  stated  in  the  Goldstone  report,  that  Israel  is 
increasingly 
to  undertake  criminal 
investigations that meet international requirements.  

Lastly,  Ecuador  endorses  the  demands  by  the 
international  community  that  this  conflict  be  settled, 
respecting  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  and  the  Israeli 
peoples to live in peace and security, as sovereign and 
independent States, within safe and recognized borders. 
We  urge  the  parties  to  make  the  efforts  that  will 
contribute  to  restoring  dialogue,  which  will  lead, 
through  strict  and  effective  compliance  with 
its 
commitments,  to  a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive 
peace.  
Mr.  Al-Nasser  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 

thank the President of the Assembly for responding to 
the  request  of  the  Arab  Group  and  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  to  convene  a  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly to consider the report of the United Nations 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
in  Gaza 
(A/HRC/12/48), also known as the Goldstone report.  
less  prepared 
the  Conflict 
09-59450 

15 
A/64/PV.37 


We would like to express our appreciation for the 
efforts  undertaken  by  the  members  of  the  Mission  — 
Justice Richard Goldstone, Professor Christine Chinkin, 
Ms.  Hina  Jilani  and  Colonel  Desmond Travers  —  who 
are  prominent  legal  personalities  known  for  their 
integrity,  professionalism  and 
impeccable  records. 
They  conducted  a 
thorough  and  comprehensive 
investigation under unfavourable conditions, including 
Israel’s refusal to cooperate with the Mission just as it 
refused  to  cooperate  with  many  previous  missions, 
because  of  its  belief  that  it  is  above  the  law  and 
because it rejects international legitimacy.  

I  would  like  to  echo  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

We  all  witnessed  the  tragic  consequences  of  the 
military aggression launched by Israel on 27 December 
2008  against 
the  defenceless  Palestinian  civilian 
population trapped in the Gaza Strip, which resulted in 
the  death  of  more  than  1,300  innocent  Palestinians, 
including hundreds of women and children. The Israeli 
occupation  forces  used  all  sorts  of  deadly  heavy 
weapons 
life  and 
international laws and norms, continuing its aggression 
even  after  the  adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1860 (2009) last January. 

The  Goldstone  report  pointed  to  the  crimes 
committed  by 
the  Israeli 
Government  against  the  Palestinian  people,  which 
amounted to war crimes, even crimes against humanity, 
and  included  murder,  torture,  inhuman  treatment,  the 
infliction  of  serious  physical  and  psychological 
damage on civilians and the destruction of property on 
a large scale, including educational facilities, hospitals 
and houses of worship, without any justifiable military 
necessity.  

The report also pointed to a number of incidents 
that  demonstrate  a  systematic  policy  of  collective 
punishment, including the systematic destruction of the 
only  flour  mill  that  provides  flour  to  the  residents  of 
the  Gaza  Strip,  the  destruction  of  water  wells  and  the 
shelling of the al-Fakhura school of the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near  East  (UNRWA),  which  was  a  safe  haven  for 
Gazan  children  and 
their  families.  Those  crimes 
constitute a violation of international humanitarian law 
the  Geneva 
and 
Conventions, 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
the 
Convention,  which 
total  disregard  for  human 
international  human  rights 
the  Israeli  army  and 
includes  provisions 
in  particular 
law, 
for 
in 

it 
to 
protection  of  civilians  under  foreign  occupation,  and 
other relevant international conventions. 

At  its  twelfth  special  session,  held  two  weeks 
ago, the Human Rights Council endorsed the report of 
the  Independent  International  Fact-Finding  Mission 
and  presented 
the  General  Assembly  as 
recommended by the report. 

The Goldstone report was not the first report that 
referred  to  the  Israeli  violations  of  international  law, 
but was preceded by numerous inquiries into the most 
recent war in Gaza. These included the United Nations 
Headquarters Board of Inquiry into certain incidents in 
the  Gaza  Strip  between  27  December  2008  and 
19 January  2009,  which  was  set  up  by  the  Secretary-
General,  the  Independent  Fact-Finding  Committee  on 
Gaza, which was formed by the League of Arab States, 
and  the  reports  of  the  International  Committee  of  the 
Red  Cross,  Amnesty  International  and  Human  Rights 
Watch.  

Moreover,  before  the  recent  war  in  Gaza,  there 
were a series of international reports and inquiries that 
revealed  other  atrocities  committed  by  Israel,  the 
occupying Power, in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  the  United  Nations  fact-finding  mission  on 
the massacre of Jenin, led by Martti Ahtisaari, and the 
report of Archbishop Desmond Tutu on the massacre of 
Beit  Hanoun.  However,  the  international  community’s 
failure  to  implement  the  recommendations  of  those 
reports and the immunity continually granted to Israel 
have  contributed  to  an  ongoing  culture  of  impunity  in 
successive  Israeli  Governments,  reinforced  Israel’s 
sense  of  being  above  the  law  and  encouraged  it  to 
continue to commit its crimes. 

In  this  regard,  we  cannot  help  but  question  the 
fate of the report of the Board of Inquiry established by 
the  Secretary-General,  of  which  only  the  executive 
summary  has  been  published.  That  Board  of  Inquiry 
recommended  that  an  independent  investigation  be 
conducted  and  stressed  that  the  Israeli  armed  forces 
had directly and deliberately carried out strikes against 
United  Nations  headquarters,  wounding  and  killing 
refugees  who  had  sought  safe  haven 
those 
headquarters, in breach of the immunity granted to the 
Organization  and 
relevant 
international conventions. 

United  Nations  organs,  including  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council, must take serious 
action to follow up on the recommendations contained 
staff  under 
the 
its 
in 
16 

09-59450 
shoulder 
constitute 
a  blatant 
Israeli  Government  has  accused 


in  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 
Mission on the Gaza Conflict and the other reports that 
we  have  mentioned,  and  must 
their 
responsibility with regard to these alarming actions and 
to 
crimes,  which 
threat 
international  peace  and  security.  To  neglect 
the 
Goldstone report would be to send the wrong message, 
especially  given  the  magnitude  of  the  crimes  detailed 
in  the  report  and  the  legitimacy  derived  from  the 
mandate  given  to  the  Mission  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council. 

The 
the 
Goldstone  report  of  being  biased,  as  it  has  accused 
many  previous  reports  and  internationally  legitimate 
resolutions, but the Fact-Finding Mission did not limit 
itself to violations by the Israeli side. It also considered 
the  allegations  against  the  Palestinian  side.  Yet,  the 
Mission did not find any evidence to support the Israeli 
Government’s  claims  that  the  Palestinian  groups  had 
used  hospitals,  schools  and  mosques  as  bases  for 
military  activity.  Those  facilities  were  in  fact  used  as 
safe havens.  

We  reiterate  today  the  need  for  all  parties  to 
adhere  to  international  law  and  we  believe  that  it  is 
entirely unfair to the Palestinian people, who languish 
under occupation and are deprived of heavy or modern 
weapons,  to  compare  their  legitimate  self-defence 
efforts  with  the  aggression  and  crimes  committed  by 
the  occupying  Power  through  the  use  of  excessive 
military  force  and  internationally  banned  weapons. 
Accordingly,  we  emphasize 
the  absence  of  any 
symmetry  or  balance  whatsoever  between  the  two 
parties. The right to struggle for liberation from foreign 
occupation cannot be equated with military aggression 
by occupying forces. 
Although  the  subject  of  today’s  meeting  is  war 

crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and  violations  of 
international law committed by Israel during its recent 
military  aggression  against  Gaza,  Israeli  violations  of 
international  law  and  international  norms  are  still 
ongoing against the Palestinian people in the occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  as  the 
unjust siege imposed on Gaza is considered a policy of 
collective punishment aimed at isolating the Gaza Strip 
and starving and terrorizing its inhabitants. 

In East Jerusalem too, the provocative and illegal 
acts  committed,  permitted  or  protected  by  the  Israeli 
Government  are  a  continuation  of  its  clear  breach  of 
there  must  be  an 
international 
law.  Therefore, 
A/64/PV.37
its 
in 
fate 
immediate  cessation  of  all  settlement  activities,  even 
so-called  natural  growth. Acts  of  terrorism  committed 
by  extremist  settlers  in  the  courtyard  of  Haram 
al-Sharif  and  against  unarmed  Palestinians  and  those 
committed  by  the  Israeli  authorities  must  come  to  an 
end,  acts  such  as  the  closure  and  siege  of  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque,  which  prevents  worshipers’  access  to  prayer. 
The threat of the use of force must also come to an end. 

We strongly condemn the Israeli actions aimed at 
changing  the  demographic  composition  of  the  Holy 
City,  the  capital  of  the  Palestinian  State,  encroaching 
on  its  geographical  nature,  characteristics  and  legal 
status,  and  determining 
illegally  and 
unilaterally. We consider these attempts to be null and 
void,  as  confirmed 
relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions. 

Contrary  to  what  some  claim,  to  hold  Israel 
accountable for violations of international law does not 
create obstacles to the resumption of the peace process. 
On the contrary, turning a blind eye to those crimes, to 
the  exacerbated  humanitarian  crisis  that  resulted  from 
the military aggression, to the blockade imposed on the 
Gaza Strip, to continued Israeli settlement policies and 
to the recent escalation in East Jerusalem, all constitute 
the biggest impediment to the tireless efforts for peace 
undertaken  by  the  Quartet,  the  countries  of  the  region 
and  other  interested  parties.  It  is  the  greatest  threat  to 
the  prospects  of  achieving  a 
lasting  and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East. The failure of 
Israel to comprehend the culture of dialogue and peace 
sets its conduct apart from that of the civilized world. 

Finally,  the  draft  resolution  that  is  before  the 
General  Assembly  would  endorse  the  report  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  (A/64/53/Add.1)  and  request 
the  Secretary-General  to  refer  the  Goldstone  report  to 
the Security Council in line with the recommendations 
of the report. 

The State of Qatar has joined the sponsors of the 
draft  resolution,  pursuant  to  our  policy  regarding  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. Adopting the draft resolution will be the first 
step  towards  ending  impunity,  achieving  justice  for 
victims  and  upholding  criminal  justice,  which  is  not 
subject  to  the  statute  of  limitations  and  remains  a 
responsibility 
community. 
Moreover,  the  adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  will 
contribute  to  establishing  an  atmosphere  conducive  to 
the  relaunching  of  the  peace  process  in  the  Middle 
East.  
international 
just, 
the 
of 
09-59450 

17 

are 
that 
agencies 
protected 
law  be  protected,  defended 
A/64/PV.37 

Mr.  Wetland  (Norway):  Deplorably,  in  recent 

years  we  have  seen  too  many  instances  of  the  lack  of 
effective  protection  for  vulnerable  groups  in  armed 
conflict.  We  have  seen  too  many  victims,  including 
children,  women  and  innocent  bystanders.  We  have 
seen parties to armed conflicts acting in ways that we 
cannot accept and that are unlawful under international 
humanitarian law. That is why Norway believes that we 
have an obligation to act. We can and must restore the 
role of international humanitarian law and full respect 
for  the  fundamental  principles  that  are  at  the  heart  of 
the United Nations. 

The role of humanitarian agencies and workers is 
increasingly  under  threat. There  are  clear  cases  where 
impartial 
under 
international humanitarian law have been denied access 
to  victims  in  need.  It  is  imperative  that  international 
humanitarian 
and 
expanded.  All  parties  to  a  conflict  must  respect 
international humanitarian and human rights law. 

Since  the  outbreak  of  the  Gaza  conflict,  Norway 
has emphasized that the parties to the conflict bear the 
primary  responsibility  to  investigate  and  prosecute 
possible  violations  of  humanitarian  law  committed  by 
forces  under  their  command.  That  is  necessary  in 
societies  based  on  the  rule  of  law.  It  is  necessary  to 
prevent  a  culture  of  impunity.  It  is  also  necessary  for 
the long-term prospects of peace and prosperity in the 
region and for reconciliation between its people. 

We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Goldstone  report 
(A/HRC/12/48)  is  comprehensive,  well  documented 
and generally well prepared. The Fact-Finding Mission 
has interpreted its mandate to include any action by all 
that  might  have  constituted  violations  of 
parties 
international  human 
international 
humanitarian  law.  That  is  important.  The  value  of  the 
report  extends  far  beyond  the  conflict  in  question  as 
the  international  community  continues  to  study  the 
the  extent  of 
limits  of  permissible  action  and 
proportionality 
are 
existential questions here at the United Nations. 

The  report  raises  allegations  of  the  most  serious 
nature.  It  alleges  that  Israeli  and  Palestinian  groups 
alike may have been responsible for grave violations of 
international  human  rights  and  humanitarian  law.  We 
are  therefore  obliged  to  deal  with  it  in  a  meaningful 
and credible manner here in the United Nations. 
in  modern  warfare.  Those 
law  or 
rights 
the  parties 
comply  with 
implementation  of 
The  report contains a number of  recommendations 

those 
the  parties.  National 
to 
recommendations  must 
relevant 
international  standards.  International  monitoring  of 
implementation  by  the  parties  is  therefore  crucial.  In 
that  context,  we  believe  that  both  the  Secretary-
General and the Human Rights Council have key roles 
to play. Complex challenges will have to be addressed in 
the  follow-up  to  the  recommendations  in  the  report, 
among  them  the  fact  that  the  recommendations  are 
directed towards State and non-State actors alike. 

It  is  our  firm  view  that  the  General  Assembly 
should  send  a  clear  and  unambiguous  message  on  the 
follow-up to the report. In order for that message to be 
effective,  it  is  important  that  it  enjoy  the  broadest 
possible  support.  We  must  ensure  a  coordinated 
approach  by  the  relevant  United  Nations  organs  and 
avoid competing processes. It is essential to ensure that 
the decision of the General Assembly complements the 
ongoing process in the Human Rights Council. 
We  believe  that  the  focus  of  the  draft  resolution 

on 
the  obligation  of 
to  undertake 
independent  and  credible  investigations  in  conformity 
with international standards (A/64/L.11) is relevant and 
constructive. In order for that message to get through, 
we encourage the main sponsors of the draft resolution 
to  take  fully  into  consideration  proposals  that  would 
allow for the broadest possible support. 

to  a 
meaningful  and  credible  process  on  the  Goldstone 
report both in the General Assembly and in the Human 
Rights Council. We hope to see the same commitment 
from all other members. 
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke 

in  Spanish):  Nicaragua  believes  that,  as  called  for  by 
the Human Rights Council, of which we are a member, 
in the draft resolution (S-12/1) it adopted at its twelfth 
special  session,  this  plenary  debate  of  the  Goldstone 
report  (A/HRC/12/48)  is  crucial.  We  thank  Libya  for 
once  again  acting  with  great  speed  to  convene  the 
Assembly. We especially thank Mr. Ali Treki, President 
of  the  General Assembly,  on  whom  we  know  we  can 
always rely. 

the 
statements delivered by the representative of Egypt on 
behalf  of 
the 
representative  of  Senegal  on  behalf  of  the  Committee 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
My  country  associates 
itself  fully  with 
is  determined 
to  contribute 
Norway 
18 

09-59450 
committed 
by 
Israel,  which 
to 
law.  Those  violations  bring 


on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian People. 

Nicaragua cannot continue to tolerate the repeated 
violations  of  Israel  —  the  occupying  Power  —  of 
international  human  rights  norms  and  international 
humanitarian 
terrible 
suffering  to  the  Palestinian  people  living  through  a 
serious  humanitarian  crisis  and  contribute 
the 
ongoing  deterioration  of  the  situation. As  noted  in  the 
report of the investigating Mission before us today, that 
includes  the  deliberate  obstruction  of  urgently  needed 
reconstruction efforts in the Gaza Strip.  
The report once again serves to remind us of the 

atrocities 
used 
disproportionate  force  against  the  civilian  population 
of  the  Gaza  Strip  to  bomb  food  warehouses,  schools, 
residential  areas,  hospitals, 
factories  and  water 
purification  equipment.  Between  December  2008  and 
January  2009,  Israel  caused  the  deaths  of  more  than 
1,400  Palestinians,  most  of  them  civilians  and  more 
than 20 per cent of them minors. 

It is important to stress the difference in attitude 
between  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  and  Palestinian 
authorities.  At  all  times,  the  latter  supported  and 
cooperated  with 
the 
Government  of  Israel  repeatedly  refused  to  cooperate 
with the Mission in any way. 

It  is  shameful  that  the  international  community 
continues  to  allow  Israel  to  ignore  repeated  calls  and 
demands for an end to the historic barbarity committed 
against  the  Palestinian  people,  which  has  deprived 
them  of 
to 
establish  an  independent  sovereign  State,  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  within  the  borders  that  were 
internationally recognized in 1967. 

We  urge  the  General  Assembly  and  the  other 
organs of the United Nations to consider seriously and 
act on the report and conclusions of the Mission. Not to 
act  is  to  become  an  accomplice  to  those  Israeli 
practices  and  policies.  The  international  community 
should,  in  order  to  enhance  the  possibilities  for  peace 
in  the  region,  demonstrate  resolve  on  the  issue  of 
Israel’s accountability and ensure that international law 
is  observed  in  all  circumstances.  That  must  include 
respect  for  and  compliance  with  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention,  applicable  to  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  as  has  been 
the  Mission.  By  contrast, 
their  right 
to  self-determination  and 
A/64/PV.37
reaffirmed  in  over  two  dozen  Security  Council  and 
countless Assembly resolutions. 

Nicaragua  agrees  with  the  views  of  the  United 
Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict 
that  some  actions  of  the  Government  of  Israel  could 
provide the basis for a competent tribunal to conclude 
that  crimes  against  humanity  had  been  committed. 
Among those acts, the report refers to the blockade, the 
deprivation  of  the  Palestinians  in  the  Gaza  Strip  of 
their  means  of  livelihood,  employment,  housing  and 
water,  denial  of  their  freedom  of  movement  and  their 
right  to  enter  and  leave  their  own  country  and 
restriction  of  their  access  to  courts  and  effective 
redress. 

Concrete measures must be taken to guarantee the 
protection  of  the  civilian  population  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  to 
break  the  vicious  circle  of  Israel’s  impunity  over  the 
past  60  years,  which  has  made  such  massive  and 
flagrant violations of international law possible. 

Here,  we  also  wish  to  refer  to  the  report  of 
Mr. Kevin  Cahill,  Chief  Adviser  for  Humanitarian 
Affairs  and  International  Health  to  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-third 
and sixty-fourth sessions, entitled “Gaza — Destruction 
and Hope”. The report, based on his visit to Gaza after 
the  invasion,  describes  the  deplorable  situation  that 
thousands  of  Palestinians  have  been  experiencing, 
which Mr. Cahill described by saying that the level of 
destruction  conjured  up 
images  of  Dresden  or 
Hiroshima at the end of the Second World War. 

All  available  legal  measures  must  be  applied  in 
order to put an end to the impunity and the violations 
of  human  rights  by  Israel  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory. That will be possible to the extent that Israel’s 
main supporter, the United States, ceases to support the 
occupying  Power.  If  that  backing  did  not  exist,  the 
occupation  of  the  occupied  Arab  and  Palestinian 
territories and the consecutive invasions and massacres 
of the Palestinian people would not continue.  

We heard mention here of the need to release one 
Israeli prisoner, one soldier. The need to free thousands 
of  Palestinian  prisoners  was  also  mentioned.  My 
country also calls for the liberation of an entire people, 
the  Palestinian  people,  to  whom  the  occupying  Power 
denies  freedom  and 
their  most  fundamental  and 
inalienable rights. 
09-59450 

19 

to 
to  Israel  and 
A/64/PV.37 

Mr. Olhaye (Djibouti): We thank the President of 

the  General  Assembly  for  convening  this  plenary 
meeting  at  the  request  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
and the Arab Group to consider the report of the United 
Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict, 
also  known  as  the  Goldstone  report  (A/HRC/12/48), 
following  the  recommendation  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council in its resolution S-12/1 of 16 October. 
In  a  rare  display  of  balance  and  fairness,  the 

report  assigns  blame  both 
the 
Palestinians,  citing  serious  violations  of  international 
humanitarian law, including war crimes, committed by 
each  side.  As  underscored  by  Amnesty  International, 
the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
holds  domestic  authorities  and  institutions  primarily 
responsible  to  investigate  and  prosecute  violation  of 
those laws. Where there is no effort to follow through 
on  those  requirements  by  the  country  or  party  in 
question,  or  it  is  unable  to  do  so,  an  international 
justice mechanism can be activated. 

not be clearer: 

“to  investigate  all  violations  of  international 
human  rights  law  and  international  humanitarian 
law that might have been  committed at  any time 
in  the  context  of  military  operations  that  were 
conducted 
the  period  from 
27 December 2008 and 18 January 2009, whether 
before, during or after”. (A/HRC/12/48, para. 1) 

In  that  context,  Israel’s  military  assault  on  Gaza 
has  much  wider  legal  and  moral  implications  that 
extend beyond the immediate confines of Palestine and 
Israel, 
through 
international  law  for  the  war  crimes  committed  in 
Gaza. Despite the massive efforts deployed by Israel to 
minimize  the  damage  to  its  reputation,  it  is  becoming 
increasingly  evident that it  will be hard,  this time, for 
Israel  to  effectively  counter  the  report’s  international 
credibility.  An  Israeli  professor,  Moshe  Ma’oz  of  the 
Hebrew University of Jerusalem, agrees: 

The  mandate  of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  could 
“The damage has been done. The news is all over 
the world. Even if Israel comes up with a credible 
counter-report and an independent inquiry, all this 
will do is reduce the fallout.” 
in  Gaza  during 
as  Palestinians 
redress 
seek 
Israel, in fact, has repudiated the report as biased, one-
sided,  false  and  distorted,  and  seeks  to  shield  its 
soldiers  from  any 
investigation.  We 
understand  Hamas  is  exploring  the  creation  of  a 
independent 
is 
of 
Much 
activity 
committee  to  present  its  case  with  regard  to  firing 
unguided rockets into civilian areas of southern Israel. 

It  may  be  recalled  that  the  Fact-Finding  Mission 
interpreted  its  mandate  as  requiring  it  to  place  the 
civilian  population  of  the  region  at  the  centre  of  its 
concerns  regarding  violations  of  international  law. 
While  Israel  complains  about  the  abuse  coming  from 
Hamas,  such  as  the  rockets  targeting  civilians  or  the 
suicide bombings, which it has denounced as terrorism, 
it ignores the hundreds of powerful guided missiles and 
rockets fired from the ground, air and sea into densely 
populated  Palestinian  cities  and  urban  centres  that 
caused hundreds of deaths. 

collective 
Israel’s 
punishment.  As  the  Goldstone  report  noted,  while 
Israel attempted to portray its actions as a response to 
Palestinian  rocket  attacks,  Israel’s  real  target  was  the 
people  of  Gaza  as  a  whole.  The  treatment  of  many 
Palestinian  civilians  in  various  ways  —  many  were 
even  killed  while  trying  to  surrender,  mass  detentions 
and further crimes — underscored the vicious nature of 
Israel’s  actions.  Food  supply 
installations  were 
destroyed, as were water sanitation systems, residential 
houses,  schools,  buildings  and  roads. There  was  often 
no  military  threat.  Clearly,  that  issue  must  and  should 
command  the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Security Council. 

The  daily  life  of  Palestinians  is  very  precarious, 
dangerous and uncertain, at best. Israel could do much 
more  to  ease  the  pervasive  hardships  inflicted  on  the 
ordinary  civilian  population,  such  as  opening  the 
restricted  Gaza  borders 
inflow  of 
desperately  needed  humanitarian  aid  and  goods.  The 
illegal  demolition  of  homes  and  evictions  must  cease. 
Widespread  demands  have  been  made  for  a  halt  or 
freeze  —  not  a  mere  restraint  —  on  settlement 
activities,  including  the  infamous  natural  growth. 
Much the same can be said about the occupation of the 
Golan Heights, where settlement activities and building 
have been taking place on  an ongoing basis. Over all, 
Israeli policy and actions appear deliberately aimed at 
creating  facts  on  the  ground  and  a  situation  in  which 
and 
confiscation,  division, 
control 
uneconomic  entities  will  eventually  preclude 
the 
emergence  of  a  viable  two-State  solution.  Israel  has 
been condemned many times over the past decades for 
its  inhumane  treatment  of  Palestinians,  but  action  by 
the world community seldom takes decisive shape. 
settlements, 
to  permit 
the 
20 

09-59450 
through 
Mr.  Sangqu



Something must be said as well with the regard to 
the holy city of Jerusalem, which Israel is attempting to 
confiscate  each  day 
the  never-ending 
expansion  of  settlements  and  excavation  work  around 
the  city,  particularly  near  the  Al-Aqsa  mosque  and 
other  religious  sites.  Much  has  also  been  said  with 
regard to the famous wall under construction by Israel 
around  the  West  Bank,  which  of  course  sequestrates 
much Palestinian land while separating once-adjoining 
areas and farmlands.  

Let  us  hope  that  Israel  will  heed  the  voice  of 
reason and international justice for the sake of its own 
peace  and  stability  and  for  the  sake  of  peace  in  the 
region as a whole. 

(South  Africa):  South  Africa 
welcomes the opportunity to participate in this meeting 
and to share our views on the report of the Independent 
International  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
the  Gaza 
Conflict (A/HRC/12/48). 

At the outset, we wish to commend the members 
of  the  Fact-Finding  Mission  team  —  Justice  Richard 
Goldstone, Ms. Christine Chinkin, Ms. Hina Jilani and 
Colonel Desmond Travers — who, in spite all odds and 
under difficult circumstances, undertook the mission to 
Gaza  as  mandated  by  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We 
commend them on their insistence that the mandate be 
impartial  and  objective  and 
for 
investigations  of  all  violations,  regardless  of  the 
identity  of  the  perpetrators.  We  believe  that  this 
approach  enhanced  the  credibility  of  the  mandate  and 
the resulting report. 

acknowledges  with 
appreciation  the  outstanding  manner  in  which  they 
discharged their responsibility and the commitment and 
courage  they  have  shown  in  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights  in the affected region and  upholding the 
rule of law. 

We  regret  that,  despite  numerous  approaches,  no 
cooperation  was  afforded  to  the  Mission  by  the 
Government of Israel, which also implicitly refused to 
give  the  Mission  access  to  Gaza,  the  West  Bank  and 
southern Israel. 

It is the clear understanding of the South African 
Government  that  this  was  a  fact-finding  mission  and 
not a judicial inquiry, and we unequivocally endorse all 
the recommendations contained in its report. The South 
African  Government  reiterates  its  full  confidence  in 
Justice Goldstone, recalling the prominent role that he 
delegation 
it  call 
also 
that 
My 
A/64/PV.37
the 
issues, 
including 
played in our country’s transition to democracy and the 
integrity  he  has  shown  when  working  on  many 
international 
International 
Criminal  Tribunals  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and 
Rwanda. 

We  condemn  in  the  strongest  terms  the  acts  of 
sheer  aggression,  as  well  as  the  gross  and  systematic 
violations  of  human  rights  carried  out  by  the  Israel 
Defense  Forces  during  their  incursion  into  occupied 
Gaza  in  the  latter  part  of  December  2008  and  earlier 
this year. 

In  an  act  of  sheer  and  utter  disregard  of  their 
obligations  under  international  humanitarian  law  and 
international  human  rights  law,  the  Israel  Defense 
Forces  launched  direct  attacks  against  civilians  with 
lethal  consequences.  They  used  human  shields  in 
violation  of  an  earlier  ruling  by  the  Israeli  Supreme 
Court  outlawing  such  conduct.  They  attacked  school 
facilities  administered  by  the  United  Nations  Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East,  destroyed  the  only  remaining  flour-producing 
factory,  bulldozed  huge  tracts  of  agricultural  land, 
bombed  some  200  industrial  facilities  and  destroyed 
Palestinian infrastructure. All of these atrocities led to 
the massive loss of innocent lives, the displacement of 
thousands 
and 
unnecessary  human  suffering,  and  environmental 
damage. 

The  current  situation  in  the  Middle  East  should 
be  understood  in  the  context  of  the  ongoing  Israeli 
military  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  territory  and 
other  Arab  territories,  which  dates  back  to  1967,  and 
the associated denial of the right to self-determination 
of  the  Palestinian  people.  Israel’s  track  record  of 
disregarding  international  law  and  the  failure  of  the 
Security  Council  to  take  any  meaningful  action  in 
response to that record are the key factors contributing 
to the lack of progress in the peace process. 

In  this  regard,  the  South  African  Government 
strongly  believes  that  the  full  implementation  of  the 
report and its recommendations is crucial to addressing 
the  pernicious  acts  of  impunity  and  will  greatly 
contribute towards ensuring accountability. 

We  call  upon  the  Government  of  Israel  to  fully 
comply  with  the  recommendations  contained  in  the 
report, including the recommendation that Israel set up 
the 
an 
independent,  credible  body 
investigations  and  prosecutions 
the 
to  carry  out 
to  address 
unacceptable 
Palestinians, 
of 
09-59450 

21 
of 

to 
discharge 
its 
to  address 
international 
humanitarian 
A/64/PV.37 

violations 
and 
international  human  rights  law,  failing  which  the 
Security  Council  should  take  up  the  matter,  including 
referring  the  situation  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court. 

We also call upon the Security Council to accept 
the report and adopt its recommendations. The Security 
Council  would  be  mistaken  in  presuming  that  this 
important  report,  based  on  an  analysis  of  dozens  of 
incidents,  interviews  with  hundreds  of  people  and  the 
review  of  thousands  of  documents,  can  be  treated 
lightly.  For  this  reason,  we  call  upon  the  Security 
Council 
Charter-mandated 
responsibilities  with  respect  to  the  situation  in  the 
Middle East, including the Palestinian question. 
My delegation is encouraged by the commitment 

of 
the  violations  of 
the  Palestinians 
international  humanitarian  and  international  human 
rights law, and we believe their undertaking to comply 
with  the  recommendations  in  the  report,  including  the 
setting up of a credible independent body to carry out 
investigations  towards  ensuring  accountability  and 
justice. 

stands  at  a 
crossroads  in  history  and  is  being  called  upon  to  act 
decisively  to  address  the  long-standing  gross  and 
systematic  violations  of  the  human  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people by adopting the recommendations of 
the  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict,  and 
ensuring  the  implementation  thereof.  This  course  of 
action  will  ensure  that  the  international  community’s 
efforts  to  combat  impunity  are  reinforced,  that  the 
protection regime of international human rights law is 
strengthened,  and  that  confidence  in  the  international 
community, 
particularly 
affected 
communities, is restored. 

South  Africa  has  consistently  demonstrated  its 
unwavering  support  for  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people to a viable State of their own. We believe that a 
vision  of  peaceful  coexistence  between  Israelis  and 
Palestinians,  based  on  the  creation  of  a  Palestinian 
State  living  peacefully  side  by  side  with  Israel  on  the 
basis  of  the  1967  borders  and  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its  capital,  is  the  only  sustainable  solution  to  the 
conflict. 

Accordingly, it is our conviction that the faithful 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
the  Fact-Finding  Mission’s  report  will  contribute 
international  community 
that 
of 
the 
The 
intended 
international 
to  guarantee 
law, 
immensely  to  the  quest  for  peace  in  Israel  and 
Palestine,  as  well  as  to  the  promotion  of  stability  and 
development in the region. 

Mr.  Jomaa  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
General  Assembly  is  meeting  today  to  consider  the 
report  of  the  Independent  International  Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48)  adopted 
by the Human Rights Council in Geneva.  
Our delegation agrees with the conclusions of this 

the 
report,  which 
are 
international 
implementation  of 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law,  in  particular 
regarding peoples subjugated under foreign occupation. 
The  situation  of  the  Palestinian  people  is  the  most 
glaring example of this because of the daily violations 
of its rights over the many wars of the last six decades. 

Our Organization and its principal organs, namely 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  are 
first  and  foremost  concerned  with  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  and  the  protection  of 
civilians  during  war  and  crisis.  One  of 
the 
responsibilities  of  the  Organization,  however,  is  to 
promote respect for the rights of civilians and the equal 
and  just  application  of  international  resolutions  and 
conventions.  Today,  that  responsibility  has  gained 
international prominence in the light of the importance 
of the subject under consideration. 

The  Israeli aggression against Gaza, indeed, was 
a  genuine  setback  in  the  region. At  the  same  time,  it 
points to the need to give impetus to the peace process 
and to create appropriate conditions for it. There was a 
huge  loss  of  life,  especially  among  women  and 
children, along with the destruction of homes, civilian 
sites, 
infrastructure  and  United  Nations  facilities. 
Military escalation, excessive use of force and the use 
of 
internationally  prohibited  weapons  can  only 
exacerbate  the  situation  and  fuel  anger  and  violence. 
That  runs  counter  to  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community and cannot serve the cause of peace in the 
world,  let  alone  in  the  Middle  East.  The  Goldstone 
report  reflects,  in  an  impartial  and  objective  manner, 
the  aggressions  and  atrocities  against  the  Palestinian 
people,  despite  repeated  appeals  by  the  international 
community, including by Tunisia. We insist on halting 
that  escalation  and  on  preventing  a  humanitarian 
catastrophe with regard to  a people which has already 
suffered so much. 
22 

09-59450 
to 
is  convinced 
that 
recover 
My  delegation 
Based  on  our  dedication 



the  respect  of 
international law and the principles of right and justice, 
and  so  that  such  attacks  do  not  recur,  my  delegation 
believes that there is a need to give the conclusions and 
findings of the Goldstone report the full attention they 
require and for serious follow-up to adopt decisive and 
concrete measures. 

the  peace 
process  is  the  only  way  to  avoid  another  crisis  and 
danger to security in the Middle East. It is also the best 
guarantee  of  the  lives  of  innocent  civilians  and  of  the 
establishment  of  security  and  stability  on  the  region. 
Here, we reiterate our principled position regarding the 
brotherly  Palestinian  people  and  the  just  Palestinian 
cause.  The  Palestinian  people  must 
its 
legitimate rights and establish its independent State on 
its  territory,  so  the  long-running  tragedy  can  come  to 
an end. 

In  addition,  Tunisia  reiterates  its  appeal  to  the 
international community and, above all, to the sponsors 
of the peace process, to step up efforts to oblige Israel 
to  renounce  its  settlement  policy  and  its  policy  of 
provocation.  It  must  lift  the  blockades  and  closings 
imposed  on 
the  Palestinian  people  and  do  so 
unconditionally  so  that  negotiations  between  the  two 
parties  can  be  resumed  on  the  basis  of  international 
resolutions,  the  peace  process  terms  of  reference  and 
the Arab Peace Initiative.  

Lastly, my delegation wishes once again to insist 
on  the  need  to  pool  all  international  efforts  to  put  an 
end  to  Palestinian  suffering  and  to  assist  them  in 
overcoming  the  impact  of  the  Gaza  war  and  the  siege 
and closures, and by providing humanitarian assistance 
and  basic  needs  in  response  to  appeals  by  the  United 
Nations and its specialized agencies, and to implement 
United  Nations 
resolutions,  particularly  Security 
Council resolution 1860 (2009). 
Mr. Bu Dhhair (Kuwait)  (spoke in Arabic): The 

General  Assembly  is  discussing  an  important  item 
today, relating to the report referred to it by the Human 
Rights Council at its twelfth special session: the report 
of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza Conflict (A/HRC/12/48). 

After  reading  this  important  report,  the  State  of 
Kuwait wishes to extend its profound appreciation and 
gratitude to Judge Richard Goldstone and his panel for 
presenting  a  professional  and  factual  report,  which 
clearly  shows  the  brutal  Israeli  practices  against  the 
09-59450 

A/64/PV.37
inhabitants of Gaza, who endured a frightful nightmare 
for a period of three weeks from 27 December 2008 to 
18 January 2009, taking the lives of 1,400 martyrs and 
leaving nearly 5,000 injured. This represented a serious 
violation  by  a  professional  army  against  unarmed 
civilians, whose right to life was usurped by the Israel 
Defense Forces, which violated all laws and norms. 

Israel has pursued a policy of obscuring the facts 
from the media and concealing the evidence. However, 
Judge  Goldstone  and  his  team  have  courageously 
exposed  Israel  and  the  war  crimes  it  has  perpetrated, 
which  are  tantamount  to  crimes  against  humanity.  For 
this,  Judge  Goldstone  endured  libel  in  the  media  as 
well  as  doubts  about  the  impartiality  of  his  report.  If 
this indicates anything, it is how damaging this report 
is to Israel. The report is a special historical document 
in the history of the Middle East conflict, in that Israel 
is  directly  condemned  and  held  responsible  for 
violating  international  humanitarian  and  human  rights 
law. 
Israel has tried various means to impede the work 

of 
the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission.  It 
prevented  its  members  from  entering  the  Palestinian 
territories, and banned them from contacting witnesses 
or  having  access  to  the  locations  and  buildings  it  had 
destroyed  to  inspect  them  on  the  ground.  Had  it  not 
been for the cooperation of Egypt in opening the Rafah 
crossing,  as  well  as  the  cooperation  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority,  the  Mission  would  have  never  been  able  to 
carry out its duty in uncovering the painful truth, which 
affected  every  peace-loving  person  in  the  world.  In 
addition, the Mission would have not been able to rally 
behind  it  unprecedented  public  support,  even  inside 
Israel itself. 

The  unjust  blockade  that  Israel  imposes  on  the 
Gaza  Strip,  in  addition  to  the  policy  of  collective 
punishment it pursues on the pretext of putting an end 
to  the  launching  of  rockets  on  its  territories,  do  not 
justify  nor  do  they  grant  Israel  the  right  to  use 
excessive power in response. The brutal Israeli military 
operation,  which  damaged  the  entire  infrastructure  in 
the  Gaza  Strip  and  destroyed  Government  buildings, 
mosques,  hospitals  and  houses,  and  during  which  all 
kinds of exemplary punishment and torture took place, 
is  a  clear  demonstration  of  Israel’s  arrogance  and 
tyranny. 

Israel  used  internationally  prohibited  weapons, 
such  as  white  phosphorous,  rockets  and  cluster  and 
fission  bombs.  Such  fatal  weapons  maim  and  disable 
23 
A/64/PV.37 

the  injured.  What  system  of  international  law  accepts 
such  aggressive  practices  or  overlooks  them  without 
addressing them firmly and decisively? 

Israel  did  not  respect  the  inviolability  of  United 
Nations buildings. It bombed the office complex of the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  with  highly  explosive  and 
white  phosphorous  bombs.  That  in  and  of  itself  is 
another  flagrant  violation  of  international  instruments 
and  treaties  which  can  be  added  to  Israel’s  record  of 
crimes  which  are  replete  with  violations  of  human 
rights law and international humanitarian law. 

Israel also used civilians as human shields. After 
blindfolding  them  and  tying  their  hands,  it  sent  them 
into  houses  suspected  of  harbouring  militants,  which 
violates all humanitarian laws and is considered a war 
crime.  Israel  also  transferred  hundreds  of  Palestinians 
to  be  detained  unjustly  in  Israeli  jails,  without  trials 
and  without  having  committed  any  offence. Those  are 
obvious examples of Israel’s persistent perpetration of 
brutal and hostile acts.  

The  report  also  states  that  Israel  used  depleted 
and  non-depleted  uranium  munitions. While  that  is  an 
issue  that  needs  further  study  and  investigation,  it  is 
clear 
violated 
international  laws  and  United  Nations  resolutions, 
including  Security  Council  resolution  1860  (2009), 
calling for a ceasefire during the Israeli aggression on 
Gaza. 

accounts  of 
Palestinian  citizens  detailed  in  Judge  Goldstone’s 
report,  it  is  clear  that  his  must  be  the  last  report  the 
United  Nations  prepares  on  the  subject:  any  further 
report  that  is  not  followed  by  strong  international 
preventive  action  will  only  make  Israel  bolder,  more 
arrogant  and  more  convinced  that  it  is  immune  and 
cannot  be  touched.  That  situation  fosters  a  culture  of 
impunity  and  taints  the  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations  and  of  the  international  community.  Are 
Member  States  ready  to  lose  the  credibility  of  the 
United  Nations  and  its  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  because  of  Israel’s  intransigence 
and tyranny? 

In  this  context,  my  delegation  emphasizes  its 
support  for  all  the  recommendations  contained  in  the 
report  and  referred  to  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Secretary-General,  the  Security  Council,  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  the  International  Criminal  Court  and 
systematically 
the  many 
eyewitness 
From 
that 
Israel 
has 

the international community. We also demand the High 
Contracting Parties to the Geneva Conventions to take 
all necessary measures to convene an urgent meeting to 
consider  human  rights  violations  that  fall  under  the 
Geneva Conventions. We also stress the importance of 
pressuring Israel to implement the recommendations of 
the  Goldstone  report  by  establishing  credible  national 
courts  and  investigative  commissions  to  prosecute  the 
perpetrators of war crimes. 

Israel’s  feverish settlement activity in Jerusalem, 
its  zeal  to  erase  the  Arab  identity  of  that  city,  its 
continued  aggression  against  Islamic  holy  sites,  its 
banning  of  prayer  by  the  faithful  in  the  Al-Aqsa 
mosque  and  its  protection  of  extremist  Jews  who 
practice  their  religious  rites  in  Islamic  houses  of 
worship  together  represent  a  flagrant  affront  to  the 
sentiments  of  1.5  billion  Muslims.  Those  aberrant 
Israeli  actions,  which  the  international  community 
condemns,  inflame  sensibilities,  lead  to  violence  and 
extremism and open the door wide  for  reactions at all 
levels. 

In  that  connection,  we  warn  and  appeal  to  the 
international  community,  the  United  Nations  and  its 
principal  organs  —  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  —  and  in  particular  the  influential 
countries  which  directly  bear  the  responsibility  of 
maintaining international peace and security, as well as 
to all peace-loving nations, civil society institutions of 
all kinds and religious institutions of all denominations 
in every corner of the world to stand firm and strong in 
preventing  the  flagrant  encroachments  on  the Al-Aqsa 
mosque  and  its  surroundings,  which  have  reached  a 
dangerous level that certainly threatens the destruction 
of  the  mosque  itself,  which  would  gravely  jeopardize 
international  peace  and  security,  affecting  everyone 
without exception, and would threaten world peace and 
stability. 
The  State  of  Kuwait,  like  all  other  peace-loving 

nations,  commits 
its 
international  responsibilities  and  obligations,  to  work 
tirelessly so that the Goldstone report will remain alive 
in the conscience of the international community until 
the  principle  of  no  impunity  is  applied,  in  accordance 
with the purposes of the United Nations Charter, which 
calls  for  respect  for  human  rights  and  dignity,  which 
Israel has violated in a manner that in today’s world is 
incredible, unacceptable and unprecedented, by waging 
its  unjust  war  against 
the  civilian  Palestinian 
population in the Gaza Strip. 
the  fulfilment  of 
itself 
to 
24 

09-59450 
in 
the  humanitarian  situation 
Kuwait  calls  upon  Member  States 



to  work 
together  to  implement  the  recommendations  contained 
in  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 
Mission on the Gaza Conflict and to support the Arab 
draft  resolution  before  us  in  document  A/64/L.11, 
which we consider to be a step in the right direction to 
counter injustice and aggression. 
Mr.  Zhang  Yesui  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The  Chinese  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  President 
of  the Assembly  for  convening  these  meetings  on  the 
recommendations  of  the  twelfth  special  session  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  We  hope  our  meetings  will 
help draw the attention of the international community 
to  the  human  rights  and  humanitarian  situation  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory,  especially  the  Gaza 
Strip, contribute to an early ending of the suffering of 
the  Palestinian  people  and  move  forward  the  peace 
process in the Middle East. 

The  Chinese  Government  expresses  its  serious 
concern  about 
the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory,  especially  Gaza.  The 
blockade  imposed  on  the  Gaza  Strip  over  the  years, 
particularly  the  military  action  at  the  end  of  last  year 
and  early  this  year,  has  led  to  a  serious  humanitarian 
crisis  for  the  Palestinian  people  and  has  caused 
enormous  casualties  among  innocent  civilians.  Our 
hearts go out to the Palestinian people in their plight. 

On the other hand, we understand Israel’s security 
concerns  and  are  equally  saddened  by  Israeli  civilian 
casualties.  Such  concerns,  however,  must  not  be  a 
reason for excessive use of force that brings damage to 
innocent civilians. Both the Palestinians and the Israelis 
should  enjoy  equal  rights  to  survival  and  personal 
security. We  oppose  any  violence  against  civilians  and 
urge the parties concerned to comply with international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  conventions.  To 
truly 
the 
occupied Palestinian territory, we hope Israel will heed 
the call of the international community, open the border 
crossings 
into  Gaza,  ensure  unfettered  access  of 
humanitarian and reconstruction supplies to Gaza, stop 
the construction of settlements  and  the separation  wall 
and halt the forced demolition of Palestinian houses and 
restrictions  on  the  normal  activities  and  freedom  of 
movement of the Palestinian people. 

We hope the international community will render 
continued political and moral support to the Palestinian 
intensify 
people  and 
its  economic,  financial  and 
still 
to  ease 
technical  assistance 
the  humanitarian  situation 
the  hardship 
improve 
in 
A/64/PV.37
the 
reliable 
We  have 
investigations 
taken  note  of 
the 
independent 
confronted  by  the  Palestinian  people.  The  parties 
concerned should immediately deliver on the assistance 
commitments they made during the donors conference 
held in Sharm el-Sheik, Egypt, in March, and help the 
Palestinian people resume a normal and dignified life.  

The Middle East peace process is now at a critical 
juncture. The humanitarian and human rights situation 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  still  presents  a 
major  challenge  to  efforts  to  resume  the  Middle  East 
peace  process.  The  international  community  should 
remain  focused  on  the  situation  and  provide  real 
assistance. 
report  and 

recommendations  of 
international 
Fact-Finding  Mission  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/HRC/12/48),  which  include  a  host  of  targeted  and 
operational  steps.  We  call  on  all  parties  concerned  to 
remain  engaged,  in  cooperation  with  the  relevant 
organs  and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations,  carry  out 
independent  and 
into  all 
activities  that  violate  international  humanitarian  law 
and human rights conventions and hold the perpetrators 
accountable.  In  the  mean  time,  United  Nations  organs 
and agencies should perform their respective functions 
and operate in strict accordance with their mandates. 

Political  negotiation  is  the  only  way  out.  The 
cycle of violence leads nowhere. The parties concerned 
should  continue  to  exercise  restraint  and  refrain  from 
any  move  that  may  aggravate  tensions.  We  hope  that 
both Palestine and Israel will remain firmly committed 
to  peace  talks  and  work  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant 
resolutions  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative and the principle of land for peace in order to 
strive towards the goal of two States living side by side 
in peace. 

The  Chinese  Government  remains  committed  to 
supporting  the  Middle  East  peace  process.  We  have 
taken  an  active  part  in  promoting  peace,  stability  and 
development  in  the  Middle  East.  We  have  worked 
vigorously  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  to  the 
Palestinian  people.  We  also  support  the  positive  role 
played  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  other 
relevant  United  Nations  organs  and  agencies.  China 
will continue to work with the rest of the international 
community  to  make  unremitting  efforts  towards  the 
achievement of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace 
in the Middle East. 

  The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m. 
09-59450 

25 
