
A/64/PV.44
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

44th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 12 November 2009, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 







  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hackett 
(Bahamas), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 



to 
thank 
I  am  participating  as 
Agenda items 9 and 119 (continued) 
Report of the Security Council (A/64/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 
Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant  (United  Kingdom):  I 

should  like  to  begin  by  thanking  the  President  for 
having convened this important debate, the first debate 
in  which 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Kingdom.  I  should  also 
like 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Austria — in  his  capacity  as  President  of  the  Security 
Council  during  the  month  of  November  —  for  his 
comments  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/64/2), on behalf of all members of the Council. And 
my thanks go also to the Permanent Representative and 
mission  of  Uganda  for  leading  the  work,  with  the 
Secretariat, to produce this report. 

While  the  Security  Council  report  remains  the 
responsibility  of  the  Council,  we  support  efforts  to 
ensure a transparent process. We welcome the initiative 
taken by Viet Nam last year and continued by Uganda 
this  year  to  convene  an  informal,  interactive  meeting 
with Member States to discuss the report. We hope that 
more  Member  States  will  take  advantage  of  such 
opportunities in the future. 
both 
effectively 
that  positive 
organs,  works 
More  broadly,  we  note 

trends 
towards  greater  transparency  in  the  Security  Council 
continue.  The  last  year  saw  a  further  increase  in  the 
number of open meetings. We will continue to work to 
ensure  that  the  Security  Council,  like  all  United 
Nations 
and 
transparently. 

Turning  now  to  Security  Council  reform,  I  am 
pleased  to  have  the  opportunity  to  reiterate  our 
commitment  to  making  progress.  We  continue  to 
support  permanent  membership  for  Brazil,  Germany, 
India  and  Japan,  as  well  as  permanent  representation 
from Africa.  

It  has  been  an  eventful  year.  The  start  of 
intergovernmental negotiations in February was a clear 
indication  of  our  collective  desire  to  achieve  concrete 
this  session  should  be  on 
progress.  Our  focus 
maintaining 
support 
Ambassador  Tanin’s  efforts  to  move  the  process 
forward. The session on the intermediate model in the 
last  round  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  was 
especially welcome. A range of views were expressed, 
including on what this might mean for the future. The 
United Kingdom position, as set out in the British and 
French  declaration  of  6  July,  notes  that  such  a  model 
could provide for a new category of seats with a longer 
mandate.  On  completion  of  an  intermediate  period,  a 
review  could  be  undertaken  to  convert  the  new  seats 
into  permanent  ones.  For  our  part,  we  believe  the 
intermediate model might be considered as a means of 
ending  the  deadlock,  and  might  provide  a  stepping 
stone towards permanent reform. 
the  momentum.  We 
fully 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-60619 (E) 
*0960619* 

that  might  break 
the  current  President  of 
A/64/PV.44 


We continue to believe that creative ideas need to 
be  considered,  if  we  are  to  achieve  permanent  reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  We  should  look,  in  detail,  at 
possible  alternative  models 
the 
deadlock. 

We  all  share  a  genuine  will  for  reform,  but  a 
concerted effort from the membership will be required 
if we are to make progress. We will also need to show 
flexibility  and  a  spirit  of  compromise.  We  are 
committed  to  working  with  others  in  this  session  to 
make Security Council reform a reality. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Every  year,  all  the  Member  States  of  the 
United Nations have an opportunity to discuss together 
the  results  of  the  work  of  the  Security  Council  as 
reflected  in  its  report,  which,  today,  was  introduced 
today  by 
the  Council, 
Ambassador Mayr-Harting. It is very important to have 
this  very  transparent  discussion.  We  should  like  to 
thank  the  delegation  of  Uganda  for  its  work  in 
preparing this report (A/64/2). We believe that, overall, 
it does objectively reflect the dynamics of the Council 
over the past year. 

The fact that the Council, as in earlier years, was 
actively  involved  in  resolving  some  of  the  most 
important 
the 
international  community  and  the  members  of  the 
Council  recognize  and  accept  the  very  basic  principle 
that  the  decisions  of  the  Council,  as  a  cornerstone  for 
settling  problems  relating  to  international  peace  and 
security, have a unique legitimacy. 
that 

We  are  well  aware  of 
this 
traditionally  accompanies 
document 
is 
essentially  that  the  report  is  not  analytical  enough  but 
is  only  a  factual  depiction  of  the  work  of  the  Council 
over the past year. However, we do not agree that that 
is a matter for concern. We believe that the purpose of 
the  document  is  to  give  a  complete  and  factually 
accurate  account  of  the  work  of  the  Council  over  the 
past  year,  and  the  report  does  this. With  regard  to  the 
approaches  taken  by  members  of  the  Council  to  the 
various  issues  on  its  agenda,  Members  States  have 
other opportunities to learn about those approaches. 

In  that  connection,  I  should  like  to  say,  and  not 
for  the  first  time,  that  there  has  been  a  positive 
evolution  in  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council.  The  Council  is  broadening  its  practice  of 
the  criticism 
the  discussion  of 
the  General  Assembly,  which 
issues  of  our 
in 
time  shows 
that 

that 
between 
transparency 
balance 
in 
the  understanding 
holding  open  debates  and  briefings  —  there  is  an 
increasing number of these each year, and the past year 
was  no  exception.  This  can  be  seen  clearly  from  the 
statistics cited in the report. 
The  Security  Council  must  continue  to  strike  a 

and 
reasonable 
effectiveness 
the  main 
objective  must  be  to  enhance  the  potential  of  the 
Council to exercise the powers ascribed to it under the 
Charter in the area of the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 

We  call  for  greater  interaction  between  the 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  Here,  we  should 
concentrate  on  those  areas  where  genuine  cooperation 
between these two principal organs is not only possible 
but necessary. There are quite a number of such areas. 
For example, we can look at the very relevant issue of 
how  to  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  There  is  also  scope 
for joint efforts in dealing with mediation. The Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  can  make  a  real 
contribution here. The main focus should be to ensure 
that  cooperation  between  the  two  bodies  takes  into 
account  their  respective  powers,  and  success  will 
depend on our doing that. 

Russia,  as  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council, is in favour of enhancing the effectiveness of 
the  work  of  the  Council  by,  among  other  means, 
making  it  more  representative.  However,  in  pursuing 
this goal, we should be careful not to adversely affect 
the operational capacity of the Council. That premise is 
fundamental  to  our  approach  to  the  question  of 
Security Council reform. 

Russia’s position is well known. We are in favour 
of maintaining a relatively small Security Council and 
we regard the idea that there could be any infringement 
on  the  powers,  including  the  veto,  of  the  current 
permanent members as counterproductive. Any change 
in the status quo here could become an insurmountable 
obstacle to having amendments to the Charter approved 
by  national  ratification  procedures,  primarily  in  the 
case of the five permanent members of the Council. 
We  also  fully  believe  that  reform  of  the  Council 

must  enjoy  the  broadest  possible  support  among  the 
membership. If we are unable to reach a consensus, it 
will be politically necessary to garner the support of a 
majority of Member States over and above the legally 
required two  thirds majority of the General Assembly. 
2 

09-60619 


Proposed  models  for  reform  have  not  yet  gained 
overwhelming  support.  An  attempt  to  push  these 
models  through  by  putting  them  to  a  vote  would 
inevitably  polarize  the Assembly. And,  even  if  one  of 
the drafts were to get the required two thirds of votes, 
the Council would hardly gain in stature in the eyes of 
the dissenting minority, which, of course, would count 
many influential States among its number. 
We  stand  ready  to  consider  any  sensible  option 

for 
broadening  Security  Council  membership, 
including  through  an  interim  model,  provided  that  it 
enjoys the broadest possible support within the United 
Nations. 

Unfortunately, three rounds of intergovernmental 
negotiations  have  not  done  much  to  narrow  the 
differences  between  Member  States  on  the  ultimate 
formula for reforming the Security Council, so we see 
no  option  other  than  to  continue  at  this  session  of  the 
Assembly  the  painstaking  effort  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  that  we  began  last  February.  The  work 
must  be  done  in  a  calm,  transparent  and  inclusive 
manner,  without  imposing  any  artificial  deadlines.  It 
would  be  counterproductive 
the  focus 
prematurely  to  just  one  or  two  options.  We  have  to 
discuss all of the existing negotiating options.  
The President took the Chair. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  stress  that  our  ability  to 

make  progress  at  the  negotiations  will  depend  on  the 
political  will  of  Member  States  and  their  readiness  to 
reach a reasonable compromise. 
Mr. Takasu  (Japan):  Mr.  President,  I  would  like 

to  thank  you  for  convening  this  plenary  meeting  to 
discuss  matters  of  great  importance  to  the  United 
Nations:  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
annual  report  on  the  work  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/64/2).  I  also  wish  to  extend  my  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Thomas  Mayr-Harting  of  Austria  for 
introducing  the  report  in  his  capacity  as  President  of 
the Council. 

Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  long  overdue. 
The  current  composition  of  the  Security  Council  does 
not reflect the realities of the international community 
in the twenty-first century. It is thus essential to ensure 
that  today’s  new  realities  are  fully  reflected  in  a 
substantial change in the status quo of the Council. 
At  the  World  Summit  in  September  2005,  the 

leaders of all Member States affirmed unanimously that 
to  narrow 
A/64/PV.44
and 
the 
stage, 
early  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  an  essential 
element  in  the  overall  effort  to  reform  the  United 
Nations. And  they  agreed  that  it  is  necessary  to  make 
the  Security  Council  more  broadly  representative  and 
to further enhance its effectiveness  and the legitimacy 
and implementation of its decisions. All Member States 
are  bound  by  their  leaders’  commitment  and  their 
promise to realize early reform of the Security Council. 

Moving  on  from  the  15-year-long  consultations 
of the Open-ended Working Group, we entered into the 
negotiation 
intergovernmental 
negotiations commenced in the informal plenary of the 
General Assembly last February. After three rounds of 
negotiations,  on  14  September  2009,  the  General 
Assembly  adopted  decision  63/565  to  commence  the 
negotiations  immediately,  building  on  the  progress 
achieved  during  the  sixty-third  session  as  well  as  on 
the positions of and proposals made by Member States. 

Thus,  the  task  before  us  now  is  not  to  question 
the need and purpose of reform, but to act and deliver 
on the unanimous commitment in the form of concrete 
solutions at the earliest possible date. 
We  are  therefore  grateful  to  you,  Mr.  President, 

for  the  high  priority  you  have  assigned  to  the  early 
realization  of  Security  Council  reform,  in  accordance 
with  the  General  Assembly  decision.  At  the  opening 
session,  Sir,  you  stressed  that  realizing  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  is  of  the  utmost  importance  in  the 
sixty-fourth session. 

Following the general debate, Mr. President, you 
informed us in your letters that it is imperative that we 
continue  during 
to  build  on 
previous positive developments, as we work to achieve 
reform  at  the  earliest  opportunity.  And  you  have 
reappointed  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  to  chair  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  your  behalf.  We 
thank  Ambassador  Tanin 
important 
contributions 
the  negotiation  process 
forward during the previous session. Mr. President, we 
hope  that  you  and  Ambassador  Tanin  will  together 
exercise  strong  leadership  in  guiding  us  towards 
achieving a concrete outcome during this session. 
It is Japan’s firm belief that reform should entail 

expansion 
the 
non-permanent  membership  categories  in  order  to 
reflect  today’s  global  political  reality.  An  enlarged 
Security  Council  should  include  on  a  permanent  basis 
those  Member  States  that  have  well  demonstrated  the 
the  current  session 
to  moving 
permanent 
and 
of 
both 
the 
for 
his 
09-60619 

3 
to 
engage 
in 
in 
that 
that 
is  why 
actively 
continue 
I  believe 
A/64/PV.44 

readiness,  capacity  and  resources  to  carry  through 
implementation of Security Council decisions.  

In the general debate at the end of September (see 
A/64/PV.5), 
this  Hall,  Prime  Minister  Yukio 
Hatoyama  confirmed  this  goal  by  stating  that  Japan 
would 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations, pursuing the expansion 
of  both  permanent  and  non-permanent  membership 
categories as well as Japan’s permanent membership in 
the Council. 
In  our  view,  only  through  expansion  of  both 

categories  can  the  Council  sufficiently  enhance  its 
effectiveness  and  legitimacy  in  the  implementation  of 
its  decisions. 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States,  including 
the  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  Island  States, 
continue  to  support  the  option  of  expanding  both 
categories in the negotiations during the last session as 
well as in this morning’s meeting. 

The  momentum  for  reform  has  sustained  itself. 
Intergovernmental  negotiations  have  begun  and  the 
positions of Member States are well defined. It is now 
high  time  to  seek  a  solution  that  will  garner  the 
broadest possible support and achieve a tangible result. 
That  is  going  to  be  our  urgent  task  in  the  current 
session. Further delay in achieving a concrete outcome 
will  only  exacerbate  the  disappointment  with  the 
United  Nations  on  the  part  of  many  Governments  and 
result  in  questioning  the  ability  of  the  membership  to 
rejuvenate and reform from within. 
We should not permit ourselves at this session to 

engage in procedural debates or repeat what transpired 
in  the  sixty-third  session.  We  should  build  upon  the 
progress made so far and advance to the next stage of 
the  negotiations  from  the  point  reached  at  the  end  of 
the  sixty-third  session.  The  positions  of  all  Member 
States  have  become  much  more  clearly  defined  now. 
Therefore,  in  order  to  realize  early  reform,  we  should 
begin  substantive  negotiations  based  on  the  positions 
of Member States. 

How  do  we  start  this  next  phase  of  substantive 
negotiations and try to narrow our differences as much 
as possible? It is essential to have a brief option paper 
that can serve as a basis for negotiations. Such a paper 
could  summarize  options  and  positions  presented  by 
Member  States  that  are  likely  to  garner  the  broadest 
possible support among Member States.  


In our view, as in the case of past negotiations in 
the United Nations, the Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  is  in  the  best  position  to  prepare  such  a 
paper, in consultation with the President of the General 
Assembly. We urge that the Chairman be entrusted with 
that task at the earliest possible time. However, if, for 
whatever  reason,  he  is  not  in  a  position  to  formulate 
such a paper for the negotiations, we should find other, 
Member State-driven ways to produce it. 

My  delegation,  together  with  other  Member 
States, is determined to engage constructively and with 
a sense of urgency in the substantive negotiations, with 
a  view  to  attaining  a  concrete  outcome  during  the 
current session. 

Whatever  the  extent  to  which  the  Council  is 
expanded, its membership will comprise no more than 
a  fraction  of  the  total  number  of  Member  States. 
Therefore,  it  is  essential  that  the  Council  continue  to 
make its decision-making process more transparent and 
accountable to all Member States. It is also essential to 
provide  assurances  to  all  Member  States  that  the 
Security Council is acting on behalf of all of them, so 
that  the  entire  membership  continues  to  accept  its 
decisions, in accordance with Article 25 of the Charter.  

For  the  Council  to  maintain  its  legitimacy,  all 
Member States must be convinced that decisions of the 
Council  are  outcomes  that  fully  reflect  the  diverse 
positions,  perspectives  and  concerns  of  the  entire 
membership.  Therefore,  communication  between  the 
Security Council and the General Assembly needs to be 
continually 
the 
Security  Council  is  one  of  the  important  tools  needed 
to ensure this accountability. 

Japan therefore welcomes that the annual reports 
of the Security Council have developed in line with the 
in  presidential  note 
recommendations  contained 
S/2006/507,  which  was  adopted  under 
Japan’s 
presidency. I commend the efforts made by Uganda in 
drafting  and  coordinating  this  year’s  report  aimed  at 
making  it  a  comprehensive  account  of  the  main  work 
by the Security Council for the past 12 months. Japan 
will join in effort to further improve its quality, taking 
into  consideration  the  comments  made  by  the  general 
membership  in  today’s  debate  as  well  as  in  the 
informal  consultation  organized  jointly  by  Uganda, 
Austria and Viet Nam. The Informal Working Group on 
Documentation and Other Procedural Questions, which 
improved.  The  annual  report  of 
4 

09-60619 
is 
important 
to 
increase 
to  revitalize 
transparency  and 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  There 


I  am  chairing,  will  also  reflect  those  comments  in  its 
future work. 
Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 

the  Council’s 
Council 
efficiency  and 
its 
effectiveness.  Japan  has  been  making  contributions  to 
improve  interaction  between  the  Council  and  the 
general  membership.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Japan’s 
readiness to continue its efforts to improve the working 
methods of the Security Council. 
is  a 

strong substantive connection between the two agenda 
items under consideration today. We thus welcome the 
joint debate and hope that it will offer guidance to you, 
Sir,  and  your  team  in  shaping  the  future  course  of 
action in the Assembly.  

The  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/64/2)  is  a 
central channel of communication between the Council 
and  the  rest  of  the  membership,  on  whose  behalf  the 
Council  carries  out  its  work.  Like  many  others,  we 
therefore  take  a  particular  interest  in  this  report, 
compounded by our ongoing engagement in the area of 
working  methods  as  a  member  of  the  group  of  five 
small nations (S-5). Together with others, we have long 
held  the  view  that  the  report  in  its  traditional  format 
does  not  serve  the  purpose  of  accountability,  but  we 
also believe that the ritualistic complaints in the annual 
debate on the report about its lack of analysis are little 
productive.  
We  are  happy  to  acknowledge,  first  of  all,  the 

in 
efforts  made 
particular  by  the  delegation  of  Uganda  during  its 
presidency  in  the  month  of  July.  We  also  appreciated 
the  opportunity  given  to  us  at  the  end  of  October  to 
engage in an informal exchange on the report. But most 
importantly,  we  are  grateful  that  the  members  of  the 
Security  Council  were  willing  to  discuss  with  the  S-5 
the format of the report and the difficulties encountered 
in  its  drafting,  and  to  exchange  ideas  on  how  the 
process  could  be  improved.  We  were  also  most 
appreciative  for  your  presence  in  this  discussion,  Sir, 
given 
the 
consideration of the report. 

We  look  forward  to  continuing  our  work  as  the 
S-5  and  together  with  Council  members  and  other 
States on concrete measures to improve this report and 
to  better  use  the  opportunity  to  exchange  views  on  it. 
We are under no illusion as to the feasibility of a report 
the  particular  role  of  your  Office 
in  producing 
this  year’s  report, 
in 
A/64/PV.44
there 
containing a fully fledged political analysis of the work 
of  the  Security  Council.  That  is  indeed  not  a  realistic 
demand,  but  certainly 
is  ample  room  for 
improvement. Linkages between topics — in particular 
between country situations and thematic issues — can 
be illustrated, and the report could also deal with cross-
cutting  issues,  for  example  the  discussions  on  the 
relationship  between  peace  and  justice  that  took  place 
in the Council over the past year. And we can certainly 
find  better  ways  to  engage  each  other  on  the  contents 
of the report.  

One  aspect  of  the  report  that  is  of  particular 
interest to us naturally is the way it deals with the issue 
of  working  methods. The  view  is  often  advanced,  and 
has  been  expressed  here  today,  that  the  Council  is  the 
master  of  its  own  procedures  and  therefore  of  all 
matters  related  to  its  working  methods.  If  that  is  so, 
what better place than the annual report of the Council 
to  inform  on  developments  in  the  area  of  working 
methods  and  what  better  opportunity  to  update  on 
progress  made  in  the  implementation  of  presidential 
note S/2006/507?  

Meanwhile, the report provides no information on 
actual  developments  in  the  area  of  working  methods, 
even  though  some  have  occurred.  There  is  a  largely 
technical  reference  to  the  open  debate  of  the  Council 
on  the  matter  in  August  2008  and  an  equally  meagre 
summary  of 
Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions, 
which,  incidentally,  seems  to  be  the  only  working 
group of the Security Council that does not produce its 
own annual report.  

The interest of the larger membership in the issue 
of  working  methods  is  well  known  and  has  been 
documented  extensively  during  the  discussions  on 
Security Council reform. We hope that this interest will 
be  met  by  the  Council  in  future  reports  and  that  the 
consideration  of  the  annual  report  can  also  offer  an 
opportunity for an exchange on working methods. 

The  S-5  continues  to  work  on  two  tracks  to 
improve  the  working  methods  of  the  Council,  first  in 
the General Assembly in the overall framework of the 
work  on  Security  Council  reform,  and  secondly, 
through direct engagement with Council members on a 
number  of  issues  in  which  we  take  particular  interest, 
some  of  which  will  be  mentioned  by  other  S-5 
members in this debate. We encourage the participation 
of other States that share the same interests, such as in 
the 
09-60619 

5 
The  progress  on  working  methods 
A/64/PV.44 

the  case  of  the  efforts  to  promote  fair  and  clear 
sanctions procedures. Last year a formal proposal was 
submitted  on  that  issue  by  some  from  within  the  S-5 
and other Member States.  

is  not 
conditioned  on  or  linked  to  a  decision  in  the  area  of 
enlargement,  given  the  different  nature  of  the  two 
processes. At the same time, a comprehensive solution 
that  encompasses  decisive  steps  in  both  areas  remains 
our ideal goal. 
With  respect  to  the  enlargement  discussion,  we 

want to first thank Ambassador Tanin and his team for 
their  tireless  efforts  and  the  skilful  manner  in  which 
they guided the process at the sixty-third session. They 
are the last ones to blame  for the lack of progress. At 
the  same 
lack  of  progress  has  only 
strengthened  our  conviction  that  the  way  to  an  early 
solution — if that is what we want, and to which we all 
committed  in  2005  —  is  the  intermediate  approach.  It 
offers  a  solution  that  is  ratifiable,  sustainable  and  yet 
flexible.  We  also  see,  of  course,  that  flexibility  and 
willingness to compromise are still minimal at best. It 
appears  that  the  political  momentum  necessary  for 
enlargement can be created only through challenges to 
the role and legitimacy of the Council that are not yet 
fully felt. 

For our part, we will continue to give our support 
to  Ambassador  Tanin  and  his  team  in  their  future 
efforts. 
the 

Philippines  commends  you,  Sir,  for  convening  this 
plenary meeting for a joint debate on agenda item 9, on 
the  report  of  the  Security  Council,  and  agenda  item 
119,  on  Security  Council  reform. As  to  the  latter,  the 
Philippines  praises  you,  Sir,  for  the  great  importance 
you place on Security Council reform. The Philippines 
remains  encouraged  and 
the  views 
expressed  in  your  acceptance  speech  on  10  June  2009 
(see A/63/PV.86)  and  the  assurance  you  made  in  your 
first address  at the opening of the sixty-fourth session 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  15  September  2009  (see 
A/64/PV.1)  that  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must 
continue to be one of our priorities and that we should 
make every effort to achieve it as soon as possible. 

thanks  Ambassador  Thomas 
Mayr-Harting  of  Austria  for  introducing  the  annual 
report  of 
(A/64/2)  and 
congratulates  the  Austrian  presidency  on  its  able  and 
(Philippines):  Forthwith, 
the  Security  Council 
The  Philippines 
Mr.  Davide
inspired  by 
time, 
this 

as 
for  his  work 
chair  of 
for 
negotiations 
the 
dynamic  stewardship  of  the  Council  for  the  month  of 
November  2009.  The  Philippines  also  thanks  Uganda 
for  preparing  the  report  under  its  presidency  in  July 
2009,  and  places  on  record  its  gratitude  to  Viet  Nam 
for  initiating  efforts  during  its  presidency  of  the 
Council  in  July  2008  to  improve  the  manner  of 
preparing  the  report  by  seeking  the  views  of  Member 
States during its drafting stage. 

The Philippines also takes this opportunity to pay 
special  tribute  to  the  efforts  of  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third session, for finally starting during his watch 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform  mandated 
in  General  Assembly  decision 
62/557. Of course, commendations are also in order for 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative of 
the 
Afghanistan, 
and 
intergovernmental 
his 
reappointment  as  chair  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  during  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  His  reappointment  is  not  only  a 
recognition  of  his  integrity,  skills  and  capabilities;  it 
will also ensure that work will continue from where we 
left  off  in  September  2009.  His  reappointment  is  a 
blessing because he cannot afford to fail. 

We  are  again  at  a  time  of  the  year  when  the 
General  Assembly  engages  in  the  ritual  of  a  joint 
debate  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  and  on 
Security  Council  reform.  In  past  years,  we  have  seen 
the same thing over and over again — almost identical 
formats  or  presentations  of  Security  Council  reports 
and  a  continuing  standstill  in  Security  Council  reform 
efforts. The Philippines wishes to state nonetheless that 
this year is a little different, although the report of the 
Security Council seems to appear as a rerun despite the 
sincere  attempts  of  the  Security  Council,  since  Viet 
Nam’s  presidency  in  July  2008,  to  make  the  report 
more  relevant,  insightful,  comprehensive,  informative 
and  analytical.  Despite  these  efforts,  the  report  has 
remained more or less the same.  

The  Philippines  maintains  its  view  that  the 
Security Council should consider changes to the report, 
including  its  format,  to  make  it  more  of  a  genuine 
report rather than a mere compendium as it is now. It is 
always  pointed  out  that  the  format  of  the  report 
corresponds  to  relevant  provisions  of  the  notes  by  the 
President  contained  in  documents  S/2006/507  and 
S/2007/749, which are the outcomes of the work of the 
Informal  Working  Group  on 
Security  Council 
6 

09-60619 
that 
to  commence 


Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions.  The 
Philippines  recommends 
the  Working  Group 
consider this matter once again and, accordingly, make 
the  appropriate 
recommendations,  proposals  and 
suggestions  to  the  members  of  the  Council.  Once 
again,  the  Philippines  reiterates  its  view  that  the 
Council  should  take  note  of  how  the  repertoire  of  the 
practice  of  the  Security  Council  presents  information 
and  consider  combining  or  merging  the  annual  report 
and the repertoire. 

In the long, discouraging, frustrating, exasperating 
and  even  painful  history  of  Security  Council  reform, 
the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly  may 
yet  be  remembered  as  a  session  of  encouraging 
transition and great promise. In that session, the general 
membership finally resolved by specific action — and 
even expressed that resolve in body language — to be 
more dynamic and bold and to exercise some political 
will  to  pursue  the  mandate  of  General  Assembly 
decision  62/557 
intergovernmental 
negotiations. After two decades of embarrassing sojourn 
within the confines of the Open-Ended Working Group 
and  of  repeating  the  same  old  arguments  day  in  and 
day  out,  the  gates  are  now  open  for  negotiations  that 
will,  we  hope,  bring  forth  a  harvest  of  agreements  on 
Security Council reform.  

Of  course,  the  Philippines  notes  the  difficulty  of 
cutting the umbilical cord of the Open-ended Working 
Group,  as  seen  in  paragraph  17  (c)  of  its  report 
contained  in  document A/63/47,  which  states  that  the 
General  Assembly  can  convene 
the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  “if  Member  States  so  decide”.  The 
Philippines  hopes  the  General  Assembly  will  not  so 
decide, for if it does it will, sadly, be brought back to 
where it started. With vim, vigour, vitality and political 
will, 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  

We  have  already  crossed  the  Rubicon,  so  to 
speak.  When  Member  States  began  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  they  put  an  end,  for  all  intents  and 
purposes,  to  the  Open-ended  Working  Group.  We  are 
now  on  the  other  side  of  the  Rubicon  and,  like  Julius 
Caesar, we can now declare “alea iacta est” — the die 
is cast. The general membership now has no choice but 
to  go  forward  with  abiding  good  faith  and  work  on 
Security  Council  reform.  The  Philippines  commends 
Ambassador  Tanin  for  his  work 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  sixty-third 
session.  
it  must  concentrate  on 
in  chairing 
A/64/PV.44
submits 
respectfully 
The  Philippines 

The  several  rounds  of  negotiations  convened  by 
him,  broken  down  into  a  series  of  exchanges,  have 
allowed the many stakeholders to put forward, explain 
and  debate  their  proposals.  The  Philippines  submitted 
its  own  specific  Security  Council  reform  proposals  in 
its  note  verbale  dated  14  February  2009,  sent  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session and the Chairman  of the Open-ended Working 
Group, and in its note verbale dated 16 February 2009, 
sent  to  the  Permanent  Representatives  to  the  United 
Nations.  The  Philippines  reiterated,  amplified  and 
supplemented  all  these  proposals  during  the  long 
discussions in the rounds and exchanges. 

In  its  statement  at  the  24th  informal  meeting  of 
the  plenary  on  intergovernmental  negotiations  held  on 
22  June  2009,  the  Philippines  even  submitted  draft 
resolutions  to  implement  various  reform  proposals. 
There  is  no  need  to  further  elaborate  on  them,  since 
they are already well known to all delegations. What is 
needed  now  is  action,  action,  action.  There  should  be 
no turning back. 

that 
delegations  should  now  work  on  draft  documents  or 
papers  so  that  discussions  can  be  more  focused.  The 
draft can come from the Chairman or be the product of 
the  general  membership  itself.  It  is  of  paramount 
importance  that  all  of  the  proposals  on  the  key  issues 
be reflected in the draft. 

At  this  juncture,  the  Philippines  maintains  its 
position  that  what  can  be  adopted  now  must  be 
approved  now.  It  cannot  subscribe  to  the  concept  that 
“nothing is agreed unless everything is agreed”. Such a 
concept is undemocratic, divisive, irrational, unjust and 
oppressive.  Yielding  to  it  would  spell  disaster  for  all 
efforts  towards  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  In  this 
regard,  the  Philippines  calls  on  the  Security  Council 
itself to act now on  reforming its working methods to 
make  them  truly  democratic,  transparent,  accountable 
and genuinely observant of the requirements of the rule 
of law and due process. It should not place itself in the 
embarrassing  situation  where  it  could  be  prodded 
again,  for 
the  word 
“provisional”  in  the  title  of  its  provisional  rules  of 
procedure. 

My  delegation  hopes  and  prays  that  the  General 
Assembly,  through  our  determined,  sustained  and 
unceasing efforts, will be able to muster the necessary 
political will and come up with a positive outcome on 
to  simply  delete 
instance, 
09-60619 

7 
is 

to 
A/64/PV.44 

Security Council reform by the end of the sixty-fourth 
session.  The  Philippines  will  do  its  part  towards 
achieving 
this  outcome.  The  outcome  could  be 
momentous,  if  we  desire  and  will  it.  It  is  all  up  to 
Member  States.  As  the  Latin  maxim  goes,  velle  est 
posse — where there is a will, there is a way.  
Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

Permanent  Representative  of Austria,  President  of  the 
Security  Council  for  this  month,  for  presenting  the 
Council’s  annual  report  (A/64/2) 
the  General 
Assembly.  The  report  of  the  Security  Council  under 
review is a comprehensive compendium of its meetings 
and  decisions.  It  can  be  appreciated  for  its  procedural 
accuracies  and  reference  value.  However,  a  certain 
level  of  analytical  depth  would  certainly  add  to  its 
value. 

The  Security  Council  is  the  principal  organ 
responsible  for the maintenance of international peace 
and security. It acts on behalf of the entire membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  Today’s  meeting  provides  an 
opportunity  for  the  entire  membership  to  review  the 
work  of  the  Security  Council  and  to  assess  our 
collective efforts to achieve a comprehensive reform of 
that body. 

Our  brief  review  of  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council  will  focus  on  two  dimensions:  first,  its 
effectiveness  in  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security,  and  secondly,  its  ability  to  reflect  the  views 
and  interests  of  the  widest  possible  membership.  In 
terms of the Council’s effectiveness, the annual report 
details significant achievements in addressing the areas 
of violent conflict and peacekeeping. Peacekeeping has 
been  utilized  to  good  effect  in  several  complex  crises 
in  Africa.  Elsewhere,  in  Asia,  Latin  America  and 
Eastern  Europe, 
have 
accomplished 
task  of  disengaging 
parties  to  violent  conflict.  In  the  areas  of  civilian 
support  programmes  and  peacebuilding, 
important 
accomplishments  can  also  be  noted.  The  Council 
deserves  our  appreciation  for  its  invaluable  work  in 
those areas. 

The  Council,  however,  needs  to  recalibrate  its 
efforts  in  conflict  prevention  and  relapse,  particularly 
in the context of the resolution of outstanding disputes 
between  Member  States.  Major  unresolved  issues, 
including  in  our  own  region,  remain  asleep  on  the 
agenda  of  the  Security  Council.  Even  in  the  case  of 
some 
the  active  agenda, 
the  significant 
peacekeeping 
issues  on 
important 
activities 
the  matter  of 
particularly the Middle East, the Council seems to have 
abdicated  its  role.  The  Council  needs  to  address  that 
perception. 
The  second  dimension  of  the  Security  Council’s 

assessment 
its  openness  and 
transparency.  Unfortunately,  in  this  area,  the  annual 
report  fails  to  offer  sufficient  information  or  analysis, 
particularly  with  regard  to  the  Council’s  decision-
making  process.  It  is  widely  noted  here  that  decisions 
are  developed  mostly  in  closed-door  meetings,  if  not 
behind the scenes, by a few key States. The decisions, 
accordingly, lack transparency and inclusiveness. 

Rectifying this trend is part of our general debate 
on the Council’s reform and restructuring. In the short 
term,  this  concern  can  be  addressed  by  improving  the 
Council’s  institutional  interaction  with  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
through  regular  briefings  by  the  Security  Council 
presidency to the President of the General Assembly. 

That brings  me to the other  aspect of our debate 
today,  that  is,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
Pakistan is committed to achieving the comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council that will  make it more 
representative,  transparent,  accountable  and  effective, 
thus  enhancing  its  legitimacy  and  credibility.  The 
question  before  the  Member  States  is  how  to  achieve 
this  objective.  Our  delegation  firmly  believes  that  the 
answer lies not in enlarging the coterie of the powerful 
few but in strengthening the democratic representation, 
role  and  influence  of  the  general  membership  of  the 
United Nations in the Security Council. We believe that 
important  work  was  done  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  during 
is, 
however,  clear  that  we  are  far  from  achieving  a 
solution that can garner the widest possible support of 
the Member States. 

We can outline three areas of convergence among 
the  Member  States  on  the  general  principles  of  the 
reform  process.  First, 
to  be 
comprehensive  and  based  on 
the  principle  of 
addressing all five key issues of reform: size, working 
methods, 
and 
geographical  representation.  The  tendency  to  identify 
reform only with the expansion of membership must be 
checked. Secondly, the reform must make the Security 
the  context  of 
Council  diverse  and  plural 
geographical  representation.  Therefore, 
the  reform 
must entail rectifying the underrepresentation of Africa 
the  previous  session. 
the  power  of  veto 
reform  has 
categories, 
the 
in 
It 
8 

09-60619 
In 
this 
that 
regard, 
representation. 
the  position  of 
the  creation  of 


and  small  States.  Thirdly,  the  reform  must  not  be 
imposed by a few but enjoy the widest possible support 
of  the  membership.  The  sense  of  ownership  by  the 
Member States of the United Nations system demands 
that  the  reform  process  should  aim  at  a  win-win 
solution for all. Only an inclusive process can address 
this challenge. 

Pakistan  believes  that,  in  order  to  achieve  real 
progress  on  Security  Council  reform,  a  modicum  of 
flexibility and compromise is needed. We can say with 
confidence 
the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  group  is  flexible  and  realistic.  It  allows 
variable  arrangements  and  different  possibilities  and 
options,  including  rotation  and  longer-term  presence 
through re-election, and provides a greater relevance to 
geographical 
the 
proposal  submitted  by  Italy  and  Colombia  in  April 
2009  can  provide  a  solid  platform  from  which  to 
achieve a workable formula. Accordingly, we can work 
on 
long-term  seats  based  on 
geographical  representation,  with  the  principles  of 
rotation, realistic approaches to reform of the veto and 
workable  measures  to  improve  not  only  working 
methods but also relations between the Council and the 
General Assembly. 

We  believe  that  such  a  formula  reflects  complex 
current realities. These current realities consist of a few 
large  Powers,  a  number  of  medium-sized  States,  a 
majority  of  smaller  States  and  the  emergence  of 
regional  organizations,  which  are  playing  important 
roles in international and regional peace and security. It 
also  takes  into  account  the  concept  of  equitable 
geographical distribution, as envisaged in Article 23 of 
the Charter.  

The concept of equitable geographical distribution 
would  make  little  sense  if  a  seat  allocated  to  a  region 
were to be occupied permanently by one country. That 
is  why  we  respect  and  understand  Africa’s  position. 
Africa’s  demand  for  permanent  seats  is  for  the  entire 
region  and  is  therefore  different  from  other  proposals 
that seek permanent membership for individual States. 
As  we  understand  it,  of  the  two  empowered  Council 
seats  which  are  sought  by  Africa,  two  or,  through 
rotation,  a  larger  number  of  African  States  could  be 
represented, under arrangements to be made by Africa 
itself.  Africa  would  thus  retain  the  power  to  ensure 
accountability  on  the  part  of  those  States  that  would 
represent it and act on its behalf on the Council. 
A/64/PV.44
and 
during 
leadership 
supervision 

In  conclusion,  Mr.  President,  my  delegation 
believes  that  your  role  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  very  important  in  steering  the  reform 
process forward. In this regard, we will encourage your 
close 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations. We  will  also  take  this 
opportunity to urge all Member States to approach the 
issue  with  flexibility  and  compromise,  in  the  spirit  of 
mutual  good  will,  to  achieve  effective  and  enduring 
reform of the Security Council. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 

begin  by  thanking  you,  Mr.  President,  for  organizing 
this  joint  debate,  in  which  Member  States  have  the 
opportunity  to  discuss  not  only  the  content  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/64/2),  of 
which  Mexico  has  been  an  elected  member  since 
January, but also Security Council reform, a subject my 
country considers to be particularly important. I would 
also like to thank the President of the Security Council, 
our colleague the Permanent Representative of Austria, 
for his introduction of the annual report of the Council 
to the General Assembly. 

Allow  me  to  begin  with  the  issue  of  Security 
Council  reform.  I  will  not  restate  here  Mexico’s 
position  on  every  aspect  of  reform,  since  it  is  well 
known to all and we have expressed it fully during the 
the 
negotiations.  More  usefully, 
negotiation  process  and 
the 
forthcoming rounds of talks. 

Since the Assembly’s adoption of decision 62/557 
and the start of intergovernmental negotiations, Security 
Council  reform  has  acquired  particular  relevance.  We 
have embarked on an open and enriching process that, 
given 
to 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  In 
keeping with decision 62/557, Security Council reform 
consists of five main aspects, which we have addressed 
both  separately  and  jointly  during  the  three  rounds  of 
negotiations.  This  exercise  served  to  confirm  that  the 
five  aspects  are  so  closely  interlinked  that  it  is 
impossible to deal with one without taking the rest into 
account,  as  you  rightly  pointed  out  this  morning, 
Mr. President. 

Besides 
the 
traditional  positions  of  the  Member  States,  during  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  we  made  significant 
progress  and  were  able 
to  discuss  and  analyse 
innovative proposals that confirmed the commitment of 
I  will  discuss 
its  prospects  over 
the  necessary  flexibility,  will 
ourselves  with 
familiarizing 
lead  us 
09-60619 

9 

the 
to  show 
A/64/PV.44 

all  Member  States  to  comprehensive  Security  Council 
reform.  We  were  also  able  to  establish  that  some 
delegations  are  willing 
flexibility 
necessary  to  achieving  reform  acceptable  to  every 
Member State. 

Mexico  was  particularly  pleased  with  the  debate 
that took place for the very first time at the initiative of 
the  Uniting  for  Consensus  movement,  on  what  is 
known  as  the  intermediate  position.  We  believe  we 
should intensify these discussions in order to gauge the 
full  scope  of  this  position,  which,  seen  as  it  is  as  a 
compromise  solution  between 
the  most  extreme 
positions,  would  allow  us  to  reconcile  everyone’s 
wishes and achieve genuine, comprehensive reform of 
the Security Council. We must, however, be aware that 
this  cannot  be  achieved  if  we  continue  to  insist  on 
traditional  positions  or  to  attempt  unilateral  initiatives 
that  seek  partial  reform  out  of  self-interest.  Such 
proposals  will  only  divide  Members  and  lead  us  ever 
further from our common goal. 

My delegation is ready and willing to pursue the 
intergovernmental negotiations process  at this session, 
in  the  context  of  the  General  Assembly’s  informal 
meetings.  We  do  so  in  the  constructive  spirit  of 
cooperation  and  flexibility  we  have  consistently 
maintained,  in  order  to  achieve  a  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Council  enjoying  the  broadest  possible 
support  of  Member  States.  Security  Council  reform  is 
urgent and essential. We feel certain that through your 
leadership and active participation, Mr. President — as 
we  heard  this  morning  — and  with  the  support  of  the 
facilitator,  Ambassador  Tanin  of  Afghanistan,  whom 
we congratulate on his re-election, that we will achieve 
concrete progress in the intergovernmental negotiation 
process  on  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. 

As  an  elected  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
Mexico  was  an  active  and  constructive  participant  in 
drafting  the  report  submitted  this  year  to  the  General 
Assembly,  seeking  to  ensure  that  the  information 
contained 
is  as  objective  and 
substantive  as  possible,  and  that  it  faithfully  records 
the  activities  of  the  Council  during  the  reporting 
period,  particularly  the  month  of April,  when  Mexico 
held  the  presidency  of  the  Council.  This  exercise  in 
transparency and analysis is especially apparent in the 
introduction  to  the  annual  report.  In  this  regard,  we 
acknowledge 
the  Permanent 
informal 
Representative  of  Uganda,  who  held 
the  document 
initiative  of 
in 
the 
in 
that 
involvement 
transparency 
consultations  with  the  General  Assembly  in  order  to 
keep members informed about the process of preparing 
the  report  and  get  feedback  from  them  before  it  was 
finalized,  following  the  example  of  the  delegation  of 
Viet  Nam  in  2008.  These  initiatives  enhance  the 
Council’s  transparency  and  give  the  report  a  more 
analytical  and  substantive  quality. We  also  feel  that  it 
strengthens relations and dialogue between the Council 
and the General Assembly. 

In  short,  the  Security  Council’s  annual  report  is 
an  important  reference  document  that  covers  every 
meeting,  statement  and  communication  of  the  Council 
during the past year, while its introduction presents an 
analysis  of  the  Council’s  activities  concerning  the 
various  items  on  its  agenda.  While  this  analysis  has 
improved  considerably  in  recent  years,  we  are  aware 
that the annual report should continue to be refined and 
that 
the  General  Assembly’s 
its 
preparation should be increased. 
We  acknowledge  that  we  have  not  achieved  the 

levels  of 
the  United  Nations 
community is calling for, but we have made significant 
progress in the sense that a large part of the Council’s 
meetings are now public. That was what we sought to 
achieve  during  our  presidency  in  April,  when  we 
convened a series of thematic debates of interest to the 
general membership and held a considerable number of 
open  meetings.  During  this  period,  Mexico  promoted, 
within  the  Council,  open  debates  on  the  situation  in 
Haiti,  the  strengthening  of  the  mediation  process,  and 
children  in  armed  conflict.  Mexico  will  continue  to 
actively  pursue  this  course  during  its  membership  of 
the Security Council. 

In  2009,  as  an  elected  member  of  the  Council, 
Mexico has sought to promote and adopt decisions that 
foster  respect  for  international  humanitarian  law,  the 
rule  of 
law,  disarmament  and  non-proliferation, 
mediation  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  the 
protection of children in armed conflict, and actions to 
promote stability and post-conflict reconstruction. 

This year, the Security Council’s agenda has been 
quite  substantive,  as  we  can  see  in  the  annual  report. 
Nonetheless, it is clear that we must continue to make 
progress to ensure that the Council deals with conflicts 
in  a  holistic  manner,  from  the  point  of  view  of  peace 
and  security,  to  include  matters  relating  to  promoting 
cooperation,  to  supporting  development  and  strategies 
to  prevent  conflict  and  undertake  post-conflict 
10 

09-60619 
open 
debates 
public  meetings, 


reconstruction,  to  promoting  good  management  in 
public  affairs  and  to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law. 
Mexico will continue to emphasize those concepts as a 
complement  to  the  traditional  perception  of  collective 
security.  

Mr.  Viinanen  (Finland),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  talk  about  some 
activities  that  Mexico  will  seek  to  pursue  during  the 
remainder  of  our  mandate  that  will  enhance  the 
Council’s effectiveness and transparency.  

First, we will continue to encourage transparency 
in  the  Security  Council’s  working  methods  and  to 
promote 
and 
participation  of  other,  regional  bodies  in  meetings  in 
which  their  contribution  is  of  relevance.  We  believe 
that it would be productive to reintroduce the practice 
of  wrap-up  meetings  at  the  end  of  each  monthly 
presidency  of the Council, which could be undertaken 
in  public,  to  benefit  Council  members,  to  strengthen 
our Organization and to benefit States Members of the 
United Nations. That practice already exists in some of 
the regional groups — for example, the Group of Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  —  and  could  be 
extended to the entire membership. 
Secondly,  we  will  pursue  our  efforts  to  enhance 

to  mass 
international  crisis  prevention 
violations 
international 
rights 
humanitarian  law  and  to  ensure  accountability  when 
such violations occur. 

Thirdly, we will seek to increase the attention that 
the Council devotes to prevention conflicts and not just 
to  managing  them,  incorporating  in  its  resolutions 
mandates  to  link  security  to  the  strengthening  of 
official development and humanitarian assistance. 

of law in the Council’s decisions.  
the  Security 

Through  our  participation 
Council,  we  restate  our  commitment  to  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  and  to  preserving  the 
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  As  a  permanent  member  of  the  General 
Assembly, we will also continue to actively participate 
in  the  negotiation  process  for  the  comprehensive 
Security  Council  reform  in  order  to  bring  it  into  line 
with the realities of our time. 
Fourthly,  we  will  continue  to  strengthen  the  rule 
relating 
and 
human 
of 
in 
A/64/PV.44
responsive  and 
international  society  makes 
Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa):  My  delegation  is 

grateful  for  the  opportunity  to  make  some  remarks  on 
these important topics related to the Security Council.  

The central role that the Security Council plays in 
the  ordering  of 
it 
imperative that this principal deliberative organ — the 
General Assembly  —  given  its  universal  membership, 
carefully  consider  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/64/2).  In  considering  the  report,  my  delegation 
remains ever mindful of the urgent need to reform that 
very important body. 

The Charter of the United Nations confers on the 
Security  Council  the  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  In 
executing  its  authority,  the  Council  is  endowed  with 
far-reaching powers to adopt legally binding decisions 
that  take  precedence  over  any  other  obligations  of 
Member  States.  In  the  light  of  the  immense  power 
exercised  by  the  Council,  both  in  terms  of  the  impact 
of  its  decisions  and  its  wide  discretion,  it  is  therefore 
important  that  the  Council  be  fundamentally  reformed 
in  order  to  render  it  more  democratic,  legitimate, 
representative, 
its 
working methods and its decision-making processes. 

An  important  element  for  ensuring  transparency 
is  open  debates,  open  meetings  and  open  briefings  in 
the  Council.  We  believe  that  such  meetings  allow  for 
greater participation by the general membership of the 
United  Nations,  especially  the  affected  parties,  to  put 
their  views  across.  We  therefore  consider  it  a  step  in 
the right direction to see the increased number of open 
meetings and open debates during the reporting period. 
Continuing and improving upon that path will enhance 
the Council’s transparency. 
My delegation is also convinced that the Security 

Council cannot effectively carry out its mandate while 
detached 
those  communities  affected  by 
situations  on  its  agenda.  We  have  noted  and  we 
welcome the Council’s engagement with those affected 
directly  on  the  ground  through,  for  example,  mission 
visits,  including  to  Rwanda,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo and Afghanistan. 
We  continue  to  argue  that  another  way  that  the 

Council  can  facilitate  the  involvement  of  those  most 
closely  affected  by  its  work  is  through  improving 
cooperation 
regional 
organizations,  as  contemplated  in  Chapter  VIII  of  the 
largest 
Charter.  Given 
coordination  with 
that  by  far 
transparent 
the  fact 
from 
and 
in 
the 
09-60619 

11 

to  further 
improvement  of 
A/64/PV.44 

percentage of situations on the agenda of the Council is 
in Africa, we believe that there needs to be a concerted 
effort towards closer cooperation and coordination with 
the African Union (AU) on peace and security matters.  

As  an  important  step  in  that  direction,  we 
welcome  the  Council’s  16  May  2009  visit  to  the 
African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council  in  Addis 
Ababa.  While  we  heard  of  disturbing  attempts  to 
undermine  that  important  initiative,  we  hope  that 
confidence in its importance will be restored. We look 
forward 
the  strategic 
partnership between the AU and the United Nations in 
this regard.  

In  line  with  our  desire  to  strengthen  the African 
Union-United  Nations  partnership  on  peace  and 
security,  and  consistent  with  the  spirit  of  resolution 
1809  (2008),  we  continue  to  believe  that  United 
Nations-assessed  contributions  will  greatly  assist  the 
African  Union  peacekeeping  operations  in  securing 
predictable, sustainable and flexible financing. 

Much  has  been  said  and  done  by  the  Council  in 
response to the concerns of Member States in relation 
to transparency, but much more still needs to be done. 
For  one  thing,  my  delegation  remains  concerned  that 
the  Council  still  functions  on  the  basis  of  provisional 
rules, which does not allow for predictability. 
We unfortunately continue to lament the fact that 

the  Security  Council  has  not  been  successful  in 
resolving  some  conflict  situations  and  has  failed 
dismally to intervene in others. The most serious threat 
to  the  Council’s  credibility  remains  its  inability  to 
resolve protracted conflicts such as those in the Middle 
East  and  in  Western  Sahara.  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
Council  will  stem  the  erosion  of  its  credibility  by 
transcending  its  divisions  and  the  national  interests  of 
its members and by uniformly discharging its Charter-
based  mandate  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security. 
I  turn  my  attention  now  to  the  question  of  the 

reform  of  the  Security  Council.  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  his  expressed 
commitment  to  advance  the  process  of  negotiation  to 
an early conclusion. That commitment was exemplified 
by 
the  prompt  reappointment  of  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Tanin,  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
the 
Afghanistan, 
facilitate 
intergovernmental  negotiations  mandated  by 
the 
General Assembly  decision  62/557. We  shall  place  on 
to 
continue 
to 
12 

record  our  appreciation  for  the  sterling  work  done  by 
Ambassador Tanin during the sixty-third session under 
difficult  circumstances  and  reiterate  our  support  for 
him.  We  were  particularly  encouraged  by 
the 
conclusion in his letter of 16 July 2009 that the model 
with  an  expansion  in  both  categories  commanded  the 
most support, which is a conclusion which we share. 

We now want to answer the question as to what is 
to  be  done  to  advance  those  negotiations  and  bring 
them  to  an  early  and  successful  conclusion.  In  doing 
so,  there  are  a  number  of  issues  we  would  like  to 
outline. 

First,  perhaps  the  most  important  issue  that  we 
would like to stress is that we need to progress to real 
negotiations.  The  time  for  restating  our  positions  ad 
nauseum  has  come  and  long  gone.  The  positions  of 
different Members States and groups of States are well 
known  and  have  been  canvassed  in  the  course  of  the 
negotiations. We must therefore avoid regurgitating the 
same  positions  over  and  over  again,  lest  we  slip  into 
the  never-ending  mode  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group. 
Secondly, my delegation believes that in order to 

build  on  the  progress  made  during  the  sixty-third 
session,  we  should  all  provide  the  facilitator  with  a 
clear mandate to produce a text for negotiations, based 
on  positions  communicated  over  time  by  Member 
States.  We  are  convinced 
that  without  such  a 
negotiating  text,  delegations  are  likely  to  restate  their 
positions. Such a text is imperative to move the process 
towards real negotiations. 

Thirdly,  and  as  we  have  already  said,  such  a 
paper  —  the  negotiating  text  —  should  attempt  to 
narrow  down  the  options,  focusing  on  those  that  are 
likely  to  garner  the  widest  required  and  necessary 
support.  Narrowing  the  options  should  be  based  on 
what  was  achieved  in  the  last  session,  as  clearly 
captured  in  the  facilitator’s  letter,  which  I  have  just 
quoted,  that  is,  that  the  model  with  an  expansion  in 
both categories commanded the most support. 

However, we encourage the facilitator to continue 
to  consult  widely  with  the  general  membership  of  the 
United  Nations  and  be  bold  enough  to  allow  the 
process  of  reform  not  to  be  held  hostage  by  a  few. 
Member  States  that  seek  genuine  and  fundamental 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  in  general  and  the 
Security  Council  in  particular  should  openly  and 
widely  mobilize  for  that  cause  and  see  that  the  moral 
09-60619 


obligation  for  reform  rests  heavily  on  those  who  are 
content  with  the  status  quo. We  should  engage  in  that 
course  of  action  for  the  sake  of  the  very  ideals  the 
Organization holds dear. 

Fourthly,  in  order  not  to  lose  the  momentum  we 
have already gained, we request that Ambassador Tanin 
announce  within  the  next  few  days  the  resumption  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform.  That  announcement  should  also  provide 
delegations  with  a  clear  schedule  of  meetings, 
demonstrating a sense of urgency. 

Allow us to turn to the substance of negotiations. 
Many delegations have emphasized the need for a give-
and-take,  compromise-based  approach.  My  delegation 
fully  shares  that  view. We  believe,  however,  that  such 
an  approach  can  take  place  only  in  the  course  of  real 
negotiations and not in the course of merely repeating 
the same statements. 
The contours of the desired outcome have already 

been  laid  out  for  us  in  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome, in which our leaders agreed that the Council 
has  to  be  reformed  in  order  to  make  it  more  broadly 
representative,  efficient  and  transparent  in  a  way  that 
would  further  enhance 
the 
legitimacy and implementation of its decisions. 

Using  the  above  as  our  guide  for  the  reform 
negotiations, my delegation believes that the complete 
non-representation of Africa in the permanent category 
and the underrepresentation of developing countries in 
the  Council  in  general  must  be  addressed.  We  will 
continue to approach those negotiations on the basis of 
the  Common  African  Position  as  elaborated  in  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus.  Whatever  compromises  are 
reached  must  ensure  effective  representation  of Africa 
in  the  permanent  category  of  the  Council  and  greater 
representation of developing countries. 

For us, that  means the expansion of the Security 
Council  in  both  categories.  It  is  self-evident  that  an 
expansion  in  only  the  non-permanent  category  cannot 
meet  the  requirements  laid  out  for  us  by  our  leaders. 
The  question  can  be  asked,  however,  whether  the 
intermediary  approach  —  whatever  it  may  mean  — 
meets 
the 
legitimate  aspirations  of  Africa 
for  permanent 
representation. We are yet to be convinced of that, for 
if it does not address those concerns, then it would be 
no  more  than  an  attempt  to  avoid  addressing  the 
injustices of the current configuration of the Council. 
those  requirements  and  accommodates 
its  effectiveness  and 
A/64/PV.44
to 
the  General  Assembly 
that  are 
limited  membership,  with 
the  General  Assembly  since, 

The  road  before  us  is  going  to  be  hard,  but  rest 
assured  that  my  delegation  intends  to  walk  it  to  its 
conclusion, offering our assistance to the President and 
to Ambassador Tanin in whatever way we can. 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Cuba  recognizes  that  some  efforts  have  been  made  to 
improve  the  quality  of  the  Security  Council’s  annual 
report  (A/64/2).  Nonetheless,  there  is  still  much  to  be 
done.  The  report  remains  basically  a  descriptive 
document,  very  useful  as  a  reference  for  libraries  but 
lacking  the  analytical  approach  the  Member  States 
need to assess the Council’s work. 
We  insist  that  the  Council  should  submit  annual 

reports 
truly 
analytical  and  substantive,  as  well  as  special  reports 
that the Charter stipulates in Articles 15 and 24, which 
so  far  are  regrettably  conspicuous  by  their  absence. 
Cuba  underlines  the  Council’s  responsibility  to  render 
due  account 
in 
conformity  with  the  Charter,  we  have  entrusted  that 
body,  of 
the  prime 
responsibility  to  act  on  our  behalf  in  maintaining 
international peace and security. 

The  Security  Council  needs  urgent  and  deep 
reform.  There  cannot  be  true  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  until  the  Council  is  reformed.  Such  reform 
cannot  remain  continuously  postponed  and  relegated. 
The  complaint  of  the  majority  cannot  continue  to  be 
ignored. 

the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  Regrettably,  no  clear  progress  in  the  process 
has  been  seen.  Our  greater  challenge  is  to  prevent,  at 
all  costs,  the  negotiation  process  from  becoming  a 
repetition  of  the  deliberations  that  for  more  than 
15 years  took  place  in  the  General Assembly’s  Open-
ended Working Group and led nowhere. We must move 
to a stage of real negotiation as soon as possible. 
Cuba  favours  an  immediate  increase  in  the 

membership  of 
the  Security  Council,  of  both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  members.  The  main 
purpose cannot be to increase for the sake of increase, 
but  to  rectify  the  unjustifiable  underrepresentation  of 
developing  countries  in  the  Council.  Cuba  will  not 
support  any  partial  or  selective  broadening  of  the 
membership  or  of  the  composition  of  the  members  of 
the  Council  that  works  to  the  detriment  of  developing 
countries. 
engaged 
actively 
in 
to 
Cuba 
has 
09-60619 

13 

in 
subject 
totally  underrepresented 
if  developing  countries, 
remain 
A/64/PV.44 


Increasing  only  the  number  of  non-permanent 
seats  would  further  widen  the  existing  huge  gap 
between  permanent  and  non-permanent  members. 
Increasing  only  the  number  of  permanent  seats  would 
make the Council a body even less representative and, 
hence, less legitimate and effective. 
There  cannot  be  equitable  representation  in  the 

including  entire 
Council 
regions, 
the 
category  of  permanent  members.  How  can  one  justify 
the  fact  that,  while  over  half  of  the  items  on  the 
Council’s  agenda  refer  to  problems  of  Africa,  that 
region  still  does  not  have  a  permanent  seat  on  the 
Council?  That  is  why  Cuba  fully  supports  the  just 
demand  of  African  countries  for  such  a  seat.  Other 
entire  regions  do  not  have  permanent  representation 
either, like Latin America and the Caribbean. 

The new seats to be established, including in the 
category of permanent members, must have exactly the 
same  prerogatives  and  rights  enjoyed  by  the  current 
seats,  without  being 
selective  or 
discriminatory criteria.  
The  position  of  Cuba  has  been  and  continues  to 

be  clear 
is  an 
anachronistic and antidemocratic privilege that must be 
eliminated as soon as possible. However, as long as the 
veto  does  exist,  at  the  very  least  a  suitable  proportion 
of developing countries must also be able to exercise it. 
That would be the only way for developing countries to 
be  able  to  make  a  real  impact  on  the  work  of  the 
Security  Council.  To  admit  new  permanent  members 
without the right to the veto would be to create a new 
category  of  Council  members,  which  Cuba  does  not 
support.  There 
justification  for  developing 
countries  entering  as  new  permanent  members  with  a 
lesser status than that of the current ones.  

Most  of  the  new  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members  must  be  developing  countries.  Permanent 
membership  must  be  granted  to  at  least  two  countries 
in  Africa,  two  developing  countries  in  Asia  and  two 
countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. 

As  to  the  size  of  the  Security  Council,  Cuba 
believes  that  an  expanded  Council  should  have  no 
fewer  than  26  members.  Thus  the  ratio  between  the 
number  of  Council  members  and  the  membership  of 
the Organization would be at least a little closer to the 
ratio that existed when the Organization was founded. 
regarding 
the  veto.  The  veto 
to 
is  no 

Reform  of  the  Council  must  also  necessarily 
include  a  thorough  overhaul  of  its  working  methods. 
Although  some  modest  changes  have  been  made  in 
recent years, most of them have been more formal than 
substantive.  The  fact  is  that  at  present  the  Security 
Council is not transparent, democratic or efficient. 

We advocate a Security Council in which closed-
door  consultations  are  the  exception.  We  aspire  to  a 
Council  that  addresses  the  matters  within  its  mandate 
and does not encroach on or meddle in those within the 
mandates of other organs. We want a Council that truly 
takes  into  account  the  views  of  the  Organization’s 
membership before taking decisions and that ensures a 
degree  of  genuine  access  for  States  that  are  not 
members of that body.  

Finally, I wish to comment on a procedural matter 
that we consider important. Cuba believes that in future 
we  must  seriously  consider  whether  we  should 
continue  to  have  joint  debates  on  agenda  items  9  and 
119  in  the  General  Assembly.  There  is  a  close  link 
between  those  two  items  that  by  no  means  should  be 
ignored.  At  the  same  time,  when  delegations  have  to 
address  two  highly  relevant  and  comprehensive  items 
in  a  single  statement,  they  must  omit  many  important 
remarks,  and  the  in-depth  consideration  that  we  so 
much need is not achieved. We believe that the annual 
report of the  Security Council and Council reform are 
items  that,  because  of  their  importance  and  their 
implications,  should  be  considered  separately  in  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr. Gutiérrez (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): Clearly, 

the  process  of  Security  Council  reform  is  a  matter  of 
priority  to  be  addressed  at  the  sixty-fourth  session  of 
the General Assembly. In that connection, I would like 
to  welcome  the  fact  that  the  President  has  confirmed 
our 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  as  chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations in the informal plenary 
on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
related  matters.  We  are  confident 
the 
President’s support and Ambassador Tanin’s assistance, 
substantive  progress  can  be  made  on  this  important 
issue. I also wish to thank Ambassador Thomas Mayr-
Harting, current President of the Security Council, for 
introducing the annual report of that organ (A/64/2).  

In addition to associating itself with the statement 
made  by  the  delegation  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
colleague  Mr.  Zahir  Tanin, 
that  with 
14 

09-60619 
the 
Peru  firmly  believes 


(see  A/64/PV.43),  my 
Non-Aligned  Movement 
delegation  would 
to  make  a  number  of 
like 
observations  that  we  regard  as  relevant  to  the  issues 
before us today.  

First,  with  regard  to  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council,  my  delegation  draws  particular 
attention  to  the  introduction,  which  serves  as  a  basis 
for  reflection  on  and  analysis  of  the  broad  range  of 
topics considered by the Council. However, we believe 
that 
report’s  descriptive  content  could  be 
complemented  by  more  substantive  information  about 
the  matters  addressed,  and  especially  about 
the 
decisions taken. By knowing more about the Council’s 
work, we could gain a more comprehensive perspective 
on such matters, and the report would not be limited to 
lists of activities.  

in  multilateralism  and 
collective  security  as  essential  mechanisms  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security, which 
is the primary responsibility of the Security Council. In 
that  connection,  it  is  indispensable  that  the  Council 
continue  its  efforts  to  enhance  the  transparency  and 
openness  of  its  work.  An  urgent  task  is  the  self-
evaluation  that  must  be  undertaken  to  determine  what 
types of new actions should be carried out to increase 
the efficiency and effectiveness of that work. 

My delegation also wishes to refer to an issue to 
which  we  attach  particular  importance:  the  process  of 
Security Council reform. At the previous session of the 
General  Assembly,  we  engaged  in  three  rounds  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  which  enabled  us  to 
clearly identify the positions expressed by a significant 
number of delegations of Member States.  
We need a more efficient, transparent, democratic 

that  reflects 
and  representative  Security  Council 
current  international  realities.  That  is  why,  following 
the 
three  rounds  of  negotiations,  my  delegation 
believes  that  we  should  begin  to  work  on  the  outlines 
of  a  general  proposal  aimed  at  the  great  objective  of 
Council reform. It is vital  that the negotiation process 
begin to focus on more substantive points and that we 
design  a  negotiation  format  that  goes  beyond  the 
expression  of  each  Member  State’s  position  on  this 
issue.  

Peru  reiterates  once  again  its  conviction  that,  in 
order to adapt the Security Council to new realities, it 
is  essential  to  admit  new  members,  permanent  and 
non-permanent. That would promote just and equitable 
A/64/PV.44
it 
is 
to 
in 
We 
face 
time 
regional representation, which would project a stronger 
image  of  Council  legitimacy.  In  addition,  as  my 
to  develop  a 
delegation  has  stated, 
increase 
constructive  proposal  for  change 
the 
number  of  new  permanent  members,  which 
is 
imperative  if  we  are  to  effectively  develop  a  Council 
reform process that alters the status quo.  

Furthermore,  with  regard  to  the  veto,  Peru  has 
consistently maintained a position of principle aimed at 
its  ultimate  elimination.  However, 
the  same 
constructive  spirit,  and  so  as  not  to  deadlock  the 
negotiation  process,  my  delegation  has  stated  that  a 
commitment  should  be  made  to  evaluate,  at  an  initial 
stage,  a restriction on the  use of the veto, following  a 
rule  already  established  in Article  27,  paragraph  3,  of 
the Charter. In addition, Peru believes it is important to 
arrive  at  a  consensus  that  would  make  it  possible  to 
establish  precise  limits  for  the  use  of  the  veto,  thus 
preventing it from being applied in cases of genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  repeated  acts  in  flagrant 
violation of human rights.  

the  urgent  challenge  of  making 
substantive  progress  on  this  issue,  which  is  of  vital 
importance both to the Organization and to all Member 
States. That is why Peru reiterates that the next rounds 
of  intergovernmental  negotiations  should  take  place 
with  the  idea  of  beginning  a  phase  in  which  we  can 
draft  a  text  that  compiles  the  concrete  elements 
pertaining  to  all  aspects  of  this  process,  so  as  to 
develop  more  effective  and  concrete  negotiations  that 
will  allow  us  to  achieve  the  expected  tangible  results. 
Peru is prepared to participate in that process. 
Mr. Hoang Chi Trung (Viet Nam): First of all, I 

would 
thank  Ambassador  Thomas  Mayr-
Harting,  Permanent  Representative  of  Austria  and 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November,  for  presenting  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security Council to the General Assembly (A/64/2). 

The Vietnamese  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself 
with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Arab Republic of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement (see A/64/PV.43). 
During  the  period  under  review,  the  growing 

complexity  and  multidimensionality  in  international 
situations  have  presented  the  Security  Council  with 
further  challenging  responsibilities  in  shouldering  its 
noble  mission  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security.  My  delegation  acknowledges  the  efforts  by 
like 
to 
09-60619 

15 

the 
increased 
to  better  portray 
the  Council  under 
smoothly  managing 
A/64/PV.44 

the  members  of  the  Council  to  fulfil  those  tasks, 
particularly  by 
its  hectic 
programme  of  work,  regularly  reviewing  and  taking 
appropriate actions with regard to conflict situations in 
Africa,  Europe,  the Americas  and Asia  and  consulting 
with concerned parties to react quickly to terrorist acts 
and security crises in various regions of the world. 

Our  delegation  also  wishes  to  underscore  how 
much  effort  and  attention  the  Council  devoted  to  the 
consideration  of  thematic,  general  and  other  issues  — 
including 
those  of  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding, 
mediation, the protection of civilians in armed conflict 
and women and peace and security — as well as to the 
work of its subsidiary organs. 

The  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  this 
year  reflects  improvement  in  terms  of  both  its  format 
and  content.  It  is  a  good  basis  for  further  substantive 
discussions in the General Assembly. It is essential that 
the  quality  of  the  report  be  further  consolidated  in 
order 
role  and 
involvement  of 
the  current 
challenging  circumstances.  To  be  more  specific,  it  is 
necessary  to  find  appropriate  ways  to  reflect  in  the 
report  the  concerns  of  troop-  and  police-  contributing 
countries, 
the  Security 
Council and other United Nations principal organs, the 
legitimate interests of the countries in question and the 
role  of  regional  and  subregional  organizations  in 
peacekeeping operations. 

In  cases  where  the  Council  was  unable  to  take 
action,  the  mechanism  for  how  the  provisions  of 
Chapter VI of the Charter can be fully utilized for the 
pacific  settlement  of  disputes  also  needs  to  be  taken 
duly 
the  Vietnamese 
delegation  believes  that  there  is  scope  to  further 
develop consultations, not only with Council members 
but also with the United Nations membership at large, 
in  the  course  of  outlining  and  finalizing  the  annual 
report  to  make  it  more  analytical,  balanced  and 
substantive.  Given  the  added  value  and  potential 
contributions  that  might  result  from  those  interactions 
and inputs, Viet Nam strongly supports continuing the 
practice  of  holding  broad  consultations  with  Member 
States  during  the  preparation  of  the  Council’s  annual 
report. 

With  regard  to  Security  Council  reform,  we  are 
encouraged  by  the  positive  steps  during  the  period 
under  review,  both  inside  and  outside  the  Council,  to 
the  coordination  between 
into  account.  To 
that  end, 
In 
including 
the  General  Assembly,  under 
further move that difficult process along. In the face of 
an  increasing  workload,  Council  members  and  the 
Secretariat have made commendable efforts to enhance 
the  Council’s  transparency  and  effectiveness.  For 
instance,  a  number  of  measures  envisaged  in  the  note 
by  the  Council  President  contained  in  document 
S/2006/507  have  been  put  into  play,  producing  active 
responses  from  members  and  parties  concerned.  As  a 
result,  as  compared  to  several  years  ago,  the  Council 
now  holds  more  public  meetings  and  consults  more 
frequently  with  external  actors, 
troop-
contributing  countries,  regional  organizations  and 
non-governmental organizations. More opportunity has 
also  been  provided  for  associated  United  Nations 
Members to speak before the Council takes action. 
the  wise 

leadership  of  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann, 
President  at  the  sixty-third  session,  decision  62/557 
went into effect in February with the commencement of 
intergovernmental negotiations on Council reform. It is 
encouraging  that  informal  meetings  on  each  reform 
topic stimulated active participation by Member States 
at  every  meeting.  A  large  number  of  Member  States 
used those opportunities to present their positions and 
proposals,  in  an  effort  to  speed  up  the  reform  process 
and find a common voice on issues. We hope that such 
invaluable 
into 
consideration  in  preparing  for  the  next  phase  of  our 
intergovernmental negotiations. 
However,  no  breakthrough  has  been  made  in  the 

the  Council.  The  current  membership 
reform  of 
the  fundamental 
structure  continues 
United  Nations 
and 
representation and proper reflection of the geopolitical 
realities of our time. 

In  order  for 
to 
succeed,  Security  Council  reform  should  be  addressed 
in  a  more  comprehensive,  transparent  and  balanced 
manner.  Reforming 
its  working 
methods must ensure that the Council’s agenda reflects 
interests  of  both  developing  and 
the  needs  and 
developed 
rational, 
non-selective and non-arbitrary manner.  

Pending its final elimination, the use of the power 
of  the  veto  by  the  permanent  members  must  be 
restricted.  Preventive  diplomacy  should  be  further 
promoted, along with concerted efforts for the peaceful 
to  challenge 
of 
principles 
the  upcoming  negotiations 
the  Council  and 
inputs  will  be 
an  objective, 
ideas  and 
countries 
taken 
equality 
in 
16 

09-60619 
We  would 
like 
to  make 
to  avail  ourselves  of 
that  backdrop,  we  welcome 


settlement  of  conflicts  rather  than  reactive  measures 
that include abusive punitive sanctions.  

this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  our  firm  position  that  the 
Security Council should be enlarged in both categories 
of  membership,  permanent  and  non-permanent,  with 
more representation for developing countries. 

It  is  our  strong  conviction  that  the  sixty-fourth 
session of the General Assembly is a crucial time. Now 
is the time for Member States to act together, in a spirit 
of partnership, compromise and flexibility, to bring our 
efforts  to  reform  the  Security  Council  to  a  fruitful 
outcome.  

the 
President’s  initiative  to  designate  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  as  one  of  the  main  priorities  of  this 
session.  We  very  much  appreciate  his  commitment  to 
sparing  no  effort 
reform  process 
achievable  as  soon  as  possible. We  would  also  like  to 
congratulate Ambassador Zahir Tanin for his continued 
efforts with regard to the task entrusted to him as chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  wish  to 
assure him of our full support. 

Finally, I would like to express my deep gratitude 
for  the  support  and  encouragement  we  have  received 
from  a  number  of  Member  States  regarding  our 
initiative  to  consult  them  in  the  preparation  of  last 
year’s annual report of the Security Council. 
Ms.  Ochir  (Mongolia):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

confine its remarks to agenda item 119, on the question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. 
the  historic  decision 

62/557, three rounds of intergovernmental negotiations 
have  taken  place  in  the  Assembly’s  informal  plenary 
meeting  format  under 
the  skilful  stewardship  of 
Ambassador  Zahir Tanin. We have had  an opportunity 
to  hear  Member  States  reiterate 
their  principled 
positions,  as  well  as  some  new  proposals,  on  the  five 
key  issues  of  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. As  we  are  now  approaching  a  new  round  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during 
the  current 
Assembly  session,  my  delegation  wishes  to  strongly 
echo the position expressed by many previous speakers 
that,  in  order  to  move  the  process  forward,  the  Chair 
needs  to  produce  a  composite  text  on  the  positions  of 
the  adoption  of 
Against 
the 
Since 
A/64/PV.44
ensuring 
Member  States  so  that  we  can  engage  in  genuine 
intergovernmental negotiations on Council reform. 

Mongolia’s  stance  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council is well known. We have consistently stood for 
a  just  and  equitable  enlargement  of  the  Council  by 
the  number  of  both  permanent  and 
increasing 
non-permanent  members  while 
due 
representation for developing and developed countries. 
Our  position  on  enlargement  in  both  categories  is 
guided  by,  and  based  on,  a  legislative  and  Charter-
defined  composition,  political  considerations 
that 
reflect  the  change  in  the  balance  of  power,  and  the 
principles of justice and equality to ensure greater and 
enhanced representation for developing world. 

My delegation shares the view of the majority of 
Member States that the veto right is anachronistic and 
needs  to  be  reviewed  and  limited,  with  the  ultimate 
objective  being  its  abolition.  However,  as  long  as  it 
exists, it must be extended to new permanent members 
so  as  not  to  create  a  new  category  of  Council 
membership.  We  also  support  the  clearly  expressed 
position  of  aspirants  regarding  the  establishment  of  a 
voluntary  moratorium  on  the  use  of  the  veto  until  the 
proposed review process takes place. 

On  the  issue  of  regional  representation,  the 
solution  ought  to  be  fair  and  just.  We  attach  great 
importance  to  the  criterion  of  equitable  geographical 
distribution,  with  an  emphasis  on  non-  and  under-
represented  groups,  in  particular  those  of Africa, Asia 
and Latin American and Caribbean. My delegation also 
attaches  particular 
the 
representation of small States in the Security Council. 

Based  on  its  position  with  regard  to  categories 
and regional representation, my delegation would prefer 
an  enlarged  Council  to  comprise  24  or  25  members, 
with  6  new  permanent  members  and  4  or  5  additional 
non-permanent members. 

We  strongly  believe  that  in  order  to  make  the 
necessary  breakthrough  in  our  negotiations,  we  need 
primarily  to  decide  on  the  categories  of  Security 
Council  enlargement.  We  share  the  view  that  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  have 
expressed,  in  no  uncertain  terms,  regarding  their 
preference  for  increasing  the  membership  in  both  the 
current categories. We expect that the composite text of 
the  chair  that  has  been  proposed  will  reflect  that 
reality. 
to  ensuring 
importance 
09-60619 

17 

report 
(A/64/2),  and  we  welcome 
A/64/PV.44 


Finally,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  President’s 
decision  to  make  Security  Council  reform  one  of  his 
priorities  and  to  express  my  delegation’s  sincere  hope 
that  with  his  strong  leadership,  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  will  make  meaningful  progress 
towards early reform of the Council, as all of us were 
mandated  to  do  by  world  leaders  at  2005  World 
Summit. 
Mr.  Laggner  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

We  would  like  to  thank  the  Security  Council  for  its 
annual 
its 
presentation to the General Assembly. The report is an 
important  element  in  the  relationship  between  the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  and  it 
provides  the  basis  for  an  institutionalized  dialogue 
between  those  two  organs.  We  also  welcome  the 
informal  exchange  afforded  to  non-members  of  the 
Security  Council  by  the  delegations  of  Uganda,  Viet 
Nam  and Austria  and,  as  has  already  been  mentioned, 
the  constructive  and  valuable  discussion  between 
Council  members  and  the  group  of  five  small  States 
(S-5).  Having  said  all  that,  we  regret  that,  as  in 
previous  years, 
short  of  our 
expectations in terms of both substance and procedural 
aspects. 

With regard to substance, we are still waiting for 
a  report  that  is  more  analytical  and  therefore  more 
pertinent  for  the  whole  membership. We  are  aware  of 
the difficulties involved in producing a report that goes 
beyond a simple listing of the Council’s activities and 
meetings.  Nevertheless,  we  believe  that  improvement 
is possible. For example, the report fails to emphasize 
the  linkages  between  thematic,  regional  and  country-
specific  issues. The  summaries  of  debates  included  in 
the  report  are  often  incomplete  and  do  not  accurately 
reflect  the  discussions  in  the  Council.  In  particular, 
there  is  no  analysis  of  the  challenges  that  the  Council 
faces,  of  its  assessments  and  of  the  rationale  for  its 
decisions during the reporting period. 
One  way  to  improve  the  substantive  content  of 

the  report  would  be  to  include  analytical  summaries 
from  the  12  presidencies. Another  option  could  be  to 
introduce the optimal practical approach — the lessons 
learned  —  with  regard  to  specific  issues  on  the 
Council’s agenda, as has been repeatedly called for by 
the S-5. In that context, Switzerland has commissioned 
a short paper analyzing the United Nations Mission in 
Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  (UNMEE)  as  a  case  study  of  the 
Council’s  interaction  with  a  peacekeeping  operation. 
report 
falls 
the 
to 
With 
least,  access 
the  beginning  of 
the  general  membership 
We shall be pleased to make that study available once 
it is completed. 

With regard to procedural matters, there is a need 
to 
involve 
in  a  more 
interactive  way,  and  at  an  earlier  stage,  during  the 
the  Council’s  annual  report. 
process  of  drafting 
Informal  meetings  have  been  held 
to  provide 
non-members of the Council an opportunity to express 
their views. That should be done in a more systematic 
manner,  and  well  before  the  finalization  of  the  report. 
Another option to be considered would be the holding 
of an open debate in the Council at an early stage in the 
drafting process. 

Why do we need more analysis and transparency? 
Many  Member  States  are  major  contributors  of  troops 
or financing. All Member States have the obligation to 
implement  coercive  measures.  Implementing  such 
measures  without  participation  in  the  decision-making 
process  requires,  at 
transparent 
information.  We  owe  that  to  our  citizens  and  to  our 
national  legislatures,  for  we  have  to  explain  to  them 
how tax-payers’ money is being spent. 
intergovernmental 

negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  under  an 
informal  General  Assembly  plenary  meeting  format, 
we have now reached a new stage in the consideration 
of this issue. Our assessment, however, is rather sober. 
Although we have a new format for the discussions, we 
have  not  yet  made  substantive  progress.  Positions  on 
enlargement  remain,  to  a  large  degree,  entrenched. 
Switzerland  is  convinced  that  the  intermediate  model 
continues  to  be  the  only  realistic  option  for  breaking 
the deadlock. Such an approach does not prejudge the 
final outcome of the reform effort, but it does allow us 
to  take  one  step  forward.  In  our  view,  it  is  therefore 
high  time  to  start  a  serious  discussion  of  the  concrete 
parameters of that model. If we are not capable of more 
flexibility,  we  will  remain  stuck 
the  current 
deadlock. 

Together  with  its  partners  in  the  group  of  five 
small countries, Switzerland will continue to focus as a 
matter of priority on the issue of reforming the working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council.  Improving  working 
methods will have to take place, whatever the scenario 
and  whether  or  not  we  can  agree  on  an  expansion  of 
the Council. We have repeatedly highlighted that point 
here, as well as in direct discussions with the members 
of the Security Council. 
in 
18 

09-60619 
access, 
already  mentioned 
the 
in  April.  Those 
and 



In  that  regard,  we  very  much  appreciated  the 
invitation  by  the  Japanese  Chair  of  the  Council’s 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Questions  to  a  very  substantive  and  frank 
exchange  of  views  with  Council  members  in  July. We 
would welcome an early follow-up in that regard. 

Our  ideas  for  improving  working  methods  are 
contained  in  the  group  of  five’s  concept  paper,  which 
ideas  focus  on 
was  circulated 
transparency 
efficiency 
and 
implementation,  the  rule  of  law,  the  use  of  the  veto, 
peacekeeping  operations  and  accountability  and 
relations with the General Assembly. We hope that the 
paper  will  serve  as  an  inspiration  for  changes  in  the 
Council’s  practices  and  that  it  will  contribute  to  a 
comprehensive resolution on Security Council reform. 

The  best  way  to  develop  working  methods  is  to 
assess what has worked in the past and why decisions 
of  the  Council  are  often  insufficiently  implemented.  I 
have 
study  we  have 
commissioned  on  the  Mission  in  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea. 
We are also supporting a project that is monitoring how 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2005)  is  being 
incorporated into the Council’s overall work. 
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  underscoring  that 

further 
the  Council’s  working 
methods are in the interest of Council and non-Council 
members  alike.  Not  only  would  they  ensure  more 
transparency  and  better  involvement  by  all  Member 
States in the Council’s work, they would also serve the 
Council’s interest by conferring greater authority upon 
its decisions, thereby contributing to strengthening the 
relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 

outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  associate  itself 
with  the  statements  delivered  this  morning  by  the 
Permanent Representatives of Sierra Leone and Egypt, 
respectively,  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group  and  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. I should also like to say that 
today’s  debate  on 
the  Security  Council,  and 
specifically  the  consideration  of  the  report  of  that 
important organ (A/64/2) and of the issue of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Council  and  related  matters,  is  of  the  greatest 
interest to my country. 

Working  Group  on 
the  Open-ended 
the  Question  of  Equitable 
My  delegation  commends 
improvements 
in 
A/64/PV.44
and 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the 
Security  Council  for  submitting  its  report  (A/63/47). 
As  a  result  of  its  considerable  work,  the  Group  has 
provided a basis for the intergovernmental negotiating 
process. 

My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council.  We  would  like  to  express  our 
gratitude for the efforts made by that organ to maintain 
international  peace 
security.  The  General 
Assembly’s  consideration  of  the  report  is  aimed  at 
responding  to  the  crucial  need  for  an  accountable 
Security Council imbued with a sense of responsibility 
to the General Assembly, where the entire membership 
is represented. 

The  report  provides  great  detail  about  events, 
thus giving us a full accounting of the multiplicity and 
diverse nature of issues under its consideration during 
the  12-month  period  from  1  August  2008  to  31  July 
2009.  Nevertheless,  it  must  be  pointed  out  that  the 
report’s solely factual approach limits the depth of our 
understanding of the challenges facing the Council as it 
carries  out  the  mandate  conferred  upon  it  by  the 
Charter.  In  addition,  it  seems  clear  that  the  Council 
should  further  improve  its  early-warning  capacity  and 
focus  on  preventive  diplomacy,  rather  than  finding 
itself forced to react to events after the fact.  

The President did well to focus his presidency on 
the issues of justice, peace and security, which includes 
making the reform of the United Nations system one of 
his priorities, especially that of the Security Council. It 
is also worth mentioning that Security Council reform 
is  at  the  heart  of  the  overall  reform  of  the  United 
Nations. It is the keystone of that effort.  
in 

Germany  to  commemorate  the  fall  of  the  Berlin  Wall 
on 9 November 1989, the so-called wall of shame. That 
unforgettable  day  ushered  in  a  new  order  in  Europe. 
People sang songs of freedom, welcomed the advent of 
democracy  and  decreed  the  end  of  the  cold  war.  New 
States emerged from that new order, which would later 
add to the universality of the United Nations when they 
joined the Organization. In doing so, they followed in 
the footsteps of many African countries, three decades 
earlier,  when  they  too  brought  down  another  wall  of 
shame. From the ashes of the chaos of war emerged a 
new world in which justice, peace and security for all 
was to supposed to prevail. That brought us closer than 
Three  days  ago,  celebrations  were  held 
09-60619 

19 

A/64/PV.44 

ever to the aspirations of men and women who, having 
regained  their  humanity,  broke  down  another  wall  of 
shame. A new order had  emerged from the chaos, and 
that  is  how  our  Organization  was  founded.  From  its 
very  beginning  it  announced  a  dream  that  has  now 
come  true,  a  universal  Organization. Today  almost  all 
States of the world are Members of it. 

Those  historic  high  points  in  the  life  of  our 
Organization  should  rightly  remind  us  that  we  do  not 
live  in  a  petrified  world. The  Security  Council  cannot 
shoulder  its  responsibilities  without  recognizing  this 
dynamic,  reinforced  as  it  is  by  the  emergence  of  new 
forces onto the international political scene and whose 
rightful  place  there  cannot  forever  be  denied.  The 
decision  of  our  leaders  at  the  2005  World  Summit  — 
that  the  Security  Council  must  be  reformed  without 
delay  because  it  constituted  the  essential  element  in 
modernizing  the  United  Nations  —  reflected  this 
willingness to take our Organization in this direction. 

The  United  Nations,  which  we  wish  to  see  as  a 
living organism, has been asked to evolve, and in order 
to  do  that  it  must  adopt  a  position  of  transparency, 
justice  and  genuine  democracy,  based  on  the  equal 
sovereignty  of  States,  because  otherwise  it  will  be 
doomed to a tragic fate of sclerosis and paralysis. 

Thus  the  Security  Council,  whose  reform  is  the 
focus of our debate, must face up to the tragic flaw that 
now characterizes it. We realize that hope for genuine 
reform  collides  with  national  interests  and  schism  in 
some  positions,  as  we  have  seen  throughout  the 
intergovernmental 
on 
19 February.  We  believe  that  we  should  not  seek  a 
mere  makeshift,  transitional  and  interim  solution; 
instead, we must move towards genuine reform of this 
organ  in  every  way  and  every  area.  Member  States 
must, in fact, be possessed of a genuine political will to 
bring  about  genuine  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
making  it  more  democratic  and  representative,  and 
beyond  that,  increasing  its  transparency,  effectiveness 
and accountability to the Member States. 

My delegation does not despair of the possibility 
of having a Security Council where all members are on 
an equal footing. But discussion of the issue of the veto 
has  shown  that  doing  away  with  that  discriminatory, 
anachronistic  power,  bestowed  on 
the  permanent 
members,  is  the  keystone  of  the  entire  edifice  of 
reform. It is on the basis of that reality that Africa, the 
only region without any permanent seat in this body, is 
negotiations 
began 
that 
the  Council, 
the  working  methods  of 
that  decision  62/557  remains 
quite  rightly  asking  for  two  permanent  seats.  In  this 
way  justice  should  be  done,  and  Africa’s  legitimate 
aspirations met with this category of membership. 

The areas of the negotiations on the questions of 
enlarging  the  category  of  members,  equitable  regional 
representation, relations between the General Assembly 
and 
the 
Council — all  of  these  give  us  grounds  for  believing 
that consensus on them is  possible. After that, all that 
would  remain  would  be  for  us  to  devote  ourselves  to 
arriving at an agreement on those questions as quickly 
as possible. 
In conclusion, my delegation would like to recall 

the  fact 
the  main 
reference document for conducting the intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  also  hope  that  today’s  debate  will 
usher  in  a  new  day  shedding  new  light  on  the  next 
rounds of negotiations, giving them a new impetus, so 
that real progress can be made towards genuine reform 
of  this  body,  the  pivot  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
will,  eventually,  become  a  Security  Council  that 
reflects our era. 
Mr.  Jomaa  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 

first of all thank the President very much for including 
the  item  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council  as  one  of 
his top priorities. I assure him of my delegation’s firm 
support  for  any  action  you  may  take  in  order  to  bring 
this  process  to  completion  at  this  session  under  his 
presidency. 

While  we  support  the  statement  made  on  behalf 
of the African Group and the Non-Aligned Movement, 
I would also like to express our views on the two items 
on today’s agenda, the report of the Security Council to 
the  General  Assembly  (A/64/2)  and  the  “Question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”, by making the following comments: 

First, concerning the annual report of the Security 
Council,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Ambassador  of 
Austria, President of the Council for the current month, 
for  introducing  the  Council’s  annual  report  to  the 
General Assembly in accordance with the provisions of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  For  most  Member 
States,  particularly  those  that  are  not  members  of  the 
Security  Council,  the Assembly’s  consideration  of  the 
Council’s  annual  report  is  the  only  opportunity  they 
have  for  evaluating  the  work  of  the  Council  in  depth 
increase 
in 
20 

09-60619 
in  order 


and  identifying  what  must  be  done  to  improve  its 
working methods. 

This  year,  once  again,  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council is a compendium of decisions and resolutions 
adopted and a somewhat factual account of that body’s 
work. We  are  thus  still  far  from  the  recommendations 
made  by  the  Member  States,  which  have  asked  for  an 
analytical  annual  report.  In  the  same  spirit,  I  would 
also recall that the General Assembly had suggested to 
the Council that it periodically submit special thematic 
reports  on  issues  of  international  interest.  So  far,  no 
such reports have been submitted. 

As  to  how  the  Council  operates,  over  the  past 
year  it  has  held  a  significant  number  of  thematic 
debates  in  which  a  larger  number  of  States  have 
participated.  In  this  regard,  however,  it  would  still  be 
useful to strengthen the regular consultation mechanisms 
between the presidencies of the various United Nations 
bodies, 
to  avoid  any  overlapping  or 
encroachment  on  the  respective  competences  of  those 
organs when such thematic debates are held. 

We  acknowledge  the  considerable  amount  of 
work accomplished by the Security Council during the 
period covered by the report and particularly regarding 
hotbeds  of  tension  in  Africa  and  other  parts  of  the 
world.  We  also  take  note  of  visits  to  the  field  by 
Council members in order to better grasp the situations 
affecting international peace and security and requiring 
urgent action by the Council. The report shows that the 
Council  has  made  determined  efforts  to  tackle  a  large 
number  of  conflicts  around  the  world.  This  naturally 
enhances 
in  maintaining 
its  authority  and 
international peace and security. 

I  would,  however,  point  out  that  the  Council’s 
efforts are far below what we hoped for in the Middle 
East. Frustration over the Council’s inability to become 
more  involved  in  settling  the  Palestinian  question  and 
in  shouldering  its  responsibilities  in  this  area  poses  a 
serious threat to the region and to the authority of the 
Council  itself.  We  believe  strongly  that  there  is  still 
much  to  be  done  to  get  the  Council  to  function  in  a 
more transparent manner, ensure access to information 
for all delegations, particularly those with items on the 
Council’s agenda. 

Secondly, may I turn to the question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security  Council. In dealing with this issue,  allow 
me  first  to  pay  tribute  to  the  President  of  the  General 
role 
A/64/PV.44
in 
in 
increase 
that  process.  Pending 
Assembly at its sixty-third session, for his contribution 
to  the  matter  before  us  today.  We  also  note  the 
launching  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  based  on 
proposals  by  Member  States  on  the  question  of  the 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership of the Security Council. These were begun 
in  an  open,  inclusive  and  transparent  manner  in  order 
to  arrive  at  a  solution  that  would  garner  the  widest 
possible support among Member States. 

I  would  like  to  warmly  thank Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin  for  the  manner  in  which  he  has  conducted  the 
intergovernmental negotiations, and I assure him of our 
full  cooperation 
the 
resumption of the negotiations, I would like to offer the 
following comments.  

The  Security  Council  should  reflect  the  political 
and economic realities of the world of today. It should 
have  the  legitimacy  it  needs  to  act  on  behalf  of  the 
international  community  in  discharging  the  mandate 
assigned it by the Charter. My delegation believes that 
the purpose of any reform of the Council should be to 
strengthen  equitable  representation  within  that  organ, 
its  credibility  and  its  effectiveness.  Those  goals  are 
attainable  only  if  the  Council  is  enlarged,  particularly 
to include developing countries. Likewise, the size of a 
restructured  Council should reflect all the sensibilities 
of the international community. 

In that context, Tunisia still strongly supports the 
position  of  the  African  Union,  as  reflected  in  the 
African  consensus  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. We believe it is time to rectify the fact Africa 
has never had any permanent presence in the Council. 
We  will  support  any  formula  that  gives  developing 
countries  in  general  and  Africa  in  particular  their 
rightful place in the Council. 

We  think  that  the  Security  Council,  if  it  is  to 
continue  enjoying  the  trust  of  States  and  world  public 
opinion, must show that it is able to effectively tackle 
the most difficult issues, and it must also become more 
representative  of  the  international  community  as  a 
whole and reflect the realities of the world today.  
Mr.  Dos  Santos  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Allow  me  to  begin  by  extending  the  thanks  of  the 
delegation  of  Paraguay  to Ambassador  Thomas  Mayr-
Harting,  Permanent  Representative  of  Austria,  for  his 
introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council (A/64/2) in his capacity as the President of the 
Security Council. We commend the Council’s goodwill 
09-60619 

21 

A/64/PV.44 

in  intending  to  present  a  report  that  responds  to  the 
demands  of  the  great  majority  of  the  Members  of  our 
Organization,  making  it  a  useful  and  substantive 
document that benefits us all. 

On  the  subject  of  agenda  item  119,  I  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session,  for  his  work  in 
connection with the question of equitable representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  related  matters.  Our  thanks  also  go  to 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative of 
Afghanistan,  for  his  excellent  work  in  overseeing  the 
meetings.  

The Government of Paraguay is of the view that 
the reform the Security Council is an essential element 
in  strengthening  the  Organization.  For  this  reason,  we 
support  prompt  reform  and  pledge  our  efforts  and 
cooperation  to  fulfil  the  mandate  of  the  2005  World 
Summit.  

In  establishing,  in  resolution  48/26,  an  open-
ended  working  group  to  consider  the  aspects  of  the 
question of increasing the membership of the Security 
Council and other, related matters and then in adopting 
decision 62/557, the Member States took an important 
step 
their 
endeavours to achieve a Council that is more equitable, 
more democratic and more fully consistent with current 
international realities.  

its 
unshakable  commitment  to  multilateralism,  which  is 
based  on  the  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter. We know that concentration saps the collective 
effort 
the  Organization  are 
committed to. That is why we continue to believe that 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
should be founded on collective well-being and not on 
individual  and  transitory  interests.  We  also  cannot 
believe that international security is divorced from the 
issues  of  development  and  respect  for  human  rights. 
We declare those issues to be interdependent, and it is 
on  their  positive  interaction  that  the  harmonious 
coexistence  and  material  and  cultural  progress  of  our 
peoples will depend.  

We  are  following  with  interest  the  negotiation 
process for the expansion of the Security Council. We 
believe expansion should be accompanied by reform of 
the  Council’s  working  methods  and  that  the  Council 
The  Republic  of  Paraguay 
that  all  members  of 
that  committed 
to  continuing 
reaffirms 
them 
in 
is 
of 
of 
its 
the 
degree 
We  believe 
should  have  permanent  rules  of  procedure  instead  of 
the  provisional  rules  that  it  has  had  since  its  creation. 
The  legitimacy  of  the  Council’s  decisions  will  be  a 
function 
democracy, 
representativeness and participatory nature.  

Paraguay  reiterates,  as  is  stated  in  the  Charter, 
that  that  the  primary  function  of  the  Council  is  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
also  wish  to  express  concern  regarding  the  growing 
extension of the competencies of the Security Council 
to other topics that have their own natural forums and 
that  may  in  some  way  undermine  the  authority  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  of  other  bodies 
the 
Organization.  

The  increase  in  the  number  of  members  of  the 
Security  Council  should  be  consistent  with 
the 
geographical  and  equitable  distribution  among  its 
members, primarily the sovereign equality of States, as 
laid out on Article 23 of the Charter. 

With  regard  to  the  veto,  Paraguay  supports  its 
gradual  elimination  and  the  gradual  restriction  of  its 
application to Chapter VII.  

there  must  be  effective 
communication  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  The  Assembly 
the  most 
representative  and  democratic  body  of  the  United 
Nations system. We therefore believe that is necessary 
to fully carry out meetings between the President of the 
Assembly  and  the  President  of  the  Council.  We  must 
achieve a democratic and transparent body. 

We  would  like  to  see  the  Council,  of  which  we 
have  been  a  member  only  in  1967  and  1968,  become 
more  representative, inclusive  and democratic. We  are 
confident that the Council will adapt to the new needs 
of  our  century  and  to  the  current  number  of  Member 
States in order to ensure that it is more representative, 
efficient  and  legitimate  and  that  its  decisions  are 
implemented.  
Mr.  Nhleko  (Swaziland):  At  the  outset,  my 

delegation aligns itself with the statement made by the 
representative  of  Sierra  Leone,  as  Chair  of 
the 
Committee of Ten, on behalf of the African Group and 
the statement by the representative of Egypt on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/64/PV.43). 

I  have  the  honour  to  address  the  plenary  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  agenda  item  119,  “Question  of 
the  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
that 
22 

09-60619 
thought-provoking 


membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”, and to reflect on the report of the Chairperson 
of  the  Working  Group  as  contained  in  document 
A/63/47.  

I  thank  the  Chairperson  for  his  report.  My 
delegation  appreciates  the  activism  of  Member  States 
in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  throughout  the 
sixty-third session. The informal discussions under the 
stewardship  of  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan  have  been 
and 
forthright.  I  also  thank  Ambassador  Tanin  for  his 
relentlessness  and  vision  in  guiding  the  proceedings 
with the utmost dedication and impartiality. 

The negotiations on Security Council reform have 
already  taken  15  years,  and  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group established at the very beginning has convened 
meeting  after  meeting  with  few  textual  results.  That 
indicates  a  laggard  commitment  to  the  progress  that 
our people yearn to see. Whether or not  that has been 
by  design  or  default  remains  to  be  seen.  It  is 
discernible  to  many  that  the  events  and  actions 
following 1945 were compatible with and necessary for 
that era. Today, as the world has evolved, the demands 
and  realities  of 
the  modern-day  United  Nations, 
representing  a  holistic  citizenry,  need  to  be  taken  into 
account.  The  persistent  calls  for  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  are  therefore  not  misplaced.  My 
delegation has a duty to add its voice to this call, with 
unfailing resolve. 

The plight of Africa does not need to be repeated. 
As the only  continent  without a  seat in  the permanent 
category, the frustration felt from the Cape to Cairo is 
well  founded.  What  is  more,  a  substantial  part  of  the 
Council’s  agenda  is  focused  on Africa.  The  Kingdom 
of  Swaziland  is  convinced  that  Africa  has  valuable 
insight  into  the  peace  and  security  landscape  of  the 
continent. The ad hoc approach taken to engaging with 
Africa on its own problems is like allowing the tail to 
wag the dog. It is not an issue of control, but of factual 
discourse, and employing cooperative efforts based on 
an informed point of view would considerably improve 
the outputs that we seek to accomplish. 

The Ezulwini Consensus is succinct in its call for 
at least two permanent seats for Africa. Whether or not 
they  come  with  the  veto  power  is  a  point  for  further 
reflection, 
or 
unwillingness  of  negotiating  partners  to  yield  on  the 
veto.  The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  therefore  advocates 
the  willingness 
depending 
on 
A/64/PV.44
trying 
there 
is  no 
certain 
to  give 
the curtailment of the veto, irrespective of whether it is 
extended to new members. 

My  delegation  laments  the  direction  that  the 
intergovernmental negotiations are taking. The chair of 
the  negotiations, Ambassador Tanin,  stressed  the  need 
for  flexibility  from  all  parties.  Regrettably,  as  we 
convene  today  there  is  no  indication  of  a  possible 
trade-off.  Even  though  there  is  a  near  convergence  of 
views  among  some  parties  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  issues  that  touch  on  working  methods 
and the relationship between the General Assembly and 
the  Security  Council, 
initiative  and 
methodology to synchronize those views and work on a 
concrete trade-off that will quickly move the process to 
a more advanced level.  
My  delegation  does  not  see  those  matters  as 

the  gravity  of  other 
problem  areas,  considering 
negotiating  points 
categories  of 
membership. As a matter of principle, my delegation is 
not 
clusters  preferred 
consideration ahead of others, but rather to underscore 
the  importance  of  working  expeditiously  and  moving 
swiftly.  It  does  not  serve  the  interests  of  Africa  to 
procrastinate. 

During  the  latter  stage  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  the  intermediary  approach  arose  as  a 
preferred  option  with 
to  categories  of 
membership.  My  delegation  rejected  it,  as  we  would 
again  even  today.  We  also  militated  against  its  undue 
advancement  by  the  chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  for  the  simple  reason  that  it  does  not  a 
reflect  what 
the 
negotiations  to  narrow  down  to.  That  is  beside  the 
point  that  it  prejudices  the  well-known  position  of 
Africa, a 53-member collective. 

It  is  our  hope  that  all  positions  will  be  given 
complete  scrutiny  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  My 
delegation  has  always  supported 
the  piecemeal 
approach  that  was  first  advanced  by  the  delegation  of 
Zambia. However, the intermediary approach has been 
generally rejected, not because it cannot be viable but 
only because of its unknown content. It has developed 
a  negative  complex  whereby  delegations,  including 
mine,  view  it  as  a  tool  to  bamboozle  the  membership 
and  derail  discussion  of 
is 
compounded by the broad unwillingness to explain the 
approach further. It is well known that the fragmented 
nature  of  the  intermediary  approach  is  a  sticky  area 
the  entire  membership  wants 
reform.  That 
respect 
such 
as 
the 
real 
09-60619 

23 

A/64/PV.44 

that  makes  us  grow  even  more  apprehensive.  My 
delegation does not want to dwell on an approach that 
seeks  to  perpetuate  the  very  injustice  we  all  desire  to 
subdue. 

The  issue  of  regional  representation  has  caused 
many  delegations  to  make  assertions  on  unfounded 
formulations. Some feel it unjustly advances the notion 
of  a  collective  or  regional  seat  and  consequently 
violates the Charter of the United Nations. As regional 
representation  is  pivotally  essential  to  the  African 
position,  we  want  to  remind  delegations  about  the 
essence  of  reform.  Reform  entails  amendment  and 
creation.  What  is  being  amended  and  created  is  an 
issue of discussion among Members. We wish to make 
it  clear  that Africa  does  not  want  a  regional  seat.  On 
the  contrary,  a  seat  is  purely  national  and  sovereign, 
but  the  only  difference  is  that  Africa  would  have  the 
say  in  the  determination  to  elect  the  nation  to  occupy 
such a seat.  How that seat is used to effectively solve 
pertinent problems that affect Africa and the rest of the 
world  is  an  African  affair.  The  understanding  that 
Africa wants  to rule en masse in the Security Council 
is misguided and should be discouraged. 

We  encourage  other African  delegations  to  make 
efforts  to  explain  what  regional  representation  means 
for  Africa  in  order  to  paint  an  accurate  picture. 
Naysayers will have little or no option to disparage an 
honestly motivated position that responds to the core of 
many  injustices  created  by  the  course  of  history.  My 
delegation is perturbed by the consistent misjudgement 
by  the  very  partners  who  are  instrumental  in  the 
progress of the negotiation process. We want a process 
whereby  a  pound  of  flesh  must  be  given  where  and 
when  it  is  due,  without  further  impediment.  I  should 
like  to  appeal  to  the  membership  to  carry  the  process 
forward  and  negotiate  robustly  so  that  we  can  have 
closure on this issue.  
Institutions constantly undergo changes; they are 

constructed 
adaptation 
strategies modelled on the changing times, geopolitical 
realities  and  changes  in  the  mindsets  that  govern  the 
world.  Those  multifarious  approaches  to  governance 
demand  a  newly  imagined  international  discourse  that 
takes into account the assortment of ideas that can offer 
alternatives  to  static  ascendancy.  It  is  high  time  that 
that value be learned. We are no longer in the world of 
the Middle Ages. The Kingdom of Swaziland wishes to 
encourage  the  Assembly  President  to  follow  in  the 
reconstructed,  with 
and 
the  African  Union  (AU),  especially 
footsteps of his predecessor and pursue this matter with 
vigour. 
Mrs. Waffa-Ogoo (Gambia): The Gambia aligns 

itself  with  the  statements  made  by  His  Excellency 
Mr. Shekou  M.  Touray,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Sierra Leone and Coordinator of the Committee of Ten, 
and  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Maged  A.  Abdelaziz, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt,  on  behalf  of  the 
African  Group  and 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
respectively.  My  delegation  welcomes  the  opportunity 
to  take  part  in  this  joint  debate  on  agenda  item  9, 
“Report of the Security Council”, and agenda item 119, 
“Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”.  

It  is  no  secret  that  the  Council  has  had  many 
regional  situations  on  its  agenda,  the  bulk  of  which 
relate  to  Africa.  We  have  also  witnessed  greater 
engagement  of  the  United  Nations  Security  Council 
and 
the 
expeditious  implementation of  the  United  Nations-AU 
ten-year  capacity-building  programme.  We  would  like 
to  see  more  meaningful  cooperation  between  the 
Security  Council  and  the  African  Union  Peace  and 
Security  Council,  as  they  both  grapple  with  finding 
lasting  solutions  to  conflicts  in Africa. African  efforts 
in the maintenance of international peace and security 
ought  to  be  supported,  especially  in  those  situations 
where 
individual  African  countries  have  already 
contributed to such efforts or are willing to do so. 

My  delegation  is  aware  of  the  fact  that  the 
situation  in  the  Middle  East,  including  the  Palestinian 
question,  is  a  perennial  item  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Council.  We  appreciate  the  attention  that  this  item 
receives from Council members every  month. What  is 
worrying,  however,  is  that  despite  all  the  attention 
given  to  that  item  over  many  decades,  the  conflict  in 
the  Middle  East  continues  to  defy  solution.  For  the 
Palestinians, the unending settlement activity by Israel 
and  the  attendant  land  grabbing  through  fencing 
constitutes the greatest threat to the viability of a two-
State  solution.  What 
the 
Council’s  failure  to  insist  on  respect  for  its  numerous 
resolutions  on  the  situation.  We  urge  the  Council, 
therefore, 
its 
longstanding resolutions on the Palestinian question. 

In  the  protracted  debate  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  among  the  issues  that  enjoy  general 
is  equally  worrying 
implementation  of 
to  see 
to 
the 
in 
is 
24 

09-60619 
the  Security  Council  and 
the  United  Nations.  Apart  from  making 


agreement among most Member States are the relations 
between 
the  General 
Assembly  and  the  improvement  of  the  Council’s 
working methods. There are, however, a few among us 
who subscribe to the school of thought that reforming 
the  Council’s  working  methods  is  best  left  to  the 
Council itself. 

The  whole  question  of  improvement  of  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council  is  tied  in  with  the 
broader  question  of  Security  Council  reform.  In 
addition to the plethora of proposals advanced so far in 
that  regard,  the  Council  itself  should  continue  to 
engage in further introspection, with a view to finding 
more innovative ways to engage the larger membership 
of 
the 
Council’s decision-making process more transparent, it 
would also enhance the legitimacy of its decisions. 

In the continuum of reforms to be undertaken by 
the  United  Nations,  that  of  the  Security  Council  still 
remains elusive. In Africa, our position on agenda item 
119 on equitable representation on and increase in the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters,  is  well  known.  In  fact,  before  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  Sirte  Declaration,  the  1997  Harare 
Declaration  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
flagged,  among  other  issues,  the  need  to  periodically 
review  the  structure  and  functioning  of  the  Security 
Council  in  order  to  make  it  more  responsive  to  the 
challenges  of  a  dynamic  international  community, 
particularly in the domain of peace and security.  

However,  we  continue  to  find  the  delay  in 
reaching  a  final  solution  untenable.  My  delegation 
would 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations in the informal plenary 
of the General Assembly leading to intergovernmental 
negotiations  based  on  concrete  proposals  without 
undue delay. It is our hope that the issues discussed in 
the last round of negotiations will be tackled in such a 
way as to lead to the adoption of a satisfactory decision 
during this session. 

Let  me  conclude  by  extending  my  delegation’s 
gratitude to the President at the sixty-third session, His 
Excellency Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, for the report 
of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
related  to  the  Security  Council,  in  document A/63/47, 
pursuant to resolution 62/557.  
resumption 
like 
of 
in 
to 
see 
a 
A/64/PV.44
to  chair 

We  also  commend  the  President  of  the  current 
session, His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, for 
making  reform  of  the  Security  Council  one  of  the 
priorities of his presidency. As we look forward to the 
resumption  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  my 
delegation  wishes  to  pledge  its  continued  cooperation 
and support to Ambassador Tanin of Afghanistan, who 
has  once  again  graciously  agreed 
the 
negotiations  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  AlSanad  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf of my country’s delegation, I wish to convey our 
thanks and appreciation to the President of the Security 
Council  for  this  month,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thomas 
Mayr-Harting,  Permanent  Representative  of  Austria, 
for  presenting  the  Council’s  report  to  the  General 
Assembly. We thank him for the report and take note of 
its  assertion  that  the  previous  year  has  witnessed 
significant  activity  in  terms  of  the  volume  of  the 
Council’s work. 

We support the statement of the representative of 
Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  countries  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  We  also  congratulate  the  newly  elected 
non-permanent members of the Council for the period 
2010-2011:  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Gabon, 
Lebanon and Nigeria. 

The  agenda  item  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters is considered 
one  of  the  most  important  items  on  the  agenda  of  the 
General Assembly. However, the question of the reform 
of  the  Security  Council  is  stuck  in  its  tracks,  despite 
the fact that more than 15 years have elapsed since the 
General Assembly adopted a resolution establishing an 
open-ended  working  group  to  consider  the  issue  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
Council’s  membership.  Despite 
the  agreement  of 
Member  States  on  the  basis  for  effecting  change  and 
reform, the Working Group has not, however, been able 
to  reach  an  agreement  until  now,  on  the  substance  of 
the required change. 

However, we cannot ignore the fact that progress 
has  been  made  in  the  negotiations  of  the  Working 
Group, particularly concerning the working methods of 
the Council. Now, there is almost a general consensus 
on  many  of 
to  be 
introduced. We cannot but commend this improvement. 
In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  overall  agreement  to 
the  measures  and  proposals 
increase 
in 
09-60619 

25 

intergovernmental  negotiations 
A/64/PV.44 

commence 
in  an 
informal  plenary  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
during  the  sixty-third  session  and  this  current  session, 
with  the  aim  of  realizing  many  of  the  ideas  that  have 
been  the  subject  of  numerous  discussions  over  the 
years.  We  congratulate  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  the 
Permanent Representative of Afghanistan, for presiding 
over  the  informal  consultations  during  the  sixty-third 
and sixty-fourth sessions of the General Assembly. We 
hope  that  consensus  can  be  reached  in  order  to 
strengthen  the  role  of  the  Security  Council  and  its 
effectiveness. We also convey our thanks to the Italian 
Government for hosting the special ministerial meeting 
to  consider  the  matter  of  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  last  February  in  Rome.  The  meeting  laid  out 
broad outlines, which led to the convening of the third 
round  of  informal  intergovernmental  consultations, 
which  lasted  from  1  to  3  September  2009,  at  United 
Nations Headquarters in New York. 
There is no doubt that an agreement on any of the 

issues related to the matter of expanding and reforming 
the Security Council — whether that agreement comes 
during  the  phase  of  consultations  or  negotiations 
between Governments — must be a general agreement 
that  ensures  real  reform  of  the  Council  and  that  wins 
wide  approval,  thus  facilitating  its  implementation. 
Reform  measures 
for 
transparency  and  good  will  and  the  avoidance  of 
individual  manoeuvres  that  seek  to  promote  narrow 
self  interests.  The  purpose  of  membership  in  the 
Security  Council  is  to  serve  international  peace  and 
security,  and  membership  carries  burdens  and 
responsibilities  on  an  international  scale.  Members  of 
the Security Council must not seek to achieve political 
gains  or  give  privileges  to  specific  countries  or 
geographical  groupings.  The  purpose  of  the  Security 
Council  is  much  higher  and  nobler  than  that;  it  is  to 
spread peace, stability and security all over the world. 

The position of the State of Kuwait vis-à-vis the 
issue of reform of the Security Council emanates from 
the following principled positions. The State of Kuwait 
strongly  supports  the  reform  and  reinvigoration  of  all 
of the United Nations bodies and organs, especially the 
Security Council, to enable it to carry  out its function 
as mandated by the Charter, which is the maintenance 
of international peace and  security. Any change in the 
composition  of  the  Council  must  not  reduce  its 
capability  and  effectiveness  in  taking  decisions  to 
confront  international  threats  and  dangers  but  rather 
the  need 
should 
stress 
We  stress 
the 
importance  of  codifying 
must  lend  more  legitimacy  and  credibility  to  the 
Council’s resolutions. 

Concerning  the  reform  and  improvement  of  the 
Council’s working methods and its relations with other 
United  Nations  bodies,  such  as  the  General Assembly 
and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  we  support  all 
the  proposals  aiming  to  lend  more  transparency  and 
clarity  to  the  work  of  the  Council,  including  the  easy 
flow of information to and from the Member States of 
the United Nations. We also support the need to totally 
respect  the  functions  and  the  competence  of  the  other 
main  bodies,  especially  the  General Assembly,  and  to 
define the role of the Council in considering the issues 
that threaten international peace and security. 

the 
measures taken by the Security Council to improve its 
working  methods  without  waiting  for  agreement  on 
other  issues  such  as  the  size  and  composition  of  the 
Council  and  the  decision-making  process,  especially 
since  the  codification  of  those  measures  will  not 
necessarily lead to any amendments to the Charter. We 
also believe that the time has come for the Council to 
adopt a permanent list of working methods, to improve 
and codify its measures and working methods.  

the 
mechanism of electing the non-permanent members of 
the Council in accordance with Article 23, paragraph 2, 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  This  allows  a  better 
chance to small States like ours to become members of 
the  Council  and  participate  in  its  work,  especially  in 
light  of  the  fact  that  six  and  a  half  decades  after  the 
establishment of the United Nations almost one fourth 
of the membership has not attained membership in the 
Council. 
As  concerns  the  question  of  the  power  of  veto, 

there  must  be  checks  and  controls  for  the  use  of  the 
veto.  It  should  be  restricted  to  matters  that  fall  under 
Chapter VII of the Charter. If we increase the number 
of  non-permanent  seats,  they  should  be  distributed  to 
regional groups, taking into account the great increase 
in the number of Asian countries.  
Finally,  we  reaffirm  our  support  for  all  efforts 

the 
leading 
Security Council, and we hope that an agreement on a 
formulation,  satisfactory  to  all  sides,  will  be  reached, 
ensuring that the Council will carry out its functions as 
provided by the Charter, without any obstacles. 
the  maintenance  of 
the  performance  of 
We  also  support 
to  consolidating 
26 

09-60619 
this 
significance 
the  historic 
joint  debate.  My 
to  be  of  critical 


Mr. Park In-kook (Republic of Korea): I would 

like to begin by thanking the President of the Assembly 
for  organizing 
special 
appreciation also extends to the current President of the 
Security  Council,  Ambassador  Mayr-Harting  of 
Austria,  for  introducing  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council  (A/64/2).  My  delegation  is  grateful  for  the 
hard  work  that  went  into  compiling  this  report, 
especially  by  Uganda,  President  of 
the  Security 
Council  for  the  month  of  July.  The  Council  had  a 
particularly heavy workload during the period covered 
by  the  report,  and  we  greatly  appreciate  the  work 
carried out by the Council to deal with a wide variety 
of multifaceted challenges in all corners of the globe. 
I  would  like  to  address  agenda  item  119,  which 

in 
we  believe 
strengthening  the  overall  legitimacy  of  the  Council  so 
that  it  can  continue  to  discharge  its  duties  effectively. 
During  the  past  year,  some  important  milestones  were 
erected  in  the  ongoing  discussion  to  reform  the 
Council.  Most  notably, 
launch  of 
intergovernmental negotiations in February of this year 
kick-started  three  rounds  of  negotiations,  which  gave 
Member  States  ample  opportunity  to  examine  all 
aspects  of  the  reform  process  and  to  exchange  views 
under  the  committed  leadership  of Ambassador Tanin, 
the Chair of the negotiations.  
rounds  of  negotiations, 

Member  States  looked  closely  at  the  five  key  issues 
laid out in General Assembly decision 62/557, namely, 
category,  the  veto  power,  regional  representation,  size 
and  working  methods,  as  well  as 
the  Council’s 
relationship  with  the  General  Assembly.  From  those 
intense  and  sometimes  heated  discussions 
there 
emerged  an  understanding  that  all  of  those  issues  are 
closely  interconnected  and  that  it  would  be  virtually 
impossible to take them apart arbitrarily, no matter how 
badly  all  Member  States  wanted  to  conclude  a  reform 
agreement. 
of 
comprehensiveness  of  any  reform  package  became 
abundantly clear. 

With regard to the quality of exchanges that took 
place  within  the  three  rounds,  my  delegation  was 
pleased  with  the  insights  shared  by  many  delegations, 
and  we  feel 
the 
discussions  in  a  meaningful  and  positive  manner.  A 
frank exchange of views occurred, and each delegation 
made constructive use of the meetings over the course 
of  the  year  to  state  their  positions.  We  are,  however, 
they  have  contributed 
requirement 
Through 
Hence, 
three 
that 
to 
the 
the 
A/64/PV.44
a 
the 
that 
system 
Indeed, 
to  believe 
is  built  upon 
My  delegation  continues 
compelled to express our disappointment that too little 
substantive progress was actually made in terms of the 
positions of major groups.  
The  increasing  interest  in  and  willingness  to 

consider 
intermediary  solution  as  a  realistic 
compromise  to  the  deadlock  was,  however,  certainly 
encouraging. That trend was especially notable toward 
the end of the second and third rounds, when a separate 
session was devoted to the exploration of intermediary 
approaches, in response to requests by  Member States 
who  felt  that  that  option  deserved  a  more  focused 
scrutiny.  We  certainly  hope  that  that  avenue  will  be 
further explored in the next stage of our negotiations. 

in 
pursuing the reform of the Council we should above all 
strive  to  strengthen  the  democratic  underpinnings  of 
the Council and enhance its larger accountability to the 
membership.  In  that  connection,  we  support  periodic 
elections, precisely because they offer the best way to 
ensure  accountability. 
the  entire  United 
Nations 
system  of 
accountability,  as  we  can  witness  in  the  myriad  of 
elections  that  take  place  within  the  various  organs  of 
the  United  Nations  on  a  regular  basis.  The  Security 
Council should not and cannot be an exception to that 
overarching  principle.  The  prospect  of  having  their 
performance 
the 
membership through a periodic election is naturally the 
most  important  incentive  for  the  members  of  the 
Council  to  continually  improve  the  quality  of  their 
work.  Furthermore,  it  is  the  entire  membership  that 
will benefit from this approach.  

Flexibility  and  adaptability  are  also  crucial 
requirements  for  a  Security  Council  that  we  envisage 
to  remain  relevant  and  sustainable  in  the  decades  to 
come.  Just  as  it  would  be  impossible  to  capture  all 
eternity  in  a  mere  snapshot,  it  would  be  a  mistake  to 
assume that a rapidly changing world will be served by 
a rigidly structured Security Council where those lucky 
enough  to  make  it  through  the  entryway  once  will 
remain  there  perpetually.  Again,  a  system  like  that 
would  go  against  the  very  values  enshrined  in  the 
Charter. 

In  this  regard,  my  delegation  contends  that  an 
increase in the number of elected seats will help us to 
meet  the  goal  of  granting  equitable  access  to  all 
qualified  Member  States,  large  or  small,  that  wish  to 
serve  on  the  Council.  The  right  to  contribute  to  the 
and  validated  by 
scrutinized 
09-60619 

27 

is  another 
A/64/PV.44 

maintenance  of  peace  and  security  should  not  be  a 
privilege  of  the  chosen  few.  We  believe  that  every 
Member  State  has  something  to  offer  to  enrich  the 
work  of  the  Council,  and  the  opportunity  to  do  so 
should not be limited outright by a static structure that 
the world continues to revolve around. 

Promoting  balanced  representation  among  the 
regional  groups  on  the  Council,  especially  those 
historically  underrepresented, 
important 
objective of the reform process. This balance would be 
best  achieved  by  freeing  up  as  many  elected  seats  as 
practicable  for  the  regional  groups  to  occupy  in  an 
equitable and democratic manner. 

We  also  need  to  be  mindful  that  an  integral  part 
of  reforming  the  Security  Council  is  improving  its 
working  methods.  To  that  end,  we  welcome  the 
initiatives  that  have  been  put  forward  to  enhance  the 
transparency, accountability, efficiency and inclusiveness 
of the Council’s work, and believe that the increase in 
the  number  of  open  meetings  conducted  during  the 
period covered in the report attests to the commitment 
of  the  Council  in  this  respect. We  continue  to  support 
the  idea  that,  wherever  possible,  we  should  try  to 
implement the improvements in working methods as an 
early harvest, not to  be  held hostage by  the lag in the 
entire reform process. 

As  we  look  back  on  the  progress  achieved  thus 
far,  we  face  the  daunting  task  of  charting  a  forward-
looking course for the future of reform. Therefore, we 
look to the President of the General Assembly, as well 
as to the guidance of the chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassador  Tanin,  in  this  respect.  We 
have the utmost confidence that the President can steer 
us  down  a  path  that  is  both  equitable  and  progress-
oriented. 

At  the  same  time,  we  stress  the  importance  of 
modalities  that  will  unite  rather  than  divide  the 
membership and allow the political will of the Member 
States  to  come  together  for  timely  reform.  If  any 
reform  is  to  be  successful,  it  simply  must  have  the 
support of an overwhelming majority of the membership. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reassuring  the 
President and the Chair of my delegation’s full support 
and commitment to working with them for progress as 
we embark on a new phase of work on this significant 
issue.  
the 
together 
the 
in  putting 
report,  with 
the  openness  and 
trend 
transparency  of 
Mrs.  Miculescu  (Romania):  At  the  outset,  I 

would like to express my delegation’s appreciation for 
the  convening  of  this  meeting.  I  would  also  like  to 
express our gratitude to Ambassador Mayr-Harting for 
energetically  introducing  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council (A/64/2); to Ambassador Rugunda for his hard 
work 
the 
instrumental  help  of  the  Secretariat;  and  to  all  of  the 
members of the Security Council, whose intense daily 
activities are described in this valuable document. It is 
commendable that last year’s initiative of Viet Nam to 
convene  an  informal  meeting  with  the  Member  States 
to exchange views on the report was also implemented 
this year. We hope to see it turned into a tradition. 
As  a  general  assessment  of  the  yearly  report, 

in 
Romania  wholeheartedly  welcomes 
increasing 
the 
Security  Council  and  its  work  by  multiplying  the 
number  of  open  debates  and  briefings  held.  Such 
events  give  all  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  to  come  together  more  closely  and  even  to 
contribute political and intellectual inputs on issues of 
utmost  importance  with  respect  to  what  the  Charter 
ranks as the first among the Organization’s purposes — 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
We  commend  and  encourage  this  trend,  for  it  is 
beneficial to the entire membership. 
In  discharging  its  mandate  entrusted  by  the 

Charter,  the  Security  Council  coped  with  a  very  busy 
agenda  in  this  reporting  period,  which  included  field 
missions to Afghanistan, Africa and Haiti, as well as a 
strong  engagement 
in  a  plethora  of  demanding 
situations around the world, including the Middle East, 
Iraq,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and 
Nepal,  to  mention  just  a  few.  At  the  same  time,  we 
must not lose sight of the fact that there were instances, 
such  as  the  situation  in  Georgia,  when  the  Security 
Council had difficulties in reacting adequately to dispel 
the  tensions.  Although  the  mandate  of  the  United 
Nations  Observer  Mission 
in  Georgia  was  not 
extended,  the  Security  Council’s  attention  to  the 
situation  that  arose  after  the  conflict  in  August  2008 
should not dissipate. It is extremely important that the 
Council  continue  to  monitor  the  file  and  support 
United  Nations 
international 
discussions on this matter, as the situation clearly still 
bears 
consequences 
and 
international peace and security. 
involvement 
in 
the 
relevant 
for 
regional 
28 

09-60619 
the 
between 
engagement 



We praise the close attention paid by the Security 
Council not only to specific crises, such as the those I 
mentioned  earlier,  but  also  to  thematic  debates  of 
comprehensive  relevance,  such  as  the  protection  of 
civilians 
in  armed  conflicts,  children  and  armed 
conflict, women and peace and security, peacebuilding 
and  peacekeeping. With  reference  to  the  latter,  let  me 
stress our view that peacekeeping is one clear example 
where multilateralism can achieve success. The British 
and  French  non-paper  presented  earlier  this  year  and 
the  Secretariat’s  New  Horizon  document  are  two 
valuable  documents  that  stand  out  as  means  for 
strengthening 
troop-
contributing  countries  (TCCs),  the  Secretariat  and  the 
Security  Council. We  share  the  conviction  that  a  final 
document  would  boost  both  the  effectiveness  and  the 
transparency  of  the  triangular  cooperation  among  the 
Security Council, TCCs and the Secretariat, as well as 
the operational ability of United Nations peacekeeping 
troops deployed on the ground. 

My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  combating 
terrorism ranks high on the Security Council’s agenda, 
bearing in mind that this scourge knows no boundaries 
and  needs  a  global  response.  In  this  respect,  we 
commend  the  swift  reaction  of  the  Security  Council 
whenever  terrorist  attacks  have  occurred,  including  in 
Afghanistan, India, Iraq, Lebanon or Pakistan. Against 
this  background,  it  is  noteworthy  to  recall  the  intense 
activity 
the  Security  Council 
Committees  established  pursuant  to  resolutions  1267 
(1999),  1373  (2001)  and  1540  (2004).  My  country 
welcomes  the  trend  towards  a  more  coherent  and 
integrated  approach  shown  by  these  Committees  in 
fulfilling their mandates. 

As a country that, during its term on the Security 
Council in 2004 and 2005, had a profound interest and 
invested  a  great  deal  of  energy  in  deepening  United 
Nations  cooperation  with  regional  and  subregional 
organizations, Romania is pleased to note that, over the 
reporting period, the Security Council was very active 
on  this  matter.  We  encourage  it  to  continue  to  be  so. 
Several situations that arose in the past year showcased 
that 
regional  actors  have  a  valuable,  unique 
contribution  to  make  to  security  and  stability  matters 
pertaining  to  their  region,  and  the  United  Nations 
should certainly capitalize on that. 

I would like to make a final point concerning this 
agenda item. No doubt, the report has provided pundits 
with  a  snapshot  about  the  heavy  workload  carried  by 
carried  out  by 
A/64/PV.44
like 
facilitator  of 
the  Security  Council.  Nevertheless,  as  a  public 
document  to  which  any  interested  person  could  gain 
access,  the  report  falls  short  of  being  sufficiently 
explanatory.  If  it  had  been  more  analytical,  it  could 
have  given  everyone  a  high-definition  picture  of  the 
tremendous efforts and energy invested by the Security 
Council  in  finding  viable  solutions  to  complicated 
crises.  Such  a  picture  is  essential  if  we  are  to  ensure 
the constant support of public opinion in our countries 
for  the  values  and  goals  promoted  by  the  United 
Nations. 

Let me now turn to the second agenda item under 
consideration  today  —  Security  Council  reform.  I 
would 
to  express  my  delegation’s  great 
appreciation  for  the  decision  of  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam 
Treki  to  include  this  topic  of  paramount  importance 
among the priorities of his mandate at the helm of the 
General Assembly, as well as for his reappointment of 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  as 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  His  elegant  mastery 
and efficient stewardship cleared the atmosphere of the 
fatigue and immobility that had clouded the beginning 
of those negotiations. I hope that other members share 
that  point  of  view.  We  admire 
the  resolve  and 
perseverance  that  he  has  constantly  displayed,  and  I 
want to assure the Assembly that he can certainly count 
on Romania’s support in pushing the Security Council 
reform process forward. 
As we have always stated, Romania is among the 

supporters  of  meaningful  reform  of 
the  Security 
Council, for that principal United Nations organ should 
better  reflect  the  political  realities  of  the  current 
international  arena.  In  that  respect,  we  stress  the  need 
to  improve  the  Council’s  working  methods,  decision-
making  mechanisms  and  transparency,  in  accordance 
with  the  strong  desire  of  all  Member  States,  as 
expressed during today’s discussion. 

As I have mentioned many times before, in order 
to  be  qualitatively  meaningful  and  to  have  a  sound 
political  foundation,  reform  should  be  aimed  at 
expanding both existing membership categories. At the 
same time, we must not lose sight of the fact that only 
reform  based  on  equitable  geographic  representation 
could  garner  the  full  confidence  of  all  Member  States 
that  they  would  receive  fair  treatment  from  the 
Organization.  That  is  why  we  have  always  believed 
and  continue  to  believe  that  the  requests  for  better 
representation  in  the  Security  Council  put  forward  by 
the Eastern European Group — which is asking for at 
09-60619 

29 
We  are  of 
the  view 
the  size  of 
A/64/PV.44 

least  one  additional  non-permanent  seat  —  as  well  as 
by  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean,  African  and 
Asian groups, are fully legitimate. 

that 
the 
enlargement  should  not  exceed  10  seats.  We  believe 
that  the  future  size  of  the  Security  Council  should  be 
established  according to the following parameters: the 
equitable  geographical  distribution  of  seats,  the  desire 
to preserve and even strengthen the effectiveness of the 
Council,  and  the  need  of  aspiring  members  to  prove 
that they have the capacity to assist the United Nations 
in fulfilling its goals and purposes. 

The  discussion  we  had  during  the  third  round  of 
negotiations  revealed 
interest  of  many 
delegations 
the  feasibility  of  an 
intermediate  or 
formula.  My  delegation 
considers that we should continue to explore the merits 
of such a formula if it could help us to advance reform. 
in  determining 
the  clear 

for 
the  next 

In conclusion, I wish to recall that, at the summit 
to  be  held  in  September  2010,  we  will  have  to  report 
on  the  progress  of  Security  Council  reform,  since  we 
were given a specific mandate in that regard in 2005 by 
our  heads  of  State  and  Government.  Therefore,  my 
delegation looks forward to receiving a timetable and, 
eventually,  a  document 
round  of 
negotiations, as we are eager to have them start sooner 
rather than later. We must capitalize on the undeniable 
support  for  Security  Council  reform  that  emerged 
during  the  heated  debates  that  we  had  during  the  first 
three rounds of negotiations. 

Finally, let me express our confidence that, in all 
these  endeavours,  no  challenge  is  too  great  for  our 
nations  if  we  remain  united.  No  danger  is  strong 
enough to defeat us if we marshal our wisdom and our 
capacities. 


The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  
interim 
30 

09-60619 
