
A/65/PV.32
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

32nd plenary meeting 
Monday, 18 October 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
supported the original idea of the International Year for 
Sport and Physical Education in 2005 (resolution 58/5), 
remains  determined  to  continue  its  efforts  to  make 
sport, through its ability to promote communication and 
rapprochement,  become  a  driving  force  for  integrating 
development, at both the national and the international 
levels,  and  a  means  of  promoting  solidarity,  tolerance 
and cultural and human diversity. 

Today,  sport  is  part  and  parcel  of  the  United 
Nations  and  an  effective  tool  that  should  be  borne  in 
mind  as  we  consider  the  issues  confronting  this 
Organization,  as  was  pointed  out  during 
the 
consultations  on  the  Outcome  Document  (resolution 
65/1)  of  the  Summit  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs), whose paragraph 67 deals with the role 
that sport can play in facilitating the implementation of 
the MDGs. 

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  formulating 
the Action  Plan  in  his  report  to  the  sixty-first  session 
(A/61/373), and we welcome the fact that that has been 
continued 
report,  with  proposed 
improvements  and  adjustments  that  will  undoubtedly 
only strengthen the effectiveness of sport as a tool for 
promoting peace, development, education and health. 

to 
congratulate  South Africa  on  its  successful  holding  of 
the last World Cup, and Singapore on the success of the 
first  Youth  Olympics.  Those 
clearly 
demonstrated  the  unifying  nature  of  sport  and  the 
enthusiasm it can generate for friendship and solidarity 
among  athletes  and  fans,  irrespective  of  their  origins, 
this  opportunity 
the  current 
I  would 
events 
take 
like 
in 
to 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 




Agenda item 11 
Sport for peace and development 
  (a)  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/270) 
  (b)  Draft resolution (A/65/L.4) 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to the representative of Tunisia to introduce draft 
resolution A/65/L.4. 
Mr.  Jomaa  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  First,  I 

would like to express my delegation’s satisfaction with 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  entitled  “Sport  for 
development and peace: strengthening the partnerships” 
(A/65/270). We welcome the actions undertaken by the 
United  Nations  system,  especially  the  Office  of  Sport 
for Development and Peace. 

to  stress  how  much  my 
delegation  values  the  continuing  and  unstinting  efforts 
of Mr. Wilfried Lemke, the Secretary-General’s Special 
Adviser  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  We 
particularly  applaud  his  activities  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  in 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  Operation  in  that 
country  and  the  role  he  has  played  on  behalf  of  the 
United Nations vis-à-vis the authorities of that friendly 
country,  to  which  a  Tunisian  contingent  has  been  sent 
as part of the United Nations peacekeeping forces there. 
We  wish  Mr.  Lemke  every  success  in  his  noble 
endeavour  and  assure  him  of  our  full  support  for  his 
efforts  to  ensure  the  success  of  programmes  aimed  at 
promoting  sport  around  the  world.  Tunisia,  which 

I  would  also 
like 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-58990 (E) 
*1058990* 



interest 
in 
the 
service  of 
in  continuing 
Based  on  our 
A/65/PV.32 

loyalties  and  beliefs.  Given  sport’s  noble  nature  and 
the vital contribution it can make to the emergence of 
younger  generations  in  good  physical  and  mental 
health,  Tunisia  takes  this  opportunity  to  call  on 
Member  States  to  take  all  necessary  measures  to 
confront  the  dangers  of  doping,  which  threatens  both 
the  health  of  athletes  and  the  image  and  credibility  of 
sporting  events.  We  welcome  the  growing  number  of 
Member  States  that  have  signed  the  International 
Convention against Doping in Sport, which is the first 
global  instrument  in  the  fight  against  that  scourge, 
adopted  at  the  thirty-third  session  of  the  UNESCO 
General Conference in 2005. 

that 
momentum  and  making  sport  a  means  of  promoting 
universal  principles 
future 
generations,  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  draft 
resolution  A/65/L.4  entitled  “Sport  as  a  means  to 
promote education, health, development and peace”, on 
behalf of Monaco, Tunisia, the members of the Group 
of Friends of Sport for Development and Peace and on 
behalf of the other sponsors, whose names are listed in 
the document. 

I  would 
the 
publication  of  that  document,  the  following  Member 
States  have  joined  the  list  of  sponsors,  namely, 
Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Canada, 
Central  African  Republic,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Finland, 
Lithuania, Montenegro, Poland, Portugal, San Marino, 
Spain, Thailand and Zambia.  

the  outcome  of 
resolution 
consultations,  both  with  a  large  number  of  Member 
States  and  with  United  Nations  bodies,  to  whom  we 
extend our sincere thanks and gratitude for the interest 
accorded to the draft text.  

The  draft  resolution  encourages  all  stakeholders 
to cooperate with the Special Adviser to the Secretary-
General  in  order  to  make  more  widely  known  the 
in  development 
importance  of 
programmes,  while  calling  on  Member  States 
to 
appoint 
for 
sport 
development  and  peace  and  to  establish  innovative 
partnerships  with  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport 
for Development and Peace. 

Here,  I  would  like  to  express  the  hope  that  the 
draft  resolution  will  enjoy  the  support  of  all  General 
Assembly  Member  States,  which  would  send  a  strong 
message  to  all  those  acting  in  the  name  of  the  noble 
focal  points 
like 
to  point  out 
that,  since 
responsible 
for 
including 
sport 
The  draft 
is 

is  deeply  rooted 
The  practice  of  sports 
practice  of  sport  and  provide  great  encouragement  to 
all athletes. 
Mr.  Quintães  (Brazil):  At  the  very  outset,  the 

Brazilian  delegation  would  like  to  welcome  draft 
resolution  A/65/L.4,  submitted  by  the  delegations  of 
Monaco and Tunisia and entitled “Sports as a means to 
promote  education,  health,  development  and  peace”. 
That effort seems to be in close harmony with the main 
initiatives  and  programmes  undertaken  by  Member 
States  and  international  organizations  to  promote  that 
objective  in  an  integrated  manner  that  is  consistent 
with accomplishments in other social fields.  

in 
Brazilian  society.  Accordingly,  sport  in  Brazil  is 
traditionally  regarded  as  instrumental  in  forging  good 
standards of citizenship, thereby playing a very special 
role in maintaining a healthy social fabric. Furthermore, 
it cannot be overstressed that access to sport constitutes 
a  fundamental  social  right  that  is  enshrined  in  our 
Constitution. 

In  that  regard,  the  Brazilian  Government  firmly 
believes in the potential of sport as an important factor 
in  social  inclusiveness  and  development,  as  well  as  a 
tool  for  fostering  role  model  values  and  a  solid 
upbringing for our children and youth. 

Our  Government’s  policy  is  to  consider  sport  as 
part  of  a  broader  context  that  also  encompasses  the 
fields of education and health. We believe that dealing 
with  sport  in  a  socially  integrated  and  holistic  way 
promotes peace and development. 

That  view  stems  from  the  collective  awareness 
that  sport  alone  is  not  capable  of  solving  complex 
social  and  economic  challenges  and  that  it  cannot,  by 
itself,  ensure  peace  and  mutual  cooperation.  Bearing 
that  in  mind,  the  Brazilian  Government  has  adopted  a 
series  of  public  policies 
focused  on  promoting 
citizenship, education and health through sports. 

Thus,  several  governmental  initiatives  are  been 
launched  in  Brazil  with  a  focus  on  multi-stakeholder 
partnerships  with  representative  institutions  in  our 
society. For instance, we have started a programme that 
employs  over  12,000  inmates  from  State  prisons  to 
manufacture  sports  equipment,  whose  output  is  then 
used  in  other  educational  sports  programmes  carried 
out by the Brazilian Government. 
The so-called Second Half programme fosters, in 

turn,  sports  activities  for  children  and  youngsters 
2 

10-58990 


enrolled in public schools, and it already has more than 
1  million  participants.  Likewise,  pursuant  to  the 
recommendations  of  draft  resolution  A/65/L.4,  Brazil 
is currently developing international sports cooperation 
projects in partnership with other developing countries, 
namely,  Benin,  Botswana,  Kenya,  Palestine,  South 
Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. We remain open 
not only to increasing and expanding the scope of such 
programmes with other countries, but also to launching 
initiatives in cooperation with United Nations agencies 
and programmes. 

We feel that an exciting sports-centred decade has 
just  begun.  Over  the  next  six  years,  Brazil  will  host 
three  mega-sporting  events:  the  fifth  World  Military 
Games  in  2011,  the  World  Cup  of  the  Fédération 
internationale  de  football  association  in  2014,  and  the 
Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games  in  2016.  During  this 
decade, sports will be at the top of the Brazilian social, 
political and economic agenda. 

The  decision  to  host  those  mega-events  is  very 
much  consistent  with  the  priority  accorded  to  the 
promotion  of  sustainable  development  and  social 
inclusiveness. Hence, the Brazilian Government remains 
committed  to  fostering  and  adopting  public  policies, 
convinced  that  hosting  such  events  will  help  generate 
more  jobs  and  improve  our  national  infrastructure  and 
increase opportunities for Brazilian youth. 

Brazil  also  hopes  that  those  mega-events  will 
provide  an  opportunity  for  us  to  share  experience  in 
promoting  sports  as  a  means 
to  achieve  social 
inclusiveness  and  to  enhance  the  development  of 
partnerships  with  other  nations,  especially  developing 
countries.  

For  all  those  reasons,  it  is  with  the  utmost 
satisfaction  that  Brazil  renews  its  support  for  and 
sponsorship of the draft resolution on sport as a means 
to promote education, health, development and peace. 
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  At  the  outset,  on 

behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I wish to express 
our warm appreciation to Mr. Wilfried Lemke, Special 
Adviser to the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  and  his  Office 
for their record of commendable activities over the past 
year.  

My Government would also like to convey special 
gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
as  the  driving  force  behind  that  thrust,  for  his  report 
peace: 
entitled 
development 
and 
“Sport 
for 
10-58990 

A/65/PV.32
strengthening  the  partnerships”  (A/65/270).  The  report 
presents  a  comprehensive  overview  of  how  sport  has 
been  used  to  achieve  development  and  peace  at  the 
national,  regional  and  international  levels.  It  also 
highlights  the  innovative  use  of  sport  in  carrying 
forward  the  messages  of  the  United  Nations  at  major 
global  games  and  sporting  events,  such  as  during  the 
2010  World  Cup  of  the  Fédération  internationale  de 
football (FIFA) in South Africa. 

That  was  the  first  FIFA  championship  hosted  on 
the African  continent,  indeed  in  a  developing  country, 
which gave momentum to the political, socio-economic 
and  development  goals  of  the  region  through  the 
convening power of sports. In addition,  the Secretary-
General’s appeal to all Member States to adhere to the 
Olympic  Truce,  called  for  in  the  universally  accepted 
resolution 64/4, has been effective in upholding peace, 
security and human dignity, as demonstrated during the 
XXI  Olympic  Winter  Games  and  the  X  Paralympic 
Winter Games, in Vancouver, Canada, in February and 
March 2010. 

The  Action  Plan  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace  should  be  an  integral  component  of  all  national 
and 
international  policies  and  agendas  aimed  at 
promoting  peace  and  development.  My  country  would 
therefore  like  to  underscore  the  decisive  role  of  the 
Sport 
International 
in  providing  consultations  and 
Working  Group 
technical  assistance  to  Member  States  with  a  view  to 
making  sport  a  vehicle 
for  advancing  national 
measures  for  security,  human  rights,  equality  and  the 
betterment of humankind. 

Kazakhstan took special steps to align itself with 
the work of the United Nations by developing a large-
scale  programme  of  physical  training  and  sports 
throughout the country, accessible to all age groups and 
levels  of  the  population,  for  the  period  from  2007  to 
2011. The 2008 national legislation makes it obligatory 
for  the  Government  to  create  sports  facilities  and 
infrastructure,  provide  training  for  national  teams  and 
protect  the  legal  right  of  each  citizen  to  have  equal 
access to those possibilities.  

Kazakhstan  has  already  set  in  place  a  complex 
goal-oriented  agenda  and  programme  for  the  athletes 
competing  in  the  XXX  Olympic  Summer  Games  in 
London in 2012. Furthermore, Kazakhstan will host the 
seventh  Asian  Winter  Games,  Asiada  2011,  and 
intensive  projects  are  under  way  to  ensure  that  the 
stated  objectives  and  targets  are  reached  in  time.  The 
for  Development  and  Peace 
3 

A/65/PV.32 

programme  will  comprise  11  different  types  of  sport 
and 69 sets of tournaments, with an estimated total of 
10,000 accredited participants and approximately 1,400 
athletes.  

The  Ministry  of  Tourism  and  Sport  of  the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  together  with  leading  world 
architects,  has  developed  a  massive  project  for 
constructing  numerous  sports  stadiums,  arenas  and 
related  facilities  of  the  highest  standards  in  quality, 
meeting  international  norms  of  durability  and  safety. 
Currently,  some  80  per  cent  of  construction  work  is 
under  way,  and  it  is  anticipated  that  all  facilities  in 
Astana  will  be  completed  by  25  October  2010  and  in 
Almaty by the end of this year. Asiada 2011 will be the 
first  Winter  Games  of 
the  continent,  and  my 
Government  is  striving  to  make  them  a  memorable 
event for the region. The preliminarily expenditure for 
constructing  facilities  and  for  other  preparations  is  to 
the tune of $1 billion. 

Kazakhstan strictly complies with the regulations 
of  the  International  Convention  against  Doping  in 
Sport  and  has  ratified  it.  We  would  especially  like  to 
stress the effectiveness of the use of sport as a tool for 
development  and  peace,  as  demonstrated  during  the 
XXI Olympic Winter Games in Vancouver. Kazakhstan 
will continue to do its utmost towards that objective in 
its  national  and  regional  activities  and  also  at  the 
international level. 

Inspired  by  the  ideals  of  the  Paralympic  Games, 
Kazakhstan,  like  all  other  countries,  pays  increasing 
attention  to  sports  for  the  personal  development  and 
rehabilitation  of  persons  with  disabilities  by  creating 
the  optimal  conditions  for  their  participation.  I  am 
pleased  to  report  that  Kazakhstan  will  soon  ratify  the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities 
and its Optional Protocol. 

for 
enhancing  excellence  in  professional  and  competitive 
sports  and,  at  the  same  time,  developing  leisure 
sporting activities for the wider community with varied 
interests. The focus is also on using sport for physical 
fitness and inculcating the values of a healthy lifestyle 
in  the  population.  Legislation  has  been  adopted  to 
support the effective creation and functioning of sport-
oriented  non-governmental  organizations  to  partner 
with  the  Government  to  promote  education,  physical 
and mental health and well-being. 
also  undertakes  measures 
Kazakhstan 
forms  and 
the  Secretary-General, 

A  very  significant  advantage  of  sport  is  its 
effectiveness in inspiring youth with the positive ideals 
of national and community service, as well as promoting 
the  values  of  equity,  tolerance,  respect  for  rules,  fair 
play,  hard  work,  healthy  competition  and  good 
character. Kazakhstan focuses on all those elements. 

My  delegation  considers  that  the  accelerated 
dynamism and outreach seen in United Nations efforts 
to integrate sport for development and peace, under the 
leadership  of 
are  most 
encouraging. We call for the further engagement of all 
stakeholders  —  Governments, 
parliamentarians, 
religious leaders, academia, the business sector, media, 
civil  society  and  especially  youth  groups  —  to  work 
for  this  new  vision  of  sport.  Through  collective 
multilateral  action,  sport  can  become  one  of  the  most 
powerful  means  to  accelerate  the  achievement  of 
broader  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

Sport  is  only  a  means,  yet  an  important  one,  to 
strengthen  our  collective  multilateral  enterprise  in 
combating climate change, drugs and illicit trafficking 
in  all 
in  promoting  environmental 
conservation  and  sustainable  development,  human 
rights and gender equality, as well as interreligious and 
cultural  dialogue,  to  mention  a  few  issues,  through 
raising  awareness  and  mobilizing  action  on  them.  We 
need  to  fully  seize  this  moment  to  utilize  sport  in 
propelling action to support the United Nations, as well 
as  the  individual  efforts  of  Member  States  for  their 
agendas of development and peace.  
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  San  Francisco  Charter  established  the  bases  of  a 
new  system  of  international  relations,  conceived  to 
avoid repetition of the terrible consequences of the two 
world wars of the twentieth century. The main purpose, 
inscribed  in  the  first  paragraph  of  the  Charter,  is  to 
save  succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war 
and  to  create  a  democratic  and  equitable  international 
order  based  on  respect  for  the  dignity  of  all  human 
beings equally. 

More  than  six  decades  after  the  creation  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  vast  majority  of  the  world  suffers 
the  consequences  of 
the  profoundly  unjust  and 
unsustainable  prevailing  international  order.  We  are 
witness  to  a  sad  economic  and  social  panorama, 
characterized by the combination of the economic and 
financial  crisis,  the  food  and  energy  crisis  and  the 
4 

10-58990 
a 
Sport 
significant 
constitutes 


negative  impact  of  climate  change,  which  endangers 
the human species. 

Now more than ever, it is  our duty to promote  a 
peaceful  international  environment  through  solidarity, 
cooperation and multilateralism. 

aspect  of 
development at both the national and the international 
levels.  Sport  strengthens  solidarity  and  friendship 
among  peoples  as  essential  elements  in  the  promotion 
of peace, development and cooperation among nations. 

Since  the  triumph  of  the  Cuban  revolution  in 
1959,  sport  in  our  country  has  not  been  an  exclusive 
pastime  and  became  a  right  for  all  our  people.  As  a 
result,  Cuba  has  achieved  significant  success 
in 
regional and international sport competitions. 

We  have  fostered  a  pedagogical  system  that 
includes  physical  education  as  an  integral  part  of  all 
stages of training the human being. We work to provide 
sport  training  for  our  children  from  an  early  age. 
Likewise,  we  oppose  athletic  activities  that  have 
money  as  their  only  reward.  We  also  denounce  the 
talent  drain  in  sports,  which  developing  countries  are 
victims of. Cuba has suffered the consequences of that 
unacceptable practice. 

For years, the Cuban sports movement, led by the 
Cuban  Olympic  Committee  and  the  National  Institute 
of  Sports,  Physical  Education  and  Recreation  has 
selflessly  collaborated  with  various  countries  of  the 
South.  We  have  sent  to  those  countries  technicians, 
professors and trainers who in a modest way teach new 
sport training methods, thus contributing to improving 
sport  results  and  people’s  participation  in  sport  and 
developing  bonds  of  brotherhood  and  friendship 
between peoples. 

Likewise,  we  have  strengthened  international 
cooperation by making our Institute of Sports Medicine 
and  the  National  Anti-doping  Laboratory  available  to 
other countries, with the purpose of contributing to the 
fight  against  the  scourge  of  drugs,  which  corrupt 
athletes and impede fair play. 
Cuba created the International School of Physical 

training 
Education 
professionals from different countries. Its central value 
is solidarity. 

the  Olympic  Games,  which  are  a 
The  countries  of  the  South  also  deserve  to  host 
for 
dedicated 
forum 
and 
Sport, 
to 
A/65/PV.32
justice,  non-violence  and 
brotherhood and solidarity. We are certain that the 2016 
Olympics  Games,  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Brazil,  will  be  a 
success for the entire South. 

If  we  promote  international  solidarity,  including 
through the Olympic ideal, all the weapons created by 
this  civilization  will  be  rendered  superfluous.  Let  us 
promote  and  sow  peace  and  development  through 
sport, and we will have a better world. 
Mr. Al Mujaini (Oman) (spoke in Arabic): Allow 

me at the outset, Mr. President, to congratulate you on 
your assumption of the presidency  of the Assembly  at 
its sixty-fifth session. I wish you every success in your 
task so that we can achieve our desired objectives.  

Sport  is  an  important  means  of  strengthening 
social  cohesion  and  the  ideals  of  peace,  brotherhood, 
solidarity, 
tolerance.  It 
facilitates  the  resolution  of  problems  in  post-crisis 
times.  Sport  can  bring  people  together  and  serve  as  a 
forum for development, peace and social development. 
It  is  a  recognized  means  of  reinforcing  peace  among 
various  countries  of  the  world.  It  transcends  borders 
and social classes and plays an important role in social 
integration and economic development in the political, 
cultural and geographical fields. 

The participation of youth in sport is an important 
element  for  achieving  peace  and  development  in  the 
world,  not  to  mention  its  cultural  and  intellectual 
contributions to different issues. It enables youth to be 
uniquely  creative  in  developing  their  societies.  In 
reinforcing 
in  sport,  we  must 
provide youth with the necessary means and resources 
for them to  achieve their  vision of  and  aspiration to  a 
prosperous  homeland.  That  will  help  them  build  their 
capacities  and  skills  so  that  they  can  be  positively 
integrated  in  society  and  achieve  the  objectives  of 
peace  and  development  and  so  that  they  can  spread 
their  vision  and  goals  and  increase  their  chances  of 
creative participation within their societies.  
in 

recognized 
resolutions 58/5, 59/10, 60/9 and in its proclamation of 
2005  as  the  International  Year  for  Sport  and  Physical 
Education,  seeking  to  encourage  sport  as  a  means  of 
promoting  education,  health,  development  and  peace. 
Also,  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  (resolution 
60/1)  states 
foster  peace  and 
development.  
The  General  Assembly 
their  participation 
that  sport  could 
this 
10-58990 

5 
to 
in 

the 
tasks 
in  order 
The  Government  of  my  country,  under 
A/65/PV.32 


Sport  and  physical  education  could  provide 
opportunities for solidarity and cooperation that would 
foster  tolerance  and  a  culture  of  peace  and  equality 
between  genders.  It  can  also  provide  for  the  needs  of 
disabled persons, achieve dialogue among civilizations 
and foster social cohesion and concord.  

We  need  a  joint  framework  within  the  United 
Nations  to  encourage  sport  as  a  means  to  reinforce 
education, health, development and peace. To that end, 
we  must  expand  the  mandate  of  the  Group  of  Friends 
of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  along  with  the 
United Nations communications team that would set up 
a  practical  approach,  strategies,  policies  and  common 
programmes 
increase  awareness  and 
cooperative action within the United Nations and with 
other partners from outside the Organization.  

the 
sponsorship  of  His  Excellency  the  Sultan  of  Oman, 
provides  to  Omani  citizens  every  means  to  carry  out 
their 
fields  of  development  and 
construction,  especially  since  the  young  of  both  sexes 
constitute  the  largest  percentage  of  our  society.  In 
2004, we established a Ministry of Sport that prepares 
youth  in  the  field  of  sport  and  that  cooperates  with 
other  Government  bodies  all  over  the  country.  That 
enhances sport in Oman in many domains and helps to 
utilize  the  potential  of  youth  and  their  ability  to 
communicate with other friendly and sisterly countries. 

Our Ministry, on the basis of that noble objective, 
has a vision of establishing a sports system that ensures 
optimal use of technical, human and material resources 
in the field of competitive sport and sport for all. The 
Ministry  also  seeks  to  send  a  clear  message  that 
promises  quality  sport  services  and  facilities  through 
the  activation  of  good  organization,  communications, 
marketing  and  building  partnerships  with  relevant 
institutions. 

As we seek to strengthen relations among various 
peoples, we will host the second Asian Beach Games in 
December  2010,  to  be  sponsored  by  the  Olympic 
Council  of Asia.  It  will  include  many  sports  activities 
with a large number of Asian countries participating in 
various capacities. 
Ms. Fulp (United States of America): The United 

States  delegation  supports  promoting  the  use  of  sport 
to  advance  peace  and  development.  My  delegation 
appreciates  the  potential  of  sport  to  contribute  to  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
is  dedicated 
the  Department  of  State.  It 
Sport  can  foster  development  and  peace,  can  build  an 
atmosphere  of  tolerance  and  understanding,  and  can 
serve  as  a  tool  for  education.  Well-planned  sporting 
programmes  promote  cooperation,  solidarity,  social 
inclusion and health among all of those engaged. 

Throughout history, sport has played an important 
role  in  the  social,  political  and  economic  lives  of 
peoples and nations. Sport is a shared cultural passion 
that  can  bring  people  together  across  the  divisions  of 
region, race and religion. One of the great things about 
sport  is  that  it  reminds  us  of  what  humanity  has  in 
common — not what may drive us apart. 

The United States recognizes the value of sport in 
that way and has created an office called SportsUnited 
within  the  Bureau  of  Educational  and  Cultural Affairs 
at 
to 
international  sport  programming  designed  to  work  at 
the grass-roots level. Its purpose it to aid foreign youth 
in  discovering  how  success 
in  athletics  can  be 
translated  into  the  development  of  life  skills  and 
achievement  in  the  classroom.  SportsUnited  provides 
for those foreign youth exposure to American life and 
culture.  It  also  provides  American  youth  interacting 
with  them  the  opportunity  to  learn  about  foreign 
cultures  and  the  challenges  young  people  from  other 
countries face today. 

Since  2002,  the  Department  of  State  has  funded 
and  organized  sports  programmes  in  more  than  80 
countries 
the  world.  Those 
programmes  have  featured  activities  in  over  25  sports 
and  areas  such  as  disability  sports,  managing  sports 
centres, recreational sports and sports management. 

There  is  so  much  from  the  world  of  sport  to 
imagine  and  apply  towards  improving  lives  together, 
whether  across  oceans,  in  neighbourhoods  or  in  our 
homes.  For  example,  First  Lady  Michelle  Obama’s 
2010  “Let’s  Move!”  campaign  against  childhood 
obesity  is  making  a  difference  in  the  lives  of  children 
and families.  It encourages physical  activity for youth 
and  is  improving  the  quality  and  availability  of 
physical  education  in  schools.  And  we  are  proud  to 
note  that  “Let’s  Move!”  is  based  on  an  exemplary 
partnership between the public and private sectors that 
has underpinned its success. 

Sport  has  the  power  to  bring  us  together  and  to 
build  stronger  societies.  One  critically  important  way 
that  our  societies  improve  is  through  integrating 
regions  of 
in  all 
6 

10-58990 


women  and  girls  fully,  and  sport  has  proven  powerful 
in that regard. 

Recently, United States Permanent Representative 
Susan  Rice  was  recognized  by  the  Women’s  National 
Basketball  Association  with  its  Inspiration  Award. 
Having  been  an  athlete  in  school,  she  reminded  the 
gathering: 

“Our daughters need role models who can inspire 
them  to  play  to  the  best  of  their  abilities,  to 
compete to the limits of their strength, and to win 
on  their  own  terms  …  Sports  are  just  simply  too 
important to be left to the boys. Determination and 
drive  are  habits  girls  must  learn  early  on  and  use 
for a lifetime. These really are the fundamentals — 
the  skills  I  learned  on  the  court  —  long  before  I 
ever sat at a negotiating table.” 

Another way that sport contributes to our society 
is  its  inherent  lesson  of  fair  play.  Perhaps  the  biggest 
threat  to  that  is  the  destructive  practice  of  doping  in 
sport. I am pleased to note, in that regard, that in 2008 
the  United  States  signed  an  instrument  of  ratification 
on  the  International  Convention  against  Doping  in 
Sport,  at  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific, 
and  Cultural  Organization. 
ratification 
demonstrated  our  long-standing  commitment  to  the 
development  of  international  anti-doping  controls  and 
our  promise  to  apply  and  facilitate  the  application  of 
appropriate  anti-doping  controls  during  competitions 
held in the United States. 

My  delegation  appreciates  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  today’s  debate  (A/65/270).  It 
updates  us  usefully  on  progress  regarding  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace,  International Working  Group 
policy recommendations, the functioning of the United 
Nations  Office  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace, 
the  Trust  Fund  for  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace, 
and  the  Action  Plan  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace. 
Furthermore, the United States is pleased to offer 

its  support  for  today’s  draft  resolution,  “Sport  as  a 
means  to  promote  education,  health,  development  and 
peace”  (A/65/L.4),  under  agenda  item  11,  “Sport  for 
peace and development”. 

Athletes  and  sports  accomplishments  provide 
powerful examples in our globalized society, more and 
more each year. As I have described, the United States 
has  made  sport  part  of  its  global  outreach  efforts  for 
That 
A/65/PV.32
on 
to 
this 
thank  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke, 
the  report  of 
subject 
decades. That commitment goes all the way to the top. 
President  Obama  recently 
invited  young  Russian 
basketball players — boys and girls — to Washington 
on a SportsUnited sports visitor programme. He invited 
them to the White House court to shoot some hoops. 

Diplomacy  these  days  is  not  only  about  official 
meetings in conference rooms; it is also about people-
to-people exchanges that break down barriers and build 
up  goodwill.  Sport  truly  is  a  global  language.  Sport 
teaches  us  how  to  work  in  teams.  Sport  builds 
discipline  and  confidence.  Sport  builds  upon  those 
values  and  strengths  in  our  work  here  at  the  United 
Nations,  promoting  development  and  peace  through 
sport. 
Mr.  Stone  (Australia): Australia  is  committed  to 

the principles of sport for  development  and peace and 
to  the  role  the  United  Nations  can  play  in  furthering 
the 
those  principles.  We  welcome 
Secretary-General 
(A/65/270) 
introduced  this  morning  and  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity 
the 
Secretary-General’s  Special  Adviser  on  Sport  for 
Development and Peace, for his efforts. 

thank  Tunisia  for 
introducing  the  draft  resolution  (A/65/L.4)  before  us 
today, which Australia is pleased to co-sponsor. 
We  would  also  like  to  thank  Switzerland,  and  in 

particular  Ambassador  Peter  Maurer,  for  his  role  as 
co-Chair, along with Ambassador Jomaa of Tunisia, of 
the Group of Friends over recent years. We appreciate 
Monaco’s  taking  over  the  co-chairship  of  the  Group, 
and  we  look  forward  to  working  with  Ambassadors 
Picco and Jomaa in strengthening the role of the Group 
of Friends. 

A  growing  body  of  research  on  sport  for 
development provides strong empirical evidence of the 
direct  role  that  sport,  as  a  component  of  international 
development  programmes,  plays  in  advancing  human 
rights,  social  inclusion  and  community  development. 
Apart  from  physical  fitness  and  good  health,  sport 
contributes  to  the  development  of  other  life  skills  and 
self-esteem, 
attributes, 
teamwork, 
interaction, 
interpersonal  communication,  tolerance  and  conflict 
resolution.  Sport  offers  a  way  to  improve  the  lives  of 
the most marginalized and excluded children, including 
girls,  children  from  poor  communities,  out-of-school 
and working children, and people with disabilities. 
including 
cooperation, 
confidence, 
social 
We  would  also 
like 
to 
10-58990 

7 
and 
coaches 
in  Malawi, 
through  sport 
training  players, 
A/65/PV.32 

Because of that, sport remains an integral tool in 

Australia’s  development  cooperation.  Through 
the 
Australian  Sports  Outreach  Programme,  funding  is 
provided  in  more  than  40  countries  for  sport-for-
development  programmes  at  the  grass-roots  level. 
Working  with 
local  authorities  and  communities, 
Australia is able to increase the capacity of partners to 
plan  and  conduct  quality  sport-based  activities  that 
contribute to addressing locally identified development 
priorities. 

In  2010,  the  sport-for-development  programmes 
include  a  children’s 
life-saving  education 
programme in Viet Nam, increasing services to persons 
with  disabilities 
the 
establishment  of  youth  clubs  in  post-conflict  areas  of 
Sri  Lanka,  a  programme  called  Kicking  AIDS  Out, 
which  uses  sports  analogies  and  games  to  convey 
messages about HIV and AIDS to young people in the 
Caribbean, 
and 
administrators  to  promote  active  sports  participation 
among rural women in Fiji. 
Sport  in  Australia  has  always  helped  build  the 

social  cohesion 
that  binds  families,  communities, 
regions  and  the  nation.  It  brings  together  people  of 
different nationalities, religions and cultures and helps 
promote tolerance and understanding. 
Mr. Aisi  (Papua  New  Guinea):  Let  me  begin  by 

applauding the numerous delegations, especially that of 
Tunisia, 
to  promote  human 
development  through  sport  and  physical  education 
through  the  draft  resolution  that  is  before  us  today 
(A/65/L.4). 

Sport and physical education play an increasingly 
important  global  role  in  maintaining  national  unity, 
health and cultural ties. The culture of sport provides a 
platform  for  social  cohesion,  value  formation  and 
national  spirit.  It  is  and  can  continue  to  be  a  way  for 
different  cultures  to  reach  common  ground,  initiate 
dialogue and form relations. 

Sport  does  bring  individuals  and  communities 
together. For instance, the Olympic Games, apart from 
showing  off  athletes’  incredible  sporting  abilities, 
contribute  to  intercultural  ties  that  help  bridge  ethnic 
and  cultural  divides.  Next  year,  the  South  Pacific 
Games will again bring together the best athletes of the 
Pacific islands to compete  and participate in the spirit 
of sport. I should add here that we have just witnessed 
the  Commonwealth 
the  successful  completion  of 
that  have  helped 
surf 

local  development,  and 
Games  in  New  Delhi.  I  congratulate  the  Indian 
Government  and  people  on  their  successful  hosting  of 
the  event.  Such  sporting  events  provide  a  stage  to 
promote healthy forms of nationalism, spirit and unity 
among countries. 

Promoting  physical  education  is  also  a  way  to 
develop  children’s  talents  and  abilities  to  their  fullest 
potential.  There  is  a  growing  risk  of  deteriorating 
physical  education  programmes  within  countries.  The 
shrinking  number  of  sports  and  physical  education 
programmes  limits  the  positive  impact  that  sports  can 
have  in  helping  promote  and  maintain  a  child’s 
physical  and  mental  well-being.  Physical  education 
programmes within schools are essential and have been 
proven to enhance academic performance. Sports are a 
way  for  young  individuals  to  express  themselves  as 
well as to play within a social community. They are a 
way  to  reduce  disease,  boost  physical  health  and 
improve 
they  provide 
alternatives  to  harmful  activities  such  as  drug  abuse 
and crime. 

We are aware of the dangers faced by sportsmen 
and  sportswomen,  as  well  as  by  young  athletes,  who 
encounter  violence,  doping,  overtraining,  deprivation 
and other threats. Such dangers emphasize the need to 
develop  more  effective  ways  to  fight  against  doping 
and destructive processes around our young athletes. 

We emphasize the importance of the international 
community in helping to provide funding and resources 
for  sports-related  institutions  so  that  such  institutions 
can  effectively  construct  programmes  that  can  help 
make  sport  and  physical  education  available 
to 
everyone.  The  international  community  must  work 
together  to  provide  a  code  of  good  practices  to 
continue  to  combat  the  dangers  that  young  athletes 
face. 

By  collectively  working  towards  contributing  to 
sport  and  physical  education,  we  can  help  strengthen 
sport  infrastructures  for  use  as  a  tool  for  health, 
education,  and  social  and  cultural  development.  We 
call 
and 
upon 
international 
to  continue  helping 
developing  countries,  least-developed  countries  and 
small  island  developing  States  to  help  build  sport  and 
physical  education. And  here  let  me  acknowledge  the 
presence  of  the  representative  of  the  International 
Olympic Committee, who will speak later on. 
the 
sports  bodies 
international 
community 
8 

10-58990 



Sport  and  physical  education  may  be  used  as  a 
tool  to  further  international  goals,  including  those  in 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Sports  provide  a 
place  to  develop  positive  skills  such  as  discipline, 
confidence  and  respect.  We  encourage  the  United 
Nations  and  participating  members  to  find  new  and 
innovative  ways  to  utilize  sports  as  a  source  of 
communication  and  a  way  to  reduce  tension  and 
generate dialogue. 

Lastly,  we  call  on  the  international  community, 
including  international  sports  bodies  and  sport-related 
organizations,  to  partner  in  the  development  of  sport 
and  physical  education  programmes.  In  doing  so,  we 
are  also  investing  in  global  conflict-prevention  and 
peacebuilding efforts. 
Mr.  Shanta  Kumar  (India):  I  am  honoured  and 

privileged to participate in today’s discussion on sport 
for peace and development. Let me begin by thanking 
the Secretary-General for his report on the item under 
discussion (A/65/270).  

Sports  are  an  important  element  in  building 
character. They not only teach people to be just and fair 
but also prepare them to face challenges in life. Sports, 
being  a  most  popular  activity  for  young  people,  can 
help  to  motivate  young  people,  build  teams,  develop 
leadership,  promote  volunteering  and  educate,  apart 
from ensuring fitness and healthy lifestyles. Sports also 
seek to promote peace, equality and  friendship among 
all  people  and  nations.  In  fact,  it  is  hard  to  imagine  a 
more powerful medium than sports to inspire and bring 
people together for a common purpose. 

Swami  Vivekananda,  the  great  philosopher  from 
India, when approached by a young man to explain the 
meaning  of  the  Bhagavad  Gita,  is  reported  to  have 
looked at his physique and advised him first to go play 
football. “Develop your body and mind”, Swamiji told 
the young man, “and then you will be better fit to study 
and  understand  the  Gita”.  Swamiji  was  clear  that  a 
healthy body and mind were fundamental in our quest 
for peace and sports — indeed, they play a critical role 
towards that end. 
The  intrinsic  linkage  between  sports  and  games 

the  human  quest 
for  excellence  has  been 
and 
recognized  ever  since 
inception  of  human 
the 
civilization.  It  reached  its  epitome  in  Ancient  Greek 
civilization,  which  is  the  progenitor  of  the  Olympic 
movement. 
A/65/PV.32
sports 
and 
providing  modern 

Sports, games and physical fitness are an integral 
component  of  India’s  civilization,  as  is  evident  from 
the existence of the highly evolved system of yoga and 
a  vast  range  of  highly  developed  indigenous  games, 
including  martial  arts.  After  our  independence,  the 
integration  of  physical  education  and  sports  with 
formal education was emphasized in the first five-year 
plan  itself.  Our  efforts  have  been  focused  on  broad-
basing 
sports 
infrastructure. India adopted a national sports policy in 
2001.  We  have  also  encouraged  the  autonomous 
functioning  of  national  sports  federations  and  are 
happy  to  see  that  today  all  sections  of  our  society, 
including  the  media  and  the  business  sector,  are 
actively  involving  themselves  in  the  promotion  of 
sports. 

Sports  are  also  a  most  effective  tool  to  help 
achieve development objectives in the areas of health, 
education, HIV/AIDS prevention,  child  protection  and 
child  development.  They  help  generate  public 
awareness  and  inspire  broad,  inclusive  and  committed 
action in support of developmental agendas. 

I  am  glad  that  there  is  substantial  recognition  of 
the  value  of  sports  to  help  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  that  many  sports  personalities 
have  associated  themselves  with  the  United  Nations  in 
creating public awareness and understanding of various 
issues that affect youth and society. In this context, I am 
of  course  particularly  happy  that  our  national  cricket 
icon Sachin Tendulkar is a Goodwill Ambassador for the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  and  that  our 
former  tennis  champion  Vijay  Amritraj  was  a  United 
Nations Messenger of Peace in 2001. 

the  nineteenth 
Commonwealth  Games,  which  have  just  concluded  in 
Delhi. 
featured 
participation  from  71  countries  across  the  world  and 
more  than  7,000  athletes,  who  celebrated  sporting 
excellence,  human  skill  and  endurance  and,  above  all, 
courage and character. The Games upheld and renewed 
the  essential  spirit  of  peace,  equality  and  friendship 
among all peoples and nations. 

congratulate 
all 
that 
successfully  organized 
large  global  and  regional 
sporting  events  during  the  past  year.  We  also  wish 
every success to all those countries that will be holding 
sporting  events  in  the  coming  months  and  years.  We 
believe that such mega-sporting events will strengthen 
two-week  mega-event 
India  was  honoured 
to  host 
those 
countries 
That 
We 
10-58990 

9 

A/65/PV.32 

the  cherished  ties  of  goodwill  and  understanding  that 
unite us as one family. 
Ms.  Rulumeni  (South  Africa):  It  is  an  honour 

and  privilege  for  South  Africa  to  participate  in  this 
important  debate  on  sport  for  development  and  peace. 
We thank the Secretary-General for his latest report on 
this issue, entitled, “Sport for development and peace: 
strengthening the partnerships” (A/65/270).  

This  debate  comes  just  a  few  months  after  the 
2010  Fédération  internationale  de  football  (FIFA) 
World  Cup,  hosted  for  the  first  time  on  African  soil. 
Indeed,  South Africa  prides  itself  on  having  hosted  a 
spectacular  and  memorable  event  that  has  once  again 
underscored  Africa’s  renewal.  South  Africa  was  the 
stage  and  Africa  the  theatre  that  further  enhanced 
Africa’s  social  cohesion.  It  was  in  reality  an  African 
World Cup. 

In South Africa sport played a crucial role in the 
demise of the apartheid system and in the creation of a 
new  society  after  1994.  The  realization  that  sport  can 
be  used  as  a  tool  for  reconstruction  and  development 
has  been  occasioned  by  the  spirit  of  unity  that 
prevailed during such events as the Rugby World Cup, 
the  African  Nations  Cup,  the  Cricket  World  Cup  and 
the  recent  Soccer  World  Cup.  At  the  centre  of  South 
Africa’s  sport-related  reconstruction  and  development 
initiatives was our icon, Nelson Mandela. At this point 
I am reminded of his words when he said, 

“Sport  has  the  power  to  change  the  world,  the 
power  to  inspire,  the  power  to  unite  people  in  a 
way  that  little  else  can.  Sport  can  create  hope 
where there was once despair. It is an instrument 
for 
than 
Governments.  It  breaks  down  racial  barriers.  It 
laughs in the face of all kinds of discrimination.” 

As declared in the 2005 World Summit Outcome 
(resolution 60/1), sport has the potential to foster peace 
and  development  as  well  as  to  contribute  to  an 
atmosphere  of  tolerance  and  understanding.  Sport  has 
been  recognized  as  a  powerful  tool  in  contributing  to 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). 
the 
in  our  collective  efforts, 
prioritization  of  Africa 
through  sport  and  other  means,  to  achieve  these 
important and achievable goals. 

Before the beginning of the World Cup, President 
Jacob  Zuma  initiated  the  One  Goal  campaign,  with  a 
regard,  we  advocate 
even  more 
powerful 
peace, 
that 
for 
In 
In 
that 
The 
64/5, 
resolution 
the  role  of  sport 
view to advancing efforts towards achieving education 
for all, which is the objective of MDG 2. South Africa 
views  sport  as  an  important  part  of  education.  This 
campaign  is  part  of  a  range  of  national  initiatives 
towards achieving universal access to education.  

also 
the  Assembly 
acknowledged the role played by sport in Africa as an 
instrument for the promotion of unity, solidarity, peace 
and  reconciliation,  and 
the  preventive  campaigns 
against  scourges,  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  affecting  the 
youth  of  the  continent.  Although  sport  alone  cannot 
prevent  conflict  or  build  peace,  it  can  contribute  to 
broad  and more comprehensive efforts in a number of 
important ways. 

the  African  Union  declared 
fact 
“Building  and  sustaining  peace  through  sport”  as  the 
this  year’s  Africa  Day  was  a  clear 
theme  for 
in  peace  and 
recognition  of 
development.  Coincidentally, 
the  African  Union 
declared  2010  the  Year  of  Peace  and  Security.  As  an 
active  stakeholder  in  Africa’s  peacebuilding  efforts, 
South Africa  encourages  the  use  of  sport  as  a  tool  to 
foster peace and advance Africa’s development agenda. 

Since  1994,  our  Government  has  put  in  place  a 
range  of  progressive  legislation  in  its  pursuit  to 
empower  women  in  sports.  This  has  been  inspired  by 
the recognition that women have a crucial role to play 
in all aspects of societal development, including sport. 
Women’s  empowerment  has  been  manifested  by  the 
increasing number of women in leadership positions in 
the  area  of  sport.  Equally  important,  we  have  enacted 
legislation to protect and advance the empowerment of 
persons with disabilities, thus providing them with the 
opportunity  to  participate  in  sport  with  minimal  or  no 
hindrance.  As  a  direct  response  to  the  Secretary-
General’s  call  in  his  report  contained  in  document 
A/61/373,  South  Africa 
in 
legislative  processes  to  infuse  sport  for  development 
and peace into national legislation. 

South Africa welcomes the Action Plan on Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace.  Accordingly,  we  will 
implement the Action Plan at the national level in line 
with internationally agreed standards. Our Government 
reiterates  the  need  for  collaboration  between  national 
and 
the  United 
Nations system, to advance the objectives of the Action 
Plan.  We  also  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  Sport  for 
international  partners, 
is  currently 
including 
involved 
10 

10-58990 


Development  and  Peace  International  Working  Group 
and look forward to its report. 

We  also  look  forward  to  the  summary  report  of 
the  activities  around  the  2010  FIFA World  Cup,  to  be 
published  later  this  year.  South  Africa  supports  the 
Assembly’s  adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Sport  as  a  means  to  promote  education,  health, 
development  and  peace”  (A/65/L.4),  which  we  will 
also sponsor. 

In conclusion, South Africa once again expresses 
its  gratitude  to  the  United  Nations,  especially  the 
Office of Sport for Development and Peace, and to the 
wider  international  community  for  all  of  the  support 
offered to us during the World Cup. We hope that this 
event  has  permanently  changed  the  perceptions  of 
many about Africa. 
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  In  the 

days just after the convening of the summit Meeting on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  my 
delegation  can  only  welcome  the  recognition  that 
Member  States  have  given  to  sports.  Indeed,  by 
adopting  the  final  document  (resolution  65/1),  the 
heads  of  State  and  Government  confirmed 
the 
relevance of sport as a tool for education, development 
and  peace  that  can  promote  cooperation,  solidarity, 
tolerance, understanding, social inclusion and health at 
the local, national and international levels. 

the 
round table on the issue of sport as a development tool, 
organized  on  the  sidelines  of  the  summit,  is  further 
evidence  of  his  commitment  to  promote  the  power  of 
sport.  This  power  has  already  helped  to  raise  public 
awareness of the problems affecting us all today, such 
as HIV/AIDS, sexually communicable diseases, hunger 
and all forms of violence. The power of sport also lies 
in  its  ability  to  bring  communities  closer  and  to 
promote  essential  values  such  as  fair  play  and 
discipline. 
These  important  results  are  the  culmination,  on 

the  one  hand,  of  the  resolute  action  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  Special  Adviser  on  Sport  for  Development 
and  Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke,  whom  we  thank  for 
having  implemented  the  Action  Plan  set  out  by  the 
General  Assembly.  On 
these 
achievements  bear  witness  to  our  ability  to  work 
together and to the importance of partnerships.  
The  Secretary-General’s  participation 
the  other  hand, 
in 
A/65/PV.32
for  Development 

While  the  contribution  of  sport  and  physical 
activities to improving health no longer requires proof, 
its impact on overall development should be taken into 
account  to  inform  our  policies.  In  the  context  of  this 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  marked  by  the 
strengthening  of  the  role  of  women  within  the  United 
Nations,  sport  has  more  than  ever  demonstrated  its 
ability  to  promote  women’s  empowerment.  We  very 
much  hope  that  the  victory  of  Ms.  Dalma  Rushdi 
Malhas, the first Saudi athlete to take part in the Youth 
Olympic Games and whose performance we commend, 
will  inspire  other  young  women  to  fully  achieve  their 
potential. 

and  Peace 
International  Working  Group,  now  acting  under  the 
stewardship  of  the  Special Adviser,  has  developed  the 
issue  of  sport  within 
the  context  of  child  and 
adolescent  development  and  has  pinpointed  strategic 
priority areas, which we fully endorse.  

The  initiative  “Make  Your  Peace”,  born  at  the 
XXI  Winter  Olympic  Games  and  the  X  Paralympic 
Winter  Games  in  Canada,  brought  the  values  of 
Olympism  into  homes,  schools  and  workplaces.  The 
implementation  of 
the 
Paralympic  Games  strengthened  recognition  of  the 
rights  of  people  with  disabilities  and  contributed  to 
social cohesion. 

As  my  colleague  from  South  Africa  has  just 
pointed  out,  the  historic  holding  of  the  Fédération 
internationale de football World Cup in South Africa in 
June  served  to  pay  tribute  to  Africa.  It  was  also  an 
opportunity  to  highlight  very  important  issues  such  as 
the fight against human trafficking, racism, HIV/AIDS 
and  the  promotion  of  sustainable  development.  In 
particular, it was an opportunity to highlight the United 
Nations  Development 
Sustainable 
Transport  Project,  which  is  being  carried  out  in 
conjunction  with  the  Global  Environment  Facility,  as 
well as the South African campaign to green the World 
Cup. 

But as the Special Adviser has often stressed, the 
organization of global events is not the only framework 
in  which  we  should  illustrate  the  effectiveness  and 
benefits of sporting activities. He has also been able to 
convince  us  of  the  impact  of  simple  initiatives  at  the 
grass-roots level, such as the construction of a football 
field  for  use  by  the  local  population  of  Bouaké,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  which  made  it  possible  for  them  to  better 
the  Olympic  Truce  at 
The  Sport 
Programme 
10-58990 

11 

respect 
to 
the  many 
their  daily 
lives  —  and 
The  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/65/270) 
A/65/PV.32 

accept the United Nations operation in that country and 
involved  them  and  the  young  people  in  the  peaceful 
development of their country. 

During  the  Fédération  internationale  de  football 
association  World  Cup,  his  Most  Serene  Highness 
Prince Albert II and Mr. Lemke, along with the Prime 
Minister  of  Western  Cape  Province  Helen  Zille  and 
Capetown Mayor Dan Plato, inaugurated a community 
centre  devoted  to  development  in  the  municipality  of 
Gugulethu  that  seeks  to  integrate  disadvantaged  youth 
in sporting activities. That programme should serve as 
a model to be developed in other African cities. 

This  unifying  characteristic  of  sport  was  also 
seen in Haiti — where sport has afforded thousands of 
young  people  an  opportunity  to  escape  the  difficulties 
of 
is  part  of  overall 
reconstruction efforts on behalf of populations stricken 
by natural disasters. 
is 

eloquent  with 
initiatives 
undertaken  by  Member  States  and  about  the  different 
fields  in  which  sport  may  have  an  impact,  from  road 
safety  to  birth  registration.  For  example,  a  joint 
programme  between  UNICEF,  the  United  Nations 
Operation 
the  International 
Olympic Committee uses football to raise awareness of 
the  importance  of  obtaining  civil  registration.  The 
report  also  highlights 
importance  of 
partnerships  involving  Governments,  the  world  of 
sports,  civil  society  and  regional  cooperation  efforts. 
The  contribution  of 
International  Olympic 
Committee to our work during this session was a clear 
example of this. 

this 
common  endeavour,  in  keeping  with  the  unreserved 
commitment  of  His  Most  Serene  Highness  Prince 
Albert  II,  the  recipient  last  month  of  the  United 
Nations  prize  for  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
in  recognition  of  his  involvement  in  support  of  peace 
through sport. 

My  delegation,  as  co-Chair  of  the  Group  of 
Friends of Sport for Development and Peace, will also 
continue  to  make  its  contribution  to  the  Office  of  the 
Special Adviser. As  we  succeed  our  Swiss  colleagues 
in the co-chairmanship, we wish to pay tribute to them 
and express our warmest thanks for having established 
this informal mechanism within the United Nations. As 
His  Most  Serene  Highness  Prince  Albert  II  has  said, 
The  Principality  of  Monaco  will 
in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and 
the  crucial 
the 
join 
12 

contributing to peace is the finest battle that sport can 
wage, and it is this battle that we must win together. 
Mr. Solón (Plurinational State of Bolivia) (spoke 

in  Spanish):  Allow  me  to  begin  my  statement  by 
highlighting  the  fact  that  for  President  Evo  Morales 
Ayma  sport  is  an  essential  tool  for  attaining  the 
Millennium Development Goals, given the vital impact 
it  has  on  integration,  peace  and  health,  and  above  all 
because  it  helps  reduce  crime  and  contributes  to  the 
fight against drugs. 
President  Morales,  who  usually  travels  with  a 

football  team  accompanying  him,  makes  sport  an 
element  of  integration  among  peoples,  making  it 
possible  to  overcome  hurdles  that  have  often  kept 
neighbouring  countries  and  peoples  apart,  as  has  been 
the case in our region over the past few decades. 

For  us  in  Bolivia,  sport  has  become  the  main 
mechanism  for  developing  football  fields  and  sport 
centres in a way that has never been done in previous 
years.  Bolivia  has  invested  in  sport  because  we  feel 
that it is the  main mechanism for ensuring that young 
people  can  be  kept  away  from  crime  and  drug 
addiction,  as  well  as  for  bolstering  ties  of  solidarity 
and  fraternity.  Above  all,  sport  makes  it  possible  to 
overcome  elements  of  discrimination  and  racism  that 
still exist in society, specifically through the promotion 
of sport among young people without regard to gender, 
thus  ensuring  that  there  is  greater  equality  between 
men and women.  

For  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  sport  is  a 
fundamental  element  for  peace  that  makes  it  possible 
to  overcome  a  great  deal  of  the  tension  and  a  great 
number  of  the  conflicts  that  often  still  exist.  It  is 
precisely through sport that it is possible to bring about 
a  spirit  of  brotherhood  and  fraternity,  hence  the 
importance that we as a State and Government ascribe 
to sport as a driving force for peace and development; 
for  we  believe  that  a  society  that  manages  to  achieve 
the goal of overcoming poverty and marginalization is 
also a society that above all promotes sport among its 
citizens. Promoting sport means promoting health. For 
us,  therefore,  it  is  also  a  paramount  founding  element 
of development. 

We in Bolivia have decisively embarked upon an 
effort to show the world that sport at high altitudes in 
no  way  damages  human  health.  Over  the  past  few 
years, regrettably, we have been hostage to a number of 
actions  vetoing  high  altitude  sport,  specifically  in 
10-58990 


qualifying  games  for  the  World  Cup  in  stadiums  like 
the one in the city of La Paz, which is at an altitude of 
more  than  3,600  metres.  We  have  spoken  out  against 
such  discrimination.  Our  President  himself,  together 
with  his  football  team,  has  demonstrated  that  playing 
above  6,000  metres,  on  a  football  field  on  Cerro 
Sajama,  in  no  way  affects  health,  and  that  everyone 
without  exception  must  play  without  regard  to  the 
altitude,  climate  or  weather  conditions  in  which  they 
may  find  themselves.  Sport  should  not  be  subject  to 
any sort of discrimination. 

For the Plurinational State of Bolivia, it is vital to 
promote actions in support of sport in the fight against 
drug  addiction  and  drug  trafficking.  We  are  firmly 
convinced  that  one  of  the  great  mechanisms  for 
ensuring  that  young  people  are  kept  away  from  drug 
trafficking and drug addiction is through sport. We are 
therefore  great  advocates  of  a  major  campaign  to 
promote sport in the fight against drugs. 

Finally, Bolivia is resolutely committed to peace. 
We  believe  that  nothing  brings  people  together  more 
closely than the practice of sport. 

observer of Palestine. 
Mr.  Hijazi  (Palestine):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

thanking 
report 
(A/65/270) and by commending the Special Adviser to 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace. We also commend the crucial role of the Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace  International  Working 
Group  in  shaping  the  global  framework  of  sport  for 
peace and development, as well as other actors for their 
support for this important work. 

Palestine  believes  that  the  culture  of  sport  is  an 
immensely  positive  force  for  development  in  any 
society.  In 
the 
UNESCO  characterization  of  sport  as  a  fundamental 
right for all. Harnessing the positive energy inherent in 
sport  —  which  demands  respect  for  the  human  values 
of  respect  for  all,  including  opponents,  non-violence, 
teamwork,  acceptance  of  rules  and  fairness  —  makes 
sport  a  valuable  asset  in  any  nation’s  efforts  towards 
development and peaceful coexistence. Sport is also an 
engine of economic development and social integration, 
which are crucial elements of overall development. 

Palestine  has  invested  much  sincere  effort  and 
energy  in  this  area,  for  we  believe  in  the  positive 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  call  on  the 
this  regard,  we  fully  agree  with 
the  Secretary-General 
for  his 
A/65/PV.32
the 
friendly 
and 
In 
competitive 
that  short  span  of 
area  of  professional 
teams  have  competed 
potential  and  the  as  yet  unexplored  development 
dimension of sport. In the past three years, Palestinian 
sport has truly evolved from being a luxury of the few 
to  an  aspiration  within  reach  of  all  athletes  regardless 
of social, economic or other difficulties. 

time,  Palestine  has 
developed  and  promoted  women’s  teams  in  various 
sports.  Those 
locally  and 
internationally,  shifting  women’s  participation 
in 
Palestine  from  a  few  exceptions  to  an  acceptable  and 
encouraged 
and  personal 
opportunity.  In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  express 
our  sincere  appreciation  for  the  support  extended  to 
Palestinian  sport  by 
international  community, 
particularly  by  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  Qatar  and 
Brazil.  Their  assistance  has  been  invaluable  and  a 
subject  of  deep  appreciation  from  Palestinian  athletes 
and the Palestinian people. 

Also  during  this  period,  Palestine  has  proudly 
hosted 
games  with 
international  teams.  These  games  were  in  fact  a 
testament  to  the  progress  that  Palestinian  sport  has 
achieved  and  a  reflection  of  our  belief  in  sport  as  an 
agent  of  development  and  peaceful  relations  between 
nations. 

While  we  are  profoundly  proud  of  our 
achievements  in  sport  thus  far,  we  are  also  deeply 
troubled by the continuous difficulties our athletes and 
efforts  confront  from 
the  occupying  Power.  Our 
progress  has  been  slowed,  and  on  some  occasions 
disrupted,  by  the  various  obstacles  and  restrictions 
needlessly  and  punitively  employed  against  our 
athletes and our efforts at development. 

Israel, the occupying Power, continues to obstruct 
the  right  of  Palestinian  athletes  to  move  and  travel 
without hindrance. On several occasions, that punitive 
policy  has  prevented  some  of  our  star  athletes  from 
participating  in  important  team  practice  games  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory  and  abroad.  The  latest 
such occasion was 5 October,  when the  captain of the 
Palestinian team, who lives in Gaza, was banned from 
going to the West Bank for a match. Those restrictions 
also affect our ability to bring in sports equipment or to 
develop proper infrastructure, including stadiums. 

Such punitive restrictions have moved officials of 
the Fédération internationale de football and the Union 
of  European  Football  Associations  to  express  their 
Israel’s  continued 
anger  and  grave  concern  at 
10-58990 

13 

and 
athletes 
A/65/PV.32 

obstruction  of  Palestinian 
sports 
development efforts. We commend those positions and 
call  on  all  concerned  to  do  their  utmost  to  curb  such 
practices and their negative effect on Palestinian efforts 
to develop sport in general. 

Ms. Lucas (Luxembourg), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

Development  and  occupation  cannot  possibly 
coexist.  Any  development  effort,  no  matter  how  well 
planned  and  executed,  is  subject  to  the  illogical  and 
punitive  whims  of  the  occupation.  Occupation  is  a 
negative  force  that  shackles  the  occupied  and  inhibits 
them from fulfilling their potential and achieving their 
goals.  However,  in  line  with  our  commitment  to  the 
principles and fundamental values that sport represents, 
Palestine  is  determined  to  press  ahead  with  its  efforts 
to  develop  this  field  as  an  area  of  boundless  potential 
for Palestine, its development and its national goal — 
peace. 

We wish this important initiative every success in 
advancing the universal language, culture and values of 
sport.  We  also  hope  that,  as  part  of  its  State-building 
efforts,  Palestinian  sport  will  continue  to  receive 
international support and be the subject of the world’s 
fraternity.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 

accordance with resolution 64/3, of 19 October 2009, I 
now call on the Observer for the International Olympic 
Committee. 
Mr.  Sithole  (International  Olympic  Committee): 

On  behalf  of  the  International  Olympic  Committee 
(IOC),  I  am  pleased  to  support  the  adoption  of  draft 
resolution  A/65/L.4,  entitled  “Sport  as  a  means  to 
promote  education,  health,  development  and  peace”, 
and to take part in this important discussion on ways to 
more  effectively  use  the  power  of  sport  to  promote 
development and peace. Allow me to acknowledge the 
invaluable contributions of the United Nations and the 
Secretary-General  in  elevating  the  role  of  sport  as  a 
tool  for  development  and  peace.  His  annual  report 
(A/65/270),  which  has  been  just  presented,  is  living 
proof of that. 
In our capacity as Observer to the United Nations 

General  Assembly, 
further 
strengthen  its  ties  and  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  and  to  assist  Member  States  and  the  United 
Nations Administration in their endeavours. Allow me 
intends 
IOC 
the 
to 
also  to  thank  Mr.  Wilfred  Lemke,  Special  Adviser  to 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace,  for  the  important  part  that  he  is  playing  in 
expanding  the  role  of  sport  in  United  Nations  human 
development and peacebuilding efforts. 

The  IOC’s  commitment  to  place  sport  at  the 
service  of  humankind  is  enshrined  in  its  founding 
document,  the  Olympic  Charter.  The  Charter  defines 
Olympism  as  a  philosophy  of  life  that  seeks  to  place 
sport at the service of the harmonious development of 
humankind,  with  a  view  to  promoting  a  peaceful 
society  concerned  with  the  preservation  of  human 
dignity. 

The sporting movement translates that philosophy 
into  actions  in  a  variety  of  ways,  starting,  of  course, 
with its premier event, the Olympic Games. The Games 
provide  a  global  forum  for  peaceful  competition  and 
interaction  in  an  atmosphere  of  fair  play  and  mutual 
respect, showing by example that we can put aside our 
differences and find common ground. That ideal can be 
seen  in  some  memorable  moments,  as  exemplified  by 
the actions of the young people who participated in the 
inaugural  Youth  Olympic  Games  in  Singapore  last 
month. 

Much  of  the  Olympic  Movement’s  development 
work  occurs  far  from  the  media  spotlight.  Last  May, 
we opened a new youth Olympic development centre in 
Zambia.  That  innovative  project  combines  sport  with 
educational 
and 
community events. It is a good example of an effective 
multiparty  partnership  —  in  this  case  between  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Zambia,  the  Zambian 
National  Olympic  Committee  and  international  and 
national sports federations. 
Many  of  our  efforts  are  closely  aligned  with  the 

United  Nations  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 
and 
empowerment  of  women  in  and  through  sport  and 
gender  equality  are  specifically  addressed  in  the 
Olympic  Charter.  The  IOC  has  steadily  increased  the 
participation 
in 
competitions  and  the  organization  of  the  Olympic 
Games.  For  the  first  time,  women  will  participate  in 
every sport on the Olympic programme at the Games in 
London in 2012. 

The IOC formally acknowledged its obligation to 
environmental sustainability more than 15 years ago by 
adopting  the  environment  as  the  third  pillar  of  the 
programmes, 
of  women 
involvement 
promotion 
example, 
services 
health 
and 
For 
the 
14 

10-58990 
to 
the 
lead 
the 
take 
and 
to 
live  up 
that  we 
to  ensure 
look 
specialized 


Olympic  Movement,  along  with  sport  and  culture. We 
work  closely  with  the  United  Nations  Environmental 
Programme 
to  our 
responsibilities  in  that  area.  We  work  with  UNESCO, 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Refugees and other partners to provide value-based 
education to young people and sustenance to refugees. 
We work with the Joint United Nations Programme on 
HIV/AIDS,  UNICEF,  the  World  Health  Organization 
and  the  Red  Cross  Movement  to  combat  HIV  and 
AIDS, malaria and non-communicable diseases. 

In many of those initiatives, sport is a catalyst for 
action.  It  breaks  down  barriers  between  communities. 
It is a magnet for young people. It helps keep them in 
school and focused. It gives them mental strength and 
teaches  them  leadership  skills.  They  learn  the  true 
meaning and value of teamwork and a team spirit. 

Sport is not the answer to all the world’s problems. 
It  does  not  even  have  the  leading  role  in  addressing 
those  problems.  We 
the  United  Nations, 
non-governmental 
Governments 
in  promoting 
organizations 
development.  The 
efforts  of 
Governments around the world to promote development, 
but we also urge them to embrace sport as a partner in 
those  efforts  and  to  give  sport  the  attention,  promotion 
and  resources  that  it  needs  in  order  to  effectively 
contribute to national development agendas. 

The  IOC  acknowledges  that  real  progress  is 
possible  with  effective  partnerships,  as  called  for  in 
MDG 8. The Secretary-General’s report offers example 
after  example,  from  countries  around  the  world,  of 
alliances that use sport in creative ways. The IOC and 
sport as a whole are doing their best, but more could be 
done  with  more  consideration  of  sport  as  a  factor  in 
human development and peace and by factoring it into 
development agendas at every level. 
However, we need comprehensive evaluation and 

monitoring 
human 
development so that we can learn what works and what 
does not. We need more research and better monitoring 
tools, 
including  widely  accepted  benchmarks  and 
standards. 

Sport  is  a  powerful  tool  for  development  and 
peace. The challenge is to make the most of that tool. 
The  International  Olympic  Committee  stands  ready  to 
play its part. The IOC assures the Assembly that it will 
do its best to be its greatest partner. 
programmes 
salutes 
sport 
IOC 
for 
of 
A/65/PV.32
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this agenda 
item. 

The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to 
consider draft resolution A/65/L.4, entitled “Sport as a 
means  to  promote  education,  health,  development  and 
peace”. 

I  should  like  to  announce  that,  since  the  draft 
resolution was submitted, the following countries have 
become  sponsors:  Albania,  Andorra,  Cape  Verde, 
Eritrea,  France,  Grenada,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Jamaica, 
Kazakhstan,  the  Netherlands,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay, the Republic of Moldova, Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines, Serbia, South Africa and Togo. 

to adopt draft resolution A/65/L.4? 

Draft resolution A/65/L.4 was adopted (resolution 
65/4). 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 

take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to conclude 
its consideration of agenda item 11? 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
It was so decided. 







Agenda items 14 and 15 
Global Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations  

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/269) 
Culture of peace 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/269) 

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/299) 

Mr.  Habib  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset, I would like to extend our sincere thanks to the 
President  for  organizing  this  important  meeting.  I 
would  also like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
comprehensive  report  (A/65/269)  on  the  activities 
related  to  the  declaration  of  2010  as  the  International 
Year 
the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures.  That 
declaration  was  the  logical  result  of  the  growing 
international  awareness  of  the  important  need  for  a 
rapprochement  of  cultures  through  dialogue,  which  is 
an urgent issue of concern to us all. The meetings and 
symposia  that  we  have  seen  take  place  this  year  are 
perhaps  the  best  testament  to  the  importance  of 
diversity as a source of enrichment for humankind and, 
when  exploited  through  constructive  and  innovative 
for 
10-58990 

15 

A/65/PV.32 

dialogue,  as  a  fountain  of  creativity,  modernity, 
progress and advancement. 

I come from Lebanon, an eastern country that has 
had  a  unique  social  and  political  experience  and  a 
nation 
that  allows  for  dialogue  and  coexistence 
between  religions  and  cultures  that  is  an  example  of 
tolerance. Here I would like to recall the statement by 
the  President  of  Lebanon  when  he  spoke  before  the 
Assembly on 24 September. He affirmed that Lebanon 
will  always  remain  open  to  dialogue  and  human  and 
cultural interaction in a rich and creative manner, loyal 
to  its  main  message,  in  spite  of  the  challenges  that  it 
faces, in the promotion of a State of law and order and 
the  values  of  democracy,  freedom  and  harmony  on 
which it is based. 

This  year,  in  accordance  with  our  openness  to 
dialogue,  we  joined  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations.  We  consider  the Alliance  as 
an  essential  forum  for  dialogue  among  civilizations. 
The  Alliance  guarantees 
the  necessary  space  for 
involving  civil  society,  including  women  and  youth, 
and for exchanging experiences and building strategies 
in consolidating the culture of peace. 

Lebanon  continues  to  call  for  rich  human  and 
cultural  interaction  in  a  constructive  and  innovative 
way.  We  believe  that  such  dialogue  begins  with  the 
recognition  of  others’  identities  and  the  religious  and 
cultural  characteristics  of  each  group. We  believe  that 
fear, hostility and intimidation have no place in such an 
effort. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  tireless  efforts 

made  by  the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized 
agencies and programmes, particularly UNESCO in the 
cultural,  information  and  technological  fields,  with  a 
view  to  enabling  societies,  especially  women  and 
youth, to overcome ignorance and poverty and achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals. We also welcome 
all  the  symposiums  that  have  been  held  and  all  the 
early warning mechanisms that have been deployed to 
pre-empt  conflicts  before  they  erupt  and  to  deal  with 
root  causes  through  the  use  of  preventive  diplomacy 
and  the  establishment  of  regional  and  international 
partnerships  that  work  to  prevent  war  and  conflict, 
which have greatly afflicted our world. 

In the same context, Lebanon has always sent out 
a  message  of  dialogue,  as  exemplified  during  the 
interactive  dialogue  that  took  place  in  the  Security 
Council  last  May  under  the  theme  “Intercultural 
level 
in 
dialogue  for  peace  and  security”  (see  S/PV.6322).  We 
do  this  based  on  our  belief  in  the  importance  of 
dialogue  as  a  choice  and  a  culture,  as  well  as  our 
pledge  to  abide  by  the  Charter  and  the  International 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  We  hope 
that 
international  efforts 
to  promote  dialogue  among 
civilizations  will  succeed  in  promoting  not  only  a 
culture of peace but also stability, peace and security in 
the whole world. The Middle East as a region deserves 
comprehensive  and  just  peace  based  on  international 
resolutions, the Arab Peace Initiative in all its aspects, 
justice and what is right. 

The time has come for human development. Such 
development  can  only  start  with  the  promotion  of  a 
culture  of  peace  that  enhances  communication  and 
tolerance  among  civilizations  and  promotes  mutual 
respect  among  them  in  a  responsible  and  transparent 
manner.  That  should  involve  all  stakeholders  at  the 
governmental 
identifying  priorities  and 
overcoming  disputes  and  differences  through  dialogue 
between  developed  and  developing  countries  in  order 
to rise to the challenges faced by humankind and find 
solutions  to  real  problems  in  line  with  people’s 
expectations and aspirations. 
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  First  of  all,  the 

delegation  of  Kazakhstan  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation  to  President  Deiss  for  the  holding  of  this 
joint debate on items 14 and 15 of the agenda, “Global 
Agenda 
for  Dialogue  among  Civilizations”  and 
“Culture of Peace”. 

We  also  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban  Ki-moon,  for  the  comprehensive  report  on 
intercultural, 
intercivilizational 
dialogue  (A/65/269).  It  provides  an  overview  of 
activities  undertaken  by  the  main  United  Nations 
entities  engaged 
in  promoting  dialogue  among 
civilizations,  cultures  and  religions.  Its  findings  and 
recommendations  take  on  great  significance  in  our 
contemporary  times,  when  multilateralism  is  being 
strengthened. Yet at the same time, paradoxically, there 
are forces that cause schisms and unrest in society. 

The report, submitted pursuant to resolutions 60/4 
and  64/81,  covers  a  wide  range  of  themes,  including 
the  International  Year  for 
the  Rapprochement  of 
Cultures,  which  was  initiated  by  Kazakhstan  and 
supported by Member States. 
We  would  like  also  to  take  note  of  the  detailed 

information on the Third Forum of the United Nations 
interreligious  and 
16 

10-58990 
Pursuant 
in  which 
to  resolution  64/81, 


Alliance  of  Civilizations,  and  the  work  done  so  far  to 
carry  forward  the  objectives  of  the  United  Nations  in 
fostering  global  harmony  and  understanding  through 
outreach and collaboration with faith-based organizations, 
as  well  as  through  communication,  awareness-raising 
and educational activities around the world. 

the 
Assembly  invited  the  Secretary-General  to  organize  a 
special  activity  to  celebrate  the  Year,  a  special  event 
was  organized  on  21  April  2010  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters  by  the  Department  of  Economic  and 
Social Affairs. The President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fourth  session  and  the  Secretary-General 
made statements. 

At the meeting, different voices were heard, each 
reflecting  on  a  specific  dimension  of  public  action  to 
promote  the  rapprochement  of  cultures.  The  Vice-
Minister  of  Culture  of  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan, 
Mr. Telebekov, presented the unique experience of our 
country  in  establishing  political  and  administrative 
institutions  aimed  at  ensuring  communication  and 
understanding  among  the  various  cultures  that  create 
the mosaic of Kazakhstan. 

At  Kazakhstan’s  suggestion,  the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  — 
UNESCO  —  developed  an  action  plan  for  observing 
the  International  Year  for 
the  Rapprochement  of 
Cultures  with  a  large  number  of  events,  forums  and 
conferences  convened  worldwide.  The  Assembly 
designated  UNESCO  as  the  lead  agency  for  the 
International  Year,  which  was  launched  at  UNESCO 
headquarters  in  Paris  on  18  February  2010.  On  that 
occasion,  the  Director-General  of  UNESCO  convened 
a  high-level  panel  on  peace  and  dialogue  among 
cultures,  which  was  comprised  of  prominent  political, 
intellectual and religious personalities from all regions 
of the world. 

The  focus  on  awareness-raising,  implicit  in  the 
goals of the Year, resulted in worldwide dissemination 
of 
the  organization  of  several 
international  and  regional  conferences,  meetings  and 
events.  To  date,  over  700  activities  are  envisaged 
within  the  framework  of  the  Year.  The  variety  of 
projects  presented  in  the  fields  of  arts,  education  and 
youth  leadership  bears  witness  to  the  different  forms 
that  dialogue  and  the  rapprochement  of  cultures  can 
assume.  Kazakhstan  is  of  the  view  that  regional 
information  and 
A/65/PV.32
organizations  play  a  significant  role  in  strengthening 
international dialogue. 

Acting  as  a  coordinator  of  the  Conference  on 
Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia 
(CICA), Kazakhstan has developed the action plan for 
implementing  the  CICA  Catalogue  of  Confidence-
Building  Measures  in  humanitarian  issues,  and  also 
organized  a  series  of  international  conferences  on 
intercultural cooperation and tolerance. 

More  recently,  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  has 
held  a  vast  array  of  high-profile  events  on  the  themes 
of  multiculturalism  and  global  understanding,  both  of 
which have gained high priority on its political agenda. 

The  contributions of the relevant United Nations 
entities  provided  valuable  input  to  the  report  and  are 
highlighted in its first two sections, which are devoted 
to  the  International  Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of 
Cultures,  which  is  being  celebrated  in  2010  under  the 
aegis of UNESCO. The third section is devoted to the 
Third  Forum  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  held  in 
Rio de Janiero in May 2010. 

In  addition  to  the  International  Year  for  the 
Rapprochement  of  Cultures  and 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations, the United Nations system has continued 
range  of  educational  and 
to  undertake  a  wide 
communication  activities 
the  Year’s 
objectives. 

Another  valuable  contribution  of  the  United 
Nations  system  to  promoting  interreligious  dialogue 
consists in collaboration with faith-based organizations 
and  engaging  them  in  its  policy  and  advocacy  work. 
Such  initiatives  have  a  double  positive  effect:  they 
bring  together  peoples  from  different  faiths  to  discuss 
issues they have in common and they help to link those 
groups  as  partners  with  the  United  Nations  and  its 
development objectives. 

In that context, President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s 
initiative  to  convene  congresses  of  leaders  of  the 
world’s  traditional  religions,  held  in  Kazakhstan,  has 
been thriving since 2003 and has added to international 
efforts 
intercultural 
dialogue.  I  am  convinced  that  Kazakhstan’s  forum, 
which  has  been  widely  recognized  as  an  effective 
platform  to  discuss  the  role  of  religious  leaders  in 
fostering  peace  and  other  issues,  will  continue  to 
contribute  in  an  extremely  meaningful  way  towards 
interreligious  and 
to  promote 
to  achieve 
10-58990 

17 
in 
regard 
to 
inter-ethnic 

that  context  was 
A/65/PV.32 

developing  the  worldwide  process  of  the  dialogue  of 
civilizations. 

I would like to stress that tolerance, trust, tradition 
and  transparency  constitute  the  guiding  principles  of 
Kazakhstan’s 2010 chairmanship of the Organization for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE).  The  key 
event 
the  OSCE  High-level 
Conference on Tolerance  and  Non-Discrimination, held 
in  Astana  on  29  and  30  June  this  year.  That  forum 
demonstrated very effectively the importance of sharing 
experiences  with 
and 
interreligious  accord,  as  well  as  the  need  to  fulfil 
commitments to promote the OSCE values of tolerance, 
non-discrimination  and  respect  for  diversity.  In  the 
wider  context,  the  theme  of  tolerance  will  also  be 
highlighted  during  our  2011  chairmanship  of 
the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference. 

In conclusion, let me express my confidence that 
our  common  collective  effort  at  all  levels,  from  the 
grass-roots  to  the  international,  will  reduce  mistrust 
and  prejudice  and  enhance  genuine  dialogue  and 
cooperation  among  our  myriad  cultures, 
thereby 
fostering  mutual  understanding  and  stability  in  the 
world. 
Mr. Al-Jarman (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 

Arabic):  The  discussions  of  the  General  Assembly 
today  on  the  two  items  relating  to  the  Global Agenda 
for  Dialogue  among  Civilizations  and  the  Culture  of 
Peace  take  on  particular  importance  at  a  time  when 
humankind  continues 
trends  of 
inequality,  occupation,  oppression,  conflict,  violations 
of human rights and other forms of hatred and racism. 
Those 
reveal  growing  manifestations  of 
extremism  and  defamation  towards  the  cultures  and 
beliefs of others. Recent public tensions resulting from 
the  irresponsible  and  intolerant  campaigns  calling  for 
attacks  on  Islam  and  Muslims,  and  foreigners  in 
general, and public reactions towards those campaigns 
underline 
its 
implications. They also provide a strong motive for us 
to 
strengthening 
mechanisms  of  dialogue  and  religious  and  cultural 
tolerance among all peoples, who all without exception 
share in the common heritage of humankind. 

The United Arab Emirates — which believes that 
dialogue among civilizations and a culture of peace are 
key  priorities  in  its  global  strategy  for  protecting 
societies  against  all  forms  of  violence,  extremism  and 
this  problem  and 
to  face  growing 
the  gravity  of 
redouble  our 
efforts 
towards 
trends 
the  Madrid  Declaration  of 
terrorism  —  was  one  of  the  first  countries  to  support 
the initiative on dialogue among civilizations launched 
by Turkey and Spain in 2005, as well as the initiative 
launched by the Custodian  of the Two Holy Mosques, 
King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud,  and  all  other 
important  endeavours  carried  out  by 
the  United 
Nations in that regard. The United Arab Emirates also 
supported 
the  World 
Conference  on  Dialogue  in  2008,  which  called  for 
promoting the principles of peace and dialogue among 
religions,  and  the  recent  ministerial  meeting  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  which  was  held  on  the 
margins of the general debate at the current session of 
the General Assembly. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  sought  to  build 
bridges of confidence and partnerships with the rest of 
the  world  through  promoting  a  culture  of  dialogue, 
tolerance,  openness  and  constructive  cooperation  with 
all  countries,  and  regional  and  international  groups. 
Those principles have also been reflected in a series of 
national  legislative  measures  and  laws  that  ensure 
harmony  and  peaceful  coexistence  among  ethnic 
groups and followers of different faiths, and guarantee 
their  freedom  to  practise  their  religious  rites  and 
ceremonies  and  express  their  cultural  diversity  in  the 
United  Arab  Emirates.  That  has  contributed 
to 
consolidating justice, strengthening the rule of law, and 
promoting respect for human rights and stability in the 
United Arab Emirates. 

The efforts by the United Arab Emirates were not 
limited only to the national level, but also extended to 
the international level, including through the provision 
of  direct  and  indirect  economic,  humanitarian  and 
relief  assistance  to  developing  countries  and  countries 
emerging from conflict and natural disasters. This was 
done  with  a  view  to  supporting  efforts  aimed  at 
achieving  national  reconciliation,  rehabilitation  and 
stability in those countries, and in promoting a culture 
of peace and respect for human rights. As a member of 
the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding 
of  Intangible  Cultural  Heritage,  under  the  auspices  of 
UNESCO,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has  worked  on 
enhancing 
the 
protection of the common heritage of mankind. 
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  efforts  of  the 

United  Nations  and  other  Member  States 
to 
strengthening international peace and security, the rule 
of 
tolerance,  understanding, 
multilateralism  and  solidarity  among  peoples,  and  a 
its  multifaceted  contribution 
concepts  of 
law, 
to 
18 

10-58990 
forms, 


culture of peace. We emphasize that in order to achieve 
all those goals, we need to start with a genuine global 
partnership  that  aims  at  encouraging  dialogue  among 
the  various  cultures  and  civilizations  and  at  instilling 
the spirit of tolerance and respect for the sacred sites of 
other  peoples  and  understanding  the  sensitive  aspects 
of their cultures, especially in our globalized age, with 
its  modern  communication  technologies  that  provide 
unique  and  ever  greater  opportunities  for  connecting 
and reaching people. 

As  we  believe  that  dialogue  among  civilizations 
must 
take  various 
including  North-South 
dialogue,  East-West  dialogue  and  other  forms  of 
cultural exchange, we affirm that mutual enrichment of 
any dialogue in that context must be based on equality, 
objectivity and transparency. Such activities must also 
include  adequate  measures  to  address  any  acts  of 
violence  or  discrimination  based  on  religion,  race  or 
sex,  in  order  to  contain  their  negative  impact  on 
societies.  We  therefore  call  for  the  development  of  a 
standardized  global  approach  to  deal  with  acts  that 
constitute  a  clear  and  continuing  threat  to  peace, 
security  and  stability  in  the  world.  Measures  to 
criminalize 
religious 
pretexts,  including  incitement  to  abuse  or  desecrate 
sanctities of other religions, should also be adopted. 

We  also  emphasize,  in  that  regard,  the  need  to 
address  attempts  aimed  at  defaming  religions  and  at 
inciting  religious  hatred  in  general,  by  developing 
local,  regional  and  international  strategies  based  on 
constructive  debates  and  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
civilizations  and  full  respect  for  all  beliefs  and 
religions. In that regard, we declare our support, which 
has  been  continuous  for  the  past  10  years,  for  the 
Global  Agenda  for  Dialogue  among  Civilizations, 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  in  resolution  56/6. 
We also affirm our support for the declaration of 2010 
as  the  International  Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of 
Cultures, with a view to demonstrating that diversity is 
a  source  of  enrichment,  creativity  and  innovation  for 
humanity. 
This  also  leads  us  to  realizing  the  importance  of 

demonstrating  a 
international 
determination  to  address  the  root  causes  of  emerging 
conflicts and disputes, especially the causes relating to 
that  oldest  of  conflicts,  namely,  the  continued  Israeli 
occupation of Palestinian and other Arab territories. 
incitement  of  violence  on 
true  and 
serious 
A/65/PV.32

Finally, we hope that our deliberations on the two 
agenda  items  will  lead  to  strengthened  plans  for 
achieving  greater  understanding,  rapprochement  and 
openness  among  countries  and  peoples,  especially  in 
containing  and  addressing  the  most  pressing  regional 
and  international  issues,  including  issues  of  security, 
peace,  disarmament,  poverty,  unemployment  and 
violations of human rights. 
Mr. Al-Hubail (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): I have 

the  pleasure  to  convey  our  thanks  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  the  report  before  us  (A/65/629),  which 
details  the  achievements  and  activities  of  United 
Nations  bodies  with  respect  to  intercivilizational, 
intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue.  I  should  also 
like to pay tribute to the efforts of UNESCO for having 
successfully  celebrated  2010  as  the  International Year 
for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures. We  should  like  to 
thank the Director-General of UNESCO for her annual 
report  on  the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of 
Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World 
2001-2010. 

The State of Kuwait is happy to participate in this 
discussion.  We  would  like  to  reaffirm  that  the  world 
currently  faces  great  challenges  resulting  from  views 
and ideologies characterized by extremism and bigotry, 
held by some groups, entities and individuals in certain 
countries  of  the  world,  which  do  not  respect  the 
cultures of others. Such intolerance has even reached a 
level where some use ideological and physical violence 
to impose their views and ideas. 

support 
a 
comprehensive  and  realistic  dialogue  among 
the 
civilizations and peoples of the world, we must share a 
sincere desire to combat the extremist ideas and actions 
on  the  part  of  some  who  disparage  others’  religions, 
given that such ideas hamper United Nations efforts to 
bring about rapprochement. Otherwise, the other side is 
given  new  justifications  for  its  attempts  to  spread  its 
violent ideas and convince others of the correctness of 
their views. 

My  delegation  salutes  resolution  64/81,  which 
states,  in  paragraph  5,  that  the  right  to  freedom  of 
expression  carries  with  it  duties  and  responsibilities 
that  may  be  subject  to  certain  restrictions.  We  must 
discourage incitement against religious beliefs, because 
that  has  negative  consequences  for  human  rights.  We 
believe  that  in  that  regard  a  general  evaluation  is 
needed  of  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and 
If  we  want 
successfully 
to 
10-58990 

19 

to 
by 
and 
and 
regional 
initiatives 
interaction 
in  outreach 
A/65/PV.32 

non-governmental  organizations,  as  well  as  of  efforts 
and 
international 
organizations. 

To  achieve  a  strong  and  sound  foundation  for 
dialogue  among  civilizations,  we  need  to  unify  the 
efforts and programmes of the various entities in order 
to  promote  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue 
among civilizations. That will lead to the spread of the 
principles  of  peace,  tolerance  and  respect.  We  must 
recall  here 
that  a  dialogue  or  alliance  among 
civilizations does not mean a fusion of cultures, creeds 
and  faiths.  Civilization  is  the  tent  that  includes  all 
cultures  and  religions;  the  purpose  of  dialogue  among 
civilizations is to study the roots of differences and to 
deal  with 
them,  while  being  respectful  of  our 
differences. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  supports  the  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations  regarding  an  ongoing  dialogue  among 
civilizations. As decreed by our head of State, we have 
put  in  place  a  national  plan  of  action  based  on  our 
belief 
among 
civilizations.  We  have  acceded  to  the  initiative  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  joined  its  Group  of  Friends 
and participated in all its forums, particularly the third, 
held in Rio de Janeiro in May. Openness towards other 
cultures,  tolerance  and  interaction  with  others  have 
been  part  of  Kuwaiti  culture,  intellect  and  ideology 
from 
in  our 
Constitution,  which  allows  others  to  practise  their 
religion  freely,  safely  and  in  peace,  and  this  has 
attracted  people  of  120  nationalities  and  from  all 
cultures and religions to live in our country in stability, 
tolerance and mutual respect. 

A  culture  of  peace  and  coexistence,  based  on 
outreach  among  civilizations,  should  be  based  on 
strategic principles that give it strength and continuity, 
and  should  help  civil  society, 
individuals  and 
institutions to achieve their objectives. We cite in that 
connection Kuwait’s national plan of action, which has 
set  forth  four  strategic  principles  to  help  achieve  its 
aims.  First,  we  should  reinforce  our  culture  of  peace, 
moderation 
combat 
extremism, terrorism and violence; build a societal and 
national  consensus  based  on  the  principles  and  values 
of  outreach  among  civilizations;  and 
fourthly, 
cooperate  with  regional  and  international  institutions, 
thus  laying  the  foundations  for  understanding  of  our 
shared  human  concerns.  Additionally,  Kuwait  has 
established  an  International  Centre  for  Compromise 
the  beginning.  That 
is  enshrined 
tolerance; 
secondly, 
and 
the 
respect 
report  of 
the  national, 
that calls for moderation in thought and compromise in 
dealing with others, which are based on the principles 
of our religion. The Centre has held many conferences 
and  symposiums  at 
regional  and 
international levels. 

Various  specialized  Government  departments 
have  set  up  programmes  and  forums  aimed  at  every 
sector  of  society  in  order  to  achieve  awareness  of 
moderation and understanding among people. We have 
held  and  sponsored  many  international  and  regional 
conferences  and  forums  promoting  an  attitude  of 
moderation  in  Islam  and  how  to  spread  religious 
tolerance  and 
for  beliefs  and  cultural 
specificities among peoples, as well as how to achieve 
equality  so  that  we  may  arrive  at  a  climate  of 
international security in which all civilizations can live 
in peace. 
Mr. Li Baodong (China) (spoke in Chinese): The 

Chinese  delegation  welcomes 
the 
Secretary-General  on  the  culture  of  peace  (A/65/269). 
In  our  present  world,  increasing  globalization,  the 
spread  of  information  technologies  and  more  frequent 
exchanges  among  peoples  of  different  countries  have 
brought civilizations ever closer to each other, creating 
favourable  conditions  for  dialogue  and  cooperation 
among them. In the meantime, peace and development 
have  yet  to  become  a  reality.  New  global  challenges 
keep  emerging;  clashes  between  civilizations  have 
intensified;  misunderstandings  among  religions  and 
cultures 
racial 
discrimination are far from being eliminated. 

Against such a background, it has become all the 
more important to strengthen dialogue and cooperation 
among  civilizations.  In  recent  years,  the  General 
Assembly has held a number of high-level meetings on 
intercultural  and 
interfaith  dialogue,  which  have 
highlighted  the  importance  and  urgency  of  cultural 
cooperation and emphasized the intrinsic links between 
dialogue 
and 
development.  This  momentum  of  cooperation  should 
be  maintained.  At  the  same  time,  we  should  gain 
experience  and  learn  lessons  from  these  efforts,  while 
identifying  effective  ways  and  best  practices  for 
enhancing 
trust  and 
cooperation  that  can  ensure  concrete  progress  in  this 
area. 

should  be  observed 
China  believes  that  the  following  three  points 
in  conducting  dialogue  and 
the  understanding,  mutual 
civilizations 
religious 
among 
peace 
exist; 
still 
and 
and 
and 
20 

10-58990 
on 
values 
the  promotion  of 


cooperation  among  civilizations.  First,  we  should 
respect  each  other  and  conduct  dialogue  as  equals. 
Diversity  is  a  basic  feature  of  human  civilization,  as 
well  as  a  common  asset  of  human  society.  There  are 
close  to  200  countries  in  the  world.  Despite  their 
differences  in  terms  of  social  systems,  levels  of 
development,  cultures,  traditions  and  religious  beliefs, 
all have contributed to human progress. It is therefore 
necessary  for  all  countries  to  respect  and  learn  from 
one another and live together in peace. Extremism, the 
imposition 
others, 
discrimination  based  on  religious,  racial  or  other 
grounds,  bias,  and  xenophobia  should  be  firmly 
rejected. 

Secondly,  we  must  work  on  multiple  fronts  in 
order to achieve synergy. Culture and religion touch a 
wide  range  of  areas  and  involve  complex  issues,  so 
there can be no cookie-cutter approach to dialogue and 
cooperation  in  this  regard. Within  the  United  Nations, 
multiple initiatives and mechanisms, such as resolution 
64/81  on 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for peace, and the Alliance of Civilizations, have been 
launched.  With  their  distinct  features  and  advantages, 
those  initiatives  and  mechanisms  should  strengthen 
communication  and  coordination  among  themselves. 
The United Nations should play an important role as a 
platform  for  cultural  exchange  and  should  enable  the 
various  initiatives  and  mechanisms  to  complement 
each other and grow side by side. 

Thirdly,  we  should  involve  all  sectors  of  society 
and  work  for  concrete  results.  Dialogue  among 
different  civilizations  is  ultimately  about  promoting 
people-to-people contact. It should thus not be limited 
to  the  national  level.  Rather,  civil  society,  academia 
and  the  media  should  all  be  mobilized  to  disseminate 
the message  of a culture of peace to communities and 
schools so as to bring the whole society on board. It is 
particularly 
to  convey  a  message  of 
tolerance, understanding and respect to the youth so as 
to build up their capacity to resist religious hatred and 
discrimination.  The  media  should  conscientiously 
responsibility  by  upholding 
assume 
morality  and  contributing 
the  creation  of  an 
atmosphere of tolerance and understanding in society. 

China is a multi-ethnic and multireligious country. 
The  Chinese  civilization  has  been  imbued  with  the 
concept  of  harmony  throughout  history.  The  Chinese 
Government  adheres  to  the  policy  of  freedom  of 
their  social 
important 
of 
beliefs 
or 
to 
A/65/PV.32
live 
together 
religion, fully respects its citizens’ religious beliefs and 
safeguards that freedom with the Constitution and other 
laws.  Different  religions  in  China  coexist  in  harmony 
and  enjoy  equal  status.  Religious  and  non-religious 
citizens  respect  each  other  and 
in 
harmony. Religious figures in China carry forward fine 
traditions  of  patriotism, 
religious  devotion  and 
philanthropy  and  actively  participate  in  charity  work 
and other public welfare undertakings, thus contributing 
to social harmony and stability. 

China favours cultural diversity and believes that 
different civilizations should learn from each other and 
seek  common  ground,  while  shelving  differences,  and 
should jointly contribute to the prosperity and progress 
of  mankind.  China  actively  supports  dialogue  and 
cooperation  among  civilizations  and  religions  and  has 
hosted  major  events  to  that  end,  such  as  the  Asia-
Europe  Meeting  Interfaith  Dialogue  and  the  World 
Buddhist Forum. 

In  two  weeks’  time,  Expo  2010  Shanghai  will 
draw  to  a  close. As  the  first  such  global  event  hosted 
by a developing country in the history of world expos, 
it  has  attracted  the  participation  of  246  countries  and 
international organizations and over 60 million visitors 
over  a  period  of  five  months.  The  Shanghai  World 
Expo  offers  a  platform  for  countries  to  demonstrate 
their  cultural  achievements  and  share  development 
experience,  giving  full  expression  to  the  diversity  of 
the world’s civilizations. It has become a showcase of 
cultural  diversity  and  harmony  and  an  event  of 
happiness  and 
for  all.  The  Chinese 
Government  will  further  strengthen  cultural  dialogue 
and  exchanges  with  other  countries  with  a  view  to 
contributing to the creation of a world of lasting peace, 
common prosperity and harmony. 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  Assembly  declared  the  period  2001  to  2010  the 
International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and 
Non-Violence for the Children of the World (resolution 
53/25).  Today,  as  we  face  the  end  of  the  decade,  we 
must frankly recognize that we have not met the goals 
we set for ourselves. 

Cuba  considers  strict  respect  for  the  United 
Nations Charter and its principles to be the fundamental 
basis for achieving a culture of peace. Peace is not only 
the  absence  of  conflicts.  Promoting  a  culture  of  peace 
requires  the  promotion  of  education  at  all  levels, 
friendship 
10-58990 

21 

A/65/PV.32 

sustainable  economic  and  social  development  and 
respect for all human rights for all people. 

There  cannot  be  a  culture  of  peace  unless 
understanding,  tolerance  and  solidarity  are  promoted, 
along with respect for the history, diverse religions and 
individual character of each nation. Achieving a culture 
of peace requires respect for cultural diversity.  

We watch with concern some doctrines promoting 
the  clash  of  civilizations,  demonizing  cultures  and 
religions that are thousands of years old. Any doctrine 
based  on  racial  or  cultural  superiority  must  be  firmly 
rejected. Equally unacceptable is the intention of some 
to identify certain cultures and religions with terrorism 
and violence. 
To  succeed  in  establishing  a  culture  of  peace, 

clear  commitments  and  concrete  actions  to  promote 
sustainable  development  and  environmental  protection 
are necessary. Obstacles to the exercise of the right of 
peoples to self-determination must be also eliminated. 

There cannot be a culture of peace as long as the 
acquisition  of  territories  through  war  is  not  recognized 
as unacceptable and some States act in ways contrary to 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and  international  law.  A 
culture  of  peace  is  not  promoted  by  threatening  the 
sovereignty and independence of other nations. How can 
a  culture  of  peace  be  achieved  if,  on  one  hand,  annual 
military  expenditures  increase  at  a  dizzying  rate  — 
reaching the chilling figure of $1.531 trillion — while, 
on the other hand, the number of hungry people reaches 
the  record  figure  of  925  million  —  nearly  one  sixth  of 
the world’s population? 

The introduction of the study of different cultures 
and  civilizations  in  educational  curricula  would  be  an 
excellent  contribution  to  a  culture  of  peace.  The 
teaching of languages, history and the philosophies of 
civilizations could be also included. 

Mass  media  also  have  an  important  role  in 
spreading  human  values.  We  must  promote  ethical 
conduct and responsibility on the part of the media, so 
that  they  contribute  to  mutual  respect  and  dialogue 
among civilizations. 
Cuba supports the Declaration and Programme of 

Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  the  Global Agenda 
for Dialogue among Civilizations and its Programme of 
Action.  We  also  support  UNESCO  programmes  and 
practical initiatives on this topic. 
intercivilizational 
interreligious  and 
A better world is possible. As wisely stated in the 

Constitution  of 
the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization, “since wars begin 
in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the 
defences  of  peace  must  be  constructed”.  The  solution 
lies in our hands. We must act without further delay so 
that  a  culture  of  peace  and  the  Alliance  among 
Civilizations  finally  prevail  over 
the  culture  of 
violence and war. 
Mr. Kleib (Indonesia): Let me begin by thanking 

the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  intercultural, 
interreligious 
dialogue 
(A/65/269).  We  are  also  grateful  for  the  report  of  the 
Director-General of UNESCO on the activities carried 
out  during  the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of 
Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World, 
2001-2010 (see A/65/299). 

Indonesia  welcomes  and  commends  the  role  of 
the  various  United  Nations  entities  in  supporting 
intercultural, 
intercivilizational 
cooperation  worldwide.  Indonesia 
is  also  deeply 
appreciative  of  the  work  of  the  Tripartite  Forum  on 
Interfaith  Cooperation  for  Peace  and  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations to promote a culture of peace. 

Efforts to promote a culture of peace represent an 
important part of the interaction among all cultures and 
civilizations. Dialogue and cooperation among peoples, 
cultures, religions, faiths and civilizations are essential 
for the growth of a global culture of peace. There is no 
doubt that much of the future of humankind depends on 
peaceful 
among 
civilizations,  cultures  and  religions.  Unfortunately, 
religious 
than 
diminishing, are on the increase.  
In  the  face  of  the  recent  polarization  among 

peoples, as faith-based discrimination and racism were 
seen to be on the rise, we continue to believe that what 
unites us is much greater than what divides us. In our 
view, there is always room to nurture and celebrate our 
common  values.  It  is  our  responsibility  to  ensure  that 
the world’s rich cultural diversity is appreciated as the 
divine blessing that it is. 
That diversity is the invaluable collective heritage 

of  humankind,  which  we  ought  to  celebrate  and 
treasure.  In  order 
to  our 
advantage,  we  need  to  scale  up  efforts  to  combat 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
turn  our  diversity 
cooperation 
hatred 
and 
intolerance, 
rather 
coexistence 
and 
and 
to 
22 

10-58990 
leader 


intolerance,  including  discrimination  against  persons 
based on their religion and beliefs. 

In our much more connected world today, action 
by  a  small  and  distant  group  can  inflict  significant 
damage  upon  all  the  international  community.  As  we 
saw  only  recently,  religious  radicalism  by  a  local 
religious  minority 
is  capable  of  causing 
considerable  damage  to  global  interfaith  harmony  and 
world peace. 

Indonesia  would  therefore  like  to  see  efforts  to 
promote  a  culture  of  peace  focusing  more  on  the 
minority elements at strategic social levels, particularly 
those  who  lead  groups  of  people.  In  that  connection, 
we are concerned about the absence of a multilaterally 
negotiated  instrument  containing  normative  standards 
that can help diffuse religious radicalism. It is an ideal 
which we should work towards establishing. 

Indonesia  is  firmly  committed  to  promoting  a 
culture of peace. We keenly support initiatives that deal 
with  the  challenges  of  cultural  diversity,  as  they  are 
very  much  in  line  with  what  we  are  already  doing  in 
Indonesia.  Dialogue  and  mutual  accommodation 
among faiths and cultures have featured prominently in 
Indonesia’s history. That is how we have woven, from 
the many strands of our ethnic cultures and traditions, 
the  single  fabric  of  our  nationhood.  In  Indonesia, 
dialogue is a prominent tool for ensuring harmony and 
peaceful  living  among  the  various  communal  groups 
and  for  ensuring  stability  and  promoting  development 
at the national level. 
Moreover,  we  empower  the  moderates  whose 

voices would otherwise be drowned by the agitation of 
extremists.  In  Indonesia,  we  are  also  organizing 
interfaith  and  intercultural  dialogue  at  the  regional, 
interregional  and  global  levels.  We  have  organized 
such  dialogue  in  tandem  with  other  Governments, 
international  organizations,  civil  society  and  the  mass 
media.  Here,  at 
the  United  Nations,  we  have 
consistently  supported  all  resolutions  on  the  agenda 
item “Culture of peace”. 

Indonesia  also  attaches  great  significance  to  the 
initiatives  of  Member  States  to  promote  respect  for 
diversity,  freedom,  justice  and  tolerance.  All  such 
existing 
intercultural  and 
intercivilizational  dialogue  have  become  part  of  a 
global network aimed at promoting peace and harmony. 
initiatives 
in 
interfaith, 
A/65/PV.32
to  communities 

However, it is important to point out that even all 
those undertakings are not enough if they remain only 
within  conference  halls.  We  must  therefore  recognize 
that, indeed, dialogue is not an end in itself. All those 
dialogues  going  on  all  over  the  world  today  will 
amount  to  nothing  if  they  do  not  lead  to  cooperative 
action at the grass-roots level. 

It  is  our  responsibility  to  ensure  that  those 
dialogues lead to the development of communities that 
work  for  the  welfare  of  their  fellow  human  beings, 
while enlightening one another on the need for mutual 
understanding  and  mutual  appreciation.  Dialogue 
should foster  communities  that take on  a positive role 
in  the  life  of  the  nation  by  encouraging  and  inspiring 
the Government to adhere to democratic principles and 
to  promote  and  protect  human  rights  and  individual 
freedoms, regardless of ethnicity or religion. It should 
lead 
that  appreciate 
the  unique 
qualities and perspectives of other peoples. 

If all nations can nurture such communities, then 
we are well on our way to developing a global culture 
of peace. 
Mr.  Cabactulan  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  I 

would  like  to  extend  the  gratitude  of  the  Republic  of 
the Philippines to the President for his able leadership 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session. As 
the community of nations moves forward in pursuit of 
our  common  goals  of  lasting  peace,  progress  and 
prosperity,  may  I  express  the  firm  commitment  of  the 
Philippines to work closely with him and our partners 
in order to achieve our shared vision for ourselves and 
our posterity. 

We  meet  at  a  time  of  great  opportunities  and 
many  challenges.  Technological  developments,  all 
made at a breakneck pace, bring the bright promise of 
our peoples being drawn ever closer together. Yet even 
as  we  see  different  peoples  and  communities  coming 
together in the spirit of understanding and charity with 
the  message  of  peace  and  coexistence,  there  are  those 
who  seek  to  break  the  bonds  of  goodwill  that  have 
brought  many  peoples 
those  dark 
elements  seek  to  inflict  pain  and  suffering,  to  foster 
rancour and resentment, and to force violence and fear 
upon the world. 

It  is  regrettable  that  our  people  have  to  endure 
violence  in  its  many  malevolent  forms.  Peoples  are 
broken  further  apart  by  those  who  seek  to  sow 
confusion,  doubt  and  suspicion.  There  are  those  who 
together.  For 
10-58990 

23 

their 
other 
those  acts 
joins 
in  all 
religion  have  been 
A/65/PV.32 

prey  on  the  disenfranchised  and  the  marginalized  and 
surreptitiously  use  the  faith,  culture  and  religion  of 
others to push and justify their own dark agenda. Faith, 
culture  and 
turned  against 
themselves  and used to drive people to despair and to 
perform acts of violence. 

The  Philippines 
nations 
in 
condemning 
forms  and 
manifestations.  The  Philippines  likewise  asserts  that 
such acts should not be associated in any way with any 
culture, faith or religion. 

For the Philippines and, indeed, for the rest of the 
world,  faith,  culture  and  religion  rightly  give  millions 
of  people  hope  in  this  world,  the  will  to  treat  others 
like  themselves,  and  the  impetus  to  work  with  others 
towards  a  more  inclusive  and  more  understanding 
world. That abiding belief has moved us to harness the 
world  community’s  collective  strength 
to  further 
strengthen  the  foundations  of  a  world  respectful  of 
humanity’s diversity. 

Civil  strife  in  the  southern  Philippines  brought 
out  the  importance  of  interfaith  dialogue  in  the 
promotion  of  understanding,  peace,  cooperation  and 
development  among  stakeholders.  In  that  same  spirit, 
Mindanao  will  once  again  commemorate  its  annual 
Week  of  Peace,  begun  in  the  mid  1990s.  Our  work 
continues  to  this  day,  with  interfaith  dialogue  and 
reconciliation remaining key features of the Philippine 
medium-term development plan. 

Seeking  to  engage  the  world  community  in  that 
endeavour, in 2004 the Philippines initiated resolution 
59/23,  on  the  promotion  of  interreligious  dialogue. 
That  resolution  proved  to  be  a  landmark  in  that  it 
opened  the  portals  of  the  United  Nations  to  interfaith 
partnerships and cooperation in the cause of justice and 
peace. 
Since  then,  we  have  seen  a  series  of  resolutions 

on 
interfaith, 
intercivilizational 
dialogue  approved  by  consensus:  resolution  60/10, 
entitled  “Promotion  of  interreligious  dialogue  and 
cooperation  for  peace”;  resolutions  61/221,  62/90  and 
63/22, 
the  Philippines  and 
Pakistan from 2006 to 2008; and resolution 64/81, also 
jointly  presented  by  the  Philippines  and  Pakistan,  on 
the  promotion  of 
intercultural 
cooperation for peace. 
interreligious  and 
interreligious  and 
introduced  by 
jointly 
on 
(NGOs)  at 
intercultural 
Interreligious 
The  concrete  outcomes  of 
to  handle,  within 
interreligious, 
all 

those  resolutions 
include  the  holding  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
High-Level  Dialogue 
and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace; 
the designation of the Office for Economic and Social 
Council  Support  and  Coordination  in  the  Department 
of Economic and Social Affairs as the focal unit in the 
Secretariat 
the  United  Nations 
system, 
and 
intercivilizational  matters;  and  the  proclamation  of 
2010  as  the  International Year  for  the  Rapprochement 
of Cultures. 

A  core  group  of  16  countries,  3  United  Nations 
bodies  and  the  110-member  Committee  of  Religious 
Non-Governmental  Organizations 
the 
United  Nations  was  formed,  leading  to  the  holding  in 
2005  of  the  Conference  on  Interfaith  Cooperation  for 
Peace at United Nations Headquarters. That became the 
troika of the Tripartite Forum on Interfaith Cooperation 
for  Peace,  which  has  now  grown 
include  
55  Governments,  15  United  Nations  agencies  and  110 
religious NGOs at the United Nations. It has developed 
a  new  paradigm  of  understanding  and  cooperation, 
which is described as faith-fuelled and love-inspired. 

Likewise,  an  informal  summit  of  like-minded 
world  leaders  met  in  2005  on  the  sidelines  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  adopted  a  declaration  urging 
efforts 
and 
intercivilizational  dialogue  and  cooperation.  We  have 
postponed  the  similar  informal  summit  scheduled  for 
this year until next year so that it can be immediately 
preceded by a ministerial meeting. 
Beyond these positive developments at the United 

Interfaith 
Nations, 
Dialogues  have  been  held: 
Jakarta;  Cebu, 
Philippines; Waitangi, New Zealand; Phnom Penh; and 
Perth,  Australia.  Between  regions,  we  have  had  six 
interfaith  dialogues  in  the  Asia-Europe  Meeting:  in 
Bali, Indonesia; Larnaca, Cyprus; Nanjing, China; and 
in Amsterdam, Seoul and Madrid. 

The  following  have  also  been  held:  the  third 
Global  Inter-Media  Dialogue,  in  Bali;  the  World 
Conference  on  Dialogue,  in  Madrid;  the  sixth  general 
meeting  of  the  World  Public  Forum  “Dialogue  of 
Civilization”,  in  Rhodes,  Greece;  the  second Alliance 
of  Civilizations  Forum,  in  Istanbul,  Turkey;  the  2009 
Parliament  of  the  World’s  Religions,  in  Melbourne, 
five  Asia-Pacific  Regional 
interreligious, 
intercultural 
for 
to 
in 
24 

10-58990 


Australia; and the third Congress of Leaders of World 
and Traditional Religions, in Astana. 

In a clear demonstration of its commitment to the 
cause of interfaith dialogue, the Philippines hosted the 
special  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  ministerial 
meeting  on  interfaith  dialogue  and  cooperation  for 
peace  in  Manila  in  December  2009.  Espoused  by  118 
member  countries  of  the  NAM,  it  was  the  first 
movement  of  its  kind  that  mainstreamed  civil  society, 
particularly  the  religious  and  faith  organizations,  as 
governmental partners in such vital areas as peace and 
development. 

Those and other efforts have been documented in 
a  book  entitled  Peace  through  Interfaith  Dialogue: 
Philippine  Diplomacy  and  the  Promotion  of  Mutual 
Understanding, Respect and Tolerance. We are pleased 
to  provide  copies  of  this  book  to  the  members  of  the 
Assembly. 
In April 2010, I was honoured to join the special 

event  marking  the  commemoration  of  2010  as  the 
International Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures. 
Held  just  ahead  of  the  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons,  which  the  Philippines  chaired,  the 
event was a fitting capstone to what we have worked so 
hard to achieve all these years. 
But  our  work  is  not  yet  done.  Sustaining  the 

momentum  is  vital,  as  is  engaging  all  stakeholders  in 
the  interfaith  dialogue  process.  The  push  and  pull 
between 
together  for  dialogue, 
tolerance, understanding and respect, on the one hand, 
and  those  who  seek  the  fall  of  all  into  the  abyss  of 
suspicion, bigotry, confusion and violence, on the other 
hand,  continues.  We  must  continue  moving  forward 
together. 

For its part, the Philippines will continue to work 
closely with and consult our partners on the tabling of 
another  draft  resolution  on  the  agenda  item  on  the 
culture  of  peace.  We  seek  to  further  expand  interfaith 
dialogue 
inter  alia,  dialogue  with 
indigenous  peoples.  We  must  ensure  that,  on  the  road 
to  greater  peace  and  development,  dialogue  is  as 
inclusive and broad as possible. 

As we welcome the introduction of Jordan’s draft 
resolution  on  the  holding  of  World  Interfaith  Harmony 
Week (A/65/L.5) as a reminder of our continuing duties, 
we  will  consult  with  our  co-sponsors  on  the  best  way 
those  who  stand 
to 
include, 
10-58990 

A/65/PV.32
forward  on  the  proposal  for  a  decade  of  interreligious 
dialogue as we await the report of the Secretary-General 
on the matter at the sixty-sixth session. 

We  encourage  all  Member  States  to  submit  their 
comments on the Secretary-General’s report concerning 
the issue. We also urge all Member States to participate 
actively in the efforts to foster interfaith dialogue. 

The  road  ahead  of  us  and  the  journey  forward 
remain  long.  However,  we  are  confident  that  we  will 
reach  our  destination,  with  every  milestone  that  we 
achieve.  Fully  resolved  to  turn  our  vision  into  reality, 
we will forge on undeterred, learning from each other, 
understanding one another and respecting others as we 
respect ourselves. 
Mr. Dos Santos (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): I 

would like to express the gratitude of the Government 
of  Paraguay  for  the  preparation  of  the  Secretary-
General’s report on agenda item 15, “Culture of peace” 
(A/65/269), and his note transmitting the report of the 
UNESCO  Director-General  (A/65/299).  We  are  sure 
they will contribute to our debate today. 

The  delegation  of  Paraguay  would  like  to  speak 
once again in support of the culture of peace. We want 
to  resolutely  cooperate  to  achieve  the  noble  objective 
of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Members:  achieving  a 
broad  and  deep  understanding  among  the  various 
cultures. For that, we have endorsed and will continue 
to support enthusiastically the initiatives for a dialogue 
between different peoples, Governments and religions. 

Humankind is unique in its origins but diverse in 
its  cultural  manifestations.  The  only  way  for  it  to 
overcome  the  injustice  and  violence  afflicting  it  is 
through dialogue. Dialogue must be based on accepting 
diversity.  In  violence,  unlike  dialogue,  there  is  no 
acceptance.  There  is  only  the  elimination  of  different 
ideas, or at least an attempt to do so. Dialogue will be 
dialogue only if we accept — or better yet, tolerate — 
the cultural and religious differences that identify each 
community and each nation but that, ultimately, are the 
inseparable elements that make up humankind. 

In order to promote the dialogue between cultures 
and civilizations, my delegation wishes to propose that 
the  United  Nations  proclaim  30  July  of  each  year 
World Friendship Day, to contribute to building a more 
fraternal  global  society,  thus  fostering  the  culture  of 
peace, 
the 
international  level,  without  any  kind  of  distinction  or 
discrimination.  This  initiative,  which  has  been  a 
respect  and  mutual  acceptance  at 
25 

intercultural 
interreligious, 
A/65/PV.32 

tradition  in  my  country  for  over  50  years,  has  the 
institutional  support  of 
the  Government.  It  was 
circulated  in  document  A/64/883  at  the  previous 
Assembly  session  and  was  announced  in  the  Hall 
during the general debate of the current session by the 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  my  country  as  a 
proposal to renew mutual appreciation and recognition 
between our peoples (see A/65/PV.23). 

Appropriately,  our  delegation  will  conduct  the 
relevant  consultations  with  the  various  countries  and 
regional  groups  in  order  to  present  shortly  a  draft 
resolution  that  proclaims  the  World  Friendship  Day.  I 
would  like  to  request  all  delegations  to  lend  their 
support  to  this  initiative  so  that  it  will  meet  with 
success. 
Mr. Salsabili (Islamic Republic of Iran): We are 

here today for a joint debate on two interrelated agenda 
items in order to follow up on the progress of our work 
on  the  enhanced  promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace  and 
the  Global  Agenda  for  Dialogue  among  Civilizations 
through 
and 
intercivilizational  dialogue  and  cooperation.  Let  me 
thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Director-General 
of  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and 
Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO)  for  all  of  their 
efforts  to  prepare  the  two  thought-provoking  reports 
contained  in  documents  A/65/269  and  A/65/299  on 
these  two  very  significant  items  on  the  agenda  of  the 
General Assembly. 

Cultural  diversity  as  the  centrepiece  of  the  two 
agenda  items  —  “Global Agenda  for  Dialogue  among 
Civilizations” and “Culture of peace” — is thoroughly 
discussed  and  reflected  in  these  two  reports  as  a  real 
and  basic  fact  of  today’s  regional  and  international 
relations.  Such  a  fundamental  fact  should  not  be  seen 
as  a  barrier  to  our  collective  endeavour  to  advance 
dialogue and understanding. 

Respect  for  cultural  diversity  at  the  national  and 
international  levels  and  recognition  of  the  fact  that 
cultural  diversity  is  a  source  of  unity  rather  than 
division  within 
international  community  will 
indeed  promote  peace  and  security.  Thus,  cultural 
diversity  is  an  asset  that  enriches  the  common  human 
cultural heritage. Hence, continued cultural domination 
through  policies  of  cultural  hegemony  and  efforts  to 
eliminate  cultural  identities  through  the  globalization 
process will result in major setbacks to  the promotion 
of  human  rights,  international  cooperation  and  the 
mutual enrichment of the cultural life of humankind. 
the 
the 
Religious 
intolerance, 
to 
should 
resist 
We  believe 
that  diversity 
flourish.  We 
lead  ultimately 
Repressive  measures 
On the other hand, respect for and understanding 

of  others  could  be  considered  key  elements 
in 
enhancing  international  cooperation.  The  practice  of 
listening to others rather than confronting or offending 
them  should  be  cultivated  and  promoted  as  a  culture 
among  actors  at  all  levels  of  international  politics. 
Globalization  as  a  process  can  pose  challenges  and 
create opportunities in this domain. 

increasingly 
in 
globalized world could take the form of disinformation 
through  the  global  media  and  modern  communication 
technologies. 
including 
Islamophobia,  created  as  a  result  of  aggressive  media 
policies,  seeks  to  demonize  particular  cultures  and 
to  hatred  and 
religions  and  can 
exclusion.  This  should  be  prevented 
through  an 
innovative  and  alternative  plan 
international 
for 
cooperation among all nations. 

is  necessary  for 
humankind 
the 
perceptions and temptations that set individual against 
individual,  group  against  group  and  nation  against 
nation. Above all, ways to eliminate the defamation of 
religions and discrimination based on religion or belief 
the 
should  be  deliberated.  Religious 
spreading 
racial 
discrimination  are  but  a  few  examples  of  issues  long 
faced by the international community. Many of us have 
voiced  our  vehement  condemnation  of  the  defamation 
of religions, yet we have continued to witness instances 
of poisonous actions against certain religions and their 
sacred books, beliefs and followers. The recent attempt 
to  put  the  Koran,  the  most  sacred  book  of  each  and 
every one of the more than 1.6 billion Muslims of the 
world, into a fire was a clear example of such a crime. 
Such actions should be duly dealt with by States. 
This alarming act was also a warning against the 

rising 
laws  and 
policies adopted and implemented against any religion. 
Attempts 
in 
particular,  people  of  certain  ethnicities  and  religious 
minorities  —  on  the  basis  of  their  religion  under 
various pretexts related to issues of security and illegal 
immigration  are  among  the  major  obstacles  to  our 
approach to respect cultural diversity. 

One  way  to  respond  could  be  to  enhance  the 
cultural  policies  of  Member  States  at  the  national  and 
regional  levels  in  order  to  strengthen  respect  for 
cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue in practical 
to  stigmatize  groups  of  people  — 
trend  of  discriminatory  national 
of 
hatred, 
xenophobia 
and 
intolerance, 
26 

10-58990 
On 
23  February, 
to 
the  events  marking 
is  actively  contributing 


terms. The Non-Aligned Movement Centre for Human 
Rights  and  Cultural  Diversity  in  Tehran  has  been 
established  and 
the 
promotion of such an idea. 

the 
Besides  honouring 
commemoration  of  2010  as  the  International  Year  for 
the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures,  one  of  the  other 
practical  achievements  in  the  process  of  promoting 
cultural diversity as a means of cooperation to enhance 
peace among different nations is respect for traditional 
common cultures. 
the  General  Assembly 

unanimously  adopted 
resolution  64/253,  entitled 
“International Day of Nowruz”. The resolution was the 
fruit of joint efforts by eight Member States, including 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  While  the  resolution 
reaffirms the purposes and principles of the Charter, in 
particular the achievements of international cooperation 
in the economic, social and cultural fields — including, 
inter  alia,  resolution  56/6,  on  the  Global  Agenda  for 
Dialogue  among  Civilizations;  the  Declaration  of  the 
Principles  of  International  Cultural  Cooperation,  and 
the  Universal  Declaration  on  Cultural  Diversity, 
adopted  by  UNESCO  —  it  also  underlines  the  appeal 
for  greater  solidarity  on  the  basis  of  recognition  of 
cultural  diversity,  of  awareness  of 
the  unity  of 
humankind  and  of  the  development  of  intercultural 
exchanges.  It  emphasizes  the  need  to  achieve  an 
objective  understanding  of  all  civilizations  and  to 
enhance  constructive 
interaction  and  cooperative 
engagement  among  civilizations  by  playing  a  major 
role  in  strengthening  the  ties  among  peoples  based  on 
mutual  respect  and  the  ideals  of  peace  and  good-
neighbourliness.  Nowruz  traditions  and  rituals  reflect 
the ancient cultural customs of the civilizations of East 
and  West  that  have  influenced  those  civilizations 
through the interchange of human values. 

Finally, let me confirm the fact that the promotion 
of  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  cultures  is  a  key 
component  of  UNESCO’s  mission  and  activities  and 
has  led  that  organization  to  shoulder  a  significant 
portion  of  that  task. With  this  in  mind,  my  delegation 
will spare no effort in cooperating at the next meeting 
of  the  UNESCO  High  Panel  on  Peace  and  Dialogue 
among  Cultures,  which  will  be  convened  by  the 
Director-General  of  UNESCO  within  the  next  two 
months  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  here  in  New 
York to identify new avenues and modalities for future 
action. 
A/65/PV.32
that 
Mr. Haroon (Pakistan): I thank the President for 

convening  this  very  important  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly this morning. From the attendance here, one 
can be absolutely sure that peace does not have as large 
a following in the Assembly as the elections did a few 
days  ago,  when  there  was  only  standing  room  here. 
And  of  course,  as  we  know,  anything 
is 
contentious  is  bound  to  lead  away  from,  and  not 
towards, peace. So, judging by the visuals here today, I 
fear  that  we  have  a  long  way  to  go  in  pursuing  this 
matter of introducing the culture of peace. 

I  am  not  terribly  sure  whether,  by  not  including 
the  culture  of  peace  in  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, we have done something good for this institution 
or not. But, surely, this matter is very important. 

We  start  off  by  citing  anything  that  becomes 
contentious as a danger to peace, but I think that there 
is  much  more  to  it  than  that.  There  will  always  be 
divisive policies, ideologies and the belief that might is 
right to inflict upon others what concerns people about 
their  way  of  life.  I  think  the  greatest  hindrance  to 
anything  cogent  emerging  is  that,  when  we  sit  in  this 
Hall,  we  all  speak  of  our  ways,  our  countries,  our 
delegations and our groups. If we continue to do that, I 
am not terribly sure that peace will prevail. There may 
be outward calm and there may be a lot that is not said 
out  of  respect  for  each  others’  feelings,  but  certainly 
peace will not prevail in the world or in this Hall, other 
than in outward appearance. 

The  Charter  of  the  Organization  has  enunciated 
the principles of practising tolerance, living together in 
peace with one another as good neighbours, uniting our 
strengths  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security 
and  promoting  social  progress  and  better  standards  of 
life  in  larger  freedom.  I  think  that  the  moment  the 
Charter  spells  out  the  concept  of  good  neighbours,  it 
seems like an exclusion or preclusion of those beyond 
our  boundaries  who  consider 
to  be 
impregnable or invulnerable as sovereign States. 

Peace  should  not  be  just  the  extension  of  good-
neighbourly  relationships;  it  should  go  beyond  and 
exist  as  a  culture.  That  is  what  we  are  saying  here 
today.  I  find  that  the  Charter  is  not  sufficient.  It  is  in 
fact deficient in the proclamation of what we are trying 
to achieve. 

In  1999,  we  reaffirmed  our  intention  to  continue 
to work to achieve peaceful coexistence in line with the 
United  Nations  Charter.  That  was  a  declaration  based 
themselves 
10-58990 

27 

education, 
dialogue, 
cooperation 
those  who  sign 
A/65/PV.32 

on  the  principles  of  multilateral  cooperation,  respect 
for  life,  the  promotion  and  practice  of  non-violence 
through 
and 
commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes. 

Now, as far as the peaceful settlement of disputes 
is concerned, I am afraid that nowhere in the world — 
judging  from  the  fact  that  accidents  taking  place  on 
narrow  streets  can  be  the  pretext  for  small-scale,  or 
even  large-scale,  rioting  —  have  we  really  even 
conceived  of  a  culture  that  would  promote  peace 
instead.  And  history  has  proven  that  no  trauma  that 
follows  such  disputes  can  be  resolved  by  a  peaceful 
ending. 

Some  of  the  greatest  changes  in  history  have 
taken place on the backs of disputes that have changed 
the way humankind thinks. They have changed the way 
the  Earth  is  progressing  towards  a  better  future.  I  am 
afraid that that culture cannot be born out of a lack of 
dispute  when  disputes  are  settled  with  verbiage  that 
cannot  be  understood  by 
the 
documents.  These  things  will  have  to  be  resolved  in 
their  own  fashion.  It  is  that  resolution  which  leads  to 
change, not the words spelled out in a document. 

I  know  that  we  have  a  common  set  of  universal 
values. Peace is the core message of all religions. It is 
not war alone that challenges peace, but it is one of the 
primary 
first 
introduction  of  war  on  this  planet  was,  in  fact,  at  the 
beginning  of  the  new  age  that  started  in  the  first 
century, when Judaism was joined first by Christianity, 
and  later  with  Islam.  The  monotheistic  religions  on 
record have produced more wars and more suffering in 
history 
the 
than  anything  else  before 
profession of faith is based upon peace. 
So we have to understand that it is peace that we 

seek. The culture of this peace is not easily definable. 
If  Charles  I  of  England  had  not  abrogated  Parliament 
and  sent  the  Rump  Parliament  home,  the  changes  that 
brought democracy and the Commonwealth to England 
might  never  have  taken  place. Yet  from  that  catharsis 
and that trauma grew a very serious pledge to steer the 
world towards better peace. 
Unfortunately,  religion  keeps  a  strong  grip  on 

hate.  Hate  is  a  very  strong  weapon  in  the  hands  of 
different  faiths,  and  it  is  being  used  mercilessly.  The 
complete  killing  of  the  Mayan  culture  in  Central 
America  was  based  not  on  a  profession  of  peace  and 
love, but upon hate and the extermination of an entire 
lack  of  peace.  The 
indicators  of 
them,  yet 
to 
the  people  of 
culture — not just the extermination of the people, but 
the burning of their famous libraries, which many now 
believe  to  have  been  the  largest  repositories  of  world 
science, education and history. 

Today  we  see  in  various  parts  of  the  world  all 
sorts  of  misunderstandings  that  are  again  based  on 
faith. We had a recent expression of it here in America, 
where  hate  was  again  put  forward  in  an  attempt  to 
create Samuel Huntington’s clash of civilizations. I feel 
that we are very lucky that due cognizance was taken, 
and I say this with a great amount of respect for many 
organizations,  not  only  the American  Government  but 
the Organization of the Islamic Conference, which kept 
a harness on the issue and brought it to its due end. 

We need to stand together to decry those who, in 
the  name  of  faith,  extend  agendas  that  are  no  longer 
acceptable 
this  world.  Finding 
common ground is certainly important, but I feel that, 
more than that, among the great things that are needed, 
one  would  be  education. A  second  would  be  an  easily 
available,  honest  and  sincere  approach  to  justice.  To 
my  mind,  the  third  would  be  the  acceptance  of  a 
common  agenda  in  all  constitutions  of  the  world  that 
profess and express the need for a culture of peace as a 
preamble  and  a  necessity  —  not  mere  lip  service,  but 
an understanding of its implications. We should pass it 
into law. 

I would say that, when we co-sponsored interfaith 
harmony in the General Assembly with the Philippines; 
when we speak in many ways in the Assembly; and, of 
late,  when  I  see  my  colleagues  from  the  Indian  desk 
sitting  here,  we  have  gone  a  long  way  in  trying  to 
promote understanding. That understanding manifested 
itself beautifully in the recent tennis finals of the most 
senior  tournament  in  the  world  today,  the  US  Open, 
where  it  was  important,  I  believe,  for  India  and 
Pakistan  to  show  the  world  that  we  could  move 
towards peace as well. 

We  recognize  the  growing  need  to  promote 
harmony  in  all  its  manifestations,  and  we  believe  that 
we  must  take  away  challenge  and  replace  it  with 
acceptance.  We  should  take  away  harassment  and 
replace  it  with  tolerance. We  should  take  away  hatred 
and  bring  it  towards  understanding.  Cooperation,  not 
the clash of civilizations, must be the paradigm for our 
future  on  this  planet.  In  order  to  make  this  world  a 
better  place  for  our  children,  we  should  share  the 
responsibility  to  highlight  and  propagate  our  common 
28 

10-58990 


values  of  peace,  tolerance,  equality  and  sharing  — 
which we have forgotten — and a respect for humanity. 
We  should  encourage  the  next  generation  to  use 
education and exchange not only to adapt to modernity,  
A/65/PV.32
but  to  use  modernity  and  technology  to  change  the 
world into a better and more peaceful place for all. 

The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
10-58990 

29 
