
A/65/PV.24
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

24th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 29 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.  


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
The President (spoke in French): I give the floor 

to  the  chair  of  the  delegation  of  the  Republic  of 
Moldova. 
Mr. Cujba (Republic of Moldova): At the outset, 

I would like to join previous speakers in addressing our 
sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session  and  to  assure  you  of  the  full  support  of  our 
delegation. 

This year, the general debate is being held on the 
eve of the sixty-fifth anniversary of the entry into force 
of 
the 
foundation  of  our  Organization.  For  more  than  six 
decades,  the  United  Nations  has  been  tested  by 
numerous challenges and crises. Today, we can proudly 
state  that  it  has  proven  its  relevance,  importance  and 
vision for humankind. 

We  extend  our  appreciation  to  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless  efforts  in  steering  the 
work  of  this  global  Organization  and  addressing 
critical 
commend  his 
in  convening 
the  High-level  Plenary 
engagement 
Meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  during  which  Member  States,  including  my 
own  country,  assessed  the  progress  achieved  and  the 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  which 
international 
issues.  We 
laid 
to 
to  express  our  appreciation 
numerous  challenges  we  face  in  implementing  the 
MDGs. 

The  Republic  of  Moldova  is  committed  to  the 
accomplishment  of  the  MDGs  by  2015. As  a  member 
of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  Moldova 
presented  its  comprehensive  national  voluntary  report 
on  the  MDGs  during  the  Council’s  annual  ministerial 
review meeting in July. The inclusion of the MDGs in 
our national policies and their effective implementation 
are among my Government’s main priorities. I take this 
opportunity 
the 
organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system  for  their 
support in reaching the Goals. 

The  economic  and  financial  crises  that  beset  the 
international  community  have  been  exacerbated  by 
food  insufficiency  and  natural  disasters,  local  and 
regional 
transborder 
criminality.  The  issues  on  the  agenda  of  the  United 
Nations  reflect  modern  realities  and  challenges.  I 
would  like  to  bring  to  the Assembly’s  attention  a  few 
areas that are of the utmost importance, namely, human 
rights  and  democracy,  welfare  and 
sustainable 
development,  climate  change,  peace  and  security  and, 
last but not least, the reform of the United Nations. 

Building  a  state  of  law  lies  at  the  heart  of  the 
overall  activities  of  the  Moldovan  Government.  The 
development  of  legal  and  institutional  frameworks  in 
the  area  of  human  rights  and  strengthening  human 
rights  protection  mechanisms 
among  our 
Government’s  main  objectives.  While  our  country  is 
characterized  by  diversity  and  multiculturalism  and 
conflicts, 
terrorism 
and 
are 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55408 (E) 
*1055408* 


time 
rights 
human 
towards 
the  first 
protecting 
A/65/PV.24 

intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue,  we  reiterate 
our  commitment  to  fighting  extremism,  xenophobia 
and other forms of racism and discrimination.  
Our  country  became  a  member  of  the  Human 

Rights  Council  for 
in  2010.  Our 
membership  is  in  line  with  Moldova’s  irreversible 
course 
and 
fundamental freedoms. We assumed the commitment to 
contribute to the prevention of human rights violations 
through  our  active  participation  in  the  Council’s 
activities.  We  will  present  our  first  national  report 
under  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism  in 
2011. 

I  would  also  like  to  point  out  that  Moldova  is  a 
State party to nearly all multilateral treaties in the field 
of human rights within the United Nations system. Last 
week,  we  deposited  with  the  Secretary-General  our 
ratification document on the Convention on the Rights 
of  Persons  with  Disabilities.  We  will  soon  become  a 
full-fledged  member  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC),  following  the  recent  ratification  by  the 
Parliament  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  of  the  Rome 
Statute of the ICC. 

the  appeals 
articulated in various United Nations forums that more 
be invested in the advancement of women. We support 
the  Secretary-General’s  Global  Strategy  for  Women’s 
and Children’s Health. Likewise, we are confident that 
the  new  entity,  UN  Women,  will  contribute  to  the 
consolidation  of  international  efforts  to  achieve  the 
goals of equality and advancement for all women. 

Although the impact of the global economic crisis 
has  had  a  negative  effect  on  the  economy  of  the 
Republic of Moldova, including on the achievement of 
MDG  targets,  the  crisis  has  also  constituted  a  turning 
point  in  starting  new  economic  reforms,  building  up 
innovative  partnerships  and  mobilizing  all  national 
stakeholders in order to create a sustainable economic 
and  social  system.  To  that  end,  the  Government  has 
proceeded 
the  country’s  development 
paradigm 
investments, 
innovations  and  competitiveness,  creating  new  jobs 
and undertaking robust measures in the area of poverty 
reduction. 

Those goals will not be achieved unless we create 
a  healthy  and  eco-friendly  environment  while  putting 
in place a sound infrastructure that protects our wealth 
and  families  from  natural  disasters.  In  recent  years, 
to  change 
to  an  economy  based  on 
We  express  our  solidarity  with 
has 
integrated 
confronted 
considerable 
Moldova 
natural 
calamities, from acute droughts to harsh floods, whose 
devastating impact and  frequency have  increased each 
year.  The  harm  caused  to  the  population,  agricultural 
and food production sectors and the overall economy is 
immeasurable. 

On  behalf  of  my  Government,  I  would  like  to 
express  our  sincere  gratitude  to  our  development 
partners  and 
to  Governments  and  multilateral 
organizations for their prompt response and assistance 
in  overcoming  the  consequences  of  the  severe  floods 
that affected our country last summer. I would also like 
to extend our particular gratitude to the United Nations 
Office  in  Moldova  for  its  support  in  assessing  post-
disaster  needs.  For  its  part,  my  country  has  also 
extended a helping hand to others in need, contributing 
$100,000 to the people of Haiti. 

We  believe  that  the  adoption  of  a  post-Kyoto 
treaty  is  more  relevant  and  vital  than  ever  before. We 
have to address the challenge of climate change with a 
synergy  of  national  and 
international 
responses.  We  look  forward  to  a  positive  outcome  to 
the forthcoming Conference in Cancún. 

The  latest  global  crises  have  emphasized  the 
central  role  the  United  Nations  is  to  play  in  the 
mobilization of efforts by the international community 
and, more than ever, the need to increase the efficiency 
of 
the 
multilateral  potential  of  the  United  Nations  should  be 
pragmatically  adapted  to  the  new  realities,  enhancing 
its  influence  in  strict  accordance  with  the  United 
Nations  Charter. The  United  Nations  system  therefore 
ought  to  be  optimized  by  strengthening  its  main  and 
subsidiary  bodies  in  order  to  avoid  duplication  by 
different  United  Nations  structures.  In  addition  to 
increasing  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  United 
Nations  activities,  that  reform  will  save  significant 
resources,  which  can  be  redirected  to  priority  areas 
where the Organization’s support is most needed. 

A major component of the United Nations revival 
is the reform of the Security Council. We welcome the 
results 
intergovernmental 
negotiations and believe that the success of the reform 
requires  political  commitment  by  all  Member  States. 
We share the view that Council membership should be 
expanded  in  both  categories  and  that  one  additional 
non-permanent seat should be  allocated to the Eastern 
European Group. 
the  Organization.  Efforts 
to  strengthen 
achieved 
during 
the 
2 

10-55408 
that 
The 
terrorism  continuously 
to  which  Moldova  made 
importance  of  cooperation 


to  enhance 

international 
security,  promote  disarmament  and  
non-proliferation  and  counter  international  terrorism 
has  been  stressed  by  many  speakers  in  the  Hall.  The 
terrorist  acts  occurring  in  different  parts  of  the  world 
demonstrate 
threatens 
international  security,  fundamental  democratic  values 
and human rights. The Republic of Moldova condemns 
terrorism and extremism in all its forms and expresses 
its entire support for the implementation of the United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. 

After  many  years  of  deadlock,  significant 
progress in disarmament and non-proliferation in all its 
aspects  was  made  this  year.  The  new  United  States-
Russia  START  agreement,  the  nuclear  summit  in 
Washington  and the Review Conference of the Parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  are  just  a  few  of  the  positive  examples  of 
increased cooperation by Member States. We welcome 
the entry into force, on 1 August, of the Convention on 
Cluster  Munitions, 
its 
contribution,  as  well  as  the  launch  of  the  negotiations 
on an arms trade treaty. 

The  participation  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  in 
United Nations peacekeeping operations highlights our 
country’s  political  willingness 
to 
international  peace  and  stability  and  to  be  effectively 
engaged  in  building  a  strong  security  architecture 
through peacekeeping and peacebuilding activities. 

The  enhancement  of  international  cooperation  in 
the  field  of  conflict  settlement,  with  a  view  to 
preventing  future  occurrences  or  escalation  of  crisis 
situations that jeopardize the sovereignty and territorial 
integrity  of  States,  is  of  primary  importance  for  my 
country  as  it  confronts  the  secessionism  phenomenon 
in its eastern districts. 

The  Republic  of  Moldova  continues  to  face 
significant security challenges generated by separatism 
in  the  Transnistrian  region  of  the  country.  Eighteen 
years  since 
the  ceasefire  agreement  was  signed, 
Moldova  remains  artificially  divided.  Because  of  that, 
the  whole  system  of  international  commitments  in  the 
fields  of  democratic  governance,  human  rights  and 
arms  control  is  not  functioning  in  that  part  of  our 
national  territory.  The  local  population  is  living  in  a 
situation  of  a  legal  vacuum,  with  no  clear  future. 
Foreign  forces  are  still  stationed  in  Moldova,  despite 
the  lack  of  consent  of  the  host  Government  and 
to  contribute 
A/65/PV.24
is 
to 
the 
the  full 
territorial  reintegration  of 
to  provide  much-needed  support 
previous  decisions  and  commitments  regarding  their 
withdrawal. 

At  the  same  time,  it  is  absolutely  obvious  that 
there  are  objective  considerations  in  resolving  the 
Transnistrian  problem.  The  practical  steps  undertaken 
by  the  Government  of  Moldova  clearly  show  that  the 
settlement  of  the  Transnistrian  conflict  is  one  of  its 
central priorities. We consistently advocate in favour of 
a policy of dialogue, openness and trust. Our efforts are 
concentrated  on  developing  regular  contacts  between 
Chisinau  and  Tiraspol  at 
level  of  political 
representatives,  as  well  as  in  the  working  groups 
created to build confidence in various areas. Our main 
goal 
the 
population  and  businesses  in  the  region,  including 
through international projects and programmes. 

International  partners  in  the  settlement  process 
are  also  showing  interest  in  increased  engagement 
aimed  at 
the 
Republic  of  Moldova.  That  positive  trend  should  be 
strengthened. The  first  step  in  that  direction  would  be 
the  earliest  possible  unconditional  resumption  of 
official  negotiations  in  the  “5+2”  format.  That  would 
allow us to start working on a formula for a viable and 
comprehensive  settlement  based  on  the  principles  of 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic 
of Moldova. 

It  would  also  offer  us  the  necessary  framework 
for  the  implementation  of  confidence-building  and 
reintegration projects, as well as for the transformation 
of  the  current  so-called  peacekeeping  operation  into  a 
multinational  civilian  mission  based  on  the  relevant 
international  standards  and  mandate.  In  that  context, 
we firmly believe that the summit of the Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  to  be  held  at 
the end of this year should provide a clear perspective 
for the settlement of the Transnistrian conflict and the 
withdrawal  of  foreign  forces  from  Moldova,  in  line 
with commitments undertaken at the previous summit. 

We would like to take this opportunity to reiterate 
our  principled  position 
situations, 
whenever they appear, seriously impact peace, security 
and  stability.  They  must  therefore  be  solved  on  the 
basis of full respect for the independence, sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of States. 

We  are  concerned  by  attempts,  particularly  by 
non-State entities, to misinterpret and restate the sense 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  advisory  opinion 
that  conflict 
10-55408 

3 

A/65/PV.24 

on Kosovo. Such attempts run counter to the spirit and 
substance  of  the  imperative  principles  of  international 
law  and  endanger  the  international  legal  order  and 
international security and stability. It is therefore of the 
utmost  importance  to  make  it  clear  that  international 
law  does  not  confer  the  right  for  ethnic,  linguistic  or 
religious  groups  to  break  away  from  the  territory  of  a 
State  of  which  they  form  part  without  that  State’s 
consent. 

Like  other  Member  States,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova fully shares the view that unilateral secession 
cannot  be  an  acceptable  way  of  resolving  conflict 
issues.  When  engaging  in  settlement  efforts,  we  must 
also proceed from recognition of the fact that each and 
every  case  is  unique  and  should  not  constitute  a 
precedent for addressing and settling other conflicts of 
different factual context. 

The  Republic  of  Moldova  is  determined  to 
advance  on  its  path  towards  European  integration, 
which  is  a  fundamental  priority  of  our  domestic  and 
foreign  policies.  The  achievement  of  that  goal  will 
enable  our  country  to  embark  on  a  course  of  stability 
and  prosperity  governed  by  democratic  values  and 
respect  for  fundamental  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law 
and economic freedom. 

have 
intensified in the past year, given the firm commitment 
of  our  Government  to  improve  ties  with  the  European 
Union (EU) and its member States. On 12 January, we 
successfully  launched  negotiations  on  the Association 
Agreement  and  held  three  rounds  of  negotiations, 
during  which  there  was  a  convergence  of  approaches. 
Moreover,  we  have  launched  three  dialogues  with  the 
European  Union,  on  human  rights,  visa  liberalization 
and  the  creation  of  a  broad  and  comprehensive  free-
trade  area.  We  are  confident  that  the  constructive 
approach of our cooperation process will contribute to 
the advancement of our country on the European track. 
We  are  grateful  to  EU  member  States  for  their  strong 
support  and  the  firm  shoulder  they  have  provided  for 
Moldova’s ambitious European agenda. 

Furthermore, we consider that since the adoption 
of  the  Lisbon Treaty,  new  opportunities  have  emerged 
for  enhanced  European  Union  cooperation  with  its 
international  partners,  including  the  United  Nations. 
We  express  our  support  for  the  active  and  efficient 
participation  of  the  European  Union  in  the  work  of 
General Assembly. 
Moldova-European  Union 
relations 
note 
because 
of 
the 
unfailing 
recommitment 
the  service  of 
the  Member  States  and 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the 
involvement of the Republic of Moldova in the work of 
the United Nations is one of the strategic objectives of 
our  foreign  policy.  Our  country  remains  committed  to 
achieving the objectives of the United Nations Charter, 
as  set  by  the  founding  fathers  65  years  ago  and 
embraced by all Member States. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  the  chair  of  the  delegation  of  the  Principality 
of Monaco. 
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 

like to convey to you, Sir, the warmest congratulations 
of the delegation of the Principality of Monaco on your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session. I would like to reiterate to you that, 
in my capacity as a member of the Bureau, I will spare 
no effort to  contribute to the success of your mandate 
in 
the 
Organization. 
We  are  preparing  to  begin  our  work  on  an 

international 
optimistic 
community’s 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as well as of 
the  belief,  reaffirmed  in  the  general  debate  now 
drawing  to  a  close,  that  the  United  Nations  is  at  the 
heart  of  global  governance  and  remains,  despite  the 
many  difficulties,  our  best  hope  for  ensuring  peace, 
development and justice. 

Economic  growth,  which  is  indispensable  to 
development  and  therefore  to  peaceful  international 
relations, cannot take off in the absence of well-defined 
and fair international rules and without respect for the 
rule of law at the national level. Our Organization has 
contributed  tirelessly  in  recent  years  to  strengthening 
the  capacities  of  Member  States  to  enable  them  to 
provide their citizens with the institutions necessary for 
them to flourish in their communities. The rule of law 
is  also  a  guarantee  that  the  fight  against  corruption  is 
not just a vain promise, that respect for human rights is 
universal and that justice is independent and impartial. 

The benefits of economic growth must be shared 
and equitable. They must take into account the needs of 
the  most  deprived  and  contribute  to  social  cohesion 
with  a  view  to  attaining  the  MDGs  and  involving  the 
full participation of all partners. 

That  is  the  thrust  of  Monaco’s  commitment 
within  the  Global  Governance  Group  —  the  3G  — 
to 
4 

10-55408 
unconditionally 


whose  members  are  convinced  of  the  need  to  involve 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
work of the Group of 20 (G-20), given relevance of the 
General Assembly agenda to international governance. 
In  that  regard,  I  draw  attention  to  the  ministerial 
declaration  of  the  Global  Governance  Group  adopted 
on  27  September,  with  a  view  to  contributing  to  the 
reflections of the working group on the development of 
the next G-20 summit, in Seoul in November. 

As His Serene Highness Prince Albert II recalled 
before  the Assembly,  the  Principality  is  determined  to 
act  as  a  responsible  partner  in  solidarity  and  will 
continue  its  mobilization  efforts,  both  through  its 
official  development  assistance  as  well  as  through  the 
provision  of  emergency  assistance 
to  populations 
struck by natural disasters (see A/65/PV.4). 

At a moment when the presence and activities of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  are  increasingly  needed  and  increasingly 
dangerous, the cause of refugees and displaced persons 
must  more  than  ever  be  placed  in  our  policies  and  be 
backed 
international 
community. Here we wish to express our recognition of 
the  devotion  of  the  thousands  of  people  who  labour 
under  the  banner  of  the  United  Nations,  at  times 
risking  their  lives,  both  in  humanitarian  emergency 
situations and in peacekeeping operations. 

The  role  of  women  in  driving  development  is 
now clear to all. I wish to pay tribute to the Secretary-
General  and  the  Deputy  Secretary-General  for  having 
strengthened  the  role  of  women  within  the  United 
Nations.  Monaco  welcomes  the  appointment  of  Ms. 
Michelle Bachelet to head  up UN Women and assures 
her of our full support. 
The Principality has also endorsed the conviction 

that  investing  in  the  health  of  women  and  children  is 
indispensable  for  building  societies  that  are  more 
stable,  more  peaceful  and  more  productive,  for 
reducing poverty and for stimulating economic growth. 
In  that  vein,  we  support  the  Global  Strategy  for 
Women’s  and  Children’s  Health,  which  represents  an 
additional  step  towards  the  full  empowerment  of 
women. 

As  atrocities  continue  to  be  perpetrated  against 
civilians,  especially  the  cowardly  crimes  of  sexual 
violence,  we  pay  tribute  to  the  courage  of  Special 
Representative  Ms.  Margot  Wallström  and  her 
commitment  to  making  the  international  community 
the 
by 
A/65/PV.24
to 
to 
importance 
the  greatest 
the  planet  by 
aware of its responsibility and to ensuring the effective 
implementation  of  resolution  1325  (2000)  as  we 
approach the tenth anniversary of its adoption. 

With  your  leadership,  Mr.  President,  and  our 
common will, the General Assembly has the means to 
demonstrate its central role in the major themes for our 
future  at  a  moment  when  we  are  all  aware  of  the 
shameful  damage  caused 
the 
overexploitation  of  its  wealth  and  biodiversity.  We 
therefore  attach 
the 
preparation  of  the  Rio+20  Conference  and  hope  that 
the green economy and the opportunities it affords will 
become a major vehicle for sustainable development. 

You  can  also  count  on  the  support  of  our 
delegation, Sir, with regard to the upcoming summit on 
non-communicable  diseases  and 
the  consultative 
process on revision of the statute of the Human Rights 
Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  which 
must  take  into  account  the  presidential  statement 
adopted at the ministerial-level meeting of the Security 
Council on 23 September (S/PRST/2010/18). 

At  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century,  our 
deliberations  must  contribute  to  bringing  together  and 
harmonizing  our  actions.  Only  our  Organization 
possesses  both  the  means  and  the  legitimacy  to 
successfully establish effective global governance, and 
we  must  all  show  pragmatism  and  work 
in  a 
constructive spirit to achieve our goals. 

The  interdependence  of  the  global  challenges 
which all of us are facing requires us to define together 
a  set  of  rules  aimed  at  coordinating  our  policies  and 
managing  relations  between  Governments,  the  private 
sector  and  civil  society.  We  share  your  belief,  
Mr.  President,  that  our  Organization  should  be  at  the 
heart  of  that  new  multilateralism,  which  should  be 
founded on integration and solidarity. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sonatane  Taumoepeau-
Tupou,  chair  of  the  delegation  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga. 
Mr.  Taumoepeau-Tupou  (Tonga):  I  too  offer 

you,  Sir,  my  warmest  congratulations  upon  your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
this  our  sixty-fifth  session.  Let  me  assure  you,  as 
always,  of  the  cooperation  and  support  of  the  Tongan 
delegation.  I  also  express  my  gratitude 
to  your 
predecessor  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Treki  for  his 
10-55408 

5 
that,  while 
the 
A/65/PV.24 

recently concluded term as President at our sixty-fourth 
session. 

I  wish  to  also  thank  the  tireless  Secretary-
General,  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  resolute  leadership  of 
the  Organization  during  these  times  of  unprecedented 
and  challenging  global  events.  We  also  acknowledge 
the enduring work of the Organization’s Secretariat and 
its agencies, and in particular those who have made the 
ultimate sacrifice in the furtherance of that work. 

A decade on, the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  continue  to  reflect  our  firm  global  resolve  to 
ensure a durably improved quality of life for all of our 
peoples — a global pursuit of happiness, if you will. It 
is  no  surprise,  then,  that  the  MDGs  are  now  a  core 
component of our national development planning.  

Tonga  has  recently  produced  its  second  national 
MDG  report,  which  highlights  positive  results  across 
the  eight  Goals.  With  regard  to  MDG  1,  on  the 
eradication  of  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  the  report 
suggests 
international  community 
acknowledges that Tonga does not suffer from extreme 
poverty  or  hunger,  there  are  some  households  that  do 
suffer  hardship,  and  their  needs  are  being  addressed. 
With  regard  to  Goal  2,  the  net  enrolment  ratio  in 
primary education for 2008 was 93 per cent, indicating 
that  Tonga  has  almost  achieved  universal  basic 
education. Goal 6, as it relates to halting and reversing 
the  incidence  of  non-communicable  diseases  by  2015, 
and  Goal  5,  as  it  relates  to  universal  access  to 
reproductive health, both remain challenges. 
the  continuing  uncertain  global 

economic  and 
remains 
committed, in the five years remaining until 2015, and 
beyond,  to  making  further  strides  towards  achieving 
the  MDGs.  We  look  forward  to  completing  one  such 
stride  on  MDG  6  next  year,  in  2011,  with  the  timely 
convening  of  a  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on 
control  of  
non-communicable diseases. 
The MDGs, in our view, as much as marking the 

advent  of 
reflect  our 
aspirational  goals  for  this  millennium  beyond  2015. 
Much  of  any  future  progress  for  Tonga  will  be 
contingent on our determination  and  ability to  rely on 
our own domestic efforts, complemented by the actions 
of  our  development  partners  and  the  international 
community. 
financial  climate,  Tonga 
twenty-first  century, 
the  prevention 
Yet  despite 
and 
the 

the 
they  drew 
the  Achievement  of 

At  the  annual  meeting  of  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum  leaders  held  in  Port  Vila  last  month,  leaders 
adopted  the  Port  Vila  Declaration  on  Accelerating 
Progress  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  wherein 
linkages 
between  the  attainment  of  the  MDGs  and  the  state  of 
progress in the 19 focal areas of the Mauritius Strategy 
for Implementation. 

If  the  landmark  Barbados  Programme  of  Action 
placed small island developing States (SIDS) firmly on 
the  global  agenda,  then  the  linkages  between  the 
MDGs and the Mauritius Strategy +5 Review (MSI+5) 
serve as an accurate compass for charting the direction 
that  small  island  developing  States,  their  development 
partners  and the international community need  to take 
to ensure progress. We join others in thanking the good 
Ambassadors  of  Luxembourg  and  Singapore  for 
brokering the consensus outcome of the MSI+5.  

Like  others,  Tonga  calls  for  the  creation  of  a 
formal  SIDS  category  within  the  United  Nations 
system that not only improves the internal linkages and 
infrastructure  within 
system  but  ultimately 
improves  its  ability  to  better  relate  to  and  respond  to 
the  needs  of  SIDS.  Without  some  measure  of 
adjustments to the manner in which the United Nations 
system addresses SIDS and SIDS issues, progress will 
remain stilted. 

Climate  change  properly  continues  to  dominate 
the majority of statements we have heard this week and 
last. In the end our collective ability as States could not 
adequately  meet  the  burden  of  global  expectations  in 
Copenhagen,  and  many  States  like  Tonga  were  left  to 
look  for  what  little  positive  outcome  the  Copenhagen 
Accord represents. Therein lies the potential for all of 
us  to  reach  beyond  our  narrow  national  and  regional 
interests 
in  Cancún  and  embrace  our  collective 
responsibility  and  duty  to  each  other  as  nation-States, 
particularly  to  those  States  that  are  most  vulnerable, 
least  responsible  for  this  situation  and  least  able  to 
address the capricious whims of climate change. 

In taking forward the work of the Pacific SIDS on 
the  consensus  resolution  entitled  “Climate  change  and 
its possible security implications” (resolution 63/281), 
we  would  join  others  in  strongly  encouraging  current 
and  prospective  members  of  the  Security  Council  to 
seize  the  moral  imperative  and  follow  the  momentum 
by 
the 
resolution.  As  the  final  arbiter  of  international  peace 
taking  positive  and  proactive  action  on 
6 

10-55408 
in  both 


and security, the Council must ensure it positions itself 
in an active leadership role on this issue. 

Tonga  continues  to  follow  the  course  of  the 
ongoing  exchanges  among  our  membership  on  the 
reform of the Security Council and the limited progress 
that  has  been  made  to  date.  An  organization  such  as 
ours  that  wishes  to  retain  its  broad  relevance  and 
global primacy in this day and age has to be open and 
willing to seriously reconsider those elements that give 
it  a  unique  and  distinctive  quality.  In  our  view,  the 
Security Council and its composition constitute one of 
those elements. 

We maintain our support for Council reform. It is 
already  somewhat  self-evident  that  there  should  be  an 
expansion 
categories  of  membership, 
permanent  and  non-permanent,  with  certain  States  — 
Japan,  Germany,  Brazil  and  India  —  being  worthy  of 
permanent  membership  on  an  enhanced  Council.  The 
permanent  membership  category  must  also 
take 
favourable account of seats for Africa.  

Tonga  remains  supportive  of  the  substantive 
efforts  for  direct  talks  by  President  Obama  and  his 
Administration, the Quartet and regional neighbours to 
find  a  comprehensive,  just  and  enduring  peace  in  the 
Middle  East.  Despite  the  pursuit  of  the  seemingly 
elusive  goal  of  two  States  living  side  by  side  within 
secure  borders  and  in  lasting  peace  and  genuine 
security,  including  a  viable  Palestinian  State  that  can 
realize the true potential of its people, we encourage all 
parties to continue this fresh round of dialogue with a 
renewed sense of purpose and conviction. 

Tonga  was  one  of  the  13  Pacific  SIDS  that 
participated  in  an  historic  summit  between  Pacific 
leaders and the League of Arab States earlier this year 
in  Abu  Dhabi  in  order  to  share  perspectives  on  the 
current  and  future  challenges  faced  by  our  respective 
regions. That historic summit and its outcome represent 
the  ever-expanding  development  of  Tonga’s  foreign 
policy  interests  to  include  countries  and  regions  that 
had  hitherto  not  been  considered.  That  development 
comes  firmly  on  the  heels  of  our  active  engagement 
with  the  International  Renewable  Energy Agency  and 
our  continuing  interest  in  the  potential  of  renewable 
energy  and  the  first-time  visit  to Tonga  and  a  number 
of  other  Pacific  SIDS  by  His  Highness  Sheikh 
Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan  to  develop  relations 
with  our  region.  In  that  regard,  we  acknowledge  with 
appreciation  the  Partnership  in  the  Pacific  Programme 
A/65/PV.24
particularly, 
the 
formal  presentation 
to 
result  of  our 
and its potential to meet the development aspirations of 
the peoples of the Pacific. 

Earlier  this  year,  Tonga,  in  compliance  with  its 
obligations  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  formally  presented  its  partial 
submission to the Commission on the Outer  Limits of 
the Continental Shelf. One issue of concern that arose 
as  a 
the 
Commission  is  the  likely  lengthy  time  frame  for 
consideration  of  submissions  such  as  Tonga’s.  We 
encourage  our  fellow  States  parties  to  the  Convention 
to thoughtfully consider the adjustments necessary  for 
the Commission to fulfil its mandate with respect to all 
States parties in a reasonably timely manner. 

Tonga welcomes the successful conclusion of the 
2010 review  of the Treaty  on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear  Weapons, 
continuing 
acknowledgement  of  the  concerns  of  SIDS  over  the 
safe  transport  of  radioactive  materials  by  sea  and  the 
announcement  by  the  United  States  of  its  intention  to 
pursue  ratification  of  the  Protocols  to  the  Treaty  of 
Rarotonga. 
When my Prime Minister addressed this body last 

year,  it  marked  the  tenth  anniversary  of  Tonga’s 
admission  as  a  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations. 
Our  admission  was  culmination  of  a  journey  towards 
statehood that began with tentative steps 135 years ago, 
in  1875,  with  the  granting  of Tonga’s  Constitution  by 
King George I. 

And after 135 years, we realize that our domestic 
system of governance needs to be strengthened in ways 
that  align  itself  more  readily  with  the  strong  and 
vibrant  systems  of  democratic  governance  prevalent 
today. And so, simultaneous with my delivery of these 
remarks here today is the historic closure of the current 
session of Tonga’s Legislative Assembly, the last under 
the existing system of governance. Elections under the 
new system are scheduled to take place later this year, 
on  25  November.  So  while 
the  modalities  for 
representation  have  been 
improving  democratic 
enhanced, 
freedoms 
guaranteed  in  the  Constitution  continue  to  protect  and 
support all Tongans. 

As any small island developing State appreciates, 
a  presence  here  in  New  York  represents  a  significant 
sacrifice of already scarce resources, but it is made in 
the  knowledge  that  despite  our  size,  our  remoteness 
and  our  geographical  isolation  we  are  not  immune  to 
fundamental  values  and 
the 
10-55408 

7 
reaffirms 
the 
it  be  reforming 
As  such,  Tonga 
financial  governance 
timely  nuance,  whether 
A/65/PV.24 

the  global  challenges  that  beset  us  all.  Therefore  we 
have  a  responsibility  to  our  Government  and  our 
people to be more than mere bystanders in the work of 
our Organization. 

rights  and 
responsibilities bestowed upon it by the United Nations 
Charter, and we pledge in our own way to continue to 
participate  actively  and  constructively  to  give  an 
enduring Tongan voice to the global issues of concern 
to us all. And while many subgroupings and variations 
of States such as the Group of 20 or the Group of Eight 
may convene from time to time for a particular purpose 
or 
the 
international 
institutions  or 
reinvigorating international environmental governance, 
the  pivotal  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  viable 
institution  remains  constant  against  an  ever-changing 
backdrop. 

Finally, 
any  other  65-year-old  might  be 
contemplating 
retirement,  but  our  Organization’s 
strength rests as much in the principles  of the Charter 
as it does in the people it must continue to inspire and 
remain  relevant  to,  especially  our  young  people. 
During this, the International Year of Youth, the United 
Nations  and  all  of  us  must  ensure  a  legacy  worth 
passing on to the next generation. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Camillo  Gonsalves,  chair 
of the delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. 
the 

the  Grenadines 
Grenadines):  Saint  Vincent  and 
welcomes, Sir, your ascension to the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session with a great 
deal of anticipation. As one of the primary architects of 
your own country’s membership in the United Nations, 
you have demonstrated your belief in the importance of 
this institution and its role in the modern international 
context.  As  you  stand  on  the  shoulders  of  the  giants 
who  have  preceded  you  in  this  role,  we  are  confident 
that  you  will  ably  apply  your  unique  set  of  skills  and 
experiences 
the  advancement  of  our  complex 
agenda. 
We  are  also  excited  by  the  theme  that  you  have 

proposed  for  your  tenure  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  namely,  reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the 
United Nations in global governance. It is a theme that 
resonates 
the 
Grenadines,  and  indeed  with  many  of  the  small  and 
loudly  with  Saint  Vincent  and 
Mr.  Gonsalves
(Saint  Vincent 
and 

marginalized  States  that  form  a  significant  part  of  the 
192 members of the General Assembly. 

We  small  States  have  emerged  as  some  of  the 
most  jealous  and  zealous  guardians  of  the  United 
Nations Charter. This vigilance is born of principle and 
necessity. The Charter is the document that guarantees 
our  place  in  the Assembly  as  the  sovereign  equals  of 
every  other  country  of  the  world. The  United  Nations 
remains the only venue that affords us both a seat and a 
voice  in  global  affairs.  To  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines,  the  United  Nations  must  be  the  centre  of 
global  governance  because  it  is  our  only  option  for 
global  governance.  There  are  some  States 
that 
fortuitously  find  themselves  in  the  inner  sanctums  of 
the Security Council — and the Group of Eight (G-8), 
and the Group of Twenty (G-20) and the Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development.  For 
them,  the  centrality  of  the  United  Nations  may  vary 
with  the  political  winds  or  the  shifting  sands  of  great 
power  intrigue.  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  has 
no such luxury. We cannot take our ball and go home, 
to play on other fields and interact in other forums. The 
United  Nations  is  all  we  have.  Its  centrality  in  global 
governance,  for  us,  is  therefore  an  essential  and 
indisputable truth. 

the  General 
You  assume 
Assembly, Mr. President, at a time when the centrality 
of the United Nations role is being challenged as never 
before.  Various  organizations  and  small  groupings  of 
States,  with  selective  membership  and  opaque  modus 
operandi,  have  coalesced  to  become  global  decision-
makers  and  shapers  of  our  post-Cold  War  existence. 
For  our  purposes, 
these 
groupings  have  formed  to  respond  to  or  to  precipitate 
the  declining  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations. 
However, the fact is that in the face of global crises of 
economy,  climate,  trade  and  reform,  we  have  been 
tested  and  we  have  been  found  wanting.  We  face  the 
real  threat  of  devolving  into  a  mere  talk  shop,  an 
amalgam  of  unwieldy  bureaucracies  or  a  toothless 
rubber  stamp  of  decisions  taken  elsewhere.  To  avoid 
such an ignominious fate, we must actively defend our 
role and legitimacy as the global centre of international 
governance  and  decision-making.  Permit  us 
the 
opportunity to offer a few simple suggestions to assist 
in achieving this goal. 

First,  for  the  concept  of  global  governance  to 
have  meaning  and  relevance,  we  must  inject  some 
measure of consistency and predictability into the rules 
irrelevant  whether 
leadership  of 
the 
is 
it 
to 
8 

10-55408 


that  govern  our  family.  Saint  Vincent  and 
the 
Grenadines  is  committed  to  the  international  rule  of 
law  and  the  role  of  the  institutions  that  advance  the 
rule  of  law  and  adjudicate  international  disputes. 
Governance  is  ineffective  if  the  rich  and  powerful 
among  us  can  place  themselves  beyond  the  ambit  of 
timely compliance with rules and decisions. 

In  that  regard,  we  cite  the  case  of  the  ongoing 
dispute  between  the  United  States  and  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  on  the  issue  of  online  gaming,  which  has 
already  been  adjudicated  in  Antigua  and  Barbuda’s 
favour  by  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO).  We 
urge those two countries — both strong friends of Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  —  to  quickly  arrive  at  a 
just and equitable resolution of this matter. Our region 
was  the  unfortunate,  and  no  doubt  unintended,  victim 
of  WTO  rulings  that  have  gutted  our  once-thriving 
banana  industry  and  threatened  to  stall  that  crucial 
engine  of  our  development.  The  case  against  banana 
tariffs  was  successfully  brought  to  the  WTO  by  the 
United  States,  which  does  not  grow  a  single  bunch  of 
bananas. We are confident that our friends will honour 
this  relatively  minor  gaming  ruling  as  we  have  been 
compelled  to  adapt  to  previous  paradigm-shifting 
decisions. 

Secondly,  the  resolutions  adopted  and  decisions 
taken by the General Assembly must have some worth 
beyond  the  paper  upon  which  they  are  printed.  In  the 
dusty  archives  of  our  body  are  hard-fought  decisions 
and  resolutions  on  Palestine,  on  human  rights  and  on 
the  economic  crisis.  We  have  made  annual  near-
unanimous  calls  for  an  end  to  the  Cuban  embargo. 
Then  our  documents  are  dutifully  filed  away  to  be 
ignored by dissenters or resuscitated in future sessions 
with,  at  best,  incremental  advancement.  As  long  as 
General Assembly  decisions  and  resolutions  remain  a 
buffet from which Member States can selectively pick 
and choose, our role in governance will continue to be 
hamstrung.  Member  States  must  take  the  sovereign 
decision 
international 
community  not  because  they  have  to  but  because  it  is 
the  right  thing  to  do.  If  we  continue  to  champion  the 
decisions  with  which  we  agree  while  disregarding  all 
others,  we  are  not  participating  with  good  faith  in  the 
deliberations of this body and we are doing violence to 
the very concept of a community of nations. 

Nor  should  States  manipulate  the  concept  of 
consensus to make it a virtual veto on United Nations 
action.  Consensus  must  always  be  a  central  goal,  but 
the  will  of 
to  honour 
the 
A/65/PV.24
the 
titled 
fast-start 
funding 
fatigue: 
that  was 
income  promised  by 
never  a  barrier,  to  decisive  action  by  the  General 
Assembly.  Necessary,  desirable  and  urgent  action 
cannot  be  sacrificed  on 
the  altar  of  consensus. 
Democracy  demands  that,  when  consensus  cannot  be 
achieved,  the  recorded  will  of  the  majority  should  be 
respected. 

Thirdly, we must hold every nation to account for 
commitments  that  have  been  voluntarily  taken.  Much 
has been written and said about donor fatigue, which is 
shorthand for the limited attention span of multilateral 
and  bilateral  donors  when  confronting  systemic 
development  issues.  Much  less  has  been  said  about 
commitment 
developing  world’s 
exasperation  with  oft-made  but  seldom-honoured 
commitments. But make no mistake, fatigue has set in, 
as we grow increasingly tired of waiting for the 0.7 per 
cent  of  gross  national 
the 
developed  world  at  the  International  Conference  on 
Financing  for  Development  in  Monterrey  in  2002,  the 
billions  pledged  at  the  G-8  Summit  in  Gleneagles  for 
the  doubling  of  aid  to  Africa,  the  $10  billion  in 
ironically 
to 
materialize this year for climate change adaptation and 
the $1.1 trillion promised by the G-20 in April 2009. 

To Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, therefore, it 
is  puzzling  how  some  of  our  friends  and  development 
partners can suffer from donor fatigue when they have 
yet  to  donate  what  was  originally  promised.  It  is 
similarly  confounding  when, 
this 
supposed  fatigue,  donors  attach  so  many  conditions 
and  bureaucratic  impediments  to  unlocking  assistance 
that  it  becomes  all  but  inaccessible.  Small  States  like 
ours  have  neither  the  capacity  nor  the  desire  to 
establish  entire  bureaucracies  dedicated  solely 
to 
navigating the administrative labyrinth of irregular and 
unpredictable  aid  flows.  Nor  are  we  interested  in  the 
upkeep  of  armies  of  foreign  consultants,  who  seem  to 
be  the  primary  beneficiaries  of  some  international 
development efforts. 
Commitment  fatigue  morphs  into  anger  when 

considered  in  the  context  of  the  Haitian  people  in  the 
wake  of  the  indescribably  devastating  earthquake  of  
12 January. In March this year the United Nations held 
an 
in  which  over  
$10  billion  was  pledged  for  Haiti’s  recovery  from  the 
earthquake.  Today,  six  months  after  that  conference, 
and eight months beyond the earthquake, a pathetically 
miniscule  percentage  of  those  pledges  has  actually 
been  delivered.  While  less  than  20,000  temporary 
inspiring  donors  conference, 
reflective  of 
10-55408 

9 

A/65/PV.24 

shelters  have  been  built  to  date,  over  1.5  million 
Haitians  are  still  living  in  tents.  A  few  days  ago,  we 
learned  that  women  and  children  living  in  tent  cities 
were  killed  when  heavy  rains  and  winds  struck  Haiti. 
No  one  can  claim  that  this  result  was  unexpected,  as 
we  in  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  have 
been  sounding  alarms  for  months  about  the  dangers 
inherent  in  the  imminent  rainy  season.  To  survive  a 
catastrophic earthquake only to be killed by rain is an 
unfathomable tragedy. The entirely avoidable deaths of 
those  women  and  children  will  remain  a  stain  on  the 
collective  conscience  of 
this  body  and  on  our 
membership. Talk  is  cheap,  even  when  it  is  the  heady 
talk of billions of dollars. Commitments made must be 
commitments kept. We must hold to account those who 
repeatedly make empty promises. 

Fourthly, we must cede no ground to the creeping 
encroachment  of  non-inclusive,  non-transparent  and 
non-representative  groupings.  We  have  no  doubt  that, 
for  example,  the  G-20  has  a  useful  and  even  essential 
role  to  play  in  the  global  economy.  There  is  an 
undeniable logic to a small group of the world’s largest 
economies,  almost  all  of  which  are  our  close  friends, 
meeting  informally  to  thrash  out  matters  that  affect 
only  their  large  economies.  However,  the  logic  fades 
somewhat in the face of a crisis that has spread rapidly 
and comprehensively to every corner of the globe. 
That  is  why  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 

noted with concern the G-20 statement from Pittsburgh 
a  year  ago,  which  proclaimed,  “We  designated  the  
G-20  to  be  the  premier  forum  for  our  international 
economic  cooperation”.  Our  esteemed  friend  and 
brother, President Obama of the United States, repeated 
these  sentiments  from  this  podium  a  few  days  ago 
when  he  stated,  “we  made  the  Group  of  20  the  focal 
point for international coordination” (A/65/PV.11). 

the  Grenadines  was  not 
included among the “we” who established this role for 
the  G-20  in  Pittsburg.  Indeed,  we,  like  172  other 
Member  States,  were  not  admitted  to  the  meeting,  we 
saw no agenda and we read no minutes of the decisions 
that were taken. As dedicated champions of the Charter 
of the United Nations, we also note that Articles 1 and 
55  of  that  document  designate  the  United  Nations  as 
the  forum  for  international  economic  cooperation  and 
solutions. 

Indeed,  our  caution  towards  the  G-20  can  be 
found  in  President  Obama’s  very  endorsement  of  it.  I 
Saint  Vincent  and 
We 
therefore  call  on 
the  work  of 
shall quote again from his statement of a few days ago. 
He said, “because in a world where prosperity is more 
diffuse,  we  must  broaden  our  circle  of  cooperation  to 
include emerging economies — economies from every 
corner of the globe” (ibid.). We could not agree more. 

In the wake of the worst financial crisis since the 
Great Depression, 172 economies should not be locked 
out of economic discussions, waiting anxiously on the 
doorstep of the G-20 for signals and policy shifts that 
affect  our  continued  survival.  We  in  the  Caribbean 
have  been  disproportionately 
and  devastatingly 
affected  by  the  crisis,  which  we  played  no  role  in 
creating. Yet  we  have  been  forced  to  rely  on  friendly 
nations  as  interlocutors  on  our  behalf.  We  remain 
convinced  that  the  deliberations  and  past  decisions  of 
the  G-20,  from  its  misunderstanding  of  the  precarious 
vulnerabilities  of  small,  highly-indebted,  middle-
income  countries  to  its  draconian  outlook  on  offshore 
financial  services  —  would  have  benefited  from  our 
perspective. 

the  United  Nations 
membership  to  give  meaning  to  the  words  of  our 
Charter  and  to  re-establish  our  body  as  a  forum  for 
meaningful  solutions  and  cooperation  on  economic 
matters.  We  must  reinvigorate 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  We  must  renew  the 
mandate  of  the  ad  hoc  working  group  to  decisively 
follow  up  on  the  issues  contained  in  the  Outcome  of 
the  Conference  on  the World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  its  Impact  on  Development  (see  resolution 
63/303, annex). 

therefore  be 
premised  on  global  inclusiveness.  This  is  our  fifth 
point: no corner of the world should be excluded from 
participation in our global family. 

In that regard, we once again highlight the case of 
our  friends  in  Taiwan.  The  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  agencies  must  find  ways  to  ensure  the 
meaningful  participation  of  the  23  million  people  of 
Taiwan.  Just  as  their  economic  strength  has  merited 
inclusion  in  the  WTO  and  the  universality  of  global 
health  challenges  have 
their 
participation  in  the  World  Health  Assembly,  so  too 
should  the  global  reach  of  climate  change  merit  the 
meaningful  participation  of  Taiwan  in  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
The  interconnectedness  of  global  air  travel,  and  our 
shared 
the 
Good  global  governance  must 
logically  compelled 
similarly  mandate 
safety  concerns, 
10 

10-55408 
this 


participation  of  Taiwan  in  the  International  Civil 
Aviation  Authority.  This  is  not  the  case  of  a  tiny  
non-governmental  organization, 
to  be  allowed  or 
denied  meaningful  participation  on  some  bureaucratic 
whim.  This  is  a  legitimate  and  vibrant  expression  of 
the  ancient  and  noble  Chinese  culture,  with  a 
population 200 times greater than that of Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines. 

The  Government  and  people  of  Taiwan  have 
advanced  a  reasonable  and  responsible  policy  of 
engagement  to  usher  in  a  new  era  in  cross-Strait 
relations, and have an enviable record of development 
cooperation  and  assistance  around  the  world.  The 
international community can and should encourage and 
reward 
responsible  global  citizenship  with 
meaningful  participation  in  the  relevant  specialized 
agencies. 

Similarly, urgent and more inclusive reform in the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  is  the  litmus  test 
of our verbal commitments to governance, reform and 
revitalization.  There  is  simply  no  justification  for  the 
continued  exclusion  of  the  entire African  continent  or 
other significant and influential emerging powers from 
permanent  membership  in  the  Security  Council.  The 
defenders of the status quo may soon find that they are 
protecting  an  increasingly  irrelevant  and  illegitimate 
institution. 

too 
important  to  be  allowed  to  whither  into  obsolescence. 
Reform  and  expansion  of 
the  permanent  and  
non-permanent  membership  of  the  Security  Council, 
including  the  provision  of  dedicated  non-permanent 
membership  for  small  island  developing  States,  is  an 
imperative that is long past due. 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is proud to have 

announced  its  candidacy  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on 
the  Security  Council  for  the  2020-2021  term.  If 
successful,  we  would  be  the  smallest  country  ever,  by 
population,  to  occupy  such  a  position,  and  only  the 
fourth  of  CARICOM’s  14  United  Nations  Member 
States  to  assume  such  a  responsibility.  Our  bid  is 
premised  on  the  historical  exclusion  of  CARICOM 
States  and  small  island  developing  States  from  this 
critical  body,  and  the  value  that  we  believe  our 
presence  and  perspective  will  bring  to  the  Council’s 
deliberations. 
the  Grenadines  makes 

miniscule  monetary  and  military  contributions  to  the 
Saint  Vincent  and 
However,  we  feel 
the  Council 
that 
is 
in 
A/65/PV.24
to 
than 
rising 
this 
rather 
lowering, 
to  meet, 
institution 
contribution 
United  Nations.  But  our 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  is 
measured in our historical aversion to wars, our culture 
of tolerance, peace and plurality and the perspective of 
a small State that understands that peace is not always 
best  achieved  with  millions  of  dollars  or  armed 
enforcers,  but  often  with  dialogue  and  small  but 
meaningful  peacebuilding  actions.  Our  contribution  is 
succinctly  captured  in  our  national  motto,  which, 
translated  from  Latin,  reads  simply  “Peace  and 
Justice”. 
Sixthly,  and  most  important,  we  must  never  be 

shy 
to  operationalize  our 
to  use 
commonly  held  ambitions  for  a  better  world  and  to 
tackle the global issues of our day. Too often, we spend 
time 
the 
expectations  of  a  world  that  is  clamouring  for  our 
collective leadership. 

Our  continued  failures  to  achieve  a  binding 
solution on climate change mitigation and adaptation is 
a case in point. In the months since the painful lessons 
of 
the  so-called  Copenhagen  Accord,  devastating 
floods  in  Pakistan  and  heatwaves  and  fires  in  Russia 
have  shown  us  once  again  that  no  nation  is  immune 
from  the  reach  and  impact  of  climate  change.  But  the 
vulnerability  of  large  nations  to  ruinous  hurricanes, 
floods and fires does not approach the very unique and 
specific  existential  vulnerabilities  of  small 
island 
developing  States.  For,  while  all  States  are  vulnerable 
to natural disasters, only small island developing States 
are  threatened  with  being  wiped  off  the  map  entirely 
and ceasing to exist. 

As such, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is not 
interested in the lowering of expectations as we head to 
Cancún.  The  need  for  a  binding  and  meaningful 
agreement  on  climate  change  cannot  be  deferred 
indefinitely.  We  view  with  disgust  the  transparent 
attempts  to  measure  the  financial  or  political  cost  of 
doing  what  must  be  done  to  save  our  planet.  We  are 
threatening 
to  destroy  our  own  world,  as  we 
shamelessly  squabble  over  dollars  and  degrees.  If  we 
fail 
look  most 
unfavourably  on  the  narrow,  short-term  interests  that 
we placed ahead of our own survival. 

In a similar vein, and in the interest of time, Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  echoes  and  adopts  as  our 
own the proposals enunciated by our CARICOM sister 
States  for  prompt  action  on  the  global  challenges  of 
this  endeavour,  history  will 
10-55408 

11 

or  misinformed  millionaires, 
A/65/PV.24 

non-communicable diseases, small arms, narcotics and 
transnational crime, the decade-old Doha Development 
Round  of  trade  negotiations,  international  cooperation 
in  tax  matters  and  concessional  assistance  and  debt 
relief for middle-income island States. We cannot allow 
narrow  ideological  agendas  to  distract  us  or  detract 
from  the  accomplishment  of  these  tasks,  upon  which 
there is broad agreement. 

Finally,  a  crucial  component  of  the  overarching 
principle  of  sovereign  equality  is  that  of  sovereignty 
itself. We believe wholeheartedly that, in the words of 
the  great  Caribbean  singer  and  poet  Bob  Marley, 
“every man has a right to decide his own destiny”. We 
therefore  reject,  with  equal  fervour,  any  foreign  or 
outside  interference  in  the  democratic  processes  of 
independent States. This is a principle upon which we 
are unyielding. In many of our small countries, it takes 
ideologically 
only  a  few  minor  mercenaries,  or 
misguided 
to 
the  fabric  of  our  fragile 
fundamentally 
democracies. Unfortunately, those interlopers are often 
aided  and  abetted  by  those  unpatriotic  opportunists 
who  see  sovereignty  as  a  fungible  commodity,  to  be 
bartered and traded to the highest nefarious bidder for 
short-term political gain. 

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is populated by 
a  proud  and  noble  people,  with  a  history  of  fierce 
struggle for freedom and independence. There is a steel 
in  the  psyche  of  our  Caribbean  civilization  and  its 
Vincentian  component;  a  steel  forged  in  the  fires  of 
slavery  and  genocide  and  beaten  on  the  anvil  of 
colonialism, exploitation and resistance. Our small size 
belies  our 
spirit.  We  possess  an 
independence  that  undergirds  Cuba’s  heroic  resistance 
to  an  unjust  and  internationally  condemned  blockade. 
We  have  a  strength  that  informs  the  nobility  of  the 
Haitian people’s response to unimaginable tragedy. We 
lay claim to a resilience that is etched in our collective 
history,  and  reverberates  in  the  names  of  our  region’s 
national heroes, such  as Nanny, Garvey, Bussa, Martí, 
and Chatoyer, to name but a few. Our democracies can 
be  neither  bought,  sold  nor  intimidated.  And  our 
commitment  to  the  democratic  inclusiveness  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  supremacy  of  its  Charter  is 
similarly unshakeable. 

It is against that backdrop, Mr. President, that you 
will  find  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  to  be  a 
strong  ally  in  your  efforts  to  re-establish  the  central 
role of this body in matters of global governance. 
threaten 
indomitable 
12 

The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Jorge Valero Briceño, head 
of  the  delegation  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  I  wish  the  new 
President  of  this  session  of  the  General Assembly  the 
greatest success during his term. 

The  Bolivarian  revolution  plans  to  contribute  to 
the structure and agenda of the United Nations, which 
currently  reflect  the  unjust  power  relationships  that 
exist  in  the  world. As  it  is  today,  this  forum  helps  to 
perpetuate  the  unjust  relations  inherited  from  the 
Second  World  War,  relations 
that  become  more 
exclusive  and  authoritarian  as  neoliberal  globalization 
advances. The President of the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela,  Hugo  Chavez  Frías,  said  on  15  September 
2005,  in  his  speech  during  the  general  debate  at  the 
sixtieth  session  of 
the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly  that  “the  United  Nations  has  outgrown  its 
model.  It  is  not  just  a  question  of  simple  reform. The 
twenty-first  century  requires  profound  changes  that 
will  be  possible  only  if  the  Organization  is  truly 
recast.” (A/60/PV.6, p.17) 

There  are  two  poignant  examples  that  illustrate 
this unfair and irrational world power architecture. For 
the  past  19  years,  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
countries  of  the  world  have  come  before  the  General 
Assembly  to  demand  an  end  to  the  economic  and 
commercial  blockade  imposed  on  the  heroic  Cuban 
people.  But  what  has  the  Organization  done  to  ensure 
that the United States Government abides by the will of 
the  General  Assembly?  The  answer  is  well  known: 
nothing. 

Dozens  of  resolutions  have  been  adopted  by  the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
question  of  Palestine,  but  the  Israeli  military  and 
political  elite  refuse  to  comply. The  occupying  Power 
acts with total impunity and with the complicity of its 
main  ally.  What  has  the  Security  Council  done  to  get 
the  occupying  Power  to  respect  the  principles  of 
international  law,  including  international  humanitarian 
law,  and  particularly  the  four  Geneva  Conventions  of 
1949? The answer is well known: nothing. 

The  rebuilding  of  the  United  Nations  hinges  on 
strengthening the General Assembly and its handling of 
matters  relating  to  international  peace  and  security. 
10-55408 


Venezuela  challenges  the  fact  that  a  small  group  of 
countries impose their conditions in these areas, while 
the opinion of the majority is not taken into account. A 
strategy aimed at weakening the General Assembly and 
excluding it from the most relevant world decisions is 
being  implemented  in  the  United  Nations,  while  the 
Security Council progressively increases its power and 
influence  over  the  United  Nations  agenda  and  takes 
over  topics  beyond  the  purview  granted  to  it  by  the 
Charter  of  the  Organization.  The  Secretary-General, 
according  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  is  an 
administrative  officer  of  the  Organization  responsible 
for answering to the interests of all Member States, and 
not the policies of a few Powers that seek to drive the 
global agenda. 
For almost 20 years we have been discussing the 

reform of the Security Council and the strengthening of 
the  General  Assembly,  yet  so  far  almost  nothing  has 
been  achieved.  The  call  from  President  Chavez  to 
recast  the  United  Nations  remains  fully  valid.  To  that 
end, Venezuela proposes to eliminate the right of veto 
enjoyed  by  only  five  Members  of  the  United  Nations. 
This remnant of the Second World War is incompatible 
with  the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States. 
Venezuela  also  proposes  an  increase  in  the  Security 
Council’s  membership  in  both  the  permanent  and  
non-permanent 
are  developing 
countries  deprived  of  the  right  to  participate  in  that 
forum? 

Venezuela  therefore  urges  all  States  to  propose 
candidates  for  the  post  of  Secretary-General,  with  the 
aim of democratizing elections to this senior post. We 
believe  that  resolution  11  (I),  adopted  on  24  January 
1946, regarding the terms of election of the Secretary-
General,  in  no  way  restricts  the  ability  of  Member 
States to discuss and vote in this election. In line with 
democratic principles and transparency, Member States 
must  participate  in  both  the  nomination  and  the 
appointment  of  this  senior  official.  States  would 
therefore be free to choose among several alternatives.  

Rebuilding  the  United  Nations  also  requires  that 
the General Assembly fully exercise its responsibilities 
in  matters  of  international  peace  and  security,  as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 

Climate  change  negotiations  are  unfolding  in  a 
complex  context  that  makes  it  difficult  to  arrive  at 
consensus  on 
topics.  Developed 
countries  reject  international  commitments  that  are 
categories.  Why 
the  majority  of 
A/65/PV.24
fully  in  force,  specifically  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  The 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  hopes  that,  at  the 
next  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in  Cancún  at  the  end  of  this  year,  a  legally  binding 
agreement is reached that is ambitious and respects the 
Convention and the Kyoto Protocol.  

Venezuela  is  fighting  for  the  creation  of  a 
development  model  based  on  a  new  paradigm  that 
substitutes  the  prevailing  models  of  production  and 
consumption.  Developing  countries  and 
the  most 
vulnerable  sectors  of  developed  countries  suffer  the 
impact  of 
the  economic  and  financial  crises  of 
capitalism.  It  is  therefore  essential  and  necessary  to 
consider a transformation of this inhumane model that, 
with its new crisis, has generated more hunger, poverty, 
unemployment and inequality. The crisis of capitalism 
has not ended. Its structural nature reproduces itself ad 
infinitum.  Privileged  groups,  the  financial  economy, 
speculators,  monopolies  and  oligopolies  and 
the 
Bretton Woods institutions will continue to try to have 
the  crisis  paid  for  by  developing  countries  and  the 
world’s poor and most vulnerable. Neoliberal policies, 
which  are  applied  as  a  result  of  the  global  crisis  of 
capitalism,  propose  the  totalitarianism  of  the  financial 
markets,  deepening  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  the 
poor  within 
the 
inequalities between the North and the South.  

It is also important to underscore that the efforts 
of  the  developed  countries  in  the  context  of  official 
development  assistance 
(ODA)  have  not  been 
sustained, as large donors have repeatedly not fulfilled 
their  pledges  when  it  comes  to  the  agreed  goal  of 
allocating 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product 
to ODA.  

this  crisis,  developing  countries 
should  strengthen  South-South  cooperation  and  create 
alternative  sovereign  mechanisms  to  avoid  the  credit 
monopoly  maintained  by 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions. To that end, Venezuela aims to create and 
strengthen  regional  financial  institutions  such  as  the 
Bank of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our 
America  —  Peoples’  Trade  Agreement  (ALBA-TCP) 
and the Bank of the South. We welcome the initiatives 
in  that  regard  that  are  being  undertaken  in Africa  and 
Asia. 

South-South  cooperation  is  a  top  priority  for 
Venezuela.  In  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  there 
those  countries  and  widening 
Faced  with 
10-55408 

13 
the  achievement  of 
A/65/PV.24 

are  already  successful  experiences  such  as  that  of 
Petrocaribe,  which  fosters  supportive  cooperation  in 
the  energy  sector,  and  that  of  ALBA-TCP,  which  is 
producing  successful  results  in  overcoming  poverty 
and  inequality.  These  novel  forms  of  solidarity  and 
supportive  cooperation  contribute  to  the  development 
of  our  peoples  and 
the 
Millennium Development Goals.  

I  take  great  satisfaction  in  pointing  out  that, 
despite  the  problematic  international  economic  and 
financial  environment,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  has  met  almost  all  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  in  particular  in  the  areas  of 
poverty,  health,  nutrition,  education,  child  mortality 
and  sanitation,  among  others.  We  would  like  to 
underscore  that  Venezuela  assumed  the  presidency  of 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Summit  on 
Integration  and  Development  in  February  2010.  The 
third  Summit  will  be  held  in  our  country  on  5  July 
2011, within the framework of the historic bicentennial 
anniversary  of  our  signing  of  our  Declaration  of 
Independence.  

Venezuela  attaches  particular  importance  to  the 
process of union and integration in Latin America and 
the Caribbean. Progress to that end will lead to the full 
operation  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  thereby  achieving  the  dream  of  our 
liberators  as  reflected  in  the  Constitution  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela.  The  union  of  our 
peoples  —  the  peoples  of  the  South  fighting  for 
independence, 
self-
determination  —  is  a  priority  of  our  Simon  Bolivar 
national project, as enshrined in our first socialist plan 
for the period 2007 to 2013. 

In  the  face  of  recurrent  attempts  to  erode  the 
sovereignty  of  countries  and  in  the  face  of  a  savage 
capitalist  and  neoliberal  offensive,  the  Bolivarian 
Government  calls  for  the  relaunching  of  the  Group  of 
77  and  China  and  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  so  that 
developing  countries  can  more  forcefully  defend  the 
interests of their peoples. 
We wish to avail ourselves of this opportunity at 

the  rostrum 
the 
compliments  sent  to  President  Hugo  Chávez  Frías  by 
numerous  Governments  and  social  and  popular 
movements  from  around  the  world  on  the  occasion  of 
the  victory  in  the  Venezuelan  parliamentary  elections 
last  Sunday,  26  September.  That  victory  is  a  clear 
to  express  our  appreciation  for 
sovereignty 
freedom, 
and 
to 

justice, 
the  MDGs,  and 
Defenders  of  peace, 
its  present  substantial 
testament to the majority support of the people for the 
humanistic  policies  promoted  by 
the  Bolivarian 
Government. This electoral victory will also enable our 
Bolivarian Government to strengthen its solidarity with 
developing countries. 

freedom  and 
solidarity  in  the  world  can  continue  to  rely  on  the 
support of the Bolivarian revolution. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Tine  Morch  Smith, 
Deputy  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Norway. 
Mrs.  Smith  (Norway):  Last  week  we  reaffirmed 

our commitment to the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs).  We  agreed 
to  accelerate  our  efforts. 
the  main 
Developing  countries 
themselves  have 
responsibility  for  achieving 
the 
international community has the responsibility to assist 
by  means  of  development  and  debt  relief  where 
appropriate. Norway is and will continue to be a solid 
and reliable partner in development. We will keep our 
development  aid  at 
level, 
including  our  significant  support  to  United  Nations 
funds and programmes. 

This  year  in  particular,  we  are  heartened  to  see 
strong  support  for  improving  maternal  health  and 
reducing  child  mortality,  the  Goals  on  which  we  are 
lagging  behind  the  most.  Norway  will  work  with  the 
Secretary-General  to  ensure  that  his  Global  Strategy 
for Women’s and Children’s Health is transformed into 
action on the ground. 

The  many  successful  and  inspiring  meetings  last 
week  also  illustrate  that  the  challenges  facing  the 
world,  which  are  increasingly  global  in  character, 
require  inclusive  global  forums  to  address  them.  That 
means  engaging  in  dialogue  with  others,  often  with 
those who have different views. The United Nations is 
not  designed  to  comfort  different  leaders  in  their  own 
convictions;  it  is  the  place  to  confront  and  surpass 
differences.  It  is  therefore  highly  inappropriate  when 
this  rostrum  is  abused  to  promote  extreme  views  or 
unfounded  claims.  The  challenges  before  us  are  too 
great  to  allow  us  to  be  derailed  by  attempts  to  incite 
conflict.  We  must  never  forget  that  we  are  a  global 
community  by  virtue  of  the  shared  risks  that  stand 
before us, the shared threats that  challenge us  and the 
shared values that bind us together. 
14 

10-55408 



Climate  change  threatens  all  our  social  and 
economic  aspirations.  Let  me  point  to  two  important 
and  dynamic  processes  that  are  among  the  most 
promising  as  we  look  for  potential  results  in  Cancún: 
limiting emissions from deforestation, and financing. 

The  Secretary-General’s  High-Level  Advisory 
Group on Climate Change Financing, which the Prime 
Minister  of  Norway  chairs  together  with  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Ethiopia,  is  working  hard  to  identify 
sources  that  can  enable  us  to  raise  the  funds  we 
committed  to  in  Copenhagen.  We  need  to  define 
workable  and  acceptable  sources,  both  private  and 
public,  and  help  pave  the  way  for  a  new  international 
climate  agreement. We  urge  all  Members  to  study  the 
report we will receive this fall with an open mind and 
to  build  on  this  important  work  taking  place  at  the 
initiative  of  the  Secretary-General,  as  we  prepare  for 
Cancún and the period beyond. 

Norway  is  leading  support  schemes  for  reducing 
emissions from deforestation. In Bali in 2007, Norway 
pledged  to  provide  up  to  $500  million  on  an  annual 
basis  to  halt  deforestation.  We  are  working  with  key 
partners  such  as  Brazil,  Indonesia  and  Guyana  to 
develop  concrete  methods  to  do  this  in  practice.  Such 
measures  are  effective  as  a  means  of  mitigation  and 
provide  strong 
leverage  for  new  and  additional 
financing  for  developing  countries.  They  take  effect 
immediately.  I  call  on  other  countries  to  join  in  this 
great endeavour. 

Ten  years  ago,  we  reaffirmed  the  connection 
between  the  three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations: 
development, security and human rights. Human rights 
are  an  integral  part  of  the  United  Nations  vision  and 
Charter, and should be mainstreamed in the work of the 
United Nations in all areas, as previously called for by 
this Assembly. Norway will continue to be active in the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  promote  a  human  rights-
based  approach  in  United  Nations  development  work. 
We  will  continue  to  work  with  partner  countries  from 
the North and South to this end, as we successfully did 
last  week  at 
the  Trygve  Lie  Symposium  on 
Fundamental  Freedoms,  focused  on  business  and 
human rights. 

This  year  also  marks  the  10-year  anniversary  of 
another  major  United  Nations  building  block  — 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women and 
peace and security. Women’s empowerment is a crucial 
factor not only in sustainable development, but also in 
10-55408 

15 
trends 
A/65/PV.24
donors 
have 
economy.  The 
sustainable  peace.  It  is  time  to  make  good  on  the 
commitments  made  and  follow  through  on  promises 
that  will  enable  women  to  take  an  active  role  in 
situations  that  are  a  matter  of  life  and  death,  not  only 
for them, but for their families, communities and even 
nations. When we do take stock in October, we should 
focus  on  action  taken,  and  above  all  on  action  that 
needs to be taken. 

Norway  would  like  to  echo  the  vision  and  hope 
voiced  by  President  Obama  in  this Assembly  that  we 
may in the near future have an agreement that will lead 
to  the  entry  of  a  new  Member  into  the  United  
Nations  —  an 
independent,  sovereign  State  of 
Palestine. 

The Ad Hoc Liaison Committee, which is chaired 
by Norway, has called for assistance to the Palestinian 
Authority  in  implementing  the  Programme  for  the 
Thirteenth  Government  for  completing  the  task  of 
building a Palestinian State, with regard to institution-
building  and 
the  development  of  a  sustainable 
Palestinian 
been 
encouraged  by  recent  reports  that  the  implementation 
of  the  reform  agenda  accelerated  significantly  in  the 
first  half  of  2010.  The  World  Bank  stated  that  if  the 
Palestinian  Authority  were  to  maintain  its  current 
performance, it is well positioned for the establishment 
of a State at any point in the future. 

It  is  crucial  that  this  progress  be  mirrored  by 
progress  in  the  peace  negotiations.  Norway  welcomes 
the  relaunching  earlier  this  month  of  direct  bilateral 
negotiations to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We 
regret  that  Israel’s  settlement  moratorium  was  not 
extended.  Norway  reaffirms  its  strong  commitment  to 
the 
the 
negotiations  by  ensuring  full  compliance  with  Road 
Map obligations and maintaining their assistance to the 
Palestinian State-building effort. 

Allow  me  to  underline  another  process  with 
enormous  importance  for  regional  peace,  security  and 
development.  Supporting  the  parties  in  the  full  and 
timely  implementation  of  the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement  for  the  Sudan  must  be  on  our  agenda.  We 
cannot  afford  to  end  up  in  a  situation  where  we  all 
regret that we let peace slip in the Sudan. 

For  over  60  years,  the  United  Nations  system, 
including the Bretton Woods institutions, has been the 
global  intergovernmental  framework  for  cooperation 
in  global 
on 
joint  challenges.  Current 
supporting 
two-State 
solution  and 
to 

such 
to  ensure 
that 
the  Organization 
towards  a 
line  between 
A/65/PV.24 

cooperation  may  point 
looser,  more 
fragmented  structure  of  global  governance. There  is  a 
fine 
strategic  alliances  as 
complementary  to  traditional  multilateralism,  and  as 
alternatives for global multilateralism with the direct or 
indirect  representation  of  all  States.  This  is  why 
Norway  attaches  great  importance  to  the  ongoing 
discussion  on  how  to  best  facilitate  constructive 
cooperation  between  the  Group  of  20  and  the  United 
Nations. 

United Nations reform  has been a topic of many 
statements  during  this  debate.  In  order  to  remain 
relevant, the United Nations must continuously reform 
to  a  changing  environment  and  new 
and  adapt 
the 
challenges.  As  Member  States,  we  have 
responsibility 
is 
equipped  to  respond  to  the  task  it  is  given.  Therefore 
we  must  continue  to  push  for  United  Nations  reform, 
but  with  a  view  to  improving  and  strengthening  the 
United  Nations.  We  must  build  on  what  is  already  in 
progress and seems to be yielding results. Delivering as 
one  is  showing  progress  at  the  country  level.  It  now 
to  be  followed  up  at  Headquarters.  The 
needs 
establishment  of  UN  Women 
is  a  system-wide 
coherence success story. We congratulate Ms. Bachelet 
and pledge to support her in delivering on the promises 
made 
to  UN  Women.  Beyond  new  panels  and 
processes, we now need to finalize work on proposals 
that are already on the table. 

For  Norway,  commitment  to  the  United  Nations 
also  means  commitment  to  reform  —  to  strive  for  a 
United  Nations  that  is  efficient  and  able  to  live  up  to 
the expectations that we, the Member States, place on 
it. We owe it to each other and to future generations to 
maintain  and  strengthen  the  United  Nations  as  a 
unique,  inclusive  and  global  meeting  place  where  we, 
the  peoples  of  this  world,  come  together  to  solve  the 
global  challenges  of  our  time.  This  is  our  common 
responsibility. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Witold  Sobków,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Poland. 

your presidency, Sir. 

This year began with a tragic earthquake in Haiti 
that  took  the  lives  of  more  than  200,000  people, 
including  United  Nations  staff  and  peacekeepers. 
Unfortunately,  several  months  later,  Pakistan  was 
Mr. Sobków (Poland): I wish you success during 
16 

of 
affected  by  floods  with  catastrophic  effects.  I  would 
like  to  pay  tribute  to  those  women  and  men  who  lost 
their  lives  while  working  for  the  United  Nations.  I 
would also like to salute those who provided assistance 
to the victims. Those dramatic and very painful events 
highlighted the essential role that the United Nations is 
capable  of  playing  in  our  lives  and  the  extraordinary 
performance of an Organization that many seem to take 
for granted. 

The  universal  character  of  the  United  Nations 
enables  Member  States  to  carry  out  activities  and 
achieve  agreed  goals,  regardless  of  their  form  of 
Government  or  culture.  One  cannot  underestimate  the 
contribution of the United Nations to peacekeeping and 
peacebuilding,  its  role  in  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of 
law  and  human  rights,  or  its  contribution  to  the 
codification of international law. 
Poland  has  always  been  a  firm  and  reliable 

supporter 
the  United  Nations.  Effective 
multilateralism is an objective reflected in the policies 
of  my  Government  and  a  guiding  principle  of  the 
European  Union  (EU).  We  note  both  the  heightened 
expectations  and  the  criticism  with  respect  to  the 
United  Nations  and  other  international  organizations. 
We  are  therefore  raising  the  issue  of  reform,  as  we 
want the United Nations to be more efficient and better 
adapted  to  the  new  global  environment.  If  it  fails  to 
meet the hopes and expectations of its Members, it will 
suffer  marginalization,  which  might  negatively  affect 
multilateralism,  as  well  as  certainty  and  predictability 
in international relations. 

Poland  has  been  participating  in  the  ongoing 
process  of  reflection  on  the  accommodation  of  the 
United  Nations  to  contemporary  and  foreseeable  risks 
and  challenges.  In  our  opinion,  the  United  Nations 
should  improve  its  ability  to  cooperate  with  other 
institutions  and  organizations,  particularly  on  a 
regional basis. 

Poland  supports  efforts  aimed  at  reforming  the 
Security  Council,  an  organ  tasked  with  preserving 
peace  and  security.  We  need  to  take  into  account 
changes in the international system brought about after 
the end of the cold war and, at the same time, preserve 
the  Council’s  cohesion  and  the  feasibility  of  its 
decision-making  process.  We  favour  an  additional  
non-permanent  seat  for  the  Eastern  European  group. 
We also find interesting and worth discussing the idea 
of  EU  representation.  In  general,  we  attach  much 
10-55408 


importance to the role of the EU in the United Nations 
system.  That  is  why  we  would  encourage  non-EU 
Member States to support our efforts to ensure a proper 
place for the EU, an observer in the General Assembly, 
in the form of a resolution. 

We attach great importance to the enhancement of 
the credibility of United Nations action in the field of 
democracy  and  human  rights.  Let  me  remind  the 
Assembly of the successful meeting of the Community 
of  Democracies  in  Krakow  in  July  2010.  Poland  is 
convinced  that  promoting  universal  respect  for  human 
rights throughout the world contributes to security and 
to social and economic progress. 

In  this  respect,  we  applaud  the  establishment  of 
the  new  consolidated  gender  entity  of  the  United 
Nations,  UN Women.  We  also  believe  that  the  review 
and reform of the Human Rights Council, of which we 
are a member, will strengthen the effectiveness of that 
body. 

Our planet is exposed to an increasing number of 
existential  threats.  Experience  shows  that  no  country 
can  solve  the  world’s  problems  alone.  A  global 
response  is  therefore  necessary  to  meeting  global 
challenges.  The  United  Nations  has  the  capacity  to 
justify  and, 
instances,  generate  such  a 
response. We expect excellence as a standard feature of 
the United Nations. In the final analysis, it is only with 
the  consent  and  support  of  its  Member  States  that  the 
United Nations can deliver such excellence. 

The  latest  world  economic  crisis  demonstrated 
the  need  for  globally  coordinated  economic  and 
financial policies. These are currently being debated by 
the General Assembly’s Second Committee and by the 
specialized  agencies  and  United  Nations-related 
organizations, such as the International Monetary Fund 
and  the  World  Bank.  Poland  expects  the  United 
Nations to be the key forum for multilateral debate on 
the  issues  pertaining  to  the  crisis.  We  hope  that  the 
current  crisis  will  not  hinder  United  Nations  Member 
States  from  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). 

and 
environmental problems are making States increasingly 
open to deepened cooperation. The complicated nature 
of new challenges demands sophisticated expertise and 
the 
integration  of  efforts.  The  United  Nations 
safeguards  both.  Poland  deems  the  United  Nations  to 
economic, 
in  many 
political, 
Various 
social 
A/65/PV.24
the  United  Nations 
The  engagement  of 
be an appropriate body to address the global issues of 
security and economy. 

Peace  and  security  are  a  fundamental  issue.  Our 
goal  is  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons  and  other 
arms  of  mass  destruction;  a  world  without  terrorism; 
and a world capable of diffusing the threats of war and 
conflict.  The  United  Nations  should  strengthen  its 
involvement in meeting these objectives, anticipate and 
prevent  conflicts,  where  possible,  and  develop  the 
capacity  to  resolve  them  effectively  once  they  break 
out. 

in 
peacekeeping  operations  continues  to  produce  visible 
and  desirable  effects,  especially  in  its  political  and 
humanitarian  dimensions.  The  experience  we  have 
gained  from  the  increased  engagement  of  recent  years 
allows  us  to  better  understand  its  complexity  and 
limitations  and  the  challenges  ahead.  We  believe  that 
peacekeeping reform must continue. We support efforts 
that will bring new quality to peacekeeping, and in this 
regard we are committed to working towards achieving 
a  wider  consensus  on  its  strategic  aspects  through  a 
renewed partnership among all stakeholders. 

This  year  will,  we  hope,  be  associated  with  major 
progress in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation. 
The success of the Review Conference of the Parties to 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) proved that a consensus is possible in 
this specific area of international cooperation. Efficient 
and  practical  implementation  of  the  outcome  of  the 
NPT Review Conference remains a crucial task. We are 
convinced  that  the  initiative  launched  recently  by 
Australia  and  Japan,  which  involves  the  participation 
of Poland and 10 other countries, will contribute to this 
goal. 

We  perceive  the  NPT  Review  Conference,  the 
New START treaty and the Nuclear Security Summit as 
significant 
regard 
the 
implementation of their decisions as a challenge. 

Among  issues  related  to  nuclear  disarmament, 
there  is  one  that  clearly  stands  out:  the  status  of  
sub-strategic  nuclear  weapons, 
the  reduction  and 
elimination of which have not yet been covered by any 
legally  binding 
instrument.  A  world 
without  nuclear  weapons  cannot  be  achieved  if  this 
challenge is not dealt with. 
international 
forward, 
steps 
but 
10-55408 

17 
the  efforts  of 
A/65/PV.24 

The  Conference  on  Disarmament  requires  our 

special  attention.  We  applaud 
the 
Secretary-General,  who  convened  a  few  days  ago  a 
special  summit  devoted 
to  disarmament.  Poland 
attaches considerable importance to that body and calls 
on all States to redouble their efforts to invigorate the 
Conference as a platform for multilateral disarmament 
and non-proliferation negotiations. 

The  impact  of  the  economic  and  financial  crises 
continues  to  affect  most  countries.  The  scarcity  of 
high-quality  jobs  has  become  an  issue  of  primary 
importance. Efforts are necessary to mobilize resources 
and  provide  opportunities  for  the  benefit  of  the  most 
vulnerable segments of society. Satisfying basic needs 
is once again at the forefront of global concerns. 

The  energy  sector  has  become  an  area  of  major 
attention.  Costs,  security  of  supplies  and  reducing 
pollution are some of the sensitive issues. We face the 
challenge  of  making  clean  energy  not  only  a  social 
preference but also a market choice.  

We need a shift in our thinking about the North-
South  dichotomy  in  order  to  allow  the  international 
community  to  move  effectively  forward.  Allowing 
ourselves  to  be  defined  by  our  differences  is  a  recipe 
for  disaster.  It  is  therefore  important  to  focus  on 
common  elements  and  on  the  diversity  of  conditions 
and  situations  of  States  and  to  move  away  from  a 
claims mentality. 
The  pace  of  market  globalization  exceeds  the 

capacity  of  many  Governments 
to  ensure  global 
economic  stability.  The  growing  interdependence  of 
national  economies 
the 
transmission of destabilizing shocks between countries. 
Economic  activities  within  the  United  Nations  are 
today  scattered  among  many  institutions.  This  often 
leads to overlapping powers between them. The role of 
the  United  Nations  might  be 
the 
objectives and ensure coherence between the activities 
of  major  international  organizations,  to  provide  the 
necessary  political  leadership  and  long-term  strategic 
policy 
to  promote  stable  and 
framework,  and 
sustainable development. 
The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  MDGs 

that  ended  on  22  September 
the 
importance  of  development  cooperation  and  restated 
the  commitment  of  the  international  community  to 
attaining the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. 
The Meeting recognized the crucial role of the United 
to  coordinate 
reconfirmed 
increases 
the 
risk  of 

Nations  and  the  United  Nations  system  in  the  field  of 
development  cooperation  and  commended 
their 
continued engagement and efforts. 

Poland reiterates its support for implementing the 
MDGs. They constitute a primary point of reference for 
our  programme  of  foreign  assistance.  We  are  also 
bound  by  the  provisions  of  the  Paris  Declaration  and 
the principle of aid effectiveness expressed therein. We 
strongly  support  coordination  among  all  development 
partners. 
Our official development assistance is oriented to 

serve  the  pro-growth  policies  of  our  partners.  The 
mobilization  of  domestic  resources,  foreign  direct 
investment  and  good  economic  policy  are  the  basic 
drivers  of  development.  Development  policies  should 
therefore  be  implemented  in  accordance  with  the 
principles  of  sustainable  development  and  good 
governance.  We  welcome  the  progress  on  the  MDGs, 
which  is  largely  a  result  of  continued  efforts  by 
developing  countries.  With  regard  to  development 
assistance, it is extremely important that the principles 
of  national  ownership  and  leadership,  as  well  as  of 
mutual  accountability,  be  strengthened  and  fully 
respected.  Poland  is  actively  involved  in  promoting 
global development cooperation.  

We are committed to United Nations activities in 
the  field  of  poverty  reduction  and  the  promotion  of 
sustainable development. We note with satisfaction the 
positive results of the One United Nations reform and 
the  increased  efficiency  of  assistance  provided  by  the 
United Nations. We support the activities conducted by 
the  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  agencies,  in  both 
the development and the humanitarian fields. 

Poland  expects  an  ambitious,  forward-looking 
and  action-oriented  outcome  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  2012.  We 
look  forward  to  attaining  all  the  principal  aims  of  the 
Conference,  which  should  also  bridge  the  trust  gap 
between developed and developing countries evident in 
the climate change negotiations. Its outcome should be 
a  focused  political  document,  universal  in  nature, 
aimed at identifying concrete actions for all countries. 
It  should  be  linked  to  the  MDGs,  taking  into  account 
the specific needs of developing countries. We call for 
a  redoubling  of  the  efforts  to  ensure  that  institutions 
involved in implementing the sustainable development 
agenda  become  more  effective  and  efficient  through 
18 

10-55408 


improved  synergies  and  the  provision  of  adequate 
resources. 

Poland,  which  played  host  to  the  fourteenth 
session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
(UNFCCC) and the fourth meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto  Protocol,  will  continue  its  efforts  aimed  at 
building  international  consensus  on  a  comprehensive 
global  post-2012  agreement.  The  role  of  the  United 
Nations system is essential to maintaining an effective 
and  efficient  response  to  challenges  posed  by  climate 
change. 

In  this  regard,  we  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for putting climate change at the top 
of the agenda of the United Nations system and for his 
numerous  efforts  to  address  the  negative  impact  of 
such change. Climate change is a global challenge that 
can  be  addressed  effectively  only  through  a  global 
effort within the UNFCCC framework. 

Poland believes that the international community 
should continue to focus its attention on improved and 
enhanced  implementation  and  monitoring  of  the  three 
Rio  Conventions,  developing  synergies  among  them, 
and  on  increasing  the  efficiency  and  coherence  of  the 
United  Nations  system.  The  consultative  process 
inaugurated  at  the  eleventh  special  session  of  the 
Governing Council of the United Nations Environment 
Programme  on 
international 
environmental  governance  system  was  an  important 
contribution 
environmental 
governance  in  the  context  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development. While  being 
realistic and pragmatic, we should also be ambitious. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  say  a  few  words  about 
solidarity. It is necessary to understand the relevance of 
international  solidarity,  working  closely 
together, 
building  new  coalitions  and  bridging  old  divides  to 
arrive at common objectives. Our common future is at 
stake. There is no guarantee of success, but surely we 
risk failure if we do not take action. New partnerships, 
building  confidence  in  policy  objectives,  and  positive 
engagement  among  partners  are 
the  necessary 
elements. 

the last speaker in the general debate. 

Several  representatives  have  requested  to  speak 
in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
The President (spoke in French): We have heard 
reform  of 
debate 
the 
the 
the 
to 
on 
A/65/PV.24
Eritrea  does  not  have  problems  with 
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 5 
minutes  for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Desta  (Eritrea):  I  am  taking  the  floor  in 

exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  in  connection  with  the 
statement made by His Excellency the Foreign Minister 
of Ethiopia this morning. Clearly, the Foreign Minister 
was trying to divert the attention of this body from his 
country’s  refusal to withdraw its troops from southern 
Eritrean  territories  and  his  Government’s  military 
misadventures in Somalia. Eritrea rejects all unfounded 
allegations,  and  I  do  not  wish  to  dignify  all  of  those 
made  this  morning  by  trying  to  address  them  at  this 
late hour. In the interests of time, I will briefly respond 
to the main issue at hand. 

its 
neighbours,  and  if  it  has  had  in  the  past,  it  has  been 
able  to  resolve  them  successfully,  peacefully  and 
legally,  with  the  exception  of  its  issues  with  Ethiopia. 
Ethiopia  cannot  hide  behind  the  Security  Council 
resolution  mentioned  by  the  Foreign  Minister.  Its 
attempt  to  find  comfort  in  a  resolution  and  to  use 
Eritrea  as  a  scapegoat  for  the  problems  of  Somalia  is 
misplaced  criticism,  and when no evidence was found 
to  substantiate  Eritrea’s  alleged  support 
the 
insurgents in Somalia, all eyes turned to Ethiopia. Even 
some members of the Transitional Federal Government 
admit  that  Ethiopia  is  using  the  Security  Council 
resolution to pursue its own hidden agenda. 

More  and  more  voices  are  being  raised  to 
critically  examine  Ethiopia’s  self-serving  policies  and 
actions  in  Somalia.  Some  sources  are  certain  that 
Ethiopia, with a standing army of about 800,000 — the 
largest 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa  —  receives  about  
$2 billion worth of military support per annum, which 
is  used 
feeds 
insurgencies. 

in  Addis  must  be  held 
accountable  for  its  destabilizing  policies  and  actions, 
and it must be able to separate itself from the political 
affairs  of  Somalia.  Unless  it  does  so,  the  problems  in 
Somalia and in the subregion will continue. 

I  wish  to  underscore  the  fact  that  Ethiopia  has 
been  the  only  constant  factor  throughout  the  political 
crisis in Somalia. Furthermore, that regime has been a 
cancer  in  the  Horn  of Africa.  It  is  a  very  well-known 
fact  that  Ethiopia’s  invasion  of  Somalia  in  2006 
to  supply  Somalia  and 
The  Government 
turn 
to 
in 
10-55408 

19 

A/65/PV.24 

contributed  to  the  rise  of  the  Al-Shabaab  group. 
Ethiopia’s  occupation  of  Somalia  not  only  created  the 
greatest  humanitarian  crisis 
in  Africa,  but  also 
significantly  contributed  to  the  destabilization  of  the 
country.  Approximately  1.5  million  Somalis  were 
displaced  and  over  20,000  lives  lost  through  its 
genocidal  acts,  which  deserve  thorough  investigation 
by the relevant international bodies. 

The withdrawal of Ethiopian troops from Somalia 
was  a  face-saving  measure  for  the  Government  in 
Ethiopia.  Yet,  refusing  to  learn  from  its  military 
misadventures in Somalia, the Government of Ethiopia 
has again sent troops to central Somalia to continue its 
military and political interference in the affairs of that 
country.  These  acts  should  not  be  tolerated  by  any 
standard, and in particular not by the Security Council. 
The  special  treatment  of  Ethiopia  is  glaringly  obvious 
and  becoming  a  source  of  problems  for  the  peace  and 
stability  of  the  subregion.  Let  all  countries  be  subject 
to  the  same  standards  and  set  of  rules,  especially  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  forbids  military 
intervention  unless  it  is  authorized  by  the  Security 
Council. 

While  I  have  the  floor,  let  me  clarify  Eritrea’s 
views  on  Somalia.  Eritrea  supports  an  inclusive  peace 
process that allows all Somalis in the Government and 
outside  the  Government  to  come  to  the  negotiating 
table. The peace process should be Somali-owned and 
Somali-driven,  and  Eritrea  will  continue  to  work 
constructively with all Somalis and the United Nations 
to achieve those objectives. 

Let me conclude by pointing out that Ethiopia has 
become part of the problem in Somalia, and that must 
be  stopped  if  a  Somali-owned  and  Somali-driven 
inclusive peace process is to take root in Somalia. Let 
me  also  urge  the  international  community  to  call  on 
Ethiopia  to  end  its  occupation  of  sovereign  Eritrean 
territories  in  order  to  ensure  a  stable  and  secure 
subregion in Africa. 
Mr. Abay (Ethiopia): I am taking the floor in the 

exercise of the right of reply with regard to allegations 
directed  at  my  Government  by 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Eritrea to the United Nations.  

Eritrea has been and is destabilizing the Horn of 
Africa,  and  that  is  a  fact.  Its  sponsorship  of  various 
terrorist  groups  in  the  region  has  a  long  history,  and 
that  is  another  well-known  truth.  Nonetheless,  despite 
its  destructive  role  in  the  Horn,  the  international 
to 
take 
tangible  measures 
community  has  failed 
commensurate with its bellicose nature.  

Late last year, the Security Council at last, after a 
long delay, imposed targeted sanctions on the Eritrean 
regime. Resolution 1907 (2009) was specifically aimed 
at  trying  to  persuade  Eritrea  to  mend  its  ways  and  to 
behave  in  a  civilized  and  peaceful  manner.  Sanctions 
also underlined the message that international relations 
are  governed  by  international  law,  which  must  be 
applied to its fullest extent. Eritrea cannot use its own 
excuses, real or imagined, to justify aggression against 
its neighbours, the blatant acts of destabilization it has 
been  undertaking  throughout  the  region,  or  the  role  it 
continues  to  play  by  supporting  extremist  elements  in 
Somalia.  

Although  evidence  has  never  been  in  short 
supply,  addressing  the  root  cause  of  problems  has 
never been Eritrea’s leaders’ strong point. That is why, 
ever  since  the  imposition  of  the  sanctions,  the  regime 
in Asmara has been waging a feverish campaign — as 
it has been doing this afternoon — to deflect attention 
from  itself  and  to  appear  to  be  the  underdog.  Part  of 
that campaign are Eritrea’s attempts at a make-believe 
fairy  tale  concerning  the  so-called  occupied  sovereign 
territories.  I  believe  that  my  delegation  responded 
adequately  to  this  Eritrean  mantra  at  yesterday’s 
meeting (see A/65/PV.22), and I will therefore not test 
the indulgence of members by repeating the same again 
today.  

What I would rather focus on this afternoon is the 
need to stay the course. The sanctions imposed by the 
Security  Council  in  resolution  1907  (2009)  have 
already  had  some  impact.  What  is  needed  now  is  to 
firmly  implement  the  sanctions  policy,  to  exert  more 
pressure on Eritrea and not to allow any backsliding on 
the  issue  just  because  of  certain  fictitious  good 
behaviour  that  seems  to  have  nearly  seduced  some 
quarters  within  the  international  community. The  time 
is  therefore  long  overdue  for  the  Security  Council  to 
take resolute action and see to it that its decisions are 
complied with fully. 

With regard to the Ethiopian-Eritrean issue raised 
by  the  representative  of  Eritrea  this  afternoon,  let  me 
reiterate  that  Ethiopia  agrees  with  the  constantly 
affirmed view of the Security Council that the primary 
responsibility for the resolution of the dispute between 
Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  rests  entirely  upon  themselves. 
Eritrea should realize that the solution on boundary or 
20 

10-55408 
undertakings 
auspices.  Numerous 


any  other  differences  can  be  found  only  by  the  two 
parties in a peaceful manner. Dialogue is the only way 
forward.  Eritrea  must  understand  that  the  option  of 
violence is a complete non-starter.  
Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  I  am  exercising  the  right  of 

reply in response to some incorrect assertions made by 
the  Minister  for  External  Affairs  of  India  in  his 
statement  delivered  today  in  the  general  debate  (see 
A/65/PV.23).  

The  Indian  Minister  for  External  Affairs  once 
again  made  the  self-serving  claim  that  Jammu  and 
Kashmir is an integral part of India. Nothing could be 
further from reality and the truth. Jammu and Kashmir 
is  an  internationally  recognized  disputed  territory  that 
is  still  on  the  United  Nations  agenda.  The  United 
Nations  has  adopted  more  than  a  dozen  resolutions 
calling  for  the  settlement  of  the  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
dispute through a free and fair plebiscite under United 
Nations 
and 
statements  made  solemnly  by  the  first  Prime  Minister 
of India are on record testifying to that fact.  

In his statement, the Indian Minister for External 
Affairs  reaffirmed  the  resolve  of  his  Government  and 
the more than 1 billion people of India to stand by the 
commitments  made  by  their  first  Prime  Minister, 
Jawaharlal  Nehru.  We  welcome  that  reaffirmation.  I 
would  like  to  draw  his  attention  to  Prime  Minister 
Nehru’s commitments on Kashmir. On 2 January 1952, 
in Calcutta, Prime Minister Nehru said,  

“Kashmir  is  not  the  property  of  either  India  or 
Pakistan.  It  belongs  to  the  Kashmiri  people. 
When Kashmir acceded to India, we made it clear 
to  the  leaders  of  the  Kashmiri  people  that  we 
would  ultimately  abide  by  the  verdict  of  their 
plebiscite.  If  they  tell  us  to  walk  out,  I  would 
have no hesitation in quitting. We have taken the 
issue to the United Nations and given our word of 
honour for a peaceful solution. As a great nation, 
we  cannot  go  back  on  it.  We  have  left  the 
question  for  final  solution  to  the  people  of 
Kashmir and we are determined to abide by their 
decision.” 
It  is  amazing  that  a  country  that  continues  to 

violate  several  United  Nations  resolutions,  including 
those  of  the  Security  Council,  and  fails  to  fulfil  the 
commitments  made  by 
the 
international  community  and  to  the  people  of  Indian-
occupied  Kashmir,  not  only  has  the  audacity  to  claim 
leaders  both 
its 
to 
A/65/PV.24
in 
and 
Indian 
human 
international  and 
rights  of  Kashmiris 
democratic and pluralistic credentials,  but also aspires 
to  become  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council.  

As regards human rights violations, Pakistan has 
only  echoed  what  has  been  said  and  reported  both  by 
international 
rights  
non-governmental  organizations  and  media  about  the 
ongoing  situation,  resulting  in  brutal  violations  of  the 
human 
Indian-occupied 
Kashmir.  If  it  pains  India  to  listen  to  the  truth  from 
Pakistan,  I  can  quote  a  number  of  statements  made  by 
members of the international community as well as well-
reputed 
Indian  non-governmental 
organizations 
that  have  expressed  similar  serious 
concerns. 

On  21  September  2010,  the  Secretary-General 
expressed regret for the loss of lives in Indian-occupied 
Kashmir  and  called  for  an  immediate  end  to  violence. 
Amnesty  International,  on  17  September,  commenting 
on  the  increasing  death  toll  in  peaceful  protests  in 
Kashmir, called on the Indian authorities to take urgent 
steps  to  ensure  respect  for  the  right  to  life  and  to 
investigate killings of demonstrators by police. Human 
Rights  Watch  on  the  same  day  pronounced  that 
Kashmiris had repeatedly been left without any justice. 
It  called  on  the  Indian  authorities  to  abide  by  and 
implement  the  United  Nations  Basic  Principles  on  the 
Use  of  Force  and  Firearms  by  Law  Enforcement 
Officials.  

Despite the use of brute force by Indian security 
forces, the recent widespread indigenous, peaceful and 
unarmed  movement  by  the  people  in  Indian-occupied 
Kashmir has once again proved the fact that Kashmiris 
despise the Indian occupation of their land and persist 
in  their  demand  for  the  right  to  self-determination  in 
accordance with Security Council resolutions. 

India  has  a  tendency  to  malign  Pakistan  on  the 
issue  of  terrorism  in  order  to  conceal  the  State 
terrorism  it  uses  to  stifle  Kashmiri  voices  demanding 
the  right  to  self-determination.  Pakistan’s  role  in 
fighting  terrorism  has  been  well  acknowledged  by  the 
international community. 
Although  we  are  a  victim  of  terrorism,  our 

resolve  to  fight  that  menace  has  not  wavered.  The 
security forces of Pakistan continue to shed their blood 
in  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  order  to  make  this 
world safer. On the other hand, there are countries that 
continue to provide unlimited supplies of weapons and 
10-55408 

21 

A/65/PV.24 

money to those enemies of humanity who want to play 
havoc with our civilized societies. 

We  need  no  exhortations  on  that  account  from 
anyone. The Indian Government is well advised to take 
careful  stock  of  its  own  policies  and  conduct,  which 
include  supporting  terrorist  elements  in  neighbouring 
countries  that  contribute  to  the  problems  facing  South 
Asia.  It  was  also  India  that  conceived,  created  and 
nurtured  the  most  lethal  terrorist  organization  to 
introduce  suicide  bombings  to  our  region.  Yet,  India 
still  has  the  nerve  to  give  lectures  on  morality  to 
others. 

The legitimate struggle of peoples for the right to 
self-determination  cannot  be  equated  with  terrorism. 
The  only  real  foreign  hand  involved  in  terrorist 
activities, resulting in dramatic and massive abuses  of 
the  human  rights  of  the  Kashmiri  people,  is  that  of 
Indian  State  terrorism  let  loose  by  occupation  forces 
under  draconian  laws  that  provide  the  licence  to  kill 
and  maim  innocent  Kashmiris.  It  is  a  known  fact  that 
more  than  700,000  Indian  security  personnel  are 
deployed  in  Indian-occupied  Kashmir  —  the  largest 
concentration  of  troops  anywhere  in  the  world.  One 
wonders  how  such  a  huge  concentration  of  armed 
forces,  backed  by  the Armed  Forces  (Special  Powers) 
Act,  can  give  Kashmiris  lessons  on  pluralism  and 
democracy. 
the  peaceful 

resolution  of  all 
through  a 
comprehensive and sustained dialogue. A peaceful and 
comprehensive  resolution  of  the  Kashmir  dispute,  in 
accordance  with  the  wishes  and  aspirations  of  the 
Kashmiri  people,  will  bring  lasting  peace  not  only 
between  Pakistan  and  India,  but  to  the  South  Asia 
region  and  beyond.  Addressing  the  human  rights 
concerns and ensuring the fundamental freedoms of the 
people of Indian-occupied Kashmir are the first step in 
that direction.  

receptive ears in the Indian establishment. 
Mr.  Mehdiyev  (Azerbaijan):  I  would  like  to 

exercise the right of reply to the statement made by the 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Armenia on 21 September in the general debate of the 
General Assembly (see A/65/PV.6).  

The  statement  of  the Armenian  Foreign  Minister 
was  yet  another  solid  piece  of  evidence  of  that 
I  hope  that  this  well-meaning  advice  will  find 
Pakistan  remains  committed 
issues  with 
to 
India 
the  majority  of 
law,  by  political  means  and 
country’s  outrageous  racist  ideology,  as  well  as  of  its 
annexationist intentions and unwillingness to settle the 
in  accordance  with 
Armenian-Azerbaijan  conflict 
international 
in  a 
constructive manner. 

There can be no doubt that the issue that Yerevan 
purports to advocate denotes a culture of impunity and 
the  promotion  of  dangerous  ideas  of  superiority  and 
expansionism,  based  on  the  open  ethnic  and  religious 
prejudices prevailing in Armenia’s policy and practice. 
The documentary evidence — and there is a mountain 
of  it  —  proves  that  Armenia  unleashed  the  war, 
attacked  Azerbaijan,  occupied  its  ancestral  territories, 
including  the  Nagorny  Karabakh  region  and  several 
adjacent  districts,  carried  out  ethnic  cleansing  on  a 
massive scale, and established a subordinate separatist 
entity  on  captured  Azerbaijani  territory  along  ethnic 
lines.  The  war  led  to  the  death  and  wounding  of 
thousands  of  Azerbaijanis, 
them 
women, the elderly and children.  

It is essential to note that what the Armenian side 
considers  to  be  the  exercise  of  the  right  to  self-
determination  by  the  Armenian  minority  group  in 
Azerbaijan  has  been  unambiguously  qualified  by  the 
Security Council and the General Assembly, as well as 
by  other  authoritative  international  organizations,  as 
the  illegal  use  of  force  against  the  sovereign  and 
territorial  integrity  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan. 
Consequently, the claims of Armenia — which resorted 
to the unlawful use of force to occupy the territory of 
Azerbaijan 
serious 
international  crimes,  such  as  war  crimes,  crimes 
against humanity and even genocide — are contrary to 
and unsustainable under international law.  

Thus, the destructive political agenda of Armenia, 
aimed  at  dismembering  multi-ethnic  societies  and 
legalizing  a  product  of  aggression  and  an  outrageous 
manifestation of ethnic differentiation, is fated never to 
be  realized. Armenia  must  finally  realize  that,  for  the 
purposes  of  lasting  peace  and  stability,  there  is  no 
alternative  but  to  put  a  prompt  end  to  its  illegal 
occupation of Azerbaijani territory, renounce its policy 
of  ethnic  hatred  towards  and  territorial  claims  on 
neighbouring  nations,  and  establish  civilized  relations 
with all regional countries. 
Mr. Kazhoyan (Armenia): I apologize for asking 

for the floor, but it is really impossible to remain silent 
the  most 
committed 
and 
22 

10-55408 
is 
to 
the 
The 
reference 
fact  urge 
the  concerned  parties 
the  elected  representatives  of 


after  what  has  just  been  said  by  the  representative  of 
Azerbaijan. 

so-called  military 
expansionism  of  Armenia  made  by  the  representative 
was totally misleading. Armenia has never started any 
aggression  whatsoever.  Moreover,  it  was  Azerbaijan 
that  started  a  full-scale  war  against  the  peaceful 
population of Nagorny Karabakh, forcing them to take 
up arms in order to protect their lives and homes. The 
current  situation  in  the  region  is  the  consequence  of 
Azerbaijan’s  own  decision  to  use  military  force  to 
suppress  the  legitimate,  just  and  peaceful  quest  of  the 
people  of  Nagorny  Karabakh  to exercise  their  right  to 
self-determination,  which 
guaranteed 
by 
international law and the United Nations Charter.  

Indeed,  it  is  Azerbaijan  that  is  in  violation  not 
only of the resolutions of the Security Council, which 
in 
to  pursue 
negotiations within the framework of the Minsk Group 
of  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe,  as  well  as  direct  contact  between  them. 
Azerbaijan’s  refusal  to  engage  in  direct  negotiations 
with 
the  Nagorny 
Karabakh  Republic  and  its  hostile  stance  towards 
anything  Armenian  are  the  main  impediments  to  the 
solution of the Nagorny Karabakh issue.  

representatives 
continuously  fail  to  acknowledge  is  that Armenia  has 
done  exactly  what  the  Security  Council  resolutions 
have called on it to do — to use its good offices with 
the  leadership  of  Nagorny  Karabakh  to  help  find  a 
peaceful  solution  to  the  conflict. A  ceasefire  has  been 
in  place  since  1994,  and  now  it  is  high  time  to  find  a 
comprehensive  peaceful  solution  to  the  issue  so  that 
the  people  throughout  our  region  can  live  in  peace, 
prosperity and harmony.  
Mr.  Kim  Moonhwan  (Republic  of  Korea):  I 

would like to exercise the right of reply in response to 
the  statement  delivered  by  the  Vice-Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea this morning (see A/65/PV.23).  

First, regarding the tragic sinking of the Republic 
of  Korea’s  naval  ship  Cheonan,  the  findings  of  the 
joint investigation group on the sinking of the Cheonan
naval  vessel  were  the  result  of  a  thorough,  objective 
and  scientific  investigation,  with  the  participation  of 
five  nations:  the  United  States,  the  United  Kingdom, 
Canada,  Australia  and  Sweden.  Those  findings  were 
Meanwhile,  what  Azerbaijani 
the 
A/65/PV.24
in 
issues, 
talks  between 
in  accordance  with 
international  community 
“The  Security  Council  underscores 
endorsed  by 
the 
presidential statement adopted by the Security Council 
on 9 July 2010. In that regard, I would like to reiterate 
that 
the  Security  Council  presidential  statement 
stipulates that:  


the 
importance  of  preventing  further  such  attacks  or 
hostilities against the Republic of Korea or in the 
region” (S/PRST/2010/13, p. 2). 

The  unprovoked  attack  constituted  a  grave 
violation of the Armistice Agreement and the principles 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  In  that  context,  allow 
me  to  clarify  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea’s  proposal  to  send  its  inspection  team.  My 
delegation wants to emphasize that there already exists 
an  established  mechanism  for  military  talks.  General 
officer-level 
the  United  Nations 
Command (UNC) and the North Korean People’s Army 
(KPA)  have  been 
the  designated  forum  for  any 
Armistice-related 
the 
agreement  reached  between  the  UNC  and  the  KPA  in 
1998.  Since  then,  the  UNC-KPA  general  officer-level 
talks  have  dealt  with  other  cases  of  violation  of  the 
Armistice  Agreement.  In  addition,  my  delegation  is 
compelled  to  refute  the  arguments  expressed  by  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  in  claiming 
that  it  is  a  nuclear-weapon  State.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation  wishes  to  draw  attention  to  the  final 
document  of  the  eighth  NPT  Review  Conference 
adopted  last  May,  which  clearly  reaffirmed  that  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  cannot  have 
the status of a nuclear-weapon State in accordance with 
the NPT. 
in  French):  Several 

delegations  have  asked  to  speak  in  exercise  of  their 
second right of reply. I remind them that statements in 
exercise of the second right of reply should be limited 
to five minutes. 
the 

representative  of  Ethiopia  once  again  that  the  key  to 
resolving the  problem between Eritrea  and Ethiopia is 
the  withdrawal  of  Ethiopian  soldiers  and  institutions 
from  Eritrean  sovereign  territories. With  regard  to  the 
border  dispute  between  Eritrea  and  Ethiopia,  the 
Eritrea-Ethiopia  Boundary  Commission  has  delimited 
and  demarcated  the  border.  What  now  remains  is  the 
withdrawal  of  Ethiopian  soldiers 
from  Eritrean 
sovereign territories. Ethiopia must respect the rule of 
Mr.  Desta  (Eritrea):  I  wish 
The  President
to  remind 
(spoke 
10-55408 

23 

A/65/PV.24 

law.  Ethiopia’s  dishonouring  of  its  agreement  is  an 
irresponsible  and  shameful  act.  This  issue  cannot  be 
swept under the carpet through diversionary tactics and 
the  presentation  of  unfounded  allegations.  Ethiopia 
must face up to its treaty obligations, if it is interested 
in the security and stability of the region. 

On the question of Somalia, I wish to bring to the 
attention  of  this  body  the  fact  that  Ethiopia  continues 
to  be  the  only  constant  factor  throughout  the  political 
crisis  in  Somalia.  This  is  very  revealing  of  Ethiopia’s 
hidden  agenda 
in  Somalia.  Ethiopia’s  continued 
meddling  in  the  affairs  of  Somalia  is  dangerous  to 
Somalis and to the rest of the region. The international 
community  must  revisit  and  assess  the  situation  and 
seek  a  better  solution  that  empowers  the  Somalis  to 
take  charge  of  their  destiny  through  an  inclusive 
political process. 
Mr. Manish Gupta (India): I am taking the floor 

in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  to  the  statement  just 
made by the representative of Pakistan. Predictably, my 
distinguished  colleague  from  Pakistan  has  once  again 
addressed  the  issue  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  and  made 
baseless and false allegations against India that are far 
from fact. Such unsolicited and untenable remarks will 
not  and  indeed  cannot  divert  attention  from  the 
multiple  problems  Pakistan  must 
the 
common  good  of  its  people  and  indeed  of  the  entire 
region. 

Rather than making unsolicited remarks about the 
internal  affairs  of  others,  Pakistan  should  seriously 
concentrate  on  addressing  the  enormous  challenges 
confronting 
and 
sectarianism, to name a few — and on dismantling the 
terrorist  infrastructure  that  exists  on  territories  under 
its  control. Violence  in  Jammu  and  Kashmir  has  been 
fuelled over the past decades by external forces that do 
not desire peace and progress in our region. 

the 
fundamental  rights  of  all  of  our  people,  including  our 
brethren  in  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  which  is  an  integral 
part  of  India.  Free  and  fair  elections  in  Jammu  and 
Kashmir  have  been  regularly  held,  and  people  have 
regularly  exercised  their  right  to  franchise  in  order  to 
elect their representatives. 
Mr.  Mehdiyev  (Azerbaijan):  I  apologize  for 

having requested the floor again in exercise of my right 
of  reply  to  the  remarks  made  by  the  Armenian 
delegation. We proceed  from the strong  understanding 
Indian  Constitution 
tackle  for 
guarantees 
extremism 
terrorism, 
it  — 
The 
Mr.  Pak  Tok  Hun
that  the  United  Nations  should  be  resorted  to  by 
Member  States  in  accordance  with  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Organization and not misused for the 
political  advantage  of  those  who  gravely  violate 
international law, advocate the culture of impunity and 
promote dangerous ideas of racial, ethnic and religious 
superiority. Armenia’s stance proves that its thinking is 
far from United Nations vision on engaging in a sobre 
and  efficient  search  for  peace.  We  consider 
the 
provocative and irresponsible behaviour of Armenia an 
open challenge to the conflict settlement process and a 
serious  threat  to  international  and  regional  peace  and 
security. 

We  expect  that  Member  States  will  work  to 
persuade  Armenia  to  cease  its  destructive  policies, 
respect the generally accepted norms and principles of 
international  law  and  negotiate  in  good  faith  with  a 
view to achieving a durable solution to the conflict. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic  of  Korea):  It  is  indeed  regrettable  and 
heartbreaking that my delegation has had to respond to 
the  South  Korean  delegation  concerning  their  number 
one  issue,  namely,  the  so-called  sinking  of  the  South 
Korean  ship  Cheonan.  South  Korean  delegates  have 
once  again  brought  to  the  attention  of  this  body  an 
issue  on  which  not  even  the  United  Nations  Security 
Council  has  prepared  an  appropriate  judgement  or 
conclusion.  
My delegation would like once again to make its 

position  clear,  namely, 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, had nothing to do with the 
sinking of the ship Cheonan. Particular mention should 
be  made  of  the  paragraph  of  the  Security  Council’s 
presidential statement, I quote, 

“The Security Council takes note of the responses 
from  other  relevant  parties,  including  from  the 
DPRK, which has stated that it had nothing to do 
with the incident.” (S/PRST/2010/13, para. 6) 
The  South  Korean  delegate  mentioned  the  so-

called  scientific  investigations  and  the  results  of  the 
investigation  of  that  sinking  incident.  The  conclusive 
evidence  presented  by  South  Korea  offers  nothing 
more  than  conclusive  doubts,  and  the  results  of  the 
investigation 
Civilian-Military 
Investigation Group present a mosaic-like scenario that 
is  not  scientifically  based  and  is  unilateral  and  not 
objective. This is why the DPRK straightaway rejected 
the  unilateral  investigative results  of  South  Korea  and 
that  we, 
Joint 
the 
by 
24 

10-55408 
its 
only 
accept 
should 


proposed to dispatch its own inspection group from the 
National  Defence  Commission  to  the  site  of  the 
sinking,  in  order  to  verify  the  investigation  results 
objectively and scientifically.  

However, South Korea has refused to receive our 
inspection group, instead insisting that the international 
community 
unilateral 
investigation  results.  If  the  South  Korean  authorities 
have nothing to hide, then there is no reason for them 
not  to  accept  our  inspection  group  to  verify  their 
investigation results.  

As long as the South Korean authorities refuse to 
accept our inspection group, suspicion will continue to 
grow  in  relation  to  this  case.  But  it  is  not  too  late  for 
them  to  make  a  decision  to  accept  our  inspection 
group. 

South  Korea  mentioned  that  they  would  not 
recognize the nuclear status of my country. We do not 
ask South Korea, or any country, to recognize or accept 
our  status  as  a  nuclear  State. As  we  have  clarified  on 
many occasions, our nuclear weapons are not a means 
for  attacking  or  frightening  others  but  a  deterrent  in 
self-defence  to  counter  aggression  and  attacks  from 
outside. The  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula 
will surely come, if a super-Power abandons its hostile 
policy  towards  my  country  and  proves  that  by  its 
actions.  We  will  make  real  efforts  to  denuclearize  the 
peninsula  in  the  context  of  building  a  world  free  of 
nuclear weapons and free of the United States nuclear 
policy  towards  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea in the future too, as we have done in the past. 
Mr. Abay  (Ethiopia):  We  have  both  —  Ethiopia 

and  Eritrea  —  expressed  our  views  on  issues  that  are 
real and on those that are not so real or true. We have 
been throwing accusations and allegations at each other 
for  almost  a  decade,  to  no  avail.  For  the  purposes  of 
saving  time,  it  is  my  belief,  with  regard  to  Somalia, 
that it would be useful if the Members of the Assembly 
could  refer  to  the  records  of  the  outcome  of  the  
mini-Summit  on  Somalia  convened  by  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  last  Thursday,  calling  on  the 
spoilers of the peace process in Somalia to desist from 
their actions. 

Sanctions  were  not  imposed  on  Ethiopia.  They 
were  imposed  on  the  spoilers  —  that  is,  Eritrea. 
Sanctions  were  not  handed  down  on  Ethiopia,  not 
because  Ethiopia  has  been  the  favourite  child  of  the 
international  community,  but  because  that  was  the 
A/65/PV.24
to 
justify 
that  seek 
Mr.  Sial
(Pakistan):  Repetition 
choice  of  the African  Union  (AU).  It  would  be  really 
surprising  if  the AU  and  the  international  community 
had got it all wrong and Eritrea had got it right. 

With  regard  to  demarcation,  I  do  not  have 
anything  more  to  add,  and,  as  I  said  earlier,  the  only 
way forward is through dialogue. 
reflects  a 

weakness of argument, so I will not indulge in that. My 
Indian  colleague  is  trying  to  take  help  from  the 
arguments  that  have  been  squarely  rejected,  by  the 
people  of  Indian-occupied  Kashmir  as  well  as  by  the 
international community. Pakistan does not interfere in 
the  internal  affairs  of  other  countries.  Jammu  and 
Kashmir is, however, not an internal Indian matter. 
Being  a  principal  stakeholder  in  the  Jammu  and 

Kashmir dispute, we retain the right to raise this issue 
in all international forums and will continue to extend 
moral,  political  and  diplomatic  support  to  the  just 
struggle  of the Kashmiri people to  exercise their  right 
to self-determination. The Indian reference to elections 
in  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
its 
occupation has been rejected not only by the people of 
Kashmir  but  also  by 
the  Security  Council.  The 
International  Commission  of  Jurists,  in  its  report  after 
visiting  Jammu  and  Kashmir  in  1995,  concluded  that 
the  people  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  had  acquired  the 
right  to  self-determination  at  the  time  of  the  partition 
of  India.  That  right  has  neither  been  exercised  nor 
abandoned, and therefore remains capable of exercise. 

indigenous  peaceful,  unarmed,  
non-violent  and  widespread  movement  for  azadi,  that 
is,  freedom  in  Indian-occupied  Kashmir,  has  once 
again proved that, despite facing decades of repression 
and some of the worst forms of human rights violations 
at the hands of Indian security forces, Kashmiris refuse 
to  accept  any  solution  other  than  the  exercise  of  their 
just right to self-determination. 

Pakistan  regrets  the  uncalled-for  remarks  on  its 
internal  matters  by  the  Indian  delegate.  We  are  aware 
who the supporters and perpetrators of these situations 
are,  who  otherwise  take  cover  behind  democracy  and 
stand  on  high  moral  ground.  Pakistan  is  capable  of 
frustrating,  and  determined 
their 
nefarious designs in those areas. Indian interests would 
be  better  served,  if  that  country  would  utilize  its  so-
called ancient wisdom to deal with innumerable issues 
at home, while avoiding interference in others’ internal 
matters. The  Jammu  and  Kashmir  issue  should  not  be 
to  frustrate,  all 
The  ongoing 
10-55408 

25 

Pakistan 
issues  with 
remains  committed 
A/65/PV.24 

used as a tool of State politics. It is about the destiny of 
the  people  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  and  about 
sustainable peace in our region. 
to  a  peaceful 

resolution  of  all  outstanding 
India, 
including  the  core  issue  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir, 
through  a  sustained  and  comprehensive  dialogue 
process.  That  process  must  yield  concrete  results  and 
move from conflict management to conflict resolution. 
Mr.  Kazhoyan  (Armenia):  I  sincerely  apologize 

to the Assembly and my colleagues for having to take 
the floor for a second time. The statement made earlier 
by  the  head  of  the Armenian  delegation  was  intended 
to sincerely address the burning issues of the people of 
our region, regardless of their place of residence or the 
political  status  of  their  homeland. This  should  also  be 
fully  attributed  to  every  single  nationality,  including 
Armenians, Russians,  Jews, Greeks, Assyrians, Kurds, 
Yazidis, Arabs and Azeris, and representatives of every 
religion  living  today  in  the  territory  of  the  Nagorno-
Karabakh Republic. Unfortunately, I regret to state that 
whatever  was  mentioned  a  few  minutes  ago  by  the 
representative  of Azerbaijan  was  politically  motivated 
and  destructive,  and  in  no  way  serves  the  noble  goals 
of  the  Assembly,  which  are  aimed  at  uniting  our 
nations. 
Mr.  Manish  Gupta  (India):  Regrettably,  the 

Pakistani representative has once again taken the floor. 
We  reject  all  the  untenable  and  unsolicited  remarks 
from the delegate of Pakistan. 

the last speaker in exercise of the right of reply. 

therefore  now  share  with  you  my 
concluding  remarks,  which  I  have  entitled  “Let  us 
move forward towards a genuine global partnership”. 
The President (spoke in French): We have heard 
I  will 


Statement by the President 

The President (spoke in French): We have arrived 
at  the  end  of  our  general  debate  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session of the General Assembly. I would like to thank 
all  speakers  for  their  contributions.  I  am  pleased  that 
virtually everyone has had an opportunity to speak and 
for the quality of the debate. I hope that everyone who 
spoke has been heard. 

Now is the time to take stock so that we can make 
greater  progress,  together,  on  the  issues  of  critical 
importance for our common well-being.  
the  Summit  on 
I  have  been  struck  by 

the  convergence  of 
concerns expressed not only from this rostrum but also 
during  the  many  bilateral  meetings  that  I  had  the 
honour  to  host  on  the  sidelines  of  this  debate.  If  our 
concerns  are  shared,  why  then  have  so  many  tragic 
situations lasted for so long? Have we really taken the 
time  to  speak  to  one  another,  to  search  for  solutions 
and to achieve reconciliation? Or have we merely been 
content  to  repeat  the  same  things  year  after  year?  Let 
us  put  aside  electoral  cycles  and  purely  national 
interests,  so 
that  we  can  forge  consensus-based 
solutions that will enable us to move forward. The need 
to  consolidate 
the  still  fragile  global  economic 
situation, the need to improve the reduction of poverty 
and the need to redouble efforts for the achievement of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  were  emphasized 
in many statements.  
In  this  regard,  a  strong  and  very  welcome 

message  was  conveyed  by 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals:  we  reaffirmed  our 
determination  to  keep  the  promise  made  in  the  year 
2000 and we have a plan of action. What we need now 
is for our words to be followed by actions. Too often in 
the past, those words have gone unheeded. We  cannot 
afford to disappoint the expectations of the millions of 
men,  women  and  children  living  in  poverty.  We  will 
need 
fulfilment  of  our 
commitments.  The  General  Assembly  must  —  and  
will — contribute towards this. 
importance  of  UN  Women  for  gender 

equality  and 
the  empowerment  of  women  was 
highlighted.  The  establishment  of  that  entity,  which 
combines resources and mandates for a greater impact, 
is  an  example  that  could  be  followed  in  other  areas. 
The  crucial  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  promoting 
human  rights  and  combating  human  trafficking  was 
also recalled. 
Many  delegations  spoke  about  issues  of  peace 

and  security, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  regional 
conflicts, migration and efforts to combat terrorism and 
organized crime. The importance of disarmament in the 
promotion of peace and development was highlighted. 
The  essential  role  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations  was  repeatedly  acknowledged.  We  should 
never  forget  that  peace  and  security  are  our  primary 
calling. 

Nevertheless,  the  international  community  still 
has much to do to ensure that the United Nations fulfils 
to  closely  monitor 
The 
the 
26 

10-55408 
the 
The 
implementation  of 


its primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace 
and  security. The  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  Sudan, 
the  Balkans  and  too  many  other  regions  of  the  world 
remind  us  of  this  on  a  daily  basis.  Will  we  be  brave 
enough  to  move  beyond  deadlock  and  oft-repeated 
positions  of  principle  and  be  sincere  in  our  efforts  to 
begin the reconciliation that our citizens so desire? 

There was also praise for the work of the United 
Nations and its specialized agencies in the wake of the 
natural disasters in Haiti and Pakistan. 
Speaker after speaker dwelt on dangers connected 

with  nature  —  including  climate  change,  the  loss  of 
biodiversity and scarcity of resources — and reiterated 
the  need  for  worldwide  efforts  to  address  those  risks. 
The same appeal was made at our high-level meetings 
on  biodiversity  and 
the 
Mauritius Strategy. 

issue  of  sustainable  development  was 
mentioned  in  this  connection.  During  this  session  of 
the General Assembly, I intend to step up discussion of 
this subject, and particularly of the green economy, in 
order  to  contribute  to  preparing  for  the  2012  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in 
2012. 

Time  does  not  permit  me  to  list  every  subject 
mentioned on this podium, but all of them are essential 
to  the  common  good  and  all  require  a  worldwide 
response. Many delegations raised the matter of global 
governance,  the  theme  chosen  for  the  general  debate. 
The  fact  that  the  number  of  heads  of  State  and 
Government in New York is higher than usual testifies 
to  the  considerable  importance  that  most  Members 
attach  to  reinforcing  such  governance.  I  am  pleased 
that  the  theme  of  the  debate  was  such  a  successful 
choice. 

The Group of 20 (G-20) is an unavoidable reality, 
and many delegations have pointed out its importance. 
However, as one of the G-20 members indicated, there 
needs  to  be  open  and  ongoing  dialogue  with  the 
Member  States  of  the  General  Assembly  in  order  for 
the  G-20  to  retain  its  relevance  and  legitimacy.  We 
need  to  find  the  ideal  combination  of  legitimacy  and 
effectiveness.  We  must  improve  the  machinery  of 
information, consultation and cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  other  players  connected  with 
global governance.  
A/65/PV.24
global 
governance 
that  would 

As  a  first  practical  step,  I  intend  to  launch  an 
informal  debate  with  the  Secretary-General  and  the  
G-20  host  country  to  take  place  before  and  after  the  
G-20  summits.  There  is  also  the  possibility  of  an 
informal  debate  in  the  second  half  of  my  term  to 
explore in a more general way paths towards a system 
of 
be  more 
inclusive  and  open,  and  would 
representative, 
encompass  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  as 
important players in the system. 

We  believe  in  the  value  of  the  United  Nations. 
Many  leaders  have  said  that  the  Organization  is  the 
centrepiece  of  the  global  system  of  governance.  It  is 
universal and enjoys a unique legitimacy. But the lack 
of  leadership  and  the  need  for  major  reform  are  also 
topics of frequent comment. 

While we agree on the importance of the tool that 
is  the  United  Nations,  are  we  making  the  best  use  of 
that tool? Are we doing what is needed to help us use it 
better?  Are  we  ready  to  strengthen  the  Organization 
today?  Are  we  not  in  the  process  of  recreating  the 
United  Nations  outside 
the  United  Nations  by 
multiplying  discussion  forums  and  decision-making 
bodies? Would it not be better for us to act resolutely to 
adapt the Organization rapidly to current realities? 

Essential  reforms  are  under  way,  especially  with 
regard  to  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  but  also 
regarding the review of the Human Rights Council and 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  must  move  those 
reforms and reviews forward. We must also reassert the 
value  of  the  economic  organizations  of  the  United 
Nations and allow them fully to perform the functions 
for which they were created. 
It  is  clearly  up  to  you,  the  Member  States,  to 

make of the United Nations a strong tool that can play 
a  central  role  in  facing  these  global  challenges  and 
work for the common good. 
Allow  me  to  end  this  general  debate  on  a  more 

personal  note.  In  following  our  debates  over  the  past 
few  days,  I  have  been  struck  by  the  generosity  and 
determination  unanimously  expressed  in  favour  of 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  This 
sends  a  strong  message  about  the  capacity  of  the 
international community to act in solidarity. 

I  have  been  impressed  as  well  by  the  many 
statements  to  the  effect  that  the  world  and  our 
10-55408 

27 

the 
to  global  governance, 
A/65/PV.24 

Organization  currently  find  themselves  at  a  turning 
point. However, I have also asked myself if, in addition 
to  making  such  statements,  we  are  putting  the  same 
energy  into  ensuring  the  proper  functioning  of  global 
governance  and 
fulfilment  of  our  primary 
mandates, which are peace and security. 

I  sometimes  have  the  feeling  that  we  content 
ourselves  with  repeating  worn-out  sketches  of  ideas, 
looking  for  short-lived  victories  or  simply  accepting 
the  status  quo.  To  make  true  breakthroughs  on  the 
major  projects  related 
the 
protection of human rights and the preservation of the 
planet, that is, to make progress on our grand plans to 
create a world of peace, well-being and friendship, we 
will need a great deal of creativity and a great deal of 
generosity. 
Let us not fear our own courage. 


I  have  just  received  another  request  for  the 
exercise of the right to reply. I therefore give the floor 
to the representative of Viet Nam. 
Mr.  Bui  The  Giang  (Viet  Nam):  Thank  you,  

Mr.  President,  for  allowing  us  to  speak  very  briefly. 
And  let  me  apologize  to  all  the  other  representatives 
for requesting to speak at this late hour.  

We  want  to  speak  in  response  to  the  statement 
made  by  Sweden  about  the  so-called  jailing  and 
harassment of journalists in Viet Nam. We believe that 
no  country  is  perfect  and  Viet  Nam  is  no  exception. 
Therefore,  we  have  established  and  constantly 
improved the legal system of a State governed by laws 
after  many  decades  of  ravaging  and  destructive  wars. 
At the same time, we are open to all comments as far 
as  my  country  is  concerned,  provided  that  such 
comments are constructive and well-informed. We have 

the 
so-called 
engaged  in  dialogue  with  many  interested  countries, 
including,  for  example,  the  United  States  of America, 
Australia  and  Canada,  to  name  a  few,  as  well  as  the 
European Union.  

In  that  context,  we  regret  that  Sweden  has  made 
uninformed,  misinformed  and  ungrounded  comments 
about 
jailing  and  harassment  of 
journalists  in  some  countries,  including  Viet  Nam, 
which  are  contrary  to  the  tradition  of  friendship 
between  the  two  countries  on  the  basis  of  mutual 
respect  and  respect  for  international  law,  and  has 
allowed  itself  the  right  to  judge  the  situation  in  other 
countries without any basis or grounds. 

further requests for the exercise of the right of reply.  

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 8? 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  no 
It was so decided. 


the  General  Assembly 
Programme of work 
The President (spoke in French): I would like to 

the  attention  of 
to 
draw 
document A/INF/65/3, which has been distributed to all 
delegations desk to desk. It contains the programme of 
work  of  the  Assembly  and  the  tentative  schedule  of 
plenary  meetings  for  the  period  from  October  to 
December  2010.  I  would  also  like  to  inform  members 
that  the  lists  of  speakers  for  items  listed  in  document 
A/INF/65/3 are now open. 

thanking all the representatives for their hard work.  

I  should  like  to  close  this  series  of  meetings  by 
  The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m. 
28 

10-55408 
