
A/65/PV.31
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

31st plenary meeting 
Thursday, 14 October 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 













  In the absence of the President, Mr. Hasan Kleib 
(Indonesia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 

Agenda items 62 and 12 (continued) 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 

peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/65/152, 
A/65/165 and A/65/167) 
  Notes by the Secretary-General (A/65/62 and 
A/65/62/Add.1) 


the  New  Partnership 
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/210) 

Mr.  Barton  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  welcomes  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-
General  on 
for  Africa’s 
Development  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  in 
Africa  (A/65/152),  on  monitoring  mechanisms  for 
Africa’s development (A/65/165), and on the Decade to 
Roll  Back  Malaria  (A/65/210).  Those  areas  are  each 
important  individually,  but  they  also  have  a  direct 
impact on each other. We appreciate the opportunity to 
address them together. 

The United States is committed to addressing the 
prevention  and  treatment  of  malaria,  HIV/AIDS  and 

the  Global  Health 
tuberculosis  and  to  reducing  their  burden  worldwide. 
Through 
Initiative  and  our 
contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  the  United  States  will 
continue  to  lead  in  the  fight  against  those  diseases  by 
focusing  on  strengthening  health  systems  and  meeting 
broader health challenges, including child and maternal 
health, family planning and neglected tropical diseases. 
In  that  regard,  I  am  pleased  to  note  the  recent  United 
States  pledge  to  seek  to  contribute  an  additional 
$4 billion  to  the  Global  Fund  for  2011  to  2013,  an 
increase of 38 per cent. 

The President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI) is a core 
component of our Global Health Initiative and the fight 
against  malaria,  as  well  as  a  key  part  of  the  United 
States  foreign  assistance  strategy.  Under  the  new 
United States malaria strategy, our goal is to achieve an 
the 
Africa-wide 
burden  of  malaria 
in 
sub-Saharan  Africa,  thereby  removing  malaria  as  a 
major  public  health  problem  and  promoting  economic 
growth and development throughout the region. 
Since  2005,  the  Initiative  has  contributed  to  a 

rapid  scaling  up  of  malaria  prevention  and  treatment 
measures across 15 countries in Africa by funding the 
purchase  of  more 
life-saving 
antimalarial  treatments  and  more  than  27  million 
insecticide-treated  nets.  During  2009  alone, 
the 
Initiative  reached  more  than  50  million  people  with 
preventive  measures  or  life-saving  drugs.  It  also 
provided 
the 
management  of  antimalarial  drugs  and  other  essential 
impact  by  significantly  reducing 
for  at-risk  populations 
than  57  million 
to  countries 
improve 
support 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-58713 (E) 
*1058713* 



has 
resulted 
in 
in  focus 
commodities,  which 
in  supply  chain  systems 
A/65/PV.31 

medical 
improvements 
countries. 

Many  of  the  PMI  focus  countries  are  now 
reporting significant reductions in under-five mortality, 
and  there  is  strong  and  growing  evidence  that  the 
scaling  up  of  malaria  prevention  and  treatment  efforts 
has  been  a  major  factor  in  those  reductions.  That 
progress is a result of the collective actions of African 
Governments,  the  United  States  and  other  concerned 
donor nations, multilateral organizations, including the 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, 
the United Nations, the World Health Organization and 
the World Bank, and non governmental organizations. 

In addition, by reducing the burden of malaria in 
highly  endemic  countries,  the  Initiative  allows  critical 
resources  and  overstretched  health  workers 
to 
concentrate  on  controlling  other  childhood  illnesses 
and  helps  to  reduce  malaria’s  drain  on  economic 
growth and development in Africa. 

In  the  past  year,  the  United  States  has  increased 
its aid to Africa by 9 per cent to $7.5 billion. However, 
we should not measure aid as an input, but rather look 
at outputs. As President Obama said during his address 
to this Assembly last month:  

“Let us move beyond the old, narrow debate over 
how much money we are spending and instead let 
us  focus  on  results  —  whether  we  are  actually 
making 
lives” 
(A/65/PV.9). 

The United Nations has an important role to play 
in  assisting  Africa,  especially  sub-Saharan  African 
countries,  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  United  Nations  development  agencies,  such  as 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  can 
make  unique  contributions  by  helping  countries  to 
build  governance  institutions  that  can  bring  about 
political 
democratic 
Governments, and economic freedom for their citizens. 
We welcome the efforts of the United Nations to 

improve 
the  monitoring  mechanisms  for  Africa’s 
development  and  its  focus  on  results,  rather  than 
inputs,  and  on  the  commitments  of  donor  nations,  as 
well  as  African  Governments.  In  our  endeavour  to 
monitor results effectively, we must ensure that there is 
true  value  added  and  coherence  among  new  and 
existing monitoring mechanisms. 
improvements 
effective 
in 
people’s 
stability, 
and 

the 
Secretary-General’s 

The  key  for  Africa  to  meet  its  Millennium 
Development  Goals  is  to  create  the  conditions  for 
sustained and broad-based economic growth, so that it 
can  break  away  from  dependence  on  development 
assistance.  As 
report 
highlights,  countries  in  Africa  enjoyed  an  average 
growth  rate  of  4.65  per  cent  from  2000  to  2007.  We 
must  build  on  that  achievement.  To  that  end,  we 
support  efforts  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development 
to  promote  democratization,  good 
governance  and  economic  transparency,  as  well  as 
enhanced  regional-  and  national-level  infrastructure 
and food security. 

The United States continues to support efforts to 
enhance  the  private  sector  in  Africa.  Since  1999,  the 
United States has provided $12 billion in trade capacity 
assistance  to  developing  countries,  and  the  African 
Growth  and  Opportunity  Act  has  contributed 
to 
enhanced  trade  with Africa.  In  the  first  half  of  2010, 
trade under that Act totalled $33.1 billion, a 57 per cent 
increase from the same period in 2009. 

We  remain  committed  to  reducing  the  debt 
burden of African States and to ensuring that resources 
are  freed  up  to  support  the  MDGs  and  broad-based 
growth. We note that sub-Saharan Africa has benefited 
from $100 billion in debt cancellation to date. 

As  the  Secretary-General  reports,  the  number  of 
African  States 
in  armed  conflict  has  declined 
dramatically,  from  14  in  the  late  1990s  to  four  today. 
But  much  needs  to  be  done  to  sustain  the  peace. 
Democratization  and  development  must  go  hand  in 
hand.  State  institutions  must  be  strengthened  and 
regional  cooperation  deepened.  Peacekeeping  must 
evolve  into  peacebuilding. And  post-conflict  recovery 
must  be 
sustainable 
development. 

Africa’s  economic  development  is  the  only  way 
for us to achieve the MDGs. Fighting diseases such as 
malaria  and  rooting  out  the  maladies  of  conflict  and 
poor governance are keys to growth. The United States 
is  deeply  committed  to  being  a  constructive  force  and 
to  helping  to  advance  progress  on  those  related  and 
important issues. 
Mr.  Jomaa  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

the  pleasure  and  the  honour  to  speak  before  the 
General Assembly today to debate the important points 
on  its  agenda  regarding  the  development  of  Africa.  I 
would  first  of  all  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
the  basis 
long-term 
for 
2 

10-58713 
to 
rid 
itself 
Since 
in  2001, 
by  Africa 
its  establishment 
this  morning  by 
Tunisia  welcomes  NEPAD’s 


for  his  reports  and  notes  concerning  the  items  under 
consideration (A/65/152, A/65/165, A/65/167, A/65/62, 
A/65/62/Add.1  and  A/65/210),  which  highlight  the 
efforts  made 
of 
underdevelopment, while also setting out the gaps and 
existing  constraints,  including  in  the  area  of  crucial 
international support. 
My delegation would like to associate itself with 

the 
the 
statements  delivered 
representative  of  Malawi,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States, and by the representative of Yemen, on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  has 
been  a  driving  force  in  the  continent’s  economic 
recovery  and  its  integration  into  the  world  economy. 
NEPAD  has  given  Africa  a  greater  voice  and  more 
responsibility in choosing its own economic and social 
policies. It has also provided the necessary framework 
for  the  establishment  of  stronger  partnerships  with 
other development partners. 

into 
African  Union  structures.  As  an  African  Union 
technical body, the NEPAD secretariat, which has now 
become the Planning and Coordinating Agency for the 
initiative,  is  working  to  facilitate  and  coordinate  the 
implementation of priority programmes and projects on 
the regional and continental levels. 

The  entire  world  today  agrees  that  Africa  has 
made  significant  progress  in  various  areas  in  the  first 
nine  years  of  the  existence  of  this  development 
programme.  The  report  (A/65/152)  of  the  Secretary-
General  gives  us  a  picture  of  that  progress  in  the 
various 
infrastructure 
development programmes in Africa, which focus on the 
areas  of  energy,  transportation,  water  and  sanitation 
and information and telecommunications technologies. 

The report also points to the significant progress 
made  in  the  implementation  of  the  Comprehensive 
Africa Agriculture Development Programme. 

In the areas of health and education, the NEPAD 
Agency  continues  to  carry  out  numerous  projects 
aimed at strengthening Africa’s capacities. 

With  regard  to  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment,  Africa  continues  to  remain  committed 
to supporting and promoting the socio economic status 
of women. The decision taken at the fourteenth African 
of  NEPAD’s 
integration 
aspects 
A/65/PV.31
set 
the 
the 
continent 
to  achieve 
that  have  been 
the  achievement  of 
Union Summit in February to establish a new fund for 
African women reflects that political will. 
With  regard  to  the  current  uncertain  and  fragile 

implementation  of 
global  economic  recovery, 
the  Millennium 
NEPAD  and 
Development  Goals  on 
require 
determination  and  steadfast  leadership  on  the  part  of 
the  continent  and  its  development  partners,  so  as  to 
ensure  the  attainment  of  the  commitments  within  the 
timelines 
the 
Development  Goals.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
reiterates  the  urgent  need  to  establish  a  monitoring 
mechanism under the auspices of the United Nations to 
follow  up  all  the  commitments  made  with  regard  to 
Africa’s  development,  as  clearly  underscored  in  the 
political  declaration  on  Africa’s  development  needs 
(resolution  63/1)  and  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on the matter (A/65/165). 

Promoting  sustainable  peace  and  development  in 
Africa requires concrete, sustained and solidarity-based 
efforts on the part of the international community. Such 
efforts  should  address 
the  underlying  causes  of 
underdevelopment  and  the  conflicts  on  the  continent, 
with  a  view  to  establishing  an  environment  conducive 
to  investment  and  sustainable  economic  growth  in 
Africa. Tunisia,  which  was  ranked  first  in  the African 
continent  in  the  area  of  peace  and  security  by  the 
Global  Peace  Index,  believes  that  Africa’s  efforts  in 
that regard should be met by a significant commitment 
on  the  part  of  the  international  community,  a  better 
understanding  of  Africa’s  specific  needs  and  greater 
coordination of policies and programmes. 

Allow me to refer to a specific phenomenon that 
is  a  major  source  of  social  tension  and  poverty  in 
Africa, namely, youth unemployment. Given that about 
60  per  cent  of  the  continent’s  population  is  under  the 
age  of  25,  unemployment  among  young  people  in 
Africa poses a serious threat both for African countries 
and  for  the  international  community  owing  to  the 
disturbances to society and other repercussions caused 
by this phenomenon.  

While  this  phenomenon  has  been  present  for 
quite  some  time,  unemployment  among  young  people 
has  in  recent  years  taken  on  alarming  proportions. 
According  to  the  International  Labour  Office,  21  per 
cent of young people between the ages of 15 and 24 in 
sub-Saharan Africa  are  affected. The  situation  is  even 
10-58713 

3 
continent, 
unemployment, 
A/65/PV.31 

worse  in  North Africa,  where  25.6  per  cent  of  young 
people are unemployed.  
It is therefore up to the international community, 

to  work 
in  particular  our  development  partners, 
together  with  Africa 
to  create  an  environment 
promoting  active  participation  by  young  people  in  the 
economic,  social  and  political  development  of  their 
continent, as well as to seize the opportunity provided 
by  the  International  Year  of  Youth.  That  initiative, 
launched  by  Tunisia’s  President  and  adopted  by  the 
General  Assembly,  seeks  to  promote  initiatives  to 
engender  the  ideals  of  peace,  freedom,  progress  and 
solidarity among young people. 

Moreover, development partners should  redouble 
their  efforts  as  part  of  an  integrated  approach  to  help 
Africa  overcome  the  underlying  causes  of  tension  on 
the 
food 
insecurity,  climate  change,  water  shortages  and 
desertification.  
Various actions, including relieving debt burdens, 

facilitating 
the  physical  movement  of  people, 
increasing foreign direct investment, increasing official 
development  assistance,  encouraging  the  transfer  of 
technology  and  strengthening  capacities  in  order  to 
treatment 
take  greater  advantage  of  preferential 
schemes,  are  now  needed 
the 
achievement  of sustainable peace and development on 
the African continent. 

Malaria continues to be one of the main causes of 
illness and death among children under the age of five 
in  Africa.  Among  other  things,  given  the  significant 
number  of  victims  affected  annually  —  more  than 
1 million people — this illness causes enormous losses 
to  the  continent’s  gross  domestic  product.  Tunisia  is 
conscious  of 
its 
devastating 
social 
development.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  we  are  a 
resources,  our 
developing  country  with 
President,  who  has  advocated 
the  creation  and 
implementation  of  a  robust  mechanism  for  national 
solidarity  and  has  called 
international 
community  also  to  set  up  a  global  solidarity  fund,  an 
idea  that  the  General Assembly  subsequently  adopted, 
took 
the 
Replenishment Conference of the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, to support the Fund’s 
efforts  by  making  a  financial  contribution  in  the 
amount of $2 million for the 2011-2013 period. 
a  decision  on  4  October,  during 
impact  of 
the  disease  and 
to  contribute 
to 
the 
effects 
on 
economic 
and 
limited 
for 
the 
including 

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 

In conclusion, based on our deeply held belief in 
our  common  future  and  in  the  imperative  need  for 
cooperation  and  solidarity  with  African  countries, 
Tunisia  is  resolved  to  work  together  with  African 
countries  to  make  the  continent  a  zone  of  active 
partnership and to establish in Africa the conditions for 
sustainable  peace  and  development.  The  priority  task 
for  all  interested  stakeholders  now  is  to  honour  their 
commitments to Africa. 
in 

French):  Allow  me  to  begin  by  congratulating  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  reports  that  he  has  made 
available to the General Assembly under agenda items 
62  and  12  dealing  with  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  (A/65/167)  and  the 
2001-2010 Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing 
Countries, Particularly in Africa (A/65/210).  

I  would  also  like  to  state  that  my  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  on  those 
reports  by  the  representatives  who  spoke  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  the  Group  of African 
States. 
This  joint  debate  on  the  aforementioned  items  is 

taking  place  a  few  weeks  after  the  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) held from 20 to 22 September on the margins 
of  the  current  session.  That  High-level  Meeting  was 
heralded in the report of the Secretary-General as being 
an  opportunity  for  the  international  community  to 
consider  in  detail  the  situation  in  Africa.  Allow  me, 
therefore, to provide a quick overview of the progress 
made  on  the  implementation  of  NEPAD,  taking  into 
account,  on  the  one  hand,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  and,  on  the  other  hand,  the  draft  outcome 
document  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (resolution  64/299), 
particularly with respect to Africa. 

My  delegation  agrees  with  the  observation  made 
by  the  Secretary-General  that,  in  the  context  of  the 
current  fragile  and  uncertain  global  recovery,  the 
implementation of NEPAD and the achievement of the 
MDGs  require  determination  and  unfailing  leadership, 
both  from  African  countries  and  from  development 
partners, in order to go from theory to concrete results. 
With  respect  to Africa’s  responsibility,  it  is  clear  that 
the countries of the continent have drawn up their own 
national  development  programmes  in  accordance  with 
4 

10-58713 


their  own  priorities,  the  NEPAD  programme  and  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

As  for  the  agencies,  the  African  Development 
Bank  and  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  are 
continuing their mission, which involves carrying out a 
certain number of projects and programmes within the 
process  of  implementing  NEPAD.  In  addition,  the 
regional  economic  communities,  which  play  a  leading 
role in the context of economic integration, are striving 
to fulfil their role as key players in the implementation 
of projects at the subregional level. I am thinking, for 
example, of the Economic Community of West African 
States,  the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African 
States  and 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community, in particular. 

Lastly, at the continental level, in February 2010, 
the African Union approved the integration of NEPAD 
into the Union’s structures and processes and set up the 
NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordination  Agency,  whose 
mandate is to implement projects and programmes that 
are  priorities  at  the  regional  and  continental  levels  in 
Africa. 
At those different levels, efforts are under way to 

implement  programmes 
the  different  sectors 
identified  by  the  MDG  Africa  Steering  Group,  for 
example,  agriculture  and  food  security,  education, 
health,  commerce  infrastructure  and  facilitation,  as 
well as statistical systems. 

the 
Steering  Group  reveal  that,  even  if  some  progress  has 
been  seen,  much  remains  to  be  done  in  the  area  of 
official 
debt 
management,  foreign  direct  investment  flows  and 
trade. 

In  the  area  of  ODA,  Africa  will  probably  only 
receive $12 billion of the $25 billion increase that was 
considered  at  the  Gleneagles  summit,  mainly  because 
contributions  from  the  main  donors  are  lower  than 
what  was  originally  planned.  As  for  the  debt,  efforts 
are being made to provide relief for African countries, 
both  within  the  framework  of  the  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative  and  the  Multilateral 
Debt Relief Initiative, as well as through bilateral debt 
relief.  Thus,  on  1  July  2010,  23  African  countries, 
including Cameroon, reached the completion point and 
benefited  from  debt  relief  under  the  HIPC  Initiative. 
However,  we  know  that  the  economic  crisis  has 
However,  recent  studies  carried  out  by 
development 
assistance 
(ODA), 
in 
A/65/PV.31
that 
in 
the 
With 
respect 
foreign  direct 
the  progress  seen 
undermined  those  efforts,  producing  an  adverse  effect 
on Africa’s debt levels. 

investment, 
to 
investment  destined  for  Africa  dropped  by  more  than 
36 per cent in 2009, because of the economic crisis. 

Lastly,  when  it  comes  to  trade,  the  Doha  Round 
negotiations have made very little progress towards the 
development  of  an  agreement  on  issues  of  concern  to 
Africa,  including  the  end  of  export  subsidies  for 
agricultural commodities. 

Those  gaps,  which  have  been  pointed  out  in  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General,  are  those  that  largely 
undermine  the  implementation  of  NEPAD.  However, 
we  are  hopeful 
the 
implementation of NEPAD, such as that pointed out in 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General,  will  be  continued 
and that the recommendations that he has made will be 
followed up by action. Among the signs of progress we 
see,  for  example,  a  strengthening  at  the  institutional 
level  of 
the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism, 
involving  the  integration  of  the  newly  created African 
Partner  Country  Network  and  its  addition  to  the 
structures and processes of the African Union. 

The  recommendations  made  by  the  Secretary-
General  include  the  need  for  African  countries  to 
continue  to  effectively  implement  NEPAD’s  progress 
importance  for  all  of 
and  programmes; 
the 
to 
stakeholders 
to  design  an  outreach  strategy 
strengthen  awareness  and  public  opinion  at 
the 
national,  regional,  continental  and  international  levels 
with  respect  to  the  vision,  goals  and  objectives  of 
NEPAD; the strengthening of the institutional capacity 
of 
the 
strengthening  of  the  capacities  of  regional  economic 
communities; 
to  place  a  priority  on 
investment  in  agriculture,  given  its  importance  in 
development,  poverty  reduction  and  the  reduction  of 
food  insecurity;  greater  support  for  African  women, 
given 
the 
strengthening  of  cooperation  between  rich  countries 
and  multilateral  development  agencies,  on  the  one 
hand, and Africa, on the other. 
As  for  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the 

MDGs  and  its  outcome  document,  although  we  ought 
to  be  pleased  with 
that  were 
reconfirmed  by  world  leaders,  we  are  forced  to 
acknowledge that the repetition of those commitments 
also reveals their increasingly uncertain nature. 
the  Commission  of 
the  African  Union; 
in  agriculture;  and 
the  commitments 
their  major 
role 
the  need 
10-58713 

5 

is 
not 
only 
Africa 
weakened 
implement  all  of 
But  how  do  we 
that  development  partners  respect 
A/65/PV.31 


those 
recommendations? The answer is to be found primarily 
in a greater commitment from Africa itself, but also in 
ensuring 
their 
commitments,  as  stated  by  both  the  Secretary-General 
in  the  conclusions  to  his  report  on  NEPAD  and  the 
outcome  document  of  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
MDGs. 

by 
underdevelopment  and  poor  development.  It  is  also 
literally  sickened  by  pandemics  such  as  malaria,  a 
subject  covered  under  agenda  item  12,  which  we  are 
considering.  Over  the  past  10  years,  the  efforts  to 
control  malaria,  a  disease  that  afflicts  Africa  in 
particular,  have  captured  the  attention  of  political 
leaders  and  attracted  funding  at  the  international, 
regional and national levels.  
At the African Summit to Roll Back Malaria, held 

in  Abuja 
in  2000,  African  heads  of  State  and 
Government  voiced  their  determination  to  undertake 
intensive efforts to fight against malaria. World leaders 
included  among  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
the  goal  of  bringing  malaria  under  control  and  of 
starting  to  roll  it  back  before  2015.  The  Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, appointed a Special Envoy 
for Malaria. Various stakeholders involved in the fight 
against  the  disease  laid  out  a  Global  Malaria  Action 
Plan, and in October 2009 in New York, heads of State 
launched the African Leaders Malaria Alliance.  
Given  the  impact  of  malaria,  in  particular  in 

developing  countries, 
international  community 
proclaimed  2001-2010  as  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria 
in 
Africa.  In  order  to  evaluate  the  progress  achieved  in 
reaching the goals set for 2010, the Secretary-General, 
in  accordance  with  resolutions  62/180  and  64/79,  has 
presented  us  with  the  report  contained  in  document 
A/65/210.  My  delegation  would  like  to  thank  him  for 
that report. 

There are three aspects in particular of the report 
that  drew  my  delegation’s  attention.  These  are 
contained in paragraphs 17 to 26, having to do with the 
financing  of  malaria  control;  paragraphs  51  to  54, 
having to do with the impact of control programmes in 
the World Health Organization (WHO) African Region; 
and  paragraphs  66  to  78,  which  contain  the  summary 
and recommendations of the report. 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
the 
for 
Finally, 
the  recommendations  made  by 

First,  on  financing,  we  welcome  the  increase  in 
disbursements, which have now gone from $35 million 
in  2000  to  over  $1  billion  in  2008.  In  that  regard,  we 
recognize the commitment of the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  and  of  the  United 
States  Agency  for  International  Development  and  the 
United  Kingdom  Department 
International 
Development. We  note  with  satisfaction  that  it  was  in 
the  WHO  African  Region  that  the  disbursements  for 
malaria made by outside agencies were increased by a 
factor  of  28  between  2000  and  2007.  But  despite  that 
progress, we cannot help but notice that the total level 
of financing remains below the annual amount targeted 
in the Global Malaria Action Plan.  

In terms of the impact of programmes to combat 
malaria, we are happy to note the progress achieved, in 
particular in Africa, as highlighted in paragraphs 51 to 
54  of 
the  Secretary-General’s  report.  In  general, 
current  trends,  if  they  continue,  suggest  that  intensive 
antimalaria efforts could help many countries in Africa 
to  achieve  a  two-thirds  reduction  in  child  and  infant 
mortality by 2015, as envisaged by MDG 4. 
the 

to  my 
Secretary-General  are  of  genuine 
delegation.  A  number  of 
those  recommendations 
highlight  the  need  to  strengthen  the  fight  against 
malaria  and  boost  the  distribution  of  treated  mosquito 
nets,  diagnostic 
to  artemisinin 
combination  therapies,  as  well  as  the  importance  of 
pursuing  foreign  assistance,  enhancing  respect  for 
regulations  that  govern  the  quality  of  medications  on 
the  market  and  strengthening  the  capacities  of  health 
ministries.  Those  are  all  measures  that  would  support 
national efforts in the fight against malaria.  

to  reiterate  my 
delegation’s  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  and  to 
express to him, to his Special Envoy for Malaria, to the 
Director-General  of  WHO  and  to  all  the  people 
working on the ground our support for the work carried 
out  in  the  fight  against  malaria.  In  general,  and  this 
applies to malaria as well as to the New Partnership for 
Africa’s Development, the United Nations must create 
a  structured  action  plan,  including  an  outline  of  all  of 
their  contributions 
the 
antimalaria  programmes,  for  a  set  period  of  two  or 
three  years,  along  with  a  clear  view  of  the  indicators 
used 
the  distribution  of 
responsibilities. This  would  allow  us,  when  all  is  said 
to  measure  results  and 
To  conclude,  I  would 
implementation  of 
tests  and  access 
interest 
like 
the 
to 
6 

10-58713 
resources,  administrative 


and  done,  to  take  stock  of  the  progress  made  and  of 
what remains to be accomplished. 

The  Secretary-General  could  also,  in  proposing 
programmes for the coming year to the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination, take another look at the 
three  current  subprogrammes  under  programme  9  of 
the proposed strategic framework for the period 2010-
2011,  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  level  of  work, 
financial 
structure  and 
personnel employed is appropriate in terms of quantity 
and quality. Close coordination with the African Group 
would be entirely appropriate in that regard. 
Mr.  Onemola  (Nigeria):  Nigeria  commends  the 

Secretary-General  for  his  detailed  reports  on  agenda 
items 62 (a) and (b) and appreciates the opportunity to 
participate in this deliberation. 

We  also  wish  to  commend  the  Planning  and 
Coordinating  Agency  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) for its remarkable and 
innovative  approaches  in  coordinating  the  various 
clusters  of  its  activities.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that 
encouraging  progress  has  been  made  in  the  areas  of 
transnational  infrastructure,  science  and  technology, 
health,  agriculture  and  partnerships  with  the  United 
Nations system. 

We  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  the  African 
development targets on the NEPAD platform cannot be 
met  without 
challenges 
confronting  member  States.  However,  we  believe  that 
these  challenges  can  be  surmounted  with  renewed 
determination and recommitment to the goals set. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  the African  Group  and 
the Group of 77 and China. We would like to comment 
on the following sub-items. 
On  sub-item  (a),  the  economic  and  development 

challenges  facing  Africa  are 
indeed  unique,  and 
approaches  to  resolving  them  must  lend  credence  to  a 
development  philosophy  that  is  cognizant  of  local 
circumstances  and 
to  use 
subregional,  regional  and  international  development 
machinery, thereby setting a new paradigm in charting 
a development path for Africa. Those challenges led to 
the  creation  of  NEPAD  a  decade  ago,  as  Africa’s 
blueprint, with emphasis on ownership and partnership 
geared 
towards  guaranteeing  Africa’s  economic 
renewal and development. 
the  various 
recognizes 
the  need 
resolving 
A/65/PV.31
that, 
in 
confidence 
through 
to 

Efforts  to  attain  the  targets  set  for  each  of  the 
nine  clusters  identified  by  NEPAD  have  renewed  the 
call  for  all  African  countries  to  build  on  existing 
progress  and  to  fully  identify  with  the  operational 
blueprint  of  NEPAD.  In  this  regard,  we  note  that  the 
failures  of  past  development  plans  in Africa  have  had 
less  to  do  with  a  lack  of  available  frameworks  than 
with  haphazard 
implementation.  My  delegation 
therefore  commends  the  Economic  Commission  for 
Africa, the African Development Bank and the NEPAD 
Planning  and  Coordinating Agency  on  their  efforts  to 
implement NEPAD programmes and objectives. 
Since  the  inception  of  NEPAD,  there  has  been 

its  ongoing 
renewed 
strategies,  Africa  will  be  able 
resolve 
its 
underdevelopment  crisis.  It  is,  however,  imperative  to 
ensure  that  NEPAD’s  broader  mandate  remains  in 
focus.  In  this  regard,  divergent  interests  must  be  set 
aside  for  the  collective  good,  and  commitments  by 
Member  States  towards  successful  partnership  must 
remain unwavering. 

It  behooves  individual  Member  States  to  strive 
harder  to  mainstream  the  development  agenda  into 
their  sectoral  programmes,  using  regional  blocs  as 
tools  for  continental  economic  integration.  Nigeria 
commends  the  Economic  Community  of West African 
States  (ECOWAS)  for  its  various  contributions  that 
culminated 
the  first  regional 
agricultural compact. We hope that such positive steps 
will  be  replicated  in  other  subregions  and  integrated 
into the larger African continent. 

It  has  been  recognized  worldwide  that  NEPAD 
stands  on  the  planks  of  good  governance,  capacity-
building  and  partnership.  In  order  to  garner  the 
that  would  guarantee  steady 
required  momentum 
progress 
the 
the 
Partnership’s objectives, we must not lose sight of the 
need  to  boost  the  continent’s  capacity  to  govern  and 
develop long-term policies. 
The  current  dearth  in  human  capital  can  be 

addressed 
through  a  conscious  focus  on  human 
capacity-building,  which  would  ultimately  coalesce 
into  institutional  development. We  believe  that,  rather 
than substituting for them, it is better to build national 
capacities in a sustainable way. This will also prevent a 
culture of dependency. 
the 

enhanced  support  of  the  United  Nations  system  in  a 
Member  countries  should  also 
the  signing  of 
implementation 
leverage 
towards 
of 
10-58713 

7 

In 
on 
and 
largely 
scaled-up 
A/65/PV.31 

drive towards attaining the Ten-Year Capacity-Building 
Programme for the African Union. We believe that will 
boost Africa’s  ability  to  mobilize,  manage  and  sustain 
economic  development,  as  well  as  to  ensure  that 
successes  achieved  are  not  short-lived. 
this 
connection,  Nigeria  welcomes  the  innovative  NEPAD 
e-schools demonstration project. 

My  delegation  appreciates  the  position  of  the 
Group  of  Eight  in  affirming  its  official  development 
assistance  commitments,  as  well  as  its  resolve  to 
enhance  aid  effectiveness.  In  particular,  we  welcome 
the Muskoka Initiative on child mortality and maternal 
health,  as  we  believe 
that  no  development  goal 
substantially supersedes another. 

NEPAD  no  doubt  opens  up  opportunities  for 
Africa to fast-track its Millennium Development Goals, 
but  we  also  believe  that  its  celebrated  initiatives 
depend 
consistent 
development  assistance  for  their  full  implementation. 
We  therefore  call  on  Member  States  and  friends  of 
Africa  to  adopt  a  complementary  hands-on  approach 
that  would  lead  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  cardinal 
purpose of NEPAD. 

Nigeria  firmly  believes  that  NEPAD’s  goals  of 
building strong economic infrastructure and creating a 
favourable environment for investments remain crucial. 
It is through this approach that Africa can be pulled out 
of  its  present  economic  difficulties  to  enable  it  to 
prosper as it should. 

Turning  to  sub-item  (b),  much  has  been  said 
about  the  inextricable  link  between  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa.  A  continent  as 
diverse  as  Africa  can  best  realize  partnership  goals 
when rancorous impediments give way to lasting peace 
and security. My delegation recognizes that conflict, no 
matter its extent, poses serious challenges to the proper 
integration  of  African  States,  as 
it  hampers 
the 
successful implementation of the goals of NEPAD. 
My  delegation  calls  for  the  continued  utilization 

of  the  Continental  Early  Warning  System,  which  is 
aimed  at  preventing  conflicts.  In  addition,  Member 
States  should  embrace  an  effective  mechanism  to 
mediate  conflicting  interests.  It  is  for  this  reason  that 
Nigeria, in order to highlight the importance we attach 
to  conflict  prevention,  chose  the  theme  of  preventive 
diplomacy for its open debate during its presidency of 
the  Security  Council  last  year.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
the  prevention  of  conflicts  is  a  less  expensive  option 
for 
the 
that 
their 
support 
to  report 
for  maintaining  peace  and  security  in  the  world. 
Indeed, it is becoming evident that preventing conflicts 
is the best way to preserve development gains. There is 
therefore  a  need  to  continue  to  give  new  impetus  to 
conflict-prevention strategies. 

Poverty  is  both  the  cause  and  the  effect  of 
conflicts  in  Africa,  which  are  of  global  concern 
because 
ripple  effects  go  beyond  African 
frontiers.  It  is  therefore  the  responsibility  of  all  to 
engage  as  positive  catalysts  in  actualizing  a  conflict-
free Africa  and  to  ensure  that  the  achievements  so  far 
are  further  consolidated.  In  this  regard,  we  commend 
the  efforts  of  NEPAD  in  reconstructing  post-conflict 
countries  and  in  providing  credible  transition  and  exit 
strategies. We  equally  call  for  continued  financial  and 
institutional 
Peacebuilding 
Commission. 

Nigeria  currently  chairs  ECOWAS.  We  are 
therefore  pleased 
leaders  of 
the 
organization  have  made  substantial  progress 
in 
bringing  lasting  peace  and  stability  to  within  the 
borders of the subregion. That has been instrumental in 
improving  conflict  situations  in  West  Africa.  We 
believe  that  these  critical  steps  will  usher  in  an 
enabling  environment  for  development  as  peace  and 
security prevail. 

In the same vein, the continued efforts of United 
Nations peacekeeping forces and of the African Union 
Peace  and  Security  Council  have  become  invaluable 
resources  in  the  pursuit  of  peace  and  sustainable 
development across Africa. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  agenda  item  12.  Nigeria 
recognizes  the  health  burden  posed  by  malaria  on  the 
people  of  Africa.  Although 
there  have  been 
quantifiable improvements in curbing the scourge over 
the  past  10  years,  the  goals  of  the  Roll  Back  Malaria 
campaign  have  still  not  been  realized.  In  no  small 
measure, malaria still constitutes a barrier to economic 
and social development across Africa. 

My  delegation  commends  the  growing  political 
commitment in the fight against malaria. We advocate 
closer  cooperation  between  Roll  Back  Malaria 
partnerships  and  the  international  community  in  order 
to  develop  the  capacity  to  fully  implement  individual 
country  strategic  plans  and  ensure  the  achievement  of 
the Abuja targets. 
8 

10-58713 
in  combating 


In  the  same  vein,  Nigeria  sees  the  need  for  an 

this  disease.  We 
accelerated  pace 
therefore  call  for  more 
international  donors  and 
partners  to  complement  existing  local  resources.  My 
delegation  strongly  believes  that  an  Africa  free  from 
malaria,  in  which  its  citizens  peacefully  coexist,  will 
be  better  situated  on  the  path  towards  achieving  the 
much-needed African development targets. 

Finally,  although  the  challenges  facing  Africa 
look  daunting,  they  are  not  insurmountable.  With 
effective  harmonization  and  coordination,  the  targets 
set out in the different frameworks could propel Africa 
to become a land of opportunity. In this connection, my 
delegation calls for the urgent fulfilment of the pledges 
of  aid  made  to Africa  at  various  international  forums. 
We  are  confident  that  a  new  Africa  free  of  hunger, 
disease  and  poverty  will  meaningfully  contribute  to 
global economic prosperity, peace and stability. 
Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  Canada  is  pleased  once 

again this year to join this important debate on Africa. 
Africa is  a  continent  rich in its  cultures, diversity  and 
history.  Many African  countries  have  made  important 
progress  in  recent  years,  and  significant  parts  of  the 
continent are moving in the right direction. They have 
seen  more  free  and  fair  elections  and  more  prudent 
economic  management,  with  more  reform-minded  and 
democratic  leadership.  One  of  the  most  significant 
developments  has  been  the  maturation  of  African 
institutions 
integration  and 
security. 

Much  remains  to  be  done  to  assist  African 
countries  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  to  build  stable  political  and  economic 
institutions.  Achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals is a shared responsibility based on commitment, 
partnership and perseverance. 

Canada is doing its part to help Africa achieve the 
Millennium Development Goals. Canada met its Group 
of  Eight  (G-8)  commitment  to  double  aid  to  Africa 
from  2003-2004  levels,  to  $2.1  billion.  Furthermore, 
Canada 
to  double 
international assistance from 2002 levels by 2011. This 
will  increase  Canada’s  total international  assistance  to 
approximately  $5  billion.  As  part  of  the  joint  G-8 
pledge on food security, Canada will more than double 
its  investment  in  food  security  and  provide  $600 
million in increased funding over three years, reaching 
$1.18 billion in overall funding. 
that  promote  regional 
reaffirmed 
its 
commitment 
A/65/PV.31
leaders  at 
this  process.  G-8 
As President of the G-8 and the Group of 20 (G-20) 

for 2010, Canada ensured that Africa’s voice was heard 
leaders  had  a  substantive 
in 
discussion  with  African 
the  Muskoka 
Summit on peace and security and development issues. 
Consultations  with African  countries  in  the  lead-up  to 
the Muskoka Summit helped to shape the G-8 initiative 
on maternal, newborn and child health, which will see 
the  mobilization  of  more  than  $7  billion.  G-8  and 
African leaders also agreed to work closely together to 
combat  international  narcotics  trafficking,  particularly 
in West Africa and the Americas. 

Canada invited the leaders of Malawi, as Chair of 
the African Union, and of Ethiopia to the G-20 Toronto 
Summit  to  help  ensure  a  stronger  voice  for  Africa. 
Leaders  held  important  discussions  on  a  range  of 
actions  to  support  economic  recovery  and  define  the 
path  forward  for  strong,  sustainable  and  balanced 
global  growth.  This  included  fulfilling  commitments 
for  $350  billion  in  capital  increases  for  multilateral 
development banks and an ambitious replenishment for 
the  concessional  lending  facilities  of  those  banks, 
especially  the  African  Development  Fund  and  the 
International Development Association. 

Canada has also untied all of its food aid and has 
committed to untie all bilateral assistance by 2013. Not 
only  will  this  improve  aid  by  increasing  its  impact,  it 
will  enable  us  to  respond  better  to  the  needs  of 
developing  countries.  Private  sector  expansion  is  an 
important  component  of  overall  development.  Canada 
is a significant economic partner for Africa, with more 
than  290  Canadian  companies  operating  in  over  36 
countries.  

The Canadian Government applauds the decision 
to fully integrate the secretariat of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development — a programme dedicated to 
accelerating  cooperation  and  development  on 
the 
continent  —  into  the  African  Union’s  structure  and 
budget.  

Canada  sees  the  development  of  key  African 
multilateral  institutions,  such  as  the  African  Union 
(AU),  the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for 
Africa and the African Development Bank, as vehicles 
to  help  achieve  an  enabling  environment  for  stability 
and socio-economic development. Canada also strongly 
supports  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  as  an 
important  initiative,  vital  to  the  overall  success  of 
Africa’s development. 
10-58713 

9 

are 
These 
organizations 
A/65/PV.31 


At the same time, Canada has maintained a strong 
commitment  to  regional  and  multilateral  initiatives  to 
advance global malaria prevention  and  control  efforts. 
Last  month,  Prime  Minister  Harper  of  Canada 
announced  that  with  our  contribution  of  $540  million 
to the Global Fund, Canada’s contribution to date will 
rise to more than $1.5 billion. 

Canada  has  long  been  engaged  with  our African 
counterparts  in  finding  durable  solutions  to  protracted 
conflicts  across  the  continent,  both  through  direct 
bilateral  contacts  and  through  engagement  in  support 
for continental and regional African institutions such as 
the AU and the Economic Community of West African 
States. 
increasingly 
demonstrating clear leadership and capacity to address 
the  current  peace  and  security  challenges  on  the 
continent, as well as to prevent future violent conflicts 
and political crises.  

In  the  Sudan,  the  ongoing  conflict  and  resulting 
humanitarian crisis in Darfur continue to be of concern. 
Delays  in  the  preparations  for  the  two  referendums 
mandated  by  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement 
(CPA)  on  the  future  status  of  South  Sudan  and  the 
Abyei  region  are  reaching  a  critical  stage.  In  order  to 
maintain  peace  and  stability,  a 
range  of  post-
referendum issues also need to be negotiated. 

Since  2006,  Canada  has  contributed  over  $800 
million 
in  support  of  peace  and  humanitarian 
objectives  in  the  Sudan,  including  support  for  CPA 
implementation and the Darfur peace process. Canada’s 
support has included partnering with African countries 
that  contribute  personnel  to  the  Sudan’s  two  Security 
Council-mandated peacekeeping missions. 
(spoke in French) 

In  the  Great  Lakes  region,  Canada  continues  to 
play  a  strong  leadership  role  as  co-Chair  with  the 
European  Union  of  the  group  of  special  envoys  and 
friends  to  the  International  Conference  on  the  Great 
Lakes  Region  to  support  regional  solutions  to  the 
complex  development 
security 
challenges in the region. In that regard, there has been 
much progress in the past year between countries in the 
Great  Lakes  region  and  international  partners  towards 
advancing  a  regional  certification  mechanism  for 
minerals,  which  are  driving  the  conflict  in  the  eastern 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  destabilizing 
the region. 
and  peace  and 
In 
those 
10 

10-58713 
in 

In the context of support for stability in the Great 
Lakes  region,  Canada  has  provided  over  $124  million 
for  humanitarian  and  development  assistance  to  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo since 2006. Canada 
is  also  contributing  to  peace  and  security  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  through  active 
diplomatic engagement, support to the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo by deploying up to 12 Canadian 
forces  personnel,  who  occupy  key  positions,  and  by 
annually  committing  $4  million  for  the  period  2010-
2013. 
Canada  continues  to  support  efforts  to  bring 

to 
stability  and  provide  humanitarian  assistance 
Somalia.  Canada  participates 
the  International 
Contact Group on Somalia and has provided more than 
$72 million in humanitarian assistance since December 
2006  to  help  respond  to  the  urgent  needs  of  Somalis 
and Somali refugees in Kenya. 

In conclusion, Africa has achieved much success 
over  the  past  few  years.  Canada  joins  our  African 
partners  in  acknowledging  that  progress.  The  African 
continent  is  an  area  of  great  promise  and  substantial 
potential. 
African-led 
commitments  and  partnerships,  this  potential  must  be 
realized. 
Mr.  Sumi  (Japan):  It  is  my  great  pleasure  and 

honour  to  address  the  Assembly  today  to  discuss  the 
important 
to  African 
development. 
African  development  is  today  one  of  the  most 

urgent  priorities  for  the  world  and  for  the  United 
Nations. In May 2008, we heard the voices of Africa’s 
leaders at the fourth Tokyo International Conference on 
African  Development  (TICAD  IV),  co-organized  by 
the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, the United 
Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP),  the  World 
Bank and Japan. It is now time for us to report to the 
Assembly on how we have responded to those voices. 
At  TICAD  IV,  Japan  pledged,  first,  to  double  its 
official  development  assistance  to Africa,  secondly,  to 
proactively and flexibly provide up to $4 billion in soft 
loans  and,  thirdly,  to  work  to  double  Japanese  private 
investment in Africa over the next five years. 

the 
Government  of  Japan  established  a  TICAD  follow-up 
mechanism  as  a 
the 
implementation of the Yokohama Action Plan. After the 
for  monitoring 
commitments, 
implementing 
coordinated 
framework 
Through 
agenda 
items 
relating 
community 
development, 
follow-up  meeting 
International  Cooperation  Agency 


first  TICAD  ministerial 
in 
Botswana in March 2009, a second ministerial meeting 
was  held  in  Tanzania  in  May  2010,  with  participants 
from  65  countries.  At  that  meeting,  Japan  pledged  to 
step  up  its  Millennium  Development  Goals-related 
assistance  by  appropriating  approximately  $1  billion, 
beginning  this  year,  until  the  next  TICAD  ministerial 
follow-up  meeting.  The  Government  of  Japan  also 
promised 
to  make  even  greater  use  of  official 
development assistance (ODA) loans for infrastructure 
projects, namely, up to $2 billion in the next two years. 

Japanese  ODA  to Africa  covers  a  wide  range  of 
sectors, including infrastructure, agriculture, trade and 
investment, 
health, 
education,  water,  the  consolidation  of  peace  and  good 
governance and combating climate change. These areas 
correspond  to  the  key  sectoral  priorities  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and 
reflect the genuine needs of Africa. 

For  example,  food  security  in  Africa  is  an 
important  issue.  On  the  occasion  of  TICAD  IV,  the 
Japan 
(JICA) 
launched  an  initiative  known  as  the  Coalition  for 
African  Rice  Development,  in  partnership  with  the 
Alliance  for  a  Green  Revolution  in Africa,  in  order  to 
support the efforts of African countries to increase rice 
production. Japan entrusted $100 million to the World 
Bank through two Japanese trust funds to support rice-
producing  organizations  and 
the  African  Rice 
Development Initiative. Twenty-three African countries 
have already benefited from these activities. 

Also,  as  part  of  TICAD  joint-partner  efforts  to 
increase irrigated land area in Africa by 20 per cent by 
2013, Japan intends to construct and improve irrigation 
facilities and increase the irrigation capacity of African 
countries  by  over  100,000  hectares.  By  the  end  of 
March  2010,  commitments  had  already  been  made  to 
cover  30,000  hectares.  JICA,  the  World  Bank,  the 
African  Development  Bank  and  other 
financial 
institutions are collaborating in that regard. 
Furthermore,  Japan  has  supported  the  NEPAD-

Organization 
and 
Development African investment initiative, which aims 
to 
the 
investment  environment  for  growth  and  development. 
Since 2005, Japan has provided a total of €0.9 million 
to  that  initiative.  Along  with  South  Africa,  we  have 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
improve  African  capacity 
to  strengthen 
A/65/PV.31
aimed 
co-chaired  the  initiative’s  steering  group  to  facilitate 
region-wide dialogue on investment policy. 

Climate change is one of the most pressing issues 
in Africa. In 2008, Japan contributed $92 million to the 
African adaptation programme implemented by UNDP. 
The  programme  mainly  focuses  on  building  effective 
leadership,  institutional  frameworks  and  national  and 
regional  capacity 
to  cope  with  natural  hazards 
associated  with  climate  change,  as  well  as  on 
renewable  energy  as  a  mitigation  measure.  The 
necessary resources have  been  allocated to 20 African 
countries,  with  projects  already  in  place  in  all  those 
countries. 

In  promoting  cooperation  between  Africa  and 
Japan, we fully respect local leadership, ownership and 
partnership,  in  keeping  with  NEPAD  core  principles 
and  values.  We  regard  these  principles  as  essential  to 
the promotion of sustainable development in Africa. In 
order to ensure that the desired accelerated growth will 
benefit and empower individuals and communities and 
not  aggravate  social  and  economic  disparities,  the 
concept  of  human  security  needs  to  be  taken  into 
consideration, in particular in implementing the policy 
measures 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 
Japan  recognizes  the  increasingly  important  role 

played  by 
field  of 
development,  as  demonstrated  by  the  integration  of 
NEPAD  into  its  structures  and  processes. Also,  Japan 
welcomes  the  Commission  of  the African  Union  as  a 
new co-organizer of TICAD. 

Since  its  inception,  the  TICAD  process  has 
attached great importance to South-South Cooperation, 
which  has  now  been  adopted  by  a  wide  range  of 
TICAD partners. For example, as a  form of triangular 
cooperation, JICA launched its Asia-Africa Knowledge 
Co-Creation Programme in 2005. This subprogramme, 
which  focuses  on  total  quality  management  for  better 
hospital services, was launched in 2007 by TICAD IV 
as one of its  flagship programmes  in order to respond 
to the challenges faced by the African region, including 
the  chronic  shortage  of  financial,  logistic  and  human 
resources.  Sri  Lanka  plays  a  vital  role 
the 
Programme  by  introducing  its  experience  in  hospital 
management. A total of 15 African countries currently 
benefit from the Programme. 
Let  me  now  touch  upon  the  Roll  Back  Malaria 

campaign. Last month at the United Nations High-level 
the  African  Union 
achieving 
the 
in 
in 
at 
10-58713 

11 
the 
At 
renewed 
including 
international  community 
A/65/PV.31 

Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, 
its 
commitment  to  achieve  the  Goals  by  2015.  At  the 
meeting, Prime Minister Naoto Kan announced Japan’s 
promises,  including  $5  billion  in  assistance  over  the 
next five years in the area of health, where progress is 
particularly  slow.  Furthermore,  to  demonstrate  to  the 
international  community  an  ideal  way  of  providing 
assistance  in  the  field  of  maternal  and  child  health, 
Japan  has  proposed  an  assistance  model  called 
EMBRACE  —  which  stands  for  Ensure  Mothers  and 
Babies Regular Access to Care. Malaria prevention and 
control  is  an  essential  part  of  implementing  the 
EMBRACE model, to ensure that more children’s lives 
are saved. 
In  the  field  of  tackling  malaria,  the  Global  Fund 

has  played  an  outstanding  role  and  achieved  excellent 
results,  as  evidenced  by  its  having  saved  the  lives  of 
5.7  million  people.  Many  of  these  lives  have  been 
saved through the provision of 122 million long-lasting 
insecticide-treated  nets, 
the  Olyset  net 
developed by a Japanese company. 

third  Voluntary 
Fund’s 
Replenishment  and  Pledging  Conference,  held  here  in 
New  York  on  5  October,  the  Government  of  Japan 
pledged  to  make  contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  in 
the  coming  years  amounting  to  $800  million,  starting 
in  2011. As  one  of  its  founders  and  as  a  major  donor, 
Japan  will  further  reinforce  its  efforts  to  deliver  the 
necessary assistance to people in need and to promote 
human  security  through  the  Global  Fund.  Under  our 
global  health  policy,  Japan  will  aim  to  enhance  the 
complementarity  of  its  bilateral  assistance  and  the 
programmes  supported  by  the  Global  Fund  and  other 
multilateral organizations, thereby increasing synergy. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
reaffirm 
and 
contributions  to  the  development  of  Africa  as  a 
continent of hope and opportunity. 
Mr.  António  (Mozambique):  I  wish  to  reiterate 

the  commitment  expressed  during  the  general  debate 
by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of 
Mozambique 
to  you, 
Mr. President, in the successful discharge of your noble 
duties. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the  representative of Yemen on behalf of the 
to  render  all  our  support 
commitments 
the  Global 
long-term 
Japan’s 

in 
this 
joint  debate  on 
Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the  representative  of 
Malawi on behalf of the Group of African States. 

It  is  with  great  interest  that  my  delegation 
participates 
issues  of 
fundamental  importance  for  Africa.  I  would  like  to 
focus Mozambique’s contribution on one agenda item, 
namely,  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa”.  In  that 
regard, I wish to commend the Director-General of the 
World  Health  Organization  for  the  report  before  us 
today on the progress made to achieve the goals for the 
Decade (see A/65/210). 

We note with encouragement that the report gives 
evidence  of  the  positive  trends  generated  by  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria as a result of giving this 
disease high priority on the international health agenda 
and  mobilizing  the  much-needed  political,  technical 
and financial support for the various efforts to control 
and  eliminate  the  disease,  where  possible,  and  to 
ensure  adequate  investment  in  research  leading  to  its 
eradication. 

Indeed, amid challenges posed by the inability of 
high-burden  countries  to  adequately  provide  universal 
coverage,  the  report  indicates  that  the  initiative  has 
been  widely  publicized  and  currently  enjoys  pledged 
financial  support  amounting  to  $1  billion  per  year  in 
the  form  of  grants  and  loans,  which  will  allow  for 
intensive  and  wide-scale  implementation  of  malaria 
control activities. 

We believe that these achievements were possible 
due  to  four  central  factors:  first,  the  emphasis  placed 
on malaria control instead of eradication; secondly, the 
focus  on  sub  Saharan  Africa,  one  of  the  major  risk 
the  global  partnership  between 
areas; 
development  agencies,  banks, 
the  private  sector, 
non-governmental  organizations,  foundations  and  a 
network of researchers; and, fourthly, the promotion of 
local capacities and health systems so that malaria can 
be dealt with locally. 

As we strive to keep the momentum generated by 
the Decade to Roll Back Malaria, we should seize the 
opportunity  created  by  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
the 
successful interventions made so far towards universal 
coverage.  To  this  end,  there  is  a  pressing  need  for 
information  about 
the  cost-
effectiveness  of  different  interventions,  so  as  to  lead 
the  efficacy  and 
thirdly, 
further 
to 
12 

10-58713 
but 
also 
health 
effects 


policymakers to better use the available resources  and 
obtain the maximum possible social benefits. 

At this juncture, I would like to highlight some of 
the  achievements  of  Mozambique’s  national  malaria 
control  programme  in  addressing  the  question  of 
mortality due to malaria in the course of the Decade. 
Available  data  indicate  that  Mozambique  is  not 

yet  positioned 
to  achieve  pre-elimination  status. 
Therefore,  our  Government’s  five-year  plan  and  its 
poverty eradication strategy envisage bold measures to 
strategically develop national systems and capacities in 
the  health  sector  and  to  increase  the  coverage  and 
quality  of  interventions  that  can  allow  the  country  to 
move to pre elimination status sooner rather than later. 

As in many malaria risk developing countries, in 
Mozambique  the  disease  has  shown  to  have  not  only 
detrimental 
adverse 
consequences  for  economic  and  social  development. 
For  example,  approximately  99  per  cent  of 
the 
population  lives  in  areas  at  risk  of  malaria,  and  the 
country is prone to natural disasters that can contribute 
to dramatic increases in malaria transmission. 

Malaria  accounts  for  a  high  percentage  of 
Mozambique’s  disease  burden,  with  children  under 
five,  pregnant  women,  socially  disadvantaged  groups 
and  people  living  with  HIV/AIDS  being  the  most 
vulnerable. In addition, the risk is higher in rural areas 
than in urban areas. Malaria is also responsible for up 
to 44 per cent of all outpatient consultations and 57 per 
cent of paediatric admissions and is a leading cause of 
low  birth  weight  in  newborns.  Apart  from  its  direct 
impact  on  health,  malaria 
imposes  an  enormous 
socio-economic  burden  on  local  communities  and  the 
country as a whole, especially for the poorest segments 
of the population. 

Nevertheless, in the past three years, the country 
has experienced a reduction in malaria mortality rates, 
including  in  patient  cases  and  deaths.  Our  experience 
indicates  that  the  combination  of  four  major  control 
methods  —  vector  control  with 
indoor  residual 
spraying,  the  distribution  of  conventional  mosquito 
nets, disease management and emergency and epidemic 
preparedness and response — is more effective and has 
produced  a  rapid  decline  in  malaria  morbidity  and 
mortality. 

spraying, 
Similarly,  the  combination  of  indoor  residual 
and 
intermittent  preventive 
treatment 
A/65/PV.31
support 
from 
than 
Our  approach 
to  malaria  control 
artemisinin-based  combination  therapy  seems  to  have 
played an important role in achieving the present level 
of  malaria  control  in  Mozambique.  As  a  result, 
Mozambique has taken significant steps in reducing the 
burden of malaria by more than 75 per cent in reported 
cases  since  2006,  with  a  decrease  in  the  number  of 
deaths of more than 40 per cent in the same period. 

includes 
interventions in the Southern Africa region, as malaria 
does  not  recognize  national  borders.  In  this  context, 
indoor  residual  spraying  in  the  provinces  of  Maputo 
and  Gaza  has  benefited  from  the  regional  approach 
through 
the  Lubombo  Spatial 
Development  Initiative,  a  tri  country  collaborative 
initiative  to  fight  malaria  in  the  region  spanning 
Mozambique, South Africa and Swaziland. We believe 
that  through  regional  collaboration,  and  not  only 
focusing on diagnosis and treatment but also expanding 
vector-control  operations,  extensive  progress  will  be 
made in controlling malaria. 

As  indicated  in  the  report  before  us,  national 
leadership and sound strategic measures, coupled with 
international  political  will  and  adequate  financial 
resources,  can 
the  coverage  of  malaria 
interventions  and  reduce  the  socio  economic  burden 
that  the  disease  represents  to  the  development  of  our 
countries.  We  believe  that  only  intensive  malaria 
control efforts will help African countries reduce child 
mortality  by  two  thirds  by  2015,  as  envisaged  in  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Therefore,  a  much 
larger 
those  currently 
available is needed to make headway in the fight to roll 
back  malaria.  We  therefore  seize  this  opportunity  to 
appeal 
financial 
commitments  in  support  of  interventions  to  roll  back 
malaria. 

The  challenges before  us in addressing  the weak 
health and data collection systems, poor infrastructure, 
lack  of  human  resources  and  international  funding 
require  that  we  redouble  our  efforts  to  reduce  by  half 
the  deaths  due  to  malaria  in  Africa  and  to  halt  the 
disease and begin to reverse its incidence by 2015. 

I would like to conclude by stressing that, based 
on  the  progress  made  so  far  and  the  commitments 
adhered  to  by  various  partners,  we  are  confident  that 
universal access will soon be a reality and that together 
we can beat malaria. The Government of Mozambique 
infusion  of  resources 
to  our  partners 
to  keep 
increase 
their 
10-58713 

13 

the  New  Partnership 
A/65/PV.31 

remains  committed  to  accelerating  and  redoubling  its 
efforts to control this scourge. 
Mr.  Daoud  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

country’s  delegation  would  first  like  to  congratulate 
Mr.  Deiss  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. We trust that under 
his wise and able leadership the Assembly will achieve 
important  accomplishments.  My  country’s  delegation 
would also like to express its support for his efforts and 
pledges  its  cooperation  with  him  in  ensuring  the 
success of this session. 

We  also  wish  to  associate  ourselves  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  brotherly 
Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and the 
statement delivered by the representative of Malawi on 
behalf of the Group of African States. 
Africa  has  achieved  great  progress  since  the 

launch  of 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  a  partnership  that  expresses 
the  commitment  and  determination  of  the  States  of 
Africa to put the continent on the path of economic and 
social  growth  by 
their  own 
development. 
Today,  as  we  have  crossed  the  halfway  point 

towards 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015, Africa is still the 
only  continent  suffering  from  obstacles  on  its  path  to 
the  full  elimination  of  poverty  and  need.  Therefore, 
more  concerted  effort  by  the  international  community 
is  needed  to  implement  the  global  partnership  for 
development  and  to  effectively  fulfil  development 
obligations without delay. 

Meeting  Africa’s  development  needs,  evaluating 
the  status  of  implementation  of  various  obligations, 
overcoming  challenges  and  determining 
the  way 
forward are all part of enhancing the global partnership 
for development in Africa. The political declaration on 
Africa’s 
63/1) 
reaffirmed  the  commitment  by  the  heads  of  State  and 
Government,  ministers  and  representatives  of  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  address  Africa’s 
in 
special  needs  as  contained 
the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2), 
the  United  Nations 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Declaration  on 
Development 
the  Monterrey 
International  Conference  on 
Consensus  of 
Financing 
of 
Implementation  of  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable 
for  Development, 
taking  control  of 
development 
achievement 
(resolution 
(resolution 
57/2), 
needs 
Plan 
the 
the 
the 
of 
is 
of 
The 
them 
regional 
in  order 
important 
in  Africa 
the  debt  of 
from  attaining 
low-income  countries 
organizations 
for 
Development,  and  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
(resolution 60/1). 

role 
in 
peacebuilding 
the 
achievement  of  sustainable  peace,  especially  in  post-
conflict  States.  In  this  forum,  we  call  for  the  full 
implementation  of  the  10  year  plan  to  build  African 
peacekeeping  capacity  and  enhance 
the  regional 
consultative  process 
to  ensure  effective 
support  for  the  African  Union  and  its  programmes 
pertaining to NEPAD. 
Despite some progress, the current framework for 

servicing 
is 
insufficient. There is a need to expand the scope of the 
Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative  and 
the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative.  Also,  African 
countries  need  to  be  able  to  overcome  the  challenges 
that  prevent 
their  HIPC 
completion points. 

Creating a peaceful environment is a prerequisite 
for economic and social development. The Sudan has a 
distinguished  role  in  sustaining  peace.  Arrangements 
for sharing wealth are among the main elements of the 
three  peace  agreements.  The  fact  that  the  Sudan  has 
joined the African Peer Review Mechanism has paved 
the  way  towards  government  bodies  implementing  the 
Mechanism, with a role given to interested civil society 
and  private  sector  actors.  We  have  also  set  up  a 
programme within this framework to empower women, 
spread democracy, raise accountability and enhance the 
rule of law. 

Half  of  the  world’s  population  suffers  from 
malaria  or  the  risk  of  malaria.  More  than  3.3  billion 
people have been affected by the disease, which killed 
almost  a  million  in  2008.  Most  of  the  Sudan’s 
population is threatened by malaria, and over 7 million 
persons a year are infected, of whom 35,000 die. 

the  negative 
impact  of  climate  change  has  increased  the  rate  of 
infection. High temperatures help increase the lifespan 
of  mosquitoes  that  carry  the  disease,  which  directly 
affects  economic  and  social  development 
the 
country. Therefore  the  Sudan  has  drawn  up  a  national 
strategy 
to  combat  malaria  and  has  created  a 
specialized  unit  to  fight  the  disease.  It  focuses  on 
strengthening  means  of  managing  the  spread  of  the 
disease  and  on  intensifying  monitoring  operations. 
Scientific  studies 
indicate 
that 
in 
14 

10-58713 
trade  system.  Such 


That approach has helped us to develop effective tools 
and methods for prevention and treatment. 

The international economic slowdown, the rise in 
the prices of foodstuffs and climate change all limit the 
achievement  of  tangible  progress  in  implementing 
NEPAD and in combating the spread of malaria. Thus 
they threaten our ability to achieve the MDGs by 2015. 
African countries and development partners must show 
determination  and  clear  leadership  in  order  to  achieve 
real  reform  in  the  areas  of  debt  relief  and  the 
international 
reform  should 
facilitate  the  membership  of  developing  countries  in 
the World Trade Organization and increase the amount 
of  official  development  assistance.  In  addition,  to 
achieve the Goals by the set date, that assistance must 
be  strengthened  and  aligned  with  national  ownership 
the  development  programmes  and  plans  of 
and 
developing  countries,  because  development 
is  a 
collective responsibility and must be achieved through 
equitable international partnership. 
(Zambia):  The  Zambian 

delegation has the honour  to address the Assembly on 
the  agenda  item  entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll 
Back Malaria in Developing Countries,  Particularly in 
Africa”.  Zambia  notes  with  appreciation  the  report  of 
the World  Health  Organization  on  the  item,  contained 
in document A/65/210, which my delegation has found 
very useful. 

the 
statement  delivered  by  the  delegate  of  Malawi,  the 
current  Chair  of  the  African  Union,  on  behalf  of  the 
African Group. 

Zambia, as Chair of the Roll Back Malaria Board, 
wishes  to  reiterate  that,  while  we  recognize  that  some 
countries have almost eliminated malaria from their list 
of  public  health  challenges,  it  is  still  a  major  public 
health  concern  in  others.  The  burden  of  malaria  is 
highest  among  children  under  five  years  of  age, 
pregnant  women  and  the  vulnerable  in  society.  In 
addition  to  its  direct  health  impact,  malaria  causes 
severe  social  and  economic  burdens  on  individuals, 
households  and  indeed  communities  at  large.  Thus  in 
Zambia,  malaria  control  has  been  prioritized  in  the 
basic  health-care  package, 
the  National  Health 
Strategic Plans and the National Malaria Strategic Plan. 

The  Zambian  Government  strongly  believes  that 
every  Zambian  has  a  fundamental  right  to  access  to 
effective  malaria  control,  preventive  and  curative 
My  delegation  also  aligns 
Mr. 
Sipangule
itself  with 
A/65/PV.31
treatments  and  care.  The  Government  also  ensures 
those  services  are  delivered  as  close  to  the  home  as 
possible. The Government and its cooperating partners 
have  established  institutional  structures  and  strategies 
to ensure universal coverage. 

The  Zambian  Government  has  put  in  place 
malaria  prevention  interventions  that  include,  inter 
alia, indoor residual spraying, long-lasting insecticide-
treated  nets  and  intermittent  preventive  treatment  for 
pregnant  women.  The  curative 
interventions  are 
enshrined  in  prompt  and  effective  case  management 
activities, which focus primarily on providing care for 
those who are suffering from malaria. 

In  order  to  improve  malaria  treatment,  in  2004 
the Zambian Government revised its malaria treatment 
policy by switching from the use of chloroquine as the 
first-line treatment to the more efficacious artemisinin 
combination therapy. The drug of choice is artemether-
lumefantrine,  which  is  available  free  of  charge  in  all 
public health facilities throughout the country. 

Zambia  has  achieved  remarkable  reductions  in 
the incidence of malaria over the recent past, and that 
has  been  attributed  to  the  integrated  approach  in 
malaria  control  activities.  As  indicated  in  the  above-
mentioned report of the World Health Organization, the 
use  of  bednets  in  Zambia  has  reduced  the  number  of 
malaria cases by 50 per cent over the past decade. 
However,  Zambia  is  committed  to  cooperating 

with 
the  World  Health  Organization  and  other 
cooperating  partners  in  efforts  to  further  reduce  the 
incidence of malaria. In that regard, I wish to take this 
opportunity  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  Zambia  will 
be convening an international meeting of the Roll Back 
Malaria  Partnership  Board  from  6  to  8  December  in 
Lusaka, the Zambian capital, at which participants will 
learn from each other’s experiences in the last decade. 
It  is  my  delegation’s  hope  that  the  Roll  Back  Malaria 
partnerships and other cooperating partners will attend 
that important meeting. 

Despite  the  remarkable  progress  in  controlling 
malaria in Zambia, a number of challenges still remain. 
They  include  late  disbursement  of  committed  funds, 
particularly by our cooperating partners, low utilization 
rates for insecticide-treated nets and inadequate human 
resources.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  international 
community,  particularly  our  cooperating  partners,  to 
continue to extend assistance to the Roll Back Malaria 
10-58713 

15 

A/65/PV.31 

programme  and  also  to  our  countries  in  the  fight 
against this number-one killer disease, malaria. 
Mr.  Shin  Boonam  (Republic  of  Korea): African 

development  is  a  key  to  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
prosperity  in  the  world.  The  political,  economic  and 
social  development  of Africa  is  an  important  task  for 
the  international  community  as  a  whole.  The  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  well 
represents  our  collective  vision  and  holistic  approach 
to African development. 
As the world leaders agreed during the High-level 

Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  Africa’s 
slow and uneven progress  towards  achievement of the 
MDGs,  further  hindered  by  the  recent  multiple  crises, 
requires  greater  attention  from  the  world. To  meet  the 
target  deadline  of  achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015,  the 
international community needs to be more involved in 
providing assistance to the continent. In that regard we 
must recognize that official development assistance has 
been an essential tool in meeting African development 
needs.  Recent  challenges  should  not 
the 
galvanizing of joint efforts. 
We are fully aware of the need to ensure adequate 

implement  our  promises.  The 
resources  and 
fully 
its 
Republic  of  Korea 
commitment 
its  official  development 
assistance  to Africa  by  2012,  compared  to  2008,  as  it 
declared  on  the  occasion  of  the  second  Korea-Africa 
Forum. 
that 

development cooperation with Africa should start with 
the  identification  of  countries’  specific  needs  and 
conditions.  There  is  no  “one  size  fits  all”  model  for 
development cooperation. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  has  strived  to  gain  a 
deeper understanding of Africa’s specific demands and 
priorities and to come up with feasible means to meet 
those needs by making full use of channels of dialogue 
such as the Korea-Africa Forum and the Korea-Africa 
Economic Cooperation Conference. Those events have 
served  as  useful  opportunities  to  enhance  mutually 
beneficial  partnerships  in  sectors  such  as  education, 
agricultural and rural development and information and 
telecommunication technologies. 

As  a  country  that  in  recent  history  successfully 
transformed  itself  from  recipient  to  donor  country,  we 
is 
to  double 
implementing 
to  highlight 
We  would 
impede 
idea 
like 
the 
to 
of 
in  our 
financing 
innovative 
introduction 
have focused in particular on sharing our development 
experiences.  In  that  regard,  the  Korean  Government 
has  delivered  on  its  commitment  to  increase  to  5,000 
the  number  of  participants  from  Africa  —  including 
public officials, researchers and engineers — who take 
part 
training  programmes.  We  have  also 
increased  to  over  1,000  the  number  of  World  Friends 
Korea volunteers in African partner countries over the 
next two years. We believe that that will contribute to 
bolstering  Africa’s  economic  and  social  development 
by fostering quality human resources. 

A  large  number  of  populations  in  Africa  still 
remain  vulnerable  to  a  wide  range  of  health  issues, 
including HIV/AIDS and malaria. The mobilization of 
resources  is  crucial  in  responding  to  those  challenges. 
The  Republic  of  Korea,  which  is  a  pioneer  country  in 
the 
for 
development, such as the air-ticket solidarity levy, has 
allocated  a  significant  portion  of  revenue  to  fighting 
those  diseases  through  funding  for  UNITAID,  the 
International  Drug  Purchase  Facility,  and  GAVI,  the 
Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization 

Integrating African countries into the multilateral 
trading system is critical to achieving their sustainable 
development.  In  that  regard,  the  Republic  of  Korea 
believes  that  the  successful  conclusion  of  the  Doha 
Round  will  promote  development 
in  Africa  and, 
consequently,  the  growth  of  global  trade.  We  fully 
recognize 
least 
developed  countries  (LDCs)  in  Africa  have  duty-free 
and quota-free market access. We are guaranteeing the 
access of LDCs’ products to the Korean market. 

As  the  Chair  of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  Summit 
this year, the Republic of Korea will invite two African 
countries  —  Malawi,  as  Chair  of  the  African  Union, 
and Ethiopia, as Chair of NEPAD — to the Summit to 
be  held  next  month  in  Seoul.  For  the  first  time  at  a 
G-20 Summit, the development issue will be discussed 
as an integral agenda item in the G-20 process. A multi 
year  action  plan  on  eight  development  pillars  will  be 
adopted at the Seoul Summit. 

Africa has significant potential as a future driving 
force of global economic growth. The assistance of the 
international  community 
the 
realization of the continent’s development potential. It 
is in our common interest to support Africa’s efforts to 
achieve  sustainable  development  through  an  enhanced 
development partnership. 
importance  of  ensuring 
indispensable  for 
that 
the 
is 
16 

10-58713 
the  reports  of 
Ethiopia  also  welcomes 



As the saying goes, good company on the road is 
a  shortcut.  The  Republic  of  Korea  will  be  good 
company along the road to African development. 
Mr. Feleke (Ethiopia): Allow me at the outset to 

express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  President 
for  convening  this  plenary  meeting,  which  is  of  great 
importance  for  developing  countries  and  for Africa  in 
particular.  I  would  also  like  to  express  our  deep 
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his leadership 
and  commitment  to  putting  Africa’s  agenda  at  the 
forefront of the work of the United Nations system. 

My  delegation  fully  associates  itself  with  the 
statements delivered this morning on the agenda items 
under consideration by the representative of Yemen, on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  by  the 
representative  of  Malawi,  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group. 

the 
Secretary-General  (A/65/152, A/65/165  and A/65/167) 
under agenda items 62 and 12. 

As  the  Secretary-General  has  indicated  in  one 
report  (A/65/152),  Africa’s  leadership  and  political 
will,  social  progress,  sustained  economic  growth  and 
governance reforms are slowly changing perceptions of 
the  continent  in  today’s  world  and  that  at  the  same 
time,  the  impact  of  violent  conflicts  and  poverty  in 
Africa  should  not  be  underestimated.  It  is  also  worth 
mentioning that the report highlights that progress has 
been  recorded  in  the  implementation  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  in 
moving  forward  the African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
and  in  increasing  official  development  assistance  to 
Africa. 

We are also of the view that the integration of the 
newly  established  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating 
Agency  into  the African  Union  Commission  structure 
and  process  has  generated  new  momentum  in  the 
implementation of NEPAD priority areas. 

NEPAD, as a programme of the African Union, is 
an integral socio economic development framework for 
Africa. African countries are therefore collectively and 
individually  implementing  the  sector-specific  strategic 
priority  areas  identified  within  NEPAD,  such  as  those 
of 
infrastructure,  good  governance, 
investment,  health  and  education.  African  countries 
have  also  committed  themselves  to  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by,  among 
agriculture, 
A/65/PV.31
including 
to 
other things, allocating 10 per cent of their budgets to 
agriculture,  15  per  cent  to  health  and  20  per  cent  to 
education. 

The  African  Union  has  also  committed  itself  to 
good  governance  through  the  adoption  of  several 
the  African  Peer  Review 
instruments, 
Mechanism.  The  Mechanism 
is  a  self-monitoring 
instrument  with  a  mandate  to  encourage  participating 
States  to  ensure  that  their  policies  and  practices 
conform 
the  agreed  political,  economic  and 
corporate  governance  values,  codes  and  standards,  as 
well  as  to  achieve  mutually  agreed  objectives  on  the 
socio economic track, as set out in the Declaration on 
Democracy,  Political,  Economic 
and  Corporate 
Governance.  So  far,  30  countries  have  become 
members of the Mechanism. 

In  keeping  with  the  provisions  of  NEPAD,  the 
international  community  has  also  committed  itself  to 
moving  forward  the  vision  of  NEPAD,  as  indicated  in 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General.  However,  much 
remains to be done if Africa is to extricate itself from 
the  problems  it  faces  and  assume  its  rightful  place  in 
the  international  community.  We  share  the  Secretary-
General’s  view  that  firm  determination  and  leadership 
are required on the part of us Africans and international 
development  partners  alike,  so  that  it  is  possible  to 
achieve  the  goals  that  NEPAD  has  envisaged.  Indeed, 
if  Africa  is  meaningfully  supported  in  achieving 
sustainable development, we can move from managing 
chronic  poverty  to  helping  Africa  achieve  durable 
economic growth and social development. 
When  it  considered  Africa’s  development  needs 

in 
the 
the  General  Assembly 
international community declared (resolution 63/1) that 
it  was  concerned  that  Africa’s  share  of  international 
trade  was  only  2  per  cent.  It  also  underlined  the 
important role that trade played in promoting economic 
growth.  It  also  asserted  that  the  high-level  meeting 
represented  a  unique  opportunity  to  strengthen  global 
leadership  and  partnership  for  development  in Africa, 
which is pivotal to bringing Africa into the mainstream 
of the global economy. 
It  is  our  hope  and  expectation  that  the  current 

the  World  Trade 
round  of 
Organization 
(WTO)  will  be  concluded  with  a 
successful  development-oriented  outcome,  as  initially 
conceived.  In  particular,  while  we  appreciate  the 
market-access 
in  favour  of  Africa  by 
trade  negotiations  of 
two  years  ago, 
initiatives 
10-58713 

17 
in 
that 
report, 
the 
report  of 
like 
to 
remind 
recommendations 
A/65/PV.31 

Member  States,  we  would 
the 
international community that, if the global partnership 
for  Africa  is  to  be  strengthened  and,  indeed,  if  the 
continent  is  to  integrate  in  and  fully  benefit  from  the 
globalizing  economy,  then  the  various  trade-related 
provisions put forward by Africa should be included in 
the WTO agreement. 

It  is  exactly  10  years  since  the  international 
community  agreed  and  expressed  its  determination  to 
tackle  the  impact  of  malaria  in  developing  countries, 
particularly in Africa. Over the years, a broad range of 
national  and  international  actions  have  been  taken  to 
alleviate the suffering of those afflicted by this disease. 
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  welcomes  with 

appreciation 
the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  on  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria (A/65/210, annex). Ethiopia is of the view that 
the 
if  duly 
implemented,  would  further  enhance  our  efforts  to 
control  malaria,  particularly  in  priority  countries.  As 
the  report  indicates,  the  achievement  by  high-burden 
African countries of high coverage of their populations 
with bednets and treatment programmes is encouraging 
progress 
reducing 
mortality rates of children under five by two thirds by 
2015. 

the 
concerted 
of 
developing  countries  and 
their  partners,  malaria 
continues  to  be  the  major  cause  of  morbidity  and 
mortality on our continent. As we know, malaria affects 
the  most  productive  part  of  a  society  and  impedes  a 
nation’s socio-economic development. It is no wonder 
that the nations that are hard hit by malaria are the least 
prosperous.  The  malaria  epidemic  is  one  of  the 
deadliest 
on 
socio-economic  development  is  still  significant,  in 
spite  of 
the  considerable  political  attention  and 
financial support it has been given at the international 
level. Of the half billion people in the world vulnerable 
to malaria, the majority live in sub-Saharan Africa. 

the  major  public  health 
problems in Ethiopia. Approximately 68 per cent of the 
population lives in malaria-prone areas, and 75 per cent 
of 
is  malaria-infested. 
Cognizant of the impact of the malaria epidemic on the 
socio-economic  development  of  the  country,  Ethiopia 
has  long  made  its  malaria  prevention  and  control 
programme  a  priority  in  the  social  health  sector.  The 
towards  meeting  MDG  4  — 
Malaria 
is  one  of 
the  country’s 
land  mass 
Notwithstanding 
in  Africa. 
efforts 
diseases 
Its 
impact 

2006-2010  national  strategic  plan,  among  others,  was 
aimed at rapidly scaling up malaria control intervention 
to achieve a 50 per cent reduction in the disease within 
the timeline. 

The  major  achievements  of  that  scaled-up  effort 
have  been  free  distribution  of  20  million  insecticide-
treated bednets, provision of rapid diagnostic tests and 
artemisinin-based  combination  therapies  at  peripheral 
health  facilities,  development  of  district  epidemic-
preparedness  plans,  and  deployment  of  30,000  health 
extension  workers  for  delivery  of  health-care  services 
at  the  community  level.  Deaths  have  thus  declined 
substantially,  falling  by  35  per  cent  since  1980.  The 
effective  scaling  up  of  malaria  prevention  and 
treatment  has  also  resulted  in  dramatic  declines  in 
outpatient  malaria  cases  and  malaria-related  deaths 
among  children  in  malaria-endemic  zones  around  the 
country.  Recently,  Ethiopia  was  successful  in  its 
application for a five-year Global Fund Round.  

Maintaining  the  achievements  made  so  far  and 
producing  a  significant  impact  by  reducing  malaria’s 
overall  burden  by  50  per  cent,  thus  paving  the  way 
towards  meeting  MDG  4,  is  heavily  dependent  on  the 
availability of financial and human resources. Ethiopia 
is  boosting  local  efforts  by  stepping  up  its  grass-roots 
awareness programme on prevention of the disease, but 
the support of the international community is necessary 
in order to build on and sustain the progress. 

It  should  be  emphasized  that  both  financial  and 
technical  resources  have  contributed  to  Ethiopia’s 
coverage  and  access  to  prevention,  treatment  and 
support  services.  The  partnership  has  also  helped 
strengthen the country’s health-care system in general, 
including  aspects  such  as  monitoring  and  evaluation, 
and procurement and supply management. 

Ethiopia  is  fully  implementing  the  five  main 
malaria prevention and control strategies recommended 
by WHO.  Since  malaria  is  an  ecology-related  disease, 
in  Ethiopia 
the  health  extension  programme  has 
brought coverage to all parts of the country. 
Mr.  Jaber  (Lebanon):  My  delegation  thanks  the 

President  for  organizing  today’s  meeting  on  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  and 
the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria,  which  concludes  at 
the  end  of  this  year.  We  also  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  reports  (A/65/152, 
and  notes 
A/65/165 
(A/65/62, 
A/62/Add.1 and A/65/210) on these items. 
and  A/65/167) 
10-58713 
18 

The  Afro-Arab  Partnership  Strategy 



Lebanon  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by  the representative of Yemen on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China, in particular its support for 
the establishment of a monitoring mechanism to follow 
up on all commitments related to Africa’s development 
under the General Assembly’s auspices. 

Our meeting comes not only after the conclusion 
of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  recognized  that 
more attention should be given to Africa, but also after 
the  second Afro-Arab  Summit  held  in  Sirte  last  week, 
jointly  organized  by  the  African  Union  Commission 
and the League of Arab States. The Summit highlighted 
the  strong  bond  between  African  and  Arab  countries 
and formulated a partnership strategy between the two 
regions  in  the  areas  of  peace  and  security,  investment 
promotion and trade, agriculture and food security, and 
social and cultural cooperation. 

is  an 
example  of  the  international  support  inspired  by 
NEPAD.  NEPAD  was  adopted  in  2001  by  African 
leaders with the aim of eradicating poverty, promoting 
sustainable  growth  and  development,  and  empowering 
women  through  genuine  partnerships  at  the  country, 
regional and global levels. The African ownership and 
leadership  of  NEPAD  have  led  to  significant  progress 
in  all  areas  essential  to Africa’s  development,  such  as 
infrastructure,  agriculture  and  food  security,  health, 
education  and  training,  environment  and  tourism, 
information  and  communications  technologies,  and 
science and technology. 

Lebanon enjoys long-standing close ties with the 
African  continent.  Many  African  countries  have  been 
home  to  many  Lebanese,  and  those  friendly  countries 
will remain their home for many years yet to come. My 
delegation  fully  supports  the  objectives  of  the  Afro-
Arab  Partnership  Strategy  aimed  at  realizing  durable 
peace  and  security  in  the  two  regions,  promoting 
investment  and 
trade  between  African  and  Arab 
countries and continuing the joint efforts to achieve the 
MDGs by 2015. 

Lebanon believes that closing the MDG gap will 
only  be  possible  if  the  international  community  steps 
up  its  support  for  Africa’s  development  and  reverses 
the  negative 
the  ongoing  economic  and 
financial  crisis  has  had  on  African  countries.  In 
particular,  my  delegation  wishes  to  highlight  the 
importance of fulfilling official development assistance 
impact 
A/65/PV.31
to  honour 
the  mediation 
initiatives  carried  out  by 
commitments,  continuing  the  granting  of  debt  relief, 
restoring  and  increasing  foreign  direct  investment  and 
expanding  access 
to  global  markets  for  African 
exports. 

History  tells  us  that  development  cannot  be 
sustained  and  countries  cannot  flourish  if  conflict  and 
instability  persist.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
specific  commitments expressed by the African  Union 
to  ensure  peace  and  stability  on  the  continent  as 
demonstrated  by  its  recent  expanded  engagement  in 
Somalia  and  the  Sudan.  That  commitment  is  further 
strengthened by the work of the Panel of the Wise and 
the  Continental  Early  Warning  System.  The 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region 
and 
the 
Economic  Community  of  West African  States  and  the 
East African Community are further examples of strong 
regional efforts to ensure an environment conducive to 
sustainable development. 

Nonetheless,  challenges  persist.  Although  the 
number  of  inter-State  conflicts  has  declined,  conflicts 
over  natural  resources,  such  as  timber  and  minerals, 
desertification  and  declining  pastures,  droughts  and 
scant  water  resources,  continue  to  stifle  Africa’s 
development  potential.  Achieving 
the  MDGs  and 
sustainable  economic  growth  is  therefore  a  security 
imperative. The protection of civilians in situations of 
armed  conflict,  in  particular  women  and  children, 
should  thus  continue  to  be  given  special  attention  by 
peacekeeping  missions  in  order  to  safeguard  Africa’s 
greatest resource, namely, its human capital. 

Lebanon  notes  with  grave  concern  the  high  toll 
malaria  continues  to  exact  on Africa’s  human  capital, 
in  particular  its  children.  As  of  2008,  85  per  cent  of 
malaria  cases  worldwide  were  in  Africa,  threatening 
the  lives  of  over  200  million  people.  We  therefore 
welcome  the  launch  of  the  African  Leaders  Malaria 
Alliance  last  year  and  the  recent  increased  pledges  to 
the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria,  and  we  urge  donors 
their 
commitments in this regard. 

Rolling  back  malaria  and  continuing  the  fight 
against HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, which continue to 
plague  the  continent,  are  necessary  for  achieving  the 
health-related  MDGs.  Without  healthy  children, 
women  and  men  and  unless  extreme  poverty  is 
eradicated,  achieving  universal  primary  education  and 
10-58713 

19 

itself  with 
A/65/PV.31 

enabling  vibrant  and  productive  societies  will  not  be 
possible. 
Mr.  Seruhere  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  I 

want  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Assembly  for 
convening this joint debate on the New Partnership for 
Africa’s  Development  and  the  2001-2010  Decade  to 
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa. 

the  statements 
Tanzania  aligns 
presented by the representative of Malawi on behalf of 
the African Group and by the representative of Yemen 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

Tanzania  welcomes  the  report  of  the  World 
Health  Organization  entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to 
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa” (A/65/210), which highlights the 
progress made in meeting the goals concerning malaria 
control 
to  be  achieved  by  2010  under  General 
Assembly  resolution  62/180.  We  acknowledge  the 
progress  that  has  been  made  in  some  parts  of Africa, 
including in part of my country, the island of Zanzibar, 
in  reversing  the  malaria  epidemic  through  political 
engagement  and  sustainable  national  malaria  control 
programmes.  Zanzibar  has  achieved  a  success  rate  of 
over 99 per cent. We call for the continued engagement 
of  the  international  community  and  other  stakeholders 
to  accelerate  further  gains  achieved  in  malaria  control 
and elimination. 

Malaria is among the biggest health challenges to 
Africa.  An  estimated  74  per  cent  of  the  continent’s 
inhabitants  live  in  endemic  malarial  areas  and  about 
95 per  cent  of  the  global  2  to  3  million  deaths 
attributed to malaria occur in Africa. Malaria is a major 
killer  of  children  in  Africa,  where  24  per  cent  of  all 
deaths of children under age five are from malaria and 
malaria-related illnesses. 

Malaria  is  a  major  economic  burden  in  Africa, 
where  it  accounts  for  30  to  40  per  cent  of  outpatient 
visits and 10 to 15 per cent of all disease admissions in 
hospitals,  private  clinics  and  health-care  systems. 
Malaria accounts for as much as 40 per cent of health-
care  spending  in  endemic  African  countries.  Malaria 
costs the continent $12 billion a year, and consequently 
malaria has slowed economic growth by up to 1.3 per 
cent per year through death and lost hours of economic 
productivity, as well as expended public funds and lost 
family income. Malaria is  thus said to be a disease of 
poverty and a cause of poverty. 

Such  statistics  are  a  cause  of  great  concern  to 
Africa  and  the  world  at  large.  We  recognize  that 
malaria-related  ill  health  and  deaths  throughout  the 
world  can  be  substantially  reduced  with  political 
commitment  and  commensurate  resources,  increased 
public  awareness  and  sensitization  about  malaria 
prevention  and  availability  of  proper  health  services, 
particularly  in  malaria-endemic  countries.  Yet  each 
year, we  allow nearly 1 million deaths to occur, when 
those  deaths  could  have  been  prevented  with  the 
universal application of existing tools at our disposal. 

In  early  2008,  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
appointed  a  Special  Envoy  for  Malaria  to  mobilize 
global support for action on the disease. Following the 
Secretary-General’s  call  for  universal  coverage  and  in 
response  to  a  growing  international  push  for  a  long-
term  commitment  to  malaria  control,  the  malaria 
community  collectively  developed  the  Global  Malaria 
Action  Plan.  The  objectives  of  the  Plan  are  to 
accelerate  and 
sustain  malaria  control  efforts, 
eliminating  the  disease  where  possible,  and  to  ensure 
investment in research aimed at creating new tools that 
would permit the eradication of the disease in the long 
term. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  congratulate  the 
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Ban  Ki-moon,  for 
his leadership, dedication and commitment to the work 
of  the  Organization  and  for  the  new  momentum  he  is 
bringing 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  welcome  his  Global 
Strategy  for  Women’s  and  Children’s  Health  and  urge 
the  international  community  to  provide  the  support 
necessary for its implementation. 
Once again Tanzania would like to emphasize the 

importance  of  national 
and  global 
partnerships  for  meeting  the  MDGs.  Tanzania  will  do 
its  part.  We  call  upon  partners  to  do  their  part,  as 
stipulated under MDG 8. 

One such partnership that is proving successful is 
the  collective  efforts  of  African  leaders  through  the 
African  Leaders  Malaria  Alliance,  chaired  by  His 
Excellency  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania.  Our  focus  within  the 
Alliance is to ensure that we attain the 2010 targets for 
universal  coverage  of  appropriate  malaria  prevention, 
diagnosis and treatment interventions. We are confident 
that, if the requested support is realized, we can attain 
this target. It is for this reason that we ask for the full 
the  achievement  of 
leadership 
to 
20 

10-58713 
the 
and 
to 
halt 
therefore  call  on 
Archbishop  Chullikatt  (Holy  See):  As 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 


and  timely  replenishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 

All  of  these  efforts  are  enshrined  in  the  NEPAD 
blueprint.  We 
international 
community  to  render  its  support  in  meeting  the 
objectives of NEPAD. 
We  also  commend  the  partnership  and  support 

from our friends in the international community aimed 
at  combating  malaria.  Those  efforts  complement  the 
efforts of the Secretary-General. 

Malaria  in  Africa  can  be  eliminated  in  our 
lifetime. We have the tools to make that happen. What 
is  required  now  is  the  enhanced  political  will  of  the 
international  community.  Let  us  not  only  roll  back 
malaria  but  eliminate  it  in  its  entirety.  We  pledge  our 
part. 

Observer of the Holy See. 

the 
General Assembly  considers  the  ongoing  development 
of  Africa,  my  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to 
affirm once again the need for the countries of Africa, 
jointly  and  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community,  to  effect  the  eradication  of  poverty,  to 
place African countries on the path towards sustainable 
growth 
the 
marginalization of Africa in the globalization process. 

Addressing  the  special  needs  of  Africa  requires 
partnerships in all areas of society. Those partnerships 
help  to  foster  greater  solidarity  and  promote  more 
sustainable  development  throughout  the  continent.  In 
that  regard,  the  recent  decline  in  the  global  economy 
has created new challenges for Africa, as foreign direct 
investments  in  the  region  have  fallen  by  36  per  cent 
since  2008.  The  burden  of 
increasing  debt  also 
threatens  future  sustainability  and  undermines  the 
improvements that have been achieved in recent years. 

We  know  that  one  of  the  many  factors  upon 
which  all  of  this  depends  is  the  health  of  the African 
people.  As 
for  Africa’s 
Development programme rightly points out, the health 
and  well-being  of  the  African  people  will  help  bring 
about 
the  achievement  of  poverty  reduction  and 
sustainable development in Africa. 

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  is  grateful  for  the 
recent report entitled “2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back 
the  New  Partnership 
development, 
and 
A/65/PV.31
initiative  of 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
Malaria 
in 
Africa”  (A/65/210),  and  is  pleased  to  see  that  such 
progress has been made over the past decade in malaria 
control  efforts.  Certainly  this  is  due,  in  part,  to  the 
considerable commitment at the international, regional 
and country levels. 
In  particular,  my  delegation  is  grateful  for  the 

the  African  Leaders  Malaria 
recent 
Alliance, 
in  which  African  heads  of  State  and 
Government  have  come  together  in  order  to  promote 
universal  provision  of  malaria-control  interventions. 
We  are  heartened  by  the  commitment  of  the  members 
of  the  Alliance  to  work  together  to  translate  their 
commitment  into  greater  efforts  to  eradicate  this 
disease. 

Malaria takes the lives of nearly 1 million people 
each year, almost 90 per cent of whom reside in Africa, 
with  the  worst  affected  areas  being  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Ethiopia,  Kenya,  Nigeria  and 
Tanzania. Approximately 3.3 billion people worldwide 
remain at risk of malaria, resulting in 250 million cases 
each year, 86 per cent of which occur in Africa. 
Malaria most devastatingly affects children under 

the age of five. Many who survive an episode of severe 
malaria  suffer  learning  impairments  or  brain  damage. 
Pregnant  women  and  their  unborn  children  are  also 
particularly  vulnerable 
to  malaria,  which,  during 
pregnancy,  is  a  major  cause  of  mortality,  low  birth 
weight and maternal anaemia. 
It goes without saying that our focus must remain 

treatment,  prevention  and 
research.  Proper 
on 
diagnosis  is  available,  and  infected  individuals  can 
make a full recovery, if provided with the means to do 
so. Appropriate treatment should be accessible to those 
who  are  affected,  and  individuals  must  be  able  to 
receive  affordable,  safe  and,  where  necessary,  free 
diagnostic testing and drugs. 

We  know  how  reduction  in  the  transmission  of 
malaria is achieved and, in that regard, it is important 
to recall the Abuja Declaration to Roll Back Malaria in 
Africa, which calls for the development of mechanisms 
to  facilitate  the  provision  of  reliable  information  on 
malaria 
the  household, 
community, district and national levels, enabling them 
to  make  use  of  appropriate  control  and  surveillance 
strategies. 
to  decision-makers 
at 
10-58713 

21 

These  organizations  not  only  provide 
A/65/PV.31 

Resources  must  continue  to  be  allocated  to 

ongoing  research 
into  developing  safe  and  cost-
efficient  vaccines,  as  well  as  medicines  to  treat  those 
who are infected. 

My delegation takes this opportunity to highlight 
the  work  of  numerous  individuals  in  Catholic  health-
care services working on the front lines in countries in 
Africa  to  assist  those  suffering  from  malaria.  The 
selfless service of those individuals as well as so many 
others  demonstrates  their  commitment  to  the  well-
being  of  the  human  family,  especially  those  who  are 
suffering. 

the 
resources and technical skills necessary to assist those 
affected  by  malaria  but  have  also  worked  to  foster 
greater development throughout Africa. Working in the 
fields  of  education,  infrastructure  and  health-care 
programmes,  often in the poorest  and most vulnerable 
communities,  those  organizations  are  vital  partners  in 
the long-term development of Africa. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 49/2 of 19 October 1994, 
I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the  International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 
Mr. Jilani (International Federation of Red Cross 

and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  Despite 
the  many 
successes  in  combating  malaria,  that  killer  disease 
continues  to  take  the  lives  of  nearly  1  million  people 
every year, mostly children under the age of five; and, 
as we all know, malaria is a disease that is 100 per cent 
preventable and treatable. 

We  have  seen  that  countries  that  have  achieved 
high  coverage  of  their  population  with  mosquito  nets, 
as well as improved access to effective diagnostics and 
treatment,  have  made  enormous  progress  in  the  fight 
against  malaria.  Countries  such  as  Eritrea,  Rwanda, 
Zambia,  Tanzania  and  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  have 
seen  reductions  in  malaria  cases  and  deaths  by  up  to 
50 per  cent,  demonstrating  that  the  targets  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals can be achieved. 

implemented  by 
national  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies  have 
focused on scaling up network ownership and ensuring 
that  net  distribution  is  accompanied  by  extensive  and 
prolonged  community  education  and  empowerment 
efforts. In various affected countries, it has been shown 
that  combining  net  distribution  with  follow-on  “hang 
The  malaria  programmes 
in 
live 
in 
the 
volunteers 
Since  2002,  as  a  direct  result  of 
up”  campaigns,  carried  out  by  Red  Cross/Red 
Crescent-trained 
community, 
significantly reduces the incidence of malaria. 

Combining  distribution  with  follow-on  support 
and training is especially crucial when trying to  reach 
the  most  vulnerable  groups,  such  as  those  living  in 
remote  areas,  refugees  and  people  affected  by  stigma 
and  discrimination.  Trained  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  volunteers  who 
the  very  same 
community  and  speak  the  local  language  are  ideally 
placed to help families overcome any social or cultural 
barriers that may prevent the effective hanging and use 
of nets. 

the  net 
distribution  carried  out  by  the  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  Societies,  more  than  300,000  malaria  deaths 
have been averted, while 18.2 million people have been 
protected against malaria. 
Furthermore,  in  a  recently  published  report  on  a 

pilot  project  involving  an  innovative  approach  to 
malaria  treatment,  it  was  shown  that  the  community 
approach works. The pilot project “Beyond prevention: 
home  management  of  malaria  in  Kenya”  showed  that, 
even in the most remote areas, providing free, effective 
medicines to trained local volunteers can alleviate both 
the malaria disease burden and the strain on the health 
system.  The  malaria  home  management  project  in 
Kenya reaffirms earlier studies that trained community 
workers  can  safely  distribute  and  administer  malaria 
treatment. 
The  key  message  of  the  Red  Cross  and  the  Red 

Crescent  Societies  is  that  communities  must  own  the 
activities  that  support  the  prevention  and  treatment  of 
malaria  at  the  individual  and  household  levels.  To 
increase ownership and action, families must have the 
support  necessary  to  understand  the  transmission  of 
malaria and how it can be prevented through the use of 
nets and treated by accessing effective treatment at the 
first signs of danger. 

In  2009  alone,  the  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent 
Societies  reached  3.7  million  households,  or  14.8 
million individuals, through community-based activities 
to prevent malaria and to ensure that care providers are 
aware  of  the  danger  signs  of  malaria  and  the  need  to 
immediately access effective treatment. 

The  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and 
Red  Crescent  Societies  will  further  step  up  its  efforts 
22 

10-58713 
Ms.  Lwin
Additionally, 
(Global  Fund 
the  Federation  also 


by developing more “hang up” campaigns, by covering 
more  affected  countries  and  by  teaming  up  with 
partners  to  accelerate  the  delivery  of  nets  to  all 
malaria-endemic areas. 

includes  a 
malaria component in its emergency response activities 
when  disasters  take  place  in  malaria-endemic  areas  or 
where  epidemics  are  possible  as  a  result  of  a  natural 
disaster. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  64/122  of  16  December 
2009, I now call on the observer for the Global Fund to 
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
to  Fight  AIDS, 

Tuberculosis  and  Malaria):  When  the  world  leaders 
came  together  to  sign  the  United  Nations  Millennium 
Declaration  in  2000  (resolution  55/2),  dying  from  a 
mosquito  bite  was  a  reality  in  large  parts  of  Africa, 
Asia  and  Latin  America.  A  decade  later,  one  area  of 
development  that  is  inspiring  hope  is  our  progress  in 
the fight against malaria to the point that one day soon 
it could really be eliminated as a public health problem 
in  most  malaria-endemic  countries. 
If  countries 
continue  to  scale  up  their  progress  at  the  pace  set  in 
recent in health care, we will see tremendous progress. 

The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria is proud to be  a  major international funder  of 
malaria  programmes,  with  more 
than  $5  billion 
committed  in  82  countries  to  date.  The  Global  Fund 
has  invested  particularly  in  the  universal  coverage  of 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets  and  had  distributed 
104  million  bednets  by  the  end  of  2009.  We  estimate 
that  currently  available  funds  will  enable  us 
to 
purchase  approximately  250  million  bednets,  a 
significant  step  forward  in  addressing  the  estimated 
need for the most vulnerable populations. 

Global  Fund  grants  have  also  supported  the 
indoor  residual  spraying  of  insecticides  in  more  than 
19  million  sites  and  have  treated  108  million  cases  of 
malaria, 
treatment 
guidelines. 

Global  Fund  financing  is  having  a  substantial 
impact on malaria morbidity and mortality worldwide, 
with  an  increasing  number  of  countries  reporting  a 
reduction  in  malaria  deaths  of  more  than  50  per  cent.  

in  accordance  with  national 
A/65/PV.31
is  due 
That  progress 
Malaria  control  interventions  also  have  an  important 
impact in reinforcing health systems. Hospital beds are 
being  freed  up,  children  are  remaining  in  schools, 
workers are staying at work and women are delivering 
healthier  babies,  reminding  us  of  the  close  linkages 
among the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

to  excellent  political 
leadership 
in  countries  affected  by  malaria  and 
increased  technical  support  from  partners,  such  as  the 
World Health Organization and the Roll Back Malaria 
Partnership. In no other area of development has there 
been  such  rapid  and  direct  correlation  between 
available  resources  and  the  impact  in  fighting  malaria 
at the country level. 

I  am  delighted  to  report  that,  earlier  this  month, 
donors  from  the  public  and  private  sectors  made  a 
financial  commitment  of  $11.7  billion  to  the  Global 
Fund  for  the  years  2011  to  2013. That  contribution  is 
the  largest  ever  financial  pledge  for  the  collective 
international  effort  to  fight  the  three  pandemics  of 
AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. 

At  a  time  when  so  many  Governments  are 
tightening their belts at home, such commitments send 
a  powerful  message 
to 
sustainable development. We cannot be complacent on 
the heels of our success so far. If we are truly going to 
eliminate  malaria  as  a  public  health  threat  in  endemic 
countries,  we  must  maintain  the  pressure  on  all  fronts 
in  the  coming  years  by  renewing  nets,  ensuring 
availability  of  drugs  and  supporting  effective  malaria 
interventions.  The  Global  Fund  will  be  ready  to 
support those activities through our continuing effort to 
seek the additional resources needed to fight malaria. 

On  behalf  of  the  Global  Fund,  let  me  conclude 
with simple but sincere thanks to all Members for their 
collaboration  and  commitment  to  the  fight  against 
malaria  and  to  global  health.  Because  of  their  efforts, 
achieving  the  MDGs  for  malaria  is  not  some  elusive 
dream,  but  something  that  is  actually  within  reach  in 
many countries. 

speaker in the debate on this issue. 

The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  62  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b), and of agenda item 12. 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.
that  health 
integral 
is 
10-58713 

23 
