
A/65/PV.51
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

51st plenary meeting 
Friday, 19 November 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Kleib 
(Indonesia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 


  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 

Agenda item 113 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (a)  Appointment of members of the Advisory 



Committee on Administrative and  
Budgetary Questions 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/562) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  7  of  its 

report  (A/65/562),  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends 
that  the  General  Assembly  appoint  the  following 
persons  as  members  of  the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions  for  a  three-
year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January  2011: 
Ms. Namgya  Khampa  (India),  Mr.  Peter  Maddens 
(Belgium),  Mr.  Carlos  Ruiz  Massieu 
(Mexico), 
Mr. Richard  Moon  (United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and Northern Ireland), Mr. Akira Sugiyama (Japan) and 
Mr. Zhang Wanhai (China). 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  appoint  those  persons  as  members  of  the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2011? 

It was so decided. 


  (b)  Appointment of members of the Committee  
on Contributions 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/563) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members  of  the  Committee  on  Contributions  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2011: 
Mr.  Joseph  Acakpo-Satchivi  (Benin),  Mr.  Gordon 
Eckersley  (Australia),  Mr.  Bernardo  Greiver  del  Hoyo 
(Uruguay),  Mr. 
Juan  Ndong  Mbomio  Mangue 
(Equatorial  Guinea),  Mr.  Pedro  Luis  Pedroso  (Cuba) 
and Mr. Thomas Schlesinger (Austria). 
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 

to appoint those persons as members of the Committee 
on  Contributions  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2011? 

It was so decided. 



  (c)  Confirmation of the appointment of members 
of the Investments Committee 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/564) 

The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 

recommends,  in  paragraph  5  of  its  report,  that  the 
General  Assembly  confirm  the  reappointment  by  the 
Secretary-General  of  Mr.  Achim  Kassow  (Germany) 
and  Mr.  William  McDonough  (United  States  of 
America)  as  regular  members  of  the  Investments 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1  January  2011,  and  the  reappointment  of  Ms.  Hélène 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-64443 (E) 
*1064443* 


A/65/PV.51 

Ploix  (France)  as  a  regular  member  of  the  Committee 
for  a  one-year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January 
2011,  as  well  as  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Simon  Jiang 
(China)  as  a  regular  member  of  the  Committee  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2011. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to confirm the reappointment by the Secretary-General 
of Mr. Achim Kassow and Mr. William McDonough as 
regular  members  of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2011, 
and the reappointment of Ms. Hélène Ploix as a regular 
member of the Committee for a one-year term of office 
beginning  on  1  January  2011,  as  well  as 
the 
appointment  of  Mr.  Simon  Jiang  as  a  regular  member 
of  the  Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2011? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  6  of  the 

same report, the Fifth Committee also recommends that 
the  General  Assembly  reappoint  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet 
(Switzerland) 
appoint  Ms.  Hilda  Ochoa-
Brillembourg  (Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela)  as 
ad hoc  members  of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a 
one-year term beginning on 1 January 2011. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  reappoint  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet  and  appoint  Ms.  Hilda 
Ochoa-Brillembourg  as  ad  hoc  members  of 
the 
Investments  Committee for a  one-year  term beginning 
on 1 January 2011? 

It was so decided. 
and 



  (d)  Appointment of members of the International 
Civil  Service Commission 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/565) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  8  of  its 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members 
International  Civil  Service 
Commission  for  a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning 
on  1  January  2011:  Ms.  Marie-Françoise  Bechtel 
(France),  Mr.  Daasebre  Oti  Boateng 
(Ghana), 
Ms. Carleen  Gardner  (Jamaica),  Mr.  Kingston  Papie 
Rhodes  (Sierra  Leone)  and  Mr.  Eugeniusz  Wyzner 
(Poland). 
the 
of 
those  persons  as  members  of 
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 

to  appoint 
the 
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2011? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  Also,  in  paragraph  8  of 

the same report, the Fifth Committee recommends that 
the  General  Assembly  designate  Mr.  Kingston  Papie 
Rhodes  (Sierra  Leone)  as  Chair  of  the  International 
Civil  Service  Commission  for  a  four-year  term  of 
office beginning on 1 January 2011. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to designate Mr. Kingston Papie Rhodes as Chair of the 
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2011? 

It was so decided. 



  (e)  Appointment of members of the Independent 
the 
those  persons  as  members  of 
Audit Advisory Committee 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/566) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members  of 
Independent  Audit  Advisory 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1  January  2011:  Mr.  Vadim  Vadimovich  Dubinkin 
(Russian  Federation),  Mr.  Vinod  Rai  (India)  and 
Mr. Adrian Patrick Strachan (Jamaica). 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  appoint 
the 
Independent  Audit  Advisory  Committee  for  a  three-
year term of office beginning on 1 January 2011? 


wish  of 
consideration  of  sub-items  (a) 
item 113? 





It was so decided. 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
to  (e)  of  agenda 
It was so decided. 
  The meeting rose at 10.20 a.m. 
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 
2 

10-64443 
