
A/65/PV.34
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

34th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 20 October 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
  The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 

It was so decided. 









Agenda items 7 (continued) and 132 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 
Pattern of conferences 

  Letter from the Chair of the Committee on 
Conferences addressed to the President of the 
General Assembly (A/65/337/Add.1)
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Members  are 

aware  that,  pursuant  to  paragraph  7  of  section  I  of 
resolution  40/243,  no  subsidiary  organ  of  the  General 
Assembly  may  meet  at  United  Nations  Headquarters 
during  a  regular  session  of  the  Assembly  unless 
explicitly authorized by the Assembly. 

Authorization  is  thus  sought  for  the  United 
Nations Appeals Tribunal to hold one meeting in New 
York during the main part of the sixty-fifth session of 
the General Assembly, on the strict understanding that 
the  meeting  will  have  to  be  accommodated  when 
facilities  and  services  can  be  made  available  without 
adversely  affecting 
the  General 
Assembly  and  its  Main  Committees.  It  is  also  the 
understanding that everything possible will be done to 
ensure the most efficient use of conference services. 

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  authorize  the  United  Nations  Appeals 
Tribunal to meet during the main part of the sixty-fifth 
session of the General Assembly? 
the  activities  of 
Agenda items 9 and 13 
Report of the Economic and Social Council 









  Report of the Economic and Social  
Council (A/65/3)
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/216)

Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/84)

The President (spoke in French): In connection with 

agenda item 9, I recall that, pursuant to resolution 58/316 of 
1 July 2004, the Assembly, on the recommendation of the 
General Committee, decided at its 2nd plenary meeting, on 
17  September  2010,  to  consider  agenda  item  9  in  its 
entirety 
the 
administrative, programme and budgetary aspects would be 
addressed by the Fifth Committee. 
At  the  same  meeting,  the Assembly  took  note  of 

the  clarification 
implementing  resolution 
58/316 with respect to considering item 9 in its entirety 
in plenary, the relevant parts of chapter I of the report 
that  are  under  agenda  items  already  allocated  to  the 
Main Committees will be considered by the Committee 
concerned for final action by the General Assembly. 
the  understanding 
in  plenary,  on 
that, 
that 
in 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-59295 (E) 
*1059295* 


to 
the 
relevant 
A/65/PV.34 


In connection with agenda item 13, members will 
recall  that,  pursuant  to  resolution  57/270  B,  the 
Assembly  decided  to  consider  under  the  item  the 
chapters  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council 
integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits,  including  through  the  participation  in  its 
discussions of the President of the Council. 

I  give  the  floor  to  the  President  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council, His Excellency Mr. Hamidon Ali, to 
introduce the report of the Economic and Social Council. 
Mr.  Ali  (Malaysia),  President  of  the  Economic 

and Social Council: I have the honour to introduce the 
2010  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
contained in document A/65/3. 

The  Council’s  work  for  this  year  should  be  seen 
in  the  context  of  the  overall  effort  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  which 
culminated  in  the  MDG  summit  in  September,  shortly 
after  the  substantive  session  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council. 

Last  month,  some  89  heads  of  State  and 
Government  adopted  a  collective  road  map  for  the 
achievement of the MDGs by 2015. 

With the multiple crises — food, energy, climate, 
financial and economic — exposing the weaknesses in 
our  international  financial  and  economic  system,  and 
with economic recovery still faltering, the summit sent 
a  clear  message  that  Member  States  remain  fully 
committed to the Goals set 10 years ago. The outcome 
of  the  summit  (resolution  65/1)  also  identified  the 
continuing role of the Economic and Social Council in 
its follow-up. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  first 
reflect  on  the  outcome  of  the  Council’s  work  in  that 
context and then turn to areas for future action. 
The  2010  annual  ministerial  review  focused  on 

gender  equality and the empowerment  of women. The 
review  confirmed  that  both  issues  sit  squarely  at  the 
heart  of  development  and  peace  worldwide.  Further, 
the  review  coincided  with  the  establishment  of  the 
UN Women entity. In that regard, the 13 countries that 
gave  national  voluntary  presentations  provided  rich 
information  on  success  factors  and  experiences  at  the 
country  level.  National  voluntary  presentations  have 
grown  into  a  vital  platform  for  lessons  learned, 
system 
and 
to  effectively 
identifies  strategies 
characterized  by  sincere  and  transparent  presentations 
that  share  successful  policies  and  identify  challenges 
for the benefit of others. 

The  ministerial  declaration  adopted  at  the  close 
of  the  high-level  segment  serves  as  a  pivotal  action 
point on progress, challenges and implementation gaps. 
It 
implement 
international  commitments  on  gender  equality  and 
opens  new  windows 
for  collaborative  actions, 
partnerships  and  the  engagement  of  new  and  diverse 
stakeholders. The declaration served as a useful source 
for  agreement  on  the  MDG  outcome  document  on 
issues of gender equality and empowerment. 

The  impact  and  visibility  of  the  substantive 
segment  were  further  enhanced  by  an  extensive  series 
of  side  events  on  a  range  of  cross-cutting  themes 
related to gender equality and women’s empowerment. 
Those were organized by Member States, entities of the 
United  Nations 
non-governmental 
stakeholders.  Together,  those  activities  served  as  the 
Council’s  hub  for  promoting  and  catalysing  tangible 
multi-stakeholder  partnerships  for  implementing  the 
United Nations development agenda. 

The  prevailing  complex  economic  and  financial 
climate  gave  special  relevance  to  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council’s  second  Development  Cooperation 
Forum.  The  Forum’s 
interactive  policy  dialogues 
produced  action-oriented  policy  messages  on  changes in 
the  development  cooperation  architecture,  aid  allocation 
and effectiveness, and policy coherence. The Forum also 
sent a clear political message to the General Assembly’s 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  MDGs  on  the 
importance  of  sustaining  and  improving  development 
cooperation against the backdrop of the crises. 
the 

Development  Cooperation  Forum  was  encouraged  to 
engage more countries and stakeholders in discussions 
on  aid  effectiveness  and  mutual  accountability,  and  to 
promote  more  balanced  aid  relationships  with  more 
robust  Government  systems  to  manage  aid  funds. The 
meetings  underscored  that  the  policies  of  developed 
countries  need 
to  be  coherent  with  development 
objectives. At the same time, the catalytic role of aid in 
increasing  other  sources  of  development  finance  was 
emphasized.  The  deliberations  called  for  greater 
political  momentum  and  a  focus  on  turning  pledges 
into  implementation.  It  was  also  felt  that  the  aid 
effectiveness  agenda  should  be  broadened  to  include 
independent 
platform, 
global 
As 
a 
2 

10-59295 
shared.  Overall, 


concerns such as conditionality or flexibility to combat 
exogenous shocks. 

On South-South cooperation, a variety of positive 
experiences  were 
there  was 
unprecedented participation from relevant development 
cooperation  actors,  including  national  Governments, 
parliamentarians  and  representatives  of  civil  society 
and  local  Government.  I  remain  convinced  that  the 
Development Cooperation Forum should be annualized 
to  fulfil  expectations  of  it  as  a  forum  for  keeping 
development cooperation under review. 

This year, the coordination segment proved to be 
a rich source of ideas and elements for the High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  in  particular  on  the  health-related  MDGs  and 
MDG  8,  on  a  global  partnership.  There  was  strong 
support for accelerating progress to achieve the targets 
for women and children, and the Council gave impetus 
to  the  Secretary-General’s  action  plan  on  women  and 
children, which was launched during the MDG summit. 

The  2010  operational  activities  segment  was  a 
rallying  call  for  the  United  Nations  system  to  gear  up 
towards the next comprehensive policy review in 2012. 
The  Council  made  a  successful  attempt  to  strengthen 
the  participation  of  national  policymakers  in  that 
segment. The debates, with a strong focus on country-
level  realities,  provided  a  compass  for  preparation  of 
the  next  quadrennial  comprehensive  policy  review  of 
operational  activities  in  2012.  There  were  also  broad 
calls on the United Nations system to maintain a spirit 
of reform following the system-wide coherence process 
by  continuing 
the  pursuit  of  effectiveness  and 
efficiency at the country level. 

Turning  to  the  humanitarian  affairs  segment, 
Member  States’  decision  to  focus  on  the  complex 
issues  of  operating 
in  high-risk  environments, 
vulnerability  and  humanitarian  response  amplified  the 
importance of those issues to our work. Overall, it was 
heartening 
to  witness  significant  participation  by 
Governments,  the  global  civil  society  network,  and 
the  United  Nations  system. 
senior  officials  of 
Moreover, 
non-governmental 
organizations that made oral presentations through the 
new online system of the Department of Economic and 
Social  Affairs  has  doubled  and  the  submission  of 
written statements has tripled. 
I  am  also  pleased  to  report  that  significant 

progress has been made in strengthening the Council’s 
number 
the 
of 
A/65/PV.34
and 
resumes 
its  path 
to 
The  Council 
looks  forward 
to  deliver  on 
the  mandate  of 
work  in  the  area  of  peace  and  development.  In  that 
regard,  the  special  policy  dialogue  on  the  role  of 
women  in  countries  in  special  situations  and  the  joint 
special event of the Economic and Social Council and 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  on  peacebuilding  and 
the  MDGs,  held  during 
the  substantive  session, 
attracted widespread support and interest. 

Haiti remains a focus of the Council’s work. The 
Economic  and  Social  Council  remains  committed  to 
ensuring  that  Haiti  recovers  from  the  humanitarian 
disaster 
long-term 
development.  As  an  expression  of  that  commitment, 
Council  members  extended 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council’s  Ad  Hoc  Advisory 
Group  on  Haiti  for  two  years  and  asked  the  Group  to 
report  on  its  activities  twice  a  year.  I  believe  that  a 
more focused programme of activities by the Group, in 
close collaboration with the United Nations system and 
in support of a Haitian-led recovery process, will go a 
long way in helping the recovery. The determination of 
the 
its 
international  community 
commitments will be paramount. 

the  General 
Assembly’s 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  during  the  current 
session  to  see  how  its  role  could  be  further  enhanced, 
most  importantly,  in  regard  to  the  annual  ministerial 
review, assessing the progress made in implementation 
of  the  United  Nations  development  agenda,  including 
and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum,  and 
reviewing 
international  development 
trends  and  progress 
cooperation. Members will also have an opportunity to 
consider how to strengthen the Council’s link with the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  ad  hoc  meetings  on 
humanitarian  emergencies  as  and  when 
they  are 
requested. 

Looking  ahead,  we  have  already  set  in  motion 
preparations  for  the  next  annual  ministerial  review, 
which  will  focus  on  education.  As  we  all  know, 
education  is  fundamental  to  the  economic  and  social 
development  of  societies  and  interlinks  strongly  with 
the  sustainability  of  our  planet  in  the  long  run.  The 
ministerial  reviews  of  past  years  have  demonstrated 
that  no  true  progress  is  achievable  in  any  field, 
including  gender  equality,  global  public  health, 
sustainable  development  and  poverty  eradication, 
without  the  clear  inclusion  of  education  on  an  action 
agenda. 
the  strengthening  of 
review  of 
to 
in 
10-59295 

3 
in  building  our 
this  session.  We  fully 
A/65/PV.34 

I  consider  next  year’s  review  to  be  a  crucial 

element 
shared  knowledge  of 
development imperatives. And we must ensure that the 
recommendations  of 
the  previous  year’s  annual 
ministerial  reviews  will  be  carried  through.  I  urge 
everyone  to  engage  fully  in  the  national,  regional  and 
global  preparatory  activities  to  set  the  stage  for  a 
successful  and  path-breaking  session  next  year. 
Building  on  our  progress  and  defining  new  actions 
informs the spirit with which the Council embraces its 
work. 
Mr. Ali (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 

I  would  like  to  greet  this  gathering  and  express  the 
hope  that  the  discussions  here  will  lead  to  tangible 
progress on the various issues and challenges that must 
take  priority  on  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda  this 
year,  especially  agenda  item  9  on  the  report  of  the 
Economic and Social Council. 

We  are  extremely  pleased  to  see  you,  Sir, 
presiding  over 
trust  your 
wisdom, experience and ability to guide us to the light 
at  the  end  of  the  tunnel  in  order  to  achieve  the 
aspirations  of  the  international  community  to  peace, 
progress and sustainable development. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  under  agenda  item  13  (A/65/84)  and  to 
welcome  the  2010  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council (A/65/3). We would also like to commend the 
extreme  efficiency  with  which  Mr.  Hamidon  Ali  has 
led the Council’s work and the members of his Bureau 
for their extensive efforts. 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
to  be  delivered  by  the  representative  of  brotherly 
Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

This  year’s  session  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  has  developed  great  momentum  thanks  to  the 
international  and  regional  climate  and  the  need  to 
create  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  world  based  on  the 
common values and principles enshrined in the United 
Nations  Charter,  first  and  foremost  respect  for  the 
sovereignty  of  States  and  their  choices,  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  and  joint  cooperation  in  all 
economic  and  social  aspects  in  order  to  build  an 
effective and capable community of nations that enjoys 
full  and  multilateral  cooperation 
the 
richness and diversity of the international community. 
integrating 

achieving 
international 
the  achievement  of 

We live in a world where many challenges where 
the threats confronting us are interrelated. There is no 
doubt  that  the  international  community  is  convinced 
now  more  than  ever  that,  given  their  rapidity,  variety 
and effects, we cannot face these challenges alone. We 
need  collective  action  embodied  in  an  international 
organization  that  is  effective  and  efficient,  like  the 
United  Nations,  and  that  launches  creative  initiatives 
commensurate with these challenges. 

Given  its  universal  membership,  legitimacy  and 
global mandate, the United Nations can play a critical 
cooperation 
role 
to 
in 
accelerate 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  affirm  the  need  for 
the  United  Nations  system  to  bolster  the  abilities  of 
developing  countries  to  implement  their  development 
goals.  My  delegation  stresses  the  importance  and 
vitality  of  the  outcome  of  the  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting on the MDGs held in September. The Meeting 
was  an  opportunity  to  renew  our  commitments  and  to 
muster  resources  and  collective  action  to  meet  the 
MDGs by 2015. 

It  was  made  evident  at  the  Meeting  that  there  is 
an  urgent  need  to  expand  the  scope  of  the  global 
partnership  for  development,  to  bridge  existing  gaps, 
and  to  meet  the  challenges  confronting  developing 
countries. We believe that the outcome document of the 
High-level  Meeting  (resolution  65/1)  is  a  road  map 
helping  developing  countries 
their 
development  efforts  by  ensuring  more  official 
development  assistance;  lifting  unjust  trade  barriers, 
including  those  preventing  products  from  developing 
countries  from  reaching  international  markets;  and 
facilitating  access  to  fair  prices  for  their  exports  and 
commodities. Protectionist policies must be eliminated 
and foreign debts alleviated, given the negative impact 
of such debts on socio-economic development. 

The annual special meeting of the Economic and 
Social Council with the Bretton Woods institutions, the 
World  Trade  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  was  an 
opportunity  to  strengthen  the  ties  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  in  the 
manner laid out in the Monterrey Consensus. In turn, it 
serves  to  enrich  a  constructive  debate  on  seeking  the 
best  means  and  methods  to  deal  with  the  global 
economic and financial crisis. 
increase 
to 
4 

10-59295 
for 
resources 
additional 
institutions  on 



My delegation is in favour of greater efforts and 
support being extended to ensure fair representation for 
developing  countries,  to  strengthen  transparency  and 
credibility,  and  to  undertake  comprehensive  reform  of 
the  Bretton  Woods 
the  basis  of 
qualifications  and  merit  and  in  a  manner  that  would 
guarantee 
developing 
countries,  including  multilateral,  bilateral  and  private 
resources. This would allow for the implementation of 
measures  and  the  undertaking  of  the  action  necessary 
to  overcome  the  impact  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial crisis. 

The  high-level  segment  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  focused  on  the  need  to  implement  the 
to 
internationally  agreed  development  goals  and 
honour  commitments 
to  gender  equality  and 
the 
empowerment of women. It was a good opportunity to 
evaluate  progress  made,  exchange  experiences  and 
lessons learned, and discuss ways to overcome current 
and  future  challenges  and  obstacles  to  achieving 
equality between the sexes. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  formation  of  the 
new United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the 
Empowerment  of Women  and  expects  it  to  bolster  the 
Organization’s  ability  to  support  gender  equality  and 
the  empowerment  of  women  in  a  manner  consistent 
with  national  ownership  and  leadership  of  social 
development programmes in developing countries. 

The  coordination  segment  also  gave  us  a  chance 
to  focus  on  the  coordination  of  the  implementation  of 
the  MDGs.  Discussions  were  held  on  last  year’s 
ministerial declaration regarding the implementation of 
internationally agreed development goals pertaining to 
public  health.  These  discussions  were  a  value-added 
element  to  the  discussions  of  the  MDG  summit  held 
last month. 

As  for  the  humanitarian  affairs  segment  of  the 
Council’s session, the obstacles, challenges and lessons 
learned  pertaining 
the  coordination  of  United 
Nations  emergency  humanitarian  aid  were  discussed. 
Humanitarian challenges arising from emergencies and 
natural  disasters  are  increasing  throughout  the  world, 
especially  in  developing  countries.  Moreover,  these 
challenges have exacerbated the negative effects of the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis,  the  food  and 
energy  crises,  and  climate  change.  There  was  a 
discussion  of  the  various  international  organizations 
dealing  with  funding  for  development,  especially  the 
to 
A/65/PV.34
in 
the 
and 
the  need 
to  enhance 
infrastructure 
least  developed  countries 
to 
the  agricultural  sector, 
to 
Monterrey Conference and the Follow-up International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  held  in 
Doha. 

In  the  same  context,  this  year  marks  the  end  of 
the  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries for the Decade 2001-2010, which has sought 
to alleviate poverty, combat hunger and limit maternal 
mortality  rates  in  order  to  increase  the  productive 
(LDCs), 
capacities  of 
increase 
especially 
in 
investment 
enhance 
technological capacities. We express our deep concern 
over  the  slow  progress  made  by  the  LDCs,  especially 
in Africa. 

As  for  United  Nations  operational  activities,  we 
confirm 
international 
development  partnership  based  on  national  ownership 
of  development  strategies  in  developing  countries, 
which  should  be  the  guiding  principle  of  all  United 
Nations operational activities. 

Peace  and  stability  in  the  Sudan  have  been  and 
continue to be the essential and established goals of the 
Government  of  National  Unity,  which  affirmed  its 
genuine commitment to peace in the historic signing of 
the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. That Agreement 
put an end to one of the longest-running civil wars on 
the African  continent,  a  legacy  of  the  colonial  period. 
Our quest for peace arises from our understanding that 
it  will  create  a  new  atmosphere  conducive 
to 
accelerated development and to the exploitation of the 
Sudan’s great wealth and resources. 

From this rostrum, we therefore call on the entire 
international  community  to  support  efforts  to  bring 
peace  and  stability  to  the  Sudan,  in  view  of  the  fact 
that such support will strengthen peace and stability in 
Africa as a whole. We should avoid anything that might 
harm or have a negative effect on such efforts. In that 
context,  we  call  on  the  international  community  to 
support  the  work  being  done  to  hold  the  upcoming 
referendum  and  to  ensure  that  it  is  a  fair,  transparent 
and free  event at which the people of Southern Sudan 
can  express  their  genuine  desires,  with  no  negative 
repercussions  or  pressure  that  could  lead  to  false  or 
unrealistic results. 

While  my  country  has  resolutely  striven  to  meet 
all  the  MDGs,  it  has  achieved  tangible  progress  in 
implementing projects that target vulnerable sectors of 
society,  attempt  to  alleviate  poverty,  offer  services  in 
10-59295 

5 

than  $200  million  a  year 
A/65/PV.34 

public  health  and  education,  including  childhood  and 
maternity services, and combat diseases. 

In  the  area  of  poverty  reduction,  the  Sudan  has 
prepared  a  25-year  economic  development  plan, 
beginning  with  the  first  five-year  plan  for  the  period 
2007-2011,  which  seeks  to  implement  socio-economic 
development  and  alleviate  poverty.  We  have  also 
formed  a  high-level  council,  chaired  by  the  President 
of  the  Republic,  to  prepare  and  oversee  the  national 
anti-poverty  strategy. As  a  result  of  these  efforts,  our 
spending  on  the  poor  increased  to  9  per  cent  of  our 
gross domestic product for 2009. We have also directed 
that  12  per  cent  of  commercial  bank  credit  lines  be 
allocated  to  funding  small  projects.  Besides  this,  the 
Zakat  mechanism,  a  social  equality  project,  has 
contributed  more 
to 
combating poverty. 

The Sudan has also seen positive developments in 
primary education. Universal free primary education is 
now  official  State  policy.  We  have  also  formulated  a 
national strategy for the education of girls. 

We  have  adopted  a  national  strategy  for  the 
advancement  and  empowerment  of  women.  In  2005, 
we  formulated  a  national  policy  to  combat  violence 
against  women.  We  have  established  a  department 
within  the  Ministry  of  Justice  to  combat  violence 
against  women  and  children,  along  with  a  unit 
established in 2006 within the Ministry of the Interior 
for  the  protection  of  children  and  families.  Our  2008 
national 
female  genital 
mutilation has also been given high priority. The penal 
code has been amended to incorporate an article aimed 
at  protecting  women  during  conflicts.  We  have 
allocated 25 per cent of seats in the National Assembly 
and  municipal  legislative  councils  to  women,  and  the 
number  of  female  parliamentarians  has  thus  grown  to 
300. 

Moreover,  the  country  has  adopted  policies  and 
measures in support of child health, aimed at ensuring 
free  medical  care  for  children  under  the  age  of  five. 
These  efforts  were  crowned  by  the  promulgation  in 
2010  of  the  Child  Law.  The  Sudan  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  improvement  of  reproductive  health 
and to that end has formulated a national strategy and 
road map for reducing maternal mortality. 
In  the  humanitarian  sphere,  the  Government  of 

the 
the  Sudan 
international  humanitarian  communiqué  signed  with 
for  combating 
is  committed 
implementing 
strategy 
to 
to  follow  up 
to  be  delivered 
the  United  Nations  on  28  March  2007.  The 
communiqué  guidelines  have  been 
successfully 
implemented thanks to the important role played by the 
supreme  mechanism  designated 
its 
implementation,  which  required  the  Government  to 
make  special  efforts  to  open  a  corridor  to  Darfur  that 
enabled  humanitarian  aid 
there. 
However, we emphasize the need to intensify efforts to 
overcome the challenges in this area, particularly those 
involving  the  shift  away  from  humanitarian  aid  to 
development  and  reconstruction,  especially  in  Darfur. 
Focusing on reconstruction and development is one of 
the  most  important  strategic  solutions  to  the  Darfur 
issue. 

The  economic,  trade  and  financial  changes  and 
world development are interrelated. The imbalances in 
the  economic  structures  of  developing  and  least-
developed  countries  are  still  hindering  development 
and progress towards achieving the MDGs. The current 
world  economic  order,  with  the  unfair  conditions  it 
imposes  on  developing  countries’  exports,  as  well  as 
the  heavy  weight  of  foreign  debt,  which  is  paralysing 
regional  economic  activity,  hinder  the  progress  of 
development. That  is  especially  true  in Africa,  which, 
as the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2) states, 
enjoys  special  status  and  requires  more  international 
development  aid,  stronger  development  partnerships 
and  relevant  initiatives,  such  as  the  New  Partnership 
for Africa’s Development. 

In  this  context,  I  must  emphasize  the  dangerous 
impact  of  such  natural  phenomena  as  climate  change 
and  environmental  degradation,  which  have  been 
primary  causes  of  war  and  conflict  in  Africa.  The 
Darfur  conflict 
the 
implications of these phenomena, with direct effects on 
citizens  and  their  daily  livelihood.  As  a  party  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change since 1993, the Sudan affirms the need to step 
up  multilateral  global  action  in  order  to  confront 
climate change, mitigate it more effectively, and ensure 
the  necessary  participation  of  developing  countries  in 
addressing  its  causes  and  consequences.  Developed 
countries  must  fulfil  their  obligations  in  this  area  in 
terms  of  capacity-building  and  financial  and  technical 
aid  to  developing  countries  in  order  to  help  them 
confront this problem. 
In closing, I reiterate that the ongoing role of the 

collective 
United  Nations 
responsibility, based on the firm will and determination 
imposes  on  us 
testament 
real-life 
is  a 
to 
a 
6 

10-59295 
leadership  of 
the  President  of 


to  make  the  Organization  a  global  and  multilateral 
forum for engaging fairly and effectively in solving the 
problems  of  the  world,  in  a  manner  that  reflects  the 
provisions  of  the  Charter,  and  in  cooperation  with 
regional organizations, in order to achieve international 
and  regional  peace  and  security. The  Sudan,  an  active 
and  committed  Member  of 
the  United  Nations, 
continues to be committed to these objectives, the fruit 
of our collective efforts. 
Mr. Alsaidi (Yemen): On behalf of the Group of 

77 and China, I wish to thank the Secretary-General for 
the  report  contained  in  document  A/65/84,  and  I 
welcome  the  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council for 2010 in document A/65/3. 

Indeed, 2010 has been another critically eventful 
year. The  Group  would  like  at  the  outset  to  recognize 
the  dynamic 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  Ambassador  Hamidon 
Ali, and his Bureau in guiding the work of the Council 
in  2010.  His  leadership  brought  an  innovative  and 
invigorating spirit to the work of the Council this year. 
Our  gratitude  also  goes  to  all  the  facilitators  of  draft 
resolutions for their tireless efforts. 

the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), held from 20 
to  22  September,  offered  us  an  opportunity  to  renew 
our  commitments,  rally  support  and  spur  collective 
action  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015.  The  summit 
clearly showed that there is an urgent need to scale up 
the  global  partnership  for  development  in  order  to 
mobilize additional resources to address the remaining 
gaps  and  continuing  challenges  facing  developing 
countries. 

We  consider  the  summit’s  outcome  document 
(resolution  65/1)  to  be  a  plan  of  action  that  demands 
immediate  implementation.  Likewise,  we  stress  the 
need for an annual review of this plan of action within 
the  United  Nations  system  in  order  to  make  the 
achievement of the MDGs a reality by 2015. 

The annual special meeting of the Economic and 
Social Council with the Bretton Woods institutions, the 
World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  and  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development 
(UNCTAD)  has  provided  us  with  an  opportunity  to 
review  and  strengthen  the  relationship  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Bretton Woods  institutions,  as 
set  out  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  by  pursuing  a 
constructive and helpful debate among them in order to 
The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
A/65/PV.34
is 
Another 
legitimacy,  and 
find ways and means to remedy the world financial and 
economic crisis. 

During that meeting, the Group reiterated its call 
for  the  governing  structure  of  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  to  be  reformed,  ensuring  the  promotion  of 
fair  and  equitable 
representation  by  developing 
countries, improving transparency and credibility in the 
appointment  of  the  senior  leadership  of  the  Bretton 
Woods  institutions  through  a  transparent  and  merit-
based selection process. We also emphasized the urgent 
need  for  adequate  resources  to  be  mobilized  at  the 
national level and for new  and  additional resources to 
be allocated to developing countries from all available 
funding  mechanisms,  including  multilateral,  bilateral 
and private sources,  for the implementation of actions 
and measures to help them overcome the impact of the 
current crisis. 

The  Group  stresses  once  again  that  the  United 
Nations 
the  only  global  body  with  universal 
membership  and  unquestioned 
is 
therefore  well  positioned  to  address  global  economic 
governance with the objective of achieving sustainable 
and  socially  balanced  economic  development.  It  is 
critical  that  Member  States  commit  to  the  United 
Nations  process  and 
its 
underlying values in order that it may fulfil its role in 
global economic governance. 

the  high-level 
segment  on  the  Development  Cooperation  Forum,  a 
principal  venue  for  global  dialogue  and  policy  review 
on  international  development  cooperation.  The  Forum 
could  be  an  appropriate  high-level  forum  that  allows 
for 
the  broader  participation  of  key  actors  and 
promotes an effective dialogue among them. Our focus 
this year was at three levels: mutual accountability and 
aid 
triangular 
cooperation,  and  aid  policy  coherence  with  a  view  to 
moving  from  aid 
long-term  sources  of 
development financing. 

The Group of 77 and China is of the view that the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  should  not  be 
diverted to specific agendas pursued outside the United 
Nations  framework.  The  best  ways  and  means  of 
enhancing  international  development  cooperation,  as 
well  as  the  principles  that  should  be  applied  in  that 
regard, should be discussed and decided by all Member 
States in an inclusive and transparent manner, drawing 
from a very wide range of experiences and practices. 
to  multilateralism  and 
important  event  was 
to  more 
transparency, 
South-South 
and 
10-59295 

7 
the 

on 
Conference 
therefore  pleased  by 
A/65/PV.34 


The  2010  substantive  session  of  the  Council 
marked  the  first  full  cycle  of  implementation  of  the 
new  intergovernmental  follow-up  mechanism  of  the 
financing  for  development  process  adopted  last  year. 
We  were 
the  adoption  by 
consensus  of  the  resolution  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the 
International 
Financing 
for 
Development and the 2008 Review Conference”. 

The  high-level  segment  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  also  focused  on  the  implementation  of 
the  internationally  agreed  goals  and  commitments  on 
gender equality and the empowerment of women. This 
segment  provided  us  with  a  timely  opportunity  to 
assess the progress made, share experience and lessons 
learned,  and  find  appropriate  ways 
to  overcome 
remaining obstacles and challenges to the gender issue. 
In  this  regard,  the  Group  welcomes  the  establishment 
of the new United Nations Entity for Gender Equality 
and  the  Empowerment  of  Women  and  pledges  its  full 
support to its operationalization. We hope that the new 
Entity will strengthen the ability of the United Nations 
to support the achievement of gender equality and the 
empowerment of women all over the world. 

This  year’s  coordination  segment  of  the  Council 
allowed us to focus on the implementation of existing 
mandates  on  coordination.  We  discussed  at  length  the 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  implementing  the 
ministerial  declaration  of 
last  year’s  high-level 
segment  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  which 
dealt  with  implementing  the  internationally  agreed 
goals  and  commitments  on  global  public  health.  Our 
discussion  provided  a  useful  contribution  to  the  MDG 
review summit that was held last month. 
The  humanitarian  affairs  segment  of  the  Council 

offered  a  valuable  opportunity 
the 
challenges,  obstacles  and  lessons  learned  with  respect 
to 
the 
emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of 
the  United 
Nations.  The  humanitarian  challenges  resulting  from 
complex emergencies and natural disasters continue to 
increase, especially in developing countries. Moreover, 
these  challenges  have  been  compounded  by 
the 
negative  impact  of  the  global  economic  and  financial 
crisis,  the  world  food  crisis  and  continuing  food 
insecurity,  energy  crises  and  the  challenges  posed  by 
climate change. The Group reaffirms the urgent need to 
redouble our efforts to address these challenges. 
the  strengthening  of 
the  coordination  of 
to  discuss 
a 
critical 
respect, 
element 
reiterates 
the  need 
inter  alia, 
fundamental 
its  concern  at 
recognition  of  national 

Given the fact that this year marks the end of the 
Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed 
Countries  (LDCs)  for  the  Decade  2001-2010,  the 
Group  expresses 
the  uneven  and 
insufficient  progress  in  achieving  the  targets  and 
implementation of the Programme of Action, especially 
with 
to  alleviating  poverty, 
combating  hunger,  achieving  gender  equality  and 
reducing maternal mortality. We therefore reiterate our 
call  for  the  enhanced  productive  capacity  of  LDCs, 
particularly  in  the  agricultural  sector,  and  for  greater 
investment in physical infrastructure and technological 
development. 
The  Council’s  operational  activities  segment 

constitutes 
to 
strengthening  the  development  pillar  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  Group 
for  a 
strengthened global partnership for development, based 
on 
leadership  and 
ownership of development strategies, which should be 
a  guiding  principle  of  United  Nations  operational 
activities at the country level. 

Among other agreements reached this year by the 
Council  was  resolution  2010/25,  entitled  “Recovering 
from the world financial and economic crisis: a Global 
Jobs  Pact”.  The  resolution  reaffirms  that  employment 
creation is essential to recovery efforts and recognizes 
that the Global Jobs Pact is an important instrument for 
promoting job-intensive growth. We are pleased by the 
progress  registered  in  that  regard  by  the  International 
Labour  Organization 
the  United  Nations 
Development Fund, and we encourage other entities of 
the United Nations system to work towards meeting the 
objectives of the Second United Nations Decade for the 
Eradication  of  Poverty,  whose 
is  “Full 
Employment and Decent Work for All”. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  stress  once  again  that  the 
Group of 77 and China welcomes the new format of the 
Council’s  high-level  meeting  with  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions,  UNCTAD  and WTO,  since  it  represents  a 
clear  improvement  over  our  past  experiences  with  the 
financing  for  development  process.  We  particularly 
welcome  the  participation  of  the  President  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  the  spring  meetings 
with the Bretton Woods institutions, and we hope that 
that  practice  can  be  regularized  and  expanded  in  the 
future. 
and 
theme 
8 

10-59295 
is 
there 
room 
that  progress, 


Mr.  De  Bassompierre  (Belgium):  I  have  the 

honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. The 
candidate  countries  Turkey,  Croatia  and  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia;  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Montenegro  and 
Serbia;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Armenia  and  Georgia  align  themselves  with  this 
declaration. 

The  European  Union  (EU)  thanks  the  Secretary-
General for the comprehensive report of the Economic 
and Social Council (A/65/3). 

We  meet  today  as  we  are  about  to  engage  in  the 
review of resolution 61/16, on the strengthening of the 
Council. In that regard, this intervention will focus on 
three  points.  First,  the  EU  is  encouraged  by  the 
progress  in  the  revitalization  of  the  Council.  Many  of 
the instruments put in place in recent years have amply 
proven their worth. Second, while we primarily need to 
build  upon 
for 
improvement in some areas. Third, the relevance of the 
Council ultimately depends on our own willingness to 
make  it  work.  The  EU  is  encouraged  by  recent 
experience, although we can do better here, too. 

Looking  back  at  this  year’s  substantive  session, 
as  well  as  the  other  three  that  have  taken  place  since 
the  adoption  of  resolution  61/16,  the  EU  believes  that 
we have good reason to be encouraged by the progress 
made in revitalizing the Council. 

Over the years, the annual ministerial review has 
developed into a key high-level forum to discuss broad 
thematic  issues  related  to  development,  including  a 
review  of  the  implementation  of  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  with  a  wide  range  of 
stakeholders  participating.  It  has  thereby  become  the 
very embodiment of the Council’s role as the principal 
coordinating organ of the United Nations in economic, 
social  and  related  fields  and  as  the  place  to  integrate 
the follow-up of the major United Nations processes in 
that area. 

The  ministerial  declarations  adopted  on  those 
occasions have become important reference documents. 
This  year’s  debate,  coinciding  with  the  decision  to 
establish  the  new  entity  UN Women  and  ahead  of  the 
recent  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) 
summit,  confirmed  that  by  providing  an  important 
contribution on the crucial issue of gender equality and 
women’s empowerment. 
general 
10-59295 

9 
A/65/PV.34
The 
dialogue 
on 
international 
resolution  on 
The  operational  activities  segment  and 
voluntary 
presentations, 
a  valuable  opportunity 
in 

national 
particular,  provide 
for 
exchanges  of  best  practices  and  lessons  learned.  Both 
the  number  of  countries  volunteering 
to  make 
presentations  and  the  size  and  quality  of  the  audience 
at those presentations demonstrate the high interest that 
they generate. 

The  second  Development  Cooperation  Forum 
confirmed the Forum as an important meeting place for 
global 
development 
cooperation.  It  also  provided  a  very  useful  and 
qualitative  contribution  to  the  debate  ahead  of  the 
MDG summit last month. 

the 
humanitarian  affairs  segment  continue  to  make  the 
Council  the  central  forum  for  discussion  of  issues 
related to development and humanitarian operations at 
a  policy  level  and  with  a  cross-cutting  perspective, 
both  through  the  resolutions  adopted  and  through  the 
interactive  dialogues  that  precede  them.  The  recent 
Assembly 
system-wide  coherence 
(resolution 64/289) once again confirms the Council in 
that  role  and  is  another  good  example  of  the  fluid 
distribution  of  tasks  that  has  developed  between  the 
Council and the General Assembly in that area. 

Of  course,  complacency  is  never  advisable.  The 
EU  will  fully  engage  in  the  upcoming  review  of  the 
organization  of  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, with a mind open to partners’ suggestions, but 
it  will  do  so  with  the  conviction  that,  while  there  is 
always  room  for  improvement,  we  primarily  need  at 
this stage to build upon the progress already achieved. 

Let  me  mention  here  some  particular  elements 
that may deserve attention in our deliberations. 

The  coordination  segment  plays  a  useful  role  in 
the follow-up to the ministerial declarations. This year, 
it  was  the  framework  for  the  first  implementation  of 
the  decisions  taken  in  2009  on  strengthening  the 
follow-up  to  the  Financing  for  Development  process, 
fully  utilizing  the  comparative  advantages  that  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  offers  in  terms  of 
multi-stakeholder  engagement.  We  could,  however, 
carry the reflection on the identity and function of that 
segment  further,  particularly  in  relation  to  the  general 
segment. 

remains  woefully 
The 
overburdened, leading to superficial debates and hasty 
segment 
The 
the  work  of 
relationship  with 
A/65/PV.34 

consideration  of  issues  that  require  more  attention,  as 
well  as  to  the  deferral  to  resumed  sessions  of  issues 
that tend to clash with the agenda of other bodies. We 
should  explore  how  to  better  prepare  the  ground  for 
that part of the session and whether some of that work, 
especially  decisions  of  a  more  administrative  nature, 
can  be  carried  out  outside  the  substantive  session. We 
should also examine carefully how to avoid duplication 
between 
the  General  Assembly, 
particularly the Second and Third Committees, and the 
Economic and Social Council. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  and  more  generally  consideration  by  the 
Council  of  the  link  between  peace  and  development, 
certainly  deserve  more  attention.  Initial  steps  have 
already  been  taken  through  the  organization  of  joint 
meetings.  We  should  build  upon  those  steps  to  make 
the relationship more substantial, as appropriate. 

Mr. Mac-Donald (Suriname), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
To  conclude,  the  EU  would  like  to  refer  to  the 

important  message  of 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council’s  President, Ambassador  Hamidon Ali,  in  his 
address  at  the  beginning  of  this  year’s  session  of  the 
Council.  While  improvements  can  be  made  to  the 
Council’s  hardware  —  that  is,  to  resolution  61/16  — 
the relevance of the Council ultimately depends on the 
software, that is, our own attitude to the body and our 
willingness to make it work. 
In  that  regard,  the  EU  would  like  to  take  this 

the 
opportunity 
Council,  Ambassador  Hamidon  Ali,  as  well  as  his 
predecessor, Ambassador Sylvie Lucas, for their role in 
steering  the  revitalization  of  the  Council.  The  EU  is 
also  encouraged  by  the  positive  atmosphere  that 
prevailed  at  the  spring  meeting  and  the  spirit  of 
renewed 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
as  well  as  by  the  constructive  spirit  that  prevailed 
during  the  negotiations  in  the  Council  this  summer, 
leading to good results and consensus agreements. 
Nevertheless, here, too, there is room to do even 

better,  in  line  with  the  “musts”  outlined  by  President 
Ali  —  a  proactive  agenda,  more  focused  outcomes, 
better  atmospherics,  and  avoiding  stale  arguments. 
Better discipline in the timely tabling of resolutions, in 
particular,  would  contribute  to  alleviating  some  of  the 
cooperation  with 
the  President  of 
to  congratulate 

in 
further  discussion 
Ms.  Kaur  (India):  Allow  me 
The  European  Union  stands  ready  to  engage 
the 
burden  of  the  general  segment.  Better  respect  by  the 
Committee  on  Non-Governmental  Organizations  for 
the  guiding  principles  for  granting  consultative  status 
in  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  is  also  urgently 
needed. 

constructively 
about 
organization of the Council in the coming weeks. 
to  begin  by 

reaffirming  India’s  conviction  in  the  leadership  of 
Mr. Joseph Deiss as President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-fifth session. I also take this opportunity to 
warmly  thank  Member  States  for  electing  India  a 
member of the Security Council for the 2011 and 2012 
term. 

India aligns itself with the statement delivered by 
the representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China. 

India welcomes the theme the President chose for 
the current Assembly session, “Reaffirming the central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance”.  A 
stronger  United  Nations,  reflective  of  contemporary 
realities, is indeed the need of the hour. It would ensure 
that the imperatives of maintaining international peace 
and  security  are  addressed  and  that  there  is  an 
integrated  and  coordinated  follow-up  of  the  United 
Nations development agenda. 

The  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
held since the 1990s have generated an unprecedented 
global  consensus  on  a  shared  vision  of  development. 
We emphatically reiterated that common understanding 
at 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  the  Mauritius  Strategy 
and biodiversity held in September 2010 in New York. 
The  MDG  declaration  clearly  articulated  that  the 
allocation of resources, the development of appropriate 
national  and 
integrated 
follow-up and implementation are absolute imperatives 
for  the  realization  of  our  cherished  Millennium  Goals 
by 2015. 

Interlinkages  and  overlaps  among  the  various 
United Nations development summits and conferences 
are  strong.  The  Mauritius  Strategy  would  derive 
immense  benefits  and  strength  from  a  comprehensive, 
ambitious and equitable outcome of the climate change 
negotiations. Similarly, the Conference of the Parties to 
the  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity  under  way  in 
international  policies  and 
the  high-level 
events  on 
10 

10-59295 
resource 
flows, 
synergetic 
Commission 
Peacebuilding 


Nagoya,  Japan,  must  fully  address  the  various  social 
and  economic  development  challenges  along  with  its 
core  environmental  concerns  so  as 
to  maximize, 
through  such  global  action,  protection  against  loss  of 
biodiversity. 
The  multiple  United  Nations  conferences  and 

summits  focused  on  attainment  of 
internationally 
agreed  development  goals  must  have  a  seamless, 
holistic  and  integrated  working  relationship  with  each 
other.  We  must  work  to  develop  work  models  that 
ensure 
coordinated 
assessment and planning, and a holistic approach to our 
global development programmes. In that context, India 
sees  the  creation  of  UN  Women  as  an  important  step 
towards an integrated approach to development within 
the United Nations. 

The  strengthened  interaction  and  institutional 
linkages between the Economic and Social Council and 
the 
equally 
encouraging.  Our  successful  follow-up  efforts  on 
pivotal  conferences  having  significant  bearing  on 
global  development  goals  —  such  as  the  Monterrey 
Consensus and the June 2009 Conference on the World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development  —  deserve  special  mention.  We  must 
sustain  those  efforts.  However,  it  is  important  to 
remember that no one size fits all, and it is imperative 
that  national  priorities  of  countries  always  have 
primacy  in  the  pursuance  of  the  development  agenda 
by United Nations bodies. 
India  fully  realizes  the  importance  of  a  strong 

international  and 
global  partnership  supported  by 
national  development 
trade,  debt, 
investment,  technology  transfer,  food  security,  energy 
access,  climate  change  and  a  host  of  other  issues  to 
create an environment conducive to development. India 
will  push  for  an  ambitious,  comprehensive  and 
equitable  outcome  at  the  climate  change  negotiations, 
one  that  is  based  on  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated 
respective 
capabilities.  We  also  look  forward  to  a  development-
oriented outcome of the Doha Round. 

are 
pro-development,  concerns  of  developing  countries 
must be effectively taken on board in their formulation 
and 
current 
institutional structures do not permit that, even though 
developing  countries  are  the  ones  most  affected.  The 
international  policies 
implementation. 
responsibilities 
Unfortunately, 
strategies  on 
To 
ensure 
that 
are 
and 
A/65/PV.34
the 
that 
revitalizing 
economic crisis highlighted the grave imbalance in the 
structures  of  global  governance,  including  on  the 
economic  side.  India,  along  with  fellow  developing 
countries,  has  been  in  the  forefront  of  demands  for  a 
greater voice in the Bretton Woods institutions. 

To make the process as inclusive as possible, the 
United  Nations,  with  its  unique  position,  has  a  key 
role.  Still,  as  I  mentioned  earlier,  it  needs  urgent 
reform,  and  nowhere  in  the  United  Nations  is  reform 
more  needed  than  in  the  Security  Council.  Council 
membership  must  be  expanded  in  both  the  permanent 
and  non-permanent  categories,  as  is  the  desire  of  an 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States.  I  am  glad 
that  the  General  Assembly  decided  in  its  sixty-fourth 
session 
text-based  negotiations  must  be 
immediately  taken  up  in  the  sixty-fifth  session.  It  is 
important that those negotiations are moved forward on 
an urgent basis. 

Also,  the  United  Nations  system  cannot  be 
strengthened  without 
the  General 
Assembly.  Here  too,  I  am  glad  that  in  adopting 
resolution  64/301  on  this  subject,  there  was  some 
progress for the first time in several years. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  a  crucial 
role  in  fostering  a  comprehensive  United  Nations 
development 
and 
coordinated  implementation  of  its  commitments.  The 
Council has an acknowledged role as a principal body 
for  coordination,  policy  review,  policy  dialogue  and 
recommendations  on  issues  of  economic  and  social 
development. It is satisfying that the Council’s annual 
ministerial  review  and  its  Development  Cooperation 
Forum have become important events to review efforts 
to  achieve  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals, including the MDGs. 

The  July  2010  session  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council focused on promoting greater coherence 
between  policy  and  development  goals  and  making 
development  partnership  more  participatory  and 
transparent. Over the years, the Council has played an 
important role in advancing a holistic and coordinated 
approach  to  global  economic  and  social  development, 
taking into account the interrelatedness of the different 
goals and targets of major United Nations conferences. 
We must work to make the Economic and Social 

Council  even  more  meaningful 
than  what  was 
originally envisaged in the United Nations Charter and 
the  various  United 
subsequently  strengthened  by 
integrated 
through 
agenda 
10-59295 

11 
system 
for 
in  global  governance  and 
A/65/PV.34 

Nations  resolutions,  particularly  Assembly  resolution 
61/16. 

My  delegation  looks  forward  to  the  President’s 
proposals on strengthening the centrality of the United 
Nations 
its 
development role. He can count on our express support 
in that regard. 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  am  happy  to 

take  this  opportunity  to  discuss  the  report  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council 
(A/65/3),  as  my 
country’s  first  tenure  on  the  Council  is  coming  to  an 
end, later this year. 

During our membership we have experienced the 
Council  as  a  forum  of  substantive  discussion  where 
important  governance  mandates  come  together.  We 
have  seen,  particularly  this  year,  how  important  the 
strategic  input  of  the  Council  can  be  to  major  United 
Nations  agenda  items,  such  as  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  In 
the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  and 
the  annual 
ministerial  review  the  Council  set  the  tone  for  a 
successful  negotiation  process, 
the 
consensus outcome of the MDG summit. In that regard, 
the Council has contributed to strengthening the central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  governance  of 
international development policies. 
The  Council  also  has  an  important  role  in  the 

governance  of  its  functional  committees  and  in  the 
election  and  supervision  of  the  executive  bodies  of 
specialized 
programmes. 
Currently,  the  Council  is  acting  swiftly  to  guarantee  a 
smooth 
the  new  gender  entity, 
UN Women.  In  particular,  where  its  subsidiary  bodies 
do  not  live  up  to  the  standards  of  transparency, 
inclusiveness,  objectivity  and  good  faith  in  applying 
rules  of  procedure,  the  Council  itself  must  take 
leadership.  It  has  done  so  in  the  past,  for  example  in 
the  context  of  the  Committee  on  Non-Governmental 
Organizations. Such action by the Council shows that it 
can  and  will  assume  its  responsibility  to  rectify 
decisions of subsidiary bodies, if need be. 

Moreover,  there  are  areas  where  the  Council 
should  consider  structural  reform.  In  that  regard,  we 
hope that the report of the Secretary-General that  will 
examine 
institutional 
arrangements  to  promote  international  cooperation  in 
tax  matters  will  reflect  the  view  of  many  Member 
States  —  including  ours  —  that  the  work  of  the 
strengthening 
transition 
agencies, 
leading 
to 
funds 
and 
the 
of 

Committee  of  Experts  on  International  Cooperation  in 
Tax Matters must become more transparent, accessible 
and inclusive. 

Another field of particular importance to us, and 
one where the Council is mandated to assume a policy 
governance function, is the humanitarian dimension of 
the  work  of  United  Nations  funds,  agencies  and 
programmes. The  Council  has  the  specific  mandate  to 
strengthen the coordination of emergency humanitarian 
assistance in the United Nations system. 
We  are  aware  of  the  high  political  sensitivity  of 

these  matters,  but  we  also  believe  that  the  Council 
could  contribute  more 
to  United  Nations  policy 
coherence  on  the  ground,  without  entering  notorious 
fields  of  political  disagreement.  The  inclusion  of 
concrete policy guidelines of a cross-cutting nature — 
such as a health- and environment-friendly approach to 
nutrition-processing  in  emergency  situations  —  would 
strengthen the Council’s humanitarian policy guidance 
and  contribute  directly  to  its  governance  capacity  in 
this field. 

We  acknowledge  that  during  our  tenure  the 
Council  has  considerably  streamlined  its  agenda  and 
focus. There  is  much  less  overlap  now  in  the  work  of 
the Council and of other forums, most importantly the 
Second  Committee.  The  Council  now  has  a  clearer 
understanding  of  its  mandate  as  the  central  United 
Nations  body  for  strategic  financial  and  economic 
policy coordination. 

for  more 
complementarity  in  order  to  strengthen  the  legitimacy 
and  authority  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council. 
Only  on  that  basis  can  the  Council  contribute  in  a 
meaningful  way  to  the  work  of  all  major  United 
Nations bodies, including the Security Council and the 
Human  Rights  Council,  in  accordance  with  the  three-
pillar  approach  reflected  in  the  outcome  document  of 
the 2005 summit (resolution 60/1). With the experience 
of our membership in the Council, we will continue to 
contribute  to  those  efforts  as  we  continue  to  see  a 
potential in the Council that exceeds its current impact 
by far. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the President 

of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Malaysia,  for  the  leadership  he  has 
shown in carrying out his function. 
We  must, 
however, 
strive 
12 

10-59295 
Honduras endorses the statement made on behalf 


Ms.  Flores  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  express  its  gratitude  for  the 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council (A/65/3) to the Assembly. We would also like 
to acknowledge the work of the President and members 
of  the  Council  and  reiterate  our  commitment  to 
supporting and cooperating with them. 

of the Group of 77 and China. 

Ten years have gone by since, in this same world 
forum, the historic convergence of the end of a century 
and  the  dawn  of  a  new  millennium  motivated  a  very 
promising summit of world leaders and led to a unique 
set  of  visionary  commitments.  The  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) promised, on the basis of 
an  unprecedented  global  alliance,  to  address  the  most 
urgent needs of the poorest people of the planet. Only 
five  years  are  left  until  the  deadline  for  reaching  the 
Goals  set  in  that  ambitious  Declaration,  signed  by 
heads  of  State  and  Government.  Though  there  are 
achievements to be celebrated, we are not holding our 
breath  that  the  task  can  be  accomplished  in  the  time 
remaining. 

The bleak spectre of extreme poverty still haunts 
and  keeps  its  hold  over  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
households  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  We  listened 
with the greatest heartfelt interest as, during this latest 
session  of  the Assembly  —  thanks  to  the  initiative  of 
the  Secretary-General  in  convening  another  special 
summit to review the road we have travelled in pursuit 
of  complying  with  the  noble  Millennium  Goals  — 
many  of  the  most  developed  nations  renewed  their 
commitment  to  make  a  priority  of  this  unending 
struggle without borders. 

We appreciate this opportunity to add light where 
light has previously been lit by others. We do that with 
the  greatest  hopes,  those  of  us  who  come  from 
elsewhere  —  not  from  what  has  wrongly  been  called 
the  poor  countries  of  the  world,  because  I  will  never 
accept that my country, so rich in intangible values, or 
that  our  people,  with  serious  economic  hardship  but 
with the power of their faith, the legacy of their inner 
resources  and  the  greatness  of  their  dreams,  are  poor. 
We  lack  the  necessary  development,  perhaps,  and 
maybe  we  missed 
to  avoid 
marginalization,  exclusion  and  inequities,  but  we  are 
not poor. 
the  good 
fortune 
A/65/PV.34
imported  from 

We  will  attempt  to  summarize  some  of  the 
setbacks  that  have  impeded  the  full  realization  of 
laudable  statements.  The  reluctance  of  some  rich 
nations  to  fully  meet  their  obligations  is  added  to  the 
devastating  impact  of  the  financial  crisis  —  springing 
from  wild  actions,  speculative 
transactions  and 
immoral, greedy practices — on vulnerable markets, a 
crisis that the victims did not cause. 

If  the  disparities  of  international  trade  force  the 
corn-and-tortilla  nations  to  sell  the  sweat  of  their 
strenuous  labour  cheaply  in  order  to  pay  dearly  for 
goods  and  supplies 
industrialized 
countries, it is insult added to injury that to that already 
unfair exchange are added subsidies, quotas, tariffs and 
barriers  to  our  export  products,  each  more  ingenious 
than the last. 

How can the weak be expected to compete fairly 
with  the  strong  when,  in  addition  to  the  disparity  in 
productive capacity, the strong try keep them down in 
order to inundate them with their products at exorbitant 
prices and to acquire the fruit of the subjugated labour 
of  the  weak  at  dirt-cheap  rates  that  do  not  correspond 
to  the  magnitude  of  their  work?  Nor  is  the  entire 
production  of  the  more  than  500,000  families  in  my 
country  who  make  a  living  by  growing  coffee  enough 
to  pay  half  of  our  oil  bill  to  the  cartels  that  sell  that 
resource, which we lack, at ridiculous prices. 
To  this  we  must  add  the  cyclical  damage  of  the 

erratic 
destroys 
infrastructure  and  kills  our  crops.  The  effects  of 
climate change do not come from developing countries, 
but  just  the  same,  they  must  pay  with  a  high  share  of 
sacrifice  their  undeserved  share  of  its  consequences. 
The  terrible  attacks  of  violent  nature  have  devastated 
many  communities  across  the  globe,  which  struggle 
tirelessly  to  emerge  from  their  precarious  state  of 
prostration  only  to  succumb  again  to  such  devastating 
catastrophes. 

Only a few years ago, we suffered the impact of a 
hurricane of biblical proportions. In an instant, we saw, 
before  our  tear-filled  eyes,  the  accumulated  efforts  of 
more than 50 years of hard work and modest progress 
vanish. We felt as if the fierce winds and the turbulent 
flooding of the rivers were sweeping away any hope of 
moving  forward.  A  great  many  communities  that  had 
finally  been  glimpsing  a  promising  horizon  were 
suddenly pushed back to the abyss of extreme poverty. 
However, thanks to the miracle of faith and the virtue 
environment 
life, 
that 
ends 
10-59295 

13 

A/65/PV.34 

of  our  internal  unity,  and  bathed  in  the  soothing  balm 
of  international  solidarity  for  which  we  are  eternally 
grateful, we climbed from that deep pit with a renewed 
spirit to overcome adversity. 

Since then, we have stumbled many times, as the 
path  we  have  travelled  and  the  path  that  lies  ahead  is 
stony. And we have suffered many setbacks. However, 
we are not overcome by the difficulty, nor are we short 
of breath or, much less, determination. 

There  are  valuable  achievements  that  we  cherish 
and must care for — the good fortune of coexisting in a 
civilized manner, under the protection of a system that 
respects  freedoms,  rights  and  gains.  In  a  non-liquid 
economy,  where  almost  all  income  goes  to  expenses 
that  barely  cover  basic  needs  and  requirements,  we 
value  the  possibility  of  having  some  resources  for 
social  investment  —  the  commitment  to  invest  in  our 
people  or  in  programmes  designed  as  part  of  the 
poverty  reduction  strategy  and  in  the  school  meal 
programme  that  reduces  the  school  dropout  rate  and 
enhances  the  physical  and  moral  state  of  our  little 
promises  of  the  future,  to  cite  two  examples  among 
many.  Those  are  minimal  resources  to  ensure  that  the 
national  plan 
the  current 
Administration  does  not  become  a  useless  document 
taking up space in a forgotten desk drawer. 

We  must  confess  that  we  feel  overwhelmed, 
sometimes  even  discouraged,  by 
those  critical 
limitations  and  tremendous  negations  that  undermine 
the possibility of living a life with dignity. There is no 
peace  when  justice  is  lacking.  There  will  be  no 
tranquillity as long as one part of the population enjoys 
the  benefits  of  the  system,  flourishes  in  its  blessings 
and  participates  in  all  its  opportunities  while  a  vast 
majority 
feels  bad,  powerless  and  marginalized, 
afflicted  because  daily  living  seems  more  like  a  slow 
and cruel agony, awaiting the inevitable. 

We must not leave any room for extreme poverty 
to  destroy  the  possibilities  of  the  future.  We  cannot 
accept excuses or pretexts while in so many corners of 
the  world  entire  families  go  to  bed  hoping  that  the 
caress  of  needed  sleep  will  pacify  the  hunger  in  their 
empty  stomachs.  We  must  shorten  the  wait  so  that 
patience  will  not 
renewed 
commitment  emerging  from 
the  recent  Assembly 
meeting  that  ordered  the  review  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and the accelerated march imposed 
recently  adopted  by 
run  out.  Hence 
the 
the 
relevant 
topics.  The 
on us, so that we can fill the dimension of words with 
action. 
Mr.  Cabactulan  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  I 

wish to state that the Philippines aligns itself with the 
statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Yemen  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China. 

We would like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his  report  in  document  A/65/84  and  to  commend  His 
Excellency Ambassador  Mr.  Hamidon Ali  of  Malaysia 
for  his  untiring  efforts,  as  President  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  to  revitalize  and  improve  the 
working  methods  of  that  body.  His  “five  musts” 
strategy  may  prove  to  be  a  worthy  legacy  for  his 
successors  and  should  indeed  be  applied  to  all  other 
areas of work in the United Nations. 

The  full  record  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council’s  activities  as  contained  in  the  pages  of 
document A/65/3  reflects  the  comprehensive  approach 
that  that  vital  United  Nations  organ  takes  to  its 
deliberations  on 
rapid 
institutionalization  of  the  Development  Cooperation 
Forum  and  the  annual  ministerial  review  shows  the 
keen  interest  of  Member  States  in  participating  in  our 
discussions.  The  enhanced  format  of  the  Council’s 
meeting  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  also 
signals the crucial role that the Council and the United 
Nations  have  in  discussions  on  global  financial  and 
economic  matters,  especially  in  the  midst  of  the  so 
called  great  recession  from  which  we  are  now  —  or 
still tentatively — recovering. 

The  Philippines,  as  an  active  member  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  notes  the  landmark 
achievement of the creation of UN Women, which took 
place  in  the  same  year  that  the  annual  ministerial 
review focused precisely on the theme of implementing 
the internationally agreed goals and commitments with 
regard  to  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women. 

The  Philippines  —  a  country  that  has  had  two 
female  Presidents  and  that  considers  itself  to  be  a 
passionate  advocate  of  the  advancement  of  women’s 
rights  and  welfare  —  similarly  took  significant  steps 
forward  with  the  passage  of  the  Magna  Carta  of 
Women  in  August  2009  and  the  issuance  of  its 
Implementing Rules and Regulations in June this year. 
14 

10-59295 
by 
calls 
for 
supports 
strengthening 
against  women 



The  Magna  Carta  of Women  is  a  comprehensive 
women’s  human  rights  law  that  seeks  to  eliminate 
discrimination 
recognizing, 
protecting,  fulfilling  and  promoting  the  rights  of 
Filipino  women,  especially  those  in  the  marginalized 
sectors.  Similar  to  what  UN  Women  has  done  in  the 
United  Nations  system,  the  Magna  Carta  has  brought 
together 
the  different  government  agencies  and 
functions  that  deal  with  women’s  issues  under  the 
supervision of the Philippine Commission on Women. 

The  continued  monitoring  by  the  Economic  and 
Social Council of issues relating to the advancement of 
women’s rights and welfare is a reassuring fact that my 
country  recognizes  and  supports.  The  Philippines 
similarly 
the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  in  order  to  reap  the 
full  benefit  of  its  potential  in  harnessing  the  lessons 
learned in the Forum and linking them with the various 
development activities implemented within and outside 
the  United  Nations. The  active  exchange  of  ideas  and 
the  participation  of  countries  during  the  Forum  policy 
dialogues  signify  the  value  of  the  process  in  our 
discussions. 

We would also like to underscore the importance 
of  the  past  year’s  discussions  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council’s  various  segments,  which  cover  a 
broad  spectrum  of  issues.  To  go  into  each  of  those 
items  would  take  too  much  time,  but  suffice  it  to  say 
that  such  activities  represent  key  development  issues 
that  affect  all  of  us  on  a  daily  basis.  Who  would 
disagree  that  economic,  social  and  environmental 
issues  are  the  most  crucial  topics  and  preoccupy  the 
majority of, if not all, members of the United Nations? 

If  only  to  highlight  a  few  of  the  many  issues  in 
which the Philippines has particular interest, let me say 
that 
the  areas  of  humanitarian 
assistance, climate change, biodiversity and sustainable 
development in general. As a country that suffers from 
frequent natural disasters, many of which are weather-
related,  we  can  only  hope  that  our  discussions  in  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
its  functional 
commissions  will  be  based  on  the  greater  common 
good  and  the  legacy  that  we  wish  to  leave  to  future 
generations. 

Allow  me  then  to  conclude  by  pledging  the 
Philippines’  full  support  for  the  ongoing  improvement 
of  the  working  methods  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  as  it  fulfils  its  pre-eminent  role  in  key  global 
they  would  be 
A/65/PV.34
the 
This  year, 
the  effects  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  held 
discussions that will affect the lives of our peoples. We 
look  forward  to  continuing  our  work  under  the  very 
able leadership of Ambassador Hamidon Ali and share 
his hope that the Council will change with the times in 
order to remain relevant and proactive. 
Mr.  Gutiérrez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

delegation  of  Peru  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the  representative of Yemen on behalf of the 
Group  of  77  and  China.  We  also  thank  the  Secretary-
General for the report submitted under this agenda item 
(A/65/84),  and  we  note  with  satisfaction  the  2010 
report  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  (A/65/3). 
We also wish to express our gratitude to the Council’s 
President,  Ambassador  Hamidon  Ali,  and  the  Bureau 
supporting him for the important work undertaken. 

international 
economic  and  financial  crisis  continue  to  affect  the 
economic and social prospects for developing countries 
and,  therefore,  their  possibilities  of  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  outcome  of  the 
review  carried  out  at  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 
on 
in 
September,  showed  that  we,  the  developing  countries, 
have  made  great  progress  towards  achieving  those 
Goals,  but  also  that  work  remains  for  which  greater 
commitment  and  cooperation  by  all  global  actors  is 
needed (resolution 65/1). 

With  regard to efforts to recover from the  crisis, 
it is extremely important to strengthen employment and 
social  protection  policies  and  to  promote  greater 
international cooperation so as to speed up and sustain 
the  recovery,  with  particular  attention  to  low-  and 
middle-income countries. In that regard, the resolution 
adopted  by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
accelerate implementation of the Global Jobs Pact was 
a very significant outcome of its work (Economic and 
Social  Council  resolution  2010/25).  I  would  like  to 
point  out  that  the  measures  proposed  by  the  Global 
Jobs  Pact,  in  particular  those  related  to  investment  in 
labour-intensive  infrastructure  and  support  for  small- 
and  medium-sized  enterprises,  have  proved  to  be 
effective  mechanisms  to  promote  employment  and  to 
combat poverty in my country. 

The  possibility  of  developing  countries,  such  as 
mine, continuing on the path of growth and addressing 
the effects of the crisis also depends, to a large extent, 
on a positive international environment. In that regard, 
we  believe  that  the  efforts  to  develop  a  constructive 
10-59295 

15 

in 
the 
that, 
Similarly,  we  underscore 
A/65/PV.34 

dialogue  among  all  actors  involved  in  creating  a  new 
international  financial  architecture  are  particularly 
significant.  To  that  end,  the  points  of  view  of  the 
smaller  countries,  which  comprise  the  greater  part  of 
the United Nations, must be taken into account. 

importance  of 
international  trade  as  an  engine  for  development  for  a 
large number of countries, including mine, Peru. Thus, 
we  reiterate  the  need  to  avoid  any  protectionist 
tendency and to move towards a prompt conclusion of 
the Doha Development Round. The annual meeting of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  with  the  Bretton 
Woods  institutions,  the World Trade  Organization  and 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development, held last spring, is an important forum to 
move our work forward in the appropriate direction. 

The  second  Development  Cooperation  Forum, 
held  in  June,  provided  innovative  discussions  on  that 
issue  and  concluded 
the  current  global 
economic  situation,  official  development  assistance 
and financing for development continued to be crucial 
to  guarantee  progress  in  achieving  the  Development 
Goals. 

We  firmly  believe  that  financial  and  technical 
development  cooperation  is  also  indispensable  and 
such cooperation should seek to mobilize resources for 
micro-,  small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  whose 
development  and  strengthening  provide  an  effective 
mechanism to combat poverty, as has been seen in my 
country.  In  that  regard,  promoting  and  strengthening 
financial  cooperation  for  research,  innovation  and 
technology,  as  well  as  human  resource  training,  are 
absolutely essential. 

In that regard, we would like to point out that the 
operational  activities  segment,  which  focused  on  the 
work  of  Economic  and  Social  Council  at  the  country 
level,  concluded 
the  United  Nations  system 
remains  a  reliable  partner  for  developing  countries  in 
the area of capacity-building. 

The ministerial meeting of the high-level segment 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  adopted  the 
important 
the 
Internationally  Agreed  Goals  and  Commitments  in 
regard  to  Gender  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of 
Women”  at  nearly  the  same  time  as  the  new  United 
Nations  Entity 
the 
of  Women,  UN  Women,  was 
Empowerment 
established. We believe that action to have been one of 
for  Gender  Equality 
“Implementing 
declaration 
that 
and 
on 
that 
and 
in 
gender 
equality 
decisions 
has  made 
international 
Peruvian  Government 
the  Council’s  most  significant  contributions  in  2010, 
the 
acknowledging 
empowerment  of  women  play  a  central  role 
in 
development and peace in the world. 

The  coordination  segment  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council adopted  a resolution on the role of the 
United  Nations  system  in  implementing  the  2009 
ministerial  declaration  on  global  public  health 
(Economic  and  Social  Council  resolution  2010/24). 
The 
great 
achievements  in  the  area  of  health. To  continue  along 
that  path,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  the  need  for 
cooperation  benefiting  middle-income  countries  in  the 
fight against HIV/AIDS and for greater attention to be 
given to non-communicable diseases. 

To  conclude,  I  must  point  out  that  a  topic  that 
must not be overlooked in our current and future work 
is  climate  change.  Peru  is  particularly  vulnerable, 
without having been a cause of that phenomenon. The 
worrying  situation  of  the  environmental  degradation 
that  we  are  currently  experiencing  means 
that 
adaptation to climate change must be a central element 
in 
for 
development. 

the 
For  all 
Economic and Social Council must keep on its agenda 
the item “Follow-up to the International Conference on 
Financing  for  Development”, 
the  many 
decisions that I have mentioned in this statement. 
Mr.  Kurlovich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Belarus  commends  the  work  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council 
the 
Ambassador  of  Malaysia,  Mr.  Hamidon  Ali,  for  his 
skilful  leadership.  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
efficient  organization  of  the  2010  substantive  session 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  whose  outcome 
made  an  important  contribution  to  the  work  of  the 
summit  meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  I  would  emphasize,  in  particular,  the 
strengthening of the practical importance of that high-
level segment for the entire United Nations system. 

Belarus  favours  further  strengthening  of  the  role 
of the Economic and Social Council as the main body 
responsible  for  coordinating  the  various  funds  and 
programmes  of  the  United  Nations  system,  including 
reviewing  policies  and  monitoring  implementation  of 
the  MDGs.  As  part  of  that  work,  special  emphasis 
system-wide 
should  be  placed  on  ensuring  a 
those  reasons,  we  believe 
the  reporting  period  and 
including 
financing 
that 
on 
16 

10-59295 
an 


environment conducive to stimulating fair international 
trade  and  providing  expertise  and  technical  assistance 
to developing and middle-income countries. 

We welcome the relatively new methodologies in 
the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  We 
believe  that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  has 
considerably  strengthened  its  structure  and  capacity 
through  annual  ministerial  reviews.  We  believe  that 
that  mechanism,  with  its  powerful  mobilizing  impact, 
should  be  further  strengthened.  The  Development 
Cooperation  Forum  has  become 
important 
mobilizing  and  coordination  factor  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council. 

We  think  that  the  ministerial  meetings,  annual 
reviews  and  the  Development  Cooperation  Forum 
should  become  the  main  platforms  for  discussing 
agenda  issues  related  to  achieving  the  MDGs  and  the 
United Nations development agenda after 2015. In that 
connection, Belarus believes that the Assembly should 
consider  enhancing  the  role  of  the  Forum,  including 
strengthening  its  institutional  status  and  the  frequency 
of  its  meetings  and  the  preparation  of  its  outcome 
documents. 

the 
ministerial reviews is the system of voluntary national 
presentations  on  the  achievement  of  development 
targets,  which  serve  as  a  unique  mechanism  for 
accountability and feedback on the achievement of the 
MDGs.  They 
towards 
implementation  of  global  priorities  at  the  national 
level.  That  is  why  we  welcome  the  positive  trend  to 
expand this practice. My delegation notes that Belarus 
will submit its national report at the 2011 session of the 
Economic and Social Council. 
Belarus  believes  it  is  necessary  to  take  into 

consideration  the  consequences  of  climate  change  in 
the  long-term  strategies  on  financing  for  development 
and developing a green economy. 
An important factor in achieving the MDGs is to 

shape a new architecture in the energy field in order to 
ensure  universal  access  to  energy  services. As  part  of 
this  process,  special  attention  should  be  paid  to  the 
open  exchange  of  environmentally 
friendly  and 
affordable  energy  technologies.  Unfortunately,  energy 
issues  have  not  yet  become  a  priority  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda.  At  the  same  time,  without  access  to 
modern  energy  resources,  an  adequate  level  of  human 
development will clearly be unattainable. 
important  aspects  of 
clearly  point 
the  most 
the  way 
One  of 
A/65/PV.34
agenda 
should 
include 
the 
the  World  Trade  Organization, 

Belarus supports the practice of periodic reviews 
of  operational  activities  for  development  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  At  the 
same  time,  in  order  to  make  this  work  more  efficient, 
the  Council 
periodic 
Government  opinion  surveys  on 
impact  and 
significance of support provided by the United Nations 
system. 

We  support  further  review  of  the  predictability 
and  adequacy  of  funding  sources  for  development 
activities.  Given  the  reduction  in  core  resources,  we 
believe it is important to strengthen the transparency of 
the  donor  system  to  finance  development  and  to 
establish  a  flexible  system  of  cooperation  between 
recipient  countries,  donors  and  the  United  Nations 
system. 

Belarus  commends  the  holding  of  high-level 
meetings of the Economic and Social Council with the 
participation  of  representatives  of  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions, 
the 
International  Labour  Organization  and 
the  World 
Health Organization. We think that this practice should 
be continued. At the same time, we suggest considering 
optimizing  the  agenda  of  the  joint  meetings  with 
special  emphasis  on  their  efficiency  with  regard  to 
restructuring  the  international  financial  architecture 
and  turning  it  into  a  driving  force  of  equitable 
economic growth. 

that 
The  main 
decisions  adopted  at  the  various  conferences  and 
summits  of  the  United  Nations  are  implemented  lies 
with the specialized agencies of the United Nations. In 
order 
the 
implementation  of  those  decisions  and  the  resulting 
activities  a  closer  relationship  among  the  governing 
bodies of the United Nations is important — first  and 
foremost  between  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and  the  other  specialized  agencies.  We  wish  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  every  success 
in 
implementing this important task. 
Mr.  Savostianov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  At  the  outset  I  would  like  to  express  our 
gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  for  presenting  the  Council’s  report  (A/65/3) 
and  also  to  thank  the  Secretariat  for  supporting  the 
work  of  the  Council  during  the  current  year.  The 
Russian  Federation 
favoured 
strengthening the role of the United Nations as one of 
successful  monitoring  of 
for  ensuring 
responsibility 
consistently 
to  ensure 
has 
10-59295 

17 

in 
international  cooperation 
the  Annual  Ministerial  Review  of 
A/65/PV.34 

the  principal  forums  for  coordinating  multilateral 
development efforts and developing the basic standards 
the  economic, 
on 
humanitarian  and  environmental  spheres.  In 
that 
context, the work of the Economic and Social Council 
is  now  of  significant  priority.  It  possesses  all  of  the 
necessary  mechanisms  to  conduct  fruitful  discussions 
on  all  key  global  and  intersectoral  economic  issues 
with the participation of all relevant stakeholders. 

In the current year, the Council’s agenda included 
important  tasks  related,  inter  alia,  to  preparations  for 
the United Nations summit meeting on the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  also  to  promoting  the 
international  agenda  in  the  area  of  financing  for 
development  and  strengthening  the  capacity  of  the 
United Nations system with a view to ensuring a more 
effective response to the negative consequences of the 
global financial and economic crisis. 

Russia  is  satisfied  with  the  results  of  the  main 
session of the Economic  and Social Council this year, 
including 
the 
progress  in  implementation  of  the  MDGs  and  the 
Development Cooperation Forum. 

intensive  and  useful  work 
accomplished  in  the  framework  of  the  coordination, 
operation  and  humanitarian  segments  of  the  session. 
That  clearly  confirmed  the  very  important  role  played 
by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  ensuring  the 
coherence of the entire system, which is very important 
for  comprehensive,  coordinated  implementation  of 
decisions by global forums in the economic, social and 
related fields. 

This  year,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  has 
effectively  shown  itself  to  be  an  integral  part  of  the 
intergovernmental process of follow-up to the outcomes 
of  international  conferences  dedicated  to  financing  for 
development.  We  welcome  the  successful  organization 
in  March  of  the  special  high-level  meetings  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  with  the  participation  of 
the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Bank,  the 
World  Trade  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development.  We  are 
convinced  that  the  Council  should  continue  to  make  a 
tangible  contribution  to  the  development  of  mutually 
beneficial  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the international, financial and trade institutions, as well 
as other key participants in the post-Monterrey process, 
We  note 
the 
in 
18 

10-59295 
summit 
on 
effective 
organizing 
which includes non-governmental organizations and the 
private sector. 

In the course of the current session of the General 
Assembly,  the Assembly  will  have  to  review  progress 
in  implementing  resolution  61/16,  which  defined  the 
new  functions  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as 
decided in the political agreements reached at the 2005 
World  Summit.  We  think  that  any  decisions  on  any 
future  strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council should be aimed first and foremost at ensuring 
the effective work of the Council in support of efforts 
by  Member  States  and  United  Nations  entities 
implementing  the  programme  of  action  adopted  at  the 
United  Nations 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals. Work  to  implement  the  decisions 
of  the  summit  will  require  a  comprehensive  and 
coordinated  approach.  It  will  require  articulating  the 
policies and programmes of the United Nations system 
with  national  priorities  and  strategies  and  with  the 
goals and challenges of the development agenda. It will 
require 
intergovernmental 
monitoring  and  evaluation  of  its  implementation.  We 
are  convinced  that  those  goals  can  be  reached  within 
the current format and structure of the main session of 
the Council. 
for  a  systematic  and 

comprehensive  monitoring  of  progress 
the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs  is,  in  our  view,  the 
annual ministerial review. The choice of theme for the 
reviews  for  the  period  covering  2012-2015  will  be 
decisive.  We  support  strengthening  the  Development 
Cooperation  Forum  as  a  useful  multilateral  format  in 
which  the  major,  dynamically  developing  economies 
can participate fully in the process of decision-making 
and 
to  providing 
assistance.  That  is  one  of  the  priority  goals  and  is  a 
premise for strengthening the international architecture 
for development assistance. 

An  important  area  of  work  in  optimizing  the 
agenda of the Economic and Social Council, bearing in 
mind  the  decisions  of  the  United  Nations  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, is to adjust the mandates of the segments of the 
main  session  of  the  Council,  including  a  clearer 
definition of the goals of the coordination segment. We 
also  think  that  there  is  potential  for  strengthening  the 
Council 
from 
emergency  assistance  and  towards  more  long-term 
assistance  in  cases  of  natural  disasters  and  also  in  the 
in  developing  new  approaches 
the  process  of  moving  away 
The  main  platform 
in 


context  of  post-conflict  peacebuilding.  It  is  clear  that 
this  work  should  be  carried  out  with  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  in  mind.  Of  course,  all  of 
these  steps  should  not  undermine  the  role  of  the 
Council  as  the  coordinator  of  the  programme  activity 
of  the  various  socio-economic  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations. 

The delegation of the Russian Federation is ready 
to cooperate in a constructive fashion with all partners 
in order to further strengthen the Economic and Social 
Council.  We  think  that  the  upcoming  review  of  the 
implementation of resolution 61/16 during this session 
of  the  General Assembly  will  give  further  impetus  to 
the  work  of  the  Council  as  the  most  important 
mechanism  for  developing  and  agreeing  on  the  major 
political  decisions  in  the  area  of  development.  The 
review  will  also  make  it  possible  for  the  Council  to 
become  a  more  dynamic  and  more  effective  body  of 
the United Nations. 
Mr.  Koterec  (Slovakia):  Slovakia  associates 

itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Belgium, who spoke on behalf of the European Union. 

The  most  recent  session  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  had  many  significant  moments.  We 
witnessed  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of 
Women,  known  as  UN  Women,  which  was  an 
important  step 
towards  eliminating  all  forms  of 
discrimination  against  women  and  strengthening  their 
voice  worldwide.  The  annual  ministerial  review  has 
proved  itself  to  be  a  strong  instrument  for  discussing 
key  issues  in  the  economic  and  social  fields.  The 
ministerial  declaration  that  was  adopted  was  very 
results-oriented  and  presented  a  solid  base  for  a 
successful  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  was 
held  in  September.  The  numerous  national  voluntary 
presentations  during 
the  review  revealed  national 
approaches  and  experiences,  pointing  out  success 
stories  as  well  as  shortcomings. All  the  best  practices 
that  were  presented  offered  valuable  ideas  in  helping 
many countries to move forward faster. 

A  year  ago,  Slovakia  was  one  of  18  Member 
States  elected  to  serve  on  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. During the initial period of our term, we have 
done  our  best  to  be  an  active  and  transparent  team 
partner  in  one  of  the  most  important  bodies  of  the 
United Nations system. We consider the Economic and 
A/65/PV.34
including 
Nearly  four  years  have  gone  by  since 
Social  Council  to  be  a  body  with  great  potential  to 
make significant contributions to solving the problems 
of today’s world. 

the 
adoption  of  resolution  61/16  on  the  strengthening  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  A  lot  of  work  has 
been  done,  and  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of 
the Council, His Excellency Ambassador Hamidon Ali, 
as  well  as  his  predecessors,  for  the  work  they  have 
done, especially since 2007. 
Nevertheless,  there  is  still  much  work  to  do  to 

strengthen the role of the Council as the principal body 
for  coordination,  policy  review,  policy  dialogue  and 
recommendations  on  issues  of  economic  and  social 
development,  as  well  as  for  implementation  of  the 
international development goals agreed at major United 
Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
It is crucial that more emphasis be put on system-

wide coordination and integration, on carrying out new 
programmes  and  policies  in  the  economic,  social  and 
humanitarian fields, and on promoting global dialogue 
and closer cooperation with other bodies of the United 
Nations  system.  For  example,  why  do  we  not  attempt 
to 
for  closer 
collaboration  between 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and the Security Council? Many of the issues 
dealt  with  by  those  two  bodies  are  linked,  and  I  am 
convinced  that  more  visible  results  could  be  achieved 
in  a  shorter  amount  of  time,  if  those  linkages  were 
explored.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission 
is  an 
important aspect of that link. The current review of the 
Commission’s  work  suggests  that  it  could  play  a 
greater role in the future. 
In this period of pressing need for the innovative 

use of resources, one  can  see  a possibility for another 
pragmatic  change  in  the  work  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  namely,  in  the  general  segment.  With 
each passing year, the Council’s agenda is increasingly 
overburdened. Many of the issues it deals with overlap 
with  those  addressed  in  the  General Assembly  and  its 
Committees  and  are 
thus  unnecessarily  discussed 
twice. We must reverse that negative trend, if we are to 
save  the  expertise  and  energy  of  the  Council  for  the 
core issues in its purview. 
Furthermore, Slovakia supports strengthening the 

the  Development  Cooperation  Forum, 
position  of 
which  should  evolve  into  a  forum  that  generates  new 
take  advantage  of 
the  potential 
10-59295 

19 

to  strive 
Slovakia  will  continue 
A/65/PV.34 

ideas  and  models,  emphasizes  wide  coordination,  and 
speaks with a stronger political voice. For that reason, 
we  suggest  considering  holding  Forum  meetings  on  a 
yearly basis. 

to  be  a 
trustworthy  and  innovative  partner.  All  of  us  can 
contribute  to  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  by  being  responsible  and  pragmatic  in  our 
efforts. 
Mr.  Saripudin  (Indonesia):  It  is  my  honour  to 

address  the  General  Assembly  in  the  joint  debate  on 
agenda items 9 and 13. Indonesia associates itself with 
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Yemen, 
who spoke on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
Let me express my sincere and deep appreciation 

to Ambassador  Hamidon Ali  of  Malaysia  for  his  able 
leadership  during  this  year’s  session  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council. I also thank the Secretary-General 
for his note submitted under agenda item 9 (A/65/216) 
and  for  his  reported  submitted  under  agenda  item  13 
(A/65/84). 

The General Assembly of the United Nations has 
advanced the reduction of poverty, together with other 
related  development  issues,  either  individually  or  in 
combination,  through  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  in  the  economic  and  social  fields.  The 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  whose 
deadline  has  been  set  for  2015,  have  served  as  an 
important  platform  for  emphasizing  the  synergies 
among  the  outcomes  of  the  conferences  and  summits. 
Each  of  the  Goals  has  a  direct  impact  on  the  others. 
Therefore,  to  succeed  in  any  one  of  them  requires 
progress on all of them. Accordingly, the progress with 
regard  to  the  MDGs  is  a  vital  part  of  the  effective 
implementation of resolution 57/270 B. 

During  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  September,  there 
was broad consensus in favour of more vigorous action 
to enable all countries to achieve the MDGs. Economic 
growth  and  development  were  recognized  as  an 
important  avenue  for  meeting  the  Goals.  However, 
none  of  us  can  perform  that  task  in  isolation  —  no 
Government,  however  well-intentioned,  no  private 
sector,  however  generous,  no  non-governmental 
organization, however determined. 

We  can  meet  the  MDGs  only  through  a  genuine 
global  partnership  for  development.  The  Monterrey 
to  address 
the 
Indonesia 
the  MDGs. 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
Consensus,  the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for 
Development  and 
the  Doha  Development  Round 
provide  the  frameworks  for  the  global  partnership  for 
development, and it is important that the commitments 
laid out in those frameworks be fully implemented. 

Just  as  we  reached  the  10  year  mark  for  the 
MDGs  this  year,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
emphasized  the  strategic  link  between  gender  and  the 
achievement  of 
therefore 
welcomes  the  decision  to  establish  UN  Women.  We 
hope  that  having  a  dedicated  gender  entity  in  the 
United  Nations,  led  by  Ms.  Bachelet,  will  enhance 
coherence,  effectiveness  and  efficiency 
in  United 
Nations  operational  activities  and  norm-setting  on 
gender matters. We hope that it will further support the 
implementation  of  action-oriented 
strategies  and 
integrated,  comprehensive,  multisectoral  and  gender-
responsive approaches. 

Recognizing  prevalent  gender  inequalities,  the 
2010 ministerial declaration of the high-level segment 
rightly 
of 
emphasized  measures 
inequalities 
constraining women, through their root causes. Health 
was identified as a major obstacle to the advancement 
of  women.  The  Global  Strategy  for  Women’s  and 
Children’s  Health  and 
its  Joint  Action  Plan  are 
important initiatives that Indonesia has been supporting 
from  their  inception.  Gender  gaps  have  been  further 
compounded by the economic and financial crisis. It is 
therefore  crucial  to  effectively  address  that  crisis  in 
order  to  advance  the  gender  theme  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council this year. 

Given the importance of accelerating progress on 
the  MDGs,  all  stakeholders,  including  the  United 
Nations,  need  to  continue  to  play  an  active  role. 
Indonesia appreciates and commends the efforts of the 
entire  United  Nations 
its 
effectiveness through various actions. Furthermore, the 
Secretary-General’s 
in  document  A/65/84 
recommends  that  a  United  Nations-based  mechanism 
be  established  to  review  the  implementation  of  the 
outcome  of  the  2010  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
the MDGs (resolution 65/1). The strengthened function 
of 
it 
strategically  placed  to  fulfil  that  role.  The  Economic 
and Social Council could perform this function through 
the  annual  ministerial  review  and  the  Development 
Cooperation  Forum.  The  recommendation 
the 
Secretary-General’s report merits further consideration. 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  makes 
report 
system 
to 
improve 
in 
20 

10-59295 
justice 
pro-people 
development  with 



As  for  Indonesia,  we  have  integrated  the  MDGs 
into  our  national  development  strategy.  Through  two 
presidential decrees this year, the Government is going 
to  accelerate  implementation  of  the  2010  national 
development  priorities  and  promote 
in  a 
national development programme. The decrees provide 
a  vital  link  among  development  actors  from  the 
national  to  the  subnational  levels  to  coordinate  and 
integrate 
the 
establishment  of  justice  for  all  and  the  accelerated 
achievement of the MDGs. 
Mr.  Barton  (United  States  of America):  First  of 

all, I would like to thank the President of the Assembly 
for  convening  this  meeting  and  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  on  recent  improvements  to  the  working 
methods  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  its 
role in follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits (A/65/84). 

We  wish  to  commend  the  strong  leadership  of 
Ambassador  Ali  and  his  predecessors  in  advancing 
meaningful  improvements  to  the  working  methods  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  greatly 
enhancing its relevance and contributions to the United 
Nations development system. The strengthening of the 
annual ministerial review and its focus on key thematic 
issues  related  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
the 
Economic and Social Council played a vital role in the 
MDG  summit. The  United  States  was  pleased  to  have 
joined  others 
in  making  our  national 
voluntary presentation on gender equality and women’s 
empowerment and to have an opportunity to exchange 
views  and  valuable  information  and  experiences  with 
other delegations. 

Our  delegation  was  also  pleased  at  the  balance 
and  breadth  of  discussion  at  this  year’s  biennial 
Development  Cooperation  Forum,  which  continues  to 
develop in its discussion of development assistance and 
cooperation.  In  this  regard,  the  United  States  supports 
maintaining  the  current  format  and  frequency  of 
biennial  Development  Cooperation  Forum  meetings, 
which  allows  more  time  for  broader  reflection  than 
annual  meetings.  The  United  States  also  wishes  to 
express  support  for  ongoing  efforts  to  streamline  and 
better  rationalize  the  agenda  items  of  the  Council. 
Regarding follow-up to the MDG summit, we note that 
the  outcome  document  clearly  outlines  follow-up 
arrangements,  which  can  be  found  in  paragraphs  79 
through 81. 
this  year 
(MDGs) 
ensured 
that 
A/65/PV.34
to 
for 
to 
During 
structure 
promoting 
the  current  session  of 
Mr.  Almeida  (Brazil):  Brazil  fully  endorses  the 

statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Yemen  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  We  would  also 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  warmly  commend  the 
President  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
Ambassador  Hamidon  Ali,  for  his  leadership  at  the 
head  of  that  important  body,  particularly  during  its 
substantive session in July. 

The current debate on the report of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  (A/65/3)  and  on  the  integrated 
follow-up  of  major  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  in  economic,  social  and  related  fields  further 
underscores the importance of the Economic and Social 
Council  as  the  mandated  body  within  the  United 
Nations 
coordination, 
coherence  and  cooperation  in  the  United  Nations 
system.  Brazil  believes  that  only  a  strengthened  and 
revitalized  Economic  and  Social  Council  can  fully 
contribute 
international  policy  discussions  and 
deliberations on substantive issues of development. 

the  General 
Assembly,  Member  States  will  have  an  important 
opportunity to review the progress to date and examine 
additional measures to further improve the workings of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  As  an  enthusiastic 
supporter of the Council, Brazil is certainly ready and 
willing to participate actively in this discussion. 
Brazil  recognizes  that  there  have  been  important 

initiatives  over 
improve 
inter-institutional  and  intergovernmental  coordination 
by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  The  annual 
ministerial review has evolved and matured to become 
an  increasingly  important  event  on  the  international 
agenda, capable of mobilizing high-level officials from 
developing  and  developed  countries  alike.  It  offers  a 
key  opportunity  for  reviewing  progress  on  specific 
policy  questions 
international 
community and for making concrete recommendations 
that  can  be  acted  upon  by  all  Member  States.  It 
certainly can be improved upon, but its general design 
rests 
important 
accomplishments. 

The  Development  Cooperation  Forum  is  also  a 
significant  innovation  that  merits  our  full  support.  It 
to  promoting  coordination  and 
has  contributed 
information  on 
exchanging 
relevant  development 
cooperation 
issues,  such  as  official  development 
assistance and South-South cooperation. It is one of the 
the  past  few  years 
foundations 
relevant 
solid 
to 
the 
on 
and 
10-59295 

21 
in 
It 

increasing 
the  possibility  of 
the  United  Nations 
A/65/PV.34 

rare  bodies  that  brings  together  practitioners  and 
policymakers  to  discuss  issues  related  to  the  quality 
and quantity of cooperation for development. 

Despite  the  progress  achieved  so  far,  Brazil 
believes  that  the  Development  Cooperation  Forum 
should  be  further  strengthened  as  the  main  forum  for 
discussions 
system  on 
development  cooperation  issues.  In  this  regard,  we 
should  explore 
the 
frequency  of  the  Development  Cooperation  Forum’s 
meetings  and  of  introducing  a  negotiated  outcome  to 
its deliberations. 

The  Chief  Executives  Board  for  Coordination  is 
playing an increasing role in promoting coordination at 
the  administrative  level  among  the  28  agencies  that 
form  the  United  Nations  system.  Brazil  notes  with 
appreciation  the  progress  achieved  in  various  areas, 
including  in  relation  to  the  integrated  response  of  the 
United  Nations  system  to  the  economic  and  financial 
crisis.  However,  we  would  also  like  to  highlight  the 
fact that some of the initiatives proposed by the Board 
to address the crisis seem to lack both a clear definition 
and a precise mandate from Member States. This is the 
case,  for  instance,  of  initiatives  related  to  the  concept 
of  green  economy,  which  has  not  yet  been  fully 
discussed by Member States. 

the  Chief 
to 
Executives  Board  for  Coordination  has  attempted  to 
strengthen substantive dialogue with Member States on 
its  ongoing  work  in  opportunities  such  as  the  system-
wide  coherence  consultations and on the global crisis. 
But Brazil would once again insist on the need to align 
the  Secretariat’s  substantive  action  with  existing 
intergovernmental mandates and priorities. 
Brazil  also  believes  that  additional  measures  are 

warranted  to  improve  coordination  and  oversight  of 
actions  and  initiatives  taken  by  the  United  Nations 
funds, programmes and specialized agencies, including 
the  Bretton  Woods 
the 
responsibilities  of  the  specialized  agencies  in  the 
follow-up, 
the 
outcomes of United Nations conferences and summits, 
we  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  the 
call  for  closer  cooperation  between  their  governing 
bodies  and  the  United  Nations,  most  notably  the 
Economic and Social Council. 
Brazil  is  generally  pleased  with  the  progress  obtained 
in  the  first  full  year  of  operation  of  the  strengthened 
implementation  and  monitoring  of 
institutions.  In  view  of 
is  encouraging 
learn 
that 
to 
the 
follow-up  mechanism 
right  direction,  ensuring 
intergovernmental 
the 
financing  for  development  process.  We  welcome  in 
particular  the  participation  by  the  President  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions spring meetings, and hope this practice can 
be  expanded  in  the  future  to  include  the  World  Trade 
Organization. 

The  multifaceted  follow-up  mechanism  adopted 
by the Economic and Social Council in 2009 is a step 
in 
the  continuous 
consideration  of  financing  for  development  issues 
throughout  the  year.  Nevertheless,  we  would  like  to 
recall that the Monterrey Conference is the only major 
United Nations summit in the field of development that 
did  not  result  in  the  establishment  of  a  permanent 
intergovernmental  body  to  oversee  and  promote  the 
implementation  of  its  outcome.  Brazil  considers  that 
this  shortcoming  needs  to  be  redressed  with  the 
establishment of a functional commission on financing 
for development. 

speaker in the debate on agenda items 9 and 13. 
I  join  with  colleagues  who  have  commended 

Ambassador Ali of Malaysia for his sterling leadership 
of the Economic and Social Council. 

stage of its consideration of agenda items 9 and 13. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 




Agenda item 15 (continued) 
Culture of peace 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.5) 

The Acting President: Members will recall that, 

at  its  32nd  and  33rd  plenary  meetings,  on  18  October 
2010,  the  Assembly  considered,  in  a  joint  debate, 
agenda  item  14,  “Global Agenda  for  Dialogue  among 
Civilizations”, and agenda item 15. 

I now give the floor to His Royal Highness Prince 
Ghazi  bin  Mohammad,  Personal  Envoy  and  Special 
Adviser to His Majesty the King of Jordan to introduce 
draft resolution A/65/L.5. 
Prince  Ghazi  bin  Mohammad  (Jordan):  I  have 

the  honour  to  introduce  on  behalf  of  the  Hashemite 
Kingdom  of  Jordan  and  the  27  other  sponsors  — 
Albania,  Azerbaijan,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Costa  Rica, 
the  Dominican  Republic,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Georgia, 
Guatemala,  Guyana,  Honduras,  Kazakhstan,  Kuwait, 
22 

10-59295 
also 
facilitate 
violence.  They 


Liberia,  Mauritius,  Morocco,  Oman,  Paraguay,  Qatar, 
the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Tanzania, Turkey, 
the United Arab Emirates, Uruguay and Yemen — draft 
resolution A/65/L.5, entitled “World Interfaith Harmony 
Week”. 

Allow me to explain in brief the reasoning behind 
this  draft  resolution,  which  was  launched  by  his 
Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  Bin  Al  Hussein  before  the 
General  Assembly  on  23  September  2010 
(see 
A/65/PV.12). 
As this Assembly is well aware, our world is rife 

with  religious  tension  and,  sadly,  mistrust,  dislike  and 
hatred.  These  religious  tensions  can  easily  erupt  into 
communal 
the 
demonizing  of  the  other,  which  in  turn  predisposes 
public opinion to support war against peoples of other 
religions. Thus, for example, according to the results of 
a  2008  Gallup  poll,  one  of  the  largest  international 
surveys  on  religion 
in  history,  53  per  cent  of 
Westerners  have  unfavourable  or  very  unfavourable 
opinions of Muslims and 30 per cent of Muslims polled 
worldwide hold negative views of Christians. 
The  misuse  or  abuse  of  religions  can  thus  be  a 

cause  of  world  strife,  whereas  religions  should  be  a 
great  foundation  for  facilitating  world  peace.  The 
remedy  for  this  problem  can  come  only  from  the 
world’s religions themselves. Religions must be part of 
the solution, not part of the problem. Much good work 
has already been done towards this, starting really with 
the  Second  Vatican  Council  from  1962  to  1965,  by 
hundreds  of  intra-faith  and  interfaith  groups  all  over 
the world and of all religions. 

Yet  the  forces  inciting  interreligious  tensions, 
notable  among  them  being  religious  fundamentalisms 
of  various  kinds,  are  better  organized,  more 
experienced,  better  coordinated,  more  motivated  and 
more  ruthless.  They  have  more  stratagems,  more 
institutes,  more  money  and  more  power  and  garner 
more  publicity,  such  that  they  by  far  outweigh  all  the 
positive work done by the various interfaith initiatives. 
The  sad  proof  of  this  is  that  religious  tensions  are  on 
the rise, not on the decline. 
The  draft  resolution  before  us  seeks  to  turn  the 

tide  against 
first,  by 
coordinating and uniting the efforts of all the interfaith 
groups doing positive work with one focused theme at 
one  specific  time  annually,  thereby  increasing  their 
collective momentum and eliminating redundancy. 
this  negative  movement, 
A/65/PV.34
and 
teachers 
if  preachers 
Turning  to  the  text  itself,  allow  me  to  explain 

Secondly,  the  draft  resolution  seeks  to  harness 
and utilize the collective might of the world’s second-
largest  infrastructure,  that  of  places  of  worship  —  the 
largest being that of education — specifically for peace 
and  harmony  in  the  world,  inserting,  as  it  were,  the 
right “software” into the world’s religious “hardware”. 
Thirdly, the draft resolution seeks to permanently 

and 
regularly  encourage 
the  silent  majority  of 
preachers to declare themselves for peace and harmony 
and to provide a ready-made vehicle for them to do so. 
Moreover, 
commit 
themselves  on  the  record  once  a  year  to  peace  and 
harmony,  this  means  that  when  the  next  interreligious 
crisis  or  provocation  occurs,  they  cannot  then  relapse 
into  parochial  fear  and  mistrust,  and  will  be  more 
likely to resist the winds of popular demagoguery. 

some of its most essential terminology and concepts. 
First, in the very title of the draft resolution and 

in  the  second  operative  paragraph  and  elsewhere,  the 
word  “harmony”  is  used  in  the  Chinese  sense  of  the 
term. We add it to the term “tolerance”, which we have 
also used, because tolerance can suggest that the other 
is so negative that it has to be tolerated. We cannot use 
“acceptance”  because  it  implies  that  religions  accept 
each  other’s  doctrines,  rather  than  their  right  to  those 
doctrines,  and  this  is  not  the  case.  We  cannot  use  the 
term  “peace”  alone  because  it  suggests  merely  the 
absence  of  war  and  not  necessarily  the  absence  of 
hatred.  Only  the  Confucian  concept  of  harmony  can 
rescue  us  here  because  it  suggests  not  merely  peace, 
but  also  beautiful  and  dynamic  interaction  between 
different elements within a whole. 

Secondly,  in  paragraph  3  there  is  a  mention  of 
“love of God and love of one’s neighbour or love of the 
good  and  love  of  one’s  neighbour”.  Why  is  this 
religious  reference  necessary  in  a  United  Nations 
resolution? In answer to this question, it will be noted 
first  that  the  draft  resolution  is  unique  because  it  is 
specifically about peace among religions and not about 
anything  else;  therefore,  some  religious  references  in 
this particular case are only natural. To rigidly maintain 
the  contrary  would  be  to  disregard  the  feelings  of  85 
per  cent of the world’s  population that belongs to one 
or another faith. 

Thirdly, and more importantly perhaps, we include 
these  references  because,  while  we  all  agree  that  it  is 
clearly not the business of the United Nations to engage 
10-59295 

23 

A/65/PV.34 

in  theology,  it  is  nevertheless  the  primary  goal  of  the 
United  Nations  to  make  and  safeguard  peace,  and 
without  the  specific  mention  of  God  and  of  the  two 
commandments of love, many — if not most — devout 
Muslims,  Christians  and  Jews  will  consider  a  secular 
call  for  an  interfaith  harmony  week  to  be  a  feckless 
platitude that they cannot fully or sincerely support. For 
in the Holy Bible, Jesus Christ said, “man shall not live 
by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  of  God”  (Matthew 
4:4) and “hallowed be thy name” (Matthew 6:9). Similar 
meanings are to be found in the Holy Koran, wherein it 
is  stated  that  no  act  is  rewarded  save  for  seeking  “the 
Countenance of the Lord, the Most High” (XCII:20) and 
that verily “the remembrance of God is of all things the 
greatest” (XXIX:45). 
In other words, for many Muslims, Christians and 

Jews — who together make up perhaps 55 per cent of 
the world’s population and, I regret to say, are involved 
in  most  of  the  world’s  conflicts  —  it  is  necessary  to 
mention  the  substance  of  their  faiths.  Otherwise, 
hoping  to  foster  peace  between  religions  by  foisting 
upon 
them  an  external  and  purely  secular  and 
bureaucratic  language  is  simply  a  house  divided 
against itself that shall not stand. 

Fourthly,  it  will  be  noted  that  this  language 
excludes  no  one  of  any  religion  or  of  no  faith  at  all. 
Every  person  of  goodwill,  with  or  without  faith,  can 
and should commit to love of the neighbour and love of 
God  or  love  of  the  neighbour  and  love  of  the  good. 
Loving  one’s  neighbour  and  the  good  is,  after  all,  the 
essence  of  goodwill,  and  referring 
the  good 
obviously  does  not  necessarily  imply  belief  in  God  or 
in a particular religion, even though for many believers 
the good is God precisely. Jesus Christ said, “No one is 
good  but  God  Alone”  (The  Holy  Bible,  Mark  10:18) 
and “the good” — “Al-Barr” — is one of God’s names 
in  the  Holy  Koran.  Thus,  speaking  of  the  good  is  a 
theologically  correct  but  inclusive  formula  —  insofar 
as it goes — that unites all humankind and leaves out 
no one. 
is 

specifically  necessary 
the 
neighbour.  It  sets  an  invaluable,  practical  standard 
based upon which people can ask themselves and each 
other  if  their  actions  stem  from  caritas  —  love  — 
towards their neighbour or not. Indeed, as the Prophet 
Muhammad said, “None of you has faith until you love 
for your neighbour what you love for yourself”. 
is  another  reason  why 
to  mention 
love  of 
Fifthly, 
there 
to 
it 
to 
that 
religious 
their  own 
it  excludes  no 
the  General  Assembly 

Also  in  paragraph  3,  the  phrase  “on  a  voluntary 
basis”  is  used  because  the  entire  proposal  must  be 
purely voluntary. No place of worship should be forced 
to  observe  the  World  Interfaith  Harmony  Week  for, 
while we hope to encourage interfaith harmony, the last 
thing we want is for anyone at all to feel that anything 
is  being  imposed  on  his  or  her  faith,  beliefs  or 
convictions. Nevertheless, one can conceive of positive 
incentives  to  encourage  and  help  support  and  monitor 
the implementation of the draft resolution. 

Finally, and also in paragraph 3, the phrase “each 
according 
traditions  or 
convictions” is vital because the different religions do 
not  necessarily  interpret  love  of  God  and  one’s 
neighbour in exactly the same way and do not want it 
said  that  they  do. This  phrase  thus  avoids  the  dangers 
of syncretism or reductionism and allows for religious 
differences  within  the  same  goal  of  working  towards 
interreligious peace and harmony. 
In summary then, I very humbly ask the Member 

States  of 
to  adopt  draft 
resolution  A/65/L.5  on  the  World  Interfaith  Harmony 
Week,  noting 
individual, 
compromises  no  one,  commits  no  one,  forces  no  one, 
harms  no  one  and  costs  nothing,  and,  on  the  contrary, 
includes  everyone,  celebrates  everyone,  benefits 
everyone,  unites  everyone  and  has  the  potential  to 
bring  much-needed  peace  and  harmony  to  the  entire 
world. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/65/L.5,  entitled 
“World Interfaith Harmony Week”. 

I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat  to  announce  the  additional  co-sponsors  of 
the draft resolution. 
Mr.  Zhang  (Department  for  General  Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  I  wish  to  inform  the 
General  Assembly  that  the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya, 
Suriname and Tunisia have asked to be added to the list 
of sponsors of draft resolution A/65/L.5. 

Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/65/L.5? 

Draft resolution A/65/L.5 was adopted (resolution 
65/5). 
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 

speakers  in  explanation  of  position,  may  I  remind 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
24 

10-59295 
the 


delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
Mr.  Burniat  (Belgium):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  on  resolution 
65/5,  entitled  “World  Interfaith  Harmony  Week”, 
which was just adopted. 

The  European  Union  would  like  to  extend  its 
thanks to the delegation of the Hashemite Kingdom of 
Jordan  for  the  constructive  spirit  in  which  it  led  the 
consultation process on the resolution, as well as for its 
readiness  to  incorporate  in  the  resolution  a  number  of 
suggestions put forward by the European Union. 

The  European  Union  welcomes  any  call  for 
dialogue,  peace,  tolerance  and  mutual  understanding 
among  peoples  and  nations.  It  is  in  this  spirit  that  the 
European Union joined the consensus on the resolution 
based  on 
following  understanding  of  some 
fundamental issues raised therein. 

It is an established fact that religions, beliefs and 
faith  cannot  be  considered  actors  under  international 
law.  Therefore, 
the 
consensus  in  the  understanding  that  the  reference  to 
dialogue  among  religions,  faiths  and  beliefs  in  the 
second preambular paragraph and paragraph 1 refers to 
dialogue  among  individuals  with  different  religions, 
faiths and beliefs. As in other areas, any obligation of 
States  with  regard  to  religious  affairs  exists  not  vis-à-
vis  any  religion,  faith  or  belief  as  such,  but  solely 
towards individuals or groups of individuals and in full 
respect for both the individual’s freedom of religion or 
belief and the independence of religious institutions in 
matters of belief. 

The European Union is therefore of the view that 
the  fourth  preambular  paragraph  and  paragraph  3 
cannot be read as giving States a mandate to influence 
the manner in which individuals relate to their faith or 
beliefs  or  to  impose  their  views  on  the  substance  or 
manner  of  any 
intra-religious 
discourse. 

Furthermore,  some  European  Union  member 
States have regulations and policies whereby the State 
is  strictly  separated  from  any  religion.  Therefore,  we 
in  religious 
do  not  feel  compelled 
discourses 
the 
European Union fully subscribes to the wish expressed 
in  places  of  worship.  However, 
the  European  Union 
interreligious  or 
intervene 
joined 
to 
A/65/PV.34
While 
the 
it 
importance 
identities  of 
acknowledging 
individuals,  but 
that  both 
are 
interreligious  and 
additional 
and 
in the resolution for respect and understanding  among 
followers of all religions, faiths and beliefs. 

of 
interreligious  dialogue,  the  European  Union  wishes  to 
intra  religious 
state 
dialogues 
complementary 
components  of  intercultural  dialogue  and  a  culture  of 
peace.  Religion  or  faith  may  constitute  part  of  the 
multiple 
is  our 
understanding  that  by  solely  addressing  one  of  the 
sources  of  identity,  the  resolution  does  not  wish  to 
imply  the  lesser  importance  of  the  others.  In  this 
respect, the European Union would like to highlight the 
in  promoting  all  aspects  of 
roles  of  UNESCO 
intercultural  dialogue  and  of 
the  United  Nations 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  in  promoting  understanding 
and  cooperative  relations  among  nations  and  peoples 
across cultures and religions. 

Finally,  the  European  Union  wishes  to  state  its 
understanding  that  the  call  for  interfaith  harmony 
expressed  in  the  resolution  and  for  dialogue  among 
religions,  faiths  and  beliefs  in  the  second  preambular 
paragraph and in paragraph 1 is not limited to specific 
monotheistic religions or beliefs, for example, but is in 
fact meant to include all followers of any religion, faith 
or belief in a universal and inclusive manner. 
Mr. Michelsen (Norway):  Norway would like to 

thank Jordan for the manner in which it conducted the 
negotiations  up  to  their  successful  conclusion  today. 
Norway  welcomes  this  important  initiative,  as  we 
recognize  the  importance  of  peaceful  coexistence 
among individuals of different religions and faiths and 
the importance of interreligious dialogue in promoting 
peace and understanding. 
For the record, we would like to add that we fully 

subscribe  to  the  understanding  just  provided  by  the 
representative  of  Belgium  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union of some of the fundamental issues raised in the 
resolution. 

speaker in explanation of vote. 
I give the floor to the representative of Jordan. 

Prince Ghazi Bin Mohammad (Jordan): Forgive 

me for taking the floor again, but I wish only to thank 
delegations, and in particular the now 31 sponsors, for 
the  constructive  spirit  in  which  they  engaged  with  us 
throughout the process of negotiations. In this context, 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
10-59295 

25 

The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
A/65/PV.34 

we would like to assure the members of the European 
Union  that  we  agree  with  the  fine  distinctions  they 
presented in their explanation after the vote, and we are 
grateful to them for their support and contribution. 

representative of Turkey. 
Mr. Apakan (Turkey): We welcome the adoption 

of  resolution  65/5  on World  Interfaith  Harmony Week 
and  the  initiative  undertaken  by  the  delegation  of 
Jordan.  On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  extend  a 
warm  welcome  to  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Ghazi 
Bin  Mohammad  and  to  thank  Jordan  for  introducing 
this noble initiative. We are honoured to co-sponsor the 
resolution and pleased to see it embraced by the wider 
membership. This shows the commitment of the world 
community  to  making  the  world  more  peaceful  and 
harmonious for future generations. 

We believe that this call for peace, tolerance and 
mutual  understanding  will  further  contribute  to  the 
promotion  of  a  global  culture  of  peace  around  the 
world.  For  its  part, Turkey  will  continue  its  efforts  to 
promote  our  common  values  of  peace,  tolerance  and 
respect for humanity. 

Permanent Observer of the Holy See. 

(Holy  See):  My 
delegation 
the 
delegation  of  Jordan  for  having  brought  forward 
resolution 65/5 on promoting goodwill among religions 
in  order  to  advance  a  culture  of  peace.  For  several 
years  now, 
taken  up 
consideration  of  this  agenda  item.  Over  10  years  ago, 
Member  States 
and 
Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace (resolution 
53/243),  and  not  long  thereafter  adopted  the  first 
resolution  on  the  promotion  of  religious  and  cultural 
understanding, harmony and cooperation. 

The  creation  of  a  culture  of  peace  among  the 
peoples  of  the  world  is  not  a  task  to  be  taken  lightly. 
All persons have a responsibility each and every day to 
promote peace, tolerance and mutual respect among all 
persons  of  the  various  religions  traditions.  Setting 
aside  a  week  in  the  coming  year  for  the  purpose  of 
raising 
common  

The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
the  United  Nations  has 
Archbishop  Chullikatt
the  Declaration 
this  opportunity 
consciousness 
regarding 
adopted 
takes 
to 
thank 
our 
this 
the  present 
religions  at 
commitment  in  this  regard  certainly  highlights  the 
importance  of 
responsibility  and  can  be 
instrumental in concretely translating love of God into 
love of neighbour, which  means not only those of our 
own  religious  tradition,  but  each  and  every  person, 
because everyone has dignity and value. 

My  delegation  commends  the  manner  in  which 
the  mission  of  Jordan  carried  out  consultations 
regarding 
resolution.  Some  of  my 
delegation’s  proposals  were  taken  into  consideration. 
At  the  same  time,  however,  my  delegation  hoped  that 
the  resolution  would  have  focused  more  on  the 
importance  of  dialogue  among 
the 
institutional and authoritative levels. 

In  this  regard,  for  example,  one  thinks  of  the 
various formal responses to A Common Word Between 
Us  and  You,  including  the  Catholic-Muslim  forum, 
which is an ongoing initiative in which many scholars 
of both religions have been meeting on a regular basis 
to  advance 
interreligious  dialogue.  Moreover,  the 
resolution  does  not  clearly  express  the  difference 
between faith at a personal level and religion at a more 
institutional  level.  In  this  sense,  my  delegation  would 
have  liked  to  have  the  title  of  the  resolution  changed 
from “World Interfaith Harmony Week” to “Worldwide 
Week  of  Interreligious  Dialogue/Understanding”  or 
“Worldwide  Week  of  Interreligious  and  Interfaith 
Dialogue”. So too, my delegation would have preferred 
the  word  “interreligious”  in  the  text,  instead  of 
“interfaith”;  and 
the  misleading  word  “harmony” 
replaced with “dialogue”, “respect” or “tolerance”. 
Respect for religious  and  cultural diversity in an 

increasingly 
to 
international  cooperation  and  promotes  enhanced 
dialogue among religions and persons. On the occasion 
of  the  adoption  of  the  text  before  us,  my  delegation 
takes 
its  ongoing 
commitment 
to  promoting  mutual  understanding, 
respect,  dialogue  and  collaboration  between  Catholics 
and the followers of all other religious traditions. 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 15. 


The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m. 
globalized  world 
this  opportunity 
contributes 
reaffirm 
to 
26 

10-59295 
