A/65/PV.55
: 

United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

55th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 30 November 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Agenda item 37 (continued)
Question of Palestine 







  Report of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People 
(A/65/35) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/380 and 
A/65/380/Add.1) 
  Draft resolutions (A/65/L.14, A/65/L.15, 
A/65/L.16, A/65/L.17 and A/65/L.24) 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Members  will 

recall  that  at  the  end  of  this  morning’s  meeting  I 
announced  that  we  would  begin  our  meeting  this 
afternoon with a statement by the representative of the 
Syrian Arab Republic in exercise of the right of reply. 
Before  giving  him  the  floor,  I  remind  him  that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.  
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 

Syrian Arab Republic to speak in exercise of the right 
of reply. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

French):  Before  I  address 
the  substance  of  my 
statement,  I  express  the  hope  that  such  technical 
problems will never again recur under your presidency.  
community 
(spoke in Arabic)  

Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  read  some  titles  of 
articles  published  recently  in  the  Israeli  press.  These 
articles  are  a  direct  response  from  the  Israeli  press 
itself  to  the  erroneous  allegations  put  forward  by  the 
Israeli representative against my country.  

The  first  article  was  published  by  the  Israeli 
newspaper  Ha’aretz  on  24  November.  In  the  article, 
one can read the following:  

“The  referendum  concerning  the  occupied  Golan 
and  East  Jerusalem  is  one  further  insult  to  the 
significantly 
international 
changes 
respecting 
resolutions of international legitimacy.”  
The second article, which appeared in the Israeli 
and 
Israel’s  commitment 

paper Israel Today on 25 November, states:  

Israeli  Government 
is  attempting 
“The 
to 
undemocratically prevent by law the signing of a 
peace agreement with Syria and the achievement 
of  reconciliation  with  Palestine  with  regard  to 
Jerusalem.” 
The 

third  article,  which  was  published  on 
28 November,  that  is,  two  days  ago,  in  Ha’aretz,  is 
entitled  “We  Israelis,  Sons  of  the  Chosen  People,  will 
decide the fate of another people living for generations 
under  occupation. This  is  Israeli  insolence  in  its  most 
hateful  form”. These  are comments that were made in 
Ha’aretz;  they  are  not  my  words.  In  that  article,  one 
can also read:  
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-66016 (E) 
*1066016* 


A/65/PV.55 


“Under Israeli democracy in its clearest form, the 
people  as  a  whole  will  decide  the  question  of 
settling  the  conflict  but  not  the  question  of 
settlements or the questions of annexation, war or 
conflict.” 
Here again, we see Israeli attempts to mislead us.  
As a result, the Israelis legislate the settlement of 

the conflict with a view to deferring the settlement date 
again  and  again.  The  Israelis  should  have  asked  the 
following  questions  of  their  Government:  Where  are 
you taking us? Where are we headed? The settlements 
will  continue  to  be  built,  the  occupation  is  deepening 
and  becoming  further  rooted,  but  what  will  happen 
after that? 
Israeli State terrorism is clear and documented by 

a  number  of  international  institutions,  which  have 
assembled  a  black  record  of  massacres,  crimes, 
aggressions  and  occupation  of  Arab 
territories 
extending  back  more  than  60  years.  As  such,  Israel 
excels  at  State  terrorism,  carrying  out  the  most 
atrocious  crimes  against  civilians  in  Palestine,  the 
Golan, Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, Tunisia and the Sudan.  

Undoubtedly, we all remember what happened in 
Qana, Jenin, Nablus, Gaza, Bahr el-Baqar, Deir Yassin 
and  al-Quneitra.  Israeli  State  terrorism  has  not  even 
spared the representatives of the United Nations, from 
the  killing  of  the  mediator  Count  Bernadotte  to  the 
crimes  committed  against  peacekeepers  serving  in  the 
United  Nations 
in  Lebanon,  and 
ultimately  the  destruction  of  the  headquarters  of  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  in  Gaza  in  2008  and  the 
killing  of  the  peace  activists  this  year.  We  cannot  list 
here all Israel’s practices throughout its history, such as 
war crimes, genocide and ethnic cleansing.  

Perhaps  Israel  can  deceive  and  lead  some  to 
believe  its  lies  for  some  time,  but  it  cannot  do  so 
forever,  because  its  racist  aggressive  policies  are  now 
well known and have been condemned by the majority 
of  the  States  in  the  world.  The  word  “Israel”  has 
become synonymous with such words as “aggression”, 
“killing”,  “racism”,  “occupation”,  “terrorism”  and 
“assassination”.  The  most  recent  assassination  took 
place in Dubai, as everyone knows.  

Israel  will  need  a  great  deal  of  forgiveness  and 
pardon  from  its  victims.  Israel  needs  to  be  more 
introspective  and  must  be  accountable  for  terrorist 
Interim  Force 
committed 
for  decades  by 
the 
successive 
crimes 
Governments  before 
international  community, 
officials  and  civilians  alike,  can  think  about  stopping 
their condemnation of it. 
The President (spoke in French): I would like to 

inform  members  that,  upon  request  of  the  author,  the 
Assembly  will  take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution 
A/65/L.24, entitled “The one-State solution”, at a later 
date.  I  would  also  like  to  inform  members  that  action 
will  be  taken  on  draft  resolutions  A/65/L.14  through 
A/65/L.17  immediately  after  consideration  of  agenda 
item 36, “The situation in the Middle East”.  

stage of its consideration of agenda item 37. 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 


Agenda item 36 
The situation in the Middle East  



  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/65/379, 
A/65/380 and A/65/380/Add.1) 

  Draft resolutions (A/65/L.18 and A/65/L.19)  



The President (spoke in French): I give the floor 
to  the  representative  of  Egypt  to  introduce  draft 
resolutions A/65/L.18 and A/65/L.19. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

General Assembly  is  today  taking  up  agenda  item  36, 
“The  situation  in  the  Middle  East”,  emphasizing  its 
inherent  role  in  addressing  the  conflict  and  constant 
tension  in  the  Middle  East  resulting  from  Israel’s 
illegal  occupation  of  Arab  occupied  territories  since 
1967,  and  its  refusal  to  accept  the  will  of  the 
international  community  and  to  implement  relevant 
United  Nations 
rules  of 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law, 
despite all regional and international efforts to reach a 
negotiated 
lasting, 
comprehensive  and  just  peaceful  settlement  of  the 
question of Palestine, the core of the conflict. 

Undoubtedly,  the  Middle  East  is  now  passing 
through an extremely dangerous phase as a result of the 
intransigent positions of the Israeli Government. Lately 
we  have  witnessed  an  increase  in  Israeli  violations  of 
international  law, reflected by the illegal expansion of 
settlements, particularly in and around East Jerusalem, 
especially with the end of the so-called moratorium on 
settlements.  Israel  has  done  this  despite  calls  by  all 
stakeholders, 
the 
the  United  Nations, 
resolutions 
including 
allowing 
solution 
and 
the 
for 
a 
2 

10-66016 
resolution  ES-10/18; 


international Quartet and the European Union, for it to 
desist.  

Israel’s  violations  of  international  law,  human 
rights  law  and  international  humanitarian  law  have 
been increasing, as manifested by many practices, such 
as  the  detention  of  10,000  Palestinians  in  Israeli  jails 
and  detention  facilities  without  any  legal  grounds;  the 
continued construction of the racist separation wall, in 
defiance  of  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice;  the  tight  siege  of  the  Gaza  Strip, 
contrary  to  Security  Council  resolution  1860  (2009) 
and  General  Assembly 
the 
barriers and checkpoints in the West Bank; the Jewish 
loyalty oath instituted by the Israeli Cabinet to isolate 
the Arab-Israel population in Israel; the recent Knesset 
legislation  setting  stringent  new  conditions  on  any 
withdrawal from the occupied Arab territories annexed 
to  Israel  except  through  a  referendum  or  the  approval 
of a two-third majority of the Knesset; and many other 
violations that time will not permit us to list. 

What  is  especially  disappointing  is  the  fact  that 
all  of  those  violations  are  linked  to  Israel’s  deliberate 
quest  to  undermine  all  attempts  to  resume  the  direct 
negotiations  that  were  agreed  and  endorsed  by  the 
Palestinian side, indicating its unwillingness to reach a 
peaceful  settlement.  That  refusal  will  have  dire 
consequences not only for the Israelis and Palestinians, 
but for the whole region and indeed the world.  

In  the  light  of  those  violations,  the  international 
community,  represented  by  the  General  Assembly,  is 
called  on  today  more  than  ever  to  provide  political 
support  to  efforts  aimed  at  resuming  the  negotiating 
process,  to  emphasize  the  illegality  of  settlement 
building  and  the  acquisition  of  others’  territory  by 
force,  and  to  compel  Israel  to  fulfil  its  commitments 
and  to  enter  into  serious  negotiations  on  the  six  core 
issues  of  the  Palestinian  track. We  must  call  on  Israel 
to  work  towards  a  just,  lasting,  comprehensive  and 
peaceful  solution  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  on  all 
tracks, on the basis of the  principle of land for peace, 
the Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  Road  Map  and  relevant 
United Nations resolutions.  

By  the  same  token,  the  international  community, 
represented by the General Assembly, must also stress 
and  reaffirm  the  illegality  of  all  measures  taken  or  to 
be  taken  by  Israel  to  alter  the  legal  status  or  the  facts 
on  the  ground  in  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan,  and  that 
all those and other measures, including the most recent 
A/65/PV.55
bill  before  the  Israeli  Parliament,  are  illegal  and 
therefore  null  and  void  because  they  represent  a  clear 
violation  of  all  pertinent  United  Nations  resolutions. 
The  General Assembly  should  also  demand  that  Israel 
fully  comply  with  Security  Council  resolution  497 
(1981)  and  fully  withdraw  from  the  occupied  Syrian 
Golan  to  the  borders  of  4  June  1967,  in  accordance 
with  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338 
(1973). 

In order to express the international community’s 
rejection  of  Israel’s  ongoing  occupation  and  illegal 
practices  in  the  occupied  Arab  territories  and  to 
confront the grave deterioration in the peace process, I 
am  pleased  to  present  to  the  General Assembly  under 
agenda  item  36,  “The  situation  in  the  Middle  East”, 
two  draft  resolutions,  one  on  Jerusalem  (A/65/L.18) 
and the other on the Syrian Golan (A/65/L.19).  

The first draft resolution, on Jerusalem, reaffirms 
that  the  relevant  General  Assembly  and  Security 
Council resolutions remain the main terms of reference 
for  the  special  status  of  occupied  East  Jerusalem,  and 
again  confirms  the  renunciation  and  repudiation  of  all 
legislative  and  administrative  measures  and  actions 
taken by Israel to alter the character and legal status of 
the city. It also affirms that any just and comprehensive 
solution  to  the  question  of  Jerusalem  should  include 
internationally  guaranteed  provisions  to  ensure  the 
freedom  of 
its 
inhabitants.  That  freedom  is  restricted  by  settlement 
activity  and  by  Israeli  settlers,  unlawful  attempts  by 
Israel  to  impose  a  Jewish  character  on  the  city, 
violations of the right of the Palestinians to have access 
to  places  of  worship,  repeated  aggressions  against  the 
Al-Aqsa  Mosque  compound  and 
its 
structures,  and  the  excavation  in  the  old  city  of 
Jerusalem, including in and around the holy places. 

The  second  draft  resolution,  on  the  occupied 
Syrian  Golan,  recalls  Security  Council  resolution  497 
(1981) and underlines the deep concern of the General 
Assembly  about  Israel’s  continued  non-compliance 
with 
the 
applicability of The Hague Convention of 1907 and the 
Fourth  Geneva  Convention  of  1949  to  the  Syrian 
territory  occupied  since  1967  and  the  illegitimacy  of 
both the decision to apply Israeli laws in that territory 
and the settlement activities there. The draft resolution 
also  renews  calls  upon  Israel  to  withdraw  fully  from 
the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  to  the  borders  of  4  June 
1967 and to respect previous pledges in that regard. 
religion  and  of  conscience  of 
It  also  confirms 
threats 
to 
its 
implementation. 
10-66016 

3 

the  question  of 
A/65/PV.55 


The sponsors of the two draft resolutions believe 
that  it  is  high  time  for  the  international  community  to 
deal  with 
the  Middle  East 
comprehensively.  The  peoples  of  the  region,  who 
continue  to  suffer  the  scourge  of  war  and  aggression, 
aspire  to  achieve  peace,  stability  and  coexistence. 
These cannot be achieved without Israel’s political will 
and  serious  commitment  to  fully  withdraw  from  all 
occupied Palestinian and Arab territories, based on the 
principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  rules  of  international 
law,  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  Road  Map,  and 
on  the  basis  of  all  terms  of  reference  stated  in  the 
Madrid  principles  and  relevant  Security  Council  and 
General Assembly resolutions. 

To  that  end,  the  sponsors  look  forward  to  the 
support of all States members of the General Assembly 
and their votes in favour of the two draft resolutions in 
support  of  the  important  goals  that  they  enunciate,  in 
order  to  reaffirm  the  steadfast  international  will  to 
achieve the set goals and to uphold the lofty purposes 
and principles of the Charter. 

The President (spoke in French): I would like to 
remind  members  that  we  have  many  speakers  on  our 
list.  I  therefore  suggest  that  speakers  shorten  their 
statements and distribute their full texts in the Hall. If 
time permits, I would like us to take action on the draft 
resolutions  today.  If  we  cannot,  we  will  have  to  meet 
tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  align  our 
delegation  with  the  statement  made  by  our  colleague 
the 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
him  for  introducing  draft  resolutions  A/65/L.18  on 
Jerusalem and A/65/L.19 on the Syrian Golan. 

How long will the General Assembly continue to 
consider the agenda item on the situation in the Middle 
East? The General Assembly began its consideration of 
this  item  in  1970  at  its  twenty-fifth  session.  It  has 
considered  it  every  year  since,  without  making  any 
tangible progress. How long will the General Assembly 
at each and every session call on Israel, the occupying 
Power,  to  put  an  end  to  its  occupation  of  the  Arab 
territories, stating that any steps taken by Israel in the 
occupied  Arab  territories  to  impose  its  jurisdiction, 
administration  and  laws  in  the  Syrian  Golan  or 
Jerusalem have absolutely no legality and are null and 
void. 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of 
aware 
the 
Is 
Israel 

Is  it  not  high  time  for  the  General  Assembly  to 
play the part it is given in the Charter by ensuring the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security, 
especially given the fact that the Security Council has 
failed  to  ensure  implementation  of  its  unanimously 
adopted resolutions, including resolution 476 (1980) on 
occupied  Jerusalem  and  resolution  497  (1981)  on  the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan?  These  two  resolutions  reject 
the  provocative  and  unilateral  decisions  of 
the 
occupying  Israeli  authorities  to  annex  Jerusalem  and 
the  occupied  Golan  and  determine  that  they  were 
illegal  and  null  and  void. 
international 
community  not 
flouting 
is 
that 
international 
law  and  humanitarian  and  ethical 
principles?  Over  1,000  resolutions  have  been  adopted 
by  the  United  Nations  system  and  agencies  over  the 
past 40 years. 

Today once again, we find ourselves considering 
this  same  agenda  item  on  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East.  It  is  a  very  dangerous  moment,  and  the  chances 
of war seem to be trumping the chances for peace due 
to  increasing  Israeli  aggression  and  an  unprecedented 
level  of  settlement  construction.  Most  recently,  last 
month Israel decided to build more than 1,300 housing 
units in East Jerusalem with a view to undermining all 
Arab,  regional  and  worldwide  hopes  for  achieving  a 
just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East at the 
very  moment  when  the  entire  world  is  working  to 
achieve that peace, declaring that peace is an absolute 
prerequisite  for  achieving  regional  and  international 
security and stability. 
The  world  is  absolutely  shocked  at  Israel’s 

ongoing  talk  of  war.  Israel  continues  its  belligerent 
practices,  pursues  its  Jewish  settlement  construction, 
profanes  holy  sites,  has  imposed  a  blockade  on  Gaza 
and is threatening to evict millions of Palestinians from 
their land. Such behaviour is discriminatory, racist and 
based  on  archaic  political  ideologies  that  call  for 
religious  and  ethnic  cleansing  in  order  to  give  life  to 
the mirage of Israeli Judaism. 

Israel  continues  to  pursue  such  practices  as  the 
building  of  the  racist  separation  wall  and  is  moving 
ahead  with  the  Judaization  of  Jerusalem.  It  is  also 
making  decisions  based  on  racism,  the  most  recent 
being the Jewish loyalty oath to be taken by non-Jews. 
And they call this a democracy. 

All of these laws reflect the racism of Israel and 
represent  the  very  antithesis  of  all  calls  of  the 
4 

10-66016 


international  community  for  freedom  and  equality  in 
the  twenty-first  century.  These  laws  also  expose  the 
falsehood  of  the  claim  that  Israel  is  an  oasis  of 
democracy in the Middle East. Israel wants to create a 
new  form  of  democracy  —  a  racist,  colonialist, 
expansionist, occupying and aggressive democracy. 

Syria and the Arab States have adopted peace as a 
strategic  option. We  adopted  the Arab  Peace  Initiative 
in  2002  at  the  Arab  summit  in  Beirut.  The  Initiative 
entails  everything  that  peace  implies:  recognition  of 
Arab  rights,  recuperation  of  land,  Israel’s  withdrawal 
from  all  occupied  Arab  territories  to  the  borders  of 
4 June  1967,  the  establishment  of  an  independent 
Palestinian State, with its capital in East Jerusalem, and 
the  return  of  Palestinian  refugees,  in  accordance  with 
resolution 194 (III) of 1948. 

Now,  what  has  been  the  Israeli  response  to  the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative?  Israeli’s  response  has  been  to 
simply ignore the appeals, to invade the West Bank and 
to  perpetrate  massacres  in  Jenin  and  Nablus  in  2002. 
Israel  has  continued 
its  expansionist  settlement 
policies,  seizing  more  territory  and  resources.  Not 
content with what it had already done, Israel waged its 
barbaric  aggression  against  Lebanon  in  2006  and 
against  Gaza  in  2008.  It  then  attacked  the  freedom 
flotilla  carrying  humanitarian  assistance 
to  Gaza, 
killing nine political activists. 

The Israeli occupation of the Syrian Golan is part 
and parcel of its very dark policy. Israel still refuses to 
return  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  to  its  motherland  of 
Syria.  It  refuses  to  comply  with  international  legality, 
particularly  Security  Council  resolution  497  (1981). 
Just a few days ago, the Israeli Knesset promulgated a 
law calling for a referendum on its eventual withdrawal 
from Syrian Golan and occupied East Jerusalem.  

These  actions  have  been  taken  with  respect  to 
territories where Israel has no right to make decisions. 
They are a violation of international law and a rebuff to 
the  political  will  and  position  of  the  international 
community,  which  has  decided  unanimously  in  two 
Security  Council  resolutions  that  Jerusalem  and  the 
Syrian  Golan  are  occupied  Arab 
territories.  The 
international  community  has  also  decreed  that  the 
Israeli decisions to annex those two territories are null 
and  void.  The  Israeli  position  has  been  rejected  and 
cannot alter the fact that the Syrian Golan is occupied 
territory.  This  is  non-negotiable,  and  the  4  June  1967 
10-66016 

A/65/PV.55
it  pursues 
borders of the Syrian Golan must be restored. This is a 
prerequisite for peace. 

There are some who still harbour the illusion that 
the  current  Israeli  Government  is  truly  seeking  peace. 
On  the  basis  of  that  belief,  Israel  has  been  granted 
favours,  known  as  packages,  but 
it 
repression  and  terrorizing  of  Syrian  citizens.  It  has 
imprisoned citizens of the Golan, seized land and built 
more settlements; it has pillaged the Golan’s resources, 
distorted  its  history  and  planted  mines  there.  There  is 
also  the  question  of  the  Israeli  theft  of  water.  The 
Syrian  Foreign  Minister  recently  sent  two  identical 
letters to the Presidents of the Security Council and the 
General  Assembly  (A/65/542)  regarding  Israel’s  theft 
of the water of Mas’adah Lake in the Golan, leading to 
the  loss  of  approximately  $20  million  worth  of 
resources. 

I  reconfirm  from  this  rostrum  that  Syria  has  a 
sovereign right to the occupied Syrian Golan up to the 
borders of 4 June 1967. This right is neither negotiable 
nor  subject  to  bartering.  Peace  must  be  based  on  that 
right. Syria reconfirms that this is a prerequisite for the 
achievement  of  peace.  We  are  not  merely  calling  on 
Israel to make what it calls painful concessions. This is 
purely  and  simply  a  matter  of  a  right  that  has  been 
usurped and land that must be returned. The people of 
Syria  and  the Arab  countries  are  truly  committed  to  a 
just  and  comprehensive  peace  as  a  strategic  option, 
along  with  everything  that  implies,  including  the 
complete  restitution  of  rights  and  the  full  return  of 
occupied territories.  

However, it is not possible for us to ignore reality 
and  legitimate  questions  about  the  future.  It  would  be 
illogical and inadmissible for us, as Arabs, to continue 
to manifest our true desire for peace when Israel is the 
party  occupying  our  territories.  Israel  is  the  party 
committing  aggression  against  our  peoples  and  our 
rights and continuing to threaten to unleash war. Thus 
we, along with the international community, would ask 
the  following  question:  Can  a  State  that  was  founded 
on  illegal  occupation  and  the  continual  murders  of 
native  Palestinian  citizens; 
that  has  committed 
massacres in Lebanon, the West Bank, Gaza, the Syrian 
Golan  and  elsewhere;  and  that  has  undertaken  acts  of 
State terror that have overwhelmed several regions, act 
in  favour  of  peace?  Can  a  State  whose  successive 
Governments have publicly and privately prevented the 
achievement of a settlement through the peace process 
be a full partner in the peace process, particularly when 
5 

to 
the  occupied  Arab 
its  aggressive  practices,  halt 
A/65/PV.55 

the  Head  of  that  State  represents  one  of  the  most 
extremist  Governments  in  the  history  of  that  country? 
There is an even more important question to be asked 
and  answered  within  this  forum.  How  long  will  Israel 
place  itself  above  the  law?  How  long  will  Israel 
continue  to  act  with  impunity,  pursue  its  aggressive 
practices and persevere on that path? 

We  believe  that,  today  more  than  ever,  the 
international  community  must  take  concrete  measures 
to  deal  with  Israel’s  horrific  actions  and  compel  it  to 
put  an  end 
its 
settlement  construction,  lift  the  blockade  against  the 
Palestinian  people  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  end  to  its 
occupation  of 
territories,  and 
withdraw to the borders of 4 June 1967.  
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Cuba fully supports and will vote in favour of the draft 
resolutions  (A/65/L.18  and  A/65/L.19)  introduced  by 
the representative of Egypt.  

The  unstable  situation  in  the  Middle  East  — 
characterized by the expansion of Israeli settlements in 
the  West  Bank,  the  ongoing  construction  of  the 
separation  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
the complex situation in Lebanon and the occupation of 
the  Syrian  Golan,  inter  alia  —  is  a  reality  that  affects 
not  only 
international 
community. 

Israel’s  disregard  for  international  law  and  its 
ongoing illegal occupation of Palestinian territories and 
other Arab  territories  remain  the  primary  obstacles  to 
achieving  a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  peace  in 
the  region.  Cuba  reiterates  its  grave  concern  over  the 
further  deterioration  of  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
Jerusalem, 
particularly as a result of Israel’s excessive use of force 
against the Palestinian civilian population and its many 
other 
the 
inhumane  and  destructive  measures  of  collective 
punishment against the civilian Palestinian population, 
including the blockade of Gaza. 
Cuba  reiterates  its  appeal  to  the  international 

community 
authorities 
immediately to lift the cruel and illegal blockade of the 
Palestinian  people  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  open  the  border 
crossings and allow the free circulation of goods from 
and  into  the  Gaza  Strip.  Humanitarian  access  must  be 
guaranteed  on  a  regular  basis  and  in  compliance  with 
illegal  policies  and  practices,  such  as 
the  region  but 
including  East 
the  entire 
territory, 
compel 
Israeli 
the 
to 
to 
Cuba 
reiterates 
its  deep 
regret  over 
to  continue 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
legal  obligations  pursuant 
Convention and relevant United Nations resolutions. 

the 
Palestinian people’s ongoing suffering during the more 
than  40  years  of  brutal  Israeli  military  occupation  of 
their  land,  and  due  to  the  continued  denial  of  their 
fundamental  human  rights,  including  the  right  to  self-
determination and the right of the Palestinian refugees 
to return to their land. 
The  international  community’s  efforts,  including 

the  peace 
United  Nations  actions 
negotiations for a just, peaceful and lasting solution to 
the  Palestinian  question,  remain  unsuccessful.  The 
Israeli authorities — in clear rejection of international 
law  and  open  disregard  for  the  resolutions  of  the 
General Assembly, the Human Rights Council and the 
Security  Council  —  have  pursued  their  aggressive 
policies  in  the  region.  We  call  for  the  immediate 
cessation of Israeli settlement activities in the occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  in  East  Jerusalem. 
Ending  these  practices  is  an  absolute  prerequisite  for 
achieving a peace agreement. 
Cuba reaffirms that any measures or actions taken 

or  to  be  taken  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  in  an 
attempt  to  alter  the  legal,  physical  or  demographic 
status  or  the  institutional  structure  of  the  occupied 
Syrian  Golan,  as  well  as  measures  to  apply  its 
jurisdiction and administration there, are null and void 
and without legal effect.  

We  reiterate  that  all  these  measures  and  actions, 
including  the  construction  and  extension  of  Israeli 
settlements  in  the  Syrian  Golan  since  1967,  are  clear 
violations 
international 
agreements  and  the  resolutions  and  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  Cuba  calls  on  Israel  to  abide  by 
Security  Council 
to 
withdraw fully from the occupied Syrian Golan to the 
borders existing prior to 4 June 1967. 
Cuba  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  Middle  East 

peace process on the basis of the Arab Peace Initiative 
and  the  Road  Map  and  the  formula  of  land  for  peace. 
We reject attempts to modify the mandate of the peace 
process,  as  well  as  unilateral  Israeli  measures  and 
strategies  aimed  at  imposing  an  illegal  unilateral 
solution. 

The Palestinian people have the inalienable right 
to  establish  an  independent  and  sovereign  State  with 
resolution  497 
international 
(1981)  and 
law, 
of 
6 

10-66016 
including 
its  capital.  We  demand 
The  Middle  East  continues 


East  Jerusalem  as 
the 
unconditional  return  of  all  Arab  territory  occupied  in 
June 1967. That is  the only way to  achieve  a just and 
lasting peace for all the peoples of the region. 
Mr.  AlJarallah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation  for  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon’s 
sincere  efforts  to  revive  the  peace  process  in  the 
Middle  East.  We  were  grateful 
for  yesterday’s 
opportunity  to  reaffirm  our  support  and  solidarity  for 
our Palestinian brothers during the commemoration of 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People. 

to  suffer  from 
instability  owing  to  the  occupation  of  Arab  land  by 
Israel  and  its  actions  against  Palestinians,  including 
killing and displacement, which is dragging the region 
into  conflict  and  war.  Our  debate  here  is  the  result  of 
Israel’s  continuing  disregard  for  the  will  of  the 
international  community,  its  resolutions  and  various 
international  efforts, 
the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  of  2002,  that  are  aimed  at  achieving  a  just 
peace  and  real  security  and  stability  in  the  region. 
Furthermore, as set out by President Barack Obama in 
his  statement  to  this  session  of  the  General Assembly 
(see  A/65/PV.11),  the  United  States  has  called  for 
direct  negotiations  between  the  Palestinian  Authority 
and  Israel  for  one  year,  leading  to  an  end  to  much  of 
the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  through  the  declaration  of  a 
fully sovereign Palestinian State. 

Israel’s actions and its violations of the rights of 
the  besieged  Palestinian  people  in  Gaza,  whom  they 
prevent  from  getting  the  basic  resources  needed  to 
sustain  life  and  to  whom  they  refuse  all  humanitarian 
assistance,  are  further  evidence  of  Israel’s  continuing 
violation  of 
laws  and  norms  and 
humanitarian  principles. The  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  is  at  a 
dangerous stage and will pose a threat to international 
peace and security if we cannot arrive at a just solution 
based  on  the  implementation  of  the  relevant  Security 
Council  resolutions  —  in  particular  resolutions  242 
(1967),  338  (1973),  1397  (2002),  1515  (2003)  and 
1860 (2009) — and the land-for-peace formula. 

the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  497 
(1981),  my  country  calls  on  Israel  to  withdraw  from 
the occupied Syrian Golan and to return to the 4 June 
same  vein,  with 
international 
regard 
the 
In 
to 
A/65/PV.55
Efforts  by  various 
Israeli  Governments 
1967 line. We reiterate that Israel’s occupation of parts 
of  sisterly  Syria  is  a  serious  obstacle  to  achieving 
peace  and  security  in  the  Middle  East.  The  State  of 
Kuwait  also  renews  its  commitment  to  stand  by 
Lebanon  and  to  support  its  efforts  to  safeguard  its 
stability  and  security.  We  call  on  Israel  to  cease  its 
constant  violations  of  Lebanese  land  and  air  space, 
implement  Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006) 
and  withdraw  completely  from  occupied  Lebanese 
territory. 

International  efforts  are  continuing  to  find  a 
solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict and achieve peace 
and security in the Middle East. Yet Israel’s continued 
prevarication  and  intransigence  continue  to  impede 
those efforts,  including  efforts by the United States to 
restart  negotiations  between  Palestine  and  Israel,  by 
insisting on extremist policies that defy the will of the 
international  community.  Its  most  recent  such  action 
was the decision to resume building illegal settlements 
in occupied Palestine. 

to 
disassociate  themselves  from  peace  negotiations  with 
Arab countries have created a sense of frustration and 
pessimism 
the  world.  The 
international community faces a great challenge today, 
namely,  compelling  Israel  to  implement  the  relevant 
international  resolutions,  cease  its  illegal  settlement 
activity on Palestinian territory and move forward with 
the  peace  process  in  order  to  reach  an  agreement  that 
provides  for  the  establishment  of  an  independent 
Palestinian  State  and  for  Israel’s  complete  withdrawal 
from all occupied Arab territories. 
Mr. Almansoor (Bahrain) (spoke in Arabic): My 

delegation  would 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  sisterly  country  of  Egypt  for 
introducing 
the 
Assembly, on Jerusalem (A/65/L.18) and the occupied 
Syrian Golan (A/65/L.19). 

As  a  result  of  Israel’s  illegal  occupation  of Arab 
territory  since  1967,  year  in  and  year  out  since  the 
twenty-fifth  session,  in  1970,  the  General  Assembly 
has  considered  an  agenda  item  on  the  situation  in  the 
Middle East. During every session since, the Assembly 
has called on Israel to end its occupation of Arab land 
and  accept  the  will  of  the  international  community by 
implementing 
the  relevant 
laws  and 
United Nations resolutions. 
two  draft  resolutions  before 
in  every  country  of 
international 
thank 
like 
the 
to 
10-66016 

7 
and 
treats 
requirement 
The  Middle  East 
A/65/PV.55 

is  at  a  very  dangerous 

crossroads  and 
faces  considerable  challenges.  A 
comprehensive  and  just  peace  is  still  unattainable 
owing  to  Israel’s  intransigence  in  dealing  with  the 
peaceful  route  that  Arabs  have  embraced;  but  it  has 
for 
nevertheless  become  an  urgent 
maintaining 
international 
peace 
security. 
this  option  with 
Nevertheless,  Israel  still 
contempt,  believing  that  such  behaviour  will  gain  it 
more power and more time. 

Israel’s  continued  building  of  settlements  makes 
the  situation  even  worse.  It  recently  announced  its 
decision  to  build  1,360  new  housing  units  in  East 
Jerusalem — a decision that runs counter to numerous 
United Nations resolutions condemning the building of 
settlements in the occupied territories and emphasizing 
the  invalidity  of  acquiring  or  annexing  land  by  force, 
including Security Council resolutions 446 (1979), 476 
(1980)  and  478  (1980).  These  flagrant  practices  run 
counter to article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention 
and  article  55  of  The  Hague  Regulations  concerning 
the  Laws  and  Customs  of  War  on  Land.  They  also 
illustrate  Israel’s  disregard  for  the  peace  process, 
whose resumption we all hope for in order to achieve a 
negotiated settlement on the basis of two States living 
side by side within the pre-1967 borders. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Israeli  Government  is 

and 
continuing  with 
provocations,  which  are  more  evident  when  new 
negotiations loom on the horizon. All of those actions 
reflect the fact that Israel is not seriously committed to 
achieving a just and permanent solution to the question 
of Palestine, which remains the crux of the Arab-Israeli 
conflict. 

Given  Israel’s  position,  the  General Assembly  is 
called upon today to provide the necessary support for 
the  Middle  East  political  process  in  order  to  revive 
peace  negotiations.  More 
the 
Assembly  is  also  called  upon  to  exercise  its  cardinal 
principles in support of the peace process and to force 
Israel  to  honour  its  international  commitments  with  a 
view to achieving a just, comprehensive and permanent 
solution to all aspects of the Arab-Israeli conflict on all 
tracks  on  the  basis  of  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly resolutions and in conformity with the Arab 
Peace  Initiative,  the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the 
Road Map and other relevant international decisions. 
intransigent  positions 
than  ever  before, 
its 

in 
Israel 
include  blockading 

At each of its sessions, the General Assembly has 
called  upon  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  end  its 
occupation  of Arab  territories. The Assembly  has  also 
emphasized  that  the  measures  taken  by  Israel  in  the 
West Bank, particularly in occupied Jerusalem, as well 
as  in  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan,  are  illegal,  and  thus 
null and void. The resolutions adopted annually by the 
Assembly  as  well  as  the  Security  Council’s  own 
resolutions  —  in  particular  resolution  478  (1980),  on 
occupied Jerusalem, and resolution 497 (1981), on the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan  —  all  focus  on  the  impact  of 
Israel’s  illegal  action.  Those  two  Security  Council 
resolutions also rejected Israel’s unilateral decisions to 
annex Jerusalem and the Golan, determining that such 
decisions were null and void and lacking international 
legal basis. 
It  is  clear  that  the  illegal  settlement  policy 

pursued  by 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories, including East Jerusalem, which is based on 
the pretext of natural growth, is both unwarranted and 
unjustifiable and runs counter to international law and 
United Nations resolutions.  

It  is  absolutely  clear  that  Israel’s  policies  — 
which 
the  Palestinian  people, 
storming places of worship, collective punishment, the 
scorched earth policy and the construction of the racist 
separation  wall  —  constitute  flagrant  violations  of 
international law. They complicate the situation on the 
ground while at the same time revealing an attempt to 
impose  a  fait  accompli  in  order  to  improve  Israel’s 
position in any future negotiations on a final settlement 
of 
risk 
hampering  negotiations  towards  the  comprehensive, 
just and lasting peace to which we all aspire.  

In order for just, comprehensive and lasting peace 
to prevail in the Middle East, the Kingdom of Bahrain 
once again calls on Israel to withdraw completely from 
the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  to  the  border  of  4  June 
1967, in implementation of Security Council resolution 
497  (1981),  which  asserts  the  illegality  of  Israel’s 
imposition  of  its  laws  and  settlements  there.  Israel’s 
continued  occupation  of  Syrian  Arab 
territory 
constitutes  a  genuine  obstacle  to  the  achievement  of 
peace in the Middle East. 

With regard to Lebanon, the Kingdom of Bahrain 
calls  upon  Israel  to  halt  its  continued  violations  of 
Lebanon’s  land  and  air  space  and  to  implement 
Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006)  and  fully 
the  conflict.  Moreover, 
those  policies 
8 

10-66016 
therefore 


withdraw  from  the  occupied  Lebanese  territory  in 
Sheba’a 
farms  and  Al-Ghajar  village.  Bahrain 
emphasizes  the  need  to  preserve  Lebanon’s  unity, 
territorial integrity and political independence.  

We call upon the international community and the 
Quartet  to  make  every  diplomatic  effort  to  give  new 
impetus to the peace process in order to achieve a just, 
comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. 
Mr. Cabactulan (Philippines): At the outset, the 

Philippines  commends  you,  Mr.  President,  for  giving 
priority to the discussion on the situation in the Middle 
East. In our highly interdependent world, the situation 
in  the  Middle  East  cannot  be  overlooked,  even  by 
geographically distant countries like mine. As a major 
source  of  oil  and  a  big  market  for  services  for  many 
countries,  including  the  Philippines,  the  stability  and 
progress of the Middle East is essential for world peace 
and security. More than 2 million of my country’s men 
and  women  live  and  work  in  the  Middle  East.  The 
Philippine  Government 
attaches  great 
importance to the security and safety of every Filipino 
citizen in that region. 
is  a  strong  advocate  and 

supporter  of  the  Middle  East  peace  process,  and  we 
aim  to  contribute  in  any  way  we  can. The  Philippines 
has  always  supported  the  establishment  of  a  free  and 
independent  Palestinian  State. The  Philippines  has  for 
many  years 
the 
establishment  of  a  Palestinian  homeland 
to  help 
alleviate the dire situation of the Palestinian people. In 
that regard, the Philippines sees merit in the two-State 
solution  for  peace  proposed  by  our  partners. We  hope 
that both Israel and Palestine will join hands to achieve 
a  meaningful,  long-lasting  and  durable  solution  to  the 
problem. 

The  Philippines  is  cognizant  of  the  fact  that 
bringing stability and long-lasting peace to the Middle 
East is easier said than done. Despite huge investments 
in energy, time and resources, a solution to the Middle 
East  problem  remains  elusive.  Past  failures,  however, 
should be seen as the foundation for future success. We 
should  not  halt  our  quest  to  find  the  right  solution  to 
the predicaments that plague the region. 

solid 
foundation for peace and stability in the region would 
be  the  creation  of  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  It 
may be recalled that a proposal was agreed upon at the 
the  global  clamour  for 
One  concrete  measure 
The  Philippines 
laying  a 
joined 
in 
A/65/PV.55
of 
the 
actions 
implementation  of 
1995 Review and Extension Conference of the Parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) via the 1995 resolution on the Middle 
East.  That  proposals  was  recently  reaffirmed  by  the 
2010  NPT  Review  Conference,  specifically  in  part  IV 
of the section on conclusions and recommendations for 
follow-on 
Final  Document 
(NPT/CONF.2010/50  (Vol.  I)),  entitled  “The  Middle 
East,  particularly 
the  1995 
resolution on the Middle East”.  

The  Philippines  views  the  outcome  of  the  2010 
NPT  Review  Conference  as  a  significant  contribution 
to  the  Middle  East  peace  process.  In  that  context,  I 
wish  to  highlight  some  of  the  vital  elements  agreed 
upon  that  need  urgent  attention  and  action.  First,  we 
must  convene  an  international  conference  in  2012  on 
the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear 
weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
Secondly,  we  must  appoint  a  facilitator  with  a  full 
mandate  to  support  the  implementation  of  the  1995 
resolution  by  conducting  consultations  with  States  in 
the  region  and  making  preparations  for  the  2012 
conference.  Thirdly,  we  must  designate  a  host 
Government  for  the  2012  conference.  Lastly,  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
should play a key role in the preparations for the 2012 
conference. 

The  Secretary-General  and  the  three  depositary 
States  of  the  NPT  should  be  moving  with  dispatch  to 
implement  the  actions  expected  of  them  in  last  May’s 
NPT  Review  Conference  Final  Document,  with 
specific reference to the 1995 resolution on the Middle 
East. The year 2012 is fast approaching.  

The  other  part  of  the  foundation  rests  on  the 
commitment  of  the  countries  in  the  region  to  respect 
each other’s rights to exist, to live free from the threat 
of  destruction  and  annihilation  and  to  live  in  peace 
with  their  neighbours.  Through  these  steps  and  other 
confidence-building  measures,  we  can  start  laying  the 
groundwork  for  the  peaceful  and  stable  Middle  East 
that all Member States desire. 

The  steps  that  I  have  just  enumerated  present 
enormous  challenges.  But 
if 
something  is  not  done  quickly,  the  countries  of  the 
region are bound to repeat a cycle of conflict and strife 
that will eventually destabilize the whole world. What 
is  needed  is  a  change  in  thinking  and  attitude  and  the 
I  am  afraid 
that, 
and 
10-66016 

9 

A/65/PV.55 

development  of  greater  trust  and  understanding.  Such 
trust  and  confidence  between  erstwhile  enemies  will 
need  to  be  built  patiently.  Indeed,  it  will  take  time, 
energy  and  resources,  as  well  as  goodwill  and 
commitment to sustainable peace. 

The 2012 conference is one such concrete step. It 
presents  a  rare  chance  to  show  the  seriousness  and 
goodwill  of  stakeholders.  I  strongly  encourage  the 
countries in the  region and the  three depositary States 
of the 1995 resolution on the Middle East to participate 
and  strive  to  achieve  a  meaningful  outcome.  Not  only 
is it important that they attend, but they must go to the 
conference  with  an  open  mind  and  heart.  The 
conference will be a fresh start for all. Let us seize the 
opportunity.  The  2012  conference  could  be  an 
important step towards finding a viable solution to the 
situation in the Middle East. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): The international community is still focused 
on  the  Middle  East  but,  despite  its  efforts,  the 
Palestinian-Israeli peace process is still stagnating. The 
situation concerns us greatly.  
This  past  year  has  demonstrated  that  if  the 

chronic mutual distrust of the parties is not dealt with 
and  if  there  is  no  clear  understanding  of  the  fact  that 
there is simply no alternative to strict compliance with 
the 
legal  basis  for  a  Middle  East 
settlement,  then  we  will  be  faced  with  a  situation  in 
which  hopes  for  peace  in  the  region  wither.  As  a 
member  of  the  Quartet  of  international  mediators,  the 
Russian  Federation  is  actively  trying  to  overcome  the 
current  protracted  pause 
the  Palestinian-Israeli 
negotiations,  which  has  had  a  negative  impact  on  the 
region  and  feeds  the  various  radical  and  extremist 
forces  that  are  not  at  all  interested  in  a  resumption  of 
the  peace  process.  It  is  important  that  all  parties 
demonstrate restraint and not indulge in violence.  

We  cannot  accept  unilateral  acts  in  advance  of  a 
settlement.  They  cast  a  pall  on  the  momentum  for  a 
resumption of the Palestinian-Israeli negotiations. It is 
perfectly  clear  that  unilateral  actions  cancel  out  the 
efforts made by the international community to create a 
viable  Palestinian  State  with  territorial  integrity  and 
living  side  by  side  in  peace,  security  and  cooperation 
with  the  State  of  Israel. What  we  have  to  do  is  find  a 
mutually  acceptable  formula  that  would  allow  for  the 
resumption of direct talks and ensure that they proceed 
international 
in 
fait  accompli 
is  not 
and  order, 
reform 
thwart  all 
successfully.  A  policy  of 
acceptable.  

We  categorically  reject  the  settlement  policy  of 
Israel.  We  believe  that  the  acquisition  of  territory  by 
force  is  inadmissible.  This  is  one  of  the  fundamental 
principles of contemporary international relations. The 
key to establishing the right climate for negotiations is 
an Israeli moratorium on settlements, without arbitrary 
timeframes or geographical limits.  

The overall situation becomes gloomier when we 
see  the  flare-ups  of  tension  around  Gaza.  We  are 
concerned  by  the  frequent  rocket  attacks  on  southern 
Israel. They cause civilian suffering and must end. On 
the other hand, we also call for an urgent humanitarian 
effort to improve the social and economic situation of 
the Palestinian people. More effort must be made to lift 
the  blockade  on  Gaza.  The  international  community 
must  help  the  Palestinian  leadership  in  its  efforts  to 
establish 
law 
its 
enforcement  structures  and 
forms  of 
terrorism. As a practical contribution in that direction, 
the  Russian  Government  decided 
to  provide  a  
$10  million  financial  contribution  in  humanitarian 
assistance  for  the  Palestinian  National  Authority.  The 
question of Palestinian unity is also crucial. It is central 
to  ensuring  progress  in  the  negotiations.  The  Russian 
Federation, 
regional  partners, 
in 
particular Egypt, is seeking to resolve this matter.  

Overall,  we  welcome  the  Israeli  decision  to 
withdraw troops from the northern part of the village of 
Al-Ghajar, and we look forward to them doing so. Yet, 
we note that other steps are necessary to achieve a final 
settlement.  This 
the 
international  community  must  be  more  involved.  The 
Quartet  can  certainly  be  helpful,  and  it  has  proven  its 
value.  We  also  attach  particular 
to 
interaction between the Quartet and the League of Arab 
States. We would like to confirm that our proposal for a 
Moscow conference on the Middle East still stands. If 
the  direct  substantive  talks  between  Palestinians  and 
Israelis become more sustainable, that would create the 
necessary preconditions for convening the conference.  

The  international  mediators  and  all  interested 
parties  must  now  urge  the  Israelis  and  Palestinians  to 
resume  dialogue  as  a  way  of  achieving  our  common 
goal  of  establishing  an 
independent  and  viable 
Palestinian State with territorial integrity coexisting in 
peace  and  security  with  Israel. The  international  legal 
is  a  difficult  situation  and 
together  with 
security 
importance 
10 

10-66016 
coexistence 
and  mutually 
the  major  challenges 


groundwork  for  that  exists,  namely,  the  numerous 
Security Council resolutions, the Madrid principles, the 
Road  Map  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  As  Russian 
President  Dmitry  Medvedev  said  in  his  message  to 
Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of 
the  Palestinian 
Authority, on the occasion of the  International  Day of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  achieving  that 
goal  would  help  to  stabilize  the  region  and  promote 
peaceful 
beneficial 
cooperation among all countries and peoples. 
Mr.  Andrabi  (Pakistan):  I  wish  to  thank  you, 

Mr. President,  for  arranging  this  important  meeting, 
which  is  the  annual  reaffirmation  by  the  General 
Assembly of its commitment to the legitimate struggle 
and  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  This 
meeting  coincides  with 
the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  which  was 
observed  yesterday.  The  Day  reminds  us  that  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine  has 
for 
remained  one  of 
the 
international community for the past six decades.  

As  we  are  now  into  the  seventh  decade  of  our 
collective failure to meet that challenge, prospects for a 
final settlement are still elusive. The collective voice of 
peace and compassion emanating from various quarters 
at  the  United  Nations  continues  to  be  ignored.  Such 
open  defiance  of 
international  community 
diminishes  the  prospects  of  peace  and  prolongs  the 
suffering of Palestinians living under occupation.  

One  institution  in  the  United  Nations  that  has 
held aloft the cause of peace in the Middle East is the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People. Yesterday,  we  were  briefed  on 
its annual report (A/65/35). We greatly value the work 
of  the  Committee  under  the  able  leadership  of  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Senegal,  Ambassador 
Abdou  Salam  Diallo.  We  also  thank  its  Rapporteur, 
Ambassador Saviour Borg of Malta, for his invaluable 
contributions. 

The  resumption  of  direct  negotiations  between 
Israelis and the Palestinians in September this year had 
rekindled  hopes  for  all  of  us  for  sustainable  peace  in 
the Middle East and a permanent political settlement of 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  question.  But  I  fear  our  hopes 
and  optimism  appear  to  be  short-lived,  as  the  window 
of  opportunity 
sustained 
negotiations is once again closing. 
for  meaningful 
and 
the 
A/65/PV.55
in  occupied 

Settlement  activity  by  Israel  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territory is the major hurdle to a long-term 
sustainable  political  process.  Settlement  activity  is  a 
major  provocation,  violates  international  law,  vitiates 
the  atmosphere  conducive  to  negotiations  and  mutes 
voices  calling  for  peace  and  compassion.  For  us,  the 
most  disquieting  aspect  of  settlement  activity  is  the 
ongoing effort to remove traces of Palestinian heritage 
by  altering 
the  status  of  centuries-old  mosques, 
cemeteries and churches. That effort is endemic in East 
Jerusalem,  Hebron  and Bethlehem.  It is being done in 
the  name  of  creating  new  housing  spaces  or 
commissioning  other 
types  of  buildings.  East 
Jerusalem is witnessing renewed settlement activity in 
the neighbourhoods of Ramot and Pisgat Ze’ev.  
Violence  by  the  settlers  against  their  Palestinian 

neighbours  is  a  regrettable  corollary  of  this  activity. 
Israel  must  stop  this  illegality.  It  must  also  end  its 
calculated ambiguity on settlements in the West Bank, 
with  a  categorical  renunciation  of  any  new  project. 
Until Israel renounces the construction of new housing 
territory, 
and  commercial  projects 
settlement  activity  will  continue 
the 
negotiations  and  cast  its  ugly  shadow  on  the  peace 
process. 

Any  meaningful  and  viable  negotiating  process 
must run in parallel with improvements in the lives of 
the  Palestinian  people.  Millions  of  Palestinians  in  the 
occupied territories currently live under the shadow of 
checkpoints,  roadblocks,  military  siege  and  separation 
walls. Recent measures taken by the Israeli authorities 
to ease restrictions on movement in the West Bank and 
improve  access 
to  Gaza  offer  some  hope.  Such 
measures  must  be  sustained  by  a  deeper  political 
commitment  to  improving  livelihoods  in  Palestine 
through 
freedom  of 
movement and the unrestricted flow of trade. 

The  delegation  of  Pakistan  wishes  to  take  this 
opportunity to call upon the international community to 
increase 
to  Palestinian  authorities, 
especially  in  connection  with  plans  for  building  State 
institutions.  Many  independent  studies,  including  the 
World  Bank’s  Economic  Monitoring  Report,  have 
praised  Palestinian  authorities  for  their  efforts  in 
institution-building and the delivery of public services. 
The World  Bank  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
have  projected  an  8  per  cent  growth  rate  in  the  West 
Bank 
and 
entrepreneurship, both of which reflect the resilience of 
and  Gaza.  The 
its  assistance 
for  human 
to  derail 
respect 
rights, 
economic 
boom 
10-66016 

11 

A/65/PV.55 

the people of Palestine, can also be a solid edifice for 
Palestinian  Statehood.  It  holds  immense  promise  for 
lasting peace in the region and must be complemented 
by generous development assistance. 

We would also urge Member States to address the 
financial challenges faced by the United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East  (UNRWA).  Despite 
its  financial  constraints, 
caused by unprecedented floods this year, Pakistan will 
continue  to  provide  all  possible  support  to  UNRWA 
and the Palestinian Authority. 

The international community must act to rekindle 
the  hopes  of  peace  through  a  meaningful  negotiating 
process. As stated by the Permanent Representative of 
Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  we 
must remain united in our demand that Israel respect its 
legal  obligation  as  an  occupying  Power.  We  believe 
that  a  lasting  settlement  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict 
cannot  be  achieved  without  addressing  the  root  cause 
of  Israeli  occupation  of  Arab  territory.  The  solution 
therefore  requires  the  complete  withdrawal  of  Israel 
from  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  including 
East Jerusalem, and all other occupied Arab territories, 
including the Syrian Golan and South Lebanon. 
We  also  look  forward  to  a  substantive  and 

objective 
the  Secretary-General’s 
Panel  of  Inquiry  on  the  freedom  flotilla  incident  of 
31 May.  The  Panel  must  diligently  pursue  the  matter. 
Justice  must  prevail  and  those  affected  must  be  duly 
compensated. 
Pakistan  shares  the  collective  objective  of  the 

international community for an independent, sovereign 
and  viable  State  of  Palestine,  with Al-Quds Al-Sharif 
as its capital, living side by side and in peace with all 
its  neighbours.  We  support  lasting  peace  for  all  the 
inhabitants of the Middle East, irrespective of religion, 
ethnicity or nationality. Peace has eluded the region for 
far too long. Peace cannot elude the region forever. 

in  French): 
Switzerland  wishes  to  speak on  several  items  —  first, 
with regard to the peace process. 

The  continuation  of  settlement  activity  in  the 
occupied 
including  East 
Jerusalem,  violates  international  law  and  undermines 
the peace negotiations. We once again call upon Israel 
to  immediately  cease  all  illegal  activities  and  to 
comply with its international obligations. Negotiations 
Mr.  Seger  (Switzerland) (spoke 
investigation  by 
Palestinian 
territory, 
regard 
to 
It 
is  also 
imperative 
Secondly,  with 
must be promptly resumed so that priority can be given 
to  identifying  mutually  acceptable  arrangements  on 
borders  and  security.  The  Geneva  initiative  offers 
solutions  in  those  two  areas  that  fully  respect  the 
interests  of  Israel  and  a  Palestinian  State,  which  we 
once again call for. 

inter-Palestinian 
reconciliation,  restoring  Palestinian  unity  is  essential 
for  the  completion  of  the  peace  process  and  the 
reconstruction of Gaza. Switzerland calls on the parties 
concerned  to  redouble  their  efforts  to  rapidly  reach  a 
reconciliation  agreement.  Establishing  an  electoral 
timetable must be at the heart of such an agreement. 

Thirdly, with regard to Israel’s restrictions on the 
movement  of  goods  and  people  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territory, the restrictions in Gaza are clearly 
disproportionate to the military advantage sought. They 
are  therefore  illegal.  There  are  other  solutions  for 
preserving the security interests of Israel.  

that  economic  and 
commercial  exchanges  and  the  movement  of  people 
between  Gaza  and  the  West  Bank,  including  East 
Jerusalem,  be  restored  and  that  the  private  sector  in 
Gaza  be  able  to  export  to  foreign  markets.  In  that 
context,  we  note  with  interest  the  recent  Israeli 
announcement that it will soon allow regular exports of 
goods  from  Gaza.  All  stakeholders  concerned  must 
work  to  implement  Security  Council  resolution  1860 
(2009) as soon as possible.  

To  help  improve  the  situation,  in  June  we 
proposed an access regime that meets both the needs of 
the  civilian population in  Gaza  and the security needs 
of  Israel.  This  proposed  regime  can  be  adapted  for 
access by sea. 

this 
unacceptable  policy  of  restrictions,  whose  negative 
effects in political, security and humanitarian terms are 
is  not  a  viable  option.  The  continuous 
glaring, 
deterioration  of 
in  Gaza  can  only 
exacerbate  the  risk  of  escalating  violence  and  serious 
violations of international humanitarian law. 

Finally, Switzerland wishes to express its concern 
over the rising tension in Lebanon. It believes that the 
interests of justice and stability can be harmonized and 
calls  on  the  stakeholders  to  exercise  restraint.  Each 
victim has a right to justice; impunity is not an option. 
the  situation 
tolerating 
continue 
To 
denying 
or 
12 

10-66016 
the  situation 
the  part  of 
to  boost 



The  Special  Tribunal  for  Lebanon  contributes  to 
that  objective.  It  is,  however,  important  to  emphasize 
that  the  presumption  of  innocence  applies  to  each 
defendant  as  long  as  he  or  she  has  not  been  found 
guilty. 

Mr. Al-Nasser  (Qatar)  (spoke  in Arabic): At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  thanks  to  you, 
Mr. President,  for  convening  meetings  on  this  agenda 
item,  namely, 
the  Middle  East, 
in 
including the question of Palestine. 
the 

Despite  serious  efforts  on 
international  community,  including  the  international 
Quartet and other supportive States, which have sought 
to  press  ahead  with  the  peace  process  and  gave  rise 
initially  to  indirect  negotiations  and  later  to  the 
launching  of  direct  negotiations  between  the  Israelis 
and  the  Palestinians,  the  intransigence  of  the  Israeli 
side,  Israel’s  persistence  in  constructing  settlements 
and  its  disregard  for  international  appeals  to  stop  the 
construction  of  settlements,  at  least  as  a  goodwill 
gesture 
the  negotiating  process,  have 
frustrated all efforts and no tangible achievements have 
been arrived at thus far. 

The Arab  States  have  demonstrated  their  serious 
desire  for  peace  and  have  provided  an  atmosphere 
conducive  to  peace  negotiations,  but  that  will  not 
continue ad infinitum.  

It is quite clear that Israel’s military occupation is 
the  main  reason  for  the  problem,  although  it  will  not 
provide  security  for  Israel.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  the 
worst  violation  of  human  rights  against  a  defenceless 
and persecuted people and is being used as a pretext to 
combat violence and terrorism, but, in fact, it is one of 
the reasons for terrorism.  

The  pretext  of  using  excessive  military  force  in 
the name of ensuring the security of Israel is false and 
pointless, as the struggle of people for liberation from 
foreign  occupation  is  a  legitimate  right  and  cannot  be 
equated  with  military  aggression  by  the  occupier. The 
Israeli  authorities  persist  in  perpetrating  numerous 
human  rights  violations  against  the  Arab  population 
inside  the  so-called  Green  Line  and  continue  their 
challenges 
international 
consensus  by  expanding  the  illegal  settlements  with  a 
view to annexing de facto more Palestinian territory. 

That constitutes a blow to international mediation 
efforts,  particularly  those  on  the  part  of  the  Quartet. 
to  and  defiance  of 
A/65/PV.55
the 
transfer  of  Israeli  civilians 
The State of Qatar believes that solving the question of 
Palestine should be through a two-State solution, with 
the two States living side by side in peace. Qatar is of 
the  view  that  Israeli  Government  attempts  to  expand 
settlements, particularly around East Jerusalem, thwart 
the achievement of a two-State solution on the basis of 
the 1967 borders. 

The  settlements  in  East  Jerusalem  threaten  the 
contiguity of  the Palestinian land, a main pillar of the 
establishment  of  the  Palestinian  State.  The  Israeli 
Government  has  tried  to  justify  the  expansion  of 
settlements by referring to the so-called natural growth 
of  settlements.  We  completely  reject  that  concept. 
Settlement  activity  is  illegal  and  the  so-called  growth 
is not natural. 

Israeli public policy encourages settlements in the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory,  particularly  in  East 
Jerusalem, through Government bonuses and incentives 
to  encourage 
to 
Palestinian  territory,  in  contradiction  to  international 
law. 

We must also mention continued Israeli violations 
of Lebanese sovereignty and refer to Security Council 
resolution  1701  (2006),  as  well  as  to  the  Israeli 
occupation of Lebanese territory and the Syrian Golan. 
We  would  like  to  reassert  the  invalidity  of  Israel’s 
decision to annex the Golan and the need to return it to 
Syria,  as  well  as  to  return  the  remaining  Lebanese 
territories to Lebanon. 

We  also  wish  to  re-emphasize  the  need  for  a 
complete  Israeli  pull-out  from  the  occupied  Syrian 
Golan  to  the  4  June  1967  borders.  The  international 
community has to impose steady pressure on Israel so 
as to ensure respect for Security Council resolution 497 
(1981),  which  rejects  Israel’s  decision  to  annex  the 
Syrian  Golan  and  considers  it  null  and  void.  Three 
decades  later,  that  resolution  is  still  awaiting  its 
implementation by Israel. 
In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  refer  to  the 

decision  taken  by  the  Council  of  the  League  of Arab 
States entitled “Occupied Syrian Arab Golan”, adopted 
at  the  Arab  Summit  at  Doha  on  30  March  2009.  It 
emphasizes  the  need  to  return  the  occupied  Syrian 
Golan to Syria for the sake of achieving a lasting and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East. 

For  stability  to  prevail  in  Lebanon,  Security 
Council resolution 1701 (2006) must be respected and 
the 
10-66016 

13 

the  most  significant  violations  of 
A/65/PV.55 

implemented  by  all  parties,  with  no  discrimination  or 
selectivity.  Constant  Israeli  flights  over  Lebanon 
constitute 
that 
resolution,  in  addition  to  its  continued  occupation  of 
the Shebaa Farms and the Al-Ghajar village. 

That  threatens  the  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon,  as  well  as  the 
ability  of  the  Lebanese  Government  to  extend  its 
sovereignty  over  its  territory.  On  the  other  hand,  in 
order to guarantee the establishment of peace, security 
and  stability,  we  emphasize  the  need  to  make  the 
Middle  East  a  zone  free  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, without exception.  

We  would  like  to  emphasize  our  categorical 
rejection  of  the  illegal  measures  taken  by  Israel  in 
occupied  East  Jerusalem  and  its  attempts  to  alter  the 
Arab  identity  of  the  city,  its  demographics,  its  legal 
status and its religious character. All these attempts are 
null and void and have no legal effect.  

The  international  community  is  duty-bound  to 
express  its  rejection  of  the  Israeli  Government’s 
attempts to adversely affect Christian and Islamic holy 
sites, to demolish homes and evict the Arab population, 
and to confiscate their identification papers with a view 
to  Judaizing  the  city.  Those  attempts  run  counter  to 
Israel’s  obligations  as  the  occupying  Power  under 
international  law  and  run  counter  to  relevant  United 
Nations  resolutions,  and  threaten  any  chance  of  a 
peaceful  solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine  and  the 
Arab-Israeli  conflict. 
torpedo 
international  efforts  carried  out  by  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations. 

lasting  and 
comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East  region  can 
only  be  based  on  the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the 
terms  of  reference  represented  in  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions and the Arab Peace Initiative. 

Therefore,  the  Israeli  Government  has  to  refrain 
from taking extremist positions and from exploiting the 
Arab  side’s  sincere  intention  to  find  a  way  to  end  the 
Middle East crisis. 

In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the need 
to  involve  all  factions  of  the  Palestinian  people  in 
efforts to bring about the success of peace efforts. Our 
Palestinian  brothers  have  to  try  seriously  to  foster 
national  unity  in  a  manner  that  serves  the  interests  of 
the  Palestinian  people  while 
the 
The  achievement  of  a 
In  addition, 
safeguarding 
they 
just, 
On 
illegal 
activity 
settlement 
Israel  and 
Turkey  welcomed 
the  other  hand,  negotiations 
geographic  and  political  unity  of  the  Palestinian  land. 
We wish to address proud expressions of our esteem to 
our Palestinian brothers for their steadfast stand against 
occupation, injustice and persecution. 
Mr.  Apakan  (Turkey):  We  are  once  again  at  a 

pivotal  moment  in  the  Middle  East.  There  are  two 
paths  ahead.  One  is  towards  a  bright  future,  the  other 
towards more of the same. Much will depend on which 
path is taken. History will not judge lightly those who 
pay lip service to peace but act to perpetuate conflict. 
the  resumption  of  direct 

negotiations  between 
the  Palestinian 
Authority back in September. Since then, we have been 
deeply  concerned  that  no  tangible  progress  has  been 
possible. Turkey continues to support efforts to ensure 
a  resumption  of  the  direct  negotiations.  We  are 
cognizant  of  the  inherent  difficulties,  but  too  much 
time, energy and political capital have been invested in 
that process to let it fail now. 

cannot 
realistically  continue  in  good  faith  as  long  as  the 
rampant 
continues 
unchecked,  potentially  undermining  the  whole  notion 
of  a  two-State  solution.  Turkey,  like  countless  other 
nations,  calls  on  Israel  to  adhere  to  its  Road  Map 
obligations  and  cease  and  desist  from  all  settlement 
activity, including in East Jerusalem. The patience and 
the  will  of  the  international  community  on  that  score 
should not be tested. Ultimately, there will have to be 
consequences.  The  Security  Council  and  the  Quartet 
cannot remain silent forever. 

At  this  point,  let  me  underline  that  the  status  of 
Jerusalem  is  one  of  the  core  issues  of  the  peace 
process,  along  with  borders  and  refugees,  and  is 
subject  to  final  status  negotiations.  We  therefore 
reiterate the importance of preserving the status as well 
as the social, cultural and religious fabric of Jerusalem 
and call on Israel to refrain from any provocative acts 
in the city. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  unlawful  blockade  on 
Gaza  has  to  end.  The  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions  must  be  implemented  without  delay.  How 
can  we  effectively  combat  the  spread  of  extremism  in 
the  Middle  East  while  the  unjust  and  inhumane 
collective  punishment  of  a  civilian  population 
continues  in  Gaza?  The  Security  Council  has  stated 
clearly that the situation in Gaza is unsustainable, and 
that 
yet 
it  continues.  Like 
the  settlement 
issue, 
14 

10-66016 
terms  of  reference, 
international  consensus  on 


continuation  raises 
issues  of  credibility  for 
international community and the United Nations. 

With  the  hope  that  direct  negotiations,  once 
resumed, can make rapid progress, it is also important 
to continue to uphold the basic framework for peace, as 
embodied in the relevant Security Council resolutions, 
the  Madrid 
the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative and the Road Map obligations. It is clear that 
there 
those 
fundamental parameters: a comprehensive peace based 
on two States — Israel and an independent, democratic 
and  viable  Palestinian  State  —  living  side  by  side  in 
peace and security, with agreed borders based on those 
of  1967,  Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  both  States  and  a 
just settlement for refugees. The reaffirmation of those 
elements  will  serve  to  bring  about  a  timely  solution 
that addresses the concerns of all. 

On the other hand, all the issues in the region are 
interlinked,  and  that  is  why  a  comprehensive  peace  is 
necessary  in  order  to  ensure  that  stability  prevails  in 
the  region.  Therefore,  meaningful  progress  on  the 
Syrian  and  Lebanese  tracks  will  be  crucial  as  well.  In 
that  regard,  we  call  for  the  full  implementation  of  all 
relevant Security Council resolutions. 

In order for there to be popular support for direct 
negotiations and ultimately for the realization of a two-
State solution, the conditions of occupation have to be 
eased  and  a  positive  environment  created  on  the 
ground, one that allows for the State-building exercise 
in Palestine to make progress. 
We  welcome  the  World  Bank’s  pronouncement 

the 
that,  at 
Palestinian  Authority 
the 
establishment of a State at any point in the near future. 
In  order  for  the  Palestinian  Authority  to  become 
economically  viable,  obstacles 
to  private  sector 
development and sustainable growth have to be lifted. 
Palestinians need to be able to use more of their land. 
They  also  have  to  enjoy  their  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms. 

In short, as the basis for a State is rolled out, the 
measures  of  occupation  must  be  rolled  back.  In  the 
meantime,  the  considerable  progress  already  made  by 
in  State-building  must 
the  Palestinian  Authority 
continue 
international 
community. 
the  current  pace  and  performance, 
for 
is  well-positioned 
to  be 
supported  by 
the 
is  an 
the 
A/65/PV.55
the  Secretary-General 
The  Special  Tribunal 

Developments  in  Lebanon  are  also  crucial  to 
peace and security in the region. Turkey attaches great 
importance  to  maintaining  the  political  independence, 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Lebanon, and we 
support the efforts of the Government. Turkey has been 
concerned  about  rising  tensions.  As  evidenced  by 
Prime  Minister  Erdoğan’s  visit  to  Lebanon  last  week, 
we will continue to work to help promote calm.  

is  an 
for  Lebanon 
independent  body  established  by  the  Council  at  the 
request  of  Lebanon.  Its  work  is  of  a  legal  nature  and 
should  not  be  used  to  further  political  agendas.  The 
hard-won  internal  peace  and  stability  in  Lebanon  and 
the rule of law must be preserved and respected by all. 
Turkey will continue to play its part in a bilateral and 
regional context aimed at defusing existing tensions.  

Six  months  have  passed  since  Israel  attacked  an 
international humanitarian aid convoy on the high seas, 
killing  nine  civilians  and  wounding  many  others. 
Turkey  continues  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Panel  of 
Inquiry  established  by 
in 
accordance  with  the  Security  Council  presidential 
statement  of  1  June  2010  (S/PRST/2010/9).  After 
having  received  the  Turkish  interim  report,  the  Panel 
submitted  its  first  progress  report  to  the  Secretary-
General in mid-September. However, four months after 
the establishment of the Panel, Israel has yet to present 
its  findings.  Meanwhile,  the  International  Independent 
Fact-Finding  Mission  formed  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council  has  issued  its  report  (A/HRC/15/21),  which 
contains alarming findings, compelling legal arguments 
and striking conclusions. We  continue  to expect Israel 
to  live  up  to  its  responsibilities,  acknowledge  its 
mistakes and act accordingly. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  emphasize  our  conviction 
that  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  lies  at  the  heart  of 
all  of  the  problems  in  the  Middle  East  and  that,  as 
such,  the  current  pause  in  direct  negotiations  between 
the  parties  cannot  last  forever.  There  is  no  acceptable 
alternative to a just and comprehensive settlement. The 
status  quo  is  not  viable.  The  relative  security  that 
prevails  cannot  be  taken  for  granted.  Uncertainty 
breeds instability, and time is running out. The people 
of  the  region  need  leadership,  not  brinksmanship. The 
time to act is now. 
Mr.  Hardeep  Singh  Puri  (India):  Please  allow 

me,  at  the  outset,  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation 
for  the  scheduling  of  this  discussion  on  an  important 
10-66016 

15 

that  results 
A/65/PV.55 

subject  that  demands  our  collective  attention  —  the 
situation in West Asia, a region of great importance and 
concern to the entire international community. 

Being  part  of  our  extended  neighbourhood,  the 
West Asia region is of vital interest to India. The region 
is home to nearly 5 million Indians, and is an important 
source  for  meeting  India’s  energy  needs  and  a  region 
with which we have deep and intricate ties. 

We share the perception that the conflict in West 
Asia  is  essentially  political  in  nature  and  cannot  be 
resolved by force. In line with our support for Security 
Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973),  India 
supports  a  negotiated  solution 
in  a 
sovereign,  independent,  viable  and  united  State  of 
Palestine, living within secure and recognized borders, 
side by side with and at peace with Israel, as endorsed 
by  the  Quartet  Road  Map  and  Security  Council 
resolutions 1397 (2002) and 1515 (2003). 
India  has  supported  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative, 

which  calls  for  the  withdrawal  of  Israel  to  pre-1967 
borders, the recognition of Israel and the establishment 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital. India is aware that genuine peace in the region 
also  requires  the  resolution  of  other  issues  on  the 
remaining  tracks  of  the  Middle  East  peace  process, 
including  the  restoration  of  other  Arab  lands  that 
remain  under  occupation.  Progress  on  the  Lebanese 
and Syrian tracks of the peace process is important for 
achieving  comprehensive  and  durable  peace  in  the 
region. 
India  welcomes  the  direct  talks  between  Israel 

and  Palestine  and  reiterates  its  full  support  for  efforts 
to  achieve  a  durable,  comprehensive  and 
just 
settlement.  We  sincerely  hope  that  the  talks  and 
negotiations  will 
to  a  comprehensive  peace 
process  for  a  final  resolution  of  the  Middle  East 
conflict. 

Given  the  complexity  of  the  task,  unprecedented 
determination,  goodwill  and  the  capacity  to  offer  and 
accept compromises and concessions are needed on all 
sides. We sincerely hope that wisdom will prevail and 
that,  in  the  resolution  of  conflicts  and  differences, 
dialogue will triumph over confrontation. 
Prince  Zeid  Ra’ad  Zeid  Al-Hussein  (Jordan) 

(spoke  in  Arabic):  While  this  meeting  is  being  held, 
international  efforts  are  being  intensified  to  establish 
the necessary environment for the resumption of direct 
lead 
by 
to 
the 
Israel 
compelling 
negotiations  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians  with  a 
view  to  reaching  a  two-State  solution  that  includes  an 
independent  State  of  Palestine  with  the  4  June  1967 
borders  and  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  living  in 
peace  and  security  with  the  State  of  Israel.  We  in 
Jordan support those efforts, and we call upon Israel to 
reciprocate,  so  that  direct  negotiations  can  resume  at 
the earliest possible date and deal with  all final status 
issues,  including  Jerusalem,  refugees,  security  and 
borders.  That  perspective  necessitates  the  de  facto 
cessation  of  all  unilateral  and  condemned  Israeli 
actions in the occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem, 
particularly the settlement activities carried out by two 
Israeli  organizations Ateret  Cohanim  and  Elad,  whose 
activities  constitute  violations  of 
rules  of 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law 
and relevant United Nations resolutions, and violations 
of Israel’s obligations as the occupying Power. 
The  international  community  should  shoulder  its 

cease 
responsibility 
immediately  and  once  and  for  all  of  those  violations 
aimed  at  imposing  faits  accomplis,  which  have  been 
rejected  and  threaten  the  chances  for  peace.  Jordan 
calls  upon  the  international  community  to  ensure  that 
no irresponsible actions are taken that could undermine 
the  chances  for  resuming  direct  negotiations  between 
the two sides. 
The  Arab  and  Islamic  States,  which  constitute 

more  than  one  third  of  the  membership  of  the  United 
Nations, have expressed their collective commitment to 
the  pursuit  of  peace  by  adhering  to  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  adopted  at  the  Beirut  summit  conference  in 
2002,  which  constitutes  the  basis  for  dealing  with  all 
aspects of the Arab-Israeli conflict.  

Today, we call upon everyone to take the historic 
opportunity  provided  by  this  initiative  to  end  the 
conflict  and  establish  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace 
on  the  basis  of  two  States,  end  the  occupation  of 
Lebanese and Syrian territory and achieve international 
security  and  stability  for  all  countries  and  peoples  of 
the region.  

The  achievement  of  peace  necessitates  radical 
change  in  the  tragic  situation  in  which  the  Palestinian 
people  have  been  living,  especially  in  the  Gaza  Strip. 
We  call  upon  the  international  community  to  stand  by 
the  Palestinian  people  and  provide 
them  with 
humanitarian  assistance,  end 
their  humanitarian 
suffering  and  move  immediately  and  effectively  to 
16 

10-66016 


make sure that Israel abides by resolution 1860 (2009) 
and lifts the blockade imposed on the Gaza Strip. We in 
Jordan will spare no effort in continuing to provide all 
kinds  of  support  to  our  Palestinian  brothers  or  in 
drawing attention to their deep suffering. 
Mr. Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke in Chinese): The 

Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People  met  yesterday  to  commemorate 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People. China’s Premier Wen Jiabao sent a message to 
the meeting in which he reiterated China’s firm support 
for  the  people  of  Palestine  in  their  just  cause  for 
national independence.  

At  present,  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East 
remains  complicated  and  volatile. The  question  of  the 
Middle East not only affects the overall situation of the 
region, but also has a bearing on the peace and stability 
of the world.  
The  question  of  Palestine  is  the  crux  of  the 

question of the Middle East. All peoples of the region, 
including  the  peoples  of  Palestine  and  Israel,  are  in 
favour  of  efforts  to  achieve  a  political  solution  to  the 
question  of  Palestine,  which  will  contribute  to  lasting 
peace and stability in the Middle East region.  
the 

Palestinians 
their 
legitimate national rights and has always advocated for 
the settlement of the differences between Palestine and 
Israel  through  dialogue  and  negotiation  and  on  the 
basis of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, 
the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  and  the  Road  Map  for  peace  in  the  Middle 
East,  with 
the  ultimate  purpose  of  creating  an 
independent  State  of  Palestine,  with  Palestine  and 
Israel living in peace with each other.  

In  early  September,  direct  talks  were  relaunched 
between Palestine and Israel, which offered a new and 
important  opportunity  for  a  political  settlement  of  the 
question  of  Palestine.  China  had  hoped  that  the  talks 
would be able to continue and yield substantive results 
at  an  early  date.  Regrettably,  however,  as  a  result  of 
Israel’s  resettlement  activities,  the  talks  were  brought 
to a complete standstill in less than a month, which has 
caused  widespread  concern  and  anxiety 
the 
international community.  

The  resumption  of  the  talks  will  not  come  about 
easily. All  the  parties  should  treasure  this  opportunity 
firmly 
just  cause 
supported 
to  restore 
China  has 
always 
in 
their 
A/65/PV.55
the  construction  of 
in the overall interest of achieving peace, stability and 
development  of  the  Middle  East  region.  Constructive 
measures should be taken and interference avoided, so 
that  the  talks  can  move  forward  without  interruption. 
We  call  upon  Israel  to  cease  immediately  all  its 
the 
settlement  activities  and 
separation  wall  on  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, 
including the West Bank and East Jerusalem. 

At  present,  the  humanitarian  situation  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories  remains  grave  and  the 
plight  of  the  Palestinian  people  continues  to  worsen. 
That  is  neither  conducive  to  regional  stability  nor 
conducive  to  creating  the  proper  conditions  for  the 
resumption  of  talks  between  the  Palestinians  and  the 
Israelis.  We  hope  that  the  parties  concerned  will 
implement  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  United 
Nations  in  good  faith  and  that  the  Israelis  will 
completely  lift  the  blockade  of  Gaza  at  an  early  date, 
so  that  the  people  of  the  Gaza  Strip  will  regain  the 
necessary  space  for  a  normal  and  dignified  existence, 
with  employment  and  development  opportunities.  The 
international community should continue to play close 
attention to the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip 
and  provide  more  assistance  and  support  to  the 
Palestinian people.  

China is concerned about the continued existence 
of internal division among Palestinians and hopes that 
the Palestinian parties will place the overall interest of 
their  people  above  anything  else  and  settle  their 
differences through dialogue and consultation, so as to 
achieve  reconciliation  and  unity  in  a  joint  effort  to 
create  an  independent  State  of  Palestine  and  bring 
peace, stability and development to its people. 

The Syria and Lebanon tracks are important parts 
of 
the  Middle  East.  A 
the  peace  process 
comprehensive  settlement  of 
the  situation 
the 
Middle  East  is  impossible  without  progress  on  those 
two tracks. China firmly supports Syria and Lebanon in 
their just cause to safeguard their national sovereignty, 
independence and territorial integrity and recover their 
occupied territories. China supports the Arab States in 
their  initiative  aimed  at  achieving  comprehensive  and 
lasting peace in the region.  

As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council 
and  a  responsible  major  Power,  China  has  contributed 
positively  to  the  peace  process  in  the  Middle  East  by 
working  in  its  own  way  to  promote  peace  and 
negotiations,  including  by  providing  financial  and 
in 
in 
in 
10-66016 

17 

A/65/PV.55 

humanitarian  assistance  within  its  capacity.  China 
appreciates  the  untiring  efforts  of  the  international 
community over the years to bring about peace for the 
benefit  of  Israel,  the  Palestinians,  Syria  and  Lebanon 
and  is  ready  to  join  other  parties  in  working  to  bring 
about  a  lasting,  comprehensive  and  just  peace  in  the 
Middle East region at an early date. 
Mr.  Quinlan  (Australia):  As  we  all  know,  the 

Middle  East  has  been  subject  to  conflict  for  far  too 
long. For too long, the peoples of that region have been 
unable to lead their lives in anything that even vaguely 
approaches  peace  and  security.  That  should  be  an 
unbearable judgment on all of us.  

Any lasting peace, of course, can only be brought 
about  through  peaceful  means.  A  just  and  enduring 
peace  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinians  must  be 
predicated on a two-State solution: a viable and secure 
State for the Palestinians and a secure State for Israel, 
within  defined  borders.  To  achieve  that,  a  great  deal 
must  be  done,  of  course.  There  have  already  been 
unnecessary delays. Israel’s decision in September not 
to  extend  its  settlement  moratorium  did  not  help  the 
peace process. We are encouraged by reports that Israel 
is  considering  a  further  moratorium  on  settlement 
construction in the West Bank, and we urge it to do so. 
A  freeze  on  settlement  activity  would  unquestionably 
assist peace efforts. 

Australia’s  own  strong  position  remains  that 
Israel and the Palestinians need to meet their respective 
obligations  under  the  Road  Map.  We  commend  the 
efforts by the United States in that regard. We urge all 
parties to begin negotiations as soon as possible and to 
address  final  status  issues,  including  the  status  of 
Jerusalem and settlements. We call on all parties not to 
undertake  any  unilateral  actions  that  seek  to  prejudge 
the  outcome  of 
those  negotiations.  The  positive 
engagement  of  the  broader  international  community, 
including the Quartet members and the countries of the 
region, 
is  why  Australia 
particularly  welcomed  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  as  a 
very 
a 
constructive 
comprehensive peace. 

time,  Australia  unambiguously 
supports Israel’s sovereign right to exist within secure 
and internationally recognized boundaries. We support 
Israel’s  right  to  self-defence,  including  in  the  face  of 
Hamas  rocket  attacks  into  southern  Israel.  Terrorism 
should  simply  be  condemned  wherever  it  occurs.  It  is 
is  also  essential.  That 
contribution 
the  same 
towards 
At 
call  on  Hamas 
unfortunate that not everyone in this Hall always does 
so.  

However,  our  support  for  the  principle  of  self-
defence 
in  no  way  alters  our  continuing,  very 
fundamental  concern  about  the  humanitarian  situation 
of  the  people  of  Gaza.  While  we  recognize  the  steps 
that Israel has taken recently to ease its restrictions on 
goods entering Gaza, it must do more to help increase 
the  flow  of  necessary  goods  and  supplies.  We  have 
spoken  elsewhere of  our  concern that schools in  Gaza 
have  not  been  able  to  open  and  that  there  are  United 
Nations organizations still facing difficulties in getting 
goods into Gaza for their  work. The situation in  Gaza 
remains serious. It must be addressed. We again call on 
the  parties  to  act  urgently  to  alleviate  what  is  an 
unacceptable humanitarian situation.  

We  support  those  who  are  standing  strongly 
against  those  who  offer  only  the  false  hope  of 
confrontation,  violence  and  terrorism.  The  continuing 
rejection  by  Hamas  of  the  Quartet  principles  and  its 
refusal to recognize Israel are major obstacles to peace. 
We 
release  Gilad  Shalit 
unconditionally and without delay. 
One  way  Australia  has  been  demonstrating  its 

commitment 
and 
humanitarian assistance that we give to the Palestinian 
territories  —  around  $150  million  in  the  past  few 
years.  On  the  humanitarian  side,  a  long-standing  part 
of  Australia’s  contribution  to  peace  has  been  through 
the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, to which 
we have provided around $90 million since 2001. The 
Australian Foreign Minister will visit the region in the 
coming  weeks,  and  he  will  have  more  to  say  about 
Australia’s ongoing strong support to the agency.  
to  Lebanon,  we  are 

concerned  at  recent  rhetoric.  We  remain  firm  in  our 
support for the sovereignty, the political independence 
and the unity of the Lebanese State and its people. The 
independence  of  the  Special  Tribunal  for  Lebanon  as 
an 
to  be 
respected.  It  should  be  allowed  to  complete  its  work. 
We  reiterate  our  call  for  Hizbullah  to  disarm  in 
accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1559 
(2004). We welcome Israel’s in-principle announcement to 
withdraw from the northern part of Al-Ghajar. We call 
for  the  full  implementation  of  resolution  1701  (2006) 
by all sides. There must be an end to the smuggling of 
arms.  
the  development 
instrument  needs 
Briefly,  with 
international 
judicial 
regard 
to 
is 
through 
18 

10-66016 



In  conclusion,  Australia  —  like  all  of  us  — 
recognizes  that  the  path  towards  peace  will  inevitably 
be very hard. It will require strong political leadership 
and, above all, courage and vision. It is very easy to be 
glib  when  people  speak  of  a  historic  opportunity. 
Glibness  and  cynicism  unfortunately  often  make 
history,  but  they  do  not  make  progress.  We  have  a 
chance  now  for  progress.  Compromise  is  essential  on 
both  sides,  as  well  as  genuine,  not  ritualized,  support 
from the broader international community.  

When  this  item  is  debated  again  next  year,  my 
delegation  looks  forward  to  there  being  two  principal 
speakers: the State of Israel and the State of Palestine. 
As my Foreign Minister said here in the general debate 
this  year,  all  Member  States  should  welcome  the 
prospect of both an Israel and a Palestinian State at the 
sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. 

Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 
newly  released  reports  on  the  question  of  Palestine, 
particularly  the  report  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  (A/65/35),  once  again  bear  witness  to  the 
unfortunate 
the  period  under 
consideration, the Israeli regime has continued with its 
crimes  against  the  defenceless  Palestinian  people  and 
has  been  systematically  altering  the  Palestinian  land 
through  unlawful  policies  and  practices.  It  is  evident 
that  such  a  regime  cannot  be  a  righteous  and  trusted 
partner in negotiations for a peace agreement. 

The  arrogant  and  occupying  Powers  have  made 
use  of  all  their  force,  distortion  and  violence  over  the 
past  decades  in  order  to  establish  their  control.  They 
are trying to make the Middle East a platform for their 
expansionist  policies  for  other  regions  of  the  world. 
They are not satisfied with anything less than bending 
the region to their will. 

In that respect, I have to make it clear that in the 
history of the existence of the Zionist regime, there has 
been  nothing  but  crimes:  the  killing  of  men,  women 
and  children  in  Palestine,  the  use  of  banned  weapons 
and the stockpiling of nuclear weapons, indiscriminate 
assassinations, attacks on civilians and  aid convoys in 
international  waters,  and  war  crimes  in  Lebanon  and 
Palestine.  All  those  ugly  acts  have  become  routine 
affairs for the occupying regime. 

The  arrogant  and  occupying  Powers  have  long 
attempted to create divisions in the Middle East region. 
They  want  to  divide  peoples  composed  of  varied 
reality 
that, 
in 
A/65/PV.55
religions and denominations that have lived together in 
harmony and coexistence. They want to harm brotherly 
relations  among  nations  and  peoples,  such  as  the 
friendly  relations  that  so  happily  exist  among  the 
Lebanese,  Syrian,  Iranian  and  other  nations  and 
peoples in the region. 

In  Lebanon,  we  find  that  the  sinful  hand  of 
treachery  assassinated  the  former  Prime  Minister,  a 
respected  person,  and  then  we  see  how  news  is 
fabricated  to  direct  accusations  at  other  respected 
groups and leaders in an effort to sow seeds of division. 

Creating sectarian sensitivity and denominational 
tension  and  division  is  a  well-known  tactic.  The 
enemies  of  humanity  did  not  and  do  not  want  the 
people  of  the  region  to  be  united,  independent  and 
developed.  However,  the  region’s  nations  know  well 
that the symbols of might are unity and solidarity. 

The  only  way  to  solve  the  Palestinian  issue  and 
establish  peace  rooted  in  the  region  is  to  admit  the 
sovereign right of Palestine and to end the occupation. 
The  Palestinian  people  should  be  allowed  to  freely 
express  their  opinions  regarding  their  future.  There  is 
no doubt that the Palestinian people can exercise their 
national sovereignty themselves. 

In  November  last  year,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted resolution 64/10 on the follow-up to the report 
of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza  Conflict.  But  no  concrete  action  has  been  taken 
to bring to justice the Israeli perpetrators of the crimes 
reported in the Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48). 

The question  remains, when and where  impunity 
for  the  criminals  will  end. The  time  has  come  for  the 
United  Nations 
is  an  effective 
organization representing the will of the people of the 
world. Rather than recognizing occupation, the United 
Nations  should  recognize  the  legitimacy  and  right  of 
the Palestinian people to exercise their sovereignty and 
should bring the criminals to justice. 

Those  are  prerequisites  to  lasting  stability  in  the 
Middle  East.  Trust  and  confidence,  together  with  the 
active  engagement  of  the  international  community,  is 
the only way forward to peace. 

Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  Thank  you  very  much, 
Mr. President, for giving us the opportunity to address 
the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  in  the  General 
Assembly. 
to  prove 
that 
it 
10-66016 

19 

A/65/PV.55 


The  United  Nations  has  been  addressing  the 
situation in the Middle East since the Organization was 
founded. It is not easy, but we believe achieving peace 
between  Israel  and  its  neighbours  is  one  of  the  most 
important challenges we face today. Japan is convinced 
that  progress  towards  a  comprehensive  peace  in  the 
Middle  East  will  ease  tension  in  the  region  and 
contribute to further prosperity. 

Japan  supports  a  two-State  solution  in  which 
Israel  and  a  future  independent  Palestinian  State  live 
side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  Japan  remains 
convinced  that  a  two-State  solution  achieved  through 
sincere negotiations is the only way to achieve durable 
long-term peace. We strongly encourage both parties to 
continue  the  direct  negotiations  that  started  at  the 
beginning of September. We support the United States 
efforts to restart the negotiations. 

The  two  parties  must  abide  by  their  obligations 
under previous agreements, most importantly the Road 
Map. We call on Israel — as we have done on so many 
previous occasions — to freeze its settlement activities 
in  the  West  Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem.  We 
strongly  urge  it  to  extend  the  settlement  freeze.  Any 
step  that  could  prejudice  the  final  status  negotiations 
should not be taken.  

At  the  same  time,  we  call  upon  the  Palestinian 
Authority  to  continue  its  efforts  to  improve  security 
and  fulfil  its  commitment  to  cease  violence  and  work 
against incitement. 

Japan strongly supports the State-building efforts 
of  the  Palestinian  Authority  under  the  leadership  of 
President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister  Fayyad.  During 
his visit to Japan last week, Japanese leaders expressed 
to  Prime  Minister  Fayyad  our  continued  commitment 
to 
are  providing 
approximately  $100  million  in  assistance  during  the 
current fiscal year. 

Japan  will  continue  to  advance  the  “corridor  for 
peace and prosperity” initiative with a view to building 
an  agro-industrial  park  in  Jericho  by  the  end  of  2012. 
Japan  is  also  considering  working  together  with  East 
Asian  countries  to  assist  Palestinian  State-building 
efforts. 

Japan  supports  the  vision  that  the  borders  under 
the  two-State  solution  should  be  defined  through 
negotiations  and  be  based  on  the  1967  lines,  with 
mutually agreed swaps, in a way that will achieve the 
the  Palestinians.  We 
assist 
20 

The Palestinian refugee issue should be resolved 
peaceful  coexistence  of  a  viable  Palestinian  State  and 
Israel, both with secure and recognized borders. 

The  final  status  of  Jerusalem  should  be  resolved 
through  negotiations  in  a  way  that  reconciles  the 
positions  of  both  parties  on  their  future  capital.  Japan 
stresses  that  it  will  not  recognize  any  act  that  may 
prejudge the final status of Jerusalem, including Israeli 
annexation of East Jerusalem. We express deep concern 
about  acts  that  change  the  existing  conditions  of  East 
Jerusalem,  such  as  the  demolition  of  Palestinian 
houses. 

through negotiations between the parties concerned.  

Japan appreciates and commends the activities of 
the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for 
Palestinian  Refugees  in  the  Near  East.  Japan  has 
decided  to  make  a  contribution  of  $10  million,  in 
addition to the regular  contributions we have made so 
far. 

With regard to the Gaza Strip, the measures taken 
by  Israel  to  ease  the  blockade  is  a  positive  step,  but 
Japan  remains  concerned  about 
the  humanitarian 
situation  there.  We  stress  the  importance  of  further 
easing  the  blockade  while  preventing  the  inflow  of 
weapons into the Gaza Strip. 

Japan welcomes Israel’s easing of restrictions on 
movement  and  access  in  the  West  Bank,  which  has 
contributed  to  the  development  of  the  Palestinian 
economy,  and  hopes  that  Israel  will  further  ease  such 
restrictions. 

Japan has recently made clear its stance on peace 
in the Middle East, as I have just elaborated in a policy 
paper.  In  addition  to  the  assistance  we  provide  to  the 
Palestinians, we have also invited promising Israeli and 
Palestinian  youths  to  spend  time  together  in  Japan  as 
part of a confidence-building measure. 

Regarding  Lebanon,  we  reaffirm  our  support  for 
the sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and political 
independence  of  Lebanon  and  the  full  implementation 
of  all  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  We  are 
alarmed  by  some  of  the  statements  made  within 
Lebanon about the present situation, and we call on all 
parties to act responsibly. We strongly support the work 
of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon for the 
full  implementation  of  resolution  1701  (2006)  and  in 
maintaining  calm  in  its  area  of  operation.  We  also 
firmly  support  the  work  of  the  Special  Tribunal  for 
10-66016 


Lebanon,  an  independent  international  judicial  body. 
The Tribunal should continue to carry out its mandate 
without  any  interference,  which  will  contribute  to 
ending  impunity.  We  also  look  forward  to  early 
resumption of talks on the Lebanese and Syrian tracks. 

In conclusion, we would like to reiterate our call 
on  both  parties  to  make  the  difficult  decisions  now  to 
advance  peace.  We  believe  that  waiting  may  create 
circumstances  that  will  make  it  more  difficult  to 
achieve  peace.  Japan  will  continue  to  make  its  efforts 
to realize a just and comprehensive peace in the region 
based on the relevant Security Council resolutions, the 
Madrid  principles,  the  Road  Map,  the  agreements 
previously  reached  by  the  parties  and  the Arab  Peace 
Initiative. 

the last speaker in the debate on this agenda item.  
the 

I  would 
that 
resolutions 
Assembly  will 
A/65/L.18 and L.19, under agenda item 36, after taking 
action  on  draft  resolutions  A/65/L.14  through  L.17, 
under agenda item 37. 
The President (spoke in French): We have heard 
like 
take  action  on  draft 
inform  members 
to 


Agenda item 37 
Question of Palestine (continued)



  Draft resolutions A/65/L.14, A/65/L.15, 
A/65/L.16 and A/65/L.17 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Members  will 

recall  that  the Assembly  held  a  debate  on  this  item  at 
its  53rd  and  54th  plenary  meetings,  on  29  and 
30 November.  

Before  the  Assembly  takes  action  on  the  draft 
resolutions  one  by  one,  I  remind  members  that  they 
will  have  an  opportunity  to  explain  their  votes  on  all 
four  draft  resolutions  before  and  after  action  is  taken 
on all of them. 

draft resolutions A/65/L.14 through A/65/L.17.  

We  turn  first  to  draft  resolution  A/65/L.14, 
entitled “Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People”. I give the floor to the 
representative of the Secretariat. 

and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  of  General  Assembly 
to 
The Assembly will now proceed to take action on 
like 
A/65/PV.55
announce that since the introduction of draft resolution 
A/65/L.14, Cyprus has become a sponsor.  
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now take a decision on draft resolution A/65/L.14. 
A recorded vote has been requested. 

In favour: 

A recorded vote was taken. 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belarus,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso,  Cambodia,  Chile, 
China,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Djibouti,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador, 
Egypt,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran 
(Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Niger, 
Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Paraguay,  Philippines, 
Qatar,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the 
Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Swaziland, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, 
Trinidad 
Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  United  Arab 
Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania, 
Uzbekistan,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of), 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
Tobago, 
Tunisia, 
and 
Against: 

Australia,  Canada, 
Japan,  Marshall 
Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nauru, 
Palau, United States of America. 
Israel, 
Abstaining: 

Albania,  Andorra,  Austria,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  Colombia, 
Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  El  Salvador, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland, 
Lithuania, 
Italy, 
Liechtenstein, 
Latvia, 
10-66016 

21 
A/65/PV.55 




Luxembourg, Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Norway,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation, Samoa, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tonga, 
Ukraine,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland, Uruguay. 
Draft  resolution  A/65/L.14  was  adopted  by  112 
votes to 9, with 54 abstentions (resolution 65/13). 
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Kyrgyzstan 
advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in  favour;  the  delegation  of  Japan  advised  the 
Secretariat that it had intended to abstain.] 
The President (spoke in French): We turn next to 

draft  resolution  A/65/L.15,  entitled  “Division  for 
Palestinian  Rights  of  the  Secretariat”.  I  now  give  the 
floor to the representative of the Secretariat. 
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  of  General  Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  Since  the  introduction 
of draft resolution A/65/L.15, Cyprus and the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela have become sponsors. 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now take a decision on draft resolution A/65/L.15. 
A recorded vote has been requested.  

In favour: 

A recorded vote was taken. 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina 
Faso,  Cambodia,  Chile,  China,  Comoros,  Costa 
Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, 
Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  India,  Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Niger, 
Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Paraguay,  Philippines, 
Qatar,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the 
Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Swaziland, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, 
Trinidad 
Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  United  Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of), 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
Tobago, 
Tunisia, 
and 
Against: 

Australia,  Canada, 
Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru,  New 
Zealand, Palau, United States of America. 
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining: 


the 
Albania,  Andorra,  Armenia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon, 
Colombia, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, El 
Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  Norway,  Panama, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Samoa,  San 
Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain, 
Sweden,  Switzerland, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tonga,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 
Draft  resolution  A/65/L.15  was  adopted  by  110 
votes to 9, with 56 abstentions (resolution 65/14). 
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Kyrgyzstan 
advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour.] 

The President (spoke in French): We turn now to 
draft resolution A/65/L.16, entitled “Special information 
programme  on 
the 
Department of Public Information of the Secretariat”. I 
give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management): Since  the  introduction 
of draft resolution A/65/L.16, Cyprus and the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela have become sponsors. 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now take a decision on draft resolution A/65/L.16. 
A recorded vote has been requested.  
the  question  of  Palestine  of 

22 

10-66016 



In favour: 

A recorded vote was taken. 
Italy, 
Japan, 
Iceland, 
Jamaica, 
Bahamas, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Austria,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso, 
Cambodia,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros, 
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
India, 
Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq, 
Ireland, 
Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho, 
Liberia,  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Sierra  Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  South Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, Timor-
Leste,  Togo,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United Arab  Emirates, United Kingdom  of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
A/65/PV.55
Against: 

Australia,  Canada, 
Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru,  Palau, 
United States of America. 
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining: 



Cameroon, Tonga. 
Draft  resolution  A/65/L.16  was  adopted  by  167 
votes to 8, with 2 abstentions (resolution 65/15). 
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Kyrgyzstan 
advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour.] 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  turn  to  draft  resolution  A/65/L.17,  entitled 
“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”.  I 
give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat. 

Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  Since  the  introduction 
of  draft  resolution  A/65/L.17,  Maldives  and 
the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  have  become 
sponsors.  
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now take a decision on draft resolution A/65/L.17. 
A recorded vote has been requested.  

In favour: 

A recorded vote was taken. 
Bahamas, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Austria,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Cambodia,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti, 
Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El 
Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, 
France,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho, 
Liberia,  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
10-66016 

23 
A/65/PV.55 


Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Sierra  Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  South Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, Timor-
Leste,  Togo,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United Arab  Emirates, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
Against: 

Australia,  Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States 
of America. 
Abstaining: 



Cameroon, Canada, Côte d’Ivoire, Tonga. 
Draft  resolution  A/65/L.17  was  adopted  by  165 
votes to 7, with 4 abstentions (resolution 65/16). 
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Kyrgyzstan 
advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour.] 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before  giving 
the  floor  to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  after  the 
voting,  may  I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats. 

Mr.  Weissbrod  (Israel):  As  it  does  every  year, 
Israel voted against the draft resolutions under agenda 
item 37, on the question of Palestine. Our position has 
not  changed  precisely  because  the  one-sided  language 
and  one-sided  narrative  of  those  resolutions  remains 
the  same.  Indeed,  they  are  completely  divorced  from 
reality. Let me give three examples. 

The  first  concerns  resolution  65/16,  entitled 
“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”. 
How  can  we  adopt  a  resolution  about  a  peaceful 
settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine  that  calls  on 
only  one  side  to  make  compromises?  How  can  we 
adopt  a  resolution  about  a  peaceful  settlement  that 
neglects  to  mention  the  fundamental  security  threats 
that stand in the way of that peaceful settlement, such 
as  the  fact  that  1  million  Israeli  civilians  live  in  daily 
fear of rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip, the constant 
arms smuggling to the Gaza Strip and so on. 

The  resolution  before  us  says  nothing  about 
Hamas  violence  towards  Israeli  citizens  or  against  its 
people  or  against  United  Nations  personnel  and 
facilities. 

How can we talk about a peaceful settlement in a 
resolution  that  does  not  mention  that  Corporal  Gilad 
Shalit has been held captive by Hamas for the last four 
and  a  half  years,  his  whereabouts  unknown  and  his 
rights denied? Why is there no reference to the positive 
developments that have taken place over the past year? 

This  resolution,  for  example,  says  nothing  about 
the  measures  enacted  by  Israel  to  promote  economic 
activity for the Palestinians. Despite legitimate security 
concerns  and  continued  terrorism,  Israel  has  removed 
hundreds  of  roadblocks  and  checkpoints  in  the  West 
Bank.  According  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund, 
that  helped  to  spur  economic  growth  of  9  per  cent  in 
the  area  during  the  first  half  of  2010.  The  resolution 
ignores  the  fact  that  as  of  June  2010,  Israel  allows 
entry of all goods into Gaza, except for dual-use items 
that can be used for military purposes. 

egregious flaws in that resolution. 

I  turn  now  to  resolutions  65/13  through  65/15, 
which  refer  to  the  many  United  Nations  bodies 
dedicated to the Palestinian issue. The disproportionate 
number of entities focused on that issue reflects a clear 
misallocation  of  United  Nations  resources,  given  the 
many important challenges facing the Organization. 

Israel  believes  that  Member  States  should  focus 
on supporting entities that provide real support for the 
Palestinian  people, 
instead  of  continuously  using 
United  Nations  bodies  to  perpetuate  and  politicize  its 
agenda. 

against these resolutions. 
For  all  those  reasons  and  others,  Israel  voted 
Those  are  only  a  few  examples  of  the  many 
24 

10-66016 



Mr.  Erdman  (United  States  of  America):  With 
respect to the situation in the Middle  East, the United 
States is working vigorously towards a comprehensive 
Arab-Israeli  peace,  resulting  in  two  States,  Israel  and 
Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. In 
that context,  we are disheartened to be  presented with 
unbalanced  resolutions  that  place  demands  on  Israel 
but  fail  to  acknowledge  the  obligations  and  difficult 
steps required of both sides.  

The  resolutions  under  today’s  agenda  items,  in 
combination  with  13  other  draft  resolutions  that  will 
come  before  the  General  Assembly  once  again  this 
year,  clearly  illustrate  a  pattern  of  institutional  bias 
directed  at  one  Member  State  of  the  United  Nations. 
That pattern is unlike that of the General Assembly in 
its  handling  of  any  other  issue.  These  resolutions  are 
biased,  wasteful  and  redundant,  and  do  nothing  to 
advance  the  peaceful  resolution  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict that we all seek.  

Let  me  again  highlight  three  annual  resolutions 
that  renew  the  mandate  of  United  Nations  bodies 
established  more  than  a  generation  ago  and  that 
perpetuate this institutional bias.  

The  resources  expended  by  the  Division  for 
Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat, the Committee on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People and the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices  Affecting 
the 
Palestinian  People  and  Other  Arabs  of  the  Occupied 
Territories  should  be  directed  towards  more  pressing 
issues,  including  direct  assistance  to  Palestinians.  We 
reiterate  our  call  for  all  Member  States  to  review 
seriously how, if at all, the continued existence of those 
bodies  actually  contributes  to  a  solution  to  the  Arab-
Israeli conflict.  

The  draft  resolutions  related  to  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict  that  the  Assembly  will  be  consider  in  the 
coming  weeks  presuppose  the  outcome  of  permanent 
status negotiations, making it that much more difficult 
for  the  parties  to  resolve  them.  Those  issues  properly 
belong  in  bilateral  negotiations  between  the  Israelis 
and the Palestinians.  
The  United  States  is  committed  to  working  with 

the  parties  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  Arab-Israeli 
peace,  including  a  two-State  solution  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. We believe that through good-faith 
negotiations,  the  parties  can  mutually  agree  on  an 
outcome  that  ends  the  conflict  and  reconciles  the 
the  Human  Rights  of 
A/65/PV.55
that 
reflect 
borders 
The  United  States 
Palestinians’  goal  of  an  independent  and  viable  State 
based on the 1967 lines, with agreed territorial swaps, 
and  the  Israeli  goal  of  a  Jewish  State  with  secure  and 
recognized 
subsequent 
developments and meet Israeli security requirements. 

Those who want a Palestinian State should do all 
they can to support the parties’ efforts to bring about a 
just and lasting peace and should do nothing to hinder 
them.  Again,  the  United  States  sees  no  contradiction 
whatsoever between support for the Palestinian people 
and support for Israel. 

recently  announced  an 
additional  $150  million  in  direct  assistance  to  the 
Palestinian Authority,  bringing  our  total  direct  budget 
support  for  the  year  to  $225  million.  In  addition,  the 
United  States  remains  the  largest  single  donor  to  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees 
the  Near  East,  having  contributed 
$237.8 million to date in 2010. 

It  is  impossible  to  see  how  support  for  the 
resolutions before us today contributes to a just, lasting 
and  comprehensive  peace.  We  cannot  support  these 
resolutions,  but  we  will  remain  focused  on  direct 
negotiations  —  the  only  means  by  which  the  parties 
will  be  able  to  conclude  an  agreement  to  achieve 
Palestinian  aspirations  for  sovereignty  while  ensuring 
the long-term security of Israel. 

The President (spoke in French): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of vote after the voting. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 37.  
in 




Agenda item 36 (continued)
  The situation in the Middle East 

  Draft resolutions (A/65/L.18 and A/65/L.19)


The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Members  will 
recall  that  the  Assembly  held  a  debate  on  this  item 
earlier in today’s plenary meeting. 

draft resolutions A/65/L.18 and A/65/L.19. 

The Assembly  will  first  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/65/L.18.  A  recorded  vote  has  been 
requested. 

The General Assembly will now take decisions on 
A recorded vote was taken. 
10-66016 

25 
A/65/PV.55 

In favour: 


Iceland, 
Japan, 
Italy, 
Jamaica, 
Bahamas, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Austria,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, 
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
India, 
Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq, 
Ireland, 
Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho, 
Liberia,  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman, 
Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia, 
Senegal,  Serbia,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia, 
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste, 
Togo,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United 
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
the 
Against: 

Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated 
States  of),  Nauru,  Palau,  United  States  of 
America. 
Abstaining: 



Australia, Cameroon, Panama, Tonga. 
Draft  resolution  A/65/L.18  was  adopted  by  166 
votes to 6, with 4 abstentions (resolution 65/17). 
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Kyrgyzstan 
advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour.] 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  We  will  now 
consider  draft  resolution  A/65/L.19,  entitled  “The 
Syrian Golan”. I give the floor to the representative of 
the Secretariat. 

Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  Since  the  introduction 
of draft resolution A/65/L.19, the Plurinational State of 
Bolivia and Maldives have become sponsors. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General 

Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution 
A/65/L.19. A recorded vote has been requested.  

In favour: 

A recorded vote was taken. 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belarus,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso,  Cambodia,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Cuba, 
Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
Djibouti,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras, 
India, 
Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq, 
Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Mongolia, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Qatar, 
Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra 
Leone,  Singapore,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia, 
South  Africa,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname, 
Swaziland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Thailand, 
26 

10-66016 


Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu, 
Uganda,  United Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
Against: 

Canada,  Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States 
of America. 
Abstaining: 

I 


Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon, 
Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malta,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Panama,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Korea, 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Samoa,  San 
Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Tonga,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 
Draft  resolution  A/65/L.19  was  adopted  by  118 
votes to 7, with 52 abstentions (resolution 65/18). 
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Kyrgyzstan 
advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour.] 
The President (spoke in French): Three Member 

States have requested the floor to speak in explanation 
of  vote  after  the  voting.  Before  giving  the  floor  to 
those  speakers,  may 
that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.  
Mrs. Dunlop (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): I have 

the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  delegations  of 
Argentina  and  Brazil  on  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East.  I  wish  in  particular  to  explain  the  votes  of  the 
delegations  of  Argentina  and  Brazil  on  resolution 
65/18,  on 
the  General 
Assembly has just adopted.  

Argentina  and  Brazil  voted  in  favour  of  that 
resolution  because  we  believe  that  its  essential  aspect 
is  linked  to  the  illicit  nature  of  the  acquisition  of 
territory by force. Article 4, paragraph 2, of the United 
Nations  Charter  prohibits  the  threat  or  use  of  force 
the  Syrian  Golan,  which 
remind  delegations 
A/65/PV.55
against  the  territorial  integrity  of  a  State.  That  is  a 
standard of international law.  

At the same time, I wish to clarify the position of 
our  delegations  with  regard  to  paragraph  6  of  the 
resolution. Our vote does not prejudge the contents of 
that  paragraph,  in  particular  the  reference  to  “the  line 
of 4 June 1967”.  

Argentina  and  Brazil  believe  that  it  is  important 
to  make  progress  in  the  search  for  a  solution  in  the 
Syrian-Israeli  track  in  the  Middle  East  conflict  in  a 
manner  that  will  put  an  end  to  the  occupation  of  the 
Golan  Heights.  That  is  why  on  this  occasion,  once 
again, on behalf of the Governments of Argentina and 
Brazil, I wish to urge the authorities of Israel and Syria 
to  resume  negotiations  in  order  to  find  a  definitive 
solution  to  the  Syrian  Golan  situation,  in  accordance 
with  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338 
(1973) and the principle of land for peace. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): My delegation expresses its deep appreciation 
and  gratitude  to  the  General  Assembly,  which  since 
1981 has continuously voted in the majority for peace, 
justice and law and which has now adopted resolution 
65/18, entitled “The Syrian Golan”, as well as the other 
resolutions relating to the question of Palestine and the 
situation in the Middle East. 
The  continuing  response  of  the  international 

community  in  support  of  these  resolutions  shows  the 
adherence  of  Member  States  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  their 
rejection  of  foreign  occupation,  backing  thereby  our 
legitimate  right  to  recover  our  territory  occupied  by 
Israel for more than 40 years.  

Voting for these resolutions by the overwhelming 
majority  of 
the  Member  States  sends  a  clear 
international  message  to  Israel  to  the  effect  that 
occupation,  assassination,  expansionist  and  aggressive 
policies, the construction of settlements, the imposition 
of  faits  accomplis  and  annexation  of  the  territories  of 
others by force are all rejected practices that violate the 
Charter  as  well  as  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  of 
1949.  

For  those  reasons,  those  practices  have  been 
condemned by the international community. The world 
says with one voice that comprehensive and just peace 
can  be  achieved  by  going  back  to  the  terms  of 
reference, including the resolutions that have just been 
10-66016 

27 

is 
territory  and 
A/65/PV.55 

voted  upon.  That  presupposes  the  need  for  an  Israeli 
partner in order to achieve peace, which is not the case 
right now. It also means the return of all occupied Arab 
territories,  including  the  Golan  and  Jerusalem,  to  the 
lines  of  4  June  1967,  and  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  Palestine  with  Al-Quds  as  its  capital, 
because the continuation of occupation runs counter to 
peace  and  requires  exhausting  all  means  to  terminate 
that occupation.  

Israel’s  provocative  actions  of  late,  particularly 
with regard to conducting a so-called plebiscite on the 
destiny  of  the  Golan  and  Jerusalem,  are  completely 
rejected  and  internationally  deplored.  Moreover,  they 
are illegal. Nor do they change the fact that the Golan 
is  an  occupied  Syrian 
thus 
non-negotiable. The recovery of the Golan in full to the 
4 June  1967  line  is  the  only  basis  for  establishing 
peace.  

Once again, I reiterate my country’s thanks to all 
the  States  that  sponsored  the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“The  Syrian  Golan”.  I  wish  also  to  express  our 
gratitude to those who voted in favour of it.  
By  the  same  token,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  my 

country’s  call  for  achieving  just  and  comprehensive 
peace  on  the  basis  of  resolutions  of  international 
legitimacy,  particularly  Security  Council  resolutions 
242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 497 (1981), as well as the 
principle  of  land  for  peace  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative. I also wish to assert Syria’s insistence, more 
than ever, on liberating the Golan to the line of 4 June 
1967, purging it of settlements and terminating  Israeli 
occupation by all means guaranteed under international 
law, under the aegis of which we are meeting here. 

Once  again,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
Syria’s  calls  for  peace  do  not  mean  concessions  to  be 
made by Israel and pronounced by it as painful. Rather, 
these are usurped rights and lands that must be returned 
in full to their original owners. This is the meaning of a 
genuine,  just  and  comprehensive  peace  around  which 
there is international unanimity. 
Mr.  Salsabili  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  wish 

to  put  on  record  here  in  the  Assembly  that  my 
delegation, 
the 
Palestinian  people  and  cause,  and  with  other  peoples 
under occupation, voted in favour of all the resolutions 
just  adopted  —  resolutions  65/13,  65/14,  65/15  and 
65/16 — under  agenda  item  37,  “The  question  of 
the  spirit  of  solidarity  with 
in 
for 
the 
and 
patience 
Nevertheless, 
I  would 
reservations  on 
like 
those  parts  of 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 
Palestine”, and also resolutions 65/17 and 65/18, under 
agenda item 36, “The situation in the Middle East”. 

to  express  my 
delegation’s 
the 
resolutions  that  might  be  construed  as  recognition  of 
the Israeli regime.  

floor to the observer of Palestine. 

Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  I  would  like  to  begin 
by  expressing  to  you,  Mr.  President,  the  deepest 
appreciation 
principled 
commitment  to  justice  in  our  region  that  you  have 
demonstrated  yesterday,  during  the  International  Day 
of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, and today, by 
being  with  us  in  both  the  morning  and  afternoon 
meetings of the Assembly. The delegation of Palestine 
would  like  to  put  on  record  our  deepest  appreciation 
for such a principled position. 

We  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  and 
thanks  to  all  countries  that  sponsored  the  resolutions 
related to the question of Palestine and to the situation 
in  the  Middle  East,  and  to  all  those  who  voted  in 
favour. 
We believe that the results of the voting serve as 

a  clear  demonstration  of  where 
international 
community stands on the issue of justice as it relates to 
the question of Palestine. We are very grateful for that 
support.  It  gives  our  people  additional  strength  to 
continue 
to  end  occupation  and, 
hopefully, to actualize the dream of all of us. President 
Barack  Obama  so  accurately  articulated  that  dream  in 
September  (see A/65/PV.11)  when  he  said  that  maybe 
next year, around this time, a new State will be joining 
the United Nations. 

Some  people  think  these  resolutions,  when  they 
are  adopted  by  such  an  overwhelming  majority,  are 
one-sided.  The  entire  international  community  and 
huge  blocs  of  nations  —  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  the  Arab 
Group,  the  European  Union,  the  African  Group,  the 
Caribbean  Community  —  in  short,  everywhere  one 
looks, there is a huge number of countries that voted in 
favour. Are all of those people pushing an agenda with 
a one-sided viewpoint? I do not believe so. I think that 
assertion is ridiculous, and I do not believe that anyone 
can take it seriously.  
their  struggle 
the 
28 

10-66016 



With  regard  to  the  issue  of  asking  one  side  to 
make  concessions,  I  think  we,  the  Palestinian  people, 
made  historic  concessions  in  1974,  when  we  accepted 
the notion of the two-State solution. We legislated that 
in our proclamation of independence in 1988. 

I  think  that  when  the  Arab  nations  adopted  the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative  —  which  calls  for  the  total 
withdrawal  of  Israel  from  all  the  areas  it  occupied  in 
1967  and  for  the  independent  State  of  Palestine,  with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  in  exchange  for  the 
normalization  of  relations  with  the  State  of  Israel  — 
we  made  painful  concessions,  while  the  other  side  is 
not  even  accepting  small  concessions  as  are  reflected 
in a resolution that is so balanced, such as the one on 
peaceful settlement. 

The last comment I want to make is: what is the 
value  of  these  resolutions?  These  resolutions  uphold 
international  law,  and  that  is  the  biggest  help  that  can  

A/65/PV.55
be provided to a serious negotiation process leading to 
peace between us and the Israelis. That is the value of 
these  resolutions,  and  if  some  think  we  are  not  in  the 
business  of  upholding  international  law  in  the  United 
Nations, I would like them to explain to me and to all 
of us what kind of business, then, we are engaged in. I 
think  that  upholding  international  law  is  a  huge 
contribution to any peace process and to the success of 
that process. 

We  thank  you  again,  Mr.  President,  and  would 
like to say that it has been a very inspiring two days for 
us, the Palestinian people. I am sure that this will help 
us to accomplish our objectives as soon as possible. 

Assembly  has 
thus  concluded 
consideration of agenda items 36. 
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. 



The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General 
its 
this  stage  of 
10-66016 

29 
