
A/65/PV.40
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

40th plenary meeting 
Friday, 29 October 2010,10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
the  essential 
our engagement with the Geneva community, were also 
impressive. Throughout,  interventions  were  thoughtful 
and detailed, with views cogently set out and opposing 
viewpoints listened to with respect. 

The  co-facilitators  tried  both  to  encourage  that 
approach and to reflect it in our work.  In framing our 
analysis and recommendations, we sought to distil the 
experience  and  good  sense  of  the  full  range  of 
interlocutors. As we have made clear, our purpose was 
to  define  approaches  that  could  keep  the  membership 
together,  while  meeting 
test  of 
strengthening the peacebuilding architecture. Finding a 
consensual  approach,  without  sacrifice  of  honesty  or 
clarity,  is  not  easy.  If  we  fell  short,  we  hope  Member 
States  will  accept  that  this  was  the  spirit  that  inspired 
our work. 

As  regards  content,  we  would  like  to  highlight 
just a few brief points in relation to the four principal 
chapters  of  the  report.  Following  the  identification  of 
key  issues,  we  begin  our  analysis  in  the  field.  We 
cannot  overemphasize 
that 
perspective. In our consultations, we found it sobering 
to see the lack of understanding on the ground of what 
is  being  attempted  in  New York.  The  New York-field 
connection simply has to work better. And we also felt 
it  essential  to  underline  again  the  imperative  of 
national  ownership.  That  works  both  ways.  The 
international community must understand the limits of 
its  role  as  midwife  to  a  national  birthing  process,  and 
national  authorities 
turn  must 
the 
responsibilities that ownership confers. 
importance  of 
recognize 
the 
in 





  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Badji 
(Senegal), Vice-President, took the Chair. 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 

Agenda items 13 and 115 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.7) 

Ms.  Anderson  (Ireland):  The  co-facilitators  — 

Ambassador Baso Sangqu of South Africa, Ambassador 
Claude  Heller  of  Mexico  and  myself  —  warmly 
welcome  today’s  debate,  and  we  hope  that  the  draft 
resolution  (A/65/L.7)  as  circulated  will  be  adopted  at 
the conclusion of our discussion. We trust that Member 
States will have had the opportunity over the past three 
months  or  so  to  reflect  on  the  contents  of  our  report 
(A/64/868,  annex),  and  we  look  forward  to  hearing 
views  today.  On  behalf  of  the  co-facilitators,  I  would 
like  to  present  some  brief  comments  on  process, 
content and the way forward. 

First,  with  regard  to  process,  it  seems  to  us  that 
the way in which the membership engaged itself in this 
exercise  represents  the  United  Nations  at  its  most 
constructive.  We  felt  throughout  a  true  sense  of 
common purpose. There was extensive participation at 
each  of  the  open-ended  consultative  meetings.  Inputs 
from other stakeholders, in our various seminars and in 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-61032 (E) 
*1061032* 




try 
Our 
that  chapter,  we 
third  major  area  of  focus 
A/65/PV.40 


Our  second  major  focus  is  on  the  role  and 
performance  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  at 
Headquarters.  In 
to  work 
systematically  through  the  issues  arising,  including  in 
particular  the  relationship  between  the  Organizational 
Committee and the country-specific configurations. We 
define the challenge in that relationship as the need to 
combine  innovation  and  vibrancy  with  weight  and 
solidity. 

Amid the generally very positive reactions to the 
content  of  this  chapter,  some  delegations  expressed 
disappointment  at  not  seeing  a  fuller  embrace  of  their 
positions on certain specific aspects. Such a reaction is 
always  understandable,  but  we  would  say  to  those 
delegations that if their views were not fully embraced, 
it  was  because  there  were  countervailing  views  that 
also had validity and deserved to be taken into account. 
That was in the nature of the exercise. 

is  on  key 
relationships,  both  within  the  United  Nations  —  with 
the  Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  —  and  with  other 
partnerships.  As  we  make  clear,  the  Commission’s 
relationship  with  the  Security  Council  is  critical  in 
shaping  the  Commission’s  agenda  and  in  determining 
its  relevance  within  the  United  Nations  architecture. 
We  are  conscious  of  the  view  of  some  that  the  report 
shows  insufficient  circumspection  in  treading  on  that 
sensitive  ground.  In  all  honesty,  we  do  not  think  we 
could  have  said  less.  There  has  already  been  an 
opportunity  for  discussion  in  the  Security  Council; 
today,  we  would  want  only  to  emphasize  that  the 
emergence  of  the  new  dynamic  we  envisage  — 
between  a  more  forthcoming  Security  Council  and  a 
better-performing  Peacebuilding  Commission  —  is 
essential, if peacebuilding is to assume its proper place 
in United Nations priorities. 

Together  with  the  Security  Council,  the  General 
Assembly  is  also,  of  course,  a  co-parent  of  the 
Peacebuilding 
Assembly’s 
co-parenting  responsibilities  have  not  been  exercised 
as fully as they could have been, and our report tries to 
suggest possible ways to achieve a more structured and 
interactive  relationship.  Already  in  this  session  and 
under  our  current  President,  we  hope  that  those 
avenues will begin to be explored. 

Our  fourth  area  of  focus  is  the  Peacebuilding 
Support Office and the Peacebuilding Fund. We look at 
Commission. 
The 
and 
for  his 
the  need 
changes necessary within the Support Office, including 
staffing  issues,  but  also  at  the  role  and  weight  of  the 
Support  Office  across  the  Secretariat  as  a  whole.  In 
that regard, we particularly underline the importance of 
a  clear  and  unequivocal  message  from  the  Secretary-
General that peacebuilding is central to United Nations 
priorities, 
support  of 
organizational arrangements that reflect this. 

Finally,  a  word  about  the  path  from  here  on:  the 
co-facilitators extend our thanks to the President of the 
Assembly,  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  and 
their  respective  teams  for  their  work  in  framing  a 
resolution  that  could  command  consensus  in  both 
bodies.  It  is  consistent  with  the  way  this  exercise  has 
been conducted from the outset that there should be a 
consensual text; any other outcome would fracture the 
sense  of  common  purpose  that  it  is  so  important  to 
safeguard.  Even  if  the  draft  resolution  before  us  does 
not in every  word reflect the preferences of everyone, 
we  trust  and  believe  it  has  sufficient  strength  and 
clarity to ensure that the recommendations in the report 
are appropriately taken forward and implemented. 

Our report concludes with a sense of urgency and 
the hope that it will serve as a wake-up call. It would 
be  very  easy  to  lose  that  sense  of  urgency,  to  feel  — 
now  that  we  have  a  report  and  a  draft  resolution,  and 
with  a  new  country,  Liberia,  on  the  Commission’s 
agenda  —  that  all  is  basically  well,  and  that  we  can 
revisit the subject in five years’ time. There is no room 
for  any  such  complacency.  The  World  Development 
Report, to be issued shortly, will again set out the grim 
realities and remind us of how corrosively conflict eats 
away  at  developmental  gains.  The  needs  remain  very 
great;  our  report  will  have  value  insofar,  and  only 
insofar,  as  it  leads  us  to  respond  to  them  more 
effectively. 
Mr. Momen (Bangladesh): I have the pleasure to 

speak  today  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
(NAM)  on 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission. 

At  the  outset,  the  Movement  would  like  to 
express  its  sincerest  appreciation  to  the  co-facilitators 
of  the  review  process,  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  South  Africa,  Ireland  and  Mexico,  and  commend 
them  on  their  transparent,  all-inclusive  and  objective 
efforts,  which  resulted  in  the  present  report  and 
recommendations (A/64/868, annex). 
review  of 
the 
2 

10-61032 
through 
integrated  system  established  by 



The  Non-Aligned  Movement  would  also  like  to 
express  its  appreciation  for  the  President’s  efforts  and 
those  of  Uganda  in  negotiating  the  draft  resolution 
under  consideration  by 
the  General  Assembly 
(A/65/L.7),  with  a  view  to  its  adoption  by  both  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council today. 

The United Nations has developed and improved 
its  peacebuilding  efforts  in  post-conflict  situations 
through  an 
the 
General  Assembly  to  play  the  pivotal  role  in  the 
coordination  of  those  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
efforts.  In  the  meantime,  the  international  community 
came  to  realize  the  importance  of  the  decision  of  the 
2005  World  Summit  to  establish  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  which  has  contributed  significantly  to 
peacebuilding  through  its  achievements  over  the  past 
five years of its operations. 
In  that  context,  the  Movement  has  supported 

United  Nations  peacebuilding  efforts 
the 
General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic 
and Social Council and the Peacebuilding Commission, 
established by resolution 60/180, where the operations 
and  activities  of  the  latter  are  becoming  increasingly 
important  as  a  result  of  its  accumulated  expertise,  the 
lessons  learned  over  the  past  years  and  its  important 
role  in  coordinating  international  efforts  to  prevent 
post-conflict countries from relapsing into conflict. 

Today’s  adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  by  the 
General  Assembly  is  a  commitment  towards  taking 
forward  the  final  recommendations  of  the  review 
process and reaffirming our willingness to develop the 
United  Nations  peacebuilding  architecture,  with  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  at  its  centre,  by  taking 
advantage  of  more  opportunities  for  countries  to  be 
included on the Peacebuilding Commission’s agenda, a 
clearer  sense  of  how 
the 
Commission 
to  peacebuilding 
processes  in  the  field,  a  stronger  relationship  being 
forged  between  the  Commission  and  the  Security 
Council, the General Assembly and the Economic and 
Social  Council,  and  a  more  enabled  Peacebuilding 
Support Office. 

the 
recommendations  in  the  report,  it  is  of  the  view  that 
certain  elements  should  have  been  included  in  that 
comprehensive  review  process  in  order  to  strengthen 
the  role  of  the  Commission.  Those  elements  include, 
inter  alia:  providing  the  needed  funding  jointly  from 
the  engagement  of 
should  contribute 
the  Movement 
welcomes 
While 
A/65/PV.40
reiterates 
the  central 
The  Movement 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  in 
consultation  with  the  Commission,  to  peacebuilding 
field  missions  and  field  visits;  negotiating  a  set  of 
clear, efficient and flexible rules of procedures for the 
Organizational  Committee  of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission;  redefining  the  relationship  between  the 
Commission  and  the  Fund,  where  the  Commission 
should  play  a  principal  role  in  setting  the  general 
policy for the Fund and in developing an accountability 
framework  for  the  Fund’s  operations  in  consultation 
with its Advisory Group; identifying appropriate ways 
for  international  financial  institutions  to  finance  the 
critical economic activities needed to consolidate peace 
directly  by  eliminating  the  roots  for  economic  and 
social  inequalities  most  often  identified  as  major 
causes  for  unrest  and  conflict;  and  establishing  a 
greater  balance  between  the  roles  of  donor  and 
non-donor countries in the Commission’s activities. 

role 
expected  from  the  Organizational  Committee  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  in  implementing  the  draft 
resolution  and  the  recommendations  of  the  review 
process,  in  full  cooperation  and  coordination  with  the 
principal bodies of the United Nations and all relevant 
actors,  in  order  to  achieve  the  expectations  of  the 
international 
effective 
peacebuilding approach. 
The  Movement  stresses  that  the  Commission 

must  focus  on  the  implementation  of  the  review’s 
recommendations,  with  a  view 
the 
following objectives. 

First,  the  Commission  must  ensure  that  national 
ownership  underpins  the  entire  peacebuilding  process 
from  the  initial  phases  of  early  peacebuilding,  in 
particular  the  planning  stage  and  negotiations  on 
peacebuilding  strategies.  A  stake  for  national  actors 
must be built into those phases to enable the transfer of 
the  management  and  implementation  of  peacebuilding 
strategies  and  projects  to  the  concerned  Government 
and its national partners, including parliament and civil 
society. 
Second, it must reaffirm the necessity of national 

capacity-building 
needed 
mechanisms,  ensuring  continued  political  support  and 
providing 
financial 
resources,  and  ensuring  that  all  actors,  including 
political parties, parliaments and civil society, are in a 
technical  and 
to  achieving 
community 
developing 
the 
required 
in 
a  more 
by 
the 
10-61032 

3 

the 
including 
the  United  Nations, 
A/65/PV.40 

position  to  engage  meaningfully  in  the  peacebuilding 
process. 

The third objective is to develop the institutional 
relationship between the Commission and the principal 
bodies  of 
through 
innovative  exchange  frameworks,  in  particular  the 
establishment  of  early  peacebuilding  components  in 
peacekeeping  operations  during  the  consultations  on 
the  establishment  or  renewal  of  a  peacekeeping 
mandate,  as  well  as  regular  exchanges  among  the 
Organizational  Committee, 
country-specific 
configuration  and  the  General Assembly,  the  Security 
Council and the Economic and Social Council. 

Fourth, the Commission must intensify the nexus 
between  development  and  peace  by  prioritizing 
development  and  ensuring  its  full  integration  into 
peacebuilding  efforts 
in  countries  emerging  from 
conflict.  It  is  crucial  that  peacebuilding  strategies 
address  and  respond  to  the  range  of  development 
challenges faced by the country concerned. 

Fifth,  it  must  strengthen  gender  mainstreaming 
into the priorities of peacebuilding strategies and their 
activities.  The  potential  contribution  that  women  can 
make  to  peace  processes  hardly  needs  reiteration. 
Furthermore, the success of any peacebuilding process 
rests  also  on  its  ability  to  ensure  gender  equality  and 
the  empowerment  of  women  within  the  political, 
economic  and  social  spheres.  In  that  context,  it  is 
important  that  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  study  and 
evaluate 
the  Secretary-General  on 
women’s participation in peacebuilding (A/65/354) and 
the  seven  priorities  underlined  in  the  proposed  action 
plan. 
Sixth,  the  Commission  should  develop  multiple 

forms of engagement that are appropriate to the special 
circumstances of different countries, on a case-by-case 
basis, 
in  post-conflict 
situations to be included on the Commission’s agenda. 

The seventh objective is to strengthen the role of 
the  Commission  in  providing  political  support  to 
United Nations peacebuilding missions, which, in turn, 
should reflect United Nations peacebuilding principles 
and priorities in their operations, and to ensure the full 
integration of the work of United Nations actors on the 
ground,  based  on  joint  planning  and  clear  inventories 
of actions to avoid duplication. 
thus  encouraging  countries 
the  report  of 
of 
the 
in 
in 
Tenth, 
Ninth, 
concerned 
the 
countries 
to  address 
the 
the  Commission  must 
expertise 
the  general  membership 

Eighth,  the  Commission  should  capitalize  on  its 
current composition, in accordance with paragraph 4 of 
resolution  60/180,  so  as  to  draw  on  the  competitive 
and 
advantages 
diversified 
the 
representation  of 
Organizational  Committee, 
particular 
the 
representation of United Nations Charter bodies. 

the  Commission  must  develop  and 
strengthen  the  recruitment  of  international  civilian 
specific  needs  and 
capacities 
particularities  of 
and 
communities  within  which  such  capacities  will  be 
deployed,  and  to  support  national  institutional  and 
human  resources  capacity-building.  There  is  also  the 
need to further develop the cooperation frameworks of 
United Nations agencies, programmes and bodies with 
regional and subregional organizations and institutions 
and  developing  countries  that  have  accumulated  the 
expertise  needed  to  build  peace  within  a  specific 
country  or  in  a  specific  region,  as  well  as  to  promote 
both  South-South  and  triangular  cooperation  in  that 
area. 

on 
maximizing  benefits  from  the  available  capacities  of 
the  United  Nations, 
financial 
institutions  and  the  donor  community,  in  order  to 
support  peacebuilding  efforts.  In  that  regard,  it  is 
imperative  to  establish  a  monitoring,  evaluation  and 
follow-up mechanism to ensure the implementation of 
international  commitments  made 
all  national  and 
within 
the  nationally  agreed 
peacebuilding priorities and strategies. 

Finally,  the  Commission  must  focus  on  ensuring 
consistency  in  the  priorities  of  international  funding 
mechanisms,  including  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  with 
national  peacebuilding  priorities  of 
the  countries 
concerned and the need to consider innovative methods 
to  strengthen  the  resources  of  such  mechanisms,  in 
particular 
that  such 
resources  will  constitute  a  cornerstone  for  funding 
peacebuilding  strategies  whose  successful  implementation 
and  dividends  on  the  ground  would  encourage  further 
engagements  and  commitments  from  the  international 
financial 
comprehensive 
peacebuilding  processes  and  sustainable  development 
strategies. 

is  uniquely 
positioned  as  the  high-level  platform  for  coordination 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  so 
international 
the 
framework  of 
community 
to 
support 
focus 
the 
4 

10-61032 
In 
on 
up 
following 
that  regard, 
to  urgently  address 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 


between  the  needs  on  the  ground  and  the  United 
Nations  system.  Its  initial  responsibility  is  to  assist 
countries  on  its  agenda  in  determining  their  own 
peacebuilding  priorities.  Using  its  knowledge  and 
experience,  the  Commission  must  bring  its  political 
weight to bear in efforts to engage the United Nations 
system  and  the  wider  international  community  in 
fulfilling  those  priorities  in  the  best  possible  way. 
Moreover,  it  must  not  hesitate  to  use  its  political 
weight 
issues  of  mutual 
accountability.  It  is  by  recognizing  and  leveraging  to 
the  full  extent  the  essentially  political  role  that  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  can  deliver  effectively  its 
responsibilities within its mandate. 

the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
welcomes  the  consensus  around  the  current  draft 
resolution,  offers  its  full  support  for  the  progressive 
implementation of the  recommendations of the  review 
within the next five years  and stands ready to support 
the  efforts  of 
in 
monitoring 
these 
and 
recommendations. 
Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium):  I  have  the  honour  of 

speaking  today  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union. The 
candidate  countries  Turkey,  Croatia, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  countries  of 
the Stabilisation and Association Process and potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Georgia  and  Armenia,  align 
themselves with this statement. 

I would like to thank the President of the General 
Assembly and his Office for organizing this important 
debate  concerning  the  2010  review  of  the  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture  and  for  preparing 
the  draft 
today 
(A/65/L.7). 

From  the  outset,  the  European  Union  has  been  a 
strong  supporter  of  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture. As the largest donor in the five countries 
on 
the 
European Union has cooperated intensively within the 
country-specific  configurations and the  Organizational 
Committee  of  the  Commission.  The  European  Union 
has also been strongly committed to making the review 
of  the  peacebuilding  architecture  a  success  and  has 
actively 
the 
informal  consultations 
chaired by the co-facilitators. 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s  agenda, 
resolution  we  have  before  us 
taken  part 
the 
A/65/PV.40
the  effectiveness  of 
The  European  Union  would  like  to  praise  the 

tireless  efforts  of 
the  co-facilitators  and  warmly 
welcomes their report (A/65/868, annex) as a balanced 
document,  based  on  extensive  consultations  with  the 
United  Nations  membership  and  other  stakeholders. 
The  report  contains  a  thoughtful  analysis  of  the 
challenges  and  useful  recommendations  for  the  way 
ahead. 

In terms of next steps, the European Union fully 
supports  the  draft  resolution  before  us  today.  The 
timely  adoption  of  that  short  and  straightforward 
resolution  will  allow  all  relevant  United  Nations  and 
other  actors  to  build  on  the  momentum  generated  by 
the review of the peacebuilding architecture by taking 
forward,  as  appropriate,  the  recommendations  of  the 
report. The European Union would also like to call on 
the Secretary-General to play a major role by bringing 
the United Nations system together in order to further 
improve 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  support  that  the  Peacebuilding 
Support Office provides. 

The European Union welcomes the recognition in 
the draft resolution that the peacebuilding work of the 
United Nations requires sustained support and adequate 
resources  to  meet  the  challenges. As  a  strong  believer 
in  peacebuilding,  the  European  Union  stands  ready  to 
redouble 
the 
recommendations  of  the  report  and  enable  the  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture  to  live  up  to  the 
expectations which accompanied its establishment. 
Mr.  Bowler  (Malawi):  I  have  the  pleasure  of 

speaking  today  on  behalf  on  the  Group  of  African 
States on the review of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
At the outset, the African Group would like to express 
its 
co-facilitators, 
Ambassador  Sangqu  of  South  Africa,  Ambassador 
Anderson of Ireland and Ambassador Heller of Mexico, 
for  the  true  commitment  and  passion  with  which  they 
have  executed  this  noble  task.  I  would  also  like  to 
thank  His  Excellency  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and his entire office, as well as the Uganda 
delegation, for their leadership. 

The  draft  resolution  before  us  today  (A/65/L.7) 
will not take us to heaven as desired, but may help to 
save  us  from  hell.  The African  Group  has  taken  note 
that certain members of the Permanent Five were from 
the  outset  not  constructive  in  the  review  process  and 
even  adopted  a  selfish  approach.  We  are  extremely 
appreciation 
implement 
sincere 
efforts 
help 
the 
its 
to 
to 
in 
10-61032 

5 
to 
specifically 
today.  When 
In  Africa,  we  view 
A/65/PV.40 

grateful  to  the  United  Nations  for  what  it  represents 
and  what  it  stands  for  as  well  for  the  opportunity  for 
dialogue  that  it  provides  to  its  membership,  for  that 
very reason. 

the  United  Nations  as 
extremely relevant. The United Nations has developed 
its  peacebuilding  efforts,  but  no  doubt  there  is  a  very 
long way to go. The draft resolution before us makes a 
commitment  towards  implementing  the  recommendations 
that will contribute to strengthening the peacebuilding 
process. 

In December of this year, we will be at the five-
year mark since the adoption of the General Assembly 
and  Security  Council  resolutions  establishing 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  whose  review  is  under 
consideration 
the  Commission  was 
formed in 2005 as an intergovernmental advisory body 
designed 
focus  on  post-conflict 
peacebuilding  situations  and,  more  importantly,  avert 
relapse into conflict, the expectations of the recipients 
of  its  services  were  naturally  raised.  However,  as 
discussed in the review report (A/64/868, annex), those 
expectations  were  not  adequately  met.  Again,  five 
years  on,  when  the  Commission  was  up  for  review,  it 
was expected that the review process would enhance its 
effectiveness. 

The review report and its recommendations carry 
the  hopes  of  those  people  in  post-conflict  situations 
whose  fate  depends  on  our  conscious  and  collective 
responsibility  to  salvage  them  from  the  devastating 
effects  of  conflict.  Most  of  those  people  are Africans. 
Africans  urge  all  of  us  to  put  our  shoulders  to  the 
wheel  to  make  peacebuilding  work.  The  tragedy  of 
conflict is that the most vulnerable, particularly women 
and  children  and  youth,  become  the  victims.  It  is  not 
only immoral, but should be regarded as a crime, if we 
who  are  privileged  to  be  given  the  responsibility  of 
providing  peace 
the 
peacebuilding  final  draft  resolution  any  further  would 
be a betrayal of our responsibilities. 

Conflict  zones  are  living  hell  and  require  our 
committed  and  serious  efforts  to  alleviate  and  reduce 
the  suffering,  as  well  as  to  bring  about  a  real  and 
meaningful  peacebuilding  process.  At  the  risk  of 
repeating what is contained in the report, I would like 
to  emphasize  the  following  points  that  could  help  us 
enhance our post-conflict peacebuilding activities. 
in  our  duty.  Diluting 
fail 

such 
financial 
institutions, 

Without prescribing to the  Security Council how 
it  should  go  about  its  work,  there  is  a  greater  need  to 
strengthen the relationship between the Council and the 
Commission if we are to achieve maximum results. In 
that  relation,  therefore,  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office needs to be strengthened. 

Long-term development should be at the centre of 
post-conflict  interventions.  As  much  as  quick-impact 
programmes are important, long-lasting peace can only 
be  cultivated  and  sustained  when  people  enjoy  the 
dividends  of  peace  that  are  embedded  in  long-term 
development  strategies.  To  achieve  that,  we  need  to 
focus  on  comprehensive  and  nationally  owned 
interventions  supported  by  holistic,  system-wide 
coordination and sustained interventions. 

The  Peacebuilding  Fund  can  only  do  so  much. 
Post-conflict  peacebuilding  needs  more  resources,  and 
the  United  Nations  should  devise  innovative  ways,  in 
partnership  with  other  partners, 
the 
as 
international 
regional 
organizations  and  funding  institutions,  to  sufficiently 
finance peacebuilding activities. 
The  conflict-prevention  dimension  of  the  United 

Nations  might  be  the  only  sustainable  approach  to 
averting  the  challenges  that  come  with  post-conflict 
situations. We therefore call on the United Nations, and 
the Security Council in particular, to focus attention on 
conflict-prevention  strategies,  instead  of  expending 
already  scarce  resources  resolving  conflicts  that  could 
otherwise have been prevented. 
It is also important to note that there is a need to 

sustain the attention of the international community on 
the  agenda  countries.  It  is  vital  that  support  is 
continued  beyond  fundamental  peacekeeping  and  that 
it extends into building secure nations. 

On  Tuesday,  26  October,  we  commemorated  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000),  which  seeks  to  put  women  at  the  centre  of 
conflict  prevention, 
resolution  and  post-conflict 
peacebuilding activities. Accordingly, for us to achieve 
sustainable peace, we need to involve women as equal 
partners in all conflict prevention, resolution and post-
conflict peacebuilding activities, including governance. 

It  is  important,  furthermore,  for  us  to  involve 
civil  society  with  Governments,  and  our  national 
frameworks must be people-centred. 
6 

10-61032 
sadly  most  of  our  efforts 
In  conclusion,  we  align  ourselves  with 



the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Bangladesh  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
and  support  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution A/65/L.7, 
entitled  “Review  of  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture”.  We  hope  that  we  all  will  take  the 
necessary  steps  to  implement  the  recommendations  of 
the report in our collective pursuit of sustainable peace. 
We also call upon the membership to embrace this draft 
resolution,  particularly  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council. As I mentioned earlier, in the process 
of  coming  up  with  the  draft  resolution,  we  felt  that 
some members might not have understood our needs in 
Africa,  where 
in 
peacebuilding  initiatives  are  targeted.  We  call  on  the 
membership to support the draft resolution. 
Mr. Staur (Denmark): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  Nordic  countries,  Denmark,  Finland, 
Iceland, Norway and Sweden.  

Allow me first of all to thank the President of the 
General  Assembly  for  organizing  today’s  debate,  in 
which  we  conclude  the  2010  review  of  the  United 
Nations peacebuilding architecture, as mandated by the 
original  General  Assembly  and  Security  Council 
resolutions. 

Furthermore,  allow  me  also  to  stress  the  strong 
appreciation  of  the  Nordic  countries  for  the  dedicated 
effort  and  hard  work  of  the  three  co-facilitators,  who 
conducted  the  review  in  an  open,  inclusive  and 
transparent  manner,  allowing  for  all  views  and  voices 
to be heard. The Nordic countries warmly welcome the 
report  of  the  co-facilitators  (A/64/868,  annex),  which 
we  feel  accurately  reflects  the  current  situation  and 
outlines  innovative  means  and  ways  to  amplify  the 
reach  and  relevance  of  the  peacebuilding  architecture. 
Most  importantly,  the  Nordic  countries  feel  confident 
that  the  report  and  its  recommendations  reinforce  the 
ability  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  to  deliver 
added  value  where  it  counts  most,  which  is  at  the 
country  level.  As  we  stressed  at  the  outset  of  this 
review  process,  the  Nordic  countries  strongly  believe 
that  the  determining  benchmark  for  success  should 
ultimately be the real impact in each and every country. 

The  Nordic  countries  are  firmly  committed  to 
advancing 
the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding architecture, and this review has been a 
welcome occasion to take stock, to reassess the efforts 
so  far  and  to  look  at  the  challenges  facing  the  wider 
the  work  of 
A/65/PV.40
requires 
today 
in 
its  path 
sustained 
Our  debate 
peacebuilding  agenda.  The  moment  has  now  come  to 
transform the ideas and recommendations generated by 
the  review  into  tangible  advances  on  the  ground.  The 
recent  establishment  of  a  Peacebuilding  Commission 
country-specific  configuration  for  Liberia  offers  an 
opportunity  to  do  just  that,  and  we  welcome  Liberia’s 
decision  to  seek  the  advice  and  support  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  on 
towards 
consolidating peace. 

The  Nordic  countries  can  support  the  short  draft 
resolution  before  us  today  (A/65/L.7),  and  we  look 
forward  to  contributing  actively  to  its  follow-up  and 
implementation.  We  acknowledge  that  peacebuilding 
work 
support  and  adequate 
resources, and we pledge our continued support in that 
regard.  We  join  others  in  calling  for  the  Secretary-
General to vigorously take that agenda forward with a 
view  to  achieving  more  coherent  and  effective  United 
Nations delivery in fragile and post-conflict States. 

the  General  Assembly 
follows  in  the  footsteps  of  another  closely  related 
debate on post-conflict peacebuilding conducted in the 
Security  Council  as  recently  as  on  the  13th  of  this 
month.  Indeed,  very  close  links  exist  between  the 
review  of  the  peacebuilding  architecture  and  the 
Secretary-General’s  progress  report  on  peacebuilding 
in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict  (A/64/866),  as 
well  as  his  report  on  women’s  participation 
in 
peacebuilding (A/65/354). Allow me to reiterate in this 
forum  the  Nordic  countries’  full  support  for  those 
reports  and  their  recommendations.  Successful  and 
sustained  peacebuilding  requires  that  a  wide  set  of 
actors come together in highly complex circumstances 
and  work  coherently  towards  nationally  owned  goals. 
The Nordic countries are confident that this review, as 
well as the recent reports of the Secretary-General, has 
contributed  positively 
this  elusive  but 
worthwhile ambition. 
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening  this  debate  to  discuss  the  review  of  the 
United Nations Peacebuilding Commission (PBC). We 
commend the process and  conduct of the 2010 review 
of  the  Commission  under  the  able  leadership  of  the 
ambassadors  of  South  Africa,  Mexico  and  Ireland  as 
co-facilitators. My delegation associates itself with the 
statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  representative  of 
Bangladesh on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
towards 
10-61032 

7 

to 
its 
role 
elements 
strengthen 
A/65/PV.40 


Indonesia concurs with the executive summary of 
the  report  on  the  review  of  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding architecture that: 

“We  are  now  at  a  crossroads:  either  there  is  a 
conscious  recommitment  to  peacebuilding  at  the 
very  heart  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  or 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  settles  into  the 
limited role that has developed so far.” (A/64/868, 
annex, p. 3) 

As  stated  in  the  report,  the  greater  number  of 
Member  States,  including  Indonesia,  strongly  favours 
the former path. Draft resolution A/65/L.7, as it stands, 
reflects this conclusion and points in the right direction 
to that path. 
The draft resolution will determine the course of 

actions by the Commission in the future and must thus 
contain 
and 
performance.  We  were  heartened  to  learn  of  the  draft 
resolution’s  stipulated  request  for  all  relevant  United 
Nations  actors  to  take  forward  the  recommendations 
set forth in  the report, thus reinvigorating a  conscious 
recommitment to peacebuilding. 

Our firm position in this regard is to support the 
spirit  of  the  draft  resolution,  which  also  cites  the 
report,  and  others,  based  on  our  experience  as  a 
member  of  the  PBC  Organizational  Committee  from 
2006  to  2008.  For  example,  as  the  first  Chair  of  the 
PBC Strategy and Policy Task Force on Private Sector, 
in April 2008 Indonesia submitted an exhaustive set of 
observations 
the 
Organizational Committee on the important role of the 
private  sector  with  respect  to  its  contribution  to  post-
conflict  peacebuilding.  That  was  an  important  task  in 
the context of exploring ways the PBC could fulfil its 
mandate to marshal resources. 
The outcome document set out methodologies for 

the  PBC 
interactions  and 
synergies  with  the  private  sector  in  a  meaningful 
manner, especially in areas involving funding sources, 
microfinance and remittances. However, to date, due to 
certain viewpoints on the limited role of the PBC, such 
recommendations  have  not  materialized. The  report  at 
hand  on  the  PBC  review  highlights  the  urgency  of 
resource mobilization as an entry point for the PBC to 
consider  its  potential  for  a  greater  role  in  engaging 
other stakeholders, such as the private sector. 
to  strengthen  concrete 
recommendations 
and 
to 
in 
it 
is 
therefore 
imperative 
areas  of 
the 
in  parallel 
that 

We also note that the report of the co-facilitators 
reflects  the  current  reality  of  the  nexus  between 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  It  serves  as  a  wake-
up  call  for  all  of  us  to  strengthen  our  collective 
to  deal  with  peacebuilding 
determination 
and 
in  a  more  comprehensive  manner. 
peacekeeping 
to 
Peacebuilding  efforts  must  occur 
peacekeeping; 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  engage  in  an  early  and 
seamless manner. 

Therefore, Indonesia is of the view there is a very 
close  connection  between  the  review  process  of  the 
PBC  and  the  ongoing  review  of  civilian  capacity 
currently  being  conducted  by  the  Secretary-General. 
The latter serves as an important strategy of the United 
the 
Nations 
conflict  prevention, 
peacekeeping  and 
intermediate  aftermath  of 
conflict. The  draft  resolution  on  the  PBC  review  as  it 
stands  is  in  line  with  these  two  important  review 
processes. 

In this regard, Indonesia is taking keen interest in 
the  ongoing  review  of  civilian  capacity  in  those  two 
important  areas,  and  emphasizes  that  the  PBC  should 
have  a  bigger  role  in  the  process  of  broadening  and 
deepening 
the  pool  of  experts,  giving  particular 
attention  to  mobilizing  the  capacities  of  developing 
countries  and  of  women.  We  also  join  others  who 
believe 
report’s 
recommendations  in  an  integrated  manner  will  help 
pave 
revitalized  Peacebuilding 
Commission  —  one  which  is  more  relevant,  more 
flexible,  better  performing,  more  empowered,  better 
supported, more ambitious and better understood. 

reiterate  my 
delegation’s  firm  belief  in  the  contribution  that  the 
PBC has made and will continue to make in the future 
to  peacebuilding  efforts  in  various  parts  of  the  world, 
provided  that  it  continues  to  receive  sustained  and 
steadfast support from the international community. To 
that  end,  my  delegation  reaffirms  its  unwavering 
support to any effort to advance the work of the PBC. 
Mr.  Sumi  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

President  of  the  General Assembly  for  convening  this 
important  meeting  to  consider  the  outcome  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission (PBC) review. I would also 
like  to  extend  my  gratitude  to  the  co-facilitators,  the 
Ambassadors of Ireland, Mexico and South Africa, for 
implementation  of 
In  closing, 
the  way 
I  would 
for  a 
that 
like 
the 
the 
to 
8 

10-61032 
the  approach  of 


presenting their report entitled, “Review of the United 
Nations peacebuilding architecture” (A/64/868, annex). 

Japan  welcomes  the  report  presented  by  the  co-
facilitators and urges all related United Nations organs 
to  take  forward  the  relevant  recommendations  of  the 
co-facilitators,  with  the  aim  of  further  improving  the 
impact of PBC activities on the ground. In this regard, 
I  would  like  to  express  Japan’s  support  for  the  draft 
resolution (A/64/L.7) before the Assembly. In order to 
take  forward  the  co-facilitators’  recommendations,  I 
would  like  to  raise  the  following  three  points  for 
further consideration. 
First,  Japan  would  like  to  stress  once  again  the 

need 
to  diversify 
the  PBC’s 
engagement in post-conflict countries. As suggested by 
the  co-facilitators,  we  should  consider  employing 
lighter  approaches  than 
the  current  full  country-
specific  configuration.  Therefore,  Japan  supports  the 
idea  of  seeking  a  multitiered  approach  —  sectoral, 
regional  and  “light  footprint”  engagement  —  as  noted 
in  paragraph  95  of  the  report. The  priority  agenda  for 
the  PBC’s  engagement  in  Liberia  that  we  are  now 
discussing  through  the  draft  statement  of  mutual 
commitments  on  peacebuilding  should  be  more 
targeted and focused. 

Another useful approach is to consider a specific 
focus in a cross-country and cross-sectoral manner. As 
the  co-facilitators  point  out  in  paragraph  55  of  their 
report,  youth  employment  has  been  identified  as  a 
potential  Achilles’  heel  in  any  peacebuilding  process. 
Japan  considers  that  the  PBC  has  a  role  to  play  in 
developing  strategies  based  on  such  perspectives, 
which require special attention. 

the 
discussion in the working group on lessons learned on 
the  issue  of  post-conflict  employment.  This  year,  the 
PBC  should  follow  up  that  discussion  and  apply  the 
lessons  learned  to  the  actual  activities  on  the  ground. 
In  addition,  as  the  representative  of  Canada  proposed 
in  the  most  recent  meeting  of  the  Liberia  country-
specific  configuration,  cooperation  between 
the 
country-specific  configurations  of  Liberia  and  Sierra 
Leone is also useful in promoting youth employment in 
the post-conflict situation in relation to the Mano River 
Initiative. 

Secondly, I would like to stress the importance of 
strengthening  the  PBC’s  advisory  role  to  the  Security 
Council. To that end, Japan supports the co-facilitators’ 
this  regard,  I  would 
to  recall 
like 
In 
A/65/PV.40
in 
109 
that 
paragraph 
recommendation 
the 
consultations  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
PBC be enhanced. In that connection, I am delighted to 
note  that  the  newly  adopted  note  by  the  President  of 
the Security Council on working methods (S/2010/507) 
echoes  the  co-facilitators’  recommendation.  I  would 
like  to  report  that  Japan  chaired  the  informal  working 
group on the working methods of the Security Council. 

In paragraph 61 of the annex to presidential note 
A/65/507, the Council expresses its intention 

the  Chairs  of  country-specific 
“to 
configurations  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
to  participate 
formal  Security  Council 
meetings  at  which  the  situation  concerning  the 
country  in  question  is  considered,  or  on  a  case-
by-case  basis,  for  an  exchange  of  views  in  an 
informal dialogue”. 
invite 
in 
the 
Japan 
supports 
enhanced 
to  maximize 
Japan  would  like  to  explore  the  possibility  of  having 
such  an  informal  dialogue,  ideally  on  Liberia,  at  an 
appropriate occasion before the end of the year. 

Thirdly,  Japan  generally  supports  the  notion  that 
the  function  of  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
(PBSO)  must  be 
the 
effectiveness  of PBC programmes. On the other hand, 
we  would  like  to  stress  the  need  for  the  PBSO  to 
clarify  the  division  of  roles  and  its  comparative 
advantage  in  relation  to  other,  related  United  Nations 
departments. 
co-facilitators’ 
recommendation,  in  paragraph  109,  that  the  head  of 
PBSO  be  invited  to  brief  the  Security  Council  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  heads  of  the  Department  of 
Peacekeeping  Operations,  the  Department  of  Political 
Affairs  and 
the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs. However, careful examination is 
necessary  in  considering  the  question  of  the  ratio  of 
core  to  non-core  staff  within  PBSO,  as  mentioned  in 
paragraph 149. 

In  addition,  we  should  further  look  into  creating 
synergy between the PBC and the Peacebuilding Fund. 
We have no objection to the idea that the Peacebuilding 
Fund  should  retain  decision-making  autonomy  on  the 
allocation of its funds, but we believe that the PBC can 
provide  strategic  guidance  as  well.  In  this  context, 
Japan  supports  the  strengthening  of  such  interaction 
between chairs, the PBSO and the Peacebuilding Fund 
Advisory Group. 
the  Office  for 
10-61032 

9 
As 

in 
and 
issues 
involve 
the  Chair  of 
the  Security  Council  further 
Dialogue  and  monitoring  should  help  to  evaluate 
progress and determine the steps required. 

Thirdly,  the  Chair  needs  specific  support  for  its 
functions  in  New  York  and  adequate  support  in  the 
field,  as  stressed  by  the  co-facilitators.  It  is  important 
to  ensure  the  continuity,  predictability  and  expertise 
required for the work of the Chair. This could be done 
by strengthening the PBSO. 
We  are  in  favour  of  a  regular  dialogue  between 

the  Security  Council 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  Moreover,  we  would  like 
to  see 
the 
countries  concerned  and  invite  the  chairs  of  their 
respective  configurations  to  participate  in  the  related 
informal  consultations.  Since  the  PBC  also  draws  its 
legitimacy  from  its  relationship  with  the  General 
Assembly,  we  should  also  explore  ways  to  deal  more 
substantially  with  peacebuilding 
the 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council. This 
possibility should be seriously explored. We think that 
economic  and  social  questions  can  play  a  central  role 
in  efforts  to  adequately  respond  to  peacebuilding 
challenges. 
The  role  and  identity  of  the  Organizational 

Committee  deserve 
in-depth  consideration.  The 
Organizational  Committee  needs  to  be  given  greater 
importance, for example, by strengthening its function 
of  regular  follow-up  of  the  work  of  the  various 
configurations  and  by  using  it  more  as  a  forum  for 
exchanges  of  experience  or  good  practices  in  the  area 
of  peacebuilding.  With  this  in  mind,  Switzerland 
supports the report’s suggestion that the working group 
on lessons learned be integrated into the Organizational 
Committee. 
In conclusion, it is our view that the review of the 

PBC  must  enable  the  international  community  to 
recommit itself to meeting the challenges in the area of 
peacebuilding.  We  therefore  support  a  determined 
effort 
the 
recommendations of the Secretary-General and the co-
facilitators’ report. 
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  First 

of  all,  my  delegation  thanks  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly  on  having  convened  this  debate  on 
the  United  Nations  peacebuilding  architecture  and  the 
consultations that have taken place. 
implementation  of 
to  pursue 
the 
(spoke 
of 
of 
the 
stressed 
(Switzerland) 
co-facilitators. 
the  co-facilitators’ 
Mr.  Aeschlimann
creation 
A/65/PV.40 


In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
readiness  to  participate  in  the  coming  discussion  on 
how we may  move forward the implementation of the 
recommendations 
Japan 
encourages  the  PBC  to  expedite  the  discussion  to  this 
end.  Japan  stands  ready  to  actively  take  part  in  those 
efforts. 
in 

French):  The 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  (PBC)  was  of  real  benefit.  Since  its 
creation  in  2005,  the  PBC  has  proven  its  value. 
Through its national configurations, it has managed to 
contribute  to  peacebuilding  in  the  countries  on  its 
agenda.  Peacebuilding  nonetheless  requires  considerable 
commitment  in  the  form  of  political,  institutional  and 
financial investment. We therefore need to make it one 
of our highest priorities. 
in 

review 
(A/64/868,  annex), 
the  peacebuilding  architecture 
deserves  to  be  further  improved  and  strengthened. 
Switzerland  welcomes  this  worthwhile  report,  which, 
in our view, addresses the essential issues and includes 
appropriate  recommendations 
the 
challenges ahead. 

It  is  our  firm  conviction  that  the  Secretary-
General’s  leadership  is  essential  to  ensuring  adequate 
follow-up  for  the  implementation  of  the  report’s 
recommendations.  Most  of  the  recommendations  can 
be implemented in their current form by the organs to 
which they are addressed. We believe that follow-up on 
their  implementation  should  be  ensured,  for  example, 
by the PBC Organizational Committee. 

the  Burundi 
In  our  capacity  as  Chair  of 
configuration,  we  have  drawn  the  following  three 
lessons.  First,  countries  on  the  PBC  agenda  hold  the 
key  to  the  success  of  the  exercise.  Their  commitment 
and  political  will  determine 
the  process.  This 
commitment  must  be  shared  by  civil  society  and 
expressed 
the 
peacebuilding  process.  The  configurations  have  no 
decision-making  power;  their  relationship  with  the 
relevant countries is comparable to that of a client and 
his attorney. 

the  shared 
definition  of  clear,  realistic  and  tangible  objectives. 
The PBC and the countries on its agenda must agree on 
the  expectations  and  objectives 
for  both  sides. 
A  second  determining  factor 
involvement 
its  direct 
light  of 
through 
in 
the 
in 
is 
10 

10-61032 
With  draft 
resolution  A/65/L.7  before 



the 
Assembly,  an  important  cycle  in  the  review  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  has  been  concluded.  We 
must now implement its recommendations with a view 
to  improving  the  peacebuilding  architecture  and  its 
effectiveness.  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the 
representative  of  Uganda,  in  his  capacity  as  President 
of  the  Security  Council,  on  having  completed  the 
review process during his presidency. 

Chile aligns itself with the statement made by the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Bangladesh  on  behalf  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  countries.  Chile  would 
also like to congratulate the three co-facilitators of the 
review  process  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  — 
the Permanent Representatives of Ireland, Mexico and 
South Africa — on the excellent work they have done 
and  for  the  comprehensive  and  inclusive  process  they 
have  undertaken,  which  has  culminated 
in  a 
comprehensive and balanced report (A/64/868, annex). 

Chile, as pro tempore Secretary of the Rio Group, 
had  the  opportunity  to  organize  a  meeting  of  the 
co-facilitators with the members of the Rio Group. We 
would  like  to  thank  the  Chair  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  Ambassador  Peter  Wittig  of  Germany, 
and the Commission’s previous Chair, for the excellent 
work they have done. 
We  would  also  like  to  thank  the  chairs  of  the 

their  dedicated 
country-specific  configurations  for 
work.  I  would  particularly 
the 
to  mention 
like 
participation  of  developing  countries  in  the  country-
specific  configurations.  In  this  regard,  the  excellent 
work  of  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Brazil, 
heading the country-specific configuration for Guinea-
Bissau,  deserves  special  recognition.  Liberia’s  recent 
incorporation into the agenda of the Commission, with 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Jordan  as  Chair  of 
that  country-specific  configuration,  leads  me  to  hope 
that we will see greater and more decisive participation 
of  our  countries  in  this  important  area  of  the  work  of 
the United Nations. 

We would also like to express our thanks for the 
presentation  of  the  draft  resolution,  on  which  we  will 
vote  shortly. We  believe  that  it  reflects  the  report  and 
recommendations  of  the  co-facilitators,  and  we  hope 
that its adoption will launch a new stage in the life of 
the  Commission,  in  which  relationships  with  other 
United  Nations  departments  and  agencies  will  be 
strengthened,  particularly  those  directly  involved  in 
A/65/PV.40
peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping  activities.  This  new 
stage should at the same time be characterized by daily, 
regular  work  with  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations.  In  this  regard,  we  note  the  co-facilitators’ 
recommendation  that  there  should  be  informal  and 
regular  dialogue  in  the  framework  not  only  of  the 
Security Council, but also of the Economic and Social 
Council and the General Assembly. 

Given  the  fact  that  gender  issues  are  relevant  to 
the  founding  resolutions  of  the  Commission,  we  hope 
that  there  will  be  close  cooperation  with  the  recently 
created  gender  entity,  UN  Women.  Similarly,  in  this 
second  five  years  of  the  PBC’s  existence,  we  hope  to 
see  a  stronger  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  to  ensure 
the human and financial resources essential to meeting 
the  challenges  that  confront  the  countries  on  the 
Commission’s  agenda.  We  also  look  forward  with 
interest  to  the  debate  involving  the  members  of  the 
Commission in order to see how we can implement the 
co-facilitators’  recommendations.  Chile  will  continue 
to  participate  in  that  discussion,  and  will  propose  that 
meetings  of  the  Organizational  Committee  be  open  to 
all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations. We  believe 
that  this  practical  measure  will  allow  Members  to  get 
to know the work of the Commission. We believe that 
the principle of national ownership should continue to 
be  the  cornerstone  on  which  rest  the  peacebuilding 
process and its three pillars: security, development and 
human rights. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  say  that  the 
recent  incorporation  of  Liberia  as  the  fifth  country  on 
the Commission’s agenda was an important step in the 
right  direction  of  incorporating  a  new  country  in  a 
partial way and with a limited mandate, in accordance 
with  the  request  of  the  Government  concerned.  It  is 
thus  the  first  country  to  implement  the  multitier 
principle. 
Mr. Vilović (Croatia): My delegation aligns itself 

with  the  statement  of  the  European  Union,  which  we 
wholeheartedly  support.  However,  allow  me  to  take 
part in this timely and exceptionally relevant debate by 
adding a few short comments in my national capacity. 

As  we  pointed  out  a  few  days  ago  during  the 
Security  Council  debate  (see  S/PV.6396)  on 
the 
Secretary-General’s overview of the progress achieved 
in the implementation of his agenda for action, set out 
in  his  reports  on  peacebuilding  in  the  aftermath  of 
conflict  (A/64/866)  and  the  participation  of  women  in 
10-61032 

11 

of 
the  United  Nations 
A/65/PV.40 

peacebuilding  (A/65/354),  it  is  obvious  that  broad 
cross-regional  support  for  stronger  peacebuilding  is 
increasing,  encompassing  Governments,  international 
organizations and civil society. 

It is our strong belief that, in the rapidly changing 
environment  we  live  in,  which  constantly  puts  new 
challenges  on  our  agenda,  we  have  to  painstakingly 
maintain hard-won gains and make every effort not to 
reopen  battles  we  have  already  won.  Furthermore,  we 
are  of  the  view  that  every  relapse  into  conflict  brings 
even  more  despair  and  disappointment  than  its  initial 
outbreak,  since 
it  undoubtedly  worsens  existing 
problems,  annihilates  all  national  achievements  and 
confirms  the  curse  of  the  vicious  cycle  that  we  are 
trying so hard to eliminate. 

As I have pointed out on previous occasions, it is 
our conviction that the time to establish a new balance 
within  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding  architecture 
has  definitely  arrived  and  that  we  have  to  make  the 
most  of  the  new  momentum  we  currently  possess.  In 
that light, Croatia welcomes the excellent report on the 
review 
peacebuilding 
architecture  (A/64/868,  annex)  presented  by  the  three 
co-facilitators, and fully supports the recommendations 
contained therein, based on the field experience to date 
with  the  countries  on  the  agenda  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission (PBC). 

The  report  certainly  represents  a  sound  basis  for 
the  needed  renewal  of  our  peacebuilding  efforts  and 
stronger  pursuit  of  our  peacebuilding  commitments. 
We  particularly  welcome  the  open,  transparent  and 
inclusive  process  by  which 
co-facilitators 
accomplished  their  demanding  task,  as  well  as  their 
efforts  to  achieve  the  widest  possible  participation  of 
all 
this  comprehensive 
exercise. 

In conclusion, allow me to underscore two of the 
main  findings  of  the  co-facilitators’  report  that  are 
generally  accepted  and  widely  confirmed  and,  in  our 
opinion,  certainly  worth  repeating,  and  without  which 
there can be no successful peacebuilding: first, national 
ownership,  with  all  its  implications,  and  in  particular 
comprehensive  capacity-building;  and  secondly,  the 
sustainability of resources. Obviously, without the first, 
peacebuilding becomes an artificial, international self-
centred exercise with no roots and no hope for durable 
success.  Without  the  second,  peacekeeping  will  fade 
away  soon  after  its  enthusiastic  introduction,  but  long 
relevant  stakeholders 
the 
in 
the 
that 
as  our 
conviction 
before  producing  its  eagerly  awaited  results:  security, 
development and lasting peace. 

Finally,  let  me  finish  by  expressing  our  strong 
support for the draft resolution before us (A/65/L.7), as 
well 
appropriate 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
the co-facilitators’ report — combined with a thorough 
examination  of 
the  Secretary-General’s  ambitious 
agenda for action and careful consideration of his latest 
requests,  proposals  and  recommendations  —  will  bear 
fruit  and  bring  us  significantly  closer  to  our  common 
goal  —  sustainable,  comprehensive  and  cost-effective 
peacebuilding. 
Mr.  Quinlan  (Australia):  I  would  first  like  to 

thank  the  President  of  the  Assembly  for  convening 
today’s  debate.  Building  the  defences  of  peace  is  the 
most difficult work we can undertake, but of course it 
is also the most essential. 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  very  much 

commend  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Ireland, 
Mexico  and  South  Africa  for  their  leadership  of  our 
efforts  throughout  this  review  of  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding architecture. 

in 
peacebuilding  endeavours  in  Timor-Leste,  Solomon 
Islands  and  Papua  New  Guinea  have  taught  us  a 
number  of  lessons  that  have  come  to  be  accepted  as 
self-evident  truths  about  peacebuilding  and  which  are 
reflected 
the  co-facilitators’  report  (A/64/868, 
annex). For example, effective peacebuilding requires a 
long-term 
support  of  national 
ownership  and  national  plans.  Effective  peacebuilding 
is a complex and challenging undertaking that demands 
the  coordinated  engagement  of  a  range  of  actors  from 
the  outset  to  address  political,  security,  humanitarian 
in  parallel.  Effective 
and  development  needs 
peacebuilding  demands  a  continual  focus  on 
the 
delivery  of  actual  outcomes  on  the  ground  and  on 
helping countries emerge from conflict and develop as 
stable and prosperous nations. 

Obviously, the peacebuilding architecture in New 
York  needs  to  support  that  reality,  and  we  therefore 
very  much  support  the  co-facilitators’  report.  It  is 
firmly  grounded  in  reality  and,  once  implemented, 
should  lead  to  what  the  co-facilitators  envisage  as  a 
more 
flexible,  empowered  and  better 
understood  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  and, 
above  all,  a  more  ambitious  one  —  more  the  kind  of 
Australia’s  own  recent  direct  experience 
commitment 
relevant, 
in 
in 
12 

10-61032 
the 
security 
regional  organizations  and 
There are three threads to the report that I would 


Peacebuilding Commission that our own leaders had in 
mind  in  2005.  Such  an  outcome,  of  course,  is  in  the 
interests of all Member States. 

like to touch on quickly today. 
The  first  is  the  need  for  stronger  partnerships. 

report  notes,  unsurprisingly, 
that  effective 
The 
peacebuilding must accompany peacekeeping from the 
very  inception.  In  other  words,  the  planning  of  peace 
operations should be seen not as a military task alone, 
but  as  one  that  demands  a  multitude  of  voices, 
combining  political,  humanitarian  and  development 
considerations  with 
dimension. 
Furthermore,  adequate  resources  clearly  must  be 
allocated  to  address  those  critical  activities  from  the 
beginning.  If  left  unfunded,  these  things,  of  course, 
have the potential to threaten peace. 

The  unique  composition  of  the  PBC,  bringing 
together  engaged  Member  States,  United  Nations 
partners, 
international 
financial institutions, is vital to that endeavour. In turn, 
a  closer  and  more  organic  relationship  between  the 
Security  Council  and  the  PBC  is  essential,  and  is 
needed throughout the whole process to ensure that the 
Council’s  consideration  of  a  situation  provides  an 
avenue through which those disparate voices are heard 
in  the  planning  of  peace  operations.  That  should  be 
done,  of  course,  in  close  cooperation,  as  I  have  said, 
organically with the PBC. 

It  is  equally  important  that  a  strong  partnership 
exist  between  the  international  community  and  the 
conflict-affected Member State itself. The PBC should 
be  seen  as  a  forum 
international 
community  listens  not  only  to  itself,  but  also  to  the 
country  under  consideration,  to  ensure  that  a  true 
partnership can develop between the two. 

Secondly,  there  is  obviously  a  need  for  greater 
flexibility.  We  need  to  be  cognizant  of  and  able  to 
respond  to  the  rapidly  changing  political  and  security 
context  in  post-conflict  societies.  We  need  to  equally 
balance  the  need  for  rapid  responses  to  short-term 
issues,  particularly  security  issues,  against  our  steady 
efforts  on  longer-term  goals.  The  report  recommends 
flexibility  in  the  modes  of  PBC  engagement,  tailoring 
its  support  to  the  needs  of  a  particular  situation.  That 
does not negate the need for a holistic approach to the 
peacebuilding challenges in the country as a whole, but 
in  which 
the 
A/65/PV.40
the 
that  affect  a  nation’s  ability 
rather  it  challenges  us  and  the  PBC  to  ensure  that  its 
engagement is really adding value. 

Thirdly, the need for greater cohesiveness is well 
understood. The report recommends the use of a single 
overall  planning  document  around  which  the  national 
authorities  and 
international  community  can 
coalesce. That will ensure  that all  actors, national and 
international,  have  a  shared  understanding  of  all  the 
factors 
to  build  a 
sustainable  peace  and  are  able  to  align  their  activities 
to  achieve  the  best  outcome.  The  PBC  needs  to 
encourage  our  collective  peacebuilding  efforts 
in 
support of a single national plan and to ensure that its 
own activities are equally aligned to the plan. 

Our  debate  today  represents  only  the  end  of  the 
beginning  of  our  work.  We  now  need  to  turn  to  the 
early implementation of the report’s recommendations. 
To  that  end,  we  strongly  support  the  draft  resolution 
(A/65/L.7) — indeed, we could have supported an even 
stronger resolution — that will be adopted at the end of 
this  meeting  and  its  mechanisms  for  keeping  the 
process of implementation under annual review. 
We  welcome  the  intention  of  PBC  Chairman 

Ambassador  Wittig  to  shortly  convene  an  in-depth 
discussion  on  the  way  forward  in  implementing  the 
report’s recommendations. We must collectively rise to 
the  challenge  of  ensuring  that  we  learn  the  lessons  of 
the  past  five  years,  as  distilled  in  this  very  helpful 
review, and improve the operation of the peacebuilding 
architecture  to  deliver  better  results  for  countries 
emerging from conflict. 

To conclude, the report notes that a new approach 
to  peace  operations  is  a  challenge  that  confronts  the 
United  Nations  as  a  whole.  It  calls  for  a  shift  in 
mindset,  away 
the  current  predominantly 
peacekeeping one to a mindset in which peacekeeping 
is  seen  as  only  one  part,  albeit  the  most  decisive  and 
influential at the beginning, of a broader peacebuilding 
effort. 

I know that we all agree that our key focus needs 
to  be  on  helping  countries  emerge  from  conflict  and 
develop  as  stable  and  prosperous  nations.  We  need  to 
let  that  focus  be  our  guide  and  shape  our  New York-
based structures accordingly. 
Mr.  Wittig  (Germany):  In  my  capacity  as  Chair 

of the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC), I would like 
to make the following brief remarks. 
from 
10-61032 

13 
the 
relevant 
throughout 
the  fifth  country 
to  be  placed  on 
A/65/PV.40 


The  Peacebuilding  Commission  welcomes  the 
action expected today by the General Assembly on the 
draft  resolution  contained  in  document  A/65/L.7.  I 
would  like  to  thank  the  three  co-facilitators  for  their 
excellent  report  (A/64/868,  annex)  and  their  tireless 
efforts 
the  consultations  and  drafting 
processes. 

The draft resolution before the General Assembly 
today  clearly  spells  out  the  need  to  take  forward  the 
implementation  of 
recommendations 
contained in the report, with the aim of improving the 
effectiveness  of  the  Commission.  The  РВС  intends  to 
take its role and responsibility in the implementation of 
the  relevant  recommendations  very  seriously.  Indeed, 
the  Commission  has  already  taken  initial  steps  in 
response to a number of issues and challenges reflected 
in  the  report.  Most  recently,  the  process  of  engaging 
Liberia, 
the 
Commission’s  agenda,  represents  an  important  step  in 
that direction. 
Furthermore, the PBC intends to convene shortly 

an 
in-depth  discussion  on 
in 
implementing  the  relevant  recommendations.  We  will 
rely  on  our 
renewed 
commitment to ensure that the interests and aspirations 
of  the  countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda  will 
remain the focus of any future actions. 

To that end, we look forward to working closely 
with the Secretary-General, the United Nations system 
— the General Assembly, the Security Council and the 
Economic 
regional 
organizations,  international  financial  institutions  and 
all  relevant  stakeholders  in  the  countries  on  the  PBC 
agenda and beyond. 
The  2010  review  process  has  generated  political 

momentum  and  underscored  the  evolving  prominence 
of  post-conflict  peacebuilding  at  the  United  Nations. 
Let  us  all  capitalize  on  this  momentum  and  move 
forward with determination and conviction. 

Allow  me  to  add  some  remarks  in  my  national 
capacity.  Germany  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  remarks 
made by the  Permanent Representative  of Belgium on 
behalf of the European Union. As a strong supporter of 
the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture, 
Germany  welcomes  and  commends  the  most  valuable 
work  of  the  co-facilitators  and  their  excellent  report. 
Germany  fully  supports  the  recommendations  of  the 
report  of  the  co-facilitators  and  is  committed  to 
Social  Council  — 
collective  wisdom 
the  way  forward 
and 

topic  of 
from  Bangladesh  on  behalf  of 
working  together  with  all  relevant  actors  inside  and 
outside  the  United  Nations  system  in  order  to  take 
forward  their  implementation  and  to  increase  the 
effectiveness of the Peacebuilding Commission and its 
support provided by the Peacebuilding Support Office. 

I  would  like  the  thank  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  his  Office  for  convening  this 
important  debate  today  and  for  presenting  the  draft 
resolution,  which  Germany  fully  supports.  Broad 
support  within  the  United  Nations  architecture  is 
important  for  the  future  work  of  the  PBC.  Only  with 
the  approval  and  support  of  the  Security  Council  and 
the General Assembly can the PBC fruitfully continue 
its  work  and  fully  contribute  to  the  peacebuilding 
mechanisms of the United Nations. 
Mr.  Adik  (India):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
today’s  meeting  on  a 
importance  and 
significance to all of us. Let me at the outset align my 
delegation  with 
the  statement  delivered  by  my 
colleague 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 
Because  of  time  constraints,  I  will  not  read  out 

the full text of my statement, which I have circulated in 
the  Hall.  I  will  refer  only  to  certain  parts  of  my 
statement. 
I  wish  to  begin  by  echoing  the  Secretary-

General’s  assertion, 
last  year  on 
peacebuilding  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  conflict 
(A/63/881),  wherein  he  emphasized  the  imperative  of 
national  ownership  and  the  anchoring  of  international 
peacebuilding  efforts  at  the  host-country  level.  My 
delegation  recognizes  the  importance  of  post-conflict 
peacebuilding 
for  building 
sustainable  peace,  security  and  development  in  the 
aftermath of conflict. 

Sustainable  peacebuilding  requires  an  integrated 
approach with coherence among activities in the realms 
of politics, security, development, human rights and the 
rule  of  law.  Security  clearly  is  the  key  peacebuilding 
pillar.  Capacity-building  also  assumes  significance, 
especially in instances where countries find it difficult 
to completely utilize the financial assistance they have 
been  provided.  It  is  equally  important  to  focus  on 
building  economic  opportunity,  particularly  for  young 
people,  along  with  political  and  social  stability. 
Unemployment  among  the  young  is  a  major  factor  in 
the  perpetuation  of  the  underlying  causes  of  conflict. 
foundation 
in  his 
report 
the 
as 
and 
14 

10-61032 
acting 
through 
through 
community, 


Economic  revitalization  and  economic  opportunity, 
especially  among  the  young,  are  crucial  in  achieving 
sustainable peace and security. 

Another key issue is that of financing. Let us be 
clear and acknowledge the fact that the lack of funding 
continues  to  be  a  major  impediment  to  the  success  of 
peacebuilding  initiatives.  It  goes  without  saying  that 
other elements, such as human resources and technical 
assistance 
the  provision  of  appropriate 
technologies, are important as well. 
Given  the  sensitivities  of  such  peacebuilding 

tasks  as  security  sector  reform  and  development 
administration,  a  high  degree  of  coordination  within 
the  United  Nations  is  desirable.  Work  in  the  country-
specific  configurations  has  been  a  positive  dimension. 
My  delegation  is  therefore  of  the  view  that  the 
international 
the 
instrumentality  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(PBC), must always strive to ensure that there is a two-
way  dialogue  between  countries  on  the  agenda  of  the 
PBC and the Commission. Of particular importance are 
troop-  and  police-contributing 
consultations  with 
countries,  both 
the 
instrumentality  of  the  PBC,  while  formulating  and 
revising mandates of United Nations missions. 

Ever  since  the  creation  of  the  PBC  in  December 
2005,  India,  as  a  member  of  the  Organizational 
Committee,  has  engaged  itself  constructively  with  the 
work  of 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund in the spirit of supporting the Fund 
in  achieving  its  task  as  mandated  by  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council. Further, we are of 
the view that the Fund should act as a catalyst for good 
governance.  In  this  regard,  we  note  with  approval  the 
creation of the Senior Advisory Group for the Review 
of International Civilian Capacities in fulfilment of the 
agenda for action outlined by the Secretary-General in 
his  2009  report  on  peacebuilding  in  the  immediate 
aftermath of conflict. 

My delegation is of the view that the international 
community,  acting  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
PBC,  must  always  strive  to  ensure  that  there  is 
effective  two-way  dialogue  between  countries  on  the 
agenda  of  the  PBC  and  the  Commission  itself.  In  this 
regard, it is important that the ongoing review reorient 
the  existing  peacebuilding  architecture  in  order  to 
enable  the  Organizational  Committee  and  the  PBC  to 
play  a  more  decisive 
the 
the  PBC.  We  have  contributed 
individually 
formulating 
through 
role 
and 
to 
in 
A/65/PV.40
it 
Commission’s  approach  to  post-conflict  situations. 
Also, the country-specific configurations must not run 
ahead  of  national  Governments  in  setting  targets. 
National  needs  rather  than  normative  prescriptions 
should determine peacebuilding priorities. 

A  mechanism  should  be  devised  to  incorporate 
the  wealth  of  experience  that  is  available  with  the 
troops  on  the  ground.  No  effort  should  be  spared  that 
might  enrich  the  peacebuilding  process  in  a  post-
conflict  society.  To  maximize  the  peace  dividend 
through  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping, 
is 
necessary that mandates be mindful of the specificities 
on the ground. The Commission and the Organizational 
Committee should play an important role in this regard. 

It  is  neither  possible  nor  desirable  to  transplant 
models  specific  to  one  region  to  another  context. The 
international community must not be unduly eager for 
a  standard  implementation  to  bring  peace  in  a  hurry. 
Sustainable  peace  has 
to  be  earned  diligently, 
empathetically and inclusively. In that regard, regional 
and  subregional  approaches  to  crisis  situations  have 
great  relevance  while peacekeeping  and peacebuilding 
mandates are being worked out at the United Nations. 
We  believe  that  the  peacebuilding  architecture  must 
institutionalize structures and processes to that end. 
in 

the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
carrying  out 
its  mandate  as  an 
intergovernmental advisory body, it is incumbent upon 
all organs of the peacebuilding architecture, such as the 
General  Assembly, 
the 
Economic and Social Council, to work in a coordinated 
and  coherent  manner.  The  Commission  should  not 
merely 
peace 
consolidation  but  should  rather  help  with  the  efficient 
harnessing of international expertise. 

that 
We  must  be  cognizant  of 
peacebuilding  is  still  a  concept  in  its  infancy  and  is 
continuously  evolving.  The  international  community 
has  taken  the  idea  of  peacebuilding  on  board  in  order 
to  fulfil  the  important  need  of  handling  post-conflict 
situations. It is therefore imperative that we ensure that 
the 
the  peacebuilding 
architecture and peacebuilding itself are successful. 

In conclusion, let me share India’s unique nation-
building expertise in wide-ranging and diverse settings. 
We have strived for a better life for our people. In the 
process,  we  as  a  nation  have  acquired  capacities 
relevant  to  development  and  peacebuilding.  We  have 
the  Security  Council  and 
that  constitute 
advise  States 
post-conflict 
task  under 
institutions 
To  assist 
fact 
the 
the 
on 
10-61032 

15 
on 
country 
A/65/PV.40 

shared  our  experience  with  a  number  of  countries 
making  the  transition  from  conflict  to  peace.  We  will 
continue to make our abilities available to countries in 
post-conflict  situations  and  cooperate  with  the  United 
Nations in its peacebuilding endeavours. 
Mr.  Parham  (United  Kingdom):  I  would  first 

like  to  thank  the  President  for  organizing  today’s 
debate,  which,  along  with  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution  we  have  before  us  (A/65/L.7),  marks  an 
important stage in our efforts to improve the impact of 
the Peacebuilding Commission. 

Like  others  before  me,  I  would  like  to  offer  my 
particular  thanks  to  the  three  co-facilitators  for  their 
tireless  efforts  in  undertaking  the  review.  The  review 
report 
(A/65/868,  annex)  provides  some  useful 
recommendations  that  will  sharpen  the  work  of  the 
Commission.  I  would  like  to  highlight  in  particular 
those  recommendations  relating  to  the  Commission’s 
country-specific work. An  emphasis on  better analysis 
and  a  focus  on  the  key  bottlenecks  to  peace  in  a 
establishing  mutual 
specific 
and 
commitments  between 
the 
international  community  on  how  best  to  unblock  the 
bottlenecks  will  put  the  Commission  in  much  better 
standing for achieving results. 

So  too  will  the  proposals  for  the  Commission  to 
take  a  flexible  approach  to  its  country  work  and  the 
potential for the Commission’s work to be chaired by a 
country  rather  than  by  an  individual.  Those  proposals 
will also help sharpen the Commission’s advice to the 
Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly  and 
the 
Economic and Social Council. We also support efforts 
to forge a much more dynamic relationship between the 
Security Council and the Commission. 
But  the  report  is  not  the  end  of  the  process.  We 

must  now  move  quickly  to  the  next  stage  of  bringing 
these  recommendations  forward  and  ensuring  that  the 
Commission makes a real difference on the ground. 
There are big challenges to be met in the coming 

months.  In  practical  terms,  we  need  to  see  genuine 
progress  on  issues  like  security  sector  reform  in 
Guinea-Bissau; 
and  disarmament, 
demobilization and reintegration in the Central African 
Republic;  and  strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  and 
security  sector  reform  in  Liberia.  We  hope  that,  by 
demonstrating  results,  the  Commission  will  become  a 
much more sought after and influential body, engaging 
effectively in countries on its agenda. 
the  Government  and 
elections 
the 

enhancing 
effectiveness 
complying  with 
Mr.  Pankin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
for 
the  coordination  of  cooperation 

When  we  meet  here  again  in  five  years’  time 
following  the  next  review,  we  shall  judge  ourselves 
against 
these  kinds  of  benchmarks.  The  United 
Kingdom reiterates its firm commitment to help ensure 
that we do. 
in 

Russian): The Russian Federation supports the work of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  as  an 
important 
and 
instrument 
strengthening 
in 
international  peacekeeping  activities  in  post-conflict 
States  with  the  participation  of  international  financial 
institutions,  while 
the  main 
prerogatives of the main bodies of the Organization, in 
particular the Security Council. 

We  think  that  the  review  of  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  that  has  been  conducted 
this year will make it possible for us to continue work 
on  further  improving  and  enhancing  the  impact  of  the 
work  of  the  Commission.  We  think  that  the  fact  of 
conducting  this  review  has  already  led  to  increased 
interest and attention to the peacebuilding efforts of the 
United  Nations  and  the  work  of  the  Commission  in 
particular, which is something that is very positive. 

We  would  like  to  thank  the  co-facilitators  of  the 
process of reviewing the Peacebuilding Support Office, 
namely  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Mexico, 
Ireland  and  South  Africa,  for  preparing  the  report 
(A/64/838,  annex).  The  report  highlights  a  host  of 
problems that the Commission encounters in its work. 
What is important is that it confirms the advisory  and 
coordinating  function  of  the  Commission  and  the 
primacy of the principle of national responsibility and 
the  priority  of  strengthening  the  national  capacity  of 
countries  that  find  themselves  in  the  post-conflict 
phase of their development. 

Many  of  the  proposals  contained  in  the  report 
prepared by the co-facilitators deserve to be supported. 
However,  they  need  to  be  examined  in  detail,  along 
with  the  appropriate  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  on 
the  basis  of  their  competence  and  mandates,  before 
implementing the proposals, if indeed they are found to 
be acceptable. That is what the draft resolution before 
us urges us to do. We are ready to adopt it.. 
Mr.  Barton  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  of  America  would  like  to  thank  our 
colleagues  from  Ireland,  Mexico  and  South Africa  for 
16 

10-61032 


their  fine  work.  We  welcome  their  comprehensive 
report (A/64/838, annex). 

The  review  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
provides  many  important  recommendations  on  how  to 
move peacebuilding forward, from greater coordination 
between  New  York,  the  field  and  the  United  Nations 
system overall to how to truly incorporate gender into 
ways  to  build  national  ownership.  The  United  States 
strongly  supports  the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
work  and  this  review,  as  promoting  sustainable  peace 
lies at the heart of the United Nations mission. 

Former Secretary-General Annan used to speak of 
the  missing  middle  between  peacekeeping  and 
sustainable  development.  The  Commission  is  striving 
to meet that commitment by linking ambitions in New 
York with programmes in the field, coordinating better 
with  international  institutions,  running  programmes 
and  assessing  needs  in  post-conflict  countries.  The 
Commission  should  encourage  actors 
to  support 
coherence in the field through more inclusive dialogue, 
greater  innovation,  stronger  best  practices  and  better 
resource  delivery  and  capacity-building.  We  urge  the 
Commission  to  more  systematically  and  substantively 
engage  women 
in  peacemaking  and  post-conflict 
planning processes and to commit to implementing the 
action plan  proposed in the Secretary-General’s  report 
on women’s participation in peacebuilding (A/65/354). 

In the end, the success of peacebuilding depends 
on leadership from the country emerging from conflict 
itself  and  on  its  own  leaders  and  communities.  The 
United Nations must make that its top priority. 

The Peacebuilding Commission review  marks an 
important  milestone  as  we  all  assess  the  role  that  the 
Commission — and the United Nations as a whole — 
can  and  should  play  in  helping  post-conflict  societies 
find  their  footing  on  the  path  to  lasting  peace  and 
prosperity. 
Mr. Travers (Canada): Draft resolution A/65/L.7, 

which  is  now  before  the  General  Assembly,  and  the 
draft  resolution  that  will  be  presented  in  the  Security 
Council  later  today  demonstrate  the  commitment  in 
the  United  Nations 
both  bodies 
contribution 
two  draft 
resolutions also represent an important reaffirmation of 
the role that the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC) can 
and should play within the United Nations. 
to  strengthening 
to  peacebuilding.  The 
A/65/PV.40
towards  an 

Canada  welcomes  the  co-facilitators’  report  on 
the  2010  review  of  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture  (A/64/868,  annex).  The  co-facilitators 
have  made  a  major  contribution  by  detailing  the  way 
forward, and must be commended for their unflagging 
efforts.  Equally  important,  the  comprehensive  and 
inclusive  nature  of  the  review  process  has  created 
much-needed  momentum 
increasingly 
effective  United  Nations  peacebuilding  architecture. 
While Canada commends the consensus that the review 
has built, the real test now lies with the implementation 
of  its  concrete  recommendations.  In  this  light,  allow 
me to briefly speak to four areas that deserve particular 
attention. 

First,  Canada  endorses  the  report’s  assessment 
that  the  PBC  needs  to  maintain  a  flexible,  multitiered 
approach. The country configuration model has proved 
to  be  an  effective  means  of  engaging  with  countries 
recovering  from  conflict.  The  inclusion  of  Liberia  on 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s  agenda  not  only 
demonstrates progress but also further underscores the 
need  to  adjust  to  each  post-conflict  context.  The 
Commission must continue to innovate in this manner, 
including  by  adopting  lighter  forms  of  engagement. 
This  will  allow  greater  flexibility  in  its  responses  to 
particular  needs  and  at  different  points 
the 
peacebuilding process. 
Secondly,  Canada  stresses  the  importance  of 

closer  cooperation  with  field-level  peacebuilding. The 
Commission’s  engagement  must  be  aligned  with 
existing  national  strategies  and  be  complementary  to 
the  work  of  relevant  peacebuilding  actors  on  the 
ground. In this respect, Canada welcomes proposals to 
more  effectively  draw  on 
the  national  resources 
available  within  the  full  membership  of  the  country 
configurations. 

Thirdly,  the  proliferation  of  peacebuilding  actors 
reinforces the need for a thematic focal point to bring 
coherence 
to  broader  peacebuilding  efforts.  The 
Peacebuilding  Commission  can  productively  enhance 
its  role  as  a  forum  for  supporting  reform  processes, 
sharing  best  practices  and  debating  outstanding 
institutional  challenges. This will  require an increased 
willingness  to  draw  on  expertise  resident  within  the 
wider  peacebuilding  community.  As  its  experience 
builds,  the  Commission  will  also  be  better  placed  to 
systematize the lessons learned from its own work. 
in 
10-61032 

17 
looks 
Finally, 
regional 
including 
organizations, 
the  United  Nations 
the  Commission  must  continue 
A/65/PV.40 


to 
develop stronger partnerships with other peacebuilding 
actors, 
the 
international  financial  institutions  and  civil  society. 
This is also true within the United Nations, where there 
is  an  enduring  need  for  closer  relationships  with  the 
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and  the  Security  Council.  In  our  view,  enhanced 
cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Peacebuilding Commission holds particular promise. A 
more  effective  working  relationship  between  the  two 
bodies, based on a clearer mutual understanding of the 
Commission’s  role  and  increased  use  of  informal 
linkages, should be explored. 
(spoke in French) 
Canada  welcomes  the  conclusion  of  the  2010 

review 
peacebuilding 
architecture.  Now  the  hard  work  begins.  Canada 
encourages all relevant United Nations actors to move 
forward  on  the  recommendations  of  the  review.  In 
particular,  Canada 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission to work closely with actors in the field, to 
adopt  a  more  flexible,  multitiered  approach  and  to 
focus  greater  attention  on  its  potential  thematic  role 
within the United Nations system. Canada stands ready 
to play an active part in advancing this agenda. 
Mr.  Chabi  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation would like to commend the President of the 
General Assembly on his facilitating role in negotiating 
the  draft 
the 
Assembly  today  (A/65/L.7).  We  also  wish  to  strongly 
commend  Ms. 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  for 
their  excellent 
management  of  that  important  area  of  United  Nations 
work. 

While  we  align  ourselves  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Bangladesh on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement, my delegation would like 
to make the following additional points. 
and 

peacebuilding 
international 
community must realize in concrete terms and through 
a  coordinated  response  the  principle  of  collective 
security. In that context, the Kingdom of Morocco, as a 
member  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC), 
underlines 
the 
Commission’s role and of taking measures to bolster its 
resolution  under  consideration  by 
Judy  Cheng  Hopkins  and 
are  permanent.  The 
peacekeeping 
importance 
challenges 
enhancing 
The 
the 
of 
to 
of 
of 

to 
(A/64/868, 
annex).  The 
Five  years  after 
the  coordination  of 
the  establishment  of 
the  Security  Council  and 
the  Support  Office  within 
structural, organizational and operational effectiveness, 
including by financing the Peacebuilding Fund. 

We  note  with  interest  the  content  of  the  co-
facilitators’  report  on  the  review  of  the  peacekeeping 
architecture 
report’s 
recommendations  deserve  serious  attention,  especially 
those  relating 
local  and 
the  financial  and  qualitative 
international  actors, 
strengthening  of 
the 
the  creation  of  new  cooperative 
Secretariat  and 
dynamics  between 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  which  stirred  a  lot  of 
enthusiasm  in  the  international  community,  much  has 
been  accomplished  in  this  area,  despite  the  lack  of 
means.  Peacebuilding  occupies  a  special  place  in  the 
United  Nations  agenda.  Moreover,  activities  in  its 
sphere are bound to intensify, especially in the light of 
the increased role of civil society in peacekeeping. As a 
result,  the  clothes  designed  for  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  five  years  ago  have  grown  too  tight,  if  I 
may  use  that  figure  of  speech.  For  that  reason  we 
should  re-examine 
the  parameters  of  our  global 
approach to peacebuilding. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  will  gain  efficacy  by 
two  principal 
measures: 
between 
the 
Organizational  Committee  and  the  country-specific 
configurations  and  improving  the  functioning  of  the 
country-specific  configurations.  The  Organizational 
Committee should thus continue to focus primarily on 
strategic  questions  and  on  expanding  partnerships 
within  and  outside  the  United  Nations.  On  the  matter 
of  the  country-specific  configurations,  it  is  important 
for them to include a strong national component so as 
to  increase  ownership  and  permit  a  smooth  transition 
from  the  United  Nations  mandate  to  the  host  country 
taking charge of the primary sectors. The establishment 
on the ground of country-specific configuration liaison 
committees  will  allow  better 
interaction  among 
members of the Commission, the host country and the 
Peacebuilding Support Office. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  is  struggling  to 
find  its  bearings  within  the  United  Nations  peace  and 
security  architecture.  The  links  it  has  developed  with 
the  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  —  the 
General  Assembly, 
the 
the  Security  Council  and 
the  operational  front, 
tightening 
link 
the 
On 
18 

10-61032 
the  way 
Institutions  of 


Economic and Social Council — remain notably weak. 
We  must  enhance  the  Commission’s  interactions  with 
those  bodies  and  clear 
for  balanced 
relationships,  especially  with  the  Security  Council, 
which  is  charged  by  the  Charter  with  matters  that 
threaten international peace and security. That requires 
integrating  a  regional  perspective  in  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission, notably through a strategic 
dialogue  with  the  Community  of  West  African  States 
and the countries of the Mano River Union. 

The Peacebuilding Support Office plays a leading 
role in the implementation of integrated peacebuilding 
strategies.  Given  the  diversification  of  the  agenda  of 
the  PBC  and  in  order  to  maintain  the  quality  of  the 
work of the Office, it is important to provide it with the 
necessary  human,  financial  and  operational  resources. 
It is also important to increase the cooperation between 
the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and  the  Office  of 
Rule  of  Law  and  Security 
the 
Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  in  order  to 
develop strategic platforms in peacebuilding. 

It  is  well  known  that  the  prevention  of  conflicts 
and  the  development  of  United  Nations  capacities  in 
the fields of early warning, mediation and the peaceful 
settlement of disputes could contribute to significantly 
reducing the horrors of conflicts. Peacebuilding, as an 
instrument  for  change  and  resolving  conflicts,  has  an 
important  preventive  dimension  that  we  should  take 
advantage  of.  That  goal  can  only  be  achieved  if  we 
take full stock of the collective nature of this challenge 
and of the minimal cost of peacebuilding as compared 
to the cost of dealing with conflicts. 

A Chinese saying has it that the best is the enemy 
of  the  good.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  is  an 
excellent  instrument  that  could  be  improved  but  that 
plays  an 
the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  architecture.  Collectively,  it  is  up  to  us 
to  improve  its  effectiveness,  expand  its  interactions 
with  the  other  main  United  Nations  organs  and 
diversify its partnerships. 
Mr. Kim Bonghyun (Republic of Korea): At the 

outset, I would like to express my delegation’s support 
for  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution A/65/L.7.  I  would 
also like to take this opportunity to join other members 
in commending the work of the co-facilitators and their 
extensive and in-depth report (A/64/868, annex) on the 
review 
peacebuilding 
the  United  Nations 
important  role 
of 
in 
A/65/PV.40
that 
not 
the 
the  report  clearly  states 
follow 
architecture.  We  take  note  of  the  many  valuable 
observations and recommendations it contains. 

As  mentioned  in  the  report,  peacebuilding  is  a 
complicated  process  that  takes  time.  However,  this 
simple  truth  should  not  hinder  the  concerted  efforts 
that are being made towards the realization of peace in 
the  aftermath  of  conflict.  In  that  regard,  I  am  glad  to 
note 
that  effective 
peacebuilding  must 
peacekeeping 
operations,  but  accompany  them  from  their  inception. 
The  task  ahead  will  be  to  come  up  with  an  effective 
organizational  approach  that  complements  and  further 
enhances 
role  of  both  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding.  In  addition,  my  delegation  shares  the 
view  that  coordination  and  coherence  among  the 
various  United  Nations  bodies  and  organizations, 
especially with the Security Council, is  a key element 
in  effectively  carrying  out  peacebuilding  initiatives. 
Promoting  more  structured 
interaction  with  other 
institutions,  such  as  the  World  Bank  and  regional 
organizations, is also of crucial importance. 

With  regard  to  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
(PBSO),  we  underscore  the  call  for  the  strengthening 
of  the  Office  in  order  for  it  to  adequately  perform  its 
mandated  role.  It  is  indeed  unfortunate  that  there  are 
only 41 posts in the PBSO, of which about 70 per cent 
are either temporary, seconded or extrabudgetary posts 
or funded by the Peacebuilding Fund. 

As  stressed  in  draft  resolution  A/65/L.7,  my 
delegation  hopes  that  the  relevant  United  Nations 
actors  will 
appropriate 
recommendations  contained  in  the  review  report.  The 
task 
various 
recommendations  with  a  realistic  goal  in  mind.  We 
hope that members will henceforth be able to engage in 
productive  discussions  on  priorities  and,  in  turn, 
implement 
an 
expeditious manner. To that end, the Republic of Korea 
will strive to render its constructive support. 
Mr.  Sefue  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  I 

should like to begin by expressing our gratitude to the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Ireland,  Mexico  and 
South  Africa  for  facilitating  this  important  review  on 
behalf of the entire membership of the United Nations. 
We  commend  them  for  their  hard  work  and  for 
engaging  and  consulting  with  a  wide  range  of 
interlocutors,  within  and  outside  the  United  Nations 
system.  The  present  report  (A/64/868,  annex)  and  its 
recommendations 
the  urgent 
streamline 
forward 
ahead 
take 
is 
to 
the 
the 
in 
10-61032 

19 
in 
that 
the 
like  also 
facilitating 
established 
review  of 
the  negotiation  of 
A/65/PV.40 

recommendations  have  therefore  benefited  from  the 
kind of comprehensive and inclusive approach we have 
always called for. 

We  would 
to  extend  our  deepest 
appreciation  to  the  President  and  to  Uganda  for  their 
leadership  and  efforts  in  negotiating  draft  resolution 
A/65/L.7  with  a  view  to  its  adoption  by  both  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council today. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
read out by the representative of Bangladesh on behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  As  co-chair  with 
Denmark 
the 
resolutions 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission (PBC) in 2006, I want to say how  happy 
we are to witness the adoption of the report (A/64/868, 
annex)  on 
the  United  Nations 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  architecture  and 
today’s draft resolution by both the General Assembly 
and the Security Council. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  is  a  relatively 
recent  addition  to  the  United  Nations  family.  Yet,  it 
embodies  the  hopes  of  many  and  bears  a  unique 
legitimacy  and  authority  from  both 
the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council. This dual blessing 
gives  the  PBC  a  strong  mandate,  which  we  are  all 
being  called  upon  to  support  if  it  is  to  deliver 
according to our expectations — especially those of the 
people  who  count  on  us  to  help  them  build  on  and 
sustain their newly found peace. 

It  is  in  that  regard  that  my  delegation  welcomes 
the  report  presented  by  the  co-facilitators,  entitled 
“Review  of 
the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture”. As  I  said  earlier,  that  report  is  based  on 
extensive  consultations  within  the  United  Nations 
membership and with other stakeholders. Likewise, my 
delegation  welcomes  the  upcoming  adoption  of  the 
draft  resolution  by  the  General  Assembly,  which 
reaffirms  the  importance  of  the  peacebuilding  work 
carried  out  by  the  United  Nations  and  the  role  of  the 
PBC  in  addressing  the  needs  of  countries  emerging 
from  conflict  and  nurturing  them  towards  sustainable 
and irreversible peace. In adopting the draft resolution, 
we will be making the necessary commitment towards 
the  implementation  of  the  final  recommendations  of 
the  review  process  and  reaffirming  our  readiness  to 
develop the  United Nations peacebuilding architecture 
with the Peacebuilding Commission at its centre. 


My  delegation  recognizes  the  important  role  and 
the central task of the Organizational Committee of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  in  implementing  the  draft 
resolution  and  the  recommendations  of  the  review 
process. Looking forward, we would like to emphasize 
the following three goals we envisage for them. 

The first goal is to prevent a relapse into conflict 
by  working  with  the  people  in  addressing  the  root  or 
structural  causes  of  a  previous  conflict  in  a  given 
country,  in  collaboration  with  other  organs  in  the 
United Nations system and regional organizations. 
The second goal is to achieve national ownership 

of 
the  peacebuilding  process,  which  should  be 
emphasized  in  the  PBC  at  Headquarters  in  New York 
and  in  country  configurations.  National  ownership 
should  include  the  participation  of  other  national 
stakeholders,  such  as  national  parliamentarians  and 
relevant civil society organizations. Women and youth 
must be part of that process. 

The  third  goal  is  to  achieve  a  clear  relationship 
between  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  and  the  PBC  as  a 
non-operational  entity.  That  could  be  achieved  if  the 
decision-making  procedures  regarding  disbursement, 
implementing  partners  were  clearly 
targeting  and 
defined 
funding 
interventions.  Flexibility  should  also  be  exercised  in 
the  interpretation  of  the  non-operational  role  of  the 
PBC,  as  situations  vary  from  one  country  to  another 
and the PBC’s presence on the ground remains periodic 
and diffused. 
Tanzania  welcomes  a  consensus  adoption  of 

today’s  draft  resolution  and  looks  forward  to  the 
successful  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of 
the  review  report.  The  United  Nations  cannot  impose 
lasting  peace  on  a  people.  It  is  the  people  themselves 
who can ensure that the seeds of peace germinate, take 
root,  grow  and 
inclusive  and 
participatory  process  that  must  involve  women  and 
youth. Our duty is always to be there, lending a helping 
hand and nurturing a tree of peace that is suitable and 
specific  to  each  situation.  For  many  years,  the  United 
Nations developed the capacity and competence to put 
out  the  fires  of  conflict.  Now  we  must  develop  the 
capacity, 
the 
wherewithal to build peace and prevent the recurrence 
of conflict. As always, Tanzania stands ready to do its 
part  and  pledges  its  full  support  to  the  PBC  in  New 
system-wide  competence  and 
timely  and  effective 
through  an 
to  permit 
thrive 
the 
20 

10-61032 
The 
the 
lessons 
establishment 
its  work,  but 


York  and  at  the  country  level  in  the  process  of 
implementing the recommendations. 
Mr. Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke in Chinese): The 

Chinese  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
for convening today’s meeting. 

Peacebuilding 
of 
Commission  (PBC)  marked  an  important  milestone  in 
the reform of the United Nations. The current five-year 
review  is  clearly  significant  in  taking  stock  of  the 
PBC’s  work,  drawing  on 
learned  and 
strengthening the role of the Commission. We express 
our  appreciation  to  the  co-facilitators,  namely,  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Ireland,  Mexico  and 
South Africa, for their fine work. We also wish to thank 
President  Deiss  and Ambassador  Rugunda,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Uganda,  who  holds  the  rotating 
presidency of the Security  Council for this month, for 
their  efforts  to  facilitate  reaching  consensus  on  the 
outcome of the review among the parties concerned. 
Over  the  past  five  years,  the  PBC  has  achieved 

it  still  faces  numerous 
much 
challenges.  There 
for 
improvement  in  its  work.  The  report  on  the  review 
(A/64/868, annex) made many useful recommendations 
that  merit  thorough  consideration  by  Member  States 
and 
to 
emphasize the following four points. 

is  primarily 
responsible  for  post-conflict  peacebuilding  in  that 
country. All  stakeholders  should  fully  respect  country 
ownership. All  assistance  should  therefore  be  focused 
on  capacity-building  and  providing 
the  necessary 
resources  and  support.  The  international  community 
and  the  United  Nations,  including  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  mainly  have 
task  of  providing 
recommendations  and  assistance, 
than  of 
substituting  for  the  efforts  of  the  country  in  question. 
In  developing  national  peacebuilding  strategies,  we 
should fully take into account the views of the country 
in  question  and  respect  the  priorities  that  it  has 
identified. 
Secondly,  peacebuilding  requires  unanimity.  The 

regional 
relevant 
organizations  should  take  an  integrated  approach  to 
enhancing  coordination,  synergy  and  efficiency.  The 
PBC  should  work  harder  to  set  straight  its  relations 
with  other  major  United  Nations  agencies,  while 
bringing  into  play  its  unique  influence  and  promoting 
relevant  agencies.  Today, 
the  country 
international 
in  question 
I  would 
therefore 
agencies 
rather 
First, 
is 
still 
room 
the 
and 
in 
like 
A/65/PV.40
the 
and 
increase 
facilitating 
efficiency  of 
the  World  Bank, 
both the separate  roles of and coordination among the 
PBC, the World Bank and regional organizations in the 
areas of peacebuilding. 
Thirdly,  the  PBC  should  improve  its  working 

the 
methods 
Organizational  Committee  and 
the  meetings  of 
country-specific configurations. We support the PBC in 
strengthening  its  relations  with  the  General Assembly, 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  in  accordance  with  the  mandates  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Council,  and  in  making 
more targeted recommendations on peacebuilding. 

Fourthly, it is necessary to find a prompt solution 
to  the  current  difficulties  in  mobilizing  financial 
resources  for  peacebuilding.  While  it  is  important  to 
develop  viable  peacebuilding  development  strategies, 
the crux should be to mobilize greater financial support 
for post-conflict peacebuilding efforts by the countries 
in question. The PBC could play a greater coordinating 
role  by  integrating  bilateral  and  multilateral  funding 
sources  and 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund  and  other  financial 
institutions making larger contributions. China calls on 
more  countries  to  contribute  to  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund, while also hoping that the Fund will continue to 
improve  its  work  and  increase  its  supervision  and, 
consequently, its efficiency in resource utilization. 

China has always supported the United Nations in 
playing a crucial role in peacebuilding and the work of 
the  PBC.  We  are  confident  that  the  current  five-year 
review  on  the  work  of  the  PBC  will  provide  a  new 
starting  point  for  improving  the  PBC’s  work  and 
enhancing its efficiency and role. 
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  Let  me  start  by  thanking 

the co-facilitators for producing a very comprehensive 
and  analytical  report  on  the  review  of  the  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture  (A/64/868,  annex). 
Their assessments and recommendations for the future 
enhancement of United Nations engagement in the area 
of peacebuilding are critical as we move forward. 

the  President  for 
convening  this  debate  within  the  General  Assembly. 
Indeed,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  is  a 
creation  of  both  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly.  It  is  therefore  fitting  that  the  wider  United 
Nations  membership 
to  provide  an 
assessment  of  the  report  and  of  the  functions  of  the 
Allow  me  also 
is  also  able 
thank 
to 
10-61032 

21 
architecture 
five  years 
after 
its 

the 
Jamaica  associates 
A/65/PV.40 

peacebuilding 
establishment. 

As  one  of  the  original  members  of  the  PBC, 
Jamaica  is  committed  to  a  strengthened  and  enhanced 
PBC that is able to fulfil the vision and hopes vested in 
it  five  years  ago  by  Member  States  and  the  five 
countries currently on the PBC agenda. 

the  statement 
itself  with 
delivered  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Bangladesh 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. As time does 
not  allow  for  a  detailed  presentation  of  our  views,  I 
will  limit  my  focus  to  three  main  areas:  first,  the  role 
of  the  Organizational  Committee;  secondly,  the  place 
of  the  PBC  within  the  Secretariat;  and,  thirdly,  the 
development dimension of peacebuilding activities. 

First,  allow  me  to  make  a  brief  comment  on  the 
issue  of  national  ownership.  Jamaica  agrees  that 
national ownership of the peacebuilding process is the 
main element for success in the area of peacebuilding. 
National  ownership  begins  with 
respective 
Governments  being  able  to  have  significant  input  in 
developing  peacebuilding  strategies,  including  in  the 
respective  strategic  framework  documents.  We  cannot 
continue to pay lip service to that key principle in the 
context  of  peacebuilding  or  any  other  area  of  activity. 
National ownership  also necessitates that all segments 
of the community be allowed to shape the future of the 
respective countries. 

While  the  report  takes  note  of  the  important 
contribution  to  be  made  by  women  and  civil  society 
and  the  shortcomings  of  the  PBC  in  that  area  to  date, 
we  would  have 
to  see  more  substantive 
recommendations on involving all segments of society 
of the countries on the PBC agenda. 

We have taken due note of the recommendations 
of  the  co-facilitators  in  the  area  of  capacity-building, 
which is an essential element of national ownership. At 
the 
substantive 
recommendations  on  measures  to  improve  national 
ownership  of  the  peacebuilding  process  would  have 
been  important  in  entrenching  this  element  in  the 
Commission’s activities. 

Another  key  issue  is  that  of  an  exit  strategy  for 
the PBC with respect to the countries on its agenda. As 
we  have  noted,  that  issue  has  been  given  substantive 
treatment  in  the  report.  This  is  an  area  in  which 
national  ownership  is  very  critical.  Countries  on  the 
however,  more 
same 
time, 
liked 
22 

PBC agenda must have a significant say in determining 
the  benchmarks  for  success  on  the  path  towards 
sustainable growth and development. 

The distance between New York and the countries 
on the PBC’s agenda will always pose a problem and a 
challenge. To that end, we see potential in establishing 
a  PBC-focused  body  at  the  local  level.  At  the  same 
time, however, that should not serve as a substitute for 
full engagement between the membership in New York 
and the Government representatives on the ground. We 
would therefore encourage the increased use of modern 
technology,  specifically  video-conferencing,  as  a 
means  of  ensuring  a  constant  level  of  engagement. At 
the same time, however, there is no substitute for face-
to-face  engagement  and 
interaction.  We  would 
therefore  encourage,  to  the  extent  possible,  increased 
field visits by the PBC to the countries  on its agenda, 
which  should  be  funded  through  the  Peacebuilding 
Support Office. 

Let me now make a few comments on the role of 
the Organizational Committee. Jamaica shares the view 
that  the  PBC  Organizational  Committee  has  been 
relegated  to  a  peripheral  role.  A  strengthened  and 
enhanced  PBC  requires  a  more  proactive  role  for  that 
body.  We  also  firmly  believe  that  in  its  capacity  as 
committee of the whole, the Organizational Committee 
on  the  PBC  should  hold  quarterly  meetings  with  all 
chairs  of  the  country-specific  configurations  and  the 
general  membership  to  review  benchmark  targets, 
challenges  faced  and  the  progress  achieved  on  the 
ground in all of the countries under consideration. That 
will  be  useful  especially  for  smaller  delegations  that 
are  members  of  the  PBC.  We  believe  that  such 
quarterly  interactions  by  the  committee  of  the  whole 
are critical to ensuring that a comprehensive, real-time 
understanding and review of the work under way in the 
countries on the PBC agenda is taking place. 

The  recommendation  to  hold  meetings  of  the 
Organizational  Committee  on  thematic  issues  is  an 
interesting dimension that merits further consideration. 
We have also taken note of the co-facilitators’ decision 
not to reopen discussions on membership. Dare I say, I 
fully  understand  the  reasons.  However,  while  we 
respect  that  decision  of  the  co-facilitators,  as  more 
countries  are  placed  on  the  Commission’s  agenda  — 
and I think this was mentioned in the statements of the 
representatives of Morocco and Tanzania — the ability 
of  the  limited  membership  of  31  States  is  a  question 
that  must  be  squarely  confronted.  From  Jamaica’s 
10-61032 
removed 
the  membership  from 
from  other  aspects  of 


perspective,  consideration  must  be  given  in  particular 
to  expanding 
the  General 
Assembly  category.  For  a  majority  of  Member  States, 
like my own country, the General Assembly category is 
the  only  means  by  which  membership  on  the  PBC  is 
currently accessible. 

With  respect  to  the  place  of  the  PBC  within  the 
Secretariat,  there  is  general  recognition  among  the 
membership  of  the  importance  of  the  peacebuilding 
function to the overarching goals of international peace 
and security. Jamaica fully shares the views expressed 
in  the  report  that  the  PBC  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  must  become  a  resource  centre  for 
generating knowledge and interest on a broad range of 
issues that impact peacebuilding activities. 

In order to generate the necessary buy-in and give 
greater prominence to the Organization’s peacebuilding 
activities  in  the  field  and  among  Member  States,  it 
must  begin  to  be  streamlined  throughout  the  entire 
gamut  of  United  Nations  activities.  Peacebuilding 
activities  are  not  and  cannot  be  undertaken  in  a 
vacuum, 
the 
Organization’s  work.  Delivering  as  a  whole  is  critical 
to generating real change on the ground. The only sure 
means 
that 
peacebuilding  is  viewed  as  a  top  priority.  Political 
support  and  a  record  of  achievements  are  critical 
factors to achieving this end. 

The  debate  concerning  the  place  of  the  PBC 
within  the  Organization  is  an  important  one.  Has  the 
PBC  carved  out  a  place  for  itself,  or  must  it  be 
accorded 
the 
Organization?  For  the  PBC  to  achieve  its  goals,  both 
must take place simultaneously. In that regard, we fully 
agree  with  the  need  not  only  to  strengthen  the  role  of 
the  Organizational  Committee  and  enable  it  to  further 
enhance its relationships with all other relevant bodies 
including  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  Security 
Council  and  General  Assembly,  but  to  strengthen  as 
well the capacities of the Peacebuilding Support Office 
to support its varied functions. 
the  development 

Let  me  quickly  move 
dimension  of  peacebuilding  activities.  Since 
the 
inception  of  its  membership  of  the  PBC,  Jamaica  has 
continued  to  advocate  for  a  greater  focus  on  the 
development dimension of post-conflict peacebuilding. 
We  are  therefore  heartened  to  note  the  substantive 
focus  placed  to  this  aspect  in  the  report  and  we 
level  of  prominence  within 
is  by  ensuring 
to  accomplish 
that 
a 
to 
A/65/PV.40
the 
funds 
to  ensure 
the  ground 
commitment  of 
commend  the  co-facilitators  in  that  regard.  It  is  a 
generally  understood  maxim  that  there  is  no  peace 
without  development  and  no  development  without 
peace. 

As  the  PBC  moves  forward  to  assist  the  five 
countries  currently  on  its  agenda,  and  possibly  future 
countries,  the  development  dimension  must  become 
more central to peacebuilding activities on the ground 
from  the  outset  of  the  PBC’s  engagement.  In  order  to 
ensure  that  this  is  the  case,  peacebuilding  funds  must 
of  necessity  be  more  flexible.  Moreover,  the  existing 
gap  between 
and 
disbursement  on 
timely 
implementation  of  quick-impact  projects  needs  to  be 
urgently addressed. In that regard, we  believe that the 
PBC,  through  its  Organizational  Committee  acting  as 
interlocutor  between  the  donor  community  and  the 
Governments of the countries under consideration, can 
play  a  very  useful  role. We  agree  with  the  conclusion 
that  there  must  be  a  balance  between  the  concerns  of 
the donor community and the day-to-day needs on the 
ground  in  post-conflict  environments.  This  is  perhaps 
one of the potential areas of focus for the PBC. 

In  conclusion,  as  with  any  review  process,  the 
true  test  will  be  realized  in  the  implementation  of  the 
recommendations, both on the ground and here in New 
York. We  cannot  allow  the  five-year  review  to  simply 
be relegated to an academic exercise to simply satisfy a 
mandate contained in the founding resolutions. 

Finally,  leadership  from  all  will  therefore  be 
critical.  The  Secretary-General  and  the  PBC’s  parent 
bodies,  the  Security  Council,  in  particular  its  five 
permanent  members,  and  the  General  Assembly  must 
demonstrate 
to  peacebuilding 
activities  and  the  PBC  and  ensure  that,  to  the  extent 
possible, the recommendations are implemented. 
Mrs.  Dunlop  (Brazil):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

President  for  convening  this  meeting  and  for  the 
elaboration  of  the  draft  resolution  that  the  Assembly 
will adopt today (A/65/L.7). I would also like to thank 
the  co-facilitators  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(PBC)  review  process  for 
they  have 
undertaken. Their report (A/64/868, annex) is rich and 
comprehensive,  although  more  could  have  been  said 
about  the  work  of  the  country-specific  configurations. 
For  example,  the  document  would  have  certainly 
benefited  from  visits  to  the  countries  on  the  PBC’s 
agenda.  As  I  said,  however,  it  is  a  good  report,  for 
their  commitment 
the  work 
10-61032 

23 
of 
of 
the 
delivered 
transparency 
the  wide  support  enjoyed  by 
A/65/PV.40 

which  we  are  grateful  to  the  co-facilitators.  The 
document presents valid and thoughtful recommendations, 
which  we  support  in  general.  My  delegation  also 
supports draft resolution A/65/L.7. 

We believe, however, that the process followed in 
the  consideration  of  the  report  and  the  negotiation  of 
the  draft  resolution  could  have  allowed  for  an  open 
debate, especially in the Organizational Committee. We 
also believe that an entity of the United Nations system 
under review must be given the opportunity to give its 
views to the decision-making bodies. It is our opinion 
that,  given 
the 
recommendations, 
and  participation 
would  have  caused  neither  undue  delay  nor  major 
disagreement  among  Member  States.  We  hope  and 
expect  that  this  will  remain  a  regrettable  exception. 
Brazil  looks  forward  to  an  active  and  participatory 
consideration 
implementation 
the 
recommendations by the respective organs. 
Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  Pakistan  aligns  itself  with 

Permanent 
statement 
the 
Representative  of  Bangladesh  on  behalf  of 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  Pakistan  attaches  great 
importance 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  (PBC).  We  value  the  work  done  by  the 
co-facilitators. Their report (A/64/868, annex) is based 
on oral and written statements contributed by Member 
States.  Pakistan  remained  engaged  with  the  review 
process and also contributed a written proposal. 

In  the  five  years  since  the  2005  World  Summit, 
which established the PBC, the world has realized the 
importance  of  peacebuilding  efforts.  The  five-year 
review  of  the  PBC  is  a  testimony  to  our  collective 
commitment  to  refine  and  improve  peacebuilding 
strategies  based  on  important  lessons  learned,  in  a 
spirit of introspection. The report of the co-facilitators 
has 
of 
peacebuilding.  These  complexities  stem  mainly  from 
constructing a consensus narrative on peacebuilding at 
the global level. 

The  concept  of  peacebuilding  is  relatively  new 
and  the  international  community  is  still  creating 
templates 
for  successful  peacebuilding  strategies. 
Expectations  of  quick  dividends  and  the  process  of 
finding  the  right  balance  between  national  ownership 
and  donors’  agendas  further  augment  the  complexity. 
The  peacebuilding  architecture  can  address 
these 
complexities 
underscored 
review  of 
rightly 
the 
the 
the 
by 
to 

The 
that 
exists 
components. 
the  unique  composition  of 
complexities  by  optimizing  the  interplay  of  various 
actors inside and outside the United Nations. 

The  report  has  also  analysed  the  relationship 
between the peacekeeping and peacebuilding fields and 
how  a  dynamic  mix  can  prevent  relapse  into  conflict. 
The  report  has  rightly  argued  that  peacebuilding  and 
peacekeeping  must  accompany  each  other  from  the 
inception  of  a  mission.  This  approach  requires  more 
coordinated assessment and planning of peacebuilding 
and peacekeeping activities. Important milestones have 
already  been  reached  in  synergizing  the  two  fields. 
Today,  10  out  of  16  peacekeeping  missions  have 
Peacebuilding 
peacebuilding 
Commission,  with 
its 
Organizational  Committee,  is  an  ideal  interface  of 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding fields. In that context, 
I  would  like  to  underline  the  point  that  the  equitable 
representation 
among  membership 
categories of the PBC must be preserved in the interest 
of closer coordination. 

Pakistan supports draft resolution A/65/L.7 on the 
review of the peacebuilding architecture. We are happy 
to join the consensus on its adoption. 
Mr.  Touray  (Sierra  Leone):  I  would  first  of  all 

like to express our appreciation to the President of the 
General Assembly for convening this important debate 
on the review of the peacebuilding architecture. It is a 
pleasure  to  make  a  statement  on  the  review  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
in 
accordance  with  resolution  60/180,  as  set  out  in  the 
annex  to  document  A/64/868,  which  is  based  on 
extensive  consultations  with 
the  United  Nations 
membership  and  other  stakeholders.  I  would  like  to 
express  our 
the 
co-facilitators,  namely,  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of Ireland, Mexico and South Africa. 

the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Malawi on behalf of the Group of African States. 

The  path  to  sustainable  peace  following  violent 
conflict  is  an  immense  challenge  that  requires  the 
collective  and  sustained  effort  of  the  international 
community and local stakeholders. The creation of the 
Peacebuilding Commission in 2005 during the sixtieth 
session  of  the  General Assembly  is  therefore  not  only 
supporting 
very 
programmes  aimed  at  preventing  a  relapse 
into 
We  wholeheartedly  align  ourselves  with 
(PBC)  conducted 
coordinating 
appreciation 
relevant 
thanks 
and 
and 
to 
in 
24 

10-61032 


conflict,  but  also  a  laudable  initiative  by  the  United 
Nations. 

As  stated  in  former  Secretary-General  Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali’s  Agenda  for  Peace,  issued  in  1992, 
peacebuilding  largely  involves  “action  to  identify  and 
support  structures  which  will  tend  to  strengthen  and 
solidify peace in order to avoid a relapse into conflict” 
(A/47/277,  para.  21).  It  therefore  becomes  imperative 
to achieve security and an end to hostilities, on the one 
hand,  and,  on  the  other,  to  engage  in  the  parallel 
longer-term  process  of  consolidating  peace  —  by 
reconciling  people  and  groups  and  reforming  or 
rebuilding institutions, structures and economies — to 
diminish the possibility of a violent relapse. 

The  establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office  and  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  —  as  well  as  the 
selection of Sierra Leone and Burundi as the first two 
countries, together with Guinea-Bissau and the Central 
African  Republic,  and  now  our  sister  Republic  of 
Liberia,  on  the  peacebuilding  agenda  —  has  raised 
high expectations for peacebuilding. As highlighted in 
draft  resolution  A/65/L.7,  the  peacebuilding  work  of 
the  United  Nations  requires  sustained  support  and 
adequate 
challenges.  The 
the 
comprehensive 
of 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
in 
determining  lapses  and  progress  made  and  what  is 
required to achieve its mandate. 

As noted in the Secretary-General’s report to the 
Security Council contained in document S/2010/471, a 
delegation  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  visited 
Sierra Leone in March 2010. It recognized the progress 
made since the end of the war and cited our experience 
as  a  successful  example  of  multilateral  peacebuilding. 
The  PBC  delegation  also  reported  that  significant 
challenges  remained  to  be  addressed  before  Sierra 
Leone  could  fully  realize  its  long-term  sustainable 
development  aspirations.  International  support  for 
overcoming  the  remaining  obstacles  is  therefore  very 
vital,  and  more  so  as  we  get  closer  to  the  2012 
elections. 
the  work 
is  very 
of 
crucial 
to  meet 
resources 
review 
A/65/PV.40
and 
issues 
trafficking 
and 
that 
require 
report  on 
joint  progress 
On 28 September 2010, my delegation submitted 

to 
the  PBC  a 
the 
implementation  of  the  Sierra  Leone  Government’s 
Agenda for Change. The report, jointly prepared by the 
Government in full collaboration with its international 
partners  and  civil  society,  acknowledges  the  steady 
progress made in the implementation of the Agenda for 
Change,  but  equally  pointed  out  serious  gaps  and 
challenges owing mainly to the lack of funding and the 
need  to  address  capacity  constraints.  Key  among  the 
many  outstanding 
immediate 
attention  are  youth  unemployment,  implementation  of 
the  recommendations  of  the  Truth  and  Reconciliation 
Commission,  drug 
transnational 
organized  crime,  support  to  the  electoral  process  and 
advancing good governance reform. 

The  Sierra  Leone  Government’s  Agenda  for 
Change  second  poverty-reduction  strategy  paper  was 
prepared  and  adopted  and  is  now  being  implemented 
through  inclusive,  broad-based  and  comprehensive 
consultations 
received 
endorsement by the Peacebuilding Commission in June 
2009.  At  that  historic  meeting,  the  Commission  also 
called  upon  its  member  States  and  all  development 
partners  to  accept  the Agenda  for  Change  as  the  core 
strategy document for Sierra Leone. There is no doubt 
that 
the 
international  community  and  development  partners  to 
support 
the  Agenda  with 
sufficient resources. While my delegation continues to 
express its appreciation to the United Nations and our 
development 
the 
implementation  of  the  Agenda  for  Change,  it  is 
regrettable  that  the  Sierra  Leone  Multi-Donor  Trust 
Fund  is  yet  to  receive  the  level  of  support  envisaged 
when it was launched. To date, only the Government of 
Canada has contributed to the Trust Fund. 

My  delegation  wholeheartedly  agrees  with  and 
supports  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of  the 
peacebuilding review, including the draft resolution for 
its implementation. 


  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m. 
the  compelling  need 
implementation  of 
participation. 
this 
implied 
partners 
for 
support 
to 
It 
for 
the 
10-61032 

25 
