
A/65/PV.54
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

54th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 30 November 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 

Agenda item 37 (continued)
Question of Palestine 







  Report of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People 
(A/65/35) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/380 and 
A/65/380/Add.1) 
  Draft resolutions (A/65/L.14, A/65/L.15, 
A/65/L.16, A/65/L.17 and A/65/L.24) 
Mr.  Mashabane  (South  Africa):  We  wish  to 

thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the 
peaceful  settlement  of 
the  question  of  Palestine 
(A/65/380  and  A/65/380/Add.1),  which  confirms 
assertions  that  peace  is  indeed  elusive  and  remains  a 
distant dream for the people of Palestine. We hope that 
today’s  debate  will  generate 
consolidate 
momentum for a peaceful resolution to the question of 
Palestine. 
My delegation associates itself with the statement 

made  yesterday  afternoon  by  the  representative  of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Yesterday,  we  pledged  our  solidarity  with  the 
struggle  of 
the  Palestinian  people  when  we 
commemorated the International Day of Solidarity with 
the Palestinian People. In his message of solidarity, the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  Mr.  Jacob 
Zuma,  reaffirmed  South  Africa’s  commitment  to  the 
and 
the  centrality  of 
the  United  Nations 
Palestinian  people  in  their  struggle  for  liberation  and 
self-determination. 

At  the  beginning  of  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, world leaders travelled from far and wide to 
affirm 
in 
deliberating  and  resolving  world  affairs.  Leaders  also 
confirmed  the  centrality  of  the  Organization  in  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes. As a beneficiary of the 
hard work of the international community, South Africa 
could not agree more with that assertion. 

We  therefore  call  on  the  United  Nations  to 
leverage its legitimacy and unity of effort to accelerate 
attempts  to  deliver  the  people  of  Palestine  from  the 
inhuman  occupation  by  Israel.  We  also  hope  that 
during  this  session  the  United  Nations  will  reflect 
concretely on the effectiveness of its collective efforts 
towards  the  resolution  of  the  question  of  Palestine. 
South Africa has always stood steadfastly in support of 
the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  a  State  of  their 
own,  consistent  with  the  call  for  the  creation  of  a 
Palestinian  State  that  coexists  peacefully  alongside 
Israel  on  the  basis  of  the  1967  borders  and  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital. We  firmly  believe  that  this  is 
the only sustainable solution to the conflict. 

We  have  consistently  supported  a  peaceful 
solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, in line with 
the will of the international community as expressed in 
numerous peace initiatives, such as the Road Map and 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  and  including  Security 
Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  465 
(1980),  681  (1990),  1397  (2002),  1515  (2003)  and 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-65877 (E) 
*1065877* 

international 
the  halting  of 
law.  Despite  all 
A/65/PV.54 

1860  (2009). We  call  on  Israel  to  respect  the  spirit  of 
these  resolutions  and  abide  by  the  prescripts  of  all 
other international legal instruments. The failure to do 
so,  as  has  been  the  case  for  many  years,  amounts  to 
violation  of 
those 
initiatives, Israel has freely continued its occupation of 
Palestinian territory, thus deliberately undermining the 
credibility of the United Nations. 

When  direct  talks  between  Israel  and  Palestine 
began in September, we all hoped that they would lead 
to  meaningful  progress  that  would  result  in  lasting 
peace  and  the  creation  of  a  viable  Palestinian  State. 
However,  Israel’s  failure  to  renew  the  moratorium  on 
the  building  of  illegal  settlements  in  the  occupied 
territories  has  created  an  obstacle  to  that  progress. 
South  Africa  views 
settlement 
construction  as  a  commitment  already  agreed  to  by 
Israel during previous peace negotiations, including the 
Annapolis Middle East Peace Conference in November 
2007, in which South Africa participated. 

We  note  with  grave  concern  Israel’s  show  of 
contempt for the peace process, as demonstrated by the 
continuation  of 
its 
announcement of plans to build more settlements in the 
West Bank. By continuing with such settlements, Israel 
expedites 
demographic 
composition,  legal  status  and  landscape  of  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  East  Jerusalem.  In 
order to salvage the peace process, we call on Israel to 
halt 
this  will 
demonstrate  its  serious  intention  to  bring  about  a 
peaceful  solution  to  the  Palestinian  question.  We  also 
support the mediation efforts by the Arab world, and by 
Egypt  in  particular,  to  achieve  reconciliation  between 
Fatah  and  Hamas  and  intra-Palestinian  unity.  It  is  our 
firm belief that a united Palestine will better serve the 
interests of the Palestinian people. 

South Africa is encouraged by the steady progress 
in the Palestinian Authority’s State-building agenda, in 
accordance  with  Prime  Minister  Fayyad’s  strategy.  In 
that 
the 
international  donor  community  in  support  of  the 
strategy. We also call on other stakeholders to provide 
support  for  the  implementation  and  sustainability  of 
that initiative. With regard to security, we welcome the 
international  community’s  efforts 
the 
capacity of the Palestinian security institutions. 
the  building  of  settlements,  as 
settlement  construction  and 
regard,  we  appreciate 
the  efforts  of 
the 
alteration 
of 
the 


The  promulgation  of  a  decision  by  Israeli 
authorities  in  June  to  ease  the  blockade  of  Gaza  by 
allowing  unrestricted  entry  for  all  items  except  those 
on  a  published  list  of  military  and  dual-use  items  has 
not  positively  altered  the  situation,  as  construction 
materials, which are mainly classified as dual-use, are 
what  is  most  needed  for  the  reconstruction  of  Gaza. 
The  blockade  of  Gaza  has  adversely  affected  the 
economic life of Palestinians, as their export activities 
have been seriously curtailed. 

Consequently,  these  acts  in  Gaza  and  other 
occupied  territories  contribute  directly  to  increasing 
unemployment  and  poverty,  thereby  having  an  impact 
on 
the  full  enjoyment  of  social  and  economic 
freedoms. In addition, we also condemn the uprooting 
of olive trees and the theft of agricultural equipment by 
Israeli  settlers,  which  are  critical  to  the  Palestinian 
economy. 

Three  million  dollars  has  been  pledged  for 
projects  in  Gaza  through  the  India,  Brazil  and  South 
Africa  (IBSA)  mechanism.  IBSA-proposed  projects 
will  positively  contribute 
the  socio-economic 
development  of  the  people  of  Palestine,  especially 
those in Gaza. 

On the humanitarian front, we appeal to Israel to 
ease  entry  into  Gaza,  especially  for  humanitarian 
agencies,  including  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme.  In 
that  regard,  we  are  pleased  by  the  humanitarian 
community’s  finalization  of  the  2011  consolidated 
appeal,  which  will  be  presented 
in  Brussels  on 
30 November. 

In  conclusion,  we  call  on  the  parties  to  desist 
from  unilateral  actions  that  have  the  potential  to 
jeopardize  the  negotiations,  and  to  focus  instead  on 
confidence-building  measures 
the 
resumption  of  peace  negotiations.  We  also  extend  our 
support  to  the  peace  process  and  urge  the  Secretary-
General,  including  the  Quartet  and  other  countries’ 
institutions, to continue to encourage the parties to go 
back to the negotiating table. More important, we call 
on  the  parties  to  demonstrate  the  necessary  political 
will to find a solution. The parties should never forget 
that  peace  is  in  the  interest  of  the  most  downtrodden, 
including women and children. 
conducive 
to 
to 
to 
improve 
2 

10-65877 
to  extend 


Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  It  is  most  appropriate  that 

the  General  Assembly  discuss 
the  question  of 
Palestine,  given  the  importance  of  the  issue  for  the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  especially  at  this 
crucial  juncture  in  the  peace  process.  The  end  of  the 
Israeli moratorium on settlements in September put to 
the  test,  early  and  severely,  the  fragile  start  to  direct 
negotiations  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians.  The 
failure 
the  moratorium  on  settlement 
activities in the occupied Palestinian territories and the 
reported  construction  that  has  occurred  since  made  it 
very  difficult  for  negotiations  to  resume,  as  such 
activity  is  destroying  the  feasibility  of  a  two-State 
solution. It is not reasonable to expect the Palestinians 
to  keep  negotiating  as  reality  on  the  ground  is 
deeply — and, some  fear, irreversibly — altered. This 
is  particularly  worrisome  when  it  comes  to  East 
Jerusalem  and  small-  and  medium-sized  settlements 
deep  in  the  West  Bank.  In  the  current  circumstances, 
therefore,  a  complete  halt  to  settlement  activity  by 
Israel is not only a legal obligation but also a necessary 
condition  for  negotiations  to  continue  and  to  have  a 
chance at succeeding. 
Brazil commends the efforts made by the United 

States  and  a  number  of  other  stakeholders  to  revive 
direct  negotiations.  We  also  commend  the  admirable 
patience shown by the Palestinians. We hope that Israel 
will  seize  this  opportunity  and  create  the  conditions 
necessary  for  negotiations  to  resume,  if  for  no  other 
reason  than  simply  because,  contrary  to  what  some 
may  think,  the  status  quo  is  truly  unsustainable.  The 
status quo is also dangerous, as it plays into the hands 
of  radical  groups  from  both  sides 
to 
undermine the peace process. 

We  firmly  condemn  all  acts  of  violence  from  all 
quarters;  but  condemnation  is  not  enough.  Israel  must 
not  tolerate,  and  must  actively  prosecute,  settlers 
involved 
in  attacks  against,  or  harassment  of, 
Palestinians. Rocket fire from Gaza into southern Israel 
must 
stop,  and 
react 
disproportionately. 

the  Palestinian  Authority  must 
its  part, 
continue  to  make  progress  in  maintaining  law  and 
order  in  the  areas  under  its  jurisdiction.  Breaking  the 
old  pattern  of  conflict  is  key  to  preventing  both  the 
resumption of armed conflict between Israel and Gaza 
and  the  intensification  of  street  violence  in  the  West 
Bank and East Jerusalem. 
forces  must  not 
that  seek 
Israeli 
On 
A/65/PV.54
and 
divisions 
enhancing 
In fulfilling the vision of a democratic and viable 

Palestinian  State,  Palestinians  should  continue 
to 
address  two  key  challenges,  namely,  overcoming  their 
internal 
democratic 
governance.  We  call  on  all  Palestinian  groups  to 
rebuild  unity,  without  which  statehood  will  be 
exceedingly  difficult  to  achieve.  We  also  praise,  and 
extend  our  full  support  for,  Prime  Minister  Salam 
Fayyad’s  sustained  efforts  to  build  a  democratic  and 
effective  Palestinian  State  throughout  the  territories. 
Among  other  measures,  Israel  must  actively  support 
such an endeavour by transferring more territory to the 
Authority’s  control  and  further  easing  restrictions  on 
movement in the West Bank. 

The  humanitarian  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip 
continues to be a source of grave concern. The easing 
of the blockade is welcome, but access to basic goods 
clearly  remains  insufficient.  It  is  deeply  disturbing  to 
acknowledge  once  again  that  not  enough  progress  has 
been  made  to  restore  the  freedom  of  movement  for 
people  and  goods.  Fully  lifting  the  blockade,  without 
prejudice to legitimate Israeli security concerns, is vital 
to  allow  life  in  Gaza 
to  return  to  normal  and 
reconstruction to take place. 

On our part, as much as we can, we will continue 
to  provide  help  to  alleviate  the  suffering  of  the 
Palestinian 
bilateral 
cooperation,  we  are  engaged  in  a  project  under  the 
India,  Brazil  and  South  Africa  (IBSA)  forum  for  the 
partial reconstruction of the Al-Quds Hospital in Gaza, 
with resources allocated from the IBSA fund. 

It  is  not  too  late  to  reverse  the  current  deadlock 
and  begin  to  move  in  earnest  towards  the  end  of  the 
Israeli  occupation  and  the  realization  of  the  vision  of 
two  States  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security 
within  internationally  recognized  borders.  Success, 
however, requires statesmanship, political courage and 
true  attachment  to  sustainable  peace.  Leaders  on  both 
sides, especially in Israel, the stronger party, must rise 
to 
the  challenge.  Their  prize  will  be  unfading 
recognition of their exceptional achievement, not only 
by 
the  entire 
international community. 
Mr.  Loulichki  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the outset, I would like to thank you, Sir, for convening 
this  important  meeting  on  developments  over  the  past 
few  years  concerning  the  issue  of  Palestine.  I  would 
also  like  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Abdou  Salam 
their  fellow  citizens  but  also  by 
people.  Apart 
from 
our 
10-65877 

3 

the  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
A/65/PV.54 

Diallo,  Permanent  Representative  of  Senegal,  on  his 
election  to  the  chairmanship  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People,  who  succeeded  Mr.  Paul  Badji,  who  lent 
excellent  services  vis-à-vis  the  question  of  Palestine 
during his chairmanship of the Committee. 

Each  year  on  29  November,  the  United  Nations 
commemorates 
the 
Palestinian  People,  during  which  the  international 
community  recalls  the  inalienable  rights  and  the 
aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  establish  a 
viable  independent  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital,  on  the  land  that  has  been  occupied  by  Israel 
since 1967. 

The Palestinian people are exasperated by the fact 
that the years continue to pass with no prospects on the 
horizon  for  achieving  status  as  a  national  entity. 
Palestine has been occupied for decades, during which 
it has suffered aggression, tragedy and destruction. It is 
tired of waiting — and of waiting for negotiations that 
begin only to be stopped, and that are resumed only to 
be  postponed.  It  is  time  to  implement  resolutions  of 
international legitimacy, which have followed one after 
another with no real impact on the ground for millions 
the 
of  Palestinians.  Finally,  Palestine 
implementation  of 
and 
commitments  that  include  all  the  necessary  elements 
for  a  comprehensive  and  just  peace  based  on  the 
consensus of the international community as a whole. 
As  we  evaluate  developments  on  the  Palestinian 

question,  we 
flagrant 
contradictions  between  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community 
and 
developments on the ground through which Israel, the 
occupying  Power,  seeks  to  impose  a  de  facto  reality 
that continues to hinder the peace process. 

Based  on  its  principled  position  on  peace  as  a 
strategic  choice,  in  the  context  of  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  and  as  supported  by  United  Nations 
resolutions and other terms of reference, the Kingdom 
of  Morocco  has  supported  the  positive  and  dynamic 
initiative  launched  by  President  Obama  to  encourage 
the  Palestinian  side  to  participate  in  indirect  talks  in 
March.  The  direct 
in 
September under the auspices of the United States were 
notable  for  the  good  faith  shown  on  the  Arab  side 
aimed  at  taking  advantage  of  the  occasion  to  move 
towards peace. Morocco appreciates President Obama’s 
resume  peace  negotiations 
awaits 
initiatives 
in  Washington 
international 
talks  held 
continuing 
note 
the 
to 
to 
their  right 
responsibility 
towards  present  and 
continuing  efforts  to  put  the  peace  process  back  on 
track.  We  also  appreciate  the  President’s  statement  to 
the General Assembly in September on the rights of the 
Palestinian  people,  especially 
the 
establishment  of  an 
independent  State  within  a 
definitive  time  frame  (see  A/65/PV.11).  At  the  same 
time, we support all international parties who share this 
opinion  and  who  seek  to  translate  that  vision  into 
reality. 

Palestine’s  attitude  throughout  the  process  has 
demonstrated courage, practicality and persistence and 
has  shown  that  it  is  a  real  and  serious  partner  in  the 
peace process, in spite of the continuing frustration and 
suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Through  the Arab 
Peace  Initiative,  Arab  States  have  shown  that  they 
support the aspirations of the people of the region and 
of  the  international  community  to  live  in  peace, 
security and stability. Arab States have also shouldered 
their 
future 
generations and the international community. 

In spite of this courageous Arab initiative and all 
the  efforts  of  the  international  community,  Israel 
continues its practices and policies aimed at imposing a 
fait  accompli  and  pre-empting  the  results  of  the 
negotiations, which runs counter to its obligations and 
the  seriousness 
two-State 
solution. It has continued its illegal settlement policies 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  including  East 
Jerusalem, in an attempt to annex more land by force. 
To  that  end,  just  days  after  the  Arab  side  agreed  to 
indirect  negotiations,  Israeli  authorities  announced 
their  decision  to  build  1,600  housing  units  in  East 
Jerusalem.  Israel  also  decided  to  build  another  1,300 
units  in  East  Jerusalem  and  issued  new  legislation 
specifying  new  conditions  for  withdrawing  from 
occupied East Jerusalem and the Syrian Golan. 

With  regard  to  Jerusalem,  which  is  an  important 
aspect of the Palestinian question, Israel has continued 
its  policies  of  Judaization,  annexation  and  deportation 
of  the  population  of  the  Holy  City,  which  include  the 
confiscation  and  destruction  of  property.  It  has  also 
continued  its  policy  of  provocation  with  regard  to 
Muslim and Christian holy sites, including the Al-Aqsa 
Mosque  and  its  environs.  It  has  also  attacked  other 
holy  sites,  including  the  Al-Haram  Al-Ibrahimi  and 
sites  in  Bethlehem,  as  part  of  a  policy  aimed  at 
increasing tension and religious incitement. 
required  vis-à-vis 
the 
4 

10-65877 
With  regard 
the  Gaza  Strip, 



The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  including  its  leader, 
His  Majesty  Mohammed  VI,  who  chairs  the  Al-Quds 
Committee, reaffirms its solidarity with the Palestinian 
people  in  their  quest  to  create  a  national  State. 
Moreover,  Morocco  condemns  all  acts  against  the 
special status of the Holy City. In that regard, I would 
like  to  reiterate  our  call  for  the  establishment  of  an 
international alliance comprised of all those who desire 
peace,  coexistence  and  tolerance,  with  a  view  to 
preserving  Jerusalem  as  a  symbol  of  peace  and  the 
cradle of monotheistic religions. 

the  grave 
humanitarian  situation  there  demands  that  the  Israeli 
authorities  immediately  lift  the  illegal  blockade  and 
allow the free movement of goods in and out of Gaza, 
permanently,  unconditionally  and  without  restrictions, 
in keeping with international humanitarian law and the 
relevant international resolutions. While we appreciate 
the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East in that 
connection,  we  would  like  to  underscore  the  mandate 
given  to  the  Agency  by  the  General  Assembly  in 
resolution  302  (IV)  of  1949  to  provide  assistance  to 
Palestinian  refugees  until  the  issue  is  settled  in  a 
satisfactory and lasting manner. 

His  Majesty  Mohammed  VI  underscored  the 
significance of the cause of peace in the Middle East in 
his  message  to  the  World  Economic  Forum  on  the 
Middle  East  and  North  Africa  in  October,  where  he 
said that 

“The  road  to  peace  in  the  Middle  East  has  to  be 
through  a  two-State  solution  that  guarantees  the 
establishment of an independent Palestinian State, 
with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its  capital,  living  in 
peace  and  security  alongside  the  State  of  Israel, 
in accordance with international legitimacy. This 
goal 
through  direct 
negotiation,  without  any  obduracy,  escalation  or 
unilateral, illegitimate measures.” 

His  Majesty  the  King  therefore  sent  out  a 
message  of  hope  and  prudence  to  restart  serious 
negotiations, saying that he urged the parties 

“to  engage  in  serious  negotiations  according  to 
the wishes of the international community. That is 
the  right  way  to  achieve  security  for  all  peoples 
in  the  region  and  to  put  an  end  to  violence  and 
extremism,  which 
instability, 
weakening opportunities for economic and social 
should  be 
achieved 
fuelling 
to 
are 
A/65/PV.54
to 
the 
respect 
track  — 
clout  with 
The  bottom-up 
A  Palestinian  State  structure 
development and undermining the region’s status 
and 
international 
cooperation.” 
Mr. Wetland  (Norway):  Every  year,  we  seem  to 

reach a critical juncture in the Middle East. And every 
year, 
in  retrospect,  we  end  up  with  a  missed 
opportunity. However, Norway wants to underline that 
2011  could  represent  an  important  crossroads  in  the 
peace process. 

is  emerging, 
scheduled  for  completion  by  August  next  year.  The 
one-year timeline for the direct negotiations will expire 
at around the same time. Those two tracks — the State-
building  track  and  the  political  track  —  are  set  to 
converge in the two-State solution. We may finally see 
the  day  when 
independent  Palestinian  State 
emerges. 

the  State-building 
process — has been successful. Under the leadership of 
Prime  Minister  Salam  Fayyad,  increasingly  robust 
Palestinian  institutions  are  in  place.  The  Palestinian 
Authority  is  cutting  spending  and  bringing  deficits 
down.  Dependency  on  foreign  aid  is  decreasing  at  a 
steady  rate,  and 
transparency  and  accountability 
continue to replace corruption and nepotism. There is a 
growing  sense  of  security  and  the  rule  of  law  in 
Palestinian  communities  in  the  West  Bank.  On  all 
fronts  Palestinian  society  is  evolving,  and  among 
Palestinians  there  is  a  growing  sense  that  the  changes 
taking place today hold promise for a better tomorrow. 

The process is so successful that the World Bank 
stated,  in  its  report  to  the  donor  community  in 
September  this  year,  that  the  Palestinian  Authority  is 
now  “well-positioned  for  the  establishment  of  a  State 
at any point in the near future”. 

At the same time, direct negotiations launched in 
September  this  year  with  the  goal  of  reaching  a 
settlement of the conflict within one year, have stalled 
over  Israel’s  decision  to  let  the  partial  moratorium  on 
settlement activity in the occupied territory expire. The 
lack  of  progress  at  the  negotiating  table  has  led  some 
Palestinians  to  question  the  viability  of  negotiations 
and  to  contemplate  alternative  paths  to  the  two-State 
solution.  Norway  firmly  believes  that  there  is  no 
alternative  to  negotiations,  but,  if  we  wish  to  restore 
the  confidence  of  Palestinians  in  the  political  process, 
the  situation  on  the  ground  must  improve.  That 
includes  the  ending  of  settlement  activity  in  East 
10-65877 

5 

for 
and 
economic  development 
A/65/PV.54 

Jerusalem and the West Bank, in accordance with Road 
Map  obligations.  It  also  includes  efforts  by  Israel  to 
strengthen 
improve 
economic growth and living standards in the occupied 
territories. 

The  donor  community  has  done  its  utmost  to 
honour  its  commitments  to  the  Palestinian  State-
building process, despite the challenges caused  by the 
global  financial  downturn.  As  Chair  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Liaison  Committee,  Norway  can  confirm  the  donor 
community’s  determination  to  help  the  Palestinian 
State-building  process  past  the  finishing  line  in  2011. 
But  at  the  same  time,  we  must  sound  a  word  of 
warning:  continued  financial  support  for  Palestinian 
institutions  depends  on  a  credible  political  process. 
Without  a  political  horizon  and  a  clear  timeline,  it 
becomes  increasingly  hard  to  justify  high  levels  of 
contributions. 

As we look to 2011, we can rest assured that the 
efforts  to  build  Palestinian  institutions  and  to  prepare 
for  statehood  will  continue  as  planned.  And  the 
timeline 
the  completion  of  negotiations  by 
September  next  year  is  there.  In  other  words:  2011 
should be the year when the conflict is resolved and the 
Palestinian State is established. 
Mr.  Falamarzi  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

would like to begin by commending the Committee on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People  for  its  efforts  to  shed  light  on  the  suffering  of 
the  Palestinian  people  resulting  from 
the  unjust 
practices of the Israeli authorities. I would also like to 
thank  Mr.  Paul  Badji  for  conducting  the  work  of  that 
Committee.  My  delegation  also  associates  itself  with 
the statement delivered by the representative of Egypt 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Despite  the  vigorous  efforts  of  the  international 
community,  including  through  the  Quartet  and  the 
countries which sponsor the peace process, to push that 
process  forward,  which  led  to  indirect  then  direct 
negotiations  between  the  Israelis  and  Palestinians,  the 
intransigence  of  Israel  and  its  building  of  settlements, 
despite  international  appeals  to  the  contrary,  have 
prevented  any  progress  being  made  to  date. The Arab 
countries have shown their desire for peace by creating 
a  propitious  climate  for  peace  negotiations.  But  this 
will not continue indefinitely. 

countries, 
Qatar  sent  a  message,  on  behalf  of  the  Arab 
the  American 
in  September  2009 
to 
is 
that 
There 
especially 
around  East 
international  consensus 
mediator, asking for guarantees from Israel so that the 
Arabs could maintain that position. However, one year 
later,  the  world  sees  the  radical  position  taken  by 
Israel,  which  is  retreating  from  its  internationally 
agreed commitments and impeding the negotiations, as 
we have seen lately. The Israeli Government continues 
its illegal settlement policy in the occupied Palestinian 
territory  and  the  Syrian  Golan,  in  defiance  of  the  call 
by  the  Ministerial  Committee  of  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative at their last meeting in Sirte, Libya. 

the 
Palestinian  question  should  be  settled  through  a  two-
State  solution,  whereby  the  two  States  would  coexist 
the  expansion  by  Israel  of 
peacefully.  However, 
settlements, 
Jerusalem, 
undermines  the  two-State  solution  based  on  the  1967 
borders  and  threatens  the  contiguity  of  the  Palestinian 
territory as an essential element of the proposed State. 
The  so-called  natural  growth  of  Israeli  settlements  is 
not  acceptable;  it  is  contrary  to  international  law. The 
international community should not be deceived by the 
so-called temporary freeze on settlement activities; all 
settlements  on  territories  occupied  since  1967  should 
be  dismantled,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions. A comprehensive, just and lasting 
peace  in  the  Middle  East  can  only  be  established 
through  the  implementation  of  the  land-for-peace 
principle,  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  and 
the Arab Peace Initiative. 

The  State  of  Qatar  rejects  the  illegal  practices 
being carried out by Israel in occupied East Jerusalem 
in its attempt to change the Arab identity of the city, its 
legal  status  and  religious  character. We  repeat  that  all 
such  attempts  are  null  and  void.  The  international 
community should express its rejection of the attempts 
by  the  Israeli  Government  to  prejudice  Muslim  and 
Christian  religious  sites  in  order  to  Judaize  the  city. 
Such attempts are in contravention of the commitments 
of  Israel  under  international  law  and  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions and undermine a potential peaceful 
solution. 

Israel’s  insistence  on  carrying  out  such  illegal 
activities  against  the  Palestinians  is  incompatible  with 
the  behaviour  of  the  civilized  world.  Israel  is  thereby 
distancing  itself  from  being  a  constructive  member  of 
the  international  community  and  severing  its  relations 
with  peace-loving  nations  in  the  Middle  East.  If  the 
leaders of Israel have any true vision, they will see that 
the  security, 
ending 
the  occupation  would  serve 
6 

10-65877 


economic and social interests of all peoples, including 
the  Israelis.  The  non-implementation  by  Israel  of 
United  Nations  resolutions  undermines  trust  in  the 
international  community  and  in  this  Organization, 
while  implementation  would  show  its  genuine  will  to 
reach  a  just  and  comprehensive  settlement  of  the 
Palestinian question, the crux of the Middle East crisis. 
It  has  become  ever  more  important  that  the  United 
Nations help the Palestinian people determine their fate 
and live in an independent State, with Jerusalem as its 
capital. 
Mr.  Al-Abri  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  delegation  of  Oman,  I  would  like  to 
express  our  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  you,  Sir,  for 
having  organized  this  special  meeting  to  consider  the 
question  of  Palestine  and  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East.  Through  you,  my  delegation  expresses 
its 
gratitude  to  Mr.  Abdou  Salam  Diallo,  the  Permanent 
Representative of Senegal, whom we congratulate upon 
his election as Chair of the Committee on the Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People; we 
also thank him for having introduced the report of that 
Committee  (A/65/35).  I  would  like,  in  that  regard,  to 
commend  the  great  efforts  made  by  the  members  of 
that Committee in favour of the Palestinian people and 
their  just  cause.  I  would  also  like  to  welcome  the 
comprehensive  statement  made  by  the  Chair  of  that 
Committee  on  the  question  of  Palestine  and  the 
situation in the Middle East. 

With  your  permission,  Mr.  President,  I  should 
like  to  address  both  agenda  items,  the  “Question  of 
Palestine”  and  the  “Situation  in  the  Middle  East”,  at 
the same time. There is no doubt that this meeting is of 
particular importance, as we are gathered here today to 
seek  a  solution  to  the  difficult  question  of  occupied 
Palestine,  which  we  have  been  addressing  now  for 
some  60  years.  In  that  time,  the  situation  of  the 
Palestinian  people  has  continued  to  deteriorate  as  a 
result  of  the  systematic  actions  carried  out  by  Israel, 
the  occupying  Power.  We  cannot  remain  silent  in  the 
face  of  such  a  situation,  in  which  violence,  killings, 
displacements 
the 
destruction  of  essential  infrastructure,  continue.  In 
spite of all of that, the Palestinian people remain strong 
and  steadfast  and  continue  to  seek  the  opportunity  to 
enjoy 
rights  and  establish  an 
independent  Palestinian  State,  with Al-Quds Al-Sharif 
as its capital. 
destruction, 
legitimate 
including 
and 
their 
A/65/PV.54
live 
that 
We  are  very  concerned  by 

the  catastrophic 
situation in the occupied Palestinian territories and the 
blockade  against  the  Gaza  Strip. The  inhuman,  illegal 
and barbaric aggression and actions carried out by the 
Israeli State continue in the form of actions such as the 
confiscation of identity cards and the forced eviction of 
Palestinian  people,  with  a  view  to  Judaizing Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif and all other holy sites of Palestine. 

Yesterday  was  the  thirty-third  anniversary  of  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People, who call on the international community to be 
allowed  to  enjoy  their  fundamental  and  inalienable 
rights.  It  was  also  the  sixty-third  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  by  the  United  Nations  of  resolution  181  (II) 
on  the  partitioning  of  the  Palestinian  territory.  Today, 
the  Palestinian  people  continue  to  be  denied  their 
legitimate  rights  —  to  national  sovereignty,  to  self-
determination and to establish an independent State on 
their  land.  This  situation  has  produced  more  than 
4 million  Palestinian  refugees,  who  now 
in 
difficult conditions, exiled in diaspora. 
It  has  always  been  here,  in  this  international 

forum, 
the  Palestinian  people  have  sought 
protection against arbitrary, inhuman and illegal Israeli 
actions. It is therefore incumbent upon the international 
community  to  take  a  strong  and  serious  position 
against  those  actions  and  abuses,  including  last  year’s 
war  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  attacks  against  the 
freedom flotilla, which was carrying only humanitarian 
supplies  and  sought  only  to  lift  the  unjust  blockade 
against  the  Gaza  Strip,  not  to  mention  the  other 
flagrant  violations  of  human  rights.  Israel  has  thus 
shown the whole world that it is not in favour of peace. 

The  international  community  must  exert  greater 
pressure  on  Israel,  insisting  that  it  cease  those  actions 
and policies and that it engage seriously in negotiations 
based on relevant terms of reference which includes the 
principle  of 
for  peace,  Security  Council 
resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973),  and  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative. 

The  delegation  of  Oman  welcomed  the  adoption 
by  the  General  Assembly  of  resolution  64/10  on 
5 November 2009 on the follow-up to the report of the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict  and  the  adoption  of  the  recommendations 
contained in that report. Today, we insist once again on 
the need to follow up on those recommendations and to 
ensure  that  they  are  fully  implemented  by  all  main 
land 
10-65877 

7 
fails 
to  seize 

to  meet 
A/65/PV.54 

organs  of  the  Organization,  primarily  the  Security 
Council. 

As  it  has  done  in  the  past,  my  delegation 
underscores  the  need  to  find  a  solution  to  the  chronic 
conflict in the Middle East. And while the Sultanate of 
Oman  supports  the  peace  process  led  by  the  United 
States,  we  nonetheless  fear  that  Israeli  policy  remains 
obscure  and  confused,  and 
its 
requirements  of  peace. 
responsibilities  and 
the 
Establishing  a  sovereign, 
independent  and  viable 
Palestinian  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
means  that  Israel  must  withdraw  from  all  occupied 
Arab  territories,  including  the  Syrian  Golan  and  parts 
of southern Lebanon, to the pre-June 1967 borders. 

The  Government  of  the  Sultanate  of  Oman 
welcomes the active role of the friendly United States 
and  the  positive  position  taken  in  statements  by 
President Barack Obama in favour of finding a solution 
to the Middle East conflict and the  establishment of  a 
sovereign  Palestinian  State,  which  would  live  side  by 
side  with  the  State  of  Israel  and  which  would,  within 
one  year,  become  an  official  Member  of  the  United 
Nations.  That  is  why  we  insist  here  on  the  need  to 
build  on 
this  historic 
opportunity  to  create  a  true  partnership  for  peace  and 
security with Arab countries. 

The Sultanate of Oman has always welcomed the 
peace  process, 
seeing  discussion,  dialogue  and 
negotiation as the natural and civilized way to resolve 
the  conflict.  We  therefore  urge  all  of  the  parties  to 
adopt a positive and effective attitude in order to solve 
the dangerous conflict in the Middle East. Thus we are 
asking  for 
its 
responsibilities, along with the international Quartet, to 
make a greater effort to reach a just and comprehensive 
solution  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  on  all  tracks, 
according  to  relevant  international  resolutions,  the 
principle  of  land  for  peace  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  in  order  to  achieve  the  creation  of  an 
independent  Palestinian  State  on  Palestinian 
land 
occupied  since  1967,  living  peacefully  side  by  side 
with Israel within internationally recognized borders. 
Mr. Pham Vinh Quang (Viet Nam): First of all, I 

would like to thank you,  Mr. President, for convening 
this  important  meeting. Allow  me  to  convey  the  most 
heartfelt greetings of the Government and the people of 
Viet Nam to the people of Palestine and the Palestinian 
the  Security  Council 
the  momentum 
to  shoulder 
itself  with 
After  more 
than  60  years, 
Viet  Nam  aligns 
National Authority on the occasion of the International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. 

the  statement 
delivered by Egypt at the 53rd meeting on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

the  question  of 
Palestine  remains  unresolved.  The  Palestinian  people 
have  continued  to  be  displaced  from  their  homeland 
and live in a dire situation due to the blockade imposed 
by Israel. The blockade has caused the deterioration of 
socio-economic  conditions, 
including  widespread 
poverty, unemployment and declining health. It is truly 
heartrending to witness that grave deterioration, which 
rampantly infringes on the rights of Palestinian people 
on the ground, including the right to self-determination 
and  the  right  to  freedom,  and  creates  a  cross-border 
influx of refugees. 

Despite  increased  international  efforts,  the  peace 
talks  between  Israel  and  Palestine  are  at  an  impasse 
and  face  more  difficulties,  due  to  Israel’s  refusal  to 
extend  a  10-month  settlement  moratorium  on  settler 
homes in occupied East Jerusalem, which goes against 
international law and the Quartet’s efforts. 

For decades, the Middle East has seen many wars 
and  much  bloodshed  instead  of  peace,  security  and 
prosperous development. Continued violence will only 
make  the  peoples  —  Palestinian  and  Israeli  alike  — 
shed  more  blood.  It  is  time  to  stop  it.  There  is  no 
alternative  to  a  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace 
settlement  and  the  exercise  of  the  right  to  self-
determination  by  the  Palestinian  people,  resulting  in 
the  creation  of  an  independent  and  viable  State  of 
Palestine, living side by side with the State of Israel in 
peace and security, on the basis of the relevant United 
Nations resolutions and the principle of land for peace. 
Both  parties  should  exercise  maximum  restraint  and 
take concrete steps towards that end. 

We  strongly  urge  Israel  to  cease  all  military 
activities  and  abide  by  international  law,  including 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law.  It 
must promptly remove restrictions on the movement of 
persons,  humanitarian  aid  and  commercial  goods  and 
the business activities of Palestinians. We urge Israel to 
create  every  safe  condition  for  the  return  of  refugees, 
to  renew  the  moratorium  on  the  construction  of 
settlements, and to release Palestinian prisoners. 
8 

10-65877 
following 
equal 
attention 
impartiality, 
giving 
It 
is  also 
incumbent  upon 
Viet  Nam  has  been  closely 



the  Palestinian 
Authority, for its part, to take effective actions to bring 
an end to violence, including the firing of rockets into 
Israel’s  territory.  We  call  upon  Palestinian  factions  to 
promote  national  reconciliation  and  rally  behind  the 
Palestinian  National  Authority  for  a  national  unity 
Government  with  a  view  to  realizing  the  legitimate 
Palestinian national aspirations. 

the 
development  of  the  peace  process  in  the  Middle  East. 
We  strongly  believe  that  the  continued  support  and 
renewed  efforts  by  the  Quartet,  the  League  of  Arab 
States,  regional  countries  and  the  United  Nations  are 
crucial  for  moving  forward  the  Israeli–Palestinian 
negotiations  on  all  core  issues. We  call  for  intensified 
efforts by the international community, in particular the 
Security Council and the Quartet, to address the current 
political and humanitarian crisis. 

During that process, the international community 
must  abide  by  the  principles  of  objectivity,  neutrality 
and 
and 
consideration  to  the  legitimate  concerns  and  demands 
of  both  sides,  based  on  internationally  recognized 
guidelines  such  as  the  Road  Map,  the  Annapolis 
process  outcome,  the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions,  including  recent  resolutions  1850  (2008) 
and  1860  (2009).  In  that  connection,  we  support  the 
holding  of  an  international  conference  in  Moscow  to 
expedite a resumption of the peace process. 

We also commend the role and tremendous work 
of  United  Nations  agencies,  especially  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA),  in  delivering 
humanitarian programmes and emergency assistance to 
the Palestinian people. We wish to emphasize the need 
to ensure safe conditions and unhindered humanitarian 
operations  for  staff  members  of  United  Nations 
agencies and UNRWA. 

We  call  upon  all  donors  to  continue  to  make  the 
most  generous  efforts  possible  to  meet  the  Agency’s 
anticipated  needs.  We  applaud 
the  role  of  non-
governmental  organizations,  civil  society  and  peace 
groups  in  the  struggle  to  defend  Palestinian  national 
and human rights, and we encourage them to continue 
their positive work. 
To  conclude,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  the  consistent 

support of the Government and the people of Viet Nam 
A/65/PV.54
(A/65/35),  which 
for  a  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the 
Middle East and for the right of the Palestinian people 
to  exercise  self-determination  and  sovereignty  in  their 
independent  State  of  Palestine.  We  are 
firmly 
convinced that the just cause of the Palestinian people 
will eventually succeed. 
Mr. Almansoor  (Bahrain)  (spoke in Arabic):  On 

the occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with 
the  Palestinian  People,  my  delegation  expresses  its 
solidarity with the steadfast people of Palestine in their 
tireless  pursuit  and  strong  resolve  to  realize  their 
national  aspirations  and  to  defend  their  inalienable 
rights. 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  yesterday  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of Non-Aligned Movement. 

My delegation thanks the Chairman and members 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  for  their  invaluable 
report 
reveals  what  has  been 
happening  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  since 
1967  and  shows  the  efforts  still  being  made  to  put  an 
end  to  the  Israeli  occupation  and  to  establish  an 
independent  and  sovereign  Palestinian  State  with  its 
capital in East Jerusalem. 

We  also  appreciate  the  Committee’s  monitoring 
of the situation and the political developments, and the 
implementation  of  the  Committee’s  programme  of 
international  meetings  and  conferences.  That  includes 
the  international  meeting  of  the  Committee  on  12  and 
13  February  2010,  which  engaged  parliamentarians  of 
the Mediterranean region and beyond in support of the 
two-State  solution,  the  United  Nations  Seminar  on 
Assistance to the Palestinian People, held in Vienna on 
24  and  25  March,  and  the  United  Nations  African 
Meeting on the Question of Palestine, held in Rabat on 
1 and 2 July, as well as other meetings and seminars. 

My  delegation  also  thanks  the  Department  of 
Public  Information  for  its  implementation  of  the 
special  information  programme  of  the  question  of 
Palestine  to  raise  the  awareness  of  the  international 
community  on  the  question  of  Palestine,  pursuant  to 
resolution 64/18. 

When  we  carefully  consider  the  report  of  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People,  our  concern  over 
the 
deteriorating  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
10-65877 

9 
territory, 
as 
a 
the 

condemned 
increases  because,  as  described  by 
including  East  Jerusalem, 
violation 
A/65/PV.54 

territory 
the 
Committee  in  its  report,  conditions  on  the  ground  are 
still dire as a result of the Israeli forces’ daily military 
raids and arrests all over the West Bank. 

The Committee describes the situation in Gaza as 
even more bleak. More than 1.5 million people are still 
suffering from the Israeli attacks of December 2008 to 
January  2009.  They  still  suffer  a  severe  lack  of  basic 
services and commodities, such as clean water, because 
of  the  economic  effects  of  the  blockade.  The  report 
includes  many  serious  details,  but  in  fact  they  are 
merely examples indicative of wider practices that are 
covered  in  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-
Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict (A/HRC/12/48), 
endorsed  by  the  General  Assembly  in  its  resolution 
64/10 of 5 November 2009. 
The establishment of settlements in the occupied 

is 
Palestinian 
internationally 
of 
international  law,  according  to  the  sixth  paragraph  of 
article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, paragraph 
120 of the Advisory Opinion of the International Court 
of Justice on the construction of a wall in the occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  and  other  General  Assembly 
resolutions  on 
Israel 
continues  its  illegal  settlement  activities  in  the  West 
Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem,  as  confirmed  by  the 
report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People. 

The  primary  purpose  of  Israel’s  actions  is  to 
create  a  new  reality  on  the  ground  in  an  attempt  to 
obliterate  Arab  and  Islamic  sites  in  Jerusalem  and  to 
affect  the  legal  status  of  the  city.  Those  measures  are 
illegal,  according 
including 
Security  Council  resolutions  446  (1979),  476  (1980) 
and  478  (1980),  in  which  the  Council  reiterates  its 
insistence 
legislative 
measures  are  null  and  void,  that  they  represent  an 
attempt 
the  character  and  status  of 
Jerusalem, and that they should be cancelled. 
In  that  regard,  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 

High  Commissioner 
the 
implementation  of  its  resolution  S-9/1  (A/HRC/12/37) 
states  that  the  settlement  activity  in  the  West  Bank 
amounts  to  violation  of  numerous  humanitarian  law 
provisions, 
including  article  55  of  The  Hague 
Regulations  and  article  49  of  the  Fourth  Geneva 
that  all  administrative  and 
for  Human  Rights  on 
subject.  Nevertheless, 
to 
international 
law, 
to  change 
through 
intimidation,  setting  fire 
the  demolition  of  houses  and 
Convention,  whereby the  occupying Power should not 
transfer its own population to the territories it occupies. 

The  report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of 
the  Inalienable  Rights  of 
the  Palestinian  People 
mentions  that  during  the  reporting  period  violence  by 
Israeli  settlers  against  Palestinians  included  physical 
assaults,  harassment, 
to 
agricultural  land,  uprooting  or  destroying  olive  trees 
throwing  stones  at  vehicles  and 
and  grapevines, 
houses,  vandalizing  mosques,  killing 
livestock, 
shooting at civilians in open areas and, as mentioned in 
paragraph 37, blocking access to schools. 

The Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People expressed its concern 
over the settlement activity in occupied East Jerusalem 
and  at  actions  intended  to  displace  residents  from  the 
city 
the 
cancellation  of  residency  permits.  The  Secretary-
General  also  expressed  his  concern  about 
the 
demolition  of  houses  and 
the  construction  of 
settlements  (see  A/65/380),  and  according  to  his 
comments,  the  situation  in  East  Jerusalem  remains 
tense,  adversely  affecting  the  peace  process.  The 
settlement  activities  and 
the 
separation wall contravene the advisory opinion of the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  Road  Map  and  the 
two-State solution. 

In  his  report  in  document A/65/331,  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the 
Palestinian  territories  occupied  since  1967  states  that 
the  right  to  self-determination  is  the  central  right 
underpinning  all  other  human  rights.  He  refers  to  the 
oppressiveness  of  Israel’s  occupation  over  more  than 
43 years, as evident in the range of Israeli violations of 
the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  and  of  applicable 
international  human  rights  law,  as  well  as  its  defiance 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  of  numerous 
resolutions and decisions of the General Assembly and 
the Security Council. 

Reaching  a  just  and  peaceful  settlement  of  the 
Middle East question is necessary to end the suffering 
of  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  establish  peace  and 
stability  in  the  region.  Peace  will  not  be  achieved 
through aggression, State terrorism and the building of 
new  illegal  settlements.  A  lasting  and  comprehensive 
peace 
in  Palestine  will  be  established  only  by 
upholding  justice  and  ending  discrimination  and  the 
the  construction  of 
10 

10-65877 
in 
is  also  an  opportunity  for 
to  be  mindful  of 


occupation  of  Palestine  and  the  other  occupied  Arab 
territories. 
Mr.  Jomaa  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Since 

1978, 
implementation  of  General  Assembly 
resolution  32/40  B  of  1977,  we  have  celebrated  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People, which is very symbolic and demonstrates broad 
international  support  for  a  people  suffering  under 
occupation and unable to enjoy its simple fundamental 
the 
rights.  The  Day 
international  community 
its 
responsibility  and  resolve  with  regard  to  the  ongoing 
suffering of the Palestinian people that is caused by the 
actions and practices of the occupier, Israel, in defiance 
of international resolutions, decisions,  agreements  and 
the  terms  of  reference  of  the  peace  process  in  the 
Middle East. 

Today,  we  meet  to  consider  the  question  of 
Palestine  at  a  time  when  we  thought  that  the  peace 
process might create new momentum in the region and 
pave  the  way  for  measures  that  would  generate  some 
positive developments for millions of Palestinians and 
would  ensure  a  final  resolution  of  the  Palestinian-
Israeli conflict. 

Since  September  the  peace  process,  led  by  the 
United States, has been welcomed and supported by the 
international community. There has been agreement in 
principle  on  a  timetable  for  direct  negotiations  to  lay 
the  foundations  for  discussing  the  core  issues  for  a 
final settlement. Thus we cherished the hope of seeing 
a beginning to the end of the conflict. 

Unfortunately,  however,  Israel,  by  refusing  to 
extend  the  moratorium  on  settlements  and  by  going 
even  further  in  approving  the  construction  of  more 
housing  units,  has  created 
tension  and 
undermined the basis for trust, thus destroying the hope 
of  establishing  peace  in  the  region.  That  situation 
requires  a  resolute  and  immediate  reaction  by  all 
parties. 
Negotiations  towards  any  kind  of  peace  require 

primarily 
their 
compliance with their obligations. International bodies 
agree that Israeli activities in the Palestinian territories 
threaten  the  resumption  of  the  peace  process  and 
violate 
law, 
international  humanitarian 
the  major 
instruments and terms of reference regarding the peace 
process, in particular the Arab Peace Initiative. 
the  basic  principles  of 
law 
international 
and 
the  goodwill  of 
the  parties  and 
further 
A/65/PV.54
Israel 
continues 
community, 
to  mention 

We are deeply concerned about Israel’s persistent 
violations  and  its  ongoing  excesses  with  regard  to 
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law.  We 
all hope that there will be improvement on the ground 
to alleviate Palestinian suffering and build enough trust 
for  the  negotiations  process  to  resume.  Despite  the 
continuous  calls  of  the  Quartet  and  the  appeals  of  the 
international 
its 
settlements  and  the  expulsion  of  Palestinians.  It  has 
taken  measures,  including  the  destruction  of  their 
homes and restrictions on the freedom of movement of 
persons  and  goods,  that  have  served  to  millions  of 
people of basic commodities and necessities of life and 
of  humanitarian  assistance,  not 
its 
Judaization  of  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  and  changing  its 
demographic character. 

Therefore, we would like to underscore the need 
to  put  an  end  to  those  Israeli  actions  against,  and 
collective  punishment  of,  the  fraternal  Palestinian 
people.  If  the  international  community  wants  to  truly 
and  seriously  reach  a  solution  that  puts  an  end  to  the 
conflict and establishes peace, security and stability in 
the region, immediate measures must be taken. 

Once  again,  from  this  rostrum,  we  reaffirm  our 
principled position, which is to support the Palestinian 
people  in  their  noble  cause  to  regain  their  legitimate 
rights and to establish their independent State on their 
land.  Once  again,  we  emphasize  that  for  Tunisia,  the 
question of Palestine is in particular a priority political 
issue. We have always approached the issue with great 
care  and  respect  because  the  right  to  dignity  and  a 
homeland is a question of natural law, as the President 
of Tunisia has underscored for many years. 

Tunisia has always contributed to respect for and 
compliance  with  the  decisions  and  resolutions  and 
noble principles of the international community and to 
international  legitimacy.  Once  again,  we  call  on  the 
various influential parties, in particular the Quartet, to 
put  more  pressure  on  Israel  to  change  its  policy  and 
stop the settlements and the Judaization of Al-Quds, in 
respect  for  the  relevant  international  instruments  for 
the  peace  process.  We  call  on 
international 
community to take effective and prompt steps to find a 
just, comprehensive and lasting solution on the basis of 
international  instruments  and  resolutions,  the  terms  of 
reference for peace and the Arab Peace Initiative. 

the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  is  critical  and  cannot  continue  as  it  is.  The 
situation 
The 
the 
in 
10-65877 

11 

lasting  and  comprehensive  solution  for 
A/65/PV.54 

occupying  Power  cannot  persist  in  constantly  flouting 
the  international  will  that  demands  peace  for  the 
Middle East. Steps must be taken promptly to improve 
the  daily  life  of  millions  of  Palestinians  so  that  they 
can enjoy the most basic rights under international law. 
Also,  we  must  all  work  together  to  give  the  peace 
process  new  impetus  and  continue  the  momentum  for 
peace.  We  must  stop  making  hollow  promises  and 
raising  false  hopes.  We  should  take  specific  steps  on 
the  ground,  in  particular  putting  a  complete  end  to 
settlement  activities,  lifting  the  blockade  on  Gaza  and 
protecting  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  until  a  true  climate  of 
trust  for  serious  negotiations  can  be  established  and  a 
just, 
the 
conflict  can  materialize.  The  situation  requires  a 
resolute  common  position  and  firm  efforts  in  order  to 
stop what has been happening. 

Tunisia underscores the need to support dialogue 
and negotiations. At the same time, we must not return 
to tension and stalemate, so that the peace, stability and 
security in the region that we all seek can be achieved. 

In conclusion, I once again call on Israel to put an 
end  to  its  occupation  of  the  Syrian  Golan  and  the 
remaining  Lebanese  territories,  in  accordance  with 
international law. We also underscore that Tunisia will 
continue its efforts to bring to a successful conclusion 
all peace efforts and initiatives in order to once and for 
all resolve all aspects of the Arab-Israeli conflict and to 
establish  lasting  peace,  stability  and  security  in  the 
region. 
in  Arabic):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  express  its  gratitude  and 
appreciation  to  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  and  its 
outgoing  Chairman,  Mr.  Paul  Badji.  My  delegation 
commends the Committee’s report (A/65/35) and calls 
for  its  implementation.  I  would  also  like  to  commend 
the  report  of  the  Special  Committee  to  Investigate 
Israeli  Practices  Affecting  the  Human  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People  and  Other  Arabs  of  the  Occupied 
Territories (see A/65/327) and the recommendations set 
out  therein.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation  would 
like to pay tribute to the  Member States that make  up 
that  tripartite  Committee  —  Sri  Lanka,  Malaysia  and 
Senegal  —  and  we  request  that  Israel  cooperate 
immediately with that Committee. 

Despite  all  international  and  regional  efforts, 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  continues  to  violate  the 
Mr.  Ismail  (Sudan)  (spoke 
international  reports, 
rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to 
self-determination  and  to  establish  a  sovereign  State 
within  the  1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital,  in  accordance  with  international  law  and  the 
United Nations resolutions that Israel constantly flouts 
and disregards. 

Moreover, Israel pursues its illegal and inhumane 
practices,  which  violate  Palestinian  human  rights  and 
international  law.  That  has  been  emphasized  in  a 
number  of 
including,  most 
recently, the report of Richard Falk, Special Rapporteur 
on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the  Palestinian 
territories  occupied  since  1967  (see  A/65/331);  the 
report  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on 
the  Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48);  the  reports  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  (A/65/53  and  Corr.1  and 
A/65/53/Add.1),  recently  considered  by  the  General 
Assembly (see A/65/PV.42 and A/65/PV.43); the report 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  its  twelfth  special 
session  (A/64/53/Add.1) in connection  with which the 
General Assembly adopted resolution 64/10; the report 
of the Secretary-General on the peaceful settlement of 
the  question  of  Palestine  (A/65/380  and  Add.1);  and, 
lastly,  the  report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, which 
the Assembly is now considering. 

In  addition  to  those  reports,  the  United  Nations 
has adopted a number of resolutions calling on Israel to 
withdraw from the occupied Arab territories, including 
the Syrian Golan Heights. In that regard, we note that 
the  Israeli  legislation  requiring  a  referendum  before 
troops  can  be  withdrawn  from  the  Syrian  Golan 
Heights  and  Jerusalem  runs  counter 
to  Security 
Council  resolutions  497  (1981)  and  476  (1980).  We 
call on Israel to fully withdraw from the Syrian Golan, 
to  the  1967  lines.  We  also  call  on  Israel  to  withdraw 
from  the  occupied  Lebanese  territories:  the  Shaba’a 
farms, the Kfar Shuba Hills and Al-Ghajar village. 
My delegation once again condemns the practices 

the 
the 
of 
international  will  and 
international  and 
regional peace and security. We call on the people and 
Governments  of  the  world  to  support  the  Palestinian 
people  in  their  fight  against  the  Israeli  occupying 
Power  and  the  blockade  imposed  on  the  Gaza  Strip, 
which  prevents  the  flow  of  international  humanitarian 
aid  to  that  area  and  destroys  its  economy  and  social 
fabric.  Israel’s  blockade  on  Gaza  is  one  of  the  worst 
forms  of  collective  punishment.  We  call  for  an 
Israeli  occupying  Power 
that  defy 
threaten 
12 

10-65877 
A/65/PV.54
in 


immediate  end  to  the  blockade  and  for  opening  the 
crossing points so that people are allowed access to aid 
and  food  supplies  and  medication  for  the  women, 
children and the elderly who are ill. 

The  report  of  the  Commissioner-General  of  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees 
the  Near  East  (UNRWA)  (A/65/13) 
reviewed  the  effects  of  the  blockade  imposed  on  the 
Palestinian  people,  which  has  prevented  humanitarian 
aid and all major projects assisting the Palestinians and 
has  paralysed  life  in  Gaza.  Israel  also  attacked  the 
freedom flotilla, and UNRWA facilities  and staff were 
not  spared  in  those  attacks.  The  situation  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territories is simply intolerable. 

Talk  of  settling  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East 
peacefully will remain a dream until Israel is willing to 
stop  its  practices  and  violations  of  human  rights  and 
respect  the  international  will  in  that  regard,  abide  by 
laws  and  stop  its  attacks  on  the  innocent  people  of 
Palestine,  which  we  see  on  television  throughout  the 
world.  As  long  as  Israel  is  allowed  to  continue  the 
blockade, the suffering will continue. 
We  firmly  support  the  Palestinian  position,  and 

we  call  for  an  end  of  all  settlement  activity  and  the 
resumption  of  dialogue  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of 
reference and the Arab Peace Initiative. We also call on 
Israel  to  stop  the  destruction  of  civilian  homes  in  the 
Palestinian  territories  and  to  end  its  illegal  settlement 
activities. 
To  conclude,  we  must  say  that  in  this  the 

credibility of the United Nations is at stake, and we are 
at  a  crossroads.  It  is  time  to  assume  our  historic 
responsibility and put  an end to Israel’s occupation of 
the  Palestinian  territories  that  it  has  occupied  since 
1967  and  to  see  the  Palestinian  people  establish  their 
own independent, sovereign State on their land. 
Mr.  Kohona  (Sri  Lanka):  I  would  like  to  thank 

you,  Mr.  President,  for  giving  me  this  opportunity  to 
address the Assembly this morning. 

My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the  position 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  as  articulated  by  the 
Permanent  Representative 
the 
53rd meeting. 

Each  year,  29  November  engenders  mixed 
feelings  in  us.  On  the  one  hand,  it  gives  us  hope  that 
we will be able to see the State of Palestine become a 
of  Egypt 
at 


rights  of 
inalienable 
their  right 
the 
including 
Sri  Lanka’s  position  with 
reality, as  envisaged in the historic resolution 181 (II) 
of  29  November  1947.  On  the  other,  many  of  us  are 
the 
disappointed 
that 
Palestinian  people, 
to  self-
determination,  national  independence  and  statehood, 
still remain unaccomplished despite many efforts of the 
international community. 

the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  remains 
consistent. We reaffirm our unequivocal support for the 
two-State solution. 

the  message  of  my 
President,  His  Excellency  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  on  the 
occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with the 
Palestinian People. 

Permit  me 
to  convey 
regard 
this 
to 
“On 
occasion 
important 

to 
commemorate the International Day of Solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  People,  I  wish  to  renew,  on 
behalf  of  my  Government  and  the  people  of  Sri 
Lanka,  our  sincere  and  unwavering  support  for 
the  just  struggle  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
achieve  their  inalienable  rights,  including  their 
right to statehood. 

“I  have  personally  associated  myself  with 
the  Palestinian  cause  for  over  30  years,  and  it  is 
my  conviction  that  the  Palestinians  have  been 
denied their  basic  rights for far too long. It is in 
the  mutual  benefit  of  both  Israel  and  Palestine 
that  the  proximity  talks  should  recommence 
without  further  delay.  We  therefore  take  this 
opportunity 
the  utmost 
restraint  and  the  cessation  of  all  provocations  so 
as  to  ensure  the  re-establishment  of  trust  and 
confidence among all parties. It is hoped that the 
parties  will  continue  to  demonstrate  leadership 
and political courage and keep the door to peace 
open. The dream of the people of the region and 
all people of the world is peace. 
“It  is  peace  in  Palestine  that  can  pave  the 

way  for  a  stable  and  peaceful  Middle  Eastern 
region. It is by securing the inalienable  rights of 
the 
the 
establishment  of  an  independent,  self-sustaining 
State  of  Palestine  consistent  with  a  negotiated 
comprehensive  solution,  that  peace  and  security 
in the region can be ensured. 
to  earnestly  request 
Palestinian 
including 
people, 
10-65877 

13 

“It is the continuing hope of Sri Lanka that 

this day will arrive soon.” 
Sri  Lanka 
A/65/PV.54 


in 
territories, 
the  occupied 

remains  deeply  concerned  and 
disturbed  at  the  disappointing  conditions  in  Gaza  and 
the  occupied  territories,  including  East  Jerusalem.  We 
earnestly hope that both the Israeli and the Palestinian 
leaders  will  take  bold  measures  to  reinvigorate  the 
stalled peace proximity talks. We regret the termination 
of the moratorium on settlement construction. Over the 
years,  both  sides  have  suffered  the  loss  of  valuable 
human lives and material resources, but the Palestinian 
losses and suffering have been particularly harrowing. 

In  Sri  Lanka,  we  are  fully  cognizant  of  the  fact 
that  senseless  violence  can  only  destabilize  societies 
and  unleash  hatred  and  hostilities.  Regulations  and 
policies  that  restrict  the  freedom  of  movement  of  the 
Palestinians 
illegal 
intrusions  into  Palestinian  lands,  the  destruction  of 
their  private  property  and  agricultural  lands,  and 
restrictions  on  access  to  fishing  and  other  livelihood 
activities  can  only  create  more  tension  and  bitterness 
and  push  back  the  possibility  of  realizing  a  durable 
peace. 

We  therefore  urge  both  parties  to  exercise  the 
utmost  restraint  in  order  to  create  an  environment 
conducive  to  building  mutual  trust  and  understanding. 
For that to happen, we strongly believe that Israel must 
end  the  occupation  and  immediately  withdraw  to  the 
1967  borders,  freeze  all  illegal  settlement  activities, 
and cease the construction of the separation wall. There 
should  also  be  guarantees  to  Israel  that  its  legitimate 
security concerns are not at stake. 

I take this opportunity to commend the work that 
has been carried out by the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
to  assist  millions  of  Palestinian  people  in  need  during 
all 
these  years  amid  multiple  difficulties.  We 
emphasize  the  need  to  further  ease  the  restrictions  on 
the  flow  of  goods  to  Gaza  in  order  to  expedite  the 
return  to  normalcy.  We  appreciate  the  ongoing  efforts 
of  international  donors,  regional  organizations  and 
United  Nations  agencies  to  alleviate  the  suffering  of 
innocent civilians and to provide protection for them. 

It  is  Sri  Lanka’s  firm  hope  that  all  Palestinian 
people  will  rally  behind  the  Palestinian  Authority  to 
build  and  enhance  the  democratic  institutions  of 
Palestine,  which  is  a  necessary  precondition  for  a 
future  State  of 
strong,  viable  and 
independent 
Let  me  quote  Mahatma  Gandhi  when  he  said: 
Palestine.  It  is  also  our  hope  that  Israel  will  flourish, 
uphold  democratic  values,  and  gain  the  increased 
recognition and friendship of its neighbours. 

“The future depends on what we do in the present”. 
Mr.  Puri  (India):  Thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for 

convening this discussion on the question of Palestine 
at  the  General  Assembly.  Yesterday,  we  marked  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People,  a  day  that  allows  all  of  us  to  underline  our 
support  for  the  people  of  Palestine  in  their  quest  for 
peace and justice. 

The  support  for  the  Palestinian  cause  has  been 
central  to  India’s  foreign  policy,  even  before  we 
achieved independence in 1947. Starting with our vote 
against  the  partition  of  Palestine  and  through  India’s 
recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organization in 
1974  as  the  sole  and  legitimate  representative  of  the 
Palestinian  people  and  our  recognition  of  the  State  of 
Palestine  in  1988,  India  has  consistently  stood  by  the 
Palestinian people. 

I draw the Assembly’s attention to the message of 
our  Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Manmohan  Singh,  dated  15 
November  2010,  on  the  occasion  of  the  International 
Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  He 
the 
reiterated 
Palestinian  people’s 
sovereign, 
independent, viable and united State of Palestine, with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  living  within  secure  and 
recognized  borders,  side  by  side  and  at  peace  with 
Israel,  as  endorsed  in  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the 
Quartet  Road  Map  and  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions. 

India’s solidarity with Palestine’s struggle for the 
realization of its fundamental rights is a matter of faith 
for us and enjoys national consensus in India. India has 
always  supported  and  will  continue  to  support  the 
Palestinian  people  in  their  pursuit  of  the  legitimate 
goals and quest for development, based on dignity and 
self-reliance. 

Towards  that  objective,  India  extended  further 
budgetary  support  of  $10  million  to  the  Palestine 
National  Authority  earlier  this  year,  in  addition  to  a 
similar contribution last year, to assist in their work of 
reconstruction  and  development. 
India  has  also 
continued  to  support  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
India’s  unwavering 
struggle 
support 
for 
a 
for 
14 

10-65877 
lead 


Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
through its annual contribution of $1 million. 

India  welcomes  the  direct  talks  between  Israel 
and Palestine, and reiterates its full support for efforts 
to  achieve  a  durable,  comprehensive  and 
just 
settlement.  We  sincerely  hope  that  the  talks  and 
negotiations  will 
to  a  comprehensive  peace 
process  for  the  final  resolution  of  the  Middle  East 
conflict. 

We  remain  convinced  that  lasting  peace  in  the 
region will contribute to global stability and prosperity. 
Mr.  Escalona  Ojeda  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My  delegation  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by Ambassador  Maged 
Abdelaziz,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt,  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

On  many  occasions,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  has  firmly  stated  that  the  search  for  a  just 
solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine,  without  further 
delay,  is  vital  to  creating  a  climate  of  peace  in  the 
Middle East region. That solution will be truly credible 
upon  the  establishment  of  an  independent,  viable  and 
territorially  contiguous  Palestinian  State,  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital. 

However,  we  cannot  hope  to  achieve  a  real,  just 
and  balanced  peace  if  the  occupying  Power,  the  State 
of Israel, does not make sincere efforts to that end. On 
the  contrary,  the  entire  international  community  has 
witnessed 
Israeli 
Government  to  disregard  in  practice  the  Oslo Accords 
and all the initiatives that have emerged. Each time that 
those  initiatives  open  up  prospects  for  peace,  direct 
talks between the authorities of that country and those 
of Palestine end up being interrupted. 

The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela vigorously 
appeals to the relevant organs of the United Nations to 
compel the State of Israel to fully comply with United 
Nations  resolutions,  in  particular  Security  Council 
resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  1397  (2002)  and 
1515  (2003).  The  actions  of  multilateral  bodies  has 
been limited to words and more words, while the most 
basic  rights  of 
the  Palestinian  people  are  being 
violated. It is time for resolute action. 

History itself relates the rise and fall of so many 
savage forms of domination, whose foundations, rooted 
in immorality and barbarity, have collapsed. Thus, it is 
systematic  action  of 
the 
the 
A/65/PV.54
not surprising that the Israeli acts of aggression against 
the  Palestinian  people,  such  as  the  criminal  blockade 
against  the  Gaza  Strip,  Operation  Cast  Lead  and  the 
attack  on  the  humanitarian  freedom  flotilla,  are  the 
clear  expression  of  the  current  imperialist  hegemony. 
Although  those  actions  have  been  condemned  by  this 
Organization,  my  country  is  deeply  concerned  about 
the  impunity  of  the  Government  of  Israel  in  carrying 
out  similar  violations  of  human  dignity  and  the 
passivity of the international community towards such 
serious issues. 

At such a crucial time for defining new standards 
in  all  areas  of  life  and  human  thought,  it  is  our 
responsibility,  as  Member  States  of  this  Organization, 
to  contribute  decisively  to  a  better  and  fairer  world. 
That  is  incompatible  with  the  ongoing  violations  of 
international humanitarian law and the human rights of 
men,  women  and  children  committed  by  the  State  of 
Israel. 

Not all the agreements and resolutions adopted on 
that subject have been just and fair. For example, under 
the  Oslo Accords,  signed  in  1993,  Israel  strengthened 
its  control  over  78  per  cent  of  the  territory  originally 
occupied  by  the  Palestinians.  That  situation  is  very 
different from the one that prevailed in 1948, when the 
State  of  Israel  was  established  on  territory  equivalent 
to 22 per cent of that area. A just and fair solution for 
Palestine  must  take  account  of  its  territorial  structure 
of 1967. 

Allow me to underscore the fact that my country 
became  a  full  member  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  by  decision  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the 
115th  meeting  of 
session  on 
7 September of this year. That action testifies to a more 
active  commitment  to  the  cause  of  that  brave  people, 
whose  resilience  and  courage  serve  as  an  example  to 
all peoples of the world and a source of inspiration for 
the exercise of the right to self-determination. 
To  conclude,  allow  me  to  quote  our  President, 

Hugo  Chávez  Frías,  on 
the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People yesterday: 


“Here,  once  again,  is  the  proof  of  our 
vibrant  and  active  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
cause and with a great people who wish to have a 
homeland.” 
the  observance  of 
sixty-fourth 
the 
10-65877 

15 

in 
the 
its 
illegal 
The  ongoing  developments 
the  separation  wall,  despite 
A/65/PV.54 

Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  My  delegation  aligns 

itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

the  occupied 
Palestinian territory point to the continued violation of 
the  rights of  the Palestinian people  and  the worsening 
of  the  situation  as  a  result,  inter  alia,  of  Israel’s 
acceleration  of 
settlement  activities, 
accompanied  by  the  escalating  violence  of  settlers, 
home  demolitions,  forced  evictions  and  the  ongoing 
construction  of 
the 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice. 

Despite  recent  efforts  to  revitalize  the  peace 
process, Israel continues to carry out its illegal actions 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including  East 
Jerusalem, altering the physical, legal and institutional 
structure of the occupied territory. Those measures are 
intended  to  achieve  the  annexation  of  the  Palestinian 
territory  by  bringing  about  long-term  demographic 
changes,  removing  traces  of  Palestinian  heritage  and 
strengthening the Israeli presence in the West Bank and 
East Jerusalem. 
remains 

Moreover, 
disturbing  from  the  perspective  of  human  rights  and 
international  law.  The  Palestinians  have  continued  to 
be  collectively  punished  through  the  isolation  of  the 
1.5  million  residents  of  Gaza  for  several  years  now; 
they  are  denied  the  right  to  study  at  West  Bank 
universities and to maintain normal social contact with 
family  members.  Exports  from  the  Strip  have  been 
prohibited,  as  has  the  flow  of  goods  and  people,  even 
in 
regard,  my 
delegation  underlines  the  necessity  for  an  immediate 
lifting by Israel of its illegal blockade and the opening 
of  all  crossing  points  to  Gaza,  in  accordance  with 
Security  Council  resolution  1860  (2009),  General 
Assembly  resolution  ES-10/18  and  other  relevant 
United Nations resolutions. 

Similarly,  the  imprisonment  of  about  10,000 
Palestinians  in  Israeli  jails,  where  ill-treatment  and 
torture are widely used, is a matter of serious concern 
for  my  country.  The  international  community  cannot 
continue 
to 
international  humanitarian  law  and  must  adopt  a  clear 
and  urgent  stand  for  the  immediate  release  of  that 
illegally  detained  group  of  people,  which  includes 
children and women. 
life-and-death  situations. 
scandalous  affront 
in  Gaza 
situation 
ignore 
In 
that 
to 
that 
the 
through 
to  ensure 
implementation  of 
international  community.  We  call  on 

The  Israelis’  unlawful  actions  on  the  ground 
provide  the  starkest  evidence  of  the  contrast  between 
its  actions  and  its  professed  participation  in  the  peace 
process. That clearly demonstrates that Israel is not on 
the path to peace and that the only goal pursued by the 
Israeli  policy  seems  to  be  undermining  any  future 
prospects for a peaceful settlement. 
Despite the call of all United Nations resolutions 

for 
the  occupied 
the  withdrawal  of  Israel  from 
territories, the occupying Power continues its policy of 
expansionism with impunity, while showing disdain for 
the 
the 
international  community,  in  particular  the  Security 
Council,  to  halt  the  brutal  practices  of  the  Israeli 
Government 
its 
resolutions and the adoption of measures to protect the 
Palestinian  population  and 
that  such 
practices, which further worsen the living conditions of 
the Palestinian people, are not repeated. 

It is the responsibility of the Security Council to 
exercise its prerogative to put an end to that culture of 
impunity by taking the action needed to ensure respect 
for and compliance with the ruling of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  and 
the relevant United Nations resolutions. 

A  complete  cessation  of  all  settlement  activities 
and human rights violations is clearly a prerequisite for 
creating  a  more  stable  environment  conducive  to  a 
genuine peace process, so as to achieve the goal of the 
two-State solution. Negotiations remain imperative for 
achieving  a  mutually  agreed  solution  based  on  two 
States, in accordance with Security Council resolutions 
242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the principles contained 
in the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative. 
Algeria  reiterates  that  any  negotiated  outcome 

between the parties must result in the emergence of an 
independent,  democratic  and  viable  Palestinian  State, 
with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its  capital,  in  accordance 
with international law and the relevant United Nations 
resolutions. 
this 

Assembly  marked  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity 
with  the  Palestinian  People.  Today,  the  Government 
and  the  people  of  the  Maldives  wish  to  reiterate  our 
steadfast  solidarity  with  our  Palestinian  brothers  and 
sisters  in  their  efforts  to  realize  their  right  to  self-
determination. 
(Maldives):  Yesterday, 
Mr.  Mohamed
16 

10-65877 



My  delegation  appreciates  the  work  carried  out 
by  the  Secretary-General,  in  accordance  with  General 
Assembly  resolution  64/19.  The  Maldives  welcomes 
the  work  of  all  those  Governments  that  contributed  to 
his report (A/65/380 and Add.1). 

It  is  with  great  concern  and  disappointment  that 
we  note  the  continued  suffering  of  the  people  of 
Palestine.  They  have  been  denied  their  right  to  self-
determination  and  their  right  to  live  in  peace  and 
freedom  in  their  own  independent  State  for  far  too 
long. While  recognizing  the  rights  of  Palestinians,  we 
also  appreciate  and  support  the  right  of  the  people  of 
Israel  to  live  in  peace  and  security  alongside  an 
independent and sovereign State of Palestine. 

The situation in Palestine and the Middle East has 
been an item on the United Nations agenda for 63 years 
now.  During  that  time,  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Commission  on  Human  Rights,  the  Human  Rights 
Council and the Security Council have adopted dozens 
of  resolutions.  However,  it  is  regrettable  that  the 
principles,  recommendations  and  decisions  contained 
in those documents have not produced a solution. 
My delegation strongly urges both sides to put an 

end  to  the  ongoing  violence  and  to  return  to  the 
negotiating  table  to  broker  a  peaceful  solution.  The 
Maldives  also  calls  on  Israel  to  observe  international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  laws  and  to  end 
practices that have been deemed to involve the torture 
and  inhumane  treatment  of  Palestinian  prisoners.  We 
also  call  for  the  release  of  all  innocent  Palestinian 
civilians  who  remain  in  their  custody.  Moreover,  we 
also urge Hamas to observe international humanitarian 
and  human  rights  laws  by  allowing  humanitarian 
workers  access  to  the  captured  Israeli  soldier  Gilad 
Shalit. 

As many have done here today and yesterday, we 
wish  to  draw  attention  to  the  human  rights  tragedy  in 
Gaza,  and  state  once  again  that  encroachments  on 
human rights will continue to hinder the peace process, 
as  that  only  strengthens  hate  and  mistrust.  As  the 
Israeli blockade enters its fourth year, we note that the 
situation  for  all  Palestinians  in  Gaza  has  worsened. 
Even the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East finds it difficult to 
cope  with 
in  Gaza.  While  many 
delegations  welcome  efforts  to  ease  the  blockade,  the 
Maldives  condemns  the  blockade  itself  and  calls  on 
Israel to bring an end to it. 
the  situation 
legitimate 
struggle 
for 
10-65877 

17 
A/65/PV.54
process, 
as  many 
the  same 
time, 
Israeli  settlements  provide  another 

issue  of 
concern.  The  Maldives  recognizes  the  Israeli  right  to 
housing,  but,  at 
the  rights  of 
Palestinians  should  not  be  trampled.  Therefore,  the 
Maldives calls on Israel to freeze the expansion of all 
settlements in the occupied territories. 

The  note  verbale  dated  20  July  2010  from  the 
Permanent  Mission  of  Israel  to  the  United  Nations, 
contained in the Secretary-General’s report, states that: 


“Despite significant efforts made on the part 
of  the  Government  of  Israel  in  the  past  year  to 
renew negotiations with the Palestinian Authority 
and to foster conditions for economic growth and 
development, Palestinian terrorism continued and 
remains an alarming reality.” (A/65/380, para. 4) 

The Maldives condemns all forms of terrorism in 
the  strongest  terms,  and  wishes  to  underscore  that  a 
peaceful and sustainable solution will be the result of a 
peaceful 
self-determination 
movements  in  history  can  attest.  My  delegation  does 
not believe that violence can provide a real end to the 
occupation  or  meaningfully  contribute  to  a  two-State 
solution.  Therefore, 
the  Maldives  calls  on  all 
stakeholders to avoid violence and to embrace dialogue 
and empathy. 

In conclusion, the Maldives does not wish to see 
another  generation  of  Palestinians  grow  up  under  the 
yoke  established  by  the  occupation  and  the  blockade, 
which  perpetuates  the  extreme  poverty  and  depravity 
witnessed over the past 63 years. 

We continue our call for all sides to return to the 
peace talks in order to resolve their differences, and we 
urge  all  countries  to  support  the  pillars  that  will 
provide  an  enduring  solution  to  the  conflict  for  the 
people  of  that  region.  We  believe  that  dialogue  and 
constructive  engagement  serve  the  cause  of  peace 
better than ostracism and isolation. Violence will never 
bring  peace  to  the  Middle  East.  Instead,  it  will  create 
more violence, shed more blood and increase hatred on 
both sides. 
(Bangladesh):  Let  me  begin  by 

thanking  you,  Mr.  President,  for  organizing 
this 
important meeting on the occasion of the observance of 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People. We wish to reaffirm our full solidarity with the 
Palestinian  people  and  our  unwavering  support  for 
their 
self-determination. 
Ms.  Gini

rights 
for  more 
to 
A/65/PV.54 

Bangladesh  stands  firm  in  its  position  on  the  Arab-
Israeli  conflict  in  support  of  achieving  a  just,  lasting 
and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. 

The  Bangladesh  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  Given  the  importance  of  the  matter,  we 
would,  however,  like  to  highlight  some  points  of 
particular concern to us. 

The  Palestinian  issue  has  always  been  a  serious 
concern  for  Bangladesh.  Our  Prime  Minister,  Sheikh 
Hasina,  on  the  Day  of  Solidarity  expressed  our 
unwavering  support  for  and  solidarity  with 
the 
Palestinian people in their just and legitimate struggle 
for the right of self-determination and statehood. 

Bangladesh  reiterates  its  long-standing  position 
that  the  continued  occupation  of  Palestine  is  the  root 
cause  of  violence,  unrest  and  destabilization  in  the 
region. The people of Palestine have been under illegal 
than 
occupation 
five  decades.  Their 
fundamental 
self-determination  and  a 
sovereign State remain unrealized. The situation in the 
occupied  territories  continues  to  be  one  of  despair. 
Millions are living in refugee camps in abject poverty 
and face hunger, disease and malnutrition. Bangladesh 
is deeply concerned over the continued suffering of the 
Palestinian  people  and  the  deteriorating  humanitarian 
situation in the occupied territories. 

international 
humanitarian law by systematically committing human 
rights  violations  against  the  Palestinian  people.  The 
situation in the occupied Palestinian territory, including 
East  Jerusalem,  remains  critical,  as  indiscriminate 
closures  enforced  by  Israel  impede  the  access  of 
humanitarian  assistance  to  the  occupied  territories, 
halting  commercial  activities  and  causing  the  loss  of 
thousands  of  jobs.  It  has  not  only  restricted  access  to 
the  basic  necessities  of  life,  but  is  also  destroying  the 
social  fabric  of  the  Palestinian  people  by  causing 
widespread  displacement.  We  therefore  demand  the 
immediate  withdrawal  of  all  restrictions  on 
the 
movement of Palestinian civilians. 
its  constitutional 

in 
commitment  of  support  to  the  poorest  people  around 
the world, and has consistently supported the righteous 
cause  of  the  self-determination  of  the  Palestinian 
people.  We  condemn  the  attacks  on  the  Palestinian 
people  in  Gaza  and  the  West  Bank  and  the  deaths  of 
Bangladesh  stands  firm 
Israel  has  continued 
to  violate 
innocent  Palestinians,  including  women  and  children. 
No verdict can justify the killings of innocent civilians 
or  the  breach  of  international  humanitarian  law  and 
human rights standards. 

Bangladesh believes that the continued expansion 
of Israeli settlements in the occupied territories and the 
construction  of  the  separation  wall  threaten  to  derail 
the  ongoing  peace  negotiations.  With  the  unhindered 
construction  of  the  wall  in  disregard  for  the  advisory 
opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the 
occupied  territories  are  increasingly  being  fragmented 
into  smaller  parts,  which  will  seriously  affect  the 
viability  of  a 
stable,  peaceful  and 
sovereign, 
independent Palestinian State. 

My  delegation  draws  attention  to  the  fact  that 
Israel,  as  a  signatory  to  the  relevant  provisions  of  the 
Fourth  Geneva  Convention,  which  stipulates 
the 
responsibilities  of  an  occupying  Power,  cannot  legally 
or  morally  absolve  itself  of  its  responsibilities  to 
guarantee  the  basic  human  rights  of  the  people  under 
its occupation. The General Assembly and the Security 
Council, in the resolutions they have adopted over the 
years,  have  reconfirmed  Israel’s  obligation  to  ensure 
the  basic  human  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people. 
Bangladesh  believes  that  only  the  full  and  sincere 
implementation  of  the  relevant  General Assembly  and 
Security  Council 
the 
Palestinian crisis. 

Bangladesh wants to see Palestine as a sovereign 
State,  with  recognized  borders,  living  side  by  side  in 
peace  with  Israel.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
multilateral 
relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  the Arab  peace  plan  and 
the  efforts  of  the  Quartet.  The  greatest  challenge  to 
peace  in  the  Middle  East  is  the  absence  of  an 
environment  conducive  to  trust  and  confidence.  We 
hope 
involved  will  demonstrate 
sincerity  in  transforming  the  two-State  solution  into  a 
reality. 
One day after the International Day of Solidarity 

with 
the 
the  Palestinian  People,  we  call  on 
international  community  to  take  resolute  steps  to 
alleviate  the  plight  of  our  Palestinian  brethren,  revive 
the  peace  process  and  enable  the  global  values  of 
mutual 
the  harmonious 
coexistence  of  nations  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes to prevail in the Middle East. 
initiatives,  particularly 
respect,  human 
the  parties 
resolutions 
resolve 
rights, 
can 
the 
that 
18 

10-65877 



In  closing,  we  would  like  to  underscore  that 
Israel’s  activities  in  the  occupied  territories  remain  a 
matter  of  grave  concern  to  us.  We  express  our  full 
solidarity with the Palestinian people and reiterate our 
steadfast  support  for  their  legitimate  and  inalienable 
right  to  a  sovereign  and  independent  State,  with 
Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr.  Ali  (Malaysia):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

align  itself  with  the  statement  made  earlier  in  the 
debate by the representative of Egypt on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

The  resumption  of  direct  negotiations  between 
Palestine  and  Israel  in  September  was  indeed  a 
laudable initiative undertaken by the parties concerned, 
as  well  as  other  regional  and  international  players, 
including  the  United  States  and  the  other  members  of 
the Quartet. However, we were disheartened when that 
courageous undertaking faced a bleak impasse, with no 
clear sight of progress. 

Israel’s  illegal  policies  and  inhumane  practices, 
which  continue  with  impunity,  detract  from  the  effort 
to  realize  the  aspiration  of  creating  two  sovereign 
States 
Israel’s 
intransigence is evident from the following. 

First is the continuation  and expansion of illegal 
settlement  activities  in  the  West  Bank,  including  East 
Jerusalem, with the recent plans to construct more than 
1,500  settlement  units  in  parts  of  East  Jerusalem  and 
800 units in the Ariel settlement in the West Bank. 

Second  is  the  forced  eviction  of  the  Palestinian 
people;  the  demolition  of  their  homes  and  other 
infrastructures,  such  as  places  of  worship; 
the 
confiscation of Palestinian lands, including through the 
building  of  the  illegal  separation  wall,  which,  to  date, 
continues  to  be  built  despite  the  advisory  opinion  of 
the 
its 
construction; and the revocation of the residency rights 
of Palestinian Jerusalemites. 

Third  are  the  incidents  of  violence  towards  and 
attacks  on  Palestinian  civilians,  Palestinian  property, 
agricultural  land  and  crops,  as  well  as  Muslim  and 
Christian places of worship and holy sites, by extremist 
Israeli  settlers.  Such  provocative  and  brutal  acts 
continue unabated. 

of  Palestinians, 
Fourth is the imprisonment in Israel of thousands 
including  Palestinian  women  and 
International  Court  of  Justice 
in  peace. 
side  by 
to  stop 
living 
side 
A/65/PV.54
children, who have been subjected to ill-treatment and 
torture by the Israeli authorities. 

Fifth is the imposition of measures that constitute 
a  form  of  collective  punishment,  which  is  strictly 
forbidden  under  international  humanitarian  law.  Such 
measures  include  the  illegal  blockade  of  Gaza,  which 
has  restricted  the  passage  of  essential  goods  and 
construction  materials  to  the  vulnerable  group,  the 
hundreds of checkpoints and roadblocks and the permit 
system,  as  well  as  other  obstacles  that  violate  the 
Palestinians’ right to freedom of movement. 

Sixth  is  the  new  legislation  approved  by  the 
Israeli  parliament  last  Monday,  which  requires  a  two-
thirds majority or a referendum on any potential land-
for-peace agreement. 

It  is  obvious  that  such  exploitation  is  not  only 
illegal  and  immoral,  but  also  counterproductive  to  the 
aim  of  achieving  a  genuine  and  lasting  peace.  Israel 
cannot  cloud  the  eyes  of  the  international  community 
by simply enumerating actions undertaken to lessen the 
sufferings of the Palestinians. 

Instead, Israel must heed the high expectations of 
the  international  community  to  end  this  long-standing 
conflict  by  improving  the  situation  on  the  ground, 
stopping the construction of illegal settlements, lifting 
the  blockade  in  Gaza,  addressing  humanitarian  needs 
and  improving  the  atmosphere  for  negotiation,  among 
other things. In that connection, we call on the United 
States  and  the  other  members  of  the  Quartet  to 
persuade  Israel  to  stop  its  intransigence,  particularly 
the  construction  of  settlements 
the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.  That 
said,  Malaysia  believes 
the  achievement  of 
political unity among Palestinians is equally important 
to  moving 
and 
reconstructing the Gaza Strip. 

Yesterday,  we  also  marked  the  International  Day 
of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. I wish to take 
this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  all  Palestinians  who 
have  suffered  in  their  just  struggle  to  live  in  freedom 
and  in  dignity  in  a  State  they  can  call  their  own. The 
people  of  Palestine  can  count  on  Malaysia’s 
unwavering  support  in  their  efforts  to  create  an 
independent and sovereign State of Palestine, with East 
Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr. Rivard (Canada): While the situation on the 

ground  has  remained  largely  calm  since  the  Gaza 
forward 
process 
peace 
that 
the 
in 
10-65877 

19 

A/65/PV.54 

conflict, there continue to be sporadic rocket attacks on 
Israel  emanating  from  Gaza,  which  we  strongly 
condemn  as  designed  to  ensure  the  failure  of  the 
United States-led peace talks. It is important that these 
spoiler elements not be given the opportunity to derail 
the chance for peace. 
(spoke in French) 

If the peace talks are to succeed, it is urgent that 
the parties take a risk for peace. This is not easy to do 
in  a  part  of  the  world  where  mistrust  is  deeply  rooted 
and  the  dangers  are  very  real.  But  without  genuine 
leadership and a vision for a better tomorrow, we know 
what  the  future  will  hold  —  unending  violence  and 
bloodshed on both sides.  Every  effort should be made 
to ensure that this does not occur. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  the  Palestinian 
Authority has made real progress in its reforms, which 
we applaud. However, much remains to be done. That 
is  why  Canada’s  assistance  is  focused  clearly  on  the 
security  and  justice  sectors.  At  the  same  time,  the 
Government  of  Israel  must  fulfil  its  commitments  on 
settlements and on the access and movement of people 
and goods. 
(spoke in English) 

Canada continues to recognize the important role 
of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  in 
supporting the peace process. United Nations agencies 
remain at the forefront of providing assistance to those 
in  need  in  the  region.  However,  Canada  remains 
concerned  about 
the  number  of  United  Nations 
resolutions  that  single  out  Israel,  as  well  as  the 
disproportionate focus placed on the Middle East. Now 
more than ever, we strongly believe that the efforts of 
the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  should 
complement  efforts  towards  ensuring  that  peace  talks 
begin again and that a climate for success is created. 

Once  again,  Canada  urges  the  parties  to  do 
whatever it takes to return to direct negotiations. There 
is simply no other reasonable option. 
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke 

in Spanish): At the outset, my delegation would like to 
associate 
the 
delegation  of  Egypt  as  Chair  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

Once  again,  we  meet  this  year  to  observe  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
the  statement  made  by 
itself  with 
People.  After  63  years,  Israel  is  still  rejecting  peace 
and the establishment of a sovereign, independent State 
of  Palestine.  On  a  daily  basis,  the  international 
community  witnesses  the  look  of  terror  in  the  eyes  of 
Palestinian  children  and  the  images  of  Palestinian 
farmers  clinging  to  an  olive  tree  as  they  are  expelled 
from their lands and the homes they sacrificed so much 
to  build.  We  also  bear  witness  to  the  pain  of  mothers 
who cannot watch their children grow up because they 
are either assassinated or imprisoned. 

The supposed deadlock of the peace negotiations 
for over a month now is just the most recent evidence 
that  achieving  peace  is  not  Israel’s  true  intention.  In 
order to ensure the complete failure of the negotiations, 
the Israeli Parliament recently enacted a law, presented 
by  the  Government,  requiring  that  the  withdrawal  of 
the Israeli army from occupied territories be submitted 
to a referendum. 

For years now, the most reactionary Israeli voices 
have declared that the only solution is permanent war. 
Successive Governments have successfully carried out 
this  policy 
through  a  murderous  occupation,  a 
genocidal  blockade  and  the  collective  torture  of  an 
entire  people.  The  military  industry  is  today  the  most 
lucrative industry in Israel. 

Israel  has  always  had  the  economic  and  military 
capacity  to  pursue  its  policy  of  permanent  war  thanks 
to  a  crucial  accomplice  that  has  supplied  it  with  war 
materiel 
than  1,500 
Palestinians between December 2008 and January 2009 
and  to  murder,  in  cold  blood  and  in  international 
waters,  nine  innocent  people  participating  in  the 
freedom  flotilla. Above  all,  that  nation  is  complicit  in 
granting  Israel  impunity,  particularly  in  the  Security 
Council, where it now threatens to veto any attempt to 
issue  a  unilateral  declaration  of  an 
independent 
Palestinian State. 

Peace  in  the  Middle  East  does  not  just  involve 
resolving  the  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict.  It  must  also 
necessarily  include  the  situations  in  Lebanon  and 
Syria,  which 
territories. 
Furthermore, it must include all countries of the region. 
It will also be crucial to eliminate all nuclear weapons 
from  the  Middle  East.  This  means  that  Israel  must 
accept nuclear disarmament and become a party to the 
relevant  international  conventions.  It  will  not  be 
possible  to  achieve  a  climate  of  trust  until  that 
happens. 
to  kill  more 
occupied 
have 
that 
it  used 
also 
20 

10-65877 
territory,  and  of 


Nicaragua  would  like  once  again  to  reiterate  its 

firm  condemnation  of  Israel’s  occupation  of 
the 
Palestinian  territories,  the  Syrian  Golan  Heights  and 
Lebanese 
the  criminal  blockade 
against the Palestinian people, and demands that Israel 
comply  with  all  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly resolutions. 

The  supposed  relaxation  of  the  blockade  of  the 
Gaza  Strip  is  a  mere  cosmetic  measure  to  deflect 
international  attention.  The  ongoing  construction  of 
Israeli  settlements  in  the  occupied  territories  and  the 
refusal  to  dismantle  existing  settlements  are  nothing 
less  than  a  mockery  of  the  peace  process  aimed  at 
imposing  conditions  on  the  negotiations  and  changing 
the  demographic  and  religious  composition  of  these 
territories. 

Nicaragua  and Palestine  are celebrating  30 years 
of  diplomatic  ties,  and  a  number  of  different  events 
have been planned in our country in this respect. Some 
of  these  activities  include  the  reactivation  of  the 
Nicaraguan Palestinian community association and the 
establishment  of  a  committee  for  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  people.  Similarly,  Commander  Daniel 
Ortega,  President  of  Nicaragua,  recently  received  in 
our  country  the  survivors  of  the  freedom  flotilla  and 
gave  the  keys  to  the  city  to  Palestinian  revolutionary 
Leila Khaled. 
On  the  occasion  of  this  year’s  International  Day 

of  Solidarity  with 
the 
Government and people of Nicaragua request that those 
countries  that  have  not  yet  done  so  transform  their 
expressions  of  support  and  solidarity  into  a  concrete 
act — recognition of the Palestinian State. 

Nicaragua would also like to take this opportunity 
to express its firm support for the General Assembly’s 
taking a stand on the issue of recognition of a free and 
sovereign  Palestinian  State,  as  it  should  have  done 
more  than  60  years  ago.  That  is  an  obligation,  and  it 
should  be  a  priority  for  the  Assembly  to  honour  the 
purposes  and  objectives  of 
this  Organization  as 
conceived by those who crafted its Charter. 
(Philippines):  As  we 

commemorated the International Day of Solidarity with 
the  Palestinian  People  yesterday,  I  wish  to  join  you, 
Sir, and others in congratulating the Palestinian people 
on that auspicious day. 
the  Palestinian  People, 
Mr.  Cabactulan
A/65/PV.54
Gaza.  We 
The  Philippines  shares  with 

The  question  of  Palestine  is  one  of  the  most 
sensitive and long-running issues on the agenda of the 
United  Nations.  It  impinges  on  the  overall  issues  of 
durable  peace  and  development  in  the  Middle  East. 
Despite  years  of  debate  and  substantial  energy  and 
resources spent, the resolution of this problem remains 
elusive. And  since  it  has  become  a  permanent  fixture 
on the United Nations agenda, there is a danger that we 
sometimes deal with it more as a ritual, thereby losing 
the freshness and urgency it truly deserves. 

the  Palestinian 
people their legitimate aspirations to achieving justice, 
peace and freedom. In the General Assembly’s regular 
debates on the subject, the Philippines has consistently 
supported the Palestinians’ quest for self-rule and self-
determination,  as  well  as  the  establishment  of  a 
Palestinian  homeland.  The  Philippines  has  also 
repeatedly  expressed  its  support  for  the  complete  and 
unconditional  lifting  of  the  blockade  imposed  by  the 
State  of  Israel  on  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
especially 
embargo 
counterproductive; it serves only to collectively punish 
hapless civilians, particularly women and children. 

The  Philippines  welcomes  the  resumption  of  the 
protracted talks between the Palestinian Authority  and 
the  State  of  Israel,  and  is  hopeful  that,  despite  the 
obstacles  and  hurdles  on 
road  ahead,  a 
breakthrough can be achieved in due time. More work 
and 
still  needed.  The 
Philippines urges both parties to work together to forge 
a 
international  community’s 
assistance is, of course, more important than ever. Only 
with  the  establishment  of  an  independent  and  viable 
Palestinian  State,  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security with its neighbours, will the Palestinian people 
truly  attain  their  rightful  place  in  the  community  of 
nations. 

Let us not lose sight of the fact that we all have a 
stake  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of 
Palestine. It may still be on our agenda next year, and 
maybe  in  years  to  come,  but  it  should  inspire  us  to 
work  even  harder  and  not  to  allow  hopelessness  and 
inaction  to  set  in.  The  Philippines  stands  ready  to 
cooperate and work together with like-minded Member 
States  to  find  a  good  answer  to  the  question  of 
Palestine,  not  just  for  its  significance  for  the  stability 
and  progress  of  the  Middle  East,  but  also  for  the 
benefit of the entire world. 
sacrifice,  however,  are 
lasting  peace.  The 
find 
the 
the 
10-65877 

21 
conducted 
We  meet 
thank  you 
for  organizing 
Mr.  Sipangule
in  which  you  have 
(Zambia):  Allow  me 
A/65/PV.54 


to 
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  the  professional 
these 
manner 
proceedings.  We 
this 
important meeting. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the 
statement on the question of Palestine delivered by the 
representative of the Arab Republic of Egypt on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

the  commemoration 
today  after 
yesterday  of  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the Palestinian People, 16 years after the promulgation 
of  a  peace  accord  aimed  at  establishing  a  Palestinian 
State  existing  in  peace  side  by  side  with  the  State  of 
Israel. Since then, there have been many efforts by the 
international community, including the United Nations, 
to find a lasting solution to the problem of the question 
of Palestine. My delegation would like to see continue 
the peaceful negotiations that once gave so much hope. 

It  is  in  light  of  the  prevailing  situation  that  the 
Zambian delegation wishes to reiterate its belief in and 
support  for  the  inalienable  right  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  a  State  of  their  own  in  full  and  secure 
boundaries 
peaceful 
coexistence  with  the  State  of  Israel. As  a  country  that 
maintains mutually beneficial relations with both Israel 
and  the  Palestinian  National Authority,  my  delegation 
urges the two parties to seize the momentum signalled 
by the renewed commitment of the Quartet to engaging 
in honest negotiations leading to a solution. 
sovereignty, 
and 
and 
in 

to 
the 
tenets  of 

The Palestinians and Israelis need the support of 
the Security  Council, the  Middle East  Quartet  and the 
international  community  at  large  to  bring  them  to  the 
negotiating table. In order that these objectives may be 
achieved,  my  delegation  wishes  to  urge  all  the  parties 
to  adhere 
international  and 
humanitarian  law,  as  well  as  to  all  resolutions  of  the 
General Assembly concerning the matter. 

Zambia  recognizes  the  important  work  of  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) in the West Bank, 
Gaza  and  all  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories.  We 
wish  to  add  our  voice  to  the  many  others  calling  for 
Israel’s  cooperation  and  increased  United  Nations 
support for UNRWA to facilitate the smooth execution 
of its mandate. As all in this Hall are aware, the work 
of  UNRWA  in  Palestine  is  the  lifeblood  of  the  people 
in all the occupied territories. 

As  in  the  past,  at  the  end  of  this  debate  my 
delegation would like again to reaffirm its commitment 
to  all  efforts 
to  a  mutually  acceptable 
negotiated  solution  to  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian 
conflict.  In  this  regard,  Zambia  will  maintain  its  past 
voting  pattern  on  the  draft  resolutions  on  the  agenda 
items before us. 
in  French):  The 

representative  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  asked  to 
speak in exercise of the right of reply. However, due to 
technical  difficulties,  I  propose  that  he  postpone  his 
statement until the next meeting. 


  The meeting rose at 12.30 pm. 
The  President
leading 
(spoke 
22 

10-65877 
