
A/65/PV.33
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

33rd plenary meeting 
Monday, 18 October 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 







In the absence of the President, Mrs. Waffa-Ogoo 
(Gambia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 






Agenda items 14 and 15 (continued)
Global Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations  

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/269)
Culture of peace 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/269)

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/299)
Mr. Kurlovich (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

Republic  of  Belarus  has  consistently  stood 
for 
establishing  an  atmosphere  of  respect  and  mutual 
understanding  among  peoples  and  States  belonging  to 
different  political  and  socio-economic  systems,  and 
welcomes  constructive  dialogue  among  different 
religions and cultures. 

Belarus  is  a  staunch  supporter  of  the  idea  of 
intensifying  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue 
for peace on the principles of mutual respect, equality 
and tolerance. Clear testimony to this was the initiative 
put forward by the President of the Republic of Belarus 
at the 2005 World Summit on the need to recognize the 
diversity  of  paths  to  progress  as  one  of  the  values  of 
human  civilization.  Respect  for  the  uniqueness  of 
States  and  peoples  and  for  their  right  to  choose  their 
own  path  underlies  international  dialogue  and  is  an 
the  maintenance  of 
indispensable  condition 
for 
international peace and security. 

In  accordance  with  the  Belarusian  Constitution, 
the  State  is  responsible  for  the  preservation  of  the 
country’s historical, cultural and spiritual heritage and 
for the promotion of free development of cultures of all 
nationalities living there. 

In Belarus, there are no conflicts based on ethnic, 
racial, cultural, linguistic or religious grounds. Twenty-
four  ethnic  and  cultural  communities  are  represented 
by  123  non-governmental  organizations,  41  of  which 
enjoy international status. Representatives of all ethnic 
communities  are  entitled  to  use  their  own  native 
language, and various educational institutions in which 
Belarusian is not the native tongue allow study in other 
languages, including Polish, Lithuanian and Hebrew. 

More  than  25  religious  denominations  and  over 
3,000  religious  organizations  consolidate  effective 
skills  of 
in  Belarus.  The 
Institute  of  Religious  Dialogue  and  Interreligious 
Communication  is  working  successfully  within  the 
Synod  of  the  Belarusian  Orthodox  Church,  its  highest 
body. 

An  excellent  example  of  constructive  interaction 
and  cooperation  between  national  associations  and 
State bodies is the Advisory Interethnic Council, under 
the  plenipotentiary  on  religions  and  nationalities.  The 
Council  is  composed  of  the  representatives  of  more 
than  20  nationalities,  representing  the  interests  of 
ethnic  and  cultural  associations  currently  active  in 
Belarus. 
interreligious  dialogue 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-59074 (E) 
*1059074* 


in 
for 
attended 
conference  was 
Belarus  has  become  a  venue 
A/65/PV.33 


Every year, Belarus celebrates the World Day for 
Cultural  Diversity  for  Dialogue  and  Development  on 
21  May  and  the  International  Day  for  Tolerance  on 
16 November.  Biennial  national  festivals  of  ethnic 
cultures promote inter ethnic cooperation in Belarusian 
society on the basis of respect and equality. 

regular 
international  meetings  and productive dialogue among 
world  religious  leaders.  In  November  2009,  on  the 
initiative  of  the  Belarusian  Orthodox  Church,  Minsk 
hosted  an  international  conference  under  the  theme 
“Christian-Jewish  dialogue:  religious  values  as  the 
foundation for mutual respect in civil society amid the 
global economic crisis”. 

The  conference  made  an  important  contribution 
to  establishing  closer  cooperation  between  Christian 
theologians  of  varying  confessions  and  secular 
researchers  specializing 
the  area  of  dialogue 
between  Christians  and  Jews  and  the  history  of 
Judaism.  The 
by 
representatives  of  the  Vatican,  the  United  States, 
Germany,  Italy,  Israel,  France,  Sweden,  Canada  and 
other  countries,  with  the  participation  of  well-known 
scholars,  priests  from  traditional  Christian  churches, 
and rabbis from Jewish communities. 

The  promotion  of  mutual  understanding  and 
cooperation  among  various  cultural  and  religious 
organizations  is  a  key  element  of  Belarusian  foreign 
policy. Within the United Nations, Belarus consistently 
undertakes  practical  steps  to  encourage  and  maintain 
the  global  agenda  for  dialogue  among  civilizations. 
Belarus  fully  supports  the  efforts  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  to  strengthen  dialogue  between  cultures 
and religions, and, in the framework of United Nations 
mechanisms,  actively  participates  in  the  Tripartite 
Forum  on  Interfaith  Cooperation  for  Peace  and  the 
Ministerial  Meeting  on 
Interfaith  Dialogue  and 
Cooperation for Peace. 

For  Belarus,  as  a  multi-ethnic  State  at  a 
geographical  and  historical  crossroads  of  civilizations 
and  with  experience  in  establishing  domestic  and 
external  conditions  for  inter  ethnic  and  interreligious 
friendship,  participation  in  the  activities  of  these 
forums  is  a  fully  legitimate  and  logical  step.  We 
believe that cultural diversity and the promotion of the 
cultural  development  of  all  peoples  and  nations  are  a 
source for the mutual enrichment of the cultural life of 
humankind. On that basis, Belarus was among the first 
initiated 
the 
leaders.  The 
the  promotion  of 
countries to accede to the UNESCO Convention on the 
Protection  and  Promotion  of  the  Diversity  of  Cultural 
Expressions. 

Belarus  traditionally  supports  General  Assembly 
resolutions  aimed  at  encouraging  dialogue  among 
civilizations.  Our  country  was  a  sponsor  of  resolution 
64/81  on 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for  peace,  and  among  the  first  countries  to  sponsor 
resolution  64/14,  on  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
adopted in November 2009. 

At the Ministerial Meeting on Interfaith Dialogue 
and  Cooperation  for  Peace  held  in  September  2009  in 
the  framework  of  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  Belarus 
idea  of 
convening  thematic  debates  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  with  the 
participation  of  religious 
idea  was 
supported  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  was  incorporated  into  resolution  64/81  on  the 
promotion  of  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue, 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace.  We  look 
forward  to  such  thematic  debates  being  held  in  the 
General Assembly in the months to come. 

The General Assembly proclaimed 2010 to be the 
International Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures, 
which  is  also  the  culmination  of  the  International 
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-Violence  for 
the  Children  of  the  World.  The  Belarusian  delegation 
believes that young people should play an eminent role 
in  furthering  successful  dialogue  among  civilizations. 
At  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly this year (see A/65/PV.5), Belarus proposed 
the  establishment  of  a  global  partnership  to  promote 
the interests of youth, to be identified as “Help Future 
Generations  Prosper”,  and  the  convening  of  General 
Assembly  thematic  debates  on  this  issue.  We  believe 
that  outreach  to  the  next  generation  on  practices  of 
peace 
from 
discrimination  and  bias  would  help  young  people  to 
live in a world of peace and harmony. 

Belarus,  true  to  its  principles  and  those  of  the 
United  Nations,  will  further  encourage  international 
efforts  to  fully  implement  the  Global  Agenda  for 
Dialogue among Civilizations. 

thank 
intercultural, 
Mr.  Stone  (Australia):  Australia  would  like  to 
report  on 
intercivilizational 
the  Secretary-General 
interreligious  and 
and  non-violence 
for  his 
that 
are 
free 
2 

10-59074 
to 
for 
for 
like 
thank 
the  Children  of 
(A/65/269)  and  his  note  on 


understanding 
the 
International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and 
Non-Violence 
the  World 
(A/65/299),  which  we  are  considering  here  today.  We 
strongly support the Secretary-General in his efforts to 
promote  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  and 
understanding,  particularly  through  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations.  We  would 
the  High 
Representative 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
Mr. Jorge Sampaio, for his tireless efforts on behalf of 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  We  would  also  like  to 
recognize  Turkey  and  Spain  for  their  work  in  co 
chairing  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations. 

Australia  is  encouraged  by  the  work  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  to  promote  dialogue  that 
delivers change on the ground. We need to confront the 
threat  of  cultural  and  religious  division  with  concrete 
action.  The  training  of  journalists  undertaken  by  the 
Alliance  is  one  excellent  example  of  such  concrete 
action. 

The  Alliance  of  Civilizations  complements  the 
regional  interfaith  initiatives  under  way  in  our  own 
Asia-Pacific  region,  such  as  the  Regional  Interfaith 
Dialogue held in Perth, Australia, in October last year, 
as well as the Parliament of the World’s Religions held 
in  Melbourne  last  December.  Australia  also  provides 
extensive  support  to  grass-roots  interfaith  activities  in 
two  of  our  nearest  neighbours  —  Indonesia  and  the 
Philippines — that focus on helping non-governmental 
organizations  on  the  ground  increase  understanding 
between  Muslim  and  Christian  communities.  For 
example, since 2002 the Australia-Indonesia Institute’s 
Muslim  exchange  programme  has  fostered  contact 
between emerging leaders  of the Muslim communities 
in Australia and Indonesia. The programme now has a 
community of more than 130 young leaders working to 
build links with other religious and ethnic groups. 

Australia  is  a  highly  multicultural  society  and 
home to 200 nationalities and more than 100 religions. 
Today,  one  in  four Australians  was  born  overseas.  On 
top  of  that,  almost  as  many  have  at  least  one  parent 
who  was  born  overseas.  Interfaith  and  intercultural 
respect  and  cooperation  have  not  always  come  easily. 
Australia  has  had  to  learn  hard  lessons  about  how 
prejudice  and  distrust  can  be  overcome.  However, 
creative  and  practical  programmes  that  engage  youth 
and  harness  education  at  the  local  level  can  help  us 
improve  the  dialogue  between  cultures  and  promote 
A/65/PV.33
issue 
for 
to 
furnishes 
the  way 
in  major 
understanding 
peace and understanding. Our role as Member States is 
to enable  and encourage  this dialogue,  and the  United 
Nations can play an important role as well. 
Ms.  Halabi  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  address  the 
Assembly  today  on  a  very  important  topic  that  has 
been  a  central 
ideological  and 
intellectual  debates  of  recent  years.  I  am  referring  to 
the  culture  of  peace  and  the  centrality  of  dialogue, 
understanding,  cooperation  and  mutual  respect  among 
cultures  and  religions,  as  well  as  to  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations for peace in its true meaning and not that 
of slogans for peace. 

It  is  well  known  that  ideological  dialogue  is  the 
basis 
between 
international 
communities  and 
the  elements  of  an 
ideological  and  human  renaissance  that  humankind 
needs in order to achieve peace, justice and respect for 
values,  wisely  pave 
international 
understanding,  and  elevate  the  common  values  of 
human culture. 

At  this  stage  in  human  history,  our  peoples  are 
confronted  not  only  by  cultural  misconceptions 
between 
the  West,  but  also  by 
misunderstandings  among  civilizations  affecting  all 
parts of our  world.  It is  a world suffering the  absence 
of the values of freedom, justice and human rights and 
overwhelmed  by  the  dangers  of  imbalance  due  to 
desperation,  numerous  forms  of  aggression  and  the 
launching  of  illegitimate  wars,  discrimination,  racism 
and  the  suffering  of  vulnerable  States  in  the  harsh 
economic  and  financial  crises  impacting  Africa,  Asia 
and Latin America. 

All  of  this  has  left  many  peoples  of  the  world 
with  problems  and  crises  that  are  difficult  to  remedy. 
Therefore, 
awareness-raising 
dialogues  among  all  civilizations,  which  forge  and 
strengthen relationships, is of the utmost urgency. They 
are  lifesaving  measures  that  promote  human  contact, 
reinvigorate  human 
and 
discourage attacks on civilizations that foment discord 
among  different  peoples  and  races.  They  also  foster 
diversity  and  interaction  in  the  international  march  of 
civilization,  which  can  transcend  the  logic  of  a  fake 
clash. 

We  also  find  that  the  phenomenon  of  dialogue 
among  civilizations  is  expanding  and  that  institutions 
are  being  established  for  that  purpose.  We  hope  that 
civilizational  memory, 
the  East  and 
launching 
the 
of 
10-59074 

3 
the  civilization  of 
A/65/PV.33 

these  institutions  will  ask  questions  that  focus  on 
relations among civilizations. Is it really a relationship 
of  dialogue,  or  is  it  one  of  integration,  where  each 
civilization  learns  from  its  predecessors  and  then 
comes up with a new form that is considered to be an 
improvement,  as  happened  when  the Arab  civilization 
carried  its  wealth  of  knowledge  through Andalusia  to 
Europe? 

today’s  advanced 
countries  does  not  abandon  this  principle  but  rather 
builds  on  the  achievements  of  previous  civilizations, 
we can speak of civilizational integration, or rather of a 
civilizational  alliance  and  an  optimal  dialogue  that 
cannot be robbed of its content. This dialogue is aware 
of its roots and what the present owes to the past, and 
those  concepts  that  are  new  and  renewed  deserve  our 
respect  because  they  seek  to  entrench  the  human 
connection  to  knowledge,  which  is  a  deep  and  honest 
conviction opposing ignorance and wrongful bias. 

The  establishment  of  bridges  of  understanding 
and  cooperation  among  religions  and  cultures  would 
bolster peace in the world, spread the culture of peace 
among  societies,  and  diminish  the  gap  of  people’s 
ignorance of each other. All of that would mitigate the 
prejudice  and  narrow–minded 
that 
ideological  extremism  tries  to  promote  throughout  the 
world,  burdening  them  with  political  and  ideological 
sabre-rattling. 
The  enlightened  of  the  world  must  promote 

interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue  and  give 
priority  to  ideological  understanding  and  respect  for 
the  identity  of  the  other,  as  well  as  the  need  not  to 
conflate religion and terrorism. We must also be aware 
that  the  absence  of  understanding  and  cooperation 
within the international community is partly the result 
of humans’ misunderstanding of religions and cultures 
and  ignorance  of  our  common  denominators.  It  is  not 
due  to  structural  shortcomings  in  these  noble,  moral 
concepts.  Human  history  demonstrates  that  extremely 
beautiful  forms  of  understanding  and  cooperation 
among  cultures  saw  the  light  in  ancient  times,  when 
military and ideological clashes were the norm. 

In  recent  decades,  the  international  community 
has  witnessed  violent  forms  of  conflict  and  a  lack  of 
dialogue and mutual knowledge, although some like to 
boast  of  new  modes  of  thought,  such  as  globalization 
and  the  information  and  communications  technology 
revolution.  Our  purpose  is  to  make  communication 
interpretations 
Since 

among  civilizations  a  cultural  norm 
that  would 
introduce  us  to  the  world  community  and  represent  a 
pledge  of  honour  to  craft  it  into  a  message  of  amity, 
peace  and  justice  and  a  call  to  all  the  nations  of  the 
world. 

The  race  among  civilizations  must  be  a  race  for 
the  greatness  of  human  thought  and  human  genius, 
because those are ambitions that transcend aggression. 
It  must  be  a  race  for  a  world  where  there  is  no 
usurpation  of  rights,  no  occupation  of  the  lands  of 
others, no discrimination based on race  or colour, and 
no injustices that befall people who are displaced from 
their  lands  and  whose  holy  shrines  are  desecrated,  as 
Israel  has  done  to  the  Palestinian  people  and  as  the 
neo-Nazis  are  doing  with  our  creeds,  beliefs  and  the 
lives of our people. 

Since 2010 has been proclaimed the International 
Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures,  we  must 
confront  all  these  challenges  in  order  to  achieve  a 
world that is more unified and more just; a world that 
is multicultural, with multiple nationalities, and where 
an  open,  democratic  dialogue  prevails  and  peoples 
exercise  their  natural  right  to  sovereignty  and  self-
determination  in  a  climate  of  liberty,  equality  and 
human dignity. 
Mr. Apakan (Turkey): It is a great honour for me 

to  address  this  forum  on  intercultural,  interreligious 
and intercivilizational dialogue to achieve a culture of 
peace.  On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss, 
for convening this meeting. We are convinced that our 
deliberations  today  will  help  to  enhance  collective 
peaceful  coexistence  and  mutual  understanding.  I 
would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the  activities 
carried  out  by  the  main  United  Nations  entities 
involved  in  the  field  of  dialogue  among  civilizations, 
cultures and religions (A/65/269). 

The  reason  behind  the  creation  of  this  universal 
body  was  to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the 
scourge of war. Today, we cherish the same ideals in a 
forces  of 
different  world,  where 
globalization 
to 
peaceful coexistence. We live in an interconnected and 
interdependent  world  where  global  challenges  have 
local impacts and local events impact the whole world. 

Regrettably,  we  have  so  far  failed  to  overcome 
polarization,  lack  of  understanding  and  discrimination 
threaten  our  common  aspiration 
the  driving 
4 

10-59074 
the 
importance  of 
It 
and  development. 
is 
to  uphold  mutual 


in  the  international  community.  Today,  stereotypes 
continue  to  shape  our  perception  of  the  other  —  the 
other who has a different way of life, cultural values or 
religious  beliefs;  the  other  who  indeed  enriches  our 
life. Our history reminds us that cultural ignorance and 
religious  intolerance  have  been  major  obstacles  to 
therefore  our 
peace 
responsibility 
respect  among 
religions  and  to  promote  a  culture  of  tolerance  and 
understanding  among  peoples.  Indeed,  a  culture  of 
peace  can  be  enhanced  only  by  the  diversity  of 
traditions and their peaceful cohabitation. 
Today’s  discussion  demonstrates  that  the  nations 

of 
the  world  recognize 
their 
collective responsibility to promote a culture of peace. 
As we approach the end of the International Decade for 
a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-violence  for  the  Children 
of  the World,  we  note  with  satisfaction  that  there  is  a 
growing interest in the promotion of cultural diversity. 
We  recognize  the  important  role  played  by  UNESCO 
and  other  United  Nations  entities  in  the  promotion  of 
the  Year.  We  believe  that  activities  organized  within 
this  framework  clearly  show  that  diversity  enriches 
humankind and is a source of creativity and innovation. 

Diversity  and  dialogue  have  always  been  the 
central  pillars  of  the  Turkish  historical  and  cultural 
heritage.  Indeed  over 
the  centuries,  Turkey  has 
historically,  geographically  and  socially  bridged  many 
different cultures and tried to create an environment of 
peace  and  mutual  understanding.  This  was  precisely 
the reason why, together with Spain, Turkey sponsored 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  initiative.  The  initiative, 
which was launched by the Prime Ministers of Turkey 
and Spain in 2005 under the auspices of the Secretary-
General,  enjoys  the  support  of  a  growing  number  of 
Member  States  and  international  organizations.  Such 
wide  recognition  and  support  make  us  all  the  more 
hopeful for our future. 

To  promote  an  alliance  of  civilizations  requires 
first  and  foremost  a  sense  of  creativity  to  attract  the 
attention  of  various  stakeholders.  Since  its  inception, 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  has  provided  a  creative 
approach to engaging various stakeholders in dialogue 
and  has  become  a  sound  platform  to  connect  different 
cultures,  to  bridge  the  gaps  of  understanding  and  to 
amplify  voices  of  moderation. Today,  it  has  become  a 
truly  global  peace  initiative  and  serves  as  a  global 
facilitator  to  promote  sustainable  dialogue  among 
various stakeholders, including young people, women, 
A/65/PV.33
together 
that  brought 
parliamentarians,  the  media,  civil  society  and  the 
private sector. On this occasion, I would like to express 
our thanks to the Secretary-General for his engagement 
in  the  activities  of  the  Alliance.  I  would  also  like  to 
praise  High  Representative  Sampaio  for  his  tireless 
efforts. 

This year in May, we completed a very successful 
Forum in Rio de Janeiro. The Forum was an inclusive 
platform 
the  knowledge, 
experience  and  energy  of  a  wide  range  of  partners.  It 
consolidated the global scope and universal outreach of 
the Alliance. We  will  now  turn  our  energy  to  the  next 
Forum, to be held in December 2011 in Qatar. 

Indeed, misperceptions and lack of understanding 
continue  to  be  the  realities  of  today.  A  recent  report 
released  by  the  Anna  Lindh  Foundation,  entitled 
“EuroMed  Intercultural Trends  2010: The Anna  Lindh 
Report”, highlights that people living in Europe and the 
southern  and  eastern  Mediterranean  currently  face  a 
clash  of  ignorance.  The  survey’s  main  findings  show 
that one in every four persons from the two sides of the 
Mediterranean  had  met  people  from  other  countries 
within  the  region,  and  yet  there  were  still  profound 
disparities  between  what  each  group  perceives  as  the 
other’s values. 

Against this alarming background, the Alliance of 
Civilizations, together with its partners, is working on 
a  regional  strategy  for  the  Mediterranean  that  aims  to 
bring all relevant stakeholders closer together, enhance 
human  development  and 
foster  good-neighbourly 
relations  among  societies,  institutions  and  individuals 
in the region. The strategy and its action plan for 2011 
2015  will  be  adopted  at  the  first  Regional  Conference 
for 
the  Mediterranean,  which  will  be  held  on 
9 November  in  Malta.  I  would  like  to  extend  our 
sincere  appreciation  to  the  Government  of  Malta  for 
hosting  this  important  Conference.  We  only  hope  that 
the regional strategy will help all sectors of society in 
the Mediterranean region to interact and to promote the 
culture of peace together. 

Cultures  are  not  self-contained;  they  evolve 
through constant dialogue and exchange. As long as we 
value  cultural  diversity  as  a  common  heritage  of 
humankind,  we  can  attain  the  quest  for  social  peace 
and  harmony.  For  that  reason,  the  key  to  a  global 
culture  of  peace  is  dialogue.  We  must  therefore 
continue our efforts to achieve a world whose richness 
lies at the centre of its own diversity. 
10-59074 

5 

as 
A/65/PV.33 

Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 

In 1998, the General Assembly proclaimed the decade 
2001  2010  the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of 
Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World. 
The  Assembly’s  declaration  of  2010 
the 
International Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures, 
made  at  the  initiative  of  the  General  Conference  of 
UNESCO, was to be the culmination of the Decade. 

As  we  approach  the  end  of  the  Decade,  we  can 
make a moderately positive assessment of the progress 
made  by  the  international  community  —  including 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society  — 
in  promoting  a  culture  of  peace,  despite  all  the 
difficulties and challenges that have arisen in the world 
throughout that period. 

The  reports  being  considered  by  the  General 
Assembly today account for this well. The report of the 
Secretary-General  contained  in  document  A/65/299 
indicates  that  the  International  Decade  has  succeeded 
in  disseminating  the  concept  of  a  culture  of  peace  at 
various levels and in various sectors of society and has 
encouraged  the  adoption  of  specific  measures  to  that 
end. However, it also states that 
“[t]he  debate  about  peace,  culture,  tolerance, 
mutual  respect,  reconciliation  and  equity  in  our 
societies must be reopened and the power of ideas 
set  free  so  as  to  arrive  at  a  peace  paradigm  in  a 
globalized world” (A/65/299, para. 1). 
A similar conclusion is reached in the 2010 World 

Report on the Culture of Peace, which was prepared by 
the  Foundation  Culture  of  Peace  based  in  Barcelona, 
with  contributions  from  over  1,000  civil  society 
organizations  and  from  100  countries  throughout  the 
world,  and  was  conveyed  to  the  Secretary-General  in 
accordance with the provisions of resolution 64/80 and 
distributed to Member States by the Permanent Mission 
of Bangladesh. 

The  initiative  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
which  has  been  led  by  the  Secretary-General  since 
2005  and  was  sponsored  by  Spain  and  Turkey,  has 
attempted  ever  since  its  creation  to  respond  to  the 
challenges  posed  by  diversity  and  coexistence  at  the 
national  and  international  levels.  To  that  end,  the 
ultimate  aim  of 
to  promote 
understanding  and  cooperation  among  nations  and 
peoples  of  different  cultures  and  religions,  and  to 
counteract the forces that fuel extremism and endanger 
peace. All  of  this  is  based  on  shared  universal  values 
the  Alliance 
is 
including  States 
that  inspire  and  guide  the  actions  and  spirit  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  are  enshrined  in  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights,  among  other  basic  instruments  of 
international law. 

I am pleased to recall that, around this same time 
this  past  year,  the  General  Assembly  adopted  by 
consensus resolution 64/14, sponsored by 94 States, on 
the Alliance  of  Civilizations,  demonstrating  the  broad 
political  support  enjoyed  by  the  initiative.  I  note  that 
the  large  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Alliance  already 
numbers  128  members, 
and 
international  organizations  alike.  The  designation  of 
focal points by the members of the Group has allowed 
the Alliance to work dynamically and  with a focus  on 
action. The meeting of Alliance focal points, scheduled 
for  the  end  of  October  in  Berlin,  will  be  a  good 
opportunity  to  assess  what  has  been  achieved  to  date 
and to set new goals for the near future. 
Document  A/65/349  contains  the  report  recently 

the  Secretary-General  by  his  High 
submitted 
to 
Representative 
for 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
Mr. Jorge  Sampaio,  and  which  the  Secretary-General 
has  in  turn  transmitted  to  the  General  Assembly.  The 
report includes a summary of the main activities of the 
Alliance  over  the  past  year. As  the  Secretary-General 
points out in his introductory letter to the report,  
“In  an  increasingly  interconnected  world,  often 
divided  by  cross-cultural  tensions,  the  Alliance 
can  play  a  significant  role,  as  a  bridge-builder 
and as a catalyst for … efforts aimed at furthering 
trust  and  cooperation  among  diverse  cultures” 
(A/65/349, p. 1). 

In that regard, developing the regional dimension 
of the Alliance of Civilizations is of great importance. 
The  adoption  of  regional  strategies  —  beginning  in 
South-East  Europe  last  year  at  Sarajevo  and  to  be 
followed in the Mediterranean by the conference to be 
held in Malta in November — is crucial to translating 
the  Alliance’s  global  objectives  into  concrete  efforts 
tailored  to  the  circumstances  and  realities  of  each 
region. The next step will be to craft those agreements 
into  real  projects  that  will  be  determined  by  action 
plans  and  require  sustained  political  and  financial 
support. 

fully 
For 
committed to the principles and values of the Alliance 
of  Civilizations  and  its  special  focus  on  action  and 
its  part,  Spain  continues 
to  be 
6 

10-59074 
inauguration  of 


achieving  results.  In  the  course  of  Spain’s  term  of 
office  in  the  rotating  chairmanship  of  the  European 
Union in the first half of this year, the Alliance held a 
round table on the theme “The Alliance of Civilizations 
and  city  diplomacy  initiatives”,  in  the  context  of  the 
European  Summit  of  Local  Governments  held  in 
Barcelona in February 2010. 

I  should  also  like  to  point  out  the  high-level 
meeting  held  in  Cordoba  in  May  on  the  theme 
“Religious  freedom  in  democratic  societies”,  whose 
main  goal  was  to  develop  article  17  of  the  European 
Union’s  operational  Treaty,  which  sets  out  that  the 
Union  will  maintain  open,  transparent  and  regular 
dialogue with churches and religious and other types of 
groups and organizations. 
I  am  also  pleased  to  inform  the Assembly  of  the 

upcoming 
the  United  Nations 
University  International  Institute  for  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  which  will  be  based  in  Barcelona  and 
serve  as  a  meeting  place  and  an  ideal  laboratory  for 
undertaking  the  necessary  task  of  developing  and 
seeking  the  most  effective  ways  of  achieving  the 
Alliance’s goals. 

Lastly,  I  should  like  to  refer  to  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  intercultural,  interreligious  and 
intercivilizational  dialogue  (A/65/269).  Among  other 
things,  the  report  refers  to  ongoing  activities  in 
connection  with  the  2010  International  Year  for  the 
Rapprochement  of  Cultures.  The  main  goal  is  to 
demonstrate that diversity enriches humankind and is a 
source of creativity and innovation. In addition to some 
of 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  the  report  covers  the  broad  array  of 
projects  and  actions  undertaken  by  UNESCO, 
especially in the area of education, to promote dialogue 
and 
thereby 
demonstrating its complementarity with the Alliance of 
Civilizations. The  recent  renewal  of  the  memorandum 
of  understanding  between  UNESCO  and  the  Alliance 
of Civilizations on the occasion of the Alliance’s third 
Forum, held in Rio de Janeiro, has made it possible to 
broaden cooperation between the two bodies. 

The  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace 
and  Non-violence  for  the  Children  of  the  World  is 
coming  to  an  end. There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Decade, 
which began in 2001 with the signing of a manifesto by 
75  million  people  who  committed  themselves  to 
working to promote the culture of peace in their daily 
the  efforts  carried  out  by 
understanding 
cultures, 
among 
A/65/PV.33
and 
overcome 
effectively 
throughout 
culture  of  peace 
lives,  has  achieved  significant  progress  in  promoting 
the 
the  world, 
notwithstanding obstacles and difficulties. 

However, reality shows that, despite the progress 
made,  there  is  still  much  to  do  and  many  obstacles  to 
overcome.  The  fact  that  the  International  Decade  is 
coming  to  an  end  should  not  lead  us  to  relax  our 
commitment  to  promoting  a  genuine  culture  of  peace 
throughout the world. The Alliance of Civilizations has 
proven  to  be  a  particularly  useful  tool  for  generating 
dialogue  and  understanding  and  for  meeting 
the 
challenges  of  our  times.  The  holding  of  the  fourth 
Forum of the Alliance of Civilizations in Doha, Qatar, 
in  late  2011  will  provide  us  with  new  prospects  to 
continue  to  work  intensively  and  in  a  committed 
manner  to  promote  a  culture  of  peace  that  can 
genuinely 
various 
perceptions  through  joint  efforts  in  favour  of  our 
common humanity. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We would like to thank 
you,  Madam,  for  leading  our  work,  and  to  wish  you 
continued success. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of Venezuela  welcomes 
the many initiatives  carried out worldwide to promote 
dialogue among civilizations. 
In recent days, the streets of New York have been 

the  scene  of  a  fiery  protest  against  the  building  of  an 
Islamic cultural centre near the so called Ground Zero. 
According to national and international press agencies, 
opponents  of  the  project  shouted  “No  mosque  under 
any  circumstances”.  Some  carried  banners  with  the 
word  “sharia” written in red paint to symbolize traces 
of blood. 

In  September,  a  preacher  threatened  to  burn  a 
Holy  Koran  at  a  public  ceremony.  In  addition,  an 
Islamic  centre  in  California  was  besieged  with  signs 
that  read  “Wake  up America,  the  enemy  is  here”  and 
“We  do  not  want  temples  of  the  terrorist  God  near 
Ground  Zero”.  In  Nashville,  Tennessee,  a  mosque 
under construction was set on fire. 

the  unfortunate  attacks  of 
11 September,  anti-Muslim  sentiment  is  on  the  rise  in 
the  United  States  and  Europe.  Racist  and  xenophobic 
political  leaders  of  the  Tea  Party  of  the  United  States 
accuse Muslims of worshiping — and I quote the New 
York Daily News — “the monkey god of the terrorists”. 
Ten  years  after 
10-59074 

7 
the 
requires 
lengthy  article 
in  which 
“The  Battle 
A/65/PV.33 

On  Sunday,  10  October  2010,  The  New  York 

Times  published  a 
it 
highlighted that there is, in the United States, a strong 
nucleus  of  people  and  organizations,  whose  influence 
is expanding, promoting “a spreading fear of Islam and 
a dehumanization of Muslims”. 

The  renowned  Canadian  academic  economist 
Michel  Chossudovsky,  in  his  article  entitled  “The 
Demonization of Muslims and the Battle for Oil”, said: 

“Demonization  is  applied  to  an  enemy 
which possesses three quarters of the world’s oil 
reserves.  ‘Axis  of  evil’,  ‘rogue  States’,  ‘failed 
nations’,  ‘Islamic  terrorists’:  demonization  and 
vilification  are 
ideological  pillars  of 
America’s ‘war on terror’. They serve as a casus 
belli for waging the battle for oil. 

the 
for  Oil 
demonization  of  those  who  possess  the  oil.  The 
enemy  is  characterized  as  evil,  with  a  view  to 
justifying  military  action  including  the  mass 
killing of civilians.” 

One  of  the  worst  consequences  of  the  events  of 
11  September  2001  has  been  a  noticeable  increase  in 
intolerance. Some, deplorably, associate terrorism with 
that  which  is  Arab,  with  that  which  is  Muslim,  with 
Islam.  They  are  employing  a  false  dichotomy:  East 
versus  West.  Neoconservative  political 
scientist 
Samuel  Huntington  predicted  that,  after  the  demise  of 
the  cold  war,  “the  clash  of  civilizations  will  dominate 
global politics”. 

We  believe  that  those  prejudices  are  divorced 
from  reality.  Neither  in  the  East  nor  in  the  West  is 
political  or  religious  fundamentalism  the  hallmark  of 
civilization.  Reductionism  of  this  kind  underestimates 
the internal dynamics and plurality of each civilization. 

The  Islamic  world  is  rich  in  history  and  culture, 
as  well  as  being  geographically  diverse.  It  is  a 
community  of  approximately  1.6  billion  believers,  of 
which  320  million 
includes 
approximately 57 countries, of which 22 are Arab, one 
is Persian, 13 are part of sub-Saharan Africa, seven are 
Asian from the Indo Pacific region, three are European 
and  seven  are  Islamic  republics  of  the  former  Soviet 
Union. This  constellation  of  countries,  in  its  political, 
social  and  cultural  specificities,  hosts  a  richness  of 
diversity and cultural plurality that give rise to freedom 
and sovereignty. 
are  Arabs.  This 


Human  beings  are  enriched  by  diversity  and, 
within  it,  achieve  social  wholeness.  Plurality  is  the 
expression  of  a  rich  rainbow  of  options,  and  it 
enhances  freedom  and  equality. The  rich  splendour  of 
the  human  species  reaches  fruition  in  constructive 
fellowship  with  trillions  of  other  organisms,  including 
the ecosystem. 

Dreams  are  part  of  reality,  as  they  inspire  our 
struggles  for  existence  and  for  the  preservation  of 
humanity. The dreams may not look the same, but their 
paths  may  cross  along  the  way  and  they  will  then 
recognize themselves in each other. 

While violence, racism and xenophobia represent 
the  absolute  negation  of  dialogue,  dialogue  opens 
avenues of understanding  and is one of the conditions 
for peaceful  coexistence between nations and peoples. 
Dialogue  means  tolerance  and  respect  for  others.  But 
this  does  not  mean  dialogue  just  for  the  sake  of 
dialogue. Rather, it should be a journey, an opportunity 
to  build  a  society  based  on  justice,  equity,  equality, 
freedom  and  solidarity.  Dialogue,  which  does  not 
exclude  debate  and  differences, 
to 
achieving peace and to ensuring human dignity. 

Inciting hatred and discrimination is a crime. The 
American  Convention  on  Human  Rights  states  in 
article 13 that: 
is  essential 
“Any propaganda for war and any advocacy 

of  national,  racial,  or  religious  hatred 
that 
constitute  incitements  to  lawless  violence  or  to 
any  other  similar  action  against  any  person  or 
group of persons on any grounds including those 
of  race,  color,  religion,  language,  or  national 
origin shall be considered as offenses punishable 
by law.” 

For its part, the Durban Programme of Action of 
the  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial 
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
which was held in Durban, South Africa: 

“Calls upon States, in opposing all forms of 
racism,  to  recognize  the  need  to  counter  anti-
Semitism, anti-Arabism and Islamophobia world-
wide,  and  urges  all  States  to  take  effective 
measures to prevent the emergence of movements 
based  on 
ideas 
concerning these communities” (A/CONF.189/12, 
Programme of Action, para. 150). 
racism  and  discriminatory 
8 

10-59074 
to  prevent 
for  Dialogue 
“Global  Agenda 


I conclude with this question: what are we, at the 

United  Nations,  doing 
the  continued 
increase  in  those  heinous  forms  of  discrimination 
against human beings, cultures and civilizations? 
Mr. Borg (Malta): The two agenda items that the 

Assembly  is  considering  in  this  plenary  meeting, 
namely, 
among 
Civilizations”  and  “Culture  of  peace”,  are  mutually 
inclusive  and  complementary  to  each  other.  Let  me 
take  this  opportunity  to  thank  and  congratulate  the 
High  Representative  for  the Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
former  President  Sampaio, 
for  his  outstanding 
leadership  and  tenacity  in  maintaining  the  Alliance 
momentum,  attracting  new  members  and  building 
consensus among its constituency and in delivering on 
some of its objectives. 
Malta  believes  that  dialogue  among  cultures  and 

civilizations 
is  essential  for  a  better  future  — 
irrespective  of  our  origins  or  beliefs  —  and  is  an 
important  tool  in  strengthening  dialogue  and  a  means 
for  cooperation  between  and  among  countries  of  the 
Group of Friends of the Alliance. 
In  my  statement,  I  would  like  to  focus  on  how 

Malta  is  contributing  towards  the  enhancement  of  the 
dialogue  among  civilizations  in  its  own  region,  the 
Mediterranean. 
It is recognized that the Mediterranean represents 

a  unique  experience  of  similarities,  common  history 
and  overlapping  cultures,  which  contributes  to  the 
objectives  of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations,  namely,  to 
counter  divisions,  polarization  and  extremism  within 
and among societies. 

With  recurrent  tensions  threatening  peace  and 
security  in  the  Mediterranean  region  and  beyond,  it  is 
important  that  all  stakeholders  continue  to  strengthen 
the  global  scope  of  the  Alliance,  which,  as  rightly 
pointed out by Secretary-General Ban Ki moon, is the 
leading  United  Nations 
forum 
dealing  with 
intercultural dialogue and cooperation. 
The  people-to-people  approach  must  continue  to 

guide  our  endeavours,  especially 
those  aimed  at 
strengthening  on-the-ground  efforts  and  cooperation 
with  a  view  to  sowing  the  seeds  of  reconciliation  and 
understanding. 

In  three  weeks’  time,  from  8  to  9  November, 
Malta will be hosting the first Alliance of Civilizations 
regional conference for the Mediterranean. As an active 
A/65/PV.33
The 
first 
regional 
for 
in 
and 
individuals 
cultural  diversity 
member  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  Group  of 
Friends, Malta intends to ensure that this conference’s 
outcome will provide another feather in the cap of the 
Alliance,  especially  through  the  enhancement  of  good 
governance, 
intercultural 
dialogue among and between Mediterranean States. 

Indeed,  this  first  regional  conference  for  the 
Mediterranean  will  see  the  adoption  of  the  first 
regional  strategy  for  the  Mediterranean  and  an  action 
plan,  paving  the  way  for  innovative  projects  and 
initiatives aimed at strengthening intercultural dialogue 
and cooperation. 

The primary aims of the strategy are to contribute 
to  the  general  ongoing  efforts  to  bring  relevant 
cultural,  economic,  social  and  political  stakeholders 
together from both sides of the Mediterranean, promote 
mutual understanding and improve perceptions of each 
other.  It  will  also  seek  to  defuse  tensions  and  bridge 
divides, enhance security and human development, and 
foster  good-neighbourly  relations  among  societies, 
institutions  and 
the  Mediterranean 
region. 
the 

Mediterranean  will  provide  a  platform  for  open  and 
frank exchanges between and among representatives of 
the  Mediterranean  region  with  the  hope  that  it  will 
hopefully  leave  an  indelible  mark  in  the  Alliance’s 
intercultural dialogue process. 

Malta’s  commitment  to  intercultural  dialogue  in 
the  Mediterranean  has  been  continuous.  It  has  been  a 
long-standing  vocation  since  Malta  joined  this  family 
of  nations. 
Indeed,  Malta  has  not  missed  an 
opportunity  to  contribute  further  to  this  dialogue  of 
partners. 

In that  regard, Malta  also  plays an  active role in 
the Union for the Mediterranean. Firm in the belief that 
dialogue and cooperation contribute significantly to the 
stability  and  security  of 
the  Euro-Mediterranean 
region,  Malta  has,  since  the  inception  of  the  Euro-
Mediterranean dialogue, held that the centrality of the 
objectives  of 
in  any 
successful achievement of this novel partnership. 

Malta is proud and honoured to have nominated a 
Deputy  Secretary-General  for  the  conference,  and  to 
have  been  entrusted  with  the  portfolio  covering  social 
and  civil  affairs,  an  area  undoubtedly  of  vital  interest 
the  Union  remains  crucial 
conference 
10-59074 

9 

A/65/PV.33 

to  all  partners  in  the  Union  and  which  will  serve  to 
further dialogue in the Mediterranean. 

Malta  is  also  pleased  to  be  the  seat  of  the 
headquarters  of  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the 
Mediterranean,  which  brings  together  the  parliaments 
of  all  countries  bordering  the  Mediterranean.  The 
Assembly  was  established  to  bring  together  all  the 
littoral States of the Mediterranean on an equal footing 
in  a  unique  forum  of  their  own,  to  examine  questions 
and  take  decisions  on  issues  of  direct  interest  to  the 
countries of the region. 
The primary mission of the Assembly is to bring 

the  people’s  representatives  of 
the  Mediterranean 
together  to  promote  cooperation,  dialogue  and  mutual 
understanding. In that regard, it was a privilege for my 
delegation to have been the sponsor, together with the 
delegation  of  France,  of  resolution  64/124  of  this 
General  Assembly,  which  was  adopted  in  December 
2009,  granting  observer  status  to  the  Parliamentary 
Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean  to  participate  in  the 
sessions and the work of the General Assembly. 

The  fifth  plenary  session  of  the  Parliamentary 
Assembly of the Mediterranean, to be held in 10 days’ 
time  from  28  to  30  October  2010  in  Rabat,  Morocco, 
will  be  yet  another  occasion  when  parliamentarians 
from  the  Mediterranean  littoral  States  will  once  again 
engage  in  sharing  of  initiatives,  ideas,  proposals  and 
solutions  in  the  continuous  search  for  an  intercultural 
parliamentary  diplomacy  in  order  to  establish  durable 
peace and sustainable prosperity for all citizens of the 
Mediterranean. 

that  we,  as  United 
Nations  Member  States  and  proud  of  our  history  and 
heritage, can and should strengthen our political will to 
consolidate  that  which  we  have  achieved  so  far  and 
unite  our  efforts  so  as  to  engage  collectively  and 
constructively  in  the  promotion  of  a  fruitful  dialogue 
between and among partners from different regions. 
Malta’s  vocation  is  to  continue  to  strive  to  stem 

prejudices  and  overcome  obstacles  that  hinder  and 
jeopardize the harmonious interaction between peoples 
of  diverse  sociocultural  backgrounds  and  religious 
beliefs. The bridge we are building should be based on 
solid  pillars  of  mutual  understanding  and  respect.  In 
achieving that goal, a concerted effort is required in a 
process that enjoys sufficient visibility to win both the 
minds and hearts of our peoples. 
Malta  strongly  believes 
the 
initiatives  of 
leaders  at  a  meeting  held 
the  General  Assembly  held 
Mr. Ali (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 

please  allow  me 
to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  the  inclusion  of  these  two  agenda 
items  in  our  programme  of  work  this  year. The  topics 
of the Global Agenda for Dialogue among Civilization 
and the Culture of Peace are very important given the 
Assembly’s  broad  responsibility  for  promoting  a 
culture  of  peace  and  consolidating  the  principles  of 
dialogue and coexistence. 

The  recent  incidents  of  clashes  and  confrontation 
around  the  world  make  our  discussion  on  dialogue 
among civilizations aimed at consolidating the values of 
peace  and  coexistence  quite  significant.  In  that  regard, 
we  note  many  initiatives  whose  recommendations  we 
hope will be implemented. We would also like to note, 
in  particular, 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement 
in  Manila, 
Philippines, last March. 

That accomplishment was the result of persistent 
efforts by many countries, including Egypt, Indonesia, 
Iran,  Morocco,  Pakistan,  Qatar  and  Senegal  and  the 
Sudan. In this context, I should like to recall the High-
level  Meeting  of 
in 
November  2008  in  New  York  at  the  initiative  of  the 
Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  King  Abdullah 
Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud.  That  meeting  was  part  of  a 
process,  started  in  Mecca  and  continued  in  Madrid, 
which aimed at translating the same noble goals we are 
discussing today into tangible reality. 

We  would  like  to  underscore  the  importance  of 
efforts  made  in  the  past  few  years  in  various  relevant 
forums. They have been an expression of our people’s 
determination to embrace dialogue among civilizations 
as a cornerstone of cooperation and coexistence. At the 
same  time,  such  efforts  are  an  expression  of  our 
people’s  rejection  of  the  notion  of  the  clash  of 
civilizations  and  cultures,  as  advocated  by  certain 
misguided voices. 

We in the Sudan believe that people were created 
as  different  races,  tribes,  ethnicities,  colours  and 
languages in order to cooperate, interact and exchange 
for  our  greater  good. We  therefore  strongly  reject  and 
condemn  practices  that  have  recently  emerged  of 
defiling  religious  symbols. We  also  reject  supremacist 
claims  and  recent  forums  for  the  desecration  of 
religious  symbols,  venerated  persons  and  holy  books 
under  the  slogan  of  the  freedom  of  expression.  We 
refuse to accept such a justification for such behaviour. 
10 

10-59074 
organizations 
and 
civil 
Globalization  has  offered 



the  world  great 
mechanisms  and  possibilities  for  communication,  but 
these can be used to negative ends if we, as countries, 
governmental 
society 
international 
organizations,  do  not  promote  an 
understanding 
that  enhances  mutual 
respect  and 
promotes  a  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue,  so  that  we 
are able to build bridges instead of walls. 

To  that  end,  we  call  upon  the  international 
community and those in favour of dialogue to support 
the  activities  and  efforts  of 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations.  We  would  like  to  note  that  the  United 
Nations  High  Representative  for 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  has  stated  that  the  Alliance  is  being 
hindered  by  a  shortfall  in  resources,  which  in  turn 
impedes  the  implementation  of  the  goals  set  by  the 
Assembly in many resolutions. 

The  wise  leadership  of  the  patriotic  sons  of  the 
Sudan managed to bring to an end the longest civil war 
in  Africa  since  the  end  of  the  colonial  period,  which 
our people inherited, one generation after another. That 
success  was  crowned  with 
the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement 
in  2005,  which 
entrenches the principles of peace and dialogue among 
the  people  of  the  Sudan. The  coming  months  will  see 
the  final  chapter  of 
the 
Agreement with the exercise of the right of the people 
of  Southern  Sudan 
that 
context, my Government is committed to allowing that 
process  to  happen  in  a  democratic  and  transparent 
manner, giving every citizen the right to express his or 
her opinion, freely and fairly. 

My  country  will  also  continue  its  efforts  to 
negotiate  with  the  Darfur  rebels  in  Doha  under  the 
auspices  of  His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa, 
the  Emir  of  Qatar.  In  that  regard,  we  urge  the 
international  community  to  call  upon  the  Darfur 
leaders  who  refuse  to  join  the  negotiation  in  Doha,  to 
do  so  and  thus  to  work  for  peace.  We  also  urge  in 
particular those countries that are hosting rebel leaders 
to  insist  on  the  urgent  need  for  them  to  join  the 
negotiations. 

The topic of the culture of peace has become the 
subject  of  media  attention  and  has  received  the  praise 
of  writers  and  poets,  becoming  part  of  our  school, 
college and educational curricula. We have established 
centres  to  conduct  research  and  studies  on  issues  of 
to  self-determination.  In 
the 
implementation  of 
the  signing  of 
A/65/PV.33
peace  and  dialogue  aimed  at  serving  our  people,  our 
neighbours and the rest of the world. 

Achieving a culture of peace and dialogue among 
civilizations  cannot  be  separated  from  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  aim  to  promote  dialogue 
between the North and the South and between the most 
developed  and  the  least  developed  countries.  That 
would  undoubtedly  help  overcome  national,  regional 
and  international  conflicts,  and  would  defeat  the 
pretexts  of  those  who  deny  others  on  the  grounds  of 
race, religion, culture and civilization. 

This drive in favour of peace and dialogue should 
be  supported  by  cooperative  efforts  among  all  leaders 
and  youth  gatherings  in  order  to  promote  mutual 
understanding  and  a  culture  that  our  children  would 
learn from and believe in. 

We must be guided by the tolerance that is part of 
our  faith  to  remain  true  to  the  message  of  worldwide 
peace, for which all religions, cultures and civilizations 
yearn,  based  on  the  values  of  peace,  tolerance  and 
coexistence.  In  that  context,  my  delegation  welcomes 
the conference to be held in Doha, Qatar, in late 2011. 
Mr.  Nickels  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States is grateful for the opportunity to speak on 
the important agenda items encompassed by the culture 
of peace. 

2010 is the final year of the International Decade 
for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-violence  for  the 
Children  of  the  World.  We  commend  the  work  that 
UNESCO,  UNICEF  and  other  United  Nations 
organizations have done throughout this Decade. 

The  United  States  supports  efforts  around  the 
world  aimed  at  creating  forums  where  people  with 
differing  views  can  express 
through 
dialogue.  That  is  why  we  joined  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  and  why  we  support  initiatives  like 
Jordan’s  draft  resolution  this  year  on  a  week  of 
interfaith harmony (A/65/L.5). 

The  United  States  believes  that  peace  can  be 
achieved  when  peoples,  religions  and  races  come 
together  to  understand  and  accept  one  another,  and  to 
shun  the  violence  and  hatred  borne  of  intolerance. 
Fostering religious and cultural diversity and affirming 
mutual understanding are the cornerstones of a true and 
lasting peace. The United States affirms unequivocally 
that  freedom  of  expression  and  open  intercultural  and 
themselves 
10-59074 

11 

A/65/PV.33 

interreligious  dialogue  are  critical 
intolerance and to promoting peaceful coexistence. 

Though  the  decade  for  a  culture  of  peace  is 
drawing to a close, we look forward to the next decade 
with  its  continued  opportunities  for  dialogue.  As 
President Obama said in his speech in Cairo in 2009: 
to  combating 
to 
the  Secretary-General 
“All  of  us  share  this  world  for  but  a  brief 

moment  in  time.  The  question  is  whether  we 
spend that time focused on what pushes us apart, 
or whether we commit ourselves to an effort — a 
sustained  effort  —  to  find  common  ground,  to 
focus on the future we seek for our children, and 
to respect the dignity of all human beings.” 
Mr.  Dwivedi  (India):  I  am  deeply  honoured  and 

privileged  to  participate  in  today’s  joint  debate  on  the 
agenda  items  “Global  Agenda  for  Dialogue  among 
Civilizations” and “Culture of peace”. 

As  the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of 
Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World 
comes  to  an  end,  and  we  celebrate  the  International 
Year  of  Rapprochement  of  Cultures  in  2010,  we  have 
the opportunity to take a holistic view of the progress 
made so far and to assess the challenges that lie ahead. 
Please allow me to express our sincere thanks and 

appreciation 
for  his 
comprehensive  report  on  intercultural,  interreligious 
and  intercivilizational  dialogue  (A/65/269)  and  to  the 
Director-General  of  UNESCO  for  its  report  entitled 
“International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and 
Non-violence  for  the  Children  of  the  World,  2001-
2010” (A/65/299). 

In  today’s  world  we  are  witnessing  the  rise  of 
extremism  and  intolerance,  outbreaks  of  sectarian 
violence  and  the  increasing  use  of  the  language  of 
hatred and violence. These pose a serious challenge to 
the  very  foundations  of  our  society.  The  increasing 
interdependence  and  interconnectedness  of  our  world 
have  also  perhaps  accentuated  the  fault  lines  in  our 
society. While there is an accelerated pace in economic 
and  technological  development,  the  same,  regrettably, 
cannot  be  said  with  regard  to  ethical,  moral  and 
cultural development in our society. Indeed, our times 
have seen the rise of the scourge of terrorism. 
The  environment  in  which  we  live  today  is  also 

accentuated 
and 
exploitation.  That  is  hardly  conducive  to  laying  the 
foundations  for  sustainable  peace  and  development. 
deprivation 
disparities, 
by 
the 
remained  at 
Conscious  of  that  stark  reality,  our  former  Prime 
Minister  Shrimati  Indira  Gandhi  noted  as  early  as 
1972, at the United Nations Conference on the Human 
Environment,  that  poverty  and  need  were  the  worst 
polluters.  That  stirred  a  global  debate  on  the  need  to 
ensure  that  poverty  eradication  and  developmental 
imperatives 
fore  along  with 
environmental challenges in our pursuit  of sustainable 
development. 

Intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue  is  a 
necessity and one of the central elements in developing 
a  better  understanding  of  the  apparent  contradictions 
and  divergent  approaches  that  exist  today  in  our 
societies. We need to create an environment conducive 
to  fostering  dialogue  among  diverse  cultures,  races, 
faiths  and  religions  and  that  inculcates  the  values  that 
promote  a  transition  from  force  to  reason  and  from 
conflict and violence to dialogue and peace. 

Dialogue  among  different  cultures  and  religions 
is also important because it is precisely in the absence 
of  such  dialogue  and  understanding  that  intolerance, 
bigotry  and  violence  flourish.  That  is  why  extremist 
ideologies,  violence  and  terrorism  have  grown  in  a 
world  in  which  we  seem  to  be  moving  away  from 
dialogue and understanding. There can be no disputing 
that  terrorism,  which  is  a  manifestation  of  extremism, 
intolerance  and  violence,  is  the  antithesis  of  all 
religions. No religion condones violence or the killing 
of  human  beings.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  the 
nations  of  the  world  work  together  in  a  concerted 
manner 
terrorism  and 
extremism, which are anathema to modern societies. 

All  the  great  religions  of  the  world  essentially 
represent what the Indian ethos postulates, that is, “the 
truth  is  one,  the  wise  call  it  by  many  names”. 
Compassion,  mercy  and  tolerance  are  the  common 
values and beliefs among all major faiths of the world. 
We  must  learn  to  live  our  faith  with  integrity  while 
respecting and accepting each other. 

India,  the  largest  democracy  in  the  world,  a 
nation  of  unparalleled  diversity  with  a  population  of 
over 1 billion, is the second most populous country in 
the world. While India of course has the largest Hindu 
population,  we  also  have  one  of  the  largest  Muslim 
populations  in  the  world.  India  provides  a  home  to  a 
very  significant  number  of  practitioners  of  practically 
it 
every  other  major  religion  of 
Christianity, 
Jainism, 
the  menace  of 
the  world,  be 
Buddhism, 
Sikhism, 
to 
tackle 
12 

10-59074 


Zoroastrianism or the Baja’s. India is the birthplace of 
Jainism.  Gateman  Buddha  gave  his  first  sermon  in 
Senath,  an  eminent  centre  of  Indian  philosophy,  after 
he attained enlightenment in Both Gaye. 

The history of India, in essence, is a narrative of 
conversations  among  different  civilizations  and, 
indeed,  conversation  with  nature  itself.  India  is  home 
to scores of languages, hundreds of dialects, thousands 
of cuisines and a medley of races, colours, landscapes 
and  cultures. This  assimilation  and  accommodation  of 
diversity  have  contributed  to  the  richness  of  our 
composite culture and the durability of our civilization. 
Our  civilizational  legacy  treats  nature  as  a  source  of 
nurturing  and  places  high  value  on  living  in  harmony 
with nature. The Vedas are a repository for the holistic 
development of the human being in full harmony with 
its surroundings. 

The  principle  that  the  entire  world  is  one  family 
has  run  like  a  thread  through  our  constant  interaction 
and exchange of thoughts  with the outside world. The 
noble  principles  of  life  and  spiritualism,  including 
non-violence,  have  influenced  successive  generations 
of  people  worldwide.  The  interaction  between  India 
and the West goes back to the time of ancient Greece. 
Millenniums  ago,  the  interaction  between  those  two 
civilizations  produced  the  exquisite  Andhra  art  form. 
India’s  contact  with  Islam  produced  the  beautiful 
confluence of the Indo Islamic culture, which includes 
the great human values of Sufism. Indeed, India would 
together  and 
not  have 
in  holding 
strengthening  a  composite  Indian 
identity  unless 
Indians practised tolerance and were determined to live 
together in peace. 

The  father  of  our  nation,  Mahatma  Gandhi,  was 
the  greatest  apostle  of  peace  and  non-violence.  We 
firmly  believe  that  Gandhi  is  not  the  past,  he  is  the 
future also. He said, 
succeeded 
“I  do  not  want  my  house  to  be  walled  in  on  all 
sides  and  my  windows  to  be  stuffed.  I  want  the 
cultures  of  all  the  lands  to  be  blown  about  my 
house as freely as possible”. 

We believe that no culture or religion is superior 
to  any  other,  and  have  always  benefited  from  our 
interactions  with  various  civilizations  throughout  our 
history.  We  in  India  understand  the  importance  of 
building alliances among religions, cultures and ethnic 
groups.  We  have  always  supported  all  efforts  to  build 
bridges  of  understanding  among  nations,  peoples, 
A/65/PV.33
the 
broader 
and  within 
religions  and  cultures  across  the  world.  It  is  our 
considered  view  that  successful  pluralism  must  be 
grounded  on  the  basic  tenets  of  mutual  understanding 
and  respect  for  diverse  traditions.  Those  are  also 
critical  for  the  harmonious  development  of  all  sectors 
of  society,  including  when  it  comes  to  gender  equity 
and the empowerment of women all over the world. 

Global  efforts  towards  peace  and  reconciliation 
can  only  succeed  with  a  collective  approach  that  is 
built on commitment, trust, dialogue and collaboration. 
We  must  do  this  at  all  levels:  within  nations,  within 
regions 
international 
community.  The  only  way  to  achieve  this  goal  is  to 
move conceptually to a new dimension of dialogue and 
harmony  among  diverse  cultures,  races,  faiths  and 
religions so that all human beings can live in the sane 
and peaceful global society of our collective dreams. 
Mr.  Jamaal  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

future  of  security,  stability  and  development  in  the 
world  is  contingent  on  reverence  for  the  principles  of 
mutual  understanding  and  tolerance  among  peoples. 
Establishing  an  international  partnership  for  dialogue, 
cooperation,  peace  and  development  that  promotes 
communication  between  all  nations  around  the  world 
regardless  of  colour,  race,  religion  or  language  is 
certainly crucial for achieving peace and security. 

We  must  recall  that  the  darkest  chapters  of 
humankind’s history and the worst atrocities committed 
against  humanity  essentially  have  as  their  source 
doctrines  of  racial  superiority  and  dogmas  positing 
civilizational or cultural superiority. Such notions have 
lost  sight  of  the  truth  that  a  man  remains  a  man, 
whether he has white, black or yellow skin and whether 
he is Muslim, Jewish or Christian. They have also lost 
sight  of  the  fact  that  human  civilization  is  a  shared 
outcome  drawing  upon  various  sources  and  growing 
and prospering due to contributions from the East and 
the West, the North and the South. Human culture itself 
has multiple origins and colours and has developed and 
grown thanks to the linguistic, literary, intellectual and 
artistic creations of peoples from all continents. 

The dialogue that Tunisia wishes to see and wants 
to enshrine in international relations can be successful 
only to the extent that each of us, whether in the East 
or  the  West,  works  to  initiate  a  culture  of  dialogue, 
tolerance  and  human  rights  —  above  all  in  our  own 
countries.  We  must  do  so  through  educational  and 
teaching  programmes  as  well  as  grass-roots  activities 
10-59074 

13 
of 
poverty, 
illiteracy, 
regional  and 
A/65/PV.33 

and  information  and  communications  programmes,  in 
particular  with  youth  and  women,  in  order  to  anchor 
this  culture  in  human  relations  and  make  it  an 
unwavering  conviction  in  our  thinking  and  in  the 
behaviour of all human societies. 

This  is  what Tunisia  has  undertaken  to  do,  since 
the  start  of  the  1990s,  by  readjusting  to  that  end  its 
educational  and 
teaching  programmes.  We  have 
established a world solidarity award and a world prize 
for  Islamic  studies  advocating  moderation,  the  golden 
mean  and  enlightened  thinking.  We  have  also  hosted 
many  meetings  and 
international 
conferences  focused  on  the  dialogue  of  civilizations 
and  international  solidarity,  which  gave  rise  to  a  very 
worthwhile  series  of  agreements  and  appeals  to  that 
end. 
We must also, in this context, work to combat the 

phenomena 
disease, 
unemployment,  isolation  and  marginalization,  and  do 
so with  all  of the determination  and  perseverance that 
we  are  capable  of  in  order  to  find  remedies  to  these 
phenomena  and  to  eradicate  their  root  causes,  taking 
into account each country’s resources and situation. 

Based on the firm belief that these phenomena are 
a  major  handicap  today  for  developing  countries  that 
prevent  them  from  developing  their  own  potential  so 
that they can achieve progress and do away with their 
vulnerability, President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali made 
an  appeal,  in  1999,  to  create  a  World  Solidarity  Fund 
aimed  at  eradicating  disparities  and  strengthening 
solidarity among peoples. That proposal was welcomed 
by the United Nations. 

for 
establishing  bonds  of  friendship,  cooperation  and 
mutual  esteem  among  peoples  regardless  of  race, 
culture  or  faith  is  the  Ben  Ali  Chair  for  Dialogue  of 
Civilizations  and  Religions.  Established  in  2001,  this 
post  is  aimed  at  increasing  and  spreading  knowledge. 
Its  key  role  is  to  encourage  knowledge  of  other 
civilizations  and  religions.  It  encourages  and  provides 
material  and  moral  support  for  actions  that  advocate 
rapprochement among peoples. 
identity  and  uniqueness  of 

peoples  is  the  best  framework  for  establishing  a 
balanced dialogue among equals between civilizations, 
cultures  and  religions.  Cultural  difference,  because  of 
the  variety  of  contributions  made  to  it  and  its  great 
for  enriching  human 
breadth, 
Another  Tunisian 
indispensable 
Respect  for 
initiative 
that  calls 
the 
is 

this 
from 
rostrum 
reiterates 
civilization. However, difference should not be used to 
justify  any  type  of  rejection  or  exclusion.  Instead,  it 
should  offer  broad  horizons 
for  diversity  and 
enrichment. 

its 
Tunisia 
determination  and  its  goodwill  to  cooperate  with  the 
entire  international  community  to  bring  about  a  world 
of peace, security and prosperity. 
Mrs.  Chaimongkol  (Thailand):  Less  than  three 

weeks ago, our leaders reaffirmed their commitment to 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  Indeed,  without  respect  and  understanding  for 
each  other,  sustainable  peace  and  development  cannot 
be achieved. 
Thailand  supports  every  effort  that  aims  to 

promote  greater  understanding  and  expand  dialogue 
among  cultures,  religions  and  civilizations.  In  this 
regard,  Thailand  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/65/269),  which  highlights  the 
activities  carried  out  within  the  framework  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  provides  an  overview  of 
other major regional and global initiatives taken in this 
area.  Thailand  supports  the  recommendation  of  the 
report  that  the  work  on  dialogue  among  cultures, 
religions and civilizations be streamlined in the future 
in  order  to  make  global  efforts  in  this  area  more 
coherent,  visible  and  easily  understandable  for  the 
public and non-United Nations actors. 
I would like to share some of Thailand’s views. 


First,  as  my  Foreign  Minister  said  during  the 
general debate (see A/65/PV.23), we live in a world of 
divides,  be  they  politico-security,  socio  economic, 
digital or even based on beliefs. To overcome them, we 
need  concerted  efforts.  The  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
can  be  a  useful  tool  for  bridging  these  divides.  It 
should  also  cooperate  with  related  United  Nations 
agencies, regional organizations and relevant interfaith 
dialogue frameworks, such as the Special Non-Aligned 
Movement  Ministerial  Meeting  on  Interfaith  Dialogue 
and  Cooperation  for  Peace  and  Development  and  the 
Tripartite  Forum  on  Interfaith  Cooperation  for  Peace, 
in  order 
to 
foster  understanding  and  prevent 
confrontation. 
Secondly, human rights are a top priority for the 

Thai  Government  and 
its  foreign  policy.  While 
fundamental  human  rights  are  universal,  dialogue 
among cultures, religions and civilizations can help to 
14 

10-59074 
foster 
concerned 
these  values,  bridge 


promote 
the  gaps  between 
different interpretations and standards and enhance the 
effectiveness  of  their  implementation  across  cultures 
and  boundaries.  Such  forums  as  interfaith  dialogues 
and  the Alliance  of  Civilizations  can  make  invaluable 
contributions to fostering common understanding. 

Thirdly,  at  the  regional  level,  Thailand  has  been 
active  in  promoting  closer  interaction  and  greater 
understanding  between  peoples  in  South-East Asia  by 
enhancing  the  connectivity  of  regional  infrastructure. 
Through various initiatives, such as the Master Plan on 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
Connectivity,  the  Initiative  for  ASEAN  Integration 
Strategic  Framework, 
the  East-West  Economic 
Corridor,  the  Greater  Mekong  subregion  projects,  as 
well  as  other  bilateral  initiatives,  the  free  flow  of 
goods,  services,  and  people  brings  with  it  a  greater 
understanding  of  different  cultures,  religions  and 
beliefs. 

Thailand  stands  ready  to  work  closely  with  the 
General  Assembly,  United  Nations  bodies  and  all 
parties 
to 
and 
interreligious cooperation. 
in  French):  The 

founding  concept of the United Nations was the quest 
for peace and the practice of tolerance, the prohibition 
of the use of weapons and the promotion of economic 
and  social  development  for  all  peoples  so  that  one  of 
the greatest tragedies humankind had ever seen would 
never  again  recur.  Most  particularly,  it  was  to  protect 
future generations from the scourge of war. 

I  would  like  here  to  acknowledge  the  timeliness 
and relevance of the subject under consideration today, 
10  years  after  the  proclamation  of  the  International 
Year  for  the  Culture  of  Peace,  and  particularly  this 
year,  2010,  which  marks  the  end  of  the  International 
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-violence  for 
the Children of the World. 
Recent  history  following  the  World  Wars  is  so 

replete with bloody events and upheavals — indeed, as 
many today as in the past — that violence continues to 
permeate  our  world.  Intolerance  and  scorn  for  each 
other’s  cultures  lays  the  groundwork  for  extremism. 
Racism,  xenophobia  and  scorn  for  other  cultures 
continue  to  feed  off  of  racial  and  cultural  prejudices. 
The  mix  of  various  crises  —  the  economic,  financial, 
social and food crises — alongside the negative effects 
of  climate  change  and  poverty,  only  worsens  this 
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke 
intercultural 
A/65/PV.33
together  with  other  members  of 
negative  trend,  further  exposing  the  weakest,  most 
vulnerable and poorest. 

My delegation would like to take this opportunity 
to express from this rostrum the Congo’s support for all 
initiatives aimed at promoting the culture of peace and 
encouraging dialogue among cultures and civilizations. 
Dialogue  among  civilizations  and  its  other  facet, 
interfaith  dialogue,  clearly  draw  from  the  aims  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations.  That  is  why  the 
Congo once again welcomes this new sign of the times 
and  hopes  that  this  dialogue  among  civilizations  that 
we hope for is indeed the path that will lead us towards 
the peaceful, just and prosperous world to which we all 
aspire. 

My country recently joined the Group of Friends 
of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  thus  reflecting  the 
commitment of the Congolese Government to actively 
take  part, 
the 
international  community,  in  this  quest  for  peace  and 
tolerance  through  a  dialogue  among  civilizations. 
Today’s  debate  offers  a  platform  for  all  civilizations 
and  cultures  and  all  religions  to  undertake  joint 
initiatives and partnerships at the various levels in our 
States,  individually  or  collectively  and  within  our 
respective  societies,  so  that  the  virtues  of  dialogue, 
tolerance  and  respect  for  cultural  diversity  serve  the 
cause of peace and development. 

In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  recall  the  virtues 
enshrined by the African tradition of discussion, which 
also  provides  an  opportunity  for  dialogue  in  the  quest 
for peaceful and consensus-based solutions to disputes 
that  arise  in  society.  African  discussions  involve 
reconciling  opposing  views  and  forging  an  awareness 
of a shared destiny. 
Religions,  in  principle,  advocate  tolerance  and 

love for one’s neighbour. But throughout their history, 
and  today  once  again,  they  have  led  and  at  times  still 
lead to violence and intolerance when they are carried 
along  on  the  currents  of  extremism.  We  believe  that 
now  is  the  time  to  encourage  meetings  between  the 
different 
a 
non-denominational  spirit,  a  dialogue  that  is  oriented 
towards  peace.  Such  opportunities  should  allow  all  of 
them  to  explain  in  more  depth  the  doctrine  of  their 
particular  religious  community  and  more  clearly 
illustrate its characteristics. This constructive dialogue 
should  bring  about  a  growing  mutual  awareness  of 
each faith along with a greater esteem of the teachings 
to  develop, 
in  order 
faiths, 
in 
10-59074 

15 

A/65/PV.33 

that they convey. Religious communities would thereby 
cooperate  more  broadly  in  all  undertakings  that, 
depending  on  the  requirements  of  the  various  parties, 
contribute  to  the  achievement  of  the  shared  goals  of 
peace and development. 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Congo,  has  made 
peace  based  on  dialogue  his  political  credo.  It  is 
through  the  virtues  of  dialogue  and  tolerance  that  the 
Congo  has  been  able  to  overcome  the  obstacles  that 
were put in its path by an unprecedented civil war and 
has  been  able  to  restore  peace.  In  the  wake  of  the 
fratricidal  violence  that  plunged  the  country  into 
grieving  and  destroyed  its  social  and  economic  fabric 
between  1997  and  1999,  non-denominational  services 
were successfully held. Thus prayers and pleas uttered 
with  a  single  heart  and  in  unison  contributed,  with 
other  vital  forces  in  the  country,  to  overcoming  the 
divisions that could still plunge the country into further 
turmoil.  The  Government  understood  the  beneficial 
impact  of  this  effort,  as  did  religious  communities. 
Therefore  all  religious  faiths,  separate  from  the  State 
but placed on the same footing, undertook this common 
cause  of  peace,  which 
for 
development. 

It  is  therefore  obvious,  in  this  respect,  that  we 
should  encourage  a  complementary  dynamic  between, 
on the one hand, the State in its governing role as the 
guarantor of peace and security and, on the other hand, 
the  religious  faiths  involved  in  an  interfaith  dialogue 
devoted  to  winning  over  hearts  and  minds,  with  the 
noble  aim  of  promoting  a  true  culture  of  peace. 
Conversion  is,  we  know,  one  of  the  principles  that 
underpins religion. 

We  are at a symbolic turning point at the end of 
this  first  decade  devoted  to  the  culture  of  peace.  Yet 
peace  can  only  prosper  and  last  if  there  is  a  fertile 
breeding  ground  for  justice  and  equality,  along  with 
tolerance  and  respect  for  diversity,  progress  and 
prosperity  for  all.  In  this  regard,  the  dialogue  of 
cultures  and  civilizations  and  interreligious  dialogue 
are  clearly  avenues  that  can  lead  to  more  coordinated 
efforts to develop a true culture of peace. 

its  support  for  an 
approach  that  involves  unified  action,  as  proposed  by 
the Secretary-General in his report (A/65/269). Indeed, 
by  establishing  sustained  momentum  we  can  hope  to 
make  true  progress  towards  achieving  this  project  of 
My  delegation  expresses 
is  a  prerequisite 
and 
Scientific 
intercivilizational 
the  founding  fathers  of  the  Organization,  that  is, 
constructing  a  world  that  is  peace-loving,  prosperous 
for all, rich in diversity and that shares the same ideals. 
Mr.  Barbalić  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  Allow 

me  to  begin  my  statement  by  thanking  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  on  intercultural, 
interreligious 
dialogue 
(A/65/269).  We  are  also  grateful  for  the  annual 
progress  report  of  the  Director-General  of  the  United 
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural 
Organization  (UNESCO)  on  the  International  Decade 
for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-violence  for  the 
Children of the World, 2001 to 2010. Dialogue among 
peoples,  cultures,  faiths  and  civilizations  is  essential 
for the growth of the global culture of peace. 

We  note  with  appreciation  UNESCO’s  leading 
role  in  promoting  the  observance  of  the  International 
Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures  in  2010.  As 
the primary focus of the Year, the significant number of 
activities  —  more  than  700  —  was  impressive,  and 
included  a  variety  of  projects  presented  in  fields  such 
as  the  arts,  education  and  the  interests  of  youth. They 
also enjoyed broad participation by many segments of 
society, particularly young people. 

Bosnia and Herzegovina is also very pleased with 
the  fact  that  the Alliance  of  Civilizations,  launched  in 
2005  and  welcomed  by  resolution  60/1,  has  shown 
significant  results.  In  recent  years,  the  Alliance  has 
managed  to  maintain  its  momentum,  attract  new 
members,  build  consensus  among  its  constituents  and 
deliver  on  some  of  its  core  objectives.  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina also commends the third annual report of 
Mr. 
the  United  Nations  High 
Representative  for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  We 
greatly  appreciate  his  enormous  efforts  towards  the 
realization of the goals of the Alliance and his results-
oriented approach. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  wishes  to  confirm  its 
commitment to participate actively in the initiatives of 
the Alliance of Civilizations as a member of its Group 
of  Friends.  We  continue  to  support  the  principles  and 
activities  of  the  Alliance  in  promoting  a  culture  of 
peace  and  dialogue  among  civilizations,  religions  and 
cultures,  as  dialogue  can  significantly  contribute  to 
strengthening  mutual  understanding  and  respect  for 
cultural diversity. 
In  our  view,  the  promotion  of  true  dialogue 

among  civilizations  is  one  of  the  most  important 
Jorge  Sampaio, 
16 

10-59074 
strongly 
supports 


political 
instruments  for  strengthening  peace  and 
prosperity  in  the  world.  In  this  regard,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina 
the  Alliance’s 
constructive approach in dealing with the challenges of 
global relations today. 

I  am  proud  to  inform  the  General Assembly  that 
the  Regional  Strategy  on  Intercultural  Dialogue  and 
Cooperation  in  South-East  Europe  —  the  first  ever 
within  the  framework  of  the Alliance  —  was  adopted 
last  December  in  Sarajevo,  in  a  unique  demonstration 
of  the  commitment  to  enhancing  regional  cooperation 
among  the  countries  of  South-East  Europe.  The  high-
level  representatives  of  14  countries  of  the  region 
demonstrated  their  commitment  to  further  promoting 
good-neighbourly  relations,  aimed  at  strengthening 
bridges  between  peoples  and 
communities  by 
promoting intercultural dialogue. 

The  action  plan  for  implementing  the  Strategy 
was introduced in May this year. The same period has 
also seen the preparation of a regional strategy for the 
Mediterranean,  producing  a  basic  document  for  work 
within  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  on  improving 
European-Mediterranean  dialogue  in  the  region  over 
the  next  four  years.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  fully 
supports  the  coordinated  activities  set  out  in  the 
Strategy  for  the  Mediterranean  and  expresses  its 
expectation  that  the  action  plan  for  implementing  the 
Strategy, whose aim is to develop regional partnerships 
among  peoples  and  nations,  will  contribute 
to 
improving  cooperation  and 
further  strengthening 
stability  and  development  in  the  region.  We  therefore 
look 
in 
November,  when  we  expect  the  new  Strategy  to  be 
adopted. 

intercultural  and 
interreligious  dialogue  aimed  at  promoting  tolerance 
and peace is of the highest importance for my country. 
We  recognize  that  the  protection  of  cultural  heritage 
and  the  free  exercise  of  religion  while  respecting 
traditions  are  among  the  basic  fundamental  rights 
necessary  to  achieving  a  comprehensive  peace.  We  in 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  have  also  come  to  the 
realization  that  dialogue  must  be  conducted  on  a 
platform  of  democracy,  the  rule  of  law,  respect  for 
human rights and the dignity of the individual. We are 
fully aware that without open dialogue there can be no 
true 
regard,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  welcomes  and  supports  all  resolutions 
the  ministerial  conference 
Bringing  about  advanced 
reconciliation. 
forward 
to 
In 
this 
A/65/PV.33
and 
promote 
a  more 
intercultural, 
interreligious 
Implementing 
that 
intercivilizational dialogue. 

I  would  like  to  express  our  satisfaction  with  the 
progress that the Alliance of Civilizations has made in 
recent  years  with  projects  such  as  the  International 
Year  of  Youth  on  the  theme  of  dialogue  and  mutual 
understanding.  This  initiative  will  contribute  to  the 
promotion  of  the  ideals  of  peace  and  solidarity  across 
generations, cultures, religions and civilizations. 

Furthermore,  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that 
we  make  concerted  joint  efforts  to  promote  better 
media visibility for the Alliance and help it achieve its 
objectives. 
effective 
communications  strategy  is  one  of  the  priorities  that 
needs  further  development.  We  welcome  the  outcome 
of the third Forum of the Alliance of Civilizations, held 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  which  confirmed  the  Alliance’s 
global  scope  as  the  leading  United  Nations  forum 
dealing  with  intercultural  dialogue  and  cooperation. 
There is no doubt that the fourth Forum, which will be 
hosted  by  the  Government  of  Qatar  in  2011,  will 
continue  with  effective  ways  of 
strengthening 
cooperation and intercultural dialogue. 
Mr.  Bame  (Ethiopia):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

President for convening this joint debate on the Global 
Agenda  for  Dialogue  among  Civilizations  and  the 
culture  of  peace.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
(A/65/269)  on  the  agenda  items  under  consideration. 
My delegation believes that the report enables us to be 
cognizant of the activities of the United Nations and its 
affiliated  entities  with  regard  to  dialogue  among 
civilizations, cultures and religions. 

statement of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

We should recall that the Millennium Declaration, 
adopted  in  September  2000  (resolution  55/2),  clearly 
indicated  that  tolerance  was  one  of  the  fundamental 
values essential to international relations in the twenty-
first  century,  including  the  active  promotion  of  a 
culture of peace and dialogue among civilizations. The 
Declaration  highlighted  that  globalization  increased 
people’s  interconnectedness  and  hence  brought  about 
greater interaction between cultures and civilizations. 

In  that  regard,  the  celebration  in  1999  of  the 
United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations 
underscored 
that  globalization  was  not  only  an 
My  delegation  fully  associates  itself  with  the 
10-59074 

17 
along 
cultural 
can  bring 
A/65/PV.33 

economic,  financial  and  technological  process  that 
could offer great benefits; it also presented us with the 
the  rich 
challenge  of  preserving  and  celebrating 
cultural  diversity  of  humankind  and 
indigenous 
civilizations. 

The  challenges  that  we  face  today,  be  they 
political  or  otherwise,  would  be  easier  to  address  if 
dialogue  among  civilizations  were  promoted  as  an 
approach  to  tackling  the  fault  lines  in  relationships 
among  nations.  We  need  to  keep  in  mind  that  efforts 
towards peace and prosperity at the international level 
could be successful if the peoples of the world nurtured 
lines.  This  path  of 
dialogue 
communication,  we  believe, 
about 
understanding and respect between and among peoples 
of different traditions. 

For  us  in  Ethiopia,  the  coexistence  of  different 
peoples  and  long-standing  tolerance  among  cultures 
and denominations is a unique heritage and way of life. 
In fact, we consider it a matter of survival, and the glue 
that holds our social fabric together in times of ordeal 
or  foreign  aggression.  It 
this 
experience  of  harmonious  relationships  among  the 
people  of  Ethiopia  could  be  exemplary  for  other 
nations and help all peoples live in peace. 
The  Ethiopian  Federal  Constitution  is  firmly 

anchored  on 
the  principle,  among  others,  of 
recognizing  and  safeguarding  individual  identities  and 
rights, as well as of ensuring the full representation and 
participation  of  all  nations  and  nationalities  in  the 
political  and  socio  economic  activities  of  the  country. 
All  of  that  is  observed  without  compromising  our 
commitment 
in 
diversity. 
Ethiopia  is  taking  practical  steps  to  advance  the 

dialogue agenda. A high-level conference on the role of 
religion  in  peacebuilding  and  development,  held  from 
16 to 17 June 2008 in Addis Ababa, was conducted in 
the presence of the President of the Federal Democratic 
Republic  of  Ethiopia,  religious  leaders,  Government 
officials,  scholars  and  representatives  of  civil  society 
organizations. 
It  is  also  worth  mentioning  that  the  Government 

of  Ethiopia, 
the  Spanish 
Government and the European Union, plans to organize 
a  seminar  on  interreligious  dialogue  in  November 
2010.  The  seminar  will  bring  together  federal  and 
representatives  of 
regional  Government  officials, 
the  goal  of  promoting  unity 
in  collaboration  with 
is  our  belief 
that 

the 
launched 
in  2005  at 
initiative  of 
religious institutions, elders, members of academia and 
civil society organizations. The seminar is expected to 
publicize and promote the  initiative of the Alliance of 
Civilizations  in  political  circles,  civil  society  and 
Ethiopian academic circles. 

We  are  well  aware  that  durable  peace  and 
prosperity  can  only  be  secured  through  a  continuous 
process  of  dialogue  among  different  views  and 
interests.  Ethiopia  is  firmly  committed  to  advancing 
the  objectives  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  which 
were 
the 
Governments  of  Spain  and  Turkey  and  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  I  am  pleased  to 
announce that Ethiopia, as a member of the Alliance, is 
currently elaborating its national plan of action for the 
Alliance of Civilizations. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reassure  the 
Assembly  that  Ethiopia  will  always  remain  firmly 
committed and will continue to actively play its role in 
the pursuit of this paramount global agenda of dialogue 
among civilizations. 
Mr. Solón (Plurinational State of Bolivia) (spoke 

in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia, I would like very much to welcome this debate 
on cultures, religions and civilizations. 

Bolivia  is  a  country  that  promotes  the  culture  of 
peace. We have enshrined that conviction in article 10 
of  our  new  political  Constitution,  which  rejects  all 
forms  of  aggression  and  war  to  resolve  any  type  of 
conflict. 

Bolivia is a country that promotes the meeting of 
civilizations  and cultures.  It is for that  reason that the 
State’s  new  political  Constitution  has  changed  our 
country’s name to the Plurinational State of Bolivia, for 
we  recognize  that  there  are  36  nations  on  Bolivian 
territory.  They  have  the  same  rights  and  deserve  the 
same recognition. They are all equal in the eyes of the 
State. 

In our view, nations of the world are increasingly 
moving  towards  plurinational  States.  In  other  words, 
there  are  more  nations 
that  contain  groups  of 
civilizations  and  peoples  with  different  cultures  and 
different  religions.  Increasingly,  we  are  plurinational 
within our own countries. 

that  vigorously  fights 
discrimination  and  racism. We  do  so  because  the  vast 
majority of our indigenous population has for centuries 
is  a  country 
Bolivia 
to 
18 

10-59074 
that  all 
types  of 
that  reason 
that  we  adopted  a 


suffered  discrimination  and  racism  at  first  hand.  It  is 
for 
law  against 
discrimination  and  racism  this  year.  The  legislation 
establishes a set of measures, institutions and penalties 
to  ensure 
racial  and  other 
discrimination  are  gradually  overcome  and  eradicated 
in our country. 

It  is  worth  mentioning  that  this  law  against 
racism is also meant to ensure that the media, as set out 
in  the  report  under  review  (A/65/269),  must  provide 
objective information, avoid the use of stereotypes and 
counter any incitement to hatred and violence. For us, 
it  is  essential  that,  in  the  fight  against  discrimination 
and racism, the media play a crucial role in promoting 
a  culture  of  peace  and  in  rejecting  hatred  and  any 
actions prejudicial to the minority persons and cultures 
that exist in many of our countries. 

We  note  with  grave  concern  the  growing  new 
wave  of  discrimination  and  xenophobia,  especially  in 
developed  countries  of  the  North.  It  must  be  said  that 
among  the  structural  causes  of  the  phenomenon  of 
discrimination  we  are  witnessing  are  the  current 
worsening  social  and  economic  conditions,  which  are 
deepening  with  time.  It  is  essential  that  we  recognize 
this  fact  and  take  concrete  steps  to  counter  it.  We 
propose that this dialogue on cultures, civilizations and 
religions  take  on  the  economic  dimension  as  well  so 
that we can soon evaluate  the impact of the economic 
crisis  on  our  societies  and  on  this  dialogue  among 
civilizations  and  cultures.  We  also  believe  that  it  is 
urgent to begin a discussion on an actual programme of 
work  to  set  out  measures  to  counter  the  wave  of 
racism,  xenophobia  and  discrimination  that  has  been 
brought about by the world economic crisis. 

peace is a world without discrimination or racism. 
Mr.  Onemola  (Nigeria):  Nigeria  expresses  its 

appreciation to the President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-fifth session, especially for this joint debate 
on agenda items 14 and 15, on the Global Agenda for 
Dialogue  among  Civilizations  and  on  the  Culture  of 
peace,  respectively.  We  also  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for 
in  documents 
A/65/269 and A/65/299. 

The  relevant  report  covers  omnibus  issues  and 
reviews  the  activities  of  the  major  United  Nations 
bodies  concerned  with  the  subject  under  review, 
pursuant  to  resolutions  60/4  and  64/81.  We  note  in 
For the Plurinational State of Bolivia, a world at 
the  reports  contained 
A/65/PV.33
to 
celebrate 
the  Secretary-General  renewed 
particular that the report provides detailed information 
on  the  third  Forum  of  the  United  Nations Alliance  of 
Civilizations  and  on  the  progress  made  to  date  with 
regard  to  the  promotion  of  United  Nations  objectives 
through outreach programmes, collaboration with faith-
based  organizations  and  the  building  of  strategic 
awareness  schemes  through  communication,  including 
improving educational activities on the issue. 

The special event organized by the Department of 
Economic  and  Social  Affairs  on  21  April  2010  at 
United  Nations  Headquarters 
the 
International  Year  on  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures 
pursuant  to  resolution  64/81  —  during  which  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session  and 
their 
commitment  —  was  significant  owing  to  the  fact  that 
several  useful  proposals  were  made  to  advance  action 
on  how  to  further  enrich  our  objectives  in  this  era  of 
globalization. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  that  UNESCO,  the  lead 
focal  point  on  the  International  Year,  successfully 
launched an event on 18 February 2010 during which a 
high-level panel on peace and dialogue among cultures 
was held with the participation of representatives from 
all  regions  of  the  world.  Participants  from  a  broad 
section  of  society  presented  their  contributions,  with 
perspectives ranging from the political and intellectual 
to  the  religious  viewpoints.  The  high  purpose  of  the 
activities 
the 
Rapprochement  of  Cultures  is  to  raise  awareness, 
culminating  in  the  production  and  dissemination  of 
information 
several 
international  and  regional  conferences  covering  a 
variety  of  projects  in  virtually  all  areas  where  various 
forms of dialogue and rapprochement could take place, 
such as in the arts, education, culture and youth issues. 
At this juncture, we would like to emphasize the role of 
regional  organizations  in  this  endeavour,  as  they 
represent important tools that can be used positively to 
further our objectives. 

From  our  perspective,  we  would  like  to  reaffirm 
that  the  strategy  for  building  a  culture  of  peace  must, 
however, be based on sound and established principles 
that  can  build  trust  and  understanding  among  the 
diverse  peoples  of  the  world  and  enable  them  to 
navigate  from  their  differences  towards  productive 
ends  and  advantages.  This  will  involve  multifaceted 
and  broad  efforts,  including  gaining  an  understanding 
of  each  other’s  ways  of  life;  the  establishment  of 
International  Year 
organization 
and 
the 
of 
the 
for 
of 
10-59074 

19 
In  conclusion,  we  believe 
that 
Promoting  peace  and  understanding 
A/65/PV.33 

means of resolving ongoing conflicts, so as to prevent 
them  from  further  degenerating;  the  development  of 
institutional  frameworks  and  relevant  capacities  for 
peace  initiatives;  and  the  mobilization  of  resources  at 
the national and regional levels for peace initiatives. 

through 
mutual  dialogue,  tolerance  and  respect  for  each  other 
requires  a  collective  effort.  It  is  therefore  appropriate 
for all of us to join hands in this endeavour in order to 
move  our  world 
towards  a  more  peaceful  and 
prosperous one. We should also unite to de emphasize 
agents of strife and conflict among us and pay greater 
attention  to  those  issues  that  create  a  harmonious 
atmosphere,  in  an  attempt  to  guarantee  the  full  and 
fundamental  human  rights  of  all  the  peoples  of  the 
world. 

the  central 
teachings  of  all  religions  emphasize  dialogue  and 
understanding. The international community will suffer 
from  intolerance,  bigotry  and  violence  in  the  absence 
of those virtues and encourage the growth of extremist 
ideologies,  violence  and  terrorism.  Nigeria  abhors  the 
intolerance  that  exists  throughout  the  world  and  the 
fact that those intolerant groups have access to greater 
and greater resources. We must all rise to counter those 
deviant  tendencies  that  promote  destructive  activities 
with serious implications for social stability, peace and 
development.  We  must  collectively  send  a  clear 
message 
their 
to  promote  religious  harmony  and 
responsibility 
tolerance  and 
the  equality  of  cultural 
traditions, 
religions,  creeds  and  faiths.  Nigeria  looks  forward  to 
the  time  when  the  peoples  of  the  world  will  have  a 
better  understanding  of  the  diversity  in  the  world. 
Finally, we must shift our thinking from our primordial 
ways  and  reset  it  in  accordance  with  the  march  of 
globalization and its attendant implications. 

towards the development of a culture of peace. 
Mr. Al-Nasser  (Qatar)  (spoke  in Arabic): At  the 

outset, let me express to the President the gratitude of 
my  country’s  delegation  for  convening  this  important 
meeting  of  the  General Assembly  to  discuss  the  items 
on  the  global  agenda  for  dialogue  among  civilizations 
and the culture of peace. 
Although all religions and cultures have common 

the 
denominators 
phenomena  of  fanaticism  and  religious  and  ethnic-
Nigeria  remains  committed  to  all  efforts  geared 
terms  of  human  values, 
to  Member  States 
concerning 

religions 
in  order 
based conflicts continue to worsen and pose a growing 
threat to healthy relations between countries. 

The State of Qatar is of the firm belief that more 
importance  should  be  given  to  the  principles  of 
dialogue  among  religions  in  order  to  find  a  solid 
platform for building a world that is peace-loving and 
understanding.  That  firm  belief  has  encouraged  the 
Emir of Qatar to host the fourth Forum of the Alliance 
of  Civilizations  in  Doha,  which  seeks  to  establish  a 
constructive  dialogue  among  followers  of  varying 
faiths  and 
to  achieve  better 
understanding of the principles and teachings of those 
religions  and  put  them  at  the  service  of  all  of 
humankind.  The  State  of  Qatar  has  also  hosted  a 
number  of 
international  conferences  on  dialogue 
among  religions.  Those  opportunities  have  become 
annual  events  aimed  at  deepening  dialogue  and 
communication.  The  series  began  with  the  First  Doha 
Conference  on  Interfaith  Dialogue  held  in  Doha  in 
April 2003, with the Eighth Conference to be held also 
in  Doha  from  19  to  21  October  2010  on  the  role  of 
religion in the education of new generations. 

The  State  of  Qatar  believes  that  dialogue  among 
religions  can  have  a  positive  impact  on  the  dialogue 
among peoples and civilizations. From that standpoint, 
since  the  inception  of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations  in 
2005, our country has contributed by responding to the 
initiative  of  the  former  United  Nations  Secretary-
General  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  with 
the  significant 
participation  of  Her  Excellency  Mozah  bint  Nasser 
Al Missned,  the  spouse  of  the  Emir  of  Qatar,  who 
participated in the High-level Group for the Alliance of 
Civilizations put together by Mr. Kofi Annan in 2005. 
That panel brought together eminent persons and major 
world  leaders  in  order  to  forge  important  initiatives 
within  the  framework  of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations 
on education and training for young people with a view 
to  achieving  the  final  goal  of  rapprochement  among 
peoples and cultures. 
The  State  of  Qatar  supports  the  Alliance  of 

Civilizations and has actively taken part at a very high 
level  in  all  of  the  meetings  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  that  were  held  in  Madrid,  Istanbul  and 
Rio  de  Janeiro  to  support  the  work  programme  of  the 
Alliance and to give it the necessary momentum. That 
participation led to the presence of Sheikha Mozah bint 
Nasser Al  Missned,  the  consort  of  Sheikh  Hamad  bin 
Khalifa  Al  Thani,  the  Emir  of  Qatar.  In  order  to 
consolidate  their  support,  Sheikha  Mozah  launched  a 
in 
20 

10-59074 
its 
this 
efforts 
among 
young 
problem 
inception, 
the  fourth  Forum  of 


$100  million  initiative  to  provide  jobs  for  young 
people.  Since 
initiative  has 
established  connections  with  the  private  sector,  which 
created  a  trade  incentive  for  world  institutions  to 
address unemployment issues among youth. It has also 
developed a series of projects aimed at dealing with the 
unemployment 
people, 
specifically  in  three  areas:  policies,  science  and  job 
opportunities.  These 
initiatives  will  create  work, 
businesses and ways for young people to obtain capital. 
Furthermore,  the  State,  together  with  the  Islamic 
Conference  Youth  Forum,  adopted  a  project 
to 
establish  a  youth  entrepreneurs’  network  in  Islamic 
countries  last  April.  The  State  of  Qatar  has  also 
contributed,  with  the  Secretary  to  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  to  the  establishment  of  a  programme  of 
scholarships  for  young  people  in  the  city  of  Doha  in 
March  2010,  as  an  experimental  programme  with  a 
number  of  regional  organizations.  The  State  of  Qatar 
will  host 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  in  December  2011  and  will  cooperate  to 
that  end  with  the  secretariat  of  the  Alliance  and 
member States, so that the fourth Forum will represent 
a  new  departure  for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
provide  new  momentum  for  its  noble  goals  and 
initiatives,  and  promote  the  aims  of  the  Alliance  in 
bridging the gap between peoples and cultures. 
Mr. Ashour  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): In our meeting today we are dealing with two 
important  items  on  the  international  agenda  that  are 
especially 
strong 
connections  to  international  peace  and  coexistence 
among  peoples  in  a  multicultural  and  multireligious 
world and an international political environment that is 
sometimes  inharmonious  and  subject  to  conflicts. 
Those conflicts are fed by racist and extremist policies 
and  tendencies  that  undermine  the  deployment  of 
international 
rapprochement, 
communication  and  coexistence  among  the  peoples  of 
the world and that in the long run threaten international 
peace and security. 

Despite  the  bleak  picture  presented  by  the  racist 
and  aggressive  policies  and  actions  that  our  world  is 
witnessing in certain areas and the analogous reactions 
from militant and extremist movements in various parts 
of the world, the genuine political will of the majority 
of  leaders  and  peoples  of  the  world  could  create  an 
environment  conducive 
to  eradicating  racism  and 
extremism  among  people.  The  United  Nations  has  a 
important 
because 
towards 
of 
their 
A/65/PV.33
special  and  major  responsibility  to  translate  that 
international will into concrete realities on the ground. 

We  are  all  aware  of  the  important  role  that  the 
United Nations system plays, under the direction of the 
General  Assembly  and  with 
the  participation  of 
UNESCO,  UNICEF,  the  United  Nations  Population 
Fund and other United Nations agencies and organs, to 
spread  the  culture  of  peace  and  non-violence  and  to 
encourage  dialogue, 
rapprochement  and  alliances 
between  civilizations,  cultures  and  religions.  Yet,  we 
believe that the humble efforts that have been and are 
still  being  deployed  by  the  international  Organization 
and  the  mechanisms  that  have  been  adopted,  though 
important,  are  inefficient  and  insufficient  and  cannot 
be relied on alone to realize our desired objectives. We 
fully  realize  that  a  reading  of  the  history  of  human 
experience  shows  that  policies  of  discrimination  and 
racism,  foreign  occupation,  poverty  and  hunger  are 
among  the  major  factors  that  give  birth  to  and  feed 
extremism, violence and intolerance. 

My  delegation  has  read  attentively  the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  on  intercultural,  interreligious 
and  intercivilizational  dialogue  (A/65/269),  and  the 
report submitted by the Director-General of the United 
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural 
Organization  regarding  the  International  Decade  for  a 
Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of 
the  World,  2001-2010,  contained 
in  document 
A/65/299. The Libyan delegation appreciates the effort 
involved  in  the  preparation  of  the  two  reports,  their 
contents  and  the  valuable  information  they  contain, 
focusing on the important aspects of the issue that has 
been in the forefront of the world’s attention in recent 
years, 
tragic  events  of 
11 September  2001,  which  have  been  condemned  by 
the entire world and which have also been exploited by 
extremists  and  racists  to  distort  the  image  of  Islam, 
inciting antagonism against Islam and Muslims. 
As  is  stipulated  in  General  Assembly  resolution 

interreligious  and 
64/81  on 
intercultural  dialogue  and  rights,  understanding  and 
cooperation  for  peace,  the  exercise  of  the  freedom  of 
expression  involves  responsibilities  and  duties,  which 
call  for  restraint  in  the  exercise  of  that  right.  In  that 
respect,  we  have  all  seen  and  heard  in  the  media 
unjustified attacks on and deliberate distortions of one 
of the greatest monotheistic religions of the world and 
of its symbols, under the pretext of the right to exercise 
the  freedom  of  expression.  In  that  regard,  we  cannot 
the  promotion  of 
specifically 
Scientific 
since 
the 
10-59074 

21 

and 
values 
Islamic 
universal 
principles, 
values.  Dialogue 
A/65/PV.33 

but  warn  of  the  dangerous  consequences  of  insults 
against  Islam,  attacks  on  Islamic  symbols,  attempts  to 
distort 
and 
discrimination against Muslims in various countries. 

The  culture  of  peace  could  effectively  enhance 
respect  for  human  rights  and  strengthen  solidarity 
among  peoples  and  nations  and  support  dialogue 
among  cultures  and  civilizations  that  share  many 
common 
among 
civilizations  contributes  to  the  realization  of  peace, 
understanding  and  friendship  among  peoples  and 
nations,  while  cultural  bias,  incitement  and  hatred 
against other cultures and religions increase hatred and 
violence among peoples and nations all over the world. 
Consequently,  it  is  incumbent  on  us  all  to  consecrate 
the  culture  of  peace  and  spread  it  among  peoples. 
However, that should not in any respect be interpreted 
to  mean  that  we  can  force  people  who  are  suffering 
racist  foreign  occupation  to  accept  the  status  quo, 
renounce  their  legitimate  rights  and  give  up  their 
resistance to occupation in all its forms. If we did that, 
then  we  would  be  supporting  oppression,  extremism 
and injustice. 

the 
importance  of  peaceful  coexistence  among  religions 
and cultures as an instrument and a necessary means to 
strengthening  international  peace  and  security  through 
mutual  respect  and  tolerance  and  not  as  a  pretext  for 
conflict  and  confrontation.  My  country  calls  for 
everyone  to  confront  all  that  could  create  or  lead  to 
conflicts  and  incitement to religious,  cultural or  racial 
fanaticism  and  to  reject  all  forms  of  expression  that 
could be provocative or could insult religious symbols 
or beliefs. 

observer of the Holy See. 

the 
General  Assembly  once  again  considers  this  agenda 
item,  my  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm 
the  importance  of  States  working  together  to  build  a 
culture  of  peace,  to  cultivate  productive  and  sincere 
relationships,  to  seek  out  and  follow  the  paths  of 
forgiveness  and  reconciliation,  to  be  transparent  in 
their  dealings  with  others  and  to  be  faithful  to  their 
word.  If  cultures  are  comprised  of  human  persons, 
surely  human  persons  can  form  a  durable  culture  of 
peace.  Such  an  attitude  is  at  the  heart  of  this 
Organization, which was founded on a determination to 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Archbishop  Chullikatt  (Holy  See):  As 
In  conclusion,  my  country  emphasizes 
in 
among 
overall 
relations 
fundamental 
live together in harmony as good neighbours, uniting to 
maintain international peace and security. 

Concerning  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace, 
my delegation also takes this opportunity to affirm the 
importance  of 
interreligious  cooperation,  mutual 
understanding,  open-mindedness,  solidarity  and  an 
improvement 
all 
civilizations  and  peoples  from  different  cultural  and 
religious backgrounds. 

The  unique  contribution  of  religions  to  the 
promotion of a culture of peace lies in their missions to 
serve  the  spiritual  and  transcendental  dimension  of 
human  nature.  Furthermore,  they  contribute  to  respect 
for human life and the observance of all human rights 
and 
freedoms.  Religions  promote 
reconciliation by impelling people to move forward in 
a spirit of mutual cooperation. In a concrete way, they 
help  facilitate  the  realization  of  peace,  which  is  not 
merely  the  absence  of  conflict  but  the  harmonious 
coexistence  of  individual  citizens  within  a  society 
governed  by  justice,  one  in  which  the  good  of  all  is 
promoted to the greatest possible extent. Religions help 
accomplish all that is within our human capacity. 

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  draws  attention  to 
the ongoing work of the Holy See for almost 40 years 
in reaching out to other religious traditions to promote 
interreligious  harmony.  Recent  initiatives  include  the 
regular  meetings  of  the  Joint  Committee  for  Dialogue 
of  the  Pontifical  Council  for  Interreligious  Dialogue, 
and  the  Permanent  Committee  of  the  Al  Azhar  for 
Dialogue  among  the  Monotheistic  Religions,  the  most 
recent  of  which  was  held  this  year  in  Cairo.  It 
concluded, among other things, that the many causes of 
violence  among  believers  of  different 
religious 
traditions  include  the  manipulation  of  religions  for 
political  or  other  ends;  discrimination  based  on 
ethnicity or religious identity; and divisions and social 
tensions, 
and 
underdevelopment. 
The  Permanent  Committee  also  made  important 

recommendations: 
to  mutual 
forgiveness  and  reconciliation  for  a  peaceful  and 
fruitful  coexistence;  to  recognize  what  we  have  in 
common  and  respect  legitimate  differences  as  a  basis 
for a culture of dialogue; to recognize and respect the 
dignity  and  rights  of  every  human  being  without  bias 
related  to  race,  ethnicity  or  religious  affiliation;  to 
acknowledge  the  necessity  of  promulgating  just  laws 
to  open  our  hearts 
ignorance,  poverty 
as  well 
as 
22 

10-59074 
in 
system 
promoting 
interreligious  and 


that  guarantee  the  fundamental  equality  of  all;  and  to 
recall  the  importance  of  education  for  cultivating 
respect,  dialogue  and  fraternity.  Those  are  concrete 
ways  to  oppose  violence  among  followers  of  different 
religions  and  to  promote  peace  and  harmony  among 
religions. 

The  recent  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
intercultural, 
intercivilizational 
dialogue  (A/65/269)  has  highlighted  the  activities  of 
various  United  Nations  entities  that  contribute  to  the 
promotion  of  dialogue  among  cultures,  civilizations 
and  religions.  The  report  also  draws  attention  to  the 
work  of  various  offices  and  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations 
interreligious 
cooperation. 

In that regard, it is important that United Nations 
offices  and  agencies  engage  cultures  with  full  regard 
for  the  role  of  religion  in  those  cultures.  One  crucial 
way  of  doing  so  is  by  not  attempting  to  foster  global 
and  regional  networks  that  advance  principles  at  odds 
with  the  natural  moral  order  —  in  particular,  a 
reproductive health and rights agenda that runs counter 
to respect for the right to life of the unborn child. Such 
an approach would be an attempt to misuse religion for 
a  particular  agenda  and  would  be  disrespectful  to 
followers of the various faith traditions. 

to  draw 
attention  to  the  report  to  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/HRC/14/23)  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  the  right  to  freedom  of 
opinion  and  expression.  That  report  emphasizes  the 
role of the right to freedom of expression and freedom 
of  access  to  means  of  communication  in  combating 
discrimination,  as  well  as  in  fostering  intercultural 
understanding  and  dialogue.  At  the  same  time,  my 
delegation  looks  forward  with  interest  to  the  series  of 
expert  workshops  on  the  prohibition  of  incitement  to 
national, racial or religious hatred that the Office of the 
High Commissioner for Human Rights will be holding 
this coming year. 

The followers of religions can do a great deal to 
promote  lasting  peace  and  harmony  in  the  world,  and 
the  Holy  See  is  grateful  for  the  various  initiatives 
aimed  at  achieving  that  noble  goal.  For  its  part,  my 
delegation remains committed to working with those of 
other religious and faith traditions to help bring about a 
culture  of  peace  for  the  benefit  of  the  entire  human 
family,  and  encourages  all  States  to  fully  ensure  the 
Furthermore,  my  delegation  wishes 
A/65/PV.33
right  to  freedom  of  religion  and  conscience  for  all 
people  and  communities,  for  the  peaceful  coexistence 
of all members of the human family. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

resolution 49/2 of 19 October 1994, I now call on the 
observer  of  the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross 
and Red Crescent Societies. 
Mr. Jilani (International Federation of Red Cross 

and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  In  the  interest  of  saving 
time  I  will  read  only  excerpts  from  my  statement  and 
will make the full statement available on our website. 

Rooted in its vision and based on its fundamental 
principles,  the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross 
and  Red  Crescent  Societies  (IFRC) 
is  seriously 
committed to promoting a global culture of respect for 
diversity,  non-violence  and  social  inclusion.  In  a 
recently  developed  IFRC  global  strategy  on  violence 
prevention,  mitigation  and  response,  we  define  the 
culture  of  non-violence  as  one  that  respects  human 
beings,  their  well-being  and  dignity,  and  honours 
diversity,  non-discrimination, 
inclusiveness,  mutual 
understanding  and  dialogue,  willingness  to  serve, 
cooperation and lasting peace. 
Our  fundamental  principles  and  humanitarian 

values 
the 
International  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement 
and  NGOs  in  Disaster  Relief.  To  date,  the  Code  has 
been  signed  by  more  than  400  non-governmental 
organizations.  The  Code  helps  the  International  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement  and  other 
humanitarian  actors  to  bring  together  the  different 
cultures  worldwide  under  one  set  of  standards  for  the 
conduct of humanitarian relief. 

Last  year,  young  volunteers  from  150  countries 
gathered  in  Solferino,  Italy,  to  mark  the  one  hundred 
and  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  Battle  of  Solferino.  The 
youth  committed  themselves  to  inner  change  and  the 
development of skills to promote harmony and positive 
attitudes  within  communities,  to  live  under  our  seven 
fundamental principles as agents of behavioural change 
and 
promote 
non-discrimination  and  respect  for  diversity  and  the 
culture of peace in the world. 

In  that  context,  the  IFRC’s  initiative  under  the 
theme  “Youth  as  agents  of  behavioural  change”  has 
been launched to empower youth to play a leading role 
in  transforming  mindsets,  attitudes  and  behaviour  in 
the  Code  of  Conduct 
renounce 
violence 
inspired 
for 
to 
and 
10-59074 

23 

A/65/PV.33 

their local communities. It starts from the premise that 
a  prior  commitment  to  inner  change  and  to  being  the 
living  example  of  our  fundamental  principles  and 
humanitarian  values  is  the  best  way  to  reach  that 
objective. 

The  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement  has 
stood  for  human  dignity  since  our  founding  almost 
150 years  ago,  when  our  founder  mobilized  volunteer 
assistance  for  the  wounded  on  the  battlefield  in 

 Solferino.  Today, 
the  promotion  of  humanitarian 
values  continues  to  be  at  the  heart  of  the  mandate  of 
the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent Societies. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  these  items.  The  General 
Assembly  has 
its 
consideration of agenda items 14 and 15. 

  The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m. 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 
24 

10-59074 
