
A/65/PV.19
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

19th plenary meeting 
Monday, 27 September 2010, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m. 

Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 



  Address by Mr. Lenín Moreno Garcés, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Ecuador 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Ecuador. 

Mr.  Lenín  Moreno  Garcés,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Ecuador, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Lenín 
Moreno  Garcés,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Ecuador,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
in 

Spanish): I would like to commend the election of His 
Excellency  Mr. Joseph  Deiss  as  President  of 
the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session  and  to 
welcome his excellent proposal for the main subject of 
the general debate, “Reaffirming the central role of the 
United Nations in global governance”. This is also part 
of  Ecuador’s  policy  of  strengthening  multilateralism. 
To that end, we have continuously encouraged regional 
integration  as  the  logical  response  to  an  ancestral 
heritage  that  never  kept  or  defended  borders  between 
friendly countries. 
Mr.  Moreno  Garcés 
(Ecuador) 
(spoke 

The  wish  for  a  united  South  America  came  to 
fruition  with  the  establishment  of  the  Union  of  South 
American  Nations  (UNASUR)  as  an  area  for  genuine 
integration  aimed,  inter  alia,  at  eliminating  inequality 
and  strengthening  democracy.  On  26  November, 
Ecuador  will  hand  over  the  pro  tempore  presidency, 
which  it  has  held  since August  of  2009,  to  our  sister 
country  of  Guyana.  In  the  same  vein,  Ecuador  has 
fostered  South-South  cooperation  as  a  mechanism  for 
development,  encouraging  cooperation  among 
the 
legitimate representatives of States parties. We believe 
that countries must be heard and their requirements and 
realities  addressed,  and  that  cooperation  should  be  a 
reality over the medium term. 
I  should  stress  that  one  of  the  most  important 

endeavours  developed  within 
the 
solidarity extended to the sister country of Haiti and its 
legitimate  Government  for  its  reconstruction,  to  attain 
the  development  it  yearns  for  and  to  strengthen  its 
institutions as it deserves. 

the 
importance  we  accord  to  the  issue  of  climate  change. 
Ecuador is one of world’s 19 megadiverse countries. Its 
Amazon  forest  boasts  the  Yasuní  Park,  declared  by 
UNESCO  as  a  world  biosphere  reserve  in  1989. 
Scientists agree on the unique value of this park, for its 
extraordinary  biodiversity  and  state  of  conservation 
and  for  the  cultural  heritage  it  holds.  The  park 
concentrates  Amazonia’s 
of 
amphibian,  mammal,  bird  and  plant  species. Yasuní  is 
also  a  Pleistocene  reserve.  There,  species  were  not 
to  place  special  emphasis  on 
this  space  was 
densities 
I  wish 
highest 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55122 (E) 
*1055122* 

A/65/PV.19 

affected  by  glaciation,  which  preserved  a  process  of 
differentiated evolution of  new species.  Moreover, the 
Yasuní  National  Park  is  the  home  of  two  indigenous 
peoples  that  have  opted  to  live  in  voluntary  isolation 
with  respect  to  Western  culture:  the  Tagaeri  and  the 
Taromenane.  Both  belong  to  the  Huaorani  culture, 
possessing age-old wisdom and cultural heritage. 

The wealth of the park also extends underground. 
In Yasuní  there  are  oil  resources  from  which  Ecuador 
could obtain 846 million barrels of heavy crude. Three 
years  ago,  the  President  of  Ecuador,  the  economist 
Rafael  Correa,  launched  the  Yasuní-ITT  Initiative 
before  this  forum  (see  A/62/PV.7),  which  proposed 
keeping that oil underground, unexploited. If we fulfil 
this  aspiration,  we  will  prevent  the  emission  of 
407 million  tons  of  carbon,  the  main  cause  of  climate 
change,  and  we  will  leave  intact  the  planet’s  richest 
world  biosphere  reserve.  To  do  this,  we  need  to  raise 
global  awareness  and  gain  the  relevant  international 
contribution,  equivalent  to  at  least  half  of  the  total 
revenue of $3.6 billion that the State of Ecuador would 
earn if it were to exploit the oil reserves. 

Ecuador is a country that is making major efforts 
to  achieve  development.  But,  as  an  act  of  generosity, 
the  people  of  Ecuador  have  decided  not  to  receive 
50 per cent of the income that this oil would generate, 
so long as the international community makes the same 
effort. 
The Yasuní Initiative, as President Correa himself 

has  said,  is  not  just  symbolic.  It  is  the  most  important 
initiative  for  our  country  and  for  the  entire  planet.  It 
would protect one of the areas richest in biodiversity — 
perhaps  the  richest  in  the  world  —  and  there  is  no 
doubt  that  it  would  contribute  to  mitigating  climate 
change. The world will be able to assess the way of life 
of  Amazon  peoples,  in  particular  that  of  the  most 
vulnerable  among  them:  the  indigenous  peoples  in 
voluntary isolation. 

fund 
administered  by  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  with  the  participation  of  the  Ecuadorian 
State,  our  civil  society,  and  representatives  of  our 
fellow contributing countries. 
I  call  upon  our  brother  countries  throughout  the 

world,  especially 
to 
support  the  Yasuní  Initiative  and,  acknowledging  the 
responsibility we all share for climate change, to seek 
original  solutions  to  a  problem  that  threatens  the  very 
We  have  already  created  a  capital 
industrialized  countries, 
the 

survival  of  the  human  species.  Ancestral  Amerindian 
wisdom  teaches  us  that  the  Earth  was  not  inherited 
from our parents; rather, this magical creation is lent to 
us by our children. 

Ecuador  has  reached  its  targets  related  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  it  continues  to 
promote them, including by setting an example for the 
international community. However, I wish to state very 
firmly that the Millennium Development Goals left out 
a  very  significant  segment  of  the  population  and  that, 
soon, they will reveal deficiencies in the social policies 
of countries. I am speaking here of the excluded among 
the  excluded,  the  forgotten  among  the  forgotten.  I  am 
referring to people with disabilities. 

Let  us  be  clear:  disability  is  not  incapacity,  but 
rather  diversity.  As  there  is  geographical,  cultural  or 
bioclimatic diversity, there  are also diverse capacities, 
and that is where talent, heart, dedication, perseverance 
and  willingness 
lie.  Ecuador  has  undertaken  a 
bio-psychosocial,  clinical  and  genetic  study  of  all 
persons  with  disabilities  in  the  country.  We  never  in 
our  wildest  dreams  imagined  what  we  would  find  in 
that study: human beings left in holes in the ground, in 
cages, with silence as their only company and death as 
their  only  hope,  human  beings  ashamed  and  shaming 
others. 

in  Ecuador. 
Although  much  remains  to  be  done,  we  have  already 
accomplished  much.  As  of  now,  we  can  locate  via 
satellite every person with disabilities in Ecuador who 
needs  help  and  provide  them  with  the  technical 
assistance they need, accessible and dignified housing, 
medical  care,  rehabilitation  and  integration  in  the 
workforce  and  the  education  system.  In  addition,  we 
have created a subsidy, equivalent to a minimal living 
wage,  to  acknowledge  the  work  and  the  dedication  of 
those  who  care  for  persons  with  severe  physical  or 
mental disabilities. 

The  expertise  of  the  sister  Republic  of  Cuba 
played  a  significant  role  in  the  execution  of  this 
detailed study. Cuba is perhaps the country that shows 
the greatest solidarity in Latin America because, when 
the  time  to  help  comes,  they  do  not  take  into  account 
the fact that they still suffer under the most infamous, 
illegal  and  illegitimate  blockade  in  human  memory, 
and which Ecuador condemns with all the energy of a 
grateful people. 
That  situation  no 
longer  exists 
2 

10-55122 
I  want 
to  reiterate 



I  must  highlight  the  inescapable  urgency  of 
addressing  the  subject  of  human  migration. Allow  me 
to  make  an  appeal 
to  all  countries,  especially 
developed  ones,  to  sign  the  International  Convention 
on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers 
and Members of Their Families, which was opened for 
signature  20  years  ago:  20  years  ago.  What,  I  ask 
myself,  are  we  not  one  single  race?  Have  we  not 
similar problems? 

I  also  ask  myself:  do  we  not  share  the  same 
evolution?  Do  we  not  have  the  same  hopes  for  the 
future?  Let  us  share  the  realization  of  the  dream  of 
universal  citizenship.  Let  human  beings 
travel 
wherever  they  want,  whenever  they  want,  as  they  do 
when  they  are  at  home  and  among  family,  and  as 
should be the case around the world. 

the  Ecuadorian  position 
condemning all forms of colonialism and occupation of 
territories by foreign forces. We reaffirm that dialogue 
must  always  be  the  mechanism  of  choice  for  the 
settlement of conflicts. 

We believe in the sovereign right of all countries 
to  development  and  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy. We want a world without nuclear weapons. We 
therefore  recommend  preaching  by  example.  I  will 
repeat that: we want a world without nuclear weapons, 
but our approach is to preach by example, so that that 
which  we  demand  from  others  also  becomes  first  and 
foremost  a  requirement  for  ourselves.  I  call  for  a 
definitive  decision.  Let  us  dismantle  nuclear  arsenals, 
so  that  just  as  we  criminalize  the  manufacturing  and 
marketing  of  illegal  drugs,  we  would  also  criminalize 
the  manufacturing  and  marketing  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  —  and  if  only  that  could  be  done  for  all 
weapons. 

There can be no world governance without peace. 
Nature  is  the  best  teacher  of  peace.  I  was  born  in  the 
Ecuadorian  Amazon  basin.  We  call  Earth  our  Pacha 
Mama.  She  and  we  are  the  same.  The  travelling  poet 
Walt  Whitman  said,  referring  to  all  human  beings,  to 
all other beings on Earth and to the Earth itself, “every 
atom belonging to me as good belongs to you” (Song of 
Myself).  We  are  made  of  the  same  atoms,  which  we 
share. We  come  from  dust,  we  whirl  around  for  some 
time and then we return to dust, to our Pacha Mama, to 
Mother  Nature.  But  she  has  been  abused  and 
disrespected.  Even  so,  in  her  agony,  she  is  still 
generous. Rabindranath Tagore  said that the Earth has 
A/65/PV.19
been  insulted  and  reviled,  but  in  return  offers  her 
flowers and her fruits. 

I call on Member States, our brother countries, to 
share  this  revolutionary  vision,  to  find  peace  and  to 
make  it  everlasting,  to  change  the  history  of  the 
invaded, the polluted, the humiliated and the forgotten 
of the Earth. 

Let  us  create  an  army  of  warriors  that  carry  no 
weapons  on  their  shoulders  or  ammunition  in  their 
packs,  but  whose  weapons  are  ecology,  medicine,  the 
defence of human rights and human solidarity, an army 
that fights the only disability that truly exists, which is 
the  human  disability. The  only  disability  that  exists  is 
that  of  the  heart.  The  enemy  is  inequality,  which, 
although  fierce,  will  be  defeated.  We  will  succeed,  of 
course. Of course we will succeed. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-
President of the Republic of Ecuador for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Lenín  Moreno  Garcés,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Ecuador,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 



  Address by Lieutenant-General Mompati 
Merafhe, Vice-President of the Republic  
of Botswana 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Botswana. 

Lieutenant-General  Mompati  Merafhe,  Vice-
President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Lieutenant-
General  Mompati  Merafhe,  Vice-President  of 
the 
Republic of Botswana, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly. 

Mr.  Merafhe  (Botswana):  It  is  my  singular 
honour  to  extend  my  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on 
your  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly. I wish to assure you of the full support and 
cooperation of my delegation in the discharge of your 
onerous  responsibilities.  My  commendation  also  goes 
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  and  his 
10-55122 

3 

equality, 
and  gender 
empowerment 
A/65/PV.19 

staff  for  their  commitment  to  the  advancement  of  the 
work of this noble Organization. 

As Member States, we continue to find refuge in 
the  provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the 
full  assurance  that,  when  we  are  individually  faced 
with  insurmountable  challenges  and  difficulties,  we 
draw  from  the  collective  strength  of  the  international 
community. 

Working together for a common purpose, for the 
common  good  is  actually  the  sacredness  of  this,  our 
grand  institution.  In  this  regard,  we  must  all  remain 
steadfast  in  our  partnership  on  the  agenda  for  poverty 
eradication,  the  pursuit  of  international  peace  and 
security,  the  combating  of  disease,  the  promotion  of 
youth 
the 
promotion and protection of democracy, the rule of law 
and  human  rights,  personal  advancement 
through 
education,  better  health 
for  all  and  harnessing 
technology  for  sustainable  development.  It  is  on 
account of this abiding faith and belief in the viability 
and primacy of the United Nations that, in spite of our 
resource limitations, we have over the years faithfully 
fulfilled our obligations to this Organization. 

The deliberations of the recently concluded High-
level Plenary Meeting on the review of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  our  global  blueprint  for 
monitoring 
shared 
development goals, clearly cast light on our strengths, 
weaknesses  and  vulnerabilities, 
individually  and 
collectively.  For  this  reason  we  need  to  redouble  our 
efforts  to  accelerate  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs 
in the remaining five years. 

Botswana is classified as an upper-middle-income 
country. However, despite having enjoyed stability and 
steady  economic  growth  over  a  sustained  period  of 
time, the country still has to contend with a plethora of 
development 
an 
environment  of  diminished  international  development 
assistance and support. The vulnerability of economies 
such as that  of my country became evident during the 
triple global crises of food, energy and, most recently, 
the  world  economic  and  financial  meltdown.  To  this 
end,  we  call  for  continued  development  assistance  for 
middle-income  countries,  lest  their  hard-earned  gains 
be reversed. 

In  this  era  of  growing  and  complex  global 
challenges, the need for a more dynamic and proactive 
global financial, economic and political architecture is 
challenges  — 
ironically, 
universal 
progress 
towards 
in 
into 
and 
of 
the 
capacity 
improvements 
for  development  and 
for  Gender  Equality 
far more  apparent than  ever before. More specifically, 
the recent crises point to an international monetary and 
financial  architecture  that  needs  profound  reform  in 
order  to  enhance  its  early-warning  capabilities  and 
resistance to external shocks, as well as to facilitate the 
integration  of  poorer  countries 
the  global 
economy. 

Botswana  welcomes  the  important  milestones 
achieved  in  strengthening  United  Nations  operational 
activities 
in 
funding  for  development-related  activities,  as  well  as 
in  strengthening  the  institutional  framework  for  the 
gender  architecture  through  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment of Women — UN Women. The creation 
of the Entity constitutes an important step in fulfilling 
the commitments undertaken at the 1995 Beijing World 
Conference on Women, whose main objective was the 
promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of 
women. 
Botswana fully supports the strengthening of the 

Peacebuilding 
institutional 
Commission.  We  believe 
role  of 
the 
Commission  should  be  properly  defined  by  a  robust 
mandate,  through  the  amendment  of  the  founding 
resolutions  and  the  provision  of  adequate  resources  in 
order to enable it to effectively discharge its mandate. 

On  a  related  subject,  we  fully  concur  that 
disarmament and non-proliferation are essential for the 
promotion  of  international  peace  and  security.  To  this 
end,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  progress  made  in 
some  areas  but  remains  deeply  concerned  that  the 
Conference  on  Disarmament 
to  be 
deadlocked. 
I  wish  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm 

Botswana’s commitment to the objectives of the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  which 
we 
effective 
implementation of its provisions as well as compliance 
with 
successive  Review 
Conferences.  Consequently,  Botswana  associates  itself 
with  the  outcome  of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of 
the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons.  We  fully  support  the  call  by 
developing  countries  for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
agriculture, 
technology 
as 
the 
environment,  water  management 
and  medicine. 
However, countries that intend to embark on such use 
the  decisions  of 
to  demonstrate 
continues 
continue 
through 
areas 
such 
that 
the 
the 
in 
4 

10-55122 
to  share 


of  nuclear  technology  should  do  so  in  a  transparent 
fashion  and  in  full  cooperation  with  the  International 
Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA). We  therefore  call  for 
increased  financial  support  for  the  IAEA  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme  as  well  as  for  the  Agency’s 
capacity-building, 
in  order 
technology 
utilization in the relevant areas. 

Botswana continues to be deeply concerned about 
increasing  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
As  a  peace-loving  nation,  we  believe  in  the  peaceful 
resolution  of  conflicts.  It  is  because  of  this  strong 
belief that we condemn, without reservation, all acts of 
terrorism, including the 9/11 terrorist attacks, on which 
our  well-known  position  remains  unchanged.  My 
delegation  does  not  believe  that  the  9/11  attack  was 
orchestrated by the United States of America. 

One issue of deep concern to my delegation is the 
erosion of democracy, respect for human rights and the 
rule  of  law  in  some  parts  of  the  world.  There  is 
therefore  an  urgent  need  for  us  to  reverse  this  trend, 
especially  because  it  undermines  all  the  efforts  we 
have made to date to launch our countries on a path of 
peace,  stability  and  sustainable  development.  To  this 
end,  we 
society 
organizations  that  have  consistently  sounded  alarm 
bells  regarding  incidents  of  human  rights  violations 
whenever and wherever they occur. 

My  country  is  of  the  view  that  the  International 
Criminal  Court  needs  to  be  supported  in  its  efforts  to 
resolve  outstanding  cases  of  arrest  warrants  that  have 
been 
the 
commission of serious crimes. It is in this context that 
Botswana remains resolute and steadfast in its support 
for  the  work  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We 
welcome  the  landmark  decision  of  the  Rome  Statute 
Review Conference held recently in Kampala, Uganda, 
to  extend  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  to  cover  the 
crime of aggression. 

Nowhere is our shared responsibility as members 
of  the  international  community  more  critical  than  in 
protecting  and  nurturing  our  shared  environment  and 
our  planet,  Earth.  To  this  end,  it  is  pertinent  to  point 
out that climate change has increasingly become one of 
humanity’s  most  daunting  challenges. The  devastating 
natural  disasters 
in  certain 
quarters  of  our  globe  amply  demonstrate  our 
vulnerability as inhabitants of the Earth. 
issued  against  persons 
recently  experienced 
the  various 
commend 
indicted 
civil 
for 
A/65/PV.19
to 
that 
led  humanitarian 
interventions.  We 
responded  positively 

I wish to seize this opportunity, on behalf of the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Botswana,  and  indeed 
on  my  own  account,  to  express  our  sympathy  and 
solidarity with all the countries that have been victims 
of  such  disasters.  We  would  like  to  extend  our 
condolences  to  all  the  families  who  lost  their  loved 
ones  and  those  whose  property  and  livelihoods  were 
destroyed. We extend our profound appreciation to the 
Governments as well as private sector and civil society 
organizations 
the 
international  humanitarian  appeal  launched  by  the 
United  Nations  on  behalf  of  the  affected  countries.  In 
particular,  we  would  like  to  recognize  the  countries 
that 
remain 
optimistic  that  the  next  Conference  of  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  will  achieve  a  successful  outcome,  one  that 
fully  addresses  the  interests  and  concerns  of  both 
developing and developed countries. 
In conclusion, we pray that this sixty-fifth session 

of  the  General  Assembly  will  go  down  in  history  as 
marking a milestone in efforts aimed at addressing the 
most pressing global challenges of our time, as well as 
bringing hope and inspiration to the billions in despair 
throughout the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-
President  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 

Lieutenant-General  Mompati  Merafhe,  Vice-
President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was 
escorted form the rostrum. 
the  Republic  of  Botswana  for 



  Address by Mr. Mohamed Waheed, Vice-
President of the Republic of Maldives 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Maldives. 

Mr.  Mohamed  Waheed,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Maldives,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed 
Waheed,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Maldives, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Waheed  (Maldives):  I  would  first  like  to 

congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to 
to 
10-55122 

5 

and 
others 
remain 
towards 
challenges, 
attainment  of 
A/65/PV.19 

preside  over  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  Please  be  assured  of  my  delegation’s  full 
support and cooperation. I would also like to take this 
opportunity  to  offer  our  appreciation  to  both  your 
predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  for 
the 
exemplary manner in which he guided the work of the 
sixty-fourth  session,  and  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his leadership of the United Nations over 
the past four years. 
Last week, I had the opportunity to report on the 

Maldives’  progress 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  My  report 
demonstrated  that  while  we  have  achieved  five  of  the 
eight  MDGs  —  namely,  Goals  1,  2,  4,  5  and  6  — 
several 
some 
achievements  are  increasingly  becoming  threatened. 
For  example,  the  Maldives  has  made  great  strides  in 
eliminating  poverty,  in  education  and  in  improving 
mortality  rates  among  mothers  and  infants.  However, 
we have yet to make significant gains in the area of the 
empowerment of women. We are also still struggling to 
provide for our environmental and development needs. 
Moreover, religious extremism runs counter to notions 
of  equality  and  social  justice  and  endangers  our 
achievements 
the  while, 
environmental and economic vulnerabilities threaten to 
diminish our gains. 
Those  gains,  among  others,  have  improved  the 

lives  of  the  Maldivian  people  and  contributed  to  a 
situation that has led to our imminent graduation from 
the  United  Nations  list  of  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs)  this  year.  While  we  look  forward  to  our 
graduation,  we  are  also  concerned  about  the  sudden 
withdrawal  of  some  of  the  benefits  afforded  to  LDCs 
that  have  helped  sustain  our  development  efforts  for 
the  past  four  decades.  Those  include  preferential 
market  access  and  concessionary  financing.  While  we 
were  very  encouraged  by  the  pledges  made  by  our 
partners at the donors conference held in the Maldives 
in  March  this  year  to  invest  in  urgent  development 
projects,  we  anxiously  await  the  speedy  disbursement 
of the promised aid. 

Furthermore,  we  look  forward  to  working  with 
our  development  partners  to  achieve  consensus  on  a 
transitional model that provides for a gradual reduction 
of benefits to avoid the disruption of our development 
efforts, as stipulated in resolution 59/209. As a country 
on  the  verge  of  LDC  graduation,  we  look  forward  to 
adopting  a  development  strategy  that  places  emphasis 
in  gender  parity.  All 
to 
in 
in 
private 
transition 
investment 
The  economic 
independence  and  economic  stability 
on  greater 
public-private 
through 
and 
partnerships.  Our  Government’s 
policies 
on 
privatization  and  our  employment  of  commercial 
diplomacy  are  designed  to  achieve  this  transition. 
However,  like  many  other  small  island  States,  our 
geopolitical  and  socio-economic  circumstances  will 
continue to render the Maldives vulnerable. 

The impact of the recent global recession clearly 
demonstrates 
those  vulnerabilities.  As  a  country 
primarily  dependent  on 
tourism  and  fishing, 
the 
Maldives  was  severely  affected  by  decreases 
in 
consumption in our traditional markets. As a result, the 
Government  was  compelled 
implement  severe 
austerity  measures 
that  cut  public  spending  and 
undertook  massive  economic  reforms.  Nevertheless, 
our  people  continue  to  face  formidable  development 
challenges, and thus the Maldives will continue to push 
for  greater  recognition  within  the  United  Nations  for 
the plight of small island developing States. 

the  Maldives 
complements  an  ambitious  political  transition  from 
autocracy  to  democracy.  Although  this  is  a  daunting 
task,  we  have  been  successful  in  achieving  important 
milestones  over  the  course  of  these  past  two  years.  In 
fact, the two-year period of transition stipulated in our 
new  Constitution  concluded  in  August.  This  process 
resulted in the establishment of our Supreme Court and 
the  creation  of  other  relevant  institutions.  While  our 
transition  process  was  accompanied  by  some  political 
discord, it was largely peaceful. 

international  community 
helped us find peaceful solutions during this somewhat 
tumultuous period in our politics. I would like to thank 
all  members  of  the  international  community  for  their 
continued  engagement  and  assistance,  and  especially 
President  Mahinda  Rajapaksa  of  Sri  Lanka  for  his 
constructive contributions. 

The  Maldives’  transition  to  democracy  has  been 
accompanied  by  our  evolution  from  an  abuser  of 
human  rights  to  a  staunch  advocate  for  them.  We  are 
proud  of  what  we  have  achieved,  but  are  the  first  to 
recognize  that  there  is  no  shortage  of  challenges  that 
require  our  immediate  attention.  These  include  the 
need  to  abrogate  the  use  of  torture,  the  need  to 
safeguard  the  rights  of  women,  children  and  the 
disabled, and the need to improve our capacity to deal 
with human trafficking in our region.  
Our  friends 
the 
6 

10-55122 
the  Maldives 



The Maldives is proud to have been elected to the 
Human Rights Council in May, and we are cognizant of 
the  trust  and  responsibility  conferred  upon  us  by  the 
overwhelming support demonstrated by United Nations 
Members  across  all  regions.  We  will  continue  to 
uphold  our  pledge  to  use  our  membership  to  promote 
human  rights  through  positive  engagement  and  to 
address  sensitivities  in  our  collective  quest  to  protect 
the  most  vulnerable.  Moreover, 
is 
undergoing its own universal periodic review this year, 
and  we  consider  this  exercise  to  be  an  opportunity  to 
further strengthen human rights protections at home. 

While  our  interest  in  human  rights  is  rooted  in 
our ambition to improve the lives of our own citizens, 
it  also  emerges  from  our  rising  concerns  about  life  in 
our now interconnected global village, where the need 
to  compel  tolerance,  understanding  and  respect  for 
human dignity is greater than ever before. We support 
the  initiatives  for  a  culture  of  peace,  dialogue  among 
civilizations and tolerance among different faiths. 
As a Muslim country, we lament the rising tide of 

Islamophobia  in  non-Muslim  States.  The  people  of  the 
Maldives  certainly  appreciate  the  difference  between 
Government-sanctioned incidents and those anti-Muslim 
activities that can be attributed to marginal segments of 
that 
non-Muslim  societies.  However,  we  believe 
religious 
racial 
profiling  and  discrimination  thwart  this  institution’s 
mission  for  peace  and  prosperity  among  all  societies. 
Therefore,  we  must  intensify  our  efforts  to  promote  a 
culture of tolerance and understanding while pursuing an 
effective  dialogue  to  expand  the  scope  of  rational 
discourse  between 
Islamic  world  and  other 
civilizations. 

Some  of  the  gravest  threats  facing  humankind 
today  do  not  occupy  their  rightful  places  in  the 
headlines,  nor  do  they  gain  the  significant  attention 
they require. We believe that climate change is such a 
threat. For the Maldives, the effects of global warming 
pose an overwhelming threat to our infrastructure, our 
economy and our very existence. 

In an  attempt to implement adaptation  measures, 
the  Maldives  has  invested  in  water  and  sanitation 
projects  and  coastal  defences  and  is  attempting  to 
develop  voluntary  resettlement  programmes  to  more 
viable islands within the country. We are also investing 
in  a  low-carbon  future  that  emphasizes  renewable 
intolerance,  negative  stereotyping, 
the 
10-55122 

A/65/PV.19
energy and other green projects to achieve our goal of 
becoming carbon neutral by 2020. 

It  is  obvious  that  our  actions  alone  cannot  save 
us.  The  global  community  must  act.  Regional 
initiatives that complement United Nations Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  (UNFCCC)  processes 
must  be  pursued.  Weeks  before  Copenhagen,  the 
Maldives  convened  a  group  of  countries  and  formed 
the Climate Vulnerable Forum to declare our concerns 
with  a  united  voice.  I  am  pleased  to  report  today  that 
Kiribati  will  take  over  the  leadership  of  this  group 
ahead of the sixteenth session of the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  UNFCCC  in  Cancún  this  year,  and  that 
Bangladesh  will  steer  it  to  the  seventeenth  session  in 
South Africa next year. 

The Asian region is one of the most vulnerable to 
climate  change.  We  recognize  that  failure  to  extend 
emissions targets beyond 2012 will leave 60 per cent of 
the  world’s  population  without  durable  solutions  for 
the  global  warming  effects  already  being  felt. Threats 
to  food  and  water  security  for  the  world’s  most 
susceptible  populations  will  undoubtedly  perpetuate 
disease,  exacerbate  conflicts  and  threaten  to  erode 
decades  of  hard-won  successes  achieved  by  countries 
throughout the region. 

While  we  have  high  hopes  for  the  ensuing 
sixteenth,  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  sessions  of  the 
Conference,  we  believe  that  alternative  solutions  that 
harmonize  the  development  needs  of  industrial  States 
with  the  human  and  economic  rights  of  vulnerable 
peoples  should  exist.  Therefore,  the  people  of  the 
Maldives  and  Timor-Leste  call  for  an Asian  initiative 
that  would  forge  a  consortium  of Asian  countries  and 
regional  partnerships.  This  will  aim  to  enable  our 
region to aid the world’s most vulnerable States. 

The Maldives believes that it is time to let go of 
the mistrust and blame that has plagued  the UNFCCC 
process. We welcome the recent voluntary initiative of 
India  to  curb  its  emissions  and  its  commitment  to 
promoting  green  energy  without  waiting  for  others  to 
follow suit. We call upon all nations large and small to 
come together in a cooperative spirit in Cancún so that 
we  may  effectively  establish  and  promote  mitigation 
activities  that  will  restore  our  native  carbon  sinks, 
increase  energy  efficiency,  reduce  emissions  and 
preserve our ecosystems. 
The Maldives would also like to state its support 

of  the  Group  of  Four  position  for  reform  of  the 
7 

international 
system  will 
A/65/PV.19 

Security  Council.  We  believe  that  an  expansion  of 
permanent  membership  to  reflect  the  realities  of  our 
contemporary 
improve 
representation  in  the  Council  and  better  serve  to 
address a panoply of concerns facing nations in all five 
regions today. 

The  Maldives  also  continues  to  grapple  with 
traditional  security  threats.  The  scourge  of  terrorism 
and  the  growing  menace  of  piracy  threaten  national, 
economic and maritime security throughout our region 
and  around  the  world.  Yet  deficits  in  the  capacity  to 
attribute  criminal  accountability  to  the  perpetrators  of 
terrorism persist. Our failure is marked by the advances 
in the modus operandi of terrorists, the proliferation of 
illegal technology transfer, and the surge in the trade of 
illicit weapons. The Maldives cannot stress enough the 
importance  of  this  Assembly’s  finalizing  the  draft 
convention on terrorism. 

Our  geographical  location  in  the  Indian  Ocean 
makes  the  Maldives  particularly  vulnerable  to  threats 
to  its  maritime  security,  as  our  vast  open  waters 
continue  to  prove  difficult  to  police.  We  are  deeply 
concerned  over  the  surge  in  piracy  that  has  moved 
beyond the Gulf of Aden into the Indian Ocean. If the 
international  community  does  not  increase  its  efforts, 
we  fear  that  piracy  may  end  up  turning  into  an 
uncontrolled threat to security in the region. Thus, we 
were  particularly  encouraged  by  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1897  (2009)  and  are 
pleased with the work of the Contact Group on Piracy 
off  the  Coast  of  Somalia.  We  feel,  however,  that  it  is 
important for the Group to urgently establish an easily 
accessible legal toolkit for  States that  enables them to 
fill  the  vacuums  in  their  national  legal  systems  and 
address piracy in a comprehensive manner. 

The continued suffering of the Palestinian people 
deeply  saddens  the  Maldives.  They  have  been  denied 
their  right  to  self-determination  and  their  right  to  live 
in  peace  and  freedom  in  their  own  independent  State 
for  far  too  long.  While  recognizing  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinians,  we  also  appreciate  and  support  the  right 
of  the  people  of  Israel  to  live  in  peace  and  security 
alongside  an  independent  and  sovereign  State  of 
Palestine. We continue our call for all sides to use the 
ongoing  peace  talks  as  an  opportunity  to  resolve  their 
differences,  and  are  therefore  heartened  by  the  new 
initiatives  being  pursued  by  the  United  States  in  its 
pursuit of a Middle East peace treaty. Furthermore, we 
call  for  continued  support  for  the  Governments  of 
the  Maldives’ 
recognition  of 
Jordan  and  Egypt  in  their  work  on  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  which  we  believe  may  provide  an  enduring 
solution to the conflict for the people of the region. 

Additionally,  our  pursuit  of  a  more  secure  and 
just  world  and  our  respect  for  international  law  were 
the  basis  of 
the 
independence  of  Kosovo,  declared  on  17  February 
2008.  The  Maldives  believes  that  the  declaration  of 
independence  by  the  people  of  Kosovo  reflects  a  last-
resort  remedy  that  embodies  the  best  prospects  for 
peace  and  stability  in  the  region.  The  Maldives  also 
welcomes  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  on  the  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence  in  respect  of  Kosovo,  issued  on  22  July 
2010,  which  concluded  that  that  declaration  of  the 
independence  of  Kosovo  did  not  violate  international 
law. While we have been disappointed by recent efforts 
to  reverse  this  judgment,  the  Maldives  welcomes  the 
alternative  solution,  contained  in  the  unanimously 
adopted  European  Union-sponsored  resolution  64/298, 
as a positive step towards Kosovo’s assumption of full 
United Nations membership. 

Closer  to  home,  the  Maldives  has  borne  witness 
to  advances  in  democracy,  sustainable  development, 
and  peacebuilding  throughout  the  region  of  the  South 
Asian Association  for  Regional  Cooperation.  Notably, 
we praise the progress made by the Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan, including the development of democratic 
institutions,  as  well  as  improvements  in  the  areas  of 
health, education and the status of women. We wish the 
Afghans  continued  success  in  their  efforts  to  rebuild 
their 
the 
international  community  to  maintain  their  support  of 
the Afghan people. 

Furthermore, the Maldives welcomes Sri Lanka’s 
success  in  its  ongoing  consolidation  of  peace  and 
democracy,  and  we  call  upon 
international 
community to support that country in its reconciliation 
efforts, as well as in its efforts to rebuild a nation torn 
apart by 25 years of sustained conflict. 

We  are  a  small  nation  with  big  dreams.  Our 
dreams  are  rooted  in  the  vision  of  the  Charter  that 
binds  the  membership  of  this Assembly  together  here 
today. Our hopes are inextricably linked to the fears of 
the  past  that  inspired  this  body  and  to  the  hopes  of 
those  who  dream  of  a  future  grounded  in  justice, 
equity, opportunity and peace for peoples of the North 
and  South,  in  nations  large  and  small.  Our  humanity 
long-suffering 
implore 
nation, 
and 
the 
8 

10-55122 


defines  our  obstacles,  but  we  believe  that  our  dreams 
for a better future defy our limitations. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-
President of the Republic of Maldives for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Mohamed  Waheed,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Maldives,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 



to 
  Address by Mr. Mizengo Pinda, Prime Minister 
of the United Republic of Tanzania 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
United Republic of Tanzania. 

Mr. Mizengo Pinda, Prime Minister of the United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mizengo 
Pinda,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 

Mr. Pinda (United Republic of Tanzania): Let me 
begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your well-deserved 
election  to  preside  over  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  I  assure  you  of  Tanzania’s  full 
support  and  cooperation.  I  also  thank  and  congratulate 
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Abdussalam Treki, 
for his leadership and accomplishments. 

Having just concluded a successful summit on the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), I would like 
to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  leadership,  dedication  and 
commitment  to  the  work  of  the  Organization  and  for 
the  new  momentum  that  he  is  bringing  towards  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs.  Once  again,  we  welcome 
his Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health 
and  urge  the  international  community  to  render  the 
necessary support for its implementation. 

importance  of  national 
leadership  and  global  partnership  in  meeting  the 
MDGs.  Tanzania  will  do  its  part.  We  call  on  all 
partners  to  do  their  part,  as  stipulated  under  MDG  8. 
One such successful partnership is the collective efforts 
of  the African  leadership  through  the African  Leaders 
We  emphasize 
the 
A/65/PV.19
in 
Malaria Alliance  (ALMA),  chaired  by  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania.  Our  focus  within  ALMA  is  on 
ensuring  that  we  attain  the  2010  targets  for  universal 
coverage  of  appropriate  malaria  prevention,  diagnosis 
and  treatment  interventions.  We  are  confident  that,  if 
the  requested  support  is  realized,  we  can  attain  that 
target.  For  that  reason,  we  ask  for  the  full  and  timely 
replenishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria. 

We  all  know  that  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals will not be attained without sustained economic 
growth  and  sustainable  development.  For  Tanzania, 
where  the  vast  majority  of  the  people  depend  on 
agriculture  for  their  incomes  and  livelihoods,  poverty 
cannot be alleviated without addressing the challenges 
of  production,  productivity  and  markets 
the 
agricultural sector. 

Recognizing  that,  Tanzania  has  developed  a 
programme known as Kilimo Kwanza, which translates 
as  “Agriculture  First”,  aimed  at  transforming  and 
modernizing  the  agricultural  sector. A  key  component 
of the programme is the improvement of infrastructure, 
especially  irrigation  systems,  transport  and  energy. 
However,  the  major  challenge  for  us  remains  how  to 
finance the huge investment gap in infrastructure. That 
gap cannot be filled by the public sector alone. For that 
reason,  the  participation  of  the  private  sector  is 
imperative. 

Tanzania  has  undertaken  a  number  of  reforms  to 
create  an  environment  conducive  to  private  sector 
investment.  We  have  created 
legal, 
regulatory  and  institutional  framework  to  attract  both 
local  and  foreign  private  investment  in  infrastructure 
development.  We  now  have 
a  public-private 
partnership  policy  in  place,  and  Parliament  enacted  a 
bill on such partnerships in June. 

Through  a  presidential  circular,  Tanzania  also 
established the Tanzania National Business Council as 
an  institution  to  provide  a  forum  for  public-private 
sector  dialogue. The  Business  Council  brings  together 
public  and  private  sectors  with  a  view  to  reaching 
consensus and mutual understanding on strategic issues 
relating to the efficient management of resources in the 
promotion 
in 
Tanzania.  The  Council’s  Chairperson  is  the  President 
of the United Republic of Tanzania. 
socio-economic 
the  requisite 
development 
of 
10-55122 

9 
smooth 
for  human 
rights.  The 
A/65/PV.19 


The  Government  of  the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania  would  like  to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to 
democratic  good  governance,  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect 
recent  peaceful 
referendum  in  Zanzibar  produced  a  new  political 
dispensation 
that  provides  for  a  Government  of 
national unity whichever party wins the elections. That 
should  now  stabilize  Zanzibar  and  strengthen  the 
democratic  ideals  that  we  all  aspire  to  as  Tanzania 
prepares  for 
its  general  elections,  scheduled  for 
31 October.  As  in  previous  elections,  we  will  do 
everything  in  our  power  to  ensure  that  these  are 
peaceful,  free  and  fair.  We  thank  all  partners  that, 
bilaterally  or  through  the  United  Nations  system,  are 
strengthening our capacity to realize that goal. 
Tanzania  is  pleased  that Africa  has  continued  to 

play a leading role in conflict prevention, management 
and  resolution,  as  well  as  in  entrenching  principles  of 
good governance. Increasingly, more and more African 
countries  are  holding free,  fair and  peaceful  elections, 
followed  by 
transitions.  The  peaceful 
referendum  in  Kenya  that  paved  the  way  for  a  new 
Constitution demonstrates the will of African countries 
to take  charge of their own destinies. That is a matter 
of great satisfaction to us, and we commend the people 
and 
important 
achievement. 
We thank and commend all who continue to work 

hard  for  a  political  solution  to  the  situation  in  Darfur 
that  will  lead  to  durable  peace  and  address  the 
humanitarian  situation.  We  are  concerned  about 
periodic eruptions of violence, and we call on all sides 
in  Darfur  to  join  the  peace  process.  In  the  meantime, 
we commend the African Union-United Nations Hybrid 
Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) for the good work that 
it  continues  to  do  under  very  difficult  conditions.  We 
therefore  urge  the  international  community  to  give 
UNAMID all the support that it needs. 

We  note  the  preparations  and  progress  towards 
the  holding  of  a  referendum  in  Southern  Sudan  early 
next  year.  We  call  on  all  parties  to  do  everything  in 
their  power 
that 
referendum. The referendum must be peaceful, free and 
fair,  and  the  wishes  of  the  people  of  Southern  Sudan 
must be respected. We commend the Secretary-General 
for  his  initiatives  to  facilitate  that  process,  including 
his  decision  to  appoint  a  panel  of  eminent  persons, 
headed  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Mkapa,  the 
former President of the United Republic of Tanzania, to 
leadership  of  Kenya 
timetable  for 
to  keep 
that 
the 
for 
to 

includes 
team  for 
contributing 
monitor the process. We pledge Tanzania’s full support 
to  Mr.  Mkapa  and  his 
the  successful 
accomplishment of the task ahead of them. We urge all 
parties  to  cooperate  with  the  team,  and  we  call  upon 
the  international  community  to  provide  the  requisite 
support  for  the  successful  holding  of  the  referendum 
and the peaceful management of its outcome. 

Tanzania will continue to play its role in ensuring 
lasting  peace  and  stability  in  Africa  and  elsewhere. 
That 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  and  missions  in  Africa  and 
elsewhere, including those we have deployed in Darfur 
and Lebanon. 

We  are  concerned  about  the  worsening  political, 
humanitarian, social and security situation in Somalia, 
which  threatens  the  whole  region  and,  ultimately,  the 
world.  Recently,  we  witnessed  terrorist  bombings  in 
Uganda  by  the  group  Al-Shabaab,  which  caused  the 
loss  of  many  innocent  lives  and  the  destruction  of 
property.  Having  been  victim  to  similar  attacks  in  
Dar  es  Salaam  in  1998,  Tanzania  condemns  that 
barbaric  attack  in  the  strongest  terms  and  expresses 
solidarity  with  and  support  for  Uganda  and  other 
neighbours  in  tracking  down  and  prosecuting  those 
involved. 

We  highly  commend  Uganda  and  Burundi  for 
contributing peacekeeping troops in Somalia under the 
African  Union  Mission  to  Somalia  (AMISOM).  We 
further  thank  all  those  African  countries  that  have 
committed to providing additional troops to AMISOM. 
We  ask  the  international  community  to  provide  the 
support  needed  to  make  that  deployment  possible  and 
timely. However, the problem of Somalia cannot be left 
to Africans  alone. In that  regard, the Security Council 
must  be  more  engaged  and  supportive  in  finding  a 
lasting solution to Somalia. 

the  continued 
increase in piracy activities in the Gulf of Aden and the 
Indian  Ocean,  which  are  now  spreading  beyond  the 
coast  of  Somalia. The  piracy  issue  cannot  be  resolved 
on  the  seas  alone  or  without  addressing  the  causal 
factors 
coherent, 
comprehensive  and  integrated  response  that  includes 
political,  military,  financial  and 
is 
needed.  The  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  should  work  closely  with  the  African 
Union, members of the Intergovernmental Authority on 
Development  and  other  neighbouring  States 
to 
is  concerned  about 
legal  support 
coordinated, 
land.  A 
Tanzania 
on 
10 

10-55122 
has 
under 
pirates 
current 
countries 
suspected 
refugees.  The 
stability 
enabled 


suppress  acts  of  piracy,  as  well  as  to  apprehend  and 
prosecute those who commit that crime. 

In  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  we  recently 
amended  the  criminal  code  to  allow  our  courts  to 
prosecute 
universal 
jurisdiction. We call on the international community to 
enhance  the  prosecution  and  custodial  capacities  of 
countries,  such  as  ours,  that  apprehend  and  prosecute 
pirates.  The  international  community  must  also  agree 
to  share  post-prosecution  custodial  responsibilities 
with  the  affected  States.  Tanzania  has  also  offered  to 
train  1,000  Somali  soldiers  in  Tanzania  in  the  firm 
belief  that,  in  the  final  analysis,  peace  and  security  in 
Somalia lie in the hands of the Somalis themselves. 
Over  the  years,  Tanzania  has  been  a  home  for 

in  our 
many 
neighbouring 
voluntary 
repatriation of many refugees, in addition to those who 
have  been  naturalized.  As  a  result,  the  population  of 
refugees in Tanzania declined from 1.2 million in 1994 
to  108,426  by  31  July  this  year.  This  has  enabled  the 
closure of 12 refugee camps. 
Tanzania  has  also  continued  its  tradition  since 

independence  of  granting  citizenship  to  refugees  who 
have been in our country for many years. In April this 
year, we naturalized 162,254 refugees who entered the 
country in 1972. The Government is now in the process 
of integrating these naturalized persons into Tanzanian 
society. 

This, however, is a costly exercise. It is estimated 
that the naturalization and local integration programme 
will cost over $146 million. This is a huge burden to a 
poor  country 
the 
international  community  to  support  this  integration 
programme 
equitable 
responsibility and burden-sharing. 

We  join  others  in  welcoming  the  adoption  of 
resolution  64/289  on  system-wide  coherence,  which, 
among  other  things,  established  UN  Women.  It  is  our 
hope that UN Women will receive the required support 
from the international community and the entire United 
Nations  system  to  deliver  on  its  mandate.  Tanzania 
congratulates  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet 
her 
appointment  to  head  UN  Women  and  assures  her  of 
Tanzania’s  unwavering  support  as  she  discharges  her 
duties. 
like  Tanzania.  We  call  upon 
principle 
under 
the 
of 
on 
A/65/PV.19
in 
and 
and 
Tanzania 
equitable 
emphasizes 
participation 

Tanzania’s  experience  as  a  pilot  country  in  the 
delivering  as  one  reform  initiative  has  convinced  us 
that  this,  indeed,  was  a  good  decision  and  has 
strengthened  national  ownership  and  leadership.  I  am 
pleased that Tanzania will, in January 2011, be the first 
country to present a common country programme. 

Tanzania  fully  supports  the  priorities  that  you, 
Sir,  have  set  for  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  Inclusive  and  democratic  governance  is  as 
important  at  the  national  level  as  it  is  at  the  global 
level. It has, sadly, taken too long to give this issue the 
priority  it  deserves  at  all  levels.  We  believe  that  the 
inclusive  global  governance  agenda  will  ensure 
accountability 
in 
international  trade  and  financial  institutions,  and  open 
doors for fair and equitable participation of developing 
countries 
the 
the  World  Trade  Organization, 
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. 

the 
reaffirms 
inclusiveness  of  the  General  Assembly  as  opposed  to 
the  Security  Council.  We  thus  call  upon  all  Member 
States  to  press  for  the  expeditious  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  Africa  has  the  largest  number  of 
Member  States.  It  cannot  continue  to  be  denied  fair 
representation  in  that  important  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. We  urge  all  Member  States  to  support Africa 
in  its  rightful  pursuit  of  permanent  representation  on 
the Security Council. 

In this regard, Tanzania reiterates the decision of 
the  African  Union,  as  contained  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus,  which  demands  not 
two 
permanent seats with all the prerogatives and privileges 
of permanent membership, including the right of veto, 
as well as five non-permanent seats. 
On  the  issues  of  the  Middle  East  and  Western 

Sahara, let me reiterate what His Excellency President 
Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete  said  during  the  sixth-fourth 
session  of 
in  2009  (see 
A/64/PV.6).  Tanzania  supports  a  two-State  solution 
whereby  Israel  and  Palestine  would  live  together  side 
by side and at peace with each other. Tanzania strongly 
maintains that this is the best way to sustainable peace 
in the Middle East. 

Regarding  Western  Sahara,  the  President  also 
called  upon  the  Security  Council  to  expedite  the 
process  of  giving  the  people  of  Western  Sahara  the 
opportunity  to  decide  their  future  status.  This  matter 
the  General  Assembly 
than 
less 
10-55122 

11 

A/65/PV.19 

has  dragged  on  since  1975 —  in  other  words,  for  too 
long. The time has come to end the impasse. 

Let  me  conclude  by  once  again  reaffirming 
Tanzania’s belief and confidence in the United Nations 
as  the  Organization  and  forum  for  global  governance 
and the pursuit of the letter and spirit of its Charter: a 
world  free  from  wars  and  dehumanizing  poverty;  a 
world  of  sustainable  economic  and  social  progress,  as 
well  as  freedom,  human  rights  and  justice  for  all. We 
reaffirm our commitment to doing our part in pursuit of 
that world. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Mizengo Pinda, Prime Minister of the United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Ali Osman Mohamed Taha, 
Vice-President of the Republic of the Sudan 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of the Sudan. 

Mr. Ali Osman Mohamed Taha, Vice-President of 
the  Republic  of  the  Sudan,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr. Ali  Osman 
Mohamed Taha, Vice-President of the Republic of the 
Sudan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 

Mr. Taha (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): It gives me 
great  pleasure  at 
to  extend  warm 
congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session. I am confident that your election was the right 
choice. 

I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  outstanding 
manner in which Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki conducted 
the meetings of the previous session. His statesmanship 
and experience reflected positively on the work of the 
session. 

We  would  also  like  to  extend  our  thanks  and 
appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and 
the  outset 
of 
the  Comprehensive 
the  Secretariat  for  their  ongoing  and  appreciated 
efforts. 

We  followed  with  keen  interest  and  actively 
participated  in  the  preparations  for  the  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  We  have  reviewed  our  achievements 
and  identified  obstacles  and  challenges  in  a  way  that 
will  enable  us  to  meet  our  obligations.  There  is  no 
doubt  that  the  success  attained  and  the  constructive 
recommendations  submitted  will  encourage  Member 
States to make further progress in this respect. 

We would like to underscore the great importance 
of development aid in achieving the MDGs and of the 
need  to  maintain  such  assistance  even  in  the  current 
situation of successive global crises and in the context 
of  the  increasing  burden  of  foreign  debt  on  the 
economies of the developing countries and their ability 
to achieve the MDGs. 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  give  the 

Assembly  a  brief  review  of 
the  recent  political 
developments  in  my  country,  especially  regarding  the 
implementation 
Peace 
Agreement (CPA)  signed  in  2005,  which  was  the 
subject of a high-level meeting on the Sudan held three 
days ago at the invitation of the Secretary-General and 
attended by a number of leaders and Heads of State. I 
note 
the  concluding  communiqué  citing  positive 
developments  in  the  implementation  of  the  CPA  and 
the  steps 
in  Darfur.  It  also 
commended  the  holding  of  public  elections  in  the 
Sudan  last  April  in  an  atmosphere  of  tranquillity  and 
peace.  International  observers  were  witness  to  the 
credibility and integrity of the voting process. 

Arrangements are now under way for the holding 
of  the  referendum  in  Southern  Sudan  on  schedule 
concerning  the  options  of  unity  or  separation.  For  our 
part, we are determined that our fellow citizens in the 
South  shall  have  their  say  without  coercion  and  in  an 
atmosphere of freedom, integrity and transparency. We 
also hope that unity will be the voluntary choice of the 
citizens  of  Southern  Sudan.  We  therefore  call  on  all 
people  to  support  and  consolidate  the  unity  of  the 
Sudan  and  to  participate  in  observing  the  referendum. 
We  also  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  decision  to 
ask  former  Tanzanian  President  Benjamin  Mkapa  to 
chair the United Nations panel mandated to observe the 
referendum. 
to  establish  peace 
12 

10-55122 
conducted 
These  positive 
We  also  recall  my  Government’s  efforts 



to 
consolidate  peace  in  Darfur,  which  has  undergone 
several  positive  changes  that  continue  to  promote  the 
normalization  of  the  situation.  Lasting  peace  would 
restore  to  Darfur  the  vitality  that  has  faltered  in  the 
past  years  due  to  conflicts  fuelled  by  the  proliferation 
of arms and by regional and international interventions. 
The  recent  positive  developments  have  enabled  the 
holding  of  elections  throughout  Darfur,  helped  to 
consolidate  democratic  legitimacy  and  led  to  the 
establishment of new elected institutions. 

transformations,  which  have 
created new conditions on the ground, have encouraged 
the Government to develop a  new strategy  for Darfur, 
concerning  which  we 
broad 
discussions with the people of Darfur at the individual, 
collective  and  institutional  levels,  and  with  all  the 
national  political  forces.  We  have  also  conducted 
consultations on Darfur with our partners in the peace 
process,  first  and  foremost  the  African  Union-United 
Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur  (UNAMID)  and 
the  African  Union  High-Level  Implementation  Panel 
ably and skilfully led by President Thabo Mbeke. 

Many of our partners in the peace process and the 
international  community  have  also  supported  and 
encouraged this strategy. The new strategy is based on 
five key components: the establishment of security; the 
consolidation  of  development;  the  resettlement  of 
internally displaced persons and people affected by the 
war  so 
the 
encouragement  of  internal  reconciliation  that  would 
promote  social  peace;  and  the  pursuit  of  negotiations 
with  a  view  to  drafting  a  settlement  document  agreed 
by  the  people  of  Darfur.  The  strategy  envisages  the 
completion  of  the  negotiations  currently  under  way  in 
Doha through the sincere efforts and under the auspices 
of the sister State of Qatar. 

strategy’s 
development  goals,  the  Government  has  appropriated 
from its own resources the sum of $1.9 billion over the 
next  four  years  to  cover  the  costs  of  development 
projects,  in  addition  to  what  it  hopes  to  raise  from 
partners and donors. 

The  strategy  is  designed  to  work  closely  with 
UNAMID,  the  Joint  African  Union-United  Nations 
Chief  Mediator  for  Darfur,  and  the  African  Union 
Executive  Council  in  order  to  facilitate  and  arrange 
consultations  with  the  people  of  Darfur  so  as  to 
life  of  dignity; 
With  a  view 
to  achieving 
they  can 
the 
have 
lead  a 
A/65/PV.19
removed 
from  Darfurian 
society.  Thus, 
in 
universalize  reconciliation  and  establish  justice  for  all 
through national mechanisms and in close consultation 
with all sectors of Darfurian society. 

It  is  worth  noting  that  the  strategy  adopts  a 
practical  approach  to  implementation  based  on  two 
pillars.  The  first  is  the  adoption  of  the  idea  of 
partnership.  In  that  context,  the  Government  has 
endeavoured  to  establish  partnerships  with  all  States 
and  organizations  that  wish  to  engage  with  it  on  the 
basis  of  the  strategy.  Foremost  among  those  partners 
are UNAMID, the United Nations and its agencies and 
organizations,  the  African  Union  Executive  Council, 
the African Union itself and its institutions, the League 
of  Arab  States  and  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference. 

The second pillar is the exertion of special efforts to 
involve the citizens of Darfur — particularly at the grass-
roots  level  and  including  elected  representatives,  civil 
society  organizations  and  the  internally  displaced  —  so 
that the centre of gravity of the peace process will not be 
the 
far 
prescriptions  for  peace  will  be  entrenched 
the 
conscience  of  the  people,  which  will  facilitate  their 
acceptance  of  them.  This  vision  of  peace  has  gathered 
powerful  momentum  from  the  positive  changes  in  our 
relationship with Chad, in addition to our vigorous efforts 
to  strengthen  our  regional  relations  in  the  interest  of 
promoting peace in the Sudan. 

With a view to bolstering stability in the various 
regions  of  the  Sudan  and  eliminating  the  causes  of 
potential  armed  conflicts, 
the 
in  October  2006 
Government  concluded, 
in 
the  Eritrean  capital, 
Asmara,  an  agreement  with  the  Eastern  Front.  The 
agreement  provided  for  security  arrangements  that  led 
to peace and security throughout the territory. In order 
to reinforce our efforts to implement the agreement, it 
was  agreed  to  convene  an  international  conference  on 
the  development  and  reconstruction  of  Eastern  Sudan 
on  1  December  2010,  which  the  State  of  Kuwait  has 
graciously  agreed 
the 
conference have been jointly undertaken by the United 
Nations  Development  Programme, 
Islamic 
Development  Bank  in  Jeddah,  the  Kuwaiti  Fund  for 
Arab  Economic  Development 
the  Arab 
Development  Bank, 
the  Sudanese 
in  addition 
Government.  The  conference  will  focus  on  three 
topics:  infrastructure,  services  and  investment.  From 
this  rostrum,  I  appeal  to  Member  States  to  participate 
to  host.  Preparations 
and 
to 
the 
for 
10-55122 

13 
and 
does 
not 
that 
admit 
A/65/PV.19 

actively  in  that  important  forum  in  order  to  establish 
stability in that part of the Sudan. 

We are committed to combating impunity, which 
is  part  and  parcel  of  the  principle  of  international 
justice 
politicization, 
discrimination  or  selectivity.  However,  selectivity  and 
politicization  are  prevalent  in  what  is  known  as  the 
International Criminal Court, which has become a tool 
to break the will of the people of the third world and to 
impose  hegemony  over  them.  We  have  all  witnessed 
the hasty steps taken to subject a State non-party to the 
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court to its 
powers  and  jurisdiction,  as  a  result  of  which  the 
established principles of international law fell victim to 
crude and unjust political intervention. 

Over  the  past  six  years,  the  Sudan  has  made 
progress  towards  negotiated  political  settlements  with 
armed  movements  in  the  South,  East  and  West.  The 
involvement of the International Criminal Court, in this 
context,  directly  jeopardizes  the  peaceful  settlement 
process 
the  country  seeks.  Therefore,  we 
completely reject this intervention, which has no place 
in  international  law,  logic  or  policy,  and  is  wholly 
unjustified. 

We  appreciate  and  commend  the  position  of  the 
African  Union  and  other  regional  organizations  to 
which  the  Sudan  belongs,  and  of  countries  committed 
to  the  rule  of  international  law  that  have  condemned 
the  Court. 
and  strongly  rejected 
Therefore,  we  call  on 
to 
reconsider  its  decision  and  to  withdraw  the  file 
completely  from  the  Court.  In  the  light  of  the  high-
level  meeting  attended  by  representatives  of  all 
members  of  the  Security  Council  and  many  other 
countries, and of the Secretary-General’s communiqué 
of  24  September  commending  the  efforts  of  the 
Sudanese Government to fight impunity (see SG/2165), 
the Council should refer the entire file to the Sudanese 
justice system so that it can deliver justice pursuant to 
the  established  rules  of  international  law  and  national 
legislation. 

After  the  signing  of  the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement, we hoped that the international community 
would  show  cooperation  commensurate  with 
the 
Sudan’s  many  accomplishments.  We  hoped  to  be 
included  in  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries 
(HIPC) Debt Initiative and to resume receiving much-
needed  development  aid,  like  other  States  emerging 
the  Security  Council 
the  claims  of 

from  conflict,  as  reflected  in  relevant  international 
recommendations  and  resolutions.  That  should  be  in 
addition to the special treatment that the Sudan should 
enjoy as a least developed country. 

Similarly,  we  believe  that  the  announcement  by 
creditors  of  their  intention  to  cancel  the  Sudan’s 
foreign  debts  would  dispel  concerns  about 
the 
referendum  on  Southern  Sudan  and  the  negotiations 
between the two parties regarding the post-referendum 
arrangements. We therefore call for cancellation of the 
Sudan’s  debts,  on  the  basis  of  the  same  standards 
applied to other least developed African countries. That 
would help fight trends that lead to confrontations and 
instability  and  the  deterioration  of  development  in 
developing countries. 

The  African  continent  has  continued  to  suffer 
from  the  repercussions  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis,  as  well  as  from  the  adverse  effects  of 
climate change, including their impact on the prices of 
food  and  energy.  That  has  widened  the  scope  of 
poverty  and  hunger  and  has  increased  social  tensions, 
migration,  displacement,  armed  conflict  and 
the 
inability  of  African  States,  especially  the  developing 
countries, to cope with the humanitarian consequences 
of natural disasters. 
In that regard, we would like to draw attention to 

the  need 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  to  questions 
pertaining  to  the  continent  on  the  United  Nations 
development  agenda;  to  build  the  capacity  of African 
and  African  Union  institutions  to  maintain  peace;  to 
take  affirmative  action  in  financing  the  continent’s 
plans  for  combating  poverty,  the AIDS  pandemic  and 
malaria;  and  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  and 
upgrade  the  capacities  of  African  States  in  order  to 
strengthen  their  efforts  in  realizing  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

The  question  of  Palestine  has  been  inscribed  on 
the United Nations agenda for many decades, while the 
Palestinian  people  have  continued  to  suffer.  They  are 
deported, displaced, killed, and driven away from their 
homeland, despite the fact that the United Nations has 
adopted numerous resolutions that Israel has refused to 
implement,  in  clear  defiance  of  the  will  of  the 
international  community.  We  call  upon  Israel 
to 
implement  all  international  resolutions  and  return  all 
occupied  Arab  lands  in  Palestine,  the  Golan  Heights 
and  Lebanon.  An  independent  Palestine  is  a  noble 
to  accord  priority, 
through 
14 

10-55122 
the 
issues  of 


demand  and  is  the  legitimate  right  of  the  people  of 
Palestine,  supported  by  the  calls  of  all  peace-loving 
peoples and countries. 

We call for a Middle East free of nuclear weapons 
and  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  We  underline  the 
right  of  States  to  acquire  nuclear  technology  for 
peaceful  uses  and  to  settle  disputes  through  dialogue 
and  negotiation.  We  also  stress  the  need  to  renounce 
harmful propaganda and the sowing of fear, panic and 
tension in the region. 
We  pinned  great  hopes  on  the  success  of  an 

international  consensus  on 
the 
environment  and  climate,  in  view  of  the  direct  and 
severe effect of climate change on the life of people in 
my  country  and  in  many  others,  as  confirmed  by 
studies prepared by experts in this Organization and its 
specialized agencies. That has prompted the Secretary-
General  to  draw  attention  to  the  close  link  between 
climate change and a number of armed conflicts on the 
African  continent  and  elsewhere,  in  particular  over 
Darfur. 

We  therefore  hoped  that  the  efforts  to  address 
climate  change  would  be  crowned  with  success  at  the 
Copenhagen  Conference  and 
the  developed 
countries would pledge, on the basis of their historical 
responsibilities,  to  adopt  strategies  and  programmes 
with  clearly  defined  goals  and  principles  aimed  at 
addressing  the  root  causes  of  climate  change.  We 
hoped  they  would  pledge  to  provide  the  necessary 
financial  resources  for  sharing  responsibility  for  the 
preservation  of  this  planet,  while  fully  respecting  the 
principles  agreed  on 
the  1992  Earth  Summit 
Declaration in Rio de Janeiro. 

Mr.  Samuel  Santos  López  (Nicaragua),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

I  am  pleased  to  recall  the  laudable  attention  my 
country  has  given  to  the  problem  of  mitigating  the 
effects 
numerous 
programmes,  plans  and  institutions,  as  well  as  by 
promoting  the  necessary  awareness  of  the  gravity  of 
the  problem  among  wide  sectors  of  the  population. 
However,  that  remains  a  moral  obligation  and  a 
humanitarian  mission  and  responsibility  that  demands 
joint international efforts. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
through 
climate 
change 
that 
of 
in 
A/65/PV.19
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Ali  Osman  Mohammad  Taha,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum. 



like 
I  would 
(Jamaica): 
Mr.  Golding
  Address by The Honourable Orette Bruce 
Golding, Prime Minister of Jamaica 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Jamaica. 

The  Honourable  Orette  Bruce  Golding,  Prime 
Minister of Jamaica, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great pleasure in welcoming to the United Nations His 
Excellency  The  Honourable  Orette  Bruce  Golding, 
Prime Minister of Jamaica, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly. 
to 

congratulate Mr. Deiss again on his assumption of the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-fifth 
session  and,  on  behalf  of  the  Jamaican  delegation,  to 
assure  him  of  our  full  cooperation  in  the  ambitious 
undertaking  on  which  he  has  embarked.  I  extend 
Jamaica’s  appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Treki,  for  so  ably  guiding  the 
proceedings  of 
the 
Assembly. 

We  come  to  the  Hall  of  this  great  institution  as 
partners.  It  is  the  only  organization  of  its  kind,  where 
countries of the world, no matter how rich or poor, big 
or small, powerful or weak, sit at the same table, joined 
together  by  the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of 
all its Members. 

As leaders, we are privileged to be the custodians 
of  the  world,  mandated  to  secure  for  its  people  a  just 
and  peaceful  existence  and  to  enable  them  to  achieve 
happiness  and  prosperity.  We  come  with  differing 
perspectives,  shaped  by  our  own  experiences  and  the 
long 
peculiar  challenges  we  face.  But  we  have 
recognized 
individual 
circumstances may appear, they are all affected by our 
interdependence. 

The  impact  of  climate  change  shows  that  we  all 
live under the same canopy. Diseases that can devastate 
whole populations know no boundaries and require no 
the  sixty-fourth  session  of 
that  however  unique  our 
10-55122 

15 

has 
rendered 
recognize 
technology 
development.  And  we 
A/65/PV.19 

entry permit. Natural disasters are indiscriminate in the 
selection  of  their  targets.  The  financial  crisis  on  Wall 
Street  did  not  disrupt  just  the  American  economy;  it 
ricocheted  across  the  world,  affecting  millions  of 
people  who  do  not  even  know  where  Wall  Street  is. 
Communications 
us 
neighbours in the same village, for no matter how vast 
the oceans that separate us or the continents over which 
we are scattered, we are affected or influenced for good 
or bad by each other. 

It  is  in  that  in  mutuality,  that  interconnectedness 
and  interdependency,  with  all  our  commonality  and 
diversity,  that  we  find  both  our  strengths  and  our 
weaknesses. We have seen those strengths at work and 
what  they  can  accomplish,  the  positive  difference  we 
can  make  when  we  surmount  our  differences  and  find 
common  purpose  in  preventing  wars  and  securing 
peace,  in  safeguarding  human  rights  and  promoting 
human 
our 
weaknesses,  our  failure  so  often  to  raise  our  lowest 
common  denominator  to  a  level  where  consensus  can 
more readily be found and action galvanized. 

We  cannot  afford  to  ignore  the  cynics  who  feel 
that we should have done more, for there is more that 
needs to be done. Some age-old problems still remain, 
and  new  challenges  have  emerged  that  threaten  to 
undermine  the  achievements  we  have  already  made. 
We refuse to accept that after 65 years of our existence, 
1.5 billion people — 1.5 billion — should have to live 
in poverty  and more than  1 billion suffer the pangs  of 
hunger. 

The  playing  field  of  the  world  is  still  not  level, 
because  the  equality  of  our  sovereignty  has  not  been 
matched  by  the  equality  of  opportunity.  Now  global 
warming,  terrorism  and  transnational  organized  crime 
pose new threats to the peace, security and progress of 
the world. 

The  heavy  agenda  set  for  the  sixty-fifth  session 
reflects  the  scope  and  complexity  of  the  issues  that 
confront us. Each of us approaches that agenda with a 
different set of priorities. Yet there are some issues that 
are  so  broad  in  their  implications  that  they  demand 
from  us  special  and  urgent  attention.  They  manifest 
themselves in the stark reality of our existence: 20 per 
cent of the world’s population enjoys 75 per cent of the 
world’s  income,  and  15  per  cent  of  the  world’s 
population lives on less than 1 per cent of the world’s 
the 
the  support  of 
income. We come here as equals, but when we go back 
home some are vastly more equal than others. 

It  is  easy  to  blame  that  on  the  injustices  of  the 
distant  past,  the  neo-colonialism  of  the  more  recent 
past or the Washington consensus of the present. That 
is only part of the story. 
Developing countries struggling with poverty and 

underdevelopment must accept our share of the blame. 
We  must  recognize  that  there  is  a  lot  that  we  can  and 
must  do  for  ourselves.  Each  of  us  must  adopt  and 
pursue with fixity of purpose the appropriate economic 
and social policies and good governance practices. We 
must be prepared to take the tough decisions that are so 
often  necessary  to  secure  the  advancement  of  our 
people,  and  we  must  never  squander  the  sacrifices  we 
call on them to make. President Obama was right when 
he  declared  at  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  last 
Wednesday  (see  A/65/PV.9)  that  each  of  us  must 
assume  leadership  of  our  own  transformation  even 
while  requiring 
international 
community. 

The  existing  international  financial  system  and 
multilateral trading arrangements will not enable us to 
redress those imbalances. They have not done so up to 
now,  and  they  are  unlikely  to  do  so  in  the  future. 
Market  forces  and  competitiveness  are  indispensable 
for  economic  development,  but  the  new  millennium 
cannot  be  defined  by  the  survival  of  the  fittest.  We 
must make it our business to assist the weak to become 
fit in order not just to survive but to prosper. 
For  almost  a  decade  we  have  been  trying  to 

conclude  the  Doha  Round  in  order  to  put  in  place  a 
regime that facilitates the expansion of trade, which is 
so vital to increasing global prosperity. Redressing the 
lopsidedness  in  international  trade  is  necessary  if  we 
are to restore and sustain global economic growth. It is 
just common sense that if one part of the world is not 
able to export more to the rest of the world, it will not 
be  able  to  import  more  from  that  other  part  of  the 
world. It may do so for a time by borrowing from that 
other part of the world in order to pay for its imports, 
but  that  is  a  bubble  that  will  eventually  burst.  Many 
countries  have  seen  that  bubble  burst  in  the  recent 
global crisis. 

We  insist  that  Doha  must  include  a  development 
dimension  to  build  competitiveness  and  capacity  in 
weak  exporting  countries,  as  well  as  special  and 
differential  treatment  calibrated  to  our  differing  levels 
16 

10-55122 
in 
In 
for 
the  need 
reform  of 
in  governance  of 
the  same  vein,  while  we  welcome 


of  development,  economic  size  and  vulnerabilities. 
That  offers  a  win-win  situation:  more  exports  from 
developing countries mean that there will be more jobs 
for  their  people  and  more  demand  for  imports  from 
other countries. 

We urge that every effort be made to conclude the 
Doha Round in that spirit, and we urge, further, that the 
gains already accrued to developing countries in earlier 
negotiations  not  be  unravelled.  The  global  financial 
crisis  exposed  weaknesses 
the 
international  financial  system,  weaknesses  that  have 
become  more  acute  with  changes 
the  global 
landscape  and  shifts  in  the  centre  of  gravity  of  the 
world’s economy. 

the 
We  endorse 
international financial institutions, in order to improve 
standards  of  efficiency  and  accountability,  and  the 
creation  of  a  more  democratic  structure,  one  that  will 
allow developing countries a greater voice. 

the 
establishment of the Group of 20 as the locus of global 
economic  policymaking,  we  urge  that  it  institute  a 
mechanism 
the  wider, 
developing  world.  It  is  also  important  to  establish  a 
close  working  relationship  with  the  United  Nations  to 
ensure  complementarity  with  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  economic  development  as  mandated  under 
its Charter. 

We urge also that the multilateral agencies move 
beyond what is now the paramount objective: to ensure 
that  the  international  payments  system  is  secure.  The 
financial assistance provided to many countries during 
this time of stress, necessary and welcome though it is, 
is rooted in policies that are contractionary, designed to 
consolidate and stabilize even at the cost of increasing 
poverty and social dislocation. 

We  have  hardly  learned  from  the  experiences  of 
the  past.  The  gains  made  towards  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  being  eroded  and 
our  ability  to  recover  from  the  global  shocks  is  being 
stymied.  Bold  new  thinking  is  required,  thinking  that 
places development as the primary focus of multilateral 
intervention. We know we must make sacrifices, but let 
those  sacrifices  be  an  investment  for  our  future,  not 
just a tourniquet for our immediate dilemma. 

We  too  are  disappointed  that  the  climate  change 
summit  in  Copenhagen  failed  to  reach  consensus  on 
the  views  of 
to  engage 
A/65/PV.19
in 
long-term 
its  partners 
to  global  warming, 
mitigation  and  adaptation  strategies.  While 
the 
Copenhagen Accord did not deliver the comprehensive 
agreement  we  had  hoped  for,  it  nonetheless  provided 
political  impetus  for  negotiations  towards  a  binding 
agreement for the second commitment period under the 
Kyoto  Protocol.  We  are  hopeful  that  the  Cancún 
meeting  in  November  and  December  will  further 
advance  the  process  that  will  eventually  lead  to  a 
legally  binding  and  comprehensive  agreement  under 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change and the Bali Road Map. 
With  member  countries  that  are  among  the  most 

the  Caribbean 
vulnerable 
Community  (CARICOM)  and 
the 
Alliance of Small Island States will continue to defend 
the 
stabilization  of  greenhouse  gas 
concentrations with a cap of 1.5°C above pre-industrial 
levels.  The  2°C  threshold  being  advanced  by  some 
would  be  catastrophic  for  countries  in  our  region  and 
low-lying small island States in general, and we appeal 
to  all  our  partners  to  coalesce  around  a  temperature 
threshold that would preserve the viability of the most 
vulnerable countries — as was underscored a few days 
ago  during  the  high-level  five-year  review  of  the 
Mauritius  Strategy.  The  commitment  by  developed 
countries  to  provide  $30  billion  in  new  funding  to 
assist  developing  countries  to  improve  mitigation  and 
adaptation strategies over the next two years offers an 
opportunity to prove the cynics wrong, to demonstrate 
that  when  we  speak,  we  say  what  we  mean  and  mean 
what we say. 
The catastrophic earthquake in Haiti in January of 

this  year  and  the  recent  disastrous  floods  in  Pakistan 
are  stark  reminders  of  the  increasing  vulnerability  of 
many  countries  and  regions  to  natural  disasters.  We 
were shocked by the immensity of the impact of those 
disasters and saddened by the loss of life, the suffering 
and  the  destruction  of  property  and  infrastructure. We 
express  our  solidarity  with  the  Governments  and 
people of both Haiti and Pakistan. 
The reconstruction of Haiti is CARICOM’s most 

urgent  priority.  We  commend 
international 
community for committing almost $10 billion from 57 
donor  countries  and  organizations.  However,  we 
impress  upon  them  the  urgency  with  which  actions 
must 
in 
strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of  Haiti  to 
undertake  the  mammoth  task  at  hand.  The  Haitian 
people have suffered too much for too long. We have a 
those  commitments,  especially 
follow 
the 
10-55122 

17 

those 
two  States,  which 
A/65/PV.19 

duty to help them to make a fresh start and to embark 
on  the  journey  of  lasting  progress  and  development. 
We underscore the important role of the United Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  in  helping  to  foster  the 
environment  necessary  to  ensure  a  sustainable  future 
for the Haitian people. 

The danger to international peace and security of 
nuclear proliferation and nuclear terrorism must remain 
at the top of  the international security  agenda. We  are 
encouraged  by  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the 
Non-Proliferation Treaty  in  June,  which  elaborated  on 
measures  toward  a  nuclear-weapon-free  world  and  the 
strengthening  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime. 
We  have  no  doubt  that  the  new  START  treaty,  signed 
between  Russia  and  the  United  States  of  America  in 
April  of  this  year,  was  a  contributing  factor.  We  look 
forward  to  the  ratification  and  entry  into  force  of  that 
treaty  between 
together 
possess  more  than  90  per  cent  of  the  world’s  nuclear 
arsenal.  Their  faithful  compliance  with  the  treaty  and 
their commitment to greater transparency in achieving 
further  reductions  will  secure  our  hope  for  eventual 
nuclear disarmament. 

We  are  also  encouraged  by  the  resumption  of 
talks  between  Israel  and  Palestine.  It  offers  renewed 
hope for a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the 
Middle East, one that guarantees the security of Israel 
and the unquestioned recognition of a Palestinian State. 
We  urge  both  sides  to  ensure  that  this  renewed  hope 
does not turn into despair. 

Latin America  and  the  Caribbean  are  faced  with 
the  twin  menace  of  the  illicit  trade  in  narcotic  drugs 
and  small  arms.  The  open  borders  in  the  Caribbean 
make  us  an  easy  conduit  for  trans-shipment  between 
the major sources and destinations of illicit drugs. The 
attendant  crime  and  violence  constitute  a  major  threat 
to national development because they create instability 
and compel us to divert scarce resources to tackle this 
scourge. 

Jamaica  has  adopted  a  multifaceted  approach  to 
tackle  crime  and  violence,  relying  not  only  on  law 
enforcement  but  on  strategic  social  intervention  and 
social 
to  create  new 
opportunities  and  inspire  hope,  especially  among  our 
young people, who are vulnerable to being recruited or 
conscripted into criminal enterprises. 
alone.  The 

cannot  do 
transnational nature of organized crime requires cross-
However,  we 
transformation 
initiatives 
it 
for 
the 
and 
retain 
the  need 
International 
institutions  cannot 
border  collaboration  at  the  bilateral,  regional  and 
international levels if we are to combat the illegal trade 
and to tackle with equal vigour the supply, transit and 
demand  sides  of  the  international  drug  trade.  The 
recent  high-level  meeting  on  transnational  organized 
crime  and  the  Fourth  Biennial  Meeting  of  States  on 
Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  were  instrumental  in 
reinforcing 
implementation  of 
measures  to  curtail  the  growing  threat.  Those  efforts 
would  be  strengthened  by  the  conclusion  of  a  legally 
binding  instrument  to  curtail  the  illicit  trade  in  small 
arms and light weapons and ammunition, and we urge 
the  United  Nations  to  approach  this  troubling  issue 
with the urgency that it deserves. 

their 
legitimacy  if  they  do  not  adapt  to  changing  times  and 
the  new  configuration  of  the  international  community. 
The United Nations Security Council cannot be exempt 
from  that  process.  Fundamental  reform  is  required  to 
address  the  existing  imbalances  in  the  current  power 
structure  of  the  Council  and  to  secure  expansion  in 
both  categories  of  membership  in  order  to  correctly 
reflect the contemporary global realities. 
In  advancing  the  discussions  on  system-wide 

coherence,  we  support 
the 
operations of the United Nations at the country level to 
ensure that the system can appropriately respond to the 
needs  of  recipient  countries  and 
the 
unnecessary  imposition  of  undue  conditionalities.  In 
this  context,  we  laud  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment  of  Women  (UN  Women),  and  we 
congratulate  former  President  of  Chile  Mrs.  Michelle 
Bachelet on her appointment as head of UN Women. I 
am  confident  that  under  her  leadership  significant 
progress  will  be  made  to  achieve  the  goals  of  gender 
equality  and  to  meet  the  special  needs  of  women  and 
girls worldwide. 

We must not allow ourselves to be imprisoned by 
our past but even as we look to the future we dare not 
ignore  the  experiences  that  have  shaped  our  present 
condition.  The  transatlantic  slave  trade  to  which 
millions  of  Africans  fell  victim  was  one  such  epoch. 
CARICOM  States  are 
that  our 
initiative  to  have  erected  a  permanent  memorial  to 
honour  the  victims  of  slavery  has  won  the  support  of 
the  United  Nations  community,  in  keeping  with  the 
mandate  of 
the  2001  World  Conference  against 
Racism.  We  commend  UNESCO  for  its  decision  to 
for  Gender  Equality 
therefore  pleased 
to  prevent 
the  need 
to 
improve 
18 

10-55122 


launch  an  international  competition  for  the  design  of 
this monument. 

Jamaica  reaffirms  its  confidence  in  the  United 
Nations  as  the  indispensable  forum  for  our  collective 
deliberations aimed at addressing the major challenges 
confronting  our  world.  We  must  take  pride  in  our 
achievements, but we must always be mindful that our 
mission  is  not  yet  accomplished.  We  must  never  tire, 
even  when  burdened  with  frustration.  Our  impatience 
must be turned into renewed energy. Into our hands has 
been  entrusted  the  responsibility  to  make  this  world  a 
better  place  for  all  of  mankind  to  live,  prosper  and 
enjoy happiness. That is what they expect of us. That is 
what  they  deserve,  and  that  is  what  we  must  do 
everything in our power to deliver. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of Jamaica for the statement he has just 
made. 

Mr.  Orette  Bruce  Golding,  Prime  Minister  of 
Jamaica, was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib bin Tun Haji 
Abdul Razak, Prime Minister of Malaysia 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Malaysia. 

Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib bin Tun Haji Abdul Razak, 
Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Dato’  Sri 
Mohd Najib bin Tun Haji Abdul Razak, Prime Minister 
of  Malaysia,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 

Mr. Razak (Malaysia): Allow me at the outset to 
congratulate Mr. Deiss on his election as the President 
of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  I  am 
confident 
that  under  his  very  able  and  astute 
leadership,  the  sixty-fifth  session  will  be  able  to 
complete  its  proceedings  successfully.  Let  me  assure 
him of Malaysia’s full support for his presidency. 

Let  me  reaffirm  Malaysia’s  unwavering  and 
continuing  support  for  the  United  Nations  and  the 
multilateral principles, based on international law, that 
it  embodies.  Let  me  also 
reiterate  Malaysia’s 
Among 
important 
the  most 
commitment  to  doing  our  part  in  our  collective 
endeavour.  We  do  so  in  the  strong  belief  that  all 
nations,  no  matter  how  large  or  small,  rich  or  poor, 
strong or weak, have a common responsibility towards 
creating a better world for tomorrow. 

It is my firm belief that in order to create a better 
world for our future generations, we need to take into 
account today’s realities and learn from the lessons of 
yesterday. 

challenges 
confronting  the  international  community  today  that 
need to be addressed collectively is that of ensuring  a 
just,  equitable  and  durable  peace  —  peace  not  just 
during our time, but peace for all times. It is imperative 
that  we  achieve  peace  based  on  a  covenant  of  the 
willing,  and  not  one  enforced  by  way  of  hegemony 
through fear and coercion. Such peace can be achieved 
only  if  we  are  willing  to  constructively  engage  with 
each  other  through  dialogue.  Such  discussions  would 
help  in  creating  a  deeper  understanding  as  well  as 
appreciation  of  and  respect  for  each  other  in  our 
determination to create a better future for all citizens of 
the world. 

the  World  Trade 
As  a 
Organization  remains  relevant  in  today’s  economic 
climate.  Malaysia  believes  that  the  Doha  Round  must 
return to its original objective of ensuring free, fair and 
equitable trade. Let us join efforts and focus on moving 
the  process  forward  and  building  on  the  progress  and 
achievements to date. It is urgent that we conclude this 
matter as soon as possible. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  a  decade  ago,  which  galvanized 
the  world  into  collective  action,  there  has  been  a  lack 
of  efforts  on  joint  endeavours  towards  the  betterment 
of  humanity.  The  missed  opportunity  at  last  year’s 
climate  change  meeting  in  Copenhagen  is  a  wake-up 
call  for  all  of  us.  We  need  to  bridge  the  gaps  in 
resolving  and  addressing  the  issue  of  climate  change, 
which  affects  the  lives  and  livelihoods  of  the  peoples 
of the world and our future generations. 

On  7  June  2010,  the  Malaysian  Parliament 
unanimously passed a resolution condemning the brutal 
Israeli  attack  on 
in 
international  waters.  That  resolution  was  based  on 
humanitarian  grounds 
the 
Palestinians  be  given  their  basic  rights,  and  that  was 
why the members of the Parliament, regardless of their 
the  humanitarian  convoy 
trade  organization, 
and  demanded 
Since 
the 
adoption 
of 
A/65/PV.19
that 
10-55122 

19 
the 
to 
justice 
and 
levels  of 
attacks  brought 
international  fact-finding  mission  of 
A/65/PV.19 

political alignment, stood together in full support of it. 
We reaffirm today our solidarity and sympathy with the 
people  of  Turkey  and  the  families  of  the  victims  for 
their tragic loss. 

Malaysia  understood  the  necessity  of  letting  the 
multilateral  system  work.  We  were  happy  to  see  the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations  panel  of  inquiry 
and 
the 
Human  Rights  Council.  We  are  pleased  with  the 
findings  of  the  fact-finding  mission,  whose  report 
(A/HRC/15/21)  has  found  that  the  conduct  of  the 
Israeli military and other personnel towards the flotilla 
passengers  was  not  only  disproportionate  but  also 
demonstrated 
totally  unnecessary  and 
incredible violence. That inhuman attack constituted  a 
grave  violation  of  human  rights  law  and  international 
humanitarian  law.  The  Malaysian  Parliament  feels 
vindicated by those findings. 

We  are  now  waiting  for  the  panel  of  inquiry  to 
complete  its  work. We  want  to  see  the  perpetrators  of 
the 
adequate 
compensation  provided  to  the  innocent  victims  of  the 
attacks. We  want  the  United  Nations  to  act  justly  and 
decisively,  without  fear  or  favour,  in  a  manner  that 
would 
blatant 
international  laws  are  dealt  with  and  that  justice  is 
done and seen to be done. 

On  the  Middle  East  peace  process,  Malaysia  is 
encouraged by the recent developments, especially the 
active  role  by  the  Obama  Administration  and  the 
Quartet 
lasting 
solution,  a  solution  not  only  to  the  problem  between 
Palestine  and  Israel,  but  also  in  the  wider  region.  We 
welcome  the  recent  initiative  by  the  United  States  to 
host  direct  peace  talks  between  Palestine  and  Israel. 
We  also  call  on  all  parties  to  support,  and  not  to  be 
distracted  from,  these  efforts  to  achieve  the  aspiration 
of creating two sovereign States, living side by side in 
peace,  within  secure  and  recognized  borders.  For  this 
to  happen,  the  following  prerequisites  should  be 
addressed. 

First,  Israel  must  heed  the  high  expectations  of 
the  international  community  to  end  this  long-standing 
conflict.  We  call  on  the  United  States  and  other 
members  of  the  Quartet  to  persuade  Israel  to  end  the 
construction  of  new  settlements  in  the West  Bank  and 
Jerusalem. 
in  seeking  a  comprehensive  and 
transgressions 
ensure 
that 
of 

to  working 
While  harnessing  our  efforts 
Secondly,  reconciliation  efforts  must  bear  fruit. 

The  achievement  of  political  unity  among 
the 
Palestinians  is  vital  in  moving  the  peace  process 
forward and in the reconstruction of the Gaza Strip. 

Thirdly,  both  parties  must  eschew  violence  and 
ensure  the  protection  of  civilians  and  respect  for 
international humanitarian and human rights law. 

to  promote 
international  peace  and  harmony,  we  are  concerned 
about the growing trend in some parts of the world to 
perpetuate  or  even  fuel  Islamophobia.  Attempts  to 
demonize  Islam  offend  the  one  and  a  half  billion 
adherents of the religion. It widens the divide between 
the Muslim world and the West. 
The  real  issue  is  not  between  Muslims  and 

non-Muslims,  but  between  the  moderates  and  the 
extremists  of  all  religions,  be  it  Islam,  Christianity  or 
Judaism.  In  all  religions,  we  have 
inadvertently 
allowed the ugly voices of the periphery to drown out 
the  many  voices  of  reason  and  common  sense.  I 
therefore  urge  us  to  embark  on  building  a  global 
movement  of  moderates  from  all  faiths,  moderates 
committed 
to  combat  and 
marginalize  the  extremists  who  have  held  the  world 
hostage  with  their  bigotry  and  bias.  We  must  —  I 
repeat,  must  —  urgently  reclaim  the  centre  and  the 
moral high ground that has been usurped from us. We 
must  choose  moderation  over  extremism.  We  must 
choose negotiation over confrontation. We must choose 
to  work  together  and  not  against  each  other,  and  we 
must give this effort top priority, for time is not on our 
side. 

In  this  regard,  we  are  heartened  to  note  that  a 
group  of  American  evangelical  Christians  worked 
tirelessly  to  prevent  the  threatened  burning  of  the 
Koran,  with  the  compelling  argument  that  it  is  in  fact 
un-Christian to burn the Koran. This is a clear example 
of what can be achieved when moderates in each faith 
stand up to the extremists who are trying to hijack the 
universal values of our religions. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


We  commend  President  Obama  and  Mayor 
Bloomberg for rising to the challenge by affirming the 
rights of supporters of the Cordoba House to be located 
near  the  site  of  the  World  Trade  Center.  This  project 
will  include  a  mosque  and  a  multi-faith  community 
centre  open  to  all.  We  support  the  objectives  of  the 
together 
20 

10-55122 
and 
synergy  between 


Cordoba  Initiative,  an  organization  that  focuses  on 
promoting  peace,  understanding  and  moderation,  both 
between  Muslims  and  non-Muslims  and  within  the 
Muslim community. 

All  countries  should  encourage  and  support 
initiatives  that  promote  mutual  respect  and  peaceful 
coexistence and reject the extremists who divide us all 
with  issues  that  have  in  the  past  brought  about  untold 
misery and hatred. 
Allow me to  share my own country’s  experience 

is  a 
issues  of  diversity.  Malaysia 
in  managing 
multiracial,  multi-religious,  multicultural 
and 
democratic  society  that  has  benefited  from  positive 
interaction 
the  various 
communities.  Mosques,  temples,  churches  and  other 
places of worship coexist in harmony. Although Islam 
is  the  official  religion,  we  honour  other  religions  — 
Buddhism,  Christianity  and  Hinduism  —  by  making 
their 
religious  and  cultural  celebrations  national 
holidays  and  celebrating  them  as  national  events.  It  is 
this  equilibrium  that  leads  to  moderation  or  what  is 
called  wasatiyyah  in  the  Islamic  tradition  of  mutual 
justice. 

Malaysia stands at the geographical crossroads of 
the  major  civilizations  and  religions  of  the  world. We 
are therefore well poised to play our part in promoting 
religious  understanding,  harmony  and  tolerance.  To 
further strengthen our process of national unity, I have 
introduced a philosophy known as One Malaysia. One 
Malaysia 
renewal  and 
rejuvenation  to  bring  all  our  people  together  in  a  just 
and  harmonious  relationship.  One  Malaysia  calls  for 
the acceptance of diversity as a source of greater unity. 
We 
and 
multi-religious  society  for  strategic  strength  and 
harmony. 

It is time for the moderates in all countries and in 
all  religions  to  take  back  the  centre,  to  reclaim  the 
agenda  for  peace  and  pragmatism  and  to  marginalize 
the extremists. This global movement of the moderates 
will save us from sinking into the abyss of despair and 
depravation.  This  is  an  opportunity  for  us  to  provide 
much-needed  leadership,  to  bring  hope  and  to  restore 
dignity  for  all.  With  greater  will  and  collective 
determination,  we  will  build  a  more  peaceful,  secure 
and equitable world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
our  multiethnic 
is  a  vision 
that  seeks 
seek 
to 
celebrate 
A/65/PV.19
Minister  of  Malaysia  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib bin Tun Haji Abdul Razak, 
Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Josaia V. Bainimarama, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of the Fiji Islands 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of the Fiji Islands. 

Mr. Josaia V. Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the 
Republic  of  the  Fiji  Islands,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  V. 
Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Fiji  Islands,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Bainimarama  (Fiji):  I  extend  to  you,  Sir, 

and  to  this  august Assembly  warm  greetings  from  the 
Government  and  people  of  Fiji.  May  I  take  this 
opportunity to congratulate you on your election to the 
presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly’s  sixty-fifth 
session  and  to  pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor,  His 
Excellency Mr. Treki. 

As  I  highlighted  last  year  in  my  address  (see 
A/64/PV.10), Fiji and her people, through the Strategic 
Framework  for  Change,  have  embarked  on  a  path  of 
structural  reform  to  modernize  and  liberalize  our 
economy  in  line  with  today’s  global  environment. As 
part of this agenda, the Fiji Government has revamped 
its  foreign  policy.  Our  new  foreign  policy  direction 
stems  from  the  philosophical  basis  that,  while  we 
determine  our  own  destinies  as  sovereign  States,  we 
must  at  the  same  time  work  in  collaboration  with  all 
Member  States 
towards  sustainable  world  peace, 
substantive justice, dignity and respect for all. 

However,  we  cannot  achieve  these  objectives  or 
actually implement these noble principles if we simply 
rely  on  predetermined  political 
influences  or 
predetermined  alignments.  We  must  be  prepared  to 
expand the range of our international relationships and 
not  simply  subscribe  to  bloc  voting.  We  must  assess 
and  decide  each  issue  on  its  merits.  We  must  decide 
each  matter  based  on  equality,  substantive  justice  and 
international  law.  We  must  keep  an  open  mind.  This 
10-55122 

21 

and  maturity 
of  United  Nations 
sought  membership  of 
is  no  better  example  of 
A/65/PV.19 

approach will result in the manifestation of a fairer and 
more just system for all Fiji’s citizens. 

This  significant  shift  in  foreign  policy  direction 
heralds  Fiji’s  globalization 
and 
demonstrates  Fiji’s  intention  to  become  a  good  and 
engaged global citizen. Accordingly, over the past year 
Fiji  has  formalized  diplomatic  relations  with  many 
countries  with  which  no  ties  previously  existed.  In 
addition,  Fiji  has 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  The  broadening  of  our 
engagement  with  the  rest  of  the  world  was  given 
further  impetus  in  Abu  Dhabi  in  June,  when,  at  the 
Arab  League’s  invitation,  a  summit  was  held  between 
the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States  and  the 
member countries of the League which  was hosted by 
the United Arab Emirates. 

This  commitment  to  be  a  good  global  citizen  is 
further  expressed  through  Fiji’s  ongoing  engagement 
with the United Nations and its associated agencies and 
secretariats.  There 
this 
engagement  than  Fiji’s  long-term  contribution  to  the 
cause 
and 
peacebuilding. Fijian servicemen and women currently 
serve  in  peacekeeping  missions  in  Iraq,  southern 
Sudan,  Liberia,  Darfur  and  Timor-Leste.  I  offer  my 
country’s tribute to the selfless service given by United 
Nations  peacekeepers  and  peacebuilders,  past  and 
present,  in  the  troubled  regions  of  our  world.  We  pay 
special  tribute  to  those  who  have  made  the  ultimate 
sacrifice to the cause of peacekeeping. 

On the subject of peace and security, Fiji is proud 
to  have  been  among  the  Member  States  that  in  2006 
voted in favour of preparations for a robust and legally 
binding  arms 
in  2012.  We  remain 
committed  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  to  curb 
the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  Fiji 
has  ratified  the  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions  and 
regards this instrument as a welcome development for 
humanitarianism and international disarmament. It also 
remains fully committed to international efforts against 
terrorism. 

With  respect  to  resolving  the  world’s  territorial 
and  sovereignty  disputes,  Fiji  stands  firm  with  all 
international  efforts  aimed  at  peaceful  resolution 
through a process of genuine dialogue. It welcomes the 
recent  resumption  of  direct  negotiations  between  the 
leaders  of  Israel  and  Palestine  and  hopes  for  a 
successful outcome. 
peacekeeping 
trade 
treaty 

Fiji  is  an  active  member  of  the  Special  Political 
and  Decolonization  Committee  (Fourth  Committee). 
Following  our  participation  in  the  ministerial  mission 
of the Melanesian Spearhead Group to New Caledonia 
this year, Fiji sponsored the Fourth Committee’s 2010 
resolution  on  New  Caledonia.  We  urge  all  concerned 
parties  to  accelerate  the  progress  of  the  provisions  of 
the Nouméa Accord. 

Over  the  past  year,  the  Fiji  Government  has 
implemented  a  number  of  legal  changes  that  have  not 
only  modernized  our  laws  and  brought  about  gender 
and  social  parity,  but  have  also  ensured  compliance 
with  international  conventions. These  changes  include 
the Crimes Decree, which eliminated the archaic rules 
in respect of rape trials. We have implemented for the 
first  time  a  comprehensive  law  against  domestic 
violence to comply with our international obligation to 
protect  the  welfare  of  women  and  children.  We  now 
have child welfare laws which require the reporting of 
violence  against  children  or  suspicion  of  abuse  of 
minors.  These  and  other  new  laws  assist  in  our 
compliance  with  the  Rome  Statute  by  recognizing 
crimes  against  humanity  and  incorporating  them  into 
our domestic laws. Fiji was also present in June at the 
Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  held  in 
Uganda and is of course supportive of the work of the 
International Criminal Court. Reforms in our laws and 
outlook have helped us comply with the Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against 
Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. 
They  also  support  our  efforts 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

I would like to reaffirm the critical points made at 
last week’s MDG Summit and at the high-level review 
of 
the  Further 
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States.  I  make  these  points  as  one  of  the  United 
Nations  Members  classified  as  a  small 
island 
developing  State.  In  spite  of 
their  considerable 
domestic  efforts  in  cooperation  with  the  international 
community,  the  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS) 
have  had  very  mixed 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Going  forward,  we 
and  our  development  partners  must  examine  where 
gains  have  been  made  and  where  efforts  have  been 
unsuccessful and identify country-specific priorities in 
order to achieve the MDGs. 
the  Mauritius  Strategy 
in  achieving 
to  achieve 
results 
for 
22 

10-55122 
accessibility 
international  family 



The  threat  of  climate  change,  particularly  sea-
level rise, continues to hang over us all. While some of 
us  are  more  vulnerable  than  others,  we  must  work  in 
concert  as  a  responsible 
to 
mitigate the adverse effects of this global phenomenon. 
In this context, I reiterate the common call of the small 
island  developing  States:  that  the  promised  fast-track 
funding  from  the  international  community  to  finance 
climate  change  adaptation  and  mitigation  measures  be 
delivered without delay. 

Through  the  Pacific  small  island  developing 
States,  Fiji  pledges  to  assist  in  securing  increased 
representation  of  the  Pacific  island  countries  in  the 
United  Nations  system.  The  aim  is  to  also  increase 
employment  of  Pacific  Island  nationals  within  the 
United Nations Secretariat and its affiliated bodies. 

Here, I should add that Fiji is playing a prominent 
role  in  the  International  Telecommunication  Union 
(ITU).  I  note  that  only  a  few  days  ago  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  accepted  a  report  on 
digitalization,  including  accessibility  to  broadband.  In 
this  area  Fiji  has  also  embarked  on  its  own  initiative 
for 
in, 
telecommunications  and  information  technology.  This 
includes  the  process  of  finalizing  a  national  policy  on 
broadband  and  spectrum  management.  We  therefore 
appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  in  this 
respect  and  urge  him  to  carefully  consider  the  report 
and  provide  impetus  at  the  global  level  through  the 
United Nations. Improved technology and e-access will 
provide  that  trajectory  in  meeting  the  MDGs  and 
improving the lives of all our peoples. 

As one of the founding signatories of the United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  Fiji  has 
kept  its  oceanic  obligations  at  the  core  of  its  foreign 
policy.  Fiji  therefore  follows,  and  also  expects  fellow 
Member  States  to  adhere  to,  the  legal  regime  of  the 
exclusive  economic  zone  that  encompasses  sovereign 
rights. 
Since it is the Year of Biodiversity, we call on the 

International  Seabed  Authority 
in 
safeguarding the environmental integrity of the world’s 
seabed. Within this context, one of the great challenges 
for  Pacific  small  island  developing  States  is  to  be 
effective in conserving the Pacific Ocean’s fish stocks. 
They  are  critical  to  our  livelihoods,  our  economies. 
Countries  that  overexploit  these  fish  stocks  must  be 
informed that the practice is unsustainable. As owners, 
to  be  vigilant 
improvement 
to 
and 
A/65/PV.19
investors and harvesters, we should follow and adhere 
to  international  law  and  chart  a  path  to  sustain  stocks 
for the benefit of all. 
What  I  say  today  is  that  we  must  recognize  that 

meaningful  dialogue 
is  essential  —  within  our 
respective countries, within our respective regions and 
in the world as a whole. Seeking to achieve resolutions 
and  solutions  through  dialogue  is  the  way  forward.  In 
the true spirit of international cooperation, we must at 
all  times,  as  sovereign  States  in  our  community  of 
nations,  develop  and  maintain  relationships  based  on 
respect,  dignity  and  equality.  We  must  also  decide  on 
issues  and  matters  before  this  august Assembly  based 
on merit, justice and international law. 

Once again, I congratulate you, Mr. President, on 
your election and offer my best wishes for a productive 
sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  the  Fiji  Islands  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Josaia V. Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the 
Republic  of  the  Fiji  Islands,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum. 



  Address by His Excellency Mr. Pakalitha 
Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister and Minister 
for Defense and Public Service of the Kingdom 
of Lesotho 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for Defense  and  Public  Service of 
the 
Kingdom of Lesotho. 

Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Defense  and  Public  Service of 
the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  to  the  United  Nations  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for Defense  and  Public  Service
of the Kingdom of Lesotho, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly. 

to 
congratulate you on your well-deserved election to the 
office  of  President  at  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
Mr.  Mosisili  (Lesotho):  Allow  me,  Sir, 
10-55122 

23 
these 
ideals  has 
for 
international 
A/65/PV.19 

leader  and 
General  Assembly.  Your  career  as  a 
diplomat  speaks  for 
itself.  I  assure  you  of  my 
delegation’s  support  during  your  tenure  of  office.  I 
should also commend your predecessor, His Excellency 
Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, for a job well done. 

The  choice  of  theme  for  this  session  of  the 
General Assembly, namely, reaffirming the central role 
of the United Nations in global governance, is not only 
apt  but  inspired.  The  founding  of  the  United  Nations 
was  propelled  by  the  determination  to  save  future 
generations from the scourge of war. It  was driven by 
the  desire  to  reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental  human 
rights, the rule of law and, not least, to promote social 
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. 

For  the  past  65  years,  this  Assembly  of  nations 
has  been  convening  here  every  year  in  pursuit  of  the 
lofty ideals of the United Nations. Yet for 65 years, the 
achievement  of 
eluded  us. 
Unilateralism  and  war  remain  the  order  of  the  day. 
Disrespect 
law,  vast  economic 
inequities, injustice and suppression of basic freedoms 
are  the  challenges  we  face  today,  just  as  we  did  65 
years  ago.  In  addition,  we  have  climate  change, 
financial  and  economic  crises,  terrorism  and  religious 
intolerance to contend with. Needless to mention, such 
challenges  have  heightened  threats  to  world  stability 
and international peace and security. 

this 
millennium  be  a  lesson  for  all  of  us  to  learn  and 
treasure.  We  have  learned  a  lesson  in  the  futility  of 
unilateralism,  intolerance  and  war;  that  selfishness  in 
world relations is suicidal. We have learned a lesson in 
the  value  of  collective  decision-making  and  inclusive 
development,  if  our  planet  and  its  inhabitants  are  to 
survive. These lessons say to us that mankind must turn 
away  from  the  path  of  self-destruction.  The  route  to 
peace and stability is clear to all of us, yet we continue 
to  lose  ourselves  in  the  wilderness  of  instability  and 
poverty, because we are blinded by ulterior motives. 
If  we  value  the  lessons  of  the  past  decade,  we 

must  accept 
is  brutal,  destructive  and 
unacceptable.  The  founding  fathers  of  the  United 
Nations were right when they affirmed the centrality of 
the  United  Nations  in  global  decision-making  and 
governance.  We  must  admit  that  great  injustices  are 
being  committed  during  our  times  and  that  human 
rights are being trampled upon as we stand by silently. 
the  first  decade  of 
the  events  of 
that  war 
Let 

to 
interests  must  not  be  allowed 

In  this  regard,  for  decades  now,  the  people  of 
Western Sahara, Cuba and Palestine have been calling 
on this august body for help in reversing the injustices, 
humiliation and atrocities that are visited upon them by 
colonialism,  unilateral  economic  blockades  and  brutal 
occupation.  Even  today,  the  people  of  these  territories 
are still calling. They are calling to you. Will you listen 
and respond, or will you look or walk away? Surely we 
cannot  condone  injustice  and  yet  hope  for  peace. 
Sustainable peace can only be based on justice and the 
protection of basic freedoms for all. 

By the same token, Zimbabwe must be freed from 
unilateral sanctions, as her people work together under 
the  unity  Government  to  determine  their  own  future 
under  the  leadership  of  their  own  choice.  In  addition, 
external 
take 
precedence over the desire of the people of Madagascar 
for democracy and stability in their country. 

Somalia  is  a  festering  wound  on  the  African 
continent.  Let  us  rise  to  the  appeal  that  was  made  by 
the  President  of  the  Transitional  Federal  Government 
of Somalia to the Assembly a few days ago. He urged 
us  to  assist  the  people  of  Somalia  to  join  the 
international  movement  for  the  achievement  of  peace, 
the rule of law and the Millennium Development Goals 
(see A/65/PV.16). 

Planet  Earth  is  the  only  world  in  which  we  can 
live in shared prosperity and peace. In the wake of the 
devastating effects of climate change, we all converged 
in  Copenhagen  with  optimism,  but  left  with  mixed 
feelings  following  lack  of  international  consensus  and 
the  necessary  political  will.  In  the  meantime,  climate 
change continues to wreak havoc, particularly in those 
vulnerable  developing  countries  that  do  not  have  the 
means  to  adapt  to  or  mitigate  the  impacts  of  global 
warming.  Lesotho  signed  the  Copenhagen  Accord 
because we believed that it represented a step forward, 
even though it did not fully satisfy our aspirations. It is 
our hope that, the forthcoming Conference in Cancún, 
Mexico,  will  achieve  international  consensus,  leading 
to  a  legally  binding  regime  on  the  management  of 
climate change. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  confirmed  to  us  that 
the  recent  economic  and  financial  downturn  has 
disrupted  our  strategies  for  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015.  Despite  this  fact,  we 
appeal  to  our  development  partners  to  fulfil  their 
just-ended  High-level  Meeting  on 
The 
24 

10-55122 
their 
building 
conditions 
related 
that 
operations, 
Religious 
intolerance 
is  closely 
tolerated,  as 


official  development  assistance  commitments  to  help 
accelerate  our  progress  in  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

The world is still grappling with terrorism. For as 
long  as  this  menace  exists,  there  will  not  be  peace  on 
Earth.  Terrorism  knows  no  boundaries  and  does  not 
respect  human  life.  There  is  neither  a  country  nor  an 
individual  who  can  claim  immunity  from  terrorism. 
Terrorist  groups  are  benefiting  from  globalization  by 
decentralizing 
new 
partnerships  with  armed  groups,  and  using  advanced 
technology to further their cause. This menace will not 
be eradicated until we address the root causes, not the 
symptoms, of terrorism. 

to 
terrorism.  We  must  acknowledge 
religious 
tolerance  is  a  prerequisite  to  international  peace  and 
stability, and that the world’s diversity of cultures and 
religions  must  be  respected  and 
it 
represents  the  strength  and  collective  heritage  of 
humankind.  Cultivation  of  the  culture  of  religious 
tolerance must be inscribed high on the  agenda of the 
international community. 

for 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  is  our 
commitment  to  the  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
agenda. More than six decades after the founding of the 
United  Nations,  disarmament  sadly  remains  a  major 
challenge  for  the  international  community.  Today  we 
see a steadily growing list of de facto nuclear-weapon 
States.  Proliferation  of 
the  weapons  of  mass 
destruction must stop. So must the development of new 
generations  of  nuclear  weapons  by  nuclear-capable 
States.  We  must  strive  for  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  those  States  to  stop 
threatening the use of nuclear weapons as an option in 
the  pursuit  of  their  foreign  policy  interests.  Lesotho 
will  continue  to  join  hands  with  all  peace-loving 
nations 
international  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation regimes. 

While the international community has registered 
some successes in consolidating peace in some parts of 
the  world,  a  significantly  large  number  of  conflicts 
remain  unresolved.  Some  of  these  conflicts  are  in 
Africa.  As  African  leaders,  we  purposefully  declared 
2010  as  the Year  of  Peace  and  Security  in Africa. We 
resolved to find African solutions to African problems. 
However,  we  have  acknowledged  our  shortcomings  in 
fundamental 
to  support 
One 
of 
the 
A/65/PV.19
terms  of  capacity  in  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding. 
Consequently, we look to the international community 
to complement our efforts and resources in this regard. 
Conflict-affected  countries  must  also  have 
the 
necessary  political  will  to  accommodate  and  facilitate 
legitimate  external  intervention  that  is  intended  to 
resolve  conflict.  At  the  same  time,  they  must  not 
abandon  their  primary  responsibility  as  Governments 
to protect all their citizens. 

In  conclusion,  it  is  my  considered  view  that  all 
these challenges can be overcome, if we accept that the 
United  Nations  is  a  place  where  a  better  and  more 
secure life for humankind must be championed. But its 
structures  should  be  reformed  to  efficiently  fulfil  this 
noble mandate. Multilateral diplomacy should supplant 
the  traditional  unilateral  path  in  the  resolution  of 
disputes. The United Nations must not be held hostage 
to the desires of any single country or group of States. 
Its  actions  should  reflect  as  wide  a  consensus  of 
Member States as possible. 

Let us continue to reaffirm the central role of the 
United Nations in global governance. Let us remember 
that  might  can  never  be  right  and  can  never  defeat 
collective  resolve.  It  is  only  then  that  collectively  we 
shall be able to promote progress and better standards 
of life in larger freedom. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Defense  and  Public  Service 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 


  Address by Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Minister for Finance of the Independent 
State of Samoa 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  and  Minister  for  Finance 
of the Independent State of Samoa. 

10-55122 

25 

A/65/PV.19 


Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime Minister, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Minister  for 
Finance  of  the  Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tuilaepa 
Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Minister  for  Finance  of  the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Malielegaoi  (Samoa):  Our  world  continues 

to  change  in  profound  ways.  Technological  advances 
have  accelerated  globalization,  bringing  diverse 
challenges and new agendas. The magnitude of today’s 
threats  requires  holistic  solutions  with  a  multilateral 
approach. No one country, however powerful, can meet 
them  on  its  own.  Nations  of  the  world  need  to  work 
together to forge a coordinated approach. It is a shared 
responsibility,  and 
the  problems  will  be  solved 
successfully only through effective collaboration. 

To  meet  the  challenges,  a  vibrant  institution  that 
is up to the task and responds to the imperatives of our 
time  is  required.  Sixty-five  years  ago,  the  world 
created  the  United  Nations  as  the  legitimate  authority 
for  our  collective  peace  and  security.  International 
cooperation  and  solidarity  formed  the  bedrock  of  its 
existence. To this day, the United Nations provides the 
only  viable  framework  and  legitimate  authority  for 
acting globally to address issues that transcend national 
borders. 
As  a  world  institution,  the  United  Nations  needs 

to  pay  attention  to  its  ability  to  offer  itself  as  a  safe 
place,  not  just  for  its  traditional  stakeholders  —  the 
Member  States —  but  also 
international 
the  business  community  and  civil 
organizations, 
society.  Partnerships  with  those  sectors  of  society  are 
an important vehicle through which the United Nations 
helps the development of individual countries, and they 
allow  our  Organization  to  achieve,  in  large  measure, 
the key objectives of its mission. 

Our  Organization  is  not  without  shortcomings, 
and  that  is  why  we  must  constantly  redefine  its  role 
and adapt it to respond to the needs of the world that it 
exists  to  serve.  That  is  why,  with  regard  to  Security 
Council reform, Samoa has not wavered over the years 
from its principled support for an expanded Council in 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  memberships. 
The  economic  and  political  liberalization  has  changed 
for 
giving 
voice 
process, 
the  contemporary  geopolitical  realities  and  landscape, 
and  the  therefore  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council 
in  both  categories  is  essential  for  true  multilateralism 
and for the Council’s integrity and credibility. 

Equally  vital  is  the  ongoing  reform  to  give 
prominence  to  the  General  Assembly  as  the  truly 
deliberative  and  representative  body  in  the  global 
decision-making 
and 
representation  to  all  Member  States,  irrespective  of  a 
country’s  wealth  and  might.  That  was  the  basis  for 
Samoa  becoming  a  Member  of  this  world  body  over 
30 years ago. 

The threat of climate change is grave, having dire 
implications for global peace and security. It threatens 
to  intensify  existing  drivers  of  conflict  in  a  way  that 
could  roll  back  development  across  many  countries. 
The causes of climate change and those responsible for 
them, the multifaceted threats it poses and the solutions 
to  mitigate  and  adapt  against  its  negative  impacts  are 
well  documented  and  duly  validated  by  science  and 
real life experiences. 

A  new  climate  change  instrument  is  currently 
under  negotiation.  Progress  has  been  painfully  slow, 
which  contradicts  the  gravity  and  urgency  of  the 
problem.  Sadly,  vested  national  interests  are  taking 
precedence over concern for a global and just solution. 
Intransigent  positions  are  being  advanced  to  force 
concessions and to frustrate progress. For a privileged 
few, 
resource 
endowments  may  persuade  them  to  feel  that  climate 
change  is  not  an  urgent  priority  and  that  they  can 
afford  to  wait  out  the  negotiation  of  a  legally  binding 
climate change agreement for as long as it takes. 

There is no such luxury for island nations, which 
paradoxically  are  at  the  front  line  of  the  destructive 
impacts of climate change but are least responsible for 
its  causes  and  often  least  able  to  respond  and  adapt. 
Indeed,  for  some 
island  nations,  climate  change 
threatens their very existence and survival as sovereign 
States. 

With  the  stakes  so  high,  climate  change  is 
unquestionably  an  immediate  and  urgent  priority  for 
the world. It would be a big mistake for any country to 
think  otherwise.  Similarly,  it  would  be  unhelpful  to 
view climate change simply as an environmental issue. 
Climate  change 
is  cross-cutting  and  endangers 
economic  and  social  development,  with  serious 
the  peace  and  security  of  our 
implications  for 
fortunate  geographies 
their 
and 
26 

10-55122 
its 
and 
impact 
fast-track 
publicized 
The  much 
is  national  or 
full  membership 


communities,  whether 
transborder. 

Any  new  climate  change  treaty,  no  matter  how 
ambitious,  comprehensive  and  binding,  will  be 
ineffectual  without 
the 
participation  of  all  United  Nations  Member  States, 
especially  those  with  the  obligation  to  participate. 
Inaction  should  not  be  blamed  on  the  absence  of 
solutions to reverse the impacts of climate change but 
rather on the unwillingness of some countries to be part 
of a unified global solution. 

funding 
announced in Copenhagen to meet the adaptation needs 
of  the  most  vulnerable  countries  has  become  a  best-
kept  secret.  Information  on  how  much  of  the  pledges 
have  been  honoured  and  disbursed,  and  to  whom,  has 
been scarce. When available, the information is vague 
and  seems  bereft  of  coordination.  Yet  the  fast-track 
resources  were  commitments  made  at  the  highest 
political  level,  in  recognition  at  Copenhagen  of  the 
pressing need for an interim measure to help the most 
vulnerable  countries  avert  further  harmful  effects  of 
climate change, pending the conclusion of a negotiated 
agreement. 

The uncertainty as to the legal form, content and 
completion  date  of  a  new  treaty  makes  it  a  moral 
imperative  for  the  promised  fast-track  resources  to  be 
made available without delay and with clear, simplified 
guidelines  to  ensure  that  the  intended  recipients  do 
indeed secure assistance. 
Between  now  and  the  conference  in  Cancún, 

States parties should move beyond rhetoric and commit 
to  reaching  an  agreement,  as  a  minimum,  on  those 
building  blocks  of 
the  Bali  Action  Plan  where 
negotiations  have  reached  a  level  of  maturity  and 
convergence  on  agreed  compromises.  We  cannot 
continue  to  defer  making  the  hard  decisions. We  need 
to reclaim the credibility  of the process. Every day  of 
indecisiveness disproportionately increases the risks to 
vulnerable  countries 
that  are  experiencing  more 
frequent and severe climate change impacts. 

We cannot afford to leave Cancún empty-handed. 
Concrete results must be achieved, not only to give our 
people confidence that there are  substantive responses 
to protect against climate change, but at the same time 
to  strengthen  our  belief  that  our  United  Nations  can 
deliver a legally binding agreement. 
A/65/PV.19
in 
is  at 
international 
the  risk  of 
international  borders 
Our  global  security 
their  nuclear  arsenals.  That 
risk.  Terrorism 

its  attack  on 
transcends 
universal  values.  Like  other 
threats, 
terrorism is an area of mutual concern that demands a 
collective  response.  Terrorist  acts  committed  under 
whatever  pretext  are  deeply  deplorable  and  should  be 
strongly condemned. Those who find self-glorification 
in  the  atrocious  crimes  that  they  commit  should  not 
expect  any  sympathy  or  be  provided  safe  havens  to 
hide. 

The  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  and 
their  acquisition  by 
terrorists, criminals and others should continue to be a 
top priority of the United Nations. Nuclear terrorism is 
one  of  the  most  challenging  threats  to  international 
peace and security. A world without nuclear weapons is 
a safer, more secure and prosperous place to live. 

We have heard from this podium of the  renewed 
efforts of the major nuclear-weapons Powers to restart 
the  reduction  of 
is 
encouraging,  but  we  believe  that  the  only  absolute 
guarantee  against  the  use  and  threat  of  use  of  nuclear 
weapons  is  through  their  total  elimination.  In  that 
connection, we are comforted by the announcement of 
the United States Government earlier in the year that it 
was moving towards ratification of the Pacific region’s 
nuclear-free-zone treaty. 

The  peacekeeping  work  of  the  United  Nations 
contributes,  in  large  measure,  to  the  stability  of 
countries and regions where it has a presence. It is one 
of 
the  Organization’s  growing  and  most  visible 
mandates and has the full  support of my Government. 
Samoa’s  policewomen  and  policemen  are  serving  side 
by side with officers of other contributing countries in 
peacekeeping  missions  in  Timor-Leste,  the  Sudan  and 
Darfur.  In  our  Pacific  region,  we  continue  to  honour 
our commitment to the Regional Assistance Mission to 
Solomon Islands, under the aegis of the Pacific Islands 
Forum, through our police contingents. 

Samoa  welcomes  the  recent  initiative,  brokered 
by  the  United  States,  for  direct  negotiations  between 
the leaders of Israel and Palestine to advance the two-
State solution, with the nations of Israel and Palestine 
living  alongside  each  other  in  peace  and  security.  We 
remain  hopeful  that  with  the  genuine  support  and 
understanding  of  other  leaders  in  the  region,  this  will 
not be another missed opportunity. 
10-55122 

27 

a 
strategy 
transition 
resolution 
to  guarantee 
A/65/PV.19 


This  Wednesday  marks  the  first  anniversary  of 
the  tsunami  that  devastated  my  country,  resulting  in  a 
heavy  loss  of  life,  injury  and  destruction  of  property. 
Life will never be the same for the survivors and those 
who lost loved ones. However, a sense of normalcy has 
returned and stability has been re-established. 

With  the  generous  support  of  our  development 
partners,  the  reconstruction  phase  is  progressing  well 
and  the  families  and  villages  affected  have  been 
resettled on higher ground inland, away from the coast. 
The  necessary  infrastructure  and  utilities  for  the  new 
settlements are well on their way towards completion. 
The  progress  achieved  would  not  have  been  possible 
without  the  kindness  and  understanding  of  Samoa’s 
development partners and the international community. 

Of significant importance to Samoa in its efforts 
to reinvigorate the economy following the dual impacts 
of the tsunami devastation and the financial crisis is the 
recent  Assembly 
(resolution  64/295) 
granting  Samoa  three  more  years,  to  2014,  to  put  in 
place 
the 
sustainability  of  its  economic  performance  after  its 
graduation  from  least  developed  country  (LDC)  status 
in  that  year.  Samoa’s  post-tsunami  experience  and  the 
passage of the consensus LDC resolution are important 
demonstrations of the close and warm relations that my 
country enjoys with United Nations Members. 

level,  my 
Government has already acknowledged the timely and 
tremendous  support  of  all  who  contributed  during  the 
emergency  and  in  the  recovery  and  rebuilding  phases 
in  the  aftermath  of  the  tsunami.  The  United  Nations 
membership  was  similarly  thanked  when  our  LDC 
resolution was adopted. Nevertheless, on behalf of the 
people and Government of Samoa, I would like here in 
the  General  Assembly  to  again  convey  our  sincere 
appreciation to all our development partners, including 
Australia,  New  Zealand,  Japan,  the  People’s  Republic 
of  China,  the  European  Union,  the  United  States  of 
America,  our  Pacific  neighbours,  the  United  Nations 
and its related and specialized agencies, and others too 
many  to  mention  for  their  generosity  and  kindness  to 
Samoa. We are very grateful. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for 
Finance  of  the  Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  the 
statement he has just made. 
the  bilateral  and  personal 
At 

Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime Minister,
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Minister  for 
Finance  of  the  Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 



to 
I  wish 
(San  Marino): 
Ms.  Mularoni 
  Address by Ms. Antonella Mularoni, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of San Marino 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of San Marino. 

Ms.  Antonella  Mularoni,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  San  Marino,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms. Antonella 
Mularoni,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  San 
Marino,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
to 

congratulate  you, Sir, on your election as President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. We are 
confident  that  your  considerable  expertise  in  the  field 
of  foreign  policy  and  economics  will  be  decisive  for 
the  success  of  all  sectors  of  United  Nations  activity.  I 
also  wish 
the  outgoing  President,  His 
Excellency  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  for  the  excellent 
work  carried  out  during  the  Assembly’s  sixty-fourth 
session. 

I  would  like  to  express  special  thanks  to  the 
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
for  his  energy  and  extraordinary  determination  in 
leading  this  Organization.  In  particular,  San  Marino 
appreciates  the  interest  he  has  shown  towards  all 
Member  countries,  without  any  distinction,  regardless 
of 
their  size.  My  Government  has  particularly 
appreciated the Secretary-General’s commitment in the 
field  of  reforms  and  his  constant  presence  in  all 
international  politically  relevant situations  and 
in
in  Haiti  and 
emergency  situations.  His  presence 
Pakistan  in  the  days  following  the  terrible  events  that 
we 
the 
determination to affirm United Nations presence during 
crises,  but  also  a  personal  and  particular  sensitivity 
towards tragedies deeply affecting people. 

time  characterized  by  major  global 
challenges  that  the  international  community  is  called 
upon  to  face,  the  United  Nations  reform  process 
all  witnessed  demonstrates  not  only 
At  a 
thank 
28 

10-55122 
to  guarantee 
the  full  effectiveness  of 


becomes  fundamental  for  future  world  stability  and 
must  remain  the  target  of  all  our  efforts. We  have  the 
duty 
the 
Organization’s activities, with a view to preserving and 
strengthening its essential value as a point of reference 
for the international community and for any individual. 
We cannot afford to see the role of the United Nations 
weakened  through  inability  to  reach  agreement  on  the 
measures to be taken to improve its functioning. 

I have the pleasure to reiterate again this year the 
support San Marino grants to the revitalization process 
of the General Assembly. In that regard, I wish to thank 
Argentina  and  Slovenia,  Co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly,  for  the  Group’s  recently  approved  report 
(A/64/903),  which  is  the  outcome  of  considerable 
efforts  and  many  informal  meetings  with  the  States 
Members of the United Nations. 

This  reform  is  particularly  important  for  my 
country,  since  the  General  Assembly  is  the  most 
democratic  body  of  the  United  Nations  and,  as  such, 
the most effective and sometimes the only forum where 
a  small  State  can  express  its  opinions.  San  Marino 
therefore hopes that through this reform, the Assembly 
may  work  more  efficiently  and  improve  its  relations 
with  the  other  main  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  to 
avoid  duplication  of  activities  and  effectively 
implement its resolutions. 

The  Republic  of  San  Marino  has  been  following 
with interest the Security Council reform process since 
1994,  and  it  is  grateful  to  the  Afghan  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Council  reform  for 
the important work he has carried out this year and for 
the  wisdom  and  impartiality  with  which  he  has 
presided  over  negotiations  aimed  at  reaching  the 
broadest possible agreement. San Marino believes that 
the  reform  should 
to  a  more  democratic, 
responsible, transparent and efficient Security Council. 
The  reform  should  also  bring  about  a  more  balanced 
relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly,  as  well  as  more  effective 
cooperation  with  the  Secretariat. Those  objectives  can 
be achieved only through a permanent dialogue among 
States  and 
the  respective 
positions. 

I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on the 
choice of the theme for this year’s session — the role 
of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance. That  is  a 
increased  flexibility 
lead 
in 
A/65/PV.19
Today, 
the 
linked 
comprehensive 
approach,  more 
particularly  complex  subject,  since  it  concerns  the 
global threats that affect the destinies of our peoples in 
an 
increasingly  direct  way:  climate  change  and 
biodiversity,  the  economic,  financial  and  employment 
crises,  food  security,  public  health,  disarmament  and 
the  proliferation  of  weapons,  and  the  fight  against 
terrorism. 
theme  of  global  governance 
is 

inevitably 
to  a  new  way  of  conceiving 
multilateralism  and  to  a  new  form  of  international 
cooperation, one that acknowledges the interdependence 
of the problems we face at the international, national and 
regional  levels. We have  learned  from the  crises of the 
last few years that it is necessary to adopt an integrated 
and 
efficient 
mechanisms  for  coordinating  our  policies,  and a global 
and coordinated course of action. 

San Marino believes that the United Nations has a 
duty  to  be  at  the  core  of  that  process  and  to  play  a 
leading  role  in  managing  global  governance,  not  only 
because of its deeply democratic nature, with universal 
participation  and  undisputed 
legitimacy,  but  also 
because  —  thanks  to  the  richness  and  diversity  of 
cultures and traditions represented here — it can adopt 
an approach that harmonizes the interests of the entire 
international  community  and  aims  at  sustainable 
development for all peoples. 

the  world  economy  suffered  a 
devastating financial crisis, the consequences of which 
are  still  evident  to  all.  Today,  unemployment  has 
reached  extremely  high  levels  in  many  countries. 
Increases in the prices of food products and persistent 
inequalities  contribute  to  higher  poverty  rates  and 
cause  high  social  tensions  and  violence.  The  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  has  severely  hit  every 
country  in  the  world,  with  no  distinctions,  thus 
becoming  one  of  today’s  major  challenges  for  our 
Organization  as  well.  Some  have  been  able 
to 
withstand  the  crisis,  while  for  many  others  it  is 
unfortunately 
immediate  problem, 
influencing all decisions. 

the  global 
economy  this  year,  it  is  fundamental  that  we  always 
coordinate  policies,  and  coordinate  them  effectively, 
with  a  view  to  guaranteeing  balanced,  inclusive  and 
substantial  growth. 
regard,  San  Marino 
recognizes the essential role played by the Group of 20 
(G-20),  which  in  2009  was  able  to  prevent  a  global 
the  gradual  recovery  of 
still  a  very 
Last  year, 
Despite 
In 
that 
10-55122 

29 

in 
to 
order 
level.  That 
to  company 
requires  developing 
A/65/PV.19 

economic depression by taking coordinated and timely 
action.  However,  the  G-20  decision-making  process 
should be even more inclusive and transparent, so that 
its  decisions  can  translate  into  effective  action  at  the 
global 
specific 
mechanisms through which the interests, concerns and 
aspirations of countries outside the G-20 can be taken 
into  account,  with  particular  reference  to  developing 
countries, 
actions 
favour  G-20 
complementary to those of the United Nations. 

Over  the  last  two  years,  the  Republic  of  San 
Marino, well aware of the interconnectedness of global 
economic  and  financial  policies,  has  intensified  its 
efforts to make its legislative instruments and practices 
relating  to  transparency  and  international  cooperation 
compliant  with  international  standards  established  by 
the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development and MONEYVAL. Within a short period, 
terrorist 
laws 
to  combat  money-laundering  and 
financing  were  adopted,  banking  and 
financial 
supervision services were reorganized and amendments 
were  made 
legislation,  eliminating 
anonymous companies. 

its 
satisfaction with resolution 64/289, on United Nations 
system-wide  coherence,  which  the  General  Assembly 
unanimously  adopted  on  2  July.  That  resolution,  the 
result  of  year-long  negotiations, 
is  an  historic 
achievement  for  the  reform  process  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  particular  for  strengthening  the  entire 
system. It provides for a higher degree of coordination, 
efficiency 
avoiding 
fragmentation, waste, duplication of tasks and effort. 

A  fundamental  element  of  that  resolution  is  the 
establishment  of  the  new  United  Nations  Entity  for 
Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, to be 
known  as  UN Women,  which  will  become  operational 
on 1 January 2011. The mandates of four existing bodies 
concerned with the promotion of women’s rights will be 
transferred to this new entity, which will strengthen, in 
terms  of  capability,  efficiency  and  responsibility,  the 
United  Nations  system  in  the  field  of  gender  equality 
and the empowerment of women. 

The  Republic  of  San  Marino  pays  special 
attention to this subject and over the last few years has 
promoted several national initiatives making women in 
San  Marino  aware  of  their  rights  and  of  the  State 
protection  mechanisms  available  to  them.  At  the 
The  San  Marino  Government  expresses 
transparency,  while 
and 
In 
the  Unite 
importance  of 
the  efforts  of 
freedoms  are  violated. 
international  level,  San  Marino  has  joined  several 
campaigns  aimed  at  raising  awareness  of  women’s 
rights  among  the  public  and  national  authorities,  such 
as 
to  End  Violence  Against  Women 
campaign, launched by the Secretary-General in 2008. 
I  would  like  to  underline  on  this  occasion  the 

fundamental 
the 
international community, as well as pressure exerted by 
civil  society,  to  achieve  higher  standards  of  human 
rights  protection.  Moreover,  we  cannot  forget  that 
women  and  children  are  always  the  most  vulnerable 
section  of  society  in  situations  where  rights  and 
fundamental 
several 
countries, women have to face very difficult situations: 
many of their rights are often violated and the authors 
of  the  violations  go  unpunished.  The  international 
community  must  spare  no  effort  to  ensure  that  the 
dignity, rights and fundamental freedoms of all human 
beings are duly protected. 

San  Marino  also  believes  that  the  international 
community  should  be  responsible  for  working  as 
effectively  as  possible  to  combat  human  trafficking. 
Today that modern form of slavery still affects millions 
of  people,  the  majority  of  whom  are  also  women  and 
children.  The  Republic  of  San  Marino  attaches  the 
utmost 
last  July  of 
resolution  64/293,  which  contains  the  United  Nations 
Global Plan of Action against Trafficking in Persons. 

combating 
trafficking  in  persons  led  to  the  adoption  of  that 
resolution, the result of long consultations and complex 
negotiations. San Marino guarantees its support for this 
initiative and will cooperate with all Member States in 
order to implement the Plan of Action. This initiative is 
particularly important to us, since this year we ratified 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime, its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and 
Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons,  Especially  Women  and 
Children,  and  its  Protocol  against  the  Smuggling  of 
Migrants by Land, Sea and Air. 

As  underlined  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
“Keeping  the  promise”  (A/64/665),  the  Millennium 
Declaration  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
have  brought 
slow  but  progressive 
improvement  in  the  fight  against  extreme  poverty, 
hunger  and  disease  and  in  the  promotion  of  gender 
equality,  education  and  environmental  sustainability. 
the  adoption 
commitment 
importance 
collective 
about 
The 
to 
to 
a 
30 

10-55122 
A/65/PV.19
El Fassi,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 

Mr.  El  Fassi  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  His 
Majesty  Mohammed  VI,  the  King  of  Morocco,  has 
honoured me by asking me to deliver his statement to 
the General Assembly. 

The  Republic  of  San  Marino  expresses 


However,  the  report  outlines  that  progress  has  been 
discontinuous and uneven from one region to another. 

We have recently witnessed a series of severe and 
unprecedented  crises,  including  the  world  economic 
and financial crisis, the food and energy crisis, the one 
related  to  climate  change,  humanitarian  crises  — 
including  the  recent  earthquake  in  Haiti  and  the  huge 
floods in Pakistan — and those caused by the increased 
number  of  conflicts.  After  having  obtained  good 
results, we are now experiencing a severe setback, and 
an even more structured commitment will be necessary 
to overcome those obstacles and achieve the Goals by 
2015. 

its 
satisfaction  with  the  General  Assembly’s  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  which 
recently  concluded.  The  outcome 
document  of  that  meeting  (resolution  65/1)  aims  at 
developing  effective  strategies for  action and, most of 
all,  at  renewing  the  commitment  and  responsibility  of 
each country to achieving the Goals set. 

In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the strong 
commitment  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino  in  favour 
of  the  implementation  of  the  ideals  of  the  United 
Nations  and  of  the  principles  enshrined  in  its  Charter. 
We  will  guarantee  our  support 
initiatives 
necessary to reach such an aim. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino  for  the 
statement she has just made. 

Ms.  Antonella  Mularoni,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  San  Marino,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
to  all 



  Address by Mr. Abbas El Fassi, Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Morocco 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Morocco. 

Mr.  Abbas  El  Fassi,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abbas 
to 



and  prosperity, 
“Allow  me,  at  the  outset,  to  congratulate 

you,  Mr.  President,  on  being  elected  to  preside 
over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session,  and 
to  commend  your  predecessor, 
Mr. Ali Treki, on having given fresh dynamism to 
the  proceedings  of  the  Assembly.  I  would  also 
like  to  express  my  deep  appreciation  to  His 
Excellency the Secretary-General, who spares no 
effort to enhance the role of the United Nations. 
“This session, which is being held 10 years 

after 
the  Millennium  Summit, 
is  a  great 
opportunity for us to agree on a consensual vision 
to steer our joint action for the years to come and 
to  reiterate  our  commitment  to  the  three  basic 
axes underlying that vision, namely, security and 
stability,  development 
and 
advancement of human rights and human dignity. 
Those  priorities  form  the  bedrock  of  the  new 
international  agenda.  This  important  meeting 
therefore  provides  us  a  good  opportunity  to 
reassert  our  commitment 
those 
priorities  and  to  reiterate  our  determination  to 
promote  international  cooperation  and  lay  solid 
groundwork  for  a  new  world  where  safety  and 
solidarity prevail. 

“Morocco,  which  firmly  believes  in  the 
important  position  of  the  United  Nations  as  the 
symbol  of  universal  values  and  international 
legitimacy,  has  worked  tirelessly  to  give  the 
Organization  active  and  concrete  support,  to 
promote  its  principles  and  to  contribute  to  the 
achievement of its objectives. Indeed, my country 
has also actively sought to ensure that its national 
priorities  are 
the 
international agenda. 

the  main  objective 
behind the creation of the United Nations, which 
is  playing  a  key  role  for  all  mankind.  From  this 
rostrum,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  calls  on  the 
international 
its 
involvement  and  work  for  the  settlement  of  all 
disputes — whether overt or covert — that strain 
“Peacekeeping  was 
community 
issues  on 
line  with 
increase 
to 
tackling 
in 
to 
10-55122 

31 
A/65/PV.19 




the 
the 
“To 
relations 
support  of 
foster  healthier 
relations  between  neighbouring  States  and 
hamper  the  indispensable  integration  of  their 
economies, particularly in Africa. 

in  our 
Maghreb  region,  we  submitted  an  autonomy 
initiative  to  the  United  Nations  in  2007  with  a 
view  to  bringing  an  end  to  the  artificial  dispute 
over  the  recovery  by  Morocco  of  its  southern 
provinces.  That  bold,  innovative  initiative  has 
received 
international 
community and the Security Council, which have 
repeatedly  described  the  efforts  underlying  it  as 
serious and credible. They have also commended 
Morocco’s active steps to facilitate the settlement 
of  this  dispute,  which  seriously  jeopardizes  the 
the  Arab  Maghreb  and 
integration  of 
the 
prosperity of the peoples of its five countries. 

“In  that  context,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
calls  on  the  other  partners  to  seize  this  historic 
opportunity and engage in substantive and serious 
negotiations  under the auspices of the  Secretary-
General  and  his  Personal  Envoy,  to  whom  we 
reiterate our sincere willingness to cooperate. 

“The need to free our region from the yoke 
of  this  dispute,  which  hampers  our  joint  action, 
has  never  been  greater,  not  only  for  us,  but  also 
for  our  strategic  partners.  We  must  therefore 
settle  this  dispute,  given  the  numerous  pressing 
challenges  facing  us,  especially  with  respect  to 
security  in  the  Sahara  and  Sahel  regions  and  in 
the Mediterranean basin. 

“Achieving peace in the Middle East is not 
an  impossible  goal,  nor  is  the  persistence  of  the 
conflict  inevitable.  The  only  solution  to  the 
conflict remains that of two States, living side by 
side in peace and security. 

“The  international  community  is  therefore 
called  upon  to  support  the  direct  negotiation 
process  taking  place  under  the  commendable 
auspices  of  the  United  States  Administration. 
This  is  a  good  opportunity  to  strive  to  achieve  a 
final settlement, in compliance with international 
legitimacy  and 
the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  and  on  the  basis  of  a  clear  frame  of 
reference, a comprehensive agenda and a specific 
timetable. 





32 

and  of 
the 

“As  an  active  player  in  the  peace  process, 
Morocco  is  aware  that  such  negotiations  must 
address the issue of establishing a fully sovereign 
Palestinian  State,  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its 
capital, as well as the related and complex issues, 
and  that  for  negotiations  to  succeed,  unilateral 
actions  must  be  avoided  and  settlement  building 
must end, especially in Al-Quds Al-Sharif. 

“As  Chair  of  the  Al-Quds  Committee,  I 
have  consistently  drawn  the  attention  of  the 
United  Nations 
international 
community to the sensitive nature of the issue of 
Al-Quds Al-Sharif and to attempts to Judaize that 
Holy  City  and  obliterate  its  character.  Al-Quds 
must remain a symbol of coexistence and concord 
between  the  monotheistic  religions,  a  city  of 
peace and of coexistence between the Palestinian 
and the Israeli peoples. 

“Two  days  ago,  we  took  stock  of  the 
progress that has thus far been made in achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  agreed 
that  a  combination  of  crises, 
the 
adverse  effects  of  climate  change,  has  clearly 
delayed the attainment of most of these Goals in 
many  developing  countries,  particularly  on  our 
African continent. 

than  900 
million  people  and  natural  resources  abundant 
enough to ensure the continent’s self-sufficiency, 
Africa  is  indeed  capable  of  enjoying  steady 
growth 
potential 
notwithstanding,  Africa  largely  remains  on  the 
sidelines  when 
foreign  direct 
investment  flows,  a 
trend  which  has  been 
compounded  further  by  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis.  The  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
therefore  proposes  that  the  General  Assembly 
hold  a  high-level  dialogue  on  investment  in 
Africa. 
“Similarly, the magnitude  of the  challenges 

from 
the 
posed  by  globalization 
international 
substantial 
reforms  of  the  existing  international  economic 
governance 
further 
mobilization  to  lay  the  foundations  for  a  new, 
equitable,  balanced  and  efficient  international 
environmental  order 
to 
requires 
community  urgent, 
“With  a  population  of  more 
institutions  as  well  as 
that  will  enable  us 
development.  This 
it  comes 
including 
and 
to 
10-55122 


A/65/PV.19
it  will 
this  end, 
“Accordingly,  Morocco  has 
safeguard  our  planet  for  the  sake  of  current  and 
future generations. 

“The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  has  committed 
itself  irreversibly  to  protect  and  promote  human 
rights.  To 
implement  a 
comprehensive  strategy  based  on  a  participatory 
approach  which  places  special  emphasis  on 
human resources development and the promise of 
a  dignified  life,  these  being  the  key  elements  in 
our  endeavour  to  build  a  democratic  society 
dedicated to development. 

launched  a 
programme  of  major  workshops  and  reforms. 
Substantial  progress  has  been  made  towards 
expanding  the  scope  of  individual  and  collective 
freedoms, 
safeguarding  human  dignity  and 
promoting and protecting the rights of its citizens, 
especially  those  of  women,  children  and  people 
with special needs. 

“Internationally,  Morocco  has  manifested  a 
deep  commitment  to  protecting  human  rights 
since  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  its  operational  mechanisms.  This 
commitment  was  recognized  in  March  2010, 
when  Morocco  was  chosen  by 
the  General 
Assembly  to  be  a  co-facilitator  of  the  review 
process  aimed  at  charting  a  renewed  vision  for 
the Council by putting human capital at the heart 
of human resources development and sustainable 
development. 
“Morocco  will  spare  no  effort  to  achieve 

this  goal  and 
to  help  develop  a  shared, 
responsible  vision  of  the  true  values  of  human 
rights, a vision which excludes empty slogans and 
the tendentious manipulation of lofty objectives. 

“The world still has a long way to go before 
States  and  peoples  learn  to  accept  diversity  and 
make  it  a  genuine  source  of  spiritual,  social  and 
cultural  enrichment.  More 
than  a  necessity, 
dialogue  among  civilizations  has  become  an 
urgent priority. 

“Indeed, it is of the utmost importance that 
the United Nations become the standard-bearer of 
a  culture  of  peace, 
tolerance  and  mutual 
understanding and that it serve as a catalyst for a 
new form of cooperation based on solidarity and 
dedicated  to  achieving  dignity,  prosperity,  well-
being and peace for all people everywhere.” 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Morocco for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Abbas  El  Fassi,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Condor,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  National 
Security,  Labour,  Immigration  and  Social  Security  of 
Saint Kitts and Nevis. 
Mr.  Condor  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  The 

Government  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  looked 
forward  to  this  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  with  much  anticipation.  We  welcome  the 
opportunity to share in the usual rich general debate, to 
strengthen existing relationships and to build new ones. 

This  environment,  we  believe,  facilitates  the 
exchange  of  views  on  issues  of  common  interest.  We 
look  forward,  particularly,  to  the  views  on  the  work 
still ahead in tackling the insidious global challenges. 

The  tasks  I  have  in  mind  are:  mitigating  the 
negative impact of the ongoing economic crisis on our 
countries  and  peoples,  and  dealing  with  its  many 
implications for vulnerable small economies like ours; 
tackling  the  prolonged  tightening  of  credit  markets; 
protecting 
degradation; 
promoting  human  security;  and  redressing  the  global 
epidemic of interpersonal violence. 

These  are  but  a  few  of  the  problems  with  which 
Governments  across  the  globe  must  grapple.  And  we 
must  do  this  against  a  backdrop  of  uncertainty,  while 
established centres of power are shifting. Governments 
must  now  reconcile  the  pursuit  of  statecraft  and 
national  interests  with  rapidly  changing  and  less 
predictable relations among States. 

Additionally,  the  2008  economic  and  financial 
crises,  whose  effects  are  still  very  real  today,  have 
undermined confidence in our financial market systems 
and in what we had hitherto hailed as sound economic 
models. 
Similarly,  since  the  global  recession,  poverty 

ranks  across  the  world  have  been  swelling.  The 
environment 
from 
the 
10-55122 

33 

that,  as  we  contemplate  bold 
We  have  all  become  painfully  aware 
A/65/PV.19 

percentage of working poor has reached unprecedented 
levels,  and  millions  more,  now  unemployed,  see  little 
prospect  for  hope  or  relief.  As  a  consequence,  many 
have lost faith in governance methods and in our long-
established financial systems. 

that 
environmental  degradation  is  not  country-specific  and 
that  the  actions  of  individuals  and  enterprises  in  one 
country  ultimately  harm  ecosystems  and 
threaten 
livelihoods  in  others.  Hence,  as  countries  pursue 
national  agendas,  we  need  to  be  mindful  of  the 
common  interests  and  ties  that  connect  our  societies 
and  peoples,  and  we  must  use  every  opportunity  to 
work towards a realistic convergence of our respective 
interests. 

There can be little doubt that we have established 
a  solid  foundation  that  allows  us  to  envision  new  and 
exciting  horizons.  Reaching  these  horizons,  however, 
requires 
initiatives 
appropriate  for  the  challenges  confronting  us,  the 
United  Nations  must  itself  be  prepared  to  further 
deepen  its  engagement  with  Member  States,  regional 
and  national  systems,  and 
international  financial 
institutions.  

My  delegation  believes  that  this  is  one  way  to 
help  provide  new  opportunities,  to  facilitate  greater 
access  to  the  resources  needed  to  implement  national 
policies and meet international obligations. 

The  United  Nations,  created  out  of  the  ruins  of 
war,  has  over  the  past  six  and  a  half  decades,  been 
providentially  guided  by  an  unfaltering  spirit  of 
partnership  and  prevailing  common  sense.  Despite 
countless challenges, that spirit is alive and well today. 
We must therefore work even harder to fulfil the dream 
of its architects and to live out their vision. The United 
Nations,  then,  must  remain  that  vital  nexus,  fostering 
the  necessary  partnerships  for 
the  greater  good. 
Perhaps  that  would  provide  us  with  a  more  visible 
presence  on  the  global  stage,  furthering  the  effort  to 
build  a  better  future  for  us  all.  We  have  seen  this 
partnership  in  action  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). We saw it as we worked to address the 
global 
large 
economies and almost crippled the economies of small 
island  States.  We  saw  it  when  Governments  and 
peoples across the globe came to the assistance of our 
brothers  and  sisters  in  disaster-stricken  Haiti,  the 
financial  crisis,  which 
threatened 
their 
in 
an  opportunity 
the  spirit  of  cooperation, 
the  context  of  repositioning 
magnitude  of  whose  tragedy  we  had  not  experienced 
before in this hemisphere. 

the  United 
Nations,  we  began,  earlier  this  month,  a  process  of 
review.  It  is  through  improved  partnerships  that  the 
United  Nations  has 
to  bring 
international  business  communities  and  civil  society 
together with Member States in a more structured way, 
allowing  for  the  practical  exchange  of  ideas,  the 
sharing  of  expertise  and  best  practices,  and  the 
promotion  of  development  and  prosperity.  Saint  Kitts 
and  Nevis  welcomes  such  a  dialogue  and  partnership 
and  recognizes  the  extent  and  reach  of  the  United 
Nations  in  helping  to  build  capacity,  in  the  face  of 
the  brain  drain,  which  robs 
challenges  such  as 
developing  countries  of 
invaluable  human 
resources. Through such advocacy, the United Nations 
can help also to safeguard gains in social and economic 
development.  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  encourages 
Member States to embrace this idea of a multipronged 
partnership as a way to bolster development processes 
and strengthen global governance and accountability. 

the 
Government  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  thanks  the 
Government  and  people  of Taiwan  for  their  continued 
international  cooperation  and 
outstanding  support, 
development  assistance  over  several  decades. 
I 
that  country’s 
the 
welcome 
Parliament  of 
international  cooperation  and 
development  law,  which  incorporates  the  essence  and 
principles of the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness 
and the United Nations MDGs. We owe them a debt of 
gratitude  for 
their 
development  experience  through  public  projects  and 
social, agricultural and private sector development. 

We note that, despite being successful before the 
World  Trade  Organization  dispute  settlement  body, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  a  fellow  CARICOM  member 
State,  has  yet  to  benefit  therefrom.  In  the  spirit  of 
cooperation,  we  urge  the  parties  involved  to  seek 
quickly  to  resolve  the  situation  and  to  arrive  at  a 
negotiation  settlement  that  is  fair  and  just  to Antigua 
and Barbuda and its nationals. 

2010 has so far been a year of epic global natural 
disasters.  The  regularity  and  ferocity  of  floods, 
rises  and  other 
hurricanes, 
sea-level 
catastrophic  events  are  stark 
reminders  of 
the 
consequences  of  climate  change.  This  is  of  particular 
their  efforts  and  for  sharing 
recent  passage 
their 
In 
Cognizant  of 
typhoons, 
34 

10-55122 
through 
the  creation  of 


concern  to  us,  as  small  island  developing  States  are 
hardest  hit  by  the  consequences  of  climate  change.  In 
the  light  of  the  facts,  it  should  be  a  matter  of  some 
importance 
to  develop  a  proactive  coordinated 
approach,  in  collaboration  with  financial  institutions, 
insurance  companies  and  other  catastrophic-event-
mitigation  stakeholders.  It  is  clear  that  the  disaster 
preparedness,  mitigation  and 
response  paradigms 
incorporated  into  our  national  development  strategies 
are in need of urgent strengthening. Indeed, my country 
is committed to a comprehensive approach in disaster-
risk  abatement  and  mitigation, 
through  capacity-
building  and 
internal 
mechanisms 
that  would  ensure  more  effective 
responses. I urge Member States to continue exploiting 
and  exploring  technology  and  best  practices,  as  we 
work in partnership to find sustainable solutions to this 
problem. 

We  believe  that  stronger  political  commitment, 
greater cooperation and less apportioning of blame are 
required  if  we  are  to  succeed  in  this  endeavour. 
Therefore  we  hope  that  the  global  partnership  and 
solidarity  evidenced  in  the  aftermath  of  this  year’s 
many disasters will continue to prevail. 

Four  months  ago,  in  May  2010,  the  General 
Assembly  adopted  resolution  64/265  on  the  prevention 
and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases.  That 
resolution seeks to halt the growing trend of premature 
deaths 
these  diseases  —  mainly,  diabetes, 
cardiovascular diseases, cancers and chronic respiratory 
diseases. Saint Kitts and Nevis applauds that resolution. 
At the same time, however, we seize the opportunity to 
remind  this  Assembly  of  another  public  health  and 
public security  issue  that  begs  attention  and  resolution. 
Many will recall our efforts last year to focus attention 
on  the  issue  of  the  global  epidemic  of  interpersonal 
violence  and  its  implications  for  development,  health, 
security  and  governance.  The  data 
that 
interpersonal  violence  accounts  for  about  4,300  deaths 
per  day,  one  every  20  seconds,  one  half  of  them  being 
due to homicide. In some countries homicide rates are as 
high  as  60  to  70  per  100,000.  The  human,  social  and 
financial costs of violence are unacceptably high and are 
escalating. 

The World Health Organization has been playing 
a  key  role  in  this  field  through  its  Milestones  of  a 
Global Campaign for Violence Prevention programme, 
and  the  General  Assembly  has  adopted  individual 
resolutions  on  violence  against  children,  violence 
from 
reveal 
A/65/PV.19
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  guards  zealously 
against  women  and  armed  violence.  There  is  still, 
however, no General Assembly resolution that calls for 
an  integrated  approach  to  all  forms  of  interpersonal 
violence;  there  is  no  resolution  that  speaks  to  youth 
violence, one of the major contributors to high murder 
rates and social breakdown; and there is no resolution 
that  emphasizes 
the  necessity  of  a  multisectoral 
response  to  this  problem.  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is 
therefore once again soliciting your support for such a 
resolution.  We  are  calling  for  an  integrated  and 
multisectoral  response  to  all  forms  of  interpersonal 
violence and recognition of the causes, with a view to 
its  placement  on  the  General  Assembly  agenda  for 
debate  next  year,  2011.  As  we  celebrate 
the 
International  Year  of  Youth,  I  can  think  of  no  better 
time to introduce such a resolution. 

the 
effective  management  and  care  of  our  resources.  Our 
primary resource is our people, particularly our youth — 
our  future.  In  preparing  them  for  the  promises  and  the 
potential  perils  of  tomorrow,  we  have  been  investing 
strategically in education — education with relevance. 

I applaud the establishment of the United Nations 
Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of 
Women  (UN  Women).  The  occupying  of  high  office 
and  decision-making  roles  by  women  has  been  the 
norm  in  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  and  we  remain 
committed  to  gender-equal  opportunities  at  home  and 
abroad.  We  look  forward  to  participating  actively  in 
UN  Women  in  the  coming  years  and  would  be  most 
pleased to share our experiences. 

As  we  move  forward  through  this  sixty-fifth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  encourage  us  to 
remain committed to the ideals that have brought us to 
this point. Let us marshal the courage to do the things 
that  ought  to  be  done  if  this  indispensable  global 
institution is to be able to deliver at its very best. 

In  conclusion,  permit  me  to  congratulate  you, 
Mr. President,  and  the  Government  of  Switzerland,  on 
your  election 
the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. I thank you, Sir, for 
your  readiness  to  preside  over  this  General Assembly 
at a time of great challenge. We feel confident that you 
will  rise  to  the  occasion  with  great  fortitude  and 
determination. 

Permit  me  also  to  thank  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam 
Treki,  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-
the  presidency  of 
to 
10-55122 

35 

the  2015 
the  moment  for  change  — 
A/65/PV.19 

fourth  session,  for  his  leadership  and  commitment 
during the past year. 

I  trust  that  under  your  leadership,  Mr.  President, 
we  will  seize 
this 
compelling moment for reform and one that is reflected 
in  the  deliberations  of  the  recent  Meeting  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  —  as  we  draw  closer 
to 
target.  I  assure  you,  Sir,  of  my 
Government’s full support for your stewardship. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Bernard  Kouchner,  Minister  for 
Foreign and European Affairs of the French Republic. 
Mr.  Kouchner  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

come to this rostrum on behalf of France to express my 
sincere  and  fervent  faith  in  the  United  Nations. 
France’s  ambition  is  to  be a  major  actor  in  building  a 
system  of  global  governance  that  is  more  just,  more 
cohesive,  more  social,  and  a  global  order  that  is 
organized  and  regulated  around  a  stronger,  more 
representative and more effective United Nations — a 
United Nations capable of meeting the great challenges 
of our century. 

I  look  out  upon  the  Assembly.  I  know  many  of 
those  present  here  today.  For  25  years  now  —  even 
more — I have been going up and down the corridors 
of  the  United  Nations  because  I  like  the  United 
Nations,  because  I  believe  in  the  United  Nations,  and 
because I know it to be indispensable. 

I would like to speak to the Assembly candidly. I 
am going to talk about men and women, suffering and 
hope.  I  am  going  to  talk  about  responsibility,  because 
we  have  responsibilities  as  citizens,  diplomats  and 
political  leaders  to  meet  these  sufferings,  hopes  and 
expectations. 

Of  course,  all  of  us  would  have  an  infinite 
number  of  reasons  to  present  a  litany  of  generous 
intentions,  only  to  go  home,  our  conscience  clear,  for 
what we had said a little while before to the Assembly 
and then go back to our day-to-day problems at home. 
Of course, after the terrible economic crisis from which 
we have barely emerged, we have to live with reduced 
budgets and tense socio-economic situations. The times 
are  difficult  and  our  fellow  citizens  are  worried.  The 
temptation  to  retreat  exists.  Of  course,  to  correct  the 
large  imbalances  and  injustices  that  undermine  our 
society  and  to  fight  for  the  planet’s  security  and 
development,  we  can  always  count  on  others.  But 
Recall  our  boldness  here 
which  others? There  are  no  “others”. We  are  all  here, 
the  nations  of  the  world,  represented  in  the  General 
Assembly, and we only have to decide together to act. 

Not acting today would be to resign ourselves to 
disorder, injustice and chaos. That choice will never be 
France’s because it is not in keeping with our  history, 
or  our  values,  or  our  interests.  Faced  with  disorder  in 
the world, the greatest risk today would be to lapse into 
routine.  Please  do  not  tell  me  that  we  cannot  move 
forward, that the situation is at an impasse. No, in the 
past,  we  have  been  able  together,  collectively,  to  be 
revolutionary  on  fundamental  subjects,  even  at  the 
expense  of  the  national  sovereignties  which  we  all 
represent here. 

in  1988,  General 
Assembly  resolution  43/131,  and  then  two  years  later, 
resolution  45/100,  on  humanitarian  assistance 
to 
victims  of  natural  disasters  and  similar  emergency 
situations.  These  resolutions  allowed  us  for  the  first 
time to guarantee free access of humanitarian workers 
to  the  affected  regions.  Then  there  was  Security 
Council  688  (1991)  (5 April  1991)  on  the  situation  in 
Kurdistan,  where,  for  the  first  time,  the  door  was 
opened  to  a  military  operation  to  protect  civilian 
populations against an oppressor State. 

These were two historic moments which laid the 
first markers of the right to intervene. This became the 
responsibility to protect, which this Assembly adopted 
by consensus at the 2005 World Summit (see resolution 
60/1). Who could have imagined that such an upending 
of international law  would be possible? The fight was 
long and difficult; it is not over — far from it. To speak 
candidly 
results  are  not 
completely what I had expected. But we must note that, 
together,  we  were  able  to  overcome  some  obstacles 
which  were  supposed 
insurmountable.  Let 
nothing  stop  us  from  taking  up  subjects  which  we 
decide on together. 

Our first shared responsibility is development — 
to  make  sure  that  all  men  and  women,  including  the 
most impoverished, have decent living conditions. The 
widening  gap  of  inequalities  is  not  only  morally 
unacceptable,  it  is  politically  dangerous.  Of  course,  it 
is costly to act, but the cost of inaction is even greater. 

The conclusions of the High-level Meeting on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  that  we  just 
held place our responsibilities squarely before us. This 
the  Assembly, 
to  be 
to 
the 
36 

10-55122 
the  second 


is  an  urgent  matter.  We  can  no  longer  ask  suffering 
populations to continue to wait. 

The  President  of  the  French  Republic,  Nicolas 
Sarkozy, reminded the Assembly of this fact, that France 
is 
largest  global  donor  of  official 
development  assistance  —  €9  billion  per  annum  — 
targeted  to  education,  health,  food  security,  sanitation 
and infrastructure. France’s commitment to development 
will not slacken, but figures do not make a policy. Our 
assistance  must  be  judged  according  to  its  results.  We 
need to go further and move faster for children dying of 
malaria  — one  every 30 seconds —  for  entire  families 
stricken  by AIDS,  and  for  all  those  who  are  hungry  or 
cannot go to school. 

I  ask  the  Assembly:  what  planet  do  we  wish  to 
leave  as  a  legacy  to  our  children?  Will  we  be  able  to 
make an ambitious decision to combat climate  change 
and  preserve  our  environment?  This  is  a  subject  that 
concerns  us  all  and  requires  a  global  partnership,  one 
where we aspire to find an agreement on both reducing 
emissions  and  measures  to  be  taken  in  order  to  adapt.
And  we  must,  first  and  foremost,  ensure  that  the 
commitments undertaken will be implemented and that 
follow-up mechanisms and effective institutions will be 
put in place. 

For  all  of  this,  we  must  find  a  great  deal  of 
money — several tens of billions of dollars per year — 
for  us  and  our  planet.  Let  us  provide  the  means  to 
realize  our  ambitions.  The  solutions  are  here,  within 
reach; they have proved to be effective and await only 
our  political  will  and  our  courage.  They  are  called 
innovative  financing.  The  tax  on  airline  tickets  was  a 
step forward, a long time in coming. Today we should 
go farther by adopting an international tax on financial 
transactions  which  would  permanently  change  matters 
for  development.  It  is  an  idea  that  I  have  been 
defending  for  more  than  20  years.  It  is  a  priority  for 
France now. The President alluded to it here a few days 
ago. 

Bear in mind that a minute tax of 0.005 per cent, 
that is five cents on a transaction of €1,000, could raise 
€30 billion to €40 billion per year, almost one quarter 
of  official  development  assistance.  Who  could  deny 
that  this  is  a  stable  and  predictable  way  of  raising  a 
massive  amount  for  development?  Even  with  half  of 
that amount, it would be possible to send every child to 
school  in  the  low-income  countries.  Everyone  agrees 
A/65/PV.19
today that it is technically and economically feasible to 
establish such a mechanism. 

And,  make  no  mistake;  we  are  not  talking  about 
diminishing official development assistance or dodging 
our  responsibilities.  No,  on  the  contrary,  this  amount 
would come as an addition. And so we must not waste 
time, we  are  together, this  is  what  we  established  this 
institution  for,  this  institution,  unparalleled  in  history, 
called the United Nations. 

It  is  now  a  universally  recognized  principle  that 
development  cannot  occur  without  peace  and  security, 
which are the basic raison d’être of the United Nations. 
Here, the challenges remain considerable. Afghanistan, 
Somalia,  the  Sudan,  the  Middle  East  —  so  many 
conflicts continue to feed chaos throughout the world. 

How  many  missed  opportunities,  how  many 
dashed  hopes,  how  many  misunderstandings  have  for 
more than 60 years — I repeat, 60 years — marked this 
process,  peaceful  in  name  only,  in  the  Middle  East? 
The Arab-Israeli  conflict  concerns  us  all.  I  say Arab-
Israeli  because,  besides  the  Palestinian  track,  France 
considers it just as important to work on the Lebanese 
and  Syrian  tracks. Today  we  have  before  us  a  historic 
opportunity. We cannot let it slip. 

The  process  almost  stopped  yesterday  evening.  I 
am not sure that it will continue in an orderly way and 
with  unanimous  support.  I  hope  it  will.  We  have 
limited 
the  new  State 
Member of the United Nations which many of us have 
been calling for, will be, I hope, the best guarantee of 
security for Israel. 

All  States  in  the  region  have  a  critical  role  to 
play. All of that is important, but what is necessary  is 
that  the  Israelis  and  Palestinians  make  a  strategic 
decision  to  put  an  end  to  this  conflict  in  their  own 
interests.  I  would  therefore  call  on  the  sense  of 
responsibility  of  President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister 
Netanyahu;  together  they  must  make  the  painful 
compromises on the road to peace. 

I have said that I have faith in the United Nations. 
I  served  the  United  Nations,  as  perhaps  you  know,  in 
Kosovo  and  in  a  number  of  other  places.  I  know, 
respect and deeply love the men and women who give 
life to the United Nations. From this rostrum, I wish to 
pay  tribute  with  emotion,  affection  and  respect,  to  all 
those  who,  in  serving  the  United  Nations,  take  risks 
every  day 
ideal  of  peace  and 
time  remaining.  Palestine, 
for  our  shared 
10-55122 

37 

live 
that  we 
A/65/PV.19 

development. I think of all the friends we have lost — 
and  the  friends  we  may  still  lose  —  year  after  year, 
and, of course, of those who take their place. 

The  fight  is  noble.  Respect  for  the  values  and 
universal  principles  of  human  rights  constitutes  the 
indispensable  foundation  on  which  United  Nations 
action  must  be  built.  The  ambition  to  build  a  world 
order  founded  on  universal  respect  for  human  dignity 
has  been  and  will  always  be  at  the  heart  of  French 
diplomacy. 
Have we collectively progressed in our service of 

these values? Not enough. How long will we continue 
to  accept  —  now 
in  a  so-called 
information  society,  a  world  where  people  can  know 
what  is  happening  in  other  places  —  that,  in  terms  of 
human  rights,  there  are  so  many  blind  spots,  so  many 
forgotten  tragedies  and  so  much  suffering  that  remain 
hidden? As I asked at the beginning, what has become 
of the responsibility to protect? 

Today  the  success  of  the  United  Nations  must 
first  of  all  be  assessed  in  terms  of  its  contribution  to 
the  protection  of  civilians.  That  is  the  first  area  in 
which  our  requirements  should  be  upheld.  Every  day 
massacres  and  rapes  are  committed  throughout  the 
world,  in  Somalia,  in  Darfur  and  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  including  in  regions  where 
peacekeeping operations are deployed. 

We can no longer simply count the victims when 
mass  crimes  are  committed.  Our  courage  must  not  be 
less  than  that  of  those  who  die  from  risks  that  we  no 
longer know how to take. 

France  believes  that  the  International  Criminal 
Court  is  one  of  the  most  important  advances  made  in 
the history of a humankind conscious of the dangers to 
which  it  is  exposed  by  its  own  demons.  France 
understands the criticism of those that believe that the 
Court is too slow or that it goes too far. Let us be clear, 
France  will  always  support  the  idea  of  international 
criminal justice that is impartial and universal, for it is 
the  only  way  of  fulfilling  the  imperative  dictated  by 
our  history,  namely,  combating  impunity.  To  all  who 
are  shocked  by  the  boldness  of  some  of  the  Court’s 
prosecutions,  I  say  that,  on  the  contrary,  it  would  be 
appalling if the victims were deprived of their right to 
justice. 

the  protection  of  civilians, 
international  justice  —  these  are  not  hollow  concepts 
Human 
rights, 
or  empty  principles  for  us.  For  France,  they  are  first 
and  foremost  principles  of  action,  and  the  only  valid 
criterion for judgement is the impact of our actions on 
the actual situation. 

In  Guinea,  after  the  killings  in  the  Conakry 
stadium,  on  28  September  2009,  we  came  together  to 
denounce the human rights violations and to assist the 
victims  of  the  atrocities  committed.  The  Secretary-
General  dispatched  an  International  Commission  of 
Inquiry  to  the  field  one  month  after  the  fact,  and  I 
would like to once again thank him sincerely for that. 
The  Prosecutor  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
instituted  proceedings. That  pressure  enabled  Guinean 
civil society in the field to make the difference. Today 
the junta has been replaced by a transitional executive. 
Nothing has been won. There will be a second round of 
elections  in  two  weeks.  But  I  wanted  to  recall  this 
success of the United Nations since at the beginning I 
said that the responsibility to protect was threatened. I 
think  we  can  all  agree  that  there  is  a  movement 
forming in civil society throughout the world and that 
we can still take action. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Mourad  Medelci,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Republic of Algeria. 

Mr. Medelci (Algeria) (spoke in Arabic): First of 
all,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your 
assumption  of  the  presidency  of  this  session  of  the 
General Assembly. Your character, distinguished career 
and  knowledge  of  current  international  affairs  will 
surely contribute to the management and success of our 
work. I would like to convey Algeria’s full support for 
your efforts in the course of your term of office. I also 
pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor,  my  brother  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  for  his  efforts  and  commitment  to 
the  principles  of  multilateralism  and  respect  for  the 
founding values of the Charter. Additionally, I wish to 
express  our  satisfaction  and  gratitude  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  breadth  and  quality  of 
the efforts which he has tirelessly exerted to add to the 
role  of  the  Organization  in  our  joint  quest  to  achieve 
and strengthen its ideals. 

some 
encouraging  signs  of  economic  recovery,  the  world 
continues to suffer from the aftermath of the financial 
and economic crisis. The steps taken thus far to address 
its most devastating effects and to relaunch the global 
economic  engine  lead  us  to  believe  even  more  firmly 
emergence 
Despite 
recent 
the 
of 
38 

10-55122 


that  the  best  way  to  prevent  worse  crises  from 
occurring  is  to  rethink  global  financial  and  economic 
governance  in  a  rational  manner  that  leaves  no  room 
for speculation and the vagaries of the market and that 
serves as a fair model for developing countries. 

The  main  trends  in  the  world  since  the  last 
session  have  led  us  to  examine  the  depth  of  the 
economic  crisis  in  the  poorest  countries,  especially  in 
Africa.  Crises  such  as  this  hamper  progress  in  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  notably  in  the  areas  of  maternal  and  child 
health  and  in  combating  poverty.  It  is  important  that 
the  international  community  respect  its  commitments 
in  the  area  of  official  development  assistance  and 
provide  recipient  countries  with  additional  assistance 
so that they can achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals.  Several  options  could  be  explored  in  that 
regard, some of which seem very promising to us. They 
include debt moratoriums for developing countries that 
have  difficulty  in  paying  their  debts  and  easier  access 
to the markets of developed countries. 

The fact that a high-level meeting on biodiversity 
will take place in a few weeks’ time in Nagoya, Japan, 
provides  us  with  a  valuable  opportunity  to  launch  an 
urgent  appeal  requesting  the  international  community 
to mobilize to preserve the biological resources of our 
threatened  by  unbridled 
planet,  which  are  being 
economic  development 
take  future 
generations  into  account.  In  that  context,  I  would  like 
to  stress  the  need  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations 
in  developing 
countries  and  in  promoting  North-South  cooperation 
that is mutually beneficial. 
The  issue  of  climate  change  presents  another 

considerable 
international 
community,  given  the  manifold  threats  it  poses  to 
ecosystems  and  economies.  The  limited  and  modest 
results  achieved 
to 
encourage  all  States  to  redouble  their  efforts  to  make 
progress  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties,  to  be  held  in  Cancún,  towards  establishing  a 
legally  binding  agreement  based  on 
the  Kyoto 
Protocol’s Framework Convention. 

No  doubt  due  to  climate  change,  the  extreme 
gravity  of  the  natural  phenomena  that  have  lately 
plunged  Pakistan,  Russia,  China,  India  and  other 
countries 
to 
restructure  international  mechanisms  to  respond  to 
in  Copenhagen  should  serve 
in  protecting  biodiversity 
into  disaster  means 
that  we  need 
that  does  not 
challenge 
the 
for 
A/65/PV.19
its  mandate.  To 
international  peace  and  security, 
natural disasters of this kind. On the basis of humanism 
and  solidarity,  Algeria  launches  an  appeal  for  a  joint 
international  reflection  on  the  best  way  to  achieve 
genuine comprehensive natural disaster management. 

Countries  that  do  not  possess  nuclear  weapons, 
such as Algeria, have the right to ask nuclear States to 
truly embrace nuclear disarmament. The results of the 
2010  eighth  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
constitute  a  positive  step  in  that  regard,  thanks  in 
particular to the launching of a process that should give 
rise to a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East. 
In  order  to  rise  to  the  multiple  challenges 

confronting 
the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  should  make  the  most  of 
the  favourable  international  circumstances  and  the 
positive  momentum  generated  by  the  results  of  the 
2010  Review  Conference  to  restart  its  work  and 
comply  with 
that  end,  Algeria 
continues to be committed to the effective relaunching 
of  the  work  of  the  Conference  on  Disarmament. 
Algeria  believes  that  the  goals  and  contents  of  the 
programme adopted in 2009 continue to be valid today 
and could be the basis for the work of future sessions. 

The  issue  of  peace  and  security  is  also  linked  to 
the  exacerbation  of  terrorism  and  its  links  with 
transnational  organized  crime,  the  taking  of  hostages 
and  trafficking  in  arms,  drugs  and  human  beings.  My 
country  welcomes  the  adoption  of  resolution  1904 
(2009),  on  criminalizing  the  payment  of  ransoms  to 
armed  groups  based  on 
this 
condemnable  practice 
is  a  significant  source  of 
financing for terrorism. Nevertheless, the international 
community  must  still  make  considerable  efforts  to 
eradicate  this  transnational  threat,  not  just  in  the 
context 
systematic 
implementation but also in the light of the increase  in 
hostage-taking  by 
the  payment  of 
ransoms  to  them.  This  is  an  issue  that  must  be 
addressed  with 
and 
responsibility. 

Algeria  calls  on  the  international  community  to 
act to prevent the criminal use of international satellite 
images  via 
the 
comprehensive 
terrorism,  which 
Algeria  fully  supports,  will  be  a  main  factor  in 
checking piracy, once it has been adopted. 
Internet.  We  believe 
comprehensive 
terrorists  and 
determination, 
the  principle 
to  combat 
strength 
the 
treaty 
of 
and 
that 
that 
10-55122 

39 
With 
regard 
to 
for 

to 
recent 
respect 
projects 
encourage 
launched  several 
A/65/PV.19 


the  principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, Algeria 
fully  participates  in  regional  integration  attempts  as  a 
crucial  element  in  combating  international  terrorism. 
Algeria  has 
initiatives, 
including  an  initiative  to  strengthen  bilateral  and 
regional  cooperation  among  States  in  our  region  in 
order to bolster peace, security and development.  It is 
committed  to  pursuing  common  efforts  to  build  the 
Arab  Maghreb  union  and  endow  it  with  dynamic 
institutions to ensure that the project comes into being 
as  the  ideal  framework  for  economic  cooperation  and 
complementarity  in  the  region.  It  has  also  launched 
Maghreb-wide  economic  and  social  programmes  and 
development 
regional 
integration. 

The Palestinian people, who continue to aspire to 
build  a  viable  State,  are  still  held  hostage  by  the 
indecision  of  certain  parties. That  is  being  aggravated 
by policies of aggression and unjust siege. We reiterate 
our call to the international community to show resolve 
and  unity  with  regard  to  this  conflict  by  bringing 
pressure  to  bear  on  the  occupation  forces. We  believe 
that  a  definitive,  comprehensive  and  just  solution 
requires 
the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative.  In  that  context,  on  behalf  of  the  Algerian 
people  and  Government,  I  should  like  to  express  our 
friendship and support to our Palestinian brothers. 

Algeria  would  like  to  see  an  immediate  halt  to 
settlements,  the  return  of  Palestinian  refugees,  the 
return  of  East  Jerusalem  to  the  Palestinians  as  the 
capital of a Palestinian State and a return to the borders 
of 4 June 1967. The other occupied Arab territories in 
Lebanon and the Golan should also be returned. 

As  we  mark  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of resolution 1514 (XV), which enshrined the 
principle of freeing oppressed people from the yoke of 
colonialism, we unfortunately continue to see that there 
still  exist  Non-Self-Governing  Territories  whose 
populations continue to aspire to self-determination. To 
that  end,  and 
in  keeping  with  our  duties  and 
responsibilities,  Algeria  is  willing  to  extend  its  full 
support  to  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  of 
Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  Christopher 
Ross  in  order  to  resolve  the  Western  Sahara  conflict. 
We  express  our  adherence 
the  human  rights 
dimension of  the issue and the need for it to be taken 
into  account  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  other 
international mechanisms in that area, in line with the 
implementation  of 
the 
to 
the 
also 
rejects 
imposition 
relevant provisions of the United Nations Charter, so as 
to reach a just political solution that allows the people 
of  Western  Sahara  to  exercise  their  right  to  self-
determination  through  a  referendum.  I  reiterate  my 
country’s  belief,  in  line  with  the  view  of  the  African 
Union  Summit  held  in  Kampala,  that  there  cannot  be 
an  international  justice  system  that  operates  at  two 
different  speeds  and  focuses  on  a  single  region  of  the 
world,  for  this  issue  poses  a  threat  to  regional  peace 
and security. 

of 
Algeria 
extraterritorial laws and rules and all forms of coercive 
economic  measures, 
including  unilateral  sanctions 
against  developing  countries.  In  that  regard,  Algeria 
reiterates  the  need  to  end  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  that  has  been  imposed  against 
the Cuban Government and people for more than half a 
century. 

The African Union has proclaimed 2010 the Year 
of Peace and Security in Africa, as an expression of the 
will of its member States to make every peaceful effort 
to resolve all ongoing and new conflicts and crises on 
our  continent.  We  encourage  the  African  Union  to 
integrate  economically  and  politically  so  that  it  can 
become  a  partner  to  reckon  with  in  international 
affairs. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ruslan  Kazakbaev,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic. 

Mr. Kazakbaev (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): 
I would first like to congratulate you, President Deiss, 
on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  it  sixty-fifth  session.  I  wish  you  every 
success. 
For  Kyrgyzstan,  2010  has  been  a  year  of 

profound  changes  and  serious  challenges 
to  our 
continued  existence,  unity  and  statehood.  In  April, 
having  overthrown  the  authoritarian  system  of  State 
governance,  with  its  flagrant  corruption  and  illegality, 
the  Kyrgyz  people  resolutely  chose  a  path  to  renewal 
and genuine democratic development. 

the  world 
witnessed  acutely  destabilizing  situations  in  the  south 
of  Kyrgyzstan,  where  radical  forces  of  the  former 
Government and criminal and extremist groups sought 
revenge.  Accordingly,  they  provoked  bloody  clashes 
in  May  and  June, 
Nevertheless, 
40 

10-55122 
that  provided 


between  Kyrgyz  and  Uzbek  communities,  who  have 
lived and worked in peace side by side for centuries. 

Those  extremist  forces  insidiously  played  the 
ethnic  card by  knowingly exploiting  the  precariousness 
of  such  socio-economic  problems  as  poverty,  high 
unemployment — especially among youth — corruption 
and unequal access to economic and financial resources, 
which were ignored by the former Government. 

Mr.  Ndong  Mba  (Equatorial  Guinea),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

In  that  difficult  period,  the  interim  Government 
succeeded  in  consolidating  all  positive  and  patriotic 
forces  among  the  people.  With  the  assistance  of  the 
international  community,  the  interim  Government  was 
able  to  stabilize  the  situation  and  thereby  prevent  a 
return to the past. 
On  27  June,  a  new  Constitution  was  adopted  by 

national  referendum 
the  basis  for 
parliamentary  Government  in  the  country.  Today,  we 
can  in  good  conscience  declare  that  all  the  necessary 
political, economic and organizational conditions have 
been  established  for 
transparent 
parliamentary  elections  in  Kyrgyzstan  on  10  October 
2010.  Kyrgyzstan  has  a  unique  opportunity  to  build  a 
truly democratic parliamentary State based on the rule 
of law and human rights. I am confident that the people 
of  Kyrgyzstan  will  show  wisdom  and  a  high  level  of 
political involvement and not miss this chance. 

In  order  to  move  successfully  along  the  path  of 
democratic  development  and  prevent  future  political 
and  socio-economic  disturbances,  we 
to 
thoroughly  analyse  the  origins  and  reasons  behind  the 
apparent conflicts that took place in our country in the 
past  year,  and  more  specifically  over  the  past  six 
months. 

At  present  a  State  commission  to  investigate  the 
reasons  for  the  conflict  is  at  work.  The  commission 
consists  of  prominent  political  activists,  scientists  and 
experts,  of  Kyrgyz,  Uzbek  and  other  nationalities  that 
make  up  multinational  Kyrgyzstan.  An  international 
independent  commission  has  also  begun  its  work, 
supported by the United Nations, the European Union, 
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  (OSCE)  and  Nordic  countries.  We  should 
identify the organizers of the bloody clashes, seek what 
lessons  can  be 
to  comprehend  and 
the  holding  of 
learned, 
intend 
try 
A/65/PV.19
the  various 
render  procurement 
eradicate the causes of friction and seek ways to reach 
inter-ethnic accord in the society. 

But  most  important,  the  realization  of  the  tragic 
and  futile  nature  of  the  results  of  extremist  actions 
must become established in the minds of the peoples of 
the  various  ethnic  communities  living  in  Kyrgyzstan. 
An  unshakable  commitment  to  national  unity  and 
nationhood  must  become  the  cohesive  element  and 
uniting force in the country. 

forms  of 
We  are  expanding 
cooperation with regional international organizations in 
order  to  further  stabilize  the  situation  in  Kyrgyzstan. 
Thus,  with  a  view  to  rendering  assistance  to  law 
enforcement  staff  and  restoring  confidence  between 
people  and  local  administrations,  the  negotiations  on 
engaging 
the  OSCE  police  advisory  group  are 
concluding.  In  line  with  agreements  reached,  the 
partner  countries  of  the  Collective  Security  Treaty 
Organization 
advisory 
assistance. 

The  Kyrgyz  Republic  highly  appreciates  the 
position  and  actions  of  the  leadership  of  the  Republic 
of  Uzbekistan,  and  of  President  Islam  Karimov 
personally,  in  stabilizing  the  situation  in  the  south  of 
our  country,  especially  in  the  first  days  of  the  unrest. 
We  are  also  grateful  for  the  support  and  invaluable 
assistance 
that 
brotherly  country  to  citizens  of  Kyrgyzstan  displaced 
into Uzbekistan, and for facilitating their return. 

We  are  sincerely  grateful  to  all  those  who 
responded  to  the  call  for  help  and  assistance  in  the 
framework of the flash appeal for Kyrgyzstan launched 
by  the  United  Nations,  and  also  for  comprehensive 
support provided on a bilateral basis. 
immediate  humanitarian  assistance  from 

friendly  countries, 
international  organizations  and 
agencies and United Nations institutions has been vital 
in  stabilizing  the  crisis  situation  and  overcoming  the 
destructive 
humanitarian 
catastrophe. As of today we have received 40 per cent 
of  the  required  help  within  the  framework  of  the 
appeal.  It  is  obviously  not  sufficient,  given  the  urgent 
need  of  the  population  on  the  streets  of  the  affected 
cities  and  settlements.  People  still  need  housing,  the 
wounded  need  medical  care,  and  schools  and  social 
service buildings need to be rebuilt. 
the  Government  of 
consequences 
rendered  by 
The 
and 
of 
a 
10-55122 

41 
the  United  Nations 
A/65/PV.19 


At  present  our  Government  is  focusing  its  basic 
efforts on post-conflict reconstruction of the country’s 
social  and  economic  infrastructure,  especially  in  the 
southern  regions.  Therefore, 
timely  and  practical 
implementation  of  commitments  made  at  the  donor 
conference on Kyrgyzstan held in Bishkek this July is 
extremely important. 

Kyrgyzstan  supports  the  position  of  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  stated  on  23  September  at  the 
(see  S/PV.6389),  on 
Security  Council  Summit 
strengthening 
the  role  of 
in 
responding to humanitarian catastrophes and resolving 
crisis situations. 

The establishment of the United Nations Regional 
Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia was 
an  important  and  necessary  step  on  the  part  of  the 
United Nations. We consider it essential to expand and 
strengthen  its  operations,  which  will  allow  it  to 
implement  a  package  of  preventive  measures  and  to 
activate  mediation  services.  We  also  welcome  the 
launch  of  a  counter-terrorism  strategy  for  the  Central 
Asian  region  and  are  ready  to  strengthen  cooperation 
aimed at adoption of a joint action plan by 2011. 

The  Security  Council  summit  prompts  us  to 
consider more seriously the problem of terrorism. The 
events of June of this year in the Kyrgyz Republic  — 
when  various  terrorists  groups  attempted  to  enter  the 
territory  of  Kyrgyzstan  by  mountain  paths  from 
neighbouring  countries  —  testify  to  the  presence  of 
real threats of terrorism to the peace and security of the 
States bordering Afghanistan. 

Terrorist  groups  joining  forces  with  drug  barons 
and  other  criminal  elements  is  a  great  concern.  Such 
combustible hybrids should be eliminated by the most 
drastic  measures.  Therefore,  the  Kyrgyz  State  drug 
control  agency,  which  was  liquidated  a  year  ago,  has 
recently  been  restored. As  we  intensify  our  efforts  in 
the  fight  against  illegal  drug  trafficking,  we  are 
extremely 
strategic 
programme for the countries of Central Asia to oppose 
illegal  drug 
international 
crime.  We  must  further  strengthen  the  activity  of  the 
Central Asian  Regional  Information  and  Coordination 
Centre  in  fighting  illegal  trafficking  of  psychotropic 
substances  and  their  precursors  under  the  aegis  of  the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. 
The  action  plan  of  the  European  Union  and  the 

Central Asian  countries  for  2009-2013  should  become 
trafficking  and  fighting 
furthering 
interested 
in 
a 

fragile 
process 
In  Afghanistan, 
region.  Kyrgyzstan 
an important part of international efforts to fight illegal 
drug trafficking, along with coordinated actions within 
the  framework  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. We 
continually  call  upon  the  United  Nations  to  improve 
coordination  of  the  fights  against  drug  trafficking  and 
transnational organized crime. 

the 
of 
peacekeeping  and  reconciliation  and  the  development 
of  the  institutional  structures  are  points  of  special 
concern.  The  recent  parliamentary  elections  in  that 
country  inspire  some  optimism  about  strengthening 
civil  society  and  creating  a  parliament  of  national 
unity.  The  construction  of  a  stable  economy  and 
effective  support  of  Afghanistan’s  State  institutions 
will  serve  as  the  basis  for  a  durable  peace  in  that 
country  and  will  reduce  the  threat  to  security  in  the 
Central  Asian 
supports 
international  programmes  for  Afghanistan’s  economic 
reconstruction  and  is  ready  to  contribute  material  and 
personnel  and  to  work  closely  with  the  anti-terrorist 
coalition. 

The Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference 
last  May  demonstrated  the  possibility  of  achieving  an 
understanding 
the  critical  sphere  of  nuclear 
disarmament.  My  country  is  also  contributing  to  that 
effort.  Kyrgyzstan  has  been  designated  as 
the 
depositary  of  the  Treaty  on  a  Nuclear-Weapon-Free 
Zone  in  Central  Asia.  Thus  it  promotes  regional 
security  while  broadening  collaboration  with  other 
nuclear-weapon-free zones. 

The  ecological  dimension  is  a  special  feature  of 
the Treaty  on  a  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  in  Central 
Asia. That is because there remains a large quantity of 
uranium tailings in Kyrgyzstan, which  poses a serious 
risk  to  human  life  and  to  the  environment  in  general. 
On  this  matter,  we  are  grateful  to  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme for its increased attention to 
those zones of high ecological risk and for conducting 
an international meeting in 2009. 

We would like to call delegates’ attention to item 
97 (i)  on  the  Assembly’s  agenda  for  this  session, 
entitled “Establishment of  a nuclear-weapon-free  zone 
in Central Asia”, and we ask them to support it. 

United Nations peacekeeping operations are a key 
tool in preserving and maintaining peace on our planet. 
Kyrgyzstan  is  the  only  country  in  the  region  that  is 
contributing  more  than  30  peacekeepers  to  United 
in 
42 

10-55122 
It 
supports 
operations. 
peacekeeping 


Nations  missions  in  Africa,  Asia  and  the  Caribbean, 
and  it  is  ready  to  increase  its  participation  in  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations. 

The  delegation  of  Kyrgyzstan  has  repeatedly 
come out in favour of fully optimizing the management 
the 
of 
comprehensive  strategy  for  field  support  and 
its 
reform, as documented in “A New Partnership Agenda: 
Charting  a  New  Horizon  for  UN  Peacekeeping”.  We 
are convinced of the vital importance of involving such 
authoritative  regional  organizations  as  the  European 
Union,  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe  and 
the  Collective  Security  Treaty 
Organization  in  peacekeeping  activities  and  post-
conflict reconstruction. 

Kyrgyzstan  is  devoted  to  the  purposes  and  tasks 
of  strengthening  international  peace  and  security,  and, 
as  a  candidate  for  non-permanent  membership  on  the 
Security Council, is ready to contribute to the cause of 
peace,  especially  by  participating  in  the  work  of  the 
Council and its committees. 

We wish to focus the Assembly’s attention on the 
issues of environmental safety and hydropower. Recent 
studies  have  confirmed  the  loss  of  more  than  20  per 
cent  of  Kyrgyzstan’s  glaciers  and  snowfields,  which 
requires urgent efforts to preserve our river headwaters 
and restore our forests. Kyrgyzstan is interested in the 
rational  exploitation  of  its  resources,  an  attractive 
investment  climate, preserving ecological security  and 
developing  alternative  energy  sources.  We  need  to 
launch  regional  projects  within  the  framework  of  the 
Central  Asia/South  Asia  Regional  Electricity  Market, 
starting  with 
the  construction  of  a  Kyrgyzstan-
Tajikistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan electric power line. 
We pledge our full support to developing concrete 

measures at the forthcoming sixteenth Climate Change 
Conference  in  Cancún  in  November.  Among  the 
practical  steps  to  be  taken in  this  area,  I  will  mention 
that 
the  forthcoming  International  Conference  of 
Mountain  Countries,  on  climate  change,  to  be  held  in 
Kathmandu,  will  be  making  broad  proposals  for  the 
Cancún meeting. 
Kyrgyzstan  is  studying  significant  projects  on 

sustainable  development  and  supports  Mr.  László 
Borbély  in  his  work  for  the  nineteenth  session  of  the 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development.  Our 
imperative  is  achieving  the  agenda  of  the  twenty-first 
A/65/PV.19
century and making the Johannesburg Plan of Action a 
reality. 

In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that the 
activity of the United Nations must respond fully to the 
expectations  of  people  throughout  the  planet  and  that 
we, countries both small and large, must not forget the 
responsibility  we  bear  for  our  actions.  I  also  wish  for 
all  the  wisdom  and  courage  that  will  help  us  in 
achieving  the  enduring  purposes  and  values  of  our 
Organization in building a better peace. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Shaikh  Khalid  Bin 
Ahmed Al-Khalifa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Kingdom of Bahrain. 
Shaikh  Al-Khalifa  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

First  of  all,  it  gives  me  pleasure  to  convey  to  the 
Assembly  the  greetings  of  His  Majesty  King  Hamad 
bin Issa Al Khalifa of Bahrain, and His Majesty’s best 
wishes for every success. I also congratulate Mr. Deiss 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  thank  His  Excellency  Ali  Abdussalam 
Treki, President at the previous session, for his skilful 
management  of  its  deliberations.  I  also  commend 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-Moon  for  his  efforts  and 
contributions to international issues. 

We  all  know  that  since  its  inception  the  United 
Nations  has  scored  many  successes  in  promoting 
collective  international  action.  It  has  undertaken  a 
great  many  initiatives  and  conceived  many  ideas 
beneficial 
innovative 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Today,  we 
view those Goals as the principal topic on which we all 
agree. 

As the representative of my country, I shall touch 
on  the  challenges  facing  humanity  in  various  fields, 
whether  they  concern  solutions  to  problems  between 
nations  or 
ambitions, 
highlighting  some  of  the  achievements  that,  taken 
together, can serve the common good. 

The  most  important  challenge  facing  our  world 
today  is  achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015. We  know  that 
many States have made huge and outstanding efforts to 
that end. In this context, the Kingdom of Bahrain holds 
a leading and positive position, particularly in the field 
of  social  welfare,  free,  quality  basic  education,  health 
care,  improvement  of  child  and  maternal  health,  the 
empowerment  of  women,  gender  equality, 
the 
realization  of 
to  humanity, 
including 
peoples’ 
the 
10-55122 

43 
that  can  enhance 
A/65/PV.19 

expansion  of  the  social  security  net  for  the  poorest  of 
the  population,  our  unemployment  insurance  scheme, 
and  expansion  of  the  scope  of  vocational  training  to 
enhance Bahrain’s human resources. 
I  am  honoured  to  stand  before  the  Assembly  as 

representative  of  a  country  actively  pursuing 
its 
international  responsibilities.  When  we  refer  to  the 
notion  of  a  modern  State  as  the  most  important 
political,  social,  cultural  and  economic  product  of  the 
modern  history  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  it  is 
because whatever achievements have been realized can 
be  attributed  to  good  governance  —  governance  that 
has  encouraged  and  supported  initiatives  and  political 
and  organizational  visions  aimed  at  building  the 
institutions  and  capacities 
the 
principles  of  a  modern,  organized  society.  Such  a 
society is faithful to its values in every area, based on 
State institutions that guarantee all talented citizens the 
opportunity to create and innovate and to be an active 
participant in our contemporary world. 

The Economic Vision 2030 for Bahrain, launched 
by  His  Majesty  King  Hamad  bin  Issa  Al  Khalifa  on 
23 October  2008,  is  an  historic  turning  point  and  a 
gateway  to  economic  reform,  and  a  completion  of 
political reform. It lays down a long-term vision of the 
future  tracks  of  the  national  economy  up  to  2030.  It 
aims  to  ensure  the  transformation  of  the  current 
economy  from  one  based  on  oil  revenues  into  an 
internationally  competitive  and  productive  system, 
planned by the Government but led by a vibrant private 
sector. The outcome will be a growing Bahraini middle 
class  enjoying  a  high  standard  of  living,  due  to 
increased  productivity  and  well-paid jobs. This Vision 
aims  to  establish  a  society  based  on  the  principles  of 
sustainability, competitiveness and justice. 

the 
international  economy  since  2008  and  the  ensuing 
sovereign  debt  crisis  in  Europe,  austerity  measures, 
reform  and  restructuring  of 
the  banking  system, 
increased State intervention in matters of banking  and 
economy  in  various  countries  —  all  this  has  led  to  a 
prominent  role  for 
in 
responding to financial and economic crises, due to the 
fact  that  it  represents  some  90  per  cent  of  the  world 
economy.  Consequently,  the  time  has  come  for  the 
G-20,  and  other  blocs  such  as  3-G,  to  play  a  leading 
role  in  developing  and  enhancing  a  common  action 
from  within 
its  various 
institutions  and  organs  by  setting  up  plans  for 
the  Group  of  20  (G-20) 
the  United  Nations  and 
The 
financial  crisis 
that  has  affected 

collective  action  aimed  at  enhancing  countries’ 
capacity to address future crises and to achieve an open 
and  integrated  economy.  That  is  in  line  with  the 
constructive  thoughts  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly in this regard. 

The settlement of conflicts and disputes between 
States,  conflicts  that  we  ourselves  created,  is  a  daily 
concern  for  all  of  us.  Those  conflicts  are  either  of  an 
ideological  or  ethnic  nature,  or  are  caused  by  people 
occupying the land of other peoples and evicting them 
from  their  homes  and  homelands. The  conflicts  divert 
our attention from more important concerns, including 
addressing  poverty,  ignorance,  epidemics  and  natural 
disasters,  which  take  a  heavy  toll  and  impede  human 
creativity.  Limited  national  interests  of  one  State  or 
another that completely avoid considering the common 
global  good  are  largely  responsible  for  this  state  of 
affairs. 

One of the most important among these issues is 
the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  which  is  located  in  our 
region.  We  have  been  at  an  impasse  for  decades,  as 
failure  has  followed  hopeful  efforts  and  our  optimism 
has  been  clouded  by  frustration  because  of 
the 
continued  backtracking  of  the  peace  process.  Yet  we 
persevere  and  cherish  the  hope  of  achieving  a  just, 
permanent  and  comprehensive  peace  that  will  restore 
rights to legitimate owners and open doors for mutual 
acceptance  of  others  as  neighbours,  friends  and 
partners  fully  sharing  the  respect  and  commitment 
required. 

the  historic 
In 
commitment  and  tireless  efforts  of  President  Barack 
Obama  of  the  United  States  of  America  and  his 
Administration  to  give  a  strong  impetus  to  the  peace 
process  in  the  Middle  East  and  to  renew  hope  by 
relaunching  direct  negotiations  between  Palestine  and 
Israel with a view to settling this chronic conflict. 

These  precious  efforts,  however,  require  the 
continued  support  of  all  parties  concerned  and  their 
unwavering commitment to take the necessary steps to 
achieve  coexistence  through  enhanced  communication 
and outreach. There should be an opportunity for each 
party  to  convince  the  other  to  coexist  as  a  neighbour 
and a partner in the region, and not an ill-intentioned or 
treacherous enemy. Our commitment to the Arab Peace 
Initiative  is  one  clear  example.  We  are  committed  to 
that Initiative and all its provisions aimed at achieving 
a genuine peace. 
this  connection,  we  value 
10-55122 
44 

transparency  and  full  compliance  with 


One  of  the  basic  tenets  of  our  foreign  policy  is 

our  determination 
to  see  security,  stability  and 
development prevail. In that respect we look forward to 
a  safe  and  prosperous  Iraq  that  is  able  to  check  any 
foreign  intervention  in  its  domestic  affairs,  an  Iraq 
faithful to its Arab-Islamic identity and inclusive of all 
its ethnic and cultural affiliations. 

As  regards  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  we  are 
keenly  interested  in  its  stability  and  its  people’s 
prosperity. We look forward to it playing a vital role in 
order  to  eliminate  the  ghost  of  discord  around  its 
nuclear programme. We welcome its commitment to a 
peaceful  nuclear  programme  and  stress  the  need  for 
total 
the 
requirements  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  and  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons. 
On  the  other  hand,  with  regard  to  the  sisterly 

United  Arab  Emirates 
islands  occupied  by  Iran, 
settlement  of  the  question  through  direct  negotiations 
or  referral  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  would 
constitute  a  vital  step  and  a  foundation  for  regional 
cohesion  and  understanding  that  would  generate  the 
stability necessary for development, which would be in 
the interest of all the peoples of the region. 

As  for  Yemen,  its  stability  is  a  pillar  for  the 
stability  of  the  region  as  a  whole.  The  Kingdom  of 
Bahrain  therefore  reaffirms  its  full  support  to  the 
Republic of Yemen in all its efforts to combat terrorism 
and  protect  its  national  security.  Bahrain  calls  on  the 
international  community 
to  provide  support  and 
assistance  to  that  brotherly  country,  either  through 
bilateral  channels  or  through  the  group  of  Friends  of 
Yemen. 
the  Sudan,  we 

welcome  the  agreement  signed  by  the  Government  of 
the Sudan and the concerned Sudanese parties, and we 
commend 
its 
considerable efforts in that matter. We look forward to 
completion of the current negotiations on Darfur within 
the framework of the agreement signed to preserve the 
unity of brotherly Sudan. 
Resolving those disputes will enable us to address 

the  real  challenges  to  which  we  should  devote  our 
common attention: challenges of security and terrorism 
and challenges of devastating natural disasters, such as 
the  tragic  ordeals  which  affected  the  sisterly  Islamic 
Republic  of  Pakistan  and  the  Republic  of  Haiti  — 
sisterly  State  of  Qatar 
the  situation 
Regarding 
the 
for 
in 
A/65/PV.19
of 
and 
society 
in 
political 
participation, 
thus  contradicting 
respectively, the unprecedented catastrophic floods and 
the  devastating  earthquake.  We  express  our  solidarity 
with those countries and hope they will overcome their 
from 
adversity  with  assistance  and  support 
the 
international  community  commensurate  with 
the 
enormity of the disasters. 

Terrorism  is  a  multifaceted  global  phenomenon 
that  affects  the  entire  world  through  criminal  terrorist 
acts  perpetrated  against  many  countries.  It  exploits 
discourse  to  stir  up  violence  and  to  divide  countries 
and  communities, 
its  original 
mission of providing spiritual counsel and guidance. It 
utilizes mass media for the same purpose. The best way 
to  combat  terrorism  is  to  monitor  and  expose  its 
funding  sources.  That  requires  global  consensus  on  a 
transparent  international  financial  system  to  regulate 
the transfer of those funds. 

For the international community to address these 
serious  challenges  and  threats,  States  must  be  in  a 
position  to  play  their  role  fully  through  strengthened 
concepts 
democratic 
practices,  human  rights,  rule  of  law,  judicial  and 
institutional reform, including freedom of opinion and 
expression, 
sharing 
responsibilities. 

that 
restructuring  international  relations  and  forming  more 
inclusive  alliances  requires  a  higher  degree  of  respect 
for the opinions and values of others. That is consistent 
with our commitment to pursue the noble purposes and 
principles  embodied  in  the  Charter:  peace,  security, 
friendly relations and international cooperation among 
nations  and  peoples.  My  country  reaffirms  before  the 
Assembly  its  resolve  to  play  its  role  as  an  effective 
member of the international community and to actively 
participate  and  take  initiatives  in  efforts  for  the  good 
and prosperity of all. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cuba. 

in 
Spanish): Yesterday was exactly the fiftieth anniversary 
of the first speech of Commander in Chief Fidel Castro 
Ruz in this Hall, with that memorable sentence that if 
the 
the  philosophy  of  plunder  disappears, 
then 
philosophy  of  war  will  have  disappeared 
(see 
A/PV.872). 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
In  concluding,  I  would 
involving 
to  state 
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
like 
10-55122 

45 
A/65/PV.19 


Sixty  million  people  had  to  die  in  the  Second 
World War so that the leaders of the time could create 
the  United  Nations  with  the  aim  of  saving  succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war. 

Today,  the  children  and  grandchildren  of  that 
generation realize that the human race is faced with the 
threat  of  extinction.  Within  a  few  decades, 
the 
degradation  of  living  conditions  on  the  planet  will  be 
irreversible. The  same  could  happen  in  a  few  hours  if 
only  a  small  part  of  the  nuclear  arsenal  were  to  be 
used.  Those  who  met  in  San  Francisco  to  draft  the 
Charter of the United Nations could not have imagined 
the threat now posed by global warming or the nuclear 
winter. 

While  we  deliberate  here,  as  Comrade  Fidel  has 
warned,  powerful  and  influential  forces  in  the  United 
States  and  Israel  are  paving  the  way  to  launch  a 
military  attack  against  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran. 
For  its  part,  the  Security  Council,  possibly  under  the 
illusion  of  preventing  that,  is  going  ahead  with 
applying  sanctions  against 
that  country,  which, 
together with the unilateral sanctions illegally imposed 
by  a  group  of  States,  seek  to  strangle  the  Iranian 
economy. 

The recent and politically biased report issued by 
the  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  has  contributed  to  increasing  the 
tensions  and  has  provided  a  pretext  for  military 
escalation. Should that aggression in fact materialize, it 
would  be  a  crime  against  the  Iranian  people  and  an 
assault  against  peace  and  international  law  that  could 
ignite  a  conflict  that  will  certainly  turn  nuclear.  The 
toll  would  be  millions  of  lives  and  the  impact  on  the 
environment, 
stability 
incalculable. 

Who  could  assert  otherwise,  and  on  the  basis  of 
what  guarantees?  How  could  it  be  argued  that  the 
present  course  of  events  is  distancing  the  planet  from 
war  in  the  Middle  East?  The  threat  is  too  serious  to 
trust in the capacity of the Security Council, where the 
main  actor  responsible  for  the  crisis  has  relied  on  its 
ability to impose its designs. 
and  Afghanistan 

against 
demonstrate  that  we  cannot  entrust  one  or  a  few 
Governments  with  the  authority  to  decide  when  all 
diplomatic steps to prevent a war have been exhausted, 
when the use of force becomes unavoidable, and when 
the  death  of  hundreds  of  thousands  or  millions  of 
the  economy  and  world 
The  wars 
Iraq 

the 
international  community 
people  and  the  destabilization  of  a  large  area  of  the 
planet — or all these things together — are inevitable. 
Sanctions,  sieges  and  conflict  are  not  the  way  to 
preserve  international  peace  and  security.  On  the 
contrary,  dialogue,  negotiation  and  adherence  to  the 
principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  are  the 
only way to avoid war. 

Cuba commends and encourages the efforts of all 
those  countries,  such  as  China,  Russia,  Brazil  and 
Turkey, that strive to find peaceful solutions, and calls 
on 
to  support  such 
initiatives.  It  is  the  duty  of  this  General Assembly  to 
officially support those efforts. 

The  United  Nations  must  be  radically  reformed 
and the powers of this General Assembly restored. The 
Security  Council  must  be  recreated.  It  must  be 
reiterated  that  the  Secretary-General  and  all  senior 
officials  of  the  international  agencies,  including  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  answer  to  all 
Member States, as set out in clear mandates adopted in 
accordance with the Charter and the rules of procedure. 

The serious threat posed by nuclear weapons will be 
solved  only  with  their  total  elimination  and  prohibition. 
The manipulation surrounding non-proliferation — based 
on double standards and political interest, the existence of 
a club of the privileged and the denial to the countries of 
the South of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy — must 
stop. We urge the United States, the main nuclear Power, 
to  stop  opposing  the  negotiation  of  binding  agreements 
that could rid us once and for all of this threat within a set 
time frame. Given the great lethal power and the ongoing 
development of conventional weapons, we will also have 
to fight for complete and general disarmament. 

In  order  to  move  ahead  on  those  tasks,  the 
Non-Aligned Movement submitted a proposal that has 
gone  unheeded.  The  proposal  envisages  a  plan  of 
action  that  includes  the  establishment  of  nuclear-
weapon-free zones. It is urgent to establish such a zone 
in  the  Middle  East,  where  Israel  is  the  only  country 
that opposes it. Success in this effort would contribute 
significantly  to  dispelling  the  threats  of  conflict  and 
nuclear  proliferation  and  to  achieving  lasting  peace  in 
that region. 

The  floods  that  have  affected  Pakistan,  Central 
America and many other countries in the most diverse 
latitudes,  as  well  as 
the  droughts  and  extreme 
temperatures  that  have  devastated  Russia,  are  a  tragic 
reminder of the threats of a climate out of balance. In 
46 

10-55122 
in  Copenhagen 
and 
later  met 
irresponsible  of 
refrain 
from  destroying 
It  would  be  very 
legitimate  claims  of 


the face of such a serious threat, no selfish interests or 
narrow  political  agendas  that  prevent  the  adoption  of 
concrete  and  binding  agreements  at 
the  next 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  should 
prevail.  The  developed  countries,  which  bear  the 
greatest  responsibility  for  global  warming,  should 
accept  more  ambitious  goals  for  reducing  greenhouse 
gas  emissions  and 
the 
framework  established  by  the  Convention  and  its 
Kyoto Protocol. 

the 
Governments  of  the  industrialized  countries  to  ignore 
the 
the  non-governmental 
organizations and social movements that were brutally 
suppressed 
in 
Cochabamba barely five months ago to defend Mother 
Earth,  or  to  again  seek  to  deceive  public  opinion  by 
blaming the emerging economies. 

We  call  for  the  full  support  of  the  international 
community for Venezuela in its struggle. The victory in 
yesterday’s  parliamentary  elections  demonstrates  the 
broad  majority  support  of  the  people  for  President 
Chávez  and  the  Bolivarian  revolution,  which  have 
suffered North American interference and the scorn and 
disinformation campaigns of the oligarchic groups and 
media empires. 

Now  that  the  television  cameras  have  left  Haiti, 
we call for the pledges of international assistance to be 
honoured. The noble Haitian people need resources for 
reconstruction and, above all, for development. 

The United States Government is aware of Cuba’s 
readiness to coexist in a climate of peace, respect and 
sovereign equality, which we have expressly conveyed 
through official channels and which I reiterate here on 
behalf  of  President  Raúl  Castro.  I  am  convinced  that 
the development of relations based on international law 
and the purposes and principles of the  United Nations 
would  enable  Cuba  and  the  United  States  to  address 
many  of  their  differences  and  to  resolve  others.  It 
would help to create an atmosphere conducive to trying 
to  solve  the  problems  of  our  region  and,  at  the  same 
time, provide significant support to the interests of our 
respective peoples. 

The  agenda  for  dialogue  and  bilateral  cooperation 
initiatives submitted to President Obama’s Administration 
on 14 July 2009, which I publicly announced in this Hall 
exactly a year ago (see A/64/PV.11), have yet to receive a 
10-55122 

A/65/PV.19
response. The North American Government has shown no 
willingness  to  address  essential  matters  on  the  bilateral 
agenda, so the official talks that have been held without 
great progress have been limited to specific issues. 

Contrary to expectations, even within the United 
States  itself,  its  Government  does  not  seem  willing  to 
amend even the most irrational and universally rejected 
aspects of its policy against Cuba. The main element in 
our bilateral relations is the economic, commercial and 
financial  blockade  that  the  United  States  Government 
imposes  against  my  country  directly  and  through  the 
extraterritorial  application  of  its  laws.  The  blockade 
has  been  the  subject  of  18  resolutions  that,  with  the 
almost  unanimous  support  of  Member  States,  have 
consistently called for its end. 

However, in the past two years, there has been no 
change  in  the  policy  of  blockade  and  subversion 
against Cuba, even though all know that the President 
of  that  country  is  vested  with  sufficient  authority  to 
make  real  change  and  enjoys  the  broad  majority 
support of the North American people in that respect. 

For  United  States  citizens  or  foreigners  residing 
in that country, travelling to Cuba remains illegal. It is 
impossible 
to  sell  Cuban  products  or  products 
containing  Cuban  components  or  technology  to  the 
United  States.  With  very  limited  exceptions,  Cuba  is 
forbidden to acquire, here or in any other country, any 
product  containing  a  fraction  of  American  input  or 
technology.  Financial  transactions  in  United  States 
dollars,  whether  linked  to  Cuba  or  not,  can  be  either 
confiscated  or  frozen  and  the  banks  involved  may  be 
fined.  Fines  worth  several  millions  are  imposed  on 
United  States  and  foreign  companies  for  violating  the 
venal blockade laws. 
in  open  contradiction  of 

international  norms,  Cuba’s  broadcasting 
space 
continues  to  be  violated  and  radio  and  television 
broadcasts continue to be used for subversive purposes, 
while  millions  in  federal  funds  are  used  to  foment 
political  instability  in  my  country.  Part  of  Cuba’s 
territory  has  been  seized  by  the  United  States,  which 
has  imposed  a  military  base  in  Guantánamo  that  has 
become  a  centre  of  torture  beyond  the  jurisdiction  of 
international humanitarian law. 

United  States  immigration  policy  towards  Cuba, 
based  on  the  Cuban  Adjustment  Act,  is  a  politically 
motivated  exception  that  encourages  illegal  migration 
and costs human lives. Cuba’s inclusion on the United 
In  addition,  and 
47 
spurious 
that 
sponsor 

list  of  countries 
A/65/PV.19 

States’ 
international terrorism is deeply immoral. 

Our demand, and the universal appeal concerning 
it,  is  well  known.  The  five  Cuban  anti-terrorists  who 
have been incarcerated in the United States for 12 years 
as  political  prisoners  must  be  immediately  released. 
Setting them free would be an act of justice that would 
enable President Obama to show his true commitment to 
combating terrorism in our own hemisphere. 

The  President  of  the  United  States  still  has  the 
opportunity  to  make  a  historical  rectification  of  an 
utterly  futile  50-year  genocidal  policy  left  over  from 
the  cold  war.  It  would  be  an  act  of  resolve  that  could 
only  encourage  the  support  of  those  who  elected  him 
for change and of the community of nations that votes 
for  it  every  year.  Whatever  the  circumstances,  the 
Cuban  revolution  will  unyieldingly  and  tenaciously 
pursue  the  sovereign  path  chosen  by  our  people  and 
shall not cease in its endeavours, based on the precepts 
of Martí and Fidel, to overcome all injustice. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean-Paul Adam, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Seychelles. 

this 
opportunity to join those who have come before me in 
congratulating His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss on his 
election  as  President  of  our  Assembly  and  on  his 
diligent stewardship of the proceedings thus far. I also 
thank  and  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki  for  his  leadership  and  drive  at  the 
head of the sixty-fourth session of the Assembly. 

We  spent  the  first  three  days  last  week  debating 
the  progress  made  —  or  not  made,  as  the  case  may 
be —  in  attaining  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  by  2015.  For  many  of  us,  there  are  still 
formidable  struggles  ahead.  For  Seychelles,  while  we 
have made huge strides forward towards meeting these 
Goals, we are also pedalling furiously so as not to slip 
back on what we have already worked hard to achieve. 
This brings to mind the question: Are the MDGs an end 
in themselves? The task does not end in 2015. It cannot 
end in 2015. What happens, and where are we headed 
after that? 

Those of us that are middle-income countries, and 
that  includes  many  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS),  already  know  the  different  set  of  challenges 
(Seychelles):  May 
Mr.  Adam
I 
take 
48 

and 
that  these  questions  bring  —  questions  that  other 
countries  will  also  have  to  face  as  they  achieve  and 
move  beyond  the  MDGs.  The  debate  needs  to  start 
now, as we fast approach 2015, on how countries will 
access the affordable financing they will need not just 
to  move  beyond  the  MDGs,  but  to  ensure  that  they 
keep and do not lose what they have achieved. 

That  is  why  Seychelles  announced  at  the  MDG 
summit  that  we  will  be  engaging  with  the  United 
Nations system to enter into new commitments towards 
setting  MDG-plus  targets,  the  overall  objective  being 
to  make  sustainable  development  a  reality  beyond  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
the  next 
generation. 

We  are  all  aware  of  the  differences  among  us  in 
our sizes and populations. The needs of every Member 
of the United Nations are different. We have learned a 
lot about development over the years, and today we all 
know  that  one-size-fits-all  does  not  work.  At  the 
United  Nations  and  other  development  organizations, 
we  have  created  development  categories  to  facilitate 
access  for  those  most  in  need  of  the  appropriate 
resources.  Resources  are  always  stretched,  and,  as  we 
move  beyond  2015,  we  must  make  sure 
that 
development  categories  truly  facilitate  development. 
Such categories must not become a way to punish those 
that succeed in development. 

And  we  must  not  allow  small  island  developing 
States to fall through the cracks between the categories. 
Middle-income  SIDS  face  special  problems  that  the 
international  development  architecture  does  not 
currently  make  provision  for.  The  funding  that  is 
available  to  SIDS  is  fragmented.  There  is  no  reliable 
funding to them. Even on issues where SIDS are most 
affected,  such  as  climate  change,  there  are  many 
barriers  to  our  ability  to  access  funding,  not  least  the 
use  of  gross  domestic  product  per  capita  criteria  to 
define eligibility for funding. 

The question that will come up increasingly as we 
try to answer the question of how to fund development 
beyond  2015  is  where  SIDS  can  go  to  finance  their 
development.  The  answer  is  that  we  need  to  define  a 
specific development category for SIDS to be used by 
all development partners. 

That  is  why  small  island  developing  States  say 
“let  us  start  at  home”  by  requesting  the  Secretary-
General  to  initiate  a  system-wide  review  of  how 
effectively the United Nations and its various agencies 
10-55122 
group 
that  would 
provide 


are  actually  supporting  SIDS,  and  how  that  can  be 
improved.  This  could  be  done  by  an  inter-agency 
working 
concrete 
recommendations  to  this  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General Assembly as to how the United Nations system 
could  better  support  the  specific  needs  of  SIDS.  The 
world economic and financial crisis has reinforced the 
vulnerability of island States to external shocks. More 
than  ever,  it  has  illustrated  that  islands  need  as  much 
support  as  possible  if  they  are  to  be  able  to  pursue 
development successfully. 

As  I  have  already  highlighted,  there  are  gaps  in 
the existing development system. Those gaps mean that 
we  must  be  prepared  to  be  innovative  in  meeting  the 
development challenges that are looming. We welcome 
the  efforts  of  several  countries  and  of  the  Secretary-
General to adopt new and innovative means to finance 
development. In Seychelles, the pressures of the food, 
fuel and financial crises meant that in 2008 we had to 
engage  in  wide-ranging  macroeconomic  reform  with 
the support of the Bretton Woods institutions, the Asian 
Development  Bank  and  our  Paris  Club  creditors.  We 
are most grateful to all our partners for their support. 

I think it is interesting to note that while we were 
restructuring our old debt, our economy began to grow 
thanks  to  new  foreign  direct  investment,  most  of  it 
from  the  developing  world  —  the  Gulf,  Africa  and 
Asia.  There  are  many  new  channels  for  development 
that remain relatively unexplored and unstructured. 
I  would  like  also  to  brief  the  Assembly  on  a 

groundbreaking 
renewable  energy  project  being 
undertaken  in  Seychelles  with  the  support  of  the 
United Arab  Emirates  Government.  This  project  is  an 
example  of  how  a  small  island  can  have  access  to 
affordable financing to reduce its dependence on fossil 
fuels  —  one  of  the  things  that  make  islands  most 
vulnerable.  
These South-South dynamics are often 
overlooked  in  the  traditional  dynamics  of  the  United 
Nations.  Often,  we  also  waste  a  lot  of  time  on 
ideological  debates 
true 
objectives  of  development.  We  need  to  be  pragmatic 
and we need to act. 

Climate  change,  and  in  particular  sea-level  rise, 
remain  by  far  the  greatest  threats  to  small  islands. 
Much  more  ambitious  global  action  needs  to  be  taken 
implement 
to  significantly  reduce  emissions  and 
adaptation 
the 
development  aspirations  and  survival  of  all  countries, 
that  further  obscure 
that  will  ensure 
in  a  manner 
the 
A/65/PV.19
and 
people 
small islands in particular. We need to ensure that fast-
start  funding  is  also  available  for  disbursement  as 
quickly as possible. 

I  must  stress  the  concern  of  small  islands  that 
much  of  the  funding  available  to  adapt  to  climate 
change is being channelled through traditional funding 
channels. This means that most SIDS will miss out on 
funds  because  of  our  middle-income  status.  Climate 
change  requires  funding  mechanisms  that  do  not  rely 
only on business as usual. We need a real fast start. For 
the moment, we are still stuck at the starting block. 

While we reflect on the governance of the United 
Nations, we must also spare no effort to ensure that we 
can  be  effective  in  resolving  conflict  in  those  areas 
where  human  suffering  is  at  its  worst.  In  the  Horn  of 
Africa, we remain deeply concerned about the ongoing 
situation  in  Somalia.  We  convey  our  solidarity  to  the 
Somali 
the  Transitional  Federal 
Government that is trying to restore peace and security. 
We  fully  support  the  efforts  of  the  African  Union, 
through the African Union Mission in Somalia, and of 
the United Nations. 
It  is  clear,  however,  that  we  must  now  be 

prepared  to  move  beyond  what  we  have  already  tried 
and  tested. The  ongoing  problems  associated  with  the 
situation  in  Somalia  also  continue,  unfortunately,  to 
hamper  the  conditions  for  development  in  the  region. 
The  threat  of  terrorism  is  rising,  while  the  scourge  of 
piracy continues to spread further afield, as far east as 
Maldives and as far south as Madagascar. 
Seychelles  has  worked  hard  to  ensure  that  our 

maritime  zones  remain  safe,  and  we  thank  all  our 
partners  for  their  support.  Nonetheless,  piracy  has  led 
to  direct  losses  in  our  economy  of  over  4  per  cent  of 
gross domestic product. We welcome the new regional 
project on piracy being developed by the Indian Ocean 
Commission and the Common Market for Eastern and 
Southern  Africa,  with  the  support  of  the  European 
Union.  This  project  approaches  the  problem  from 
several  angles  simultaneously  as  we  attempt 
to 
strengthen 
the  regional  capacity  for  patrols  and 
surveillance, strengthen the legal and judicial capacity 
of  our  countries,  and  mitigate  the  negative  effects  on 
our economies. 

I would like to thank our friends and neighbours 
for  their  support  on  this  issue.  It  is  an  issue  that 
depends  on  all  countries  working  together,  both  from 
within the region and beyond. We must also continue to 
10-55122 

49 

Seychelles  also  strongly  believes 
A/65/PV.19 

engage  with  the  Somalia  to  strengthen  its  ability  to 
build its own institutions. 

the 
international  community  must  strengthen  its  efforts  to 
tackle  transnational  crimes  that  are  often  linked  to 
instability  and  insecurity,  from  money-laundering  to 
people trafficking. In the Indian Ocean  region, we are 
determined to work with all partners to ensure that we 
can address these issues effectively. 
that 
together 
that  we  must  work 
We are all part of the United Nations because we 

believe 
to  achieve 
development.  Development  is  a  collaborative  process. 
We  need  to  strengthen  this  collaboration.  We  need  to 
make  more  efforts  to  ensure  that  there  is  more 
innovative financing to fund development. We need to 
be  more  pragmatic  in  our  approach.  We  know  it  will 
not  be  easy,  but  that  only  strengthens  our  resolve. We 
are ready to move forward together. 

  The meeting rose at 2.15 p.m. 

50 

10-55122 
