
A/65/PV.15
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

15th plenary meeting 
Friday, 24 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 

I wish to congratulate President Jacob Zuma and 
the Government and people of South Africa on having 
successfully  hosted  the  2010  World  Cup  for  the  first 
time  on  our  African  continent.  They  made  Africa 
proud, and we in turn are proud of them. 

Some four years ago, I stood at this rostrum and 
told the story of a country exhibiting the symptoms of 
two  decades  of  self-destruction:  a  criminalized  and 
collapsed  economy,  a  suffocating  external  debt  overhang, 
dysfunctional  institutions,  destroyed  infrastructure,  a 
pariah nation in a state of decay, and a people in a state 
of  despair.  All  of  this  translated  into  hundreds  of 
thousands  in  refugee  camps,  equal  numbers  of  the 
talented  in  the  diaspora,  and  thousands  of  women, 
young people and children struggling for survival. 

Today, I stand here to report on the progress that 
can  be  made  from  the  collective  effort  of  a  resilient 
people,  a 
responsive  partnership,  and  effective 
leadership.  We  have  come  to  report  with  confidence 
that Liberia is well on the way to recovery. In less than 
five  years,  our  economy  has  experienced  an  average 
annual growth rate of 6.5 per cent, despite the drag on 
the  two-digit  potential  occasioned  by  the  2009  global 
economic crisis. 

I  can  say  with  pride  that,  having  successfully 
carried  out  the  reforms  required  under  the  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt 
on 
17 September,  at  the  Paris  Club,  the  final  segment  of 
Liberia’s $4.9-billion external debt was written off the 
books.  I  can  report  that  we  have  opened  the  economy 
to  put 
the  centre  of  our 
the  private  sector  at 
Initiative, 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m. 


Address by Ms. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, President of 
the Republic of Liberia 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Liberia. 

  Ms.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations Her Excellency Ms. Ellen Johnson-
Sirleaf,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Liberia,  and  to 
invite her to address the Assembly. 

President  Johnson-Sirleaf:  I  am  honoured  to 
address this sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly 
on behalf of the people of Liberia. I congratulate you, 
Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to  lead  this Assembly 
and am convinced that you will bring to the office your 
wealth of experience as a former President and Foreign 
Minister of the Swiss Confederation. 

Let me express appreciation to your predecessor, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  for  the 
capable  manner  in  which  he  conducted  the  affairs  of 
the sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly. 

Allow  me  also  to  extend  highest  commendation 
to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his unwavering 
commitment  to  the  Organization  and  his  efficient 
management of its affairs.  

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54965 (E) 
*1054965* 




the  agenda  of 
formally  placed  on 
force,  have  stabilized 
A/65/PV.15 

development  effort  and  thereby  have  attracted  some 
$16 billion in private investment in the reactivation of 
our  mining,  agriculture  and  forestry  sectors.  In 
addition, a new potential was recently discovered in oil 
exploration. 

The  results  of  reform  in  our  security  sector, 
enhanced  by  the  continued  deployment  of  the  United 
Nations  peacekeeping 
the 
security  situation  in  the  country,  where  people  move 
freely  around.  Experience  in  this  regard  shows  that 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  can  and  should  take 
place  concurrently,  and  we  are  pleased  that  Liberia  is 
now 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  enable  us  to  chart  the 
way  for  a  smooth  transition  from  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding to recovery. 

Moreover,  we  have  encouraged  a  vibrant 
environment  in  which  people  have  exercised  their 
inalienable  rights 
to  free  expression,  association, 
religion  and  access  to  the  press  without  hindrance. 
Nobody  has  been  molested  on  account  of  views 
expressed.  Liberia  has  no  prisoners  of  conscience  in 
detention,  nor  does  anyone  have  cause  to  flee  in  fear 
for  their  life  or  safety  on  account  of  their  political 
beliefs or association. 

Thus,  in  promoting  a  liberal  environment  in 
which freedom, equity and equality are exercised as the 
best guarantees of peace, security and stability, we can 
boast  of  being  counted  among  the  Governments  that 
have  demonstrated  commitment  to  good  governance 
and proven respect for human rights. 
Regionally,  Liberia  continues  to  demonstrate  its 

commitment 
peaceful 
coexistence  and  respect  for  the  sovereign  integrity  of 
other  nations.  We  actively  participate  in  subregional 
and  regional  affairs  through  the  African  Union,  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States,  the 
Community  of  Sahel-Saharan  States,  and  the  Mano 
River Union. The Mano River Union is currently under 
Liberia’s chairmanship, and this has allowed us to stay 
engaged with our members, Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire, 
as they embark upon their political transitions. 
We  hail  the  recent  breakthrough  by  President 

Barack Obama in bringing the Palestinians and Israelis 
back to the negotiating table and holding their leaders 
to their words to fulfil their promise to remain engaged 
and  conduct  direct  talks  aimed  at  ending  that  long-
running crisis. 
good-neighbourliness, 
to 

Because  we  live  in  a  global  village,  a  continued 
crisis  in  any  Member  State  or  region  should  warrant 
our  concern.  Moreover,  an  unending  crisis  contradicts 
the  cardinal  objective  of  the  United  Nations,  which  is 
the  promotion  of  international  peace  and  security.  In 
that  regard,  we  suggest  that  the  situation  in  Somalia 
warrants  a  Chapter VII  intervention.  In  a  country  that 
has  gone  many  years  without  a  stable  constitutional 
Government,  the  presence  of  pirates,  extremists  and 
other  terrorist  elements  there  should  sound  the  alarm. 
The  world  needs  to  act  promptly,  as  we  cannot  afford 
to  see  Somalia  remain  a  haven  for  anarchists  and 
extremists. 

That is why our Government supports the role of 
the  African  Union  in  fielding  troops  in  Somalia.  We 
call  for  more  troop  deployment  from  other  countries, 
and  we  strongly  support  action  to  put  an  end  to  the 
Somali  quagmire.  We  also  call  on 
the  Somalis 
themselves to accept dialogue and go to the negotiating 
table  to  thrash  out  their  differences  and  restore  their 
country  to  rightful  peace  and  dignity.  While  we 
acknowledge the right of States to self-defence and the 
promotion  of  programmes  in  support  of  national 
interests,  we  call  on  them  to  do  so  responsibly,  with 
the 
respect  for 
protocols 
such 
developments. 
At  this  week’s  Millennium  Development  Goals 

(MDGs) summit, we reaffirmed Liberia’s commitment 
to continuing to work for the achievement of all eight 
Goals,  although  we  are  implementing  those  Goals 
under  a  more  challenging  context.  Our  national 
development  agenda  and  programmes  for  ensuring 
national  reconciliation,  good  governance  and  the  rule 
of  law,  national  security,  food  security,  and  the 
implementation  of  our  poverty  reduction  strategy  are 
consistent  with  the  objectives  of  the  MDGs.  Our 
progress bears the fruits of this commitment. 

We are pleased to note the progress the world has 
made  in  the  advancement  of  women.  Today,  there  is 
greater  representation  of  women  in  Government,  in 
political life,  business and civil society.  Liberia’s own 
effort was recognized on Sunday when we received an 
award 
the 
empowerment of women. We also commend this body 
and 
in 
establishing  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women,  and  we 
international  public  opinion  and 
and 
for  our  progress  on  MDG  3,  on 
the  Secretary-General 
their  work 
conventions 
surrounding 
for 
2 

10-54965 


applaud  the  appointment  of  the  former  President  of 
Chile, Michelle Bachelet, to take on this responsibility. 

We  have  five  years  left  to  go  to  achieve  the 
MDGs.  For  us,  it  is  not  the  target  date  that  matters; 
rather, it is the commitment to achieving the Goals that 
is  important.  We  therefore  call  upon  our  partner 
countries  to  support  the  realization  of  the  Goals 
through  strong  global  partnership,  as  recommended  in 
MDG  8.  We  believe  in  the  partnerships  we  have 
enjoyed  with  the  bilateral  and  multilateral  institutions 
that have made our progress possible. We call upon all 
in  this  Hall  to  secure  the  strength  of  this  partnership, 
which  benefits  all  of  our  countries,  by  supporting  the 
replenishment of the resources of the World Bank and 
the African Development Bank. 

Liberia’s progress is not without challenges. The 
satisfactory  security  environment  of  which  I  speak  is 
still  fragile,  and  made  more  so  by  the  political 
uncertainties in our subregion. We also continue to face 
the  tensions  associated  with  the  thousands  of  our 
young people who, lacking skills, are still unemployed. 
Moreover,  we  continue 
raised 
expectations  expressed  in  the  demand  from  villages 
and  communities  across  the  country  for  essential 
infrastructure  such  as  roads,  schools  and  clinics. 
Perhaps the greatest challenge we face is to go beyond 
the  measures  we  have  taken  in  formulating  a  public 
service  code  of  conduct, 
introducing  new 
procurement and financial management systems, and in 
establishing 
of 
integrity —  all  aimed  at  addressing  long-standing 
corruption. Reform of the judicial system and efforts to 
change  an 
inherited  value  system  are  additional 
measures that are under way. 

Another  challenge  is  Liberia’s  vulnerability  to 
organized  cross-border  crime,  including  drug  and 
human trafficking, as the result of porous borders and 
limited  law-enforcement  capacity,  with  weak  national 
security  organizations.  Against  this  background,  we 
recently 
the  Freetown  Commitment  on 
Combating 
and 
Transnational  Organized  Crime  in  West Africa,  which 
should  assist  us  in  promoting  capacity-building  in  the 
region to combat transnational crime. 

The  root  cause  of  civil  crisis  in  Liberia  was  the 
consistent  failure  of  democratic  transitions  that  would 
usher  in  Governments  elected  by  the  people. With  the 
support  of  the  United  Nations,  multiparty  democratic 
Illicit  Trafficking 
strengthening 
of  Drugs 
to  manage 
the 
signed 
in 
and 
the 
pillars 
A/65/PV.15
elections  were  held  in  2005,  following  the  end  of  the 
civil  crisis.  In  keeping  with  our  Constitution,  the 
Liberian  people  will  once  again  exercise  the  right  of 
choice when we hold elections in 2011. 

The  2011  elections  will  mark  a  groundbreaking 
turning  point.  They  will  complete  Liberia’s  transition 
to full constitutional rule and participatory democracy. 
This  will  be  the  true  test  of  Liberia’s  progress  on  the 
road to development and its defining moment, which, if 
successful, will serve as proof that we can truly stay on 
an irreversible course towards peace and development. 
It  is  absolutely  essential  that  everything  be  done  to 
ensure a peaceful, legitimate and transparent process. I 
wish  to  state  categorically  that  my  Government  is 
completely  and  fully  committed  to  this  objective,  and 
we  call  on  the  international  community  to  stay  with 
Liberia on this last stretch. Already, the process leading 
to the holding of elections in 2011 has begun with the 
release of the election timetable. 

As  a  founding  Member  of  this  Organization, 
Liberia remains inspired by the noble objectives of the 
United Nations in meeting enormous global challenges. 
We  believe  in  its  ability  to  formulate  and  implement 
programmes,  particularly  those  aimed  at  raising  the 
standard of living of people, forging global cooperation 
and  solidarity,  and  encouraging  dialogue  to  reduce 
tension and conflicts. 

In  closing,  we  say  again  that  Liberia  is  on  the 
way  to  recovery.  We  have  thrown  off  the  label  of  a 
pariah  State.  We  have  restored  hope  to  our  people, 
credibility  and  honour  to  our  national  integrity,  and 
won  international  creditworthiness  and  respect.  Our 
confidence  in  the  future  of  our  country  is  firm.  Our 
new  vision  of  a  rising  Liberia  seeks  to  move  us  to  a 
middle-income  country  by  the  year  2030.  This  is  an 
aggressive  goal,  but  we  are  determined,  and  through 
efficiency  in  the  allocation  and  use  of  our  natural 
resources, we will succeed. We thank you, Sir, and all 
the  members  of  this  noble  institution  for  the  support 
that has brought Liberia to this point of progress. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Liberia  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made. 

  Ms.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
Republic  of  Liberia,  was  escorted 
from 
General Assembly Hall. 
the 
the 

10-54965 

3 



in 
A/65/PV.15 

Address by Mr. Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, 
President of the Republic of Colombia 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Colombia. 

  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Manuel 
Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of 
Colombia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Santos  Calderón  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

With reverence and an immense sense of responsibility, 
I  come  to  this  historic  forum  for  the  first  time  to 
reiterate the commitment of my country and more than 
45 million Colombians to the fulfilment and success of 
the  founding  principles  of  the  United  Nations. As  this 
Organization  proceeds 
its  reform  process,  we 
support its adoption of the criteria of good governance, 
efficiency  and  transparency  in  order  to  realize  those 
principles and to achieve a more effective international 
system of cooperation. 

We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  should  focus 
on  achieving  concrete  results  that  transform  realities 
rather 
than  deepen  conditions  of  dependency  or 
perpetuate  assistance  programmes  that  often  do  more 
harm  than  good  in  developing  countries.  It  is  in  this 
belief  and  with  faith  in  the  future  of  the  Organization 
that I express today before this Assembly my country’s 
aspiration to become a member of the Security Council 
for the period 2011-2012. We seek that position on the 
basis of respect for the principles of the United Nations 
Charter  and  with  the  commitment  to  providing  our 
fullest cooperation to the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 

Colombia  —  which,  along  with  other  Latin 
American  nations,  commemorates  its  two-hundredth 
year  of  independence  this  year  —  has  a  long  and 
successful  democratic  and  institutional  tradition.  Our 
Republic  has  suffered  the  attacks  of  terrorism  and  the 
ravages  of  international  crime,  but  we  have  always 
faced  them  within  the  framework  of  our  Constitution 
and  laws,  following  the  most  rigorous  democratic 
procedures. We are confident that our long and painful 
experience can be very useful to all States Members of 
in  Haiti, 
reflects 
in  matters 
participation 
light  weapons, 
Stabilization  Mission 
the  Organization 
in  which  we  have 
developed  a  strong  technical  and  operational  capacity, 
such  as  security,  the  struggle  against  terrorism  and 
drug  trafficking,  the  fight  against  the  illicit  trade  in 
small  arms  and 
the  progressive 
eradication  of  anti-personnel  mines,  humanitarian 
assistance, 
the  disarmament,  demobilization  and 
reintegration  of  illegal  armed  groups,  and  —  of 
particular  importance  —  how  to  do  so  while  always 
protecting human rights. 

As  advocates  of  peaceful  coexistence,  we 
Colombians  are  proud  to  participate  in  peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding  operations,  such  as  the  United 
Nations 
the 
Multinational  Force  and  Observers  in  Sinai,  and  the 
United  Nations  Integrated  Peacebuilding  Office  in 
Sierra  Leone.  This 
our 
commitment to peace anywhere in the world, which we 
reaffirm today. 

That  is  why  we  want  to  be  the  voice  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  in  the  Security  Council  at 
this very special moment for our region. Latin America 
and  the  Caribbean,  a  region  of  some  600  million 
inhabitants,  is  our  area  of  natural  interaction.  The 
region 
includes  countries  with  multiple  political 
visions  and  diverse  positions  on  many  specific  topics. 
But  we  are  united  in  the  interest  of  overcoming 
poverty, improving the living standards  of our people, 
integrating  ourselves  successfully 
the  global 
market, and protecting our environment. 

Latin American nations are beginning to assume a 
global  leadership  role  on  economic,  environmental, 
security  and  development  issues.  In  my  inaugural 
speech  on  7 August,  I  said  that,  given  the  significant 
progress  achieved  by  my  country, 
time  for 
Colombia  had  come.  Today,  in  this  global  forum,  I 
wish  to  go  further  and  state  with  absolute  conviction 
that the time has come for Latin America. 

the 
management of our economies with responsibility. As a 
result, we were one of the regions least affected by the 
global  economic  crisis.  Today,  our  countries  are 
growing  on 
the  basis  of  economic,  social  and 
technological  pillars  that  are  stronger  than  ever  and 
attracting investors from throughout the world. We are 
a subcontinent where the majority of the population is 
young, with immense talents and ability to work, with 
cities  and  natural  wonders  that  attract  tourists  and 
We  Latin  Americans  have 
into 
the 
assumed 
4 

10-54965 
from  all  over 
the  world,  and  with 


investors 
unparalleled environmental wealth. 

In  these  times,  when  the  world  demands  food, 
water, biofuels and natural lungs for the Earth such as 
the  tropical  forests,  Latin  America  has  millions  of 
hectares  ready  for  cultivation  without  affecting  the 
ecological balance, and all the willingness necessary to 
become a supplier of all the goods that humanity needs 
for its own survival. 

More than 925 million people living with hunger 
and  malnutrition  are  a  challenge  that  cannot  be 
postponed. Latin America  can  and wants to be part of 
the  solution.  Ours  is  the  region  richest  in  biodiversity 
on the planet, with the most megadiverse country in the 
world, namely Brazil, and the country with the greatest 
biodiversity per square kilometre, namely our country, 
Colombia. The Amazon region alone holds 20 per cent 
of the global supply of fresh water and 50 per cent of 
the planet’s biodiversity. 

Colombia  is  not  a  country  with  high  levels  of 
polluting  emissions,  but  we  want  to  assume  our 
responsibility to the planet and its future. We therefore 
support the international initiative known as Reducing 
Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, 
which  seeks  to  generate  and  allocate  the  resources 
necessary  to  reduce  tropical  forest  loss  and  associated 
emissions. We Colombians want to be a model country 
for 
its  forests,  carbon 
emissions and the state of its biodiversity. 

Latin America as a whole must be a key region in 
saving  the  planet.  We  call  for  a  new  agreement  to 
replace  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  which  expires  in  2012,  to 
ensure  the  commitment  of  all  —  starting  with  the  big 
industrial  Powers 
to  emissions  reduction.  With 
appropriate  economic  compensation,  we  have  an 
enormous  capacity  to  reduce  deforestation  and  plant 
new forests, changing the history not only of the region 
but of the world as a whole. 
twenty-first  century  began,  Latin 

America  and  the  Caribbean  were  just  starting  their 
march  towards  integration  into  the  global  economy. 
Today,  10  years  later,  in  the  light  of  our  political  and 
economic  stability  and  agricultural,  energy  and 
environmental  potential,  I  want  to  send  a  message  to 
the  other  nations  of  our  region.  The  world’s  eyes  are 
upon us. Now is the time for us to open our own eyes, 
to  overcome  any  persisting  differences  among  us,  and 
to think big. If we do so, and given everything I have 
in  monitoring 
the  world 

When 
the 
A/65/PV.15
in 
results 
towards 
its  progress 
just said, we can declare with one voice, as I do today 
at  the  dawn  of  the  second  decade  of  the  third 
millennium: This is Latin America’s decade. It will be 
a decade in which we can grow and advance, and first 
and  foremost  in  which  we  can  serve  our  peoples  and 
the well-being of humankind. 

Two  days  ago,  I  had  the  opportunity  to  present 
Colombia’s 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  I 
am not now going to repeat our achievements — which 
have been many — or our remaining challenges, which 
are  many  more.  I  simply  want  to  underline  that,  more 
than  any  other  problem,  poverty,  with  all  its  related 
consequences, is the greatest calamity in our world.  

I want to call attention in particular to the twofold 
tragedy  faced  by  a  brother  Caribbean  country,  which, 
along  with  its  endemic  poverty,  is  coping  with  the 
effects of a devastating natural disaster. I was in Haiti a 
couple  of  months  ago  and  I  must  say,  before  this 
Assembly  of  the  nations  of  the  world  and  with  a 
saddened heart, that its unbearable reality surpasses the 
worst nightmare. The pledged international aid is yet to 
arrive  in  its  entirety,  or  at  least  it  is  not  visible. 
Haitians  are  still  fighting  and  surviving  with  dignity 
and  courage,  but  without  the  due  attention  we  must 
give to their  situation, which can bear no delay. I  call 
on  the  Security  Council  to  consider  transforming  the 
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  into  a 
true  development  operation  that  responds  to  Haiti’s 
needs and achieves concrete results. 

In  these  difficult  economic  times,  especially  for 
industrialized  nations,  with  high  unemployment  and 
stagnation,  global  solidarity  tends  to  vanish  from 
among our priorities. That is a mistake. Turning one’s 
back  on  international  cooperation  and  trade  helps  no 
one,  and  we  are  convinced  that  selfishness  harms 
everyone,  and  the  industrialized  world  more  than  any. 
Where  else  are  consumers  going  to  come  from  if  not 
from the millions of poor who have until now been left 
at  the  margins  of  progress?  Who,  other  than  societies 
filled with enthusiastic young people, can contribute to 
the  dynamism 
  that  mature  nations  need?  What 
economic  space,  other  than  the  developing  world,  is 
available  to  satisfy  the  needs  of  humankind  in  the 
coming  decades?  Collective  prosperity  has  advanced 
the most precisely when millions have been involved in 
development, and the darkest moments of our planet’s 
economy have been those of exclusion and barriers. 
10-54965 

5 
such 
as 
country 

homicide, 
the 
kidnapping 
first 
A/65/PV.15 


I  cannot  close  without  referring  to  two  global 
scourges — terrorism and drug trafficking — that feed 
off each other, because it is often the money from illicit 
drugs  that  finances  terrorists  acts  and  groups.  Perhaps 
more  than  any  other  country,  Colombia  has  been  a 
victim  of  these  phenomena,  but  it  has  also  been  a 
model in the fight against them and a champion of the 
need to act together with the international community, 
under the principle of shared responsibility. 

Our  democratic  security  policy  —  a  policy  of 
security  for  all  with  respect  for  the  law  —  is  also  a 
human  rights  policy  because  we  have  been  able  to 
dramatically  reduce  the  crimes  and  behaviours  that 
most  threaten  the  lives  and  fundamental  rights  of  our 
and 
people, 
displacement.  We  were 
to 
comprehensively  apply  the  principles  of  truth,  justice 
and  reparation  in  the  demobilization  of  illegal  armed 
groups.  The  Colombian  State  and 
society  are 
committed  to  defending  and  promoting  human  rights. 
We do so out of conviction — deep conviction — and 
not by imposition. 

We  have  achieved  great  results  in  the  fight 
against  drug  trafficking.  There  has  been  a  substantial 
reduction in hectares where coca is grown, and we are 
committed  to  pursuing  this  task  until  those  crops  are 
completely eradicated. We have hit hard the mafias that 
control  this  business,  including  guerrilla  groups  that 
have become veritable drug cartels. We will continue to 
fight  them  relentlessly  and  without  quarter.  We  will 
spare  no  effort.  Just  yesterday,  from  this  very  city,  I 
announced  to  the  world  the  news  of  the  death  of  the 
highest-ranking  military  leader  of  the  Revolutionary 
Armed Forces of Colombia in an operation impeccably 
conducted  by  our  armed  forces.  This  is  the  most 
important and decisive blow against that terrorist group 
in  its  history,  and  we  hope  it  will  bring  us  closer  to 
peace. 

We want to achieve peace either by reason or by 
force,  and  we  will  achieve  it  so  that  we  can  dedicate 
and  focus  all  our  energies  on  achieving  development 
and prosperity for our people. In the fight against drug 
trafficking,  we  have  lost  many  of  our  best  soldiers, 
policemen,  leaders,  judges  and  journalists.  Still,  their 
blood has not been shed in vain. From a failed State in 
which violent actors, financed by drug trafficking, had 
distorted  our  democracy,  today  we  look  at  the  world 
from  a  thriving  democracy  rising  towards  democratic 
prosperity for all. We defeated the big drug cartels, but 
than  willing 
We  Colombians  are  more 
this business has not come to an end yet. That is why 
we will keep on fighting it, because for us it is a matter 
of national security. 

We are concerned and distressed that our relative 
success  has  led  to  other  countries  of  the  region 
suffering  the  growing  presence  and  activities  of  drug 
trafficking in their territories. The world needs to open 
its  eyes,  because  to  be  in  denial  with  respect  to  this 
problem could be fatal. It happened to us at a very high 
cost. 
to 

cooperate  with  States  that  need  it,  and  we  are  already 
doing so with several countries in Central America and 
the  Caribbean,  with  Mexico  and  even  in Afghanistan. 
But,  it  is  very  important  that  we  be  consistent  on  this 
issue.  I  say  this  as  representative  of  the  country  with 
the  highest  moral  authority  to  speak  of  this  scourge, 
because  no  other  nation  has  suffered  like  ours  the 
disastrous consequences of drug trafficking. 

We note with concern the contradictory stance of 
some countries that, on the one hand, demand a head-
on  fight  against  drug  trafficking  and,  on  the  other, 
legalize  consumption  or  study 
the  possibility  of 
legalizing  the  production  and  trade  of  certain  illicit 
drugs.  How  can  I  or  anyone  tell  a  peasant  in  my 
country that he or she will be prosecuted and punished 
for  growing  crops  for  drug  production,  while  in  other 
countries  such  activity  is  being  legalized?  These 
contradictions make it urgent — and on this matter we 
join  the  call  by  President  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna  of 
the Dominican Republic — that we agree to review the 
global  strategy  against  illicit  drugs  in  order  to  draft  a 
single  global  policy  that  is  more  effective  and  within 
which  all  countries  will  contribute  equally  to  this 
effort. 

Thanks  to  the  significant  security,  economic  and 
social  achievements  accomplished  in  recent  years 
through  the  efforts  of  many  Colombians  and  the 
leadership of  my predecessor, President  Álvaro Uribe, 
today  Colombia  finds  itself  at  the  dawn  of  a  new 
morning. I came to office with the commitment to fight 
poverty  and  unemployment  and  to  lead  my  country 
towards  not  only  economic  but  also  social  prosperity 
that  reaches  everyone,  above  all  the  poorest.  I  have 
proposed  a  Government  of  national  unity  in  which  all 
Colombians  are  united  to  create  jobs  and  greater 
welfare.  I  foresee  with  great  optimism  our  future  as  a 
nation. 
6 

10-54965 






Today,  I  present  myself  before  this  global  forum 
with  respect,  humility,  a  sense  of  history  and  an 
awareness of our own limitations to say that we can do 
nothing alone, neither in my country nor in the world. 
Only  united  and  only  with  respect,  solidarity  and 
tolerance  will  humankind  be  able  to  know  a  better 
tomorrow.  
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Colombia for the statement he has just 
made. 

  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the Republic of Colombia, was  escorted from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Zimbabwe. 

  Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Robert  G. 
Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  and 
to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Mugabe:  Allow  me  once  again  to 

extend  to  you,  Sir,  our  warmest  congratulations  on 
your  election  as  President  of  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth  session.  I  would,  at  the  same  time,  like  to 
assure  you  of  Zimbabwe’s  support  and  cooperation 
during your presidency. 

reaffirm  our 
commitment to the United Nations and, in particular, to 
its  comprehensive  agenda  for  the  promotion  of  peace 
and  security,  sustainable  development  and  human 
rights.  We  are,  however,  concerned  that  the  world 
today  continues 
to  witness  unbridled  acts  of 
aggression,  wars,  conflicts,  terrorism  and  rising  levels 
of  poverty.  We  are  also  alarmed  that  powerful  States, 
which  daily  preach  peace  and  good  governance, 
continue 
the 
sovereignty  of  poor  and  weak  nations.  Zimbabwe 
yearns for a community of nations that recognizes and 
respects  the  sovereign  equality  of  all  nations,  big  and 
impunity  upon 
trample  with 
are  meeting 
today 
We 
to 
to 
A/65/PV.15
to 
to  play 
resisting 
the  veto, 
the  pressing  need 
small,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  all  have  positive  roles 
in 
promoting  peace  and  development  for  the  benefit  of 
present and future generations. 
As  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  we  have 

recognized 
reform  our 
Organization  to  make  it  better  able  to  carry  out  its 
various  mandates.  Zimbabwe  stands  ready  to  work 
closely  with  you,  Sir,  as  well  as  with  other  Member 
States, to ensure that the reform process is speeded up 
and  carried  out  on 
the  basis  of  consensus  and 
democratic participation.  

Most immediately, we must find ways and means 
to  re-establish  and  assert  the  pre-eminent  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  advancing  peace  and  security, 
development  and  the  achievement  of  internationally 
agreed goals, particularly the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Why  are 
the  developed  Western 
countries,  especially  those  permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  with 
the 
democratization  of 
the  United  Nations  organs, 
especially the Security Council? Are they not the ones 
who  talk  glibly  about  democracy  in  regard  to  our 
developing  countries?  Or  are 
they  sanctimonious 
hypocrites  whose  actions  contradict  their  sermons  to 
us? 

As  we  all  know,  the  General  Assembly  is  the 
most  representative  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  Its 
position  as  the  chief  deliberative  policymaking  organ 
of  the  United  Nations  should  therefore  be  respected. 
We need to move with haste and find common ground 
on how to revitalize the Assembly to enable it to fulfil 
its  mandate  as  the  most  important  body  of  the 
Organization.  Most 
this  process  of 
revitalization must redress the continued encroachment 
by  the  Security  Council  on  issues  that  fall  within  the 
General Assembly’s purview and competence. 

Our  position  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  is  well  known.  It  is  completely  unacceptable 
that  Africa 
the  only  continent  without 
permanent 
the  Council.  That 
historical  injustice  must  be  corrected.  We  therefore 
urge  Member  States,  including  those  that  have  vested 
interests in maintaining the status quo, to give due and 
fair  consideration  to  Africa’s  legitimate  demand  for 
two permanent seats, with full powers of veto, plus two 
additional  non-permanent  seats.  Africa’s  plea  for 
justice  cannot  continue  to  be  ignored.  We  all  have  an 
remains 
representation  on 
important, 
10-54965 

7 

therefore 
recognize 
structures.  We 
A/65/PV.15 

obligation  to  make  the  Council  more  representative, 
more democratic and more accountable. 
Zimbabwe continues to advocate greater equality 

international  economic  relations  and  decision-
in 
making 
the 
centrality  of  the  United  Nations  in  setting  the  global 
development agenda and believe that it is only a more 
coherent  United  Nations  system  which  can  better 
support the realization of all the internationally agreed 
development goals. 
The  developing  world,  particularly  Africa, 

continues  to  suffer  from  the  effects  of  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crises.  It  is  important  to 
understand that the critical issues we face today cannot 
be  addressed  effectively  when  so  many  countries  and 
regions  are  left  out  of  the  key  decision-making 
processes of the institutions of global governance. 

We  need  to  participate  in  the  making  of  policies 
and decisions that affect our very livelihoods. It is for 
this  reason  that  we  have  called,  and  continue  to  call, 
for  the  reform  of  multilateral  financial  institutions, 
including the Bretton Woods institutions. 

It  is  clear  that  climate  change  is  now  one  of  the 
most  pressing  global  issues  of  our  time.  Copenhagen 
failed to produce a successor to the Kyoto Protocol, an 
outcome  that  many  of  us  had  hoped  for.  Yet  that 
Conference  was  significant 
its  own  way.  It 
demonstrated  the  futility  of  attempts  by  the  rich  and 
powerful  to  impose  their  views  and  policies  on  the 
poor and weak. 

What  we  need  is  not  an  imposition  of  solutions 
based on self-interest, but a consensus on the reduction 
of harmful emissions and a climate-change regime that 
balances  adaptation  and  mitigation  backed  by  the 
transfer of technology and resources. 

We  need  to  pay  special  attention  to  the  three 
pillars  of  sustainable  development,  namely,  economic 
growth, 
environmental 
protection.  In  doing  so,  we  should  implement  the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. 
It  is  our  hope  that  when  our  negotiators  meet  in 
Cancún,  Mexico,  this  December,  they  will  produce  an 
outcome  that  addresses  the  needs  of  those  most 
affected by the effects of climate change. 

Global  food  security  continues  to  be  a  matter  of 
great  concern,  particularly  in  the  light  of  increased 
drought  and  flooding.  We  reiterate  our  call  for  an 
social  development 
and 
in 
the 
increase 
in 
Zimbabwe 
investment 
strongly  condemns 
urgent  and  substantial 
in 
agriculture  in  developing  countries.  Global  efforts  to 
address  the  food  crisis,  the  impact  of  climate  change, 
and  the  drive  to  achieve  the  MDGs  must  go  hand  in 
hand. 

It  is  disappointing  that  the  Doha  Development 
Round  has  stalled,  despite  nine  years  of  negotiations, 
mainly due to the intransigence of some countries. The 
Doha  Round  of  trade  must  not  be  allowed  to  die  but 
must, instead, remain focused on development, as was 
originally envisaged. 

We  also  call  on  the  developed  world  to  show 
commitment to global food security by increasing trade 
and access to their markets. Developing countries need 
to break away from the unending cycle of humanitarian 
assistance,  and  this  can  be  achieved  if  they  have 
increased access to developed- country markets. 

the  use  of 
unilateral  economic  sanctions  and  other  coercive 
measures in international relations. Such measures are 
completely  at  cross  purposes  with  the  principles  of 
international cooperation as enshrined in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  I  say  this  because  my  country 
continues to be a victim of illegal sanctions imposed by 
the European Union and the United States without any 
reference  to  the  United  Nations  and  with  the  evil 
intention  of  causing  regime  change.  These  illegal 
sanctions  have  caused  untold 
suffering  among 
Zimbabweans,  who  alone  should  be  the  deciders  of 
regime change. 
Our Inclusive Government is united against these 

illegal  sanctions  and  has  made  repeated  appeals 
without success for their immediate and unconditional 
removal.  The  rest  of  the  international  community, 
including 
Southern  African  Development 
Community,  the  Common  Market  for  Eastern  and 
Southern  Africa  and  the  African  Union,  has  similarly 
called for the removal of the sanctions, but these calls 
have gone unheeded. 
We  urge  those  who  imposed  these  iniquitous 

international 
sanctions 
community 
them.  The 
people of Zimbabwe should, like people of every other 
sovereign  State,  be  left  to  freely  chart  their  own 
destiny. 

ending 
Every  year,  this  body  adopts  a  resolution  on 
financial 
the 
to  unconditionally  remove 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
the  call  by 
to  heed 
8 

10-54965 
its 
Since 
inception 


embargo imposed by the United States on Cuba. To this 
date,  those  resolutions  have  gone  unheeded  by  the 
United  States  and  the  result  has  been  the  continued 
suffering  of  the  people  of  Cuba.  Zimbabwe  joins  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  other  well-meaning 
countries  which  call  for  the  immediate  lifting  of  the 
ruinous embargo. 

Zimbabwe has expressed its concerns with regard 
to  the  continued  stalemate  in  the  Middle  East  peace 
process.  It  is  unacceptable  that,  decades  on,  peace 
continues to elude that part of the world. We call upon 
all  parties  involved,  particularly  Israel,  to  respect  the 
relevant resolutions passed by the United Nations. It is 
our  sincere  hope  that  the  current  negotiations  under 
way  will  be  inclusive  and  eventually  lead  to  the 
cherished  goal  of  a  sovereign  State  of  Palestine,  thus 
ending decades of suffering for the Palestinian people. 

in  February  2009,  our 
Inclusive  Government  has  fostered  an  environment  of 
peace  and  stability.  Several 
reforms  have  been 
implemented,  and  the  Government  has  created  and 
instituted constitutional bodies agreed to in the Global 
Political Agreement (GPA). The constitutional outreach 
programme  is  currently  under  way  and  upon  its 
conclusion a new draft constitution will be formulated 
as precursor to a referendum next year, hopefully to be 
followed by an election. 

Achievements  in  the  economic  area  include  the 
revitalization  of  capacity  utilization  in  industries,  the 
containment  of 
improvement  of  service 
delivery  in  health  and  education,  as  well  as  the 
rehabilitation  of  basic  infrastructure  such  as  roads, 
water and sanitation facilities. 

  Mr. Askarov (Uzbekistan), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

The three parties to our GPA have worked hard to 
implement  most  of  the  issues  that  we  agreed  on.  To 
maintain  the  momentum,  we  need  the  support  of  the 
region and that of the international community. In this 
regard  we 
Southern  African 
Development Community, the African Union, the Non-
Aligned  Movement  and  indeed  like-minded  members 
of  the  international  community  for  giving  us  their 
support. We believe that constructive engagement, and 
not isolation and punishment, will bring the necessary 
impetus  to  the  efforts  of  our  inclusive  Government. 
Our great country is indeed marching forward in peace 
and unity. 
commend 
inflation, 
the 

A/65/PV.15
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Robert G. Mugabe, President of the Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 



Address by Mr. René Garcia Préval, President of the 
Republic of Haiti 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti. 

  Mr. René Garcia Préval, President of the Republic 
of Haiti, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  René  Garcia  Préval, 
President of the Republic of Haiti, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly. 
President  Préval  (spoke  in  French):  My  first 

words will be to pay tribute to the memory of hundreds 
of  thousands  of  Haitians  and  those  who  came  to 
help —  including  about  100  United  Nations  staff,  in 
particular  Mr.  Hédi Annabi,  Special  Representative  of 
the Secretary-General — who all lost their lives during 
the earthquake that struck Haiti on 12 January.  

But every tragedy offers some solace in terms of 
human solidarity. Therefore once again on behalf of the 
Haitian people and on my personal behalf I would like 
to  thank  all  the  people  and  Governments  across  the 
world,  ranging  from  the  Dominican  Republic,  our 
closely  attached  neighbour,  to  those  at  the  far  corners 
of  the  globe,  that  rushed  to  our  assistance.  That 
assistance  was  crucially  important  to  us,  in  particular 
during  the  first  few  weeks  when  the  need  was  so 
urgent. 

Allow  me  to  also  thank  those  Haitians  living 
abroad, in New York, Miami, Chicago, Montreal, Paris, 
Santo  Domingo,  the  French  West  Indies  and  many 
the  great 
other  parts  of 
their 
international 
in 
commitment,  endeavoured 
to 
establish  structures 
that  would  help  our  country 
rebuild.  

tribute  here,  publicly, 
I  would  be  remiss  were  I  not  to  pay  special 
the  people  of  Haiti 
joined 
solidarity  movement  and, 
the  world,  who 
the  most  part 
for 
to 
10-54965 

9 

in 
A/65/PV.15 

themselves,  a  people  who  have  been  deprived  of 
everything  and  yet  who  have  demonstrated 
the 
immeasurable wealth of their humanity. Towns that had 
been  destroyed  did  not  become 
the  scenes  of 
widespread  looting.  The  people  showed  such  dignity 
and  kindness,  such  exemplary  stamina 
their 
suffering,  such  boldness,    devotion  and  courage,  such 
solidarity,  spirit  of  self-sacrifice  and  love  for  others. 
Those are the words that come to mind and I think that 
is  how  we  must  describe  the  acts  of  heroism  of  the 
Haitian people. Let us show our respect for them. 

My  country  has  lived  a  unique  history  since  its 
birth  immediately  after  a  war  of  independence  that 
took  the  lives  of  one  third  of  its  people  and  caused 
unimaginable  destruction.  And  in  the  wake  of  the 
American  and  French  revolutions  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  that  war  of  independence  challenged  the 
human race to  recognize the universal character of the 
proclamation of humankind’s right to freedom, dignity 
and  equality  by  making  the  men  and  women  of  Haiti 
free. 

Our  nation  was  born  in  1804  and,  although  poor 
and    since  then  deprived  of  resources,  it  has  never 
hesitated 
to  peoples 
struggling for freedom, including in greater Colombia, 
which  is  today  Venezuela,  Ecuador,  Colombia  and 
Panama,  under  the  leadership  of  Francisco  Miranda 
and then Simón Bolívar. 

Despite  our  limited  resources,  Haiti  has  always 
demonstrated  its  firm  belief  in  one  human  race.  And 
therefore  we  fully  appreciate  that  immense  movement 
of  solidarity  and  compassion  of  the  international 
community 
the  moments 
immediately  after  the  earthquake  right  up  to  the 
commitment on 31 March at the New York conference 
by which it agreed to participate in rebuilding Haiti on 
the basis of the plan of action prepared by the Haitian 
Government. 

the 
international  community  and  support  from  the  United 
Nations,  we  have  set  up  a  commission  to  coordinate 
resources  for  rebuilding.  This  commission 
is  an 
important strategic mechanism for helping the country 
manage transparently and with discipline the resources 
mobilized  within 
to 
support our country as it rebuilds. The commission has 
already adopted over 30 projects, on education, health, 
infrastructure and so forth, costing over $1 billion. 
to  extend  material  support 
international  community 
for  our  country,  from 
assistance  of 
then,  with 
the 
Since 
the 
We  have 
just  held  an 

May  I  extend  my  thanks  to  those  countries  and 
agencies  that  have  followed  up  on  their  commitments 
to  make  financial  contributions.  I  trust  that  a  similar 
effort  will  be  made  by  others  as  well  so  as  to  help  us 
respond  quickly  to  the  over  one  million  Haitians  who 
are still living in tent cities and temporary shelter.  

important  high-level 
meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). Ten  years  ago,  when  189  countries  met  here 
to  make  the  collective  commitment  to  achieving  the 
eight  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  the  year 
2015,  the  international  community  was  actually  in 
agreement  on  what  the  world  should  look  like  in 
2015 —  a  world  well  on  the  way  to  reducing  extreme 
poverty, where children and mothers would not have to 
die  because  of  lack  of  health  care,  where  all  children 
would be able to go to school, where millions of people 
would  no  longer  die  of  hunger  every  year,  where 
women  would  be  able  to  fulfil  their  potential  in  a 
society without any gender-based discrimination.  

That  vision  was  the  right  one,  because  it  placed 
human  dignity  at  the  very  heart  of  all  development 
programmes  and  the  international  cooperation  agenda. 
And  that  vision  also  had  the  advantage  of  providing 
countries  and 
international 
community  with  a  clear,  straightforward  structure  for 
planning development and organizing cooperation with 
the  countries  that  were  committed  to  help  achieve  the 
Goals.  

While  significant  progress  has  been  made  in  the 
right direction, five years from 2015 there is still a long 
road to travel because the developed countries have not 
fully lived up to the commitments made with respect to 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  particularly  their 
financial commitments. 

What shall I say about the trillions of dollars that 
have been swallowed up over the last 10 years in wars 
that have been as bloody as they were unjustified? 
What shall I say about the defence budgets which 

every  year  exceed  by  far  what  would  be  needed  to 
attain the Millennium Development Goals? 

And  what  shall  I  say  about  the  incalculable 
wealth that has simply evaporated in speculation, in the 
arrogant  supremacy  of  the  virtual  economy  over  the 
real economy? 
their  partners 
the 
in 
10 

10-54965 



Are  we  going  to  continue  sacrificing  the  well-
being and lives of millions of human beings, the future 
of planet Earth, to this culture of fear and greed? 

What  shall  I  say  about  the  fact  that  official 
development assistance continues to fall, when in 2005 
the  developed  countries  committed  to  doubling  the 
amount by 2010? 

What  happened  to  the  decision  to  encourage  a 
more open trading system, when assistance to  farmers 
in  developed  countries  is  over  three  times  the  amount 
of official development assistance? 

In  truth,  the  globalization  that  began  centuries 
ago,  with  the  colonization  and  the  importation  of 
African  captives  to  work  as  slaves  on  sugar-cane  and 
coffee  plantations,  whose  products  would  then  be 
exported  to  the  West  or  the  North,  needs  to  be 
reinvented.  

The time has come for us to invent a new kind of 
globalization,  one  that  is  based  on  the  simple  concept 
of  our  common  humanity,  on  trust,  cooperation  and 
mutual respect, on respect for our environment and all 
forms of life in it. We must, as a matter of urgency, do 
away  with  a  vision  that  sees  profit  as  a  veritable  god, 
reduces citizens to the level of simple consumers, and 
regards  planet  Earth  as  a  colony  that  we  can  destroy. 
The global village will not be able to maintain forever 
its  fashionable  neighbourhoods  side  by  side  with 
wretched slums where humanity is dissolving: a socio-
economic North and South — not a geographic one.  

In Haiti, living on an island in a part of the world 
that  has  always  been  swept  by  hurricanes,  we  are 
particularly  worried  about  global  warming  and  the 
climatic disturbances that come with it: more frequent 
and more devastating cyclones and a rising sea-level.  
Must the poor continue to pay for the waste, the 

unbridled  appetite  for  energy  of 
their  wealthier 
brethren?  Must  they  renounce  their  efforts  to  improve 
their  standard  of  living  in  order  to  feed  the  consumer 
frenzy of the industrialized countries? 

The so-called war against drugs consists of a few 
little  skirmishes  in  the  consumer  countries  but  full-
scale  bloody  battles  in  the  production  and  transit 
countries,  whose  very  existence 
sometimes 
jeopardized. 

Are the countries of the South still to be pilloried 
as  responsible  for  the  production  and  transit  of  illegal 
is 
A/65/PV.15
though 
this 
the  engine  for 
drugs  even 
lucrative 
trafficking  is  demand  for  drugs  in  countries  of  the 
North? 

What shall I say about the arms trafficking, which 
flows  from  the  North  to  the  South  and  supports  the 
drug trafficking? 
It  is  for  us  to  provide  the  answer  to  those 

questions,  and  we  cannot  sidestep  them  much  longer 
without  rushing  to  our  common  doom. The  only  hope 
lies  in  a  renewed  humanism,  clear-sighted,  embracing 
of  all  life  and  the  environment,  on  which  we  are 
dependent  and  for  which  we  are  responsible.  In  that 
sense,  South-South  cooperation  affords  new  promise, 
and I invite the leaders of the countries of the South to 
strengthen  those  channels  for  the  well-being  of  our 
respective peoples.  

Some  of  the  statements  I  have  heard  in  this 
session of the General Assembly seem to presage a new 
and  different  consciousness,  which  may  be  what  is 
required  for  our  vision  of  a  new  humanity.  Still,  as 
always,  we  must  be  mindful  to  that  commitments  and 
action match the expansive rhetoric.  

This is the moment for Haiti to renew its call for 
the lifting of the embargo against Cuba. Besides having 
been  condemned  in  many  Assembly  resolutions,  an 
embargo  of  this  kind  is  absolutely  contrary  to  the 
values  we  advocate 
international 
commerce.  

I  would  be  remiss  if  I  were  not  to  convey,  on 
behalf  of  the  Haitian  people,  our  condolences  to  the 
many  peoples  who  have  suffered  lately  from  natural 
disasters  in  Chile,  China,  Pakistan,  Guatemala  and 
Mexico. 
I  shall  conclude  by  referring  to  the  presidential 

and  legislative  elections  that  will  mark  the  end  of  my 
term and the end of a particularly difficult year for the 
people  of  Haiti.  It  is  important  that  that  difficult 
process  be  conducted  with 
fairness  and 
transparency, 
to  consolidate  our  young 
democracy.  Therefore  I  appeal  to  all  national  actors 
and  our  international  friends,  so  that  together  we  can 
make  our  way 
that  electoral  crossroads 
successfully. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Haiti for the statement he has just made. 
in  matters  of 
rigour, 
so  as 
through 

10-54965 

11 
A/65/PV.15 



  Mr. René Garcia Préval, President of the Republic 
of Haiti, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 



In  my 
Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda. 

  Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of 
the  Republic  of  Rwanda,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
President Kagame: At this sixty-fifth session of 

the  General  Assembly,  it  is  right  that  we  re-examine 
the role of the United Nations in global governance, as 
we  strive  to  help  it  adapt  as  fast  as  our  times  are 
changing, so that it serves all its Members equally.  
governance 
understanding, 

welcome 
recognizes 
the 
interconnectedness 
unique 
circumstances  and  contributions  of  each  and  the 
principle of  mutual respect. I say “welcome” because, 
as we have seen, major threats of a global scale — like 
the  financial  crisis,  climate change,  terrorism,  poverty 
and  other  challenges  to  world  peace  —  need  the 
concerted  efforts  of  all  nations  if  they  are  to  be 
addressed effectively. 

The  just-concluded  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 
on the Millennium Development Goals has provided us 
another  opportunity  to  assess  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations,  measure  the  progress  we  have  made  and 
consider the hurdles that remain in meeting the various 
Goals we set for ourselves. It is evident that the United 
Nations  is  uniquely  placed  to  play  a  crucial  role  in 
mobilizing and galvanizing all nations for the common 
good,  driving  forward  our  collective  initiatives  and 
coordinating  actions 
the  social  and 
economic development of all. 

Still,  the  United  Nations  is  the  sum  total  of 
Member  States,  and  it  can  only  be  as  good  as  the 
constituent  Members  want  it  to  be.  If  there  were  a 
common  understanding  and  shared  values  among  all 
inevitable 
of 
global 
and 
nations, 
foster 
that 
the 
those 
into  a 
In  my  view,  a  debate  between 
Member  States,  the  Organization  would  deliver  more 
efficiently on its mandate. But it has become clear that 
the  United  Nations  has  evolved 
two-tier 
organization,  reflecting  a  world  that  seems  to  be 
divided  into  two  major  categories:  one  considered  to 
have inherent, laudable values, rights and liberties, and 
another  that  needs  to  be  taught  and  coached  on  those 
values. 

My  country  and  many  in  the  developing  world 
seem  to  fall  into  that  second  category.  Not  only 
marginalized  and  disenfranchised,  we  are  also 
considered chronic violators of our own human rights. 
The  implication  is  that  the  United  Nations  holds  a 
certain  standard  for  some  countries,  and  another  for 
others,  especially  on  international  issues  concerning 
which  every  single  Member  should  be  treated  equally 
under the law.  

two 
categories is urgently needed within the United Nations 
membership  so  as  to  regain  the  noble  founding  ideals 
of the Organization. No entity is better placed than our 
common United Nations to bring equality and respect, 
despite disparities in economic status. 

The  same  situation  pertains  in  the  realm  of 
international  justice  and  the  rule  of  law.  Rwanda 
subscribes  to  the  principle  that  everyone  and  every 
State  is  accountable  to  laws  and  that  the  rule  of  law 
should  govern  us  all.  But  these  laws  must  truly  be 
equally enforced and independently adjudicated. 

Reaffirming  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
global  governance  presupposes  strengthening  and 
reforming it to make it more effective and efficient in 
its  response  to  global  challenges.  The  impetus  to 
reform  our  global  governance  structures,  however,  is 
the desire to ensure that they are equipped to deal with 
those challenges and secure a brighter future for all the 
citizens of the world. 

for  appealing 
international  rulings,  when  there  is  an  accountability 
deficit  in  key  global  institutions  and  when  ordinary 
citizens  feel  that  the  United  Nations  cannot  deal 
adequately  with  the  issues  affecting  their  daily  lives, 
the United Nations cannot be seen as credible, relevant 
and democratic. We should make sure the Organization 
does not become a tool for the powerful to protect their 
interests  and  enhance  their  influence  or  use  it  in 
subjugating others. 
there  are  no  avenues 
When 
12 

10-54965 
Rwanda 
believes 
in  multilateralism 



and 
understands  that  global  challenges  can  be  effectively 
resolved  only  through  international  cooperation.  The 
United Nations must continue to be at the centre of that 
agenda and play its role without bias or prejudice. 

As we in Rwanda continue to rebuild our country, 
we have become acutely aware of the need for lasting 
peace and security in our region and have worked hard 
to  achieve  it.  We  know  that  stability  is  the  key 
prerequisite  for  our  development  and  the  improved 
lives  of  our  citizens  and  our  neighbours,  and  we  have 
unreservedly  committed  ourselves  to  attaining  it.  We 
will  continue 
in  partnership  with  our 
neighbours,  international  and  regional  organizations 
and the African Union to ensure that peace and security 
prevail and that Africa fully realizes its potential. 

Lastly,  let  me  say  that  each  of  our  countries, 
separately and collectively, has a duty to the people of 
the entire world, especially the most vulnerable. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Rwanda for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 
to  work 



Address by Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of 
the Republic of Namibia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia. 

  Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba, 
President of the Republic of Namibia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Pohamba:  I  wish  to  congratulate 

Mr. Deiss  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  We  are  confident 
that  he  will  discharge  the  responsibilities  of  his  high 
office  with  wisdom.  I  assure  him  of  Namibia’s 
cooperation and support. I would also like to commend 
his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  
A/65/PV.15
We  believe 
that  because  of 
Treki,  for  the  able  manner  in  which  he  presided  over 
the sixty-fourth session. 

The  Secretary-General  of  the  Organization,  His 
Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, and his staff have done a 
commendable job in overseeing the ongoing efforts to 
improve the working methods of the Organization and 
for  better 
interaction  with  Member  States.  We 
commend them for their dedication and hard work. 

The  theme  for  this  year’s  session,  “Reaffirming 
the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance”,  is  both  timely  and  appropriate.  In  that 
spirit,  Member  States  should  reaffirm  the  central  role 
of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance.  Namibia 
shares the views expressed in the outcome document of 
the  Conference  on  the World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development  (resolution 
63/303, annex). 

its  universal 
membership and legitimacy, the United Nations is well 
positioned  to  participate  in  the  reform  processes  to 
improve and strengthen the effective functioning of the 
international financial system. In that regard, we must 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  a  universal,  rules-based, 
open,  non-discriminatory  and  equitable  multilateral 
trading system and also work together for a speedy and 
equitable conclusion to the Doha Round. 
Although  Namibia  is  currently  classified  as  a 

high  middle-income  country,  it  still  bears  the  scars  of 
social  and  economic  inequalities  inherited  from  its 
colonial  past.  As  a  result,  we  carry  the  unenviable 
distinction  as  the  country  with  the  most  unequal 
distribution  of  income  and  economic  resources  in  the 
world.  Ironically,  our  country  also  faces  declining 
international  development  assistance  due  to  that  very 
classification,  which  has  negatively  impacted  our 
ability to mobilize  resources for national development 
efforts. 

In that light, I appeal to the international financial 
institutions  to  create  special  mechanisms  to  enable 
middle-income  countries  to  access  financial  resources 
for  development  on  concessional  terms,  as  called  for 
by  the  2008  Windhoek  Declaration  on  Development 
Cooperation with Middle-Income Countries. 
recently  concluded  High-level  Plenary 

Meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  gave  world  leaders  and  other  stakeholders  a 
unique  opportunity  to  review  progress  made  towards 
Our 
10-54965 

13 

to 
challenges 
facing  humanity 
A/65/PV.15 

the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  and  to  share  valuable 
experiences. It is also evident that more work remains 
to  be  done.  The  challenges  encountered  should 
encourage  us,  and  the  successes  recorded  should 
inspire  us  all  to  work  relentlessly  for  the  noble  and 
common objectives of achieving all of the MDGs. 

At the  global level, climate change is one of the 
major 
today.  The 
devastating  impact  of  natural  disasters  around  the 
world  has  affected  most  of  our  countries.  Although 
Namibia  does  not  significantly  contribute 
the 
emission of greenhouse gases, it is one of the countries 
most  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  climate  change.  In 
recent  years,  we  have  experienced  increasingly  severe 
that  have  destroyed  crops, 
floods  and  droughts 
livestock  and  wild  animals.  We 
thus  call  upon 
industrialized  countries  to  take  practical  steps  and 
demonstrate greater political will to bring about drastic 
reductions  in  greenhouse  gas  emissions. We  also  urge 
them  to  give  meaningful  support  to  the  efforts  of 
developing  countries  to  mitigate  and  adapt  to  the 
adverse effects of climate change. 

It is our hope that the industrialized countries will 
meet their commitments to provide adequate resources, 
in  line  with  the  undertakings  made  at  Copenhagen  in 
2009.  Namibia  looks  forward  to  a  successful  outcome 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in Mexico later this year. 

In  2000,  while  serving  as  a  member  of  the 
Security  Council,  Namibia  initiated  and  introduced  a 
theme on women, peace and security, which resulted in 
the  adoption  of  the    resolution  1325  (2000).  Our 
objective  was  to  highlight  the  plight  of  women  in 
conflict  situations  and  to  recognize  the  vital  role  that 
they  can  play  in  peacemaking  efforts  for  the  effective 
resolution  of  conflicts.  As  we  commemorate  the  first 
decade of that resolution, let us recommit ourselves to 
the protection of women and girls in conflict situations 
in all parts of the world. 

We welcome the Assembly resolution on system-
wide coherence and the establishment of UN Women as 
an  entity  dedicated  to  dealing  with  gender-related 
issues  (resolution  64/289).  We  hope  that  that  new 
entity  will  strengthen  the  institutional  capacity  of  the 
United  Nations  for  the  support  of  gender  equality  and 
the empowerment of women. My delegation wishes to 
congratulate Ms. Michelle Bachelet on her appointment 
as UN Women’s first head. 

In August, Namibia assumed the chairmanship of 
the  Southern  African  Development  Community 
(SADC).  In  that  capacity,  we  will  work  to  promote 
cooperation with other regional economic communities 
in  Africa,  as  the  building  blocks  for  intracontinental 
integration.  SADC  strives  for  political  stability  in  the 
region as a prerequisite for sustainable development. In 
that  connection,  we  have  taken  proactive  steps  to 
resolve  the  political  crisis  in  Madagascar,  through  the 
facilitation  efforts  of 
former  President  Joachim 
Chissano of Mozambique. 

The  recent African  Union  (AU)  summit,  held  in 
Kampala in July, focused on maternal, infant and child 
health  and  development  in  Africa.  African  leaders 
reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  mobilize  and  direct 
resources  to  check  the  deaths  of  women  and  children 
from preventable diseases. 

Namibia  has  consistently  urged  the  international 
community to fulfil its obligation to help the people of 
Western  Sahara  in  their  quest  for  self-determination. 
We  therefore  call  for  immediate  and  unconditional 
implementation of the United Nations Settlement Plan 
for  Western  Sahara  and  for  the  holding  of  a  free  and 
fair  referendum,  based  on  the  terms  of  the  relevant 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly. 

Namibia  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  ongoing 
suffering  and  humiliation  of  the  Palestinian  people 
under  Israeli  occupation  and  the  denial  of  their 
fundamental 
is 
encouraging,  however,  that  direct  negotiations  have 
been  resumed  between  the  parties.  We  hope  that  a 
durable  solution  will  be  found  without  further  delay 
and  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions. 

Namibia  is  also  concerned  about  the  prolonged 
and extraterritorial  economic embargo imposed on the 
people  of  Cuba.  We  fully  support  the  decision  of  the 
AU  summit  in  Kampala  calling  for  the  embargo’s 
removal.  We  believe  that  the  economic  blockade  is 
unjustifiable and unfair and should therefore be lifted.  
Similarly,  Namibia  calls  for  lifting  the  economic 

sanctions 
the 
Republic  of  Zimbabwe  by  some  Western  countries. 
Those  sanctions  have  caused  enormous  suffering,  not 
imposed,  directly  or 
self-determination. 
indirectly,  on 
right 
to 
It 
14 

10-54965 
the  only 
region  of 
The  maintenance  of 


only  to  the  people  of  Zimbabwe,  but  also  to  other 
countries in the SADC region. 

For  many  years  now,  we  have  been  calling  for 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
particularly the Security Council. The process must be 
finalized  to  render  the  Council  more  representative, 
democratic  and  accountable.  It  is  unjust  that  Africa 
remains 
the  world  without 
permanent  representation  on  the  Security  Council.  In 
that  connection,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the 
African common position on Security Council reform, 
as articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte 
Declaration. 
international  peace  and 

security 
is  our  collective  responsibility.  Namibia 
believes  that  peace,  security  and  stability  are  the 
cornerstones  of  sustainable  development,  and  thus  we 
will  continue  to  participate  in  United  Nations  and AU 
peacekeeping  missions.  We  urge  the  international 
community 
support  conflict  prevention  and 
peacebuilding efforts around the world.  

Recently,  States  parties  to  the  Nuclear  Non-
Proliferation  Treaty  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to 
nuclear  disarmament,  non-proliferation 
the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  We  welcome  that 
positive  step,  in  the  belief  that  multilateralism  is  the 
most viable option for achieving a world free from the 
danger of nuclear weapons. 

the  effectiveness  of 
collective  action  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations  to  resolve  conflicts  by  peaceful  means  and  to 
address the challenges facing the world. My delegation 
is optimistic that together we can successfully work for 
the common good of all humanity. Let us join hands to 
achieve  our  common  objective  of  building  a  better 
world for present and future generations. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Namibia for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
Namibia  believes 
and 
to 
in 

A/65/PV.15


Address by Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the 
Republic of Guyana 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guyana. 

  Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bharrat  Jagdeo,  President 
of the Republic of Guyana, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
President Jagdeo: I bring to all delegates at this 

sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General Assembly  the  warm 
greetings of my Government and people. 

The United Nations was founded out of the ashes 
of  war  and  violence.  Its  noble  ambitions,  grounded  in 
the timeless values of peace, equality and justice, seek 
to create a better world for this and future generations. 
But  if  those  values  are  to  mean  anything,  the  United 
Nations  must  not  be  merely  about  a  statement  of 
aspiration.  Instead,  we  must  strive  until  the  United 
Nations  provides  the  framework  where  the  timeless 
values I speak of can be given life through meaningful 
and practical responses to the contemporary challenges 
our peoples face. 

The challenges are many, but this week has drawn 
three  of  them  into  particularly  sharp  focus:  first,  our 
global  efforts 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015;  secondly,  a 
global  financial  crisis  that  threatens  to  undo  much  of 
the  progress  we  have  made  in  lifting  people  out  of 
poverty;  and  thirdly,  a  climate  crisis  that  carries  the 
risk  of  planet-wide  disruption  that  endangers  entire 
nations and the continuation of much of what we take 
for granted today. 
Those  challenges  are  all  a  function  of  the 

dominant  characteristic  of  the  modern  world:  our 
interconnectedness as a global community. And we will 
meet the challenges only if we adopt an interconnected 
response.  The  notion  that  we  can  protect  our  national 
and  global  interests  through  inward-looking  national 
responses is no longer valid. Instead, it is in all of our 
interests for the United Nations to provide the platform 
that facilitates global, interconnected responses. 
to  halve  poverty  and  achieve 
10-54965 

15 

in 
that  mitigate 
A/65/PV.15 


But  I  think  we  have  some  way  to  go  if  that 
platform  is  to  be  created.  When  it  comes  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  although 
progress  has  been  made,  we  have  not  connected  the 
rhetorical  support  for  their  achievement  to  actual 
delivery. When it comes to the financial crisis, we have 
not  connected  the  benefits  of  globally  open  financial 
systems  to  measures  that  protect  against  the  risks  that 
those systems create. And when it comes to the climate 
crisis, we have not connected the scientific evidence to 
global  policy  responses 
the  worst 
extremes of climate change. 

We could choose to continue in this vein, but it is 
clear where that would lead us. Or we could choose to 
ask ourselves if we are prepared to be held accountable 
for carrying our share of the responsibility.  

My  country  recognizes  that  we  must  deliver  our 
part. We  are  on  track  to  meet  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  especially 
the  areas  of 
education  and  health.  We  are  doing  all  we  can  to 
weather the financial crisis with the minimum suffering 
for our people. And we recognize that we must do more 
than  just  complain  about  climate  change.  We  have 
created our Low Carbon Development Strategy, which 
sets  out  a  long-term  path  to  protect  our  16-million-
hectare rainforest and move our entire economy onto a 
low carbon trajectory. 

But  there  are  times  when  it  feels  as  though  the 
international system sets out to put hurdles on the path 
to  overcoming  the  challenges.  Inconsistencies  and  a 
lack of coherence among aid, trade and climate policies 
in the developed world, to name just three areas, often 
create difficulties for developing countries who seek to 
make progress. 
The  United  Nations  can  help  to  change  those 

realities,  and  provide 
the  framework  for  global 
responses  that  match  the  ambition  of  the  institution. 
But at the core of that framework must be an enhanced 
understanding of the concept of accountability. 

As countries like mine fully embrace our need to 
be  accountable  for  the  actions  we  take  to  support  a 
global response to the MDGs, financial instability and 
climate  change,  so  too  developed  countries  must 
recognize  their  responsibilities  and  the  need  to  take  a 
holistic  approach to their dealings with the rest of the 
world. Aid flows are appreciated and valuable, but they 
sometimes  pale 
those 
countries  that  promote  how  their  aid  is  helping  the 
insignificance  when 
into 
for 
they 
threaten 
example, 
them  discharge 
achievement  of, 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  are  also  pursuing  unjust,  narrow-
minded trade or climate policies. 

I therefore call on the United Nations to establish 
a set of global accountability indicators with which we 
can transparently monitor whether the members of the 
international community are pursuing policies that, in a 
holistic  sense,  help 
their  global 
responsibilities,  not  just  through  the  provision  of  aid 
but  also  through  the  avoidance  of  unfair  trade  and 
climate policies. Through the Millennium Development 
Goals,  we  have  started  to  develop  some  of  the 
indicators  we  need.  As  we  enhance  them  further,  I 
believe we will see that better accountability, properly 
understood, can help us rise to the challenges we face. 

I would like to highlight the centrality of the need 
to protect and preserve our environment. While each of 
the issues I have mentioned is a global one requiring a 
global response, the environmental challenges we face 
mock  those  who  think  we  still  live  in  a  world  where 
global collective action is somehow a matter of choice. 

The  destruction  of  a  natural  habitat  anywhere  in 
the world removes life forms that could have been the 
bedrock  of  future  medical  advances  for  citizens 
everywhere. A ton of carbon emitted in Africa or Asia 
threatens  the  citizens  of  the  smallest  village  in  North 
America.  When  those  who  seek  to  represent  their 
citizens deny that that is true, or fail to understand its 
consequences, 
their  own  national 
interests and the wealth and security of their nation. 
Therefore,  failure  to  appreciate  the  need  for  an 

interconnected,  global  response  to  climate  change  and 
loss  of  biodiversity  is  not  just  an  abdication  of 
responsibility  to  some  intangible  global  good  or  to 
people on the other side of the world. It is a very real, 
measurable  threat  to  citizens  in  every  village,  hamlet 
and  city  in  the  world.  History  will  not  judge  kindly 
those  who  were  too  blinkered  or  ignorant  to  realize 
that.  So  a  step  change  in  our  efforts  to  avoid 
catastrophic climate change and protect biodiversity is 
needed. 

When we met here last year, many hoped that the 
United  Nations  would  facilitate  agreement  on  global 
action to stabilize our planet’s climate at the meeting of 
most  of 
in 
December.  Not  only  did  the  global  community  fail  to 
accomplish that, we are now in real danger of suffering 
from  a  catastrophic  drift  in  ambition,  where  we  no 
in  Copenhagen 
the  world’s 
leaders 
16 

10-54965 
it 
this, 
the 
that 
the 
activity 
rewards 
to  hold 
But  despite  knowing 


longer  even  try  to  connect  the  scientific  evidence  on 
climate  change  with  the  necessary  global  action  to 
avert it. 
This  drift  in  ambition  must  be  stopped.  It  is  a 

consequence  of  choices  we  make; 
is  not 
predetermined.  So  we  must  rededicate  ourselves  to 
crafting  a  shared  response  to  shared  climate  threats. 
Most  progressive  countries  now  realize  this,  and  are 
committed  to  temperature  rises  of  a  maximum  of  2° 
degrees  C  or  lower.  They  feel  that  this  will  require 
global economic growth powered by efficient and clean 
energy,  new  green  industries,  and  a  new,  less  carbon-
intensive approach to forestry and agriculture. 

international 
community  continues  to  fail  to  put  in  place  the 
measures that will enable the economic transformation 
that we claim we want. This is in large part due to the 
absence  of  a  global  agreement  that  puts  a  price  on 
high-carbon 
low-carbon 
innovation.  We  need  this  to  change.  To  that  end, 
Guyana  continues 
international 
community  needs  a  legally  binding  global  climate 
treaty  that  would  first  facilitate  the  emission  cuts 
needed  to  stabilize  the  planet’s  climate,  and  then 
enable  us  to  move  on  from  seeing  climate  change 
purely  in  terms  of  its  costs,  while  also  allowing  us  to 
see  how  it  can  catalyse  a  once-in-a-lifetime  global 
economic 
that  can  benefit  people 
everywhere. This cannot happen without deep, binding 
emission cuts in today’s developed world, which could 
stimulate 
that  can  address 
mitigation and adaptation across the developing world. 

We recognize that such a global treaty may not be 
achievable  this  year,  but  we  are  not  powerless  to  act 
now. The international community can do three things 
even  in  the  absence  of  a  treaty,  and  we  can  achieve 
breakthroughs in each when we meet in Cancún. 

the  developed  countries 
accountable  for  the  commitments  they  have  made  to 
the  immediate  short-term  ramping-up  of  financing  for 
climate  action  in  the  developing  world.  The  existing 
commitments  of  a  total  of  $30  billion  by  2012  and 
$100  billion  per  year  by  2020  can  be  agreed  to  in 
Cancún. Secondly, we can solve the vexed issue of an 
effective  financial  transfer  mechanism  to  ensure  that 
the  funds  flow  both  to  adaptation  and  mitigation 
actions.  Thirdly,  we  should 
look  at  ramping  up 
meaningful  sectoral  responses  that  work  in  the  short 
First,  we  can  hold 
transformation 
financial 
and 
the 
flows 
A/65/PV.15
if 
long  said 
in  Guyana 
is  prepared 
term. Specifically, in Guyana we believe that action on 
deforestation  and  forest  degradation  is  one  of  the 
efforts  that  can  be  made  quickly  and  with  maximum 
impact. I want to emphasize that none of this is about 
asking  the  developed  world  to  provide  us  with  aid. 
Instead,  it  is  about  ensuring  that  the  capital  for 
addressing  climate  change  is  allocated  where  it  can 
have the biggest impact. 

In  addressing  these  matters,  I  want  to  raise  a 
sensitive  subject:  the  Copenhagen Accord,  which  was 
the  only  tangible  outcome  of  last  year’s  climate 
Summit.  I  know  that  many  countries  here  today 
associated themselves with the Accord reluctantly, and 
that  some  did  not  associate  themselves  with  it  at  all. 
But  I  believe  that  reluctant  or  no  association  with  the 
Copenhagen Accord, and strong support for some of its 
provisions, are not mutually exclusive. Even countries 
that  did  not  associate  themselves  with  the  Accord 
should  hold  the  developed  world  accountable  for  its 
commitments. 
that 
the 

We  have 
international  community 
to  be  held 
accountable, we will not be found lacking. Three years 
ago, we said that notwithstanding the immense climate 
challenges  in  our  country  —  in  2005  floods  caused 
damage equivalent to 60 per cent of our gross domestic 
product  —  we  were  prepared  to  do  our  bit.  We  have 
determined that, as a country more than 80 per cent of 
rainforest,  we  can  make  a 
whose 
disproportionate  contribution 
solving  climate 
change. So we have looked at the contribution we can 
make  in  two  ways:  first,  by  creating  a  financial 
mechanism  whereby  we  can  put  our  entire  rainforest 
under protection; and secondly, by using the resources 
we  receive  for  the  climate  services  we  provide  from 
our protected forest to reorient our economy on a low-
carbon trajectory. 

the  most 
comprehensive  national  consultations  on  climate 
change  anywhere  in  the  world,  we  have  started  to 
implement  our  low-carbon  development  strategy.  We 
have  identified  how  we  can  cumulatively  save  forest-
based  emissions  of  1.5  gigatons  by  2020.  We  have  a 
deal in place with Norway on reducing emissions from 
deforestation  and  forest  degradation,  and  because  of 
this we are in the process of creating a climate finance 
fund  that  will  amount  to  between  $300  million  and 
$500 million between this year and 2015. We have also 
identified  how  we  can  use  this  climate  financing  to 
As  a  consequence,  after  one  of 
territory 
to 
is 
10-54965 

17 

is,  despite 
transformation  of 
The  United  Nations 
A/65/PV.15 

invest in education and health care; to catalyse private 
finance to move virtually our entire economy to clean 
energy; to open up non-forested land for new economic 
activities; to invest in climate adaptation needs and to 
support  our  indigenous  people  in  the  economic  and 
social 
their  communities.  We 
therefore  hope  that  we  are  demonstrating  the  value  of 
action on the three interlinked financing commitments 
I spoke of, and I hope that we are starting to show how 
interconnected  global  responses  can  deliver  globally 
valuable results. 

its  many 
limitations,  our  best  hope  for  the  advancement  of 
humanity.  Its  universality  allows  the  Organization  to 
play  a  central  and  catalytic  role  in  balancing  the 
differing interests of Member States and in generating 
consensus  on  the  issues  that  divide  us.  We  must 
therefore  commit  fully  to  the  principles  and  purposes 
of its Charter and to the improvement  of its structure. 
On  behalf  of  my  country  and  people,  I  wish  to  assure 
the Assembly  of  our  full  support  for  the  Organization 
and  for  strengthening  its  capacity  to  better  fulfil  the 
many mandates entrusted to it. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Guyana for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 



Address by Mr. Ahmed Abdallah Sambi, President of 
the Union of the Comoros 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Union  of  the 
Comoros. 

  Mr.  Ahmed  Abdallah  Sambi,  President  of  the 
Union  of  the  Comoros,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmed  Abdallah  Sambi, 
President  of  the  Union  of  the  Comoros,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Sambi  (spoke  in  French):  This  year  I 

should like to devote most of my statement once again 
to  the  important  matter  of  the  Comorian  island  of 
Mayotte.  This  has  been  a  dispute  between  us  and 
to 
France for more than three decades. It is our hope that 
there  will  be  greater  understanding  and  more  active 
solidarity on this matter on the part of this Assembly. 

It is my belief that the future of my country, the 
Union of the Comoros, depends on peace and stability. 
But  there  can  be  no  lasting  stability  in  my  country 
without  a  final  solution  to  this  problem. Accordingly, 
this year we have once again requested that an item on 
the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte  be  included  on  the 
agenda  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  the  deep 
gratitude of the Comorian  people for the valuable and 
unwavering  support  of  the African  Union,  the  League 
of  Arab  States  and  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference on this issue.  

I  would  like  to  begin  by  recalling  that,  pursuant 
to recommendations of the United Nations, the highest 
French  authorities  have  themselves  affirmed  that  the 
Comoros  should  accede 
independence  within 
inviolable  borders. Thus,  former  French  President  Mr. 
Valéry  Giscard  d’Estaing  declared,  inter  alia,  that  the 
Comoros are and always have been an entity and that it 
is natural that they have a common destiny.  

I  also  deem  it  vital  and  timely  to  recall  today 
certain  resolutions  of  our  Organization  confirming  the 
legitimacy  of  the  Comorian  claim  to  the  island  of 
Mayotte.  These  include  resolution  1514  (XV),  of 
14 December 1960, on the granting of independence to 
colonial  countries  and  peoples,  which  guarantees  the 
national unity and territorial integrity of such countries 
on 
their  sovereignty.  Resolution  3291 
(XXIX), of 13 December  1974, reaffirms the integrity 
and  unity  of  the  Comoro  Archipelago.  In  addition, 
resolution 3385 (XXX), of 12 November 1975, adopted 
a  few  months  after  the  independence  of  the  Comoros, 
affirms  the  admission  of  the  Comoro  Archipelago, 
composed  of  the  islands  of  Mayotte, Anjouan,  Mohéli 
and Grande-Comore, to the United Nations. 

Lastly, the historic resolution 31/4, of 21 October 
1976,  underscores  the  right  of  the  Comoros  and  the 
duties  of  France  with  regard  to  that  independent 
country.  Allow  me  to  read  out  the  provisions  of  that 
resolution  that  is  of  paramount  importance  to  my 
country  and  which  will  remain  forever  etched  in  the 
memory of my Comorian compatriots. 
regaining 
18 

10-54965 









“Considering that the occupation by France 
of  the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte  constitutes  a 
flagrant encroachment on the national unity of the 
Comorian State, a Member of the United Nations, 

“Considering  that  such  an  attitude  on  the 
part  of  France  constitutes  a  violation  of  the 
principles  of  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
United  Nations, 
in  particular  of  General 
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 
1960 concerning the granting of independence to 
colonial countries and peoples, which guarantees 
the national unity and territorial integrity of such 
countries, 

“1.  Condemns  and  considers  null  and  void 
the referendums of 8 February and 11 April 1976 
organized  in  the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte  by 
the Government of France, and rejects: 

“(a)  Any  other  form  of  referendum  or 
consultation which may hereafter be organized on 
Comorian territory in Mayotte by France; 

“(b)  Any  foreign  legislation  purporting  to 
legalize  any  French  colonial  presence  on 
Comorian territory in Mayotte; 

“2.  Strongly  condemns  the  presence  of 
France  in  Mayotte,  which  constitutes  a  violation 
of  the  national  unity,  territorial  integrity  and 
sovereignty  of  the  independent  Republic  of  the 
Comoros;”  (resolution  31/4,  third  and  fourth 
preambular paragraphs and paras. 1 and 2). 
France  refuses  to  comply  with  all  those  relevant 

resolutions  adopted  by  the  General Assembly  relating 
to  the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte  and  continues  to 
violate  the  principle  of  the  inviolability  of  colonial 
borders.  It  must  be  recalled  that  the  principle  of  the 
inviolability  of  borders  became  a  rule  of  customary 
international 
law,  codified  under  paragraph  6  of 
resolution 1514 (XV), which stipulates that:  

“Any  attempt  aimed  at  the  partial  or  total 

disruption of the national unity and the territorial 
integrity  of  a  country  is  incompatible  with  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.”  
That same resolution recalls in its paragraph 7 that:  


“All  States  shall  observe  faithfully  and 
strictly the provisions of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
A/65/PV.15
is  a 
retroactive  principle 
Rights and the present Declaration on the basis of 
equality, non-interference in the internal affairs of 
all States, and respect for the sovereign rights of 
all peoples and their territorial integrity.”  

International  jurisprudence  fully  recognizes  that 
principle of the indivisibility of colonial entities. In the 
judgment  handed  down  on  11  September  1992  in  a 
dispute  between  Honduras  and  El  Salvador, 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  in  The  Hague  declared 
that  the  principle  of  the  inviolability  of  colonial 
borders 
that  changes 
administrative boundaries originally designed for other 
purposes into international borders. 

For  many  years,  my  country  has  called  the 
international  community  to  witness  and  has  made 
known  its  readiness  to  seek  a  fair  and  just  solution 
bilaterally. The response to our position was crushing. 
France not only took unilateral steps in 1994 to hinder 
the free circulation of persons by introducing a visa for 
all  Comorians  wishing  to  visit  Mayotte,  part  of 
Comorian  territory,  but  also,  in  2000,  it  began  the 
process  of  making  the  island  a  department,  which  is 
illegal under international law. 
I  wish  to  stress  that  the  imposition  of  a  visa 

tragic  human 
requirement 
consequences.  The  small  slice  of 
the  sea  of 
approximately  70  kilometres  separating Anjouan  from 
the sister island of Mayotte has now become the largest 
maritime cemetery in the world. To date, nearly 7,000 
people have been killed. 
Moreover,  while  we  had  agreed  to  establish  a 

high-level  working  group  to  relaunch  the  dialogue  in 
order to consider together equitable and just solutions, 
on 29 May 2009 France organized another referendum 
aimed  at  changing  the  status  of  the  island  of  Mayotte 
into an overseas department. 

We  are  surprised  that,  despite  all  the  good  will 
demonstrated by the Comorian side — and in particular 
the  innovative  proposal  on  Mayotte  known  as  “one 
country, two systems” or two administrations, which I 
myself 
this 
Assembly — there has been no positive response from 
France  to  that  outstretched  hand.  The  dual  system 
would  be  a  compromise  that  would  finally  ensure 
respect for international law, while enabling France to 
continue  to  legally  administer  the  Comorian  island  of 
Mayotte  during  a  period  to  be  mutually  agreed.  It 
would  also  enable  our  Mahorais  brothers  and  sisters, 
introduced  at  an  earlier  session  of 
in  1994  had 
truly 
10-54965 

19 

A/65/PV.15 

whom I love dearly, to preserve their social status and 
standard of living, and the three other islands to finally 
take  up  the  many  challenges  of  development  in  peace 
and stability. 

But  France  wants  to  know  nothing  about  this 
compromise.  Faced  with  such  an  attitude,  we  find 
ourselves  obliged  to  request  our  dear  Organization  to 
require France to respect and comply with international 
law,  implement  the  various  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions on the Comorian island of Mayotte, and to 
reconsider  its  position  on  our  offer,  which  clearly 
represents  a  huge  sacrifice  on  the  part  of  my  country, 
which in fact is within its rights. 
What  is  at  stake  is  the  future  of  the  Comoros,  a 

small  sovereign  country  Member  of 
the  United 
Nations. Also at stake is the honour of France, a great 
country whose ideals of liberty, equality and fraternity 
so  strongly  and  profoundly  inspired  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and 
the  principles 
underpinning  our  Charter.  Ultimately,  what  is  at  stake 
the  honour  of  our  Organization,  whose  very 
is 
should 
credibility  would  be 
international 
law  and 
to  be 
disregarded and the territorial integrity of the Comoros 
continue to be violated.  

The United Nations is the guarantor of respect for 
international  law.  It  is  duty-bound  to  require  that  its 
Members’  legislation  complies  fully  with  the  relevant 
resolutions.  I  can  only  endorse  the  statement  of  the 
President of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. 
Joseph  Deiss,  who  said  at  the  opening  of  this  session 
that  the  United  Nations  is  the  guarantor  of  global 
governance and enjoys a global legitimacy. 

I cannot end my statement without reiterating that 
the  Comoros  supports  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community,  and  more  specifically  the  personal  efforts 
of His Excellency President Barack Hussein Obama, to 
establish  a  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East 
enabling the Palestinian people to live freely and safely 
in  an  independent  State  and  to  enjoy  fully  all  their 
legitimate rights. 

My country also pays tribute to efforts to bring an 
end to the fratricidal conflicts that are ripping apart the 
Sudan, Afghanistan, Somalia, the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo and the Great Lakes region.  

territorial 
We  also  reiterate  our  strong  support  for  the 
the  brotherly  Kingdom  of 
sorely  challenged 
legality  continue 
integrity  of 
Morocco  and  our  full  backing  for  the  Moroccan 
autonomy proposal as a definitive political compromise 
solution  to  the  regional  dispute  over  the  Moroccan 
Sahara. 

We also reiterate our unwavering support for the 
legitimate  demands  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
for the return of Taiwan to China’s fold. 

It  is  through  peace,  stability  and  security  and 
respect  for  international  law  that  our  nations  will  be 
able  to  attain  the  development  goals  they  have  set 
themselves  to  help  our  peoples.  I  therefore  have  full 
trust that our Organization shall continue to make these 
ideals its main focus. 
(spoke in Arabic) 

We  must,  as  soon  as  possible,  implement  the 
agreements  and  resolutions  that  we  have  agreed  in 
order  to  find  peaceful  and  definitive  solutions  to  all 
outstanding issues, because any delay in or suspension 
of  our  search  for  such  solutions  would  create 
additional,  similar  issues  and  crises  in  other  countries 
and  spark  the  flames  of  extremism  and  terrorism 
throughout  the  world.  We  hope  that  we  shall  find 
solutions that will lead to the happiness and well-being 
of all our peoples. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Union of 
the Comoros for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Ahmed  Abdallah  Sambi,  President  of  the 
Union  of  the  Comoros,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, 
President of the Republic of El Salvador 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the President of the Republic of El 
Salvador. 

  Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos  Mauricio  Funes 
Cartagena,  President  of  the  Republic  of  El  Salvador, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Funes  Cartagena  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

It is an honour and a great responsibility to address the 

20 

10-54965 


Assembly today. It is a responsibility because we need 
to  make  the  right  analysis  of  the  serious  problems  we 
face  and, in  my particular case,  of the  difficult reality 
in my country. El Salvador is one of many nations on 
this  planet  beset  by 
the  problems  of  poverty, 
backwardness  and,  above  all,  injustice.  The  more  a 
leader  is  weighed  down  by  the  tragedy  of  his  people, 
the greater the responsibility, as we know well. 

When  the  Assembly  reviews  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  struggle  against 
poverty  in  the  world,  and  we  look  at  the  reality  in 
Central America, we can say that the efforts made have 
not  yet  yielded  the  expected  results.  It  is  not  easy  for 
me  to  be  so  blunt  in  my  assessment,  but  that  is  the 
reality  and 
the  international  community  must  be 
sensitive  to  the  plight  of  the  vast  majority  of  the 
world’s population. For many years now, the agenda of 
the  United  Nations  and  other  multilateral  forums  has 
included  the  struggle  against  poverty.  The  hoped-for 
improvements, however, cannot be discerned. As far as 
social  justice  is  concerned,  far  from  achieving  the 
desired  progress,  the  gap  between  rich  and  poor 
countries,  and  between  the  rich  and  poor  within 
individual  countries,  has  widened. 
Injustice  has 
prevailed over our good intentions. That is the truth. 

The  recent  massacre  in  the  Mexican  state  of 
Tamaulipas  of  72  migrants,  of  whom  14  have  been 
identified as Salvadorans — and we continue to try to 
identify others — reveals the magnitude of the tragedy 
that,  while  centred  on  Mexico  and  Central  America, 
affects the whole world. Those 72 murdered desperate 
young  men  and  women,  who  lost  their  lives  trying  to 
find  a  future  in  the  United  States  or  Canada,  are  an 
expression  of  the  tragedy  in  the  region,  as  well  as  a 
metaphor for global injustice. This tragedy was not the 
result  of  a  plane  crash  or  climate  change.  It  was  the 
result, essentially, of three factors that point to the lack 
of  positive  results  in  the  fight  against  poverty  and 
injustice. 
I  am  referring  first  to  the  lack  of  opportunities, 

exclusion, backwardness and widespread injustice that 
affect  Central American  societies  and  account  for  the 
mass  emigration  of  their  young  people. The  second  is 
that of migration, a consequence of the first. The third 
is  violence,  crime  and 
the  shadow  business  of 
organized crime, which exploits the breeding ground of 
poverty and the transit of dispossessed migrants for its 
illicit purposes.  
A/65/PV.15

El  Salvador  has  6  million  inhabitants  in  its 
territory  and  3  million  more  living  elsewhere,  mainly 
in the United States. Migration has grown year by year 
in  the  wake  of  Governments’  lack  of  response  to  the 
aforementioned problems. Our migrants — indeed, the 
migrants of the entire world — leave their civil rights 
behind when they leave their country and arrive in new 
lands that do not recognize those rights. As experts on 
migration  have  said,  the  migrant  is  a  pariah,  a  human 
being  without  rights.  For  the  more  than  200  million 
migrants  around  the  world,  mostly  young  people, 
human and social rights, such as those embodied in the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  are  not 
guaranteed.  Another  reality  in  our  region  is  the  very 
high incidence of violence against women, which also 
calls for our special attention. 

We  note  the  close  relationship  between  poverty, 
injustice  and  migration.  Furthermore,  another,  closely 
related  factor  in  our  region  is  the  strong  presence  of 
organized  crime  and  the  extremely  high  incidence  of 
violence  and  criminality.  We  can  say  without 
exaggeration  that  the  map  of  poverty  and  injustice  is 
the  same  as  the  map  of  migration;  of  the  traffic  in 
drugs,  humans  and  weapons;  civic  insecurity;  money-
laundering and crime on a major scale. 

I mentioned the lack of positive results in fighting 
poverty  and  injustice  on  a  global  scale,  especially  in 
Central  America.  I  will  now  offer  an  example  of  the 
failure of policies implemented in my country over the 
past  decade.  According  to  a  report  of  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme, 
the  wealthiest 
segment  of  the  population  in  El  Salvador  received 
23 per  cent  of  the  State’s  social  spending.  The  lowest 
segment  —  the  poor  and  marginal  population  — 
received only 18 per cent of that social spending. The 
State  actually  promoted  and  expanded  injustice  and 
contributed  to  greater  poverty.  It  is  obvious  that  the 
neoliberal policies implemented in recent decades have 
run  counter 
international 
community  to  reduce  poverty,  as  expressed  in  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

Let  us  therefore  keep  in  mind  the  wise  words  of 
Albert  Einstein,  who  said  that  an  insane  person  is  he 
who  does  the  same  thing  over  and  over  again  and 
expects  different  results.  I  am  not  speaking  of  my 
country alone. I believe that everyone has to undertake 
profound  changes  in  the  way  social  policies  are 
designed in order not to perpetuate failure. It would be 
naïve, for example, to think that a coercive, repressive 
the  desire  of 
to 
the 
10-54965 

21 

A/65/PV.15 

State that invests more and more in its security forces 
or  that  mobilizes  its  army  to  support  the  police  to 
combat crime — as I have ordered done in El Salvador, 
given the  rise in crime that I inherited upon assuming 
office  —  can  in  and  of  itself  resolve  the  problem  of 
insecurity.  We  would  be  making  a  historic  mistake  if 
we  did  not  address  the  root  causes  of  violence  and 
crime.  The  indolent  State  that  has  prevailed  in  recent 
times  must  be  transformed  into  a  social  State  that 
wages  as  its  chief  battle  the  reduction  of  poverty  and 
injustice. 

In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  lay  out  some 
thoughts  based  on  that  reality.  First,  the  righteous 
battle  against  organized  crime  and  on  behalf  of  the 
human  rights  of  migrants  does  not  fall  exclusively  to 
Mexico and Central America. Here, I would like to say 
that  we  must  not  leave  it  to  Mexico  or  to  Central 
America alone. Our region is not the main consumer of 
drugs. Our countries are not the major recipients of the 
uninterrupted  flow  of  laundered  drug  money,  the 
product of the failure of stricter controls. It is not only 
our people who will be hurt if the drug cartels continue 
to  grow  stronger  and  to  endanger  our  countries’ 
survival.  This  battle  is  not  irrelevant  to  anyone.  It 
would be a mistake to believe that Mexico and Central 
America  can  defeat  crime  alone.  The  territory  of 
criminal  violence  today  is  the  border  between  the 
United States and our small countries, but tomorrow it 
will be in the major cities of the developed world, the 
capitals of America, Europe, Africa and Asia. So let us 
not leave it to Mexico alone, and let us not leave it to 
Central America alone. 

This is my appeal to the international community. 
The  help  our  countries  need  is  economic;  it  is 
intelligence;  it  is  support  for  training  and  equipping 
our  law-and-order  forces  to  combat  crime  and  control 
money-laundering. But we also need help with the new 
social  and  regional  policies  that  the  Central American 
Integration  System  has  prepared,  because 
those 
investments will address the causes of our tragedies.  

For  these  reasons,  I  wish  to  bring  two  proposals 
to  the  General  Assembly.  First,  we  should  establish, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  a  Central 
American  commission  to  investigate  organized  crime. 
The  establishment  of  such  a  body  would  be  based  on 
the  good  experience  of  the  International  Commission 
against Impunity in Guatemala known as CICIG, which 
was established with the support of the United Nations, 
the  United  States,  Canada  and  Spain.  Such  a 
an 
Gangs 
have 
become 
no 
doubt 
My 
proposal 
is 
based 
contribute 
therefore 
also 
transcend 
integration,  which  are 
Central  Americans  understand 
commission  would 
to 
strengthening institutions. We must recognize that State 
organizations have been infiltrated by organized crime 
and  that  all  means  must  be  made  available  to  recover 
them and to wage the war against crime. 

implicit 
on 
acknowledgement  of  the  obvious  truth  that  organized 
crime does not recognize borders or respect States. Our 
response  must 
these 
boundaries; our response must be integration. Until the 
establishment of such a commission, my country shall 
work along these lines  and has launched dialogue and 
action  with  neighbouring  countries  with  a  view  to 
coordinating policies to prevent and punish crime.  

My  second  proposal  concerns  the  establishment 
of an international  alliance to support the priorities of 
regional 
the  fight  against 
poverty and inequality and the creation of opportunities 
that  will  allow  our  populations  to  stay  in  their 
communities of origin. 

this,  and  are 
willing  to  give  battle  to  poverty,  exclusion,  and 
organized  crime.  To  that  end,  we  have  started  joint 
work  by  relaunching  our  integration  organization,  the 
Central  American 
Integration  System.  Central 
Americans are striving to create strong, democratic and 
just  societies.  In  the  specific  case  of  El  Salvador,  my 
Government is moving  forward with the building of a 
social State that reformulates social policy, taking into 
account 
I 
mentioned earlier. 

criminal 
organizations  coordinated  with  organized  crime.  We 
shall  not  overcome  this  reality  with  mere  assistance 
policies  or  improvements  in  the  standards  of  living. 
This  phenomenon  is  found  among  young  people  who, 
from  earliest  childhood  and  adolescence,  join  gangs, 
and  is  so  widespread  that  gangs  have  become  a 
complex subculture. Our response must be equally so. 
Within the framework of a social State, we must 

deepen 
republican 
institutions.  We  know  that  corruption  is  one  of  the 
worst  enemies  of  the  democratic  system;  therefore, 
working  for  transparency  has  become  a  fundamental 
aspect of our national and regional strategies.  

Throughout  Central  America,  this  struggle  is  a 
matter  not  only  of  ethics,  but  also  of  democratic 
democracy 
the 
failure  of  past  mechanisms 
that 
strengthen 
veritable 
and 
22 

10-54965 
there 
Secretariat 
country  with 
corruption.  The  Under 


survival. In other words, we must oppose the potential 
emergence  of  a  drug  State  by  building  strongly 
democratic  and  transparent  States.  It  has  been  proven 
that  the  more  corruption  there  is,  the  less  economic 
development 
is.  Corruption  poisons  public 
policies, especially those that assist the poor; it reduces 
citizens’  trust  in  their  system  and  makes  markets 
inefficient. 
My Government has created a specialized body to 

fight 
of 
Transparency  and Anti-Corruption  is  the  first  body  in 
America  to  submit  itself  to  the  in  situ  control  by  the 
Inter-American  Program  of  Cooperation 
to  Fight 
Corruption of the Organization of American States, and 
has  been  commended  as  such.  According  to  the 
Government  of  the  United  States,  El  Salvador  is  also 
the  Central  American 
the  best 
performance  in  fighting  organized  crime  and  drug 
trafficking. Thus, it is not on the high-risk map which 
that  Government  has 
just  published.  Without 
transparent 
independent 
strong  and 
institutions, 
institutions  and  without  a  true  vocation  to  fighting 
organized  crime,  it  will  not  be  possible  to  meet  the 
great challenges before us.  

We are waging a war. It is a new war unlike those 
of the past. We are not waging it against another nation 
or  standing  army.  We  are 
facing  a  powerful, 
sophisticated,  diffuse  enemy  that  has  blended  in  with 
our  society,  and  we  must  fight  it  with  new  weapons, 
creativity,  intelligence,  and  the  cooperation  of  our 
societies and the global community. Only thus will our 
efforts be commensurate with the circumstances. Only 
thus  will  we  be  able  to  meet  today’s  challenges.  Only 
thus  will  we  provide  sound  responses  to  the  needs  of 
the majority of our peoples, who await opportunities to 
believe  once  again  in  democracy,  institutions  and 
politics.  
Once  again,  I  appeal  to  the  conscience  and 

sensibility  of 
In 
conclusion, I  wish to do so by quoting President John 
F.  Kennedy’s  1961  inaugural  speech,  which  reflects 
what  I  have  tried  to  convey  today.  He  said  that  “if  a 
free  society  cannot  help  the  many  who  are  poor,  it 
cannot save the few who are rich”.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of El Salvador for the statement he has just made. 
international 
community. 
the 


A/65/PV.15
  Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.  


the 
the 
Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Estonia. 

  Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves, 
President of the Republic of Estonia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Ilves:  I  am  pleased  to  address  the 

General  Assembly.  This  year,  I  shall  focus  on  three 
pressing  global  matters:  the  progress  in  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  promoting 
peace and security, and humanitarian affairs. 

During  the  first  decade  of  this  millennium,  the 
MDGs  have  triggered  a  level  of  global  commitment 
and wide-ranging partnership that the world has never 
seen before. Along the way, there have been setbacks, 
of course. One thing, however, is certain — achieving 
the MDGs is an attainable reality with concrete targets 
and deadlines. 

We  have  set  a  clear  goal,  but  we  must  keep  in 
mind that we shall reach our objective only if we share 
the  weight  of  responsibility  and  all  of  us  pull  in  the 
same  direction.  The  political  will  expressed  by  a 
majority  of  stakeholders  at  the  recent  MDG  summit 
and in its outcome document (resolution 65/1) needs to 
be  implemented  promptly,  in  accordance  with  the 
agreed action agenda. Only five years, after all, remain. 
Estonia is ready to provide continuous contributions to 
the success of our common endeavour. 

Estonia  contributes  towards  the  achievement  of 
the  MDGs  through  focused  development  cooperation 
policy  and  respective  activities  in  our  main  partner 
countries, one of which is Afghanistan. Alongside with 
providing  security  through  the  International  Security 
Assistance  Force  (ISAF),  we  are  carrying  out  long-
term  health  care  and  education  projects  in  Helmand 
province.  We  also  offer  our  best  practices 
in 
10-54965 

23 

A/65/PV.15 

establishing  standards  of  good  governance,  including 
the  creation  of  an  electronic  voting  system  for  the 
newly elected Parliament. 

Estonia supports the transition process, including 
the  gradual  transfer  of  security  responsibilities  to  the 
Afghan authorities. This process should be term-based 
and  irreversible,  and  carried  out  according  to  the 
agreement reached at the ISAF meeting in Tallinn last 
April.  Ownership  of  the  process  on  the  part  of  the 
Afghan  Government  is  crucial  in  taking  forward  the 
pledge it made at the Kabul Conference with regard to 
strengthening the electoral framework. This, along with 
the endorsed reform agenda, demonstrates the Afghans’ 
desire to develop their nation. 

For  my  country,  Estonia,  the  development  of 
information  and  communications  technology  has  been 
a  crucial  engine  of  economic  development  and 
modernization  throughout  the  past  20  years.  This  is 
why  our  experts  advise  Governments  on  information 
and  communications  technology  solutions  in  many 
parts  of  the  world.  In  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme  and 
the  Open 
Society  Institute,  we  have  established  a  special 
academy to assist Governments in developing countries 
with  advice  and  training  in  electronic  governance  and 
the use of information and communications technology 
in  public  services.  I  am  convinced  that  the  more 
successful  we  are  in  reducing  the  digital  divide,  the 
more  accelerated  and  more 
sustainable  overall 
economic progress will be. 

I  commend  United  Nations  efforts  in  paving  the 
way  towards  a  more  efficient  operational  system, 
especially  the  long-awaited  outcome  of  the  four-year 
the 
system-wide 
coherence 
implications  of  gender 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
consensus 
agreement  on  establishing  the  United  Nations  Entity 
for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women 
(UN Women) will serve as an extra boost for meeting 
those Goals. 
Estonia  contributes  to  the  achievement  of  the 

Millennium  Goals 
the  respective  United 
Nations  agencies,  funds  and  programmes,  and  we 
pledge our support to UN Women as well. 

Ever  since  the  United  Nations  Charter  was 
signed, 65 years ago, the United Nations has stood for 
global  peace  and  security.  The  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  budget  has  increased  more  than  15-fold 
negotiations.  As 
inequality  affect  all 
through 
the 
the 
Estonia 
firm  support 
for 
reiterates 
its 
the  Sudan  and 
the  basis  of  full  adherence 
since  1991.  It  is  difficult  to  imagine  the  situation  in 
major  crisis  areas,  such  as 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, without the active, 
multifaceted  engagement  of  the  United  Nations.  With 
its 15 military and 12 political operations, however, the 
United Nations peacekeeping force is clearly stretched 
thin. We  need  further  reforms  in  order  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness  of  peacekeeping  operations  and 
to 
encourage  regional  actors  to  assume  a  stronger  role. 
Estonia contributes to the United Nations peacekeeping 
budget  at  a  voluntarily  enhanced  rate.  We  have  done 
this for 10 years now and will continue to do so. 

The  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
promotion  of  peace  and  security  depends  on  the 
commitment of all Member States. We all share equally 
the  responsibility  to  apply  the  principles  enshrined  in 
the  Charter,  including  the  duty  to  refrain  from  any 
threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or 
political independence of any State. 

the 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity,  security  and  stability 
of  Georgia,  on 
to 
international  law.  For  the  peaceful  resolution  of  that 
drawn-out  conflict,  it  is  necessary  to  continue  the 
Geneva  talks  in  their  initial  format.  Humanitarian 
issues,  in  particular  ensuring  the  safe  and  dignified 
return of refugees and internally displaced persons, and 
the  question  of  increased  access  to  the  conflict  zone, 
especially  for  humanitarian  workers  and  international 
observers,  need 
to  be  seriously  addressed  now. 
Furthermore,  the  free  movement  of  people  living 
within 
recognized  borders  of 
Georgia must be ensured. 

Without  justice,  efforts  to  ensure  sustainable 
peace  might  easily  be  wiped  out.  I  would  like, 
therefore, to emphasize the importance of the adoption 
by consensus of a package of amendments on the crime 
of  aggression  by  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  held  in 
June  2010.  Estonia  strongly  supports  an  international 
criminal  justice  system  in  which  an  independent  and 
effective  International  Criminal  Court  plays  a  central 
role. 

It  is  also  of  crucial  importance  to  support  the 
activities of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former Yugoslavia  during  its  final  years  of  existence. 
Estonia 
the 
enforcement of sentences. 
its  share  with  respect 
internationally 
is  doing 
24 

10-54965 
to 
I  can  assure  you 


Success in confronting the security challenges of 

the 
twenty-first  century, 
including  cyberthreats, 
depends  on  close  cooperation  among  all  States  and 
international and regional organizations. Estonia urges 
broad  cross-border  and  cross-sector  capacity-building 
in  protecting  critical  information  infrastructure,  the 
importance  of  which  was  highlighted  in  the  report  of 
the  high-level  panel  of  experts  on  information  and 
communication technology (A/55/75). The necessity of 
closer  cooperation  among  States,  between  the  private 
sector and civil society, is critical, since during a cyber 
attack  all 
traditional  security  measures  may  be 
rendered  useless. 
that  all-
encompassing  preparedness  will  pay  off  when  a  real 
crisis strikes. 
Estonia  remains  actively  engaged  in  areas  where 

our contribution can make a difference, particularly in 
humanitarian  affairs  and  human  rights  issues.  In  this 
context,  I  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  the  tenth 
anniversary of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) 
on  women,  peace  and  security,  which  must  be  a 
stepping  stone  towards  further  action  at  the  United 
Nations,  regional  and  national  levels.  Establishing 
operational guidelines for the protection of women and 
girls,  strengthening  accountability  mechanisms  and 
enhancing women’s participation in peace negotiations 
and post-conflict peacebuilding should be part of these 
efforts.  To  this  end,  Estonia  is  finalizing  a  national 
action plan to enhance our activities. 

  Mr.  Al-Jarman  (United  Arab  Emirates),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

Estonia  is  a  strong  and  principled  advocate  of 
human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the 
freedom 
the 
strengthening  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its 
capacity  to  promote  and  protect  human  rights  around 
the world. We aspire to join the Human Rights Council 
in 2012. 

its 
contribution to United Nations humanitarian activities, 
both  through  work  in  the  field  and  financially.  The 
United  Nations  coordination  capability  was  crucial 
most  recently  in  Pakistan  and  at  the  beginning  of  the 
year in Haiti, where it saved lives, and where Estonian 
logistics  experts  have  been  supporting  United  Nations 
activities on the ground for more than six months now. 
Our  experience  has  made  clear  the  need  for  more 
Estonia  has  also  continuously 
expression.  Estonia 
increased 
supports 
of 

A/65/PV.15
it 
is 
combined  efforts  in  securing  the  link  between  relief 
efforts and development work. 

Estonia  is  concerned  about  increasingly  frequent 
violations of humanitarian principles in conflict zones. 
Alas,  humanitarian  emblems  and  flags  no  longer 
provide the shield of protection they used to. We must 
step up our efforts and press for increased security for 
humanitarian  aid  workers.  After  all, 
the 
responsibility of Governments to ensure the safety and 
security  of  humanitarian  personnel  working  on  their 
territory. 

The  effectiveness  of  humanitarian  aid  and 
upholding  good  humanitarian  principles  are  other 
concerns of ours. Advocating these principles was one 
of the activities Estonia pursued during our recent co-
chairmanship  of  the  Good  Humanitarian  Donorship 
initiative. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  underline  one  simple 
truth. The United Nations, like any other organization, 
is only as strong and effective as the political will and 
commitment of its members. Big or small, we all bear 
responsibility.  As  a  member  of  the  European  Union, 
Estonia  firmly  believes  that  the  Treaty  of  Lisbon 
fundamentally enhances the ability of the Union to be a 
significant  global  actor,  securing  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity  for  all.  With  our  shared  commitment,  I 
expect  the  vital  and  prominent  role  of  the  United 
Nations in the global arena to be further reinforced. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic  of Estonia  for the statement 
he has just made. 

  Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
General Assembly Hall. 
the 
from  the 

Address by Mr. Benigno Simeon C. Aquino III, 
President of the Republic of the Philippines 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Philippines. 

  Mr.  Benigno  Simeon  C.  Aquino  III,  President  of 
the Republic of the Philippines, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall. 


10-54965 

25 

to 
the  poor;  and 
A/65/PV.15 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Benigno  Simeon  C.  Aquino  III,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Philippines,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 
President  Aquino:  Allow  me  to  convey  the 

greetings of the Filipino people to the President of the 
General  Assembly  and  the  representatives  gathered 
here for the sixty-fifth session of the Assembly. 
The  United  Nations  was  founded  on  the  belief 

that  in  collective  action  lies  collective  security.  It  is 
when  nations  reach  across  their  borders  that  the 
immense problems of our age begin to be manageable. 
In a world that has become increasingly globalized, the 
challenges  that  we  face  have  become  globalized  as 
well.  Climate  change;  pandemics; 
terrorism  and 
weapons  of  mass  destruction;  transnational  organized 
crime  such  as  human  trafficking  and  the  illicit  drug 
trade; the continuing vulnerability of migrants, women, 
persons  with  disabilities  and 
the 
challenges  posed  by 
interconnected 
economies  —  all  call  for  a  further  strengthening  of 
international cooperation. 

All  of  us  here,  representing  our  respective 
nations,  are  stewards  entrusted  with  the  well-being  of 
our  respective  peoples.  We  are  also  required  to  be 
responsible and responsive members of the community 
of  nations.  Clearly,  we  are  already  aware  that  the 
problem of one poses a problem for all. Any solution, 
then,  depends  on  us  recognizing  that  each  one  of  our 
nations  exists,  not  in  a  vacuum,  but  rather  in  an 
increasingly interdependent global milieu. 

The central revelation here is that for humanity to 
progress,  all  nations  must  progress  as  one.  The  quest 
for  universal  human  dignity  should  not  be  defined  by 
geographical, racial or cultural boundaries, nor should 
it be set back by our desires to move our own nations 
forward.  Global  progress  means  equitable  progress. 
The  industrialized  nations  of  the  world  can  look  with 
pride  on  the  living  standards  their  peoples  enjoy.  But, 
as  one  of  my  distinguished  predecessors  once  said: 
“Those who have less in life should have more in law”.  

This  basic  principle  of  social  justice  is  also  the 
most  basic  humanitarian  challenge  of  our  times.  The 
wealth of nations must become an instrument to move 
the world further along the straight and righteous path 
of  compassion  and  communal  responsibility.  The 
increasingly 
that 
it 
inspired 
the  creation  of 
message  is  clear:  there  are  those  who  need  help,  and 
acting with compassion towards those who need help is 
a response that is both humane and necessary. This idea 
has  been  trumpeted  for  decades,  and  yet  combating 
inequality remains one of the greatest challenges of our 
times.  The  chasm  between  the  powerful  and  the 
powerless,  the  haves  and  the  have-nots  remains  to  be 
bridged.  The  past  century  has  demonstrated,  in  terms 
so  stark 
this 
Organization,  that  when  the  mighty  clash,  those  who 
have less end up trampled. This is true  where conflict 
exists and true where markets exist; true in our nation 
and true in an international context.  

The concept of vulnerability and inequality is all 
too clear in the global effort to address climate change. 
Those who stand to lose much, if not everything, from 
the  effects  of  man-induced  climatic  conditions  are 
those  who  did  little  to  cause  it. There  is  an  enormous 
need  to  ensure,  as  a  matter  of  justice,  that  countries, 
particularly  those  that  are  vulnerable,  are  assisted  in 
their adaptation and disaster risk-reduction efforts and 
are  provided  the  necessary  resources  to  build  climate-
resilient  communities.  This  should  go  hand  in  hand 
with  ambitious  commitments  by  major  economies  to 
significantly reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. 

Many of you may say that you have already given 
mightily of your resources. But surely we do not need 
flood  and  famine  to  remind  us  that  there  is  so  much 
more  that  must  be  given,  because  there  are  so  many 
more who deserve the hope of a better life. 

focus  of  cooperation 
demanded of us today is to collectively ensure that the 
eight Millennium Development Goals will be achieved 
by  all  in  the  remaining  five  years.  That  is  a  daunting 
task, and we are all aware that national resolve has to 
be complemented by bilateral, regional and multilateral 
cooperation. 

Rising  to  the  challenges  of  our  era  requires, 
within each of our countries, a strengthened regulatory 
system.  This  does  not  mean  a  cumbersome,  intrusive 
Government,  but  rather  a  Government  that  allows 
private  enterprise  to  thrive,  while  ensuring  that  it 
remains  cognizant  of  its  social  responsibilities  and 
empowers  it,  in  turn,  to  fulfil  those  responsibilities. 
Many  Governments  are 
this  challenge, 
including  the  Government  of  the  Philippines.  Our 
Administration  pledges  to  channel  any  gains  we  reap 
The  most 
immediate 
tackling 
26 

10-54965 
and 
articulating 
cooperation 


from  public-private  partnerships  into  social  services, 
like those in health, education and poverty alleviation. 

Across  boundaries,  the  battle  against  inequality 
requires  a  balanced  approach  from  those  in  authority. 
We  should  be  conscious  of  our  responsibilities  to  our 
own people and of our duties to regions and the globe. 
Already  we  are  witnessing  a  rethinking  of  traditional 
paradigms,  a  shifting  of  our  focus  towards  ensuring 
that the global system does not leave anyone behind. 

And  while  my  nation  continues  to  benefit  from 
the compassion of those who are able to help, this does 
not  mean  that  we  or  our  friends  in  the  developing 
world will be entirely dependent on the largesse of the 
developed world. We will not be passive players in our 
quest for development. My nation remains active in the 
Group  of  77  and  in  other  efforts  aimed  at  enhancing 
South-South 
and 
promoting our collective economic interests. 
This is what our people put us in power for. This 

is  what  the  world  expects  of  us  as  leaders  —  to  be 
exemplars  of  what  it  is  to  be  compassionate  human 
beings  and  vanguards  of  hope  for  our  common 
humanity. For is not this hope also the hope that unites 
us as human beings? It is the same hope that allows us 
to  break  down  walls  of  mistrust,  which  may  take  the 
form  of  intolerance,  fear  or  violence.  It  is  the  same 
hope  that  leads  us  to  gather  in  this  Hall  as  our 
predecessors did. It is the same hope that will give our 
generation of leaders the strength to elevate this global 
Assembly to a place where, collectively, the nations of 
the  world  are  able  to  find  ways  to  make  a  better  life 
possible for all. 
There have been many times in our history when 

my  people  have  shown 
is 
impossible. We call it “people power”. It is my earnest 
hope and in the greatest interests of humanity that we 
harness 
the  energies  of  dialogue,  solidarity  and 
communal  responsibility  so  that  a  global  “people 
power” towards equitable progress may be achieved. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly  I  would  like  to  thank 
the President of the Republic of the Philippines for the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Benigno  Simeon  C.  Aquino  III,  President  of 
the Republic of the Philippines, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
that,  united,  nothing 

A/65/PV.15


to 
the  United  Nations 
Address by Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of 
Montenegro 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Montenegro.  

stability.  This  meeting  also  confirms 
in 
  Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Filip  Vujanović,  President  of  Montenegro,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Vujanović: It is a great pleasure for me 

to  address  this  distinctive  forum,  which  continues  to 
bring together the most responsible people, committed 
to  achieving  and  protecting  the  common  good,  peace 
the 
and 
irreplaceable  role  of 
the 
international community and the respect in which it is 
held. 

Following the valuable contribution made by the 
previous  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
election  of  Joseph  Deiss  as  the  President  of  the 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session,  and  to  wish  him 
every  success.  I  also  pay  special  tribute  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  consistent  reaffirmation 
of  the  United  Nations  as  an  indispensable  player  in 
solving  crucial  issues  that  have  long  been  on  the 
international agenda, which has become more complex 
and demanding than ever. 

As  the  youngest  Member  of  the  United  Nations, 
Montenegro  has  proved  itself  a  reliable  partner  in  the 
United Nations mission to strive for a world of peace, 
security and prosperity for everyone. At the same time, 
thanks  to  United  Nations  support,  Montenegro  has 
significantly  enhanced  its  standing  in  international 
organizations, while ensuring the quality of reforms in 
its own State and society. The current improvement in 
global finances, albeit slight, shows that, in addition to 
the  crucial  role  of  the  largest  and  richest  countries, 
especially the Group of Eight and the Group of 20, the 
United  Nations  is  essential  to  actions  undertaken  for 
the stabilization of the global economy. 

Montenegro supports the pragmatic reform of the 
United  Nations. We  also  welcome  the  recent  adoption 
of General Assembly resolution 64/289 on system-wide 
10-54965 

27 
the 
timely 
and  Euro-Atlantic 
A/65/PV.15 

coherence  and 
initiative  of  Assembly 
President Joseph Deiss to make the theme of this year’s 
general  debate  the  reaffirmation  of  the  central  role  of 
the United Nations in global governance. 

The protection of international peace and stability 
continues  to  be  a  focus  of  the  General  Assembly 
agenda. Convinced that no progress or stability can be 
ensured  without  peace  and  security,  Montenegro 
supports  and  contributes  to  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations in this regard, affirming the basic principles of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  relating  to  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes through diplomatic channels. 
Mindful  of  our  foreign  policy  priorities  of 

European 
integration,  when 
considering and taking any concrete action concerning 
conflict zones in the framework of the United Nations, 
Montenegro  harmonizes  its  policy  with  European 
Union  foreign  policy,  taking  due  account  of  specific 
national  interests.  We  are  best  able  to  contribute  by 
continuing  to  play  a  constructive  role  as  a  stabilizing 
factor in the international community, especially in the 
Western Balkans and South-East Europe. 
We  strongly  support  United  Nations  efforts  in 

implementation  of 
the  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy,  and  we  welcome  the  idea  of  more  intensive 
activities  in  the  preparation  and  drafting  of  a  United 
Nations 
terrorism. 
Montenegro  is  of  the  opinion  that  only  through  the 
coordinated efforts of the international community can 
global  terrorism  be  defeated.  We  support  the  various 
United  Nations  documents  on 
the  fight  against 
corruption,  organized  crime,  illicit  traffic  in  narcotic 
drugs and trafficking in human beings. 
to 

instruments 
implementing  all 
fostering  disarmament  and  arms  control.  We  support 
any new constructive initiative aimed at strengthening 
international  cooperation 
reduction  and 
elimination of all types of arms and lethal weapons. 

Montenegro  deeply  appreciates  the  importance 
and role of the United Nations peacekeeping mission as 
a  unique  instrument  for  the  creation  and  maintenance 
of peace and peacebuilding in conflict zones. Decades-
long  experience  in  peacekeeping  operations  confirms 
the validity of this  concept and the strategic  policy of 
the United Nations. Peacekeeping operations have been 
successful in reducing the negative effects of conflicts 
and  preventing  their  further  escalation  and  disruption 
Montenegro  has 
fully  committed 
convention  on 
international 
international 
itself 
legal 
the 
for 

to 
its 
tradition, 
responsibility 
to  contribute 
in  keeping  with  our 
of  regional  and  international  peace,  stability  and 
security. 

Although  a  small  country  —  and  the  youngest 
Member  of  the  United  Nations  —  Montenegro  fully 
assumes 
the 
maintenance of peace and stability, as is demonstrated 
by  our  continuously  enhanced  participation.  We  will 
make  further  contributions  in  line  with  international 
efforts  and 
the 
Principality  of  Montenegro  having,  as  a  sovereign 
State,  participated  in  the  international  peacekeeping 
mission back in 1897. 

Montenegro believes in the crucial importance of 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  of 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). We are sure that this aim will be furthered by 
the  exchange  of  views  and  recommendations  at  the 
recent  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  and  Montenegro  supports  the 
implementation  of  all  relevant  strategies,  programmes 
and initiatives of the United Nations in this regard. The 
crisis  has  also  brought  home  to  us  the  necessity  of 
further  realizing  the  sustainable  development  concept, 
which requires a balance between economic and social 
development  and  environmental  protection.  To  this 
end,  we  remain  committed  to  the  resolutions  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Commission  on  Sustainable 
Development,  which  have  also  been  fully  reflected  in 
the Millennium Declaration of 2000. 
Montenegro  supports  the  ongoing  efforts  and 

attention  of 
the  current 
challenges in Africa. To this end, the fulfilment of the 
MDGs  and  the  implementation  of  all  United  Nations 
documents, 
summit 
decisions, is of crucial importance.  
As a country engaged in the process of European 

integration,  Montenegro 
partnership 
relationships  between  the  European  Union  and Africa, 
as  well  as  efforts  undertaken  to  solve  development 
challenges  and  eradicate  poverty  on 
the  African 
continent. 

In  the  context  of  climate  change  and  its  adverse 
effects,  we  are  fully  committed  to  finding  a  common 
response 
the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  We  are 
deeply committed to this end, in view of the effects of 
the  natural  disasters  that  occurred  in  the  past  year 
causing  heavy  loss  of  life  and  enormous  material 
the  United  Nations 
in  accordance  with 
the  Millennium 
including 
supports 
to 
28 

10-54965 
A/65/PV.15
into 


including 
their  more 


damage,  in  particular  the  earthquake  in  Haiti  and  the 
floods  in  Pakistan.  Therefore,  a  global  response  and 
action  is  required,  and  not  only  at  the  humanitarian 
level.  Efforts  aimed  at  reducing  the  effects  of  natural 
disasters and at the rebuilding and further development 
of affected regions and countries are also necessary. 

In  order  to  act  responsibly  with  respect  to  the 
complex issue of climate change, we have established, 
together  with  neighbouring  countries  and  countries 
from the region, a regional forum in Montenegro which 
deals with the prevention of climate change and related 
challenges at the national and regional levels. 
Montenegro  is  fully  dedicated  to  the  promotion 

and  universal  protection  of  human 
rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  for  everyone.  We  strongly 
support the activities of the Human Rights Council and 
the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights, 
intensive  functional 
interaction  with  the  General  Assembly  and  relevant 
Committees. 

We  believe  in  the  potential  and  capacities  of  the 
United  Nations,  especially  when  strengthened  by  the 
active  participation  and  robust  contributions  of  each 
Member  State,  to  find  adequate  responses  and  take 
actions  aimed  at  resolving  the  ever-increasing  global 
challenges.  As  an  institution  dedicated  to  individuals 
and humankind collectively, which continues to affirm 
peace  and  prosperity,  the  United  Nations  remains  of 
irreplaceable global value, and Montenegro is proud to 
belong to it.  
I  assure  the  Assembly  that  Montenegro  will 

continue to give its strong support to strengthening and 
upholding  the  United  Nations,  so  that  the  latter  may 
improve  its  efficiency,  responsibility  and  readiness  to 
meet the needs of each Member State. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  Montenegro  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

  Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.  

Address by Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President 
of the Republic of Uganda 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Uganda. 

to 
  Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Uganda,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
welcome 
Mr. Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Uganda,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  Museveni:  I  did  not  attend  the  High-

level  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), as I was not yet in New York. Nevertheless, I 
would  like  to  inform  the  General  Assembly  that 
Uganda  will  definitely  achieve  the  following  MDGs: 
Goal  1,  on  the  eradication  of  extreme  poverty  and 
hunger;  Goal  2,  on  achieving  universal  primary 
education; Goal 3, on the empowerment of women and 
the promotion of gender equality; Goal 7, on ensuring 
environmental sustainability; and Goal 8, on creating a 
global partnership for development. 

It is only in the areas of maternal and child health 
that  we  may  not  achieve  by  2015  the  targets  set. 
However,  in  Uganda,  we  have  developed  a  national 
road  map  to  accelerate  the  reduction  of  maternal  and 
child  mortality 
a 
comprehensive  strategy  that  clearly  spells  out  our 
national priorities in this area. In this strategy, we have 
given  priority  to  four  key  intervention  types,  namely 
effective  antenatal  care,  skilled  attendance  at  birth, 
emergency 
experience 
complications  in  childbirth  and  family  planning.  We 
have  also  given  priority  to  creating  infrastructure  that 
supports and strengthens the health-care system.  

Regarding MDG 6, Uganda has made tremendous 
efforts  with  respect  to  HIV/AIDS  prevention  and 
control. We are now renewing our efforts to deal with 
the challenges of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
that,  overall,  Uganda  was 

It 
the  middle  performing 
recently 
countries 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme’s  Human  Development 
Index. However, in Uganda, we have never believed in 
donor-anchored 
the  MDGs  as  a 
sustainable solution. Responses to the MDGs should be 
anchored  in  the  growth  and  transformation  of  the 
economies  of  the  target  countries.  I  am  therefore  glad 
that  the  cloud  of  Afro-pessimism  is  dispersing.  The 
opinions of the Afro-pessimists are being consigned to 
ranked  among 
to 
and  morbidity,  which 
for  women  who 
is  noteworthy 
according 
care 
responses 
to 
is 
10-54965 

29 

the 
to  group 
A/65/PV.15 

where they have always belonged — to the dung-heap 
of history.  

Some groups in the West, where Afro-pessimism 
abounded  in  the  past,  have  now  started  talking  of  the 
African  lions,  no  doubt  equating  in  their  minds  the 
performance  of  the African  economies  with  the Asian 
tigers of yesteryear. Groups like the McKinsey Global 
Institute  are  beginning 
the  African 
economies —  which  collectively  recorded  a  growth 
rate  of  4.9  per  cent  of  gross  domestic  product  in  the 
gloomy  years  of 
recent  global  depression, 
compared  with  the  mere  2  per  cent  of  gross  domestic 
product  that  the  countries  of  the  Organization  for 
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  recorded  in 
the  same  period  — 
into  four  categories.  Those 
categories  are:  diversified  economies,  oil-exporting 
economies,  economies  in  transition  and  pre-transition 
economies.  Uganda  was  put  in  the  group  of  transition 
economies.  

Although  the  McKinsey  group  needs  to  improve 
their statistical base and some of their insights, they are 
among  the  first  Western  groups  to  recognize  what 
we — who have been working on African issues for a 
long time, on goals we set out to achieve in the years 
after independence — long knew was possible: to make 
Africa  move  from  Third  World  to  First  World,  in  the 
words of Lee Kuan Yew, the former Prime Minister of 
Singapore. 

Although there are 53 economies of Africa being 
managed by the respective national authorities, reform 
trends and ideas are sometimes shared. The McKinsey 
group  estimates  that  the  consumption  level  of Africa, 
which  stood  at  $860  billion  in  2008,  will  grow  to 
$1.4 trillion by 2020.  
What  one  needs  to  add  is  the  fact  that  those 

economies have become roaring lions, underdeveloped 
infrastructure notwithstanding. What will happen when 
the infrastructure bottlenecks are resolved? That is the 
question that one should ask oneself. What will happen 
when  there  is  cheap  and  abundant  electricity,  cheap 
road  transport  and  cheap  rail  transport?  Those  areas 
had  been  neglected  for  a  long  time.  The  study  by  the 
McKinsey Global Institute revealed that there are now 
316  million  new  mobile  phone  subscribers  since  the 
year 2000 in Africa, more than the entire population of 
the United States. In other words, there are now more 
mobile  phones  in  Africa  than  there  are  American 
people living in the United States.  

There  are  600  million  hectares  of  uncultivated 
arable land in Africa. If our partners could concentrate 
on  assisting 
infrastructure  development,  Africa’s 
transition  would  be  that  much  faster.  All  the  same,  a 
country  like  Uganda  is  transitioning.  Aid  in  relevant 
sectors  is  welcome,  but  even  without  aid  we  are 
moving forward. 

I  know  the  theme  of  the  general  debate  is 
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global  governance”.  In  my  short  address  I  have  not 
talked directly about this. I have instead spoken about 
Africa’s economic reawakening as a roaring lion. Was I 
irrelevant? I do not think so. It is those strong building 
blocks that will strengthen the United Nations.  

Africa  has  been  a  weak  link  in  the  chain  of  the 
struggle for improved governance in the world over the 
last  50  years.  Improved  economic  performance  in 
Africa  is,  therefore,  good  for  the  continent  and  also 
good for the rest of the world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Uganda for the statement 
he has just made. 

  Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Uganda,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

Address by Mr. Choummaly Sayasone, President of 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. 

  Mr.  Choummaly  Sayasone,  President  of  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Choummaly  Sayasone,  President  of 
the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 
President Sayasone (spoke in Lao; interpretation 

provided by the delegation): At the outset, I would like 
to extend my sincere congratulations to His Excellency 
Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  I  am  fully 
confident that with his vast experience he will be able 
to 


30 

10-54965 


to  lead  this  session  to  great  success.  May  I  also 
commend  His  Excellency  Mr. Ali Abdulssalam  Treki, 
President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session, 
for  his  effective  leadership.  I  would  also  like  to 
applaud  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
leadership  in  fulfilling  effectively  the  various  duties 
and  tasks  mandated  to  address  the  current  emerging 
challenges and constraints. 

The  global  state  of  affairs  today  has  undergone 
rapid change and become more complex, offering both 
opportunities  and  challenges.  Global  and  regional 
peace  and  security  are  threatened  by  conflicts  and 
armed confrontation. Severe and unprecedented natural 
disasters  have  become  a  regular  phenomenon  that  we 
have  to  live  with.  The  tragedies  caused  by  natural 
catastrophes,  such  as  in  Haiti,  China,  Pakistan  and 
elsewhere,  have  intensified  and  are  coupled  with  the 
economic crisis that we are already facing. 

No  one  can  deny  that  those  calamities  and 
challenges  are  mostly  the  result  of  our  own  human 
action. National challenges have gone beyond national 
boundaries  and  become  matters  of 
international 
concern, matters that a single country or even a group 
of countries cannot overcome alone. Therefore it is the 
full  responsibility of the international community as  a 
whole to tackle them. 

Against  that  backdrop,  it  is  time  for  us  to  fully 
realize all the promises and commitments that we have 
made.  The  United  Nations  reform  process,  which  has 
been pending through past decades, should continue in 
a more concrete manner with a view to ensuring mutual 
benefits for all Member States. The reform should also 
seek  to  ensure  a  relevant  and  effective  role  for  the 
United  Nations  as  the  only  universal  body  addressing 
global  challenges.  To  achieve  those  objectives,  it  is 
critical that all Member States  enhance  cooperation in 
a  sincere  and  trustworthy  manner  and  avoid  taking 
advantage of one another. 

threatened  by 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  especially  nuclear 
weapons. The results of the Review Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons held in May this year did not by any 
means  meet  our  expectations  in  addressing  the  non-
proliferation of nuclear weapons and making our world 
free  of  nuclear  weapons.  Consensus  is  far  from  being 
reached  due 
to  manifest  suspicion  and  distrust. 
Therefore  it  is  time  to  build  trust  and  confidence  in 
Peace  and  stability  are  still 
A/65/PV.15
and 
impede 
national 
order  to  create  an  enabling  international  environment 
for a nuclear-free world. 

The use and proliferation of weapons of all forms 
undoubtedly  have  a  long-term  impact  on  the  lives  of 
people 
socio-economic 
development  efforts.  The  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  is  still  badly  suffering  the  consequences  of 
wars that ended several decades ago. 

The legacies of the Indochina war include a huge 
amount  of  remnants  and  unexploded  ordnance,  which 
have continued to kill and injure innocent people. That 
is  a  major  obstacle  to  the  possibility  of  an  ordinary 
daily life for the Lao people. Over 30 per cent of Lao 
soil  is  heavily  contaminated  by  unexploded  ordnance, 
and  that  is  a  major  constraint  and  challenge  in  the 
country’s efforts to achieve its national socio-economic 
objectives  and  to  attain  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). 
The  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions,  which 

entered into force on 1 August 2010, is a result of the 
close  cooperation  and  shared  commitment  of  the 
international  community  to  put  an  end  to  the  serious 
impact  of  cluster  bombs  and  to  thus  free  people  from 
that  danger.  As 
the  country  most  affected  by 
unexploded ordnance, especially cluster munitions, it is 
a great source of pride for the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic  to  have  played  an  active  part  in  the  Oslo 
process, which led to the adoption of this Convention. 
We  will  continue 
the 
international  community  to  ensure  that  it  is  fully 
implemented. 

In  that  context,  it  is  a  great  honour  for  the  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic to host the First Meeting 
of  States  Parties 
the  Convention  on  Cluster 
Munitions  in Vientiane  from  8  to  12  November  2010. 
That event that will be  an important milestone  for the 
Oslo  process  and  provide  an  opportunity  for  the 
international  community 
strong 
determination  to  address  the  challenges  caused  by 
cluster  munitions.  The  First  Meeting  of  States  Parties 
will  offer  us  an  excellent  occasion  to  chart  a  clear 
vision and adopt appropriate mechanisms to ensure the 
effective  implementation  of  the  Convention.  On  that 
note,  once  again 
to  extend  my 
Government’s  cordial  invitation  to  all  United  Nations 
Member  States, 
and 
non-governmental organizations to participate and play 
to  cooperate  closely  with 
international  organizations 
I  would 
like 
to 
reaffirm 
its 
to 
10-54965 

31 

In 
fulfilled. 
in  2001  have  been 
calamities,  the  most  impacted  are  the  least  developed 
countries  (LDCs),  the  poor  and  the  vulnerable  in  the 
society. The  international  community’s  main  objective 
in attaining the MDGs is to ensure that the lives of the 
poor  and  disadvantaged  are  improved  and  that  the 
number  of  LDCs  is  reduced.  That  would  demonstrate 
that we can achieve the MDGs.  

In  that  context,  the  ten-year  review  of  the 
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
for LDCs, to be held in 2011, is crucial. We will assess 
whether  the  seven  commitments  that  we  endorsed 
together 
that 
connection,  I  commend  the  Secretary-General  for 
setting  up  a  group  of  eminent  persons  on  least 
developed countries to advise on support for LDCs. 

The year 2010 is of great significance for the Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic.  Our  country  has 
completed  the  implementation  of  the  Sixth  Five  Year 
Socio-Economic  Development  Plan  and  has  already 
started the preparation for the Seventh Plan, for 2011-
2015.  Over 
the  past  years,  our  socio-economic 
development  has  been  steadily  progressing.  The 
economy  has  grown  at  an  average  rate  of  seven  per 
cent  annually,  poverty  has  continuously  declined,  and 
the living standard of the  multi-ethnic  Lao people has 
gradually  improved.  All  that  success  has  been  due  to 
the right policy and the timely measures undertaken by 
the  Government.  The  decisive  factor  in  creating  an 
enabling environment for socio-economic development 
in  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  is  political 
stability  and  social  order  that  our  nation  has  enjoyed 
over the past three decades. 

Nevertheless, to a certain extent, the Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic remains challenged by the global 
financial  and  economic  crisis,  and  that  is  contributing 
to  the  decline  of  our  economic  growth.  Against  that 
backdrop,  the  Government  has  adopted  immediate 
measures that have helped to alleviate the impact of the 
crisis. 
However,  due  to  the  uncertainty  of  the  state  of 

today’s  global  economy, 
like  other  developing 
countries,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  is 
still  vulnerable,  and  thus  requires  the  assistance  and 
support  of  the  international  community  in  addressing 
the  impact  of  the  crisis  over  the  long  term.  Such 
assistance  will  help  the  country  overcome  any  future 
problem resulting from the current crisis, enable us to 
The 
The  Republic  of  Cuba 
A/65/PV.15 

an  active  part  in  the  discussions  and  ensure  the 
successful outcome of the Meeting. 

Regional  peace  and  security  remain  critical  for 
ensuring  global  peace.  We  share  a  common  concern 
over the situation in the Middle East, which has caused 
great suffering and immense loss of lives and property 
in the region, especially for the Palestinian people. It is 
my  fervent  hope  that  the  resumption  of  peace  talks 
between  Israel  and  Palestine,  with  the  participation  of 
the  United  States,  will  lead  to  a  solution  and  the 
realization  of  the  vision  of  two  States,  Israel  and 
Palestine, living side by side in peace and security and 
within internationally recognized borders, as stipulated 
in the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. 

is  a  sovereign  and 
politically  stable  State  that  has  enjoyed  peace  and 
security  for  several  decades.  Nevertheless,  for  over 
half  of  a  century,  the  people  of  Cuba  have  been 
affected by the economic, trade and financial embargo 
imposed on them by the United States. Indeed, such an 
embargo  constitutes  a  clear  violation  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  international  law.  Therefore,  in 
order  to  respond  to  the  legitimate  interests  of  the  two 
countries and peoples — Cuba and the United States — 
the embargo should now be lifted. 

among  South-East  Asian 
countries has been steadily expanding. The Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  has  set  the 
objective  for  2015  of  building  our  community  with 
three  pillars,  namely,  the  ASEAN  Political-Security 
Community,  the  ASEAN  Economic  Community  and 
ASEAN  Socio-Cultural  Community.  To  attain  that 
objective,  ASEAN  has 
important  socio-
economic  foundation,  including  the  Free  Trade  Area 
among ASEAN  countries  as  well  as  Free Trade Areas 
between ASEAN and China, ASEAN and the Republic 
of  Korea,  ASEAN  and  Japan,  and  ASEAN  and 
Australia-New Zealand. 

the  ASEAN  Master  Plan  on 
connectivity  will  be  adopted  at 
the  Seventeenth 
ASEAN Summit, to be held in Hanoi in October 2010 
to support the ASEAN Free Trade Area. The successful 
cooperation  within  ASEAN  has  contributed  to  the 
effort to narrow the development gap within ASEAN as 
well  as  between  ASEAN  and  other  countries.  It  also 
helps the ASEAN countries attain the MDGs. 
is  facing  a  financial  and 

economic  crisis,  coupled  with  various  natural 
Furthermore, 
cooperation 
laid  an 
While 
the  world 
32 

10-54965 



achieve  the  MDGs  and,  ultimately,  leave  the  status  of 
least developed country by 2020. 

The Lao People’s Democratic Republic reiterates 
once  again  its  firm  commitment  and  willingness  to 
work closely with the international community to build 
a peaceful world under a just and more democratic new 
order,  based  on  cooperation  with  all  countries,  in 
tackling  the  various  global  challenges  facing  us.  I  am 
convinced  that  only  through  genuine  partnership  will 
we be able to ensure that the world is secure, peaceful 
and prosperous. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic for 
the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Choummaly  Sayasone,  President  of  the  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.  


Address by Mr. Marcus Stephen, President of the 
Republic of Nauru 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly with now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Nauru. 

  Mr. Marcus Stephen, President of the Republic of 
Nauru,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr. 
Marcus  Stephen,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Nauru, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.  
President  Stephen:  I  would  like  to  offer  my 

the 
heartfelt  congratulations 
Assembly  on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  this 
body  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  Also,  allow  me  to 
commend  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  for  his  capable  leadership  during 
the sixty-fourth session. 

This  week  is  vitally  important  for  my  island 
nation of Nauru and for small island developing States 
generally.  This  week  we  will  complete  the  high-level 
reviews of the Millennium Development Goals and the 
Mauritius Strategy, two programmes that are central to 
the sustainable development prospects of my country.  
the  President  of 
to 
A/65/PV.15
role  of 
for  all  of 
is  now  more 
the  United  Nations 
We  gather  here  on  this  occasion  to  reaffirm  the 

central 
in  global 
governance.  However,  the  centrality  of  the  United 
Nations  system  must  derive  from  its  ability  to  help 
bring  about  positive  outcomes 
its 
membership.  In  that  regard,  the  United  Nations  report 
card is mixed. 

While this body and others have brought attention 
to  the  unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities  of  small 
island  developing  States, 
they  have  not  always 
succeeded  in  delivering  concrete  benefits.  There  is  a 
proliferation  of  global  action  plans  but  a  paucity  of 
action.  For  this  reason,  Nauru  has  relied  more  on  its 
domestic  institutions  and  bilateral  partners  than  on 
multilateral governance solutions. 

Nauru turned a corner in 2005 when it adopted its 
National Sustainable Development Strategy, commonly 
known  to  us  as  our  NSDS.  Under  that  plan  we  have 
made  significant  progress  across  most  sectors.  Our 
financial  system 
transparent  and 
Government  more  accountable.  Most  importantly,  we 
have  restored  some  measures  of  security  for  our 
citizens: expanded public health programmes, new and 
refurbished  schools,  updated  curriculum  and  more 
teachers.  Power  is  more  reliable  and  its  usage  more 
efficient.  Regular  air  and  maritime  travel  has  been 
restored, and we have seen major improvements in our 
communications system. 

Most of the gains in the past five years have been 
the  result  of  our  own  efforts,  largely  supported  by 
bilateral  development  partners  targeting  our  national 
plans.  However,  our  journey  is  far  from  over.  Our 
NSDS 
to  aid 
independence based on our national circumstances and 
capacity.  Its  medium-  and  long-term  milestones  are 
fully  consistent  with,  and  complementary  to,  the 
Millennium Development Goals and Mauritius Strategy 
programmes. It is my hope that the United Nations can 
play  a  more  significant  role  in  this  next  phase  of  our 
development.  

Five  years  after  our  initial  request,  I  am  pleased 
that  the  United  Nations  has  opened  its  joint  presence 
office  in  Nauru.  It  is  my  hope  that  that  will  enable 
United Nations agencies to be more familiar with, and 
responsive to, our unique development challenges. 

The  future  of  all  my  people  depends  on  an 
effective United Nations system, but none more so than 
the  future  of  our  youth.  Not  long  ago,  my  country 
lays  out  a  clear  path 
forward 
10-54965 

33 

A/65/PV.15 

suffered a devastating economic crisis. It was followed 
by  the  explosion  in  global  fuel  and  food  prices  and 
then by the global economic downturn, which many of 
us  are  still  grappling  with  today.  Those  crises  were 
exacerbated  by  virtue  of  Nauru  being  a  small  and 
isolated island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. As a 
country,  we  will  overcome.  However,  some  impacts 
will be felt longer than others. 

Perhaps  the  cruellest  legacy  of  our  economic 
crisis  is  the  impact  it  had  on  the  youth  who  grew  up 
during that trying time. Advantages that my generation 
took for granted — a good education, basic health care 
and  abundant  job  opportunities  —  were  simply  not 
available for many of our youth during a critical period 
in  their  lives.  In  the  absence  of  such  advantages, 
substance  abuse,  illiteracy,  delinquency  and  lifestyle-
related illnesses became commonplace. As we progress 
as  a  nation,  we  must  ensure  that  we  do  not  leave  one 
segment  of  our  community  behind.  Our  collective 
future  will  not  be  secure  unless  we  invest  in  the 
community and business leaders of tomorrow. 

It  is  for  this  reason  that  Nauru  appreciates  the 
importance  of  the  International  Year  of  Youth,  which 
commenced  in  August  2010.  This  United  Nations 
tradition  began  25  years  ago  when 
this  body 
recognized  the  profoundly  important  role  that  youth 
should  have  in  shaping  a  new  international  economic 
order based on equity and justice. 
My Government has made investing in our youth 

a 
to  reach  our 
Millennium  Development  Goal  of  universal  primary 
education  by  2015.  We  have  been  successful  despite 
the significant shortage of quality Nauruan teachers.  

Of  equal  importance  to  the  development  of  our 
primary and secondary education systems is the need to 
develop  technical  and  vocational  training,  recognizing 
and certifying skills and job-oriented training. Only by 
continued  investment  in  human  resource  development 
will  the  next  generation  of  Nauruans  be  prepared  for 
the challenges of the twenty-first century. 
Our health sector, too, has made gains in curative 

services 
programmes. 
However,  around  75  per  cent  of  people  in  the  Pacific 
suffer  from  non-communicable  diseases.  That  is  not 
sustainable.  Investments  in  public  health  must  be 
accompanied  by 
food 
security.  It  will  be  difficult  to  change  that  alarming 
statistic for the better unless my people have a reliable 
top  priority.  Nauru 
preventative 
is  on 
track 
health 
and 
investments 
in 
improving 
Aid  should  be  deployed  so  as 
supply  of  affordable  and  nutritious  food.  Health 
education  must  also  receive  more  emphasis  in  our 
educational programmes. 

Education  and  public  health  are  obviously  two 
areas  that  are  fundamental  for  the  well-being  of  our 
youth, but alone they are  not enough.  Our youth must 
also  be  given  the  opportunity  to  use  their  skills  in 
productive  ways,  lest  those  skills  wither  on  the  vine. 
For  that  we  need  a  growing  economy,  and  for  a 
growing  economy  we  must  look  to  our  development 
partners and multilateral institutions for assistance. 

to  build  a 
foundation for sustainable development in all economic 
sectors, including basic infrastructure, in which to date 
there  has  been  less  progress  than  in  health  and 
education.  The 
re-establishment  of  banking  and 
financial services continues to elude us despite all our 
urgent efforts to obtain assistance. Nation-building and 
youth  development  must  run  parallel  to  each  other  if 
either is to succeed. Investments in basic infrastructure 
will  enable  us  to  expand  our  economic  base,  increase 
exports and also reduce the costs of imports. 
The  United  Nations  system  must  also  be 

enhanced  in  order  to  avoid  the  mistakes  of  the  past. 
That  is  why  we  are  joining  others  in  calling  for  the 
creation  of  a  formal  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDS) category within the United Nations system.  

The  international  community  has  consistently 
recognized  the  unique  vulnerabilities  of  the  small 
island  developing  States,  yet  that  recognition  has  not 
been  translated  into  effective  action.  The  preparatory 
work for the five-year review of the Mauritius Strategy 
for  the  Further  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action  for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
Island Developing States found that the vulnerabilities 
of  SIDS  remain  and  that  progress  towards  sustainable 
development  is  far  below  expectations.  It  is  clear  that 
business  as  usual  is  not  working  and  that  a  new 
approach is long overdue. 

The creation of a new SIDS category would make 
the  United  Nations  more  responsive  to  the  particular 
needs  of  small  islands.  This  new  category  should  be 
accompanied  by  structural  support  mechanisms  in  the 
areas of development assistance, financial support and 
trade. Only by dealing with the vulnerabilities of SIDS 
can  there  be  any  realistic  prospect  of  SIDS  attaining 
sustainable economic growth. 
34 

10-54965 
recently 
strengthened 
is  a  major  step 



The  most  important  test  of  our  commitment  to 
our  youth  is  the  state  of  the  world  that  we  leave  to 
them.  We  have  long  been  aware  of  the  environmental 
crises currently facing our oceans and our climate, but 
we have done precious little to  address them. Without 
immediate  and  aggressive  international  action  on  both 
fronts, we will bequeath to our children a world that is 
far poorer than the one we ourselves inhabited. 

Nauru takes these threats very seriously, which is 
why  my  country,  along  with  other  island  countries  in 
the  Pacific, 
the  Nauru 
Agreement.  That  multilateral  agreement  on  oceans 
governance 
in  strengthening  an 
effective  regime  for  managing  and  protecting  regional 
tuna  stocks.  The  preservation  of  that  resource  is 
essential  to  our  region’s  food  security  and  to  our 
economic  development.  Regrettably,  the  sustainability 
of  the  tuna  stocks  and  other  marine  resources  that  we 
rely  on  is  threatened  by  actions  beyond  our  control. 
Illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing  and 
overfishing  by  large  fishing  nations  is  rife  in  the 
Pacific, and we lack sufficient resources to respond to 
that  criminal  activity.  One  of  the  pillars  of  our 
economic  future  is  literally  being  stolen  from  our 
children. 

With  regard  to  climate  change,  my  island  and 
many others like it face an existential threat far beyond 
our  capacity  to  adapt.  Rising  sea  levels  and  extreme 
weather  may  one  day  render  my  home  uninhabitable. 
But  an  island  can  die  long  before  it  has  disappeared 
beneath  the  sea.  All  that  is  required  is  to  deprive  its 
youth of hope. What incentive will they have to invest 
in their home if it will not be there for  when they are 
older?  We  have  an  opportunity  to  change  course  later 
this  year  at  the  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Conference to be held in Cancún. We must act as if our 
children’s future depended on the decisions we make. 

Climate change is a global issue and demands the 
full  participation  of  all.  We  therefore  call  on  the 
immediate  inclusion  of  Taiwan  in  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
process.  We  must  also  recognize  that  climate  change 
poses  many  threats  —  security  threats  —  that  are  not 
addressed under the UNFCCC process. That is why the 
Pacific small island developing States introduced in the 
General Assembly  a  resolution  on  climate  change  and 
its  possible  security  implications  (resolution  63/281). 
The  Security  Council,  as  the  primary  body  of  the 
A/65/PV.15
for 
in 
the 
the 
recognize 
international  and 
to  conclude  by 
their 
United Nations entrusted with preserving international 
peace and security, must also play its role. 

Lastly,  we  must  ensure  that  the  views  and 
perspectives of all nations and peoples are incorporated 
into the decision-making of the United Nations system 
and  its  specialized  agencies.  In  that  context,  Nauru 
strongly  supports  Taiwan’s  campaign  for  meaningful 
participation 
International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization. 
thanking  our 
like 

I  would 
long-standing 
partners 
development 
commitment 
to  Nauru,  particularly  our  major 
partners —  Australia,  Taiwan,  the  Russia  Federation, 
New  Zealand,  the  European  Union  and  Japan  —  as 
well as our many other active partners, including Cuba, 
Italy,  India,  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  Israel.  We 
further 
regional 
organizations that have continued to stand by our side 
during  a  difficult  period  in  our  history,  and  I  look 
forward to our continuing cooperation. 

I would also like to commend the United Nations 
for  beginning  a  difficult  process  of  reflection  and 
reform so as to be able to more effectively respond to 
the global challenges we all face. Nauru looks forward 
to participating in this important discussion so that the 
United  Nations  can  continue  to  play  a  central  role  in 
global governance. 

God bless the United Nations.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Nauru for the statement he 
has just made. 

May  God  bless  the  Republic  of  Nauru  and  may 
  Mr.  Marcus  Stephen,  President  of  Republic  of 
Nauru,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.  

Address by Mr. Valdis Zatlers, President of the 
Republic of Latvia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Latvia. 

  Mr.  Valdis  Zatlers,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 


10-54965 

35 

to 
to  address 
A/65/PV.15 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Valdis Zatlers, President of the Republic of Latvia, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Zatlers:  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to 

congratulate  Mr.  Deiss  on  assuming  the  post  of 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  current 
session. I pledge him Latvia’s full support. 

Sixty-five  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  was 
created on the ashes of the bloodiest war in the history 
of mankind as an international forum where all nations 
meet  as  equals,  willing 
international 
challenges  and  to  prevent  the  scourge  of  war.  Since 
then  it  has  become  the  most  broadly  representative 
body  of  nations  focused  on  promoting  security,  peace 
and prosperity all over the world. 

This year also marks the twentieth anniversary of 
Latvia’s  freedom,  regained  after  50  years  of  Soviet 
occupation,  oppression  and  injustice.  Latvia’s  story 
shows  that  the  values  enshrined  in  the  Charter  are 
universal  and,  with 
the  people’s  persistence  and 
common  vision,  can  come  alive,  even  if  it  takes 
decades.  It  also  shows  that  it  is  possible  to  overcome 
even  the  deepest  of  divisions.  It  shows  that,  while 
honouring  our  history,  we  can  extend  a  hand  of 
cooperation and look into the future with hope. 

There  are  many  global  issues  that  need  our  real 
attention and require urgent action. Just a few days ago 
we  renewed  our  commitment  to  development  at  the 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
important 
improvements  have  been  made  globally,  progress 
towards  achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015  has  not  been 
sufficient.  If  we  are  serious  about  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  we  need  to  show 
commitment and action. 

A  new  consciousness  is  emerging  from  the 
awareness  of  the  negative  impact  of  climate  change. 
Climate  change  is  a  fact.  We  are  witnessing  a  rising 
number  of  storms,  excessive  rainfall  and  atypical 
temperatures,  which  lead  to  flooding,  forest  fires  and 
crop  failures.  All  those  disasters  have  an  immense 
material  cost  and  claim  people’s  lives,  and  therefore 
they should be treated as a serious security threat. The 
response  must  be  twofold.  We  have  to  adapt  to  the 
changes  already  in  place  and  to  those  we  will  face  in 
the coming decades. And most importantly, we have to 
(MDGs).  While 
work on preventive measures, such as the reduction of 
emissions. 

We  have  a  road  ahead  of  us  on  the  issue  of 
climate change, and every country has to contribute if 
our  actions  on  it  are  to  be  successful.  Within  the 
framework  of  the  Copenhagen Accord,  Latvia,  among 
other  European  Union  member  States,  is  providing 
assistance that, along with financial contributions from 
other  key  players,  helps  developing  countries  fight 
climate  change.  We  must  make  the  next  step  in 
Cancún. We  have to  agree on global  action to address 
climate change. The future of the next generation is at 
stake. 

While  we  are  working  for  long-term  goals,  we 
also  have  to  address  immediate  crises  wherever  they 
occur.  The  international  community,  with  the  United 
Nations  in  the  leading  role,  has  been  addressing 
humanitarian needs following the devastating flooding 
in  Pakistan,  which  has  affected  more  than  14  million 
people.  This  year  we  also  witnessed  a 
terrible 
earthquake  in  Haiti.  Latvia,  despite  its  economic 
challenges,  was  able  to  respond  to  those  international 
emergency  humanitarian  needs,  both 
the 
United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund and 
through  additional  pledges  of  €150,000  for  Haiti’s 
recovery.  We  will  continue  to  help  countries  affected 
by such tragic disasters. 
Latvia has always supported the strengthening of 

the  United  Nations  as 
truly  global 
international  organization.  However,  in  a  time  of 
globalization  and  rapid  development,  the  need  for 
reform  is  an  inevitable  reality.  We  must  therefore 
continuously 
and 
efficiency in the work of the United Nations in order to 
deliver results worthy of this Organization. A Security 
Council  that  reflects  the  realities  of  the  twenty-first 
century  would  be  a  significant  step  towards  a  more 
effective United Nations. We sincerely hope for a faster 
pace for the reform process. 

We  commend  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in 
the  promotion  of  gender  equality  and  welcome  the 
creation  of  a  unified  gender  entity.  I  would  like  to 
congratulate the new head of the United Nations Entity 
for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, 
the  former  Chilean  President  Mrs.  Michelle  Bachelet, 
on  her  appointment  and  to  wish  her  every  success  in 
that highly important post.  
seek  maximum 
effectiveness 
the  only 
through 
36 

10-54965 
the 
rights. 
I  particularly  wish 
independent  work  of 



This  fall  we  also  mark  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women and 
peace  and  security.  We  see  it  as  an  opportunity  to 
review implementation of the resolution with a view to 
identifying  best  practices  and  challenges,  particularly 
regarding  equal  participation  of  women  in  decision-
making and the eradication of all types of gender-based 
violence, especially in conflict situations. 

At  this  session  we  have  a  very  important  task 
ahead of us: reviewing the work of the Human Rights 
Council. The Council has already shown itself capable 
of  addressing  many  human  rights  situations  and  of 
advancing  human 
to 
highlight 
the  special 
procedures  and  the  establishment  of  the  universal 
periodic  review  mechanism.  However,  improvements 
are  still  necessary.  I  am  confident  that  with  goodwill, 
and  with  participation  and  input  from  all  of  us,  the 
review  process  will  lead  to  a  strengthened  institution 
with  increased  credibility  and  greater  impact  on  the 
improvement of human rights.  

Latvia has always placed the promotion of human 
rights  among  its  top  priorities.  We  have  therefore  put 
forward  our  candidacy  for  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for the year 2014. 

The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  is  irreplaceable.  We 
must  continue  to  work  with  all  the  means  at  our 
disposal 
to  create  a  more  stable  world.  Latvia 
appreciates the positive momentum that was created at 
the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  Review  Conference 
earlier 
this  year.  Stabilizing  and  strengthening  a 
nuclear 
shared 
responsibility  of  all  United  Nations  Members.  As  a 
member  of 
international  community,  Latvia 
expresses  the  hope  that  every  diplomatic  opportunity 
will  be  used  to  find  a  comprehensive  long-term 
solution  to  the  Iranian  and  North  Korean  nuclear 
issues. 

The  New  START  treaty  between  the  United 
States  and  Russian  Federation  sets  a  powerful  and 
remarkable example of real steps to reduce the threat of 
strategic arms and to engage other Powers in fulfilling 
the goals of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Latvia firmly 
supports  the  nuclear  security  discussion  initiated  by 
President Obama. Promising signs on the international 
agenda  have  positively  influenced  European  security 
and  fostered  the  debate  on  conventional  regimes  in 
non-proliferation 
regime 
is 
a 
the 
A/65/PV.15
the 
involved  partners  for 
final  aim  of  establishing  an 
Europe.  An  ambitious  road  map  is  before  us,  and 
together  we  should  all  move  forward  to  strengthen 
security around the world. 

Stability  and  security  in  a  number  of  regions 
remain on the international agenda. In the Middle East, 
the international community must encourage the parties 
to  move  towards  real  compromises  leading  to  a 
comprehensive  settlement  of  the  conflict.  Common 
efforts  of  the  international  community,  including  the 
Quartet,  and  the  unity  of  Arab  States  are  decisive  to 
ensure  continuation  of  the  peace  process  with  a  very 
clear 
independent, 
democratic  and  viable  Palestinian  State  living  side  by 
side in peace with the State of Israel. 

We  welcome  the  launch  of  direct  negotiations 
between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority  and 
commend  all 
their  efforts. 
Sustainable and durable solutions for Gaza, Palestinian 
reconciliation,  and  extension  of 
settlement 
moratorium  are  crucial  for  the  Palestinian  State-
building process. We sincerely hope that the talks will 
continue in a constructive manner and be supplemented 
by negotiations on the Israel-Syria and Israel-Lebanon 
tracks  towards  comprehensive  peace  and  stability  in 
the Middle East. 

A  week  ago  the  people  of Afghanistan  voted  for 
their  new  parliament.  The  elections  showed  that  the 
Afghanis  are  determined  to  build  a  peaceful  and 
prosperous country that is at peace with its neighbours. 
We  commend  the  work  done  by  the  Independent 
Electoral  Commission.  The  elections  were  conducted 
in a difficult security and political environment. It is of 
the  highest 
the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  corrects  the  irregularities  caused  by  the 
harsh environment.  

The  international  community  plays  a  substantial 
role in coordinating civilian efforts in Afghanistan. The 
work of the Secretary-General’s Special Representative 
must  be  commended.  The  recently  released  Mid  Year 
Report 2010 Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict 
is worrisome and shows how much work remains to be 
done to improve the situation.  
To  be  successful  in Afghanistan,  one  should  not 

forget  the  regional  aspect  of  the  issue.  Stability  in 
Central  Asia  is  an  important  factor  for  success  in 
Afghanistan.  
importance 
that 
10-54965 

37 

and 
social 
transport 
envisions  multiple 
A/65/PV.15 


We  are  satisfied  to  see  that  the  Kabul  process  is 
under  way  and  that  the  Government  of Afghanistan  is 
resolved  to  act  in  order  to  regain  the  trust  of  the 
Afghan  people  and  to  align  the  support  of  the 
international  community  behind  the  goals  of  national 
development. A well-coordinated effort is necessary to 
follow  up  the  Kabul  commitments  so  that  in  2014  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  will  be  able  to  take  full 
responsibility for the governance of the country. Latvia 
is therefore putting more emphasis on training Afghan 
security  forces,  both  army  and  police.  In  June,  Latvia 
carried out a training project for Afghan police officers 
in the field of criminal investigation.  
Another important task is to foster Afghanistan’s 

economic 
development.  Regional 
cooperation can be very useful in that effort, especially 
with  regard  to  energy  and  transport  infrastructure. 
Latvia 
corridors 
connecting Afghanistan to  the neighbouring region, as 
well as to Europe. 

I would like to refer to the European Union as an 
important  partner  of  the  United  Nations.  The  United 
Nations  and  the  European  Union  share  the  same 
fundamental  values  —  freedom,  democracy,  rule  of 
law, human rights, equality and tolerance. It is our duty 
to work together to ensure that those values are not just 
words but something to be enjoyed daily by everybody. 

The  European  Union  has  been  changed  through 
the  Lisbon Treaty. We  hope  that  that  change  will  give 
the  European  Union  a  clearer  voice  in  relations  with 
our partners, including the United Nations. I hope that 
agreement will soon be reached to ensure the European 
Union’s  effective  participation  in  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly. 
Finally,  I  would  like  to  touch  on  the  economic 

slowdown  in  the  global  economy  during  the  past 
couple  of  years.  Latvia  was  one  of  the  countries  hit 
hardest  by  the  crisis.  Now  Latvia’s  economy  is 
showing  signs  of  recovery.  We  have  seen  positive 
trends 
the 
beginning of the year. We are on the way up. 

The  reason  for  our  recovery  is  the  tough  fiscal 
adjustment  that  Latvia  has  demonstrated  since  2008.  I 
am certain that other countries will need to go through 
considerable  budgetary  consolidation 
soon.  Our 
experience shows that it is possible, but only with the 
full  understanding  and  support  of  the  population. 
Latvia has carried out large-scale reforms, and  we are 
in  macroeconomic 
indicators 
since 
ready  to  share  our  experience.  That  is  one  of  the 
reasons  why  Latvia  has  put  forward  its  candidature  in 
this  year’s  elections  to  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. 

Prudence will be a key element to prevent future 
economic crises, but not the only one. Global financial 
governance  will  be  another  such  element.  Latvia 
commends the role and leadership shown by the Group 
of  Twenty  (G-20)  countries.  Financial  governance 
should  be  global,  and  we  highly  value  the  initiatives 
put forward towards that end by the G-20, international 
financial institutions and other forums. 
The  world  is  entering  the  second  decade  of  the 

twenty-first  century,  and 
to 
security, peace and prosperity. They can be met only by 
a  common  effort  and  the  unity  of  mankind.  I  wish  us 
all  the  wisdom  and  courage  to  maintain  the  higher 
interest in the common good. Latvia looks forward to a 
fruitful sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Latvia for the statement he 
has just made. 

  Mr.  Valdis  Zatlers,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
there  are  challenges 


the 
Address by Mr. Gjorge Ivanov, President of the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 

  Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
President Ivanov (spoke in Macedonian; English 

text provided by the delegation): It is a privilege and a 
great honour for me today to address this unique forum 
where  great  and  small,  powerful  and  less  powerful 
nations speak with one voice; a forum we undoubtedly 
expect  to  result  in  dialogue  and  leadership  in  order  to 
to 

38 

10-54965 
to  cooperate  during  his 
The  global  economic  and 


deal with the challenges to peace and security, hunger 
and  development,  human  rights  and  climate  change. 
Success  will  be  possible  only  by  overcoming 
individual  interests.  I  am  convinced  that  today  more 
than ever, each of us individually and all of us together 
have reasons to turn our words into actions. 

Let me first congratulate Mr. Joseph Deiss on his 
election as the President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fifth  session  and  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s 
readiness 
term.  I  also 
congratulate 
the  former  President,  Mr.  Treki,  on 
successfully  presiding  over  the Assembly  at  its  sixty-
fourth  session. At  the  same  time  I  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  acknowledge  the  engagement  and 
the  efforts  made  by  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, to strengthen the role of our Organization. 

At the outset, I would like to say a few words on 
the consequences of the global financial and economic 
crisis,  and  I  will  refer  in  particular  to  the  role  of  the 
United Nations in this context. 

financial  crisis 
threatened  to  reverse  the  progress  made  in  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
efforts to attain peace in all regions. I think that all we 
Member  States  and  the  United  Nations  system  in 
general  successfully  dealt  with  it.  Timely,  joint  and 
adequate  solutions  were  found 
the 
problems.  Processes  were  initiated  to  mitigate  the 
effects  of  the  crisis  and  to  face  possible  future  crises. 
taken 
Actions  were 
the  most  affected, 
according 
to 
the  agreed  action  plans  and  with 
appropriate support and cooperation, often resulting in 
successful  outcomes.  Let  us  not  forget  that  economic, 
financial  and  social  security  is  a  foundation  on  which 
sustainable  development,  national  and  global  security 
and prosperity rest. 

Five  years  remain  before  the  deadline  for  the 
implementation  and  realization  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. That objective is still before us — 
an  objective  we  must  not  give  up  on  achieving  now, 
despite the decelerated pace of implementation. We are 
all  aware  of  the  high  stakes  and  potential  benefits.  I 
welcome 
the  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  held 
last  week,  when  we  all  pledged  to  strengthen  our 
efforts to attain the ultimate goal. 
The  Republic  of  Macedonia,  as  before,  remains 

strongly committed to achieving the Goals, as reflected 
the  outcome  of 
to  many  of 
to  help 
A/65/PV.15
towards 
the  best  possible  weapons 
that  humankind  has  adopted 
at  the  national  level  in  the  Government’s  strategy  for 
economic and sustainable development and in national 
legislation, which is adapted to the current obligations 
deriving from international treaties and agreements. 

On the other hand, global climate change is both 
a  serious  threat  to  our  planet  and  survival.  Frequent 
natural  disasters  and  humanitarian  catastrophes  have 
made  it  clear  that  nature  reacts  to  the  irresponsible 
attitude 
it. 
However, the struggle to preserve nature must not only 
be  a  matter  of  declarations;  it  must  enjoy  global 
leadership  and  be  visible  in  every  small  town,  every 
State,  and  the  strict  observance  and  development  of 
national  strategies.  Successful  formulas  must  be 
transformed  into  in  a  common  global  struggle  to 
preserve our way of life, side by side with the needs of 
the planet. 

The  Republic  of  Macedonia  stands  ready  to 
contribute  adequately  to  the  global  efforts.  Many 
initiatives have been undertaken. We are truly focused 
on 
this  struggle: 
awareness-raising  and  education  on  and  a  culture  of 
reducing  the  use  of  electricity  by  using  alternative 
energy sources and reductions in harmful emissions. As 
a  party  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change for over a decade, my country has 
worked 
the  Convention’s 
objectives. 

Unfortunately, the world still does not live in the 
desired peace and prosperity. Unfortunately, every day 
we  continue  to  witness  disturbances  to  peace  and 
security in certain regions in the world, both in old and 
frozen conflicts and in the emergence of new tensions 
in  several  regions  in  the  world.  If  the  fundamental 
institutional  goal  and  essential  objective  of 
this 
Organization is to spare humanity from suffering, wars 
and  conflicts,  then  we  should  ask  ourselves  whether 
our  efforts  have  been  sufficient  to  secure  peace  and 
prosperity.  The  answer  is  no,  neither  globally  nor 
regionally. 

The  consequences  of  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  and  the  slow  pace  of  implementation 
of the MDGs have had a serious impact on the essence 
of  conflicts,  often  because  of  a  lack  of  democratic 
processes  and  rule  of  law  in  certain  areas.  Only  by 
promoting  peace,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law 
through dialogue and tolerance can we make the world 
a just and fair place to live in. 
actively 
achieve 
in 
to 
10-54965 

39 
redefine 
remains  necessary 
A/65/PV.15 


In the context of what I have just said, I welcome 
the  relevance  of  this  session’s  theme,  which  should 
help  create  effective  responses  to  global  crises  and 
restore  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance. The genuine vision of the founders of the 
United Nations should be restored. They have left us a 
legacy. 

The Republic of Macedonia strongly supports the 
joint  efforts  to  improve  the  overall  coherence  of  the 
United Nations system. I believe that we all agree that 
it  was  and 
the 
functioning  of  the  United  Nations  system  in  order  to 
respond  to  the  demands  and  priorities  of  the  Member 
States  in  the  best  and  most  effective  manner  possible. 
We should create a highly functional global governance 
organization  that  has  no  overlapping  of  mandates,  but 
achieves  maximal  effect  through  an  appropriate  and 
transparent use of existing resources. 

Since  gaining  independence,  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  has  been  fully  committed  to  substantial 
reforms in all areas aimed at promoting democracy and 
improving the standards of living of its citizens, based 
on  historical  traditions  of  respect  for  multiethnic 
coexistence, dialogue and mutual understanding. 

Our  achievements  in  this  context  have  been 
validated and internationally recognized. Therefore, the 
Republic of  Macedonia rightfully expects a date to be 
set  to  begin  negotiations  on  its  accession  to  the 
European Union (EU) and an invitation to join NATO. 
We have enforced the necessary reforms to join NATO, 
we have been an EU membership candidate country for 
five  years,  and  last  year  we  received  a  positive 
recommendation  to  start  negotiations  with  the  EU. 
Unfortunately,  our  citizens  have  not  yet  felt  the  full 
benefits of that. And yet, the reforms that brought us to 
the  front  doors  of  these  organizations  were  not  at  all 
easy. In addition, my country is actively committed to 
regional cooperation and to building good-neighbourly 
relations. Macedonia accepts and promotes dialogue as 
the  only  mechanism  for  overcoming  all  outstanding 
issues in the region. 
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has  directed  all  its 

available 
towards 
implementing  our  top  strategic  foreign  policy  goals: 
integration  into  the  EU  and  NATO  membership.  I 
would  like  to  remind  the Assembly  that,  15  years  ago 
here in New York, the Interim Accord was signed with 
our southern neighbour, whereby Greece agreed not to 
capacities 
resources 
and 
to 

and 
regional 
international 
obstruct  my  country’s  membership  of  and  integration 
into 
organizations. 
Nevertheless,  I  must  note  that  my  country  is  still 
waiting at the doors of these two organizations due to 
the  actions  of  our  southern  neighbour,  which  are 
contrary  to  the  obligations  under  the  1995  Interim 
Accord. 

The Republic of Macedonia is fully committed to 
the  process  of  resolving  its  differences  with  Greece 
within the framework of the mechanism established by 
United Nations resolutions. Our name is at stake, as is 
our  right  to  self-identification  and  human  dignity.  We 
have  done  our  utmost  to  nurture  close  and  friendly 
relations  with  our  neighbour  Greece  and  its  people. A 
solution  will  be  reached  only  if  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  the  relevant  resolutions  and  international  law 
and  its  principles,  on  which  the  international  order 
rests, are respected. 

The  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  its  citizens 
deserve to enjoy the benefits of NATO membership and 
to start EU accession negotiations. 

Yesterday,  here  at  the  United  Nations,  I  had  a 
meeting  with  the  Greek  Prime  Minister,  which  sought 
to build a climate of mutual trust and understanding. I 
hope  that,  as  two  neighbouring  countries  that  have 
lived and will live with one another, we will be able to 
find  a  mutually  acceptable  solution.  It  will  be  a  big 
step  not  only  for  us  but  also  towards  fulfilling  our 
common vision for the whole region.  

I must say that I am encouraged by the situation 
in  our  region. The  more  intensive  communication  and 
cooperation  efforts  are,  the  better  understanding  and 
respect will be. By accepting dialogue as the only way 
to  overcome  inherited  problems  and  open  issues,  we 
create  a  new  climate.  Proof  of  this  was  the  second 
Balkan  Leaders  Forum,  which  was  held  here  in  New 
York City a couple of days ago. Slowly but surely, the 
Balkans  is  restoring  its  impaired  dignity. The  Balkans 
again  aspires  to  become  part  of  the  European  space, 
where  European  values,  European  criteria  and 
European principles will be respected. The Balkans has 
been, is and will be Europe. 
Let  me  conclude  with  the  statement  that  the 

Republic of Macedonia believes in the United Nations 
and the postulates upon which it rests. I believe that the 
United  Nations  can  maintain 
stability  of 
international order and relations and successfully meet 
current  and  future  global  challenges.  The  Republic  of 
the 
40 

10-54965 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 


to 
ready 
further  provide 


Macedonia  stands 
its 
constructive  contribution  to  the  implementation  and 
realization of these goals. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia for the statement he has just made. 
the 

  Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 
the 


to 
  Address by Mr. Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo, 
Prime Minister of the Togolese Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Togolese Republic. 

  Mr. Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo, Prime Minister of 
the  Togolese  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 

great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Gilbert  Fossoun  Houngbo,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Togolese  Republic,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr.  Houngbo  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 

outset,  allow  me  to  extend  my  congratulations  and 
those of the Togolese people to Mr. Joseph Deiss on his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session and to wish him every success in the 
accomplishment  of  his  great  task.  My  delegation  will 
spare  no  effort  in  working  at  his  side  towards  the 
successful  achievement  of  his  mandate.  Like  him,  we 
are firmly convinced that the values that lie at the heart 
of  the  United  Nations  remain  very  relevant  today  to 
successfully meeting the challenges facing humankind.  

I  also  congratulate  his  predecessor  for  his 
invaluable efforts during his term of office to advance 
the  agenda  of  the  General Assembly  in  many  diverse 
and  different  areas,  in  particular  those  of  peace  and 
security,  human  rights  and  the  development  of  our 
nations. 

I  would  like  to  renew  my  personal  support  and 
that of my country to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
for the dynamism he has shown over the course of the 
A/65/PV.15
justice 
translates 
eloquently 
governance”, 
freedom  and 
past four years at the head of the United Nations. I also 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  him  on  the 
important report that he introduced to us yesterday on 
the work of the Organization (A/65/1). 
The  theme  that  the  President  of  the  General 

Assembly  has  proposed  for 
the  current  session, 
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global 
the 
aspirations  of  our  States,  particularly  the  developing 
countries.  The  theme  implies  that  the  United  Nations 
must remain at the heart of multilateralism and that the 
institutions  of  our  Organization  must  therefore  be 
reconsidered,  beginning  with  the  long-awaited  reform 
of  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to  bring  greater 
democracy and equity and, above all, to respond more 
effectively to the many challenges to our world.  

In  its  own  search  for  better  governance  and  the 
well-being  of  its  people,  my  country,  Togo,  has 
tirelessly and irreversibly continued its march towards 
greater  democracy, 
in  an 
environment of peace and stability. Seeking to turn the 
page  once  and  for  all  on  the  dark  years  of  our 
democratic deficit, the Head of State has established a 
new  policy  of  openness.  In  August  2006, 
this 
commendable  initiative  led  to  the  signing  of  the 
Comprehensive  Political  Agreement  among  the  main 
political  actors  in  Togo  and  to  the  establishment  of  a 
Government  of  national  unity  and  the  holding  in 
October  2007  of 
that  were 
universally recognized as free and transparent and, for 
the first time, without violence. These elections, which 
established a pluralist National Assembly, are without a 
doubt the emblem of our democratic renaissance.  

The Government has since  initiated political  and 
economic  reforms  leading  to  the  adoption  of  a  statute 
of  the  opposition  and  of  a  law  on  the  financing  of 
the  consensus  appointment  of 
political  parties; 
members  of 
Independent  Electoral 
Commission;  and  the  creation  of  a  security  force  for 
the  presidential  elections,  the  members  of  which  are 
trained  according  to  universally  recognized  standards 
and  have  maintained  security  throughout  the  electoral 
process  in  an  exemplary  fashion.  All  of  these  efforts 
naturally  allowed  Togo  to  hold,  on  4  March  2010,  a 
presidential election that was democratic, peaceful and 
widely praised by the international community.  

I  reiterate  here  the  profound  gratitude  of  the 
Government and people of Togo to all of our partners, 
legislative  elections 
the  National 
10-54965 

41 
transparent  by 
A/65/PV.15 

to  regional  and  international  institutions,  and  to  the 
friendly  countries  that  supported  us  throughout  the 
electoral  process,  making  it  a  success  and  a  good 
example. Our gratitude goes to the United Nations for 
its  many  forms  of  support  throughout  the  process  of 
democratization and consolidation.  

I  would  also  encourage  the  United  Nations  to 
invest  even  more 
in  preventive  democracy  by, 
inter alia, beginning to envision mechanisms that could 
lead all parties to accept the results of elections that are 
recognized  as  credible  and 
the 
international  community.  That  is  a  challenge  we  have 
to take up, particularly in our young democracies, and 
especially  the  African  democracies,  so  that  the  post-
electoral period is no longer a nightmare or a source of 
division among our peaceful populations. 

Notwithstanding  his  outstanding  victory,  and 
faithful to his policy of reaching out to his opponents, 
President Faure Gnassingbé appealed to all persons of 
good  will  to  take  part  in  the  building  of  the Togolese 
nation.  It  was  in  this  vein  that  an  historic  political 
agreement  was  concluded 
the 
presidential  majority  and  the  Union  des  Forces  de 
Changement, the main opposition party in Togo, which, 
with  seven  ministerial  posts,  has  for  the  first  time 
joined  a  Government  after  40  years  of  political 
fighting.  

Moreover,  the  Truth,  Justice  and  Reconciliation 
Commission,  which  seeks  to  promote  reconciliation 
among  the  Togolese  people  by  shedding  light  on  the 
political violence that took place in Togo between 1958 
and  2005,  is  currently  in  the  depositions  phase.  My 
country  will  work 
the 
achievements of democracy and peace, while devoting 
increasing efforts and energy to the achievement of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  order  to 
bring human and sustainable development to the entire 
population. Now that Togo has reconciled with itself, I 
have  faith  in  our  capacity to  fully  renew  our  relations 
with all of our bilateral and multilateral partners and to 
open up new horizons in the vast field of solidarity that 
is international cooperation. 

Although  there  are  some  positive  signs  of  the 
recovery of the world economy, it is no exaggeration to 
say that the path to stabilization and the suppression of 
the disturbing effects of the crisis is still long, perilous 
and uncertain.  
in  May  between 
to  consolidate 
tirelessly 

to  significantly 

The  new  problem  of  climate  change  has  brought 
in its wake catastrophes linked to rainfall phenomena, 
such  as  floods,  drought  and  landslides.  Without  a 
doubt,  all  of  these  phenomena  will  have  a  negative 
impact  on  global  economic  growth  in  general  and, 
more specifically, a tragic effect on the least developed 
countries  in  particular.  Despite  this  threat,  we  still 
hesitate  to  reach  agreement,  as  was  demonstrated 
recently by the Copenhagen Conference on innovative 
and  proactive  strategies 
reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions, on the one hand, and, on the 
other  hand,  to  pursue  discussions  to  adopt  as  soon  as 
possible a schedule for concluding a new agreement to 
succeed  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  The  time  for  speeches  is 
over; the time to act is now. 
The High-level Plenary Meeting that we have just 

held  here  on  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  revealed  once  again  the  intrinsic 
link  between  aid  and  development,  on  the  one  hand, 
and development and political will, on the other, at the 
national  and  international  levels.  The  modest  results 
my  country  has  achieved  with  respect  to  the  MDGs 
could have been better, and we would have been closer 
to attaining them within the deadlines set if we had not 
been  deprived  for  far  too  many  years  of  the  precious 
help afforded by development aid.  

The  peaceful  political  climate  being  enjoyed  by 
my country will also enable us to effectively pursue the 
improvement of the management of our public finances 
so that we are able to devote more domestic resources 
to  achieving 
the  efforts 
undertaken  by  poor  countries  to  consolidate  the  bases 
of  sustainable  development  will  be  a  genuine  success 
only  if  developed  countries  provide  them  with  their 
various  forms  of  assistance  and  if  they  honour  their 
commitments. Let us not close our eyes to this fact. We 
need better aid in terms of quantity and quality.  

international  community  can 
welcome the fact that the number of armed conflicts in 
the  world  has  fallen,  we  cannot  forget  that  several 
peacekeeping operations of the United Nations are still 
under way. That is undeniable proof that we are still far 
from  the  ideal  of  international  peace  and  security  that 
the  founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations  envisaged. 
Civil  wars  and  terrorism  continue  to  plunge  many 
families  into  mourning  throughout  the  world.  More 
than wars, terrorism today is the most murderous form 
of  violence  inflicted  upon  people  because  it  attacks 
indiscriminately, killing children, men, women and the 
the  MDGs.  However, 
Although 
the 
42 

10-54965 


elderly. The eradication of terrorism in all its forms is a 
long-term  task  and  the  responsibility  above  all  of 
States  and  the  international  community  acting  in 
solidarity.  They  are  obligated  to  find  the  best  way  to 
fight  this  phenomenon.  In  this  regard,  prevention, 
protection,  prosecution  and  punishment,  as  well  as 
international  cooperation,  must  remain  the  main  focus 
of State action. 

While Member States struggle to find a definition 
of  terrorism  in  order  to  better  fight  it,  the  scourge  is 
affecting an increasing number of countries because of 
the  support  that  terrorists  receive,  particularly  from 
drug  trafficking  networks.  In  West  Africa,  all  leaders 
have  become  aware  of  the  threat  posed  by  drug 
trafficking  and  are  engaged  in  a  fight  to  the  death 
against the phenomenon. I call on wealthy countries to 
help fight drug trafficking in my subregion in order to 
prevent 
it  from  becoming  an  unstable  zone  of 
unrestrained violence. 

The purposes and principles for which the United 
Nations  Organization  was  created  are  noble,  but 
65 years after its birth the work that remains to be done 
is 
the 
inhabitants  of  the  planet  does  not  always  follow  the 
development that our world has achieved. Poverty and 
destitution  are  not  mere  words;  they  are  oppressive 
realities experienced day by day. They lead to violence, 
instability, conflicts and other scourges that we, today, 
are  not 
international 
solidarity  will  allow  us  to  overcome  the  evils  of  this 
world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Togolese  Republic  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo, Prime Minister of 
the  Togolese  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
  Address by Mr. Emil Boc, Prime Minister of 
Romania 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Romania.  

  Mr.  Emil  Boc,  Prime  Minister  of  Romania,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
fighting  successfully.  Only 
the  social  situation  of 
immense  because 




A/65/PV.15
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emil 
Boc,  Prime  Minister  of  Romania,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Boc  (Romania)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  my 

honour  to  speak  here  and  to  participate  for  the  first 
time in the Assembly’s general debate. The moment is 
all  the  more  significant  for  us  because  Romania  is 
celebrating  55  years  of  membership  in  the  United 
Nations.  My  country  and  its  people  have  always  been 
firm  believers  in  the  ideal  of  countries  working 
together  for  peace,  prosperity  and  a  better  life  for 
humankind. 
(spoke in English) 
Nicolae Titulescu, one of the great Romanians of 

the  twentieth  century,  once  said  that  hardship  creates 
the true brotherhood of nations. He said those words in 
September 1931, as President of the League of Nations, 
in  a  time  of  crisis.  Today  we  are  burdened  again  by 
immense  challenges  and  have  to  live  up  to  great 
responsibilities  placed  upon  us  by  present  and  future 
generations.  Communities  all  over  the  planet  face 
mounting threats, which are often interrelated. Climate 
change  exacerbates  food  and  energy  insecurity,  health 
and  population 
increase  migration,  while 
poverty puts pressure on regional security and stability. 

At the same time, we are heartened to see an ever 
increasing  commitment  on  the  part  of  the  world’s 
nations  to  act  collectively  and  to  share  vision  and 
willpower to overcome difficulties.  

Climate  change  must  be  our  next  mobilizing 
issue.  We  must  not  let  differences  and  the  enormous 
complexity  of  interests  define  our  drive.  Negotiations 
in  Cancún  and 
the 
Copenhagen Accord, must pave the way for the timely 
adoption of a comprehensive and legally binding post-
Kyoto agreement. Romania, including in its capacity as 
Chair of the Commission for Sustainable Development, 
will  provide  its  unrestrained  support  and  attention  to 
international 
alleviate  our  planet’s 
efforts 
environmental perils. 

While  climate  change  will  hit  us  ever  harder,  a 
global  recession  has  just  battered  us.  The  crisis 
revealed  the  flaws  of  our  national  and  international 
financial and economic systems. It has become obvious 
that 
longer 
compatible with the realities of global competition, nor 
the  world’s  financial  system 
thereafter,  building  upon 
is  no 
issues 
to 
10-54965 

43 

can 
achieved 
with 
be 
sufficient 
Sometimes, 
A/65/PV.15 

can  it  handle  the  misuse  of  free  market  principles. 
Indeed, the system needs to be revised. 

resources, 
development 
quickly.  But 
development without good governance is less likely to 
be  lasting.  A  country  whose  citizens  do  not  enjoy 
equality  and  dignity  can  never  be  wealthy.  From  its 
own  past  Romania  knows  very  well  the  negative 
impact  that  the  lack  of  genuine  democracy,  human 
rights  and  freedom  has  on  long-term  development 
prospects.  That  is  why  we  must  never  lose  track  of  a 
milestone  document  —  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  —  adopted  by  this  very  Assembly, 
62 years  ago,  in  Paris.  The  principles,  the  values  and 
the generous ideals enshrined in that Declaration must 
remain  the  underlying  foundation  of  our  governance 
efforts.  Romania  plays  an  active  role  in  promoting 
those  fundamental  values  in  our  part  of  Europe  and 
wherever its experience can prove useful and needed. 

One must not forget that democracy starts with a 
basic  step:  free  and  fair  elections.  Electoral  processes 
can  be  improved,  including  in  the  most  advanced 
countries.  States  must  be  ready 
that 
improvements  are  sometimes  needed  and  be  able  to 
listen  to  and  understand  the  calls  for  change,  from 
within our societies or from outside. 

sensitive  and 
challenging  issue,  including  in  my  country.  Romania 
works in cooperation with the United Nations Electoral 
Assistance  Division,  European  institutions  and  the 
Community of Democracies to develop knowledge and 
codify  best  practices  in  the  field  of  out-of-country 
voting.  We  hope  that  the  results  of  a  first  seminar  on 
this  topic,  hosted  by  Romania  this  summer,  will  be 
multiplied and shared by many countries and regions. 

Conflict  prevention  and  peacebuilding  are 
priorities  in  today’s  world.  Neither  of  them  can  be 
isolated  from  efforts  to  stabilize  and  reconstruct  areas 
and  societies  affected  by  conflicts. To  be  successfully 
put into practice, that conceptual framework needs the 
complement  of  a  consolidated  United  Nations 
operational  instrument  to  which  all  Member  States 
must  contribute  to  the  best  of  their  ability.  For  this 
reason  my  country  has  taken  a  keen  interest  in,  and 
offered  substantial  contributions 
to,  civilian  and 
military  missions  under  the  United  Nations  mandate 
and  has  started  to  develop  dedicated  capacities,  of 
Out-of-country  voting 
to  accept 
is  a 
for 
We  must 
to  officially  open 
international  mission 
reaffirm  our  determination 
essentially  civilian  nature,  in  the  area  of  stabilization 
and post-conflict reconstruction. 
Just a couple of  weeks  ago, Bucharest  hosted  an 

the 
international  conference 
Post-Conflict 
Romanian  Training  Centre 
Reconstruction.  The  Centre  will  be  open 
to 
international  participation,  and  we  hope  to  develop 
enhanced  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  Office 
for Partnerships. 

Today,  Romania  is  honoured  and  proud  to  have 
consistently  contributed  to  the  management,  through 
international  cooperation,  of  a  number  of  conflict 
situations  and  areas  of  instability.  I  pay  my  deepest 
respect  to  the  men  and  women  of  Romania  who  have 
lost their lives and those who are risking their lives in 
conflict  areas,  as  well  as  to  all  the  military,  police, 
gendarmes  and  civilian  personnel  serving  all  over  the 
world to bring peace and security.  
to 

accomplish the commitments made at the outset of the 
United  Nations-mandated 
in 
Afghanistan.  While  we  welcome  the  results  of  the 
latest  conferences  in  London  and  Kabul  and  note  the 
progress 
the  stability,  security  and 
development  of  that  sorely  tried  nation,  we  look 
forward  to  the  moment  when  the  Afghan  authorities 
will  be  ready  to  assume  the  entire  spectrum  of 
responsibilities incumbent upon them. 
continued 

involvement  of 
and 
the 
international  community  in  the  reconstruction  of  Iraq 
and  is  ready  to  carry  on  helping.  The  success  of  the 
sovereign  development  of  Iraq  depends  on  national 
reconciliation  and  the  development  of  harmonious 
relations with its neighbours. 

issue  of  Kosovo,  Romania 
continues  to  uphold  politically  and  practically  the 
essential United Nations mandate there, as well as the 
roles of the European Union and NATO in ensuring the 
progress,  stability  and  security  of  the  area.  While 
respecting  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  Romania  considers  that  the  opinion 
does  not  examine  the  core  of  the  issue,  which  is  the 
legality  of  the  creation  of  an  alleged  new  State. 
Romania maintains the view that unilateral secession is 
not  possible  under  international  law.  Accordingly, 
Romania  will  maintain  its  position  of  non-recognition 
of Kosovo’s unilateral declaration of independence. 
the 
the  United  Nations 
in  ensuring 
As  regards 
Romania 
supports 
firmly 
the 
44 

10-54965 
A/65/PV.15
in  United  Nations 
through 
remain  within 



We continue  to be concerned with the protracted 
conflicts  in  the  extended  Black  Sea  area  and  South 
Caucasus.  While  solutions  to  these  conflicts  continue 
to be explored in the agreed formats, they must also be 
monitored by the larger United Nations membership, as 
a  way  to  encourage  dialogue  and  to  ensure  that 
developments 
the  boundaries  of 
international law and United Nations resolutions. 

In  Georgia,  which  is  among  Romania’s  top 
priorities, the United Nations must continue to play an 
important  role,  along  with  other  actors  such  as  the 
European  Union,  which 
its  Monitoring 
Mission  contributes  immensely  to  the  stability  of  the 
area. 

Furthermore,  we  support  the  Middle  East  peace 
process on the basis of the principles and provisions of 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  of  the 
road map. We express our hope that the current direct 
discussions  will  lead  to  the  goal  of  two  States  living 
side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  We  also  hope  that 
Israel  and  Syria  and  Israel  and  Lebanon  can  identify 
the  means  needed  to  find  solutions  to  improve  their 
respective relations. 

Concerning the crucial role of the United Nations 
in the area of disarmament, non-proliferation and arms 
control,  I  would  like  to  underline  the  need  to  both 
strengthen  the  relevance  of  international  law  and  to 
fully implement it. 

the  new  United  States-
Russian  Federation  treaty  on  nuclear  arms  reduction 
and  the  adoption  of  the  Final  Document  of  the  2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which contains 
concrete  actions  to  advance  international  cooperation 
in  the  field  of  nuclear  disarmament,  non-proliferation 
and  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  The  entry  into 
force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
and  future  negotiations  for  a  fissile  material  cut-off 
treaty  continue  to  be  issues  of  high  interest  for  my 
country. 

The  efforts  evoked  in  my  address  require  a 
vibrant multilateralism with a strong United Nations at 
its  core.  That  premise  demands,  in  turn,  improved 
functional  relations  between  the  United  Nations  and 
other  international  organizations  with  a  global  or 
regional vocation. 
Romania  welcomes 

like 
for 
to 
the  entire  Organization 

The  roles  of  the  European  Union,  NATO,  the 
African  Union,  the  International  Organization  of  la 
Francophonie  and  others  in  working  jointly  with  the 
United  Nations  in  the  field  and  at  Headquarters  must 
be  supported  and  reinforced  by  all  Member  States. At 
the same time, the wide-ranging process of realignment 
and  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  bodies  must 
maintain the same pace. 

In that context, I would like to warmly welcome 
the  creation  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women  as  a 
significant  step 
reform.  We 
congratulate  Madame  Michelle  Bachelet, 
former 
President of Chile, for her appointment as head of that 
entity and wish her every success. At the same time, I 
would 
to  commend  Secretary-General  Ban 
their 
Ki-moon  and 
exceptional  dedication  and  commitment 
the 
advancement of women. 

The  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
gives us another year in which we must accelerate the 
Assembly’s renewal and work out historic decisions on 
Security Council reform. Romania shares the view that 
the  overarching  goal  of  Security  Council  reform  must 
be 
transparent  and 
representative  body,  and  my  country  will  join  any 
pragmatic  move  in  this  direction. We  strongly  believe 
that  the  Eastern  European  Group  deserves  better 
representation  on 
in  any 
enlargement format. 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  our  role  and 
position  in  the  world’s  affairs  are  not  defined  by  our 
greatest  achievements,  but  by  how  we  use  those 
achievements to strengthen the most vulnerable among 
us.  That  has  been  and  still  is  the  noblest  mission  and 
vocation of the United Nations, and of us all. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Romania  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

  Mr.  Emil  Boc,  Prime  Minister  of  Romania,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
to  create  a  more  effective, 
the  Security  Council 
10-54965 

45 

A/65/PV.15 




  Address by Mr. Stephenson King, Prime 
Minister of Saint Lucia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  as  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Saint Lucia. 

  Mr.  Stephenson  King,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Lucia, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 

great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Stephenson  King,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint  Lucia, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  King  (Saint  Lucia):  In  my  address  on  the 

accomplishments and shortfalls of Saint Lucia towards 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  I 
stressed  that  all  of  our  gains  would  be  useless  if  we 
could  not  address  the  threatening  saga  of  adverse 
climate  change.  Many  other  nations  highlighted  that 
urgent issue, and I hope that our collective voices will 
receive the attention of those most capable of acting. 

I will therefore focus on two of the most critical 
factors in  our development as small island developing 
States  (SIDS):  first,  the  effects  of  global  climate 
change,  and  second,  the  uncertain  economic  and 
financial crisis. 

Saint  Lucia  notes  the  ongoing  negotiations  in 
advance  of  the  sixteenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, to be held in Cancún, Mexico, later this year. 
Following  the  fifteenth  Conference  of  the  Parties, 
which failed to achieve consensus on a legally binding 
framework  for  addressing  climate  change,  Saint  Lucia 
recognizes  the  critical  importance  of  the  current  talks 
in  laying  a  solid  foundation  for  a  more  favourable 
outcome  in  Cancún,  one  that  will  truly  fulfil  the 
purpose  of  the  Convention  and  help  to  ensure  the 
continued existence of humankind. 

We  have  long  since  moved  past  the  debate  over 
the  existence  of  climate  change  to  a  discussion  about 
the severity of its impacts on the nations and regions of 
the  world.  The  small  island  developing  States  of  the 
world,  Saint  Lucia  included,  are  recognized  as  being 
among the most vulnerable to climate change, with that 
phenomenon threatening the very existence of some of 
our  island  nations.  That  is  so  despite  the  fact  that, 
jointly,  the  SIDS  contribute  a  fraction  of  one  per  cent 
of global greenhouse gas emissions. 
that 
trust 

We began this year with news that a cataclysmic 
earthquake  had  hit  Haiti.  The  United  Nations  came 
together in solidarity with our sister island and pledged 
$1.5  billion  in  assistance.  To  date,  Haiti’s  officials 
report  that  only  10  per  cent  of  the  pledges  have  been 
funded. The same seems to be true for most appeals for 
humanitarian  causes.  We 
the  pledging 
conference for Pakistan, the most recent country to be 
hit by a catastrophe, will be more successful.  

Addressing  the  humanitarian  consequences  of 
today’s  disasters  and  emergencies  remains  a  United 
Nations  priority.  We  thank  those  who  have  kept  their 
pledges,  while  we  encourage  those  who  have  shown 
good  intentions  but  have  not  yet  matched  words  with 
action to do so with some urgency. 

For those reasons, for the good of all humankind 
and  indeed,  for  the  good  of  all  creation,  Saint  Lucia, 
like  all  member  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  is  committed  to  lending  its  efforts  to 
achieving  an  ambitious,  just  and  legally  binding 
agreement  that  will  realize  our  goal  of  timely  and 
successfully addressing climate change. 
Speaking  of  justice,  climate  change  can  be 

successfully 
countries  most 
responsible  take  the  necessary  steps  to  reduce  carbon 
dioxide  emissions  and  provide  adequate  financial 
resources 
transfer  of 
technology for both adaptation and mitigation to those 
who have been most seriously affected. 

Few  developing  countries  possess  sufficient 
financial  and  human  resources  to  address  adequately 
the  ongoing  and  anticipated  impacts  of  global  climate 
change. According  to  World  Bank  estimates,  the  total 
annual  impact  of  potential  climate  change  on  all 
CARICOM  countries  could  be,  in  2007  dollar  prices, 
$9.9 billion of our total gross national product (GDP), 
or about 11.3 per cent of total GDP. That means that we 
have  no  choice  but  to  divert  critical  funding  from  our 
poverty alleviation programmes to trying to protect our 
countries from that formidable threat.  

There is no doubt that stable long-term funding is 
of  critical  importance  to  developing  countries  and 
cannot be underestimated. We urgently need to scale up 
new and additional resources and sources of funding to 
support  mitigation  efforts.  We  cannot 
rely  on 
humanitarian  assistance  alone,  which  only  addresses 
the consequences of such events. 
the  development  and 
addressed  only 
if 
for 
46 

10-54965 



We  know  that  our  development  partners  are 
serious  about  implementing  meaningful  mitigation 
action, so we call for a firm collective commitment to 
providing  new  and  additional  resources.  Let  us  not 
continue  to  renege  on  promises  made,  as  developing 
States  cannot  go  it  alone  and  should  not  be  penalized 
for  the  actions  of  industrialized  countries. We  call  for 
an  understanding  partnership  in  tackling  the  pressing 
issues that threaten to engulf our world. 
Despite  our  geographic  distribution,  small  island 

developing  States 
(SIDs)  are  working  diligently 
together  on  shared  concerns  through  regional  and 
international networks, the most notable of which is the 
Alliance  of  Small  Island  States.  We  recognize  that 
traditional hydrocarbon fuel usage is unsustainable and 
are  therefore  looking  to  make  use  of  the  alternate 
energy  sources  that  are  available  to  us.  The  use  of 
hydropower,  wind,  solar  and  geothermal  sources  and 
converting  waste  into  energy  are  means  by  which  we 
could  reduce  our  energy  reliance,  lower  trade  deficits 
and  generate  employment.  However,  those  require 
investment in research, development and infrastructure. 

The other most critical factor in our development 
is the speed of the global economy’s return to sustained 
growth.  Recent  news  of  deteriorating  economic 
conditions and a fall in house sales in the United States 
has fanned the flame of fears of a double-dip recession. 
Over  the  past  few  weeks,  the  short-term  growth 
prospects of the United States, Europe and Japan have 
been  downgraded  on  the  back  of  recently  released 
economic data, which is below expectations. 

The  prospects  for  economic  recovery  in  Europe 
were dampened by the crisis in some countries earlier 
this  year,  but 
recently 
emerged, 
stronger-than-expected 
performance  of  the  German  economy  in  the  second 
quarter  of  2010.  However,  the  growth  prospects  for 
Europe 
fiscal 
retrenchment measures could pose a risk to growth and 
the  pace  of  recovery. The  weakened  growth  prospects 
for the United States and Europe could impede growth 
in emerging markets, with a slowdown in the growth of 
exports and investment flows. The uneven pace of the 
global economic recovery in countries and regions has 
led to differences in approach in policy responses. 

I  have  made  these  points  because  the  economies 
of  the  United  States,  Europe  and  the  European  Union 
are  our  major  sources  of  tourism,  agricultural  trade, 
renewed  confidence  has 
spurred  by 
uncertain, 
remain 
given 
that 
the 
A/65/PV.15
the 
the 
in 
rise 
in 
the 
foreign 
assistance, 
development 
in  GDP,  a 
official 
direct 
investment (FDI) and remittances, which constitute the 
mainstays of our economy. We therefore urge the focus 
on  global  economic  recovery  to  be  maintained  for  the 
benefit of the global community. 

As a small island developing State with a highly 
open  economy,  Saint  Lucia  has  been  hard  hit  by  the 
effects of the global financial and economic crisis. As 
with most small developing countries, the crisis led to 
a deterioration in Saint Lucia’s economy, resulting in a 
contraction 
level  of 
unemployment  and  a  weakening  of  the  Government’s 
fiscal position. 

The  decline  in  economic  activity  was  driven 
mainly  by  a  fall  in  stay-over  tourist  arrivals,  lower 
production  in  the  agricultural  sector  and  a  sharp 
downturn in construction. The decline in activity in the 
construction  sector  was  attributable  to  a  fall  in  FDI 
inflows  as  the  freeze  in  international  credit  adversely 
affected 
financing  of  a  number  of  hotel 
construction  projects  in  Saint  Lucia.  It  was  also 
attributable  to  a  decline  in  remittances,  which  have 
helped sustain the local housing sector. 

revenue 
decline 
collection, expenditure outlays increased, resulting in a 
deteriorating  fiscal  position.  That  outcome  led  to  a 
widening  of  the  central  Government’s  overall  fiscal 
deficit  to  4.8  per  cent  of  GDP  in  the  financial  year 
2009-2010,  compared  to  a  deficit  of  1.9  per  cent  of 
GDP in the previous year. Public debt as a percentage 
of GDP rose from 66 per cent in 2008 to 71 per cent in 
2009  as  a  result  of  increases  in  borrowing  to  finance 
the budget deficit. 

The adverse impacts of the combination of global 
and regional shocks have prompted the Government of 
Saint  Lucia  to  implement  a  number  of  measures 
designed  to  mitigate  the  social,  fiscal  and  regulatory 
challenges  of  the  crisis.  In  order  to  mitigate  the 
impacts  of 
the  Government 
implemented a number of measures to protect the most 
vulnerable in our population.  
Such  measures  included  the  creation  of  short-

the  suspension  of 
term  employment  programmes, 
import duties and other taxes on basic consumer items, 
the  establishment  of  controls  on  retail  markups  and 
profit  margins  on  some  basic  food  items,  and  the 
provision  of 
subsidies  on  basic 
commodities to vulnerable groups. 
Notwithstanding 
limited  price 
the  price 
shocks, 
10-54965 

47 

lay 
The 
signing  of 
strategic  priority 
the  blueprint  for 
A/65/PV.15 


In its strategic response to the crisis and in laying 
the  foundation  for  growth,  the  Government  of  Saint 
Lucia  has  undertaken  the  development  of  a  medium-
term  development  strategy  plan  for  the  period  2011-
2016.  The  plan  will 
the 
development of emerging new sources of growth, such 
as offshore education, health and wellness tourism, and 
high–end information and communications technology, 
and  for  expanding  existing  critical  sectors,  such  as 
tourism, agriculture and manufacturing. 

the  economic  partnership 
agreement  with  the  European  Union  in  2008,  the 
implementation  of  the  CARICOM  Single  Market  and 
Economy and the Economic Union of the Organization 
of  Eastern  Caribbean  States  will  bring  new  sets  of 
challenges  and  opportunities  for  Saint  Lucia.  The 
Government’s 
to  develop 
meaningful partnerships with the private sector to meet 
the challenges and take advantage of the opportunities 
provided.  The  capacity  of  the  private  sector  will  be 
strengthened  to  take  advantage  of  the  opportunities 
presented by such trading arrangements.  

However,  the  Government  recognizes  that  this 
will  require  a  host  of  general  improvements  in  the 
business  environment, 
the 
investment  climate,  expanding 
skills  base, 
promoting  innovation  and  technology  adoption,  and 
improving  international  transport  services  and  other 
infrastructure.  All  those  will  require  large  capital 
outlays. 

While  the  Government  has  responded  to  the 
challenges  by  developing  specific  programmes  and 
projects to improve the business climate in Saint Lucia, 
the  role  of  international  financial  institutions  and 
bodies  like  the  Group  of  20  in  stabilizing  the  global 
economy  and  restoring  growth  is  crucial  to  small 
developing countries like  Saint Lucia. As the focus  of 
the  global  recovery  efforts  is  aimed  at  laying  the 
foundation  for  sustainable  and  balanced  growth,  Saint 
Lucia, 
its  new  policy  directives  and 
programmes,  is  positioning  itself  to  benefit  from  the 
growth prospects for the global economy. 
In that respect, we call for a review of the United 

for 
Nations  delivery 
strengthened 
the 
vulnerabilities  of  all  SIDS  and  for  support  within  the 
United  Nations  system  for  a  special  category.  Most 
SIDS do not get our fair share of assistance because we 
to  SIDS,  and  particularly 
address 
including  strengthening 
support  measures 
through 
is 
the 
to 
for 
the 
further 
Let  me  now 
implementation  of 
fall into the middle-income country category. However, 
being  middle-income  does  not  reduce  vulnerability. 
There  is  a  greater  need  for  advocacy  and  a  resource-
mobilization  role  for  SIDS  under 
the  Mauritius 
Strategy 
the 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States. 

The  support  of  the  international  community  is 
therefore  necessary  if  Saint  Lucia  and  all  other  SIDS 
are  to  fulfil  the  goal  of  sustainable  development  and 
thereby  improve  the  standards  of  living  of  their 
populations  and  meet  all  of  the  MDGs  by  the  year 
2015. 

touch  briefly  on  our  moral 
environment.  Among  all  the  disasters  we  face  today, 
we can accept some as natural occurrences, yet others 
are  of  our  own  making.  Conflicts  brought  about  by 
differences  in  ideology,  political  persuasion,  religion 
and  economic  circumstance  have  presented  challenges 
to global peace and security, including the many mass 
atrocities  that  the  world  has  witnessed.  Even  with 
numerous advances in technology, education and health 
and  an  increase  in  material  progress,  the  world  seems 
to  suffer  from  mental  restlessness  and  discontent.  We 
seem  not  to  have  found  the  formula  for  peacekeeping 
and peacemaking within nations, even after 60 years of 
searching. 

Keeping the peace and building peace are critical 
components  of  sustainable  development  worldwide. 
But peacekeeping goes far beyond civilian conflict. We 
are pleased to note that there is now acceptance of the 
relationship  between  such  non-traditional  security 
issues  as  poverty  and  health,  on  the  one  hand,  and 
conflict  on 
the  other.  Maybe  with 
that  new 
understanding we will help find a solution. 

is 
incapable  of  solving  all  the  world’s  discordant  issues 
and that the best solutions for conflict are home-grown. 
However,  there  are  identified  areas  where  the  United 
Nations can realistically make a difference. Where this 
is the case, we need to strengthen the role of the United 
Nations  in  the  promotion  of  peace  and  economic 
development.  In  this  regard,  and  while  keeping  our 
goals  realistic,  we  look  forward  to  Security  Council 
reform. We need an equitable international system and 
a more balanced approach to international security. 
We acknowledge that States remain the principal 

duty-bearers and cannot abrogate their responsibility to 
the  United  Nations 
We  understand 
that 
48 

10-54965 
stunted 
rights,  we  cannot  achieve 


implement  policies,  enact  national  legislation  and 
foster an enabling environment in which human rights 
these  rights  go 
can  be  enjoyed  by  all.  When 
unexercised, 
economic  growth 
is 
and 
development  is  paralysed.  A  key  role  of  the  United 
Nations  is  to  help  ensure  that  economic  growth 
translates into wider enjoyment of human rights for all. 
Without  human 
the 
Millennium Development Goals; we cannot achieve the 
advancement  of  humankind.  When  we  expect  the 
United  Nations  to  protect  human  rights,  we  hold  the 
same  expectations  of  ourselves.  After  all,  we  are  the 
United Nations. 

Also  integrated  within  the  issue  of  human  rights 
is human security. As Members of the United Nations, 
we are concerned with human life, education, longevity 
and social inclusion. There would be no United Nations 
if there were no universal concern for the well-being of 
the  collective.  Respect  for  human  rights  and  the 
protection  of  human  security  are  therefore  mutually 
reinforcing. 
Most  people  want  peace,  democracy  and  social 

equity,  and  we 
inherent 
responsibility  to  provide  these  for  its  citizens.  If 
Governments  are 
to  be  successful,  people  must 
participate  in  formulating  and  implementing  strategies 
to  enhance  their  national  authorities’  capacity  to 
achieve  these  goals.  However,  with  globalization,  the 
ever-evolving threats that arise when one country falls 
to  maintain  the  social  order  ricochet  to  affect  the  rest 
of 
the  world.  Every  State  requires 
international 
cooperation to preserve its own security. 

We Caribbean countries take the issue of security 
very seriously. We suffer from an increasing incidence 
of  crime  and  violence,  which  is  compounded  by 
relatively  easy  access  to  and  use  of  illegal  firearms. 
The  number  of  gun-related  homicides  has  jumped  to 
unacceptable levels, and this has been aggravated by a 
worsened economic situation. 

the 
uncontrolled  illicit  drug  trade. We  must  find  solutions 
to  both  problems.  We  are  perplexed,  therefore,  to  see 
the  closure  of  the  Caribbean  office  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime.  We  call  for  a 
reassessment  of  that  decision.  We  also  call  for  a 
comprehensive treaty on small arms and light weapons, 
alongside  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons.  Small  arms  and  light  weapons  are 
the  State’s 
recognize 
Another  great 
tragedy  of  our 
times 
is 
10-54965 

A/65/PV.15
responsible  for  more  deaths  than  natural  causes  in 
some parts of the world. 

In  attempting  to  fulfil  our  commitments  on  the 
MDGs, we have engaged many partners, including the 
United States, the European Union, Canada, our Latin 
American neighbours, India, Japan and South Korea, to 
name  but  a  few.  I  wish,  though,  to  make  a  special 
appeal  to  this  body  to  support  the  aspirations  of  the 
Republic of  China on Taiwan to make its contribution 
to  the  world  collaboration  through  membership  and 
effective  participation  in  the  air  transport  and  health 
bodies  and  climate  change  discussions,  including  the 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organization,  the  World 
Health  Organization,  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and other organizations 
of a universal nature.  

The contribution of Taiwan to countries that have 
sought its assistance in these areas matches that of any 
other,  and  it  has  helped  without  asking  for  much  in 
return.  No  country  should  be  prevented  from  making 
its  contribution  to  humankind,  for  they  do  share  the 
world  with  us  and  their  contribution  to  health  and 
environmental issues know no boundaries.  

Increased  concern  for  air  safety  also  remains  a 
global  priority. We  therefore  hope  that  ongoing  cross-
Strait  talks  will  lead  to  a  peaceful  solution.  This  is  a 
long-standing  problem 
that  deserves  an  urgent 
resolution that is acceptable to all and in keeping with 
the  Charter  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
well  as  the  aspirations  of  peoples  to  self-development 
and progress. 

There  are  some  anachronisms  that  still  persist  in 
this  world,  and  one  is  the  embargo  against  Cuba.  We 
have  moved  into  a  world  where  political  uncertainty 
has  been  replaced  by  economic  uncertainty.  Yet  a 
mechanism that was put in place to deal with a political 
issue  remains  today  and  is  being  used  for  economic 
strangulation,  even  as  we  appeal  to  everyone  else  for 
cooperation and understanding in other areas. We must 
respect the freely expressed wishes of the people of our 
region  as  well  as  their  right  to  shape  and  chart  their 
destiny.  Our  region  is  diverse,  but  our  aspirations  are 
shared. Only mutual respect will foster the relationship 
that is so necessary and vital to the development of our 
region. 

Here  again,  permit  me  to  make  another  point 
regarding respect. When the World Trade Organization 
(WTO)  ruled  against  our  preferential  regime  on 
49 

there 
A/65/PV.15 

bananas, we were told that we had to comply. Now that 
the  WTO  has  ruled  in  favour  of  our  efforts  in  the 
services sector — I am speaking here of the favourable 
ruling  we  received  on  the  gaming  dispute  referred  to 
the  WTO  by  Antigua  and  Barbuda  — 
is 
reluctance 
to  comply.  We  cannot  have  double 
standards.  We  therefore  urge  all  parties  to  agree  on 
mutually  agreed  principles  that  govern  the  conduct  of 
relations  among  States,  large  or  small,  in  order  for 
everyone to be treated fairly. 

Our  world  is  in  crisis. We  face  a  growing,  more 
aggressive  realm  where  the  insatiable  appetite  for  the 
world’s  resources  has  led  to  the  subversion  of  justice 
and humanity. The tumultuous times that we live in can 
be  weathered  only  through  continued  and  increased 
commitment  to  human  development.  Let  us  all  work 
towards that goal and the sustainability of biodiversity 
and humankind. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of Saint Lucia for the statement he has 
just made.  

  Mr.  Stephenson  King,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Lucia, was escorted from the rostrum.  
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): In view 

of the late hour, I would ask all speakers to limit their 
statements insofar as possible to a total of 15 minutes 
so that everyone will be able to take the floor.  

I  now  call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Murray 
McCully, Minister for Foreign Affairs of New Zealand. 
Mr.  McCully  (New  Zealand):  It  is  an  honour  to 

lead  New  Zealand’s  delegation  this  year. The  opening 
of  the  General  Assembly’s  new  session  is  the  best 
example there is of the capacity of the United Nations 
to  bring  us  all  together.  Our  discussions  here  will  be 
wide-ranging, but inevitably settle on two main issues: 
global security and sustainable economic development.  

We  want  to  make  our  world  safer,  more  secure 
and  more  prosperous.  These  goals  will  require  strong 
collective  action  with  a  focus  on  practical  outcomes. 
New  Zealand 
to 
contribute.  We  are  a  young,  small  and  fair-minded 
country.  We  depend  upon  a  United  Nations  that  is 
effective and credible. 

New  Zealand  takes  pride  in  its  diversity.  In 
addition to our indigenous Maori population, we are a 
is  seeking  every  opportunity 

mix of people from Europe, Asia and the Pacific. Our 
links  with  Europe  are  built  on  history  and  tradition. 
Within Asia, we are developing ever-stronger economic 
and security relationships. Our future is closely tied to 
both of these regions. We have an equally strong focus 
on  our  closest  neighbours  in  the  South  Pacific.  New 
Zealand  is  a  Pacific  country.  Auckland  is  the  largest 
Pasifika  city  in  the  world,  and  a  number  of  Pacific 
countries  have  more  citizens  living  in  New  Zealand 
than at home. 

The  security  and  development  of  the  region  is 
New Zealand’s constant preoccupation. It is a matter of 
grave concern that the South Pacific is second only to 
sub-Saharan  Africa  in  terms  of  lack  of  progress 
towards  the  achievement  of  some  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  want  to  see  the 
MDGs achieved, and we want to see the wider Pacific 
prosper  through  good  governance  and  sustainable 
economic  development.  That  is  why  New  Zealand  is 
increasingly  deploying  our  development  resources 
within  its  region,  since  that  is  where  they  are  most 
needed and where they can be most effective. 

The  development  challenges  in  the  Pacific  are 
extremely  complex,  with  vulnerable  economies  and 
challenging 
circumstances.  New 
Zealand has increased and will continue to increase our 
overall 
level  of  development  assistance,  despite 
challenging times for our domestic economy. A higher 
percentage of that larger budget will be focused on our 
region. 

But money alone is not enough; aid effectiveness 
and  donor  coordination  are  vital.  Progress  will  also 
depend on good governance within the region. 

Next  year  we  will  mark  the  fortieth  anniversary 
of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  the  central  body  for 
regional engagement in the Pacific, which held its first 
meeting  in  New  Zealand  in  1971.  We  will  welcome 
leaders  from  around  the  region  back  to  New  Zealand 
next  September  to  celebrate  our  achievements  over 
40 years  and  to  take  stock  of  the  challenges  we  must 
face in the future. 

The  past  year  has  reinforced  the  need  for  better 
disaster management. Just three weeks ago, residents in 
Christchurch  woke  to  the  most  destructive  earthquake 
in  New  Zealand  in  80  years.  Miraculously,  there  was 
no  loss  of  life,  but  the  damage  runs  into  billions  of 
dollars  and  people’s 
livelihoods  were 
affected.  Significant  aftershocks  are  still  affecting  the 
environmental 
lives  and 
50 

10-54965 
system, 
international  agencies 
These  events  and  others  demonstrate 


population. But less than a month after the earthquake 
hit,  roads  and  buildings  have  been  repaired,  tourism 
infrastructure  is  at  almost  full  capacity,  and  people’s 
lives are being rebuilt. 

Others  have  not  been  so  lucky.  The  earthquakes 
in  Haiti  and  Chile  and  the  recent  flooding  in  Pakistan 
are reminders of the devastating scale of such disasters. 
The  Pacific  has  been  hit  hard,  too.  This  month  will 
mark  the  first  anniversary  of  the  Pacific  tsunami  that 
took  the  lives  of  184  people  in  Samoa,  American 
Samoa and Tonga. 

the 
importance  of  disaster  preparedness,  management  and 
recovery.  New  Zealand’s  experience  with  major 
earthquakes  has  taught  us  how  to  mitigate  risks, 
enforce strong building codes, and implement effective 
recovery  plans.  But  there  will  be  lessons  we  should 
learn  from  this  recent  experience.  We  will  work  with 
the  United  Nations 
non-governmental 
organizations  and  other 
to 
ensure that those lessons are shared and help others to 
prepare. 
While development and disaster management are 

crucial  to  our  quest  for  a  safer  world,  underpinning 
both is security. Peacekeeping is a key responsibility of 
the  Organization.  Indeed, 
its  peacekeeping 
operations that shape perceptions of the United Nations 
for many people around the world. 

New  Zealand  is  committed  to  supporting  global 
security and United Nations peacekeeping. That is why 
we  have  been  engaged  in  peacekeeping  and  peace 
support  operations  since  the  1940s.  New  Zealand’s 
soldiers,  police,  engineers,  corrections  and  customs 
officers,  doctors  and  other  personnel  are 
today 
involved  in  12  operations  that  span  the  globe  from 
Africa,  Afghanistan  and  the  Middle  East  to  Asia  and 
the Pacific. 
One  of  the  clearest  examples  of  New  Zealand’s 

collective 
commitment 
responsibility  is  through  the  United  Nations  effort  in 
Timor-Leste. Since 1999, New Zealand has been a part 
of  every  United  Nations  mission  that  has  served  in 
Timor-Leste.  We  have  played  a  major  role  in  the 
United  Nations-sanctioned 
international  military 
operations  that  restored  order  there  in  1999  and  again 
in  2006.  Over  6,000  New  Zealanders  have  served  in 
Timor  in  the  past  decade  —  a  significant  undertaking 
for a country of only 4.4 million people. 
principles 
the 
of 
to 
is 
it 
A/65/PV.15

Of  course,  helping  ensure  peace  and  stability  in 
our  region  alone  is  not  enough.  New  Zealanders  are 
among  those  who  have  been  affected  by  terrorism, 
killed  in  the  attacks  that  took  place  just  a  few  blocks 
away from here in September 2001, and more recently 
in Bali, in London and in Jakarta. 

The  need  to  respond  decisively  to  those  who 
perpetrate  such  atrocities  is  a  key  reason  why  New 
Zealand  has  led  the  provincial  reconstruction  team  in 
Bamyan, Afghanistan, since 2003. We have redeployed 
our special forces to work alongside the Government of 
Afghanistan and the international community to ensure 
that that country does not return to being a safe haven 
for Al-Qaida. We must address the conditions in which 
terrorism  thrives.  We  are  increasing  our  development 
spending in Bamyan and recently placed the Provincial 
Reconstruction  Team  under  civilian  leadership  for  the 
first time. 

New  Zealand  is  also  strongly  supportive  of 
peacekeeping  reform.  The  expansion  in  peacekeeping 
since  1990  has  been  dramatic.  Never  before  has  this 
Organization  deployed  so  many  missions  to  such 
complex  environments. This  expansion  has  opened  up 
discussion  of  the  way  the  United  Nations  conducts  its 
peacekeeping  operations.  Clear 
achievable 
mandates  are  needed,  progress  needs  to  be  better 
monitored, and efficiency needs to be improved. 

We are also contributing to United Nations efforts 
to  strengthen  peacebuilding  in  practice,  including  the 
need 
in 
peacebuilding.  Of  course,  the  response  of  the  United 
Nations to  crises has not  always been successful. It is 
for 
that  New  Zealand  has  strongly 
supported the responsibility to protect (R2P). We were 
pleased  to  contribute  to  the  proposed  joint  Special 
Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide/R2P office and 
look 
comprehensive 
implementation of R2P throughout the  United Nations 
system. 

Effective  pursuit  of  these  goals  —  countering 
terrorism  and  maintaining  peace  and  security  — 
demands  coordinated,  collective  action.  The  United 
Nations is the best vehicle for that action. New Zealand 
has  been,  and  remains,  proud  to  be  a  part  of  that 
community  of  collective  action.  In  line  with  that 
commitment,  New  Zealand  is  seeking  a  seat  on  the 
Security Council for the 2015-2016 term. In doing so, 
participation 
of  women 
this  reason 
the  more 
forward 
better 
and 
for 
to 
10-54965 

51 

continuing 
inertia  of 
A/65/PV.15 

we  will  work  with  others  here  who  want  the  world  to 
be a safer and more prosperous place. 

This  year  significant  gains  have  been  made  in 
global disarmament. New Zealand welcomes the action 
plan  adopted  at  this  year’s  Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
Review  Conference, 
the  groundbreaking  nuclear 
security  summit,  and  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions.  These  are  tangible 
and  practical  successes.  But  we  still  face  some 
significant  challenges.  New  Zealand  is  concerned  by 
the 
the  Conference  on 
Disarmament.  The  Secretary-General’s  High-level 
Meeting  on  disarmament  this  morning  was  a  valuable 
step in acknowledging this problem and trying to find a 
way forward. 

As  a  country  that  prides  itself  on  sustainable 
development,  New  Zealand  is  also  greatly  concerned 
about global environmental issues. As well as working 
towards  an  outcome  in  Cancún,  we  are  involved  in 
practical  projects  for  addressing  climate  change.  One 
such  project  is  the  Global  Research  Alliance  on 
Agricultural  Greenhouse  Gases.  Fourteen  per  cent  of 
worldwide  greenhouse-gas  emissions  come 
from 
agriculture. At the same time, there are projections that 
world food production needs to increase by 50 per cent 
in the next 20 years, and to double in the next 40 years, 
to feed a growing world. 

Clearly, we need a scientific breakthrough to help 
meet  the  challenge  of  producing  more  food  while 
reducing emissions. New Zealand formed the Alliance, 
which now includes more than 30 agricultural nations, 
to  find  ways  to  address  this  problem.  Scientists  and 
researchers are now linking up across the world to try 
to  balance 
increased  agricultural 
production  with  the  need  to  address  climate  change. 
This  is  just  one  example  of  how  countries  can  come 
together to address climate change in a very real way. 

When I was here a year ago, we were watching to 
see  whether  the  world  would  be  able  to  climb  out  of 
the global economic recession. Much progress has been 
made  and  key  economic  indicators  are  generally 
pointing 
rapid  and 
coordinated  international  response,  including  by  the 
Group  of  20,  has  been  effective.  The  World  Trade 
Organization’s  rules-based  trading  system  has  held  up 
well.  But,  like  many  countries,  New  Zealand  is 
frustrated that the conclusion of the Doha Development 
Round still eludes us. 
right  direction.  The 
the  need 
for 
in 
the 
52 

We  also  agree  with  President  Obama 

Over these last few days, especially in the context 
of  discussion  of  progress  towards  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  I  have  heard  many  fine  words 
spoken in support of the world’s disadvantaged. I take 
this opportunity to remind those speakers and countries 
that  the  single  most  effective  step  that  could  be  taken 
to  advance  the  position  of  the  world’s  disadvantaged 
would be to create a framework within which they can 
trade themselves to a better future. 

I  want  to  strongly  endorse  President  Obama’s 
statement,  made  yesterday,  that  there  is  no  viable 
alternative  to  the  resolution  of  conflict  in  the  Middle 
East other than two States, Israel and Palestine, living 
side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  We  believe  that 
direct  negotiations,  with  both  parties  at  the  table,  are 
the  only  way  to  resolve  the  conflict.  We  congratulate 
President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  on 
having  the  courage  to  negotiate  in  very  difficult 
circumstances. We ask that Israel heed the international 
community’s unanimous call to extend the moratorium 
on settlements and create the enabling atmosphere that 
will allow direct negotiations to continue. 

that 
resolution  of  the  Middle  East  conflict  is  not  just  the 
responsibility  of  Israel  and  Palestine.  Countries  in  the 
region  especially,  but  also  countries  elsewhere,  must 
work  towards  Middle  East  peace.  New  Zealand,  as  a 
friend of both Israel and Palestine, will play its part. I 
recently visited the Sinai, where a New Zealand officer 
has  command  of 
the  Multinational  Force  and 
Observers.  I  was  reminded  that  there  has  been  peace 
between  Israel  and  Egypt  for  more  than  30  years,  a 
prospect once unthinkable. With the commitment of the 
two  parties  and  the  support  of  the  international 
community,  Israel  and  Palestine  can  enjoy  the  same 
freedom  from  conflict.  We  all  have  a  huge  stake  in 
achieving  that  objective.  Resolution  of  the  Palestinian 
question would tear out the fuse that threatens to ignite 
conflict in the Middle East and beyond. 
So  today  we  add  our  voice  to  that  of  President 

Obama and of others who believe that this dispute can, 
and  must,  be  solved. And  we  call  on  all  Members  of 
the United Nations to lend their support to this process 
in the critical weeks ahead. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Össur  Skarphéðinsson, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and External Trade of the 
Republic of Iceland. 
10-54965 
the  neo-liberalistic  view  of 


Mr.  Skarphéðinsson  (Iceland):  Let  me  start  by 

congratulating His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss on his 
election  to  the  presidency  at  the  sixty-fifth  session  of 
the  General Assembly,  and  assuring  him  of  the  fullest 
cooperation of the Icelandic delegation. 
When  I  spoke  for  the  first  time  from  this 

distinguished  rostrum 
last  year,  my  country  was 
ravaged  by  financial  crisis.  It  left  Iceland  with  a  total 
collapse  of  the  entire  banking  system.  Our  financial 
crisis was exacerbated by the worldwide recession, but 
I have to tell you, honestly, that to a large extent it was 
made  in  Iceland.  It  was  the  product  of  a  system  that 
embraced 
rampant 
capitalism  with  lax  regulations.  Economic  emergency 
laws had to be passed. And we needed the helping hand 
of  our  close  family  in  the  North,  the  Nordic  nations, 
not least the Faroese, and our friends the Poles, in the 
form of currency loans, just to prevent our society from 
melting down. 

Now  we  have  swallowed  the  bitter  medicine  of 
fiscal  cuts  and  radical  financial  reforms.  We  have 
embarked  on  close  cooperation  with  the  International 
Monetary  Fund.  And  Iceland  has  now  applied  for 
membership  of  the  European  Union,  on  which  the 
Icelandic  people  will  decide  in  a  referendum  in  due 
course. 

A specially appointed prosecutor is now handling 
the cases of bankers who allegedly broke the law, and 
this week, parliament in Iceland is debating whether to 
prosecute  former  ministers.  So  we  took  firm,  decisive 
action. 

Well, I can tell you, the medicine worked. Iceland 
is  pulling  through.  We  are  finally  on  the  road  to 
recovery.  We  are  blessed  with  ample  resources  in  the 
form  of  fish  in  the  ocean,  the  fierce  power  of  our 
waterfalls  and  geothermal  geysers  and  a  pristine 
natural environment that supports a flourishing tourism 
sector.  Economic  growth 
to 
Iceland. 

I am therefore very happy to inform the Assembly 
that,  this  summer,  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
declared  that,  technically,  the  recession  in  Iceland  is 
over.  I  want  to  use  this  opportunity  to  thank  Member 
States for their support and their understanding. 

The  crisis  turned  our  eyes  back  to  what  really 
matters  in  life,  the  core  values  of  democracy  and 
human rights. At home, we have taken important steps 
is,  finally,  returning 
A/65/PV.15
to  change  the  Constitution  to  increase  the  people’s 
power. We are also proud of having legally ensured full 
equality  for  same-sex  partnerships,  and  we  strongly 
urge  other  nations  to  remove  all  discrimination  based 
on sexual orientation. 

As  the  Assembly  knows,  our  foreign  policy  has 
always  reflected  the  high  priority  we  place  on  gender 
equality. This year, we celebrate 95 years since women 
first gained the right to vote and 30 years ago since  a 
woman  was  first  elected  President  in  Iceland.  As 
members  saw  for  themselves,  with  their  own  eyes, 
when  the  Icelandic  Prime  Minister  spoke  here  this 
week,  the  Icelandic  Government  is  now  led  by  a 
woman. 

In  New  York,  we  also  have  cause  to  celebrate. 
Iceland for years has supported a new and consolidated 
United  Nations  gender  entity,  and,  look,  today  it  is  a 
reality.  Well  done,  United  Nations,  you  deserve  a  big 
pile  of  thanks  for  your  vision  and  for  your  courage.  I 
can state that Iceland will be a strong supporter of UN 
Women,  just  as  we  have  been  through  the  transitional 
phase. 
There  is  also,  I  believe,  another  cause  for  this 

Assembly  to  celebrate,  and  that  is  the  fact  that  next 
month  we  will  celebrate  the  10-year  anniversary  of 
resolution 1325 (2000). This has been a priority of the 
foreign policy of Iceland. Let the nations of the United 
Nations  come  together  to  celebrate  by  increasing  the 
participation  of  women 
in  peace  negotiations. 
Empowering women is empowering society. 
But it is exactly with reference to women’s rights 

that  we  have  learned  with  utter  sadness  about  the 
decision  of  Iranian  courts  to  stone  to  death  an  Iranian 
woman,  Sakineh  Mohammadi  Ashtiani.  President 
Ahmadinejad,  on  behalf  of  the  Icelandic  people,  I  ask 
you to spare Ashtiani. 

When we address the looming dangers of climate 
change, human rights are also at stake. Climate change 
will  wreak  havoc  on  the  lives  of  a  great  number  of 
people.  It  will  erode  what  we  as  an  international 
community have defined as their basic human rights. 

Let  me  take  three  different  examples.  The  small 
island  nations  in  the  Pacific  are  threatened  by  rising 
sea levels to such an extent that whole nations might be 
forced to leave the land of their forebears — Kiribati, 
for  instance.  The  floods  in  Pakistan  caused  death  to 
many and devastation to tens of millions of people. The 
10-54965 

53 

A/65/PV.15 

melting  of  the Arctic  ice  may  prevent  my  neighbours, 
the  Inuits,  from  pursuing  their  traditional  lifestyle 
based on hunting on the ice. 

All this is aggravated by the limitless use of fossil 
fuels  that  is  literally  tipping  the  delicate  balance  of 
nature.  We,  the  wealthy  nations  of  the  world,  are 
therefore  paying  for  the  quality  of  our  good  life  with 
the  human  rights  of  others.  If  we  do  not  take  drastic 
action,  more  radical  action  than  what  was  agreed  in 
Copenhagen,  future generations will see  ours  as serial 
offenders against the human rights of peoples in need. 

At the same time, millions of people lack access 
to  safe  drinking  water  and  sanitation.  It  is  a  firm 
position  of  my  Government  that  the  right  to  safe 
drinking  water  and  basic  sanitation  should  be 
recognized as a human right, essential for the real and 
full enjoyment of life and all other human rights. 

In  the  fight  against  climate  change,  Iceland  tries 
to lead by example. We already meet 80 per cent of our 
energy needs through renewables, and that is far higher 
than any other nation can claim. We have campaigned 
for  a  new  global  climate  fund  with  the  goal  of 
financing 
to 
developing countries. 

But  we  in  Iceland  also  want  to  contribute  in 
another  way.  As  the  Assembly  knows,  we  have  not 
been  able  to  stop  the  volcanoes  in  Iceland  from 
erupting with huge clouds of ash, but we have learned 
to harness the fierce power of the fire beneath, and put 
it to use as geothermal energy. Geothermal by itself, of 
course,  will  not  solve  all  the  climate  problems,  but  in 
some  parts  of  the  world  it  could  make  a  huge 
difference. 

In  East  Africa,  the  utilization  of  geothermal 
potential could free the people of several nations from 
the bondage of energy poverty. They do, however, lack 
the  geothermal  expertise  and  the  finances  for  the 
infrastructure. 

Iceland, 
in 
discussions with some of the big nations operating, for 
example,  in  East  Africa  to  form  a  partnership  for  a 
geothermal  drive  in  countries  with  unused  potential. 
Iceland  would  put  up  the  expertise,  the  partners  the 
necessary financing. This initiative  could enable some 
countries  to  escape  from  energy  poverty,  industrialize 
without  undue  emissions  and  embark  on  the  road  to 
prosperity. 
therefore,  has  formally  engaged 
transfer  of  green 
the 
technologies 
international 
that  Israel  broke 

I  have  spent  almost  this  entire  speech  of  mine 
tonight  talking  about  human  rights  in  one  form  or 
another,  and  human  rights  cannot  be  debated  without 
discussing the plight of the Palestinians and the people 
of  Gaza.  We  now  have  the  results  of  the  experts, 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  who 
mandated  by 
concluded 
law  by 
attacking  the  flotilla  bringing  humanitarian  assistance 
to Gaza last spring. 

Iceland has strongly condemned the raid. It drew 
a strong reaction from Icelandic society at large. I can 
tell  the  Assembly  that  the  Icelandic  nation  is  deeply 
sympathetic  to  the  plight  of  the  Palestinians,  held  in 
occupation  by  an  oppressing  Power.  As  I  speak,  we 
have  Icelandic  humanitarian  workers  being  held  up  in 
Israel, trying to bring prosthetic feet to people in Gaza 
who  have  lost  their  limbs,  people  that  urgently  need 
assistance. This is not acceptable to Iceland. This is not 
acceptable  to  the  world.  This  is  inhuman  and  unjust, 
and  we  urge  Israel  not 
to  prevent  humanitarian 
assistance from reaching the needy in Gaza. 

Yesterday,  we  heard  President  Obama  urge 
patience, but we also heard a hidden hope in his words. 
Well,  we  know  that  sometimes  dreams  come  true. 
Sometimes  the  unexpected  happens.  Sometimes  we 
even  have  miracles.  We  in  Iceland  will,  of  course, 
strongly support the resumed direct talks, and let us all 
hope and pray for a solution that will allow us, as soon 
as  possible,  to  welcome  the  independent  State  of 
Palestine  as  the  193rd  member  of  the  United  Nations 
family. 

In  the  meantime,  all  of  us  should  use  every 
possible,  sensible  way  to  demonstrate  our  solidarity 
with the people of Palestine. My country, Iceland, was 
not afraid to stand up and be counted on behalf of the 
people  in  the  Baltic  States  almost  20  years  ago,  when 
Iceland  was  the  first  country  to  break  the  ice  and 
recognize their independence. The same happened with 
regard to Croatia, Slovenia and later Montenegro. And 
today  Iceland  is  not  afraid  to  stand  up  for  the 
Palestinian  people  either.  Every  nation  has  a  duty  to 
defend human rights. Every nation has a duty to speak 
up.  That  is  no  less  true  for  Palestine,  where  human 
rights are broken — especially in Gaza — every day. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Basile Ikouebe, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Republic of the 
Congo. 
54 

10-54965 
demand 
community 
the  whole  of 
the  new  entity  UN  Women  and 


Mr.  Ikouebe  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French): As  we 

open this session of the General Assembly the world is 
still  facing  problems  of  peace  and  security,  crises, 
conflicts, inequality among States, poverty, hunger and 
disease.  To  those  recurrent  problems  are  added  new 
challenges,  such  as  climate  change,  natural  disasters, 
terrorism, piracy, transnational organized crime, human 
trafficking,  nuclear  proliferation  and 
the  world 
economic and financial crisis. All these many issues by 
the 
to 
their  very  nature  call  out 
international 
and 
global, 
collective, coordinated solutions. 

The  United  Nations  because  of  its  global  nature 
offers  now  more  than  ever  the  best  framework  for 
finding lasting solutions. To do that, we need a strong, 
reformed  Organization  that  can  respond  to  the  new 
demands of our time. In this connection, my delegation 
welcomes 
the 
appointment  at  its  head  of  the  former  President  of 
Chile,  Michelle  Bachelet  —  a  brilliant  woman,  to 
whom I wish every success. 

We will need to work with determination to bring 
about  the  reforms  necessary  to  restore  to  the  United 
Nations  its  operation  as  a  global  Organization  and  to 
make  it  a  real  instrument  of  world  governance.  The 
process  must  continue  with  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  both  in  its  membership  and  its  working 
methods.  Also  we  should  continue  to  deal  with  the 
matter of how to strengthen the General Assembly and 
its role. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  that  ended 
22 September  culminated 
the  adoption  of  an 
outcome document (resolution 65/1) that exhorts us to 
keep  our  promises.  We  welcome  it.  Indeed,  we  must 
unite to  attain these Goals. As I said at that time, just 
two  days  ago,  Congo’s  commitment  to  reaching  the 
MDGs remains firm. 

While  ten  years  after  the  Goals  were  announced 
the  overall  results  in  achieving  them  are  mixed, 
especially  in Africa,  it  is  nevertheless  undeniable  that 
major  advances  have  been  made  in Africa  during  that 
same  period  in  such  other  essential  areas  as  peace, 
security  and  democracy.  Africa  as  a  whole 
is 
increasingly emerging from a cycle of armed conflicts 
that  have  greatly  worked  against  its  forward  progress 
towards  development  and  prosperity. Today,  thanks  to 
the  efforts  of  the  African  Union,  the  backing  of  the 
The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
in 
A/65/PV.15
In 
the 
cooperation 
and  build  peace, 
international  community  and 
involvement  of 
African  leaders  themselves,  many  conflicts  have  been 
or are being resolved. With that in mind, 2010 has been 
named a year of peace and security in Africa. 

Despite difficulties encountered here and there in 
carrying  out  electoral  processes,  in  a  general  way 
democracy is undeniably  making a home in Africa. In 
Gabon  and  Burundi,  to  mention  only  those  two 
countries,  the  popular  will  has  expressed  itself  freely. 
We nurture the hope that the elections upcoming in the 
next  months,  notably  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Guinea,  the 
Niger,  Nigeria,  the  Central  African  Republic  and  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  will  play  out  in  a 
climate  of  calm.  That  is  likewise  our  hope  for  the 
referendum to be held in South Sudan, as called for in 
the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement. 
this 
connection  we  call  on  the  international  community  to 
continue supporting that process until it is completed. 

On  the  subject  of  Central  Africa,  the  United 
Nations Office about to open will provide an additional 
tool,  besides  existing  mechanisms,  to  promote  good 
governance 
and 
development.  In  the  same  vein  of  building  confidence 
and  peace  in  our  subregion,  from  15-19  November 
Brazzaville  will  be  hosting  the  thirty-first  meeting  of 
the  United  Nations  Standing  Advisory  Committee  on 
Security Questions in Central Africa. On that occasion 
the States of the subregion will seal their commitment 
to fight the traffic in small arms and light weapons, by 
signing the Kinshasa Convention. 

that  brought  such 
tragic  events 
suffering to my country in the 1990s and early 2000s, 
the  Congolese  Government  has  invested  in  the  quest 
for  peace  and  national  reconciliation,  and  works  to 
preserve that  precious accomplishment.  Moreover, our 
good  neighbour  policy  —  a  policy  we  have  always 
advocated — is one of the pillars of our foreign policy. 
It is evident today in the way in which we are handling 
the humanitarian crisis resulting from the arrival in our 
territory  of  over  100,000  nationals  from  Équateur 
Province  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
The  signing  this  past  10  June  of  the  tripartite  accord 
among  the  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees should make 
possible  an  imminent  resolution  of  the  problem  and 
contribute  to  stabilizing  the  situation  in  our  brother 
country so in need of peace and security, especially on 
the eve of its elections. 
Since 
the 
10-54965 

55 

in 
A/65/PV.15 


Here I would like to thank the all the bilateral and 
multilateral  partners,  namely  France,  Italy,  the  United 
States of America, the World Food Programme and the 
Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, for all 
the assistance they have graciously given us. 
We  have  just  dedicated  a  high-level  segment  to 

biodiversity 
this  year  2010,  which  has  been 
proclaimed  the  International Year  of  Biodiversity. Yet 
another  new  challenge  of  our  age,  biodiversity  is 
crucial  to  life  on  earth  and  holds  especial  interest  for 
the  Congo,  since  we  are  one  of  the  countries  that 
houses the Congo Basin, a major carbon sink. We have 
no doubt that the results of this segment will resonate 
into  the  upcoming  meetings  in  Nagoya,  Japan,  in 
October  and  in  Cancún,  Mexico,  in  November  and 
December. 

The  President  of  our  Republic,  Denis  Sassou 
Nguesso,  holds  the  question  of  biodiversity  to  be  of 
critical global importance, because tropical forests play 
a  vital  role  in  regulating  and  stabilizing  the  global 
climate  and  generally  in  providing  environmental 
services.  In  this  context,  the  Copenhagen  Agreement, 
which  took  into  account  the  process  of  reducing 
emissions  from  deforestation  and  degradation,  known 
as  REDD-plus,  represented  the  culmination  of  major 
efforts deployed by the three forest basins, the Amazon 
Basin in South and Central America, the Congo Basin 
in Central Africa and the Mekong Basin in South-East 
Asia.  

With our partners in dialogue and cooperation of 
the  Forest  eleven  tropical  rainforest  countries,  the 
Republic  of 
its  will  and 
determination  to  meet  the  challenges  of  conservation 
and  the  promotion  of  biodiversity.  Such  an  effort  can 
bring  about  lasting  results  only  if  it  is  supported  by 
additional financing that is sustainable and predictable. 

The  question  of  human  rights  is  also  on  the 
agenda  for  this  session.  My  Government  promotes 
human  rights  because  they  are  so  closely  related  to 
peace  and  development.  With  regard  to  human  rights, 
the  Congo  has  always  acted  within  the  process  of 
international 
the 
philosophy underpinning our Constitution, in what  we 
do  on  a  day-to-day  basis  and 
in  our  extensive 
participation in the relevant international instruments.  

Domestically, besides promulgating  a law on the 
protection  of  the  child  in  the  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
our  Parliament  will  shortly  adopt  a  bill  on  promoting 
legitimacy.  That 
the  Congo 
is  evident 
reaffirms 
in 
take 
therefore 
rights  and 
those  rights.  I 
thus  reaffirm  our  commitment 
international  commitments  and 
and protecting the rights of indigenous peoples, which 
the Government has just submitted to it. The Republic 
of the Congo has undertaken a number of initiatives in 
this  field,  thus  taking  an  important  step  towards 
recognizing,  defending  and  protecting  the  rights  of 
minorities. Next November, the Special Rapporteur on 
the  situation  of  human 
fundamental 
freedoms  of  indigenous  people  will  visit  Brazzaville. 
That  will  be  an  opportune  moment  for  dialogue  and 
consultations on matters related to indigenous peoples. 
It should also help  us speed up the implementation of 
recommendations  of  the  universal  periodic  review,  a 
Human  Rights  Council  mechanism  of  which  my 
country  was  the  subject  from  6  to  8  May  2009  in 
Geneva.  
My country is a candidate for membership in the 

Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  from  2011  to 
to 
2014,  and  we 
fulfilling  our 
to 
supporting  efforts  of  the  international  community  to 
strengthening 
this 
opportunity  to  appeal  for  the  Assembly’s  support  for 
our  candidacy  in  the  elections,  which  will  be  held  in 
May 2011. 

On  15  August  2010,  my  country  celebrated  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  its  independence.  The  day  was 
devoted  to  the  theme  of  remembering,  but  also  and 
above  all,  of  responsibilities  and  action.  On  that 
occasion,  the  Government  announced  a  number  of 
socio-economic measures to benefit our people. Those 
measures  were  made  possible  by 
the  release  of 
additional financial resources following the significant 
foreign debt relief because of Congo’s accession to the 
Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative. 
Those  measures  are  part  of  the  Government’s  resolve 
towards 
to  move 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals.  

Such an enabling situation will allow my country 
to  lay  the  foundations  for  an  emerging  economy. 
Indeed, 
is  President  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso’s 
ambition  to  make  Congo  a  modern  and  prosperous 
State  that  plays  its  part  in  the  family  of  free  modern 
nations. But that ambition, however legitimate, can be 
achieved  only  in  a  world  that  is  safer,  more  just  and 
with more solidarity.  

More  than  ever  before,  we  must  return  to  the 
ideals that inspired the founding fathers of the League 
of Nations and the United Nations. We must place the 
attaining 
it 
56 

10-54965 
the  previous  session. 


moral values and the deep aspirations of our peoples at 
the  heart  of  our  work.  This  is  the  world  that  we  all 
aspire  to.  This  is  the  world  that  we  should  strive  to 
build in this Hall. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mario  Canahuati,  Secretary  of 
State, Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Honduras. 
Mr.  Canahuati  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

On behalf of the people and Government of Honduras, 
I  wish  to  recognize  Mr. Ali Abdussalam  Treki  for  his 
leadership  during 
I  also 
congratulate  President  Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election  to 
the  Assembly  presidency  and  the  Secretary-General, 
Ban  Ki-moon,  on  his  wise 
leadership  of  our 
Organization. 

In  this  same  house  of  the  peoples  of  the  United 
Nations,  at  the  world  summit  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  our  President,  Porfirio 
Lobo Sosa, highlighted the faith that our country has in 
this  Organization  and  in  its  Charter  for  achieving  a 
world  that  is  more  peaceful,  prosperous  and  fair  (see 
A/65/PV.3).  As  a  founding  Member  of  the  United 
Nations  and  a  peace-loving  country,  we  reaffirm  our 
obligations. As we have been working, ceaselessly and 
together  with  many  other  Member  States,  since  the 
birth of the Organization, we will continue to work to 
fully  realize  the  ideals  enshrined  in  the  San  Francisco 
Charter.  

Honduras  —  which  is  geographically  small  but 
great  of  spirit  and  generous  in  its  democratic  and 
peaceful  vocation  —  has  involved  itself  in  the  world, 
basing  itself  on  the  principles  of  equal  rights,  self-
determination  for  peoples  and  non-interference  in 
internal affairs.  

The imperative of promoting economic and social 
progress for all nations moves us to acknowledge that 
the MDGs have been a first step in the right direction. 
We agree with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon that the 
Millennium Goals are not easy, but they are achievable. 
However, 
requires 
additional efforts that recognize the fact that we have a 
collective  responsibility  to  protect  and  share  what  the 
President  of  Honduras  has  called  global  common 
goods, including solidarity.  

Another  global  good  should  be  the  prudent 
management  of  our  economies.  The  financial  crises 
have proven that that responsibility does not fall just to 
the  struggle  against  poverty 
A/65/PV.15
The  challenge  of  achieving 
the  developing  countries.  It  is  so  important  that, 
according to the World Bank, the recent crises in food, 
fuel  and  finances  have  sunk  an  additional  64  million 
human  beings  into  poverty.  Such  crises  can  make  our 
efforts 
to  fight  poverty  more  difficult  or  even 
impossible.  

The  opening  of  trade  and  of  financial  systems  is 
another global good. Access to international markets is 
as  important  as  official  development  assistance  itself, 
although it does not replace it. We must add efforts to 
enable  foreign  direct  investment  in  our  developing 
nations; access to technology, in particular technology 
having  to  do  with  medications;  the  reduction  of 
greenhouse gases; and the non-proliferation of nuclear 
weapons. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  before  2015  in  a  manner  as 
responsible  as  possible  lies  with  our  Government. 
Given the results already achieved and what remains to 
be  done,  President  Lobo  Sosa  has  launched  an  appeal 
to  start  talks  as  soon  as  possible  on  a  new  global 
agreement  that  will  guide  our  actions  and  goals  after 
2015.  

We  firmly  believe  that  poverty  is  not  only  the 
shortage  of  material  goods,  but  also  the  lack  of 
opportunities. That is why we are committed to respect 
for  human  dignity,  the  common  good,  support  and 
human  solidarity.  Those  four  principles  are  not  just  a 
moral  imperative;  in  the  case  of  Honduras,  they  are  a 
national imperative. 
In that regard, with broad consultation with civil 

society,  the  political  parties  and  other  independent 
sectors, we adopted a country vision and national plan 
that  sets  out  four  focal  points  for  achieving  our 
national 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals:  a  Honduras  without  poverty, 
educated  and  healthy,  with  robust  social  welfare 
systems;  a  Honduras  that  is  developing  in  democracy, 
with  security  and  without  violence,  with  absolute 
respect  for  human  rights;  a  productive  Honduras  that 
generates  opportunities 
that 
sustainably  exploits  its  resources  and  that  reduces 
environmental 
a  modern, 
transparent,  responsible,  efficient  and  competitive 
State, with fully independent branches of government.  

The cohesion of our society, unity, reconciliation, 
governance,  coexistence  and  peace  all  depend  on 
achieving that. That is why we are engaged in building 
vulnerability; 
and  decent 
jobs, 
and 
goals, 
inspired 
by 
10-54965 

57 
care 
through 
We 
are 
strengthen 
through 
the 
strengthening 
and  nutrition 
A/65/PV.15 

an inclusive society, since no country is so poor that it 
cannot show solidarity with those that are even poorer.  

Our  first  commitment  is  to  helping  people  in 
extreme  poverty 
“Bono  10,000” 
programme.  Bono  10,000  is  a  credit  programme  that 
will  greatly 
family  economics  and, 
furthermore,  is  conditional  on  steps  to  improve  the 
access of the most vulnerable Hondurans to education, 
health 
the  broad 
dissemination  of  the  School  Snack  scheme  and  other 
food security programmes. 

the  decentralization 
processes  and  improving  citizen  participation  in  the 
making, implementation, monitoring and assessment of 
public  policies.  We  are  also  addressing  social 
inequality  by  creating  economic  opportunities  at  the 
local level. 

Productive programmes, such as the United States 
Millennium  Challenge  Corporation  in  Honduras,  have 
had a huge impact on the recipients, resulting in a very 
significant  increase  in  the  income  of  the  farmers 
participating  in  the  programme. With  the  same  aim  of 
generating  greater 
income  for  families,  we  have 
launched a programme to finance microbusinesses and 
small 
cooperation 
programmes of the European Union, Japan and Taiwan, 
as  well  as  all  those  countries  that  are  extending  the 
hand of solidarity to our people.  

In all those programmes,  women are a  particular 
target  of  our  Government’s  efforts  because  we  know 
that,  along  with  the  fight  against  poverty,  we  must 
combat gender inequality. 

While  we  work  at  the  local  and  community 
levels,  we  are  also  promoting  private  investment. The 
purpose is to create decent jobs for more than 200,000 
young people who join the labour market annually. The 
Government  of  Honduras  bases 
successful 
implementation of its social agenda on a social market 
economy. 

With  those  premises  in  mind,  our  Government 
has  drawn  up  a  national  programme  to  promote 
investment  for  the  period  2010  to  2014  in  six  main 
sectors:  industries  generating  more  and  better  jobs, 
agro-food and forestry production, clean generation of 
energy, tourism development, infrastructure to support 
manufacturing,  and  water  and  sanitation.  We  will 
develop  those  programmes  within  the  new  framework 
enterprises, 
thanks 
to 
the 
the 

freedom  and  political 
of  the  law  on  public-private  partnerships,  the  law  on 
rural  and  marginal  urban  employment,  a  new  law  on 
clean energy and the law on promoting and protecting 
investments.  

With  such  efforts,  a  new  era  is  opening  in 
Honduras  with  the  creation  of  conditions  so  that 
private  business  can  boost  sustained  economic  growth 
with  social  responsibility  and  the  country  is  guided 
towards prosperity and stability. 

Honduras is ready to better address the challenges 
of  reducing  its  vulnerability  to  natural  disasters  and 
climate change. The law on land management makes it 
possible  to  utilize  and  protect  the  land  properly,  with 
responsible  management  of  the  natural  resources.  At 
the  same  time,  we  have  launched  a  national  risk 
management system. 

Efforts  to  improve  the  social  situation  and  to 
boost  economic  growth  must  be  based  on  a  legal  and 
institutional foundation. There is a strong link between 
individual 
stability  with 
economic  growth  and  social  justice.  Higher  rates  of 
economic  growth  that  are  sustainable  over  time  also 
help  to  create  the  social  conditions  for  governance, 
confidence and smaller political threats. 

For  30  years,  we  Hondurans  have  strived  to 
develop  our  democratic  institutions.  The  international 
community  has  supported  us  throughout  that  process. 
At  the  end  of  the  third  decade  of  our  democracy,  we 
had  an  institutional  system  that  had  ceased  to  be  the 
monopoly  of  the  executive  branch  and  that  shared 
power more evenly among the judicial, legislative and 
executive organs. 

Despite  that  progress,  we  underwent  a  political 
crisis,  from  which  we  emerged  when  the  Honduran 
people  turned  out  in  huge  numbers  on  29  November 
2009  to  vote  in  the  election  with  the  greatest  turnout 
and 
in  our  electoral  history.  We 
Hondurans  exercised  our  popular  sovereignty  and  our 
right  to  self-determination.  We  sent  an  unequivocal 
message: we  love democracy and our institutions, and 
we  prefer  dialogue  to  conflict.  That  is  our  message, 
which has been understood and respected by the great 
majority of the nations represented here. We wish it to 
be acknowledged by all Governments in the world. 

In  that  spirit,  President  Porfirio  Lobo  Sosa 
endorsed  a  broad  amnesty  for  political  crimes  and 
formed  a  Government  of  national  unity,  with  the 
transparency 
58 

10-54965 

fundamental 


participation  of  all  the  country’s  political  parties. 
Furthermore,  the President  decreed the  creation of the 
Truth  and  Reconciliation  Commission  —  a  totally 
independent  body  that  will  ensure  that  the  critical 
events  of  2009  will  never  happen  again.  The  work  of 
the Commission is already under way, and its report is 
expected  during  the  first  quarter  of  next  year.  Its 
conclusions  will  be  broadly  disseminated  and  its 
recommendations will be implemented.  

We are convinced that national reconciliation and 
unity  are  based  on  respect  for  all  sectors  of  society 
irrespective  of  political  or 
ideological  position. 
Tolerance is and must be the foundation of democracy.  
We are also convinced that the human rights 

and 
freedoms  of  citizens  must  be 
respected  without  restriction.  The  President  of  the 
Honduras  has  proposed  to  the  National  Congress  the 
creation a Secretary of State for Justice to promote and 
take  charge  of  designing,  implementing,  supervising 
and  evaluating  all  public  policies  and  ensuring  that 
they are based squarely on human rights principles.  
Inspired  by  our  respect  for  human  dignity,  our 

racial 
Government 
discrimination  and  enthusiastically  welcomes 
the 
forthcoming launch of the International Year for People 
of  African  Descent.  To  implement  our  commitment 
against  racial  discrimination,  Honduras  is  creating  an 
entity  for  the  development  of  indigenous  peoples  and 
Afro-Honduran people and a policy of racial equality. 

In  the  context  of  those  commitments  any  person 
deprived  of  liberty  must  be  treated  with  the  respect 
inherent  in  his  human  dignity.  To  that  end,  the 
President  approved  an  executive  decree  aimed  at 
reducing  overcrowding 
institutions 
infrastructure  and 
through 
renovation  of 
equipment. 

the  Government  of 
Along 
Honduras  has  energetically  condemned  and  continues 
to  condemn  human 
rights  violations,  especially 
violation of the right to life. We are firmly committed 
to the fight against impunity and will continue to make 
every  possible  effort  to  bring  to  justice  those  who 
violate that essential right of the human person. 
We  are  thankful  for  the  cooperation  we  have 

received 
in 
guaranteeing  security  for  our  citizens.  President  Lobo 
Sosa has also asked Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to 
in  overcoming  difficulties 
in 
their 
that  same 
the  penal 
condemns 
forms 
line, 
so 
far 
all 
of 
A/65/PV.15
in 
all 
for 
the 
their 
tasks 
cooperation 
have the United Nations consider support for setting up 
a  commission  to  fight  impunity,  in  order  to  support 
national  institutions  and  strengthen  their  capacities  as 
they  carry  out 
investigating  and 
prosecuting  crime. At  the  same  time,  we  reiterate  our 
Government’s  invitation  to  the  agencies  that  make  up 
the  United  Nations  human  rights  system  to  follow  up 
on the situation in Honduras.  

I  wish  to  convey  the  ongoing  appreciation  of 
Hondurans  to  the  United  Nations  system  and  its 
Secretary-General 
and 
assistance given our country. We thank all of those who 
have  firmly  supported  Honduras,  because  that  has 
benefited our people directly. 

I  want  to  highlight  the  solidarity  and  friendship 
that exist among the brothers of the Central American 
region.  Within 
the  Central  American  Integration 
System  we  will  continue  to  go  forward  until  our 
common  homeland  becomes  one  great  nation,  beyond 
the limits of the historic Central America. 

Our  Government  is  aware  of  the  difficulties  and 
challenges  of  the  moment  in  history  in  which  we  are 
living,  and  we  are  taking  decisions  based  on  that 
awareness.  Today  I  can  state  with  conviction  that  we 
are  moving  along  the  path  to  prosperity,  because  I 
believe in the determination of the people of Honduras, 
their  ability  to  deal  with  adversity,  their  hard  work, 
their  strength  of  heart  and  their  sprit  and  hope.  We 
have an unbreakable will; we have the human capital.  

The  time  has  come  to  reaffirm  our  commitment 
and to act in favour of the poorest members of society. 
The  time  has  come  to  act  in  solidarity  and  with 
determination  so 
that  all  human  beings  may  be 
protected  from  discrimination  and  need.  It  is  time  to 
create  a  world  with  tolerance,  with  harmony  and  with 
freedom  and  security  for  all.  The  time  to  globalize 
social justice with freedom and democracy is now. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for 
this meeting. One delegation has requested the right to 
reply. 

Before giving the floor to the representatives who 
have asked to speak in exercise of the right of reply, I 
remind members that statements in exercise of the right 
of  reply  should  be  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first 
statement and 5 minutes for the second, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats. 
10-54965 

59 

I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Mr.  Salsabili  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
A/65/PV.15 


Islamic Republic of Iran. 

two points to clarify in exercise of the right of reply.  

First,  this  morning  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
friendly  State  of  Kuwait  referred  in  his  remarks  to 
those  Iranian  islands  located  in  the  Persian  Gulf.  My 
delegation  would  like  to  make  clear  that  there  is  no 
conflict  whatsoever  over  those  islands,  as  they  are  an 
eternal  part  of  the  Iranian  territory  and  are  under  the 
sovereignty of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Therefore, 
we  regret  the  use  of  inappropriate  qualifications  for 
these Iranian islands in the Persian Gulf. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  the  Islamic  Republic 
of Iran continues to spare no efforts in strengthening its 
good-neighbourly  and  brotherly  relations  with  all 
neighbouring  countries,  including  the  Persian  Gulf 
littoral States.  

As  a  second  point,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
comment on the remarks of the Deputy Prime Minister 
of  the  United  Kingdom,  which  was  delivered  this 
morning  (see  A/65/PV.14).  The  United  Kingdom  

increasing 
delegate  made  bizarre  comments  on  a  part  of  the 
address made by the President of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  to  the  General  Assembly  yesterday  (see 
A/65/PV.12).  President  Ahmadinejad  simply  raised  a 
number of questions concerning one of the main events 
of the past decade, which has affected all international 
relations and which has entailed wide consequences all 
over the world, including in my region. 
We  would  submit  that  such  a  hasty  and  weird 

reaction  only 
level  of 
intolerance and disregard for the freedom of expression 
and opinion as values for which, ironically, he regards 
himself as the sole advocate.  

the 
My  delegation  would 
representative of the United Kingdom that the time has 
long passed when less than a handful of power centres 
dictated  to  world  public  opinion  on  how  to  think.  I 
would  also  like  to  recall  that  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran was among the first nations that expressed a clear 
position that the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 
constituted a cowardly and atrocious crime.  


  The meeting rose at 10.15 p.m. 
to  assure 
indicates 
the 
like 
60 

10-54965 
