
A/65/PV.27
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

27th plenary meeting 
Friday, 8 October 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  In the absence of the President, Mr. Ndong Mba 
(Equatorial Guinea), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 




  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 
It was so decided. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke 

Agenda item 133 
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations 

  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/65/492) 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  If 

there  is  no  proposal  under  rule  66  of  the  rules  of 
procedure, may I take it that the Assembly decides not 
to  discuss  the  report  of  the  Fifth  Committee  that  is 
before it? 

in  Spanish): 

Statements will therefore be limited to explanations of 
vote.  The  positions  of  delegations  regarding 
the 
recommendation  of  the  Fifth  Committee  have  been 
made  clear  in  the  Committee  and  are  reflected  in  the 
relevant official records. 

I  remind  members  that,  under  paragraph  7  of 
decision  34/401,  the  General  Assembly  agreed  that 
when the same draft resolution is considered in a Main 
Committee and in plenary meeting a delegation should, 
as far as possible, explain its vote only once, either in 
the  Committee  or  in  the  plenary  meeting,  unless  that 
delegation’s  vote  in  plenary  meeting  is  different  from 
its  vote  in  the  Committee.  I  remind  delegations  that, 
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 
also  in  accordance  with  General  Assembly  decision 
34/401, explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes. 

the 
recommendation  contained  in  the  report,  I  should  like 
to inform representatives that we are going to proceed 
to  take  a  decision  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the  Fifth 
Committee. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  the 
draft  resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee 
in  paragraph  6  of  its  report.  The  Committee  adopted 
the draft resolution, entitled “Scale of assessments for 
the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  the  United 
Nations:  requests  under  Article  19  of  the  Charter”, 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 

The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
65/3). 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
its 

Assembly  has 
thus  concluded 
consideration of agenda item 133. 
this  stage  of 

Agenda items 71 and 72 
Report of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and 
Other Serious Violations of International 
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of 
Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for 
Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in 
the Territory of Neighbouring States between 
1 January and 31 December 1994 





This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-57241 (E) 
*1057241* 


  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/188) 
A/65/PV.27 


Report of the International Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia 
since 1991 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/205) 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): May I 

take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to take note 
of  the  fifteenth  annual  report  of  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): May I 

take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to take note 
of  the  seventeenth  annual  report  of  the  International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  call 

on  Mr.  Dennis  Byron,  President  of  the  International 
Tribunal for Rwanda. 
Mr. Byron: It is a great honour for me to address 

the  members  of  the  General  Assembly  today  and  to 
present  the  fifteenth  annual  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (A/65/188).  Let  me 
commence  by  extending  my  congratulations  and  best 
wishes to His Excellency Joseph Deiss of Switzerland 
on his election to the presidency of the Assembly. 

In Arusha and The Hague, we have a year of hard 
work behind us, but I am pleased to report significant 
progress in the completion of our mandate as a result. 
We  have  been  able  to  achieve  that  progress  despite 
major obstacles, in particular with regard to staffing. 
Over  the  last  year,  the  Tribunal  was  highly 

judgements.  The 
productive 
Chambers  rendered  seven 
trial  and  four  appeal 
judgements during the reporting period — that is, from 
July  2009  to  June  2010  —  and  an  additional  trial 
judgement  was  delivered  in  August.  We  expect  three 
more  trial  judgements  and  up  to  four  more  appeal 
judgements before the end of this year.  

In  addition  to  the  judgements,  the  Trial  and 
Appeals  Chambers  issued  almost  400  written  and 
numerous  oral  decisions  and  orders.  The  delivery  of 
the judgements in all the ongoing or commencing cases 
at trial level is expected before the end of 2011. 
the  delivery  of 
in 



2 

terms  and  conditions  of  service  with 

The  workload  is  high  and  is  shared  equally 
among the permanent and  ad litem judges in the  Trial 
Chambers.  I  have  raised  the  issue  of  the  inequality  of 
their 
the 
Assembly before. It is a major concern for the Tribunal. 
The  work  and  the  commitment  of  the  ad  litem  judges 
have  been  and  continue  to  be  indispensable  to  the 
successful and timely completion of our work. Without 
them, we could not have achieved what we did. 

We  very  much  welcome  the  resolution  of  March 
2010  to  resolve  the  issue  as  a  priority  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  the  main  part  of  its  sixty-fifth  session 
(resolution  64/261).  While  that  issue  will  soon  be 
before  the  Fifth  Committee,  I  ask  members  and  their 
Governments  for  support  in  the  matter  to  provide  for 
equity and to ensure that the work of the Tribunal can 
be successfully completed. 

Like  every  other  court,  national  or  international, 
the  Tribunal’s  achievements  will  ultimately  be  judged 
on  the  quality  of  its  trials  and  judgements  and  on  the 
efficiency  of  its  judicial  management.  We  continue  to 
work  hard  with  respect  to  both  aspects,  but  in  all  our 
efforts  we  face  one  main  stumbling  block  —  the 
staffing situation. We continue to lose many of our best 
and most experienced staff members. One hundred and 
sixty-seven  staff  members  left  the  Tribunal  during  the 
reporting period. They often leave for other institutions 
in  the  same  field,  where  they  can  obtain  longer-term 
contracts. 

In  Chambers,  to  give  an  example,  three  of  the 
four  multi-accused  cases  have  lost  their  coordinators 
over  the  past  few  months,  just  a  couple  of  months 
ahead of the expected judgement delivery. It is almost 
unavoidable that such departures, with their consequent 
loss  of  institutional  memory,  result  in  delays  in  the 
judgement  drafting  process.  We  cannot  replace  those 
staff  members  easily.  We  face  difficulties  attracting  a 
sufficient number of good candidates with what we can 
offer,  which  is  mostly  temporary  contracts.  That  is 
particularly  relevant  for  the  higher  ranks  of  P-4  and 
P-5 positions. The remaining staff face the uncertainty 
of their professional future, which affects their morale 
and productivity. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  the  issue  of  fugitives.  The 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  and  its  tracking  team,  in 
cooperation with the national authorities, were  able to 
ensure  the  arrest  of  one  fugitive  —  Jean  Bosco 
Uwinkindi  —  in  Uganda.  His  case  is  one  of  those 
10-57241 
to 
region, 


earmarked for referral to a national jurisdiction. While 
several options of possible referral countries are being 
explored,  the  focus  remains  on  Rwanda.  The  support 
activities conducted by the Tribunal continue to further 
strengthen  the  Rwandan  judiciary,  in  particular  with 
respect to witness protection. 

The  number  of  remaining  fugitives  is  now  down 
to  10.  That  number  still  includes  three  of  the  most 
high-ranked 
accused:  Félicien  Kabuga,  Protais 
Mpiranya and Augustin Bizimana. I therefore reiterate 
the call to all States, especially the States of the Great 
Lakes 
intensify 
in  particular  Kenya, 
cooperation  with  the  Tribunal  and 
to  render  all 
necessary assistance so that their arrest can be ensured 
soon. Over 16 years have passed. We cannot wait any 
longer for justice to be done. We must not give the fatal 
signal  to  alleged  perpetrators  that  their  successful 
hiding  for  16  years  will  ultimately  be  rewarded  with 
impunity. 

One  focus  of  the  work  of  the  Registrar  is  the 
search  for  countries  to  relocate  acquitted  persons  and 
those who have served their sentences. Currently, three 
such persons remain in safe houses in Arusha. One has 
been there for over four years. We must be aware that a 
full  commitment  to  the  rule  of  law  includes  the 
acceptance that those who have been lawfully acquitted 
or  who  have  completed  their  sentence  need  to  be 
enabled  to  recommence  their  life  as  free  persons.  I 
appeal  for  the  support  of  Member  Governments  to 
make that possible. 

The cooperation between States and the Tribunal 
is  a  two-way  street.  Over  the  past  year,  the  Office  of 
the  Prosecutor  has  responded  to  over  100  requests  for 
mutual legal assistance in connection with proceedings 
that  national  prosecuting  authorities  are  conducting  in 
relation  to  crimes  committed  in  Rwanda  in  1994.  The 
number of such requests continues to increase and the 
services  of 
to  national  prosecuting 
authorities  become  more  and  more  important,  as  it  is 
they  who  will  bear  the  burden  of  continuing  the  fight 
against  impunity  after  the  Tribunal  has  closed  down. 
We 
residual 
mechanism  will  be  in  a  position  to  continue  with  that 
essential support. 

The  Tribunal  has  submitted  its  revised  estimates 
for  the  rest  of  the  2010-2011  biennium.  Despite  some 
delays, the progress seen in our completion strategy is 
significant  and  the  downsizing  process  is  ongoing. 
therefore  have 
the  Tribunal 
to  ensure 
that 
the 
A/65/PV.27
is 
the 
functioning  of 
Therefore, I am convinced that what we have achieved 
so  far  will  give  the  Assembly  the  confidence  and  the 
trust  to  provide  us  with  the  necessary  resources  to 
complete our mandate expeditiously during this and the 
next biennium. 
The Security Council continues its discussions on 

the 
structure  and 
residual 
mechanism for our Tribunal and our sister Tribunal in 
The Hague. A resolution on that issue in the near future 
will  help  us  in  preparing  in  the  best  possible  manner 
for  a  timely  and  smooth  transition  to  that  residual 
mechanism.  The  preparatory  work 
time-  and 
resource-intensive,  in  particular  with  respect  to  the 
archives  of  the  Tribunal.  They  will  document  our 
legacy and will form part of the historical memory for 
the  Rwandans  and  indeed  for  the  entire  international 
community. We have to ensure that they will be easily 
accessible  in  the  future  for  all  those  who  may  be 
interested, the general public and researchers. 

I should like to conclude by once again thanking 
Member  Governments  for  the  support  they  have 
provided  to  the  Tribunal  over  the  past  years.  The 
Assembly  has  walked  this  path  with  us  for  over 
15 years, and we need its support in the last laps of this 
journey, 
the  victims  and  of 
international justice. We strive to earn that support with 
our unceasing committed efforts. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  President 
of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. 
I  now  call  on  Mr.  Patrick  Lipton  Robinson, 

President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia. 
to 

congratulate  the  President  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency of the General Assembly and to express my 
gratitude  for  his  country’s  steadfast  support  for  the 
work  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the 
former Yugoslavia. 

It  is  an  honour  to  appear  before  the  Assembly 
today  in  my  capacity  as  President  of  the  Tribunal  and 
to  present  the  Tribunal’s  seventeenth  annual  report 
(A/65/205) to the General Assembly. 

During  the  reporting  period,  the  Tribunal  faced 
unprecedented challenges but also made unprecedented 
advances  in  the  implementation  of  its  completion 
strategy. 
Mr.  Robinson:  At 
the  outset, 
interest  of 
I  wish 
the 
in 
10-57241 

3 

to  grant 
A/65/PV.27 


Ten  trials  were  conducted  simultaneously  in  the 
Tribunal’s  three  courtrooms,  and  the  second  of  the 
Tribunal’s  three  multiaccused  trials,  Prosecutor  v. 
Popović et al., was brought to a close. The Tribunal has 
succeeded  in  conducting  proceedings  in  10  trials 
concurrently  by  doubling  up  judges  and  staff  so  that 
they  are  working  on  more  than  one  case.  In  addition, 
the  Tribunal  also  handled 
three  contempt  cases, 
disposing of two. 

Currently  there  are  nine  trials  ongoing,  with  a 
tenth case being returned to the pretrial stage following 
the  Appeals  Chamber’s  decision 
the 
Prosecution’s  request  for  a  retrial  in  the  case  of 
Haradinaj  et  al.  It  is  anticipated  that  the  Haradinaj
retrial will commence in the new year. 

Judgements are anticipated to be delivered in the 
Đorđević  trial  next  month  and  in  the  Gotovina  et  al.
trial  the  following  month.  An  additional  two  trials  — 
that of Perišić and the final multiaccused case of Prlić
et  al.  —  will  conclude  in  2011.  Five  trials,  including 
the  Haradinaj  retrial,  are  anticipated  to  conclude  in 
2012,  and  the  final  case,  that  of  Karadžić,  should  be 
completed towards the end of 2013. 

All appeals are still scheduled to be completed by 
the  end  of  2014,  although  the  recent  unavoidable 
delays  in  the  Karadžić  case  suggest  that  that  date  has 
become  exceedingly  optimistic  and  will  have  to  be 
reassessed at an appropriate time. 

In  total,  the  Tribunal  has  completed  proceedings 
in  relation  to  126  persons  overall,  with  13  cases 
remaining to be completed. 

The  Tribunal  continues  to  take  all  measures 
possible  to  expedite  its  trials,  without  sacrificing  due 
process.  However,  as  these  anticipated  completion 
dates  show,  the  estimates  for  the  completion  of  trials 
from 
to  be 
substantially amended. That is the result of unforeseen 
factors  not  immediately  within  the  Tribunal’s  control, 
including  witness  intimidation,  failure  of  witnesses  to 
appear,  illness  of  accused,  the  complexities  associated 
with  cases  of  self-represented  accused,  and  staff 
attrition.  Those  factors  are  fully  detailed  in  my  report 
to  the  Security  Council  of  May  2010  (S/2010/270, 
annex I). 

It  must  be  underscored  that  the  trial  schedule 
produced  by  the  Tribunal  is  a  forecast  only  and  is 
estimated  by  reference  to  factors  identified  as  falling 
last  reporting  period  have  had 
the 
within  the  Tribunal’s  control.  But  there  are  important 
influences on the trial schedule that are not within the 
Tribunal’s control.  

To  give  but  one  example,  earlier  this  year  the 
national authorities of Serbia discovered new evidence 
relevant to at least six of the Tribunal’s cases, namely 
18  military  notebooks  of  Ratko  Mladić  allegedly 
written  during  the  period  from  1991  to  1995.  The 
discovery  of  that  new  evidence  has  the  potential  to 
delay  all  of  those  trials  and  could  not  have  been 
foreseen  when  the  trial  estimates  were  generated.  For 
the most part, it is not possible to ascertain the precise 
impact of that new evidence, but it would seem that the 
minimum  delay  would  be  a  period  of  about  three 
months. 

But  more  generally,  it  has  to  be  understood  that 
assessments that are made prior to the commencement 
of a trial are really nothing more than guesstimates. For 
example,  the  Trial  Chamber  in  the  Karadžić  case,  in 
assessing  the  time  it  would  take  to  complete  the  trial, 
considered it a fair assessment to allocate to Karadžić
the same time for the cross-examination of Prosecution 
witnesses  as  it  allowed  the  Prosecution  for  its  own 
examination 
the 
unprecedented  volume  of  written  material  tendered 
through  those  witnesses  has  necessitated  a  significant 
increase  in  the  time  allotted  to  Karadžić  for  cross-
examination,  and  that  could  not  have  been  anticipated 
at an early stage of the proceedings.  

That  is  the  nature  of  trials,  particularly  trials  of 
the  complexity  of  those  heard  at  the  Tribunal.  It  is 
often  the  case  that  assessments  made  with  the  best  of 
intentions  prior  to  the  commencement  of  a  trial  are 
shown to have been overly optimistic once the trial has 
commenced. There is nothing unusual about that. As I 
have  said  on  many  previous  occasions,  the  estimation 
of the length of trial and appeal proceedings is more an 
art 
the 
international community needs to respect. 

It  has  occurred  to  us  at  the  Tribunal  that  the 
misunderstanding  that  Member  States  have  in  respect 
of the time taken to complete the Tribunal’s mandate is 
partially,  if  not  wholly,  due  to  the  novelty  of  the 
exercise  in  which  the  United  Nations  is  now  involved 
in  relation  to  the  Tribunal.  In  the  past,  the  United 
Nations  has  wound  up  administrative  bodies  such  as 
peacekeeping  operations.  The  Organization  has 
therefore  developed  a  practice  and  a  culture  with 
its  witness.  However, 
than  a  science.  That 
is  something 
of 
that 
4 

10-57241 
to 


regard  to  exit  strategies  for  such  bodies.  But  the 
Tribunal is not an administrative body. It is a court of 
law,  and  as  such  it  will  always  be  prone  to  a  certain 
degree  of  unforeseeability,  which  is  a  natural  element 
in most kinds of judicial work, particularly in trials as 
complicated as those at the Tribunal.  

The  Tribunal  cannot  be  wound  up  as  though  it 
were  a  bakery  producing  bread.  It  can  be  wound  up 
properly  only  with  appropriate  sensitivity 
the 
judicial character of its work. To apply to the Tribunal 
in  this,  the  final  stages  of  its  life,  the  mindset  and 
culture that are relevant to the closure of administrative 
bodies  like  peacekeeping  operations  is  wholly  wrong 
and,  what  is  more,  is  bound  to  have  an  effect  on  the 
Tribunal’s capacity, and indeed duty, to deliver justice 
in a fair and impartial manner, as will become apparent 
in what follows. 

However,  I  should  also  underscore  that,  when 
delays are shown to be inevitable and fully justifiable, 
judges do not simply accept them as part and parcel of 
the 
trial  process.  They  proactively  devise  and 
implement  measures  to  reduce  such  delays  by,  for 
example,  increasing  court  hearings  and  reducing  the 
number of witnesses to be heard in a case. For example, 
in the Karadžić case, the Trial Chamber has announced 
its  intention  to  adopt  measures  to  reduce  the  slippage 
resulting from its recent decision to allot more time to 
Mr. Karadžić in the interests of fairness.  

In that regard, I am bound to point out that judges, 
and in fact all staff at the Tribunal, feel the pressure of 
the  completion  strategy  and  of 
international 
community  to  expedite  the  work  of  the  Tribunal.  And 
as a judge and as President of the Tribunal, I must say I 
find  that  troubling.  Judges  are  entitled  to,  and  indeed 
must  work  in,  an  environment  free  from  all  external 
pressures,  so  that  their  judicial  independence  is  not, 
and does not appear to be, compromised. In that regard, 
I note that motions have been filed by parties accusing 
the  judges  of  taking  decisions  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
expediting the proceedings and in some cases alleging 
that  that  was  done  in  response  to  the  completion 
strategy and not on the basis of the merits of the case 
and  without 
those 
proceedings. 

There are some other obvious causes of delay that 
cut across all the Tribunal’s trials, and some are simply 
unavoidable.  First  is  the  doubling  up  of  judges  and 
staff.  The  scheduling  of  hearings,  deliberations  and 
fairness  of 
regard 
the 
the 
for 
A/65/PV.27
trial 
from 
six 
secure 
to  10 
trials, 
capacity 
for  more 
conducting 
employment 
consultations has been complicated by the need to take 
into  account  the  competing  obligations  of  judges  and 
staff  to  other  cases.  While  the  Tribunal  has  increased 
its 
trials 
simultaneously 
it  has  not  seen  a 
comparative increase in its resources. 

Another factor that has impacted our work is the 
constant departure of the Tribunal’s highly experienced 
staff 
elsewhere. 
Experienced staff continue to leave at an alarming rate. 
In Chambers alone, the Tribunal has witnessed a 21 per 
cent  attrition  rate.  The  impact  of  those  departures  on 
the expeditious completion of the Tribunal’s trials and 
appeals is profound, and I have consistently warned the 
Security Council and the Assembly that the work of the 
Tribunal  will  be  protracted  if  we  are  unable  to  retain 
staff and are forced to constantly recruit and train new 
staff.  

I  have  called  upon  the  United  Nations  to  assist 
the Tribunal in devising incentives to retain its highly 
qualified  staff.  I  have  also  identified  measures  that 
could be taken to alleviate staff attrition rates. However, 
to date very little has been achieved. 

The  General  Assembly  offered  us  a  measure  of 
hope  through  its  adoption  of  resolution  63/256,  in 
December 2008, which authorized the Tribunal to offer 
contracts  to  staff  in  line  with  planned  post  reductions 
and the prevailing trial schedules. However, despite the 
clear  language  and  intention  of  the  resolution,  it  has 
not  been 
the  budgetary 
authorities at United Nations Headquarters consider the 
Tribunal incapable of offering contracts to staff that are 
not tied to approved budgetary submissions.  

In desperation, I made a direct plea for assistance 
to  the  Security  Council  in  June  of  this  year,  and  the 
Council  responded by passing resolution 1931  (2010), 
which  noted  the  importance  of  the  Tribunal  being 
adequately  staffed  to  complete  its  work  expeditiously 
and  called  upon  the  Secretariat  and  other  relevant 
United  Nations  bodies  to  continue  to  work  with  the 
Registrar  of  the  Tribunal  in  order  to  find  practicable 
solutions 
issue  as 
the  Tribunal 
approaches the completion of its work. 

In the meantime, the Tribunal is still pressing for 
action  to  be  taken,  as  we  continue  to  lose  our  highly 
experienced 
the 
expeditiousness of our proceedings continues to suffer 
from  delays  that  could  be  avoided  through  urgent 
implemented,  because 
to  address 
essential 
staff, 
and 
as 
and 
the 
10-57241 

5 

the 
that  which 
requested  only 
international  community 
A/65/PV.27 

action  by 
to  devise 
incentives  encouraging  our  staff  to  remain  with  the 
Tribunal until they are no longer necessary. 

I  should  add  that  the  updated  trial  schedule  has 
resulted in the Tribunal’s filing a supplementary budget, 
which is before the Assembly. In so doing, the Tribunal 
was  extremely  sensitive  to  the  current  economic 
climate,  and  has 
it 
considered absolutely necessary in order to ensure that 
our  expeditious  operation  is  not  compromised.  In  that 
regard, I note that the efficiency and productivity of the 
Tribunal  far  surpass  those  of  any  other  comparable 
institution,  and  that  is  despite  the  many  challenges  it 
has faced during the reporting period. 

There is one final matter that I feel compelled to 
raise  before  the  Assembly  yet  again.  I  refer  to  my 
commitment  as  President  of  the  Tribunal  to  ensuring 
the  establishment  of  a  trust  fund  for  victims  from  the 
former  Yugoslavia.  The  International  Criminal  Court 
and the 113 States that have ratified the Rome Statute 
have  demonstrated  by  their  establishment  of  a  trust 
fund  for victims that they  accept that justice must  not 
only be retributive, but that it must also be restorative 
if peace is to be lasting. It is my intention, as President 
of the Tribunal, to take action to end this travesty, and I 
hope  that  I  will  receive  the  Assembly’s  support  in 
doing so. 

In  closing,  I  wish  to  reassure  all  Member  States 
that  the  Tribunal’s  commitment  to  the  completion 
strategy  remains  steadfast  and  that  we  are  taking  all 
measures within our power to expedite our proceedings, 
while still fully respecting the rights of the accused to 
due  process.  I  would  also  ask  that  all  Member  States 
reflect  for  a  moment  on  the  remarkable  achievements 
of 
that 
international  criminal  justice  was  but  a  dream  in  the 
minds of those striving for a safer and more just world. 
But now the dream has been realized. The Tribunal has 
demonstrated  to  the  international  community  that 
international  humanitarian  law  is  an  enforceable  body 
of  law,  that  it  binds  the  conduct  of  the  most  senior 
officials, and that the rule of law is a living, breathing 
reality that forms part of the fabric of our civilization. 
The  Tribunal 
the 
international community to ensure that justice prevails 
over  impunity,  and  that  is  something  in  which  we  all 
have a stake. 
the  Tribunal.  It  was  not  so 
the  aspirations  of 
represents 
long  ago 
for 
like 
the 
that 
the  Tribunals 
the  principals  of 
International  Tribunal 
the  Assembly.  I  should 

It  is  for  these  reasons  that  the  work  of  the 
Tribunal,  which  has  been  entrusted  to  us,  is  not  only 
our work but in fact the work of everyone here today. I 
therefore  call  on  all  States  members  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  assist  us  in  our  commitment  to  bringing 
the work of the Tribunal to a close,  expeditiously  and 
fairly. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 

the  President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former Yugoslavia. 
Mr. Iddi (United Republic of Tanzania): Let me, 

on behalf of my delegation, thank the Presidents of the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
and 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia (ICTY), Mr. Dennis Byron and Mr. Patrick 
Robinson, respectively, for their comprehensive reports 
to 
to  express  my 
Government’s  sincere  appreciation  for  the  enormous 
efforts that the two Presidents have made to spearhead 
the  work  of 
to  Member  States’ 
satisfaction.  Tanzania  fully  appreciates  the  extent  of 
the  accomplishments 
the 
Tribunals have been able to achieve over the past year, 
despite  all  the  odds,  and  we  urge  them  to  continue  to 
do so in the challenging times of transition to come. 

The  reports  of  the  Tribunals  point  to  significant 
progress over the past year, which,  as I  said, deserves 
our sincere appreciation. They reveal that the Tribunals 
have  continued 
their 
remaining  workload  at  both  the  trial  and  the  appeal 
levels,  and  have  thus  far  succeeded  significantly. 
Without  referring  to  the  statistics,  I  also  wish  to 
commend  the  Tribunals  for  their  efforts  to  bring 
fugitives  to  book,  and  I  wish  to  join  the  Tribunal 
Presidents  in  their  call  on  Member  States  to  continue 
cooperating  in  bringing  to  justice  those  fugitives  who 
remain at large. Speaking for Tanzania, I can assure the 
Assembly that our Government will continue to extend 
the  necessary  support  to  both  the  ICTR  and  the  ICTY 
in whatever way we can. 

It  is  heartening  to  note  that  the  Tribunals  have 
made important preparations as they head towards their 
conclusion, 
those  aimed  at  avoiding 
unnecessary  gaps  in  the  dispensation  of  international 
criminal justice. For instance, in the case of the ICTR, 
the  diffusion  of  information  about  its  activities  has 
been  enhanced.  Outreach  projects  relating  to  youth 
sensitization  and  genocide  prevention  in  the  Great 
their  efforts 
to  complete 
including 
6 

10-57241 


Lakes  region  have  been  made  possible  with  the 
generous  financial  support  of  development  partners. 
Capacity-building  activities  for  legal  professionals  in 
Rwanda are a good indication that there will be no gap 
after  the  Tribunal  concludes  its  work,  as  the  national 
authorities  will  be  able  to  advance  the  disposition  of 
pending  cases.  We  wish  to  thank  all  the  development 
partners  that  have  extended  financial  support  to  the 
Tribunal, and urge others to follow suit. 

It is equally worth noting that the Tribunals have 
played  an  important  role  in  fighting  impunity  and 
promoting  the  international  cause  of  justice.  As  the 
host country for the International Criminal Tribunal for 
Rwanda,  we  have  continued  to  facilitate  its  smooth 
operations  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Headquarters  Agreement.  We  will  continue  to  do  so 
during  this  stage  of  transition  towards  the  conclusion 
of its mandate. 

However, we note with concern that the Tribunals 
have  faced  numerous  challenges  in  recent  years, 
especially  in  the  difficult  area  of  staffing.  Some  staff 
members  have  had  to  abandon  their  posts  for  more 
stable and reliable employment elsewhere in the United 
Nations system. We would urge the General Assembly 
to pronounce on this delicate matter, which hampers a 
smooth  transition  to  the  conclusion  of  the  Tribunals’ 
mandate. 

Likewise,  we note that the reports have revealed 
that  the  Tribunals  continued  to  be  hampered  by  a 
shortage  of  volunteer  countries  to  take  acquitted 
persons and where convicted persons could serve their 
sentences.  This  is  a  serious  problem  that  should  be 
addressed  jointly.  We  therefore  call  upon  Member 
States to consider accepting this noble responsibility. 
Another challenge facing the Tribunals is the fact 

that a number of fugitives remain at large. We therefore 
call  upon  Member  States  to  continue  to  cooperate  in 
search  of  all  fugitives  so  that  they  can  be  brought 
before  the  Tribunals  to  face  justice.  Such  cooperation 
would go a long way towards preventing impunity and 
indeed send a strong message to perpetrators of crimes 
against  humanity.  By  and  large,  it  would  enhance  the 
full realization of the celebrated principle of “extradite 
or prosecute”, and thus deny safe haven to perpetrators 
of heinous crimes. 

As rightly stated in the report of the ICTR, “State 
cooperation  remains  the  cornerstone  of  the  Tribunal’s 
ability  to  complete  its  mandate”  (A/65/188,  para.  85). 
A/65/PV.27
We  call  upon  Member  States 
to  provide  such 
cooperation.  We  also  urge  Member  States  to  consider 
extending  cooperation  with  regard  to  acquitted  and 
convicted  persons,  and  to  continue  to  provide  the 
Tribunals with the necessary resources so that they are 
able  to  complete  their  work  within  the  intended  time 
frame. 

As the Tribunals draw closer to completing their 
mandates,  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  has  been 
following  with  great  interest  the  deliberations  of  the 
Security  Council 
Informal  Working  Group  on 
International  Tribunals,  chaired  by  Austria,  on  the 
various options for the Tribunals’ residual mechanisms 
and archives. To this end, the Government of Tanzania 
considers  that  it  would  be  desirable  for  sensitive 
records of the Tribunals containing confidential records 
to  continue  to  be  kept  in  a  safe,  peaceful,  stable 
environment  accessible  to  the  United  Nations  and 
authorized  persons  without  administrative  bottlenecks, 
security concerns or political constraints. 

Tanzania is ready and willing to continue to host 
the residual mechanism and the archives with the same 
dedication  and  commitment  we  have  demonstrated 
throughout 
its 
inception.  We  strongly  believe  that  the  infrastructure 
already  in  place  is  suitable  to  maintain  the  records  of 
the  Tribunal  as  an 
learning 
institution for the benefit of our future generations. 
In  conclusion,  let  me  once  again  renew  my 

Government’s 
of 
international  criminal  justice  by  deed  and  action.  We 
will continue to provide the facilities necessary for the 
smooth conclusion of the work of the ICTR, as well to 
ensure that all issues relating to residual functions will 
be handled with even greater care and due diligence in 
Tanzania. We hope to be able to offer a helping hand as 
we  have  always  done.  Together,  we  can  overcome  all 
of these hurdles. 
Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of the European Union. The candidate 
countries  Turkey,  Croatia  and  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia; 
the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and 
Montenegro;  the  European  Free  Trade  Association 
country  Liechtenstein,  member  of 
the  European 
Economic  Area;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  Armenia  and 
Georgia align themselves with this declaration. 
important  historical 
the  countries  of 
the  operation  of 
the  ICTR  from 
cause 
commitment 
to 
the 
10-57241 

7 

for 
their 
roles 
reports 
This  year  once  again, 
The  Tribunals  have  played  key 
A/65/PV.27 


the  European  Union 
reaffirms  its  unwavering  support  for  the  work  of  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  and  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia.  Both  Tribunals  are  making  invaluable 
contributions to our shared goal of ending impunity for 
serious  international  crimes.  The  European  Union 
thanks  both  President  Robinson  and  President  Byron 
for 
(A/65/205  and  A/65/188)  and 
commends  them  for  their  efforts  in  completing  the 
work of the  Tribunals.  The European Union  also  pays 
special  tribute  to  the  work  of  all  the  staff  of  the 
Tribunals. 

in 
strengthening the rule of law and promoting long-term 
stability  and  reconciliation  —  and  not  only  in  the 
Balkans  and  Rwanda.  Their  jurisprudence  has  had  far 
wider effects. Since their establishment, both Tribunals 
have  embodied  the  need  to  fight  impunity  and  the 
international community’s refusal to let perpetrators of 
the most serious crimes of international concern escape 
justice.  They  have  been  forerunners 
in  creating 
jurisprudence  that  is  a  source  of  inspiration  for  all 
national and international jurisdictions that will have to 
address  such  crimes.  Their  records  bear  that  out. 
International  criminal  justice  does  exist;  it  prevails, 
and  sooner  or  later  the  perpetrators  will  be  held 
accountable for their heinous crimes. 

that  State 
cooperation  —  in  particular  cooperation  in  bringing 
those indicted to justice — remains the cornerstone of 
the  Tribunals’  ability  to  complete  their  mandates.  In 
this  respect, 
the 
cooperation  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
and the Ugandan authorities for the arrest and transfer 
to  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
during 
the  past  year  of  Grégoire  Ndahimana, 
Idelphonse Nizeyimana and Jean Bosco Uwinkindi.  
the 

However,  despite  continuing  appeals  by 
accused 
international 
individuals  remain  at  large,  of  whom  two  have  been 
indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former  Yugoslavia  and  10  have  been  indicted  by  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda.  The 
failure  to  arrest  these  indictees  remains  a  matter  of 
grave  concern  to  the  European  Union.  Among  those 
still  at 
indictees  allegedly 
responsible  for  the  most  serious  atrocities,  including 
Ratko Mladić, Goran Hadžić and Félicien Kabuga. We 
the  European  Union  commends 
The  European  Union 
altogether  12 
community, 
large  are 
five  key 
recalls 
to 
for 
like 
recall 
The  European  Union  remains  committed 
call  on  all  States,  and  in  particular  States  of  the 
relevant  regions,  to  further  intensify  their  efforts  to 
ensure that all indictees are arrested and surrendered to 
the Tribunals. 

The European Union notes that the cooperation of 
Serbia,  Croatia  and  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  with  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia was generally adequate during the reporting 
period,  although  some  important  issues  remain  to  be 
there  are  many  commendable 
addressed.  While 
instances  of  cooperation, 
the  European  Union 
continues  to  urge  all  States  to  cooperate  immediately 
and  unconditionally  with  both  Tribunals, 
in  full 
adherence  to  their  obligations  under  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  regarding  the  arrest  and 
surrender of remaining fugitives and the transfer of any 
documents requested by the Prosecutors. 

to 
ensuring  that  all  indictees  face  justice.  In  this  regard, 
the  European  Union  would 
that 
cooperation  with  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia is essential in relation to the 
European  Union’s  Stabilization  and  Association 
Process. 

International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  the  European  Union  notes  with 
appreciation that the Prosecutor has held fruitful high-
level discussions with officials of several States on the 
issue  of  cooperation  with  his  Office,  but  regrets  that 
cooperation  with  Kenya  remains  a  major  challenge. 
The European Union calls on the Kenyan authorities to 
engage in further discussions with the Prosecutor of the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, as offered 
by  the  Kenyan  representative  in  the  Security  Council 
debate  of  18  June,  on  the  present  whereabouts  of  the 
fugitive Félicien Kabuga (see S/PV.6342). 

In recognition of strengthened domestic capacity, 
the Security Council, in its resolutions 1503 (2003) and 
1534  (2004),  called  on  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal 
the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda to transfer 
all lower- and mid-level accused to competent national 
jurisdictions for trial by domestic courts. The European 
Union  welcomes  the  ongoing  efforts  of  Rwanda,  in 
cooperation with international donors, to strengthen the 
Rwandan  legal  system  and  its  ability  to  adjudicate 
cases  from  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda, and expresses the hope that these reforms will 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  and 
regard 
With 
the 
for 
to 
8 

10-57241 
to 
to  complete 


permit the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 
to  transfer  the  cases  of  lower-level  accused  to  the 
Rwandan courts for trial and thus allow the Tribunal to 
complete  its  work.  The  European  Union  confirms  its 
commitment 
at 
supporting  activities  aimed 
strengthening the capacity of the Rwandan judiciary. 

The  European  Union  regrets  that  there  has  been 
further  slippage  in  the  completion  timelines  due  to  a 
number of factors, some outside the Tribunal’s control, 
including  the  late  capture  and  transfer  of  fugitive 
indictees.  The  European  Union  urges  the  Tribunals  to 
continue  to  identify  further  measures  that  will  allow 
them 
their  work  as  efficiently  and 
promptly  as  possible.  However,  the  completion  of  the 
Tribunals’  work  should  be  done  in  an  orderly  manner 
and not affect the quality of their adjudication and due 
process.  We  acknowledge  the  importance  of  adequate 
resources and of retaining qualified staff to enable the 
Tribunals  to  complete  their  proceedings  as  soon  as 
possible.  However,  at  the  same  time,  it  is  important 
that  the  Tribunals  use  their  available  resources  as 
efficiently as possible. 

the 
progress  made  on  residual  issues  by  the  Security 
Council’s  Informal  Working  Group  on  International 
Tribunals, 
the  preparation  of  a  draft 
resolution  and  draft  statute  on  the  establishment  of  a 
residual  mechanism.  We  highly  value  the  open  and 
transparent  work  of  the  Informal  Working  Group  on 
those issues, under its Austrian chairmanship. We stand 
ready  to  work  with  the  Security  Council  to  find  the 
most  appropriate  and  cost-effective  solutions  to  the 
issues  of  legacy  and  residual  functions.  The  European 
Union  also  supports  the  idea  of  the  establishment  of 
information  centres  in  the  countries  of  the  former 
Yugoslavia  and  in  Rwanda  to  facilitate  access  to  the 
public records of the Tribunals by the interested public. 
Ms.  Robertson  (Australia):  It  is  my  honour  to 

speak on behalf of Canada, Australia and New Zealand 
(CANZ).  Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  wish  to 
take this opportunity to reaffirm our strong support for 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal 
thank  Judge 
Robinson  and  Judge  Byron  for  being  present  here 
today and for providing the comprehensive overview of 
the  reports  of 
to  us 
(A/65/205 and A/65/188). 
The  European  Union  further  welcomes 
their  respective  Tribunals 
(ICTR).  We 
for  Rwanda 
including 
that 
A/65/PV.27
and 
the 
ICTY’s 
We  believe 
the  Tribunals 

the 
international  community  can  be  proud  of  the  many 
achievements the Tribunals have achieved to date. The 
Tribunals have made an unprecedented contribution to 
the international community’s goal of ending impunity 
for  serious  crimes.  Their  jurisprudence  has  enriched 
our  understanding  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity  and  war  crimes,  as  well  as  the  practice  and 
procedures  of  international  criminal  law.  By  fostering 
the development of national courts, the Tribunals have 
strengthened  the  rule  of  law.  Through  their  outreach 
and coordination activities, the Tribunals have fostered 
reconciliation and demonstrated that peace  and justice 
can be pursued in tandem. 

We welcome the efforts being made to utilize the 
legal  and  institutional  legacies  of  the  Tribunals  to 
international  criminal 
the  work  of  other 
inform 
tribunals  and 
to  promote 
the  advancement  of 
international criminal justice. 

CANZ appreciates the efforts being made by both 
the ICTY and the ICTR to achieve the goals set out in 
their  respective  completion  strategies.  We  welcome  in 
particular 
the 
recommendations  of  its  Working  Group  on  Speeding 
up Trials and the ICTR’s issuing of practice directions 
aimed at improving the management of trials. 

the 
in  moving 
completion  phase  of  their  work,  both  Tribunals  are 
facing  significant  challenges.  It  is  evident  from  the 
reports  of  the  Tribunals  that  a  key  issue  of  concern  is 
the fugitive status of 12 indictees. It is imperative that 
all  remaining  indictees  be  surrendered  and  that  States 
make special efforts to ensure that high-level indictees 
Ratko Mladić, Goran Hadžić, Félicien Kabuga, Protais 
Mpiranya  and  Augustin  Bizimana  face  trial.  As  noted 
by  the  Tribunals  themselves,  decisive  and  intensified 
action  by  the  relevant  authorities  is  critical  in  this 
regard. 

It  is  equally  important  that  the  international 
community  respond  to  the  calls  of  the  Tribunals  for 
assistance  in  developing  creative  approaches  to  assist 
with the retention of essential staff. We accept that the 
Tribunals  are  being  asked  to  undertake  an  ever-more 
onerous  workload  at  a  time  when  they  are  losing 
experienced  personnel  at  an  alarming  rate  as  staff 
members  seek  out  positions  with  greater  job  security. 
We hope that the Secretariat and other relevant bodies 
will  continue  to  work  with  the  Registrars  of  the 
implementation  of 
CANZ  recognizes 
that, 
into 
10-57241 

9 

A/65/PV.27 

Tribunals  to  find  practicable  solutions  to  these  very 
pressing problems. 

CANZ  recognizes  that  the  completion  of  the 
Tribunals’ mandates will not mean an end to all of the 
Tribunals’  functions.  It  has  long  been  understood  that 
there  will  be  activities  —  such  as  the  trial  of 
subsequently  captured  fugitives,  the  enforcement  of 
sentences, the protection of witnesses, the provision of 
assistance  to  national  authorities  and  the  management 
of archives — that must be continued. We welcome the 
efforts  being  made  by  the  Tribunals  in  that  regard,  as 
well  as  those  being  undertaken  by  the  Government  of 
Rwanda  to  address  the  impediments  to  the  referral  of 
cases to Rwanda by the ICTR.  

We  also  note  the  reports  and  recommendations 
made  by  the  Security  Council’s  Informal  Working 
Group  on  International  Tribunals  in  relation  to  the 
establishment of a mechanism to carry out the residual 
functions of the ICTY and the ICTR. We encourage the 
ongoing discussion of those issues. While the situation 
faced  by  every  criminal  tribunal  is  unique,  those 
discussions and their eventual outcomes will no doubt 
be of great assistance to future planning undertaken in 
relation to the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of 
Cambodia, the Special Court for Sierra Leone and the 
Special Tribunal for Lebanon. 

The  successful  completion  of  the  work  of  the 
ICTY  and  the  ICTR  will  require  the  cooperation  and 
support  of  all  States.  We  call  upon  States  to  give 
practical  effect  to  their  commitment  to  an  effective 
system  of  international  criminal  justice.  For  our  part, 
Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  will  continue  to 
offer the Tribunals our full support and cooperation in 
this vital and challenging stage of their existence. 
Mr.  Shin  Boonam  (Republic  of  Korea):  As  the 

Presidents  of  the  two  Tribunals  have  outlined  in  their 
respective annual reports (A/65/205 and A/65/188), the 
achievements of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal  for Rwanda  (ICTR) are  so many  as 
to  render  it  impossible  to  give  appropriate  credit  to 
them  all.  The  staff  members  of  the  Tribunal  and 
anonymous  individuals  working  behind  the  scenes  to 
support the Tribunals’ work deserve our tribute of great 
gratitude  and  respect  for  that.  The  time  is  quickly 
approaching  for  the  closure  of  both  the  ICTY  and  the 
ICTR. Now  more than  ever, we must remain humbled 
the 
and 
fabric  of  peace 
larger  ongoing  movement 
by the task ahead of us — to create a living legacy out 
of that momentous effort. 

The  Tribunals  represent  our  effort  to  apply  the 
rule  of  law  to  those  who  have  used  their  powers  to 
destroy 
committed 
unimaginable atrocities. The significance of that effort 
to ensure justice is not to be measured in isolation. It is 
part  of  a 
to  align 
international law with the moral sense of humankind so 
as  to  ensure  that  the  reach  of  justice  extends  to  every 
corner  of  the  world.  It  is  our  responsibility  to  ensure 
that,  years  after  the  last  office  in  the  ICTY  and  the 
ICTR headquarters has been vacated, the legacy of the 
two  Tribunals  continues  to  ring.  But  how  can  that  be 
done? What exactly is or will be the legacy of the two 
Tribunals? 

In  my  mind,  the  legacy  of  the  Tribunals  is 
threefold. First, on a technical level, the ICTY and the 
ICTR  have  built  a  foundation  for  the  development  of 
international  criminal  law.  The  Tribunals  will  leave 
behind a valuable legal asset that includes the rules of 
procedure, practices and judgements of the Tribunals. 
Secondly,  the  institutional  legacy  of  the  two 

Tribunals has sown the seeds for the creation of other 
international  and  hybrid  criminal  courts  around  the 
world.  Having  simultaneously  contributed 
the 
development  of  national  judiciaries  to  hold  fair  and 
effective  war  crimes  proceedings,  the  ICTY  and  the 
ICTR 
the  principle  of 
complementarity  to  gain  ground  in  the  paradigm  of 
international justice. 

Thirdly, the legacy of creating regional peace and 
stability reminds us that only when we make all people 
answerable  to  the  law  can  we  cast  away  tyranny  and 
violence.  Today,  the  Tribunals  have  done  much  to 
provide  a  sense  of  justice  and  reconciliation  to  the 
victims and to society at large. 

The  next  question  is:  What  can  we  do  to  ensure 
the  utilization  of  the  legal  and  institutional  advances 
that  have  resulted  from  the  Tribunals?  In  short,  how 
can we secure the legacy? 

The mortar for that effort will be the completion 
strategy  of  the  two  Tribunals  and,  subsequently,  the 
residual  mechanisms.  While  the  Security  Council’s 
Informal  Working  Group  on  International  Tribunals 
continues to determine the residual functions and what 
form  and  structure  they  should  take,  it  is  equally 
to 
set 
the 
standard 
for 
10 

10-57241 
to 
refer 
further  cases 
to  national  authorities.  As  part  of 


imperative  for  us  to  continuously  relate  that  initiative 
to a broader context. 

Let us continue to take into account the rights of 
all individuals concerned and offer our cooperation and 
support 
their 
completion  strategies,  the  Tribunals  should  intensify 
their  efforts 
to  national 
jurisdictions,  which  would 
strengthen  domestic 
judiciaries  and  act  as  a  catalyst  for  legal  reform.  On 
that  note,  we  must  express  clearly  the  jurisdictional 
continuity between the Tribunals and the mechanisms. 

We  must  also  call  upon  the  experienced  staff  of 
the  Tribunals  to  provide  institutional  knowledge  and 
experience  to  the  residual  mechanisms,  especially 
through  the  prudent  management  of  the  Tribunals’ 
archives.  Creating  a  separate  regime  to  govern  the 
management  of  and  access  to  the  archives,  including 
confidential information, would be a good place to start. 
We  must  also  ensure  that  national  judges,  prosecutors 
and lawyers have easy access to them, as well as to the 
tools to understand them. 

One of the most difficult issues facing us today is 
the fact that several high-level fugitives remain at large. 
As individuals, their fates may be of little consequence 
to the world; what makes them significant to us and to 
the  communities  affected  is  that  they  are  living 
symbols  of  atrocity,  oppression  and  cruelty  —  the 
darkest forces that demoralize a society. 

Today,  let  us  call  upon  all  States  to  intensify 
cooperation with the Tribunals to achieve the arrest and 
surrender of those fugitives. We cannot allow a culture 
of  impunity  to  gain  ground  and  give  strength  to  such 
sinister  forces.  Those  individuals  will  be  brought  to 
justice and the mandate of the Tribunals fulfilled. 
The Republic of Korea will always be one of the 

most  vocal 
for 
international  justice.  The  work  of  the  ICTY  and  the 
ICTR  has  proven  to  be  pivotal  to  that  movement.  We 
look  forward  to  the  drawdown  of  the  Tribunals  in  a 
smooth  and  efficient  manner.  That  is  what  we  have 
achieved,  but  it  is  just  the  beginning.  Now  that  task 
falls to us, for those institutions will become what we 
make  of  their  legacies.  I  wish  for  the  future  of 
international  justice  to  stand  high  on  the  shoulders  of 
the ICTY and the ICTR. 
Mr. Appreku (Ghana): This being the first time I 

have  taken  the  floor  since  his  assumption  of  the 
the  movement 
supporters  of 
A/65/PV.27
to 
in 
the 
the 
for 
the 
in  mind 
reports  of 
comprehensive 
the  President  of 
International  Tribunal 
the  commitment  made  by 
presidency, let me add my voice to the warm words of 
congratulations  extended 
the 
General  Assembly  by  the  head  of  Ghana’s  delegation 
during  the  high-level  segment  of  the  general  debate 
and  reiterate  my  delegation’s  best  wishes  for  his 
success as he presides over the affairs of this Assembly 
during its sixty-fifth session. 

My  delegation  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  two  notes  (A/65/188  and  A/65/205),  respectively 
forwarding 
the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
and 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia (ICTY). 

My  delegation  also  expresses  deep  gratitude  to 
the  President  of  the  ICTR,  Judge  Charles  Michael 
Dennis  Byron,  and  the  President  of  the  ICTY,  Judge 
Patrick  Robinson,  for  their  thorough  presentations  of 
their respective annual reports. We are pleased to learn 
of  the  progress  being  made  concerning  the  respective 
completion  strategies  of 
two  Tribunals.  We 
comment on these two reports mindful that an accused 
person  is  presumed  innocent  until  proven  guilty  and 
bearing 
the 
international  community  to  preventing  and  deterring 
mass  atrocities  and 
the 
to  bringing 
perpetrators of such heinous crimes. 

The jurisprudence of the ICTR and the ICTY, like 
that of the Special Court for Sierra Leone and other ad 
hoc or hybrid tribunals, has contributed significantly to 
the  strengthening  of  the  legal  regime  of  international 
criminal justice. The practice of engaging in a process 
of dialogue among judges of the International Court of 
Justice,  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  other  ad 
hoc  or  hybrid  tribunals  will  help  to  minimize  or 
address 
fragmentation  of 
international  law  and  promote  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect for human rights. 

the 
Ghana  welcomes 
reports of the ICTR and ICTY to build archival records 
as part of their legacy to guide the future behaviour of 
individuals  and  States.  Perhaps  a  more  durable  legacy 
will  be  for  the  international  community  to  draw 
appropriate  lessons  from  the  legacy  of  cases  or 
jurisprudence of the Tribunals in order  to enhance the 
capacity  of  States  Members  of  this  Organization  to 
undertake  preventative  action.  The  victims  must  also 
continue to receive attention even after the work of the 
Tribunals is  wound up. With a view to  facilitating the 
initiatives  reflected 
to 
justice 
concerns 
about 
the 
10-57241 

11 
The 
need 
for 
cannot 
fails.  Thus, 
for  example,  under 
A/65/PV.27 

attainment  of  their  completion  targets,  the  requests  of 
the  Tribunals  for  the  various  resource  challenges 
outlined  in  the  reports  before  this  Assembly  to  be 
addressed deserve careful consideration. 

be 
prevention 
overemphasized.  Indeed,  as  a  result  of  the  experience 
of  violent  civil  wars  and  other  violent  conflicts  that 
have  occurred  on  the  continent  of  Africa,  including 
within  our  own  subregion  of  West  Africa,  particularly 
in  the  1980s  and  1990s,  the  African  Union  (AU)  and 
regional  organizations  on  the  continent  have  resolved 
to  take  a  more  proactive  active  stance  to  prevent 
conflicts  or  to  take  timely  and  decisive  action  when 
prevention 
the 
Constitutive  Act  of  the  African  Union,  AU  member 
States  have  conferred  a  treaty  right  on  the  Union  to 
intervene  at  the  request  of  any  member  State  in 
situations  of  genocide,  war  crimes  or  crimes  against 
humanity  upon  the  recommendation  of  the  AU  Peace 
and Security Council.  

Pursuant  to  these  provisions,  the  African  Union 
has developed the African Standby Force arrangement 
and requested logistical and financial support from the 
international community to ensure that the force can be 
rapidly  deployed  for  prevention  or  decisive  action  on 
the continent of Africa, in accordance with the United 
Nations  Charter.  African  countries  also  joined  the 
consensus  in  this  Assembly  when  it  adopted  the  2005 
World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), in particular 
paragraphs  138,  139  and  140,  in  which  world  leaders 
accepted 
their 
from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic 
populations 
cleansing and crimes against humanity. 
As we consider the reports of the ICTY and ICTR 

today,  we  should  recall 
the 
establishment  of  the  Tribunals  in  the  first  place  and 
work  at  managing  our  ethnic  or  racial  diversities  in  a 
manner that will promote national integration and unity, 
foster inter-ethnic harmony and prevent mass atrocities. 
To this end, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Ghana 
and  Denmark  co-hosted  in  New  York  a  side  event  on 
24  September  2010,  attended  by  ministers  for  foreign 
affairs and other ministers from some 25 countries in a 
cross-regional  endeavour  to  explore  ways  of  moving 
beyond  the  concept  to  the  effective  operationalization 
of  the  responsibility  to  protect  populations  from 
genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes 
against  humanity.  This  will  no  doubt  complement  the 
initiatives  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special 
responsibility 
that  which 
led 
to 
to 
protect 

Adviser  for  the  Responsibility  to  Protect  and  his 
Special Representative for the Prevention of Genocide 
and  Mass  Atrocities.  Furthermore,  early  this  year,  the 
Government  of  Ghana  invited  to  Accra  the  Secretary-
General’s Special Representative for the Prevention of 
Genocide  and  Mass  Atrocities  to  exchange  views  on 
measures to address the root causes of conflict, thereby 
preventing  genocide  and  other  serious  crimes  within 
the  region  of  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African States. 

I  wish  to  conclude  by  commending  the  outreach 
programmes  undertaken  by 
the  ICTR  and  other 
tribunals  aimed  at  educating  young  people  and  other 
segments  of  the  population,  for  it  is  a  truth  that  bears 
repeating that, since war begins in the thoughts of men 
and women, it is in the minds of men and women that 
the defences of peace must be built. We must diligently 
and  passionately  inculcate  the  culture  of  peace  and 
tolerance among all nations and civilizations. 
The  United  Nations  has  answered  the  call  made 

in 
to 
the  African  Union’s  Kigali  Declaration 
commemorate 7 April as a day of remembrance of the 
victims  of  genocide  in  Rwanda  and  to  renew  our 
commitment to the prevention of genocide in the world. 
If or when the next mass atrocities threaten or do occur, 
the  international  community  must  be  prepared  and 
ready  to  answer  the  call  to  prevent  them  or  take 
appropriate  action  in  a  more  timely  and  decisive 
manner than it has done in the past. 
Ms. Čolaković (Bosnia and Herzegovina): Allow 

me  at  the  outset  to  welcome  Judge  Patrick  Robinson, 
President of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
former Yugoslavia (ICTY), and Judge Charles Michael 
Dennis  Byron,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR),  and  to  thank  them  for 
their  comprehensive  and  detailed  reports  (A/65/205 
and  A/65/188)  and  briefings  in  today’s  meeting.  We 
commend  their  hard  work  in  fighting  impunity  and 
their  dedication  to  the  cause  of  justice,  as  their  every 
action  uncompromisingly  states 
that  war  crimes, 
genocide  and  crimes  against  humanity  will  not  go 
unpunished.  In  addition,  we  find  it  necessary  to 
mention  the  tireless  work  of  all  the  staff  of  the 
Tribunals. 

We are also obliged to take note of all the efforts 
the Tribunals make to successfully complete their work, 
and  to  provide  them  with  all  the  necessary  support. 
More than ever, we are convinced that a hasty closure 
10-57241 
their 
12 

the  Tribunals 
the  emergence  of 


would  irrevocably  undermine  and  tarnish  their  legacy, 
a  legacy  that  without  a  doubt  represents  one  of  the 
cornerstones on which the international criminal justice 
system as we know it today is built. We strongly agree 
with  the  remarks  made  by  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon on 17 July 2008 at the commemoration of the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute 
of the International Criminal Court, when he stated that 
the  fight  against  impunity  started  in  earnest  with  the 
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunals 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  for  Rwanda.  Those 
courts  pioneered 
international 
criminal  justice  and  the  enforcement  of  international 
humanitarian  law.  We  must  therefore  not  allow  the 
groundbreaking  contributions  of 
to 
international jurisprudence to fall victim to pressure to 
conclude their mandate, ending with partial results and 
without adequate resolution. 

I  would  also  like  to  extend  our  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Mayr-Harting  for  his  firm  leadership  in 
chairing the Informal Working Group on the Tribunals. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  attaches  great  importance  to 
work of the Group, and further commends the Austrian 
delegation  for  efficiently  steering  its  deliberations, 
with  the  valuable  assistance  of  the  Office  of  Legal 
Affairs, 
to  an  adequate  and  credible 
residual 
mechanism that will be the Tribunals’ legacy. 
It is encouraging indeed that during the reporting 

period of the ICTR three more fugitives were arrested, 
bringing the total number of fugitives down to 10. On 
the  other  hand,  it  is  disappointing  and  frustrating  that 
Félicien Kabuga, Ratko Mladić and Goran Hadžić still 
the  entire 
manage 
international  community.  We  can  appeal 
the 
Tribunals  to  comply  with  the  completion  strategy  and 
tirelessly  work  on  the  residual  mechanism,  but  all  of 
that  is  useless  unless  we  take  some  firm  steps  and 
serious  measures  to  bring  those  criminals  to  justice. 
Only then — I repeat, only then — will we be able to 
say that every condition of the founding resolutions of 
the Tribunals has been met and their assigned mandates 
fulfilled.  For  that  matter,  it  is  beyond  doubt  that  the 
unconditional cooperation of the relevant international 
and  regional  organizations  and  States  is  essential  and 
necessary for the complete fulfilment of the Tribunals’ 
mandates. 

I  therefore  underline  the  strong  commitment  of 
my  country  to  its  obligations,  and  our  undeniable 
support  and  dedication  to  strengthening  international 
justice  and  mock 
to  evade 
to 
A/65/PV.27
Allow  me 
to  conclude  by  underlining 
criminal justice. The ICTY report before us (A/65/205), 
as well as the previous ones, reflects that commitment 
through the record of a steady and positive cooperation 
between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Tribunal. As 
stated,  the  authorities  of  my  country  have  effectively 
responded  to  all  requests  of  the  Prosecutor’s  Office, 
providing  documents,  enabling  unobstructed  access  to 
Government archives and facilitating the appearance of 
witnesses  before  the  Tribunal.  The  cooperation  has 
been  particularly  constructive  with  regard  to  the 
rule 11  bis  cases  transferred  by  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  to  the  War  Crimes  Chamber  of  the  State 
Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Five of the six cases 
transferred  to  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  have  been 
completed with final decisions. 
that 

throughout the years Bosnia and Herzegovina’s support 
for  the  Tribunals,  especially  the  ICTY,  has  been 
unwavering,  and  today  we  reaffirm  that  support  once 
again.  As  the  country  most  affected  by  the  crimes 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  one  of  the  Tribunals,  we 
cannot emphasize enough how important it is to bring 
justice  to  the  victims  and  their  families  and  to  hold 
accountable those who committed those heinous crimes. 
Thus,  we  regard  the  work  of  the  Tribunals  in  fighting 
impunity  as  of  the  highest  importance,  as  they  have 
advanced  the  rule  of  law  in  affected  regions,  brought 
justice  to  those  who  suffered  the  most  and  eventually 
paved the path towards reconciliation. 
in 

Russian):  First  of  all,  let  me  express  our  appreciation 
to  the  Presidents  of  both  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) for 
their  reports  (A/65/205  and  A/65/188).  The  Russian 
Federation  is  inalterably  committed  to  the  idea  of  the 
dispensation  of  international  criminal  justice  for  the 
severe  crimes  under 
perpetrators  of 
international 
the  significant 
contribution  of  the  Tribunals  to  establishing  a  system 
of  international  criminal  justice  and  to  the  cause  of 
restoring peace and justice in States established in the 
territory of the former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda. 
The  contribution  of  the  Tribunals  to  developing 

the  practice  of  international  criminal  justice  is  of  an 
enduring  significance  that  will  most  likely  only  be 
truly  assessed  by  future  generations.  We  have  no 
reservations  that  those  indicted  by  the  Tribunals  who 
have  committed  the  crimes  mentioned  but  who  for 
(Russian  Federation) 
Mr.  Panin
recognizes 
(spoke 
the  most 
law,  and 
10-57241 

13 

A/65/PV.27 

various  reasons  are  still  at  large  must  be  brought  to 
stand  before  the  law.  We  have  consistently  supported 
and we now support the efforts of the two Tribunals to 
deal  with  those  fugitives.  Both  here  in  the  Assembly 
and  in  the  Security  Council,  we  have  repeated  our 
assessment of the work of  the Tribunals every year in 
response to the Tribunal reports, and we are willing to 
reaffirm now every word we have previously said.  

Still, there is, unfortunately, a negative side to the 
work  of  the  Tribunals  that  diminishes  its  positive 
aspect.  The  Tribunals  have  long  since  exceeded  the 
deadlines  for  their  existence,  thereby  conflicting  with 
Security  Council  resolutions  on  a  completion  strategy 
for their work. We are convinced that such a situation 
does a disservice, both to the international community 
and  to  the  Tribunals  themselves,  and  we  intend  to 
continue to press to resolve this matter.  

Moreover,  an  examination  of  the  prospects  for 
moving the Tribunals’ work to completion leaves little 
room  for  optimism.  According  to  recent  information 
provided  by  the  Tribunals  this  year,  the  Rwandan 
Tribunal  planned  to  close  cases  in  the  trial  phase  in 
2011  and  the  recent  appeals  at  the  end  of  2013.  The 
Tribunal  for  the  former  Yugoslavia  was  looking  to 
close  cases  in  the  trial  phase  in  2012  and  the  recent 
appeal  litigation  in  the  Karadžić  case  in  2014.  Those 
deadlines  are  very  noticeably  later  than  the  dates 
provided in 2009 — and have since been extended  — 
so  we  cannot  escape  the  feeling  that  even  these 
extended deadlines are not final. One cannot help being 
alarmed  by  the  continuously  significant  extensions  of 
the  trials,  especially  in  the  ICTY.  The  Rwandan 
Tribunal  has  done  better  by  comparison,  having 
provided more accurate forecasts and seeming closer to 
concluding their cases. 

unchanged. 

The extension of all proceedings beyond 2010 is 
an  exceptional  measure.  When  one  of  the  Presidents 
spoke  here,  he  talked  about  the  future.  We  would  like 
to  emphasize 
the  difference 
between an ad hoc court and a full court, and we agree 
that  the  Tribunals  cannot  close  their  business  quickly. 
We  understand  that,  when  the  completion  strategy  set 
the  finishing  year  at  2010,  which  was  supposed  to  be 
the  final  deadline,  and  the  courts  saw  that  they  could 
not manage to finish, the courts corrected that.  
Our  position  on  this  matter  of  principle  remains 
that  we  understand 
themselves, 
the  Tribunals 

We  understand  the  objective  reasons  why  some 
trials  have  dragged  on.  For  instance,  it  is  completely 
understandable  why  there  would  be  a  deadline  later 
than  the  one  originally  planned  for  the  ICTY  to 
complete the Šešelj case, or a possible extension of the 
Tribunal’s  operations  owing  to  the  decision  to  start  a 
partial retrial of the Haradinaj case.  

However,  we  see  a  number  of  other  significant 
differences between the ad hoc and full courts. We will 
talk about them later, in a less formal setting.  
We  are  absolutely  convinced  that  the  particulars 

of  those  cases,  if  the  work  were  properly  organized, 
could  not  serve  as  grounds  for  significantly  extending 
the  Tribunals’  deadline  and  are  truly  of  no  impact 
whatsoever  on  the  delays  already  registered,  and  that 
we  are  in  this  situation  through  the  fault  of  both  the 
Tribunals and States. 

The  problems  of  the  extension  of  deadlines  for 
the ICTY and ICTR would be fully manageable, if the 
efforts  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  the  countries  of 
the two regions were coordinated and combined. 

With  respect  to  the  work  of  the  Tribunals,  they 
have  already  done  much  themselves  to  speed  up  their 
trials.  We  welcome  the  efforts  to  speed  up  litigation 
and  to  make  rational  use  of  court  space  and  staff  for 
simultaneous hearings on a number of cases. However, 
more can be done to optimize the work in this respect.  
It is unacceptable that the defendant in the Šešelj

case,  which  we  have  already  mentioned,  had  to  await 
the start of proceedings for over six years, in violation 
of all reasonable procedural timelines and his right to a 
speedy trial. Such a situation violates even elementary 
human  concepts  of  justice.  Looking  for  support  to 
speed up the trials is, we think, possible and a way to 
ensure maximal use of the judges’ work and time.  

There have been examples of obvious success in 
meeting that challenge. In particular, we are impressed 
that the ICTY, in the Popović case, was able to support 
the  peak  workloads  of  the  judges,  prosecution  and 
defence,  and  we  are  persuaded  that  such  an  intense 
pace can be also supported in other cases.  

The successful completion of the mandates of the 
Tribunals  would  be  helped  if  States  in  the  region 
extended  further  conscientious  cooperation  to  them. 
We call on those States to continue to actively facilitate 
the work of the Tribunals through the timely provision 
14 

10-57241 
to 
Mr.  Starčević
in  post-conflict  areas  and 
the  progressive  development  of 
to 


of the necessary information and to help in the search 
for  individuals  still  at  large.  We  should  especially 
support  the  willingness  of  a  number  of  States  to 
provide  the  Tribunal  with  the  opportunity  for  those 
convicted to serve their sentences in that country and, 
in  the  case  of  Rwanda,  even  to  take  on  a  number  of 
cases  under  their  national  jurisdiction.  That  would 
attest 
legal 
institutions 
the 
establishment of the rule of law nationally, which was 
one  of  the  major  challenges  when  the  Tribunals  were 
established. 
(Serbia):  Let  me  begin  by 

welcoming  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  Judge 
Patrick Robinson, and the President of the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR),  Mr.  Dennis 
Byron, and thanking them for their presentation of the 
annual  reports  of  the  two  Tribunals  (A/65/205  and 
A/65/188). 

In  this  connection,  I  would  like  to  reiterate 
Serbia’s  full  commitment  to  cooperate  with  the  ICTY 
and  to  assist  in  the  successful  completion  of  its 
mandate. My country has clearly expressed its political 
will in that respect and has implemented it through its 
efforts towards strong and continuous cooperation with 
the Tribunal. 

That  political  will  was  demonstrated  also  by  the 
fact that, on 31 March 2010, the National Assembly of 
the  Republic  of  Serbia  adopted  a  declaration 
condemning 
the  crime  at  Srebrenica,  an  act  of 
exceptional  importance  for  both  Serbia  and  the  entire 
region.  By  that  declaration,  the  National  Assembly 
gave full support to the work of Government agencies 
in  charge  of  processing  war  crimes  and  successfully 
completing  cooperation  with  ICTY,  in  which  the 
locating and arrest of Ratko Mladić and his transfer to 
the Tribunal for trial is of particular importance.  

Also,  the  President  of  Serbia  was  present  at  the 
Potočari  Memorial  Centre  on  11  July  2010  for  the 
commemoration  of  the  15  years  since  the  crime  at 
Srebrenica. He said on that occasion that Serbia would 
not  desist 
the 
perpetrators  of  war  crimes,  and  Ratko  Mladić  in 
particular,  in  order  to  make  it  possible  for  people  to 
continue to live together. 
Regarding  the  technical  aspects  of  cooperation 

with the Tribunal, we consider that a very high level of 
track  down 
its  efforts 
from 
to 
A/65/PV.27
to 
related 
the  Tribunal 
the  competent  Government  agencies  of 
cooperation has been reached and maintained over the 
past  several  years,  which  is  amply  evidenced  by  the 
reports of the ICTY Prosecutor to the Security Council. 
That has been made possible by the dedicated work of 
both 
the 
Republic of Serbia and the Tribunal, as well as by the 
relations  of  trust  and  confidence  established  between 
them.  Today,  excellent  professional  relations  exist 
between the representatives of Serbian institutions and 
the representatives of the Tribunal, and this is evident. 

To illustrate the existing level of cooperation, let 
me  point  out  the  following.  Serbia  has  thus  far 
responded  in  full  to  almost  all  the  requests  received 
from 
the  provision  of 
documentation,  access  to  the  archives  of  Serbian 
Government  agencies,  the  provision  of  waivers  for 
testifying in the proceedings before the Tribunal and all 
other technical aspects of cooperation. As stated in the 
report of the President of the Tribunal, the cooperation 
of Serbia on those issues has been timely and adequate. 

We  consider  it  exceptionally  important  that  the 
report  points  out  that  Serbia  has  delivered  to  the 
Tribunal  the  items  seized  during  the  search  of  the 
apartment  of  Ratko  Mladić’s  family  conducted  by  the 
Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Serbia in 
February  2010. 
include  Mladić’s 
notebooks, that is, handwritten wartime notes from the 
period from 1991 to 1996. As stated in the report, they 
also  contain  highly  valuable  evidence  in  certain  other 
cases before the Tribunal. 

Serbia  transferred  to  the  Tribunal  43  persons 
indicted  for  war  crimes,  while  one  person  committed 
suicide  prior  to  being  transferred.  In  addition  to  the 
persons  charged  with  the  most  serious  crimes,  Serbia 
delivered to the Tribunal all persons found in contempt 
of  court.  Mladić  and  Hadžić  are  the  only  remaining 
fugitives.  There  should  be  no  doubt  about  the  resolve 
of  the  authorities  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia  to  arrest 
Mladić  and  Hadžić  and  transfer  them  to  the  Tribunal. 
Serbia  considers  that  bringing  these  two  fugitives  to 
justice, like the 43 before them, is in its best interest. 

Serbia  is  well  aware  of  the  suggestions  and 
concerns  regarding  the  fugitives  expressed  by  the 
President of the Tribunal in his report and by the ICTY 
Prosecutor  in  his  briefing  to  the  Security  Council  in 
June  2010  (see  S/PV.6342).  Serbia’s  security  services, 
which  are  investing  enormous  efforts  in  bringing 
Mladić  and  Hadžić
to  all 
justice,  are  open 
seized 
Items 
to 
10-57241 

15 
A/65/PV.27 

recommendations  and  suggestions  by  the  officials  of 
the  Tribunal.  We  consider  it  very  important  that  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  be  provided  with  detailed 
information about all the measures that are being taken 
in that respect. 

During  the  recent  visit  of  the  President  of  the 
ICTY to Belgrade, a regional project aimed at training 
courts  in  the  countries  of  the  former  Yugoslavia  to 
prosecute  those  accused  of  war  crimes  was  launched. 
Serbia considers that cooperation with the Tribunal and 
the  prosecution  of  war  crimes  in  national  courts  are 
basic preconditions for the establishment of the whole 
truth about the war crimes committed during the armed 
conflicts in the territory of the former Socialist Federal 
Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  That  also  represents  an 
important  contribution  towards  the  normalization  of 
the societies of the region.  

We  are therefore  firmly  committed to continuing 
the  high  level  of  cooperation  with  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. 
Mr.  Wetland  (Norway):  Norway  is  a  staunch 

supporter  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunals  for 
Rwanda 
International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  The  high 
standards  and  achievements  of  the  Tribunals  are 
reflected  in  their  well-reasoned  judgements  and  the 
annual  reports  before  us  (A/65/188  and  A/65/205).  I 
would  like  to  thank  the  Presidents  of  the  Tribunals, 
Judges  Byron  and  Robinson,  for  their  informative 
reports.  They  provide  a  detailed  account  of  the 
progress made during the past year. 

The Tribunals have made important contributions 
to  international  criminal  law.  They  have  developed  a 
jurisprudence 
that  has  set  standards  for  national 
tribunals,  as  well  as  for  other  international  tribunals. 
By effectively prosecuting the perpetrators of the most 
serious  international  crimes,  the  Tribunals  have  not 
only  helped  to  bring  justice  to  the  victims  in  Rwanda 
and  the  former  Yugoslavia.  They  have  also  made 
significant  achievements  in  the  fight  against  impunity 
for mass atrocities in general. 

I would like to focus on three specific issues that 
are  essential  for  the  success  of  the  Tribunals’  work. 
Those  are:  first,  the  Tribunals’  continued  efforts  to 
implement  their  completion  strategies;  secondly,  the 
cooperation of Member States; and thirdly, the work on 
residual issues. 
(ICTR)  and 
the 


Both  Tribunals  are  working  hard  to  fulfil  their 
mandates. We commend them for their commitment to 
their  completion 
implementing 
strategies,  while 
ensuring 
that 
the  standards  of  due  process  and 
fundamental legal principles are fully respected. 

The  Tribunals  must  continue  to  carry  out  their 
work  expeditiously,  but  that  endeavour  is  not  without 
obstacles.  During  the  reporting  period,  the  Tribunals 
faced  difficulties  in  meeting  the  objectives  set  out  in 
their  completion  strategies  owing  to  the  disquieting 
impact of staff attrition. 

In  that  regard,  we  welcome  Security  Council 
resolutions  1931  (2010)  and  1932  (2010),  which 
extended the terms of 39 judges in total. Furthermore, 
the  resolutions  called  on  relevant  United  Nations 
bodies to explore ways to address the staffing issue as 
the Tribunals approach completion of their work. 

The  Tribunals  cannot  successfully  fulfil  their 
mandates  without  the  full  cooperation  of  States.  It  is 
crucial that States give both Tribunals their unreserved 
support.  All  States  must  honour  their  obligations  to 
provide full and effective assistance to the Tribunals.  
Here, we would like to highlight two challenges, 

namely, 
the 
remaining  fugitives.  The  responsibility  to  enforce 
sentences  must  be  shared  by  more  States.  We 
encourage  States  to  enter  into  agreements  on  the 
enforcement of sentences, and we look forward to more 
such agreements being concluded. 

The  failure  to  arrest  the  remaining  fugitives 
continues  to  be  of  grave  concern  to  us.  It  is  not 
acceptable  that  perpetrators  of  serious  international 
crimes  evade  legal  proceedings.  Member  States  must 
fulfil  their  obligation  to  arrest  them  and  transfer  them 
to the Tribunals without delay. I am pleased to note the 
determination  just  expressed  from  this  rostrum  by  my 
colleague from Serbia. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  that  three  fugitives  have 
been arrested since the last report (A/64/205). However, 
12  fugitives  are  still  at  large.  We  cannot  rest  until  the 
remaining  fugitives  are  apprehended  and  brought 
before the court. Impunity is not an option. 

How  the  residual  issues  of  the  Tribunals  should 
be  dealt  with  is  a  pending  issue  for  the  Security 
Council.  While  we  commend  the  Tribunals  for  their 
efforts,  we  would  also  urge  them  to  ensure  that  as 
the  enforcement  of  sentences  and 
16 

10-57241 
is 
important 
for 
their 
thanks 
legitimacy  and 
the  President  of 


much work on residual issues as possible is carried out 
before the completion dates. 

We  welcome  the  ongoing  work  in  the  Informal 
Working  Group  on  International  Tribunals  and  the 
support provided by the Secretariat. With regard to the 
location of the residual mechanisms, Norway supports 
an  approach  that  also  fully  incorporates  the  needs  of 
other  United  Nations-assisted  courts,  and 
full 
advantage should be taken of possible synergies. 

The  continuation  of  the  residual  activities  of  the 
Tribunals is an important part of their long-term legacy 
and 
for 
international  criminal  law  in  general.  Norway  is  a 
strong supporter of the rule of law and criminal justice, 
and  will  continue  to  work  actively  to  assist  the 
Tribunals in achieving their completion dates. 
Mr. Nduhungirehe (Rwanda) (spoke in French): 

I  thank  you,  Sir,  for  the  opportunity  that  you  have 
given  my  delegation  to  speak  in  this  debate.  The 
Rwandan  delegation 
the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
and the President of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia for the presentation of their 
reports  (A/65/188  and  A/65/205),  and  acknowledges 
their tireless efforts to successfully carry out their work 
and thus accomplish that noble task of doing justice to 
humanity.  

the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Rwanda  continued  to 
provide the  cooperation needed to enable the  ICTR to 
execute  the  mandate  conferred  on  it  by  the  Security 
Council.  Rwanda  continued  to  facilitate  access  to 
witnesses,  whether  for  the  defence  or  the  prosecution, 
and to ensure their unimpeded travel to Arusha. In that 
regard,  the  Government  continued  to  support  the 
Witnesses  and  Victims  Support  Section,  set  up  in  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  in  Kigali,  in  order  to  ensure 
full  and  complete  security  for  witnesses  of  genocide. 
Furthermore,  as  stated  in  the  report,  my  Government 
continued 
the 
prosecution  and  by  the  defence,  by  providing  the 
documents needed for the trials. 
The  Government  of  Rwanda  remains  committed 

to continuing to provide its full support for the ICTR’s 
completion  strategy,  as  set  out  in  Security  Council 
resolution 1503 (2003).  
the  period  under  consideration, 
investigations,  both  by 
to  support 
During 
A/65/PV.27
against 

However,  my  delegation  regrets  the  delay  in 
meeting  the  deadline  for  the  completion  of  work  and 
notes  the  Tribunal’s  commitment  to  conclude  trials  of 
first instance by 2011 and appeals by the end of 2013.  

As the report indicates, Rwanda will continue to 
cooperate  with  the  ICTR  in  order  to  remove  any 
obstacle to the transfer of cases that are still pending at 
the end of the ICTR mandate to Rwandan jurisdiction. 
Many  legal  reforms  have  been  undertaken  in  that 
respect and have been recognized by the ICTR.  
In  the  meantime,  my  delegation  thanks  the 

Tribunal  for  transferring  to  Rwanda  the  files  on  25 
suspects. Inquiries have been opened on those suspects 
without proceeding to an indictment, in order to enable 
us  to  undertake  the  appropriate  legal  procedures.  In 
that  regard,  we  reiterate  the  fact  that  our  request  to 
have the files of cases that have not yet been tried by 
the  ICTR  transferred  is  based  mainly  on  the  fact  that 
the  crimes  tried  by  the  ICTR  were  committed  in 
Rwanda,  by  Rwandans 
their  Rwanda 
compatriots. Furthermore, it is appropriate to note that 
the  evidence  and  the  witnesses  come  from  Rwanda, 
and  that  the  justice  carried  out  by  the  Tribunal  will 
have  a  greater  impact  on  Rwanda  than  on  the  rest  of 
the world. 
My Government welcomes the arrest of the three 

fugitives  during 
the  period  under  consideration: 
Grégoire  Ndahimana,  Idelphonse  Nizeyimana  and 
Jean-Bosco  Uwinkindi,  and  we  once  again  thank  the 
Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and  Uganda  for  their  cooperation  in  that  respect.  We 
also  thank  the  ICTR  for  their  continuing  efforts  to 
search  for  and  arrest  the  remaining  10  fugitives.  The 
Government  also  expresses 
the 
Governments  of  Canada,  Belgium,  Finland,  Sweden 
and  France  for  their  efforts  to  find  and  bring  to  trial 
genocide suspects who are in those countries. However, 
we regret that some countries have not yet extended the 
necessary  cooperation  to  the  ICTR  or  the  Rwandan 
Government,  and  we  therefore  support  the  appeal  of 
the President of the ICTR in that regard. 

My Government has often reiterated its views on 
the  transfer  to  Rwanda  of  the  records  of  the  ICTR  at 
the end of its mandate. Our request is based on the fact 
that those documents are an integral part of our history. 
They  are  essential  to  preserving  the  memory  of  the 
genocide,  as  they  will  play  an  essential  role  in  the 
education  of  future  generations  and  in  preventing 
its  gratitude 
to 
10-57241 

17 

in 
freely 
jurists,  who  have  spoken 
A/65/PV.27 

future  genocides.  We  note  the  ongoing  process  to 
determine the final destination of those records, and we 
express  once  again  our  availability  to  join  the  United 
Nations discussions on the subject.  

Allow  me  once  again  to  express  the  concern  of 
my  Government  on  an  issue  of  great  importance, 
namely,  the  increasing  trend  of  defence  lawyers  in 
Arusha  and  some  members  of  the  academic  world  to 
trivialize  and  openly  deny  the  fact  of  the  genocide, 
which  nevertheless  was  recognized  by  the  Security 
Council  through  the  very  establishment  of  the  ICTR. 
Those 
the 
international  media,  base  their  remarks  on  a  mistaken 
interpretation of the findings of the Tribunal, which is 
supported  by  the  recent  report  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights.  

That worrisome trend is not going to promote the 
peace and reconciliation that Rwandans have fought so 
hard to achieve. The Government therefore again calls 
for  those  who  deny  the  genocide  of  Tutsis  to  be 
brought before justice in accordance with Rwandan law, 
a  law  that  many  other  countries  also  have  applied  in 
other instances of genocide. 

To conclude, we reiterate our call for the ICTR to 
continue  its  efforts  aimed  at  respecting  its  completion 
strategy as far as possible, while ensuring that justice is 
done  by  transferring  the  remaining  cases  to  Rwandan 
jurisdiction.  Once  again,  we  reiterate  our  full  support 
for  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
during this critical period of the conclusion of its work. 
Mr. Maina (Kenya): My delegation congratulates 

the President of the Assembly on his election to preside 
over  the  deliberations  of  the  Assembly  at  the  current 
session. We also congratulate the other members of the 
Bureau and wish to assure the President of Kenya’s full 
support as he discharges his task before the Assembly. I 
thank  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  for  a  comprehensive 
annual report submitted to the Assembly (A/65/188) in 
conformity  with  the  respective  statute  establishing  the 
Tribunal. 

the 
persistent allegations by the Prosecutor of the Tribunal 
that the fugitive Mr. Félicien Kabuga resides in Kenya. 
On  numerous  occasions,  Kenya  has  stated  its  position 
on  this  matter  before  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  That  position  was  once  again 
Kenya,  however,  notes  with  concern 
reiterated  in  June  2010  before  the  Security  Council 
(see S/PV.6342). 

I  wish  to  state  from  the  outset  that  Kenya  has 
nothing  to  gain  by  harbouring  Mr.  Kabuga,  especially 
when  Kenya  and  Rwanda  have  always  enjoyed 
excellent  and  cordial  relations.  To  the  contrary,  we 
have  always  cooperated  and  worked  closely  with  the 
ICTR  with  a  view  to  tracing,  arresting  and  indeed 
surrendering  genocide  suspects  to  the  ICTR  to  face 
justice. It is important to mention that 14 suspects have 
been  arrested  and  handed  over  to  the  ICTR  for 
prosecution  by 
the  Government  of  Kenya.  The 
Assembly  may  wish  to  note  that  this  is  the  largest 
number  of  indictees  to  be  apprehended  and  handed 
over to the ICTR by a single jurisdiction.  

In  September  2009,  Kenya  concluded  an 
extradition treaty with the Republic of Rwanda, which 
provides,  inter  alia,  for  the  extradition  of  Rwandan 
genocide  suspects.  The  Government  of  Kenya  has 
always  played  a  key  role  in  the  relocation,  protection 
and  facilitation  of  movement  of  witnesses  to  the 
Tribunal in Arusha, to ensure that the cause of justice is 
served  expeditiously.  To  that  end,  we  have  expended 
considerable  resources 
the  form  of  material, 
equipment  and  personnel  as  a  contribution  to  the  rule 
of law and justice. 

In 2007, the Government of Kenya formed a joint 
investigation 
apprehend 
Mr. Félicien Kabuga and to freeze his assets and bank 
accounts,  including  those  of  his  associates  in  Kenya. 
That  team  discharged  its  mandate  and  submitted 
periodic  reports  of  its  findings  to  both  the  Kenyan 
Government  and  the  Tribunal.  Part  of  the  team’s 
findings  was  that  Mr.  Kabuga’s  wife  had  invested  in 
real estate and rents collected were being submitted to 
a  local  financial  institution.  Further  investigations 
revealed  that  those  funds  had  been  transferred  and 
credited to the wife’s bank account in Belgium, where 
Mr.  Kabuga’s  wife  and  children  reside  and  hold 
Belgian  passports.  Our  attorney  general  promptly 
obtained orders from the high court to freeze the bank 
accounts in Kenya. 

Joint investigations by Kenya and the ICTR into 
the  alleged  sightings  of  the  fugitive  in  Kenya  have 
yielded  no  fruit  thus  far.  The  joint  investigation  team 
continues to carry out its mandate with the full support 
of  the  Kenyan  Government.  The  particulars  related  to 
the investigations and actions undertaken are known to 
search 
team 
and 
to 
in 
18 

10-57241 
to  broaden 


the  Tribunal.  Kenya  therefore  finds  the  persistent 
allegations  that  it  shows  complacency  with  regard  to 
apprehending  Mr.  Kabuga  misleading,  malicious  and 
lacking in merit. In this regard, we urge the ICTR and 
international  agencies 
the  search  for 
Mr. Kabuga to include other jurisdictions. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  reaffirms  Kenya’s 
commitment  to  upholding  the  rule  of  law.  Kenya  will 
continue to act closely with the ICTR in that regard. 
Mr. Vilović (Croatia): Let me start by expressing 

our appreciation to the Presidents of the two Tribunals, 
Judges  Byron  and  Robinson,  for  their  comprehensive 
and  informative  reports  on  the  actions  taken  and 
progress made during the period from 1 August 2009 to 
31 July 2010 (A/65/188 and A/65/205). My delegation 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of the European Union. However, I wish 
here to stress a few more items. 
The Tribunals’ determined performance, aimed at 

the  unwavering  prosecution  of  perpetrators  of  war 
crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  or  genocide,  has 
served  as  a  basis  for  an  emerging  culture  of 
accountability  and  a  constant  reminder  that  severe 
crimes, regardless of who has committed them, will not 
go  unpunished.  Croatia  welcomes 
the  continued 
commitment  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible 
for  Serious 
Violations 
International  Humanitarian  Law 
Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
since  1991  (ICTY)  to  its  completion  strategy  and  the 
final  conclusion  of  its  work  in  accordance  with  its 
mandate  and  without  sacrificing  due  process.  In  that 
context,  Croatia  supports  endeavours  by  the  President 
of  the  Court  to  further  streamline  and  improve  the 
Court’s  core  functions 
its 
proceedings and make its work more efficient. 

International  ad  hoc  tribunals  were  never  meant 
to replace national courts, but rather to strengthen them 
and help them properly fulfil their allotted functions. In 
that  light  and  in  accordance  with  relevant  resolutions 
of  the  Security  Council,  Croatia  supports  calls  on  the 
ICTY  to  transfer  all  appropriate  cases  to  competent 
national 
the 
success of the Tribunal’s exit strategy. My country has 
clearly  demonstrated  its  ability  to  conduct  trials  of 
even  the  most  sensitive  cases,  including  the  one  case 
that was transferred to it by the ICTY. 
thereby  contributing 
jurisdictions, 
of 
in  order 
to  expedite 
to 
10-57241 

A/65/PV.27
the  close  and 

We are glad that the present report has confirmed 
Croatia’s  general  responsiveness  to  the  needs  of  the 
Office of the Prosecutor. Croatia is strongly committed 
to  full  and  open  cooperation  with  the  Tribunal,  as 
demonstrated  by 
intense  working 
relationship  established  between  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  and  the  Croatian  Government  at  all  levels. 
We  have  taken  concrete  administrative,  investigative 
and judicial  measures in order to meet the requests  of 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  to  the  maximum  extent 
possible.  These  efforts  were  further  recognized  by  the 
recent decision of Trial Chamber I in the Gotovina et al.
case. 

Let  me  express  once  again  the  deep  concern  of 
my  country  with  the  fact  that  two  accused,  Ratko 
Mladić  and  Goran  Hadžić,  have  continued  to  evade 
justice for much too long — in the case of Mladić, for 
more  than  15  years.  It  must  be  made  absolutely  clear 
that  the  trial  of  those  fugitives  does  not  hinge  on  the 
Tribunal’s  completion  strategy  dates,  and  we  urge 
Member  States  to  do  all  within  their  power  to  ensure, 
as  a  matter  of  urgency,  the  apprehension  of  those 
fugitives  and  their  transfer  to  the  Court’s  custody.  We 
fully  share  the  President  of  the  Court’s  view  that  the 
failure  to  bring  those  persons  to  justice  will  leave  a 
stain  on  the  contribution  of  the  United  Nations  to 
peacebuilding  in  the  former  Yugoslavia  and  that  it 
remains  of  grave  concern  to  the  proper  administration 
of justice. 

Croatia  welcomes  further  cooperation  between 
countries  in  the  region  in  the  processing  of  persons 
indicted for war crimes, as well as interaction between 
the  Tribunal  and  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  and 
competent  national  authorities  responsible  for  war 
crimes  prosecutions.  In  that  context,  we  welcome  the 
liaison  prosecutors  project  funded  by  the  European 
Union, which is designed to bring prosecutors from the 
region to work as liaison prosecutors within the Office 
of the Prosecutor. 
Let  me  also  express  here  our  satisfaction  with 

President  of  the  Court  Judge  Robinson’s  visit  to 
Croatia  at  the  invitation  of  the  President  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Croatia.  On  that  occasion  Judge 
Robinson  also  met  with  the  President  of  Croatia,  the 
Prime  Minister,  the  Minister  of  Justice  and  other  key 
national  and  international  actors  and  discussed  many 
important  issues  connected  with  Croatia’s  processing 
of  domestic  war  crimes  cases,  the  launching  of  the 
Legacy  Project,  the  announcement  of  plans  for  a  new 
19 
the  status  of 
fugitives.  Croatia 
remaining  high-profile 
A/65/PV.27 

Legacy  Conference, 
residual 
mechanism  and  plans  to  establish  ICTY  information 
centres in the region. 

Finally,  Croatia  welcomes  the  work  on  residual 
issues  by  the  Security  Council  Informal  Working 
Group  on  International  Tribunals,  including  trials  of 
the 
is 
particularly  interested  in  finding  just  and  practical 
solutions 
residual 
functions  related  to  the  future  of  the  Tribunals’ 
archives,  to  liaison  with  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor, 
and 
the 
sentences.  In  that  regard,  we  have  found  particularly 
rewarding  the  open  and  transparent  discussions  on 
those  issues  that  have  taken  place  under  the  Austrian 
chairmanship of the Working Group. We are following 
that discussion closely and stand ready to lend our full 
support and cooperation to the efforts aimed at finding 
the  most  appropriate  and  cost-effective  solutions  to 
these issues. 
the  modalities  of  serving 
for  discharging 
the  Tribunals’ 
to  exploring 

the 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  the  two 
agenda  items.  May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of 
agenda items 71 and 72? 
It was so decided. 


Programme of work 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

should like to inform members that the plenary meeting 
devoted  to  the  follow-up  to  the  International  Year  of 
Microcredit,  originally 
for  Monday, 
11 October 2010 at 10 a.m., under agenda item 24 (a), 
“Eradication of poverty and other development issues: 
implementation  of  the  Second  United  Nations  Decade 
for the Eradication of Poverty (2008-2017)”, has been 
rescheduled to Wednesday, 13 October 2010, at 10 a.m. 
in the General Assembly Hall. 

  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.
scheduled 
20 

10-57241 
