
A/65/PV.17
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

17th plenary meeting 
Saturday, 25 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
for 
respect 
it,  out  of 
on  the  General  Assembly’s  website.  It  is  a  lengthy 
speech — although I will not compete with Presidents 
Obama,  Ahmadinejad  or  Chávez  —  so  I  will  skip 
through  much  of 
the 
representatives  who  have  been  here  for  a  week 
listening to many speeches. 

Still, I would fail my upbringing if I were not to 
thank  the  Mayor  of  New  York  and  New  Yorkers  for 
welcoming  us  to  their  city.  We  sympathize  with  the 
residents  of  this  city  for  the  inconveniences  we  cause 
them by our presence, even if most people would agree 
that  the  United  Nations  and  the  numerous  meetings 
held here throughout the year bring enormous tangible 
and  non-quantifiable  benefits  to  the  city.  I  also  would 
like thank the United States federal authorities for their 
exceptional efforts and professionalism in providing us 
with a secure and friendly environment. 

I  have  never  met  Mayor  Bloomberg,  but  he  has 
gone  up  in  our  esteem  and  respect  because  of  his 
intellectual  clarity  and  moral  courage  in  standing  up 
for  the  rights  of  American  Muslims  in  building  a 
cultural centre and a sacred place of worship in lower 
Manhattan  as  a  venue  for  reflection,  learning  and 
fraternity  among  cultures  and  religions.  What  better 
place  is  there  than  lower  Manhattan,  near  the  World 
Trade  Center,  to  signal  the  revulsion  of  American 
Muslims  and  moderate  Muslims  all  over  the  world  at 
the  actions  of  some  extremists?  I  congratulate  Mayor 
Bloomberg for his moral courage and integrity. 

I  was  not  present  in  this  Hall  when  President 
Ahmadinejad of the Islamic Republic of Iran addressed 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 


José  Ramos-Horta,  President  of 
Address by His Excellency Mr. José Ramos-Horta, 
President of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste. 

  Mr. 
the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Ramos-
Horta, President of the Democratic Republic of Timor-
Leste, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Ramos-Horta: I have been given such 

a bad spot on the speaking list that I feel as if I am in a 
Fellini movie, speaking to an empty Hall. Still, because 
I believe in ghosts, I believe that the friendly ghosts of 
those  who  are  not  present  are  here  to  listen,  and  I 
profusely  thank  those  who  bothered  to  come  on  this 
Saturday afternoon. 

Mr. President, in compensation for my having the 
worst  possible  time  slot  in  the  general  debate,  when  I 
see you this afternoon I hope you will have a nice box 
of Swiss chocolates to give to me. 

We  will  not  distribute  the  written  version  of  my 
speech  because  no  one  reads  them  anyway  and  it  is  a 
waste  of  paper  and  money.  However,  anyone  who  is 
curious enough about my speech will be able to find it 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55109 (E) 
*1055109* 




in  and 
regurgitate  whatever 
A/65/PV.17 

this  Assembly  a  few  days  ago.  I  was  at  Columbia 
University,  addressing  an  equally  important  gathering 
of young students and academics from many countries, 
cultures  and  religions.  So  I  did  not  hear  President 
Ahmadinejad’s  latest  intellectual  concoctions  in  this 
Assembly.  I  will  not  question  the  right  of  anyone  to 
speak  his  mind.  President  Ahmadinejad  is  entitled  to 
believe 
intellectual, 
philosophical  or  theological  concoctions  his  unique 
mind  may  fabricate.  However,  I  do  not  agree  that  any 
of us should disregard the basic rules and practices of 
conduct  among  leaders  by  uttering  obscenities  in  this 
Assembly.  What  President  Ahmadinejad  said  in  this 
forum  in  regard  to  the  terrorist  attacks  on  the  World 
Trade Center was an obscenity. He went too far, as he 
has  done  many  times  before  in  this  Assembly  and  in 
other  forums,  as  when  he  has  questioned  the  facts  of 
the Holocaust. 

Otherwise, we fully subscribe to Iran’s legitimate 
right  to  develop  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes,  and  we  caution  the  Powers  that  be  not  to 
hasten  in  reaching  conclusions  that  may  lead  to 
irreversible, catastrophic decisions. We do have serious 
doubts,  however,  about  the  reliability  and  safety  of 
nuclear  energy.  Let  us  not  forget  the  lessons  of  the 
Three  Mile  Island  accident,  which  occurred  at  4  a.m. 
on 28 March 1979 in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, or the 
even worse Chernobyl nuclear meltdown of April 1986. 
The recent catastrophic oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico 
would  pale  by  comparison  with  the  blow-up  of  a 
nuclear  energy  facility.  We  do  not  know  whether 
Iranian  rulers  do  or  do  not  have  the  desire  to  be  an 
armed  nuclear  Power.  What  we  do  know,  however,  is 
that the possession of nuclear weapons is not a shortcut 
to  super-Power  status,  as  some  in Asia  seem  to  think, 
and does not insure anyone against twenty-first century 
conventional and non–conventional security threats. 

Nuclear  weapons  were  developed  as  a  result  of 
the tragic experiences of the Second World War and of 
mutual  suspicion  and  fears  pervasive  among 
the 
Powers at that time. They have become obsolete. That 
is proven by the fact that the mighty Soviet nuclear and 
conventional  arsenals  were  not  able  to  prevent  the 
implosion  of  its  Empire,  the  liberation  of  hundreds  of 
millions  of  people  or  the  reunification  of  Germany. 
Nuclear  weapons  are  not  going  to  be  of  much  help  in 
the  ongoing  ethnic,  religious  and  border  disputes  in 
Asia.  We  pray  to  God  the Almighty  and  the  Merciful 
that these weapons and others, chemical and biological, 
do  not  ever  fall  into  the  hands  of  extremist  non-State 
entities. 

We  gathered  here  from  20  to  22  September  to 
review the progress — or lack of it — on the pledges 
we  solemnly  made  before  our  peoples  in  2000  to 
eliminate or at least halve poverty by 2015. In Timor-
Leste,  we  regained  independence  in  2002,  and  in  the 
first  years  of  our  independence  we  set  out  to  rebuild 
our country from the ashes of the violence of the past, 
lay  the  foundations  of  a  functioning  democratic  State, 
heal  our  wounds,  reconcile  our  divided  communities 
and normalize relations with past external adversaries. 
In  only  eight  years  and  in  spite  of  the  overwhelming 
challenges  facing  us,  we  have  navigated  out  of  the 
storms 
to  a  new  period  of  peace,  stability  and 
economic growth. 

Timor-Leste is a least developed country, affected 
by  pervasive  poverty.  We  are  still  a  fragile  country, 
partly  because  we  are  only  eight  years  old,  and  being 
an  infant  country,  all  the  institutions  of  the  State  are 
young  and  fragile.  However,  the  Almighty  and  the 
Merciful  has  blessed  us  with  generous  natural 
resources, such as oil and gas, enabling us to accelerate 
our overall development. 

Timor-Leste  was  not  yet  independent  in  2000, 
and it was not until our first Millennium Development 
Goal  report  was  issued  in  2004  that  the  first  targets 
were  set.  For  the  past  three  years,  Timor-Leste  has 
enjoyed  real  peace  and  a  robust  economic  growth  of 
over 12 per cent. In the past two years, poverty levels 
have  decreased  by  as  much  as  9  per  cent.  Infant 
mortality  and  under-five  mortality  rates  have  been 
reduced  and  have  already  reached  the  2015  target. 
School  enrolment  has  increased  from  65  per  cent  in 
2007  to  83  per  cent  in  2009-2010.  Adult  illiteracy  is 
being gradually eliminated thanks to a joint programme 
between  Timor-Leste  and  Cuba.  We  anticipate  that, 
within 
three  years,  Timor-Leste  will  be 
completely free of illiteracy. About 30 per cent of our 
general  State  budget  is  allocated  to  public  health  and 
education.  This  turn-around  is  due  largely  thanks  to 
aggressive public financing of social such programmes 
as  direct  cash  transfers  to  the  elderly,  widows,  the 
handicapped and veterans, and to determined efforts to 
expand cultivated areas and increase food production. 

The  first  of  the  800  Timorese  medical  students 
studying  in  Cuba  have  returned  home.  In  addition  to 
those  studying  medicine  in  Cuba,  there  are  200  more 
two 
to 
2 

10-55109 
in 


enrolled 
the  medical  school  of  our  national 
university.  In  addition,  more  than  200  Cuban  doctors 
have  been  assigned 
to  Timor-Leste  since  2004, 
working side by side with Timorese doctors and nurses 
delivering  services  to  the  remotest  corners  of  the 
country and training our medical and health personnel. 
The  members  of  the  famous  Cuban  Medical  Brigade 
are true missionaries, as deserving of the Nobel Peace 
Prize as Mother Teresa. 

In Timor-Leste, this year we will finalize our own 
road map, the 2011-2030 Strategic  Development Plan, 
which will lift our people from centuries of poverty to 
the level of an upper-middle-income country by 2030. 

With regard to the management of our petroleum 
resources,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Extractive 
Industries  Transparency  Initiative  in  its  most  recent 
report of 1 July, rated Timor-Leste number one in Asia 
and  number  three  in  the  world  for  sound,  transparent 
and effective management of our oil and gas revenues. 

Women  make  up  almost  30  per  cent  of  the 
deputies  in  our  national  Parliament.  Key  cabinet 
positions  in  the  executive  branch  —  finance,  justice, 
social  solidarity,  prosecutor-general  and  so  on  —  are 
held  by  women.  A  youth  parliament,  comprising 
130 youth parliamentarians ranging in ages from 12 to 
17 years, has been elected and will have its first formal 
sitting in November. I am pleased that our expectations 
on  balanced  gender  representation  were 
in  fact 
exceeded.  The  youth  parliament  counts  68  girl  and 
62 boy deputies. 
Timor-Leste  is  proud  to  have  one  of  the  most 

humanist  Constitutions  in  the  world.  It  prohibits  the 
death  penalty  and  its  maximum  prison  sentence  is 
25 years.  We  have  also  ratified  all  core  international 
human  rights  treaties.  Our  Constitution  gives  primacy 
to international law over domestic law, such that all our 
laws must conform to international law. 

As the Head of State guided by humanist beliefs 
and the relevant provisions of our Constitution, I have 
issued pardons to individuals who have been tried and 
found guilty by the courts and have served a number of 
years with good behaviour. We believe that the pursuit 
of 
from  other 
overwhelming  values, 
such  as  compassion  and 
understanding of mitigating circumstances. 

I  wish  now  to  turn  to  some  international  issues. 
We  appeal  to  President  Barack  Obama  to  sign  an 
cannot  be  dissociated 
justice 
A/65/PV.17
it 
executive order releasing five Cuban citizens who have 
languished in United States jails for over 10 years and 
denied  family  visits.  Even  visits  by  the  International 
Committee of the Red Cross have not been authorized. 
The  United  States  should  likewise  lift  the  draconian 
financial  and  economic  sanctions  and  trade  embargo 
against Cuba. The Cuban people are among the few in 
the  world  who  are  still  suffering  the  inequities  of  the 
cold-war  era.  It  would  seem  that,  for  some  in  the 
United States and in particular in the State of Florida, 
the cold war is not over. 

The  situation  in  Myanmar  is  an  immensely 
complex  one.  It  is  a  vast  country  fragmented  along 
ethnic  lines  and  plagued  by  numerous  armed  groups 
fighting  with  different  agendas.  Based  on  our  own 
experience,  we  believe  that  in  order  to  manage  such 
complex  challenges,  be 
in  our  own  country, 
Myanmar or anywhere else, we must all show wisdom 
and  engage  in  patient  dialogue  with  those  who  do  not 
agree with us so that together we can end conflict and 
pull our countries out of poverty. 

With respect to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we 
commend  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  leaders  for  their 
renewed  dialogue  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
States  Administration.  To  those  in  Palestine  who,  in 
spite  of  decades  of  suffering  and  humiliation,  have 
resisted  the  temptation  of  extremism  and  violence,  I 
bow. To those in Israel who have championed the cause 
of peace and the rights of the Palestinian people, I will 
say  that  they  represent  the  very  best  of  the  Jewish 
people  —  a  people  who  more  than  anyone  else  on 
Earth  should  understand  the  suffering  and  desire  of 
others for freedom. 

to  show  statesmanship  by 
recognizing  the  State  of  Israel.  Extremism,  fanaticism 
and  indiscriminate  violence  do  harm  to  the  noble 
Palestinian quest for dignity and freedom. At the same 
time, we submit that Hamas and Hezbollah are genuine 
popular  movements  deeply  rooted  in  the  plight  of 
millions  of  poor,  dispossessed,  alienated  and  angry  in 
the Middle East. Labelling them terrorists and refusing 
to engage and build bridges with such groups is, in our 
view, not a sound policy. 

We urge Israel, a country founded on 5,000 years 
of history and born of centuries of persecution and war, 
to  show  the  wisdom  and  generosity  of  the  Jews  by 
ending the Gaza blockade, allowing unhindered access 
We  urge  Hamas 
10-55109 

3 

to  solve 
A/65/PV.17 

for  humanitarian  assistance,  and  ending  the  land-
grabbing and colonization of the West Bank. 

On  the  question  of  Western  Sahara,  the  aborted 
decolonization  of  that  territory  and  the  endless  plight 
of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Saharans  in  camps  in 
Algeria  constitute  an  indictment  of  the  international 
community.  This  is  not  an  issue  as  complex  as 
Afghanistan  or  Palestine.  How  can  we  believe  that 
there  will  be  an  early  resolution  of  these  other 
seemingly intractable problems when there seems to be 
little  political  will 
the  Western  Sahara 
problem? 

I  believe  that  I  have  already  exceeded  the  time 
allocated to me by one minute and 35 seconds. I have a 
few  more  words  to  say  about  foreign  aid  and  climate 
change,  but  I  will  skip  that  in  order  to  respect 
everybody else, particularly those following me. Allow 
me  only  to  say  two  words  about  United  Nations 
reform. 

More than 60 years after its founding, the United 
Nations  has  yet  to  undertake  meaningful  reform  to 
make it more representative of the world of the twenty-
first century and to become more effective. And we are 
not 
talking  only  about  an  expanded  and  more 
representative  Security  Council.  We  are  talking  about 
making the United Nations and its many agencies and 
programmes  less  bureaucratic  and  more  efficient  in 
their internal management and service delivery. 

In regard to the Security Council, we restate our 
view  that  it  has  to  be  expanded  to  accommodate  the 
new demographic and economic realities of the twenty-
first  century.  Major  regional  Powers  like  India  and 
Brazil must be granted permanent member status in the 
Security Council. 

In concluding, on behalf of our people I thank the 
international  community  for  the  steady  and  generous 
assistance  provided  to  us  in  our  years  of  need.  We 
would not have been able to achieve the progress of the 
past years without the understanding of our friends and 
partners. 
in  Timor-Leste  and 

elsewhere, 
and  we  must.  With  humility  we 
acknowledge  our  failings  and  limitations.  We  are 
determined to live up to the expectations of our people 
and  to  lead  them  towards  a  peaceful  and  prosperous 
future. 
We  can  all  do  better 



The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste  for 
the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr. 
the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 
José  Ramos-Horta,  President  of 
like 
I  would 
President  Klaus:  First, 
Address by Mr. Václav Klaus, President  
of the Czech Republic 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of the Czech 
Republic. 

  Mr.  Václav  Klaus,  President  of 
the  Czech 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Václav  Klaus, 
President  of  the  Czech  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 
to 

congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the  very 
responsible post of President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-fifth session. 

I  have  the  privilege  of  representing  the  Czech 
Republic, a country in the very heart of Europe that has 
been  actively  involved  in  United  Nations  activities 
from the very beginning and will continue to be so. We 
are  actively  involved  in  a  number  of  United  Nations 
bodies,  and  Czech 
soldiers  and  experts  have 
participated  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
for  many  decades.  It  is  in  our  interests  for  this 
Organization  to  remain  a  respected  high-level  forum, 
contributing 
to  prosperity,  stability  and  peaceful 
solutions to conflicts around the world. 

It has been said here many times in the past few 
days  that  today’s  world  is  very  different  from  that  of 
1945,  when 
founded  by 
51 States. It now consists of 192. That is not merely a 
quantitative  change;  it  is  much  more.  My  country  is 
therefore  deeply  convinced  that  the  structure  of  the 
United  Nations  also  needs  to  be  different,  especially 
that of the Security Council, which should be reformed 
to  reflect  the  geopolitical,  economic  and  demographic 
reality of the twenty-first century. It is frustrating that 
discussions  of  such  reform  have  gone  on  for  the  past 
this  Organization  was 
4 

10-55109 


16  years  without  results.  It  is  time  to  come  up  with 
concrete  results,  and  my  country  is  ready  to  support 
them. 

Changes  of  this  kind  are  necessary;  on  the  other 
hand,  some  things  must  continue  unchanged.  I  do  not 
believe  that  the  United  Nations  needs  to  search  for  a 
new mission. Its goals should remain those defined in 
the  original  Charter:  to  maintain  international  peace 
and  security,  to  develop  friendly  relations  among 
nations,  and  to  achieve  international  cooperation  in 
solving  international  problems.  The  United  Nations 
should not diverge from these principles. It should not 
search  for  alternative  or  substitute  projects  to  replace 
those  that  enhance  peace,  freedom  and  democracy.  It 
should remain an intergovernmental platform, based on 
the  plurality  of  views  of  its  Member  States  and  on 
mutual respect for their sometimes differing positions. 

Let me briefly touch on two issues that form part 
of  the  current  United  Nations  agenda.  The  first  is  the 
worldwide  economic  crisis  and  the  methods  used  to 
overcome  it.  I  am  afraid  that  we  are  moving  in  the 
wrong  direction.  The  anti-crisis  measures  that  have 
been  proposed  and  already  partly  implemented  follow 
from  the  assumption  that  the  crisis  was  a  failure  of 
markets  and  that  the  right  way  out  is  more  regulation 
of  markets. This  is  a  mistaken  assumption.  It  will  not 
be possible to prevent any future crises by implementing 
substantial, market-damaging macroeconomic and regulatory 
Government interventions,  as is being done now. That 
will  only  destroy  markets,  and  with  them  the  chances 
for  economic  growth  and  prosperity  in  developed  and 
developing countries alike. 

The  solution  to  this  or  any  other  crisis  does  not 
lie  in  increasing  protectionism,  and  it  is  a  positive 
factor  that  most  Governments  have  behaved  quite 
rationally  in  this  respect.  Nor  does  the  solution  lie  in 
more  bureaucracy,  in  creating  new  governmental  or 
supranational  agencies,  or 
in  aiming  at  global 
governance  of  the  world’s  economy.  On  the  contrary, 
this 
international  organizations, 
including the United Nations, to reduce their spending, 
slim down their administrations and leave the solutions 
to  the  Governments  of  the  Member  States,  which  are 
directly accountable to the citizens of their countries. 

Developing  countries  should  not  be  prevented 
from  growing  economically.  They  need  access  to 
foreign markets and they need free trade. It was in this 
forum  last  year  that  I  emphasized  that  we  must  pay 
time 
the 
for 
is 
A/65/PV.17
forced 
attention  to  the  costs  and  benefits  of  our  decisions. 
Developing  countries  must  not  be 
into 
agreements on ever more ambitious targets in the fight 
against climate change, particularly at a time when the 
developed  countries  themselves  are  far  from  meeting 
those  targets.  The  United  Nations  should  not  have  an 
all-encompassing agenda. It should not turn away from 
political topics towards scientific ones. It is here not to 
determine  what  science  is,  but  to  engage  its  Member 
States  in  rational  and  reasoned  debate  about  political 
issues.  The  most  harmful  political  debate  we  have 
witnessed  in  the  past  couple  of  years  is  about  the 
climate and global warming. 

We  should  not  give  up  on  elemental  values  and 
principles that most of us share, and this brings me to 
the  second  issue  I  wish  to  mention  here  today  — 
nuclear  non  proliferation.  In April,  my  country  hosted 
an  important  event  during  which  the  President  of 
Russia  and  the  President  of  the  United  States  signed 
the Treaty  on Measures  for the Further  Reduction  and 
Limitation  of  Strategic  Offensive  Arms.  We  see  the 
Treaty  as  an  important  step  forward  and  as  a  visible 
sign  of  our  efforts  to  make  our  complicated  world 
safer.  Let  us  hope  that  it  will  be  taken  further  in  the 
foreseeable future. 

We do not dispute the right of any country to use 
atomic energy for peaceful purposes, but it must do so 
in  a  responsible  way.  It  is  not  possible  for  some 
countries  to  ignore  agreed  and  respected  international 
standards,  to  threaten  stability  in  their  regions  and  to 
increase the dangers of proliferation. 

The  United  Nations  is  a  unique  forum  at  which 
small and big countries alike are represented. They are 
countries  with  different  political,  economic  and  social 
systems;  different  neighbours;  different  historical 
experiences  and  geopolitical  positions;  and,  more 
importantly,  different  levels  of  income,  wealth  and 
development. This is precisely what makes the United 
Nations  unique 
Instead  of 
increasingly  becoming  a  source  of  funds  for  various, 
sometimes 
non-governmental 
organizations  that  —  without  any  accountability  or 
control — seek to profit from United Nations activities, 
the United Nations should strive to be an efficient body 
in  which  States  and  their  peoples  are  represented.  Its 
task is not to push for global governance and play the 
central  role  in  it.  The  United  Nations  exists  primarily 
to  enhance  friendly  relations  among  its  Members  and 
irreplaceable. 
dubious 
very 
and 
10-55109 

5 

I  wish  you  every  success 
A/65/PV.17 

to  look  for  solutions  to  problems  that  cannot  be 
confined to national boundaries. 

in  your  office, 
Mr. President,  and  I  would  like  to  assure  you  that  the 
Czech Republic will continue to be an active Member 
of the United Nations. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Czech Republic for the statement he has just made. 

the  Czech 
the  General 
  Mr.  Václav  Klaus,  President  of 
Republic,  was  escorted 
Assembly Hall. 
from 



Address by Mr. Anote Tong, President, Head of 
Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs  
of the Republic of Kiribati 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President,  Head  of 
Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Kiribati. 

  Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Anote  Tong, 
President,  Head  of  Government  and  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Kiribati,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Tong:  Every  year,  we  gather  in  this 

General  Assembly  Hall 
take  stock  of  our 
achievements  in  the  pursuit  of  a  more  peaceful,  more 
secure and a better world for all citizens of the global 
community. 

As  it  emerged  from  the  ashes  of  devastating 
world wars, the United Nations heralded a new era and 
a  new  world  order  of  international  cooperation  in  the 
pursuit  of  international  peace  and  security.  It  is 
premised  on  the  principles  of  sovereign  equality  and 
peaceful coexistence. 

Taking  stock  of  what  we  have  achieved  since 
then, we can say today that we have been successful in 
preventing  many  of  the  scourges  that  have  challenged 
humanity, 
including  world  wars  and  widespread 
disease.  But  as  we  rid  our  global  society  of  those 
to 
the 
injustices,  new  and  emerging  forms  of  injustices  now 
threaten our global security. 

I believe that climate change remains the greatest 
moral challenge of our time. While it affects all nations 
of  this  planet,  the  irony  is  that  it  is  the  poorest  and 
smallest  countries,  which  have  made 
least 
contribution  to  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  that  are 
paying the ultimate price in order that the lifestyles and 
development  agenda  of  some  countries  may  be 
maintained. Where is the justice in that? 
The  Copenhagen  Conference  failed  to  meet  the 

expectations of many, but especially of those countries 
on the front line for which the threat of climate change 
is no longer a matter of speculation but one of survival, 
and therefore of  great  urgency. There is  a tendency in 
much of the world to view climate change as a distant 
and  gradual  process  whose  harmful  effects  are  remote 
possible and not worthy of much attention. I have said 
in  various  forums  that,  for  low-lying  island  countries 
like  Kiribati,  Tuvalu,  the  Maldives  and  the  Marshall 
Islands,  among  other  similarly  vulnerable  countries, 
climate change is a matter of survival and of increasing 
urgency. 

Already  we  are  witnessing  major  damage  to 
infrastructure and property as a consequence of higher-
than-normal tides and storm surges. Coastal erosion in 
heavily  populated  areas  is  occurring  at  a  rate  that 
exceeds the Governments’ capacity to respond. Lack of 
resources  is  exacerbating  the  situation.  Coastlines 
continue  to  be  eroded  and  homes  and  properties 
continue to be damaged. 
Long  before  our  islands  are  inundated  by  the 

rising  seas, 
they  will  become  uninhabitable  as 
freshwater  aquifers  are  contaminated  by  saltwater 
intrusion  from  rising  tides.  Increasing  demand  for 
resources  to  undertake  effective  responses  to  climate 
change impacts will become a dominant feature of our 
development agenda. I truly hope, therefore, that I can 
during  this  session  communicate  the  deep  sense  of 
urgency  and  growing  sense  of  despair  besetting  our 
people in the face of this oncoming catastrophe. 

On the basis of current scientific projections, the 
Copenhagen  Accord  does  not  provide  the  means  to 
guarantee our future survival, and therefore we did not 
sign 
in  Copenhagen.  We  have  subsequently 
associated  ourselves  with  the  Accord,  essentially  for 
the  following  reasons.  First,  we  are  of  the  belief  that 
the Accord  at  least  represents  a  positive  step  towards 
it 
6 

10-55109 
I  acknowledge 
the  expectation 


an international governance system on climate change. 
Secondly,  we  have 
that  further, 
forthcoming  scientific  evidence  will  unequivocally 
determine  the  targets  to  be  agreed  upon.  Finally  and 
most  importantly,  we  believe  that  our  support  for  the 
Accord  will  ensure  the  flow  of  urgently  needed 
adaptation funds. I regret to say that, to date, we have 
not  been  able  to  access  any  of  the  fast-start  funds 
pledged. 

that  many  elements  of  any 
international  regime  on  climate  change  will  take 
several years to conclude, but I also believe that there 
is  common  ground  on  which  there  is  no  real  debate. 
The  urgent  need  for  the  flow  of  adaptation  funds  to 
address  the  more  urgent  adaptation  needs  of  the  most 
vulnerable  countries  is  a  matter  over  which  there  is 
general  consensus.  It  is  not  a  matter  to  negotiate  or 
procrastinate over; if we do, it will be too late for some 
countries  and  any  subsequent  agreement  will  be 
meaningless. It is also important that adaptation funds 
not  be  regarded  as  additional  development  funds  by 
either development partners or recipient countries, but 
be  provided  and  applied  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
adaptation to climate change. 

I believe that we need to modify our approach to 
Mexico if we are to succeed. I believe that we have a 
moral  obligation  to  reach  agreement  on  a  legally 
binding framework that regulates our ability to pursue 
policies  that  harm  others.  For  very  obvious  reasons,  I 
do not believe that any country should have the right to 
exercise sovereignty over its greenhouse gas emissions. 
In  my  view,  any  alternative  to  a  legally  binding 
framework  is  simply  unacceptable  and  would  have 
potentially destabilizing consequences. 

The  experience  at  Copenhagen  taught  us  that  if 
we  are  to  make  any  progress,  we  must  acknowledge 
our  differences  and  discuss  ways  around  them  rather 
than  allow  them  to  dominate  the  international  agenda 
behind the process. In this regard, we believe that trust 
and mutual respect are indispensable to the process. 

international 
community  an  opportunity  to  reflect  upon  the  future 
direction  of  our  relations  as  sovereign  nations.  I 
believe  that  the  climate  change  challenge  provides  us 
with  the  opportunity  to  be  more  innovative  in  our 
concept  of 
international  governance.  Our  current 
arrangement is similar to that of State Governments not 
Climate 
change 
offers 
the 
A/65/PV.17
the  critical 
accepting  federal  authority  within  a  federal  system. 
One can imagine the chaos. 

While  other  countries  are  focusing  their  efforts 
and  resources  on  their  sustainable  development,  we, 
the  most  vulnerable  countries,  continue  to  spend  the 
limited  resources  we  have  on  fighting  the  continuous 
onslaught  of  the  rising  seas  and  storm  surges  on  our 
homes  and  livelihoods.  It  is  no  surprise  therefore  that 
we  are  off-track  to  achieve  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  implementation  of  our 
sustainable  development  agenda  under  our  national 
development  plan,  the  Pacific  Plan  and  the  Mauritius 
Strategy.  For  every  step  we  take  forward,  we  are 
knocked  back  two  or  three  due  to  the  challenges  we 
face, which are exacerbated by climate change. 

In  this  regard,  it  is  imperative  that  the  pledges 
made  at  Copenhagen  for  fast-start  funds  to  assist 
vulnerable countries like Kiribati to adapt to the impact 
of climate change and sea-level rise be mobilized at the 
earliest  possible  opportunity. This  is  a  matter  of  great 
and increasing urgency. 

role  of  our 
We  acknowledge 
environment  as  the  pillar  of  sustainable  development. 
Maintaining  the  health  of  our  biodiversity  within  our 
oceans and ecosystems faces the very same challenges 
that we have  so far failed to address in respect of our 
atmosphere.  It 
that  we 
undertake  the  commitment  to  put  in  place  now  the 
measures  needed  in  order  to  avoid  the  mistakes  we 
have made with climate change. In pursuit of this, we 
in Kiribati have designated the largest marine protected 
area  and  marine  World  Heritage  Site,  the  Phoenix 
Islands Protected Area. It covers an area of more than 
400,000  square  kilometres,  representing  some  11  per 
cent  of  our  exclusive  economic  zone.  The  Protected 
Area  is  the  result  of  a  collaborative  partnership  with 
Conservation  International  and 
the  New  England 
Aquarium.  It  provides  a  natural  breeding  ground  for 
tropical fisheries and ocean ecosystems. It is a natural 
laboratory  for  the  study  of  such  ecosystems  and  the 
impact  of  climate  change  in  a  pristine  area  virtually 
untouched by human activity. 

The  preservation  of  that  Area  is  our  gift  to 
humanity  and  our  contribution 
international 
biodiversity conservation efforts to significantly reduce 
biodiversity 
International  Year  of 
Biodiversity. Even now, as we confront the possibility 
that  our  islands  will  become  uninhabitable  within  the 
imperative, 
therefore, 
loss 
this 
is 
to 
in 
10-55109 

7 

A/65/PV.17 

century  due  to  the  rising  sea  level,  we  recognize  the 
value  of  protecting  something  that  is  the  common 
heritage of humanity. 

Kiribati  and  the  Pacific  are  committed  to  the 
sustainable  conservation  and  management  of  their 
ocean  ecosystem  through  the  Micronesia  Challenge, 
the Coral Triangle Initiative, the Nauru Agreement and 
the  many  other  national  efforts  throughout  the  region 
to conserve biodiversity and ecosystems. At its meeting 
last  month  in  Vanuatu,  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
endorsed  the  Pacific  Oceanscape  Framework,  which 
promotes collaboration and cooperation among marine 
protected areas in the Pacific region. Initiatives such as 
the Pacific 2020 Challenge and a novel Pangaea World 
concept  of  green  development  through  knowledge 
economies link those initiatives to the countries of the 
Pacific Rim and beyond. 

Our  message  to  the  international  community  is 
that the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems in 
the  Pacific  is  not  important  only  to  the  sustainable 
development  of  Pacific  peoples.  It  is  also  of  vital 
significance to the rest of the world. Support from the 
international  community  in  protecting  ecosystems  in 
the  Pacific,  and  indeed  elsewhere,  should  not  be 
viewed  as  a  handout,  but  as  an  investment  for  future 
generations of this planet. 

Last year, we all called for a new world order. We 
all  acknowledged  that  our  great  Organization  must 
evolve  to  reflect  the  realities  of  our  time  —  a  time  in 
which new and emerging security threats and injustices 
such  as  climate  change  are  challenging  the  credibility 
of  our  international  system  of  governance;  a  time  in 
which  the  future  survival  of  some  nations  is  seriously 
in  question;  a  time  when  all  those  countries  with  the 
ability  to  do  so  must  contribute  to  the  prevention  of 
that calamity or be forever judged in history. 

We  note  that  tensions  remain  high  in  certain 
regions,  notably  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  Korean 
peninsula. For the sake of those of us on the front line 
of  the  major  global  challenges,  let  us  pray  that  great 
understanding and stability will prevail. For while we, 
as small nations, may seem not to be affected by such 
events,  they  serve  to  distract  the  focus  of  attention 
away  from  the  real  challenges  facing  the  international 
community and our planet today. 

It is gratifying to note the easing of tensions and 
improvement  of  relations  across  the Taiwan  Straits  — 
no doubt,  a  most welcome development for  all in that 
in 
institutions 
region. We also welcome the inclusion of Taiwan in the 
World  Health  Assembly,  and  we  hope  that  similar 
understanding  will  prevail 
respect  of  other 
in  which  Taiwan  can 
international 
participate and contribute meaningfully for the good of 
humanity. 

As we chart the path towards a new world order, 
we  must  address  the  fundamental  threats  to  the  very 
existence  of  the  units  that  make  up  our  Organization. 
As  the  so  called  community  of  nations,  we  must  be 
able  to  guarantee  the  survival  of  members  of  our 
community  by  addressing  this  defining  challenge  of 
our era. Climate change must be addressed before it is 
too late for those nations  on the front line and for the 
whole of humanity. 

At  this  time,  we  need  compassionate,  visionary 
and responsible leadership to direct our path towards a 
more secure and more just world. We need to share the 
solution, and we need to act as one in Mexico. We owe 
it  to  our  future  generations  to  act,  and  to  act  now. 
Maintaining the status quo is simply not an option. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Kiribati  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

  Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 



  Address by Mr. Gervais Rufyikiri, Second Vice-
President of the Republic of Burundi 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the Second Vice-President 
of the Republic of Burundi. 

  Mr.  Gervais  Rufyikiri,  Second  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  Burundi,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gervais 
Rufyikiri,  Second  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Burundi,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 

8 

10-55109 
in 
these  meetings  himself,  but 


Mr.  Rufyikiri  (Burundi)  (spoke  in  French): 

Allow  me  first  of  all  to  convey  to  the  Assembly  the 
warm  and  fraternal  greetings  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, who has just been re-elected for 
a  second  term  of  five  years.  He  had  planned  to  take 
part 
the  Unity 
International Foundation insisted on awarding him the 
Rising Star of Africa prize for his role in building and 
promoting peace, and that led him to delegate attending 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  general  debate  of  the 
Assembly’s sixty-fifth session to me. 

We  wish  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session  and  to  reiterate  the 
thanks of the Burundi delegation to his predecessor for 
his  remarkable  work.  We  also  pay  due  tribute  to  our 
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
for  his  involvement  in  the  follow-up  to  Assembly 
resolutions  and  for  the  important  guidance  that  he 
continues  to  give  our  Organization.  His  visit  to 
Burundi  on  9  June  2010  is  a  clear  sign  of  his 
commitment to peacebuilding and to strengthening the 
democracy regained in our country at great cost. 
Burundi is participating in  the sixty-fifth session 

following 
renewal  of  national 
institutions. For the first time in Burundi’s history, the 
democratically  elected  institutions  have  completed 
their  term  of  office. That  powerfully  demonstrates  the 
political maturity and resolve of the people of Burundi 
to break with the turbulent past in order to invest in the 
peace, stability and reconciliation that are prerequisites 
to sustainable development. 

We take this opportunity to reiterate the thanks of 
the Government and people of Burundi for the role of 
the  international  community,  the  United  Nations,  the 
European  Union,  the  African  Union,  the  European 
Parliament, the East African Community, the ACP-EU 
Joint Parliamentary Assembly, the Common Market for 
the  Economic 
Eastern 
Community  of  Central  African  States, 
friendly 
countries  and  various  organizations  in  participating  in 
the  funding  and  observation  of  the  aforementioned 
elections,  which  were  peaceful,  transparent  and  fair 
and in accordance with international standards. 

For  its  part,  the  party  that  won  the  elections  is 
aware  of  the  absolute  need  to  promote  national 
reconciliation and political tolerance as much as it can. 
From  the  day  after  the  first  round  of  the  election  and 
and  Southern  Africa, 
top-to-bottom 
the 
A/65/PV.17

in 
regard 
of 
Burundi. 
Furthermore, 
then  in  his  inaugural  speech,  the  President  of  the 
Republic himself expressed his resolve and that of the 
winning  party  to  govern  Burundi  for  and  with  all  the 
people 
Burundi’s 
Constitution  also  provides  for  political 
inclusion 
mechanisms in managing the State’s affairs. 

During  the  new  Parliament,  the  Government  of 
Burundi  is  committed  to  following  its  peacebuilding 
programme  and  strengthening  security  for  all,  in 
particular  by  completing  disarmament  of  the  civilian 
population  and 
the  socio-economic  reinsertion  of 
demobilized  individuals  and  returnees.  Furthermore, 
the Government of Burundi will particularly emphasize 
regional  cooperation  and 
integration,  as  well  as 
enhancing  security  in  its  geographical  area,  together 
with neighbouring countries. 

  Ms. Lucas (Luxembourg), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 
Promoting  good  governance 
its  various 

dimensions  is  also  one  of  the  main  concerns  of 
Burundi’s  Government.  With 
to  political 
governance,  it  will  continue  to  promote  the  rights  of 
political  parties,  including  by  strengthening  the  spirit 
of dialogue between political partners. 

With  respect  to  economic  governance,  there  will 
be efforts to improve business conditions to encourage 
both national and foreign investment. The Government 
of  Burundi  reaffirms  its  determination  and  zero-
tolerance  commitment  to  combat  financial  corruption 
and fraud. 

In the area of the judiciary, every possible effort 
will  be  made  to  combat  impunity  with  respect  to  any 
type of crime, and transitional justice will be promoted 
during this Parliament. 

the 
Government of Burundi will focus every effort possible 
on 
through 
development  of  priority  production  sectors,  namely, 
agriculture and livestock, energy, social infrastructure, 
tourism,  environmental  renewal  and  new  information 
and communication technologies. We will give special 
attention to developing public-private partnerships with 
a view to sustained economic growth. 

In the social domain, the Government of Burundi 
will concentrate on the education and health sectors to 
combat ignorance and disease. To meet crucial needs in 
those  areas,  many  schools  and  clinics  will  be  built 
Concerning  socio-economic  development, 
combating 
particular 
poverty, 
in 
10-55109 

9 
here 
and 
to 

to 
the 
represented 
Relaunching  and  promoting 
A/65/PV.17 

throughout  the  country.  Furthermore,  the  services  in 
these two sectors will also be improved. 

the  Burundian 
economy  depends  also  on  consolidating  regional 
groups  and  developing  projects  and  programmes  that 
integrate  common  interests.  In  that  framework,  the 
Government  of  Burundi  will  play  a  larger  role  in  the 
promotion  of  regional  organizations  of  which  it  is  a 
member,  such  as  the  Economic  Community  of  the 
Great Lake Countries, the International Conference on 
the  Great  Lakes  Region,  whose  Executive  Secretariat 
we  host,  the  East  African  Community,  the  Common 
Market  for  Eastern  and  Southern  Africa,  and  others. 
That ambitious programme requires consistent support 
for  its  implementation.  Thus  Burundi  clearly  requires 
various forms of support. 
To that end, we take the opportunity of this forum 

to  make  a  strong  appeal 
international 
community,  to  the  United  Nations  system  and  to  the 
countries 
charitable 
organizations  to  continue  their  tireless  support  to  the 
Government  of  Burundi  with  the  ultimate  aim  of 
allowing  it  to  lay  the  foundations  for  long-term 
development  and  for  solidifying  the  achievements 
made  in  terms  of  peace,  democracy,  stability  and 
reconciliation. 

In  the  context  of  international  relations  and 
relations between States, Burundi is convinced that the 
issue  of  global  governance  in  general  and  economic 
governance  in  particular  remains  a  major  concern  of 
most  of  our  countries. Thus  promotion  of  equity  must 
become 
the 
organizations  of  which  our  respective  States  are  full 
members. 
to  allow 

developing  countries  sufficient  representation  in  the 
international  financial  institutions  such  as  the  World 
Bank, the International Monetary Fund and others. We 
believe  that  is  the  way  to  promote  a  fairer  and  more 
geographically balanced world. 

Burundi  is  committed  to  the  African  Union’s 
position on Security Council reform, in particular that 
the African continent should have two permanent seats 
with  all  of  the  privileges  held  by  the  five  permanent 
members. 

Today the entire world is confronting a number of 
challenges  and  natural  disasters,  some  of  which  are 
Burundi  desires  additional  efforts 
the  warhorse  of 
the 
leitmotif  and 
linked  to  climate  change.  Developing  countries  in 
general and African countries in particular are the most 
harshly affected, because of a lack of resources to deal 
with such challenges. 

It  is  high  time  that  countries  agree  to  take  more 
audacious  measures  in  order  to  provide  the  financing 
necessary  to  combat  the  negative  effects  of  climate 
change,  by  stimulating  and  promoting  in  particular 
technology  transfer  and  without  forgetting  capacity-
building  in  the  poorest  and  thus  the  most  vulnerable 
countries.  By  effectively  combating  the  effects  of 
climate change, our countries will inevitably resolve in 
part  the  problem  of  food  insecurity,  which  is  also  a 
significant threat to sustainable development. 

In  that  light,  we  call  upon  the  wealthy  countries 
to  act  in  favour  of  developing  countries,  particularly 
post-conflict  countries  such  as  Burundi, 
through 
multiple, ongoing and significant support to key social 
and economic sectors. It is urgent that all development 
partners  respect  the  promises  they  have  made  to 
developing countries in general and those countries in 
Africa in particular by increasing official development 
assistance. 

Burundi — whose stability has benefited from the 
excellent  attention and  considerable  support of United 
Nations  entities,  the  international  community  and 
friendly  countries  —  remains  very  concerned  by  the 
issue  of  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. It reaffirms its commitment to cooperate with 
the  United  Nations  in  consolidating  the  achievements 
made with regard to peace and stability and in handling 
the 
socio-economic 
development. 

Furthermore,  in  terms  of  international  solidarity, 
all countries must combine efforts to make this world a 
harbour of peace. For that reason, Burundi is taking an 
active  part  in  the  United  Nations  Operation  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire  to  bring  peace  to  that  country,  the  United 
Nations  Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
Chad, 
the  African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid 
Operation in Darfur and the African Union Mission in 
Somalia (AMISOM). 
With respect to Somalia, Burundi is committed on 

the  ground  despite  the  many  problems  its  troops  are 
encountering.  We  reiterate  our  request  to  the  United 
Nations  with  regard  to  improving  the  living  and 
working  conditions  of  the  AMISOM  forces.  We  take 
this  opportunity  to  recall  the  promises  made  in  that 
finances  necessary 
for 
its 
10 

10-55109 
the  conflicts  currently 


regard  by  the  Secretary-General  when  he  visited 
Burundi  on  9  June. We  also  call  on  other  countries  to 
deploy additional troops so that AMISOM can become 
a truly continental mission able to fulfil its mandate. 

In  closing,  Burundi  welcomes  the  determination 
and  commitment  of  the  United  Nations  to  make  our 
world  one  of  peace,  democracy, 
tolerance  and 
development,  where  individual  and  collective  rights 
and  freedoms  are  clearly  protected.  Therefore,  we 
encourage  everyone  to  go  forward  towards  that  noble 
mission.  Our  wish  is  that  the  next  session  of  the 
General Assembly  may  take  place  in  a  context  where 
most  of 
threatening  some 
countries  and  the  world  as  a  whole  will  have  been 
resolved. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Second Vice-President of Burundi for the statement he 
has just made. 

  Mr.  Gervais  Rufyikiri,  Second  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  Burundi,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
  Address by Mr. Alik L. Alik, Vice-President of 
the Federated States of Micronesia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-
President of the Federated States of Micronesia. 

  Mr.  Alik  L.  Alik,  Vice-President  of  the  Federated 
States of Micronesia, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr. Alik 
L.  Alik,  Vice-President  of  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr. Alik (Federated States of Micronesia): Allow 

me  to  congratulate  Mr.  Deiss  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session.  He  has  taken  on  that  formidable  task  at  a 
crucial  period  for  our  United  Nations.  I  assure  him  of 
Micronesia’s  full  support.  I  would  also  like  to  pay 
tribute 
for  his 
distinguished leadership. 

to  begin  my  statement  by 
expressing  the  sincere  sympathy  of  the  people  and 
Government  of the Federated States of  Micronesia for 
recent  natural  disasters 
the  many  victims  of 
esteemed  predecessor 
I  wish 
to  his 
Sadly, 




A/65/PV.17
everywhere.  Having  been  victims  of  natural  disasters 
ourselves, our hearts go out to the victims of the recent 
hurricanes,  earthquakes, mudslides  and  floods that are 
now  occurring  on  an  unprecedented  scale  and  with 
increasing frequency and devastating intensity all over 
our  planet.  Overwhelming  evidence  points  to  one 
common  denominator  in  all  those  events,  and  that  is 
global climate change. 

I  am  deeply  honoured  to  address  the  General 
Assembly, at its sixty-fifth session, for the first time on 
behalf  of  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia.  This 
Assembly  accords  Micronesia  and  the  small  island 
developing States an extraordinary privilege to bring to 
the  whole  world  the  most  pressing  issues  affecting  us 
that demand our collective response. 

Despite the many years of negotiations to curb its 
devastating effects, the climate change crisis continues 
to  haunt  us. The  negotiating  process  has  moved  along 
very slowly, while in stark contrast the rapid increases 
in the incidence and severity of environmental hazards 
continue  to  take  their  toll,  with  devastating  results.  I 
cannot  help but think of the needless  human suffering 
everywhere, and what the future holds for my country 
and  the  small  island  developing  States  if  business 
continues as usual. 

As a small island developing State, Micronesia’s 
future is intrinsically linked to the global climate. That 
is  why  we  are  gravely  concerned  by  the  acute 
environmental  problems 
the  extreme 
vulnerability  of  our  islands  to  sea-level  rise  and 
climate  change.  Those  threats  are  indisputable,  and 
delays 
legally 
binding  agreement  to  avert  this  global  disaster  are 
without excuse. 
In Micronesia, we are deeply disappointed at the 

glacial progress in the negotiating sessions and climate 
change  meetings  of  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. At the  same time, we 
are  growing  increasingly  alarmed  by  the  prospect  of 
shrinking  ambitions  for 
in  Cancún, 
Mexico,  later  this  year.  That  is  not  an  acceptable 
response to a crisis of enormous proportions, certainly 
not for Micronesia and not for any of the small island 
developing  States,  who  need  fast  action.  This  is  an 
issue of survival for us. 
We  must  find  a  better  response  —  a  genuine 

that  supports  mitigation  and  adaptation 
response 
measures  that  will  achieve  significant  reductions  in 
in  adopting  a  comprehensive  and 
the  meeting 
related 
to 
10-55109 

11 

thus  preserve 
the  Montreal  Protocol  on  Substances 
A/65/PV.17 

greenhouse  gas  emissions  and 
the 
integrity  of  our  Earth’s  environment  and  also  the 
livelihoods of its inhabitants. My island nation and the 
small island developing States, for that matter, are not 
major contributors to the causes of climate change. All 
present know that. But we are nevertheless determined 
in our efforts to contribute to finding solutions. 

For its part, Micronesia continues to take the lead 
to combat climate change by utilizing the opportunities 
under 
that 
Deplete  the  Ozone  Layer.  Through  the  Montreal 
Protocol we can solve a big part of the climate change 
problem.  That  is  why  Micronesia  has  developed  a 
proposal  with  the  support  of  Mauritius,  the  Marshall 
Islands,  Seychelles  and  the  Philippines  that  calls  for 
the  phasing  down  of  the  production  and  use  of 
hydrofluorocarbons.  Under  our  proposal  we  will  be 
able  to  eliminate  one  of  the  greenhouse  gases  listed 
under the Kyoto Protocol, and we are encouraged that 
other countries, such as Canada, the United States and 
Mexico,  already  have  come  forward  with  similar 
proposals. 

Frankly,  we  have  been  delighted  by  the  interest 
shown in our proposal so far, and I commend it to the 
Assembly’s 
all 
delegations  to  consider  supporting  it.  Our  collective 
action  is  imperative  if  we  are  to  effectively  curb  and 
reverse  global  warming.  That 
the  kind  of 
collaboration that I encourage here. 

Just as we are delighted by our Montreal Protocol 
proposal,  we  are  equally  proud  of  an  initiative  within 
our  Pacific  region, 
the 
Governments of the Republics of the Marshall Islands 
and  Palau  and  my  own  Government  at  the  margins  of 
the  forty-first  Pacific  Islands  Forum  meeting 
in 
Vanuatu.  This 
the  Green  Energy  Micronesia 
Initiative, which calls for a 20 per cent improvement in 
energy  efficiency  by  suppliers 
in  areas  such  as 
transportation  and  electric  power  generation,  a  30  per 
cent  improvement  in  energy  use  by  end  users  and  a 
20 per  cent  electricity  generation  through  renewable 
energy  by  2020.  As  island  countries  with  a  total 
dependence on fossil fuels for our energy generation, it 
is 
and 
environmentally  sustainable  to  continue  down  that 
path.  We  must  look  towards  developing,  utilizing  and 
embracing our renewable sources of energy. 
attention.  Today, 
in  August  by 
economically, 
financially 
encourage 
launched 
longer 
no 
is 
is 
I 
In  our  seemingly 
idyllic  settings  as 

Our  prospect  for  success  will  remain  grim  with 
our  limited  capacity  and  available  financial  resources. 
We encourage and call upon our development partners 
and the international community to support our efforts, 
including  through  increased  financial  support,  transfer 
of technology and capacity-building. 

island 
nations, it may seem to many around the world that we 
live  an  easy  life  and  demand  action  only  from  others. 
However,  the  reality  is  that  our  island  nations  are 
actively playing our part in maintaining, and promoting 
the  protection  of,  our  Planet  Earth.  We  accept  our 
responsibility  for  conserving  the  biodiversity  of  our 
islands  and  waters  and  for  using  resources  in  a 
sustainable manner. 

That  is  why  Micronesia  and  our  Micronesian 
sister nations the Republics of the Marshall Islands and 
of  Palau,  as  well  as  the  Territory  of  Guam  and  the 
Commonwealth  of 
the  Northern  Mariana  Islands, 
continue  to  promote  the  Micronesia  Challenge  to 
conserve at least 30 per cent of the near-shore marine 
resources and 20 per cent of terrestrial resources across 
our Micronesian region by 2020. 
Given our individual limitations, we can confront 

these  challenges  only 
through  regional  collective 
actions. I want to express our utmost gratitude to those 
countries  and  international  organizations  that  continue 
to  support  the  Micronesia  Challenge  and  help  us 
achieve  our  goals.  Being  small  island  countries  with 
limited 
in 
success 
collaborative  partnership  with 
international 
community. 

the 
protection of the ocean and its resources. As a Pacific 
island  country  with  one  of  the  largest  exclusive 
economic  zones  in  the  Western  and  Central  Pacific 
Ocean,  we  ascribe  particular  importance  to  the  ocean 
and  its  resources.  The  ocean  has  a  fundamental  and 
critical  bearing  on  our  food  security  and  economic 
future.  However,  human  activities  on  the  planet  are 
significantly  affecting  our  ocean  and  can  bring  about 
disastrous  consequences  for  our  food  security  and 
sustainable development. 

Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in our 
zone  remains  of  great  concern,  as  that  abhorrent 
practice 
and 
multinational criminal operations. We do maintain high 
the 
expectations 
Micronesia  will 
continues  with 
realistic 
the 
resources,  we 
sophistication 
support  of 
continue 
through 
address 
that 
see 
to 
its 
the 
12 

10-55109 
A/65/PV.17
to 
that  are  parties 


international  community  we  can  combat  that  illegal 
activity,  which  threatens  the  sustainability  of  our  fish 
stocks  and  deprives  our  people  of  potential  economic 
benefits. 

To reverse already discernable trends towards the 
disappearance  of  key  tuna  species  that  were  once 
thought inexhaustible, early this year the leaders of the 
Pacific  countries 
the  Nauru 
Agreement  signed  the  Koror  Declaration,  agreeing  to 
introduce further conservation measures to protect key 
tuna stocks. One of the measures agreed to is to close 
off additional high-seas areas to purse seine fishing by 
vessels licensed to fish our Nauru Agreement waters. 

Micronesia is fully committed and will work with 
its fellow parties to the Nauru Agreement and the wider 
international community to ensure the sustainability of 
our tuna resources. We will hold violators accountable 
through internationally agreed mechanisms to prevent, 
deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated 
fishing  in  our  waters  and  the  Western  and  Central 
Pacific Ocean region. 

Our oceans and our exclusive economic zones are 
getting  a  great  deal  of  international  attention  because 
of  the  potential  for  economic  exploitation.  We  assign 
the highest priority to greater economic participation in 
all  aspects  of  that  exploitation.  Increased  economic 
participation  is  a  major  goal  for  all  countries  in  the 
Pacific  having  considerable  marine  resources  —  not 
just Micronesia. 

However,  our  participation  in  the  exploitation  of 
our own marine resources for economic development is 
held back by a lack of experience and because much of 
our basic infrastructure still needs to be supported and 
developed. On the overall scoreboard, the Pacific small 
island developing States have not claimed their rightful 
share  of  their  own  fisheries  resources.  International 
support has to be given to help us build our capacities 
not only in negotiating agreements and developing our 
fisheries  industries  but  in  realizing  a  greater  share  of 
the benefits from the catch of fish stocks from our own 
exclusive economic zone. 

In  this  review  year  for  both  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for 
Small  Island  Developing  States,  we  must  take  full 
advantage  of  both  occasions  and  rise  to  the  challenge 
to meet our world’s new and emerging needs. 




One  of  the  major  preoccupations  of  the  General 
Assembly over the last 15 years has been the reform of 
the United Nations. I do not need to belabour the issue, 
as all present are aware of Micronesia’s long-standing 
position,  especially  in  regard  to  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  For  permanent  membership,  we 
reiterate our support for Japan and India from our Asia 
and  Pacific  region.  From  other  regions,  Germany  and 
Brazil  also  deserve  equal  consideration.  We  call  for 
accelerated  efforts  to  bring  the  negotiations  to  a 
successful conclusion. 

Peace in the Middle East remains elusive, but we 
have  high  hopes  that  the  resumption  of  direct  talks 
recently  in  Washington,  D.C.,  and  elsewhere  between 
the Israelis and the Palestinians will pave the way to a 
lasting  peace  and  a  final  settlement  with  a  two-State 
solution.  The  whole  world  has  a  stake  in  the  Middle 
East peace process. Micronesia fully supports the peace 
process and urges all members of this Assembly to play 
a  constructive  role  and  work  towards  an  outcome  that 
brings  permanent  peace  and  security  to  the  Middle 
East.  I  want  to  express  my  profound  gratitude  to  the 
United  States,  Egypt,  Jordan  and  the  Quartet  for  their 
critical roles and leadership in finding a solution to this 
formidable  challenge.  For  it  to  be  met,  we  must 
respond with our collective action and support. 

this 
opportunity  to  address  the Assembly  on  behalf  of  my 
small island country. As I close my statement, I want to 
reassure this Assembly that Micronesia will continue to 
do 
this 
Organization. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia 
for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Alik  L.  Alik,  Vice-President  of  the  Federated 
States  of  Micronesia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
  Address by Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister  
of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh. 
I  have  been  most  privileged 
responsible  Member  of 
its  part  as  a 
to  have 
10-55109 

13 
A/65/PV.17 



Bangladesh 
  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Sheikh 
Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
Bangladesh,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bangla; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  warmly 
congratulate Mr. Deiss on his well-deserved election as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session.  I  believe  his  wise  and  experienced  leadership 
will bring great success to the Assembly’s proceedings. 
I  also  congratulate  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  for  his 
laudable  contribution  as  Assembly  President  in  its 
sixty-fourth  session.  I  also  thank  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless  service  to  the  United 
Nations and to world peace. 

is  a  secular,  progressive  nation 
fulfilling the promise of democracy, good governance, 
human rights and the rule of law that were made by my 
father  —  the  Father  of  the  Nation,  Bangabandhu 
Sheikh  Mujibur  Rahman,  the  greatest  Bengali  of  all 
times  —  from 
this  podium  36  years  ago  (see 
A/PV.2243). That has also been in consonance with the 
objectives  of  the  United  Nations,  which  remains  the 
last  abode  where  the  hopes  and  aspirations  of  the 
hapless people of the world can be fulfilled. 

Bangladesh  has  also  been  supporting  United 
Nations  efforts  to  establish  democracy,  human  rights, 
peace and security, as well as taking effective steps to 
combat  terrorism  and  external  threats  worldwide.  I, 
too, am committed to ensuring this continuity. 

international 
crimes  tribunal  to  try  persons  responsible  for  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity, 
including 
genocide, arson and rape, committed during our war of 
liberation  in  1971  and  immediately  thereafter.  That 
action is in accord with the rule of law as reflected in 
the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
which we have ratified and which is aimed at bringing 
perpetrators  of  war  crimes,  genocide  and  crimes 
against  humanity  to  justice.  I  believe  that  only  justice 
can heal the unforgivable, deadly wrongs of the past. 

Here,  I  sadly  recall  the  evil  act  of  terror  on 
15 August 1975 that took the life of my father and the 
Bangladesh  has  established  an 

Father  of  the  Nation,  Bangabandhu  Sheikh  Mujibur 
Rahman, and 18 members of my family, including my 
mother,  sisters-in-law  and  my  three  brothers,  one  of 
whom was only 10 years old. Even I have been a target 
of  a  series  of  assassination  attempts  ever  since  my 
return home from exile in 1981. 

The  most  horrendous  period  was  when  our 
secular  democratic  party,  the  Awami  League,  was  in 
opposition, from 2001 to 2006. At that time thousands 
of  our  party  workers,  supporters  and  followers  of  the 
religious minority who voted for our secular party were 
mercilessly  killed  in  systematic  terrorist  acts  of  the 
BNP/Jamaat-e-Islami  alliance  Government.  The  most 
audacious act was the dastardly open grenade attack on 
21  August  2004  directed  against  me  at  a  public  rally 
being held to protest those terrorist attacks and killings. 
By  the  time  a  dozen  grenades  had  taken  their  toll, 
24 innocent people, including our party’s Secretary for 
Women’s Affairs, Mrs. Ivy Rahman — the wife of our 
current  President  —  lay  dead,  and  over  500  people 
were seriously injured. 

There have also been attempts on members of my 
family,  but  never  have  we  bowed  before  the  forces  of 
terror.  As  victims  of  repeated  terrorist  attacks,  my 
family  and  I  know  this  menace  well.  Clearly,  our 
rejection of terrorism is total, as is our determination to 
eliminate  it  in  all  its  forms.  I  want  to  unequivocally 
state  that  terrorism  will  not  be  allowed  on  the  soil  of 
Bangladesh, and that is precisely why we are a party to 
all  terrorism-related  United  Nations  conventions  and 
accord them our full support. 

Our firm policy against terrorism and our love for 
peace  led  me  to  negotiate  the  1997  Chittagong  Hill 
Tracts  Peace  Accord,  thus  ending  decades  of  internal 
conflict,  and  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  violent 
uprising  of  our  paramilitary  border  forces  in  2009.  In 
the  international  sphere,  our  commitment  to  peace, 
which  is  essential  for  development,  is  reflected  in  our 
unflinching  support  for  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions.  Since  1988  Bangladesh  has  sent  97,000 
troops  to  24  countries  as  part  of  32  such  missions.  In 
that period we have lost the precious lives of 92 valiant 
soldiers. 

troop  contribution  has  made 
Bangladesh  number  one  among  countries  contributing 
troops  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations. 
Sadly,  despite  that  involvement,  our  presence  in  the 
Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations 
(DPKO) 
Our  present 
10-55109 
14 

is  our  voice 


remains  negligible,  as 
in  planning 
strategies of peacekeeping missions. In all fairness, we 
should have proportionate representation in DPKO. 

Bangladesh has been adversely affected by global 
warming, food insecurity, population displacement and 
diminished biodiversity, among other problems, and is 
faced  with  serious  threats  caused  by  climate  change 
and global warming. Although our share of carbon gas 
emissions is negligible, we are their worst victim. The 
increasing  frequency  and  ferocity  of  floods,  cyclones, 
droughts  and  other  natural  disasters  caused  by  that 
phenomenon continue to create havoc through the lives 
lost and the resources destroyed. 
Consequently, attaining the Millennium Development 

Goals is becoming a more difficult challenge. Climate 
migrants  are  already  overcrowding  our  cities,  putting 
great  stress  on  our  limited  infrastructure  facilities  and 
causing  social  disorder.  The  situation  could  become 
catastrophic with a one-metre rise in the sea level due 
to global warming. That would inundate one quarter of 
Bangladesh,  impacting  11  per  cent  of  our  population 
and leading to mass migration. 
To  meet  those  challenges,  we  have  adopted  a 

134-point adaptation and mitigation action plan. Those 
points 
to  restrict 
flooding,  recovering  cultivable 
lands  for  settling 
displaced  people  and  increasing  capacity  to  produce 
more  grain  foods.  Other  plans  include  afforesting 
20 per  cent  of  the  land  area  by  2015,  creating  a  huge 
carbon  sink;  protecting  biodiversity;  strengthening 
coasts  and  river  banks  with  green  belts;  modernizing 
disaster  management  with  community  participation; 
developing  crop  varieties  attuned  to  climate  change; 
changing  agricultural  practices;  using  clean  coal 
technology; and adopting nuclear power and renewable 
energy.  Meanwhile,  over  14,000  shelters  for  cyclone 
victims  have  been  strategically  located  to  cope  with 
cyclonic disasters. 

Implementing  the  action  plan  requires  enormous 
funds.  An 
the 
establishment of a Climate Change Trust Fund with our 
own resources, and a Climate Change Resilience Fund 
with  assistance  from  development  partners.  At  the 
international  level,  at  the  fifteenth  Climate  Change 
Conference  of  Parties  —  COP  15  —  last  year,  we 
worked hard for a legally binding agreement and for an 
international  climate  fund  to  assist  countries  most 
vulnerable to climate change. The compromise was the 
immediate  measure  has  been 
include  dredging  major  rivers 
A/65/PV.17
the  world 
leaders  at 
Therefore,  I  urge 
Copenhagen Accord, which has so far failed to deliver 
its promises. 

the 
sixteenth  Conference  —  COP  16  —  this  year  to 
conclude, in their wisdom, a positive agreement based 
on  the  Bali  Plan  of  Action,  with  agreed  cuts  in 
greenhouse gas emissions and real contributions to the 
international climate fund. I also urge them to adopt, at 
COP 16, measures to ameliorate the adverse impacts of 
climate  change  on  the  most  vulnerable  countries,  like 
Bangladesh,  small  island  developing  States  like  the 
Maldives,  and  landlocked  countries  like  Bhutan  and 
Nepal, among other least developed countries (LDCs). 

The  world  is  yet  to  recover  from  the  world 
economic  crisis,  and  LDCs  as  well  as  developed 
countries  are  suffering  from  reduced  exports.  Those 
crises  are  due  to  inequity  and  injustice  resulting  from 
an unfair international structure, which remains mostly 
unchanged.  The  Bretton  Woods  institutions  must  now 
accommodate  a  greater  presence  of  developing 
countries,  especially  least  developed  countries.  While 
the Bretton Woods institutions can deal with long-term 
development  assistance,  Bangladesh  proposes 
the 
establishment  of  a  special  fund  under  United  Nations 
auspices  to  deal  exclusively  with  Special  Drawing 
Rights  and  grants.  We  also  propose 
that  all 
stakeholders  respect  country-led  ownership  of  all 
development  projects,  as  enshrined 
the  Accra 
Agenda for Action. 

The least developed countries surely welcome the 
development  assistance  they  receive  from  developed 
countries. They would, however, benefit more through 
receiving  liberal  trade  concessions  such  as  duty  and 
quota-free  market  access,  trade  capacity-building,  et 
cetera.  Least  developed  countries  also  seek  a  speedy 
end to the World Trade Organization’s Doha Round of 
the  World  Trade  Organization  trade  negotiations  and 
fulfilment  of  the  commitments  by  the  countries  of  the 
Organization 
and 
Development to provide 0.7 per cent of gross national 
income  to  official  development  assistance,  of  which 
0.2  per  cent  will  be  directed  at  least  developed 
countries,  as  affirmed  in  the  Brussels  Programme  of 
Action. 

The  least  developed  countries  have  also  been 
affected by unemployment at home and by obstacles to 
migration  for  jobs  abroad.  Since  remittances  form  a 
significant  part  of 
their  gross  domestic  product, 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
in 
10-55109 

15 

from 
those 
should 
recovery  measures 
A/65/PV.17 

economic 
assure 
employment  opportunities  and  all  rights  of  migrant 
workers,  especially 
least  developed 
countries. 

However,  amid  the  travails  of  the  past  years, 
Bangladesh  has  fared  reasonably  well  in  maintaining 
an  annual  GDP  growth  rate  of  6  per  cent.  That  was 
possible  due 
to  our  pragmatic  policies  on  food 
production,  agriculture,  rural  development,  inflation 
control  and  keeping  food  and  essentials  prices  within 
reach  of  the  poor.  During  our  previous  Government, 
from 1996 to 2001, our policies on food security made 
Bangladesh  self-sufficient  in  food,  which  led  to  our 
winning  the  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United  Nations  Ceres  Award.  This  time  around,  with 
the  implementation  of  the  national  food  policy,  aimed 
at stable prices of fuel, fertilizer, seeds and other farm 
inputs,  our  Government  has  succeeded  again 
in 
ensuring sustained food supply to all. 

Our Government’s aim is also to use information 
and  communications  technology  (ICT)  to  accelerate 
our  socio-economic  development.  Therefore,  we  are 
implementing  ICT  Act  2009  and  ICT  Policy  2009  to 
build  the  requisite  infrastructure  and  extend  ICT  to 
every  nook  and  corner  of  Bangladesh.  Already, 
educational  institutions,  local  government  institutions 
and rural communities are being connected to Internet 
services.  The  process  includes  an  e-centre  for  rural 
communities,  connecting  8,500  post  offices;  a  high-
tech  park;  a  network  of  e  governance;  and  efforts  to 
strengthen the telecommunication network and satellite 
communication. 
Our  e-services  are  now  focused  on  improving 

agricultural 
information  delivery,  market  access, 
education,  health  care,  early  warning  systems  for 
disasters, 
law  and  order,  and  social  safety  net 
payments.  Also  being  implemented  is  an  aggressive 
e-leadership 
of 
Parliament,  top  policymakers,  field  administrators  and 
local  administrators.  We  had  already 
transformed 
100 Union Parishads to host e-centres in 2009, and we 
are  now  expediting  the  process  to  cover  all  4,500 
Union  Parishads  by  the  end  of  this  year.  In  short,  our 
Government 
to  achieve  a  digital 
Bangladesh  and  transform  it  into  a  middle-income 
country  by  2021,  the  golden  jubilee  year  of  our 
nation’s independence. 
among  members 
is  determined 
programme 
the 
revived 
leader  of 
the  Prime  Minister, 
Our  Government  has 

Simultaneously,  our  Government’s  aim  is  to 
attain  100  per  cent  primary  school  enrolment  by  2011 
and  100  per  cent  literacy  rate  by  2014.  Our  highest 
budget allocation goes to education. Tuition and books 
are now free for students up to grade 12. Computer and 
Internet  facilities  are  being  provided  free  of  charge  to 
schools in order to familiarize students with their use. 
To  encourage  school  attendance,  we  have  started 
providing  lunch  to  students  and  cash  incentives  to 
parents. 

Though Bangladesh has achieved the Millennium 
Development  Goal  target  of  gender  equality  at  the 
secondary  level,  our  plan  is  to  provide  free  tuition  to 
girls up to the undergraduate level. This is because we 
firmly believe that women’s equal involvement is vital 
for  a  nation’s  development.  Gender  equity  and  human 
development are our top priority concerns. 

the  national 
women’s  development  policy,  adopted  during  our  last 
tenure  of  office,  that  is,  1996  to  2001.  At  present, 
besides 
the 
opposition, the deputy leader and a whip, there are five 
other  women  Cabinet  ministers  and  45  members  of 
Parliament  in  reserved  seats.  Moreover,  19  women 
members  of  Parliament  have  been  directly  elected. 
Women also occupy 30 per cent of reserved seats in all 
local governments. They are encouraged to participate 
in  politics  and  administration,  and  are  recruited  in  all 
professions,  including  the  armed  services.  They  are 
also 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations. 

We have made arrangements to provide pensions 
to  distressed  and  widowed  women,  as  well  as 
residential accommodation for both men and women in 
old peoples’ homes. Our social safety nets also include 
programmes  for  minorities, 
the 
disabled  and  the  mentally  challenged;  ashrayan,  or 
homes  for  the  homeless;  the  “one  home,  one  farm” 
policy to alleviate poverty; and cash and food transfer 
programmes. 

A new policy provides for the employment of one 
member from every poor family. Another new initiative 
is the national services policy for providing youth and 
women  with  employment  and  skills  development. 
Moreover,  research  opportunities  have  led  to  new 
discoveries,  particularly  with  respect 
to  climate-
change-resilient  crops.  A  recent  success  is  genome 
sequencing of the jute fibre, ensuring improved quality 
the  marginalized, 
serving 
16 

10-55109 
is 
Our 
target 


of  jute  products,  a  biodegradable  option  to  hazardous 
synthetic products. 

Health is another area receiving special attention, 
with  the  implementation  of  the  national  health  policy 
adopted during our previous term of office. This policy 
provides for the establishment of one community clinic 
for  every  6,000  people.  Our  plan  is  to  locate  18,000 
such  clinics  in  the  first  phase,  to  extend  basic  health 
services  into  people’s  homes.  For  safe  motherhood,  a 
national strategy for maternal health has been adopted, 
with a programme to reduce the infant mortality rate to 
15 from the current 54 per 1,000 live births. 

to  complete  100  per  cent 
immunization  by  the  end  of  our  present  tenure  of 
Government.  Since  my  Government  assumed  office, 
the maternal  mortality  rate has been reduced from 2.9 
to 2.6 and infant mortality to such a significant extent 
that our successes have been recognized with an award 
by the United Nations. 

Indeed,  despite  the  recent  world  food,  energy, 
economic and climate change crises, Bangladesh, with 
the  support  of  United  Nations  agencies  and  bilateral 
and  multilateral  partners,  has  made  satisfactory 
progress.  In  fact,  our  achievement  with  respect  to 
MDG  1,  on  poverty  alleviation,  MDG  2,  on  universal 
primary education, and MDG 3, on gender equality and 
women’s empowerment, are encouraging and on track. 
Our Government, through its sincere efforts, intends to 
raise  12  million  people  out  of  poverty,  which  would 
halve the number of people now living in that sad state 
by the MDG deadline of 2015. 

Our  unflinching  commitment  to  peace  finds 
expression in our annual flagship Assembly resolution 
on  the  culture  of  peace  (see  resolution  64/80).  Recent 
years  have 
record  of 
sponsorships  because  of 
the 
International  Mother  Language  Day.  Ever  since  the 
Day  was  adopted  by  UNESCO  in  recognition  of  the 
language  martyrs  who  gave  their  lives  in  1952  for 
Bangla,  their  mother  tongue,  it  has  been  celebrated 
throughout the world with growing fervour every year. 
Since  Bangla  is  spoken  by  nearly  300  million  people 
worldwide and has a rich heritage in literature, history 
and  other  fields,  our  Parliament  adopted  a  resolution 
requesting the United Nations to declare Bangla as one 
of its official languages. I fervently appeal to Member 
States for acceptance of our very legitimate request. 
shown  an  extraordinary 
reference 
the 
A/65/PV.17

May  Bangladesh  live  forever.  Long  live  the 

Every  passing  day,  the  peoples  of  the  world  are 
being  drawn  closer  together,  as  one  village,  with 
quickly  developing  technologies  and  new  challenges 
such  as  climate  change, 
terrorism  and  economic 
interdependence. Indeed, our destiny is now one, as are 
our burdens and responsibilities. It is now obvious that 
only by mobilizing and optimizing our synergies will it 
be possible for us to create a world of shared peace and 
prosperity.  We  have  no  alternative  but  to  discard  our 
self-centred, short-sighted interests and work in unison 
for a world that our children, and theirs, will inherit, so 
that  they  will  remember  us  with  fondness  and  in 
gratitude. 

United Nations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
for the statement she has just made. 

  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Franco Frattini, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Italy. 
Mr.  Frattini  (Italy):  Italy  is  about  to  celebrate 

the  one  hundred  and  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
its 
unification. We are a young country, but a people with 
deep  roots  and  ancient  traditions.  By  our  history, 
geographic  location  and  age-old  international  outlook, 
we are proud of our illustrious legacy. By necessity and 
vocation,  we  are  dedicated  to  dialogue,  respect  for 
diversity and mutual understanding. 
There is no alternative to this inclusive approach, 

even  when  it  requires  compromises  or  concessions.  I 
prefer  to  call  it  idealistic  pragmatism,  since  our 
ultimate  goal 
to  spread  peace,  freedom  and 
prosperity,  an  ambition  that  is  best  achieved  through 
cooperation.  This  propensity  for  dialogue  is  one  of 
Italy’s greatest contributions to the United Nations. 

Italy  is  a  strong  supporter  of  the  central  role  of 
the  United  Nations  in  global  governance  and  in  the 
management  of  international  crises.  By  virtue  of  its 
universality  and  impartiality,  the  Organization  has  the 
legitimacy 
in  crisis  situations.  Italy 
participates  in  peacekeeping  missions  not  only  by 
contributing  large  numbers  of  highly  qualified  troops, 
intervene 
to 
is 
to 
10-55109 

17 

insight 
into  how 
the  Balkans 
to  economic, 
to  Afghanistan.  Through 
A/65/PV.17 

but  also  by  drafting  strategic  plans  and  protocol,  and 
by  providing  training  and  logistic  support. We  are  the 
sixth  largest  contributor  to  the  United  Nations  regular 
and  peacekeeping  operations  budgets  and,  since  2006, 
the top troop contributor to the United Nations among 
the  members  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  Group 
of Western European and Other States. 

Approximately  8,000  Italian  troops  are  assigned 
to  operations  under  the  aegis  or  the  mandate  of  the 
United  Nations.  Our  presence 
is  spread  across 
22 missions  throughout  the  world:  from  Lebanon  to 
Haiti, 
its 
experiences  in  these  difficult  areas,  Italy  has  learned 
important  lessons.  In  particular,  our  comprehensive 
approach  provides  valuable 
to 
integrate  the  military  aspects  of  a  mission  with  the 
commitment 
institutional  and  civil 
reconstruction. 

We  are  convinced  that  to  meet  the  challenges  of 
the  twenty-first  century,  the  United  Nations  system 
must  be  strengthened,  starting  with  its  capacity  to 
contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  The  United  Nations  must  be  empowered 
to  fulfil  its  role  as  a  “producer”  of  security  and 
stability,  a  role  designed  to  foster  reconciliation, 
strengthen democracy and, ultimately, help to create  a 
more stable world. 

This  is  why  we  support  the  Secretary-General’s 
New  Horizon  and  Global  Field  Support  Strategy 
initiatives.  We  must  also  continue  to  foster  synergies 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
that play a key role in bringing peace to crisis areas. I 
refer  to  the  African  Union  and,  above  all,  to  the 
European  Union.  The  Treaty  of  Lisbon  includes  new 
arrangements for the EU’s international representation. 
Once the resolution on EU participation in the work of 
the  United  Nations  has  finally  been  approved,  I 
sincerely  hope  the  European  Union  will  be  able  to 
make  a  greater  contribution  to  General  Assembly 
responsibilities and to enhance the Assembly’s capacity 
for providing political guidance. 

to 
disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  has  always  been  a  feature  of  Italian 
foreign  policy.  Proliferation  is  a  growing  threat  that 
can 
international 
cooperation and, in this regard, the Italian Government 
has just put forth some concrete proposals. We need to 
the  field  of  security,  a  commitment 
countered 
through 
In 
only 
be 
for 
the 
The 
the  sake  of 
time  has  come 
to  development.  For 
the  donor  community, 
set the goal of a zero-nuclear option in an appropriate 
time frame, but without conveying the impression that 
it is an unrealistic aspiration. 

The  year  2010  is  a  key  date  on  the  road  to 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  this 
endeavour, our collective responsibility and credibility 
are  at  stake.  Italy  is  a  strong  proponent  of  a  holistic 
approach 
true 
democratic  ownership, 
in 
collaboration  with  the  private  sector  and  civil  society, 
must work in a partnership that makes the beneficiary 
countries the protagonists of development. 

international 
community  and  the  United  Nations  to  increase  their 
commitment to two regional crises. Somalia is the most 
serious  and  urgent  situation  on  the  African  continent 
today.  In  the  past  two  years,  the  Italian  Government 
has  contributed  considerable  financing  to  the  African 
Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) and the Somali 
security  forces,  but  this  is  not  enough.  International 
support for AMISOM must be stepped up. 

The second crisis is in Pakistan, where the recent 
floods  have  devastated  the  lives  of  20  million  people. 
The Italian Government is disbursing an additional aid 
package of €80 million to bring relief to the Pakistani 
population. 
But  in  addition  to  providing  aid,  we  need  to  act 

wisely.  This  is  why  Italy  has  called  for  new  trade 
measures to increase market access for Pakistani goods 
and  bolster  Pakistan’s  economic  recovery.  A  natural 
disaster of this magnitude also demonstrates the urgent 
need  to  address  the  effects  of  climate  change  through 
collective and shared measures. 

Globalization  has  generated  a  new  demand  for 
belonging  and  identity.  But  a  fruitful  dialogue  among 
cultures  cannot  take  place  without  universal  values.  It 
is  imperative  to  defend  the  universal  validity  of 
fundamental  rights  and  avoid  the  risks  of  relativism. 
Given  the  strength  of  its  humanistic  heritage  that 
affirms  the  human  being  as  the  measure  of  all  things, 
Italy is well-equipped to play an important part in this 
dialectic. 

True to this heritage, the Italian Government has 
promoted  a  campaign  for  a  moratorium  on  the  death 
penalty.  We  welcome  the  strengthening  international 
trend towards achieving this objective, and hope it will 
be  confirmed  when  Italy  and  a  broad  alliance  of 
18 

10-55109 
lead 
to 


countries present a resolution on the moratorium in the 
upcoming months. 

Religious tolerance is a prerequisite for peace and 
a  founding  principle  of  our  civilization.  The  right  to 
search  for  truth  through  the  word  of  God  is  the 
freedom  of  freedoms,  but  in  some  areas  of  the  world 
people  are  afraid  to  freely  and  openly  profess  their 
faith because they face persecution by extremists. Italy 
is strongly committed to protecting freedom of religion 
and will always oppose discrimination against religious 
minorities. In fact, Italy together with its EU partners is 
actively involved in the preparation and presentation of 
the annual resolution on religious intolerance. 

Another target of our fight against discrimination 
is  the  international  initiative  to  ban  female  genital 
mutilation. Since September 2009, Italy,  together with 
a  group  of  African  countries,  has  promoted  such  an 
initiative,  which,  hopefully,  will 
the 
presentation  here  in  the Assembly  of  a  resolution  that 
fully respects African ownership. 

Female  genital  mutilations,  which  violate  a 
woman’s  physical  integrity,  affect  millions  of  women 
and  girls  throughout  the  world,  including  in  my 
country,  where  35,000  such  cases  have  been  reported. 
Women’s rights and national progress go hand in hand, 
but,  nevertheless,  women  are  still  suffering  in  many 
countries throughout the world. 

By pooling together our efforts we can ensure the 
necessary consensus for resolutions that safeguard our 
own  and  future  generations  from  prejudice  and 
intolerance. In this spirit, we very warmly welcome the 
creation of UN Women within the Secretariat and hope 
that it quickly becomes operative. 

Reaffirming the central role of the United Nations 
in  global  governance  requires  a  constant  commitment 
to the comprehensive reform of the Organization. Such 
reform should affect the Secretariat, the various funds, 
agencies  and  programmes  of  the  United  Nations  and, 
obviously, its decision-making bodies. 

In  regard  to  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  we 
seek  realistic  compromise  solutions  that  garner  the 
broadest  possible  consensus  and  ensure  an  adequate 
representation 
other 
underrepresented  groups  of  countries.  More 
than 
15 years  of  negotiations  have  demonstrated  that  the 
membership  is  profoundly  divided.  It  is  now  time  to 
search for genuine and far-reaching compromise. Italy 
of  African,  Arab 
and 
A/65/PV.17
that  should  be 
and  its  Uniting  for  Consensus  partners  are  ready  to 
participate  constructively  in  the  reform  process  and 
have  already  demonstrated  their  flexibility.  We  look 
forward  to  engaging  with  the  rest  of  the  membership 
during the current session of the General Assembly. 

The process of revitalizing the General Assembly 
should strive to restore its central role. The Assembly’s 
universal  character  gives  it  potential  for  providing 
political  guidance 
realized.  The 
Assembly is the place where we could jointly identify 
the  main  problems  that  threaten  the  security,  stability 
and  development  of  all  Member  States  and  draft 
common strategies to address them effectively. 

In  conclusion,  the  vision  for  the  future  to  which 
my  country,  Italy,  aspires  —  a  future  of  peaceful 
coexistence and mutual enrichment between values and 
cultures — can only be ensured through the successful 
completion  of  the  many  reform  processes  under  way. 
We  can  achieve  this  future  if  we  build  our  actions  on 
dialogue  and  mutual  understanding. And  when  we  do 
achieve  peaceful  coexistence  and  mutual  enrichment, 
the  United  Nations  system  will  be  equipped  with  the 
tools it needs to fulfil the main principles and values of 
the Charter. One of these stands above all the others in 
importance:  each  and  every  individual  throughout  the 
world is  endowed with inalienable and absolute rights 
concerning  which  no  kind  of  compromise  can  ever  be 
tolerated. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  Ángel  Moratinos 
Cuyaubé, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation 
of the Kingdom of Spain. 
in 

Spanish):  May  my  first  words  be  to  congratulate  the 
newly appointed President of the Assembly, Mr. Joseph 
Deiss, to whom I wish great success in his conduct of 
the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly. 

September is an important month in the agenda of 
international  politics  since  the  middle  of  the  last 
century  because  it  marks  the  beginning  of  the  new 
session of the United Nations General Assembly, which 
has the city of New York as its backdrop. 

Far  removed  is  the  San  Francisco  Conference, 
which  turned  the  page  on  global  conflicts  and  opened 
the way for international cooperation by establishing a 
new Organization, the United Nations, an Organization 
geared  towards  promoting  peace,  justice  and  a  better 
Mr.  Moratinos  Cuyaubé  (Spain)  (spoke 
10-55109 

19 
in 
the  most 
A/65/PV.17 

life  for  all  humankind.  Far  removed,  as  well,  are  the 
the  Bretton  Woods  Agreements,  which 
times  of 
trade  rules  for  commercial  and 
established  free 
financial  relations  among 
industrialized 
nations of the world in order to achieve peace. 

In  the  first  decade  of  this  century  we  witnessed 
events  that  have  shaped  the  future  of  international 
relations and caused a new world to emerge, as we saw 
in  New  York 
the  month  of  September.  On 
11 September  2001,  the  cities  of  New  York  and 
Washington  suffered  terrorist  attacks  that  stunned  the 
world  and  were  among  the  most  traumatic  in  the 
history of the West. In September 2008, New York was 
the  centre  and  focus  of  a  panic  created  by  the 
bankruptcy  of  Lehman  Brothers,  while  just  a  few 
weeks  ago,  our  host  city  experienced  tensions  related 
to intercultural coexistence and saw the relaunching of 
the  most  ambitious  programme  of 
international 
cooperation  in  history,  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 
These  events  mark  the  true  beginning  of  the 

twenty-first  century,  which 
in  an 
environment  of  accelerated  global  and  interdependent 
transformation.  We  are  at  a  historic  crossroads  where 
we  must  promote  awareness  of  the  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and  the  establishment  of  new 
mechanisms  for  global  governance  that  modernize  the 
system 
consolidate 
multilateralism  and  security,  and  strengthen  global 
economic 
recovery,  while  providing  accountable 
management of growing interculturalism. 

Effective  multilateralism  is  the  method  that  will 
enable  us  to  tackle  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  It  is  a  method  that  stems  from  the  efforts  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  from  the  commitment  and 
work of the leaders of the States represented here. It is 
a method based on respect and understanding in order 
to  build  new  alliances  and  common  strategies  and 
policies. 

On  many  occasions,  we  hear  speeches  that 
emphasize  the  incapacities  and  weaknesses  of  the 
United  Nations  system.  But  I  prefer  not  to  preach 
classic  doom  and  gloom  here;  rather,  I  would 
acknowledge  the  work  and  success  of  the  United 
Nations as well as its capacity to respond, as seen in its 
response to the natural disasters suffered by Haiti  and 
Pakistan.  The  capacity  to  take  action  and  effectively 
coordinate  the  efforts  of  all  countries  through  a 
is  unfolding 
of 
international 
relations, 

multilateral  approach  is  a  path  that  the  international 
system  should  continue  to  follow  at  this  time  of  great 
challenges before us. 

On  11  September,  the  concept  of  security  was 
transformed  and  expanded.  In  September  2006,  the 
Member  States  approved  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  a  resolution  and  annexed 
Plan of Action (resolution 60/288) which presumed for 
the  first  time  to  define  a  common  strategic  approach 
agreed  by  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations. 
This strategy was presented by Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan  one  year  after  the  brutal  and  traumatic  attacks 
of  11  March  2004  in  Madrid.  Since  that  time,  the 
intensity  and  number  of 
terrorist  attacks  have 
decreased, and we have improved security, although we 
are  far  from  having  won  the  war  against  international 
terrorism. 

This  year  we  have  also  seen  very  significant 
advances  in  the  area  of  security,  disarmament  and 
nuclear  non  proliferation.  The  new  Strategic  Arms 
Reduction Treaty makes it possible to reduce by 30 per 
cent  of  the  nuclear  warheads  in  the  United  States  and 
Russia and represents the greatest nuclear agreement in 
20  years.  Last  May,  189  countries  signatories  of  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non  Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
approved  the  convening  of  a  conference  in  2012  to 
transform the Middle East into a zone free of weapons 
of mass destruction. 

We  are  beginning  to  come  out  of  the  worst 
financial  and  economic  crisis  since  the  1930s.  The 
negative fallout of this crisis will be felt through time 
by  millions  of  people,  especially  in  terms  of  decent 
employment. Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers on 
15  September  2008,  the  international  financial  system 
has  required  States  and  international  institutions,  such 
as  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World 
Bank, to intervene at an unprecedented level in order to 
maintain worldwide demand and financial markets. 

The  lack  of  international  regulation  helped  to 
bring  about  the  crisis  of  the  financial  entities  and  has 
required  strengthened  coordination,  making  the  Group 
of  20  a  new  forum  for  economic  governance.  The 
lesson  of  the  crisis  is  that,  for  their  development, 
international markets need not only the invisible hand, 
but  also  a  global  regulatory  system.  That  is  what  we 
have  understood  in  Europe,  where  we  have  adopted 
measures  to  harmonize  the  legislation  of  member 
States,  so  that  regulatory  authorities  would  be  able  to 
10-55109 
20 

in 
the 


exercise both executive and disciplinary powers. Since 
the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty, Europe is now on a 
path  to  cohesiveness  in  the  area  of  foreign  policy  and 
should  be  seen  as  a  single  interlocutor  with  its  own 
voice 
international  community.  It  should 
therefore  enjoy  an  appropriate  status  in  the  General 
Assembly. 

My Government, the Government of Spain, is in 
the vanguard of the fight against hunger and poverty. It 
has proposed in the United Nations, together with other 
Member  States,  the  creation  of  a  tax  on  international 
currency  transactions  whose  proceeds  would  be  used 
for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  While  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
has provided us with encouraging data — we have seen 
hunger  decrease  in  the  world  for  the  first  time  —  the 
figure  of  925  million  hungry  people  in  the  world  is 
morally and politically unacceptable. 

Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  knows  that  he 
can  count  on  Spain  for  the  mobilization  of  efforts  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Indeed, 
fighting poverty cannot be a casualty of the economic 
recession  because,  despite  the  crisis,  it  is  not  material 
conditions but political will that will be the key to the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by 
2015. 

The  time  has  come  to  take  responsibility  for 
combating  climate  change.  To  face  this  challenge,  we 
need 
in  which  we  perceive 
development  and  economic growth. A greater  effort is 
required to limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
and  dependency  on  fossil  fuels,  and  to  commit  to 
renewable  energy  and  efficient  and 
responsible 
consumption.  The  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  has  created  a  point  of 
reference  to  provide  us  with  a  regime  that  defines 
realistic  solutions  and  responds  to  our  concerns  and 
priorities. 

In  a  few  months,  we  will  attend  the  Climate 
Change  Conference  and  should  be  aware  of  the  effort 
necessary  to  pave  the  way  to  the  meeting  in  Cancún, 
where  the  very  credibility  of  the  multilateral  system 
will  be  at  stake. The  Conference  will  be  successful  if 
we  take  a  realistic  approach  demonstrating  solidarity 
and  generosity  towards  the  most  vulnerable  States.  It 
should  lead  us  to  an  ambitious  agreement  by  which 
States  represented  in  the  General  Assembly  can  take 
to  change 
the  way 
A/65/PV.17
these 
of 
the 
and 
verifiable 
objectives 
to  abolishing 
reforms  because 
integration  of  almost  half 
ownership 
commitments contained therein. 

To bring these objectives to fruition, we need the 
equitable 
the  world’s 
population  —  women.  The  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000), 
on  women  and  peace  and  security,  should  provide  us 
with  an  opportunity  to  enhance  gender  equality  in  the 
public arena, in institutions and in the economic, social 
and  cultural  spheres.  We  can  and  should  move  ahead 
with 
there  are  positive 
indications  that  this  mandate  is  dynamic,  such  as  the 
recent creation of UN Women, led by former President 
of  Chile  Michelle  Bachelet,  whom  I  congratulate  on 
her appointment as Director of the new entity. 
With  regard  to  human  rights,  Spain  is  firmly 

committed 
the  death  penalty  and 
introduced  an  initiative  to  the  General  Assembly  two 
years  ago  to  that  end.  The  International  Commission 
against the Death Penalty,  proposed by  Spanish Prime 
Minister  José  Luis  Rodriguez  Zapatero,  will  soon  be 
established and begin its work. We believe that capital 
punishment  is  an  absolute  violation  of  human  rights 
due to its irreversibility, which also makes it the most 
extreme  case  of  cruel, 
inhuman  and  degrading 
treatment. 

My  country  unequivocally  supports  peaceful  and 
negotiated  solutions  to  all  international  conflicts,  in 
accordance with United Nations resolutions. Achieving 
peace  in  the  Middle  East  remains  a  strategic  priority 
for  Spain.  That  is  why,  on  the  eve  of  the  twentieth 
anniversary of the Madrid Conference, we continue to 
work  resolutely  to  ensure  that  the  process  of  direct 
talks between Israelis and Palestinians will finally lead 
to  the  two-State  solution.  The  Israeli  and  Palestinian 
peoples know they can count on all our support at this 
time, when various thorny issues related to the conflict 
are being addressed. 

In this regard, I add my voice to the appeal made 
from  this  very  rostrum  by  the  President  of  the  United 
States 
the 
settlements  to  be  maintained.  In  order  to  achieve  a 
lasting,  fair  and  comprehensive  peace,  it  is  vital  to 
resolve the issues that relate to Syria and Lebanon and 
to work within a multilateral framework that creates a 
genuine global coalition for peace in the Middle East. 
We all know that stability in the Western Balkans 

and  the  full  integration  of  its  countries  into  the 
the  moratorium  on  building 
for 
in 
10-55109 

21 

the 
Ibero-America 
In  our  view, 
issues  showed 
the  region’s  pending 
the  consensus  adoption  by 
A/65/PV.17 

European Union is a basic priority for Europe. In 2010, 
we commemorated the tenth anniversary of the Zagreb 
Conference.  Spain,  which  held  the  European  Union 
presidency at the time, convened a high-level meeting 
in  Sarajevo  in  May  that  was  attended  by  all  actors 
involved  and  at which the  European Union reaffirmed 
its  commitment  to  the  region’s  stability  and  European 
future.  Recently, 
the 
General Assembly  of  resolution  64/298,  sponsored  by 
the 27 members of the European Union and Serbia on 
one  of 
the 
willingness of all actors in the international community 
to achieve the aforementioned objectives. 

Spain  reiterates  its  support  for  the  mediation 
efforts  undertaken  by  the  Personal  Envoy  of  the 
Secretary-General for Western Sahara, Mr. Christopher 
Ross. The conflict in that territory must be resolved by 
mutual  agreement  among  the  parties  and  pursuant  to 
the  United  Nations  resolutions  calling  for  the  self-
determination of the Saharans. 

is  undergoing 
unprecedented social and political change. At the start 
of 
the 
independence  of  these  republics,  Spain  wishes  to  join 
the  celebrations  by  attending 
the  Ibero-American 
summits and by strengthening its bilateral relations and 
relations  between  the  European  Union  and  Latin 
America. 

Cuba  deserves  special  mention  following  the 
recent decisions taken by Cuban authorities. Embargos 
and  unilateral  attitudes  that  only  disappoint  new 
expectations are useless and make no sense. 

Africa is clearly one of the most important future 
challenges  to  the  international  community  and  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Progress achieved in the areas of good governance and 
democratization  on 
for 
optimism  and  should  allow  it,  with  international 
cooperation,  to  overcome  the  crises  in  the  Sahel, 
Somalia or the Great Lakes region. Spain reiterates its 
firm commitment to Africa. 

in  a  globalized  world  should 
motivate  us  to  strengthen  the  instruments  for  good 
governance  and  promote  cultural  and  intercultural 
diversity,  which  are  among 
the  most  pressing 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  International 
consolidation of the Alliance of Civilizations, as a tool 
of  preventive  diplomacy,  is  now  a  fact  and  a  resource 
the  continent  are  cause 
commemorations 
bicentennial 
Coexistence 
of 
to 
face 
institutional  architecture.  As 
we  must  use.  More  than  100  States,  along  with 
23 international  organizations,  now  belong 
the 
Group of Friends of the Alliance of Civilizations. I take 
this opportunity to invite those countries that have not 
yet joined to do so. 

In  a  landscape  of  international  economic  crisis, 
intercultural tensions run the risk of exacerbation. This 
should  impel  us  to  continue  working  for  the  respect 
and understanding of cultures and civilizations in order 
to  counter  expressions  of  hatred,  fanaticism,  division 
and confrontation. 
The  new  world  requires  us  to  adapt  and  enlarge 

the 
international 
the 
Spanish  philosopher,  José  Ortega  y  Gasset  said,  “men 
do  not  live  together  just  because;  they  do  so  for  the 
purpose  of  great  undertakings”.  Today  the  United 
Nations  has  a  great  undertaking:  to  complete  the 
reform  of  our  institutions  and  lay  the  foundations  for 
global  governance.  Together,  we  can 
the 
challenges and global crises of the twenty-first century 
and  construct  an  international  system  that  is  fairer, 
more balanced and more sustainable. 
Bretton  Woods  in  1944  and  the  San  Francisco 

Conference  in  1945  were  the  results  of  half  a  century 
of  crises  and  two  world  wars.  Believe  me,  we  are  not 
doomed  to  wait  another  half  century  to  reform  and 
establish  new  institutions  for  the  twenty-first  century. 
We  have  already  waited  a  decade,  but  we  cannot 
continue  to  wait  much  longer,  because  we  can  feel 
history breathing down our necks. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michael  Spindelegger, 
Federal Minister for European and International Affairs 
of Austria. 
Mr. 
tragic 

earthquake in Haiti, the devastating floods in Pakistan 
and  the  financial  crisis  have  reminded  us  that  the 
global  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  require 
concerted action. The United Nations needs to be at the 
centre  of  our  activities.  It  is  the  forum  of  today’s 
multilateral  system  that  enjoys  the  highest  degree  of 
legitimacy. 
its  key  comparative 
advantage. 
However,  this  moral  authority  must  be  matched 

its 
by  mechanisms 
effectiveness.  Adherence 
is 
fundamental. All multilateral efforts and activities need 
(Austria):  The 
ensure 
law 
Spindelegger
Inclusiveness 
the  rule  of 
resources 
and 
to 
to 
is 
22 

10-55109 
ranging 
to 
reinforce 
in  areas 
the  United  Nations 


to  operate  on  the  basis  of  clear  and  predictable  rules 
that  apply  equally  to  all  Member  States.  Member 
States,  as  well  as  men  and  women  around  the  globe, 
must be able to trust in the United Nations capacity to 
turn the promises of the Charter into reality. 

Cooperation  with  other  international  actors  is 
indispensable to the United Nations efforts to deal with 
the  complex  challenges  of  today.  Austria  and  the 
European  Union  (EU)  stand  ready  as  reliable  partners 
for 
from 
development  cooperation  and  humanitarian  aid  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security and to 
promoting  the  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  human 
rights.  In  this  context,  we  hope  that  our  initiative  to 
obtain  modalities  for  the  EU’s  participation  in  the 
General Assembly, reflecting the changes provided for 
in  the  Treaty  of  Lisbon,  will  soon  be  adopted.  This 
would  greatly  help 
the  productive 
partnership of the United Nations with an organization 
that is fully committed to the principles and objectives 
enshrined in the Charter. Austria is proud to contribute 
to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  by  hosting  the 
United  Nations  Office  at  Vienna.  We  will  continue  to 
offer  Vienna  as  a  platform 
for  dialogue  and 
cooperation. 

In  our  view,  good  governance  is  an  inherent 
element  of  global  governance.  The  Vienna-based 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime is central to 
the  United  Nations  efforts  to  combat  corruption  and 
organized  crime  by  supporting  Member  States  in 
implementing  international  standards,  including  the 
United  Nations  Convention 
against  Corruption. 
Corruption  presents  one  of  the  major  challenges  with 
dire  consequences  for  the  international  community’s 
efforts  to  reduce  poverty.  The  recent  founding  of  the 
International Anti-Corruption Academy in Austria is an 
important step towards addressing this challenge. That 
institution  aims 
tool  for  research, 
education and training for professionals from all fields, 
including 
judges  and 
prosecutors. 

The  fight  against  climate  change  is  one  of  the 
central  issues  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Climate 
change has a far-reaching impact on the economic and 
social  development  of 
international 
community. We need global consensus now if we want 
to achieve the goal to limit global warming to 2°C and 
to reverse the trend of rising greenhouse gas emissions 
by 2020. Nobody should underestimate the difficulty of 
law  enforcement  officials, 
to  provide  a 
the  entire 
A/65/PV.17
this task. However, the fight against climate change is 
also  an  opportunity.  We  have  the  chance  to  create  a 
framework  for  sustainable,  qualitative  growth  at  the 
global  level.  Austria  is  committed  to  contributing  to 
this endeavour. 

This week, leaders agreed on concrete actions to 
get  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  back  on  track 
in  the  fight  against  world  poverty.  We  now  need  to 
mobilize  all  our  efforts  to  live  up  to  this  renewed 
commitment,  particularly  in  addressing  the  special 
needs  of  Africa  in  this  regard.  The  Governments  of 
developing  and  developed  countries,  as  well  as  the 
private  sector  and  civil  society,  need  to  work  together 
to achieve our ambitious goals by 2015. 

Let me now turn to one of the most urgent threats 
to  peace  and  security.  These  days,  our  attention  is 
focused  on  the  recently  initiated  direct  talks  between 
Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  and  President  Abbas.  We 
welcome  the  leadership  and  commitment  of  President 
Obama,  who  made  this  development  possible.  These 
talks offer the first concrete prospects for a sustainable 
peace in the Middle East in many years. An agreement 
between  Israel  and  Palestine  would  not  only  radically 
improve the lives of the peoples concerned, but would 
also provide the key to a more stable region and a more 
peaceful  world. We  hope  that  both  sides  are  aware  of 
their enormous responsibilities. 

The  process  is  still  fragile.  We  believe  that  the 
extension of the settlement moratorium is fundamental 
to  keeping 
track  and  creating  an 
environment  in  which  the  core  issues  can  be  tackled 
successfully.  It  is  equally  important  that  the  efforts  of 
the  Palestinian  authorities  to  build  up  functioning 
institutions for a future Palestinian State move forward 
dynamically.  It  is  ultimately  up  to  the  parties  to  bring 
the  peace  process  to  a  positive  conclusion.  However, 
international  actors,  in  particular  the  members  of  the 
Quartet,  have  an  important  role  to  play. As  a  member 
of  the  European  Union, Austria  is  ready  to  fully  play 
its part. 

In  order  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations 
continues  to  play  a  central  role  in  global  governance, 
we  must  continue  with  our  efforts  towards  internal 
reform  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  Both  an  enlargement  of  the 
Security  Council 
today’s  political, 
economic  and  social  realities  and  a  reform  of  the 
Council’s working methods will enhance the Council’s 
talks  on 
reflects 
that 
the 
10-55109 

23 
the 
We  also  have 
A/65/PV.17 

legitimacy  and  the  acceptance  of  its  decisions.  As  an 
elected member of the Security Council, we participate 
in  its  work  with  great  commitment  and  are  doing  our 
best to promote effectiveness and transparency. 

Significant  efforts  are  under  way  to  ensure  and 
sustain  United  Nations  peacekeeping  as  an  essential 
tool  for  achieving  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations. 
Confronted with limited financial and human resources 
and 
increasing  complexity  of  peacekeeping 
operations, the United Nations has started a review of 
the whole United Nations peacekeeping system with a 
view  to  adjusting  it  to  the  needs  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  It  is  of  vital  importance  for  the  Council  to 
effectively monitor and oversee the implementation of 
peacekeeping  mandates,  in  close  cooperation  with 
troop  and  police  contributors,  the  Secretariat  and 
United  Nations  missions.  Austria  fully  supports  the 
ongoing peacekeeping reform and stands ready to play 
its part in a renewed global peacekeeping partnership. 
to  work  on  making  peace 

consolidation 
irreversible.  The  United  Nations 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  together  with  integrated 
peacebuilding  support  offices,  has  a  key  role  in 
fostering 
the 
peacebuilding architecture optimally, lasting peace can 
be achieved with determination and the political will of 
the  country  concerned,  as  well  as  the  support  of  the 
international  community.  Since  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding  must  be  approached  in  an  integrated 
manner,  we  strongly  support  the  enhanced  interaction 
of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  throughout  the  conflict  cycle,  as  was 
affirmed at the Security Council summit this week. 

Due  to  the  changing  nature  of  conflict  and  an 
increase  in  the  activities  of  non-State  actors,  the 
protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict  constitutes  a 
core  task  of  a  large  number  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions.  The  effective  protection  of 
those affected by hostilities and violence has become a 
yardstick  for  the  success  and  credibility  of  United 
Nations missions in the field and the United Nations at 
large.  Security  Council 
(2009), 
unanimously  adopted  in  November  last  year,  was  a 
major  step  forward  in  the  Council’s  efforts  to  better 
protect  civilians  from  physical  violence,  displacement 
and violations of their rights. 

its 
However, resolution 1894 (2009) has not yet had 
full 
the  ground.  Violations  of 
the  Security  Council  with 
resolution  1894 
impact  on 
sustainable 
peace. 
If  we 
use 

level 
importance 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law  and 
impunity  for  such  crimes  continue  to  pose  a  major 
threat  to  the  rule  of  law  and  lasting  peace  in  post-
conflict situations. 

Austria  acknowledges  the  primary  responsibility 
of States to ensure the protection of civilians, including 
the  credible  prosecution  of  those  responsible  for  war 
crimes,  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  or  other 
serious violations of international law. We support the 
use  and  promotion  of  mechanisms  such  as 
the 
International  Criminal  Court,  commissions  of  inquiry 
or  panels  of  experts.  Such  tools  should  be  seen  as  a 
viable complement and reinforcement of steps taken at 
the  national 
to  ensure  accountability.  The 
Security  Council  has  a  central  role  in  this  endeavour. 
Ensuring the implementation of resolution 1894 (2009) 
will  be  one  of  the  key  priorities  of Austria  during  the 
remainder of its term on the Council. 

to 
Austria  also  attaches  utmost 
enhancing  the  role  of  women  in  conflict  and  post-
conflict situations. Even 10 years after the adoption of 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women 
and peace and security, we can still witness major gaps. 
Women  continue  to  be  largely  absent  from  peace 
processes  and  conflict-resolution  efforts,  and  crimes 
against  them  all  too  often  remain  unpunished.  The 
latest,  shocking  mass  rapes  in  the  Eastern  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo demonstrate more than ever that 
there  is  urgent  need  for  action.  We  cannot  afford  to 
ignore 
tenth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  resolution  1325  (2000) 
will  therefore  provide  a  crucial  opportunity  to  work 
towards  more  consistent  implementation  in  promoting 
women’s  issues  in  all  aspects  of  international  peace 
efforts.  Those  efforts  are  fully  supported  by  our 
development cooperation. 

Austria warmly welcomes the milestone decision 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  establish  UN  Women, 
which  will  make  the  United  Nations  a  stronger  and 
more  effective  partner  in  the  advancement  of  women 
worldwide. We look forward to working with Michelle 
Bachelet towards our common goals. 

in  armed  conflict  deserve  special 
protection. I am very satisfied that the United Nations 
system  has  made  concrete  progress  in  combating 
serious  child  rights  violations  and  in  fighting  the 
recruitment and enlisting of child soldiers. 
those  gaps.  The  occasion  of 
Children 
the 
24 

10-55109 
is  a 
is  committed 
implementation  at 
therefore  welcome 
the  Taliban,  Austria 
the  period  2011-2014 



Austria  reiterates  the  pivotal  role  of  the  United 
Nations  at  the  centre  of  our  counter-terrorism  efforts. 
Respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  is  a 
fundamental  basis  of  the  fight  against  terrorism.  As 
Chair  of  the  Security  Council  Committee  established 
pursuant  to  resolution  1267  (1999)  concerning  Al-
Qaida  and 
to 
enhancing  due  process  in  the  Council’s  sanctions 
regimes.  We 
the  substantial 
improvements  of  the  listing  and  de-listing  procedures 
and  the  recent  appointment  of  Ms.  Kimberly  Prost  as 
Ombudsperson. 
The  Austrian  candidature  for  the  Human  Rights 

Council  for 
logical 
continuation of our long-term work and engagement in 
ensuring the respect for human rights, including in the 
Security Council. Dialogue and partnerships are crucial 
for  turning  the  promises  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  into  a  reality  for  all  people  around 
the  globe.  Austria  has  consistently  worked  with  all 
actors  towards  narrowing  the  gap  between  standards 
and 
the  national  and 
international levels. 
To end on a positive note, this past year saw the 

most 
nuclear 
disarmament  in  a  decade.  Security  Council  resolution 
1887  (2009),  adopted  just  a  year  ago,  provided  a 
powerful  impetus.  Although  many  issues  are  still 
unresolved and require our close attention, the Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
in  May 
produced  an  outcome  that  restored  confidence  in  the 
Treaty. For the first time, a comprehensive action plan 
dealing with all three pillars of the Treaty was agreed. 
Let  me  stress  here  that  Austria  is  honoured  to  have 
contributed to that success. For the first time, a world 
without  nuclear  weapons  was  accepted  as  the  goal  of 
all  parties,  who  pledged  to  ultimately  eliminate  all 
types  of  nuclear  weapons.  For  the  first  time,  the 
catastrophic  humanitarian  consequences  of  the  use  of 
such  weapons  were  recognized  —  an  important  step 
towards  the  eventual  legal  ban  of  nuclear  weapons  by 
means of a nuclear weapons convention or framework 
of legal instruments. 

Although  the  results  of  the  Conference  are 
positive,  much  remains  to  be  done.  The  action  plan 
needs 
implemented.  The  nuclear-weapon 
States — which promised to engage among themselves 
on a number of vital issues and report by 2014 — must 
developments 
positive 
towards 
their 
to  be 
A/65/PV.17
We, 
have 
from 
learn 
Finally,  we  must 
the  United  Nations, 
lead  by  example.  The 
international  disarmament 
structures  must  be  reformed.  I  am  grateful  for 
Secretary-General Ban’s initiative in this respect. 

successful 
disarmament  initiatives.  Let  me  underline  that Austria 
is  delighted  that  the  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions 
entered  into  force  last  month.  The  Convention  is  a 
positive  example  of  how  committed  Governments, 
international  organizations  and  civil  society  can  work 
together  to  achieve  real  progress.  In  order  to  promote 
interaction  in  this  respect  in  the  nuclear  field  as  well, 
Austria  supports  the  establishment  of  a  competence 
centre for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation in 
Vienna  early  next  year.  Conceived  as  a  platform  for 
open discussion and independent expertise, monitoring 
and  advocacy,  the  centre  shall  facilitate  understanding 
and  cooperation  among  all  entities  involved.  I  hope 
that  it  will  contribute  to  further  progress  in  nuclear 
disarmament and non-proliferation. 

shared 
responsibility to move forward jointly in order to reach 
our  common  goal  of  international  peace,  security  and 
development for all. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call on Her Excellency Ms. Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, 
Minister for International Relations and Cooperation of 
South Africa. 
Ms.  Nkoana-Mashabane  (South  Africa):  My 

delegation  joins  previous  speakers  in  expressing  our 
congratulations to Mr. Joseph Deiss on his election as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session. We want to take this opportunity to assure him 
of  our  full  cooperation  and  to  wish  him  a  very 
successful  and  rewarding 
this 
opportunity  to  thank  Mr.  Ali  Treki  for  the  excellent 
work he did in steering this Assembly during his tenure 
as President during its sixty-fourth session. 

The  theme  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General Assembly  —  “Reaffirming  the  central  role  of 
the United Nations in global governance” — resonates 
with  what  our  global  citizen,  Nelson  Rolihlahla 
Mandela,  said  about  this  body  on  the  occasion  of  its 
fiftieth anniversary: 

“The  United  Nations  has  to  reassess  its  role, 
redefine  its  profile  and  reshape  its  structures.  It 
should  truly  reflect  the  diversity  of  our  universe 
and  ensure  equity  among  the  nations  in  the 
term.  I  also 
take 
10-55109 

25 
A/65/PV.17 


system  of 
exercise  of  power  within 
international 
the 
Security  Council,  in  particular.”  (A/50/PV.37, 
p. 6) 
in  general,  and 
relations, 
the 
it  more 
than  ever  before 
the  United  Nations.  South  Africa 
My  delegation  supports  the  choice  of  this  theme,  and 
we  wish  to  reiterate  our  belief  in  the  centrality  of  the 
United Nations and the system of multilateralism. 

Despite  the  challenges  that  face  humanity  in  the 
twenty-first  century,  the  relevance  of  the  United 
Nations  as  a  multilateral  mechanism  through  which  a 
myriad  of  complex  world  affairs  can  be  administered 
resolved  cannot  be  overemphasized.  Those 
and 
to 
challenges  compel  us  more 
strengthen 
is 
committed  to  working  with  other  Member  States  to 
achieve  the  full  potential  of  the  United  Nations  to 
address  the  urgent  challenges  facing  the  international 
community  by  making 
relevant,  more 
responsive  to  the  diversity  of  humankind  and  more 
representative. 

The creation of the United Nations was one of the 
notable  successes  of  the  twentieth  century,  and  thanks 
to its existence the world has been spared another war 
on  the  scale  and  magnitude  of  the  First  and  Second 
World  Wars.  The 
the 
membership  of  the  Organization  over  the  years,  from 
51 Members in 1945 to 192 today, clearly demonstrates 
the  confidence  that  the  peoples  of  the  world  have 
placed  in  the  United  Nations  and  the  ideals  contained 
in its Charter. 
The universal membership of the United Nations 

gives it the legitimacy to be at the centre of efforts to 
address  global  challenges.  However,  the  question  is 
whether the United Nations has leveraged that diversity 
of  its  membership  as  a  source  of  strength  and  acted 
decisively against any tendency that runs contrary to its 
fundamental values and founding principles. 

The answer to this is yes because, in the past, the 
United  Nations  played  an  invaluable  role  in  the 
worldwide process of decolonization, transforming the 
political  landscape  of  the  world  and  bringing  much-
cherished freedom and independence to the peoples of 
Africa, Asia and Latin America. The Organization was 
instrumental  in  bringing  about  the  demise  of  the 
universally  despised  apartheid  system  in  our  own 
country, South Africa. 
exponential  growth 
in 
is 
the 

When  the  Organization  recognized  the  right  to 
development as a human right, it gave voice and hope 
to  those  who  know  the  face  of  poverty.  When  the 
Organization  has  sent  its  troops  to  far-flung  places  to 
keep  peace  among  neighbours  who  should  be  living 
together, it has again underscored the reason for which 
it was established. Amid all the challenges, the United 
Nations  has  been  relevant  and  responsive  to  our 
diverse interests. 

Five  years  ago,  at  the World  Summit,  we  agreed 
that,  if  the  Organization  were  to  continue  to  play  its 
central role in global governance effectively, there was 
a need to strengthen  and  reposition it to  deal  with the 
challenges of the twenty-first century.   We  believe  that 
the revitalization of the General Assembly remains one 
of  the  cornerstones  of  the  United  Nations  reform 
agenda.  The  General  Assembly 
chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the  United  Nations  and  plays  a  critical  role  in  the 
process  of  standard-setting  and  the  codification  of 
international law. Its decisions are taken by a collective 
among equals for the common good. 

We  will  support  measures  that  are  aimed  at 
enhancing  the  effectiveness  of  the  General Assembly, 
especially  regarding  its  role  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. Indeed, we witnessed 
with  satisfaction  how,  on  several  occasions, 
the 
General  Assembly  acted  promptly  when  the  Security 
Council  was  unwilling  or  unable  to  respond  to  grave 
developments  in  the  aftermath  of  the  conflict  in  Gaza 
in 2009. 

Indeed,  no  transformation  of  the  United  Nations 
could  be  complete  without  the  fundamental  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  South  Africa  believes  that  the 
objective  of  the  reform  should  be  to  create  a  Security 
Council that is truly representative of the membership 
and  effectively  responsive  to  international  crises,  as 
mandated by the Charter of the United Nations. Indeed, 
it  remains  a  travesty  of  justice  that  Africa,  which 
accounts for a large portion of the work of the Council, 
is  not  represented  in  the  permanent  category.  Thus, 
deliberations about us carry on without us. 

The  world  should  be  free  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  in  accordance  with  our  undertakings  on 
total  disarmament.  In 
that  regard,  South  Africa 
welcomes  the  recently  agreed  programme  of  work  of 
the Conference on Disarmament. 
26 

10-55109 
for 
that 
to 
time, 
sensitive 



While the right to development and freedom from 
want are central to the work of the United Nations, we 
have  just  ended  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  to 
review  our  performance  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  agreed  that  more  needs  to  be 
done  to  act  on  commitments  already  made  by  the 
international community in that regard. 

The people of Haiti have a story to tell about how 
best the international community can respond in unison 
and effectively to a nation in distress. 
A speedy and satisfactory conclusion of the Doha 

the  World  Trade  Organization,  which 
Round  of 
promised 
so  much 
the  developing  South, 
unfortunately  remains  a  dream  yet  to  be  fulfilled.  At 
the  same 
the  global  economic  crisis  has 
highlighted  the  point  that  many  of  us  have  always 
made  about  the  need  to  work  for  an  international 
financial  architecture 
is 
the 
development needs of the South. 

The  contribution  of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  is  a 
welcome  development  in  that  regard,  and  we  believe 
that  the  Group  should  complement  and  reinforce  the 
good  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  not  act  as  an 
alternative. In its composition, the G-20 will also need 
to  mirror  the  rich  diversity  of  humankind  by  making 
sure that all regions of the world, in particular Africa, 
are  well  represented.  We  look  forward  to  the  full 
implementation of the undertakings made to transform 
the  international  financial  architecture,  including  the 
reform  of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  as  a  step 
towards building a world system founded on equity and 
social justice. 

Environmental  issues,  including  climate  change, 
have  also  become  high  on  the  priorities  of  the 
international  agenda.  South  Africa  is  fully  committed 
to a multilateral outcome on the basis of the Bali Plan 
of  Action,  with  a  two-track  negotiated  and  legally 
binding  outcome.  We  are  convinced 
the 
Copenhagen  Accord  provides  political  guidance  for 
future negotiations. 

Accordingly,  we  should  work  together  to  ensure 
that  the  forthcoming  meeting  of  the  sixteenth  session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change in Mexico 
takes bold and concrete steps to address climate change 
and its effects. For our part, South Africa will have the 
opportunity  to  host  the  seventeenth  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  in  December  2011,  on  the 
that 
A/65/PV.17
eve  of  the  end  of  the  first  commitment  period  of  the 
Kyoto Protocol. 

Peace  and  stability  are  one  of  the  preconditions 
for bringing about an Africa of the new beginning that 
the  Chairperson  of  the African  Union,  His  Excellency 
President  Wa  Mutharika  of  Malawi,  spoke  of  on  the 
first  day  of  the  general  debate  (see  A/65/PV.11).  The 
United Nations has been an important partner to Africa, 
working with us through the African Union, whether in 
Somalia,  the  Sudan  or  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
Congo. South Africa is encouraged by the commitment 
shown  by  the  international  community  in  trying  to 
assist  the  both  the  Government  of  the  Sudan  and 
Southern  Sudan  as  they  prepare  for  the  upcoming 
referendum in January 2011. 

The  people  of  Zimbabwe  also  need  the  helping 
hand  of  the  international  community  in  implementing 
their  Global  Political  Agreement.  The  African  Union 
and  the  Southern  African  Development  Community 
speak for us, too, in calling for the lifting of sanctions 
against  Zimbabwe. We  will  continue  to  work  with  the 
peoples  of  Zimbabwe,  Madagascar  and  Burundi, 
among others, in their efforts to build and consolidate 
peace and democracy in their respective countries. 
In  the  case  of  Western  Sahara,  South  Africa 

remains  concerned  about 
impasse, 
which stands in the way of a solution that will result in 
the  people  of  Western  Sahara  exercising 
their 
inalienable right to self-determination. We count on the 
United  Nations,  especially  the  Security  Council,  to 
continue to make decisions that enable us to decisively 
deal  with  the  challenges  of  peace  and  security  on  our 
continent. 

The United Nations should see Africa as a partner 
in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  the 
management  of  conflicts,  and  accordingly  do  more  to 
strengthen 
the 
Security  Council  and  the  African  Union  Peace  and 
Security  Council.  In  this  respect,  South  Africa  will 
continue to support all international efforts to help the 
people of Palestine and Israel in their endeavour to find 
lasting  peace,  leading  to  the  establishment  of  a  viable 
Palestinian State, on the basis of the 1967 borders and 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, existing side by side 
in peace and security with Israel. 

We  are  at  one  with  the  call  made  by  several 
delegations  for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  on  the 
Republic of Cuba. 
the  working  relationship  between 
the  continuing 
10-55109 

27 

A/65/PV.17 


We have  converged here  year after year to make 
strong  statements  on  Palestine,  the  embargo  on  Cuba 
and  the  independence  of  the  Western  Sahara.  The 
ultimate  test  of  the  relevance  of  the  United  Nations 
will  therefore  be  in  bringing  closure  to  all  these  long 
outstanding  issues  in  a  manner  that  is  consistent  with 
our  decisions  and 
the  collective  will  of  nations 
represented in this Organization. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


In conclusion, we were also privileged recently to 
be  the  stage,  and  Africa  the  theatre,  of  the  2010 
Fédération internationale de football association World 
Cup  tournament.  Our  people  spoke  for  us  during  that 
soccer  event  in  how  they  embraced  each  other  and  in 
their  diversity  of  many  nations,  consistent  with  the 
spirit  of  ubuntu,  which  simply  means  “I  am  because 
you  are”.  They  gave  us  hope  and  confirmed  the  faith 
we  have  in  our  belief  that  a  better  world  is  possible. 
The  role  of  sport  in  development  and  in  advancing 
peace  can  never  be  underestimated. As  States,  we  can 
best  respond  to  this  message  from  our  people  by 
making sure that the United Nations, in playing its role 
in  the  global  system,  is  more  relevant,  more  inclusive 
and more representative. 

Looking ahead, South Africa is honoured to have 
been endorsed by the African Union as a candidate for 
the  Security  Council  non-permanent  membership  for 
the  period  2011-2012.  We  stand  ready  to  continue  to 
contribute to the achievement of peace and security in 
the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Edward  Nalbandyan,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Armenia. 
Mr.  Nalbandyan  (Armenia)  (spoke  in  French): 

Each  year,  the  great  family  of  nations  comes  together 
to  assess  what  the  Organization  has  achieved  and  to 
consider  together  ways  to  respond  to  the  problems 
facing  the  world  and  to  acknowledge  what  unites  our 
nations and what still divides them. 

For  65  years,  the  General  Assembly  has  carried 
out this both difficult and noble mission. That mission 
was  summarized  very  well  by  the  first  speaker  at  the 
first  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  on  10  January 
1946, as the maintenance of peace and security and the 
establishment, through cooperation, of those conditions 
of  stability  and  well-being  which  will  ensure  peaceful 
and  friendly  relations,  based  on  the  principle  of  equal 
to  pursue 
their 
right 
to 
28 

10-55109 
in 
new 
challenges 
international 
In short, many things have changed, including the 
rights and self-determination among the nations of the 
world. 

Since  then,  the  General  Assembly  has  changed. 
The number of Members has almost quadrupled, major 
decisions  have  been  made,  historic  documents  have 
been  adopted,  old  problems  have  given  way  to  new, 
and  the  scope  of  responsibilities  of  the  General 
Assembly has greatly increased as it has opened itself 
to 
security, 
non-proliferation,  disarmament,  respect  for  human 
rights, poverty, terrorism, global warming, the financial 
crisis and many other issues. 

century. 
Nevertheless  and  despite  the  developments  that 

have marked recent decades, the situation in the region 
where Armenia is situated prompts me to return to that 
day, 10 January 1946, which is so distant yet so close, 
given  the  objectives  that  were  put  forward  then  and 
which continue more than ever to underpin our actions. 

How is it possible to maintain peace, security and 
stability  when  we  keep  raising  defence  spending  and 
regularly threaten to use force and to start wars? How 
can  we  promote  friendly  and  peaceful  relations 
between  peoples  when  we  promote  intolerance  and 
hatred and impose blockades and closed borders? How 
can  we  assure  the  principle  of  the  equal  rights  of 
peoples  and  their  right  to  make  their  own  decisions 
when  we 
fundamental  principle  of 
international  law  —  the  right  of  peoples  to  self-
determination? 
(spoke in English) 

I  would  like  to  hereby  touch  upon  the  conflict 
between  Azerbaijan  and  Nagorno-Karabakh.  The 
people  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  exercised  their  right  to 
self-determination  two  decades  ago.  They  fought  for 
their  right  to  freedom,  withstanding  the  brutal  war 
unleashed  by  Azerbaijan,  which  had  suppressed  them 
for 70 years and attempted to cleanse them from their 
ancestral  home.  For  that  purpose,  it  even  resorted  to 
the  use  of  mercenaries  closely  linked  to  international 
terrorist  organizations.  The  people  of  Nagorno-
Karabakh  had 
self-
determination as  they were being denied their right to 
existence. 
The  right  of  peoples  to  self-determination  is  a 

fundamental  and  indispensable  right  enshrined  in  the 
reject 
the 
the  wisdom  of 
the  founders  of 
that  one  of 


Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  advisory  opinion 
issued  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  July 
this 
reaffirmed 
Organization,  who  made  sure 
the 
fundamental  principles  for  maintaining  peace  and 
stability  in  the  world  —  the  right  of  peoples  to  self-
determination  —  could  not  be  underrated  in  any  way 
compared with the other principles of international law. 

Let us be realistic. One cannot say each and every 
time  that  this  is  the  last  self-determination  case.  No 
one  is  able  to  stop  the  progress  of  history;  otherwise, 
there  would  not  be  192  Member  States  in  this 
Organization instead of 51, as there were at the time of 
its founding. 

The  Nagorno-Karabakh  peace  process  moves 
forward with the internationally mandated mediation of 
the  Co-Chairs  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  Minsk  Group,  who 
continue  their  persistent  efforts  aimed  at  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  the  conflict  based  on  the  fundamental 
principles of international law: the non-use of force or 
threat of force, the equal rights and self-determination 
of peoples and territorial integrity. 

On 17 July, at the margins of the OSCE informal 
ministerial  meeting  in  Almaty,  the  Minsk  Group 
Co-Chairs  issued  a  statement  in  which  they  reiterated 
that  the  proposed  principles  and  elements  have  been 
conceived as an integrated whole and that any attempt 
to  select  some  of  them  over  others  would  make  it 
impossible  to  achieve  a  balanced  solution.  Armenia 
fully  shares 
the 
negotiations  on  that  basis  in  search  of  a  peaceful 
settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. 

Unfortunately, Azerbaijan rejects two of the three 
principles mentioned and is attempting not only to turn 
upside down the essence of the negotiation process, but 
also  to  distort  the  nature  of  the  conflict  in  various 
international  forums,  including  the  General Assembly, 
as happened  here  about two weeks  ago  and  again two 
days  ago.  That  country  is  attempting  to  mislead  the 
international  community,  presenting  the  consequences 
of the conflict as its causes. 
Azerbaijan’s  unabated  war  rhetoric,  growing 

violations  of  the  ceasefire  regime,  and  unprecedented 
military budget increases only exacerbate the situation, 
raising  concerns  about  the  already  fragile  stability  in 
the region. Azerbaijan continues to reject proposals to 
come to an agreement on the non-use of force or threat 
this  vision  and  will  continue 
A/65/PV.17
of  force,  as  well  as  calls  for  the  consolidation  of  the 
ceasefire. Azerbaijan’s attitude thus represents a threat 
to  regional  peace  and  security.  The  money  it  derives 
from  oil  revenues  is  being  directed  at  funding  new 
military ventures. We all know the potential results of 
such adventurism. 

Azerbaijan  should  refrain  from  its  continuing 
attempts  to  remove  the  settlement  process  from  the 
Minsk Group format and framework and from making 
provocative  and  bellicose  statements  and  actions,  in 
order  that  the  negotiation  process  may  proceed  more 
constructively and effectively. 

In  an  era  when  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
human  rights  are  considered  essential  in  the  civilized 
world, intolerance for the values of others and acts that 
intentionally,  consistently  and  repeatedly  damage  or 
destroy  the  cultural  or  religious  heritage  of  other 
civilizations must be condemned with the same resolve 
and determination as violence against people. 

The  destruction  by  Azerbaijanis  between  1998 
and 2005 in Nakhichevan of thousands of cross-stones 
delicately  carved  by Armenian  masters  in  the  ninth  to 
the  sixteenth  centuries  is  a  vivid  example  of  such  a 
crime.  Under  the  Azerbaijani  Government’s  watchful 
eye,  thousands  of  these  gigantic  medieval  sculptures 
were bulldozed and the area turned into a military zone 
in a Government-sanctioned operation. A resolution  at 
the  sixteenth  General  Assembly  of  the  International 
Council  on  Monuments  and  Sites  stated  regretfully 
with  regard  to  this  act  of  vandalism:  “…  this  heritage 
that once enjoyed its worthy place among the treasures 
of  the  world’s  heritage  can  no  longer  be  transmitted 
today to future generations”. 

Armenia’s  initiative  for  the  normalization  of 
relations  with  Turkey  without  any  preconditions  was 
fully  supported  by  the  international  community.  Last 
year,  after 
intensive  negotiations,  we  achieved 
agreement  and  finally  signed  the  Armenian-Turkish 
protocols. We made a confident investment in a durable 
while 
rapprochement, 
unfortunately, 
backtracked  from 
its  commitments  and  not  only 
refrained  from  ratifying  the  signed  protocols,  but 
returned 
language  of  preconditions. 
Consequently,  the  Armenian-Turkish  border  continues 
to  remain  the  only  closed  border  in  Europe.  Good 
intentions  must  be  proved  in  deeds,  not  just  words. 
Armenia  is  ready  to  move  forward  when  Turkey  will 
Turkey, 
initial 
to 
its 
10-55109 

29 
report 
on 
further  discussions  of 
international  efforts  aimed  at 
A/65/PV.17 

once  again  be  prepared  to  normalize  relations  without 
preconditions. 

While  we  are  discussing  all  possible  ways  to 
create  a  more  prosperous  and  safer  world  for  our 
peoples, we would be remiss if we did not speak about 
the  responsibility  to  protect. As  a  nation  we  survived 
the  most  heinous  crime  against  humanity,  genocide, 
95 years  ago.  We  attach  the  utmost  importance  to 
furthering  all 
the 
prevention of genocide and crimes against humanity. It 
is  encouraging 
the 
Secretary-General’s 
early  warning, 
assessment and the responsibility to protect (A/64/864) 
are  being  held  in  the  General  Assembly.  This  will 
enable us come up with a formula that will allow us to 
act  in  a  timely  and  coherent  manner,  utilizing  all  the 
United  Nations  system  resources  and  capabilities  for 
early warning, assessment and prevention of situations 
that  could  lead  to  genocide,  war  crimes  or  crimes 
against humanity. 

To  bolster  United  Nations  capacity  to  deal  with 
current  challenges  and  those  ahead,  we  need  to 
increase  our  efforts  to  further  the  process  of  United 
Nations  reform,  making  more  efficient  and  effective 
use  of  existing  resources,  making  the  “One  United 
Nations”  policy  work,  and  better  utilizing  regional 
capacities to complement our global actions. 
Today, the world is evolving faster than ever. To 

meet 
social, 
environmental and other challenges we simply have to 
put  our  efforts,  resources,  and  political  determination 
together  to  deal  with  them  and  move  the  international 
development agenda forward. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shin  Kak-soo,  Acting 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Republic 
of Korea. 
Mr. Shin Kak-soo (Republic of Korea): I would 

like to begin by extending my warmest congratulations 
to you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency at the 
sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  have 
every  confidence 
that  under  your  distinguished 
leadership this session will indeed yield fruitful results. 
May  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki moon. We deeply appreciate 
his  wholehearted  commitment  and  selfless  dedication 
to 
this  august 
Organization. 
economic, 
the  noble  and 
lofty  goals  of 
security, 
political, 
that 

towards 
achieving 
Since  their  launch  in  2000,  we  have  made 

headway 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Yet  progress  varies 
greatly  across  regions  and  countries  and  is  uneven  in 
terms  of  targets.  Among  other  things,  maternal  and 
child health warrants our special attention as the most 
off-track  goal  in  most  regions.  Indeed,  improving 
maternal and child health is the best investment we can 
make  to  carry  momentum  over  to  all  other  closely 
related  goals.  In  view  of  the  importance  it  attaches  to 
this goal, the Republic of  Korea has joined the Group 
of  8  Muskoka  Initiative  for  Maternal,  Newborn  and 
Child  Health.  Furthermore,  Korea  fully  supports  the 
Secretary-General’s  pursuit  of  the  Global  Strategy  for 
Women’s  and  Children’s  Health,  and  it  welcomes  the 
enthusiasm  of  all  stakeholders  for  this  important 
initiative, as was demonstrated at this week’s meeting. 

With  only  five  years  remaining  until  2015,  the 
prospects  for  meeting  the  MDGs  are  not  altogether 
encouraging.  It  is  high  time  for  the  international 
community  to  renew  its  resolve  and  galvanize  global 
efforts  to  achieve  these  vast  and  meaningful  goals.  I 
earnestly  hope  that,  when  we  gather  again  in  2013  to 
review  progress,  we  will  find  that  implementation  of 
the commitments at the High-level Meeting held earlier 
this week exceeds our most optimistic expectations. 

We  must  bear  in  mind  that  the  success  of  the 
MDGs hinges on honouring development commitments 
and redoubling efforts to strengthen global partnership. 
In  full  recognition  of  this,  the  Republic  of  Korea  has 
embarked  on  a  midterm  plan  to  triple  its  official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  budget  over  the  next 
five  years  to  0.25  per  cent  of  gross  national  income, 
despite tight financial constraints. 

As  a  new  Member  of  the  Organization  for 
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  Assistance 
Committee, Korea is seeking to improve the quality of 
its development assistance by undertaking far-reaching 
reforms  in  its  ODA  system.  Last  year,  basic  laws  on 
ODA were enacted as the first step forward. Korea will 
also  align  its  development  policy  to  reflect  the  actual 
needs  of  the  recipient  countries  and  encourage  their 
taking  ownership.  With  its  unique  experience  of  fast 
economic  and  social  development,  Korea  will  do  its 
utmost  to  play  a  bridging  role  between  the  donor  and 
recipient countries. 

Next year, Korea will host the Fourth High-Level 
Forum  on  Aid  Effectiveness  in  Busan.  The  Korean 
30 

10-55109 
in  Seoul 
to  promote  economic  growth 


Government  will  make  every possible  effort  to  ensure 
that  this  forum  serves  to  map  out  a  new  direction  for 
international development cooperation that can address 
evolving global needs. 

It is indeed our common belief that development 
cooperation is an investment for all. A sustainable and 
balanced  world  economy  requires  us  to  narrow  down 
the persistent development gap. This is the shared goal 
of the Group of 20 (G-20) and the United Nations. The 
G-20  leaders  have  agreed  to  place  development  as  a 
crucial new item on the agenda for the upcoming G-20 
summit 
this  November.  The  G-20 
development  agenda  will  concentrate  on  building 
capacity 
the 
developing  world.  In  this  way,  the  Group  of  20  is 
expected  to  complement  the  ongoing  development 
agenda, including the MDGs. 

Global  financial  safety  nets  will  be  another  new 
agenda  item  at  the  Seoul  summit.  Robust  and  reliable 
global  financial  safety  nets  are  vital,  especially  for 
developing  countries,  which  are  most  vulnerable  to 
volatile  global  capital  flows.  The  Seoul  summit  will 
focus  on  faithful  implementation  of  the  previous 
agreements, which will help to bring back the stability 
of  the  global  market  at  an  early  date.  Leaders  will 
continue  to  coordinate  their  policies  for  a  strong, 
sustainable and balanced growth of the world economy. 
Reforms  of  international  financial  institutions  and 
financial  regulations  will  also  be  central 
the 
discussion at the G-20 summit. 

is 
the  G-20  President 
committed  to  ensuring  a  successful  outcome  for  the 
summit,  one  that  will  contribute  to  overcoming  the 
current  crisis  and  to  working  out  the  post-crisis 
management of the world economy. 

In  discussing  economic  growth,  particular 
emphasis must be placed on green growth. Indeed, this 
lies  at  the  heart  of  sustainable  development.  In  an 
effort to curb greenhouse gas emissions, Korea has set 
a voluntary reduction target of 30 per cent against the 
business-as-usual  levels  by  2020.  Together,  we  will 
gradually  shift  the  growth  paradigm  from  an  energy-
intensive to a green growth economy. 

As part of the efforts to promote the green growth 
strategy  in  the  international  community,  we  launched 
the  Global  Green  Growth  Institute  last  June. We  hope 
that  this  institute  will  become  an  integral  part  of  the 
sustainable 
global  endeavour 
this  year,  Korea 
to  move 
towards 
As 
in 
to 
A/65/PV.17
including 
development  as  Korea  strives  to  share  green  growth 
vision and assistance with developing countries. 

On  the  peace  and  security  front,  peacekeeping 
operations  have  become  the  most  visible  and  defining 
feature  of  the  United  Nations. The  increasing  demand 
and  growing  complexity  of  peacekeeping  operations 
call for continuous improvement in the operation of the 
missions. 

Strategic  goals  should  be  set  more  clearly.  The 
troops  should  be  deployed  more  swiftly.  Operations 
should  be  conducted  in  a  more  professional  and 
disciplined way. To this end, all stakeholders, including 
troop-contributing countries and financial contributors, 
should focus on close coordination and cooperation. 
The  Republic  of  Korea  has  been  a  committed 

contributor  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping  efforts. 
Korea dispatched 240 contingent troops this year alone 
to the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti to 
help rebuild the country shaken by a tragic earthquake. 
Currently,  some  650  Korean  soldiers  are  serving  in 
11 peacekeeping  missions, 
the  United 
Nations Interim Force in Lebanon. We believe that our 
newly  enacted  law  on  participation  in  peacekeeping 
operations  will  further  enhance  our  response  capacity 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
operations. 
One of the most urgent security challenges today 

is the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and 
their  means  of  delivery.  It  is  imperative  to  further 
strengthen 
and 
non-proliferation  regimes  built  around  the  Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). 
In  this  regard,  Korea  welcomes  the  adoption  of 

the  Final  Document  at 
the  2010  NPT  Review 
Conference  in  May.  We  trust  that  this  hard-won 
achievement  will 
the  groundwork  for  future 
progress in nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. 

The nexus between weapons of mass destruction 
and terrorism also poses a grave risk to global security. 
With  this  shared  understanding,  the  leaders  at  the 
Nuclear  Security  Summit  held  in  Washington,  D.C., 
last  April  recognized 
the  potentially  catastrophic 
consequences  of  nuclear  terrorism  and  committed  to 
strengthening  nuclear  security.  It  was  agreed  that 
concrete steps for securing nuclear materials should be 
taken  to  prevent  them  from  falling  into  the  hands  of 
terrorists. We look forward to follow-up discussions on 
disarmament 
international 
lay 
10-55109 

31 
the  second  Nuclear  Security 
A/65/PV.17 

nuclear  security  at 
Summit, which is to be held in Korea in 2012. 

In  August,  President  Lee  Myung-bak  of  the 
Republic  of  Korea  proposed  a  new  vision  of  the 
peaceful  reunification  of  Korea,  which  will  serve  to 
stabilize  inter-Korean  relations  and  ultimately  bring 
about a reunified Korea. To make this vision reality, we 
will work earnestly to build three communities: a peace 
community to ensure security and peace on the Korean 
peninsula;  an  economic  community  to  develop  North 
Korea’s  economy  and  eventually  achieve  inter-Korean 
economic integration; and a community of the Korean 
nation  which  will  ensure  the  dignity,  freedom  and 
human rights of all individuals. 

However, this vision for peaceful reunification is 
not without obstacles. Sixty years after the outbreak of 
the  Korean  War  in  1950,  there  still  remain  threats  to 
peace  on  the  Korean  peninsula. A  case  in  point  is  the 
sinking  of  the  Republic  of  Korea’s  naval  vessel,  the 
Cheonan,  by  a  North  Korean 
torpedo  attack  on 
26 March this year. The international community sent a 
firm  and  unified  message  to  North  Korea  by  adopting 
the  Security  Council  presidential  statement  of  9  July. 
North  Korea  must 
its 
unprovoked  attack  and  refrain  from  any  further 
provocations. 

The biggest obstacle in our path towards a peace 
community  is  the  resolution  of  the  North  Korean 
nuclear  issue.  Unless  North  Korea  forgoes  its  nuclear 
weapons  programme,  no  sustainable  peace  can  be 
achieved on the Korean peninsula and beyond. 
the  adoption  of  Security  Council 

resolutions  1718 
the 
international community urged North Korea to abandon 
all  nuclear  weapons  and  existing  nuclear  programmes 
in  a  complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible  manner.  In 
order  to  secure  the  lifting  of  sanctions  and  the  ending 
of  isolation,  North  Korea  should  make  the  strategic 
decision 
to 
denuclearization.  A  nuclear-free  North  Korea  would 
also open the way to saving its people from the current 
miserable human rights and humanitarian situation. 
Last  year,  on  this  very  occasion,  President  Lee 

proposed  the  “grand  bargain”  initiative:  a  single 
comprehensive  agreement  that  encompasses  all  steps 
for North Korea’s denuclearization and the five parties’ 
corresponding  measures. 
the 
international  community,  we  will  work  tirelessly  to 
(2006)  and  1874 
Together  with 
commitments 
live  up 
take 
responsibility 
for 
Through 
to 
to 
its 

the 
In  order 
to  effectively  address 
persuade  North  Korea  to  make  the  right  choice  —  a 
choice  that  will  ensure  a  better  future  for  both  its 
country and its people. Once North Korea demonstrates 
genuine  change  in  its  behaviour  and  attitude,  my 
Government  is  prepared  to  engage  in  meaningful 
dialogue and cooperation with North Korea. 

We  are  witnessing  many  global  challenges  that 
are 
testing 
international  community.  These 
challenges cannot be addressed by one country alone or 
even  by  a  group  of  countries.  They  summon  us  as 
global  citizens  to  fulfil  a  common  purpose.  They  call 
on  the  United  Nations  to  assume  the  mantle  of  global 
leadership. 
the 
increasingly diverse and interconnected challenges, the 
United  Nations  should  heighten  its  reform  efforts 
aimed at broadening its operational response capacity. 

The launch of UN Women is a clear testimony to 
the world community’s efforts towards this end. Korea 
commends  that  historic  move  to  step  up  progress  in 
meeting the needs of women and girls worldwide. UN 
Women  will  greatly  contribute  to  enhancing  system-
wide  coherence,  bringing 
together  resources  and 
mandates  for  greater  impact.  We  also  welcome  the 
recent appointment of Michelle Bachelet at its helm. 

Furthermore, the upcoming review of the Human 
Rights  Council  represents  an  excellent  opportunity  to 
muster our collective efforts to make the Council more 
effective  and  efficient  at  fulfilling  the  promises  we 
made at its establishment. The Republic of Korea looks 
forward  to  working  closely  with  the  international 
community in this joint effort. 

No reform of the United Nations can be complete 
without  Security  Council  reform.  It  is  crucial  that  the 
Council  be  more 
representative,  effective  and 
accountable.  To  this  end,  the  Republic  of  Korea  will 
continue  to  play  a  constructive  role  in  finding  the 
widest possible agreement on the major issues relating 
to Council reform. 
The  challenges  facing  the  United  Nations  are 

formidable.  We  may  succeed  in  some  endeavours  and 
not in others, but we should not forget that the United 
Nations  is  the  best  source  of  hope  for  many  who  are 
suffering  from  armed  conflicts,  extreme  poverty  and 
human rights abuses across the globe. The Republic of 
Korea remains fully committed to playing its due part 
in  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  translate  those 
hopes into reality. 
(2009), 
32 

10-55109 


The President (spoke in French): We have heard 

the last speaker in the general debate for this meeting.  

The  representative  of  the  Sudan  has  asked  to 
speak in exercise of the right of reply. 

I  wish  to  remind  him  that  statements  made  in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  five  minutes  for  the 
second one and must be made by delegations from their 
seats. 

Sudan. 
Mr. Elshareef (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At this 

morning’s  meeting  we  heard  the  representative  of  the 
Netherlands express in his statement the refusal of his 
Government to accept that the President of my country, 
the  Sudan,  be  permitted  to  travel  to  his  country.  He 
said that: 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
“it is unacceptable to the Dutch Government that 
someone  like  President  Al-Bashir  of  the  Sudan, 
against  whom  an  arrest  warrant  is  outstanding, 
should  be  allowed  to  move  freely  in  a  country 
that is an ICC partner”. (A/65/PV.16) 

I  would  like  to  tell  the  representative  of  the 
Netherlands that we are surprised by such a statement, 
which  demonstrates  an  ignorance  of  the  Rome  Statute 
of 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  because  my  


A/65/PV.17
country, the Sudan, is not a signatory of that Statute. It 
also  shows  a  blatant  ignorance  of  a  principle  of 
international law known even to junior law students — 
I repeat, junior students of the law. I am referring to the 
Vienna  Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties,  which 
stipulates  that  a  State  that  is  not  a  party  to  a  treaty  is 
not bound by that treaty’s provisions.  

I  wish  to  call  attention  in  the  same  context  to  a 
resolution  issued  by  the  African  Union  following  the 
visit  of  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  to 
Kenya and Chad and its affirmation of the commitment 
of  all  States  members  of  the  African  Union  to  the 
decisions  of  the  African  Union  in  this  matter.  That 
statement  expressed  appreciation  of  the  courageous 
stands of Kenya and Chad and their commitment to the 
decisions of the African Union. 

Furthermore,  we  tell  the  representative  of  the 
Netherlands that what he has said is unacceptable. It is 
an audacious interference in the internal affairs of our 
country,  because  it  is  the  right  of  any  country  to  host 
whomever  it  wants  to  host.  However,  it  seems  that 
some  countries  are  still  moved  by  memories  of  past 
colonialism,  the  same  heinous  colonialism  whereby 
such countries usurped the freedom and wealth of other 
nations and peoples. 





  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. 
10-55109 

33 
