United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

5th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 21 September 2010, 9 a.m. 
New York 






A/65/PV.5
Official Records
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session)
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session) 
Co-Chair: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . .
Co-Chair: Mr. Joseph Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m. 










remind  members  about 
High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium 
Development Goals 
Agenda items 13 and 115 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.1) 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

wish 
length  of 
to 
statements.  Members  will  recall  that,  in  accordance 
with  Assembly  resolution  64/184  of  21  December 
2009, the list of speakers has been drawn up based on a 
time  limit  of  five  minutes  per  statement.  I  therefore 
request speakers to observe that limit out of respect for 
all  who  will  speak  after  them  so  that  everyone  can 
enjoy  the  same  conditions.  I  thank  everyone  for  their 
understanding and discipline. 

The  General Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address 
by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Dimitris  Christofias,  President 
of the Republic of Cyprus. 

President  Christofias:  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to 
participate  in  this  High-level  Meeting,  which  has  a 
most  noble  aim.  Ambitious  and  far-reaching  as  they 
may  be,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
the 
certainly  deserve  our  fullest  attention  and  dedication. 
Nations  small  and  big  should  assume  their  shared 
responsibilities  and  ensure  that  all  the  MDGs  are  met 
on time. 

In fact, over the first 10 years we have spoken a 
lot but not done enough. In the five years that remain, 
we  must  intensify  our  efforts  to  make  up  lost  ground. 
For  our  part,  although  Cyprus  is  a  small  country  with 
limited resources, we are doing everything possible to 
implement  the  commitments  we  have  undertaken, 
mobilizing  additional  and 
innovative  sources  of 
financing.  CyprusAid,  the  development  cooperation 
service of the Republic, aims for an efficient and well-
targeted  allocation  of  assistance  to  maximize  the 
benefits to partner countries. 
towards 

universal  access 
social 
protection,  and  to  reduce  inequalities.  In  this  regard, 
we  are  working  with  our  European  Union  (EU)  and 
United Nations partners, as well as with numerous local 
and  international  non-governmental  organizations.  We 
channel  our  development  assistance  more  specifically 
to health care areas, such as the construction of clinics 
and  donation  of  ambulances.  We  also  direct  it  to 
education,  tourism-related  services  and  infrastructure, 
such  as  bridge  construction  and  public  works.  In  the 
future,  we  will  have  to  devote  more  attention  to 
environmental problems created by climate change. 

Lacking a project implementation mechanism for 
the  time  being,  Cyprus  pursues  development  projects 
the  objectives 
social 
is 
to  strive 
services  and 
One  of 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54298 (E) 
*1054298* 

is, 
that 
A/65/PV.5 

via  delegated  cooperation  — 
in  close 
collaboration  with  our  EU  partners  and  development 
agencies. The projects implemented or planned thus far 
are aimed exclusively at the Millennium Development 
Goals. 

The European Union and its member States play a 
crucial role in enabling developing countries to achieve 
MDGs  4  and  5,  concerning  child  mortality  and 
maternal  health,  respectively.  In  this  context,  I  would 
like to note our contribution to MDG 6 — on AIDS — 
through our support of the International Drug Purchase 
Facility,  which 
innovative  mechanism  for 
is  an 
financing development. 

I assure Members from this rostrum that I will do 
everything I can to ensure that Cyprus continues to be 
an  active  regional  and  global  player  in  this  collective 
effort of ours. Before concluding, let me reiterate what 
I  said  yesterday.  If  we  want  to  effectively  and 
substantially  touch  on  the  problems  of  poverty  and 
gender inequality, we must fight to achieve a more just 
distribution of global wealth. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Finland. 
President Halonen: The Millennium Declaration 

(resolution  55/2)  is  based  on  the  idea  that  peace  and 
security, development and  respect of human rights are 
interlinked and mutually reinforcing. This trinity is still 
true. 

A democratic State that respects human rights and 
the rule of law and applies good governance and social 
justice  provides  a  solid  foundation  for  the  aspirations 
of  its  citizens.  The  activities  of  non-governmental 
organizations  have  been  and  are  crucial 
the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), and we also need the work of business life. 

There is strong evidence that our common efforts 
have brought about results. The Goals have become an 
integral  part  of  developing  countries’  own  national 
development  strategies.  Many  examples  demonstrate 
that the Goals played had an important role in national 
poverty reduction. 

Finland  is  fully  committed  to  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  will  continue  to  increase 
funding for development cooperation, which will reach 
0.58  per  cent  of  our  gross  national  income  next  year, 
to 

is  crucial 
rights-based  approach 
The  empowerment  of  women 
thereby  keeping  us  on  track  to  reach  the  0.7  per  cent 
level  by  2015.  Our  support  is  increasingly  directed  to 
Africa. We encourage other countries to do the same. 

The Millennium Development Goals are a part of 
a  broad  development  agenda.  It  includes  the  mutually 
reinforcing  objectives  of  ensuring  respect  for  and  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  all  human  rights  and  of 
strengthening democracy and the rule of law. 

to 
achieving  the  Millennium  Goals,  but  we  need  the 
commitment and contribution of women and men alike. 
Recent declines in maternal mortality show that we can 
make  a  difference.  A 
is 
particularly  important  in  promoting  maternal  health 
and the reproductive rights of women. This scarf on my 
shoulders tells of the strong movement  of women  and 
men who support that approach. Finland welcomes and 
strongly  supports  the  newly  established  UN  Women, 
which  will  promote  gender  equality  worldwide  and 
across the United Nations system. 

Efforts to eradicate poverty and improve the lives 
of all people need to be based on economic, social and 
ecological  sustainability.  Special  attention  must  be 
given  to  indigenous  peoples  and  ethnic  minorities, 
which are often subject to discrimination. The rights of 
persons  with  disabilities  must  be  made  visible  and 
addressed  in  activities  related  to  the  Millennium 
Development Goals at all levels. 

In  2004,  we  decided  that  globalization  should 
also be reformed, because only fair globalization could 
be a positive force for all the peoples of the world. We 
must  create  conditions  for  sustainable  economic 
growth  leading  to  decent  jobs.  This  is  essential  for 
reducing poverty. 

There is a strong link between climate issues and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Progress  in  work 
related to climate change benefits our efforts to achieve 
the  MDGs.  We  also  need  to  protect  biodiversity  and 
ecosystems,  which  contribute  to  efficient,  long-term 
adaptation  to  climate  change.  Finland  is  looking 
forward to a fruitful high-level event on biodiversity, to 
be held tomorrow. 

The  Secretary-General  has  set  up  a  High-level 
Panel  on  Global  Sustainability  to  formulate  a  new 
vision  for  sustainable  growth  and  prosperity.  I  am 
honoured to co-chair the Panel, together with President 
Jacob Zuma of South Africa. After the first meeting of 
2 

10-54298 
We 
turn 
in  Finland 
strongly  believe 
in  our  hearts  and 


the Panel on Sunday, I could tell, even in the very short 
time  we  had,  that  the  Panel  is  determined  to  put 
forward new ideas in order to meet the challenge. 

that 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  can  be  achieved.  A 
strong multilateral system is a vital key to this end. The 
Goals  can  be  achieved  only  through  cooperation  and 
equal  participation.  Developed 
and  developing 
countries  alike  must  be  able  to  participate  in  and  be 
committed to global decision-making. 
Finally,  10  years  ago,  I  had  the  honour  to  chair 

the  United  Nations  Millennium  Summit  with  former 
President  Sam  Nujoma  of  Namibia.  I  remember  well 
the enthusiastic spirit at that meeting. Let us keep that 
spirit 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals into the life of the people. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Pál Schmitt, President of the Republic 
of Hungary. 
President Schmitt: As we all know, lasting peace 

cannot be achieved unless large population groups find 
ways  in  which  to  break  out  of  poverty.  Every  single 
individual on Earth has both the potential and the right 
to  live  a  decent  life.  This  is  a  collective  challenge. 
Therefore, collective thinking and multifaceted actions 
are  needed  in  order  to  meet  the  diverse,  yet  closely 
interconnected set of goals lying ahead of us. 

Hungary strongly advocates a holistic approach to 
attaining the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
Consciously targeted policies are required to reach the 
Goals on which we are lagging behind, and full policy 
coherence is needed in order to accelerate the process. 

While  emphasizing  that  all  MDGs  are  equally 
important  and 
that 
eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger  would 
significantly  contribute  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  other 
Goals.  A  comprehensive  approach  to  food  security  is 
essential,  and  we  are  of  the  view  that  sustainable 
agricultural  development  based  on  local  resources, 
opportunities  and  ecological  aspects  is  a  vital  element 
of this. 

As  recent  MDG  progress  reviews  have  revealed, 
rural  communities  in  particular  suffer  from  a  lack  of 
development.  We  feel  that  an  emphasis  on  rural 
development  and 
living 
conditions  can  contribute  to  the  reduction  of  urban 
interrelated,  Hungary  believes 
improvement  of 
rural 
A/65/PV.5
migration  and  therefore  help  reduce  the  build-up  of 
slums. 

The  security  of  water  supplies,  proper  water 
management,  access  to  clean  water  and  sanitation  are 
core  elements  of  the  overarching  priorities  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Hungary 
is 
committed  to  further  sharing  its  experiences  in  this 
field with its  partners. Let  me point  out  in this  regard 
that  water  will  also  be  one  of  the  main  themes  of  the 
forthcoming  Hungarian  presidency  of  the  Council  of 
the European Union in the first half of the coming year. 

Hungary  is  convinced  that  there  can  be  no 
sustainable development without improving capacity in 
human  resources.  Education  empowers  individuals 
with  the  skills  and  knowledge  they  need  to  shape  the 
future, protect our limited resources and participate in 
building more peaceful societies. Education, especially 
for  women  and  girls  living  in  poverty,  not  only 
provides opportunities for a better future, but is also a 
key  for  survival.  Economic  growth  and  political 
democracy are also held back unless women participate 
on  an  equal  footing  with  men.  Access  to  inclusive, 
functional  and  quality  education,  corresponding  to  the 
needs of our rapidly changing world, is also essential.  
But  the  importance  of  physical  education  should 

not  be  neglected 
and 
determination  on 
this  subject  will  certainly  be 
understood  when  considerate  is  recalled  that  I  am 
probably  the  only  Head  of  State  in  this  Hall  who  is 
actually  an  Olympic  champion.  Sport  is  not  only 
beneficial  to  health,  but  it  also  teaches  discipline, 
determination, fellowship and respect for each other.  

Similarly, special attention needs to be attributed 
to  multilingual  education,  including  learning  in  one’s 
mother  tongue,  both  at  the  level  of  communities  and 
among  individuals.  Coherent  and  sustainable  policies 
are  needed  in  order  to  implement  these  priorities,  as 
this  is  an  area  where  results  become  tangible  only  in 
the long run. 

is  also  a 
priority,  since  the  development  of  human  resources 
relies largely on the improvement of the health sector, 
extensive  access  to  health  care  and  increasing  of  the 
local  capacities  of  national  health  systems.  Hungary 
can contribute to this process by offering its experience 
in 
networks, 
implementing  infant  vaccination  systems  and  sharing 
Meeting  global  health  challenges 
either.  My 
insistence 
building 
national 
health 
care 
10-54298 

3 
to 
the 
A/65/PV.5 

its  professional  knowledge  and  new  technological 
developments in the field of medical devices.  

With  regard  to  one  particular  area  —  maternal 
health —  I would like to draw  attention to the unique 
Hungarian  system  of  health  visitors  network  covering 
the  entire  country,  under  which  specialized  nurses 
regularly  visit  pregnant  women  and  mothers  with 
newborn babies, even in the smallest communities. We 
are ready to share our experiences in this field with our 
development  partners,  and  in  this  way  contribute  to 
progress in maternal and infant health-related MDGs. 

Benefiting  from  the  results  and  opportunities  of 
scientific  progress  and  new  technologies  is  a  crucial 
component of achieving our development goals. Many 
developing countries have obtained remarkable results 
in  this  field.  Since  2003,  Hungary  has  organized  the 
biennial  World  Science  Forum,  a  unique  global 
initiative  in  that  domain,  which  gives  a  strategic 
perspective 
linkages  between  science  and 
development,  with  a  particular  focus  on  the  needs  of 
the most vulnerable countries. 

Development  is  a  partnership.  It  is  our  future 
which  is  at  stake  now.  Therefore,  it  is  our  common 
responsibility  to  make  every  effort  to  accomplish  our 
commitments.  We  strive  not  only  for  an  efficient, 
economically  well-functioning  international  system, 
but also for a harmonious, dignified and human world. 
Let us work together for a sustainable future. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran. 
President Ahmadinejad (spoke in Farsi; English 

text provided by the delegation): I praise Almighty God 
for  granting  me 
this 
gathering. 

Throughout  the  ages,  humankind  has  aspired  to 
lead  a  prosperous  life  full  of  beauty,  serenity,  amity 
and  moral  and  spiritual  perfection.  We  have  had 
thousands  of  years  of  somewhat  bitter  and  sweet 
experience, along with abundant opportunities to build 
a  better  future,  in  conformity  with  the  true  dignity  of 
humankind  and  as  the  most  gracious  creation  of  God 
deserves. 

The  most  serious  problems  of  the  past  millennia 
were  derived  from  inhumane  and  infected  credos, 
accompanied by unfair and cruel management. In fact, 
the  opportunity 
to  attend 

for 
the  Children  of 
the  undemocratic  and  unjust  governance  structures  of 
the  international  economic  and  political  decision-
making  bodies  are  the  reasons  for  most  of  the  plights 
that  humankind  is  confronting  today.  Greedy  liberal 
capitalism  and  transnational  corporations  have  caused 
the suffering of countless women, men and children in 
many countries.  

The  first  decade  of  the  current  millennium, 
although  designated  by  the  General  Assembly  as  the 
International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-
violence 
the  World,  was 
unfortunately  marred  by  war,  occupation,  carnage, 
adventurism  and  intimidation.  Fundamental  reform  of 
this undemocratic and unjust system is  essential if we 
wish to create a fair and open one. 

The world needs a comprehensive and, of course, 
just  and  humane  order  in  which  the  rights  of  all  are 
preserved  and  peace  and  security  safeguarded.  The 
formation  and  functioning  of  this  new  order  would 
require  two  decisive  factors:  a  theoretical  basis  and 
essential structures and managerial methods. 

It  is  my  firm  belief  that,  in  the  new  millennium, 
we  need  to  revert  to  the  divine  mindset,  to  the  true 
nature  for which man was  created  and, indeed, to just 
and  fair  governance.  A  divine  mindset  based  on  the 
perfectionist  and  justice-seeking  nature  of  humankind 
and  on  a  monotheistic  worldview  is  in  fact  the  very 
heavenly  mindset  that  makes  man’s  blissful  talents 
blossom.  Such  a  mindset  should  be  humankind’s 
guiding  principle  to  ensure  a  prosperous  social  life, 
liberating  its  economic,  cultural  and  political  outlook 
from  egoism,  hegemonic 
tendencies  and  envy. 
Meanwhile, just and fair governance based on a divine 
mindset  is  a  critical  guarantor  for  the  realization  of 
justice, love and security in society. 

Peoples and nations seek their eminence, dreams 
and  aspirations  in  developing  amicable  relations  and 
fair  cooperation,  and  find 
through 
coexistence  with  others.  Those  who  have  not  felt 
justice within their souls and are unable to control their 
rage  and  selfish  desires;  those  who  do  not  feel 
compassionate  towards  others;  those  who  are  not 
moved  when  people’s 
rights  are  breached  and 
widespread  carnage  is  unleashed;  and  those  who  are 
mindful  only  of  their  own  interests  and  their  selfish, 
sectarian  and  materialistic  pleasures  cannot  uphold 
justice or bring about prosperity. 
identity 
their 
4 

10-54298 
to  secure  serenity,  welfare, 



The  third  millennium  ought  to  be  a  time  for 
pursuing  a  new  order  based  on  pure  and  righteous 
governance throughout the world and in the centres of 
power. 

Now  that  the  discriminatory  order  of  capitalism 
and  hegemonic  approaches  are  facing  defeat  and 
nearing  their  end,  all-out  participation  in  upholding 
justice  and  prosperous  interrelations  is  essential.  All 
should  participate  in  a  coordinated  effort  to  establish 
competent  governance  in  the  centres  of  world  power 
and 
friendship  and 
sustainable peace and security. 

Since  this  great  ideal  is  attainable  only  through 
the  participation  of  all  nations  and  States,  I  wish  to 
propose  that  the  second  decade  of  this  century  be 
designated by the United Nations as a decade for joint 
global  governance,  and  request  all  heads  of  State, 
thinkers and global reformers, through consultation and 
empathy, to spare no effort in practical planning for the 
realization of this noble goal. 

Undoubtedly,  this  is  the  prelude  to  the  bright 
destiny  of  humankind  promised  by  God,  all  the 
prophets, the righteous and the saints, which will occur 
with  the  resurrection  of  the  promised  one,  along  with 
the  Jesus.  Let  us  join  hands  and  make  the  third 
millennium an era in which all good deeds and beauties 
prevail  and  justice  is  upheld.  Let  us  please  God  by 
founding  compassionate  coexistence  throughout  the 
world. 

Peace  be  upon  the  promised  one  who  will  bring 
justice.  Peace  be  upon  all  good-hearted  people  and 
justice-seekers. Peace be upon those who have love for 
humankind 
the  dream  of 
humankind’s  progress  and  eminence  in  their  minds. 
Peace  be  upon 
freedom, 
righteousness and beauty. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Edward Natapei, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Vanuatu. 
Mr. Natapei (Vanuatu): The leaders of the Pacific 

Islands Forum remain concerned about the pace of our 
progress 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Despite  steady  progress 
towards  achieving  the  MDGs  and  improved  levels  of 
human  development,  many  of  our  countries  that  are 
small island developing States (SIDS) are struggling to 
the  millennium  of 
their  hearts  and 
achieving 
towards 
in 
A/65/PV.5
to 
the  Achievement  of 
achieve  the  Goals.  The  Pacific’s  progress  towards 
achievement of the MDGs and consequently improved 
levels  of  human  development  has  been  uneven. While 
gains  have  been  made,  there  remain  threats  to  such 
progress  due  to  the  inherent  vulnerability  of  SIDS,  as 
articulated  in  the  Barbados  Programme  of Action  and 
the Mauritius Strategy for its Further Implementation. 
The  increasing  vulnerability  of  Pacific  Island 

countries 
threats  and  challenges  has  been 
highlighted  by  the  impact  of  the  global  economic, 
financial, fuel and food crises, and compounded by the 
current  and  impending  impact  of  climate  change,  as 
well as our inherently limited capacity to cope. 

At  the  same  time,  the  challenges  of  poverty  and 
hardship,  food  security,  affordable  and  sustainable 
energy,  isolation,  limited  economies  of  scale,  the 
global recession and climate change are all interrelated 
and cannot be effectively tackled on their own, or by us 
alone. 

In  underscoring  the  Pacific  leaders’  commitment 
to  accelerating  progress  towards  achieving  the  MDGs 
by  2015,  the  Port  Vila  Declaration  on  Accelerating 
Progress  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  was  adopted  by  Pacific  Forum 
leaders  at  their  recent  meeting  in  Vanuatu.  The  Port 
Vila  Declaration  recognizes 
the  MDGs  are 
extremely  important,  as  is  the  incremental  path  taken 
towards  those  Goals.  This  path  should  recognize  and 
accommodate the special circumstances and challenges 
we face in the Pacific. 
and 

commitment,  the  Port  Vila  Declaration  will  not  likely 
succeed.  In  this  context,  the  Pacific  region  calls  for 
greater 
their 
development partners alike in sustainable and inclusive 
development  approaches; the scaling-up of investment 
in gender equality and the empowerment of women and 
the  most  vulnerable  in  our  communities,  including 
investment  in  technology  and  infrastructure  in  all 
aspects  of  development  and  development  processes; 
more  systematic  approaches  to  involving  the  non-
governmental 
and 
implementation  of  national  and  regional  development 
priorities  based  on 
their  comparative  expertise; 
investment 
information  management 
systems; improved understanding and ability to address 
our  vulnerabilities;  and  improved  coordination  of 
efforts towards achieving the MDGs. 
investment  by  Governments 
However,  without 
in  data  and 
concerted 
planning 
action 
that 
and 
sector 
in 
the 
10-54298 

5 

A/65/PV.5 


Despite a number of challenges facing the Pacific 
region, there exist strong signs of potential and success 
in  the  progress  made  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  These 
windows  of  opportunity  highlight  the  importance  of 
localizing the MDGs in national and regional plans and 
programmes,  and  building  up 
the  collaboration 
between  the  whole  of  Government  and  the  non-
governmental  sector  in  the  areas  of  greatest  need  for 
the  Pacific  island  peoples. The  coordinated  support  of 
our  development  partners  in  this  respect  is  also  a 
critical ingredient. 

I  draw  attention  to  the  progress  made  by  the 
Pacific  region  on  MDG  2,  on  achieving  universal 
primary  education.  The  primary  education  systems  of 
the Pacific region are characterized by high enrolment, 
with  six  countries  currently  displaying  net  enrolment 
ratios  of  over  90  per  cent.  At  present,  five  Pacific 
island  countries  are  on  track  to  achieve  the  MDG  2 
target,  with  a  further  six  countries  having  made 
significant  progress.  Equally,  all  Pacific 
island 
countries  are  expected  to  meet  the  goal  of  gender 
equality in education by 2015.  

Many  Pacific  countries  have  also  localized  the 
global  indicators  by  amending  them  to  suit  local 
circumstances and priorities. In some cases, additional 
development  goals  in  the  context  of  the  MDGs  have 
been  included  and  indicators  changed  to  make  them 
more relevant. 

With  this  level  of  progress,  we  are  under  no 
illusion about the enormous scale of the task ahead of 
us  as  sovereign  nations  and  as  a  region  with  its  own 
unique  challenges  and  circumstances.  Much  work 
needs to be done to accelerate sustainable progress, in 
particular  to  make  economic  growth  more  inclusive 
and  sustainable,  strengthen  social  protections  and 
reduce  persistent  gender  gaps,  ensure 
financial 
inclusion,  extend  regional  cooperation  and  –  of 
particular  importance  to  the  Pacific  region  –  boost 
technical cooperation and development assistance. That 
said,  both  the  acceleration  and  the  sustainability  of 
progress must be pursued together through approaches 
that  factor  in  exchange  rate  differences,  progress 
among  Pacific  countries  and  their  various  levels  of 
vulnerability. 

To this end, the Pacific region remains resolute in 
its commitments under the Millennium Declaration and 
calls  on 
this  global  village, 
Governments and development partners alike, to share 
its  neighbours 
in 
national 
implementing 
in our efforts as we strive to achieve livelihoods for our 
peoples and our communities and, most of all, for our 
future. 

At  the  national  level,  my  country,  Vanuatu,  has 
some  positive  MDG  results  to  report.  For  the  past 
10 years  our  Government,  with  development  partner 
support,  has  made  major  achievements  in  developing 
and 
for 
development, which is focused on economic growth for 
all, through prudent macroeconomic policies and fiscal 
controls,  providing  basic  services, 
transport  and 
communications  to  every  community  in  Vanuatu,  and 
in the area of legislative reform. 

All policies and strategies within each sector are 
linked  in  order  to  achieve  the  national  vision  of  an 
educated, safe, healthy and wealthy Vanuatu. This has 
resulted in many communities — including some of the 
most  remote  —  recording  impressive  successes.  The 
implementation of fee-free primary education has seen 
enrolment increase by 20 per cent from 2005 to 2010, 
with primary  school gross  enrolment at approximately 
95 per cent in 2010. 
In health, there have been a number of significant 

achievements related to staffing levels, suitably trained 
personnel,  equipment  and 
facilities,  and  disease 
treatment.  For  example,  the  incidence  of  malaria 
decreased from 198 per 1,000 people in 1990 to 13 per 
1,000 people in 2009. The rate now is almost 15 times 
less than it was in 1990 - a major achievement. Health 
professionals 
in 
communities  to  identify  and  treat  the  major  diseases 
malaria  and  tuberculosis.  Ironically,  these  increased 
efforts  have  resulted  in  some  increases  in  the  MDG 
indicators  for  these  diseases. The  incidence  and  death 
rates  are  in  fact  unchanged,  but  what  has  changed  is 
our ability to diagnose and treat these major threats to 
health. 
My  Government  acknowledges  the  contributions 

of 
those  who  have  partnered  with  us 
in  our 
development  efforts,  resulting  in  gains  that  they  are 
able to report on. The contribution and participation of 
non-governmental  organizations 
in  our 
collective  and  ongoing  efforts  towards  sustainable 
development  in  Vanuatu  must  also  be  acknowledged. 
They  have  made  their  influence  felt.  From  debt  relief 
and disease to good governance and human rights, the 
global NGO revolution — a revolution experienced in 
Vanuatu and the Pacific — has helped move the global 
are  now 
resourced 
to  work 
its 
strategy 
(NGOs) 
6 

10-54298 
It 
from 
of  many 
stakeholders 
is  my  belief 


agenda and given new life and new meaning to the idea 
of an international community. 

that,  with  strong  political 
leadership at all levels, backed by evidence-based and 
well-targeted interventions and adequate resources and 
coupled with strengthened partnerships, the MDGs can 
be met. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  further  that  Vanuatu’s 
second MDG progress report has just been completed. 
It is based on currently  available data and reflects  the 
views 
different 
backgrounds  and  areas  of  interest  and  expertise.  The 
report  highlights  a  number  of  interventions  that  could 
help to accelerate progress towards reaching our goals 
by  2015.  We  are  grateful  for  the  support  provided  by 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  to  MDG 
monitoring  in  Vanuatu  through  assistance  provided  in 
mainstreaming MDGs into sectoral development plans 
and policies and in the drafting of the report. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her 
Excellency Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, President of the 
Republic of Liberia. 
President Johnson-Sirleaf: We are here because 

we  share  a  fundamental  belief  that  poverty,  illiteracy, 
disease and inequality do not belong in the twenty-first 
century.  We  share  a  common  purpose:  to  eradicate 
these ills for the benefit of all. And we share a common 
tool  to  achieve  this:  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). 

The MDGs are universal, but their impact will be 
greatest in the world’s poorest nations, mainly those in 
sub-Saharan Africa, like my own country, Liberia. But 
it is also in Africa that we have seen the difference the 
MDGs  have  been  making.  They  have  mobilized  the 
international 
and 
Governments around a common set of targets. 

We  have  made  progress.  Eleven  low-income 
African  countries  are  among  the  20  top  performers. 
However,  it  is  clear  that  the  continent  still  has  far  to 
go;  yet  I  know  that  if  we  intensify  our  focus  and 
efforts, we will ultimately achieve them. 

My  message  is  this: As  we  renew  our  resolve  in 
2010,  we  must  recognize  the  need  for  inclusive 
economic growth. We need rapid, stable and sustained 
growth  that  creates  jobs,  especially  for  young  people 
community, 
countries 
donor 
A/65/PV.5
the 
fruits  of 
far  bears 
and  in  sectors  that  benefit  the  poor  and  increase 
opportunities for women. 

The  Goals  are  global,  but  their  impact  is  local. 
Each country has a distinct context and a unique vision 
of development. We must therefore take stock, listen to 
our  people  and  choose  the  path  that  will  bring  to  life 
the vision of the MDGs. 

In  Liberia,  we  are  implementing  the  Goals  in  a 
more  challenging  context.  As  we  embark  upon  the 
process of rebuilding and renewal, we have focused on 
national  reconciliation,  rebuilding  our  governance 
systems  and  institutions,  and  reforming  our  security 
and  rule  of  law  sectors.  In  spite  of  our  unique 
challenges, we have remained committed to the MDGs. 
Our  progress  so 
that 
commitment. 

Liberia has made appreciable progress, especially 
on  MDG  3,  on  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment; MDG 4, on infant mortality, MDG 6, on 
HIV/AIDS  and  tuberculosis;  MDG  7,  on  access  to 
clean drinking water and sanitation; and MDG 8, on a 
global  partnership  for  development.  We  have  shown 
that,  with  improved  coordination,  appropriate  policies 
and  strong  development  partnerships,  Liberia  has  the 
potential to progress rapidly on several of the MDGs. 

Despite  that  progress,  a  substantial  effort  is 
needed to advance poverty reduction, achieve universal 
primary  education,  reduce  maternal  mortality  and 
ensure  access  to  sanitation.  In  that  regard,  we  face 
huge  challenges  in  the  areas  of  infrastructure,  capital 
and 
the 
interdependence  and  synergies  among  the  MDGs,  yet 
our  challenging  environment  makes  it  difficult  to 
accord  equal  priority  to  all  the  Goals.  It  is  therefore 
important  that  we  focus  on  a  subset  of  goals  that  are 
achievable. 

As we move forward, we will focus on universal 
primary  education,  child  and  maternal  mortality,  and 
poverty  reduction  through  a  modernized  and  linked 
agriculture 
regard,  our  global 
partnerships,  with  which  we  have  had  great  success, 
must  go  beyond  aid  to  support  enhancement  in  trade 
through  the  removal  of  trade  barriers. That  will  break 
the link between aid and the MDGs.  

Investing  in  agriculture,  small-scale  enterprises 
and  infrastructure  will  help  progress  across  all  the 
MDGs.  We  are  working  especially  hard  to  develop 
resources.  We 
understand 
human 
sector. 
that 
In 
10-54298 

7 

A/65/PV.5 

small and medium-sized enterprises because they have 
the  greatest  impact  on  employment.  To  enhance  the 
productivity  of  the  economy  and  sustain  progress 
towards the MDGs, we must invest in human capacity 
and strengthen public and private institutions.  

One  of  the  key  drivers  of  success  in  Liberia  is 
that our policies reflect our people’s priorities in such a 
way that each step is nationally recognized and owned. 
Combined  with  our  efforts  to  rebuild  security,  control 
corruption  and  provide  quality  public  services,  those 
measures  will  ensure  that  our  long-term  development 
goal is aligned with the MDGs and with our vision for 
a prosperous and independent Liberia. 

As leaders, we intend to renew our effort to look 
beyond  2015  to  how  we  can  consolidate,  protect  and 
accelerate the progress. The Goals are our means to an 
end  and  to  a  more  educated,  resourceful,  prosperous 
and empowered people.  
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Danilo Türk, President of the Republic 
of Slovenia. 
President  Türk: Amid  turmoil  and  action,  there 

comes a moment for reflection and thought, and such a 
moment  is  now.  Slovenia  is  grateful  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon 
and 
indefatigable  work  in  the  preparation  of  this  much-
needed  and  welcome  summit.  We  are  grateful  to  all 
Development partner who were involved in the process 
of  its  preparation  and,  above  all,  to  those  who  work 
day  by  day  for  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals with a great sense of commitment. 

Sometimes  critics  say  that  the  targets  set  by  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  arbitrary  and 
unrealistic.  Such  a  point  of  view  is  erroneous  and 
devoid of an understanding of the history that gave rise 
to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Let  me  just 
recall the basic facts of that history. 

the  General 
Assembly  adopted  the  Declaration  on  the  Right  to 
Development  (resolution  41/128,  annex),  a  seminal 
document  that  expressed  high  moral  aspirations  to 
fairness in development. The General Assembly called 
for  development  that  benefits  all  and  allows  human 
potential to be expressed to the full. In the Declaration, 
we  find  the  notion  that  the  full  realization  of  human 
Two  and  a  half  decades  ago, 
initiative 
for  his 
the 
that 
it 
intrinsic 
importance  of 
to  humankind.  Moreover, 
is  necessary 
rights  is  possible  only  through  economic  and  social 
development. 

But  what  is  development?  Here  I  come  to  the 
second  historical  point.  The  United  Nations  provided 
the answer through a series of global conferences, held 
in the 1990s, which thoroughly examined the pertinent 
aspects,  from  the  economic  and  environmental  to  the 
social  and  gender  dimensions  of  development,  and 
defined specific action plans for each of those aspects. 
All that work was the basis for the formulation of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  their  specific, 
quantifiable targets. Those targets are neither arbitrary 
nor  unrealistic. They  are  the  result  of  solid  work,  real 
experience and mature policymaking. 

Realism,  ambition,  high  moral  expectation  and 
methodical sophistication have driven the process from 
its  beginning,  and  they  should  continue  to  guide  our 
work today and in the future. That is necessary because 
the  Millennium 
of 
Development  Goals 
I 
emphasize  very  strongly 
to 
understand  that  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
represent  a  critical  test  of  the  vitality  of  the  United 
Nations and multilateralism today. 

As we look at the level of achievement today, we 
see a mixed story — to use a term familiar from recent 
United Nations documents. But a mixed story is also a 
story  of  success,  or  at  least  of  partial  success.  Some 
parts  of  the  world,  including  most  recently  in Africa, 
have  experienced  relatively  high,  and  in  some  cases 
even very high growth rates. In the global North, where 
growth  had  been  high  in  the  past,  we  see  the 
phenomenon  of  saturated  economies  and  the  need  to 
measure development by factors unrelated to growth in 
the gross national product. 

However, we have to be focused, and we have to 
be  focused  on  poverty-stricken  parts  of  the  world 
where we do see gradual improvement. It is significant 
that  in  many  parts  of  the  developing  world  longevity 
has  risen  and  the  incidence  of  AIDS  has  declined. 
Levels  of  primary  school  enrolment  have  improved, 
and  new 
technologies  have  provided 
additional opportunities for education. 

is  significant, 
list  of  successes 
important policy challenges remain. First and foremost, 
country ownership and leadership in policy design and 
implementation  has  to  be  respected.  Internationally 
organized  budget  support  and  official  development 
information 
While 
the 
8 

10-54298 
it 
is  for 


assistance can be made most effective on that basis — 
that  is,  on  the  basis  of  national  ownership  and 
leadership.  

Policymaking — any policymaking — requires a 
careful  definition  of  priorities.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  provide  a  useful  methodological 
framework  for  that  purpose  and  a  bold  yet  realistic 
time  horizon.  Obviously, 
the  national 
Governments  to  set  the  priorities  for  their  respective 
countries.  They  are  the  ones  to  decide  on  the  needed 
measures  to  ensure  better  food  security  and  basic 
health  care  for  the  population.  They  are  the  ones 
responsible  for  the  allocation  of  resources  to  improve 
the availability of safe water and improved sanitation, 
as  explained  by,  among  others,  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf, 
the  President  of  Liberia,  in  the  commentary  she  just 
gave. The national Governments are the ones to set the 
targets for primary education and for the development 
of comprehensive educational systems that will enable 
people,  in  particular  women  and  girls,  to  enjoy 
adequate  opportunities  for  education,  including  higher 
education. 

Governments  bear  the  primary  responsibility  for 
all  basic  policies.  But  they  have  to  be  supported  by 
effective  international  cooperation.  In  a  globalized 
world the effectiveness of international cooperation has 
to  grow.  Official  development  assistance,  while 
temporarily  weakened  by  the  recent  recession,  has  to 
be strengthened. The international financial institutions 
have  to  be  modernized.  This  task  includes  the  much-
needed  revision  of  quotas  within  the  International 
Monetary Fund. Multilateral trade negotiations need to 
be 
removed, 
eventually. Special attention in development financing 
and  support  has  to  be  given  to  the  least  developed 
among developing countries. 

Let  me  in  conclusion  mention  just  one  other 
point.  Yesterday,  at  the  beginning  of  this  summit,  we 
heard the leaders of the World Bank, the International 
Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization, who 
spoke about policy lending and targeting of investment, 
about  financing  in  macroeconomic  stability  and  about 
the  benefits  flowing  from  the  global  trading  system. 
However,  some  fundamental  questions  remain  open. 
The  conclusion  of  Doha  Round  trade  negotiations  is 
not yet assured. Lending policies need to be constantly 
adapted  to  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. Global economic governance will 
be a critically important factor in the of achievement of 
restarted  and  protectionist  barriers 
A/65/PV.5
therefore  encourage 
the  Goals.  Let  us 
the  key 
institutions  of  global  economic  governance  to  live  up 
to  the  legitimate  expectations  of  our  era  and  of  the 
millions of people who depend on the effectiveness of 
their  work.  That  is  the  concluding  point  I  wish  to 
make. 
The  Co-Chair (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Tillman  Thomas,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  of  National  Security,  Information  and  Legal 
Affairs of Grenada. 
Mr.  Thomas  (Grenada):  In  an  address  to  the 

European  Union,  United  Nations  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon reminded the world that the Millennium 
Declaration represents the most important promise ever 
made  to  the  world’s  most  vulnerable  people  —  a 
promise,  he  added,  that  must  be  kept.  Today,  I  am 
honoured to be among the leaders striving to keep that 
promise. 

In  the  year  2000,  Grenada  was  among  the 
Member States of the United Nations who adopted the 
Millennium  Declaration.  However,  our  ability  to  fully 
deliver on our commitments was affected by a number 
of economic and environmental shocks. These included 
two hurricanes, one of which destroyed 90 per cent of 
our country’s economy, with damages estimated at over 
212  per  cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product.  Despite 
our steady recovery, the advent of the global economic 
crisis has further delayed our progress in achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
Since  the  signing  of  the  Declaration,  there  have 

been  many 
the  human 
development  needs  of  our  country.  The  thrust  of 
Grenada’s  2000  budget,  under  the  theme  “Growth, 
Equity  and  People’s  Participation 
the  New 
Millennium”, initiated a number of programmes aimed 
at improving and monitoring living conditions. 

A poverty assessment for the year 1998 indicated 
that 32.1 per cent of our people were living below the 
poverty  line.  Ten  years  later,  in  2008,  that  figure  had 
increased to 37.7 per cent, reflecting to some extent the 
212  per  cent  damage  to  our  economy.  Those  results 
have  further  informed  our  Government’s  policies  and 
plans  for  investment  in  the  social  sector  and  for 
mainstreaming the MDGs into its national development 
framework.  
initiatives 
in 
to 
address 
10-54298 

9 
to 
The 
importance  of  education 
A/65/PV.5 


Grenada  views  the  MDGs  as  an  integral  tool  for 
measuring  national  performance.  The  Government 
continues 
implement  a  number  of  safety-net 
programmes  aimed  at  improving  the  living  conditions 
of our people. We expect these programmes to greatly 
assist in our plans to eradicate poverty and hunger. 

in  eradicating 
poverty  is  well  known.  I  am  happy  to  report  that 
Grenada  has  fully  achieved  the  Goal  of  universal 
primary  education  and  is  on  the  way  to  achieving 
universal  secondary  education.  It  is  our  plan  that  by 
2011  we  will  reach  this  target.  Despite  our  limited 
resources  we  have  also  made  significant  strides  in 
improving  the  literacy  of  our  people  through  the 
introduction of a community-based literacy programme. 

With  regard  to  the  promotion  of  gender  equality 
and the empowerment of women, Grenada has partially 
achieved this Goal. Gender parity exists at all levels in 
our  education  system.  The  records  reveal  that  our 
females  have  been  consistently  outperforming  our 
males during the last decade. Grenada has also actively 
promoted  the  removal  of  disparities  in  income  and 
occupational opportunities for women at all levels and 
in every sector of our economy. 

In the area of child mortality, Grenada has made 
considerable progress. We have reduced child mortality 
by  53  per  cent  in  the  period  from  2006  to  2009  for 
infants  under  the  age  of  five.  Over  the  past  10  to 
15 years,  we  have  been  able  to  maintain  an  average 
immunization  rate  of  95  per  cent. We  have  also  made 
significant  strides  in  maternal  health  care. Women  are 
provided  with 
by 
obstetricians at our national network of health clinics. 

combat 
HIV/AIDS, with funding from the World Bank and the 
Clinton  Foundation.  Our  various 
initiatives  have 
recorded positive results. In the area of mother-to-child 
transmission,  we  have  seen  a  marked  reduction  in  the 
number  of  babies  born  with  HIV.  With  the  advent  of 
the  introduction  of  free  medication,  there  has  been  a 
reduction  in  morbidity  and  mortality.  I  note,  however, 
that  the  current  economic  difficulties  threaten  the 
sustainability  of  these  achievements.  Despite  these 
achievements,  there  has  been  an  increase  in  the 
incidence  of  new  HIV  cases.  It  means,  therefore,  that 
funding 
in 
combating  this  deadly  disease,  and  we  call  for  such 
support. 
to  continue  our  efforts 
professional 
continues 
Grenada 
prenatal 
is 
required 
care 
its 
efforts 
to 

sustainable  development 

At the same time, non-communicable diseases are 
at worrying levels, with 16.2 per cent of the population 
affected.  Grenada  supports  the  call  for  a  high-level 
meeting  by  the  United  Nations  on  non-communicable 
diseases. 
Grenada is strongly  committed to integrating the 

principles  of 
into  our 
country’s policies and programmes. That is reflected in 
our  national  environmental  policy  and  management 
strategy,  our  draft  management  and  sustainable 
development  bill  and  the  institutionalization  of  our 
Sustainable Development Council. 

This  week  is  important  for  the  review  of  the 
progress  of  the  MDGs,  as  well  as,  for  us  small  island 
developing  States,  for  the  review  of  the  Mauritius 
Strategy  for  Implementation  and  for  the  High-level 
Biodiversity Meeting. This week also marks the start of 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the 
Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  (AOSIS). As  Chair  of 
AOSIS,  Grenada  wishes  to  thank  all  the  partners  who 
have  supported  the  Alliance  in  the  past  and  are  now 
committed to enhancing that support.  
In  order  for  Grenada  to  realize  all  of  the  MDGs 

by  2015,  there  is  a  dire  need  for  us  to  build  global 
partnerships.  

Grenada  is  considered  a  middle-income  country 
with  a  high  level  of  human  development.  The  2009 
Human  Development  Report  ranked  Grenada  seventy-
fourth  of  182  countries.  While  this  rating  highlights 
development  progress  made  in  Grenada,  it  tends  to 
mask its specific, multidimensional vulnerabilities as a 
small island developing State. Grenada had just joined 
other  United  Nations  Member  States  in  becoming  a 
signatory  to  the  Millennium  Declaration  when  the 
terrorist  attacks  of  11  September  2001  occurred.  The 
subsequent  decline  in  tourism  revenue,  coupled  with 
the passing of Hurricane Ivan in 2004, left a regressive 
mark on our economic situation. Less than a year later, 
another  hurricane  —  Emily  —  struck  our  island, 
worsening  previous  damage  and  slowing  our  recovery 
efforts. 

Despite  these  challenges,  Grenada  has  made 
progress  as  a  result  of  factors  that  enhance  our 
resilience:  our  strong  and  consistent  investment  in  the 
social  sector,  our  tradition  of  democratic  governance, 
our  vibrant  community-based  organizations  and  the 
involvement 
non-
governmental  organizations,  our  ability  to  mobilize 
development 
social 
by 
in 
10 

10-54298 
Ms.  Merkel  (Germany)  (spoke 


resources,  the  resilience  of  our  people,  our  pursuit  of 
sound economic management, and our participation in 
multilateralism. 

Our  Government  remains  steadfastly  committed 
to  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
There  is  much  to  be  achieved  in  Grenada  and  in  the 
whole  world,  where  the  impact  of  the  MDGs  must  be 
felt. 

In  conclusion,  Grenada  calls  on  the  United 
Nations to assist developing countries in strengthening 
the  institutional  capacity  necessary  for  mainstreaming 
and  monitoring  the  MDGs.  Drawing  on  this  support 
and  our  best  efforts,  we  will  be  closer  to  achieving 
these Millennium Development Goals by 2015. 
The  Co-Chair (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Angela  Merkel,  Chancellor  of  the 
Federal Republic of Germany. 
in  German; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  The  United 
Nations  Millennium  Declaration  of  2000  has  given 
international  development  policy  a  qualitatively  new 
basis  and  a  new  legitimacy.  It  was  a  ground-breaking 
strategic  decision  that  placed  the  much  touted  global 
development  partnership  on  one  common  basis.  It  has 
shown  that  we  can  fight  poverty,  disease  and  hunger 
successfully  only  through  a  new  partnership  between 
donor  and  recipient  countries  and  with  a  clear 
definition of goals.  

the 
Declaration  is  the  framework  for  how  we  shape 
globalization  equitably,  in  the  spirit  of  the  United 
Nations  human  rights  charter.  It  sets  out  four  areas  in 
which  action  must  be  taken:  peace  and  security, 
poverty  reduction,  protection  of  the  environment,  and 
promotion  of  human  rights,  democracy  and  good 
governance.  

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  spell  out 
these  areas 
terms.  Some  Goals  are 
quantitative.  They  represent  the  central  international 
reference for development policy. The German Federal 
Government  has  also  based  its  development  policy  on 
these Goals, thus strengthening the collective effort of 
all. 

Sustainable  progress  on  development  requires 
that all four challenges be tackled, as they are mutually 
dependent.  I  am  firmly  convinced,  therefore,  that  the 
in  concrete 
principles, 
Supported 
universal 
by 
A/65/PV.5
the 
Most 
however, 
importantly, 
remain  valid  and  must  be 
Declaration  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
must not be interpreted as a kind of menu from which 
one can chose what one likes best. For we know this is 
true  all  over  the  world:  there  is  no  development 
without security and no security without development. 
Development  policy  measures  cannot  be  effective 
without security, and in turn peacekeeping efforts will 
lead to nothing if there are no development prospects. 
This  shows  how  right  former  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan  was  when  he  called  development  policy  an 
investment in a secure future. 

sustainable 
development  and  economic  and  social  progress  are 
inconceivable without good governance and respect for 
human  rights.  However,  let  us  be  honest:  that  sounds 
simple in theory, but it is more difficult to translate the 
theory into practice and to draw the necessary practical 
consequences from it.  

international  community 
Ten  years  ago, 
adopted  the  right  goals.  Unfortunately,  today  we  have 
to admit that in all probability we will not achieve all 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015.  But  the 
Goals 
implemented 
rigorously.  As  I  see  it,  this  should  be  the  central 
commitment of this summit, ten years after adoption of 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

Noticeable  progress  has  been  made  on  certain 
individual  Millennium  Development  Goals.  For 
example,  some  progress  has  been  made  on  basic 
education,  gender  equality  and  combating  hunger  and 
poverty. However, hunger and malnutrition still prevail 
at an unacceptably high level. Even though 100 million 
fewer  people  have  suffered  from  hunger  this  year,  the 
number who still suffer from hunger, malnutrition and 
poverty  in  the  world  today  is  unacceptably  high.  We 
still 
the 
achievement  of  individual  Goals  and  in  achievements 
in reaching Goals in different regions. In parts of sub-
Saharan Africa in particular there are still serious gaps. 
The  global  economic  and  financial  crisis  made  the 
prospects even worse for these vulnerable regions.  

We need to ask ourselves,  indeed, what  we must 
and can do to make greater progress. There is no doubt 
that  we  must  further  improve  the  effectiveness  of 
development  policy  instruments.  For  me,  the  solution 
is  obvious.  We  need  more  results  orientation.  In  this 
regard,  as  I  see  it,  results-based  financing  is  a 
promising approach.  
see  considerable  differences,  both 
in 
10-54298 

11 

A/65/PV.5 


In  all  of  my  talks  on  the  margins  of  this 
conference,  I  have  quite  often  discussed  this  with  our 
partners, and I must say that my remarks have met with 
great  approval.  A  clear  results  orientation  can  be 
combined  with  greater  leeway  for  national  policies. 
This  allows  for  better  accommodation  of  the  relevant 
country’s particularities. 

There is one thing that it is important that we all 
accept. The primary responsibility for development lies 
with the Governments of the developing countries. It is 
in  their  hands  to  determine  whether  aid  can  be 
effective. For that reason, support for good governance 
is as important as aid itself. 

Looking  at  today’s  emerging  economies,  we  see 
that  development  policy  can  ultimately  be  successful 
only  if  there  are  national  stewardship  and  national 
implementation  of  the  process.  That  also  applies  to 
mobilizing  the  necessary  resources.  The  funding  of 
official  development  assistance  can,  apart 
from 
emergency  situations,  be  only  a  contribution 
to 
national  resources  and  never  a  substitute  for  them. 
Development aid cannot continue indefinitely. What is 
important  is  therefore  to  use  limited  resources  as 
effectively  as  possible.  This  can  work  only  through 
good  governance  that  taps  a  country’s  economic 
potential. 

the 
development  of  a  market  economy,  the  setting-up  and 
expansion  of  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises  and 
the strengthening of rural areas. There are, after all, an 
encouraging number of good projects. For without self-
sustaining economic growth, developing countries will 
find the road out of poverty and hunger far too steep to 
travel.  Without  sustainable  growth,  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  cannot  be  achieved;  indeed,  not 
even the current level of progress can be maintained. 

That is why Germany sees its role in development 
cooperation  as  a  responsible  supporter  of  countries’ 
own  efforts  within  a  broad-based  partnership.  We  in 
Germany know where our strengths lie, but we are also 
only  too  aware  of  our  limitations.  It  is  obvious  that 
global  problems  call  for  global  efforts.  One  example 
that  is  actually  working  well  is  the  Global  Fund  to 
Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  a  multilateral 
instrument that has proven itself. The help of the Fund 
reaches  people  directly.  Germany  is  the  third-largest 
donor,  and  I  will  work  to  ensure  that  Germany 
themselves  must  promote 
The  countries 
of 
The 
implementation 
continues  to  support  the  Fund  and  promote  efforts  to 
improve global health at a high level. 

the  Millennium 
Declaration  and  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  depend  on  effective  international 
organizations.  That  effectiveness  is  what  people  all 
over  the  world  use  as  a  yardstick  for  the  United 
Nations.  It  is  up  to  us,  the  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations,  to  make  the  Organization  fit  to  meet 
the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Germany 
will  therefore  continue  to  work  resolutely  for  United 
Nations reform. 
For the Federal Republic of Germany, the United 

Nations,  given 
its  universality  and  consequent 
legitimacy,  is  the  central  forum  for  international 
cooperation. Germany is the third-largest contributor to 
the  United  Nations  budget.  We  are  also  third  among 
donors  of  development  aid.  Even  during  the  financial 
crisis,  we  have  not  reduced  our  aid  budget  and  we 
continue to strive to achieve the target of 0.7 per cent 
of  official  development  assistance  as  a  percentage  of 
gross national income. 
We  see  ourselves  as  a  reliable  partner  of  the 

United  Nations,  convinced  that  understanding  among 
nations  can  succeed  only  if  cooperation  is  based  on 
equality and equal rights for all countries. With this in 
mind,  let  me  reaffirm  Germany’s  commitment  and 
Germany’s  responsibility  as  part  of  the  collective 
responsibility of the international community. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Robert  G.  Mugabe,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zimbabwe. 
President Mugabe: I wish to thank the President 

of  the  General  Assembly  and  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for convening this very important Meeting. It 
will  be  recalled  that  we  gathered  in  this Assembly  in 
the  year  2000  and  agreed  on  a  set  of  social  and 
humanitarian  deliverables  that  we  appropriately  called 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We then 
set out separately and collectively as Member States to 
achieve our targets.  

We  now  meet,  five  years  before  the  target  year 
2015,  to  review  the  state  of  implementation  of  those 
Goals,  share  experiences, 
identify  obstacles  and 
possibly chart a course of accelerated action to achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals. 
12 

10-54298 
to 
and 
2000 
track 
report 
progress 



While  there  is  reason  to  celebrate  the  progress 
attained  in  some  areas,  the  challenges  that  remain  are 
serious  and  many.  The  recent  economic  and  financial 
crisis  wreaked  havoc  on  our  previously  confident 
march  towards  2015.  Resources  dwindled,  priorities 
had  to  be  rearranged,  and  for  many  of  us  in  the 
developing  world,  sources  of  support  were  reduced  or 
even completely lost. Yet we remain determined, even 
in  these  circumstances,  to  achieve  the  MDGs  in 
particular, and other internationally agreed commitments 
in general. 

From  the  onset,  Zimbabwe  has  demonstrated 
unwavering  commitment  towards  the  implementation 
of  the  MDGs. We  set  up  an  MDG  steering  committee 
in 
on 
implementation.  We  initially  prioritized  Goals  1,  3 
and 6 — Goal 1 being that to eradicate extreme poverty 
and  hunger,  Goal  3  to  promote  gender  equality  and 
empower  women,  and  Goal  6  to  combat  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria  and  other  diseases  –  which  we  viewed  as 
critical to the achievement of all other Goals.  

Even  as  our  economy  suffered  from  illegal 
sanctions imposed on the country by our detractors, we 
continued to deploy and direct a substantial part of our 
resources  towards  the  achievement  of  the  targets  we 
had  set  ourselves.  Indeed,  we  find  it  very  disturbing 
and  regrettable  that,  after  we  all  had  agreed  to  work 
towards  the  improvement  of  the  lives  of  our  citizens, 
some countries should deliberately work to negate our 
own  efforts  in  that  direction  by  insisting  on  sanctions 
against Zimbabwe. I believe that, as we sit here today 
and  rededicate  ourselves  to  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  in  the  timeframe  we  set  ourselves,  this  noble 
effort on our part will not reach fruition unless all of us 
walk our talk. 

Our  MDGs  steering  committee  has  produced 
three reports since its formation. The reports show that 
we  have  registered  mixed  results.  Despite  our  best 
efforts,  we  fell  short  of  our  targets  because  of  the 
illegal  and  debilitating  sanctions  imposed,  to  which  I 
have already referred, that have caused the incidence of 
poverty in Zimbabwe to remain quite high. 

As a result of these punitive measures and despite 
our  turnaround  economic  plan,  the  Government  of 
Zimbabwe has been prevented from making a positive 
difference in the lives of the poor, the hungry, the sick 
and the destitute among its citizens. This is regrettable 
because Zimbabwe has a stable economic and political 
A/65/PV.5
international 
environment.  We  have  the  resources,  and,  with  the 
right kind of support from the international community, 
we  have  the  potential  to  improve  the  lives  of  our 
people. 

Zimbabwe’s  commitment  to  the  education  of  its 
people  is  well  known.  Since  independence  in  1980, 
there  has  been  a  massive  expansion  in  primary, 
secondary and tertiary education. Much investment has 
gone 
into  human  capital  development.  Relevant 
policies,  including  the  early  childhood  development 
policy,  have  ensured  that  net  enrolment  in  schools 
remains  high.  As  members  may  be  aware,  Sir, 
according  to  recent  UNESCO  reports,  Zimbabwe  has 
the highest literacy rate in Africa. 

I  am  also  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that 
Zimbabwe  is  set  to  reach  the  gender  parity  target  in 
both  primary  and  secondary  school  enrolment.  In 
addition,  the  country  has  made  strides  in  attaining 
gender  parity  in  enrolment  and  completion  rates  in 
tertiary  education.  We  have  signed  and  ratified  a 
number  of 
regional  gender 
instruments and promulgated national policies and laws 
on gender. 

While  we  are  lagging  behind  in  regard  to  equal 
participation in decision-making in all sectors, we hope 
to make real progress in this regard by 2015. There has 
been  a  slight  increase  in  the  number  of  women 
parliamentarians from 14 per cent in 1990-1995, but it 
is still below the 2015 target of 30 per cent.  
Regarding  Goal  6,  combat  HIV/AIDS,  malaria 

registered 
and  other  diseases,  my  country  has 
significant  progress 
the  HIV/AIDS 
prevalence  rate.  The  estimated  prevalence  rate  in 
people 15-49 years old was 23.7 per cent in 2001. This 
rate  dropped  to  18.1  per  cent  in  2005  and  declined 
further  to  14.3  percent  in  2009.  We  hope  that  it  will 
continue  to  decline.  The  improvement  was  achieved 
despite 
international 
community,  and  at  a  time  when  even  such  issues  as 
HIV/AIDS were politicized and mixed with agendas of 
regime change. 

the 
assistance  it  is  now  receiving  from  the  Global  Fund 
and  other  agencies.  We  remain  concerned  about  the 
incidence of HIV/AIDS in our country and hope that it 
will 
the 
Government strengthens prevention efforts. 
My  Government 
lack  of  support 
significantly 
to  decline 
appreciates 
lowering 
from 
the 
continue 
as 
and 
in 
greatly 
10-54298 

13 
applaud 
those 
in 
flooding, 
droughts, 
unreliable 
countries.  We 
A/65/PV.5 


We  are  worried  about  the  limited  progress  we 
have made in the area of environmental sustainability. 
The  impact  of  climate  change,  as  evidenced  by 
recurrent 
and 
unpredictable  rainfall  seasons,  has  wreaked  havoc  on 
the  lives  of  our  people,  most  of  whom  depend  on 
agriculture for a living. 

In  addition,  efforts  by  Government  to  provide 
clean  water,  decent  sanitation  and  shelter  for  both 
urban  and  rural  dwellers,  have  suffered  as  a  result  of 
the  illegal  sanctions  imposed  on  Zimbabwe  by  some 
Western 
the 
international  community  who  have  responded  to  our 
appeal  for  assistance  to  address  urgent  challenges  in 
this area. 

Zimbabwe  remains  convinced  that  the  MDG 
targets  are  achievable.  What  is  needed  is  political 
commitment,  particularly  on  the  part  of  developed 
countries. There is a need to ensure that commitments 
already  made  are  not  weakened,  even  in  the  light  of 
new  demands.  Aid  delivery 
coordination 
mechanisms  must  not  be  hampered  by  political  biases 
and preferences. 

Let  us  keep  the  promise  we  made  10  years  ago. 
Let us all strive to make 2015 a watershed year, a year 
when poverty, hunger, disease and other ills which are 
impediments 
life  can  be 
completely prevented. Let us henceforth forge a wide-
ranging  global  partnership  to  make  the  world  a  better 
place for all its peoples, now and in the future. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Danny  Foure,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Seychelles. 
Mr. Foure (Seychelles): As 2015 approaches, we 

cannot  afford  to  be  complacent  in  our  efforts  to  fulfil 
the  promise  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). While we assess the success of our efforts so 
far,  I  would  like  to  invite  a  discussion  on  the  concept 
of  development  itself.  It  is  our  understanding  of  this 
concept  which  will  also  define  how  successful  we  are 
in actually improving the lives of our citizens. 

It 
implies 
improvement  in  all  spheres  of  life.  Recent  events 
around  the  world  have  shown  that  there  is  no  perfect 
model  that  can  guarantee  development.  There  is  no 
to  a  better  quality  of 
implies  progress. 
Development 
and 

to 
take 
the  path 
While  we 
stock  of  our 
the  challenges  of 
“one-size-fits-all”  solution 
ensuring progress. 

In  fact,  we  are  at  a  point  in  history  where  we 
must ask the question: what conditions can truly make 
any one country sustainable? Part of the answer lies in 
the fact that no country will truly be sustainable unless 
we  can  also  ensure  that  our  planet  is  sustainable. The 
Millennium  Development  Goals  play  a  critical  role  in 
setting  us  on 
towards  sustainability  as 
countries. This  will  still  prove  fruitless  unless  we  can 
also  ensure  the  conditions  for  sustainability  at  the 
global level. 

We  commend  the  formation  of  the  High-level 
Panel on Global Sustainability, co-chaired by President 
Tarja Halonen of Finland and President Jacob Zuma of 
South Africa. 

individual 
achievements, we must also address the systemic issues 
that  will  allow  countries  to  not  only  reach  the  targets 
set but also improve on them. 
I  will  take  a  moment  to  use  Seychelles  as  an 

example  of  what  a  State  can  achieve 
through 
commitment to people-centred development. However, 
our achievements are also situated within the question 
of  what  has  to  be  done  to  ensure  that  our  progress  is 
sustained. 

Seychelles is  well on the  way towards  achieving 
the targets laid out in the MDGs. But Seychelles today 
faces a development paradox. As from the early 1990s, 
our  rapid  progress,  coupled  with  our  small  population 
of 85,000, has meant that we have exceeded the gross 
domestic product (GDP) per capita criteria required to 
benefit  from  development  assistance  and  affordable 
credit. 

To sustain our development, Seychelles borrowed 
heavily at commercial rates, which led to a debt crisis 
that  culminated  in  2008,  when  we  approached  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  for  assistance.  With  the 
help  of  our  partners,  we  have  survived  the  crisis  and 
brought  our  indebtedness  down  to  a  sustainable  level. 
It  is  important  to  note  that  a  large  number  of  small 
island  developing  States  currently  have  debt-to-GDP 
ratios well in excess of 100 per cent. As stated by the 
President of the World Bank in this forum, 70 per cent 
of the world’s poor live in middle-income countries. 
We are faced with the question of how to finance 

the next phase of our development. Small island States 
14 

10-54298 


are  too  developed  to  benefit  from  the  concessions 
offered  to  least  developed  countries  and  are  not 
developed  enough  to  benefit  from  the  advantages  of 
first-world  status.  In  this  middle-income  trap,  there  is 
unfortunately  a  sense  that  there  is  no  way  up.  The 
status  quo  becomes 
the  best-case  scenario,  and 
regression is a real possibility. 

We  are  determined  to  succeed  despite  these 
constraints.  I  am  pleased  to  inform  this  summit  that 
Seychelles  will  be  engaging  with  the  United  Nations 
system  in  order  to  enter  into  commitments  on  MDG-
Plus targets. We are making these commitments for the 
benefit of our citizens, but also to reset the challenge of 
development.  

To  make  development  sustainable,  small  island 
developing  States  need  access  to  a  wide  range  of 
development mechanisms. Most small island States are 
considered  to  be  middle-income  countries,  but  it  is 
startling  to  note  that  their  vulnerabilities  correspond 
more closely to those of least developed countries. 

In  an  increasingly  interconnected  world,  the 
marginalization of small island developing States is on 
the  rise,  and  we  need 
the  global  development 
architecture to recognize this. We need to have formal 
recognition  of  small  island  developing  States  as  a 
development  category  by  the  United  Nations  system 
and the Bretton Woods institutions. 

We  are  making  the  commitment  to  MDG-Plus 
with  a  focus  on  the  sectors  that  we  consider  to  be 
vulnerable.  We  need  to  continue  to  ensure  that  our 
population  has  access  to  quality  education  and  health 
care.  Progress  depends  on  an  educated  and  healthy 
population.  Despite  our  achievements  in  the  health 
sector,  we  are  concerned  that  we  do  not  have  the 
necessary resources to properly tackle HIV/AIDS. Our 
data at the national level on vulnerable groups are still 
unsatisfactory.  We  remain  ineligible  to  access  the 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, 
as do other island States facing similar constraints. 
We  have  a  duty  to  ensure  that  we  can  make 

the  next 
sustainable  development  a 
generation.  This 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. For the way forward, 
allow  me  to  note  a  few  considerations  that  we  should 
actively discuss and put forward as critical factors for 
the future of development. 
true  challenge  of 
reality 
the 
for 
is 
A/65/PV.5
is  directed 
through 
individuals 
to  find  new  and 
longer  dependent  on 
First, I congratulate the Secretary-General on his 

leadership 
innovative  financing 
mechanisms. In these times of austerity, we have heard 
too  much  about 
the  difficulty  or  reluctance  of 
countries,  corporations  and 
to  meet 
commitments  on  financing  for  development.  The 
sustainability of  our planet depends on  our being  able 
to bridge this gap. 

Sustainability  also  depends  on  our  ability  to 
mobilize  green  financing  to  make  environmentally 
friendly  technology  available  to  those  for  whom  the 
latest technology remains financially prohibitive. Small 
islands,  for  example,  have  great  access  to  renewable 
sources  of  energy  but  have  no  means  of  tapping  into 
the  technology  that  is  necessary  to  harness  these 
resources. 

Climate  change  is  of  grave  concern  to  all  island 
States.  As  much  of  the  funding  allocated  to  climate 
change  adaptation 
traditional 
official  development  assistance  channels,  many 
middle-income  small  island  developing  States  are 
again  excluded.  We  need  to  ensure  that  financing  to 
adapt  to  climate  change  is  properly  channelled  and  is 
no 
inadequate 
arrangements. 

Secondly, allow me to mention the important role 
that  needs  to  be  played  by  regional  groupings  in 
collaboration with the international community, led by 
the  United  Nations  system.  Regional  groupings  can 
play  a  strong  development  role  by  mobilizing  funding 
and  creating  integration  parameters  that  recognize 
cultural and geographical specificities. 

In Africa, we have also seen the positive role that 
regional organizations can play in enhancing peace and 
security  —  critical  conditions  for  development.  In  the 
African  region,  the  worsening  instability  in  Somalia 
reminds  us  that,  in  certain  situations,  we  cannot  even 
begin 
first 
establishing  peace  and  security.  In  the  meantime,  the 
shadow  of  terrorism  and  the  threat  of  piracy  continue 
to place a strain on the ability of neighbouring States to 
pursue development. The scale of the problem calls for 
all organizations to commit more time and resources to 
this problem. 

Finally,  I  think  it  is  important  that  we  view 
development through a lens that is devoid of ideology 
and  assumptions.  Ideas  do  not  need  to  be  owned  by 
anybody  for  them  to  be  successful.  Development  is 
to  set  development 
targets  without 
the  existing 
10-54298 

15 

Mr.  Qureshi
A/65/PV.5 

about  people.  Let  us  ensure  that  people  are  at  the 
centre  of  everything  we  do.  We  are  all  united  by  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  because  we  share  the 
desire to improve the lives of our peoples. 

Despite the challenges, we remain optimistic. The 
world financial crisis has not dampened our resolve — 
rather, it has  made us more determined  to truly  create 
the  conditions  for  a  sustainable  world.  We  say  today 
once again that we will achieve our goals, not only as 
individual countries, but as citizens of the world. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Makhdoom  Shah  Mehmood 
Qureshi, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Pakistan. 
(Pakistan):  The  Millennium 

Development  Goals  (MDGs)  symbolize  our  collective 
resolve  to  create  a  better  world  that  ensures  a  better 
quality of life for our peoples. We are therefore happy 
to  see  the  MDGs  at  the  forefront  of  the  global 
development agenda and policy debate. With only five 
years  to  go  to  achieve  what  we  pledged  at  the 
Millennium Summit, this important High-level Plenary 
Meeting  provides  us  with  a  good  and 
timely 
opportunity  to  take  stock  of  where  we  stand  in 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to 
explore ways and means to accelerate progress towards 
their achievement. 
three  Millennium 

Development  Goals  reports.  A  fourth  report  was 
published last month. The latest MDG report for 2010 
presents  a  frank  and  forthright  account  of  where  we 
stand  in  realizing  the  MDGs.  The  short-  to  medium-
term  prospects  for  achieving  the  Goals  are  less  than 
promising. Until a few years ago, we were on track to 
achieve  a number of MDGs and targets. However, the 
negative fallout from the security challenges posed by 
the  ongoing  fight  against 
terrorism  has  severely 
affected  the  economy.  The  unprecedented  floods  that 
hit  my  country  in  late  July,  causing  massive  losses  to 
crops, dwellings, livestock, services, and industrial and 
communications  infrastructure  have  changed  almost 
everything.  Rehabilitation  and  reconstruction  in  the 
affected  areas  will  need  billions  of  dollars  and  will 
affect  our  economic  recovery  and  achievement  of  the 
MDGs. 
Notwithstanding  the  economic  difficulties,  the 

MDGs 
remain  a  centrepiece  of  our  democratic 
Government’s  development  efforts.  They  are  an 
integral  part  of  our  medium-term  development 
produced 
Pakistan 
has 
close 
bilateral 
framework.  Our  strategy  rests  on  the  following  seven 
pillars. 

First, we need good economic management based 
on  a  pro-poor  growth  strategy  relying  on  better  fiscal 
and  monetary  discipline.  Second,  we  must  improve 
governance  by  consolidating  democracy  and  ensuring 
the  people’s  participation  in  decision-making  at  all 
levels  as  a  means  both  of  delivering  better 
development  results  and  of  ensuring  social  and 
economic  justice.  Third,  we  must  achieve  high  and 
broad-based economic growth, focusing particularly on 
the  rural  economy,  while  maintaining  macroeconomic 
stability.  In  our  view,  agriculture  holds  the  key  to  all 
efforts aimed at poverty alleviation. 

Fourth,  we  must  invest  in  and  building  human 
capital  to  ensure  effective  delivery  of  basic  social 
services. Fifth, we must bring the poor and vulnerable 
into  the  mainstream  of  development  by  augmenting 
targeted interventions and expanding social safety nets. 
Sixth,  we  must  focus  on  the  empowerment  of  women 
and  minorities  and  improve  access  to  quality  health 
care and education. Seventh, we must pursue peace and 
forge 
economic 
partnerships with a view to sharing and leveraging our 
geographic  location  at  the  crossroads  of  three  vital 
regions: South, Central and West Asia. 

these 
objectives  include  the  following.  Under  the  Benazir 
Income  Support  Programme, 
female-headed  poor 
households are eligible for small cash transfers to meet 
basic  needs.  More  than  3  million  households  are 
benefiting  from  this  scheme.  A  new  employment 
commission  has  been  established  for  the  creation  of 
new  jobs  in  the  public  and  private  sectors.  A  new 
education  policy  and  reforms  programme  is  geared  to 
skill  development  aimed  at  the  active  and  productive 
participation of youth in the development process. The 
empowerment  of  women  has  been  identified  by  the 
Government  as  one  of  its  top  priorities.  Considerable 
progress has been made in reducing maternal mortality 
and controlling diseases. However, we still have a long 
way  to  go.  Ensuring  environmental  sustainability  is  a 
high priority, but we will require greater support from 
the international community to meet this challenge. 

We  are  committed  to  the  attainment  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals and keen to work with 
the international community to turn the challenges into 
opportunities.  We  are  conscious  of  our  responsibility 
initiatives 
achieving 
regional 
and 
The 
aimed 
at 
16 

10-54298 
and 
in 
some 
totally 
achieved, 
for  our 
In  Cuba, 
(spoke 
in 
(Cuba) 
identified 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
the  goals 


and  are  determined  to  create  a  more  prosperous, 
peaceful  and  harmonious  world 
future 
generations. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba. 
in 

Spanish): 
the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  have  been 
almost 
cases 
considerably  exceeded.  Our  commitment  goes  beyond 
our national borders and has enabled us to contribute to 
the  social  development  of  other  third-world  nations. 
This  is  the  direct  result  of  a  revolution  whose  top 
priority  is  the  well-being  of  its  people  in  a  climate  of 
equity and social justice. It is the fruit of the society we 
are  building,  based  on  solidarity.  It  is  also  a  success 
achieved  despite 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial blockade imposed on the Cuban people by the 
United States Government for more than half a century. 

We  are  encouraged  and  pleased  by  the  high 
success  rates  attained  by  the  Bolivarian  revolution  in 
Venezuela, 
social  policies 
developed by President Chávez and despite attempts to 
destabilize  that  sister  nation,  which  continues  to  fight 
and  move  on.  Similarly,  we  feel  great  satisfaction  at 
the significant results shown by Bolivia, Nicaragua and 
Ecuador, thanks to the commitment and actions of their 
Governments.  The  States  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  have  also  made  progress;  the  level  of 
solidarity-based cooperation and integration among the 
countries of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of 
Our America has been a positive factor in this regard. 
The  Government  of  President  Lula  in  Brazil  has  also 
been able to achieve tangible and praiseworthy results 
in the social field. 

However,  that  progress  has  not  been  dependent 
on  international  assistance  from  developed  countries, 
which is almost non-existent, or on any positive change 
in the global economic order, which continues to be an 
extremely  unjust,  exploitive  system  that  benefits  rich 
countries. 
The  facts  speak  for  themselves.  Unfair  trade 

continues;  official  development  assistance  (ODA)  has 
contracted  in  real  terms;  technology  transfer  remains 
very  limited  and  highly  conditional;  access  for  the 
exports  of  developing  countries  to  the  markets  of  the 
advanced economies remains restricted; foreign debt is 
to  profound 
thanks 
A/65/PV.5
to 
suffer 
that  amounts 
to  ODA,  while 
from  nutritional  deficiency. 
being  repaid,  but  continues  to  grow;  and  financial 
deregulation  and  corruption  in  developed  countries 
have  caused  a  global  crisis  with  especially  negative 
consequences for developing economies. 

Consequently,  and  shamefully,  the  number  of 
persons  living  in  extreme  poverty  increased  by  some 
36  million  between  1990  and  2005.  The  number  of 
people  suffering  from  hunger  throughout  the  world 
increased from 842 million in the period 1990-1992 to 
a  record  1.02  billion  in  the  year  2009,  while  2  billion 
persons 
In 
sub-Saharan Africa  and some regions of Asia, poverty 
and  hunger  are  at  such  high  levels  that  it  is  very 
difficult to reduce them. 

We  must  therefore  ask  ourselves:  What  kind  of 
international cooperation are we talking about when we 
are not even remotely able to meet the commitment of 
dedicating 0.7 per cent of the gross national income of 
developed  countries 
those  same 
countries  are  mainly  responsible  for  a  global  military 
budget 
the  horrifying  figure  of 
$1.4 trillion,  or  2.4  per  cent  of  the  world’s  gross 
domestic product? What kind of development goals are 
we  discussing  when,  due  to  the  absence  of  political 
will  on  the  part  of  developed  countries,  it  is  not  even 
possible  to  reach  substantial  commitments  to  reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions that jeopardize the climactic 
balance of our planet and represent the most significant 
threat to the very survival of our species? 

Can  we  ignore  the  worsening  of  the  food  and 
water crisis in the face of an international demographic 
boom? 

How can we speak of development and wonder if 
the  modest  goals  of  the  year  2000  have  been  met 
without  remembering  that,  during  the  Millennium 
Summit,  we also  made  a  commitment  to  peace? What 
kind  of  hope  can  we  have  to  meet  the  MDGS  by  the 
year  2015  when,  as  Fidel  Castro  has  warned,  there  is 
an  increasing  possibility  of  a  military  aggression 
against Iran that would cause millions of deaths, affect 
the  lives  of  billions  of  people  and  increase  global 
hunger and poverty? 
What  has  happened  to  the  commitment  to  total 

nuclear  disarmament,  other  than  the  scam  of  reducing 
it to nothing more than non-proliferation? What is the 
rationale behind the storage and ongoing development 
of  25,000  nuclear  warheads  whose  power  could 
magnify  the  destruction  caused  in  Hiroshima  and 
10-54298 

17 

to 
The 
A/65/PV.5 

Nagasaki  by  a  factor  of  440,000?  What  would  be  the 
consequences  of  a  nuclear  conflict,  whether  local  or 
regional, for life on the planet? 

lack  of  solutions 
the  most  serious 
development  problems  and  the  suffering  of  billions  of 
people  living  in  poverty  and  underdevelopment  will 
also  affect  industrialized  societies  —  as  it  is  already 
doing  —  where  unemployment  and  brutal  migration 
policies  are  on  the  rise.  This  problem  will  come 
knocking at all of our doors, be it through uncontrolled 
and  unmanageable  migration  flows,  by  means  of 
diseases  and  epidemics  arising 
from  conflicts 
generated  by  poverty  and  hunger,  or  as  a  result  of 
events that are today unforeseeable. 

The United Nations will betray its very essence if 
it  does  not  recognize  this  reality  and  act  now.  We 
strongly believe that, in order to ensure the survival of 
our species, a new international economic and political 
order will have to be built on the basis of the principles 
of  solidarity,  social  justice,  equity  and  respect  for  the 
rights  of  peoples  and  every  individual.  If  we  work 
together, that is still possible. To achieve it, Cuba will 
do the impossible.  
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sergey 
Lavrov,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Russian 
Federation. 
in 

Russian):  Russia 
international 
development  cooperation  and 
to 
intensify 
constructive interaction with a wide range of partners, 
including private sector and civil society, to ensure the 
timely  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  We  believe  that  the  sustainable  social 
and  economic  development  of  all  countries  of  the 
world  is  a  crucial  element  of  any  modern  collective 
security system. 

The  United  Nations  is  a  unique  mechanism  for 
the harmonization of interests of various countries and 
the  main  international  forum  for  adopting  coordinated 
decisions on development issues. Regional organizations 
and  informal  international  groupings  are  concerned, 
including the Group of Eight and the Group of 20, are 
also  called  upon  to  pursue  their  efforts  in  this  area  in 
accordance  with 
the  standards  of  economic  and 
humanitarian  cooperation within the framework of the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. 
Mr.  Lavrov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
is  committed 
to 
ready 
the 
the 
Over 
countries 
developing 
the  past  five  years, 

international 
community  has  achieved  certain  positive  results. 
Nevertheless, recently published reports on the MDGs 
have shown uneven progress in the implementation of 
individual  Goals  as  well  as  regional  discrepancies. 
Unfortunately, a significant delay has been noted with 
respect  to  the  Goals  and  targets  related  to  universal 
primary education, the reduction in child and maternal 
mortality,  and 
reduction  of  greenhouse  gas 
emissions.  The  challenges  are  being  felt  most  acutely 
in Africa. 

Clearly,  the  primary  responsibility  for  achieving 
the  MDGs  rests  with  national  Governments,  yet  it  is 
obvious  that  radical  improvement  in  the  social  and 
economic  situation  of  the  most  vulnerable  developing 
countries  will  be  possible  only  with  the  coordinated 
support of the entire international community. 

To that end, Russia has consistently increased its 
contribution  to  development  cooperation.  In  2008, 
Russian 
totalled 
$220 million  and,  in  2009,  about  $800  million.  That 
does  not  take  into  account  the  cancellation  of  billions 
of dollars in debt. 

Naturally,  we  attach  particular  importance  to 
assisting  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States 
(CIS)  region.  During  the  global  crisis,  Russia  issued 
preferential loans and grants exceeding $4.6 billion  to 
CIS countries in need. We initiated the creation of the 
Anti-Crisis  Fund 
the  Eurasian  Economic 
Community  (EurAsEC)  with  an  initial  $10  billion, 
$7.5 billion  of  which  was  contributed  by  the  Russian 
Federation. 

We call on all Member States to support the draft 
resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and EurAsEC to be submitted for consideration by the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session. We  intend 
to  continue  to  pursue  these  efforts  in  support  of  the 
countries of the CIS and developing countries in other 
regions, first and foremost in Africa. 

In  our  globalized  and  interdependent  world, 
failure  to  address  the  needs  of  low-income  countries 
increases  the  risks  to  the  entire  global  economy, 
undermines stability and security in most regions of the 
world,  and  increases  the  danger  of  the  spread  of 
terrorism, 
and  uncontrolled 
migration. 
infectious  diseases 
aid 
to 
of 
18 

10-54298 
in 
it 
the 
That 
particular 
important 
information 
that  can  be 
is  why  we  believe 
increased  preparedness 
Recently,  we  have  witnessed  yet  again 



To counter these threats more  effectively, Russia 
is  ready,  together  with  other  countries,  to  more 
efficiently engage its scientific capacities and advanced 
technologies, 
and 
communication  technologies,  as  a  powerful  tool  to 
bridge  the  gap  between  the  developed  and  developing 
countries and thus promote global development. 
the 

tremendous  damage 
inflicted  on 
development  by  natural  and  man-made  disasters. 
Earthquakes, floods, wildfires, tsunamis, industrial and 
infrastructure breakdowns not only claim thousands of 
human lives, but consume enormous resources to repair 
the damage, thus diverting resources from development 
goals.  Clearly, 
for  such 
disasters is costly, but it is considerably less expensive 
than the cost of recovery and rehabilitation. 

to 
qualitatively  improve  the  coordination  of  our  joint 
actions to ensure a wider use of modern technologies to 
respond  to  natural  and  man-made  disasters  and  to 
the  application  of  such 
develop  mechanisms  for 
technologies 
the 
international 
interest  of 
community.  In  fact, 
this  might  become  a  new, 
promising  form  of  development  cooperation.  In  that 
connection, I recall the initiative launched by President 
Dmitry  Medvedev  to  establish  an  environmental  risks 
insurance fund. We invite all our partners to elaborate 
on this initiative. 

In  our  interdependent  world,  the  development 
agenda  is  closely  interlinked  with  security  issues.  At 
times, in order to pursue the objectives enshrined in the 
United Nations Charter, the international community is 
forced  to  resort  to  such  tools  as  economic  sanctions. 
However, there has long been a consensus on the need 
to 
limits  of 
sanctions  and  to  prevent  their  negative  impact  on  the 
civilian  population 
economic 
development.  We  note  that  the  Security  Council  has 
sought in recent years to be strictly guided by precisely 
this understanding. 
At the same time, we cannot help but express our 

serious  concern  with 
the  persisting  practice  of 
unilateral coercive measures imposed in a voluntaristic 
or  reckless  manner  by  certain  States  against  certain 
developing  States,  in  excess  of  the  provisions  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  the  decisions  of  the 
Security Council. We are convinced that such practices 
the  so-called  humanitarian 
respect 
social 
and 
and 
in 
A/65/PV.5
to 
the 
trade 
institutions, 
eradicate  poverty 
efforts  by  Governments, 
and 
run  counter  to  the  efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs  and 
must be brought to an end. 

It  is  in  the  interest  of  all  countries  without 
exception 
and  overcome 
underdevelopment. A  poor  person  cannot  be  free. The 
ability  to  provide  decent  social  and  economic  living 
standards  is  one  of  the  key  attributes  of  a  democratic 
State.  These  issues  were  thoroughly  discussed  at  the 
recent  Global  Policy  Forum  on  democracy  standards 
held recently in Yaroslavl. In his address to the Forum, 
President  Dmitry  Medvedev  spoke 
in  favour  of 
developing a universal understanding of such standards 
in order to help establish a positive, unifying agenda of 
modern international relations.  

We  invite  all  stakeholders  to  work  together,  and 
hope  that  this  summit  will  promote  more  active  and 
international 
cohesive 
financial 
business 
community  and  non-governmental  organizations  to 
ensure that the MDGs are met on time. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Arvin  Boolell,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade of 
the Republic of Mauritius.  
Mr. Boolell (Mauritius): The timely realization of 

the targets of the Millennium Development Goals is the 
cherished dream of all of us. Unfortunately, in the light 
of current trends, it is evident that we may not achieve 
them  by  the  set  date  if  the  pledges  made  and 
commitments  undertaken 
remain 
unfulfilled  and  unimplemented.  It  is  also  important  to 
add  that,  if  donor  aid  is  to  flow  to  poverty-stricken 
countries,  it  is  imperative  for  the  latter  to  provide  a 
stable 
development 
supported 
accountable 
Governments.  The  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  requires  a  holistic  approach  with 
the  engagement  of  Governments,  civil  societies,  non-
governmental  organizations,  charitable 
institutions, 
foundations and the private sector. 

As  far  as  Mauritius  is  concerned,  I  can  sound  a 
positive  note  because  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  status  report  that  we  have  just  completed 
confirms that significant progress has been achieved on 
most  of  the  targets,  in  spite  of  the  global  economic 
meltdown and the financial, fuel and food crises. These 
accomplishments  have  been  made  possible  largely  to 
environment 
transparent 
conducive 
to 
and 
respect 
this 
by 
in 
10-54298 

19 

A/65/PV.5 

the  sustained  efforts  and  good  policy  mix  undertaken 
by  our  Government  since  2006,  with  the  support  and 
assistance of development partners. 

With a view to maintaining a welfare State since 
independence in 1968, we have invested heavily in and 
placed great emphasis on the social welfare, education 
and health sectors. Mauritius provides free primary and 
secondary  schooling, 
free  health  care,  free  bus 
transport  to  students  and  elderly  citizens,  and  a 
universal  pension  to  the  elderly.  It  spends  58  per  cent 
of  its  national  budget  on  community  and  social 
services. 

The  objective  of  primary  schooling  for  all 
children  in  Mauritius  has  been  achieved,  as  the  net 
enrolment  rate  in  primary  education  is  97  per  cent. 
Mauritian  citizens  have  free  medical  and  surgical 
treatment. Antenatal and post-natal care is provided to 
all women free of charge, and 99 per cent of births are 
attended by skilled health personnel. 

Mauritius  is  also  among  the  countries  on  the 
African  continent  with  the  lowest  infant  and  maternal 
mortality rates. The economic empowerment of women 
has  seen  a  further  improvement  between  2005  and 
2010  with  non-collateral-based  access  to  finance  for 
entrepreneurship.  Indeed,  a  larger  number  of  women 
entrepreneurs  are  now  in  business  with  sustainable 
income.  There  is  also  noticeable  progress  in  placing 
women  at  higher  levels  of  decision-making  in  the 
public  sector  and  the  judiciary. The  private  sector  has 
yet to follow suit in this respect. 
The  elimination  of  extreme  poverty  has  been  a 

top  priority  for  the  Government,  particularly  since 
2006,  with 
the  setting-up  of  an  empowerment 
programme  with  the  capacity  to  act  without  the 
rigidities  of  the  normal  state  bureaucracy,  and  an 
integrated  approach  to  the  rehabilitation  of  the  social 
capital of poor families. The various projects under the 
empowerment  programme  are  producing  concrete 
results.  

The Government has set up a special ministry, the 
Ministry of Social Integration, to cater to the needs of 
the  poor  and  vulnerable  and  to  wage  war  on  poverty. 
Furthermore,  a  number  of  programmes  are  currently 
being  implemented  under  the  aegis  of  the  National 
Empowerment  Foundation  to  widen  the  circle  of 
opportunities for the poor, assist the vulnerable groups 
and  eradicate  poverty.  These  programmes  adopt  a 
policy of empowerment and rather than give handouts 
to the poor. 

As  a  small  island  developing  State,  Mauritius 
faces  several  inherent  constraints,  such  as  its  small 
size, geographical isolation and limited resources. It is 
also  prone  to  the  vagaries  of  natural  disasters  and  the 
impact  of  climate  change.  However,  in  spite  of  these 
constraints,  Mauritius  has  already  attained  major 
targets  in  the  area  of  environmental  protection.  The 
country  has  taken  several  initiatives,  such  as  the 
Maurice  Ile  Durable  project,  aimed  at  improving  the 
quality of the environment and paving the way towards 
sustainable  development.  Our  Government  is  indeed 
conscious  of  the  need  to  ensure  economic  and  social 
development  without  compromising  the  quality  of  life 
of future generations. 

the  Millennium 
Development Goals by 2015, we may consider that we 
have made a major breakthrough. However, it will not 
be an end in itself. We would need to sustain it and, for 
that  matter, 
important  goal  would  be 
sustainable development. In this context, the successful 
conclusion  of  the  Doha  Development  Round  at  the 
earliest  possible  date  and  aid  for  trade  financing  for 
development are crucial. Since one size does not fit all, 
I  need  not  recall  the  vulnerability  of  small  island 
developing States or that due consideration for special 
and differential treatment therefore has to be taken.  

In  June  2009,  the  Conference  on  the  World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development  established  an  ad  hoc  open-ended 
working  group  of 
the  General  Assembly,  which 
institutionalized  the  continuing  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  addressing  the  economic  crisis.  It  is 
important for the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group 
to  remain  focused  on  issues  of  concern  to  developing 
countries,  such  as  remittances  of  migrant  workers, 
labour  migration, 
in 
restricting sovereign debt, concession flows and grants, 
whether  through  the  operation  of  a  global  fund  or 
development  Special  Drawing  Rights,  and  the  reform 
of Bretton Woods institutions. 

remains  committed 
Development Goals by 2015. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean-Marie 
Finally,  I  should  like  to  reaffirm  that  Mauritius 
the  Millennium 
international 
to  meeting 
If  we  are  able 
to  achieve 
the  most 
cooperation 
20 

10-54298 
A/65/PV.5
resources 
levels  of  production, 


Ehouzou,  Special  Envoy  of  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Benin. 
Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  Our 

civilization  is  going  through  a  deep  crisis.  Indeed,  at 
the  start  of  the  third  millennium,  extreme  poverty  has 
reached a level more horrifying than at any other time 
in  the  history  of  humanity.  The  statistics  on  the 
differences and inequalities that characterize our planet 
are alarming. 

Today,  there  are  over  1.8  billion  human  beings 
who live in extreme insecurity and destitution, on less 
than  $1  a  day.  Forty  years  ago,  400  million  people 
suffered  from  permanent  chronic  malnutrition;  today, 
their  number  is  estimated  to  be  854  million.  This 
situation is unacceptable, especially in a world that has 
sufficient 
and 
knowledge  to  put  an  end  to  such  tragedies  and  their 
consequences. 
Despite  all  the  efforts  made  by  most  of  the 

poorest  States,  those  countries  continue  to  face  many 
difficulties because of poorly adapted policies imposed 
here  and  there  by  certain  international  institutions. 
Those  difficulties  are  aggravated  today  by  climate 
change  and  the  various  international  crises  related  to 
the disorder of unbridled capitalism, including the food 
crisis.  
About  two  decades  after  the  fall  of  the  Berlin 

wall, a new wall has been built. It is an economic wall 
and  symbolizes  the  gap  between  the  developed  North 
and  the  impoverished  South,  and  everything  indicates 
that  no  one  seems  concerned  about  it.  However,  its 
continuation could sow the seeds of destructive conflict 
for our entire system.  

We can bring down that wall if we have the will 
to do so, because all of us here, many as we are, know 
that  the  means  exist  to  do  so.  To  accomplish  that, 
priorities  must  simply  be  redefined  and  meaning  and 
concrete substance given to the fairness and necessary 
solidarity  that  should  exist  among  peoples,  especially 
in a time of crisis. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  (A/64/665) 
shows that in many countries, significant progress has 
been  made  in  many  areas  and  that  the  necessary 
resources  and  expertise  to  achieve  the  Goals  exist.  In 
Benin, my country, several assessments of the extent to 
which the Millennium Goals have been achieved have 
An  analysis  of 
report  assessing 
the 

and 
repeating 
shown  that  it  will  be  difficult  to  reach  most  of  the 
MDGs  in  the  country  by  2015  if  the  current  trends 
continue. 

However,  the  progress  made  in  the  areas  of 
education, health care and the empowerment of women 
through  microfinancing  stems  from  the  quality  of  the 
programmes  established  in  many  sectors  and  the 
considerable support of technical and financial partners 
but above all from the great involvement of grass-roots 
communities that only ask to be supported. 
In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  underscore  that  the 

Secretary-General  acknowledged  the  importance  and 
effectiveness  of  a  Songhai  project  being  tested  in  my 
country,  Benin,  after  having  seen  it  himself.  The 
project  emphasizes  the  development  of  agricultural 
entrepreneurship.  The  Secretary-General 
strongly 
recommended  disseminating 
that 
experiment  both  in  Benin  and  in  other  countries 
because  of  its  great  potential  for  food  security  and 
rational management of the environment. 

  Mr. Osman (Sudan), Vice-President of the General 
Assembly, took the Chair. 
However,  in  the  current  international  economic 

the 
crisis, 
mobilization  of 
to  accelerate  progress 
towards  achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015.  Like  many 
other  countries,  in  concrete  terms,  Benin  can  achieve 
all  the  Goals  that  it  endorsed  in  2000  only  by 
mobilizing  three  times  the  public  resources  currently 
allotted to the education and rural development sectors. 

Words  and  declarations  have  no  meaning  if  they 
are  not  followed  up  with  robust  action.  Our  many 
conferences  often  conclude  in  declarations  that  echo 
our good intentions and promises. Benin expresses the 
keen desire to see them translated into concrete action. 
That will help to enhance multilateralism. 

Benin  also  desires  the  poor  countries  to  make 
greater effort in terms of governance, improving public 
policies,  strengthening  ownership  and  making  better 
use of the resources made available to them. That is the 
only way that we will be able to achieve the Goals we 
set by 2015. 

With  respect  to  institutions  for  financing  for 
development,  primarily  those  of  the  so-called  Bretton 
Woods era, they must at last realize that the criteria of 
convergence,  conditionality  and  other  remedies  that 
they administer to fragile countries only aggravate the 
the  major  challenge  continues 
resources 
to  be 
10-54298 

21 
the 
to  boost 

(Marshall 
Mr.  Silk
Islands):  When 
A/65/PV.5 

plight  of  the  most  vulnerable  populations  of  those 
countries. 

Poverty is not inevitable. Therefore it is up to us 
to strive together to stop it becoming a weapon of mass 
destruction for humanity. It is in all our interests, and I 
am  firmly  convinced  that,  with  a  little  more  political 
will, we can achieve that. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the floor to His Excellency Mr. John Silk, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 
the 

Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  came  to  life 
through  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2), 
the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall 
Islands and the international community made a lasting 
promise to the Marshallese people to take all necessary 
action to reach basic social development goals. 

While  we  can  report  some  positive  progress, 
much remains to be done both by the Marshall Islands 
Government and by our international partners. We can 
expect 
its 
responsiveness  only  if  we  are  willing  to  undertake 
improved  efforts  at  home.  I  am  pleased  to  announce 
that  the  Marshall  Islands  Cabinet  has  endorsed  efforts 
towards a new national development plan that directly 
embeds progress on the MDGs in national strategies. 

I can point to positive progress towards reaching 
two key MDG targets in the Marshall Islands: we have 
improved access to basic education for all and we have 
steadily  improved  maternal  health  and  child  welfare. 
However,  these  bright  beacons  are  clouded  by  serious 
barriers to reaching other MDG targets. While we have 
avoided  dire  poverty,  indicators  suggest  that  general 
hardship and hunger are worsening, not improving. We 
are  not  on  track  to  providing  decent  work  and  full 
employment.  While  we  have  made  some  advances  on 
gender  issues,  violence  against  girls  and  women 
remains a serious problem. Serious improvements need 
to be made towards addressing HIV, malaria and other 
illnesses. 

We  are  restrained  by  political  inaction  on  the 
Mauritius  Strategy  —  the  focus  of  global,  island-
specific  efforts.  Our  private  sector 
is  woefully 
underdeveloped,  and  we  remain  reliant  on  foreign 
assistance.  As  a  low-lying  nation,  we  must  build 
immediate  and  far  greater  intersections  between  our 
international  community 
strategies 
efforts  on 
seriously  boosting 
towards  defining  a 
social  development  efforts  and  strategies  to  address 
climate change. 

Rather  than  witness  the  global  community  tear 
itself  apart  fighting  over  the  amount  of  financing  — 
and  more  resources  are  needed  —  we  first  need  to 
focus  our 
the 
effectiveness of the rich opportunities already afforded 
us.  Honest,  real  and  outcome-oriented  discussions  are 
needed  among  donors  and  recipients  on  creative  and 
immediate 
for  aid  effectiveness  and 
coordination.  From  the  perspective  of  a  small  island 
nation, the myriad of unconnected aid opportunities are 
at best a confusing patchwork attempt, leaving a tragic 
gap  between  the  intentions  of  donors  and  delivery  to 
local communities. 

A  very  obvious  suggestion  would  be  to  build 
better bridges among the Mauritius Strategy, the island-
focused  development  strategy  and  the  MDGs.  In  so 
doing,  the  international  community  could  consider 
moving 
formal  category  of 
vulnerable island nations, as well as developing precise 
goals and benchmarks within the Mauritius Strategy to 
measure international progress. 

The  Marshall  Islands  is  a  large  ocean  State.  Our 
tuna fisheries resources represent the primary pathway 
to economic development, but the key stocks have been 
pushed  beyond  sustainable  levels.  We  will  be  able  to 
advance  towards  key  MDGs  and  to  transform  our 
economy  only  if  our  political  partners  implement 
commitments 
towards  both  curbing  unsustainable 
fishing  levels  and  helping  us  to  achieve  our  own 
fisheries  development  aspirations.  Right  now,  we 
realize  very  limited  benefits.  Only  about  one  penny 
from  a  can  of  Pacific  tuna  comes  to  us.  Here,  I  can 
offer  another  simple  suggestion:  regional  and  global 
fisheries  discussions  need  to  be  far  better  integrated 
within  broader  development  processes,  and  specific 
development strategies need to be identified. 

Finally,  we  must  improve  our  own  domestic 
commitment. The MDGs can not be a “set it and forget 
it”  exercise.  And  today  I  can  announce  our  need  for 
assistance in assembling an MDG acceleration team as 
a  component  of  our  national  planning  efforts  to  assist 
in further Government ownership and integration of the 
MDGs.  This  small  team  will  not  only  assist  with 
planning, but will also work across agencies to pursue 
immediate,  practical  action.  For  example,  several 
Government  offices  have  already  integrated  MDG 
22 

10-54298 


targets 
into  agency  planning  and  performance 
budgeting.  This  welcome  effort  should  be  scaled  up. 
We need to sit with our partners and examine how our 
existing assistance and development pathways can best 
address  the  MDGs  and  identify  means  for  measurable 
progress. 

The impact of climate change threatens to unravel 
whatever  progress  we  have  made  and  will  make 
towards  the  MDGs.  Our  Government  has  recently 
endorsed  a  climate  change  road  map,  with  concrete 
strategies  to  cut  our  own  emissions  and  achieve  a 
climate-resilient  future.  With  international  assistance, 
we must work in lockstep on efforts to address both our 
core  social  development  under  the  MDGs  and  also 
climate adaptation. 

Today I can announce our Government’s renewed 
attention  and  commitment  towards  a  global  effort  in 
achieving  the  MDGs.  I  can  only  hope  that  the  rest  of 
the  international  community,  and  in  particular  our 
closest  partners,  will  join  us  in  turning  words  into 
reality.  
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pastor  Micha  Ondo 
Bile,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International 
Cooperation  and  Francophonie  of  the  Republic  of 
Equatorial Guinea.  
Mr.  Micha  Ondo  Bile  (Equatorial  Guinea) 

(spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to 
address  this  High-level  Meeting,  representing  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  who, 
due 
important  and  high-level  State 
responsibilities,  is  unable  to  personally  attend  this 
important  event.  On  his  behalf,  I  extend  our  most 
sincere  congratulations  to  the  Co-Chairs  and  to  the 
other members of the Bureau.  

Our presence at this meeting reaffirms Equatorial 
Guinea’s  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  a  whole 
and to the principles and purposes of the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  In  that  context,  and  on  behalf  of  the 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea and his 
Government,  I  convey  my  warmest  and  most  sincere 
congratulations to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and 
again  commend  his  hard  work  and  leadership  in  the 
service  of  humanity,  and  in  particular  his  efforts  to 
promote sustainable development in the broadest sense. 
to  many 
A/65/PV.5
in  order 
to  achieve 
in  particular 

This  High-level  Meeting  devoted  specifically  to 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  is  an 
excellent  opportunity  for  all  of  us  to  lend  new 
momentum to the attainment of those Goals. Moreover, 
we  believe  that  this  High-level  Meeting  provides  us 
with an opportunity to chart the course to be followed 
and  to  draw  up  a  realistic  road  map  or  programme  of 
action  with  specific  methodologies 
to  accelerate 
progress 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals by 2015. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/665) 
once more stresses that the goals and targets set out in 
the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2) have not 
yet been achieved to the extent we all would desire and 
that  most  countries, 
the  developing 
countries  and  the  least  developed  countries,  remain 
marginalized  in  the  world  economy  and  are  impacted 
by extreme poverty. 

Progress towards achievement of the Millennium 
Goals  has  always  been  eroded  by  a  series  of  negative 
factors  that  include  a  reduction  in  flows  of  official 
development  assistance,  serious  structural  obstacles, 
the  declining  price  of  commodities  and,  in  some 
countries, violent conflicts and post-conflict situations, 
natural  disasters  —  and  the  list  goes  on.  In  addition, 
the  world  recession  has  further  obstructed  the  path  to 
2015. Indeed, the events that have taken place and the 
delays that we have encountered since the Millennium 
Declaration  was  adopted  in  2000  mean  that  we  must 
achieve  consensus  among  all  countries  regarding  the 
challenges  and  fundamental  priorities  for  action,  and 
that  consensus  must  then  be  turned  into  collective 
action.  

The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  understands 
that  in  the  context  of  implementing  the  Millennium 
Declaration,  a  series  of  decisions  must  be  taken  that 
commit  and  encourage  all  States 
the 
commitments  collectively  entered  into  in  the  year 
2000,  when  for  the  first  time  consideration  was  given 
to achieving the Millennium Goals. It is thus a question 
of  standard-setting,  of  measures  and  reforms  that 
should guide all States, provided the necessary political 
will  can  be  mobilized  on  the  part  of  all  countries 
making  up  the  international  community.  All  partners 
involved must also be fully committed to the fight for 
the cause of development.  

Millennium  Development  Goals 
For  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  the 
serious 
to  meet 
are 
a 
10-54298 

23 

situation 
A/65/PV.5 

commitment  to  sustainable  development.  For  this 
reason,  the  Government  of  my  country  has  taken  a 
series of economic, legislative, legal and administrative 
measures to give effect to the Millennium Declaration. 

Over the last 10 years, the economic performance 
of Equatorial Guinea has been particularly exceptional, 
thanks  to  the  discovery  and  processing  of  major  oil 
reserves.  This 
implies  our  economy’s 
dependence on oil and thus its fragility.  

According  to  estimates  in  a  study  of  poverty  in 
our country, some two thirds of the population continue 
to suffer penury. To mitigate the impact of poverty and 
the  Millennium  Declaration, 
respond 
to 
the 
Government 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
embarked  on  a  long-term  process  of  development 
strategy planning, which has led to the holding of two 
national  economic  conferences.  The  second  of  these 
conferences was held in November 2007, in the context 
of  which  our  Government  established  strategic 
guidelines  and  priorities  that  constitute  and  underpin 
the  Plan  for  Social  and  Economic  Development  and 
Poverty  Reduction  in  Equatorial  Guinea  by  the  Year 
2020. 

The view of sustainable development adopted by 
our Government is centred on 2020, which implies the 
achievement  of 
through 
increased efforts on our part, the broadening of revenue 
sources and the training of human resources in order to 
achieve  appropriate  growth  levels  for  a  competitive 
economy  that  is  able  to  eradicate  poverty  and  hunger. 
That is as set forth in the current plan of action for the 
development of Equatorial Guinea by 2020, drafted by 
our Government, as mentioned, in 2007. 
the  Fund 

for  Social 
the  Government  of 
Development, 
Equatorial Guinea in 2006 with the diligent assistance 
of 
International 
Development  (USAID),  are  important  strategic  inputs 
designed to help our country to achieve the Millennium 
Goals. The Fund is intended to improve social services 
provided  by  the  Government  for  the  benefit  of  the 
population  to  facilitate  their  access  to  basic  public 
services  of  appropriate  quality  and  which  guarantee 
sustainable  human  development  and  a  well-protected 
environment. 

The principal objective of the Fund is to develop 
the capacities of ministries and institutions in the social 
train  Equatorial  Guinea’s  human 
sector  and 
Instruments  such  as 
adopted  by 
the  United  States  Agency 
the  Millennium  Goals 
for 
to 
for 
for 
Financing 
this  Fund  comes 
resources in the methods and procedures as well as in 
the  drafting,  management,  implementation,  follow-up 
and evaluation of social programmes and projects. 

from 
the 
Government’s  own  resources,  and  $15  million  have 
been  made  available  by  USAID 
technical 
assistance. The Government has undertaken to allocate 
a  further  sum  of  $72  million  for  the  first  five-year 
phase  of  execution  of  concrete  projects,  which 
represents  0.8  per  cent  of  the  gross  domestic  product, 
according to International Monetary Fund statistics. 

My Government has donated substantial sums to 
contribute  to  the  development  of  actions  designed  to 
promote sustainable human development. To name just 
a few, there is the $3 million contribution to UNESCO 
to  underwrite  the  Prize  for  Research  in  the  Life 
Sciences,  and  to  the African  Union  a  contribution  for 
setting  up 
the  African  Observatory  for  Science, 
Technology  and  Innovation.  To  those  we  would  add 
other  financial  contributions  made  in  recent  years  to 
both 
the  Secretary-General  and  United  Nations 
agencies and entities to bolster their endeavours around 
the world. 

Those  measures  bear  witness  to  my  country’s 
firm  commitment  to  achieving  the  Millennium  Goals 
and in particular to fully complying with the objectives 
established in the most recent international conferences 
in 
the  social,  economic  and  related  fields.  The 
examination by those conferences of the integrated and 
coordinated 
the 
principal object of this High-level Meeting taking place 
within  the  framework  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General Assembly. 

The cause of development and above all the fight 
against the poverty and hunger that assault in the world 
today  can  be  promoted  only  through  broad,  deep  and 
sustained  international  cooperation  among  all  States, 
with  the  firm  commitment  and  support  of  the  organs 
and agencies  of the United Nations, and including the 
private sector and civil society.  

In  our  view,  the  objectives  set  out  in  the 
Millennium  Declaration  can  be  achieved  by  2015. 
However,  that  requires  that,  starting  now,  we  break 
from  the  routine,  that  we  dramatically  accelerate  and 
intensify  our  actions  and  our  commitment. To  achieve 
the Millennium Goals, it is absolutely essential that we 
have  greater  solidarity  within  the  diversity  that  exists 
implementation  of 
the  results 
is 
24 

10-54298 


between all States, whatever their size, and institutions 
that comprise the international community.  
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sergei  Martynov, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Belarus. 
Mr.  Martynov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Yesterday and this morning a great many opinions have 
been voiced from this rostrum, including those related 
to such important issues as who was at fault and what 
has  been  the  major  impediment  to  progress  for  States 
of the world in achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs).  

Those who single out the financial and economic 
crisis as the primary reason for feeble and fragmented 
progress and limitation are quite right. One cannot but 
agree  also  with  those  who  link  those  failures  with  the 
unwillingness  of  the  great  Powers  to  cooperate  with 
other  States  on  equal  terms  in  order  to  overcome  a 
wide array of new global threats and challenges. 

In  these  circumstances,  a  no  less  important 
question  arises:  what  is  to  be  done?  From  our 
viewpoint,  the  situation  requires  tighter  multilateral 
approaches,  including  agreed  measures  to  strengthen 
the  global  partnership  for  development  —  Goal  8. 
Otherwise,  the  lack  of  tangible  progress  towards 
achieving the Goals will not be overcome.  

I  emphasize  here  that  a  comparatively  new 
instrument among the United Nations tools — a policy 
of  global  partnerships,  actively  advocated  by  the 
Republic  of  Belarus  —  has  been  ever  more  clearly 
proving its effectiveness and advantages in addressing 
the  most  acute  international  problems.  The  most 
convincing and recent example is a  global partnership 
against  slavery  and  human  trafficking,  which  was 
initiated  by  Belarus  five  years  ago  and  has  been 
successfully  taking  shape  at  the  United  Nations.  It 
recently  found  expression  in  resolution  64/293,  a 
consensus resolution of the General Assembly adopting 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons. 
Another positive example is that the international 

community,  coordinated  by 
the  United  Nations, 
managed  not  only  to  adopt  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  (resolution  60/288  and 
annex) but also within that framework to take a number 
of balanced and result-oriented steps that have already 
proved  effective. And  for  a  number  of  years  now  we 
A/65/PV.5
The  failure 
have  had  every  reason  to  commend  the  combined 
efforts  of  States  within  the  framework  of  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development. 

On the other hand, in cases where real partnership 
relations  have  not  been  achieved  we  observe  the 
pursuit  of  short-term  benefits  and  a  disregard  for  the 
interests  of  others.  On  that  basis,  as  we  know  from 
experience,  in  such  situations  it  is  impossible  in 
principle  to  achieve  decisive  progress.  That  has  been 
proved  convincingly  by  the  results  -  or  rather  by  lack 
of  the  results  —  of  the  most  recent  United  Nations 
Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen. 

For  the  same  reason  we  still  have  a  long  way  to 
go  to  successfully  conclude  the  Doha  Round  of 
multilateral  trade  negotiations.  Moreover,  developed 
countries  are  clearly  hardening  their  positions  and 
imposing protectionist measures in international trade. 
In current crisis conditions, that most painfully affects 
developing countries and middle-income countries with 
open economies. Clearly, this is not partnership. 

to  establish  genuine  partnership 
relations  means  that  we  are  not  yet  in  a  position  to 
progress  toward  solving  the  problem  of  global  energy 
security, turning advanced energy technologies into an 
asset  and  a  driving  engine  of  progress  for  all  States. 
Belarus has consistently advocated such an approach. 
Efforts  to  overcome  the  economic  and  financial 

crisis have yielded mixed yet illustrative results. There 
have  been  clear  successes  specifically  in  those  fields 
where 
flexibility  and  mutual 
understanding  have  been  forged  —  for  example, 
progress  in  interaction  with  international  financial 
institutions.  At 
international 
community  has  yet  to  make  progress  on  agreed 
approaches  to  stimulating  national  economies.  The 
reason is the difference in attitudes of the key players 
to meeting the crucial goals in this post-crisis period. 

Global partnerships justify their value not only by 
virtue of the depth and diversity of the problems to be 
resolved.  Today  their  mechanisms  are  timely  and 
efficient  because 
they  serve  as  a  component  of 
effective  global  governance,  towards  which  the  entire 
system of international relations is now moving. 

It  is  encouraging  that  by  establishing  global 
partnerships in deed, and not only in name, the United 
its  status  and  authority  as  an 
Nations  elevates 
organization  capable  of  playing 
the  role  of  an 
real  partnership, 
the  same 
time, 
the 
10-54298 

25 

a 
in 
reliable 
solution  guarantees 
A/65/PV.5 

institution for effective global governance. I stress that 
good  governance  at  such  a  level  demands  looking  to 
the  future  and  pondering  future  challenges,  even 
though  they  have  not  historically  figured  prominently 
enough 
international  relations.  Foreseeing  and 
identifying  the  problems  in  a  timely  way,  before  they 
become  full-blown,  and  uniting  partners  for  their 
successful 
and 
prosperous future. 

Belarus  would  like  to  suggest  a  promising  idea, 
the  foundation  of  which,  we  believe,  should  be  laid 
down  today.  This  idea  can  be  identified  as  “Help 
Future  Generations  Prosper”.  It  is  directly  related  to 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The 
essence  of  our  proposal  is  to  establish  a  new  global 
partnership  for  defending  and  promoting  the  interests 
of youth. 

Analysis of the implementation of the MDGs has 
led  us  to  the  unambiguous  conclusion:  it  is  more 
important  than  ever  to  activate  efforts  in  the  sectors 
that directly or indirectly affect the prosperity of future 
generations.  Their  needs  should  be  a  priority  in 
working  to  achieve  the  MDGs  and  in  general  in  the 
work  of 
its  Main 
Committees. This is particularly relevant since youth is 
having  an  ever  greater  impact  on  society  and  is 
becoming  its  most  creative  sector  in  all  parts  of  the 
world without exception. 

In our view, the United Nations could play a key 
role  in  identifying  specific  mechanisms  to  support 
talented  young  people  and  train  young  managers  of  a 
new type. It is also necessary to assist in preventing the 
threats that are common for young generations in many 
countries, such as drugs, alcohol, violence and shirking 
civic responsibilities. The role of the United Nations in 
this aspect of our comprehensive idea would at first be 
at least to hold a General Assembly thematic debate to 
discuss  global  good  practices  in  fighting  the  social 
alienation of the youth. 

Global partnership is an effective mechanism for 
mutual  understanding,  ensuring  results.  Building  our 
common future, we all need to be sympathetic partners 
in order not to share the fate of the tower of Babel. 

An indicative road map of the specific proposals 
of  Belarus  will  be  circulated  as  an  attachment  to  the 
text of my statement. 
the  General  Assembly  and 
future 
adequate 
resources 
to  creating  a  better 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Peter 
Shanel  Agovaka,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
External Trade of the Solomon Islands. 
Mr.  Agovaka  (Solomon  Islands):  This  occasion 

provides  us  the  opportunity  to  gauge  our  collective 
progress  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs).  
Ten  years  ago,  when  in  this  Assembly  we 

committed 
for  our 
populations,  we  did  not  foresee  the  number  of  crises 
that have emerged along the way. Since then, we have 
experienced food, financial, energy and climate change 
crises,  testing  and  reversing  the  MDG  gains  made  in 
earlier  years.  Moving  forward  to  the  remaining  five 
years will require us to examine mechanisms to ensure 
that 
targeted  MDG 
benchmarks. 
Progress in Solomon Islands has been mixed and 

uneven.  Our  scorecards  on  the  MDGs  show  some 
improvement, 
though  we  are  generally  off-track, 
overall, in achieving all our goals. There are domestic 
disparities  in  progress,  especially  between  the  formal 
and  informal  sectors  of  our  society.  Focus  on  the 
formal sector by our partners has seen slower progress 
in  rural  areas,  where  80  per  cent  of  the  population 
resides.  Climate  change  has  seen  our  population 
making  compromises  and 
is  creating  pockets  of 
poverty in various locations throughout the country. If 
we  are  to  address  this  crisis  alone,  we  will  need  new 
and additional resources and would appreciate transfers 
of technology. 

Solomon  Islands  is  on  its  own  in  implementing 
the Brussels  Programme of Action, which is supposed 
to  be  the  vehicle  for  achieving  the  MDGs.  Our 
vulnerability 
situation  have  been 
overlooked  by  partners  adopting  a  one-size-fits-all 
approach through regional frameworks. There is a need 
to  realign  our  approaches  and  link  them  to  national 
development  priorities  to  enhance  national  ownership 
and long-term sustainability. 

The  recent  broadening  of  cooperation  between 
Pacific  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  and  the 
wider United Nations membership is slowly paying off. 
Bilaterally,  cooperation  is  allowing  for  policy  space 
and  flexibility  in  the  implementation  of  the  respective 
development  strategies  of  Pacific  SIDS.  Italy  and 
for 
Austria  have  provided  an  excellent  model 
special 
have 
and 
26 

10-54298 
seen 
to  enhance 
that  will  accelerate 
that  allows  populations 


cooperation,  and  all,  including  Turkey,  continue  to 
support our rural renewable energy programme. 

Investment  in  education  remains  a  cross-cutting 
issue 
their 
economic  productivity  towards  achieving  all  MDGs. 
Our partner Cuba continues to train our future doctors, 
for which we remain grateful. Papua New Guinea, our 
close  neighbour,  continues  to  provide  a  range  of 
scholarships  for  our  students.  My  Government  is 
equally  pleased  to  record  a  new  partner,  Portugal,  in 
supporting  our  education  system.  Taiwan,  our  multi-
sectoral  partner,  along  with  our  traditional  partners, 
New  Zealand,  the  European  Union  and Australia,  has 
supported  our  free  primary  education.  However,  the 
dispersed  populations  scattered  throughout  the  islands 
have 
slow  progress.  Australia  and  other 
development  partners  have  invested  in  eradicating 
malaria,  and  it  is  our  hope  that  in  the  remaining  five 
years that the programme will spread nationwide. 
In  looking  ahead,  the  world  needs  to  identify 

concepts 
the  pace  of  MDG 
achievements.  The  MDG  debt  swap  proposed  a  few 
years  ago  needs  to  be  reviewed  as  we  begin  the  final 
five  years  of  our 
time-bound  commitments.  The 
concept  involves  developing  countries  using  domestic 
capital to invest in the MDGs in return for payment of 
debt  to  partners.  Carbon-neutral  initiatives  must  be 
externally supported. Solomon Islands is in the process 
of joining the International Renewable Energy Agency. 

The  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2) 
underscores the relevance  of all major  United Nations 
conferences,  including  the  Mauritius  Strategy  review 
and 
least  developed  countries 
conference.  The  political  declaration  of  the  small 
island developing States calls for a special category for 
small island developing States within the wider United 
Nations  system,  which  we  support.  Equally  important 
is  the  Fourth  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least 
Developed  Countries,  scheduled  for  May  2011,  which 
will  undertake  a  similar  exercise  of  reviewing  the 
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
for  the  most  vulnerable  populations  represented  at  the 
United Nations. 

Many of the issues raised are global in nature and 
need  global  solutions.  There  needs  to  be  a  global 
outreach  with  national  deliverables.  First,  our 
collective  effort  to  remove  agricultural  trade  barriers 
via the World Trade Organization Doha talks, in order 
forthcoming 
the 
A/65/PV.5
the 
Thirdly, 
to  have  a  fair  and  just  trading  system,  is  a  must. 
Secondly,  a  legally  binding  climate  change  agreement 
within  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change (UNFCCC) and a second commitment 
period under the Kyoto Protocol are also essential. We 
would  like  to  see  all  partners  outside  the  UNFCCC 
process play  their  role in  contributing to the health  of 
our atmosphere, including Taiwan as an observer. 

implementation  of  a  negotiated 
declaration  on  the  MDGs  should  be  adopted  at  this 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  MDGs.  The  draft 
declaration  we  have  before  us  is  not  a  series  of  good 
intentions but a declaration of concrete action that will 
need vigorous implementation. 

I  would  like  to  close  by  stating  that  there  are 
enough  financial  resources,  technology  and  good  will 
to realize our goals. The world needs new collaboration 
and  alliances  with  new  initiatives,  which  Solomon 
Islands is committed to honouring. 
The  Acting  Chair  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by Mr. José Maria 
Neves, Prime Minister of the Republic of Cape Verde. 
Mr.  Neves  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English interpretation provided by the delegation): It is 
with satisfaction and pride that I address this Assembly 
to present the investments, commitments and results of 
Cape  Verde  in  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs).  

Cape  Verdeans  share  a  vision  for  the  future:  a 
modern, competitive country with social cohesion  and 
a  healthy  environmental.  We  have  a  strategy  to 
transform  the  country  into  an  international  services 
centre.  We  are  acting  to  transform  our  comparative 
advantages  into  sources  of  competitive  advantages  in 
order  to  accelerate  the  pace  of  economic  growth  and 
employment  generation,  to  ensure  the  best  possible 
income  for  families,  and  to  combat  poverty  and  all 
forms of social exclusion.  

infrastructure, 
developing human capital, investing strongly in people 
and  promoting  the  private  sector. As  a  result  of  good 
governance 
global 
partnerships, the country has added consistent gains to 
its process of development. Great advances have been 
made 
the 
empowerment  of  women  and  strengthening  of  civil 
in  various  sectors:  education,  health, 
are  modernizing 
consolidation 
and 
our 
We 
the 
of 
10-54298 

27 

strong 
the  Government’s 
A/65/PV.5 

society,  demonstrating 
political commitment to reducing poverty. 

Cape  Verde  is  on  course  to  achieve  all  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015.  Our  growth 
and  poverty  reduction  strategy  integrates  an  approach 
that cuts across gender, with the purpose of responding 
to  the  challenges  faced  by  the  population’s  most 
vulnerable  group  —  the  women  of  Cape Verde. There 
is no development without gender equality and equity. 
Our strategy aims at empowering women in rural areas 
and creating employment for mothers who are heads of 
poor  households.  We  are  making  ongoing  efforts  to 
adopt policy measures that ensure gender equality and 
equity.  With  respect  to  the  participation  of  women  in 
politics,  while  only  15  per  cent  of  members  of 
Parliament  are  women,  Cape  Verde  now  has  parity 
within  its  Government.  Of  the  14  Ministers,  eight  are 
women. 

In the area of health, we have seen an increase in 
life expectancy and a reduction in maternal and infant 
mortality.  Today,  98  per  cent  of  births  take  place  in 
hospitals  with  specialized  assistance.  The  HIV/AIDS 
prevalence rate is 0.8 per cent. 

We  are  investing  strongly  in  education  and 
professional  training.  People  are  our  only  natural 
resource, and we have to train and transform them into 
strategic resources for development. The education rate 
is  96  per  cent,  and  Cape  Verde  has  achieved  gender 
parity in primary and secondary education. We are also 
investing  in  social  security  in  order  to  universalize 
decent  housing  for  all.  In  information  technology, 
communications,  renewable  energy,  water  supply, 
agriculture  and  the  food  industry,  I  believe  we  have 
made  significant  progress,  especially  in  the  past  few 
years, though we still have enormous challenges ahead 
of  us.  We  are  poor  in  terms  of  traditional  natural 
resources,  with  barely  10  per  cent  of  our  land  can  be 
developed.  Cape  Verde  remains  vulnerable,  both 
environmentally and economically, and is subject to the 
negative  effects  of  climate  change.  Our  archipelagic 
situation requires enormous resources for infrastructure 
development.  

We  are  at  a  critical  moment  in  the  life  of  our 
country. We are taking off, and we need to harness all 
our energies to achieve a radical transformation of our 
islands. We have shown that development is possible if 
we have a vision, appropriate strategies, political will, 
freedoms, democracy and good sense. Now more than 
this  Assembly 
in  proposing,  and 
ever,  we  need  partnerships  to  help  us  take  a  leap 
forward and build our future. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the floor to His Excellency Mr. Ratu Inoke Kubuabola, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation 
and Civil Aviation of the Republic of Fiji. 
Mr.  Kubuabola  (Fiji):  At  the  outset,  may  I,  on 

behalf of the peoples and Government of Fiji, take this 
opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
foresight 
for 
endorsing the convening of this high-level Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  progress  review  summit. 
From  the  survey  of  our  collective  progress  made  thus 
far, and as we look forward to 2015, it is now apparent 
that  the  bright  spots  of  progress  differ  from  one 
country to another. 

With  respect  to  the  status  of  its  success  in 
meeting  the  MDGs,  Fiji  has  made  progress  towards 
achieving  all  eight  Goals.  Our  second  report  indicates 
that  we  are  on  track  to  achieve  five  of  the  eight  by 
2015.  These  include  MDG  2,  on  universal  primary 
education;  MDG  4,  on  reduced  child  mortality;  MDG 
5, on reduced maternal mortality; MDG 7, on ensuring 
environmental 
sustainability;  and  MDG  8,  on 
developing a global partnership for development. 

The  report  also  suggests  that  achieving  three  of 
the  Goals  —  MDG  1,  on  the  eradication  of  extreme 
poverty  and  hunger;  MDG  3,  on  the  promotion  of 
gender equality and women’s empowerment; and MDG 
6, on combating HIV/AIDS and other diseases — will 
be  a  major  challenge.  The  Government 
is  fully 
committed  and  positive  that  these  Goals  will  be 
realized. 

While  MDG  2  has  already  been  effectively 
achieved in Fiji through strong and effective education 
policies,  of  critical  concern  to  us  is  the  eradication  of 
extreme  poverty  under  MDG  1.  We  have  identified  a 
number  of  factors  that  have  contributed  to  Fiji’s 
constraints in making steady progress in this area. They 
include  the  global  financial  crisis;  volatile  global  oil 
prices,  which  have  led  to  inflationary  pressures,  thus 
reducing  real  incomes  and  pushing  those  at  the 
threshold of poverty into  poverty; unresolved political 
challenges,  which  have  had  a  negative  effect  on 
investment,  exports  and  employment  growth,  thus 
contributing  to  poverty;  and  unproductive  use  of  land 
resources. 
28 

10-54298 
Land 
reform 
are 
also 
that 
is 
the 
last 
structure 
to  control 
a  Government 
two.  Accordingly, 



While the first two factors are effectively beyond 
the control of a small island economy like ours, we are 
able 
the 
Government  has  embarked  upon  an  economic  and 
socio-political  reform  agenda  as  the  foundation  of  its 
sustainable development framework, particularly in the 
area  of  good  governance.  Fiji  has  made  significant 
efforts to strengthen this aspect by developing a culture 
of  sustainable  and  democratic  good  governance  that 
will  come  to  represent  the  dominant  political  thinking 
and  behaviour  of  the  people  of  Fiji.  The  aim  is  to 
create 
truly 
participatory,  consensus-oriented,  accountable  and 
transparent, and that follows the rule of law. It ensures 
that  corruption  will  be  minimized,  the  views  of 
minorities  taken  into  account,  and  the  voices  of 
society’s most vulnerable heard.  

being 
initiatives 
implemented  to  ensure  the  meaningful  and  maximal 
exploitation  of  our  abundant  resources.  Additionally, 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  have  been 
integrated  into  the  People’s  Charter,  our  strategic 
framework  for  change  and  road  map  to  ensure  the 
successful  implementation  and  achievement  of  MDG 
targets. 
For  the  remaining  five  years,  Fiji  is  convinced 

for 
that  addressing 
appropriate 
innovative 
institutions, committed programmes, justice and equity 
in  sharing  resources,  and  above  all,  a  stronger  and 
committed  global  partnership.  In  this  connection,  the 
Government  of  Fiji  is  committed  to  undertaking  a 
comprehensive  national  analysis  of  progress  in  MDG 
implementation,  developing  national  breakthrough 
action  plans  for  MDG  acceleration,  revisiting  its 
policies for mainstreaming and integrating MDGs into 
the  national  development  plan,  formulating  efficient 
domestic  resource  management  for  achieving 
the 
MDGs,  and  conducting 
regular  monitoring  and 
assessment of MDG progress. 

In conclusion, the Secretary-General was right in 
saying  that  the  inability  to  achieve  the  MDG  targets 
would be  an  unacceptable  failure  from  both the moral 
and  the  practical  standpoints.  Back  in  the  year  2000, 
Fiji  committed  itself  to  achieving  the  MDGs,  and  we 
continue  to  hold  true  to  this  commitment.  As  a 
Government, we know that any benefits accruing from 
our  success  will  directly  affect  our  own  people.  The 
approaches,  matched  by 
these  challenges 
truly  calls 
A/65/PV.5
country  has  put 
leaders of the world foresaw that 10 years ago and we 
are committed to making it a reality. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kalombo  T.  Mwansa, 
Minister  of  Defence  and  Special  Envoy  of 
the 
President of Zambia. 
Mr.  Mwansa  (Zambia):  With  only  five  years 

remaining before the year set for achieving the MDGs, 
we have taken stock of where we are. Zambia has made 
significant  progress  in  improving  the  macroeconomic 
environment,  leading  to  a  sustained  economic  growth 
of  6.1  per  cent  over  the  past  five  years.  Furthermore, 
the 
into  place  development 
frameworks,  such  as  the  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy 
Paper  (PRSP)  and  the  National  Five-Year  Strategic 
Development  Plan 
(2007-2011),  which  provide 
periodic  monitoring  of  MDG  indicators,  as  part  of  its 
commitment to the achievement of MDGs. 
Efforts have also been made in implementing pro-

poor  interventions.  These  include  increasing  farmer 
input  support  in  the  form  of  fertilizer  and  seed  from 
200,000  beneficiaries  to  more  than  800,000.  It  is 
noteworthy that food production has increased over the 
years  and  the  food  security  situation  has  improved, 
making the prospect of reducing hunger bright.  

Furthermore,  accelerating  rural  development  is 
prime  on  our  development  agenda.  We  are  improving 
the state of our feeder roads, thereby enhancing service 
delivery and access to markets for our rural population. 
These 
interventions  are  reinforced  by  addressing 
human  resource  deficiencies  in  rural  areas.  In  2009 
alone,  we  recruited  a  total  of  1,610  frontline  medical 
personnel  and  also  embarked  on  improving  the  work 
environment  for  health  workers  by,  among  other 
things,  implementing  the  rural  retention  scheme  and 
building houses for rural health workers. Consequently, 
the  staff  head-count  increased  from  24,407  in  2008  to 
27,524 in 2009. 
We believe that these measures will significantly 

the 
contribute 
reduction  of  child  mortality, 
improving  maternal 
mortality, and combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other 
major  diseases.  We  are  determined  to  vigorously 
maintain these initiatives so that our potential to meet 
health-related MDGs remains on course. 

education,  similar  strategies  as 
to  achieving  universal  primary 
those  being 
the  MDGs  related 
With  regard 
to  meeting 
to 
to 
10-54298 

29 

The  positive  economic  growth 
A/65/PV.5 

implemented  in  the  health  sector  are  being  pursued. 
Between 2005 and 2009, my Government has recruited 
and deployed over 25,000 teachers, and, between 2008 
and 2010, close to 6,000 basic school classrooms were 
built.  These  measures  target  the  infrastructure  and 
human  resource  deficits  in  rural  areas.  Most  of  the 
targets  under  this  MDG  continue  to  be  on  track.  I  am 
pleased to report that Zambia is set to meet this MDG. 

Zambia  is  tirelessly  addressing  gender-related 
imbalances through affirmative action and programmes 
such as scholarships for assisting girls to excel at basic, 
secondary and university education levels. In addition, 
Zambia  has  established 
the  Citizens’  Economic 
Empowerment  Fund  with  a  view  to  empowering  as 
many rural women as possible. In this regard, Zambia 
welcomes  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of 
Women,  (UN Women),  the  new  United  Nations  entity 
for promoting gender equality and the empowerment of 
women.  

that  Zambia 
continues to enjoy has been made possible with support 
from  our  cooperating  partners.  Besides  the  debt  relief 
accessed  in  2004  after  having  reached  the  halfway 
completion  point,  we  received  a  total  of  $798  million 
from  external  partners  through  various  donor-support 
mechanisms.  In  2008,  this  amount  was  increased  to 
$856  million  and  is  suspected  expected  to  further 
increase before the end of 2010. 

Zambia  continues  to  engage  positively  with  its 
cooperating  partners  through  a  number  of  modalities 
for  dialogue,  which  are  proving  good  platforms  for 
attracting  development  assistance  while  ensuring  that 
Zambia’s debt position is within sustainable levels. 
Zambia still faces challenges in meeting MDG 7, 

“Ensure  Environmental  Sustainability”,  due  to  high 
poverty  levels  and  lack  of  alternative  sources  of 
livelihood for poor people. This has resulted in most of 
our  deprived  putting  pressure  on  environmental 
resources.  Nevertheless,  policies  and  programmes  are 
being  formulated  to  support  and  promote  sustainable 
environmental management. 
As  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  say  that  the 

commitment  to  ensuring  the  attainment  of  MDG  8, 
“Develop  a  Global  Partnership  for  Development”,  is 
critical  if  the  overall  Millennium  Development  Goals 
are  to  be  attained.  Most  the  interventions  that  support 
the  attainment  of  the  Goals  depend  on  not  only  on  a 
30 

10-54298 
It  will 
help 
to 
ensure 
In  a  world  of 
good national supportive  environment, but also on the 
sustained and adequate financial inflows. We allude to 
the  commitments  made  at  the  G8  Gleneagles  Summit 
to  increase  aid  to  Africa.  I  therefore  call  upon 
cooperating  partners  to  honour  their  pledges  and  also 
to 
a  balanced  distribution  of  official 
development assistance. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Carolyn  Rodrigues-
Birkett, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Guyana. 
Mrs.  Rodrigues-Birkett  (Guyana):  Ten  years 

ago,  world  leaders  committed  pledged  to  “spare  no 
effort”  to  assure  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  It  was  a  promise  that 
resonated  with  people  everywhere.  Today,  we  ask 
ourselves: why for so many has this promise remained 
unfulfilled? 

Why is our common quest to achieve these Goals 
so  far  off-  track?  Where  are  the  resources  that  were 
pledged? 
increasing  prosperity, 
expanding  knowledge  and  growing  interdependence, 
why should hunger, disease and deprivation remain the 
lot of millions, indeed billions, of people? 

These  questions  deserve  answers.  All  countries, 
rich  or  poor,  of  whatever  political,  economic, 
ideological or other orientation, can make a difference 
to  the  fate  of  these  teeming  millions  if  we  work 
together in genuine partnership. Indeed, it is imperative 
that we do so. 

Guyana has adopted a progressive and integrated 
approach. Prudent management of macroeconomic and 
fiscal  policy  and 
the  prioritizing  of  social  and 
infrastructural  development  have  allowed  us  to  make 
significant  progress  on  several  of  the  MDGs,  and  to 
weather  the  worst  impacts  of  the  financial  and  food 
crises. We  have  witnessed  significant  achievements  in 
education,  the  environment,  gender  equality,  poverty 
eradication,  and  health,  in  particular,  in  reversing  the 
trend in mother-to-child transmission of HIV. 

Guyana has moved a step further by developing a 
low-carbon development strategy to place our economy 
on  a 
trajectory.  Last  November,  a 
memorandum  of  understanding  was  signed  with 
Norway  to  implement  a  national-scale  model  for 
deploying  forests  to  address  climate  change  without 
compromising  sovereignty  or  national  development 
priorities. 
critical 
low-carbon 
finance 
successes, 
also 
to 
infrastructure 
and 
level 
but 
countries 
to 
advance 
At 
the  global 
the  evidence  points 
initiatives,  and  advance  Guyana’s 


low-carbon 
transformational 
business 
long-
standing  commitment  to  people-centred  development 
through  greater  investment  in  the  social  sector.  It 
represents  a  model  of  partnership  between  developing 
and  developed 
common 
development and environmental objectives. Despite the 
progress we have made at the national level, we cannot 
be complacent, as serious challenges remain. 
to 

important 
significant 
shortcomings.  The  overarching  lesson  made  clear  by 
the evidence before us is that with adequate resources, 
the right policies and actions at all levels and renewed 
political  commitment,  the  MDGs  remain  eminently 
achievable.  As  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
makes clear: 


“The  shortfalls  in  progress  towards  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  not  because 
they  are  unreachable  or  because  the  time  is  too 
short, but rather because of unmet commitments, 
and 
inadequate 
accountability, 
in 
sustainable development.” (A/64/665, para. 116)  

Several  pervasive  challenges  remain  that  require 
a  global  response.  Action  is  needed  to  strengthen  the 
systems of global governance in order to create a more 
equitable,  representative  and  effective  multilateral 
system;  to  reform  and  modernize  the  international 
financial  institutions  to  better  enable  them  to  respond 
to and prevent financial and economic emergencies; to 
strengthen the capabilities and capacities of the United 
Nations to discharge its mandates more effectively and 
efficiently;  and 
the 
international  trading  system.  We  see  the  need  for 
determined  efforts  to  increase  agricultural  production 
and productivity, to counter the increased incidence of 
communicable  diseases,  and  to  address  the  overriding 
threat posed by climate change. 
It is imperative that we direct increased attention 

factors  at 
the  domestic  and 
to  addressing 
international 
that  perpetuate  poverty  and 
inequality. It is clear that a global system premised on 
significant 
is  unsustainable.  Persistent 
inequality  within  and  between  countries  and  deep-
seated  deprivation  undermine  peace  and  security,  the 
enjoyment  of  all  human  rights  and  the  efficacy  of 
to  address  shortcomings  of 
lack  of 
insufficient 
focus 
interest 
resources, 
and 
the 
levels 
inequalities 
A/65/PV.5
of 
the  achievement  of 
development efforts, especially for the most vulnerable 
segments of populations in all countries. 

In this regard, it is appropriate to recall the clear 
understanding 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  that  there  would  be  increased  direct 
support  for  the  efforts  of  developing  countries  to 
facilitate 
the  MDGs.  This 
understanding  remains  fundamental  to  the  kinds  of 
partnerships  necessary  to  assure  achievement  of  the 
MDGs.  While  fluctuating  financial,  political  and 
economic  fortunes  invariably  impact  the  timeliness  of 
delivery,  they  should  not  diminish  our  commitment  to 
the  poor,  especially  in  times  of  crisis,  or  reduce  the 
determination to work in partnership. 

This Meeting can be deemed a success only if, by 
its conclusion, we recommit to ensuring that the MDGs 
can  be  achieved  in  every  country.  It  represents, 
arguably, our last best opportunity to provide a turning 
point in accelerating progress in the achievement of the 
MDGs. Let us together — Governments, civil society, 
the private sector and all other actors — ensure that the 
solemn  declarations  made  and  promises  undertaken 
indeed translate into meaningful improvements for the 
peoples of the world. Let us not be found wanting. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Lucien  Marie  Noël 
Bembamba, Minister of Finance of Burkina Faso.  
in 
(spoke 

French):  At  the  outset,  let  me,  on  behalf  of  my 
delegation,  congratulate  Mr.  Deiss  on  his  election  to 
preside  over  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, and express in particular our satisfaction at 
seeing him preside over this important meeting. I also 
convey  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
steadfast  readiness  to  defend  the  ideals  of  the  United 
Nations. 

The  Millennium  Summit  of  September  2000 
sparked  great  hope,  because  the  heads  of  State  and 
Government who met there proposed an ambitious yet 
realistic global development policy aimed at achieving 
by 2015 the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
which serve as useful yardsticks for measuring the vast 
chasm  between  the  world  in  which  we  live  and  the 
world  we  seek.  Ten  years  after  their  adoption,  results 
on their implementation are mixed.  

In  Burkina  Faso,  despite  the  many  challenges  to 
economic  expansion,  progress  has  been  made  in 
Mr.  Bembamba
(Burkina  Faso) 
10-54298 

31 

in  2010.  Similarly,  with  respect 
A/65/PV.5 

fighting  poverty.  The  most  meaningful  progress  has 
been in the area of access to drinking water, where the 
percentage  of  the  population  with  access  to  potable 
water  has  risen  from  43.1  per  cent  in  1994  to  nearly 
80 per  cent 
to 
education  and  health  care,  encouraging  results  have 
been  achieved,  in  particular  with  respect  to  net 
enrolment  rates,  infant  and  maternal  mortality  rates, 
and above all the prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS, which 
stabilized at around 1.6 per cent in 2008, as compared 
to  7.17  per  cent  in  1997,  while  free  retroviral  drugs 
have been available since 1 January. 

Nevertheless,  major  challenges  persist  with 
respect  to  gender  equality,  improving  the  health  care 
system, education and adult literacy, and protecting the 
environment.  Burkina  Faso’s  achievement  of 
the 
MDGs could also be further undermined by the effects 
of  the  financial  crisis  and  climate  change,  which  has 
had certain visible effects, including flooding. 

If we are to win the battle to achieve the MDGs, 
we shall require synergistic action and robust political 
will.  It  is  high  time  that  we  send  new  signs  of 
commitment and will. Burkina Faso for its part wishes 
to reaffirm here what we believe to be fundamental in 
the battle to achieve the MDGs. First, the MDGs must 
be  viewed  as  rights  of  our  peoples.  Secondly,  the 
MDGs  must  more  than  ever  be  an  integral  part  of 
global development strategies and taken systematically 
into account in policies  and programmes, serving  as  a 
frame  of  reference  and  space  for  dialogue  with  our 
development  partners,  be 
international 
financial institutions and organizations or civil society. 
Thirdly,  policies  to  mobilize  resources  for  the  MDGs 
must  draw  on  innovative  pillars  to  accelerate  the 
process. 

involve all nations, without any exception. 

With  respect  to  expectations,  the  shortfall  in 
financial  resources  is  a  major  constraint  in  achieving 
the MDGs. That is why we are taking this opportunity 
to  urge  donors  to  work  to  ensure  the  success  of 
ongoing discussions, especially on replenishment, with 
the  International  Development  Association  and  the 
World  Bank  Group,  as  well  as  with  the  African 
Development Fund and the African Development Bank 
Group. 

improved  market  access 
Likewise,  we  reaffirm  our  earnest  hope  for 
in  a  more  equitable 
Finally,  the  struggle  to  attain  the  MDGs  must 
they 
the 
international 
trade  environment.  We  have  always 
firmly believed that equitable trade is needed if we are 
to  accelerate  economic  growth,  in  particular  for  low-
income countries, and if we are to generate substantial 
resources  to  fund  their  development  and  help  them  to 
attain the MDGs. 

In  this  period  of  globalization,  all  peoples  must 
participate  in  the  international  community’s  efforts  to 
attain the MDGs. That is why Burkina Faso hopes that 
the  Republic  of  China,  Taiwan,  will  be  a  full-fledged 
partner in the implementation of the MDGs. 

Together, we need to work in greater solidarity to 
attain  the  MDGs  and  to  join  together  in  building  a 
better world for all the peoples of our planet. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Amira  El  Fadal, 
Minister  of  Welfare  and  Social  Security  of 
the 
Republic of the Sudan. 
Ms. El Fadal (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): I wish at 

the outset, on behalf of my delegation and on my own 
account, to thank the organizers of this important event 
for  their  efforts  in  convening  this  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  and  in  promoting  an  agreed  programme  of 
action  from  now  through  2015,  the  deadline  for  the 
attainment  of  the  MDGs,  which  is  now  less  than  five 
years  away. We  meet  today  to  forge  effective  policies 
and  constructive  initiatives  to  face  the  increasingly 
daunting  challenges  and  to  build  on  what  we  have 
already achieved on the implementation of the MDGs. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  today’s  international 
economic, financial and trade situation is an obstacle to 
development  in  developing  countries,  in  particular  the 
least  developed  among  them,  and  poses  a  genuine 
threat  to  their  peoples.  That  is  true  for  a  number  of 
reasons,  such  as  decreasing  official  development 
assistance (ODA), unfair international trade conditions, 
restrictions  on  developing  country  exports  to  world 
markets  and  low  commodity  prices,  as  well  as  the 
heavy burden of external debt and the negative impact 
of  globalization.  In  addition  to  those  challenges, 
hunger,  disease  and  internal  strife  are  additional 
challenges 
the  wider 
international  community.  That  is  why  the  level  of 
attainment  of  the  MDGs  will  continue  to  fall  short  of 
the aspirations of the African continent. 
those  societies  and 
to 
to 
32 

10-54298 
initiatives 
the  President  of 
that  can  help  us  face 


The international community must recognize that 

rapidly  growing  challenges  and 
their  negative 
consequences  demand  collective  efforts  under  the 
leadership  of  a  capable  and  effective  international 
organization such as the United Nations, which devises 
creative 
those 
challenges. 
My  country  has  made  great  efforts  to  attain  the 

MDGs.  We  have  made  considerable  progress 
in 
carrying out projects benefiting marginalized sectors of 
our  society,  with  a  view  to  easing  poverty  and 
improving  education  and  health  care  —  in  particular 
maternal and child health and combating disease. 

On  poverty,  the  Sudan  has  implemented  a  series 
of  five-year  plans  aimed  at  achieving  economic  and 
social  development  and  alleviating  poverty.  We  have 
set  up  a  supreme  council  to  monitor  the  preparation 
and implementation of a national anti-poverty strategy, 
chaired  by  His  Excellency 
the 
Republic. We have increased expenditures on the poor 
to  9  per  cent  of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  as  of 
2009.  We  have  allocated  12  per  cent  of  commercial 
bank  credits  to  microfinancing.  The  zakat  charity 
mechanism  has  contributed  through  an  interdependent 
poverty-alleviation  project  for  poor  families  valued  at 
more than $200 million annually. 

The  Sudan  has  also  experienced  positive 
developments  in  the  field  of  education  as  part  of  an 
official  national  policy  and  strategy,  in  particular  by 
providing  free  compulsory  education  for  all  children, 
especially  girls.  On  the  empowerment  of  women,  we 
have  forged  a  national  strategy 
to  promote  and 
empower  women  in  all  sectors  of  society.  In  2005  we 
adopted  a  national  plan  on  violence  against  women, 
and within the Ministry of Justice we have established 
a  special  unit  to  combat  violence  against  women  and 
children.  In  2006,  within  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior, 
we  established  a  unit  to  protect  families  and  children. 
We  attach  exceptional  priority  to  our  2008  national 
strategy on female circumcision. We have amended the 
penal  code  to  include  adequate  protection  for  women 
during armed conflict. 

Also,  we  have  allocated  25  per  cent  of  seats  in 
the  national  legislative  council  and  in  state  legislative 
councils 
to  women.  The  number  of  women 
parliamentarians has reached 300. Moreover, the State 
has  adopted  policies  and  measures  to  support  child 
health  and  to  provide  free  health  care  to  all  children 
A/65/PV.5
a 
as 
assistance 
under  five.  In  2010  these  efforts  culminated  in  our 
ratification  of  the  Federal  Child  Act.  The  State  has 
given  high  priority  to  reproductive  health  and  has 
established  a  national  plan  in  that  regard.  It  is  now 
implementing a road map to reduce maternal mortality. 

In the sphere of environmental sustainability, we 
have ratified all regional and international agreements, 
protocols and programmes on environmental protection 
and have adopted a strategy for the supply of drinking 
water and sanitation. 
We  reaffirm  the  great  importance  of  official 

development 
complementary 
development tool. The global crisis should not be used 
as an excuse to reduce the ODA pledged by developed 
countries.  As  a  country  emerging  from 
internal 
conflict,  the  Sudan  achieved  a  great  deal  with  the 
signature of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. But 
it has received very little of the support pledged to it at 
the  first  and  second  Oslo  donors  conferences,  and  it 
has  been  relying  on  its  own  national  efforts  to 
implement its development plans. 

We reaffirm the importance of the United Nations 
in  leading  all  efforts  to  attain  the  MDGs.  We  bear  a 
collective  responsibility  to  make  the  Organization 
effective,  universal  and  inclusive  as  it  effectively 
addresses  the  whole  range  of  world  problems  and 
issues,  including  those  related  to  development.  We 
therefore  look  forward  to  deepening  our  multilateral 
international  cooperation  and  to  giving  priority  to 
collective interests rather than selfish narrow interests, 
for  the  sake  of  creating  an  international  environment 
conducive to sustainable environmental cooperation. 

In conclusion, allow me to add that the Sudan is 
coming to an extremely important and critical phase in 
its history — the referendum to be held in three and a 
half months. We need the support and welcome efforts 
of the United Nations in order to strengthen our choice 
of  voluntary  unity  and  to  preserve  the  Sudan  as  a 
unified,  safe  and  stable  country  that  enjoys  peace, 
amity, cooperation, brotherhood and solidarity. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Daniele  Bodini,  chair 
of the delegation of the Republic of San Marino. 
Mr.  Bodini  (San  Marino):  At  the  outset,  let  me 

commend  the  tireless  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General 
in pushing forward the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs),  as  well  as  the  sincere  interest  of  Presidents 
10-54298 

33 

in 
these 
from 
small 
and 
fulfilling 
countries 
A/65/PV.5 

Treki  and  Deiss  in  pursuing  this  agenda.  I  also  would 
like  to  commend  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Senegal  and  Denmark  for  guiding  the  negotiations  on 
the draft outcome document (A/65/L.1). 
Ten  years  ago,  our  heads  of  State  and 

Government 
large, 
developing  and  developed,  from  the  North  and  the 
South,  agreed  upon  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  to  be  achieved  by  2015  —  a  bold  but  much 
needed  undertaking.  Today,  two-thirds  of  the  way 
along  this  journey,  we  are  here  to  assess  our  own 
performances 
fundamental 
humanitarian  needs.  The  excellent  report  of 
the 
Secretary-General  (A/64/665)  underlines  that  in  some 
areas we have succeeded, but that in others we are still 
lagging behind. Much more has to be accomplished in 
the next five years. I am certain that no one in this Hall 
or anywhere else believes that the MDGs should not be 
achieved. 

During  the  past  few  years,  unexpected  economic 
and financial world upheavals, as well as major natural 
catastrophes, derailed the process started 10 years ago. 
Together,  today  in  this  same  Hall,  we  are  reasserting 
our  commitment 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  Obviously,  lasting  success  will  depend  on 
sustainable worldwide economic growth.  

reach  our  goals,  we  have 
to  provide 
appropriate 
the  hundreds  of  millions  of 
unemployed  or  underemployed,  especially  the  young. 
They will be the new, steady and enthusiastic engine to 
propel  forward  our  world  economy.  I  am  convinced 
that  the  new  generations  will  create  a  world  of  social 
and  economic  stability,  not  only  in  the  developing 
countries,  but  also 
the  developed  ones.  This 
reinvigorated  economy  will  propel  the  MDG  effort  as 
well. 

We  must  correct  our  world  financial  system  so 
that the rewards of our collective work can continue to 
grow  and  maintain  a  steady  and  safe  value.  The 
the  past 
uncertainty  created 
few  years  by 
unregulated, 
financial  behaviour  has 
hampered the economic and social stability of so many 
of  our  countries  and  unfortunately  derailed  progress 
towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 
We  must  also  encourage  a  stronger  public-private 
partnership  in  every  sector  of  our  global  alliance  to 
help employ all our world citizens. 
in 
speculative 
jobs 
to 
To 
to 
in 
to  continue  on 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Venezuela)  (spoke 

In  conclusion,  San  Marino,  a  proud  Member  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  General  Assembly,  is 
grateful  for  the  renewed  commitment  of  so  many 
the  right  path 
countries 
towards 
reaching our Millennium Development Goals. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jorge Valero  Briceño, 
chair  of  the  delegation  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela. 
in 

Spanish):  Ten  years  after  the  World  Summit  at  which 
the Millennium Development Goals were approved, the 
results are disappointing. The fulfilment of the Goals is 
seriously  threatened.  Most  developed  countries  have 
not fulfilled the commitment of allocating 0.7 per cent 
of  their  gross  national  income  to  official  development 
assistance. The global economic and financial crisis of 
capitalism  of  recent  years  has  created  more  poverty, 
more inequality and more injustice.  

The  financial  economy  exercises  hegemony  over 
the world and increases the accumulation of billions of 
dollars without creating any good. It is the economy of 
the  casino.  It  has  subjugated  States  and  seeks  to 
destroy  the  public  sphere  and  to  privatize  everything, 
from public services to war. 

Market  totalitarianism  prevents  the  exercise  of 
human  rights  and  the  right  to  development.  In  this 
context, there is no right to work or health care; there 
is  only 
labour  market  adjustments  and  private 
companies that provide health insurance. There is also 
no  right  to  food,  which  depends  on  the  international 
market that has turned food into objects of speculation 
through futures transactions. 

The reduction in social spending has affected the 
ability  of  States  to  ensure  the  economic,  social  and 
cultural  rights  of  their  peoples.  Even  in  developed 
countries,  the  most  vulnerable  sectors  cannot  escape 
the  heinous  effects  of  the  capitalist  crisis,  caused  by 
financial speculators with the complicity of the world’s 
most  powerful  Governments  and  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions. 

The  Bolivarian  revolution,  under  the  leadership 
of  President  Hugo  Chávez  Frías,  promotes  an 
alternative model of development that is humanist and 
effects  deep  structural  changes  in  favour  of  the  poor 
and  the  excluded.  Although  our  country  has  not 
escaped the negative effects of the crisis of capitalism, 
34 

10-54298 
the  start  of 
in  1998,  before 


social investment has increased, and today Venezuelans 
increasingly  enjoy  improved  living  conditions.  Social 
investment  has  become  a  national  strategy  to  achieve 
sovereign and comprehensive development, and thus to 
attain  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Sixty  per 
cent  of  total  tax  revenue  between  1999  and  2009  has 
been  earmarked  for  social  investment. As  a  result,  we 
are moving towards a universal social security system. 

Social  missions,  in  favour  of  the  most  excluded 
sectors  of  society,  have  enabled  Venezuela  to  achieve 
social  inclusion  quickly  and  on  a  large  scale.  The 
poverty  rate  fell  from  49  per  cent  in  1998  to  24  per 
cent  at  the  end  of  2009.  And  during  the  same  period 
extreme poverty fell dramatically, from 29.8 per cent to 
7.2 per cent. 

The  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean has recognized that Venezuela is the 
country  that  has  reduced  inequality  the  most  in  the 
region. The unemployment rate in Venezuela fell from 
15  per  cent 
the 
revolutionary Government headed by President Chávez 
Frías, to 6.6 per cent in 2009. 
The  promotion  of  gender  equality  and  greater 

involvement of women in economic and social matters 
in Venezuela has already been achieved. State policies 
foster the training and equal participation of women in 
public  life.  Here  is  an  important  fact:  four  of  the  five 
branches  of  public  power  in Venezuela  are  chaired  by 
women — the legislative, electoral, judicial and moral. 

By 2001 Venezuela had already reached the target 
on  access  to  safe  drinking  water.  And  in  2005 
Venezuela met the target in waste water collection.  

the 
in 
universalization  of  rights  related  to  identity,  food, 
health, education and employment. In 2005, UNESCO 
declared  Venezuela  to  be  an  illiteracy-free  country, 
thanks  to  plans  carried  out  in  cooperation  with  our 
brothers  in  Cuba.  And  recently,  the  same  United 
Nations agency declared that Venezuela was among the 
five  countries  in  the  world  with  greatest  access  to 
university 
education.  Furthermore,  before  2015 
Venezuela  will  achieve,  among  other  milestones,  the 
universalization  of  primary  education,  a  reduction  in 
the  child  mortality  rate,  a  reduction  in  the  maternal 
mortality  rate  and  a  reduction  in  the  spread  of 
HIV/AIDS,  and  it  will  roll  back  the  incidence  of 
malaria and dengue fever. 
In  our  country,  we  are  advancing 
A/65/PV.5
of 
solidarity 
cooperation, 

In  Venezuela,  we  are  moving  towards  a  high-
quality  democracy  focused  solely  on  the  interests, 
needs  and  hopes  of  our  people:  a  participatory  and 
active  democracy  where  political  freedoms  are  truly 
exercised  and  where  the  benefits  of  development  are 
enjoyed. 

The  Bolivarian  Government  promotes  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  integration,  based  on  the 
and 
principles 
complementarity.  The  Bolivarian  Alliance  for 
the 
Peoples of Our America  — Peoples’ Trade Agreement 
(ALBA-TCP)  and  Petrocaribe  are  contributing  to  the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  to  overcoming  inequality 
and  unemployment  in  our  region.  Hence,  Venezuela 
supports  brother  of  the  continent  in  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
Venezuela has regained full control of its natural 

In  Venezuela,  all  basic  services  are 
resources. 
considered 
to  be  human 
rights.  Our  country’s 
resources,  managed  in  a  sovereign  manner,  have 
allowed  for  the creation of the Bank of the South and 
the Bank of ALBA. State policies have become tools to 
promote  independent  and  autonomous  development, 
without  the  tyranny  of  the  World  Bank  and  the 
International  Monetary  Fund.  In  place  of  neo-liberal 
globalization,  we  propose  the  globalization  of  justice 
and  equity.  In  place  of  the  looting  and  subjection  of 
countries,  we  propose  fair  trade  and  a  world  in  which 
we all win, through solidarity and partnership. 

Under  the  leadership  of  President  Hugo  Chávez 
Frías,  Venezuela  has  met  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals. Within  the  framework  of  the  full 
exercise  of  sovereignty  and  self-determination,  we 
have  opted  for  the  Venezuelan  route  to  socialism  in 
order  to  create  a  society  where  justice,  equality  and 
solidarity  reign,  with  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights 
and democratic freedoms. 

Our  Bolivarian  revolution  is  geared  towards  the 
full  realization  of  social,  economic  and  cultural 
guarantees,  fully  consistent  with  the  words  of  our 
liberator,  Simón  Bolívar,  who,  at  the  Congress  of 
Angostura in 1819, stated that “the most perfect system 
of  Government  is  that  which  results  in  the  greatest 
possible  measure  of  happiness,  the  greatest  social 
security and the greatest political stability”. 


  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 
10-54298 

35 
