
A/65/PV.37
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

37th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 26 October 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 









  In the absence of the President, Mr. Carrión-Mena 
(Ecuador), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 



(spoke 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/83)
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.3)
The  Acting  President
Agenda item 41 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba 


in  Spanish): 

Members will recall that, at the 36th plenary meeting, 
the  Assembly  adopted  draft  resolution  A/65/L.3  as 
resolution 65/6. We will now continue with the list of 
speakers in explanation of the vote. 

to 
in 
explanation  of  vote, 
that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  a  maximum  of 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
Mr. Minn (Myanmar): Given the similar impacts 

felt because of its own social and political system and 
its  own  path  of  development,  Myanmar 
fully 
sympathizes  with  the  Cuban  people  and  understands 
the extent of the hardship and suffering caused by the 
embargo against them, in particular the elderly, women 
and  children. The  will  of  the  international  community 
has  been  clearly  expressed  every  year  with 
the 
adoption  by  an  overwhelming  majority  of  States  of 

remind  delegations 
Before  giving 
the  speakers 
the  floor 
I 
resolutions  calling  for  an  end  to  the  embargo.  My 
delegation believes that it is the legitimate right of each 
nation  to  choose  its  own  social  and  political  systems 
and its own path of development. The embargo against 
Cuba  is  contrary  not  only  to  the  provisions  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations, but also to international 
law. For those reasons, Myanmar voted in favour, as it 
has  in  previous  years,  of  the  resolution  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”. 
Mr.  Mac-Donald  (Suriname):  I  thank  you,  Sir, 

for allowing me to speak in explanation of vote under 
agenda  item  41,  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”. 

Suriname  has  always  been  against  this  embargo 
and  has  therefore  fully  supported  and  voted  in  favour 
of  successive  General Assembly  resolutions  regarding 
this matter. Suriname would like to reiterate once again 
its position on this crucial issue. 

The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Suriname 
remains  committed  to  the  purposes  and  principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  to 
upholding  the  principles  of  international  law.  In  this 
regard,  the  unilateral  enforcement  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States against Cuba is contrary to the Charter of 
the United Nations and international law. 

Likewise, the continuation for another year of the 
trade embargo against Cuba, which will remain in force 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-60583 (E) 
*1060583* 




in 
affects 
regional 
cooperation 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and 
A/65/PV.37 

until  14  September  2011,  remains  cause  for  great 
concern  against  the  background  of  the  deepening 
impact  of  the  current  global  economic  and  financial 
crisis, which will further aggravate the hardships of the 
people of Cuba. 

Suriname therefore reiterates its call for an end to 
the embargo, which is contrary to international law and 
negatively 
the 
Caribbean region. 

Finally,  my  delegation  would  also  like  to  align 
itself with the statements delivered this morning by the 
representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group  of 77 
and  China,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf  of 
the 
Permanent Representative of the Bahamas on behalf of 
the Caribbean Community. 
Mr.  Ovsyanko  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Today, the delegation of Belarus, along with 186 other 
States Members of the United Nations, voted in support 
of  resolution  65/6,  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba.  The  Republic  of  Belarus  has  consistently 
condemned the use of unilateral economic measures as 
a means of exerting political and economic pressure on 
developing countries. It believes that they run  counter 
to  the  fundamental  principles  of  international  law  and 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter and other international legal instruments. 

We  affirm  the  inalienable  right  of  every  State  to 
decide  on  its  own  model  of  development  and  believe 
that  any  unilateral  attempt  by  an  individual  State  to 
change the internal political system of another State by 
use of military, political, economic or other pressure is 
inadmissible. 

Barely  a  month  ago,  the  leaders  of  the  Member 
States  discussed  in  this  very  Hall  the  measures  that 
needed  to  be  taken  by  the  international  community  in 
order  to  fulfil  their  obligations  under  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and to guarantee a decent standard 
of  living  for  the  citizens  of  their  countries.  We  are 
convinced  that  the  application  of  coercive  economic 
measures is the type of instrument that creates serious 
obstacles 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  impairs  the  vital  interests  of  the 
people of a country subjected to sanctions, and violates 
the  rights  of  its  peoples  to  a  dignified  existence,  thus 
contributing  to  the  emergence  of  political  instability 
and the outbreak of conflicts. 
the  achievement  of 
to 
international 
the  rostrum  of 

We consider that, in the current conditions and as 
a  result  of  the  continued  consequences  of  the  world 
financial  and  economic  crisis,  the  use  of  unilateral 
sanctions  and  coercive  measures 
is  especially 
inappropriate.  This  is  not  the  first  time  that  we  have 
heard  appeals  from 
the  General 
Assembly for an end to the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba.  Today,  we  have 
adopted  the  nineteenth  successive  General  Assembly 
resolution  on  this  question.  We  express  the  hope  that 
our collective voice will be heard this time. 
Mr. Bart (Saint Kitts and Nevis): Saint Kitts and 

Nevis would like to add its voice in support of agenda 
item  41  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba and to 
give its reasons for voting in favour of resolution 65/6. 
This  is  an  extremely  important  debate  that  speaks  to 
the  very  core  of 
law,  sovereignty, 
non-intervention  and  the  strengthened  role  of  the 
United Nations in international affairs. 

Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  very  good  relations 
with  the  United  States  of  America.  That  country 
remains  one  of  our  closest  and  strongest  partners. We 
respect  the  role  that  the  United  States  of America  has 
played 
the 
establishment  and  promotion  of  this  body. The  United 
States  of  America 
leader  and  we 
acknowledge  and  remain  grateful  for  its  role  in 
international affairs. 

However, my delegation associates itself with the 
statements  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, the representative of Republic of Yemen on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  the 
Permanent Representative of the Commonwealth of the 
Bahamas on behalf of the Caribbean Community. 

Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  in  its  contribution  to  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  (A/65/83)  on  this  matter, 
advised  that  we  do  not  support  or  apply  any  laws  or 
measures  that  affect  the  free  flow  of  international 
trade. We also advised that we do not apply laws with 
extraterritorial  effect  that  impinge  on  the  sovereignty 
of other States and the legitimate interests of entities or 
persons under their jurisdiction. 

This  is  a  principled  position  that  extends  to  all 
States  members  of  this  body.  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis 
therefore  feels very strongly about bringing to a  close 
the  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba.  Cuba  is  one  of  the 
is  a  global 
international 
relations 
and 
in 
in 
2 

10-60583 
in 


closest allies of Saint Kitts and Nevis. That country is a 
pan  Caribbean  partner  and  has  aided 
the 
development of the health-care system and other areas 
in  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis.  There  is  much  that  the 
international community has benefited and can benefit 
from in cooperating with Cuba, just as Saint Kitts and 
Nevis has benefited. 

We see this embargo as a burden on our brothers 
and  sisters  in  Cuba.  The  negative  impact  on  the 
economy of that small island developing State is quite 
profound  and  unfair  to  the  people  of  Cuba.  The 
international community remains in the grip of a global 
recession,  and  while  many  of  us  rely  on  a  partnership 
with other countries to recover, Cuba remains stunned 
by  the  embargo. This  goes  against  the  very  principles 
of partnership for which this United Nations stands. 

The  fact  that  the  majority  of  Member  States 
traditionally  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution 
signifies  that  the  overriding  sentiment  is  that  the 
embargo  is  wrong.  We  implore  all  Member  States  to 
respect  the  sanctity  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
decisions  it  makes.  Failure  to  do  so  undermines  the 
functioning of the United Nations system. 

two 
countries — Cuba and the United States of America — 
can  improve  their  relationships  and  embark  upon  a 
process of partnership and cooperation. There is much 
that  we  can  learn  from  each  other,  but  the  embargo 
remains  an  impediment  to  that  process.  That  is  why 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  supports  resolution  65/6  and 
voted  in  favour  of  it.  We  reiterate  our  call  on  both 
countries  to  find  common  ground  so  that  the  entire 
international  community  can  move  on  from 
this 
impasse. 
Mr. 
People’s 

Democratic  Republic):  The  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic associates itself with the statements made by 
the representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group of 
77  and  China  and  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The Lao People’s Democratic Republic reiterates 
its opposition to the continued unilateral imposition of 
the economic, commercial and financial embargo upon 
the Republic of Cuba by the Government of the United 
States of America. The embargo imposed on Cuba not 
only  runs  counter  to  the  purposes  and  principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, but also 
violates  the  fundamental  principle  of  the  sovereignty, 
is  my  delegation’s  hope 
Luangmuninthone
(Lao 
that 
the 
It 
A/65/PV.37
socio 
respect 
progress 
indicates 
economic 
in  general  and 
the  General  Assembly, 
its  continued  support  for 
equality and right to development of the peoples of all 
nations.  Furthermore,  it  continues  to  cause  untold 
suffering  and  hardship  to  the  Cuban  people  and  to 
hinder  Cuba’s 
and 
development. 

The  adoption  of  the  relevant  resolution  for  the 
nineteenth  consecutive  year,  with  the  overwhelming 
support  of 
the 
rejection  of  unilateral 
international  community’s 
coercive  economic  measures 
the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba in particular. The resolution we have just adopted 
once again confirms the friendship and solidarity of the 
international community with the Cuban people and the 
call for the immediate and unconditional lifting of the 
embargo against Cuba. 

The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  believes 
in  the  importance  of  resolving  the  difference  between 
countries through peaceful dialogue and negotiation on 
the  basis  of  equality  and  mutual 
for 
sovereignty. In this spirit, the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic  reaffirms 
the 
resolution  of  the  General Assembly  under  this  agenda 
item and voted in favour of resolution 65/6. 
Mr.  Sefue  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  The 

General  Assembly  has  adopted  successive  resolutions 
calling  upon  States  to  abide  by  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  norms  of  international  law,  and 
urging  them  to  refrain  from  enacting  laws  and  taking 
measures that are damaging to the legitimate rights and 
interests of other States. Regrettably, however, this just 
appeal  by  the  international  community  has  not  always 
been  heeded,  and  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly remain unimplemented. 
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 

imposed by the United States against Cuba has created 
huge difficulties for the Cuban people in their efforts to 
achieve  economic  and  social  development  and  carry 
out  reform.  It  has  seriously  undermined  the  efforts  of 
the  Cuban  Government  to  eliminate  poverty  and 
improve  the  living  standards  of  its  people,  and  it  has 
inflicted  enormous  suffering  on  Cuban  women  and 
children. 

The embargo has also impeded the normal useful 
economic and trade exchanges between Cuba and other 
countries, and gravely encroached upon their legitimate 
rights  and  interests.  In  several  areas,  the  embargo 
10-60583 

3 

to 
achieve 
in  various 
that  country 
the  Millennium 
sports.  Tanzania  believes 
including  capacity-building 
and 
A/65/PV.37 

frustrates 
efforts 
Development Goals. 

Today, the Government of the United Republic of 
Tanzania  once  again  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution 
to  end  this  embargo.  This  vote  also  expresses  our 
solidarity  with  like-minded  members  in  opposing  the 
application  of  unilateral  trade  measures  against  Cuba, 
with  extraterritorial  effects  on 
the  peoples  and 
economies  of  other  States.  Tanzania  perceives  these 
unilateral  measures  as  being  contrary  to  the  spirit  of 
multilateralism  and  against  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. 

Tanzania enjoys healthy and sound relations with 
the  people  and  Government  of  Cuba  and  cooperates 
socio  economic 
with 
endeavours, 
in  health, 
education 
that 
cooperation  between  the  two  countries  would  flourish 
further if the unilaterally imposed blockade were lifted. 

Tanzania  enjoys  excellent  relations  and  a  robust 
development  partnership  with  the  United  States  of 
America,  and  it  is  in  that  spirit  that  my  Government 
once  again  joins  other  Member  States  in  urging  the 
United States to listen to repeated and increasing calls 
by the international community to finally bring an end 
to the embargo and to fully adhere to the principles of 
mutual  respect  and  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of its neighbour country. 
Mr. Abubaker  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in Arabic): The imposition of sanctions and embargoes 
has  never  been  an  appropriate  solution  to  disputes 
between  States.  Such  coercive  measures  send  an 
unequivocal message to the world that the language of 
force and hegemony governs relations between States. 
It also reflects the authoritarianism and arrogance that 
hamper  progress  towards  comprehensive  peace  and 
friendly  relations  among  States  through  the  settlement 
of disputes and conflicts by peaceful means. 
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  stipulates  the 

principle  of  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes  through 
negotiation,  conciliation,  fact-finding,  agreement  or 
recourse to international arbitration on the basis of the 
sovereign  equality  of  States  and  the  principle  of 
non-interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of  States  and 
full respect for the sovereignty of States irrespective of 
their size, population or political and economic system. 
In  this  regard,  my  delegation  calls  on  all  members  of 
coercive, 
unilateral 
economic, 
the  international  community  to  comply  with  those 
principles. 

Having been subject to an economic blockade in 
the past decade, my country is very well aware of the 
nefarious  consequences  of  such  coercive  measures  on 
people,  their  health,  education,  development,  and  the 
full  enjoyment  of  their  human  rights.  My  country 
therefore 
resolutely  opposes  unilateral  measures 
imposed by States for political ends, and expresses its 
grave  concern  at  the  persistence  of  certain  States  in 
applying 
and 
extraterritorial sanctions that clearly run counter to the 
principles  of  international  law,  in  particular  those  of 
the sovereign equality of States and non-interference in 
their  internal  affairs.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the 
application  of  such  sanctions  only  aggravates  human 
suffering,  exacerbates  disputes  and  fosters  hatred 
among peoples. We call on the United States to lift the 
blockade  against  Cuba  and  to  promote  good  relations 
in the interests of both peoples. 

My delegation voted in favour of resolution 65/6, 
calling  for  an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba,  because  we  feel  that  the 
imposition of sanctions and embargoes are not the best 
means  of  settling  disputes  between  States.  I  hope  that 
the resolution will contribute to the peaceful settlement 
of  the  dispute  between  these  two  countries  without 
resort to unilateral coercive economic measures. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): The principles and purposes of the Charter of 
the United Nations provide for the right of countries to 
exercise  their  sovereignty  within  their  own  territories 
and to enjoy non-interference by others in their internal 
affairs. Since its inception in 1945, the United Nations 
has  adopted  resolutions  and  decisions  that  emphasize 
the sacrosanct nature of these purposes and principles. 
All  States  Members  should  therefore  respect  the 
Charter,  which  represents  the  constitution  of  the 
Organization and its pre eminent frame of reference. 

Because  the  unilateral  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States against Cuba and new measures aimed at 
reinforcing that embargo contravene the principles and 
rules 
international 
humanitarian  law  —  as  well  as  rules  governing 
relations  among  countries,  especially  the  principles  of 
the sovereign equality of States and of non-interference 
in 
freedom  of 
internal  affairs,  and 
international 
their 
law 
of 
and 
the 
4 

10-60583 
legal  precedent  contrary 


international  navigation  and  trade  —  the  embargo  is 
definitely  illegal  and  runs  counter  to  the  norms  of 
relations among States. 

It  also  represents  a  challenge,  unprecedented  in 
international  law,  to  the  credibility  of  the  legality  of 
United States policies themselves. The embargo, which 
has  been  imposed  on  Cuba  for  over  50  years,  has 
created  a  unilateral 
to 
international law, which we reject. It has exposed Cuba 
to  harmful  economic,  social  and  political  effects  and 
deepened the suffering of the Cuban people, especially 
children and the elderly. 

The embargo puts the United States of America in 
direct  and  unenviable  opposition  to  the  international 
community.  It  has  hindered  the  tireless  efforts  of  the 
Cuban  people  to  achieve  prosperity  and  progress  and 
continues  to  harm  the  Cuban  economy.  Losses  have 
exceeded  tens  of  billions  of  dollars,  not  including 
indirect losses estimated to be in the tens of billions of 
dollars. The embargo also harms the social and cultural 
development of the Cuban people and deprives them of 
the opportunities and benefits resulting from free trade. 
It directly violates the basic freedoms and human rights 
of  the  Cuban  people,  including  the  right  to  life  and 
development. 

The General Assembly has discussed this agenda 
item  for  over  19  consecutive  years  and  has  adopted 
numerous  resolutions  in  that  regard  by  overwhelming 
majorities.  However, 
the  economic, 
financial and commercial embargo against Cuba is still 
in effect. 
The  support  of  187  Member  States  for  the 

resolution  only  emphasizes 
the  near  unanimous 
determination of the international community to put an 
end to the totally illegal embargo against Cuba. Resort 
to  unjustified  coercive  economic  measures  against 
other countries, regardless of their political orientation, 
is  unacceptable  to  the  international  community,  which 
has  repeatedly  rejected  the  unilateral  embargo  against 
Cuba,  now  expanded  under  the  national  laws  of  the 
legislation 
United  States, 
known  as 
law  has 
extraterritorial  effect,  prejudicing  the  sovereignty  of 
other  nations 
in 
contravention  of  the  principle  of  equal  sovereignty  of 
States and the principles of international law. 
Given  its  mandate,  the  General  Assembly  is 

called on to take the measures necessary to put an end 
the  Helms-Burton  Act.  That 
their  dealings  with  Cuba 
the  domestic 
regrettably, 
including 
in 
A/65/PV.37
for 
acted 
contrary 
Israel  has 
to  the  unilateral  embargo,  economic  sanctions  and 
other  aggressive  extraterritorial  policies  of  the  United 
States  —  all  in  contravention  of  international  law  — 
against  its  direct  neighbours  and  other  countries  that 
are geographically distant from the United States. 

In  this  respect,  my  delegation  hopes  that  all 
embargoes imposed by the United States against Cuba 
and  many  other  Member  States  —  including  my 
country, Syria — will be ended. We also hope that the 
voice  of  the  international  community,  as  expressed 
through the General Assembly today, will be met with 
respect  by  the  United  States  and  that  it  will  come  to 
enjoy  the  full  support  of  that  country’s  legislative 
bodies. 

It is quite significant and worth noting that Israel 
voted against resolution 65/6, in opposition to the vast 
majority  of  the  international  community.  Israel’s  vote 
clearly  highlights  the  validity  of  the  international 
community’s  negative  view  and  assessment  of  that 
country.  Again, 
to 
international  law.  It  represents  an  isolated  minority  of 
the  international  community.  Israel’s  vote  has  made 
matters  worse 
the  United  States,  whose 
Administration has been seeking to return to the logic 
of dialogue between countries in conflict. 

It is high time that the rules of international law 
were  respected  and  that  different  points  of  view 
allowed  to  prevail.  Israel’s  vote  for  the  continued 
unilateral  embargo  against  Cuba  clearly  shows  the 
world that it is taking direct advantage of that embargo 
in  a  desperate  attempt  to  justify  its  own  embargo 
against  Gaza,  which  has  also  been  internationally 
rejected.  Israel’s  desperate  embargo  against  Gaza,  I 
repeat, is not tolerated by the international community. 
As  a  result,  Israel  feels  compelled  to  support  another 
equally  illegal  embargo  —  that  imposed,  contrary  to 
international law, by the United States against Cuba. Is 
there  any  position  that  could  hurt  the  American 
position more than the vote of Israel? 
Ms.  Alsharif  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

delegation  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  65/6,  which 
was introduced by Cuba in the presence of its Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  whom  we  welcome  and 
congratulate on the overwhelming international support 
it enjoys. We confirm in this respect the purposes and 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  enshrine  equal  sovereignty  among 
States,  non-interference  in  their  domestic  affairs,  and 
10-60583 

5 

in 
contravene 
international 
in  a  number  of 
A/65/PV.37 

freedom  of  navigation  and  trade,  which  are  also 
guaranteed 
legal 
instruments. 

We express grave concern regarding the ongoing 
enactment,  application  and  enforcement  by  certain 
States  of  unilateral  laws  and  extraterritorial  measures 
affecting  the  sovereignty  and  interests  of  other  States, 
resulting in negative repercussions that extend beyond 
national  borders, 
the  principles  of 
international  legitimacy,  and  hinder  the  freedom  of 
international  trade.  We  associate  ourselves  with  the 
statements  made  by  the  representative  of  Yemen  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement (NAM). 

The  General  Assembly  is  considering  agenda 
item  41  for  the  nineteenth  consecutive  year  in  the 
context  of  the  increasing  awareness  of  and  broad 
rejection by Member States of the taking of unilateral, 
coercive  and  extraterritorial  economic  measures.  This 
was  clearly  expressed 
today’s  voting  results. 
Ongoing  support  for  the  relevant  resolution  year  after 
year is a clear expression of the wide-scale rejection of 
the  unilateral  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  and  its 
identification  as  a  means  of  political  and  economic 
coercion. The embargo is a clear and flagrant violation 
of 
international  architecture  and  fundamental 
principles  on  which  the  United  Nations  Charter  is 
based,  in  addition  to  international  law  and  the  norms 
that  govern  commercial,  economic  and  financial 
relations among countries. 

At  the  Second  South  Summit  held  in  Doha  in 
June  2005,  the  imposition  of  laws  and  legislation  of 
extraterritorial  effect  was  rejected  and  all  other 
coercive  economic  measures, 
including  sanctions 
imposed  unilaterally  on  developing  countries,  were 
condemned. At their fifteenth summit, held in Sharm el 
Sheikh  in  July  2009,  NAM  heads  of  State  and 
Government  stressed  their  steadfast  position  on  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  trade  and  financial 
embargo imposed on Cuba. At the 33rd meeting of the 
foreign ministers of the Group of 77 and China, held in 
September  2009,  the  representatives  of  the  Group 
rejected  the  imposition  of  transnational  laws  and 
forms  of  coercive 
systems  and  condemned  all 
economic  measures, 
imposed 
unilaterally  on  developing  countries.  In  addition,  the 
final statement of the ministers for foreign affairs once 
including  sanctions 
the 
In 
the 
law, 
resolution 
international 
respect,  we  confirm 
to 
65/6 
again expressed the urgent need to put an end to these 
measures immediately. 

The  Government  of  the  Sudan  follows  a  policy 
based  on  full  respect  for 
the 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  sovereign 
equality  among  countries,  and  non-interference  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  others.  In  accordance  with  the 
Sudan’s  position  based  on 
the  aforementioned 
principles,  my  delegation  condemns  the  imposition  of 
economic  and  political  sanctions  on  developing 
countries because they constitute a flagrant violation of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and  have  a  destructive 
impact  on  the  efforts  of  those  countries  to  achieve 
sustainable development. 

this 
the  Sudan’s 
commitment 
because 
the 
Government  of  National  Unity  does  not  enact  or 
enforce  laws  or  take  any  measures  whose  application 
beyond national borders could affect the sovereignty of 
other States. Hence, the Government of the Sudan calls 
for the abolition of laws that impose such measures. 

My  delegation  is  opposed  to  unilateral  sanctions 
that  are  tied  to  political  demands,  such  as  those 
imposed  by  the  United  States  on  my  country  since 
November  1997.  Such  sanctions  are  a  violation  of  the 
legitimate  right  of  the  Sudanese  Government  and 
people  to  choose  their  own  political,  economic  and 
social  systems.  They  damage  the  living  standards  of 
the  Sudanese  people  and  obstruct  the  Government’s 
efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, 
eliminate  poverty,  and  expand  access  to  education, 
health  care  and 
to 
enhancing  agricultural  and  human  development.  Such 
unilateral economic sanctions have affected all regions 
of 
the  Sudan.  They  have  also  exacerbated 
the 
humanitarian situation and development in Darfur. 

Notwithstanding the economic and trade embargo 
imposed on my country, the Sudan is still strengthening 
its  bilateral,  economic  and  political  relations  with 
developing  countries,  countries  of  the  South  and 
developed  countries,  and 
its 
economic and social development. 
Bilateral  relations  between  the  Sudan  and  Cuba 

were  strengthened  following 
joint  ministerial 
meeting  between  the  two  countries  held  in  Havana  in 
June  2007  to  promote  cooperation  in  all  fields.  The 
assignment  of  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Sudan  to  the  United  Nations  as 
technologies  necessary 
this  has  enhanced 
the 
6 

10-60583 
in  which  countries 


Ambassador  to  Cuba  in  December  2007  was  a  step 
forward in the promotion of our relations. In addition, 
the  Sudan  took  part  in  the  ministerial  meeting  of  the 
NAM  Coordinating  Bureau  in  April  2009,  which 
endorsed  the  necessity  to  end  the  economic  embargo 
imposed on Cuba. 

My  delegation  calls  for  the  establishment  of  a 
better  life  for  every  individual  and  a  better  world  for 
all 
large  and  small  coexist 
peacefully.  Such  peaceful  coexistence  requires  the 
commitment  of  all  countries  to  the  main  principles  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and  to  managing  their 
relations in an appropriate manner. 

In  this  respect,  we  urge  States  that  have  applied 
laws  or  taken  unilateral  measures  that  affect  the 
sovereignty of other States to take the necessary action 
to abolish and annul them in order to preserve the right 
of  other  States  to  live  in  sovereignty,  respect  the 
principles of the United Nations Charter and undertake 
mutual cooperation for the sake of peace, development 
and the welfare of all peoples of the world. 
Mr. Bui The Giang (Viet Nam): Viet Nam, as in 

all  previous  years,  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution 
under  agenda  item  41,  introduced  at  today’s  General 
Assembly  meeting  by  the  Cuban  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla. 

Nineteen  years  have  passed  since  the  General 
Assembly  adopted  the  first  resolution  demanding  an 
end 
the  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States against 
Cuba.  Throughout  these  19  past  years,  the  General 
Assembly  has  annually  adopted  a  resolution  on  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States against 
Cuba, with increasingly consensual support. This year, 
as last year, the resolution  has enjoyed record support 
in  its  19  year  history,  with  187  out  of  192  Member 
States voting in its favour. 
law, 

including international laws relating to the freedom of 
trade 
and 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States,  this 
embargo runs counter to universally recognized norms 
governing 
sovereign  countries 
regardless  of  their  political  systems  and  their  choices 
of  their  paths  of  development,  as  well  as  to  the 
fundamental  principles  and  purposes  enshrined  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations. 
As  a  grave  violation  of 
relations  between 
and  navigation, 
international 
sovereign 
equality 
to 
A/65/PV.37
of 
the 
cultural, 
achievement 
beneficial 
financial 

As  such,  this  embargo,  which  has  endured  for 
half  a  century,  has  caused  phenomenal  financial  and 
material  losses  to  the  Cuban  economy.  It  has,  at  the 
same  time,  represented  a  major  obstacle  to  Cuba’s 
social  development,  affecting 
the  Cuban  people’s 
efforts to maintain a normal life in respect and dignity, 
let  alone  an  improved  life  as  humankind  moves 
towards 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. It has also impacted all those who 
have  wished  and  worked  to  foster  legitimate,  normal 
and  mutually 
economic, 
relations  with  Cuba, 
commercial  and 
including  an  increasing  proportion  of  the  American 
people. 

By  voting  in  favour  of  resolution  65/6,  my 
delegation  reiterates  Viet  Nam’s  unswerving  position 
that  disputes  among  States  should  and  can  only  be 
resolved  through  peaceful  dialogue  and  negotiations, 
on the basis of equality, mutual respect for each other’s 
independence and sovereignty, and the principle of the 
non-interference in the internal affairs of States. 

We  again  joined  the  overwhelming  majority  of 
Member  States  in  requesting  that  the  Government  of 
the United States of America bring an immediate end to 
its  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba in order to lessen the hardships 
unduly inflicted upon the Cuban people, reduce tension 
and  create  an  atmosphere  conducive  to  constructive 
efforts  towards  the  early  normalization  of  relations 
between  the  two  countries  in  the  interests  of  peace, 
stability  and  development  of  the  region  and  of  the 
world as a whole. 

The  Government  and  people  of  Viet  Nam  once 
again reaffirm their support for and solidarity with the 
Government  and  people  of  Cuba.  Together  with  the 
international community, we stand ready to continue to 
assist Cuba, as we always have done, to overcome the 
consequences of the embargo. 
the 

presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba. I 
want to thank him for the detailed briefing he delivered 
on 
the  United  States  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba. 
Nigeria believes that it is the right of the Cuban people 
to  independently  decide  on  how  they  manage  their 
future.  Consequently,  as  in  all  previous  years,  Nigeria 
voted in favour of resolution 65/6. 
(Nigeria):  We  welcome 
Mr.  Onemola
impact  of 
the 
10-60583 

7 
principles 
the 
law,  sovereignty  and  free 
A/65/PV.37 


Nigeria,  like  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
international community, opposes the imposition of an 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba.  We  consider  the  extraterritorial  application  of 
unilateral  measures  as  contrary  to  the  letter  and  the 
spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. It also runs 
of  multilateralism, 
counter 
to 
international 
trade  — 
principles  that  we  hold  dear  and  that  this  body  has 
championed over the years. 

In this regard, we welcome the decision taken last 
year  by  the  United  States  to  remove  a  number  of 
restrictions  on  travel  to  Cuba  and  on  the  transfer  of 
money  and  postal  orders  to  Cuba  from  the  United 
States. 

Nigeria  reiterates  that  constructive  engagement 
and  peaceful  negotiations  remain  the  only  acceptable 
means of  advancing long-term peace and stability. We 
appeal  to  the  international  community  to  prevail  upon 
both  countries  to  move  towards  constructive  and 
productive  engagement  geared  towards  reaching  a 
definitive resolution of their differences, leading to the 
lifting  of  the  longest  lasting  trade  embargo  in  human 
history. 

The  Federal  Government  of  Nigeria  maintains 
friendly  relations  with  all  States  and  does  not  favour 
unilateral punitive measures to settle political disputes. 
Consequently,  Nigeria  reiterates  its  position  in  favour 
of resolution 65/6. We have thus voted in favour of the 
lifting of the economic embargo against Cuba. 


Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines):  
“The  world  must  stand  together  to  demonstrate 
that  international  law  is  not  an  empty  promise” 
(A/64/PV.3, p. 11). 
“No  one  nation  can  or  should  try  to  dominate 
another  nation.  No  world  order  that  elevates  one 
nation  or  group  of  people  over  another  will 
succeed.  ...  The  traditional  divisions  between 
nations of the South and North make no sense in 
an  interconnected  world,  nor  do  alignments  of 
nations  rooted  in  the  cleavages  of  a  long-gone 
Cold War. 

“The  time  has  come  to  realize  that  the  old 
habits  and  …  arguments  are  irrelevant  to  the 
challenges faced by our peoples.” (ibid., p. 10) 


8 


President  Obama’s  words 

The words that I have just read were not penned 
by  my  delegation;  they  were  quoted  from  the  speech 
delivered by our esteemed friend and brother, President 
Barack  Obama  of  the  United  States,  in  his  inaugural 
address  to  the  General  Assembly  one  year  ago.  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  wholeheartedly  aligns 
itself  with  those  words,  as  we  do  with  the  statements 
made today on behalf of the Caribbean Community, the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Group  of  77  and 
China. 

are  particularly 
significant in the context of the ongoing United States 
embargo  against  Cuba,  now  well  into  its  fifth  decade. 
If we are to establish international law as more than an 
empty  promise,  then  the  embargo,  which  violates 
international  law  and  norms,  must  end.  If  we  are  to 
abandon  the  cleavages  of  a  long  gone  Cold War,  then 
this relic of that ideological conflict must similarly be 
abandoned. And  if  we  agree  than  one  nation  must  not 
be  elevated  over  another,  then  surely,  no  super-Power 
should  subject  a  small  island  to  decades  of  punitive 
persecution. 

For the past 18 years, the Members of the United 
Nations have spoken out, in increasingly overwhelming 
numbers,  against  the  embargo.  Most  of  the  friends  of 
the United States — and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
counts  itself  firmly  among  its  closest  allies  —  have 
repeatedly  decried  the  rationale,  impact,  utility  and 
legality  of  the  embargo.  Indeed,  there  may  be  no 
clearer and more long-standing example of the United 
States disregard of overwhelming international opinion 
than 
this 
senseless blockade. 

A  report  issued  last  year  by  the  United  States 
Government  Accountability  Office  (GAO)  concludes 
that  “the  President  has  discretion  to  further  ease 
regulatory  restrictions”  on  a  series  of 
important 
incremental  measures 
that  are  currently  causing 
suffering  among  Cubans.  It  is  most  unfortunate  that 
any foreign president exerts such a direct and negative 
influence  on  the  day-to-day  lives  of  another  nation’s 
citizens.  These  regulatory  restrictions  cannot  continue 
to  act  as  a  noose  to  be  selectively  tightened  and 
loosened  at  the  whim  of  any  one  country,  or  the 
discretion of any one president, in flagrant disregard of 
international law and norms. 

The GAO report goes on to state that the embargo 
cannot be fully eliminated without the repeal of certain 
its  continued  unilateral 
imposition  of 
10-60583 
that  a 


legislation  by  the  United  States  Congress  or  “without 
determining 
transition  government  or  a 
democratically  elected  government  is  in  power  in 
Cuba”.  However,  just  last  year,  the  United  States 
President  stood  before  us  and  gave  voice  to  a  widely 
held belief when he said that, 


“Democracy  cannot  be  imposed  on  any 
nation from the outside. Each society must search 
for  its  own  path,  and  no  path  is  perfect.  Each 
country will pursue a path rooted in the culture of 
its  people  and  in  its  past  traditions. And  I  admit 
that  America  has  too  often  been  selective  in  its 
promotion of democracy.” (ibid., p. 14) 
In  this  year’s  address  to  the  United  Nations, 

President  Obama  again  disavowed  any 
idea  of 
unilaterally  forcing  another  independent  nation  to 
follow  a  prescribed  and  preconceived  political  path, 
when  he  said,  “make  no  mistake:  the  ultimate  success 
of  democracy  in  the  world  will  not  come  because  the 
United  States  dictates  it”  (see  A/65/PV.11).  Cathartic 
and  laudable  as  such  statements  may  be,  they  ring 
hollow when viewed through the prism of existing and 
stringently 
that  unabashedly 
attempts  to  externally  impose  a  cookie-cutter  concept 
of democracy, totally divorced from the culture, history 
and context of the Cuban people. 

Over the years, the embargo has been a policy in 
search of a justification. At one point, it was to contain 
the so called security threat posed by Cuba. At another, 
it  was  to  thwart  the  perceived  ideological  menace  of 
Communism  in  our  hemisphere.  Then,  it  was  in 
retaliation  for  expropriated  property,  after  that,  to 
establish  a  particular  type  of  democracy.  Today,  we 
hear of human rights. Many other rationalizations have 
been similarly advanced and discarded  over the years. 
But,  amid  shifting  justifications,  the  embargo  has 
remained in force, with its only accomplishments being 
the decades of hardships it has visited upon the Cuban 
people  and the narrow political gains it may engender 
within certain domestic constituencies. 

In  this  period  of  economic  and  food  crises,  the 
impact of the embargo seems particularly cruel. Access 
to  medical  hardware,  as  we  heard  earlier,  modern 
medication,  basic  foodstuffs,  construction  materials, 
heavy  equipment  and  spare  parts  are  all  severely 
restricted  by  the  embargo.  Recent  token  measures  in 
the areas of individual travel and remittances by Cuban 
applied 
legislation 
10-60583 

A/65/PV.37
families living overseas have not  affected those major 
impediments to Cuba’s development and advancement. 

Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  finds  itself  in 
an era in which our small population and economy — 
not to mention the waning military significance of the 
Caribbean  region  —  have  allowed  our  needs  and 
concerns to be overlooked by those who see the world 
only through the prism of their narrow and immediate 
interests.  However,  Cuba  has  remained  a  staunch  and 
abiding  partner  in  the  development  of  our  country. 
Cuban universities have graduated over 250 Vincentian 
students  and  are  currently  playing  host  to  150  more. 
Cuban’s  surgeons  have  performed  operations  on  over 
3,000 Vincentian patients. Cuban doctors have brought 
quality  medical  care  and  expertise  to  the  most  remote 
areas  of  our  country.  Even  as  we  speak,  Cuban 
engineers,  architects  and  workers  are 
labouring 
alongside Vincentians  in  the  construction  of  a  modern 
hospital and an international airport. 

As  far  wealthier  nations  and  institutions  have 
looked  askance  at  our  developmental  struggles  and 
offered  only  dubious  prescriptions  and  platitudes,  the 
Cuban  people  have  rolled  up  their  sleeves  and  given 
freely  of  themselves  in  a  manner  that  has  touched  the 
hearts  and  souls  of  the  Vincentian  people.  No  dollar 
amount can adequately reflect the value of that support, 
solidarity  and  partnership,  for  which  the  Cubans  have 
asked  nothing  in  return.  Our  appreciation  cannot  be 
overstated. 

My delegation would like to conclude as it began, 
with  the  stirring  and  inspiring  words  of  United  States 
President  Barack  Obama’s  inaugural  address  to  the 
General Assembly last year: 


“The choice is ours. We can be remembered 
as the generation that chose to drag the arguments 
of the twentieth century into the twenty-first, and 
that  put  off  hard  choices,  refused  to  look  ahead, 
and  failed  to  keep  pace  because  we  defined 
ourselves  by  what  we  were  against  instead  of 
what we were for; or we can be a generation that 
chooses  to  see  the  shoreline  beyond  the  rough 
waters  ahead,  that  comes  together  to  serve  the 
common  interests  of  human  beings,  and  finally 
gives  meaning  to  the  promise  imbedded  in  the 
name  given  to  this  institution  —  the  United 
Nations. (A/64/PV.3, p. 11) 
Let  us  put  the  twentieth  century  arguments 

behind  us.  Let  us  forever  forswear  illegal  unilateral 
9 

As 
it  did 
last  year, 
the  delegation  of 
A/65/PV.37 

action. Let us instead look to the future, keep pace with 
the times and heed the insistent and consistent voice of 
the  international  community.  This  resolution  is  not 
simply  some  ritualistic  annual  rite  of  the  United 
Nations; it is a matter of life and death for 11.5 million 
Cubans. 

We  in  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  believe 
in change, and we live in hope that there will no longer 
be  any  need  for  us  to  gather  next  year  to  vote  on  this 
resolution yet again. 
Mr.  Sin  Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 

of  Korea): The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea welcomes the adoption, during this 
morning’s plenary meeting, of resolution 65/6, entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”. We would like to reiterate our 
position in that regard. 
the 

Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has once again 
voted  in  favour  of  this  resolution  as  an  expression  of 
our full support for and solidarity with the Government 
and  people  of  Cuba  in  their  struggle  for  justice  and 
social  progress,  as  well  as  in  adherence  to  our 
consistent  position  of  opposing  all 
forms  of 
interference and threats or uses of force and sanctions 
against sovereign States. 

The consecutive adoption of this resolution by the 
General  Assembly  for  the  past  18  years,  including 
various outcome documents of major international and 
regional  meetings, 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  Summit,  manifest  vividly  that  the  United 
States sanctions and embargo against Cuba constitute a 
flagrant  violation  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
international  law.  It  is  deplorable,  however,  that  the 
unilateral economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  against  Cuba  remains 
intact  after  50  years,  despite  the  strong  demand  and 
expectations of the overwhelming majority of Member 
States of the United Nations. 

No sign of any change in the policy of the United 
States Administration on the embargo against Cuba has 
been  seen  for  the  past  year  since  the  adoption  of 
resolution  64/6.  On  the  contrary,  the  United  States 
Administration  approved  $40  million  for  the  fiscal 
years  2009  and  2010,  with  the  aim  of  encouraging 
subversive  programmes  against  Cuba.  If  such  an 
amount  of  money  were  allocated  and  used  for 
including 
to 
supporting 
the  socio  economic  development  of 
developing  countries  rather  than  for  the  subversion  of 
sovereign States, one could easily imagine the positive 
effect that would result. 

The  unilateral  and  cruel  embargo  by  the  United 
States  against  Cuba  has  already  caused  hundreds  of 
billions  of  dollars  in  losses  in  various  areas  of  the 
country’s  economy.  It  has  also  severely  impacted  the 
social  life  and  well-being  of  the  Cuban  people,  thus 
creating  a  great  obstacle 
the  achievement  of 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals, in that country. 

The  United  States  embargo  against  Cuba  shows 
that  the  routinely  uttered  commitment  by  the  United 
States to the implementation of the outcomes of major 
United Nations summits and conferences is merely lip 
service and that its deeds  in reality impede the  efforts 
of  other  countries  for  socio  economic  development, 
thereby hampering United Nations-wide efforts for the 
well-being and advancement of all human beings. 

It  is  not  only  Cuba  but  also  several  other 
countries that suffered economic losses during the past 
year  because  of  the  United  States  unilateral  and 
extraterritorial  embargo.  This  absurd  embargo  — 
whereby  one  country  unilaterally  applies  its  own 
measures  to  the  economic  and  trade  sectors  of  other 
countries  beyond  its  own  territorial  scope  —  deserves 
denunciation and rejection. 

By  restricting  the  constitutional  rights  of  its 
citizens who wish to travel to Cuba, the United States 
Government also contravenes its own Constitution. 
In  general,  the  United  States  policy  of  embargo 

against  Cuba  mocks 
international 
community,  which  demands  an  end  to  the  embargo.  It 
also  constitutes  a  grave  violation  of  the  principles  of 
respect 
integrity  and 
non-interference  as  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter  and  relevant  international  law.  Any  coercive 
measure  with  a  unilateral  and  extraterritorial  nature 
that  pursues  sinister  political  purposes  and  imposes  a 
political,  economic  and  social  system  based  on  a 
certain  country’s  own  perspective  should  never  be 
tolerated in any way. 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea is of the view that the United States 
embargo  against  Cuba  is  an  illegitimate  and  inhuman 
act  that  can  never  be  justified  in  terms  of  political, 
The  delegation  of 
for  sovereignty, 
territorial 
entire 
the 
10 

10-60583 
A  representative  has  requested 
the  floor 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 


legal,  moral  or  humanitarian  aspects  and  constitutes  a 
flagrant, massive and systematic violation of the rights 
of an entire people. It is also undemocratic, as it aims 
to  overthrow  a  sovereign  State.  We  therefore  strongly 
denounce the persistent United States embargo against 
Cuba. 

Our delegation avails itself of this opportunity to 
strongly urge the United States to heed the demand of 
the 
international  community,  observe  all  relevant 
General Assembly resolutions adopted so far regarding 
the embargo against Cuba and take measures to lift the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
that country immediately and without any conditions. 

The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will 
in the future constantly support the just struggle of the 
Cuban Government and people to terminate the United 
States  sanctions  and  embargo,  and  continue  to  further 
develop economic and trade relations with Cuba. 

have heard the last speaker in explanation of vote. 

in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members 
of the General Assembly that statements in exercise of 
the  right  of  reply  should  be  limited  to  10  minutes  for 
the  first  intervention  and  5  minutes  for  the  second 
intervention,  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 

delegation of Cuba. 
in 

Spanish):  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  words  of  the 
13 speakers  who  have  spoken  at  this  afternoon’s 
unexpected meeting. 

With  respect  to  what  has  been  said  by  the 
representatives  of  the  United  States  and  the  European 
Union,  this  is  the  nineteenth  occasion  on  which  the 
delegation  of  the  United  States  has  repeated  the  same 
thing. The blockade is an act of economic warfare and 
an  act  of  genocide.  Last  year  I  read  out  articles  from 
the  relevant  conventions.  Has 
the  United  States 
Department of State not done its homework or studied 
this  issue?  I  will  read  it  again.  I  have  before  me  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide, which in article 2 states that 

I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 

“In the present Convention, genocide means 
any of the following acts … : ... Causing serious 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
A/65/PV.37
information 
inflicting  on 
first-hand?  Why  are 
bodily or mental harm to  members  of the group; 
[or]  Deliberately 
the  group 
conditions  of  life  calculated  to  bring  about  its 
physical destruction in whole or in part.” 

I  already  read  here  this  morning  the  famous 
memorandum  by  Mr.  Mallory.  These  are  not 
ideological arguments from the past. The embargo is an 
old  vestige  held  over  from  the  Cold  War.  It  is  not  an 
issue  of  rhetoric,  but  rather  one  of  aggression  against 
the Cuban people. The aim of the United States is not 
to  help  or  support  our  people.  We  know  that  the 
embargo  causes  hardship  and  suffering.  It  does  not 
cause  deaths  because  the  Cuban  revolution  prevents 
them. How can the United States delegation explain the 
punishment  of  Cuban  children  as  described  here?  If  it 
wanted  to  help  or  support  the  Cuban  people,  the  only 
thing  it  would  have  to  do  is  to  lift  the  embargo. Why 
are Americans prevented from visiting our country and 
receiving 
they 
restricting so called people-to-people contacts? 

The  pretext  for  the  embargo  has  continued  to 
change.  First,  it  was  the  supposed  membership  in  the 
Sino-Soviet axis; then it was the so-called exporting of 
revolution to Latin America, followed by the presence 
of  Cuban  troops  in  Africa,  which  were  there  to  help 
defeat  apartheid  and  preserve  the  independence  of 
Angola  and  achieve  that  of  Namibia. And  then  it  was 
manipulation  of  human  rights;  but  the  embargo  is  a 
brutal  violation  of  the  human  rights  of  the  Cuban 
people. 

We  are  ready  to  discuss  violations  of  human 
rights.  We  can  begin  with  the  concentration  camp  in 
Guantánamo, where torture is exercised and there is no 
right  of  habeas  corpus;  it  is  the  realm  of  military 
commissions outside the rule of law. Could the United 
States  delegation  explain  here  what  happened  in  the 
Abu  Ghraib,  Bagram  and  Nama  camps?  Has  the 
present Government brought any charges against those 
responsible?  Have  any  charges  been  brought  against 
those in the European Governments who authorized the 
secret  prisons  in  Europe  and  the  secret  flights  of  the 
Central Intelligence Agency with people who had been 
kidnapped?  Could  the  representative  of  the  European 
Union  clarify  that? We  can  also  talk  about Wikileaks. 
Could  they  tell  us  something  about  the  atrocities 
referred  to  in  the  75,000  documents  on  crimes  in 
Afghanistan and the 400,000 documents on Iraq? 
10-60583 

11 
for 
If 
that 
the  chief  of 
the  opinion  of 
A/65/PV.37 


What  can  the  United  States  delegation  tell  us 
about  extrajudicial  executions  proclaimed  by  Bush  in 
his  famous  2003  State  of  the  Union  address,  to  the 
applause  of  Congress?  What  has 
the  present 
Government done vis-à-vis those who are responsible? 
Perhaps  the  Joint  Special  Operations  Command  has 
been  dissolved.  Were 
the  executive  orders  and 
authorizations reversed, or are they still in force? Is it 
true 
that  command,  General 
McChrystal,  was  reporting  directly  to  Vice  President 
Cheney? We could also discuss the brutal violence and 
high technology that they call counter-insurgency. 

Changes  in  Cuba  are  a  matter  for  the  Cuban 
people. We  will  change  all  that  has  to  be  changed  for 
the  benefit  of  the  Cuban  people,  but  we  will  not  be 
asking 
the  United  States 
Government. We choose our destiny freely. That is why 
we  had  a  revolution. Those  changes  will  be  sovereign 
changes,  not  gestures.  We  know  that  for  the  United 
States  the  only  thing  that  will  suffice  will  be  to 
establish  a  pro-yanki  Government  in  Cuba,  but  that 
will not happen. 

to 
advance  in  telecommunications,  then  it  should  lift  the 
measures  of  the  embargo  that  make  business  in  that 
area  impossible,  put  a  stop  to  the  pillaging  of  Cuban 
funds 
the 
that  severely  restrict 
provisions  of 
Cubans’ access to the Internet. If they want cooperation 
among  universities,  they  should  lift  restrictions  on 
academic,  student,  scientific  and  cultural  exchanges 
and  allow  universities  to  establish  agreements  among 
themselves. 
they  want  cooperation  on  drug 
trafficking,  counter-terrorism,  trafficking  in  persons, 
natural  disasters  and  postal  services,  then  they  should 
at  least  respond  to  the  proposal  we  made  over  a  year 
ago without any preconditions. 

the  United  States  has 
changed,  but  the  funding  of  internal  subversion  in 
Cuba  is  still  the  same.  A  high-ranking  official  of  the 
United  States  Agency  for  International  Development 
yesterday confirmed to journalist Tracey Eaton that in 
the  most  recent  period  $15.6  million  had  been  sent  to 
“individuals on the ground in Cuba”. That is how they 
refer to their mercenaries. 

Hostile  radio  and 
continue. 
in  United  States  banks  and  eliminate 
the  United  States  Government  wants 
television  broadcasts  also 
The  Government  of 
the  embargo 
If 

in 
international 
continues  with 
There  are  talks  on  immigration,  but  the  hostile 
the  Cuban 

The  five  Cuban  anti-terrorists  continue  to  be 
unjustly  imprisoned.  Recently,  Geraldo  Hernández 
Nordelo  was  groundlessly  placed 
solitary 
confinement,  where  he  is  denied  medical  treatment. 
Admitted 
terrorists  such  as  Orlando 
Bosch  and  Luis  Posada  Carriles  freely  walk  about 
Miami, where they are even politically active. 

immigration  policy 
Adjustment Act and the wet-foot/dry-foot policy. 
Once  again,  it  is  totally  false  that  the  United 

States  and  Cuba  are  economic  partners.  Agricultural 
sales  violate  all 
regulations  and  practices  of 
international  trade  and  freedom  of  navigation.  Lies 
have been told in this Hall regarding alleged donations to 
Cuba from non-governmental organizations amounting 
to $237 million. 

The  blockade  is  abusively  extraterritorial  and 
affects everyone in this Hall. It is not a bilateral matter. 

I have little to add to what has already been said 
about  the  European  Union.  We  do  not  recognize  any 
moral  or  political  authority  whatsoever  on  the  part  of 
that body to qualify it to make criticisms about human 
rights.  It  would  do  better  to  concern  itself  with  its 
brutal  anti-immigrant  policy, 
the  deportation  of 
minorities, the violent repression of demonstrators and 
the  growing  social  exclusion  of  its  unemployed  and 
low-income sectors. Shamelessly and disgracefully, the 
European  Parliament  devotes  itself  to  awarding  prizes 
to the paid agents of the United States Government in 
Cuba. Now it says that the so called common position 
has been left behind. We shall see. The facts will speak 
for themselves. But the European Union is dreaming if 
it  believes  that  it  will  be  able  to  normalize  relations 
with Cuba while the so-called common position exists. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

have heard the only speaker in exercise of the right of 
reply. 

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 41? 



It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 4.25 p.m. 
12 

10-60583 
