
A/65/PV.25
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

25th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 5 October 2010,  10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ndong  Mba 
(Equatorial Guinea), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 


recall 
The  Acting  President
that 
Agenda item 108 (continued) 
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/65/1) 
in  Spanish): 
(spoke 

Members  will 
the  Secretary-General 
presented  his  annual  report  (A/65/1)  to  the  General 
Assembly at its 11th plenary meeting, on 23 September 
2010. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

We thank the Secretary-General for the presentation of 
his  annual  report  (A/65/1).  The  report  acknowledges 
the  complex  world  situation,  in  particular  with  regard 
to  the  devastating  effects  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis.  As  the  Secretary-General  points  out, 
the  measures  taken  to  stimulate  growth  and  global 
economic  recovery  have  not  always  met  the  needs  of 
the  poor  and  the  most  vulnerable.  On  the  contrary, 
despite promises, developed countries have resorted to 
the  most  shameless  protectionism  as  part  of  their 
policies  in  response  to  the  crisis,  to  the  detriment  of 
underdeveloped economies.  

At  the  recent  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  it  remained  clearly 
apparent  that  the  lack  of  financial  resources  continues 
to  be  the  main  reason  for  delays  in  meeting  those 
modest  objectives.  The  calls  for  new  and  additional 

that  other 
resources to try to reach the Millennium Development 
Goals  by  2015  were  once  again  ignored  by  rich 
countries, which did not allow even a single mention in 
that regard in the outcome document of the High-level 
Meeting (resolution 65/1).  

It has become clear not only that the majority will 
not  be  able  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  but  also 
internationally  agreed 
development goals will remain an illusion. It should be 
pointed out that all such commitments made within the 
framework  of  major  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  are  also  part  of  what  the  report  calls  the 
concrete  framework  that  serves  as  a  guide  for  the 
Organization’s development activities.  

Introducing  radical  changes  in  the  consumption 
and  production  patterns  of  the  societies  of  the  North 
and  building  a  new  international  economic  order  are 
the only way to meet the goals and objectives to which 
we  have  committed.  The  creation  of  a  new  global 
financial  architecture  must  be  a  priority 
the 
Organization’s deliberations. 

We  are  pleased  that  the  report  acknowledges  the 
work  of  the  General Assembly  working  group  on  the 
world  financial  and  economic  crisis  as  an  important 
initiative.  Cuba  hopes  that  that  working  group  can 
continue its work to discuss in greater depth the topics 
on its agenda and to decide on them.  

The  report  mentions  the  nine  joint  initiatives 
designed  by  the  United  Nations  system  to  respond  to 
the crisis. We underscore that all initiatives of that kind 
must  be  duly  discussed  with  States  before  their 
in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-56676 (E) 
*1056676* 




A/65/PV.25 

implementation. We express similar  concern about the 
creation of the High-level Advisory Group on Climate 
Change Financing and the High-level Panel on Global 
Sustainability,  established  by  the  Secretary-General 
without  due  consultation  with  the  Secretariat  and 
Member  States.  We  trust  that  such  situations  will  not 
recur.   

The  report  proposes  the  development  of  low-
carbon  economies  in  developing  countries.  In  that 
regard,  we  underscore  that  developed  countries  must 
shoulder  their  historic  responsibilities,  as  well  as  the 
commitments  made  under 
the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
Kyoto  Protocol,  and  meet  the  ambitious  reduction 
commitments at the sixteenth Conference of the Parties 
to the Convention.  

For  their  part,  developing  countries  have  the 
priority  goal  of  achieving  sustainable  development. 
They need the support of the international community, 
in  particular  that  of  developed  countries,  in  order  to 
gain  new  and  additional  financial  resources,  capacity-
building  and  technology  transfer  under  preferential 
conditions.  

Moreover,  we  are  concerned  about  the  assertion 
in  the  report  that  the  so-called  Copenhagen  Accord 
“was  an  essential  step  forward  in  global  efforts  to 
address the climate challenge” (see A/65/1, para. 108). 
The  Copenhagen  Conference  generated  a  crisis  of 
confidence  owing  to  the  lack  of  transparency  with 
which  the  negotiations  were  conducted,  disregarding 
the  very  standards  and  procedures  of  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
and the United Nations. The Framework Convention is 
and  must  continue  to  be  the  only  framework  for 
international  negotiations  on  climate  change,  which 
should continue along the two tracks agreed in Bali.  

The  sixteenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  must 
achieve agreements on mitigation and adaptation under 
the  Convention 
that  enable  developing  countries 
substantially  and  predictably to  address  the  increasing 
threats associated with climate change.  

The main challenge before us is that of reforming 
the United Nations so that it serves the interests of all 
nations equally. We cannot allow the reform to end up 
turning  our  Organization  into  an  instrument  for  the 
interests  and  whims  of  a  few  rich  and  powerful 
countries.  We  must  revitalize  the  guiding  role  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  only  United  Nations  organ 
true 
reform  of 
forever 
We  cannot  speak  of 
where  there  is  no  room  for  hegemony,  where  we  all 
have the right to speak and vote and where the obsolete 
right to veto does not exist. 

the 
Organization  without  real  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  The 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
reforming  the  Council  have  still  not  produced  the 
concrete  results  that  we  hoped  for.  We  trust  that  real 
progress will be made during this session. We urgently 
need  a  truly  balanced  and  representative  Security 
Council  that  acts  on  behalf  of  all  and  within  the 
mandate entrusted to it by the Charter. 

Cuba  welcomes  the  creation  of  UN  Women, 
which  was  a  historic  step  forward  towards  achieving 
gender  equality  and  empowering  all  women  of  the 
world.  We  hope  that  the  new  gender  entity  will,  in 
accordance  with  its  mandate,  develop  mechanisms  to 
follow  up  all  the  commitments  made  at  the  Beijing 
Conference.  
Furthermore, while we note the results 
enshrined in resolution 64/289, we reiterate that United 
Nations  development  assistance  is  not  subject  to 
unique  models  and  we  reaffirm  the  principle  that  it 
must  be  guided  by  national  priorities  and  led  by 
national Governments. 

Cuba  reaffirms  the  importance  of  international 
cooperation  and  genuine  dialogue  concerning  human 
rights.  We  must 
political 
manipulation,  selectivity  and  double  standards  with 
respect to human rights. We must not allow these evils 
to  affect  United  Nations  human  rights  mechanisms, 
including the Human Rights Council. 

In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  refers  to  the 
upcoming review of the Human Rights Council, which 
we believe should be a single, transparent and inclusive 
process of an intergovernmental nature. All of us must 
work  to  preserve  the  positive  aspects  of  the  Council, 
including  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism, 
which  is  the  ideal  space  to  consider  the  human  rights 
situation in all countries under equal conditions. 

Moreover,  Cuba  will  give  special  attention  to 
debates  on  human  resources  reform,  because  we  must 
take  a  final  decision  at 
the  current  session  on 
simplifying  the  contracting  regime  and  harmonizing 
conditions of service. In this context, we will advocate 
for  better  geographic  distribution  in  Secretariat  staff, 
especially  in  entities  such  as  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, where 
eradicate 
2 

10-56676 
in 


an  imbalance  in  its  staff  composition  plays  a  key  role 
in the severe distortions of its activities. 

It is also essential that the United Nations System 
Chief  Executives  Board  for  Coordination  be  more 
accountable  for  its  activities  and  achieve  greater 
transparency in the election and selection of the senior 
officers  of  the  Organization.  In  this  vein,  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit has posited several ideas that should be 
taken into account. 

In  the  report,  it  is  stated  that  the  international 
community has made significant progress in the fields 
of disarmament and non-proliferation, especially in the 
nuclear  context.  Reality  gives  much  greater  cause  for 
concern. There are 22,600 nuclear weapons worldwide, 
of  which  7,560  are  ready  for  immediate  deployment. 
These  are  much  more  powerful  than  those  that  sowed 
death  and  destruction 
the  Japanese  cities  of 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  
The  prohibition  and  complete  elimination  of 

nuclear  weapons  remains  an  urgent  pending  task. 
While millions of people suffer the effects of the worst 
economic  and 
the  Great 
Depression,  international  military  spending  continues 
to  increase  at  a  dizzying  pace.  Currently,  it  totals 
$1,521  billion  —  a  figure  many  times  greater  than 
international development aid.  
Cuba  reiterates  its  proposal  that  at  least  half  of 

current  military  spending  be  devoted  to  responding  to 
economic and social development needs through a fund 
managed by the United Nations. We also propose that a 
global  action  plan  be  agreed  without  delay  on 
achieving  complete  elimination  and  prohibition  of 
nuclear weapons within not more than 15 years. 

The  challenges  facing  us  are  very  serious.  More 
than ever, the world needs the United Nations and our 
united action. Cuba will continue to work tirelessly for 
a better world for all. 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  We  would  like 

to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the 
work of the Organization (A/65/1). The past session of 
the  General  Assembly  brought 
important 
breakthroughs  in  the  United  Nations  reform  agenda. 
The  creation  of  UN Women  in  particular  was  a  major 
contribution  to  a  more  coherent  and  less  duplicative 
Organization. The timely appointment of Ms. Bachelet 
at  the  head  of  the  new  entity  should  guarantee  a 
financial  crisis  since 
some 
A/65/PV.25
topic  of 
the 
entire 
operative 
transition  without  major 
smooth 
interruptions. 

We  also  consider  the  reformed  Taliban  and  
Al-Qaida  sanctions  regime  of  the  Security  Council  to 
be a big step in the right direction. The new Office of 
the  Ombudsperson,  headed  by  Ms.  Kimberly  Prost, 
will  contribute  to  the  legitimacy  and  effectiveness  of 
the sanctions regime and the Council itself. The United 
Nations,  as  a  whole  and  in  its  parts,  needs  these 
qualities urgently in order to secure its standing as the 
centre for global governance. 

The  choice  of  “global  governance”  as  the  theme 
of this year’s general debate was received positively by 
Member  States.  We  thus  hope  that  it  will  remain  the 
overarching 
session.  An 
indispensable  element  of  global  governance  based  on 
the  principle  of  sovereign  equality  is  that  any  global 
governance system must have a set of clear applicable 
rules. We therefore see a close connection between the 
topics  “rule  of  law”  and  “global  governance”  and 
would therefore welcome a thematic debate on the rule 
of law during this session of the Assembly. 
The  United  Nations  has  the  broadest  legitimacy 

of  all  intergovernmental  organizations  based  on  its 
membership  and  the  democratic  structure  of  its  main 
deliberative  body, 
legitimacy 
cannot  be  based  solely  on  structural  and  institutional 
agencies, 
aspects.  United  Nations 
and 
programmes,  as  well  as 
its  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding  missions,  are  the  face  of  the  United 
Nations  to  the  outside  world  and  must  strengthen  the 
Organization’s  legitimacy  as  a  whole  on  the  basis  of 
the  daily  work  they  deliver  to  States,  individuals,  the 
general public and civil society.  
We continue to see a lot of potential in this field. 

Operational  legitimacy  is  earned  through  transparent 
and 
independent 
accountability mechanisms. The work of the Office of 
Internal  Oversight  Services  (OIOS)  is  therefore  very 
important.  OIOS  makes  an  essential  contribution  to 
raising  awareness  within  and  outside 
the  United 
Nations  of  necessary  management 
reforms  and 
structural  deficits  in  the  organizational  set-up  of  the 
United Nations.  

that,  after  a  period  of 
responsiveness  to  the  recommendations  of  the  Office, 
the eagerness to implement them is in overall decline. 
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  has  a  particular 
this  Assembly.  But 
We  are  concerned 
efficient  work 
funds 
and 
through 
10-56676 

3 

successful 
strengthen 
shown  how  detrimental 
A/65/PV.25 

responsibility  to  urgently  address  all  allegations  of 
sexual misconduct and misappropriation of funds. Past 
experience  has 
system 
breakdowns  in  the  area  of  management  oversight  can 
be. We hope that the Assembly will engage in an open 
and productive discussion of these issues. 

The  agenda  of  the  current  session  provides  us 
with 
the  opportunity 
to  streamline  and  optimize 
processes  in  the  areas  of  peacebuilding  and  human 
rights.  We  hope  that  the  review  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  will 
the  Commission’s 
preventive dimension and  sharpen its  focus to  address 
the root causes of conflicts. We believe that substantial 
improvement  in  the  coherence  of  the  different  human 
rights  bodies  is  possible  and,  indeed,  necessary.  The 
relationship  between  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
the  General  Assembly  —  that  is,  its  Third  and  Fifth 
Committees — has been unclear and inefficient in the 
past. We hope that we, as Member States, will take the 
opportunity  of  the  review  to  address  this  relationship 
and  the  issue  of  providing  a  regular  and  steady 
mechanism  to  fund  decisions  by  the  Council,  where 
necessary.  A 
review  process  would 
strengthen the governance of the United Nations in this 
field.  I  am  personally  grateful  for  the  trust  that  the 
President  of  the  Assembly  has  placed  in  Ambassador 
Loulichki  of  Morocco  and  myself  to  assist  in  leading 
this Assembly on the matter of review of the Council. 

In  the  Security  Council,  the  United  Nations  has 
the most powerful tool in international law at hand. Yet 
it is perceived as lacking political legitimacy due to its 
unrepresentative composition. Political progress on this 
issue  has  been  deadlocked  for  a  long  time,  and  States 
need to be aware of the risk of an institutional crisis of 
this Organization as whole if this situation prevails for 
much  longer. We  continue  to  stand  ready  to  make  our 
contribution to a serious enlargement discussion.  

In parallel, we will vigorously pursue the agenda 
of  the  group  of  five  small  countries  on  the  working 
methods  of  the  Council,  where  progress  has  been  less 
than satisfactory. In a letter sent to the Chairman of the 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural Questions of the Security Council, we have 
taken  note  of  the  updated  presidential  note  of  the 
Council (S/2010/507), which has the merit of providing 
an  overview  of  the  current  state  of  play. At  the  same 
time,  it  offers  very  little  in  the  way  of  effective 
measures  to  improve  the  accountability,  access  and 
inclusion  of  non-members  of  the  Council  —  the  areas 
this 
time 
is 
into 
time, 
in  order 
losing  any 
the  achievement  of 
where  we  believe  the  most  work  remains  to  be  done. 
We  will  continue  to  pursue  these  goals,  including  in 
this Assembly. 
Mr. Kodama (Japan): At the outset, allow me to 

extend  my  deep  appreciation 
to  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  remarkable 
devotion in guiding the diverse activities of the United 
Nations  and  for  his  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization (A/65/1). 
The  most  urgent  challenge  facing  the  United 

the 
Nations  at 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  are 
concerned  about  the  impact  of  the  financial  and 
economic  crisis  on  the  efforts  of  developing  countries 
to  attain  the  MDGs.  Now  that  this  year’s  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  has  been  successfully  concluded,  we 
must  follow  through  on  all  the  commitments  and 
promises,  without 
to 
accelerate  progress  and  achieve  the  MDGs  by  the 
target year of 2015. Japan, for its part, will deliver on 
the promises made by Prime Minister Kan, focusing on 
the two crucial sectors of health and education. 
Efforts for the reduction of poverty alone will not 

translate 
the  MDGs.  A 
significant proportion of the bottom billion of the poor 
are caught up in conflict or barely surviving in tenuous 
post-conflict situations. It is often said that as many as 
50  per  cent  of  post-conflict  countries  relapse  into 
hostilities within 10 years after the conflicts end. 

In order to break the vicious circle of conflict and 
poverty,  it  is  essential  to  address  the  two  factors 
comprehensively.  Once  a  conflict  has  been  resolved, 
there  should  be  quick  delivery  of  a  peace  dividend, 
which  can  be  discerned  by  the  people  in  the  form  of 
tangible improvements in their daily lives and which is 
supported  by  urgent  measures  to  enhance  social  and 
economic stability. 
In  this  context,  Japan  appreciates  the  activities 

to 
undertaken  by 
promote such an integrated strategy and to fill some of 
the  most  conspicuous  gaps.  During  its  presidency  of 
the  Security  Council  this  year,  Japan  hosted  an  open 
debate  of  the  Council  on  post-conflict  peacebuilding 
(see  S/PV.6299).  We  will  continue  to  endeavour  to 
promote  this  seamless  approach  to  peacebuilding, 
taking  into  consideration  the  perspective  of  human 
security. 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
the  achievement  of 
4 

10-56676 
security  approach 
the  commitments  of 


The  concept  of  human  security  represents  a 

human-centred  and 
integrated  strategy  aiming  at 
actualizing  freedom  from  fear  and  want  for  every 
individual.  It  is  also  a  bottom-up  approach,  beginning 
with the protection and empowerment of the individual 
and the community. 

In  this  regard,  I  welcome  with  appreciation  the 
adoption  of  resolution  64/291,  entitled  “Follow-up  to 
paragraph  143  on  human  security  of  the  2005  World 
Summit Outcome” in July of this year. The adoption of 
this resolution was a crucial milestone in the efforts to 
materialize 
the  2005  World 
Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) and to integrate the 
human 
into  United  Nations 
activities. We commend the assistance rendered by the 
Friends  of  Human  Security  and  look  forward  to 
continuing  the  discussion  on  this  concept  during  the 
next session. 

Gender equality and the empowerment of women 
now  play  a  central  role  throughout  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  welcome  the  establishment  of  
UN Women, which will lead to the strengthening of the 
United  Nations  commitment  to  gender  mainstreaming. 
Japan  is  committed  to  contributing  actively  to  help  to 
ensure that all activities related to gender in the United 
Nations  will  operate  collaboratively 
the  most 
effective  and  efficient  manner  possible.  Moreover,  we 
intend 
to  renew  our 
commitment  to  furthering  the  advancement  of  gender 
equality and women’s empowerment both in Japan and 
in the wider international community. 

Peacekeeping  remains  the  core  activity  of  the 
United  Nations.  Japan  will  continue  to  participate 
actively  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations 
and  disaster  relief  operations,  as  we  have  done  in  the 
case  of  the  earthquake  in  Haiti  and  the  floods  in 
Pakistan. 

At  the  same  time,  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
now  faces  unprecedented  challenges  in  terms  of  both 
the  capacity  of  Member  States  and  the  complexity  of 
mission  mandates.  Therefore,  all  the  stakeholders 
responsible  for  these  activities,  such  as  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Security  Council,  Member  States  and 
the Secretariat, must cooperate proactively to formulate 
improvement  measures 
that 
peacekeeping  operations  are  assigned  clear  and 
achievable  mandates  and  managed  effectively  and 
efficiently, with adequate resources. 
this  momentum 
that  will 
to  utilize 
ensure 
in 
A/65/PV.25
to 
take 
thank 
I  also 
this  opportunity 

We  welcome,  as  measures  to  advance  global 
peace and security, the recent positive developments in 
the area of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, 
including  the  successful  outcome  of  the  2010  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Assuming  its 
moral  responsibility  as  the  only  country  that  has  ever 
suffered  the  tragic  consequences  of  atomic  bombings, 
Japan  is  determined  to  exert  every  effort  to  achieve  a 
world without nuclear weapons. To that end, Japan will 
submit  a  draft  resolution  during  this  session  outlining 
concrete  measures  towards  the  total  elimination  of 
nuclear weapons. 

the 
Secretary-General  once  again  for  making  his  visit  to 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August to attend the sixty-
fifth  Peace  Memorial  Ceremony  —  the  first  United 
Nations  Secretary-General 
to  do  so  —  and  for 
demonstrating  his  earnest  resolve  to  realize  a  world 
without nuclear weapons. 

Another  major  challenge  confronting  humankind 
at  this  juncture  is  climate  change. Aiming  at  the  final 
objective  of  adopting  a  new,  comprehensive,  legally 
binding  document,  Japan  will  continue  to  coordinate 
with  other  States  and  the  United  Nations  to  lead 
international  negotiations  for 
the 
sixteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  in  Cancún,  Mexico.  We  will  also  steadily 
support  those  developing  countries  that  are  making 
efforts  to  reduce  emissions  and  are  vulnerable  to  the 
negative  impacts  of  climate  change  through  various 
channels, including partnership between the public and 
private sectors. 

Japan  will  host  the  Tenth  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity  in 
Nagoya this month, and believes that every effort must 
be  made  to  come  to  agreement  on  commencing  new 
actions 
loss  of 
biodiversity.  We  are  determined  to  play  an  important 
role in resolving this issue. 

The  role  and  functions  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council are to be carefully reviewed by the close of the 
year  2011.  The  Council  thus  stands  now  at  an 
especially important juncture. Japan is fully committed 
to  taking  part  in  the  discussions  in  various  forums, 
such  as  the  General  Assembly,  the  Third  Committee 
and  the  Human  Rights  Council,  to  make  further 
the  rapidly  progressing 
the  success  of 
to  halt 
10-56676 

5 
through 
Reform  of 
to  enhancing 
the  promotion  and 
the  expansion  of  both 
A/65/PV.25 

contributions 
protection of human rights. 

the  United  Nations  cannot  be 
considered  complete  without  meaningful  Security 
Council  reform.  Japan  recognizes  the  solid  progress 
made in the intergovernmental negotiations during the 
sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  and 
looks  forward  to  international  negotiations  based  on 
the  second  revision  of  the  negotiation  text  in  the 
current  session,  as  mandated  by  General  Assembly 
decision 63/568.  
It is Japan’s view that the Security Council must 

be  reformed 
the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  memberships,  so  that 
the Council will reflect the realities of the geopolitical 
configuration  of  the  world  in  the  twenty-first  century. 
In that regard, we are pleased to note that the President 
of this General Assembly is clearly focused on the need 
for early reform of the Security Council, and we count 
on  his  steady  leadership  to  guide  us  to  a  concrete 
outcome during this session. 

Japan  wishes  to  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
transparent,  accountable  and  efficient  management  of 
the  United  Nations.  The  determined  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General to work towards a more efficient and 
responsive  Secretariat  have  our  full  and  enthusiastic 
support. We are all well aware that the current state of 
the  world  economy  negatively  impacts  the  financial 
situations  of  Member  States.  In  that  light,  it  is  clear 
that 
fiscal 
management characterized by continuous expansion of 
the  Organization’s  regular  and  peacekeeping  budgets 
can  no  longer  be  sustained.  The  Secretariat  must  be 
streamlined for greater effectiveness and efficiency and 
in  order  to  facilitate  the  fulfilment  of  its  mandates 
within  the  available  financial  resources  of  Member 
States.  We  look  forward  to  carefully  studying  the 
proposal  to  be  made  by  the  Secretary-General  related 
to  human  resource  management  with  a  view 
to 
establishing a robust and lean Organization. 

From  that  point  of  view,  the  Secretariat  should 
make a concerted effort to rationalize expenditures and 
develop 
implementing  mandated 
activities  at  lower  cost.  To  the  extent  possible,  new 
requirements  should  be  met  through  the  redeployment 
of  existing  resources.  Rigorous  financial  discipline 
must  be  exercised  in  the  implementation  of  the  2010-
2011 programme and peacekeeping budgets. 
in  United  Nations 
strategies 
recent 
trend 
the 

the 
report  of 
The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 

I  conclude  my  remarks  today  by  reiterating 
Japan’s determined commitment to continuing to work 
towards a more efficient United Nations. 
Mr. Wang  Min  (China) (spoke in Chinese): The 

Chinese  delegation  welcomes 
the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/65/1). Currently, the international security situation 
is  generally  stable,  but  various  global  threats  and 
challenges  are  prominent. The  profound  effects  of  the 
international  financial  crisis  have  gradually  become 
clear amid various growing uncertainties.  

Faced by diverse threats and challenges over the 
past  year,  the  United  Nations  has  actively  engaged  in 
multilateral  cooperation  and  played  an  important  role 
in  implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), carrying out preventive diplomacy, deploying 
international  peacekeeping  operations,  implementing 
post-conflict  peacebuilding,  responding 
to  climate 
change, fighting terrorism and protecting human rights. 
We  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his hard work and good efforts over 
the past year. 
the 

Millennium  Development  Goals  injected  new  vigour 
into  the  international  development  agenda.  The  next 
five years will be critical to achieving the MDGs. The 
United  Nations 
timely 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  and  establish  an  MDG 
assessment  mechanism  as  soon  as  possible.  It  must, 
with  a  greater  sense  of  urgency  and  responsibility, 
intensify  efforts  to  ensure  that  the  task  will  not  be 
interrupted  or  delayed. 
the 
developed  countries  to  honour  their  commitments 
effectively and to assume the primary responsibility for 
assisting developing countries and providing them with 
long-term,  stable  and  predictable  financial  support.  It 
should  focus  on  helping  Africa  to  develop  itself  and 
eliminate poverty, and it should promote and intensify 
support for the least developed countries. 
the 

Millennium  Development  Goals 
(see  A/65/PV.9), 
Chinese  Premier  Wen  Jiabao  declared  that  China  will 
continue to promote development to improve the lives 
of  people  in  developing  countries.  It  will  donate  
$14  million  to  the  Global  Fund  to  fight  HIV/AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria;  further  reduce  the  debt 
burden  of 
least  developed  countries;  deepen 
financial  cooperation  with  developing  countries; 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
It  must  encourage 
prioritize 
should 
the 
the 
At 
for 
6 

10-56676 
and 
relations 
strengthen 


continue  to  provide  substantial  support  in  the  form  of 
concessional  loans  and  preferential  export  buyer’s 
financial  and 
credits;  and  explore  and  develop 
economic 
agricultural 
cooperation  with  developing  countries  and  help  them 
to develop their human resources. China will continue 
to  support  United  Nations  efforts  to  promote  the 
development agenda and to make a greater contribution 
towards  the  early  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals to the benefit of humankind. 

Climate change concerns the common interests of 
the  entire  world  and  the  development  interests  and 
well-being  of  the  peoples  of  developing  countries. 
China  is  the  most  populous  developing  country  in  the 
world  and  still  faces  many  development  challenges. 
However, on the basis of the long-term interests of the 
Chinese  nation  and  all  humankind, 
the  Chinese 
Government  attaches  great  importance  to  the  issue  of 
climate change.  

Currently,  the  twelfth  session  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  Long-term  Cooperative  Action 
under  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  and  the  fourteenth  session  of  the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  Further  Commitments  for 
Annex  I  Parties  under  the  Kyoto  Protocol  are  being 
held 
last  formal 
negotiating  conference  before  Cancún  and  the  first 
time  that  China  has  hosted  a  formal  negotiating 
conference  on  climate  change  within 
the  United 
Nations framework. In order to promote the successful 
outcome of the Cancún conference, China believes that 
it is necessary to uphold, first, the basic framework of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change,  the  Kyoto  Protocol  and  the  decisions  of  the 
Bali Road Map; secondly, the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities; and thirdly, the principle 
full 
of  sustainable  development.  We  must  give 
consideration 
development, 
the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  climate  protection;  achieve 
development  while  responding  successfully  to  climate 
change;  and  ensure 
the  developing 
respect 
countries’ right to development.  

Global  governance  is  the  main  issue  facing  the 
world’s countries in their common efforts to respond to 
threats  and  challenges.  Global 
the  various  new 
governance  should  focus  on 
the  achievement  of 
comprehensive  security,  common  development  and 
human  rights  protection.  It  should  underpin 
the 
principles  of  equity  and  justice.  All  countries  —  be 
in  Tianjin,  China.  This 
economic 
the 
for 
is 
to 
A/65/PV.25
As 
universal, 
the  most 
representative 
they big or small, strong or weak, poor or rich — have 
the right to participate in the process of governance on 
an  equal  footing.  It  is  necessary  to  follow  the  rule  of 
law,  proceed  on  the  basis  of  norms,  and  uphold  the 
principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter.  

Global governance should  advocate the  principle 
of  democracy  and  a  spirit  of  inclusiveness;  promote 
negotiation, cooperation and the peaceful settlement of 
international  disputes;  and  strive  for  mutual  benefits 
and  win-win  situations.  Global  governance  should 
establish  effective  multilateral  mechanisms,  further 
multilateralism, and ensure fairness and efficiency. 

and 
authoritative  intergovernmental  international  organization, 
the United Nations is the most important arena for the 
practice of multilateralism. Secretary-General Ban Ki-
moon  has  said  that  the  United  Nations  remains  the 
indispensable  global  institution  for  the  twenty-first 
century.  

China supports the United Nations in carrying out 
necessary and rational reforms so as to better perform 
the  duties  entrusted  to  it  under  its  Charter.  United 
Nations 
reform  should  be  multidimensional  and 
multisectoral.  It  is  particularly  necessary  to  focus  on 
increasing  development  input  in  areas  of  concern  to 
developing  countries, 
that  development 
resources  strengthen  development  institutions,  and  to 
promote  the  timely  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  so  as 
to  benefit  developing 
countries in general.  
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  welcomes  the 

report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/65/1).  We  support  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General to discharge his mandate in full and 
on time. 

The  review  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) has just been concluded. Our respective 
leaders  vividly  described  the  progress  made  so  far. 
They also laid down measures to bridge the gaps. We, 
the  community  of  nations,  must  therefore  re-energize 
our determination to achieve the MDGs by 2015.  

that  achievement  are  multilayered 
partnerships  and  a  comprehensive  approach.  We  must 
also  recall  that  the  2005  World  Summit  stressed  the 
three  robust  pillars  of  the  United  Nations:  human 
rights,  peace  and  security,  and  development  and 
economic  advancement.  The  three  issues  are  closely 
to  ensure 
Key 
to 
10-56676 

7 
it 
Islam 
embraces 
the  most 
democracy, 
rights  are  among 
Let me start with the first pillar: human rights and 
A/65/PV.25 

interlinked;  one  cannot  survive  without  the  other  two. 
That trinity of purpose must be kept. 

its related subjects. 
The  monitoring,  protection  and  promotion  of 

human 
important 
responsibilities  of  the  United  Nations.  The  global 
economic  and  food  crises  have  had  a  devastating 
impact  on  the  promotion  of  human  rights.  That 
demonstrates  the  interlinkage  of  the  three  pillars,  as  I 
stipulated earlier. The United Nations must continue in 
its  efforts  to  help  Member  States  to  integrate  human 
rights into their development efforts. 

Our  experience  reveals  that  efforts  to  implement 
human  rights  will  fail  to  bear  fruit  if  there  is  no 
enabling  environment.  Therefore, 
is  extremely 
crucial  that  we  establish  good  governance,  strengthen 
the rule of law and reform key democratic institutions. 
Indonesia 
and 
modernization in the same breath. Surely, the ultimate 
beneficiary  of  that  effort  is  not  Governments,  but  our 
respective societies. 

The review of the Human Rights Council in 2011 
will  give  us  ample  opportunity  to  further  strengthen 
that body. It is pertinent to note that, for the first time, 
the  United  Nations  body  dealing  with  human  rights 
truly represents the diversity of the global community. 
That was not the case with its predecessor. 

Moreover, Indonesia welcomes the creation of the 
United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the 
Empowerment  of  Women  and  the  appointment  of 
Under-Secretary-General  Michelle Bachelet as its first 
Executive Director. The key to empowering women is 
to  give  them  better  opportunities  and  access  to  health 
and  education  facilities  so  that  they  become  the 
principal agents of change and progress. 

The  past  few  years  have  been  marked  by 
successive  massive  natural  disasters.  The  capacity  of 
the  United  Nations 
international 
humanitarian 
be 
strengthened. 
Indonesia 

Turning 
faithfully  remains  loyal  to  the  ideals  set  forth  in  our 
1945  Constitution.  We  are  duty-bound  to  help  to 
maintain a world order based on independence, abiding 
peace  and  social  justice. There  is  no  better  way  to  do 
so than to send our men and women to serve that noble 
assistance  must 
to  peace  and 
therefore 
security, 
deliver 
to 

that 
recognize 
in  peacebuilding.  We 
objective  under 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
umbrella.  We  strongly  support  the  participation  of 
more female peacekeepers and the greater participation 
of  women 
the 
difficulties  and  complexities  of  peacekeeping.  The 
New  Horizon  process  will  provide  for  better  and 
stronger  peacekeeping  wherever  it  may  be  needed  in 
the future. 

The progress that has been made in the efforts to 
combat  terrorism,  including  the  establishment  of  the 
United  Nations  Counter-Terrorism 
Implementation 
Task  Force,  should  not  make  us  complacent. We  must 
not  let  our  guard  down  against  that  global  menace. 
Thus, the implementation of the United Nations Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy merits our united support. 

The 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
was truly historic, yet much remains to be done. We are 
disappointed,  however, 
the  Conference  on 
Disarmament  has  remained  stalled,  and  we 
look 
forward  to  its  resumption  of  negotiations  on  the  main 
substantive issues. 
On  an  issue  related  to  regional  peace  and  that  is 

dear  to  us  —  the  Palestinian  question  —  we  strongly 
support  the  recent  resumption  of  direct  negotiations 
between  Palestine  and 
the 
promising  talks  are  now  being  jeopardized  by  Israel’s 
decision not to extend the moratorium on the building 
of  settlements  in  the  occupied  territory.  The  United 
Nations,  in  the  framework  of  the  Quartet,  as  well  as 
other  members  of  the  international  community,  must 
recognize  that  serious  development  and  take  remedial 
actions.  Indonesia,  for  its  part,  will  continue  to  work 
with other members of the international community to 
assist the fate of Palestine. 

the  report  makes 
cautious  prognoses,  with  particular  reference  to  the 
beginnings  of  a  global  economic  recovery  following 
the global experiences of the past few years. Indonesia 
shares the view that the chances of economic recovery 
are high if the need for strong commitment, leadership 
and  political  will  on  the  part  of  Member  States  is 
fulfilled. 

Moreover, climate change remains a major threat 
to  equitable  and  sustainable  development.  Indonesia 
looks 
the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change in Mexico, 
the  sixteenth  session  of 
Israel.  Regrettably, 
last  pillar, 
Regarding 
forward 
the 
to 
8 

10-56676 
today’s  massive  challenges 


and urges Member States to work towards a consensus 
agreement 
that  would  address  climate  change 
effectively on the basis of the Copenhagen Accord and 
the  progress  made  in  the  two  working  groups  for  the 
fifteenth Conference. 

I  will  conclude  with  a  few  remarks  on  the 
Organization  itself.  Indonesia  firmly  believes  that 
confronting 
requires 
multilateral  action  with  the  United  Nations  at  its 
centre.  No  single  country,  big  or  small,  developed  or 
developing, is equipped to meet those challenges on its 
own.  Working  together  is  therefore  in  the  interests  of 
all.  The  United  Nations  must  continue  to  enhance 
cooperation with vital regional organizations, including 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations.  The 
Organization must also pursue its reform agenda to the 
fullest  so  as  to  ensure  that  its  organs  function  at  an 
optimal 
level.  The  General  Assembly  must  be 
revitalized  and  the  Security  Council  restructured  to 
reflect current realities. Indonesia, for its part, remains 
fully  committed  to  playing  its  role  and  cooperating  in 
the work of the United Nations as the platform and hub 
of a renewed global partnership. 
the 

delegation  of  Kazakhstan  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  presenting  his  comprehensive 
report on the work of the Organization (A/65/1). In our 
opinion,  it  is  a  good  reflection  of  every  aspect  of  the 
Organization’s hard work. 

Over  the  past  year,  the  world  has  moved  from  a 
global  economic  depression  to  the  first  manifestations 
of  a  global  recovery.  The  Secretary-General  is  quite 
right  when  he  says  that  “the  recovery  is  fragile  and 
uneven,  and  there  is  no  guarantee  that  a  relapse  will 
not  occur”  (A/65/1,  para.  1).  Unemployment  remains 
unacceptably  high 
employment 
continues  to  rise.  Economic  volatility,  eruptions  of 
conflict,  natural  disasters,  challenges  to  food  security 
and  strains  on  natural  resources  are  unlikely 
to 
disappear. In this regard, Kazakhstan considers that the 
major  responsibility  for  making  substantial  efforts  to 
stimulate  growth  and  development  still  lies  with  the 
Governments of Member States. 

We  are  happy  that  there  are  grounds  for  a  new 
optimism  as  we  observe  several  important  elements 
that  will  help  guide  the  United  Nations  through  these 
uncertain  times.  The  Organization  has  a  concrete 
framework 
the  Millennium 
Mrs.  Aitimova
and  vulnerable 
(Kazakhstan): 
its  action: 
First, 
A/65/PV.25
to 
(MDGs). 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
It  has  significant 
resources  and  knowledge  that  can  help  it  address  the 
current  challenges,  as  well  as  increasingly  robust 
partnerships  with  business,  civil  society  and  academia 
that can help improve its responses. But these measures 
can  be  taken  only  if  the  United  Nations  is  able  to 
mobilize  the  collective  global  political  leadership  and 
will. 

As was indicated in the outcome document of the 
recent summit on the MDGs (resolution 65/1), over the 
next five years the Organization and its Member States 
must  focus  on  accelerating  progress  through  further 
measures.  These  include  using  innovative  financing 
and  investments  in  order  to  support  the  provision  of 
global  public  goods,  dedicating  resources 
the 
promotion  of  peace  and  security,  and  mobilizing  to 
meet humanitarian and human rights needs around the 
world. 

Let  me  focus  on  gender  issues.  No  one  would 
argue that, without the full engagement of women, the 
international system cannot meet the demands made on 
it. This year, which marks the fifteenth anniversary of 
the  Beijing  Declaration  and  Platform  for  Action  and 
the 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
to 
Member  States  and  the  Organization  is  clear:  gender 
equality and women’s empowerment are indispensable 
goals  that  the  United  Nations  must  champion  for  the 
benefit of all. 

In  this  regard,  we  recall  that  on  2  July  the 
Assembly  endorsed  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal 
with its unanimous adoption of the landmark resolution 
64/289  on  system-wide  coherence,  which  merged  the 
four  areas  of  the  United  Nations  system  dealing  with 
women’s issues into one composite, the United Nations 
Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of 
Women,  to  be  known  as  UN  Women.  Kazakhstan 
welcomes 
the  recent  appointment  of  an  Under-
Secretary-General  to  head  the  new  body  and  the 
establishment  of  an  Executive  Board 
to  provide 
intergovernmental  support  for  and  supervision  of  its 
operations. 

We consider these developments to be among the 
most  remarkable  achievements  of  United  Nations 
reform in the past year. In 2010, the Secretary-General 
has  encouraged  the  United  Nations  to  lend  its  full 
support  to  programmes  that  empower  women  and 
towards 
the  message 
the  global  effort 
tenth  year  of 
to  guide 
10-56676 

9 

the 
Over 
them 
the  past  decade, 
A/65/PV.25 

protect 
from  discriminatory  practices  and 
violence.  And,  of  course,  the  leadership  of  Member 
States is essential. 

international 
community  has  made  considerable  progress  towards 
reducing  poverty,  promoting  sustainable  development, 
securing  peace  and  stability,  and  promoting  women’s 
empowerment.  As  the  Organization  and  its  Member 
States  look  to  the  next  decade,  they  should  be  even 
more ambitious. And we share the optimism expressed 
by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report.  Indeed,  it  is 
only  by  working  together  that  we  can  strengthen  the 
Organization  so  that  it  can  be  a  driving  force  for 
multilateral action and fulfil the commitments made in 
September. 

Five years from the target date of 2015 agreed for 
achieving  the  MDGs,  success  is  still  within  reach  but 
not  guaranteed.  The  Organization  and  its  Member 
States have made a great push forward, yet progress is 
uneven, gaps are wide and new challenges have yet to 
be  met.  The  intensified  efforts  of  every  Member 
country  are  needed  urgently  in  order  for  us  to 
accelerate  our  pace  towards  achieving  the  Goals. This 
Assembly  has  a  mandate  to  facilitate  the  acceleration 
of progress towards the MDGs. Kazakhstan is ready to 
contribute  actively  to  this  process  and  to  set  an 
example that can prove that the Millennium Goals are 
achievable. 
The  year  2010  is  an  important  one  for  meeting 

the  promises 
the 
international  community  have  made  to  those  most  in 
need  around  the  world.  By  identifying  and  embracing 
the  MDGs,  Member  States  have  put  human 
development  at  centre  stage  and  resolved  to  spare  no 
effort  to  transform  our  world  into  a  safer  and  more 
equitable, sustainable and prosperous place. 
We are proud that this year, for the first time, the 

world  community  celebrated  29  August  as 
the 
International  Day  against  Nuclear  Tests,  initiated  by 
President  Nursultan  Nazarbayev  of  Kazakhstan. 
Unanimous  support  for  resolution  64/35  effectively 
reaffirmed  the  international  community’s  commitment 
to the process of reducing the nuclear threat. I take this 
opportunity to once again thank Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon, who started his visit to my country last April 
with  a  tour  of  the  former  Semipalatinsk  nuclear  test 
site. We remember that, standing on the former ground 
the  United  Nations  and 
that 
the 
and 
resources 
coherence 
system-wide 
talent  management  system 
zero, he urged the international community to redouble 
its efforts to achieve a world free from nuclear threats. 

We are following a number of important changes 
initiated  by  the  Secretary-General  in  human  resources 
the  accountability 
policy,  budget  planning  and 
framework,  with  a  view 
to 
strengthening 
the 
Organization.  Important  progress  has  also  been  made 
on 
further 
strengthening  of  the  Organization’s  cooperation  with 
regional  organizations.  We  also  take  note  of  efforts 
made  by  the  Secretary-General,  as  he  continues  to 
implement  his  human 
reform  agenda, 
including by reducing the various types of employment 
contracts,  harmonizing  conditions  of  service  between 
staff  in  the  field  and  those  at  Headquarters,  and 
launching  a  new 
to 
modernize  recruitment,  performance  management  and 
staff learning and development.  

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  that 
Kazakhstan supports the ongoing efforts of the United 
Nations Secretariat aimed at creating a stronger United 
Nations  and  at  forging  strong  working  relationships 
with  a  variety  of  stakeholders,  including  regional 
organizations  and  civil  society.  For 
that  reason, 
outreach and the building of partnerships are important 
elements of the Organization’s activity. 
in 

French):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  the  sincere  congratulations 
and support that President  Paul Biya conveyed to him 
on  behalf  of  Cameroon  from  this  rostrum  on  his 
election  as  President.  The  same  applies 
to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  of  Libya,  as 
well  as  to  the  Secretary-General  of  the  Organization, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon. 

Once  again,  it  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to  commend 
the  Secretary-General  for  the  quality  of  his  report  on 
the activity of the Organization, published as document 
A/65/1  and  submitted  under  agenda  item  108  (see 
A/65/251). The report provides us with supplementary 
information  about  the  vision  and  the  expectations  of 
the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  the  role  of  Member 
States,  so  that  the  international  community  can  meet 
the  challenges  that  continue  to  affect  us,  namely,  a 
global economy that shows the signs of a recovery that 
is  still  fragile  and  unequal,  unemployment  that  is  still 
high,  ongoing  conflicts  in  some  areas  of  the  world, 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
10 

10-56676 


natural  disasters,  problems  of  food  security,  ongoing 
pressure  on  natural  resources,  the  impact  of  climate 
change, and so on.  

In  that  regard,  first  and  foremost  as  regards 
development  issues,  my  delegation  agrees  with  the 
Secretary-General that the Millennium Declaration and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  (see 
resolution  55/2),  if  they  are  indeed  implemented,  will 
guide the work of the United Nations, if there is more 
political will  from the Member States. The High-level 
Plenary  Meeting,  which  took  place  here  from  20  to  
22  September  and  where  my  country  was  represented 
at  the  highest  level,  is  a  good  illustration  of  that  fact. 
Indeed,  that  meeting  provided  the  United  Nations  and 
its  Members  with  the  opportunity  to  reaffirm  their 
commitment to speed up the achievement of the MDGs 
by 2015.  

For  its  part,  the  vision  of  Cameroon  on  the 
MDGs, as presented on that occasion by the President 
of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, focuses 
on  three  main  factors,  namely  the  implementation  of 
Goal  8  on  creating  a  global  partnership 
for 
development, access to energy and job creation.  

the 
that 
complementarity  between  the  MDGs  should  not  cause 
us to lose sight of the fact that there is one among them 
that  conditions  the  implementation  of  all  the  others, 
namely,  Goal  8,  because  efforts  to  mobilize  resources 
for  development  require  the  establishment  of  a  fairer 
financial  and  economic  system,  a  comprehensive 
treatment  of  the  debt  issue  and  a  flow  of  official 
development  assistance  that  is  stable,  predictable  and 
effective, as well as access to essential medications. 

The second key factor  for  the implementation of 
MDGs  is  access  to  energy,  because  that  facilitates  an 
increase  in  both  agricultural  production  and  water 
supply,  as  well  as  the  blossoming  of  activities  that 
generate income. 
The third important factor is to solve the crisis in 

employment,  in  particular  the  employment  of  youth, 
who  represent 
the  main  part  of  our  population. 
Cameroon  welcomes  the  results  that  the  High-level 
Plenary Meeting achieved on the MDGs, as long as the 
international  community implements the commitments 
set forth in the outcome document. 

assistance, 
development 
the  heads  of  State  and  Government 
Cameroon 
convinced 
regarding 
Indeed, 
official 
indeed 
is 
A/65/PV.25
taxing 
undertook  to  give  great  attention  to  respecting  all 
commitments,  including  the  commitment  under  which 
many countries by 2015 have committed to allocate 0.7 
per  cent  of  the  gross  domestic  product  to  official 
development  assistance  and  in  2010  to  achieve  the 
interim  objective  of  0.5  per  cent.  They  have  also 
promised  to  study  the  possibility  of  using  innovative 
financing  mechanisms,  such  as 
financial 
transactions. 

As regards international trade, the heads of State 
and Government affirmed their support for a universal 
multilateral  trade  system,  rejecting  protectionism  and 
subsidies  for  agricultural  product  exports.  They  also 
reaffirmed  that  States  have  the  right  to  fully  use  the 
provisions of the World Trade Organization agreement 
on trade regarding universal access to medication.  

Regarding the issue of the debt, the heads of State 
and  Government  said  that  they  wanted  to  facilitate  its 
financing  and  alleviation  and  that  they  planned  to  set 
up  improved  structures  for  restructuring  sovereign 
debt.  If 
the 
deadlines  set,  they  would  most  certainly  support  and 
strengthen 
that  have  already  been 
undertaken by each of our countries. 

The  Cameroon  Government  itself  has  already 
undertaken  to  implement  a  strategy  document  for 
growth  and  employment 
the 
development 
and 
infrastructure, without which it would be impossible to 
see  an  improvement  in  living  conditions  for  people. 
Other  efforts  have  also  been  undertaken,  including 
pursuit  of  fiscal  reforms  to  act  as  an  incentive  and 
improvement of the business climate, in order to have 
greater mobilization of domestic savings and to attract 
more  foreign  direct 
the 
absorption capacity of external debt. 

35  of 
underscores that,  

Regarding Africa’s particular needs, in paragraph 
rightly 
those  commitments  are  kept  within 
focuses  on 
sectors 
the  Secretary-General 

“Africa’s  people  need  neither  pity  nor 
charity;  they  need  the  tools  to  create  jobs  and 
generate  incomes.  Developed  countries  should 
make  good  on  promises  made  repeatedly  at 
summit  meetings  of  the  Group  of  Eight  and  the 
Group of 20, and at the United Nations, to double 
aid to Africa.” (A/65/1, para. 35) 
investment  and 
the  efforts 
productive 
increase 
the 
report, 
that 
of 
the 
10-56676 

11 

the  way 
forward 
for 
laid  out 
Allow  me 
remarkable  progress 
A/65/PV.25 


Of  course,  we  welcome  the  role  played  by  the 
Africa Steering Group set up by the Secretary-General, 
which  has 
the 
international  community  in  terms  of  helping  Africa 
achieve the MDGs in areas of strategic interest, such as 
health, education, agriculture, infrastructure and trade. 
The impact of this will, nonetheless, be limited, if the 
main donors of official development assistance do not 
respect their commitments.  
Here,  the African  Union  quite  rightly  notes  that, 

while  Africa  has  made 
in 
achieving  the  MDGs,  the  pace  and  quality  of  the 
achievements  allows  us  to  be  only  somewhat  pleased, 
at best, with the results. 

to  comment  briefly  on  another 
important  pillar  of  the  work  of  this  Organization,  one 
that  is  mentioned  in  paragraphs  37  through  73  of  the 
Secretary-General’s report, namely, peace and security. 
The  report  shows  that,  over  the  past  year,  this 
Organization  has  continued  to  work  on  the  ground,  in 
particular  in  Africa.  This  involvement  has  led  it  to 
employ  every  means  at  its  disposal  for  intervention, 
from  conflict  prevention  to  peacekeeping  missions  to 
support for peacebuilding.  

With the modest means at its disposal, Cameroon 
has continued to be involved by making available and 
deploying  military  observers  and  police  forces  in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  Burundi, 
Côte  d’Ivoire  and  Darfur,  on  the  borders  of  Chad  and 
the  Central  African  Republic, 
in 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and in Haiti.  

My  country  welcomes  the  progress  made  in 
various places, thanks to the work or the assistance of 
the United Nations. Indeed, we commend the progress 
made 
the 
Ouagadougou  agreements  and  in  peacebuilding  there. 
In  Burundi,  the  process  is  also  moving  forward,  with 
the holding of elections, thus moving the country from 
the peacekeeping phase to the peacebuilding phase. In 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo too, the United 
Nations Mission has turned into a stabilization mission. 
In  Haiti,  we  are  moving  towards  stabilization,  despite 
the delays caused by the 12 January 2010 earthquake.  

We  are,  of  course,  aware  of  the  fact  that  the 
available  resources  are  not  keeping  pace  with  the 
constant 
the 
diversity  and  complexity of mission mandates. This is 
why  we  encourage  the  Secretary-General  to  continue 
in  Côte  d’Ivoire 
implementing 
increase 
in  deployments, 
let  alone 
in 
and  of 
his  consideration  of  this  issue,  in  collaboration  with 
Member States, as part of the New Horizons initiative, 
in  order  to  find  solutions  to  those  problems.  For  its 
part,  my  country  supports  the  implementation  of  that 
programme, which has repeatedly received widespread 
support from many Member States, both in the Security 
Council and in the General Assembly. 

The need to reform United Nations peacekeeping 
leads  me  to  speak,  in  conclusion,  about  the  need  to 
reform the Organization and the system in its entirety, 
given  the  human  tragedies  we  face,  in  particular  in 
Africa,  with  regard  to  both  development  and  peace. 
The  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance is an undeniable fact. It is clear that, faced 
with  the  challenges  that  confront  us,  the  United 
Nations  is  undertaking  praiseworthy  efforts.  But,  in 
order  to  fully  guarantee  the  effectiveness  of  its  work, 
the  Organization  must  receive  the  resources  that  it 
needs  from  all  its  Members. To  do  so,  it  must  always 
reflect our common desires and remain the crucible of 
multilateralism 
the  democratization  of 
international relations.  

In  that  regard  and  in  terms  of  the  issue  of 
development, the desire for increased solidarity and for 
an  overhaul  of  the  international  system  aimed  at 
achieving  a  fairer  trade  and  financial  system  must  be 
heard. This is where the work that the United Nations 
will pursue with the Group of 20 and Group of Eight is 
cause for hope.  

As  regards  the  United  Nations  itself,  the  often-
mentioned  need  for  Security  Council  reform,  which 
should  enable  Africa  to  have  a  permanent  presence 
there,  requires  us  to  take  determined  action.  That 
would  be  a  good  course  of  action  for  an  Organization 
that, ultimately, is the mediator of our higher interests, 
with  peace,  security  and  the  well-being  of  each  and 
every person at the forefront of those interests. 
Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri (India): I wish to thank 

the Secretary-General for his annual report on the work 
of the Organization (A/65/1). 
The  commitments  that  we  undertook  in  2000, 

enshrined 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  were 
renewed  by  our  leaders  two  weeks  ago  at  the  High-
level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  As  we  take  stock  of  the  MDGs,  it  is 
evident  that  the  progress  reported  by  the  Secretary-
General  on  various  fronts,  such  as  poverty  reduction, 
primary  education  enrolment,  narrowing  the  gender 
in 
12 

10-56676 
frame.  While  countries  bear 


gap in education and access to clean water, is tempered 
by the uneven reach and significant gaps that persist in 
all the MDG categories, in particular the health-related 
MDGs. 

Never  before  in  the  65  years  of  the  existence  of 
the United Nations has there been such  a groundswell 
of global support for taking development to the poorest 
and  the  most  vulnerable  among  us,  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  whom  are  found  in  developing  countries. 
Never  before  has  there  been  a  clearer  picture  of  what 
needs  to  be  done  to  address  the  many  dimensions  of 
poverty and inequality and to build a global partnership 
for development. 

It is, therefore, imperative that we ensure that our 
collective  commitments  are  achieved  in  the  agreed 
time 
the  primary 
responsibility for their own development strategies and 
goals,  there  is  no  denying  that  resource  constraints 
pose a significant impediment to progress in achieving 
the  MDGs.  The  global  partnership  on  financing  for 
development is crucial to ensuring that the developing 
countries  can  meet  their  MDG  targets,  particularly  as 
they relate to the special needs of Africa and the least 
developed  countries,  small  island  developing  States 
and  landlocked  least  developed  countries.  They  must 
continue to receive priority attention. 

We  could  not  agree  more  with  the  Secretary-
General  that  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  requires 
unswerving  commitment,  proactive  engagement  and 
collective global political leadership and will. It is time 
now for the high words to translate into action. 

India shares the priority placed by the Secretary-
General  on  climate  change.  We  are  aware  of  the 
consequences  it  has  for  vulnerable  communities  and 
regions in our countries. We welcome his initiative on 
a  High-level  Advisory  Group  on  Climate  Change 
Financing  and  a  High-level  Panel  on  Global 
Sustainability.  India  will  participate  constructively  in 
efforts to achieve an ambitious and equitable outcome 
in  the  negotiations  on  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. 

While the Secretary-General’s report captures the 
priorities  that  have  engaged  the  Organization  and  its 
membership,  as  well  as  the  progress  achieved  on  a 
number of fronts, we are struck by the singular lack of 
mention  of  the  important  progress  made  in  advancing 
the  agenda  of  Security  Council  reform. The  launch  of 
text-based  negotiations  and  the  overwhelming  and 
A/65/PV.25
relevance  of 
real 
negotiations 
on 
is  our  firm  belief 
that 
Intergovernmental 
emphatic  support  extended  by  the  membership  of  the 
United  Nations  for  expansion  in  both  the  permanent 
and  non-permanent  categories  of  the  Security  Council 
cannot  go  unacknowledged  and  needs  to  be  properly 
recorded. 
Security 

Council  reforms  acquired  a  positive  momentum  in  the 
sixty-fourth session, with a decision by the membership 
to “immediately continue intergovernmental negotiations 
on Security Council reform” (decision 64/568, para. (a)) 
on the basis of the negotiation text. The Organization’s 
success in meeting the diverse and complex challenges 
it faces is to a great extent based on our willingness to 
accept and undertake the crying need for reform of the 
principal organs of the United Nations, in particular the 
Security  Council.  It 
the 
effectiveness  and 
the  multilateral 
endeavour  that  constitutes  the  United  Nations  and  its 
that  we  delay 
activities  diminishes  every  day 
implementing 
reforms  of 
its  governance 
architecture. 

I also draw attention to the progress made in the 
revitalization of the General Assembly. Its pre-eminent 
role  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policy-making  and 
representative  organ  of  the  United  Nations  should  be 
respected  in  letter  and  in  spirit. The Ad  Hoc Working 
Group  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
did commendable work during the previous session. In 
that connection, we welcome the adoption of consensus 
resolution  64/301  on 
the 
conclusions in the report of the Ad Hoc Working Group 
(A/64/903).  A  number  of  forward-looking  provisions 
were  agreed  on,  including  those  relating  to  enhancing 
the Assembly’s role in the selection and appointment of 
the  Secretary-General,  enhancing  the  role  of  the 
Assembly  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security,  strengthening 
the 
presidency of the General Assembly and improving the 
quality  of  reporting  by  the  Security  Council  to  the 
General Assembly. 
Terrorism  poses  a  grave  threat  to  all  States  and 

societies.  It 
that  requires  a 
coordinated  and  concerted  global  response  to  combat 
it. In this regard, India believes that the adoption of a 
comprehensive 
international 
terrorism,  which  has  been  under  negotiation  for  over 
15 years, would provide a solid legal basis for the fight 
against terrorism. We therefore welcome the Secretary-
General’s  assertion  in  his  report  on  measures  to 
the  subject  based  on 
the 
institution  of 
is  a  global 
threat 
convention 
against 
10-56676 

13 
the 
towards 
terrorism 
(A/65/175) 
international 
conclusion  of 
the  United  Nations 
Ongoing  efforts,  such  as 
Implementation  Task  Force  and 
A/65/PV.25 

eliminate 
that 
comprehensive  implementation  of  the  United  Nations 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy cannot be complete 
the 
without 
comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism. 

the  recent  second 
biennial review of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy, institutionalization of the Counter-
Terrorism 
the 
strengthening  of  the  sanctions  regime  created  by 
Security  Council  resolution  1267  (1999)  are  steps  in 
the  right  direction.  India  will  continue  its  active 
involvement  in  all  the  counter-terrorism  efforts  of  the 
United Nations. 

Peacekeeping  continues  to  be  the  most  visible 
contribution  of 
the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  stability  in  conflict-torn 
regions  around  the  world.  As  one  of  the  largest 
contributors to peacekeeping operations, both in terms 
of  troops  and  resources,  we  support  efforts  by  the 
Secretary-General  to  strengthen  the  capability  of  the 
Organization  to  keep  peace  in  increasingly  complex 
situations.  The  challenge 
that  field 
missions  are  equipped  with  adequate  resources  and 
expertise 
satisfactorily  execute  peacekeeping 
mandates. 

My delegation is following with close interest the 
Secretary-General’s efforts to enhance the Secretariat’s 
ability  to  support  peacekeeping  operations.  In  that 
regard,  we  expect  the  Secretariat  to  closely  consult 
with  us  and  other  troop-contributing  countries  in 
further taking forward the global field support strategy 
that was unveiled last year. 

that 
peacekeeping  cannot  be  a  substitute  for  the  task  of 
nation-building and peacebuilding. The Government of 
India  is  committed  to  the  principle  and  practice  of 
peacebuilding.  We  have  been  actively  involved  in  the 
process  of  the  ongoing  review  of  the  peacebuilding 
architecture  that  is  centred  on  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission and its instrumentalities. There have been 
a  number  of  innovative  mechanisms  put  in  place  to 
bolster United Nations peacebuilding efforts, including 
collaboration  with  the  World  Bank,  expanding  the 
footprint  of  post-conflict 
through 
enhancing  civilian  capacities,  maximizing  the  positive 
role 
in  peacebuilding  and 
strengthening  the  catalytic  role  of  the  Peacebuilding 
that  women  can  play 
consolidation 
to  ensure 
conscious 
remains 
India 
acutely 
is 
to 

to 
like 
record. 
impetus 
the  Work  of 
the  efforts  of 
to  express  our  appreciation  for 
non-proliferation 
and  nuclear  non-proliferation 
Fund. We support those innovations. We would further 
like to stress the imperative of national ownership and 
the  anchoring  of  international  peacebuilding  efforts  at 
the country level. 

We  are  encouraged  by  the  positive  signs  of  an 
invigorated international debate on global disarmament 
in 2010. India attaches the highest priority to the goal 
of  universal  nuclear  disarmament  and  has  an 
Nuclear 
impeccable 
disarmament 
are 
mutually  reinforcing  processes,  and 
they  require 
concerted  and  cooperative  international  efforts.  We 
would 
the 
Secretary-General’s  initiative  to  convene  the  High-
level  Meeting  on  Revitalizing 
the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  and  Taking  Forward 
Multilateral  Disarmament  Negotiations.  We  believe 
that it has rightfully sent a clear message of support for 
the  Conference  on  Disarmament  as 
the  single 
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum and that it 
provides  political 
the  multilateral 
disarmament agenda. 

the  Secretary-
We  appreciate 
General in advocating the principles of promotion and 
protection of human rights and the rule of law. We also 
recognize  their  synergistic  link  with  human  welfare 
and 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
The  review  exercise  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
should  explore  ways  to  preserve  transparency  and 
inclusiveness  and  to  ensure  that,  while  urgent  human 
rights situations are addressed, duplication and overlap 
are  avoided.  The  Council  should  also  streamline  the 
number  of  resolutions  put  forward  in  each  session, 
rationalize  its  work  and  the  mandates  of  its  special 
procedures,  without  in  any  way  undermining  our 
commitment  to  human  rights  and  make  the  dialogue 
between  the  Council  and  Member  States  genuinely 
interactive. 
the 

Organization to better enable it to deliver on its vision 
and  mandate  received  a  boost  with  the  adoption  of 
General  Assembly  resolution  64/289  on  system-wide 
coherence.  India  particularly  welcomes  the  landmark 
decision to create a unified gender entity, UN Women. 
We look forward to the early operationalization of the 
entity  and  welcome  the  appointment  of  Michelle 
Bachelet  as  the  first  Executive  Director  and  Under-
Secretary-General for UN Women. 
socio-economic  development, 
strengthening 
institutional 
including 
The 
of 
14 

10-56676 



In  closing,  I  pledge  my  delegation’s  full  support 
for  efforts  to  achieve  the  important  goals  we  have  set 
for ourselves and take forward the important mandates 
entrusted  to  the  Organization.  We  look  forward  to 
building  on  the  positive  momentum  from  last  year  on 
crucial  issues  and  working  towards  meaningful  and 
result-oriented discussions on the various items on the 
agenda of the General Assembly. 
Mrs. Dunlop (Brazil): I thank Secretary-General 

Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/65/1).  It  presents  the  activities  of  the 
United  Nations  during  a  period  in  which  the  world’s 
demands of and expectations for the Organization were 
very high. We appreciated the continued efforts of the 
Secretary-General  and  the  Secretariat  to  help  Member 
States  meet  such  expectations  and  respond  to  those 
demands. 

More than ever, multilateralism is a political and 
practical  imperative.  Dealing  with  the  many  global 
challenges  with  which  we  are  confronted  requires 
enhanced  cooperation  and  decision-making  processes 
that  are  more  participatory.  In  some  areas, 
the 
traditional  players  have  already  understood  that.  In 
others,  there  is  still  resistance  to  sharing  power  and 
responsibilities.  We  must  all  constantly  work 
to 
strengthen 
the  General  Assembly  with  concrete 
initiatives.  Just  as  importantly,  the  Security  Council 
must  be  reformed  and  expanded  to  allow  for  greater 
participation  on  the  part  of  developing  countries, 
including as permanent members. 

Africa is — and rightly so — a key priority in the 
various fields of the work of the United Nations. Such 
a  priority  should  be  permanently 
into 
specific  initiatives.  The  continent  occupies  a  very 
special  place  in  Brazilian  diplomacy.  Through  trade 
and  investment,  we  are  joining  forces  with  several 
African  Governments 
the  enormous 
potential of the continent and reduce its dependency on 
foreign  assistance.  This  year,  in  which  a  significant 
number  of  African  nations  are  celebrating  the  fiftieth 
anniversary of their decolonization, Brazil is renewing 
its commitment to an independent, prosperous, just and 
democratic Africa. 

Among  the  many  activities  undertaken  by  the 
Organization,  those  in  the  social  domain  deserve 
particular  attention.  The  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  are  key  guides  to  our  collective 
to  develop 
translated 
A/65/PV.25
fulfil 
their 
community, 
responsibilities 
the  allocation  of 
endeavours. Brazil is proud to have achieved almost all 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  be  well 
on the way to meeting them all by 2015. We consider, 
however, that achieving the MDGs will not be possible 
without 
significant  additional 
financial resources in a stable and predictable manner, 
particularly  to  the  poorest  countries  among  us.  All 
Member  States  must 
international 
obligations in this regard. The inability of a country to 
reach those Goals is a responsibility to be shared by the 
international 
as 
the  promotion  of 
development is a task for us all. 
Reaching a global, comprehensive and ambitious 

agreement  on  climate  change 
remains  a  major 
challenge that requires actions commensurate with our 
common  but  differentiated 
and 
respective  capabilities.  Brazil  and  other  developing 
countries are doing their part. A positive outcome from 
the sixteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change,  with  tangible  progress  on  forests,  financing 
for  adaptation  and  mitigation,  access  to  technologies 
and  the  reaffirmation  of  the  Kyoto  commitments  is 
paramount.  As  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  Celso 
Amorim  stated  here  in  his  intervention  during  the 
general  debate,  the  Mexican  presidency  can  count  on 
Brazil’s engagement to achieve this objective. 
Human  rights  are  a  basic  pillar  of  the  United 

Nations  and  a  central  part  of  its  work.  Brazil’s 
commitment  to  the  promotion  of  human  rights  is 
unwavering. The Human Rights Council must continue 
to operate in  a non-selective and  constructive manner, 
especially  through  the  Universal  Periodic  Review, 
while maintaining the capacity to address situations of 
particular concern. In our view, human rights are most 
effectively ensured by dialogue and cooperation. 
We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the  United 

Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment of Women (UN Women). Brazil is ready 
to work with President Michelle Bachelet and Member 
States  to  further  advance  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment of women. As the Secretary-General has 
stated,  “by  empowering  women,  we  empower 
societies”.  

The  year  2010  will  be  remembered  as  the  year 
that  the  capacity  of  the  international  community  to 
respond  to  humanitarian  emergencies  was  put  to  the 
test.  From  Haiti  to  Pakistan,  we  have  seen  genuine 
for  Gender  Equality 
and 
10-56676 

15 

A/65/PV.25 

success stories, but also witnessed the limits of current 
mechanisms  when 
facing  calamities  of  biblical 
proportions.  It  is  imperative  that  we  redouble  our 
efforts  in  order  to  ensure  timely  life-saving  assistance 
to  those  in  need,  as  well  as  the  means  to  promote  the 
transition to recovery and development. With regard to 
Haiti  in  particular,  we  believe  that  the  holding  of  the 
International  Donors  Conference  Towards  a  New 
Future  for  Haiti  was  an  important  example  of  the 
Organization’s aid to a country devastated by a natural 
disaster. For such a response to be effective, however, 
it is imperative that donors live up to their pledges in a 
timely manner. 

United Nations peacekeeping continues to be one 
of the most crucial aspects of the Organization’s work 
for  millions  of  people  around  the  world.  We  strongly 
support the continued partnership among the troop- and 
police-contributing  countries,  the  General  Assembly, 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Secretariat  to  make 
peacekeeping  more  effective.  In  the  coming  year,  we 
hope  to  see  continued  progress  in  areas  such  as  the 
linkage  between  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding, 
interaction with local populations and the protection of 
civilians. One challenge of particular importance today 
is how to address the complex problems of security and 
development in ways that are distinct and yet mutually 
reinforcing. This is not simple, but absolutely must be 
done. 

In  order  to  achieve  a  truly  secure  world,  the 
promise  of  the  total  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons 
must  be  fulfilled.  Unilateral  reductions  are  welcome 
but insufficient, especially when they occur in tandem 
with the modernization of  nuclear  arsenals. There is  a 
clear  and  inextricable  link  between  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation.  They  are  mutually 
reinforcing 
processes, in  which the best guarantee against nuclear 
proliferation  is  nuclear  disarmament.  We  strongly 
support 
the  Conference  on 
Disarmament. The balance between the three pillars of 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons must be maintained. 

Our  times  are  surely  challenging,  but  are  also 
very  promising.  The  world  is  changing  and  it  can  be 
made  a  better  place.  The  United  Nations  is  and  must 
remain  a  valuable  instrument  to  help  us  achieve  that 
shared  goal.  Brazil  renews  its  full  commitment  to  the 
Organization. 
rejuvenation  of 
the 
implementation  of 
Mrs. Kolontai (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

delegation  of  Belarus  welcomes 
the  conceptual 
approach of the Secretary-General’s report (A/65/1) to 
solving  topical  issues  on  the  international  agenda,  in 
particular in the context of implementing commitments 
to  achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

We  support  additional  measures  to  establish 
innovative  financing  and  investment  mechanisms  and 
to  provide  resources  to  strengthen  peace  and  security 
and  to  meet  humanitarian  needs  and  uphold  human 
rights. 

We share the view of the Secretary-General on the 
main  mechanism  for  implementing  this  approach  — 
multilateralism and partnerships, to which there exists 
no alternative. 

An  excellent  example  of  the  partnership  policy 
playing  out  in  practice  in  the  United  Nations  is  the 
General  Assembly’s  consensus  adoption,  at  its  sixty-
fourth session, of the Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 64/293). We all have 
painstaking work to do together to ensure the full and 
effective 
this  comprehensive 
document. 

A few days ago, from this rostrum, the Belarusian 
delegation put forward a new idea in the area of global 
partnership aimed at supporting talented young people 
and  protecting  the  younger  generation  from  social 
decline.  We  hope  that  Member  States  will  respond  to 
Belarus’s initiative and support the holding of thematic 
debates in the Assembly on the issue. 

instability 
demonstrates the need for taking measures to establish 
a sustainable economy. One pillar of such an economy, 
along  with  other  sectors,  should  be  the  energy  sector, 
based on the exploitation of new and renewable power 
sources.  We  are  convinced  that  work  in  the  area  of 
energy  could 
the  establishment  of  a 
comprehensive  energy  agenda  for  the  United  Nations. 
We  note  the  contribution  of  the  Secretariat  to  finding 
solutions  to  the  problem  of  energy  supply.  In  that 
regard,  we 
and 
recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General’s Advisory 
Group  on  Energy  and  Climate  Change,  particularly 
regarding  the  provision  of  access  to  modern  energy 
technologies. We expect the United Nations to continue 
its assistance in establishing a global partnership in the 
energy  sector,  with  special  attention  to  the  transfer  of 
conclusions 
commend 
economic 
facilitate 
The 
current 
global 
the 
16 

10-56676 
thus 
to  make 


modern energy technologies. Belarus is ready to make 
its contribution to this effort, and has already set up an 
international  laboratory  on  renewable  energy  sources, 
based  at  the  Institute  for  Energy  of  the  National 
Academy of Sciences. 

Belarus is interested in the successful outcome of 
the  negotiations  on  climate  change.  The  modest 
achievements  of  the  Copenhagen  Conference  are  a 
convincing  demonstration  of  the  necessity  of  taking 
specific measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Efforts by Belarus for several years to ensure the entry 
into  force  of  its  amendment  to Annex  B  of  the  Kyoto 
Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change  —  and 
its 
contribution to the overall protection of the climate — 
have  unfortunately  so  far  been  unsuccessful.  In  that 
regard, however, we note the support of China, Egypt, 
Israel,  Kyrgyzstan,  Mauritius,  Morocco,  the  Republic 
of Korea and Ukraine, which all approved the Belarus 
amendment during the Assembly’s sixty-fourth session. 
We  believe  that  the  Secretary-General’s  authoritative 
position  as  depositary  of  the  Convention  and  Kyoto 
Protocol  will  play  a  decisive  role  in  accelerating  the 
approval process of the Belarus amendment. 

In  the  context  of  United  Nations  assistance  to 
Member  States  beset  by  natural  and  man-made 
disasters,  we  note  that  the  impact  of  the  Chernobyl 
catastrophe  is  still  being  felt  today,  25  years  after  the 
accident.  We  are  convinced 
the  successful 
mitigation of the results of the Chernobyl explosion is 
in  the  interests  of  the  entire  international  community. 
In  that  regard,  we  call  for  the Assembly’s  support  for 
the draft resolution on Chernobyl. 

We  recognize  the  positive  effect  of  measures 
taken by the United Nations to improve the social and 
economic  situation  in  the  world.  We  note,  however, 
that implementing such measures is impossible without 
enhancing  the  economic  capacity  and  political  role  of 
middle-income countries, which can make an important 
contribution  to  the  stable  growth  of  the  world’s 
economy.  Belarus 
the  United 
Nations to undertake a more productive modernization 
of its working methods, first and foremost by ensuring 
its economic and social effectiveness. 

We  commend  the  leading  role  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  which  has  a  key  part  to  play  as 
coordinator in this area. At the same time, we consider 
that  more  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  work  of 
therefore 
requests 
that 
A/65/PV.25
in  particular 
the 
intergovernmental  mechanisms, 
Economic 
and  Social  Council’s  Development 
Cooperation  Forum.  Participation  in  the  Forum  by 
interested  parties,  including  the  private  sector,  will 
enable it to deal with many thorny issues, including the 
achievement  of 
the  MDGs.  National  voluntary 
presentations  at  the  Council’s  high-level  segment  are 
another  important  tool  for  sharing  experience  and 
fostering coordination. Belarus will submit its national 
report  at  the  annual  Economic  and  Social  Council 
session in 2011. 

The achievement of the MDGs is an international 
issue. However, the main responsibility for it lies with 
national  Governments.  The  Belarusian  Government’s 
strong social policies have meant that over the past 10 
years  our  country  has  seen  a  threefold  increase  in 
income, an eightfold decrease in those living below the 
poverty line and a threefold drop in the unemployment 
rate.  Our  maternal  and  child  mortality  levels  are 
approaching  those  of  developed  countries,  and  the 
proportion of women in Parliament now exceeds 30 per 
cent.  Belarus  has  thus  already  attained  most  of  the 
MDGs and intends to achieve the rest by 2015. 

In  its  progress  towards  achieving  the  MDGs, 
Belarus has demonstrated in practice its commitment to 
human rights. In that regard, we note the observation in 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  that  the  protection  of 
human  rights  should  be  an  integral  part  of  efforts  by 
Member States in the area of development. 

Belarus  is  in  agreement  with  the  Secretary-
General’s opinion that 2010 has been a significant year 
for  work 
and  
non-proliferation. The year was marked by a number of 
international  activities  relating  to  disarmament.  The 
outcome of those meetings demonstrates that of all the 
many  issues  linked  to  international  security,  the  topic 
of  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  is  still 
very  pertinent.  The  May  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons 
importance  of 
maintaining  and 
international 
instrument. We hope that the outcome document of the 
Conference  (NPT/CONF.2010/50),  which 
includes, 
among  other  things,  a  specific  list  of  future  actions, 
will  be  a  productive  basis  for  the  work  of  Treaty 
member States to achieve the Treaty’s aims swiftly. We 
believe  that  providing  non-nuclear-weapon  States  with 
negative  security  assurances  based  on  a  legally  binding 
area  of  disarmament 
strengthening 
showed 
this 
the 
in 
the 
10-56676 

17 
to  revitalizing 
for 
issues  with  regard 
Belarus  welcomes  United  Nations  efforts 
A/65/PV.25 

document will significantly shore up the non-proliferation 
regime. 

to 
counter  the  illicit  and  uncontrolled  proliferation  of 
small  arms  and  light  weapons. We  hope  that  this  area 
will  remain  an  important  part  of  the  Organization’s 
work  on  the  disarmament  track.  We  were  pleased  to 
hear of the Secretary-General’s efforts to revitalize the 
work  of  the  Conference  on  Disarmament.  Belarus 
supports  the  convening  of  a  fourth  special  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  disarmament,  during  which 
important 
the 
Conference  could  be  reviewed.  We  hope  that  this 
important  negotiating  body  will  soon  emerge  from 
crisis and renew its substantive work. 

Belarus  has  consistently  held  to  the  opinion  that 
the  successful  implementation  of  the  Global  Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy  depends  on  a  reliable  international 
legal  basis  for  action  by  States  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism.  We  believe  that  the  General  Assembly  — 
without  substituting  for  the  Security  Council  —  can 
make  a  significant  contribution  to  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community  to  combat  terrorism  by  the 
speedy  completion  of  its  work  on  a  comprehensive 
convention  on  terrorism.  Belarus  is  prepared  for 
constructive  discussions  on  proposals 
the 
completion of the final draft of the convention. We also 
underscore  the  importance  of  technical  assistance 
provided  by  bodies  such  as  the  Counter-Terrorism 
Committee,  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime, 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency, 
Interpol and other organizations. 

the 
composite  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality 
and  the  Empowerment  of  Women,  as  well  as  new 
approaches  to  regulate  operational  activities  and  other 
important  elements  included  in  resolution  64/289,  on 
system-wide  coherence.  Unfortunately,  it  would  seem 
that that is the only clear example of successful reform 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  therefore  call  on  the 
Secretary-General  to  continue  efforts  in  that  area.  We 
believe  that  our  combined  efforts  on  revitalizing  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  should  be  given  high 
priority. 
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  presenting  his 
report on the work of the Organization (A/65/1) during 
the  past  year  as  we  initiate  this  sixty-fifth  session  of 
the  establishment  of 
Belarus  welcomes 

to  convene  at 
the  General  Assembly.  We  find  the  report  to  be 
complete  and  balanced,  and,  above  all, 
it  has 
suggestions  regarding  the  major  challenges  that  the 
United Nations faces in meeting our expectations in an 
international  context  characterized  by  more  shadows 
than light.  

The  Secretary-General  has  proposed  that  those 
challenges can be grouped in three broad categories: a 
more  prosperous  world  that  is  free  of  poverty,  a 
greener world that is environmentally sustainable and a 
more  secure  world  that  is  liberated  from  the  risk  of  a 
nuclear holocaust. Those certainly are challenges of the 
first  order,  although  from  our  perspective  we  would 
add  three  additional  categories,  to  which  I  will  allude 
presently. 

As  to  the  first  category,  the  recent  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  once  more  demonstrated  not  only  our 
Organization’s  power 
the  highest 
political level but its effectiveness in its advocacy role 
for development. We must persist in that core task and 
insist  that  all  parties  meet  the  responsibilities  they 
agreed  to  in  the  year  2000.  In  any  case,  although  the 
United  Nations  might  not  be  called  upon  to  play  a 
central  role  in  addressing  the  effects  of  the  economic 
and  financial  crisis  of  2008  —  one  of  the  major 
adverse events of our times — its moral authority and 
universal  membership  surely  warrant  that  it  be  seated 
at the table where such matters are discussed.  

forums  — 
among  others,  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic 
and Social Council, the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development and the regional commissions, 
as  well  as  their  respective  secretariats  —  continue  to 
influence  the  priority  development  agenda  at  the 
international  level  and  in  each  of  our  countries,  while 
the  system’s  programs  and  specialized  agencies  make 
an essential contribution to development cooperation. 

As  to  the  second  category,  the  United  Nations 
certainly  showed  the  way  forward  with  the  United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development, 
held  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  1992,  whose  enormous 
impact, in the sphere of both actions and ideas, will be 
the  subject  of  an  assessment  in  another  two  years. At 
the same time, the Organization is making great efforts 
to address what is perhaps the most relevant emerging 
issue  of  our  generation:  climate  change  and  how  it  is 
affecting all aspects of human endeavour. It is essential 
intergovernmental 
Likewise,  our 
18 

10-56676 


that progress be made at the Conference of the Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  to  be  held  in  Cancún.  Here  again  the 
United Nations is called upon to play a crucial role. 

The  third  category  —  seeking  a  safer  world  — 
manifests itself in a number of ways. It starts with the 
core  function  of  our  Organization  —  fostering  and 
maintaining peace — complemented by peacebuilding. 
It  could  be  argued  that  this  is  the  category  where  the 
most innovations have taken place in our Organization, 
ranging  from  the  conceptual  framework  offered  in  the 
New Horizons Initiative in the area of peacekeeping to 
the  establishment  five  years  ago  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission and the Peacebuilding Fund.  

Conceptual  and  practical  progress  has  also  been 
achieved  in  diverse  areas  such  as  the  protection  of 
civilians 
in  situations  of  conflict,  especially  of 
vulnerable  civilians,  including  women  and  children. 
Recent  events  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  illustrate  just  how  difficult  that  task  really  is. 
We also value the renewed impetus that the Secretary-
General  has  given  to  the  subject  of  disarmament,  a 
matter  that  has  been  rather  stagnant  and  neglected  in 
the last decades. 

As a complement to the three large categories of 
topics  alluded  to  by  the  Secretary-General,  he  could 
very well have added three additional categories: first, 
the  basic  purpose  of  the  United  Nations,  which  is  to 
promote and defend human rights; second, the growing 
importance  of 
in  providing 
humanitarian assistance; and third, cross-cutting issues 
such as gender equality. 

With regard to the promotion of human rights, in 
recent  years  new  topics  have  surfaced,  such  as  the 
responsibility  to  protect  our  respective  populations 
from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and 
crimes against humanity; a stronger commitment to the 
situation  of  indigenous  peoples;  the  effort  to  combat 
impunity  and  establish  the  rule  of  law;  and  the 
possibility of reviewing the work of the Human Rights 
Council in the near future.  

The  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  provider  of 
humanitarian  assistance  became  dramatically  apparent 
in the last year, with the earthquake that levelled Port-
au-Prince in Haiti and, very recently, the flooding that 
affected  millions 
the 
extraordinary  demands  placed  on  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the World Food 
the  Organization 
In  spite  of 
in  Pakistan. 
A/65/PV.25
that 
analysing 
the  Organization’s 
issues, 
such 
implementing 
and 
Programme and other specialized agencies, the system 
was able to respond in a satisfactory manner.  

Finally, as to the cross-cutting issues, the creation 
of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and 
the  Empowerment  of  Women  —  UN  Women  — 
forefront  of  our  agenda.  The 
appears  at 
the 
appointment  of 
the 
former  President  of  Chile,  
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet,  a  very  well-respected  person, 
as  its  first  Executive  Director  has  contributed  to 
expectations  of  an  impetus  that  the  Organization  will 
be able to provide in this area.  

This  small  sample  of  the  broad  and  diverse 
agenda we have before us — without even touching on 
as 
other  high-priority 
combating 
transnational  crime, 
the  Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy 
international 
migrations  —  underscores  the  singular  nature  of  the 
United Nations and its continued relevance, in spite of 
the shortcomings that we are all familiar with and the 
criticism 
detractors 
continuously hurl at it.  

That said, we must recognize that we are still wed 
to  an  institutional  structure  designed  to  respond  to 
twentieth-century  problems,  not  necessarily  those  of 
the twenty-first century. Some progress has been made 
in  the  area  of  administrative  management  and  in 
coordination  and  consistency,  and  the  agenda  has 
slowly  moved  towards  embracing  emerging  issues. 
However,  it  could  be  argued  that  progress  has  been 
slow,  insufficient  and,  in  some  cases,  superficial.  The 
mother  of  all  reforms,  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, continues to languish. It is high time that we 
seriously  address  that  issue,  since  a  solution  making 
the  Council  more  representative  would  not  only  be 
justified  in  itself  but  would  also  open  the  way  for  the 
other  reforms  the  United  Nations  needs  in  order  to 
reach its full potential. 

To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words 
about the Secretariat and about the staff that serves it. I 
am  moved  to  do  so  by  the  memory  of  the  105  staff 
members  who 
the 
performance  of  their  duties.  And  perhaps  I  am  also 
moved  by  my  current  status  as  Chair  of  the  Fifth 
Committee  of 
the  General  Assembly.  Having  a 
Secretariat  that  inspires  respect  in  Member  States  is  a 
central  point  for  the  sound  functioning  of  the  United 
Nations.  It  requires  the  unshakeable  leadership  of  the 
Secretary-General and highly competent and motivated 
their 
lost 
lives 
in  Haiti 
in 
10-56676 

19 
take 
the  opportunity  offered  us  by 
A/65/PV.25 

staff both at Headquarters and in the field. We believe 
that we are fortunate that the Secretariat already meets 
those criteria to a very high degree. But like everything 
else  in  life,  it  is  subject  to  improvement. That  is  why 
the  exercise  that  the  General  Assembly  is  to  conduct 
this year to review human resources policies is of such 
importance, and it is also part of the strengthening that 
we seek for our Organization. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 

like 
to 
the 
consideration,  at  the  beginning  of  this  session,  of  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/65/1)  to  reiterate  to  the  President  the 
sincere congratulations of the Senegalese delegation on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  No  one  doubts  that  his 
qualities  as  an  outstanding  diplomat  and  his  great 
experience on the international scene will enable us to 
make  significant  progress  in  our  shared  quest  for 
solutions  to  problems  that  humanity  is  facing.  In 
carrying  out  his  noble  mission,  he  can  count  on  the 
active support of the Senegalese delegation. 

Today  more  than  ever  the  globalization  of  crises 
that  transcend  borders  and  differences  reminds  us  of 
the  pressing  need  for  a  more  committed,  more 
inclusive  multilateral  approach  if  together  we  want  to 
have a collective effect on the future of the generations 
to  come.  The  thoughts  that  we  shared  during  the 
general debate just a few days ago all make us see that 
we need to think in new ways of how we can act as the 
international  community  to  draw  up  bold  solutions 
with  a  view  to  freeing  our  world  from  the  numerous 
vices that hamper the flourishing of humankind. 

The  summit  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  that  concluded  about  two  weeks  ago 
reminded us of the unpleasant assessment of the timid 
progress  made  in  our  common  plan  for  achieving  the 
Goals  that  we  had  undertaken  to  accomplish  by  2015, 
as,  incidentally,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
underlines.  

the  outcome 
document  of  the  summit  on  the  MDGs  (resolution 
65/1),  we  have  made  a  date  with  the  poor  and  the 
vulnerable  of  this  world  in  2015.  We  have  the 
collective  and  historic  responsibility  to  achieve  those 
Goals,  which  are  clearly  the  minimum  conditions  that 
every  person  can  expect  for  a  decent  existence.  The 
time for action has come, and we must act quickly. Let 
the  commitments 
Through 
in 

in  other 
frameworks 
us try to do so, so as not to disappoint the expectations 
of  millions  of  men  and  women  who  are  confronted 
daily with illness and despair. 

But  each  —  developed  countries  as  well  as 
developing countries — should play its part, because it 
is  true  that  whatever  the  urgent  efforts  that  our 
countries need to undertake, they can do so only if the 
commitments  made 
and 
partnerships  are  acted  on  —  for  example,  managing 
debt,  promoting  free  and  fair  trade,  improving  the 
volume  and  quality  of  assistance  and  the  mechanisms 
for  granting  it,  and  facilitating  access  to  modern 
technologies.  

With  regard  to  Africa,  which  is  lagging  behind 
significantly  in  achieving  the  MDGs,  it  is  for  us, 
following the Secretary-General, to forcefully reaffirm 
that “Africa’s people need neither pity nor charity; they 
need  the  tools  to  create  jobs  and  generate  incomes” 
(A/65/1, para. 35). 

In  truth,  more  than  a  need,  it  is  an  urgent 
requirement  that  we  rethink  and  reform  the  methods 
and  modes  of  action  that  have  guided  our  approach 
until  now  in  order  to  adapt  them  to  the  geopolitical 
realities of the twenty-first century. The issue is, most 
of all, to break with the status quo that marginalizes the 
majority  of  Member  States  and  to  establish  a  global 
order in which Africa will fully play the role it should 
have. Transparency,  openness  and  inclusion  should  be 
the  key  words  of  the  new  order  that  we  want  to  build 
together. 
the 

security  situation  in  Africa  in  terms  of  settling  crises 
and  conflicts  in  countries  such  as  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau  and 
the  Sudan.  But  such 
progress does not mean that we should lose sight of the 
tragic  situation  that  Somalia  has  plunged  into,  which 
deserves greater attention from us. The United Nations 
and  the  African  Union  should  plan  a  joint  action  to 
bring an end to that human tragedy, which continues to 
unfold before our eyes. 

Despite  some  satisfying  progress  here  and  there, 
with  regard  to  the  ever-increasing  complexity  of 
conflicts,  we  continually  question  the  way  the  United 
Nations intervenes in theatres of operations. Should we 
not  be  considering 
into 
peacekeeping  operations,  including  a  civil  component 
that  is  more  significant  and  better  equipped?  That 
question will undoubtedly be taken into account as part 
Significant  progress  has  been  made 
integrating  peacebuilding 
in 
20 

10-56676 


of  the  review  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  It 
would also make sense to  further explore the paths of 
preventive  diplomacy,  given  the  exorbitant  cost  of 
peacekeeping  operations  and  the  tragic  consequences 
of  conflicts.  In  that  context,  the  accent  should  be  on 
promoting  good  governance  and  combating  drug 
trafficking,  the  illegal  arms  trade  and  all  forms  of 
human rights violations. 

Concerning  that  very  question  of  human  rights, 
we  should  take  advantage  of  the  review  of  the 
operations of the Human Rights Council, scheduled for 
the  current  session,  to  correct  its  functional  and 
structural shortcomings, in order to dispel the polemics 
and  confrontations  and  to  turn  that  body  into  an  area 
for dialogue, where dynamic compromises can emerge 
that could preserve human dignity. 

The United Nations must also fully play the role 
of guarantor of the international legal order, which, to 
be  fair  and  effective,  should  be  based  on  respect  for 
and  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law.  It  is  when  we  are 
united  under  one  impetus  that  we  are  best  able  to 
prevent  such  serious  crimes  as  genocide,  war  crimes, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  ethnic  cleansing,  and, 
when such crimes are committed, to react promptly and 
effectively. We truly have a shared responsibility to act 
in order to ensure that the  atrocities that these serious 
crimes expose us to never happen again, and so that we 
can  work  towards  the  emergence  of  an  effective,  fair, 
impartial  and  apolitical  international  criminal  justice 
system. 

In  the  same  way,  we  must  do  all  we  can  to 
succeed in our crusade against terrorism. The challenge 
is enormous, of course, but it is within our reach if we 
the 
can  display 
that 
challenge  demands.  It  goes  without  saying 
that 
effective 
the  Global  Counter-
Terrorism Strategy by all the relevant actors would be a 
notable step forward in our common struggle to utterly 
eradicate the scourge of terrorism. 

While it is undeniable that through its actions the 
United  Nations  is  an  essential  platform  in  the  search 
for  solutions  to  existing  concerns,  we  must  note  that 
the  complexity  of  emerging  challenges,  the  gravity  of 
new  threats  and  the  more  or  less  serious  failures  and 
shortcomings 
less 
effective.  As  a  universal  Organization,  the  United 
Nations has the primary responsibility for facing up to 
that,  in  fully  exercising  its  prerogatives,  to  produce 
the  faith  and  commitment 
to  render  our  actions 
implementation  of 
threaten 
A/65/PV.25
optimum  responses  to  the  obstacles  that  block  our 
ongoing quest for progress. 

It is thus fortunate that our Organization has been 
enriched  by  the  arrival  of  a  new  organ,  UN  Women, 
which places the gender dimension on the international 
agenda.  I  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  of 
Senegal’s complete support for that new entity and its 
Under-Secretary-General, President Michelle Bachelet, 
while expressing my fervent wish that its contribution 
will enrich our Organization, whose universal mandate 
and scope will thus be strengthened in this area. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  strongly  encourage  the 
Palestinian and Israeli peoples, condemned as they are 
to  live  together,  to  find  the  necessary  resources  to 
create the conditions in which they can coexist in peace 
and  security.  That  will  unquestionably  come  via  the 
creation,  at  the  side  of  Israel,  of  an  independent, 
sovereign  and  viable  Palestinian  State,  with  defined 
and internationally recognized borders. That is the way 
to salvation in that region, and it is the earnest desire of 
my country. 
Ms.  Blum  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

began  the  current  session  only  a  few  weeks  ago,  and 
the  work  that  the Assembly  has  done  is  already  quite 
extensive.  That  is  why  I  would  like  to  express  my 
special  appreciation  for  the  exemplary  way  in  which 
the  President  has  conducted  discussions  and  for  the 
manner in which the work has been developing during 
the session. 

As  aptly  noted  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his 
report  (A/65/1),  the  United  Nations  has  a  concrete 
framework 
the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). It is therefore extremely 
important  that  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
the 
framework for the reaffirmation of our commitment to 
meeting the Goals we set for ourselves in 2000. 
We are all  aware of the enormous challenges we 

face for 2015. Recent progress by the Organization has 
shown  that  it  is  possible  to  develop  specific  tools  to 
achieve  substantial  improvements  in  the  welfare  and 
living conditions of the most needy and to ensure basic 
rights to all persons. Let me mention two examples of 
that  progress:  the  adoption  of  the  action  plan  for  the 
next  five  years  approved  by  Member  States 
in 
September,  and  the  launch  of  the  Global  Strategy  for 
Women’s  and  Children’s  Health,  promoted  by  the 
its  actions: 
served  as 
to  guide 
10-56676 

21 
those 
relations, 
A/65/PV.25 

Secretary-General, which has received pledges of more 
than $40 billion. 

Colombia also recognizes the special priority that 
the  Secretary-General  has  given  to  the  challenges  that 
climate change creates for the international community. 
We  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  actions  defined  by  the 
United  Nations  system  in  this  area  are  subject  to 
appropriate consultations with the States.  

As a highly diverse country that is vulnerable to 
climate  change,  Colombia  is  confident  that  we  will 
reach agreements, both in Nagoya at the Conference of 
the  Parties  to  the  Convention  on  Biodiversity,  and  in 
Cancún  at  the  Conference  on  the  Climate  Change 
Convention.  It  is  also  essential  to  recognize  the 
intrinsic 
relations  between  climate  change  and 
biodiversity,  and,  based  on 
to 
coordinate  the  actions  taken  by  the  Conventions  to 
address  both  themes  in  the  context  of  the  United 
Nations. 

We reiterate that in order to meet the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  international  cooperation  must 
play  a  role  of  the  greatest  importance.  The  world 
economy is beginning to show signs of recovery from 
one  of  its  worst  crises,  and  it  is  time  to  get  back  on 
track to making good on the cooperation and assistance 
commitments  undertaken  by  the  entire  international 
community. 

Colombia  has  managed  to  overcome  challenges 
that  called  into  question  its  viability  as  a  State.  Now, 
we  are  seen  as  a  role  model  because  of  our 
strengthened  democratic 
radical 
improvement  in  our  security,  and  our  socio-economic 
development  potential.  The  experiences  in  the  fight 
against  adversity  allowed  us  to  develop  technical  and 
operational  capabilities  that  we  are  sharing  with 
various  countries.  Issues  such  as  the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of forests, renewable energies, the fight 
against terrorism and drug trafficking, the fight against 
the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons, 
humanitarian 
the  disarmament, 
demobilization  and  reintegration  of 
illegal  armed 
groups  are  just  some  of  the  areas  in  which  Colombia 
can contribute to ensuring the protection of and access 
to  the  global  public  goods  to  which  the  Secretary-
General referred to in his report. 

In  connection  with  some  of  those  issues,  we 
would  like  to  encourage  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force, 
institutions, 
assistance, 
the 
and 

given  the  need  to  move  forward  more  firmly  and 
decisively  with  the  implementation  of  the  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate our call to all States to reinvigorate efforts to 
agree  on  and  promptly  promulgate  a  general 
convention against terrorism. 

Similarly,  in  2012  we  must  achieve  a  balanced, 
legally  binding  arms  trade  treaty  with  the  highest 
possible  common  standards,  because,  as  noted  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report,  unregulated  arms  transfers 
have  many  negative  effects  on  stability,  development 
and human rights. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  efforts  made  by  the 
Organization in the maintenance of international peace 
and  security  deserve  special  mention.  It  has  been 
expanding its role of supporting peace and stabilization 
processes and has made innovative use of the resources 
at its disposal in the exercise of preventive diplomacy. 

With  regard  to  the  role  of  peacebuilding  and 
peacekeeping operations, it is important to continue to 
strengthen  coordinated  working  mechanisms  among 
the  General  Assembly, 
the  Security  Council,  the 
Secretariat  and  other  bodies,  so  that,  within  their 
respective  competencies,  comprehensive  and  inclusive 
work  can  be  developed,  given  that,  as  the  Secretary-
stated,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
General 
activities  are  not  substitutes  for 
lasting  political 
solutions to crisis situations. 

This year, the world has faced some of the worst 
natural disasters ever seen, and the Organization faced 
particular  challenges  in  attending  to  those  suffering 
their consequences. It is time to reinforce measures in 
disaster  prevention  and  risk  mitigation,  as  well  as  the 
coordination  of  humanitarian  assistance  and  efforts  to 
strengthen stable transitions to development. 

The  case  of  Haiti  deserves  special  attention 
because,  as  President  Juan  Manuel  Santos  said  before 
this  Assembly  (see  A/65/PV.15),  the  people  of  that 
brotherly  country  are  still  suffering  the  consequences 
of  the  earthquake  of  12  January  2010. Approximately 
nine  months  have  passed  since  the  tragedy,  and  many 
of  the  commitments  we  made  to  the  Government  and 
people  of  Haiti  have  yet  to  be  realized.  We  cannot 
forget those who need us and have pinned their hopes 
on  the  Organization,  especially  when  we  aim  to 
provide long-term solutions. 
22 

10-56676 
There 
to 
on 
report  on 
the  work  of 
is  a  cross-cutting 



theme  of  utmost 
importance in the report of the Secretary-General. I am 
referring  to  the  topic  of  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment of women. We welcome the adoption by 
consensus  of  resolution  64/289,  which  established  the 
United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the 
Empowerment  of  Women.  I  congratulate  former 
Chilean  President  Michelle  Bachelet 
her 
appointment  as  Under-Secretary-General  to  lead  that 
new  entity  in  its  dual  mandate  of  promoting  the 
incorporation of gender perspectives in the work of the 
Organization and strengthening cooperation with States 
in this area. 

In  this  the  year  in  which  the  United  Nations 
suffered its greatest ever loss of life in the line of duty, 
Colombia  would  like  to  add  its  voice  to  that  of  the 
Secretary-General  in  paying  tribute  to  all  personnel 
who  lost  their  lives  in  pursuit  of  the  ideals  of  our 
Organization. 
Finally,  Colombia  thanks  the  Secretary-General 

for  presenting  his 
the 
Organization,  which  reflects  the  diligent  work  he 
carries  out,  together  with  the  entire  team  of  the 
Secretariat,  towards  the  realization  of  the  goals  we 
have  set  ourselves.  I  reiterate  my  delegation’s  steady 
support  for  him  in  carrying  out  his  work  successfully 
and effectively. 
Mr.  Ali  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/65/1),  which  he 
presented 
(see 
A/65/PV.11).  The  thrust  of  this  year’s  report  is  more 
positive  than  in  previous  years,  indicating  that  the 
Organization has managed to achieve more in this past 
year  despite  the  ever-present  global  challenges.  We 
congratulate  the  men  and  women  of  the  United 
Nations, who have been able to ensure delivery of the 
Organization’s mandate. 

One  obvious  addition  to  the  United  Nations 
family over the past year, and one which my country is 
pleased to welcome, is the establishment of a dedicated 
entity  for  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women — UN Women, for short.  
is  nothing  new  for 

Malaysia,  which  has  had  such  a  policy  since  the  days 
leading  up  to  our  independence.  Women  have  always 
been  a  major  part  of  the  Malaysian  workforce,  rising 
up  through  the  ranks  to  hold  positions  such  as 
Governor  of  the  Central  Bank,  Attorney  General, 
this  body  on  23  September 
Women’s  empowerment 
A/65/PV.25
has 
done 
Secretary-General 
Solicitor  General  and  Accountant  General,  even  as 
early  as  the  1980s.  Then,  of  course,  there  were  the 
ambassadors,  the  heads  of  departments  and  the  chief 
executive  officers  of  companies.  But  for  some  reason 
there  has  never  been  an  abundance  of  women  in 
politics, with national figures only hovering around the 
10  per  cent  mark,  and  well  below  the  19  per  cent 
average internationally. 

When  Member  States  voted  unanimously  to 
establish UN Women in July of this year, it signalled a 
significant  milestone  in  the  work  of  the  Organization. 
It meant that global movement for the empowerment of 
women  had  finally  arrived  and  the  goal  of  achieving 
true  gender  equality  was  inching  ever  closer.  It  also 
meant  that  the  streamlining  of  women’s  participation 
within  the  United  Nations  would  be  even  greater  than 
before.  The 
a 
commendable job in naming to his cabinet, and to the 
posts  of  Under-Secretaries-General,  a  number  of 
competent, prolific and dynamic women, in recognition 
of their work and capabilities. 

This  past  year  also  saw  a  number  of  historic 
events both in the work of the Organization and in the 
mandate with which the Organization was entrusted. In 
the  final  month  of  2009,  Copenhagen  welcomed 
climate  change  negotiators  from  near  and  far,  but  the 
Conference failed to deliver on its promise of a better 
future.  Even  though  expectations  of  a  breakthrough 
agreement  in  Copenhagen  were  high,  they  were  in  no 
way  unrealistic,  particularly  for  those  nations  whose 
very survival is already in jeopardy. When we convene 
in  Cancún  this  year,  we  will  have  another  chance  to 
make  a  real  change  for  the  future.  The  Organization 
can play a leading role in ensuring that we do not waste 
yet  another  opportunity  to  effect  a  sustainable  and 
satisfactory post-Kyoto world. 

The second historic event to occur this past year 
with  regard  to  the  Organization  had  to  do  with  the 
regular  budget  of  the  United  Nations  itself. This  year, 
the United Nations regular budget topped the $5 billion 
mark  for  the  first  time  since  the  Organization’s 
establishment. Only two cycles ago, the regular budget 
for the biennium 2006-2007 stood at $3.8 billion. That 
means  that,  in  a  mere  four  years,  the  United  Nations 
expanded its  budget by 30 per cent. While the figures 
themselves  are  not  particularly  earth-shattering,  in  a 
world  of 
resources  where 
sustainability  is  key,  the  United  Nations  must  find 
innovative ways to halt this budget expansion. For one, 
increasingly 
limited 
10-56676 

23 
Thirdly, 
to  do  with 
in  2009  reached,  as 
A/65/PV.25 

work duplication within the United Nations system that 
results  in  the  creation  of  administrative  posts  must  be 
stopped.  It  must  also  be  remembered  that  this  figure 
does  not  include  the  nearly  $8  billion  allocated  for 
peacekeeping activities alone. 
the  deployment  of  United  Nations 

peacekeeping  personnel 
the 
Secretary-General  put  it,  unprecedented  levels,  rising 
to  124,000  deployed  personnel.  As  one  of 
the 
cornerstones  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
deployment  of  United  Nations  personnel  to  maintain 
peace  and  security  remains  an  important  aspect  of 
United Nations work overall. But it is hoped that these 
figures  will  decrease  significantly  with  the  scheduled 
withdrawal or drawdown of the United Nations in three 
of  its  current  16  peacekeeping  missions. We  hope  too 
that the integrated approach being introduced will help 
bring  about  greater  efficiency  in  the  way  the  United 
Nations conducts its presence on the ground. 
The  fourth  milestone  for  the  Organization  this 

past  year  had 
the  number  of  new 
humanitarian  emergencies  it  had  to  handle. A  total  of 
43  new  emergencies  within  a  period  of  some  12 
months  could  stretch  United  Nations  resources  even 
further, thus hindering its ability to respond effectively 
and  efficiently  to  such  emergencies.  Malaysia  notes 
that the number of natural disasters continues to rise on 
a yearly basis. We believe that, to a certain extent, this 
may be attributable to the climate change phenomenon. 
The  only  solution  to  the  growing  incidence  of  natural 
disasters  would  be  to  address  the  problem  of  climate 
change now, as it is now more imperative than ever to 
gather 
this  global 
challenge. 

On the issue of humanitarian assistance, Malaysia 
remains  deeply  concerned  by  the  rising  attacks  on 
humanitarian workers under the United Nations banner. 
in  no  way  excusable  or 
These  attacks,  while 
acceptable,  must  surely  have  some  grounding 
in 
perceived grievances or distrust in the Organization as 
a  whole.  In  the  short  term,  the  Secretary-General’s 
proposal  to  review  and  adjust  security  arrangements 
would enable the Organization to continue to carry out 
one  of  its  mainstay  activities.  However,  in  the  longer 
term  we  must  reconsider  the  way  we  do  business. 
Long-term  programmes  must  be  established  to  ensure 
the  safety  and  security  of  United  Nations  workers  on 
the ground, including through embarking on favourable 
public relations.  
the  collective  will 
to 
tackle 


It  was  not  so  long  ago  that  those  who  wore 
United  Nations  blue  helmets  or  worked  under  the 
United Nations banner were given sufficient deference 
to go about their tasks. We need to reclaim that level of 
respect for the work of the Organization, which would be 
more effective in ensuring safety and security than flexing 
our  military  might  or  cocooning  ourselves  in  a  bubble. 
The  two  cornerstones  of  United  Nations  work  — 
peacekeeping and humanitarian assistance — must not 
be compromised. 

Every year, all of us in this Hall look forward to 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization.  We  do  so  because  as  Member  States  of 
the  Organization  we  have  a  stake  in  its  success,  in  its 
shortcomings  and,  most  of  all,  in  the  work  that  it 
carries out for the global village we live in. As so many 
people  have  put  it,  including  the  Secretary-General 
himself,  the  United  Nations  is  more  than  just  a 
collection  of  buildings,  or  principles,  or  ideas  and 
ideals. The  United  Nations,  working  together,  is  more 
than just the sum total of its present Members. It is an 
Organization  bolstered  by  the  multiplier  effect  of  its 
Members’  strength.  This  is  why  so  many  nations  are 
committed  to  making  the  Organization  work  and  to 
ensuring the continuity of the good work it carries out 
around the world.  

small  or  developing  countries 
For  many 
worldwide,  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  fills  the 
capability  gap  that  individual  nations  alone  cannot 
hope  to  fill.  Even  though  the  United  Nations  cannot 
become everything to everyone, it is still the best hope 
we have of building a better, just and secure world. 
Mr. Acharya  (Nepal):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  presentation 
of the report on the work of the Organization (A/65/1). 
The 
insightful 
suggestions  on  some  of  the  key  issues  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda.  On  the  whole,  the  report  provides  a 
good  basis 
for  comprehensive  and  constructive 
intergovernmental  deliberations  on  issues  of  major 
importance  to  the  global  community.  We  are  pleased 
that the level of sensitization to development issues at 
the  global  level  has  increased  prominently  this  year, 
yet there remains a long way to go before the relevant 
commitments achieve the development goals. 

The  2010  high-level  review  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) last month concluded that 
accelerated  progress  is  required  if  all  the  targets  were 
report  contains  observations  and 
10-56676 
24 

in 
in 
As 
to  see 
reflected 
the  earlier 
the  situation  of 


to be met by 2015. We are glad that there was general 
acceptance that while progress has been made on many 
fronts, we must scale up  our efforts more  consistently 
and  comprehensively,  in  particular  through  global 
partnerships. It was particularly stressed that countries 
and  regions  lagging  behind,  such  as  least  developed 
countries  (LDCs),  would  need  additional  concrete 
support  from  the  international  community  towards 
national  leadership  of  programmes  to  meet  the  MDG 
targets.  The  already  precarious  conditions  of  LDC 
living 
populations 
in  poverty  and  hunger  have 
worsened 
the  wake  of  multiple  yet  mutually 
exacerbating  economic,  financial  and  food  and  energy 
crises,  together  with  the  adverse  and  disproportionate 
impacts of climate change.  
report  entitled 

“Keeping  the  promise”  (A/64/665),  we  would  have 
liked 
the  LDCs  clearly 
articulated in the Secretary-General’s current report in 
terms  of  their  monumental  development  challenges  as 
the  most  vulnerable  group.  It  is  our  considered  view, 
and one generally accepted by all, that the MDGs and 
other  internationally  agreed  development  goals  cannot 
be  achieved  unless  they  are  achieved  by  the  LDCs  as 
well.  That  should  be  duly  reflected  in  all  United 
Nations reports. 

international  peace  and 
security  is  the  primary  responsibility  of  the  United 
Nations.  In  today’s  interconnected  and  globalized 
world, the notion of security transcends the confines of 
military  threats  and  challenges.  Therefore,  preventive 
diplomacy  must  encompass 
this  aspect  alongside 
support  for  peace  processes  in  countries  emerging 
from, or in, conflict. 

In  recent  years  the  demand  for  increased  United 
Nations  involvement  in  preventive  diplomacy,  crisis 
resolution 
management, 
building 
sustainable  peace  has 
increased  phenomenally. 
Increased  responsibility  calls  for  increased  political 
commitment and resources. New and changing patterns 
of conflicts and crises require commensurate responses 
that  often  involve  new  and  innovative  solutions.  We 
share the concerns expressed by the Secretary-General 
in  paragraph  66  of  his  report.  We  must  take  full 
ownership of all United Nations peacekeeping missions 
them  with  clear  and  unambiguous 
and  provide 
mandates,  which  need 
in  close 
cooperation  with  troop-contributing  countries  while 
The  maintenance  of 
to  be  designed 
conflict 
and 
A/65/PV.25
role 
for 
the 
through 
review  of 
involvement 
commitment 
and  greater 
The  ongoing 
issues,  with  a  key 
also  taking  into  account  the  concerns  of  the  parties 
involved. 

Guided by its profound commitment to contribute 
to the maintenance of international peace and security, 
Nepal  has  consistently  participated  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations around the world. We remain 
steadfast in our commitment. 

the  peacebuilding 
architecture  offers  an  opportunity  to  consider  further 
measures to strengthen its effectiveness on the ground. 
We  will  fully  engage  in  its  deliberations  in  the  days 
ahead.  
The  consolidation  of  national  ownership  and 

capacity-building 
and 
coordination  among  United  Nations  organs  on 
peacebuilding 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  realization  of  the 
Commission’s  full  potential,  with  more  resources  and 
political 
effective 
implementation  of  the  integrated  strategic  framework, 
will  be  essential  to  laying  a  strong  and  sustainable 
foundation  for  peace,  reconstruction  and  recovery. We 
should also make sure that we integrate peacebuilding 
efforts  early  on  with  peacekeeping  operations.  We 
welcome  the  recent  efforts  to  establish  collaboration 
and  partnership  with  the  World  Bank  and  other 
financial 
for 
peacebuilding  efforts.  We  also  call 
for  greater 
involvement  of  women  in  peacebuilding  to  ensure 
inclusiveness for its long-term sustainability. 
Natural  disasters,  poverty  and  hunger,  financial 

crises, 
resource  scarcity,  population  growth  and 
growing  urbanization  have  increased  humanitarian 
challenges. The devastating earthquake in Haiti and the 
unprecedented  floods  in  Pakistan  and  elsewhere  have 
underscored the imperative need for building enhanced 
capacity for disaster management and risk reduction. 

the 
economic and food crises and climate change continue 
to  have  a  negative  impact  on  human  rights,  with 
increased incidences of xenophobia and discrimination 
against non-citizens in certain parts of the world. This 
has  underlined  the  fact  that  guaranteeing  economic 
security to all is critically important in order to ensure 
the  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms by all. 
is  worrisome 
to  mobilize 
institutions 
Similarly, 
resources 
to  note 
that 
it 
10-56676 

25 
terrorism 
A/65/PV.25 


The universality, indivisibility and non-selectivity 
of  all  human  rights  help  promote  global  adherence  to 
human  rights  values  and  norms.  Poor  and  vulnerable 
countries  must  be  provided  with  adequate  resources 
and  means  to  guarantee  the  practical  benefits  of 
globalized  human  rights  norms  and  values  to  their 
citizens. It is in this context that the significance of the 
right to development also needs to be underlined.  

We attach importance to the review of the Human 
Rights Council. The Universal Periodic Review, which 
is  an  important  feature  of  the  Council,  must  be 
preserved  and  further  strengthened  with  a  view  to 
promoting  and  protecting  human  rights  globally.  I 
would  like  to  reaffirm  that  Nepal’s  commitment  to  all 
human  rights  is  unequivocal.  We  have  thus  made 
substantive  progress 
in  protecting  and  promoting 
fundamental human rights over the past few years. 

The report states in paragraph 106 that addressing 
climate  change,  advancing  on  a  global  health  agenda, 
countering 
and  making  progress  on 
disarmament and non-proliferation have been priorities 
for  the  Secretary-General.  However,  in  our  view, 
poverty  and  hunger  should  also  be  treated  with  the 
equal priority they deserve within the overall strategic 
orientation of the Organization. This is obvious as the 
world, with over 1 billion people living in poverty and 
hunger, cannot be considered as a safe place for all to 
live in. 

The climate negotiations in Cancún, Mexico, later 
this  year  must  work  towards  producing  an  ambitious 
and  legally  binding  instrument  to  succeed  the  Kyoto 
Protocol.  The  cost  of  delay  and  failure  to  act  on  this 
existential  issue  will  be  colossal.  The  international 
community  must  provide  much-needed  political 
support  to  push  the  process  forward  while  respecting 
the 
differentiated 
responsibilities.  Building 
trust  among  countries, 
ensuring  transparency  in  the  negotiations  and  finding 
effective  and  innovative  solutions  for  deeper  emission 
cuts should underpin the dialogue. An early agreement 
on  financing  mechanisms  would  greatly  contribute  to 
enhancing confidence in the negotiation process. 

Least  developed  countries,  which  are  highly 
vulnerable to climate change, are bearing unacceptably 
disproportionate 
their 
negligible contribution to climate change. My country, 
Nepal,  also  falls  in  this  category.  Global  warming  has 
caused rapid melting of snow in the Nepali Himalayas. 
impacts  as  compared 
principle 
common 
to 
of 
but 


About two dozen of our glacial lakes could burst at any 
time,  causing  a  huge  loss  of  life  and  property.  In 
addition, we face extreme weather patterns, floods, soil 
degradation  and  desertification.  The  protection  of 
mountain  ecology,  which 
is  fragile  and  a  great 
repository  of  biodiversity,  is  critically  important  to 
preserve  the  Himalayas,  which  are  also  the  perennial 
source of fresh water for over 1 billion people living in 
South Asia and beyond. 

The international community must agree on new, 
predictable,  transparent  and  substantially  enhanced 
resource  mobilization  and  a  fast-track  provision  to 
ensure resources for mitigation, adaptation, transfer of 
technology,  REDD-plus  and  capacity-building  in  least 
developed  countries,  commensurate  with  their  needs 
and vulnerabilities. 

Nepal  has  consistently  called  for  general  and 
complete  disarmament  with  respect  to  all  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  and  for  the  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons in a time-bound manner. Nepal stands for the 
early operationalization of the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty  and  an  early  conclusion  of  a  fissile 
material cut-off treaty. 
We  concur with the apt remark of the  Secretary-

that 
General 
that 
development 
international 
community  must  make  serious  efforts  to  promote 
complete and general disarmament and divert resources 
from armaments to invest in long-term peace, stability 
and  prosperity  for  the  world.  This  is  what  our 
conscience  dictates,  and  this  is  what  is  just  and 
equitable. 

Terrorism  is  a  crime  and  cannot  be  justified  on 
any  grounds.  Concerted  global  efforts  are  required  to 
wipe out this deadly menace from our planet.  

Similarly,  the  global  health  agenda  must  receive 
continued  priority,  especially  given  the  fact  that  most 
countries  are  lagging  behind  in  meeting  health-related 
MDGs,  particularly  those  related  to  maternal  health. 
We  agree  with 
the 
importance of health for economic productivity, social 
stability,  security  and  poverty  reduction  must  be 
stressed.  

Nepal  has  expressed  support  for  a  change  in  the 
composition  and  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  support  expansion  in  the  membership  of 
the Council in both categories. We welcome the recent 
the  world 
is  under-funded.  The 
the  Secretary-General 
is  over-armed  and 
that 
26 

10-56676 
the  revitalization  of 


efforts to structure the debate on the expansion. We are 
of the view that all five core issues identified must be 
addressed  in  a  holistic  manner  to  agree  on  a  reform 
package. 

We must also ensure that the power and authority 
of  the  General  Assembly,  as  the  only  representative 
body,  must  be  enhanced  in  a  manner  commensurate 
with  its  standing.  In  that  context,  we  welcome  the 
ongoing  discussions  on 
the 
General  Assembly,  as  envisioned  by  the  founders,  to 
strike the right balance between the different organs of 
the  United  Nations. We  welcome  the  establishment  of 
UN  Women  and 
the  resolution  on  system-wide 
coherence (resolution 64/289). 

It  is  not  only  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  that  are  in  need  of  reform,  but  also 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  The  role  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  must  be  enhanced  in 
promoting global economic relations and advancing the 
development  agenda  in  close  cooperation  with  the 
Bretton  Woods  and  other  relevant  institutions. We  are 
happy  with  the  recent  progress  in  the  reform  of  the 
Economic and Social Council, but we would like to see 
this  process  further  accelerated.  The  United  Nations 
must  take  a  lead  role  in  ensuring  coherence  and 
consistency  in  global  economic,  financial  and  trading 
systems. 

In  conclusion,  Nepal  has  an  abiding  faith  in  the 
principles  and purposes of the United  Nations Charter 
as  an  indispensable  instrument  for  global  peace, 
stability  and  progress.  It  must  promote  all  its  pillars 
coherently and vigorously. A strong and capable United 
Nations  buttresses  multilateralism,  which  is  essential 
today  more  than  ever  before  to  deal  with  the  global 
problems of our time. 
Mr.  Park  In-Kook  (Republic  of  Korea):  Allow 

me to begin by thanking the Secretary-General for his 
a 
annual 
report 
comprehensive 
the 
Organization’s achievements, as well as its challenges, 
and 
future 
accomplishments. 

report,  

As  the  Secretary-General  reminds  us  in  his 
(A/65/1),  which 
and 
but 

experience  has 
strong 
commitments are backed by the right policies and 
are 
that  when 
lays  out  a  coherent  blueprint 
challenges 
immense, 
overview 
provides 
shown 
“The 
clear 
of 
for 
A/65/PV.25
the  preeminent 
that  effort,  as 
adequate  resources,  even  the  greatest  needs  can 
be  met  and  real  progress  can  be  achieved.” 
(A/65/1, para. 12) 

My  delegation  believes  that  the  international 
community’s  most  pressing  challenges  should  be 
tackled  efficiently 
through  sustained  global  and 
collective action. The United Nations is at the forefront 
of 
international 
Organization bestowed with authority and legitimacy. 

The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  in  September  was  a  good  opportunity  to 
consolidate  political  will  and  galvanize  the  efforts  of 
the  international  community.  With  just  five  years 
remaining  until  2015,  many  delegations  shared  the 
concern that the prospects for achieving the MDGs did 
not  seem  bright.  However,  we  should  note  that  our 
determination  to  achieve  the  MDGs  is  stronger  than 
ever.  Indeed,  this  has  been  demonstrated  by  the 
successful  launch  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Global 
Strategy  for  Women’s  and  Children’s  Health.  My 
delegation  believes  that  the  Strategy  will  serve  as  an 
effective  kick-start  for  the  enhancement  of  maternal 
and child health, an area in which there has been little 
progress in most developing countries since 1990. 

The  success  of  the  MDGs  depends  on  action  to 
deliver. Member States should keep their commitments 
and  continue 
towards 
strengthening  global  partnerships  based  on  mutual 
accountability.  The  outcome  document  (resolution 
65/1)  will  serve  as  a  valuable  guide  and  tool  in  such 
efforts. 

Keeping  in  mind  the  need  to  take  a  more  active 
role  in  the  global  partnerships  for  development,  the 
Republic  of  Korea  is  going  to  take  concrete  steps  to 
fulfil 
its  2008  official 
development assistance volume by 2015, to contribute 
$3.2  billion  on  an  annual  basis.  In  addition,  by  fully 
recognizing the special needs of Africa, the Republic of 
Korea  is  implementing  its  Korea-Africa  initiative  as  a 
long-term  programme  for  partnership  with  African 
countries. 
Turning  to  climate  change,  our  future  greatly 

depends  on  how  effectively  and  urgently  we  can 
address  this  issue.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
appreciates  the  leadership  of  the  Secretary-General  in 
making  this  issue  a  priority  since  he  first  came  into 
office.  My  delegation  believes  that  such  sustained 
its  commitment 
their  efforts 
to  strive 
triple 
in 
to 
10-56676 

27 

A/65/PV.25 

leadership  will  lead  to  a  successful  agreement  at  the 
sixteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change in Cancún. 

Allow me to take this opportunity to refer to the 
efforts of the Republic of Korea on the issue of climate 
change. In an effort to curb greenhouse gas emissions, 
the  Korean  Government  has  set  itself  a  voluntary 
reduction  target  of  30  per  cent  of  current  levels  by 
2020.  To  shift  from  an  energy-intensive  to  a  green-
growth  economy,  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea  has  also  adopted  a  pilot  low-carbon  green-
growth  initiative  to  promote  the  growth  of  green 
industries. 

In the area of peace and security, the intensifying 
demand for peacekeeping, with progressively complex 
and  multidimensional  mandates,  reflects  the  world’s 
faith  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  The 
Republic of Korea also participates in the international 
support  for  peacekeeping  operations.  This  year  alone, 
the  Government  of 
the  Republic  of  Korea  has 
dispatched  240  contingents  to  the  United  Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti.  Currently,  some  650 
Korean  soldiers  are  serving 
in  11  peacekeeping 
missions. 

To  ensure  sustainability  and  ultimate  success, 
peacekeeping  operations  today  must  not  just  involve 
the  military  dimension,  but  must  also  encompass 
intertwined  strategies  rooted  in  development,  human 
rights  and  disarmament.  Similarly,  preventive  actions 
or alternatives to sizable peacekeeping operations need 
to  be  actively  pursued.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
appreciates 
the 
Department  of  Political  Affairs.  Mediation  and  other 
preventive  measures 
as 
integral  parts  of  everyday 
complementary  and 
peacekeeping operations. 

Furthermore,  peacebuilding  efforts  have  now 
become  an  important  feature  of  many  peacekeeping 
missions.  My  delegation  hopes  that  this  year’s  review 
process will contribute to constructive improvement in 
United  Nations  peacebuilding,  with  a  view  towards 
enhancing  transition  during  post-conflict  periods  and 
building lasting institutions. 

With  regard  to  humanitarian  issues,  despite  the 
dedicated  efforts  and  leadership  of  the  Secretary-
General, we still face enormous gaps and challenges on 
many  fronts.  The  most  prominent  seems  to  be  the 
the  mediation  support  effort  by 
viewed 
should 
be 
In 
the 
rights,  despite 
the  area  of  human 
relevance  of  human 
funding shortage. Also, more efforts should be made to 
ensure the safety of humanitarian workers operating in 
high-risk  environments.  Strengthening  partnerships 
with  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  has  become 
increasingly  important  in  that  regard,  as  the  recent 
earthquakes in Haiti and Chile have shown us. 

the 
significant  progress  made,  serious  violations  continue 
to  be  committed  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Multiple 
global  crises  have  served  to  further  deteriorate  the 
overall human rights situation. In crafting responses to 
multiple global challenges, Member States should fully 
recognize 
rights  and 
demonstrate  further  determination  to  work  together  in 
promoting and protecting them. Against that backdrop, 
my delegation looks forward to the forthcoming review 
of the Human Rights Council, which should serve as a 
good  opportunity  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations in the field of human rights by promoting the 
efficiency and effectiveness of that organ. 

My  delegation  believes  that  women’s  rights  and 
gender  issues  are  an  essential  part  of  human  rights. 
However, we are concerned that progress in those areas 
is  slow  and,  in  some  cases,  is  being  reversed.  In  that 
regard,  the  emphasis  of  the  Secretary-General  in  his 
report  on  the  issue  of  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment  as  indispensable  goals  of  the  United 
Nations is both timely and appropriate. 

The  United  Nations  has  played  an  indispensable 
role  in  setting  international  norms  and  principles.  As 
the  United  Nations  makes  progress  on 
the 
implementation  of  the  responsibility  to  protect,  the 
world will be better prepared to prevent any recurrence 
of  mass  atrocities.  The  contribution  of  the  offices  of 
the  Secretary-General’s  Special  Advisers  for 
the 
Responsibility  to  Protect  and  on  the  Prevention  of 
Genocide  has  been  highly  valuable  in  that  regard.  My 
delegation  expects  that  a  joint  office,  achieved  by 
merging 
to 
developing conceptual norm-setting work by enhancing 
information-sharing, early warning and assessment. 

A new consensus now seems to be forming in the 
international  community,  not  only  with  regard  to 
nuclear  non-proliferation  but  also  as  concerns  the 
eventual  goal  of  a  nuclear-free  world.  With  many 
promising signs in every corner of the globe, we need 
to  redouble  our  efforts  to  ensure  that  they  lead  to 
tangible results. In particular, my delegation welcomes 
two  offices,  will  contribute 
those 
28 

10-56676 
recent  high-level  meeting  convened  by 


the 
the 
Secretary-General aimed at revitalizing the work of the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  and 
taking  forward 
multilateral disarmament negotiations. We should revive 
the Conference as a key element in the robust machinery 
of the global disarmament and non-proliferation regime. 
With that in mind, we will spare no effort in supporting 
follow-up actions to the high-level meeting during the 
current session of the General Assembly.   

More  than  ever,  great  demands  are  being  placed 
on  the  United  Nations  to  respond  effectively  to  the 
most daunting challenges of our era. I believe that the 
United  Nations  can  do  better.  We  must  persist  in  our 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  world  body  through  reform, 
which  will  enable  the  United  Nations  to  be  better 
equipped  to  confront  the  challenges  of  the  future.  To 
achieve  that  goal,  Korea  fully  supports  the  important  

A/65/PV.25
initiatives  the  Secretary-General  has  taken  to  promote 
the  efficiency,  effectiveness  and  accountability  of  the 
Secretariat.  In  particular,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
establishment  of  UN  Women,  a  singular  synergistic 
gender  entity.  My  delegation  believes  that  it  will 
strengthen  the  overall  accountability  of  the  United 
Nations system and, at the same time, promote gender 
equality and the empowerment of women. 

Let  me  conclude  by  renewing  the  Republic  of 
Korea’s  support  for  the  Secretary-General  in  leading 
the  Organization  effectively  and  carrying  out  its 
mandate  successfully.  The  Republic  of  Korea  remains 
fully  committed  to  a  strong  and  effective  United 
Nations  that  can  make  our  world  safer,  more  secure, 
more prosperous and more peaceful. 

  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 
10-56676 

29 
