
A/65/PV.11
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

11th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 23 September 2010, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 







  The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m. 
(spoke 
The  Secretary-General
Agenda item 108 
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/65/1) 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  In  accordance 
with the decision taken at its 2nd plenary meeting, held 
on 17 September 2010, the General Assembly will hear 
a  presentation  by  the  Secretary-General  of  his  annual 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization,  under  agenda 
item 108. I now give the floor to the Secretary-General. 
in  French): 

Welcome to New York in this beautiful autumn season, 
and welcome to the opening of this sixty-fifth general 
debate. 

I  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  and  I  look 
forward to working closely with you in the year ahead 
across 
the 
community of nations. 
(spoke in English) 
We, the peoples of the United Nations, are bound 

by certain sacred duties and obligations: to care for the 
welfare of others, to resolve conflicts peacefully, to act 
in  the  world  with  empathy  and  understanding  and  to 
practise  tolerance  and  mutual  respect  as  a  bedrock 
principle of civilization.  

Today, we are being tested. Social inequalities are 
growing,  among  nations  and  within.  Everywhere, 
people  live  in  fear  of  losing  jobs  and  incomes.  Too 
range  of  challenges 
facing 
full 
the 
many  are  caught  in  conflict;  women  and  children  are 
bearing the brunt. And we see a new politics at work — 
a politics of polarization. We hear the language of hate, 
false  divisions  between  “them”  and  “us”,  those  who 
insist  on  their  way  or  no  way. Amid  such  uncertainty, 
so  much  confusion  of  purpose,  we  naturally  seek  a 
moral  compass.  At  the  United  Nations,  we  find  the 
proper path in community, global cause, fair decisions 
and mutual responsibility for a destiny we share. 

This  is  the  soul  of  global  governance,  the  theme 
of this General Assembly: a collective stand, principled 
and  pragmatic,  against  forces  that  would  divide  us. 
And  that  is  why  the  United  Nations  remains  the 
indispensable  global  institution  for  the  twenty-first 
century.  As  we  gather  today,  in  solidarity,  let  us 
recognize that this is a season for pulling together, for 
consolidating  progress  and  for  putting  our  shoulder  to 
the  wheel  and  delivering  results  —  real  results  for 
people most in need — as only the United Nations can 
do. 

Together, over the past three years, we embraced 
an  ambitious  agenda,  framed  by  three  overarching 
ideas for our time: a more prosperous world, free of the 
deepest  poverty;  a  cleaner,  greener  and  more 
sustainable  world  for  our  children;  and  a  safer  world, 
free of nuclear weapons. Those are the great challenges 
of our era. They are not dreams; they are opportunities 
within our power to grasp. 

Together,  we  have  made  progress. We  will  press 
ahead  with  fresh  thinking,  fresh  approaches,  a  strong 
sense of leadership and political will. The Millennium 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54827 (E) 
*1054827* 


to  meet 
from 
Governments, 
leaders  came 
A/65/PV.11 

Development  Goals  summit  showed  our  collective 
together  with 
determination.  World 
concrete  national  plans 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015.  They  agreed  on  a 
responsible  and  mutually  accountable  partnership,  a 
partnership  that  will  better  the  lives  of  billions  of 
people  within  our  generation.  Our  challenge  is  to 
deliver on this promise, to turn hopes into realities. 

We  must  draw  on  lessons  learned  over  the  past 
decade:  helping  people  to  help  themselves;  investing 
resources where they have the greatest effect — smart 
investment 
in  education,  decent  work,  health, 
smallholder  agriculture, 
infrastructure  and  green 
energy;  realizing  the  importance  of  putting  women  at 
the fore. 

That  is  why,  at  the  summit,  I  welcomed  the 
endorsement  of  our  Global  Strategy  for  Women  and 
Children’s Health. Backed by billions of dollars in new 
commitments 
business, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  philanthropic 
organizations, this was a tangible expression of global 
solidarity. 
That  is  also  why,  last  week,  I  named  a  dynamic 

new  head  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality and the Empowerment of Women. In Michelle 
Bachelet,  the  former  President  of  Chile,  we  found  a 
global  leader  who  can  inspire  billions  of  women  and 
girls  around  the  world.  We  must  support  her  to  the 
utmost,  because  by  empowering  women,  we  empower 
societies. 
Three  years  ago,  we  called  climate  change  the 

defining  challenge  of  our  era,  and  so  it  remains. 
Clearly,  the  road  towards  a  comprehensive  binding 
agreement in Cancunand beyond will not be easy. And 
yet, we have made progress, and we can make more.  
This  is  a  year  to  build  on  important  areas  of 

for  adaptation  and 
agreement  —  on 
mitigation,  on 
transfer,  on  capacity-
building and on preventing deforestation. In the longer 
term,  we  face  the  50-50-50  challenge.  By  2050,  the 
world’s  population  will  grow  by  50  per  cent. To  keep 
climate  change 
to  cut 
greenhouse gas emissions by 50 per cent by then.  

The world looks to us for creative solutions. And 
that is why, on Sunday, we hosted the first meeting of 
the  High-level  Panel  on  Global  Sustainability.  I  am 
in  check,  we  will  need 
technology 
financing 
floods  and 
the  monumental 
confident  that  it  will  stimulate  new  thinking  as  we 
work towards Rio+20 in 2012. 
(spoke in French) 

On  nuclear  disarmament  as  well,  we  see  new 
momentum,  namely,  a  new  START  agreement,  the 
Summit  on  Nuclear  Security  and  a  successful  Review 
Conference  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons. Our role is to keep pushing to find a 
path  to  bring  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  into  force  and  to  realize  agreements  on  fissile 
materials  and  on  securing  nuclear  materials  and 
facilities. Tomorrow, we will host a High-level Meeting 
on  Revitalizing  the  Work  of  the  Conference  on 
Disarmament.  I  believe  the  next  few  years  will  be 
critical. Will we advance our work on non-proliferation 
and disarmament, or will we slide back? It is up to us. 
(spoke in English) 

As  always,  over  the  past  year  we  were  there  for 
those  in  urgent  need:  the  people  of  Pakistan,  coping 
with  epic 
task  of 
reconstruction; the people of Haiti, where the work of 
rebuilding goes on, and where so many lost their lives, 
including  101  of  our  colleagues;  and  the  people  of 
Somalia, the Sudan, the Niger and Gaza. 

As  always,  we  continue  to  work  for  peace  and 
security.  Three  years  ago,  in  partnership  with  the 
African  Union,  we  deployed  the  first  peacekeeping 
force  in  Darfur.  During  the  coming  year,  the  United 
Nations  will  be  critical  to  keeping  a  larger  peace,  as 
north and south Sudan decide their future. Tomorrow’s 
high-level  meeting  on  the  Sudan  will  help  chart  that 
path. 

In  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  we 
have  adapted  our  Mission  to  new  and  changing 
circumstances.We  have  worked  closely  with 
the 
African  Union  in  Somalia.We  have  seen  victories  for 
preventive  diplomacy,  as  well.  In  Iraq,  we  helped 
broker the compromises that kept this year’s elections 
on track. In Guinea, we stand with regional partners in 
insisting on democracy. In Sierra Leone, we helped to 
defuse confrontations and keep peace moving forward. 
Quick-footed diplomacy helped contain the troubles in 
Kyrgyzstan.  In  Afghanistan,  we  carry  on  our  work 
despite 
and 
humanitarian  conditions.  We  will  seek  to  reduce 
tensions  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  encourage  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to return to the 
exceptionally 
difficult 
security 
2 

10-54827 
In 
to  engage  constructively  with 


Six-Party  Talks.  On  Iran,  we  continue  to  urge  the 
Government 
the 
international  community  and  comply  fully  with  the 
relevant Security Council resolutions.  

the  Middle  East,  we  see  encouraging 
movement  towards  a  comprehensive  peace.  Working 
with  the  Quartet,  we  will  do  everything  possible  to 
help  bring  negotiations  to  a  successful  conclusion.  I 
strongly  discourage  either  side  from  any  action  that 
would hold back progress. 
In all we do, human rights are at the core. There 

can be no peace without justice. The global community 
has  worked  hard  and  long  to  usher  in  a  new  age  of 
accountability.  In  our  modern  era,  let  us  send  a  clear 
message:  no  nation,  large  or  small,  can  violate  the 
rights of its citizens with impunity. 
(spoke in French) 

Let  me  close  on  a  theme  that  has  defined  our 
work together: building a stronger United Nations for a 
better  world.  The  renovation  of  the  Secretariat  is  on 
track,  on  schedule  and  on  budget.  Organizational 
changes introduced over the past few years are bearing 
fruit.  Among  them  is  the  New  Horizons  Initiative  to 
streamline  peacekeeping  operations.  In  consultation 
with the Member States and our staff, we will do all in 
our power to create a faster, more modern, flexible and 
effective  United  Nations  work  force  by  recruiting  the 
best talent of tomorrow. 
(spoke in English) 
Today and in the months ahead, we will speak of 

many things, important issues affecting all humankind. 
Let  us  remember,  in  these  difficult  times,  that  we  are 
being  tested.  Let  us  remember  the  many  lives  lost  in 
service  to  our  ideals.  Let  us  remember  that  the  world 
still looks to the United Nations for moral and political 
leadership.  The  great  goals  are  within  reach.  We  can 
achieve them by looking forward, pulling together and 
uniting  our  strength  as  a  community  of  nations  in  the 
name of the larger good. I count on your leadership and 
commitment. 

Secretary-General for his presentation. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank  the 

10-54827 

A/65/PV.11


throughout 
the  world, 
The  President  (spoke 
Agenda item 8 
General debate 
in  French):  For  my 

introductory  remarks,  I  have  chosen  the  theme  “A 
strong,  inclusive  and  open  United  Nations  as  the 
guarantor of global governance”. 

As  we  open  the  general  debate  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session,  we  already  have  a  week  of  intensive  work 
behind us. I would like to thank the General Assembly 
for  its  contribution  to  the  success  of  the  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  By  reaffirming  its  determination  to  overcome 
poverty  and  suffering 
the 
international  community  that  you  here  represent  has 
sent a strong message to the whole of humankind. 

Much  remains  to  be  done. We  must  reaffirm  our 
resolve.  We  know  that  additional  efforts  are  needed. 
We have an action plan; now we must implement it. To 
succeed, we need a genuine global partnership, born of 
inclusive global governance, in which all stakeholders 
can make themselves heard.  
But  this  global  partnership  is  needed  in  many 

other areas too. Our world is now more interdependent 
and more interconnected, and it faces global challenges 
that affect all countries and their citizens, whether they 
like it or not and regardless of who is responsible.  
Current  realities  provide  all  too  many  examples 

of 
this.  Poverty,  conflicts,  global  warming, 
the 
economic  and  financial  crisis,  migration,  pandemics, 
terrorism,  international  crime  and  a  whole  range  of 
other issues have consequences that cannot be managed 
at  an  individual  level,  and  which  humankind  can 
address only through common global strategies. 

In  establishing  such  a  global  partnership,  we 
come up against the difficulty of building consensus on 
the action to be taken. It is for that reason that I have 
chosen  global  governance  or,  more  specifically, 
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global  governance”,  as  the  suggested  theme  of  our 
general debate. 

The United Nations has unique legitimacy to play 
a central role. With its 192 Member States, the General 
Assembly  is  a  near-universal  body  and  reflects  the 
diversity  of  the  situations  and  interests  at  stake.  It  is 
there to promote the rights of every woman and man on 
3 

to 
life 
thanks 
A/65/PV.11 

our planet. Any matters within the scope of the Charter 
may be discussed by the General Assembly. 

The United Nations, as an operational entity, also 
has  the  expertise  and  the  presence  on  the  ground  to 
play that central role. I am thinking in particular of its 
peacekeeping  missions,  humanitarian  operations  and 
natural-disaster-response  activities,  as  well  as  all  the 
work carried out far from the media spotlight. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank the thousands of 
United  Nations  staff  members  who,  with  great 
commitment and often at risk to life and limb, work to 
promote  peace  and  prosperity  around  the  world.  We 
owe  them  our  sincere  appreciation  on  behalf  of  all 
those  who  enjoy  a  better 
their 
endeavours. 

However,  there  is  a  danger  that  the  United 
Nations  could  be  marginalized  as  other  actors  emerge 
on  the  international  scene.  The  United  Nations  has 
been  criticized  for  not  being  effective  or  efficient 
enough.  Determining  urgent  action  through  a  more 
restricted forum can seem easier and more expeditious. 
This much should be clear: the point is not to deny the 
role of such entities as the Group of 20. The economic 
and financial crisis has highlighted the importance of a 
rapid  and  coordinated  response.  However,  there  is  a 
vital and pressing need to bridge the efforts of different 
actors.  The  mechanisms 
communication, 
consultation  and  cooperation  between  those  entities 
and  other  States  must  be  improved.  Only  the  United 
Nations and its General Assembly can do so. 

to 
comprehensively  fulfil  its  global  governance  role,  we 
must  press  for  it  to  be  strong,  inclusive  and  open.  A 
close  connection  must  be  established  between  States 
and the private sector, civil society and regional actors. 
We  must  listen  to  other  key  actors  and  interact  with 
them outside the Assembly. 

A strong United Nations requires a decisive effort 
to  reform  the  Organization  and,  in  particular,  to 
revitalize  the  General  Assembly,  reform  the  Security 
Council  and  review  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  must 
also  strengthen  the  economic  organizations  of  the 
United  Nations,  enabling  them  fully  to  serve  the 
purpose  for  which  they  were  established.  Lastly,  it  is 
up  to  Member  States  to  make  the  United  Nations  a 
strong 
that  can 
in 
confronting global challenges. 
the  United  Nations 
take  centre  stage 
instrument 
order 
for 
for 
In 
for 
too 
intend 
long,  and 
to  convene 
the  courage 
the  best  possible 

In  the  course  of  the  general  debate,  I  invite 
members  to  share  their  views  on  inclusive  global 
governance.  Numerous  issues  await  urgent  action. 
Numerous wars, disasters and tragedies have persisted 
for too long to allow any  delay. The world expects  us 
to  be  more  effective  in  uniting  around  actions  that 
enjoy  universal  endorsement  and  commitment.  We 
must  develop 
linkage  between 
legitimacy  and  effectiveness.  As  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  I 
informal 
meetings on this topic. 

Having suggested some avenues for discussion, I 
wish  to  listen  to  members.  It  is  now  up  to  you,  the 
leaders  of  the  world  as  a  whole,  to  take  a  stand  and 
proclaim  that  too  many  problems  and  scourges  have 
persisted 
together  determine 
milestones leading to a global partnership in which all 
forces  will  be  united  and  all  countries  will  feel 
included in joint effective action for a better world. We 
must  also  have 
to  debate  difficult 
questions,  but  we  must  do  so  in  a  spirit  of  friendship 
and openness. 

Before giving the floor to the first speaker for this 
morning,  I  would  like  to  remind  Member  States  that 
the  list  of  speakers  for  the  general  debate  has  been 
established  on  the  agreed  basis  that  statements  should 
be  no  longer  than  15  minutes,  so  as  to  enable  all 
speakers to be heard  at  a  given meeting. I should like 
to appeal to all speakers to deliver their statements at a 
normal  speed  so  that  proper  interpretation  in  the  six 
official United Nations languages can be provided. 

I  would  also  like  to  draw  members’  attention  to 
the  decision  taken  by  the  Assembly  at  previous 
sessions,  namely, 
the  practice  of  expressing 
congratulations inside the General Assembly Hall after 
a speech has been delivered is strongly discouraged. In 
that connection, I would like to remind  members that, 
after  delivering  their  statements,  speakers  are  kindly 
invited to exit the General Assembly Hall through what 
is  known  as  the  Swiss  Room,  or  GA-200,  which  is 
located  behind  the  podium,  before  returning  to  their 
seats. 

May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
proceed in the same manner during the general debate 
of the sixth-fifth session? 

It was so decided. 
that 
4 

10-54827 


The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Finally,  I 

should like to draw the attention of members to the fact 
that, during the general debate, official photographs of 
all  speakers  are  taken  by  the  Department  of  Public 
Information.  Members  interested  in  obtaining  these 
photographs  are  kindly  requested  to  contact  the  Photo 
Library of the United Nations. 

I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Celso 
Luiz  Nunes  Amorim,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Brazil. 
Mr. Amorim  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English  text 

provided by the delegation): It is a great honour for me 
to  come  to  this  rostrum  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
people and Government of Brazil. I bring the greetings 
of President Lula.  

Within days,  over 130 million Brazilians will go 
to the polls and will write another important chapter in 
the  history  of  our  democracy.  During  President  Lula’s 
two  terms,  Brazil  has  changed.  Sustained  economic 
growth, financial stability, social inclusion and the full 
exercise  of  democracy  have  converged  and  reinforced 
each  another.  Over  20  million  Brazilians  rose  out  of 
poverty,  and  many  others  out  of  extreme  poverty. 
Nearly 30 million people joined the middle class. 
Strong  and  transparent  public  policies  reduced 

income,  access  and  opportunities. 
inequalities 
to  dignity  and  real 
Millions  of  Brazilians  rose 
citizenship.  The 
strengthened  domestic  market 
protected us from the worst effects of the global crisis 
set  in  motion  by  the  financial  casino  in  the  richest 
countries in the world. 

Brazil is proud to have achieved almost all of the 
Millennium Development Goals and to be well on the 
way to meeting them all by 2015. The inability of any 
country  to  achieve  those  Goals  must  be  seen  as  a 
failure  of  the  entire  international  community.  The 
promotion of development is a collective responsibility. 
Brazil  has  been  working  to  assist  other  countries  to 
replicate  its  successful  experiences.  In  the  past  years 
Brazil’s  actions  on  the  international  stage  have  been 
driven by a sense of solidarity. We are convinced that it 
is possible to have a humanistic foreign policy without 
losing  sight  of  national  interests.  That  policy  is 
supported  by  South-South  cooperation.  The  IBSA 
Facility for Poverty and Hunger Alleviation, created by 
India,  Brazil  and  South  Africa,  finances  projects  in 
Haiti,  Guinea-Bissau,  Cape  Verde, 
Palestine, 
in 
A/65/PV.11
for  antiretroviral  drugs 
Cambodia, Burundi, Laos and Sierra Leone. Brazil has 
substantially  increased  its  humanitarian  aid  and  the 
number  of 
its  cooperation  projects  with  poorer 
countries.  

Africa occupies a very special place in Brazilian 
diplomacy. Since taking office, President Lula has been 
to Africa 11 times and visited over 20 countries in the 
continent.  We  have  set  up  an  agricultural  research 
office  in  Ghana,  a  model  cotton  farm  in  Mali,  a 
manufacturing  plant 
in 
Mozambique  and  professional  training  centres  in  five 
African  countries.  Through  trade  and  investment,  we 
are  helping  the  African  continent  to  develop  its 
enormous potential and reduce its dependency on a few 
centres of political and economic power. 

Brazil  is  particularly  concerned  about  Guinea-
Bissau.  It  is  not  by  isolating  or  abandoning  Guinea-
Bissau  that  the  international  community  will  help  it 
address the challenges it still faces. We need intelligent 
modalities 
for  cooperation,  which  can  promote 
development and stability and encourage the necessary 
reforms, especially with regard to the armed forces. 
This  year,  in  which  a  significant  number  of 

African  countries  celebrate  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
their  decolonization,  Brazil  renews  its  commitment  to 
an 
just  and  democratic 
Africa. 

international 
solidarity  is  more  needed  than  Haiti.  We  joined  the 
United  Nations  in  mourning  the  tragedy  that  took  the 
lives  of  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Haitians.  We 
ourselves  lost  great  Brazilians,  including  Dr.  Zilda 
Arns  —  a  woman  who  dedicated  her  life  to  the  poor, 
especially  children  —  Mr.  Luiz  Carlos  da  Costa, 
Deputy  Head  of  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti, and 18 of our peacekeepers. 

We would like to express our compassion for the 
suffering  of  the  Haitian  people  and,  above  all,  our 
admiration  for  the  stoicism  and  courage  with  which 
they  have  been  facing  adversity.  The  Haitian  people 
know  that  they  can  count  on  Brazil  to  not  only  help 
them  maintain  order  and  defend  democracy,  but  also 
assist  in  their  development.  We  are  keeping  our 
promises and will keep a watchful eye on the situation 
to  ensure  that  the  commitments  of  the  international 
community go beyond rhetorical statements. 
independent,  prosperous, 
There  are 
few  places  where 
10-54827 

5 
its  value 
The  establishment  of 
A/65/PV.11 


In  recent  years,  the  Brazilian  Government  has 
invested  heavily  in  South  America’s  integration  and 
peace. We  have  strengthened  our  strategic  partnership 
with  Argentina.  We  have  reinforced  MERCOSUR, 
including through financial mechanisms unique among 
developing countries. 

the  Union  of  South 
American Nations (UNASUR) aims at  consolidating a 
genuine  zone  of  peace  and  prosperity.  UNASUR  has 
already  demonstrated 
in  promoting 
understanding  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts 
among and within countries in South America and has 
made  foreign  interference  in  our  region  even  more 
unwarranted.  By  creating  the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  launched  in  Bahia, 
Brazil  and  confirmed  in  Cancún,  Mexico,  we  have 
reaffirmed the region’s willingness to extend to Central 
America  and  the  Caribbean  the  integrationist  ideals 
that animate South Americans. 

Brazil  reiterates  its  condemnation,  shared  by  all 
in Latin America and the Caribbean, of the illegitimate 
embargo  against  Cuba.  Its  sole  result  has  been  to 
hamper  the  efforts  of  millions  of  Cubans  in  their 
struggle for development. 
We  condemn  anti-democratic moves, such as  the 

coup  d’état 
in  Honduras.  The  return  of  former 
President  Zelaya  without  threats  to  his  freedom  is 
indispensable  for  the  full  normalization  of  Honduras’ 
relations with the region as a whole. 

When  President  Lula  first  spoke  in  this  Hall,  in 
2003, the world lived under the shadow of the invasion 
of  Iraq.  We  hope  we  have  learned  the  lessons  of  that 
episode.  Blind  faith  in  intelligence  reports  tailored  to 
justify  political  goals  must  be  rejected.  We  must  ban 
once  and  for  all  the  use  of  force  that  is  inconsistent 
with  international  law.  Furthermore,  it  is  fundamental 
to  value  and  promote  dialogue  and  the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes. 
In  order  to  achieve  a  truly  secure  world,  the 

promise  of  the  total  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons 
must  be  fulfilled.  Unilateral  reductions  are  welcome 
but insufficient, especially when they occur in tandem 
with the modernization of nuclear arsenals. 

stated, 
multilateralism  is  the  international  face  of  democracy. 
The  United  Nations  must  be  the  main  center  of 
decision-making in international politics.  
President 
often 
As 
Lula 
has 

scenario:  a 
the  worst-case 

The changes that have occurred in the world over 
the  past  few  decades  and  the  series  of  crises  we  have 
faced  in  food  security,  climate  change,  the  economic 
and  financial  sphere  and  peace  and  security  make  it 
urgent  to  redefine  the  rules  that  govern  international 
relations. 

The financial crisis of 2008 accelerated change in 
global  economic  governance.  The  Group  of  Twenty 
(G-20)  replaced  the  Group  of  Eight  as  the  primary 
forum  for  deliberation  on  economic  issues.  The  G-20 
was  a  step  forward,  but  it  must  be  adjusted  to  ensure, 
for 
instance,  greater  African  participation.  The 
relevance and legitimacy of the G-20 can be preserved 
only if it maintains frank and permanent dialogue with 
all the nations represented in this General Assembly. 
At  the  height  of  the  crisis,  we  succeeded  in 

avoiding 
surge  of 
uncontrolled  protectionism,  which  would  have  thrown 
the  world  into  a  deep  depression.  But  the  developed 
countries  have  not  demonstrated 
the  necessary 
commitment 
to  global  economic  stability.  They 
continue  to  let  themselves  be  guided  by  parochial 
interests.  Nowhere  is  that  more  evident  than  in  the 
Doha  round  of  negotiations  in  the  World  Trade 
Organization.  A  balanced  solution  to  that  negotiating 
process,  which  has  lasted  for  almost  10  years,  would 
promote  economic  expansion  and  the  development  of 
the  poorest  countries,  with  the  end  of  distorting 
subsidies  and  protectionist  barriers.  After  all,  poor 
countries  are  the  greatest  victims  of  the  narrow  and 
selfish view that still prevails in international trade. 

in 
the 
financial sector. Unjustified resistance is preventing the 
implementation  of  agreed-upon  changes.  Obstinacy  in 
maintaining  anachronistic  privileges  perpetuates  and 
deepens the illegitimacy of institutions. 

Another  major  challenge  we  face  is  achieving  a 
global,  comprehensive  and  ambitious  agreement  on 
climate  change.  In  order  to  move  forward  on  this 
matter,  countries  must  stop  hiding  behind  each  other. 
Brazil,  like  other  developing  countries,  has  done  its 
part.  But 
several  delegations, 
especially from the rich world, sought excuses to evade 
their  moral  and  political  obligations.  They  forgot  that 
one cannot negotiate with Nature. 

A  positive  outcome  of  the  sixteenth  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  with  real  progress  in 
Reforms  have  also  been 
in  Copenhagen, 
insufficient 
6 

10-54827 
countries, 
including 
as 
to  allow 
the  Kyoto 
commitments, 


forests,  financing  for  adaptation  and  mitigation  and  a 
reaffirmation 
is 
indispensable.  The  Mexican  presidency  can  count  on 
Brazil’s engagement to achieve this objective. 

In  2012,  we  will  host,  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Brazil, 
the  Rio+20  Conference.  On  behalf  of  the  Brazilian 
Government,  I  invite  all  delegations  to  fulfill  the 
promise of truly sustainable development. 

The  reform  of  global  governance  has  not  yet 
reached the field of international peace and security. In 
the  economic  and  environmental  areas,  the  wealthiest 
nations  have  already  understood  that  they  cannot  do 
without  the  cooperation  of  the  poor  and  emerging 
countries.  When  it  comes  to  war  and  peace,  however, 
the traditional players are reluctant to share power. 
The  Security  Council  must  be  reformed  and 

for  greater  participation  by 
expanded 
developing 
permanent 
members.  We  cannot  continue  with  working  methods 
that  lack  transparency  and  that  allow  the  permanent 
members  to  discuss  behind  closed  doors  and  for  as 
long as they wish issues that concern all mankind. 

Brazil  has  sought  to  live  up  to  what  is  expected 
from  all  Security  Council  members,  including  non-
permanent  ones  —  namely,  that  they  contribute  to 
peace. For this reason, we made a serious effort to find 
an  instrument  that  could  enable  progress  towards  a 
solution  of  the  Iranian  nuclear  question.  In  so  doing, 
we  relied  on  proposals  that  had  been  presented  as  a 
unique  opportunity  to  build  confidence  between  the 
parties. The  Tehran  Declaration  of  17  May,  signed  by 
Brazil,  Turkey  and  Iran,  removed  obstacles  that, 
according  to  the  very  authors  of  those  proposals,  had 
previously prevented an agreement. 

The  Tehran  Declaration  does  not  exhaust  the 
issue  and  was  never  intended  to  do  so.  We  are 
convinced that, once back to the negotiating table, the 
parties  will  find  ways  to  resolve  other  issues,  such  as 
20  per  cent  enrichment  and  the  stock  of  enriched 
uranium  accumulated  since  October  2009.  In  spite  of 
the  sanctions,  we  still  hope  that  the  logic  of  dialogue 
and  understanding  will  prevail.  The  world  cannot  run 
the risk of a new conflict like the one in Iraq. We have 
been  insisting,  therefore,  that  the  Iranian  Government 
maintain an attitude of flexibility and openness towards 
negotiations,  but 
those 
concerned also demonstrate such willingness. 
is  necessary 
that  all 
of 
it 
A/65/PV.11

We  are  closely  following  developments  in  the 
peace  process  in  the  Middle  East.  We  hope  the  direct 
talks between Palestinians and Israelis launched earlier 
this month will produce concrete results that lead to the 
creation  of  a  Palestinian  State  within  the  pre-1967 
borders, a State that ensures for the Palestinian people 
a  dignified  life,  co-existing  side  by  side  and  in  peace 
with the State of Israel. 

However, it is not the format of the dialogue that 
will  determine  whether  it  will  yield  results.  What 
matters is the willingness of the parties to reach a just 
and  lasting  peace.  That  will  be  easier  with  the 
involvement  of  all  those  concerned.  Freezing  the 
construction  of  settlements  in  the  occupied  territories, 
lifting  the  Gaza  blockade  and  ending  attacks  against 
civilian populations are crucial elements in the process. 

In  his  visit  to  Israel,  Palestine  and  Jordan  in 
March,  President  Lula  spoke  with  government  leaders 
and representatives of civil society about those issues. 
We frequently receive in Brasilia the leaders of various 
countries of the region, who seek support in resolving 
problems that have afflicted them for decades and have 
not  been  solved  through  the  traditional  means  and 
actors.  Brazil,  which  has  about  10  million  people  of 
Arab  descent  and  a  sizeable  Jewish  community  living 
together in harmony, will not shy away from making its 
contribution to the peace that we all yearn for. 

Brazil’s  commitment  to  the  promotion  of  human 
rights  is  also  unwavering.  We  favour  a  non-selective, 
objective  and  multilateral  treatment  of  human  rights, 
without politicization or bias, in which everyone — the 
rich  and  the  poor,  the  powerful  and  the  weak  —  is 
subject to  the same scrutiny. In our  view, the exercise 
of  human  rights 
is  more  effectively  ensured  by 
dialogue  and  cooperation  than  by  arrogant  attitudes 
derived from self-declared moral superiority. 

During  his  eight  years  in  office,  President  Lula 
has developed a foreign policy that is independent, free 
of  any  sort  of  submission,  and  respectful  of  Brazil’s 
neighbours  and  partners.  It  is  an  innovative  foreign 
policy,  which  does  not  distance 
the 
fundamental  values  of  the  Brazilian  nation:  peace, 
pluralism, tolerance and solidarity. 

Just  as  Brazil  has  changed  and  will  continue  to 
change,  the  world  is  also  changing.  We  must  deepen 
and  accelerate  this  process.  With  the  technology  and 
wealth  at  our  disposal, 
longer  any 
justification  for  hunger,  poverty  and  epidemics  of 
itself  from 
is  no 
there 
10-54827 

7 

A/65/PV.11 

preventable  diseases.  We  can  no  longer  live  with 
discrimination, injustice and authoritarianism. We must 
face the challenges of nuclear disarmament, sustainable 
development  and  freer  and  fairer  trade.  Rest  assured, 
Brazil  will  continue  to  fight  to  make  these  ideals  a 
reality. 


Address by Ms. Doris Leuthard, President of the 
Swiss Confederation 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of the Swiss 
Confederation.  

To be clear: Switzerland, in taking this time slot, 
is  not  presenting  itself  as  a  new  world  Power.  The 
President  of  the  United  States  of  America  is  not  yet 
able  to  arrive  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  Switzerland 
has thus made itself available to fill the slot that is free 
as a result. 

Ms.  Doris  Leuthard,  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Doris 
Leuthard, President of the Swiss Confederation, and to 
invite her to address the Assembly. 
President  Leuthard  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a 

great  honour  for  me 
to  address,  on  behalf  of 
Switzerland, the General Assembly, which this year is 
presided  over  by  my  compatriot,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss.  I 
would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the 
President on his election. His election is a great honour 
for Switzerland and is not only a personal recognition 
of  President  Deiss  and  his  work  but  also  of  our 
country’s  commitment  to  the  United  Nations  as  a 
member  of 
the  Organization  and  a  defender  of 
multilateralism. 

We  find  ourselves  today  in  a  building  that  is 
undergoing renovations. The architectural makeover of 
the  United  Nations  prompts  me  to  ask:  what  kind  of 
United  Nations are we building for the  next 10, 20 or 
30 years? We need a United Nations that can  face the 
challenges of the future for the good of all. We need a 
United  Nations  that  will  contribute  effectively  to 
solving the world’s problems. We need Member States 
that are ready to take full responsibility for building a 
better world. 
A 
strong 
international  community 

The future of the United Nations must reflect the 
world  of  tomorrow.  Today,  nearly  one  billion  people 
are still malnourished. There will be many more people 
sharing this planet in the future, and no doubt we will 
have to make do with fewer resources. Thanks to new 
developments  in  technology  and  information,  our 
citizens  participate  more  directly  in  the  challenges 
facing  our  societies.  They  are  increasingly  better 
informed  and  feel  that  at  least  some  of  the  legitimacy 
of this universal Organization depends on its ability to 
respond  effectively  to  those  challenges.  They  demand 
accountability. 

In a more globalized world, we must treasure and 
defend the principles of the United Nations Charter. We 
must take care to ensure the proper functioning of this 
common  structure  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity,  respect  and 
responsibility. 

requires 
solidarity.  That  means  more  than  providing  assistance 
to  countries  when  they  are  unable  to  help  their  own 
citizens.  It  also  means  reminding  States  of 
the 
responsibilities they have towards their  own people in 
areas  such  as  security,  the  rule  of  law,  human  rights 
and  democracy,  and  all  that  in  respect  for  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  Every  woman,  every  man,  every 
citizen  must  make  his  and  her  contribution  to  the 
structure  we  are  building  together.  At  the  same  time 
every Member State must be able to place its national 
interests second to the common good. That is the only 
way  we  will  be  able  to  find  solutions  that  are  in 
everyone’s interest.  

Every  day  we  are  reminded  of  the  growing  and 
increasingly complex global challenges confronting us: 
the  economic  and  financial  crisis,  climate  change, 
energy  and  food  security,  development  and  poverty, 
and  peace  and  security.  The  search  for  sustainable 
solutions to those challenges calls for real governance, 
governance,  moreover,  that  must  reflect  the  new 
realities  in  the  world.  The  new-found  prosperity  of 
some  must  go  hand  in  hand  with  new  responsibilities. 
States whose economic success enables them to play a 
more  active  role  in  the  governance  of  the  world  must 
accept the new responsibilities that go with that active 
role. 

The  United  Nations  enjoys  a  unique  legitimacy 
because  of  its  universal  membership.  Its  legitimacy 
also  derives  from  the  issues  it  addresses,  which 
concern us all. This week’s agenda is the best possible 
8 

10-54827 


proof.  But  the  legitimacy  of  an  organization  also 
depends on its performance and its ability to respond to 
the expectations placed on it.  

By  that  standard  the  United  Nations  sometimes 
delivers  mixed  results. At  times  it  seems  ill-equipped 
and  hesitant  to  act. The  power  derived  from  universal 
membership  becomes  a  burden  when  we  Member 
States are divided. Our debates should not be limited to 
the  lowest  common  denominator.  They  must  lead  to 
action  and  to  results  in  the  interest  of  the  common 
good of humanity. 

If  the  United  Nations  fails  to  act,  other  groups 
representing  only  a  fraction  of  the  countries  of  the 
world  will  step  in,  zealous  for  effective  action,  and 
play  a  central  role  in  global  governance.  As  far  as 
Switzerland is concerned, such groups lack legitimacy 
by  virtue  of  their  limited  composition.  It  is  therefore 
crucial for the United Nations and its principal organs 
to  remain  at  the  centre  of  world  governance.  That  is 
why we must take care to ensure that the legitimacy of 
this  universal  body  does  not  suffer  from  a  lack  of 
efficiency. To make progress in building a better world, 
it  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  meet  a  global 
challenge with a global response. Switzerland wants to 
contribute to this joint effort. 

following areas.  

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  must  be 
implemented rapidly and fully. We know that dropping 
a sack of rice from a helicopter is not enough. We must 
instead  teach  people  how  to  grow  rice.  Still  today, 
1.4 billion  people  around  the  world  are  living  in 
extreme  poverty.  Every  day  too  many  mothers  and 
children die of malnutrition and lack of care. We know 
that  huge  financial  means  are  needed  after  a  disaster. 
Money  flows  in  emergency  situations,  but  who  is  still 
concerned  three  years  later?  Who  is  involved  in  the 
reconstruction? 
Binding objectives must be defined as quickly as 

possible 
reducing  carbon  dioxide  emissions. 
Nowadays, we have knowledge and we have clean and 
green  technology.  We  must  take  action,  each  nation 
with measures aimed at its own targets. Waiting for the 
industrialized countries to  invest in the South will not 
lead  anywhere.  Here  too,  all  must  fulfil  their  own 
responsibilities.  This  year  in  Mexico  we  still  have  an 
opportunity  to  make  progress.  The  recent  natural 
disasters  are  unmistakable  signs.  Switzerland  will 
Concerted  global  action 
is  required 
for 
the 
in 
A/65/PV.11
in 
in 
countries, 
themselves 
together  with  other 
reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 per cent by 
the year 2020.  

Thirty years after the Cold War, the proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction remains a grave threat 
to peace and security. But for civilian populations, the 
real  devastation  is  caused  by  small  arms  and  light 
weapons.  Terrorists  benefit  from  that  situation  by 
easily  supplying 
the  arms  market. 
Switzerland, 
is 
supporting  the  full  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  That 
initiative provides for the involvement of specialists in 
humanitarian aid and education. 

Gender  equality  must  at  last  become  a  reality. 
Access  to  education  and  health  for  women  and  girls 
has been restricted for decades. More than others, they 
have been victims of poverty. They have also been the 
targets  of  systematic  violence  in  armed  conflicts.  It  is 
high  time  to  make  full  use  of  their  potential  in 
mediation  and  reconstruction  in  countries  affected  by 
conflict.  In  that  context,  Switzerland  welcomes  the 
creation  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women  —  UN 
Women  —  which  brings  us  closer  to  the  fulfilment  of 
this vision. 

We  must  avoid  making  the  United  Nations  an 
immutable historic monument, but rather turn it into a 
dynamic  organization. The  United  Nations  is  the  only 
organization  in  the  world  with  the  legitimacy  to 
represent  all  nations  and  all  peoples.  It  is  the  only 
legitimate  organization 
the  world  capable  of 
narrowing differences and restoring a balance between 
regions.  

For that to happen, however, every Member State 
must  accept  its  responsibilities  and  start  with  the  task 
of  putting  its  own  house  in  order.  Discussion  and 
preparing reports are not enough, however; we need to 
act.  Each  Member  State  must  commit  itself  clearly 
within  the  Organization  to  respond  to  the  urgent 
questions  facing  the  world  of  today  and  of  tomorrow. 
Such  commitments  will  strengthen  confidence  in  the 
United Nations and its credibility.  
Switzerland  remains  firmly  convinced  of  the 

aptness  of  a  multilateral  approach,  with  the  United 
Nations  at 
the  contributions  of 
everyone in this Hall today we will be able to create a 
more  just,  peaceful  and  prosperous  world.  I  thank  all 
who are gathered here for their collective commitment. 
its  centre.  With 
10-54827 

9 

A/65/PV.11 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly I wish to thank the President of 
the Swiss Confederation for the statement she has just 
made. 

  Ms.  Doris  Leuthard,  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 



into 
Address by Mr. Barack Obama, President of the 
United States of America 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of the United 
States of America. 

  Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United States 
of  America,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, 
President of the United States of America, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.  
President Obama: It is a great honour to address 

this  Assembly  for  the  second  time,  nearly  two  years 
after my election as President of the United States. We 
know this is no ordinary time for our people. We each 
come  here  with  our  own  problems  and  priorities.  But 
there  are  also  challenges  that  we  share  in  common  as 
leaders and as nations. 

We  meet  within  an  institution  built  from  the 
rubble of war, designed to unite the world in pursuit of 
peace. And we meet within a city that for centuries has 
welcomed people from across the globe, demonstrating 
that  individuals  of  every  colour,  faith  and  station  can 
come 
to  pursue  opportunity,  build  a 
community and live with the blessing of human liberty. 

Outside  the  doors  of  this  Hall,  the  blocks  and 
neighbourhoods  of  this  great  city  tell  the  story  of  a 
difficult decade. Nine years ago, the destruction of the 
World Trade Center signalled a threat that respected no 
boundary  of  dignity  or  decency.  Two  years  ago  this 
month,  a  financial  crisis  on  Wall  Street  devastated 
American  families  on  Main  Street.  These  separate 
challenges have affected people around the world. Men 
and  women  and  children  have  been  murdered  by 
extremists from Casablanca to London, from Jalalabad 
to  Jakarta. The  global  economy  suffered  an  enormous 
blow during the financial crisis, crippling markets and 
together 
these  challenges 
deferring  the  dreams  of  millions  on  every  continent. 
Underneath 
to  our  security  and 
prosperity  lie  deeper  fears:  that  ancient  hatreds  and 
religious divides are once again ascendant; that a world 
which  has  grown  more  interconnected  has  somehow 
slipped beyond our control. 

These  are  some  of  the  challenges  that  my 
Administration  has  confronted  since  we  came  into 
office. And today, I would like to talk to the Assembly 
about  what  we  have  done  over  the  last  20  months  to 
meet  these  challenges;  what  our  responsibility  is  to 
pursue  peace  in  the  Middle  East;  and  what  kind  of 
world  we  are  trying  to  build  in  this  twenty-first 
century. 

Let me begin with what we have done. I have had 
no  greater  focus  as  President  than  rescuing  our 
economy  from  potential  catastrophe.  And  in  an  age 
when prosperity is shared, we could not do this alone. 
So America  has  joined  with  nations  around  the  world 
to  spur  growth  and  the  renewed  demand  that  could 
restart job creation. 

We  are  reforming  our  system  of  global  finance, 
beginning with Wall Street reform here at home, so that 
a crisis like this never happens again. And we made the 
Group  of  20 
international 
coordination,  because  in  a  world  where  prosperity  is 
more  diffuse,  we  must  broaden  our  circle  of 
cooperation 
include  emerging  economies  —
economies from every corner of the globe. 

There  is  much  to  show  for  our  efforts,  even  as 
there  is  much  work  to  be  done.  The  global  economy 
has  been  pulled  back  from  the  brink  of  a  depression 
and 
resisted 
protectionism  and  are  exploring  ways  to  expand  trade 
and  commerce  among  nations.  But  we  cannot  —  and 
will not — rest until these seeds of progress grow into 
a broader prosperity, not only for all Americans but for 
peoples around the world. 
As for our common security, America is waging a 

more  effective  fight  against  Al-Qaida’  while  winding 
down  the  war  in  Iraq.  Since  I  took  office,  the  United 
States  has  removed  nearly  100,000  troops  from  Iraq. 
We  have  done  so 
Iraqis  have 
transitioned  to  lead  responsibility  for  the  security  of 
their country. We are now focused on building a lasting 
partnership  with  the  Iraqi  people  while  keeping  our 
commitment  to  remove  the  rest  of  our  troops  by  the 
end of next year. 
is  growing  once  more.  We  have 
responsibly  as 
focal  point 
the 
for 
to 
10 

10-54827 
to  break 
to  strengthen 
As  we  pursue 
targeted  approach  —  one 



While  drawing  down  in  Iraq,  we  have  refocused 
on  defeating  Al-Qaida  and  denying  its  affiliates  safe 
haven. In Afghanistan, the United States and our allies 
are  pursuing  a  strategy 
the  Taliban’s 
momentum  and  build  the  capacity  of  Afghanistan’s 
Government  and security  forces so that  a transition to 
Afghan  responsibility  can  begin  next  July.  And  from 
South  Asia  to  the  Horn  of  Africa,  we  are  moving 
that 
towards  a  more 
strengthens  our  partners  and  dismantles 
terrorist 
networks without deploying large American armies. 

the  world’s  most  dangerous 
extremists, we are also denying them the world’s most 
dangerous  weapons  and  pursuing 
the  peace  and 
security of a world without nuclear weapons. 

Earlier  this  year,  47  nations  embraced  a  work 
plan  to  secure  all  vulnerable  nuclear  materials  within 
four years. We have joined with Russia to sign the most 
comprehensive arms control treaty in decades. We have 
reduced  the  role  of  nuclear  weapons  in  our  security 
strategy.  And  here,  at  the  United  Nations,  we  came 
together 
the  Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). 

As  part  of  our  effort  on  non-proliferation,  I 
offered the Islamic Republic of Iran an extended hand 
last  year  and  underscored  that  it  has  both  rights  and 
responsibilities  as  a  member  of  the  international 
community. I also said — in this Hall — that Iran must 
be  held  accountable 
those 
to  meet 
responsibilities. And that is what we have done. 
Iran  is  the  only  party  to  the  NPT  that  cannot 

demonstrate  the  peaceful  intentions  of  its  nuclear 
programme,  and  those  actions  have  consequences. 
Through  Security  Council  resolution  1929  (2010),  we 
made  it  clear  that  international  law  is  not  an  empty 
promise. 

Now let me be clear once more: the United States 
and  the  international  community  seek  a  resolution  to 
our differences with Iran, and the door remains open to 
diplomacy  should  Iran  choose  to  walk  through  it.  But 
the  Iranian  Government  must  demonstrate  a  clear  and 
credible  commitment  and  confirm  to  the  world  the 
peaceful intent of its nuclear programme.  

As we combat the spread of deadly weapons, we 
are  also  confronting  the  spectre  of  climate  change. 
After making historic investments in clean energy and 
efficiency  at  home,  we  helped  forge  an  accord  in 
the  Treaty  on 
it  failed 
if 
A/65/PV.11
has 
also 
Amidst 
America 
embraced 
Copenhagen  that  —  for  the  first  time  —  commits  all 
major  economies  to  reduce  their  emissions.  We  are 
keenly  aware  this  is  just  a  first  step.  And  going 
forward,  we  will support  a process in  which all major 
economies  meet  our  responsibilities  to  protect  the 
planet  while  unleashing  the  power  of  clean  energy  to 
serve as an engine of growth and development. 

unique 
responsibilities  that  come  with  our  power.  Since  the 
rains  came  and  the  floodwaters  rose  in  Pakistan,  we 
have pledged our assistance, and we should all support 
the  Pakistani  people  as  they  recover  and  rebuild. And 
when the earth shook and Haiti was devastated by loss, 
we joined a coalition of nations in response. Today, we 
honour those from the United Nations family who lost 
their  lives  in  the  earthquake  and  commit  ourselves  to 
stand  with  the  people  of  Haiti  until  they  can  stand  on 
their own two feet. 

this  upheaval,  we  have  also  been 
persistent in our pursuit of peace. Last year, I pledged 
my best efforts to support the goal of two States, Israel 
and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security, 
as part of a comprehensive peace between Israel and all 
of  its  neighbours.  We  have  travelled  a  winding  road 
over  the  last  12  months,  with  few  peaks  and  many 
valleys.  But  this  month  I  am  pleased  that  we  have 
pursued  direct  negotiations  between  Israelis  and 
Palestinians 
in  Washington,  Sharm  el-Sheikh  and 
Jerusalem.  
Now I recognize that many are pessimistic about 

this  process.  The  cynics  say 
Israelis  and 
Palestinians  are  too  distrustful  of  each  other,  and  too 
divided internally, to forge lasting peace. Rejectionists 
on both sides will try to disrupt the process with bitter 
words and with bombs and gunfire. Some say that the 
gaps  between  the  parties  are  too  big;  the  potential  for 
talks to break down is too great; and that after decades 
of failure peace is simply not possible.  

I  hear  those  voices  of  scepticism.  But  I  ask  the 
Assembly  to  consider  the  alternative.  If  an  agreement 
is  not  reached,  Palestinians  will  never  know  the  pride 
and  dignity  that  comes  with  their  own  State.  Israelis 
will  never  know  the  certainty  and  security  that  comes 
with  sovereign  and  stable  neighbours  who  are 
committed 
to  coexistence.  The  hard  realities  of 
demography  will  take  over.  More  blood  will  be  shed. 
This  Holy  Land  will  remain  a  symbol  of  our 
differences, instead of our common humanity.  
that 
10-54827 

11 
live 
A/65/PV.11 


I refuse to accept that future. We all have a choice 
to make. Each of us must choose the path of peace. Of 
course,  that  responsibility  begins  with  the  parties 
themselves,  who  must  answer  the  call  of  history. 
Earlier this month, at the White House, I was struck by 
the  words  of  both  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  leaders. 
Prime Minister Netanyahu said, “I came here today to 
find  an  historic  compromise  that  will  enable  both 
peoples 
in  peace,  security  and  dignity”. 
President Abbas said, “We will spare no effort and we 
will  work  diligently  and  tirelessly  to  ensure  these 
negotiations achieve their cause”. 

These  words  must  now  be  followed  by  action, 
and I believe that both leaders have the courage to do 
so. But the road that they have to travel is exceedingly 
difficult,  which  is  why  I  call  upon  Israelis  and 
Palestinians  —  and  the  world  —  to  rally  behind  the 
goal that these leaders now share.  

We  know  that  there  will  be  tests  along  the  way, 
and that one test is fast approaching. Israel’s settlement 
moratorium  has  made  a  difference  on  the  ground  and 
improved the atmosphere for talks. 
And our position on this issue is well known. We 

believe  that  the  moratorium  should  be  extended.  We 
also believe that talks should press on until completed. 
Now  is  the  time  for  the  parties  to  help  each  other 
overcome  this  obstacle.  Now  is  the  time  to  build  the 
trust  —  and  provide  the  time  —  for  substantial 
progress  to  be  made.  Now  is  the  time  for  this 
opportunity to be seized, so that it does not slip away.  

Now,  peace  must  be  made  by  Israelis  and 
Palestinians,  but  we  each  have  a  responsibility  to  do 
our part as well. Those of us who are friends of Israel 
must understand that true security for the Jewish State 
requires  an  independent  Palestine  —  one  that  allows 
the  Palestinian  people 
live  with  dignity  and 
opportunity.  And  those  of  us  who  are  friends  of  the 
Palestinians  must  understand  that  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people  will  be  won  only  through  peaceful 
means  —  including  genuine  reconciliation  with  a 
secure Israel. 

I  know  many  in  this  Hall  count  themselves  as 
friends of the Palestinians. These pledges of friendship 
must  now  be  supported  by  deeds.  Those  who  have 
signed on to the Arab Peace Initiative should seize this 
opportunity  to  make  it  real  by  taking  tangible  steps 
towards the normalization that it promises Israel. 
to 
to 


And  those  who  speak  on  behalf  of  Palestinian 
self-government  should  help  the  Palestinian Authority 
politically  and  financially,  and  in  doing  so  help  the 
Palestinians build the institutions of their State. 

Those  who  long  to  see  an  independent  Palestine 
must  also  stop  trying  to  tear  down  Israel.  After 
thousands of years, Jews and Arabs are not strangers in 
a  strange  land.  After  60  years  in  the  community  of 
nations,  Israel’s  existence  must  not  be  a  subject  for 
debate. 
Israel  is  a  sovereign  State,  and  the  historic 

homeland of the Jewish people. It should be clear to all 
that  efforts  to  chip  away  at  Israel’s  legitimacy  will  be 
met  by  the  unshakeable  opposition  of  the  United 
States.  Efforts  to  threaten  or  kill  Israelis  will  do 
nothing to help the Palestinian people. The slaughter of 
innocent  Israelis  is  not  resistance;  it  is  injustice. And 
make no mistake: the  courage of  a man like President 
Abbas,  who  stands  up  for  his  people  in  front  of  the 
world under very difficult circumstances, is far greater 
than  those  who  fire  rockets  at  innocent  women  and 
children. 
The conflict between Israelis and Arabs is as old 

as  the  United  Nations.  And  we  can  come  back  here 
next  year,  as  we  have  for  the  last  60  years,  and  make 
long  speeches  about  it.  We  can  read  familiar  lists  of 
grievances. We can table the same resolutions. We can 
further  empower  the  forces  of  rejectionism  and  hate. 
And  we  can  waste  more  time  by  carrying  forward  an 
argument 
that  will  not  help  a  single  Israeli  or 
Palestinian child achieve a better life. We can do that. 

Or we can say that this time will be different — 
that  this  time  we  will  not  let  terror  or  turbulence  or 
posturing  or  petty  politics  stand  in  the  way. This  time 
we will think, not of ourselves, but of the young girl in 
Gaza  who  wants  to  have  no  ceiling  on  her  dreams  or 
the young boy in Sderot who wants to sleep without the 
nightmare of rocket fire. 
This  time  we  should  draw  upon  the  teachings  of 

tolerance that lie at the heart of the three great religions 
that see Jerusalem’s soil as sacred. This time we should 
reach for what is best within ourselves. If we do, when 
we  come  back  here  next  year,  we  can  have  an 
agreement that will lead to a new State Member of the 
United  Nations  —  an  independent,  sovereign  State  of 
Palestine living in peace with Israel. 
12 

10-54827 



It  is  our  destiny  to  bear  the  burdens  of  the 
challenges that I have addressed — recession and war 
and  conflict. And  there  is  always  a  sense  of  urgency, 
even  emergency,  that  drives  most  of  our  foreign 
policies.  Indeed,  after  millennia  marked  by  wars,  this 
very  institution  reflects  the  desire  of  human  beings  to 
create  a  forum  to  deal  with  emergencies  that  will 
inevitably come. 

But  even  as  we  confront  immediate  challenges, 
we  must  also  summon  the  foresight  to  look  beyond 
them and consider what we are trying to build over the 
long  term.  What  is  the  world  that  awaits  us  when 
today’s battles are brought to an end? And, that is what 
I  would  like  to  talk  about  with  the  remainder  of  my 
time today. 

One of the first actions of the General Assembly 
was  to  adopt  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights in 1948. This Declaration begins by stating that, 
“recognition  of  the  inherent  dignity  and  of  the  equal 
and  inalienable  rights  of  all  members  of  the  human 
family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace 
in the world”.  
The idea is a simple one — that freedom, justice 

and  peace  for  the  world  must  begin  with  freedom, 
justice  and  peace  in  the  lives  of  individual  human 
beings. For the United States, this is a matter of moral 
and  pragmatic  assessment.  As  Robert  Kennedy  said, 
“the individual man, the child of God, is the touchstone 
of value, and all society, groups, the state exist for his 
benefit”.  
So we stand up for universal values because it is 

the  right  thing  to  do.  But  we  also  know  from 
experience that those who defend these values for their 
people  have  been  our  closest  friends  and  allies,  while 
those who have denied those rights — whether terrorist 
groups or tyrannical Governments — have chosen to be 
our adversaries. 

Human  rights  have  never  gone  unchallenged  — 
not in any of our nations, not in our world. Tyranny is 
still  with  us  —  whether  it  manifests  itself  in  the 
Taliban  killing  girls  who  try  to  go  to  school,  a  North 
Korean  regime  that  enslaves  its  own  people,  or  an 
armed  group  in  Congo-Kinshasa  that  use  rape  as  a 
weapon of war. 

In times of economic unease, there can also be an 
anxiety about human rights. Today, as in past times of 
economic  downturn,  some  put  human  rights  aside  for 
A/65/PV.11
the  promise  of  short-term  stability  or  the  false  notion 
that  economic  growth  can  come  at  the  expense  of 
freedom. We see leaders abolishing term limits, we see 
crackdowns  on  civil  society,  we  see  corruption 
smothering entrepreneurship and good governance, we 
see democratic reforms deferred indefinitely. 

As  I  said  last  year,  each  country  will  pursue  a 
path  rooted  in  the  culture  of  its  own  people.  Yet 
experience  shows  us  that  history  is  on  the  side  of 
liberty;  that  the  strongest  foundation  lies  in  open 
economies, open societies, and open Governments. To 
put it simply, democracy, more than any other form of 
government,  delivers  for  our  citizens.  And  I  believe 
that truth will only grow stronger in a world where the 
borders between nations are blurred. 

America is working to shape a world that fosters 
this  openness.  For  the  rot  of  a  closed  or  corrupt 
economy must never eclipse the energy and innovation 
of human beings.All of us want the right to educate our 
children,  to  make  a  decent  wage,  to  care  for  the  sick, 
and  to  be  carried  as  far  as  our  dreams  and  deeds  will 
take us. But that depends upon economies that tap the 
power of our people, including the potential of women 
and  girls.  That  means  letting  entrepreneurs  start  a 
business without paying a bribe and Governments that 
support  opportunity  instead  of  stealing  from  their 
people. And  that  means  rewarding  hard  work,  instead 
of reckless risk-taking. 

Yesterday,  I  put  forward  a  new  development 
policy  that  will  pursue  these  goals,  recognizing  that 
dignity is  a human right and global development is in 
our common interest. America will partner with nations 
that  offer  their  people  a  path  out  of  poverty.  And 
together,  we  must  unleash  growth  that  powers  by 
individuals  and  merging  markets  in  all  parts  of  the 
globe. 

There  is  no  reason  why Africa  should  not  be  an 
exporter of agriculture, which is why our food security 
initiative  is  empowering  farmers.  There  is  no  reason 
why  entrepreneurs  should  not  be  able  to  build  new 
markets  in  every  society,  which  is  why  I  hosted  a 
summit on entrepreneurship earlier this spring, because 
the  obligation  of  Government 
to  empower 
individuals, not to impede them. 

The same holds true for civil society. The arc of 
human  progress  has  been  shaped  by  individuals  with 
the  freedom  to  assemble  and  by  organizations  outside 
of  government  that  insisted  upon  democratic  change 
is 
10-54827 

13 

is 
the 
Civil 
society 
A/65/PV.11 

and by free media that held the powerful accountable. 
We have seen that from the South Africans who stood 
up  to  apartheid,  to  the  Poles  of  Solidarity,  to  the 
mothers  of  the  disappeared  who  spoke  out  against  the 
Dirty War, to Americans who marched for the rights of 
all races, including my own. 

conscience  of  our 
communities  and  America  will  always  extend  our 
engagement  abroad  with  citizens  beyond  the  halls  of 
Government. And we will call out those who suppress 
ideas and serve as a voice for those who are voiceless. 
We  will  promote  new  tools  of  communication  so 
people  are  empowered  to  connect  with  one  another 
and, in repressive societies, to do so with security. We 
will  support  a  free  and  open  Internet,  so  individuals 
have the information to make up their own minds. And 
it  is  time  to  embrace  and  effectively  monitor  norms 
that  advance  the  rights  of  civil  society  and  guarantee 
its expansion within and across borders. 

Open  society  supports  open  government,  but  it 
cannot  substitute  for  it.  There  is  no  right  more 
fundamental than the right  to choose your leaders  and 
determine  your  destiny.  Now,  make  no  mistake:  the 
ultimate  success  of  democracy  in  the  world  will  not 
come because the United States dictates it; it will come 
because  individual  citizens  demand  a  say  in  how  they 
are governed. 

There is no soil where this cannot take root, just 
as every democracy reflects the uniqueness of a nation. 
Later  this  fall,  I  will  travel  to  Asia.  And  I  will  visit 
India,  which  peacefully  threw  off  colonialism  and 
established  a  thriving  democracy  of  over  a  billion 
people. 
I  will  continue  to  Indonesia,  the  world’s  largest 

together 
Muslim-majority 
thousands of islands through the glue of representative 
government and civil society. I will join the Group-of-
20  meeting  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  which  provides 
the  world’s  clearest  contrast  between  a  society  that  is 
dynamic and open and free, and one that is imprisoned 
and  closed. And  I  will  conclude  my  trip  in  Japan,  an 
ancient  culture  that  found  peace  and  extraordinary 
development through democracy. 
Each  of  these  countries  gives  life  to  democratic 

principles 
its  own  way.  And  even  as  some 
Governments  roll  back  reform,  we  also  celebrate  the 
courage  of  a  President  in  Colombia  who  willingly 
country,  which  binds 
in 
stepped  aside,  or  the  promise  of  a  new  constitution  in 
Kenya.  

The  common  thread  of  progress  is  the  principle 
that government is accountable to its citizens. And the 
diversity  in  this  Hall  makes  clear  —  no  one  country 
has  all  the  answers,  but  all  of  us  must  answer  to  our 
own people. 
In  all  parts  of  the  world,  we  see  the  promise  of 

innovation 
to  make  government  more  open  and 
accountable. And now we must build on that progress. 
And  when  we  gather  back  here  next  year,  we  should 
bring  specific  commitments  to  promote  transparency; 
to  fight  corruption;  to  energize  civic  engagement;  to 
leverage  new  technology  so  that  we  strengthen  the 
foundations  of  freedom  in  our  own  countries,  while 
living up to the ideals that can light the world. 

This  institution  can  still  play  an  indispensable 
role  in  the  advance  of  human  rights.  It  is  time  to 
welcome the efforts of UN Women to protect the rights 
of women around the world. 

It  is  time  for  every  Member  State  to  open  its 
elections  to  international  monitors  and  increase  the 
United  Nations  Democracy  Fund.  It 
to 
invigorate  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  so 
that 
missions have the resources necessary to succeed, and 
so  atrocities  like  sexual  violence  are  prevented  and 
justice  is  enforced  —  because  neither  dignity  nor 
democracy can thrive without basic security.  

institution  more 
accountable as well, because the challenges of the new 
century  demand  new  ways  of  serving  our  common 
interests. 

The  world  that America  seeks  is  not  one  we  can 
build on our own. For human rights to reach those who 
suffer  the  boot  of  oppression,  we  need  your  voices  to 
speak  out.  In  particular,  I  appeal  to  those  nations  that 
emerged  from  tyranny  and  inspired  the  world  in  the 
second half of the last century — from South Africa to 
South Asia; from Eastern Europe to South America. Do 
not  stand  idly  by,  do  not  be  silent,  when  dissidents 
elsewhere  are  imprisoned  and  protesters  are  beaten, 
recall  your  own  history.  Because  part  of  the  price  of 
our  own  freedom  is  standing  up  for  the  freedom  of 
others.  

That  belief  will  guide  America’s  leadership  in 
this twenty-first century. It is a belief that has seen us 
through more than two centuries of trial, and it will see 
to  make 
time 
time 
this 
is 
is 
It 
14 

10-54827 


us through the challenges we face today — be they war 
or recession; conflict or division. 

So  even  as  we  have  come  through  a  difficult 
decade,  I  stand  here  before  you  confident  in  the 
future — a  future where Iraq is governed by neither  a 
tyrant  nor  a  foreign  Power,  and  Afghanistan  is  freed 
from the turmoil of war; a future where the children of 
Israel  and  Palestine  can  build  the  peace  that  was  not 
possible for their parents; a world where the promise of 
development  reaches  into  the  prisons  of  poverty  and 
disease;  a  future  where  the  cloud  of  recession  gives 
way  to  the  light  of  renewal,  and  the  dream  of 
opportunity is available to all.  

This  future  will  not  be  easy  to  reach.  It  will  not 
come without setbacks, nor will it be quickly claimed. 
But  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations  itself  is  a 
testament to human progress. Remember, in times that 
were  far  more  trying  than  our  own,  our  predecessors 
chose  the  hope  of  unity  over  the  ease  of  division  and 
made  a  promise  to  future  generations  that  the  dignity 
and  equality  of  human  beings  would  be  our  common 
cause. 
It falls to us to fulfil that promise. And though we 

will  be  met  by  dark  forces  that  will  test  our  resolve, 
Americans  have  always  had  cause  to  believe  that  we 
can choose a better history; that we need only to look 
outside the walls around us. For through the citizens of 
every  conceivable  ancestry  who  make  this  city  their 
own,  we  see  living  proof  that  opportunity  can  be 
accessed by all, that what unites us as human beings is 
far greater than what divides us, and that people from 
every part of this world can live together in peace. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  United  States  of America  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

  Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United States 
of  America,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 

Address by Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of 
the Republic of Malawi 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Bingu 
Wa Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi.  

A/65/PV.11
the 
the 


I  pay 
  Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bingu  Wa 
Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Mutharika: I am delighted to address 

the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  as 
Chairman of the African Union.  

I  offer  my  personal  congratulations  and  those  of 
the  African  Union  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fifth  session.  I  assure  you,  Sir,  of  Africa’s 
support in your work. 

to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
tribute 
Abdussalam Treki,  President  of  the  General Assembly 
at its sixty-fourth session for his leadership during his 
tenure of office. 

I  also  commend  our  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  exemplary 
leadership  of  our  Organization  and  the  excellent 
manner 
to  discharge  his 
responsibilities.  Africa  is  particularly  grateful  for  his 
continued support of Africa’s development agenda. 

I am happy to say that Africa welcomes the theme 
for the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly that 
reaffirms  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance.  African  leaders  believe  that  the  United 
Nations, with its universal membership, is well placed 
to  build  political  consensus  for  global  governance. 
They  hold  the  view  that  the  United  Nations  has  the 
potential 
to  common 
governance problems that our global village continues 
to  encounter,  such  as  managing  diversity  and 
combating  terrorism  and  conflict.  I  believe  that  now, 
more  than  ever  before,  the  United  Nations  needs  to 
strengthen its institutions to enable it to promote peace 
and  stability  and  facilitate  balanced  growth  and 
prosperity 
developing 
countries. 

Africa  also  wishes  to  remind  the  United  Nations 
not  to  lose  sight  of  its  commitment  to  fight  poverty. 
Poverty reduction must remain the central focus of the 
United Nations. 
to  bring  about  solutions 
in  which  he  continues 
developed 
between 
and 
10-54827 

15 

incessant 
calamities 
A/65/PV.11 


As  we  reflect  on  this  year’s  theme,  the  central 
role of the United Nations in global governance, I  am 
fully aware that the Africa the world hears about is that 
of 
and  natural  disasters. 
International  media  report  on  the  Africa  of  extreme 
poverty,  widespread  endemic  diseases  and  human 
suffering.  They  constantly  portray  the  Africa  of  civil 
wars,  genocide,  terrorism  and  piracy. They  glorify  the 
Africa of underdevelopment and hopelessness. 

But  in  their  reports  we  do  not  hear  about  the 
success  stories  of  a  number  of  African  Governments. 
We  do  not  hear  about  the  successes  in  participatory 
democracy and good governance. We do not hear about 
the  peaceful  multiparty  general  elections.  We  do  not 
hear about the high rates of macroeconomic growth in 
some  African  countries.  We  do  not  hear  about  the 
successes in food security in some of them. 

That is why I now want to present another Africa 
to the General Assembly. It is the Africa of new hopes 
and new possibilities, the Africa of industrial, mineral, 
and agro-processing opportunities, the Africa with new 
job creation prospects, and the Africa that can produce 
enough food for all. 

know. This is the Africa of the new beginning. 

I want the world to know that we African leaders 
have  a  clear  vision  of  a  new  Africa  free  of  hunger, 
disease  and  poverty.  We  have  the  vision  of  a  new 
Africa that is prosperous and full of hope. We have the 
vision  of  African  nations  determined  to  contribute 
more 
to  global  economic  prosperity,  peace  and 
stability. 
I want to inform the world that the leaders of the 

African  Union  have  decided 
to  unlock  Africa’s 
combined huge natural resources and human capital to 
establish  new  industries  to  create  new  wealth  for  our 
people. That is why this year I have chosen to address 
the  Assembly  on  the  subject  of  “Africa  of  the  new 
beginning”.  I  want  the  United  Nations  to  share  our 
belief that Africa is not a poor continent; rather, it is its 
people that are poor. 

This year, I have come to inform this world body 
that Africa has decided to shift from Afro-pessimism to 
Afro-optimism. We are going to make Africa better. 

Now,  turning  to  global  issues,  I  want  to  say  that 
the  world  today  faces  the  challenge  of  producing 
enough food to feed the over nine billion people living 
Yes,  this  is  the  Africa  I  want  the  Assembly  to 
It 
that  effective 
on this earth, and it must do this against the backdrop 
of  rising  food  prices,  global  warming,  climate  change 
and environmental degradation. I am pleased to inform 
this  world  body  that  African  leaders  fully  recognize 
these  problems  and  have  unanimously  agreed 
to 
institute  new  measures  to  ensure  that  five  years  from 
now,  Africa  will  be  able  to  produce  enough  food  to 
feed its people. They have also decided that, five years 
from  now,  no  child  in  Africa  will  die  of  hunger  or 
malnutrition. 

In order to meet these targets, the African Union 
decided  to  turn  the  continent  into  an  African  food 
basket  whose  main  aim  is  to  encourage  allocation  of 
increased  budgetary  resources  and  private  sector 
investment to agriculture and food production. For that 
to  happen,  African  leaders  have  agreed  to  redesign 
their  policy  efforts  to  focus  on  three  priority  areas, 
namely,  agriculture  and  food  security,  transport  and 
energy  development,  and  climate  change. 
is 
transport  structures  and 
envisaged 
adequate  energy  supply  will  enhance  agricultural 
production  and  food  processing  as  well  as  improve 
human  mobility  and 
the  marketing  of  food  and 
agricultural  products  from  surplus  countries  to  deficit 
countries across the African continent. 

The  African  food  basket  concept  envisages  full 
cooperation  between  Africa  and  Governments  of  the 
Group  of  Eight.  The  United  Nations,  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization, 
the 
European Union and other multilateral institutions will 
also cooperate in this effort. 

I now want to briefly raise some issues of major 
concern  to  Africa:  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change,  fragile  peace  and  security,  terrorism  and 
piracy,  maternal,  infant  and  child  mortality,  and  slow 
reform of the United Nations.  

African leaders recognize that climate change and 
environmental degradation are among the most serious 
global  challenges  that  affect  Africa  negatively.  All 
countries  in  the  world  share  the  adverse  effects  of 
climate  change.  All  countries  in  the  world  are,  to 
varying  degrees,  experiencing  the  adverse  impacts  of 
climate  change  such  as  severe  cyclones,  hurricanes, 
rising  sea  levels  and  water  salinization,  prolonged 
severe droughts and overall global warming. 

There  is  enough  evidence  to  show  that  most 
countries  in  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin  America  are  the 
least able and equipped to cope with those challenges. 
the  World  Bank, 
16 

10-54827 
I 
for 
to 
call 


The global nature of climate change therefore calls for 
an  effective,  immediate  and  appropriate  international 
response. We need to act, and act now. 

The  international  community  has  acknowledged 
that climate change is a real threat to humanity, and yet 
the  performance  of  the  major  players  at  the  United 
Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  in  Copenhagen 
disappointed Africa  and  developing  nations  elsewhere 
by  their  intransigency. The  leaders  of Africa  therefore 
would  like  to  see  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol 
be  urgently  implemented  as  essential  interventions  to 
address climate change. Those conventions spell out in 
detail  what  is  to  be  done  to  mitigate  climate  change. 
On  behalf  of  Africa, 
immediate 
implementation  of  those  decisions  in  order  to  avert 
impending human catastrophe. 

I  am  glad  to  note  that  maternal,  infant  and  child 
health and welfare are among the underlying issues of 
the theme of the General Assembly this year. That calls 
for  concerted  action  for  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals.  
I  am  pleased  to  say  that  the  African  Union  has 

reaffirmed 
the  reduction  of 
maternal,  infant  and  child  mortality  in Africa. African 
Governments  have  undertaken  to  launch  the  four-year 
Campaign  for  Accelerated  Reduction  of  Maternal 
Mortality  in  Africa.  We  also  agreed  to  call  on  the 
Global Fund  to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 
to create a new window to fund maternal, newborn and 
child  health.  Let  me,  therefore,  take  advantage  of  the 
General Assembly to appeal on behalf of Africa to our 
development  partners  and  donors  to  replenish  the 
Global  Fund  during  next  month’s  meeting  and  to 
increase  resources  for  maternal,  newborn  and  child 
health. 
issue  of  major 

concern 
lack  of  movement  on 
international  trade  under  the  Doha  Round  multilateral 
trade  negotiations.  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
agree  that  trade  is  a  conduit  to  development  in  every 
country.  Therefore  we  in  Africa  appeal  for  an  urgent 
conclusion of the Doha Round, for we believe that that 
is  essential  to  revive  global  trade  and  to  aid  in  global 
economic  recovery. Any  outcome  of  the  Doha  Round 
negotiations  must  lead  to  clear  benefits  for  farmers, 
producers,  exporters  and  consumers  in  developing 
countries,  including  in  Africa.  Nations  of  the  world 
Another  global  governance 
its  commitments 
to  Africa 
is 
the 
10-54827 

A/65/PV.11
must redouble efforts to resolve all impediments to the 
successful outcome of the trade negotiations. 

The  advancement  of  women  and  gender  equality 
continues to be the cornerstone of the Africa of the new 
beginning. Women have played and continue to play a 
decisive  role  in  the  global,  continental  and  national 
agendas  for  democracy,  transition  and  development.  I 
am happy to inform the General Assembly that African 
Governments have intensified the fight against gender-
based  violence,  sexual  abuse,  discrimination  and 
trafficking in women and girls. The ultimate objective 
is to have more coherent and meaningful interventions 
that will  adequately increase the number of women in 
high  decision-making  positions  in  the  advancement  of 
growth and development. 

On  peace  and  security,  I  wish  to  underscore  that 
the  African  Union  considers  that  democracy,  good 
governance  and  development  cannot  be  sustainable 
without  peace  and  security.  African  countries  have 
made  significant  progress  in  ensuring  that  peace  and 
security  prevail  on  the  African  continent.  Several 
countries have conducted peaceful elections, and there 
is  growing  tolerance  and  accommodation  between  the 
ruling and opposition parties in many countries. That is 
encouraging. 

However,  Africa  has  of  late  witnessed  the  re-
emergence  of  coups  d’état  and  other  unconstitutional 
changes of government. The African Union has taken a 
strong  collective  decision  that  those  negative  trends 
will not be allowed to continue. 
The African Union is also gravely concerned that 

Somalia  has  had  no  stable  or  functioning  Government 
for  a  long  time.  That  continuing  volatile  situation  is 
being  compounded  by  increasing  organized  piracy  in 
the  Indian  Ocean.  That  negatively  affects  not  only 
Somalia  and  her  immediate  neighbours,  but  the  entire 
African  continent  and  the  rest  of  the  world.  I  believe 
the  situation  calls  for  a  new  approach  and  new 
intervention.  More  countries  should  be  directly 
involved  in  seeking  a  lasting  solution  to  the  Somalia 
crisis. 

The  situation  in  the  Sudan  presents  a  special 
challenge  to  the  African  Union  and  to  the  United 
Nations.  Although  some  progress  has  been  achieved 
towards  the  implementation  of  the  Comprehensive 
Peace Agreement, the African Union eagerly awaits the 
holding  of  the  referendum  in  January  2011  and  the 
post-referendum structure of relations in the Sudan. 
17 

the  different  positions  of 
A/65/PV.11 


One of the most immediate options in the Sudan 
is  to  consolidate  the  prevailing  peace  and  stability 
there.  The African  countries  are  concerned  that  while 
efforts  to  secure  lasting  peace  in  the  Sudan  are 
ongoing,  the  International  Criminal  Court  seems  to 
push  for  a  pound  of  flesh  by  insisting  on  arresting 
President  Omer  Hassan  Al-Bashir.  There  is  general 
consensus  in  Africa  that  that  would  have  a  negative 
effect,  polarizing 
the 
stakeholders  and  thereby  driving  them  away  from  a 
peaceful  settlement.  The  African  Union 
therefore 
strongly  appeals  to  the  General  Assembly  to  amend 
Article  16  of  the  Rome  Statute  to  enable  it  to  assume 
the  powers  of  the  Security  Council  to  defer  the  case 
against  President  Al-Bashir  for  one  year  to  allow 
ongoing negotiations and dialogue to succeed. 

On behalf of the African Union, I wish to express 
appreciation for the contribution of the United Nations 
to  the  promotion  of  peace,  security  and  stability  in 
African  countries.  The  United  Nations  has  performed 
very  well  in  many  parts  of  Africa,  including  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Sudan,  Chad 
and West African countries. Those efforts in the search 
for solutions  to the ongoing conflicts on the continent 
are highly commendable. 

The  sanctions  against  some  members  of  the 
African  Union  and  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  have 
caused great economic hardship, especially to the poor 
and  more  vulnerable  people  in  those  countries.  The 
African  Union  feels  that  the  ideological  justifications, 
if  there  ever  were  any,  have  outlived  their  time. 
Sanctions  are  also  inconsistent  with  the  emerging 
dialogue  for 
the  United  Nations. 
Sanctions are also inconsistent with the  obligations of 
United  Nations  Member  States  to  promote  social 
progress and better standards of life, as promulgated in 
the Preamble to the Charter of the United Nations. 

The  African  Union  therefore  appeals  for  the 
immediate  lifting  of  sanctions  against  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe  and  the  Republic  of  Cuba. We  believe  that 
would enable ordinary poor Zimbabweans and Cubans 
to begin a life of new hope and new prospects.  

As  to  the  development  of  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful  purposes,  the  African  Union  supports  the 
position  taken  by  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  calling 
for 
treatment  for  all  nations 
concerned. 
justice  and  equal 
the  reform  of 


implemented, 
that  would  enable  Africa 
  Mr. Asselborn (Luxembourg), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

With regard to the reforms of the United Nations 
and  the  Security  Council,  the  African  Union  believes 
that for the Organization to be effective in fulfilling its 
mandate  as  an  honest  broker,  the  proposed  reforms 
must  be  implemented  in  the  spirit  of  equity  and 
fairness.  In  this  regard  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
African  Union’s  request  for  two  permanent  seats  with 
full  veto  powers  and  five  non-permanent  seats.  The 
African Union should also have the right to determine 
the selection of Africa’s representatives on the Council. 
Once 
to 
effectively participate in the global governance that the 
United Nations is now propagating. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reaffirm Africa’s  strong 
belief  that  a  reformed  United  Nations  and  specialized 
agencies  are  likely  to  play  a  more  effective  role  in 
global  governance  and  in  a  more  equitable  global 
trading and financial system. I believe that the United 
Nations in its new governance role should support the 
Africa  of  the  new  beginning.  A  strong  Africa  — 
industrially, economically and politically — is a better 
trading partner for the G8 countries and the rest of the 
world than a weaker one. I also believe that the Africa 
of  the  new  beginning  with  its  combined  vast  mineral, 
agricultural  and  human  resources  will  provide  the 
safety  valve  for  a  boiling  international  monetary  and 
financial system. Think about these things. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic  of Malawi for the statement 
he has just made. 

  Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted 
General Assembly Hall. 
the 
from  the 


Address by Ms. Laura Chinchilla Miranda, President 
of the Republic of Costa Rica 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Costa Rica. 

  Ms.  Laura  Chinchilla  Miranda,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 

18 

10-54827 
(spoke 
President  Chinchilla  Miranda


welcome  to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms. 
Laura Chinchilla Miranda, President of the Republic of 
Costa Rica, and to invite her to address the Assembly. 
in 

Spanish): From this universal podium I convey a warm 
greeting to the Assembly and the whole of humanity. I 
especially  commend  my  fellow  Costa  Rican  citizens 
for their free  and sovereign decision, which has given 
me the great honour to represent them before you all. 

I begin my remarks with renewed support for the 
United  Nations,  for  its  contributions  to  human  rights, 
peace, security, comprehensive sustainable development, 
tolerance,  solidarity  and  respect  for  diversity  and  for 
international law. It is without doubt an organization of 
States, but more, it is an organization of peoples, who 
from  their  differences  embrace  and  take  shelter  in  the 
humanistic and universal values that support the United 
Nations.  
At  this  moment,  around  the  world  those  values 

and  their  implied  commitments  are  flourishing,  but 
they are also suffering. 

We  can  congratulate  ourselves  on  the  children 
who are receiving a good education and on the parents 
who  see  them  grow  up  without  fear  that  they  will  be 
consumed  by  war.  We  are  inspired  by  young  people, 
workers  and  peasants  with  opportunities  for  a  worthy 
life, and by the women who benefit from full equality. 
In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  appointment  of 
Ms. Michelle  Bachelet as  Under-Secretary-General for 
Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women.  

However, at the same time we also are concerned 
about  those  women  who  as  heads  of  households  can 
barely  feed  their  children.  We  are  worried  about  the 
adults  who  grow  old  in  poverty  and  loneliness  and 
about  children  whose 
lack  affection  and 
stimulation. The catastrophic effects of climate change 
demand  our  immediate  and  determined  attention. And 
it offends us that even today, there are women awaiting 
execution  by  stoning,  populations  stifled  by  brutal 
genocide,  and  nuclear  weapons 
that  are  being 
stockpiled while granaries are being depleted. 

When  we  refer  to  the  United  Nations  and  global 
governance,  we  must  remember  that  such  governance 
starts with good national government. But at the same 
time,  the  success  of  our  domestic  administrations 
depends  upon  an  international  system  that  is  fair, 
lives 
A/65/PV.11
of 
trade, 
to 
represent 
transparency 
in 
solidarity, 
the  values,  promote 
efficient,  open  and  responsible  and  that  is  capable  of 
dealing with the great challenges of our time. 

As  President,  I  am  subject  to  the  constant 
scrutiny  of  my  people,  from  whom  I  came  and  to 
whom  I  am  accountable.  I  am  aware  that  the  best 
sermon  comes  from  example.  Thus  my  Government 
strives 
the 
development  and  increase  the  integral  welfare  of  all 
Costa Ricans. We are promoting economic growth, the 
environmental 
opening 
responsibility  and  political 
the 
framework  of  civil  liberties.  That  course  of  action  is 
rooted  in  our  history.  It  is  why  we  introduced  free 
compulsory  primary  education  in  1870,  abolished  the 
death  penalty  in  1877,  disbanded  the  army  in  1949, 
preserved  25  per  cent  of  our  land  in  the  1960s  and 
created universal access to health in the mid-1970s. 

My Government stands on that legacy in order to 
act in the present and to construct the future. We strive 
for  attention  to  and  early  stimulation  of  our  children 
and  for  care  of  adults  and  the  elderly.  We  fight 
inequality, strive to improve education and health, and 
foster  economic  development  increasingly  based  on 
clean  energy,  a  sustainable  economy  and  creative 
intelligence.  I  mention  all  these  things  as  humble 
national experience, not as a pretentious global lesson. 

History,  geography  and  circumstances  frequently 
shape us — but only up to a point, because individual 
and  collective  will,  responsibility,  and  constructive 
leadership  can  break  down  the  obstacles  and  trace 
better  paths.  Thus  we  must  pull  back  the  curtains  of 
prejudice  that  dim  reality,  exchange  the  echoes  of  the 
past 
future,  and  bury 
recrimination  of  others  as  an  excuse  to  avoid  our 
duties.  

Beyond  the  national  sphere,  good  governance 
means  that  there  are  responsibilities  incumbent  on  all 
world leaders with regard to the peoples of the United 
Nations.  The  starting  point  must  be  respect  for 
international law and multilateral organizations. For an 
unarmed  and  peaceful  country  such  as  Costa  Rica, 
those  are  the  main  instruments  for  our  security,  the 
indispensable  requirement  for  living  in  peace  and 
fostering development. 

Last  Tuesday  we  celebrated,  with  profound 
personal and national conviction, the International Day 
of  Peace,  in  whose  creation  our  country  played  a  key 
role.  It  is  significant  that,  through  the  initiative  of 
the  sounds  of 
for 
the 
10-54827 

19 
as 
insistence  on 
the  subject,  our 
truncated  without 
an 
A/65/PV.11 

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, its theme was “Youth 
for  Peace  and  Development”.  That  triad  —  youth  as 
incentive, peace as a framework, and development as a 
goal  —  is  critical  to  building  a  better  world.  But  that 
freedom  as 
triad  would  be 
opportunity,  human  dignity 
inescapable 
commitment and tolerance as a habit of coexistence.  

For the countries and leaders committed to those 
fundamental  values,  the  main  question  is  how  to 
advance them in today’s world. I propose to empower 
even  further  the  concepts,  organisms  and  instruments 
for the promotion and protection of human rights. It is 
in our interest to participate constructively as members 
in  the  activities  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Here 
also  lies  our  adherence  to  the  main  covenants  and 
protocols  on 
the 
responsibility to protect civilians and our commitment 
to human security. 

Costa  Rica,  besides  hosting  the  conference  that 
approved  the American  Convention  on  Human  Rights 
in  1969,  was  the  first  country  to  ratify  it.  Today  it  is 
home to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. I 
am convinced that respect for human rights depends to 
a great extent upon international justice. Its most recent 
and  innovative  manifestation,  thanks  to  the  Treaty  of 
Rome,  is  the  International  Criminal  Court,  for  which 
we reaffirm our support after a decade of contributions. 
To  use  the  weapons  of  the  law  actively  is  another 
unavoidable responsibility of global governance. 

In  the  area  of  peace  and  security,  Costa  Rica 
adheres to the five points on arms control advocated by 
the  Secretary-General.  In  particular,  we  insist  on  the 
necessity for starting negotiations for an arms transfer 
treaty,  while  at  the  same  time  progressing  with  the 
model  convention  for 
the  prohibition  of  nuclear 
weapons 
the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear  Test  Ban  Treaty.  The 
accumulation  and 
transfer  of  weapons,  especially 
nuclear,  chemical  and  bacteriological  weapons,  is  not 
only  a  threat  to  humanity’s  peace  and  survival;  it  is 
also  an  assault  on  development.  Every  soldier  who 
enlists,  every  missile  that  is  activated,  every  isotope 
enriched  for  military  purposes  means  fewer  schools 
and  hospitals,  fewer  food  programmes,  fewer  roads, 
fewer  wireless  networks,  fewer  seeds  for  farmers  and 
fewer good judges to administer justice. 

But  peace  must  go  beyond  action;  it  should 
become  embedded  in  the  minds  and  imaginations  of 
completing 
ratification 
and 
of 

human  beings.  To  educate  for  peace  is  to  vaccinate 
against  war.  Thirty  years  ago,  our  country  launched, 
and  the  United  Nations  supported,  a  pioneer  and 
visionary  institution  for  this  area:  the  University  for 
Peace.  Today  its  contribution  reaches  every  continent 
of  the  world,  and  our  commitment  to  it  increases  day 
by  day.  For  this  reason  we  proudly  celebrate  its 
anniversary. 

It  is  a  paradox  that  while  many  countries  waste 
resources on weapons, the international community has 
been incapable of dealing effectively with the scourges 
of  drug  trafficking,  organized  crime,  terrorism,  arms 
trafficking,  and 
the  perverted  exploitation  and 
trafficking  of  human  beings.  My  country  and  Central 
America  suffer  increasingly  from  the  aggressions  of 
the drug cartels. We risk being virtually taken over by 
their gangs, with consequences that will go beyond our 
borders  and  become  a  clear  threat  to  international 
security. 

My  Government  has  made  its  citizens’  security 
one  of  its  chief  goals.  Our  people  demand  it,  and  we 
will never fail them. We are fighting crime with energy 
and  determination,  as  well  as  with  full  respect  for 
human rights, intelligent policies and the supremacy of 
law.  

But  the  great  battle  against  transnational  crime 
demands  much  more  from  us  all.  Today  drug-related 
activity 
in 
development  achieved  in  Central  American  countries. 
From  being  merely  a 
to  our 
geographic  location  between  the  great  drug  producers 
to the south and the great consumers to the north, our 
countries  have,  to  different  degrees,  been  becoming 
producers, traffickers and consumers of drugs.  
Today  we  are  free  of  none  of  the  manifestations 

of the drug trade, which has extended its tentacles into 
many  areas  of  our  social  life.  Young  people  in  their 
schools  and  neighbourhoods  see  their  future  menaced 
by the easy offer of drugs, our health-care systems are 
almost  overwhelmed  by  the  problem  of  addiction,  the 
integrity  of  our  institutions  is  menaced  by  corruption 
and  coercion,  and  violence  is  reaching  levels  never 
seen before. 

The battle against the drug trade can be won only 
with  coordination,  global  cooperation  and  a  major 
revision of the strategies pursued so far, many of them 
incomplete  or  failed.  From  this  rostrum  I  call  on  the 
countries with the highest rates of drug consumption to 
transit  zone,  due 
improvements 
endangering 
the 
is 
20 

10-54827 
to  good 


take  more  effective  action  against  this  enormous 
problem, and to cooperate with the countries suffering 
from a problem we did not create. I also call urgently 
for  global  solidarity  in  this  task,  and  for  multilateral 
organizations  to  increase  their  activity  by  developing 
an agenda with more comprehensive strategies, with a 
better  balance  of  resources  and  responsibilities,  and 
with  more  focused  goals.  If  new  and  good  efforts  are 
not  vigorously  initiated,  we  will  soon  regret  our 
inaction. 

If  Costa  Rica,  a  middle-income  country,  has 
achieved  human  development  rates  comparable  to 
those  of  high-income  countries,  it  is  because,  among 
investment  has  replaced 
other 
things,  our  social 
is  why  we 
military  spending.  That 
that 
insist 
the  ethical 
international  aid  should  not 
ignore 
dimension  of  development.  We  support  preferential 
allocation  of  such  aid  to  countries  in  the  most 
precarious  situations.  But  countries  like  mine  that, 
thanks 
investments  and  astute  political 
decisions, have improved our conditions of life, should 
benefit from innovative technical cooperation schemes, 
productive  financing  and  public-private  alliances. 
Above  all,  we  must  successfully  complete  the  Doha 
Round  of  international  trade  negotiations,  an  essential 
engine for economic growth. 
the 

the 
environment 
economy  in  a  sustainable  manner  in  order  to  produce 
material  and  social  well-being  is  a  task  we  cannot 
avoid.  Today  we  have  high  hopes  for  the  next 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in Cancun. We hope that all countries, but in particular 
the  big  polluters  and  generators  of  carbon  emissions, 
will shoulder their responsibility towards humanity. In 
Costa  Rica,  we  have  shouldered  ours  by  setting  the 
goal  of  becoming  one  of  the  first  carbon-neutral 
countries  in  the  world.  We  are  also  advancing  in  the 
application and development of clean energies and the 
protection of our watersheds and biodiversity.  

Let  us  not  forget,  however,  that  sustainability, 
above all, must be human; hence the importance of the 
Millennium Development Goals. Attaining them in five 
years’ 
this 
time 
Organization. 

The  challenges  of  global  governance  are  many, 
and  they  are  overwhelming,  but  the  possibilities  to 
We  must  also  establish  peace  with 
and  development.  Organizing 
is  an  unavoidable  goal 
for 
A/65/PV.11
greater 
efficiency 
effectiveness, 
confront  them  exist.  Their  promotion  is  part  of  our 
responsibility  as  leaders.  This  also  requires  that  the 
United Nations improve its own governance. If it does 
not  respond  to  new  realities  and  if  its  Member  States 
do not help with the task, the Organization runs the risk 
of  sinking  into  irrelevance.  The  adaptation  of  the 
United Nations to the challenges of global governance 
demands 
and 
transparency  in  its  administration,  its  decision-making 
processes and its field operations.  

In  this  universal  Organization,  we  must  also 
preach  through  example.  That  is  why  Costa  Rica  has 
strived to collaborate in an active and constructive way 
in the reform process. And, like many other countries, 
we  still  need  the  help  of  the  world.  The  world  needs 
the  help  of  all  countries.  That  is  the  only  way  to 
advance 
the  causes  of  our  peoples.  Costa  Rica 
modestly offers its contribution, its effort and its voice. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Costa  Rica  for  the 
statement she has just made. 

  Ms.  Laura  Chinchilla  Miranda,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

Address by Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

  Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of  the  Democratic 
Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 
President  Rajapaksa:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

congratulating His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss on his 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-fifth session. I also take this opportunity to 
extend our appreciation to the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  His  Excellency 
to 


10-54827 

21 
sovereign 
to  underline 
the  durability  of 
nations.  We  must 
A/65/PV.11 

Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, for his effective stewardship 
of the General Assembly. 

That  the  United  Nations  is  now  in  its  sixty-fifth 
year  serves 
this 
Organization. It is an important mechanism in ensuring 
cooperation between States and a forum for discussion 
between 
never 
underestimate  the  importance  of  this  Organization, 
based  as  it  is  on  the  principle  of  equal  treatment  of 
countries big and small. 
It is in this spirit that I address the Assembly at a 

crucial  juncture  in  the  history  of  my  own  country.  In 
two  months,  I  will  be  assuming  office  for  my  second 
term. My mandate will be very different from my last 
one.  For  my  second  term  as  President,  my  promise  to 
my  people 
to  deliver  sustainable  peace  and 
prosperity to all and to ensure that terrorism will not be 
able to raise its ugly head again. 
In 2005, I was elected by my people on a promise 

to rid my country of the menace of terrorism. I say that 
Sri Lanka is now at peace: peace that was only a dream 
a  few  years  ago.  Over  the  past  year,  much  has  been 
reported  and  much  has  been  said  regarding  my 
country’s  liberation  from  terrorism.  However,  far  less 
has  been  said  of  the  suffering  we  had  to  undergo  and 
the true nature of the enemy we have overcome. 
The rapidly forgotten truth is that we had to face 

one  of  the  most  brutal,  highly  organized,  well  funded 
and  most  effective  of  terrorist  organizations,  one  that 
could even spread its tentacles to other countries. Many 
of the atrocities of terrorism that the West has come to 
experience  in  recent  times,  the  people  of  Sri  Lanka 
were  themselves  the  victims  of  for  nearly  30  years, 
losing almost 100,000 lives, among them a President of 
Sri  Lanka,  a  visionary  leader  of  India  and  scores  of 
intellectuals  and  politicians.  The  Liberation  Tigers  of 
Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was an organization so brutal that 
even 
the  Tamil 
community  of  Sri  Lanka,  were  as  much  victims  of  its 
terror  as  the  rest  of  the  population  of  our  country. 
Those  who  observed  from  afar  and  suggested  that  the 
Sri  Lankan  Government  should  have  conceded  to  the 
demands  of  the  terrorists  need  to  be  reminded  that 
terror is terror, whatever mask it wears and however it 
is packaged. To all those, I say this: My responsibility 
is to the entire nation. My responsibility is to the lives 
of millions of men, women and children, and those yet 
to  be  born.  My  responsibility  is  to  the  peace  and 
it  claimed 
those 
to 
represent, 

prosperity of the nation and the right to a peaceful life 
for all who live there. 

In this context, it is worth examining the capacity 
of  current  international  humanitarian  law  to  meet 
contemporary needs. It must be remembered that such 
law evolved essentially in response to conflicts waged 
by  the  forces  of  legally  constituted  States,  and  not 
terrorist  groups.  The  asymmetrical  nature  of  conflicts 
initiated  by  non-State  actors  gives  rise  to  serious 
problems which need to be considered in earnest by the 
international community. 

As  we  close  a  sad  chapter  in  our  country’s 
history,  I  would  like  to  remind  the Assembly  that  we, 
along  with  many  others,  made  repeated  attempts  to 
engage  the  LTTE  in  constructive  dialogue.  I  still 
believe  that  dialogue  is  the  best  way  to  resolve  any 
conflict.  It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  all  these 
attempts  were  rejected  with  reckless  arrogance  and 
contempt.  It  was  in  those  circumstances  that  we  were 
compelled to mount a humanitarian operation, with the 
blessing  of  many  international  friends,  to  neutralize 
acts of terrorism and restore peace and security. 
The entire focus of our nation is now on building 

a  lasting  peace,  healing  wounds,  ensuring  economic 
prosperity  and  guaranteeing  the  right  of  the  whole 
nation to live in harmony. We are mindful that in order 
to  fulfil  these  aspirations,  economic  development  and 
political reconciliation must go hand in hand. Towards 
this  end,  constitutional  changes  which  appropriately 
reflect  the  aspirations  of  our  people  will  be  evolved 
with the full participation of all stakeholders. 

We are pursuing a nationwide agenda of renewal. 
Sri Lanka has already returned over 90 per cent of the 
internally  displaced  persons  to  their  original  villages, 
which were previously riddled with landmines, and has 
provided the essential infrastructure necessary for them 
to resume normal life. We  have helped  bring back the 
vitality  of  youth  to  former  child  soldiers.  We  have 
rebuilt  the  eastern  province  and  have  begun  the  same 
task  in  the  north.  Sri  Lanka’s  armed  forces  now  have 
the  role  of  delivering  essential  services,  rebuilding 
homes, clearing mines and restoring vital infrastructure 
to whole tracts of formerly decimated land. 

Despite the lingering dangers that have remained, 
Sri  Lanka  has  nevertheless  repealed  a  substantial  part 
of  the  emergency  regulations  that  were  so  necessary 
during our conflict situation and plans to repeal a good 
part of the remainder in the coming months. 
10-54827 
is 
22 




A  great  deal  has  been  said  by  those  beyond  our 
borders  about  our  Tamil  community.  Let  me  be  clear: 
no  nation  on  Earth  can  wish  Sri  Lanka’s  Tamil 
community more good fortune than Sri Lanka itself. To 
the  misguided  few,  I  say  do  not  allow  yourselves  to 
become an instrument of division, hate and violence, to 
be used as an enabler for hatred to be reborn in another 
form. Rather, come, let  us join together and break the 
bonds of mistrust to rise to meet new horizons. 

Sri  Lanka  recognizes  the  challenges  we  face, 
among  the  greatest  of  which  is  healing  the  wounds  of 
the recent past. To that end, earlier this year, a lessons 
learned and reconciliation commission was established, 
which  gives  full  expression  to  the  principles  of 
accountability.  This  independent  commission,  comprising 
eight Sri Lankans of eminence and stature, has already 
begun its work. Recently, the commission handed over 
to me an interim communication recommending certain 
administrative  steps  that  may  need  to  be  taken  in  the 
reconciliation process. 

We believe that for the rebuilding and healing of 
our  nation  to  succeed,  the  process  must  evolve  from 
within.  If  history  has  taught  us  one  thing,  it  is  that 
imposed  external  solutions  breed  resentment  and 
ultimately  fail.  Ours,  by  contrast,  is  a  home-grown 
process which reflects the culture and traditions of our 
people. 

the 
international community as we rebuild our land and our 
economy.  We  sincerely  hope  that  its  members  will  be 
prepared  to  take  a  practical  approach  to  developing 
partnerships with Sri Lanka through international trade, 
investment and capacity- building. 

Our economy is well on the way to realizing the 
dividend  of  peace.  We  are  experiencing  steady  and 
sustained  growth,  including  during  the  last  quarter,  of 
over  8  per  cent,  moderate  inflation  and  low  interest 
rates. During the past five years, we saw our per capita 
income double. It is our ambition to take this further, to 
double yet again the present per capita income by 2016 
and  also  to  become  one  of  the  top  30  countries  in 
which to do business by 2014. 
“Mahinda  Chinthana  —  Vision  for  the  Future”, 

my election manifesto, articulates my vision of having 
sound  infrastructure  at  the  national,  provincial  and 
rural levels, which is vital for the inclusive growth that 
will  make  development  meaningful  to  the  whole  of 
society.  I  can  also  proudly  claim  that  my  country, 
We  certainly  welcome 
the  support  of 
A/65/PV.11
floods, 
this  economic 
strategy, 
landslides,  volcanoes, 
through 
is  comfortably 
realizing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  well  in 
advance of the target set by the United Nations. We are 
at  present  strongly  focusing  on  putting  in  place  the 
necessary public infrastructure while strengthening the 
enabling  policy  environment  for  the  private  sector  to 
invest even more in my country. 

In  order  to  achieve  the  full  realization  of  our 
potential, we desire a supportive external environment. 
To 
that  end,  we  will  always  seek  constructive 
engagement  and  partnerships.  For  our  part,  we  will 
continue to contribute, as we have always done, to the 
cause of multilateralism and a principled global order. 
In this regard, I am happy to note that 2010 marks the 
fiftieth anniversary of our first contribution to a United 
Nations  peacekeeping  mission.  Our  armed  forces  and 
police  are  today  combat-tested,  with  the  capacity  to 
carry  out  their  duties  in  the  most  challenging  of 
conditions.  

The world as never before in the past has become 
severely  vulnerable  to  natural  disasters. Almost  every 
day  we  see  millions  of  people  becoming  victims  of 
severe 
cyclones, 
earthquakes  and  the  like.  It  has  become  increasingly 
difficult for affected countries to manage post-disaster 
recovery  programmes  unassisted.  The  recent  natural 
calamities in our region underline the crucial need for 
effective 
collective 
participation 
to  reduce  human  suffering.  Without 
doubt,  climate  change  and  global  warming  are  today 
issues which demand the urgent attention of all nations. 

Among the political issues that have continued to 
fester  for  too  long  is  the  continued  denial  of  the  right 
of the Palestinian people to a State of their own within 
recognized and secure borders. It is the fervent hope of 
the  people  of  Sri  Lanka  that  this  most  tragic  of 
situations  will  be  resolved  without  delay  and  in  a 
sustainable manner. We also hope that Palestine will be 
a Member of the Organization by this time next year. 

Our  guiding  principle  must  always  be  that  of 
mutual  respect  in  international  discourse,  even  as  we 
disapprove of and condemn measures such as unilateral 
embargoes.  Experience 
the  recent  past  amply 
demonstrates that these embargoes have an impact not 
on  Governments,  but  rather  on  the  most  vulnerable 
sectors  of  the  community.  In  the  same  spirit,  I  would 
call  for  the  empathy  of  the  international  community 
towards the aspirations of the Cuban people. 
in  which 
action 
there 
is 
in 
10-54827 

23 
concern 
the  need 
for  greater 
A/65/PV.11 

I  also  wish  to  urge  with  all  the  emphasis  at  my 

command 
and 
involvement on the part of the international community 
to assist the people of Africa in their efforts to raise the 
quality of life on their continent. 

Leaders  who  have  been  chosen  by  their  people 
often face difficult decisions. They must be entitled to 
the  good  will  and  confidence  of  the  international 
community  with  regard  to  the  heavy  burdens  they  are 
required to shoulder. The results of their decisions must 
be  evaluated  objectively  and  they  must  be  allowed  to 
speak for themselves. 

That  is  not  to  say  countries  should  operate  in 
isolation.  In  this  globally  interdependent  world,  we 
must  work  together  where  we  can  and  constructively 
counsel  each  other  where  appropriate.  The  United 
Nations  forms  the  bedrock  of  this  interaction,  and  in 
that  role  it  will  always  receive  the  support  of  Sri 
Lanka. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka for the statement he has just made.  

  Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Abdullah Gül, President of the 
Republic of Turkey 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Turkey. 

  Mr.  Abdullah  Gül,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Turkey,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr. Abdullah  Gül, 
President of the Republic of Turkey, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
the  United 

Nations  is  to  protect  the  dignity,  security  and  well-
being  of  all  human  beings.  Therefor,  peace,  security, 
stability  and  general  welfare  constitute  the  tenets  of 
Turkey’s work and action in the United Nations. Since 
this  Assembly  gave  us  an  overwhelming  mandate  for 
Turkey’s non–permanent seat on the Security Council, 
President  Gül:  The  mission  of 




and 
and 
Indeed, 
concrete 
cohesive 
peacebuilding. 
we  have  worked  hard,  sincerely,  objectively  and 
effectively  to  contribute  to  peace,  security  and  the 
welfare of the international community. 

In  these  two  years,  we  have  tried  to  offer  added 
value,  in  a  fair  and  principled  manner,  in  addressing 
various  global  and  regional  issues. We  have  sought  to 
advance the discussions within the Council on an issue 
to  which  we  have  always  accorded  high  priority: 
peacekeeping 
this 
afternoon,  we  will  be  holding  a  Security  Council 
summit  to  exchange  views  and  ideas  on  this  matter  at 
the  highest  political  level.  Furthermore,  next  Monday, 
we will hold a thematic debate of the Security Council 
on counter-terrorism. 

Terrorism  is  indeed  a  leading  and  most  pressing 
challenge  for  the  international  community  on  the 
global  scale.  It  cannot  be  countered  without  sincere, 
effective, 
international 
cooperation.  I  would  like  to  recall  that  our  struggle 
against  terrorism  is  bound  to  fail  unless  we  fight  all 
terrorist  organizations,  irrespective  of  their  supposed 
political, ideological, ethnic or religious aims. 
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 

is  one  of  the  risks  of  our  contemporary  world.  We 
cannot  overcome  that  menace  unless  all  Member 
States,  including  nuclear  States,  adopt  a  just  and 
principled  approach 
respective  policies. 
Establishing a credible global non-proliferation regime 
will not be possible if we ignore the de facto existence 
of nuclear weapons in certain countries at the heart of 
some of the world’s most delicate regions. 

In this context, I would like to call on all Member 
States to intensify their efforts to create a zone free of 
weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East, as was 
envisaged  in  Security  Council  resolution  687  (1991), 
and  as  has  been  repeatedly  called  for  by  the  General 
Assembly.  We  also  support  the  calls  made  in  May  at 
the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
for 
convening  a  conference  on  a  zone  free  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction in the Middle East in 2012. I believe 
that such an initial step would be a sine qua non for all 
non-proliferation initiatives in the rest of the world. 

In  responding  to  those  security  challenges,  we 
should  keep  in  mind  that  global  problems  cannot  be 
solved  unilaterally,  bilaterally  or  within  a  small  circle 
of like-minded nations. Therefore, it is more important 
their 
to 
24 

10-54827 
(G-20),  we  strongly  support 


today than ever for us to adopt a multilateral approach 
to global problems.  

One such problem is the current global economic 
crisis. Though we are in a slow recovery, the impact of 
the  crisis  is  still  being  felt  today.  We  must  draw  the 
proper lessons from it in order to avoid a recurrence of 
similar shocks in the future. That crisis was caused by 
the  irresponsible  acts  of  some  financial  institutions  in 
the  most  developed  markets.  Ordinary  people  have 
paid  the  highest  price  for  the  mistakes  of  a  few  in 
developed  nations.  The  current  economic  crisis 
revealed  once  again  the  weakness  and  deficiencies  of 
the existing global and national financial and economic 
architectures,  which  lack  effective  governance  and 
regulations to oversee reckless financial institutions. 

The  Turkish  economy,  however,  has  managed  to 
stay  on  course  in  spite  of  the  world  economic  crisis, 
thanks 
to  previously  undertaken  comprehensive 
economic and financial measures. Within the Group of 
20 
the  efforts  of 
international  forums  aimed  at  restoring  global  growth 
and  streamlining  financial  practices.  We  believe  that 
the  G-20  should  continue  to  play  a  central  role  in 
putting  together  the  right  policies  and  measures  to 
those ends. 

The situation of the least developed countries has 
worsened  in  the  aftermath  of  the  global  crisis.  Every 
effort  should  therefore  be  made  to  integrate  those 
countries  into  the  global  economy.  In  that  endeavour, 
we  should  act  according  to  the  principles  of  free  and 
fair trade and avoid protectionist tendencies. It is with 
these  thoughts  that  we  look  forward  to  the  Fourth 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries, to be organized next year in Istanbul. 
the  past  decade,  Turkey’s  economic 

indicators improved, as did its development assistance. 
Our  relatively  greater  means  have  enabled  us  to 
contribute  more  to  the  development  of  others.  Turkey 
has  now  evolved  into  an  emerging  donor.  With  the 
contribution 
non-governmental 
organizations,  our  overall  development  assistance 
exceeds  $1.5  billion  annually.  Through  the  Turkish 
International  Cooperation  and  Development  Agency, 
we  allocate  that  amount  to  diverse  capacity-building 
projects, in fields such as health, education, agriculture 
and infrastructure. 
Developing  nations  are  also  more  exposed  than 

others  to  the  gravest  threats  of  four  interconnected 
of  Turkish-based 
During 
A/65/PV.11
assume 
collective 
responsibility 
problems:  global  warming,  climate  change,  epidemics 
and  food  security.  In  recent  years,  tragedy  has  struck 
many nations because of the adverse impact of climate 
change around the world. Some parts of our planet are 
experiencing  severe  drought,  while  others  have  been 
hit  by  devastating  floods.  The  current  plight  of 
Pakistan is a reminder that this has become a pressing 
issue  that  calls  for  urgent  remedial  action.  We  must 
acknowledge  that  a  sustainable  environment  is  an 
indivisible global public good for humankind. We must 
therefore 
for 
preserving  it.  Billions  of  lives,  not  just  today  but  also 
of  future  generations,  will  depend  on  the  actions  we 
take now. 

The global food crisis is another urgent concern. 
It  poses  a  worrying  challenge  to  coming  generations. 
These  compelling  economic,  demographic,  ecological 
and  biological  challenges  oblige  us  to  redefine  the 
notion  of  security.  Such  issues  no  longer  fall  into  the 
category  of  soft  risks,  but  rather  pose  a  clear  and 
present threat to humankind.  

In  the  face  of  such  overwhelming  threats,  it  is 
time  to  take  global  action  within  the  United  Nations 
framework.  To  that  end,  I  call  on  Member  States  to 
explore  the  possibility  of  establishing  a  global  rapid-
reaction  capability  to  effectively  tackle  natural  and 
ecological  disasters,  food  shortages  and  epidemics. 
This  would  also  help  to  maintain  international  peace 
and security by mitigating threats that arise from weak 
governance, the collapse of public order and domestic 
or 
inter-State  conflict  over  diminishing  natural 
resources. 
If  we  allocate  a  small  fraction  of  our  defence 

expenditures 
a 
peacekeeping  capability,  we  will  have  more  cost-
efficient  results  in  maintaining  peace  and  stability  in 
the  world.  Moreover,  if  we  could  pool  some  of  our 
defence  equipment  —  equipment  that  has  lost  its 
effective utility in military terms but is still relevant for 
disaster-relief  operations  —  we  could  swiftly  improve 
such  rapid-reaction  capability.  Of  course,  existing 
regional capacities could be instrumental in this global 
endeavour.  All  such  resources  should  be  channeled 
directly to those in need,  and not eroded by excessive 
administrative costs. 

On  the  political  side  of  our  agenda,  there  is  no 
shortage  of  enduring  regional  issues.  Because  of  time 
establishing 
to 
financing 
and 
10-54827 

25 
for 
stable 
future 
the  Middle  East.  In 
A/65/PV.11 

constraints,  I  will  touch  only  briefly  on  some  of  them 
here.  

Permanent peace in the Middle East is the key to 
a  peaceful  and 
the  world. 
Unfortunately,  the  absence  of  peace  there  has  had 
serious and adverse strategic consequences for the rest 
of  the  world.  Turkey  has  therefore  always  supported 
every  effort  aimed  at  reaching  a  comprehensive  peace 
in 
this  understanding,  we 
appreciate President Obama’s efforts and welcome the 
direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. 
We  hope  that  this  new  engagement  can  take  us  closer 
to a viable and fair settlement. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  will  be  very  difficult  to 
make progress towards permanent peace unless we put 
an  end  to  the  humanitarian  tragedy  in  Gaza.  In  this 
context,  the  attack  in  May  of  the  Israeli  armed  forces 
on  the  international  humanitarian  aid  convoy  on  the 
high seas resulted in grave civilian casualties and was 
an  unacceptable  act,  in  clear  violation  of  international 
law. In the light of international law, Turkey expects a 
formal  apology  and  compensation  for  the  aggrieved 
families of the victims and the injured people. 

Therefore, we attach particular importance to the 
work  of  the  panel  of  inquiry  and  the  fact-finding 
mission.  We  are  pleased  to  have  received  the  report 
(A/HRC/15/21) of the fact-finding mission established 
by  the  United  Nations  Human  Rights  Council.  The 
report  offers  a  solid  legal  framework  for  establishing 
the  facts  of  the  incident.  We  also  look  forward  to  the 
successful completion of the work of the panel. 
As  for  Iraq,  the  elections  of  7  March  marked  a 

new  period 
that  country. 
Nevertheless,  the  post-election  political  stalemate  is 
aggravating  the  security  situation  and  hindering  the 
launch  of  a comprehensive reconstruction programme. 
We  sincerely  hope  that  the  new  Government  in  Iraq 
will  reflect  the  balance  that  emerged  at  the  elections. 
The new Government must be inclusive, effective  and 
democratic.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  withdrawal  of 
foreign  combat  troops,  we  also  urge  all  neighbours  of 
Iraq  to  act  responsibly  and  support  the  territorial 
integrity,  political  unity  and  sovereignty  of  Iraq.  We 
must all help the Iraqi people in their quest for a better 
future. 

Our  contributions  to  international  efforts  in  the 
search  for  an  urgent  and  peaceful  settlement  of  the 
issue  will  also  continue.  This 
Iranian  nuclear 
the  people  of 
for 

to 
into 
the  peace, 
controversy  can  be  resolved  only  in  conformity  with 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  norms  and 
obligation under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear  Weapons,  and  in  respect  for  the  right  to  the 
peaceful use of nuclear energy. In this vein, the Tehran 
Declaration and the July gathering in Istanbul provide 
a window of opportunity to be seized. We believe that 
there is no alternative to diplomacy. 
As  a  Balkan  country,  Turkey  attaches  cardinal 

priority 
stability  and  economic 
development  of  the  Balkans.  In  recent  years,  we  have 
actively  engaged  in  result-oriented  initiatives  in  the 
Balkans  by  intensifying  our  high-level  bilateral  visits 
to  Belgrade  and  Sarajevo.  Moreover,  the  launching  of 
trilateral  cooperation  mechanisms  with  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  and  Serbia,  on  the  one  hand,  and  with 
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, on the other, was 
of historic significance. Through these mechanisms, we 
are  trying  to  create  a  new  atmosphere  of  mutual 
understanding  and  cooperation  among  those  nations.  I 
believe  that  the  integration  of  the  western  Balkan 
countries 
the  European  and  Euro-Atlantic 
structures  would  be  a  decisive  final  step  for  the 
resolution of conflicts in the region.  

As  for  the  Caucasus,  we  remain  committed  to 
pursuing our efforts in search of a comprehensive and 
sustainable  peace  in  the  region,  while  respecting  the 
principle  of  territorial  integrity.  In  recent  years,  we 
have  all  seen  how  frozen  conflict  can  easily  turn  into 
active  clashes  in  the  region.  Given  this  context,  we 
attach  particular  importance  to  the  peaceful  resolution 
to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. 
Any  failure  in  Afghanistan  will  certainly  have 

unpredictable  consequences 
international 
community. Therefore, Afghanistan deserves our close 
attention  and  sincere  commitment.  Afghanistan  is 
going through a historic process of transformation. As 
military  operations  continue, 
there  must  be  a 
simultaneous and growing emphasis on civilian efforts 
to  win  the  hearts  and  minds  of  the  Afghan  people. 
Turkey’s  commitment  to  Afghanistan  is  open-ended. 
We will continue our assistance as long as the Afghans 
require it.  

is  also  of 
singular importance, not only in and of itself, but also 
to the stability of the region as a whole. In the wake of 
the terrible disaster caused by the floods, it is critically 
Supporting  Pakistan’s  democracy 
the 
for 
26 

10-54827 
region 
that 
from 
Africa 
is  another 
issue,  our 
the  Cyprus 


important  to  support  the  people  and  the  democratic 
Government of Pakistan in healing their wounds. 

the 
requires 
international community’s collective responsibility and 
action.  The  burden  of  resolving  the  overwhelming 
problems  of  that  continent  cannot  be  placed  on  the 
shoulders of Africans alone. It is in this understanding 
that  Turkey  has  devised  a  comprehensive  policy  that 
includes  effective  political,  social  and  economic 
measures  to  help  address  the  challenges  that  Africa 
faces. 

long-standing 
commitment  and  full  support  of  a  just  and  lasting 
settlement  remains  unchanged. We  share  the  vision  of 
the  Secretary-General  that  a  settlement  will  be  within 
reach  before  the  end  of  this  year,  but  this  process 
should  not  be  open-ended.  A  positive  outcome 
emerging 
these  negotiations  would  rapidly 
transform  the  eastern  Mediterranean  into  a  pillar  of 
peace,  stability,  cooperation  and  welfare 
the 
European Union. 

The Turkish Cypriots have shown that they are in 
favour  of  a  settlement,  as  clearly  manifested  in  the 
2004  referendum,  but  they  continue  to  suffer  unjustly 
from the absence of a settlement. I would like to repeat 
the  call  made  by 
the 
international community to take the necessary steps to 
eliminate  the  isolation  of  the  Turkish  Cypriots  and 
enable their integration into the greater world.  

In conclusion, I wish to reiterate our view that the 
United Nations can and should play an even larger role 
in chartering a better future for humankind. It is up to 
us,  the  Member  States,  to  provide  the  United  Nations 
with the necessary political support and concrete tools 
so that it can fulfil that role. I assure the Assembly that 
Turkey,  for  its  part,  will  continue  to  lend  its  full 
support  and  cooperation  to  the  United  Nations  in  our 
quest  to  leave  a  much  safer,  more  prosperous,  cleaner 
and healthier world to our children. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of Turkey  for  the  statement 
he has just made.  

  Mr.  Abdullah  Gül,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Turkey,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
the  Secretary-General 
in 
to 
On 

A/65/PV.11


to  achieving 
Address by His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa 
Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the Amir of the 
State of Qatar. 

  His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, 
Amir of the  State of Qatar,  was  escorted  into the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Highness  Sheikh 
Hamad  bin  Khalifa  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the  State  of 
Qatar, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
Sheikh  Al-Thani  (spoke  in  Arabic):  When  I 

stood  on  this  platform  in  September  last  year,  I 
addressed the issue of the threats that beset our world. 
Unfortunately,  these  threats  are  still  present  and  have 
even  increased  and  diversified,  and  we  are  not  any 
closer 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, which we set for ourselves ten years ago during 
the  Millennium  Summit.  We  believe 
the 
malfunction that our world suffers from is due, not to a 
lack  of  resources,  but  to  mismanagement  and  lack  of 
justice and equity. 

The  global  economic,  financial  and  food  crisis 
and  the  persistence  of  hunger,  poverty  and  other 
challenges facing humanity today prompt us to rebuild 
our  institutions  and  formulate  our  strategies  to  better 
the 
respond 
international  community.  The 
to 
reformulate the global economic system in order for it 
to  achieve  justice  and  equal  opportunities  for  all. 
Among  the  important  international  conferences  and 
forums  that  Doha  hosted  this  year  was  the  World 
Economic  Forum  Global  Redesign  Summit,  which 
resulted  in  many  proposals  for  improving  the  existing 
international  structures  and  cooperative  arrangements, 
in order to create an international system conducive to 
meeting  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  I 
call  on  decision  makers  to  discuss  the  proposals  and 
adopt those that are appropriate. 

You  may  all  know  that  our  region  is  still 
experiencing the highest degree of tension in the world. 
The  question  of  Palestine  has  been  awaiting  a  just 
solution  for  decades,  the  situation  remains  precarious 
in  Somalia,  Afghanistan  and  Iraq,  and  the  Iranian 
nuclear  crisis  requires  a  solution.  We  have  repeatedly 
the  challenges  and  crises  facing 
time  has  come 
that 
to 
10-54827 

27 

legitimacy  and 
A/65/PV.11 

stressed the importance of reaching a solution through 
peaceful  and  diplomatic  means,  and,  in  our  view,  a 
fruitful,  direct  dialogue  between  the  United  States  of 
America  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  would 
contribute to the resolution of this crisis. 

The  strategic  importance  of  the  Arabian  Gulf 
region stems from its geostrategic position and the fact 
that  it  is  sitting  on  half  of  the  world’s  oil  and  natural 
gas  reserves  and  is  the  source  of  one  quarter  of  the 
world’s production of these two primary driving forces 
of  the  global  economy.  Let  this  be  yet  another 
consideration that prompts the international community 
to  recognize  the  importance  of  achieving  political 
stability  and  security  in  the  Middle  East.  This  is  a 
difficult goal that can only be achieved by renouncing 
the use of force, freeing the region of weapons of mass 
destruction,  without  exception,  and  settling  bilateral 
disputes  and  regional  conflicts  on 
the  basis  of 
international  law,  the  United  Nations  Charter,  the 
international 
resolutions  of 
the 
principles of justice and equity. 

Israel’s  persistence  in  violating  international  law 
and  humanitarian  values  was  reflected  in  the  acts  of 
piracy  committed  against  peace  activists  who  tried  to 
break  the  unjust  and  inhuman  siege  imposed  on  the 
Palestinian  people  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  This  prompts  us 
again to call upon the international community to stand 
as  one  in  demanding  that  Israel  lift  the  blockade 
immediately and fully. 

We  are  now  at  a  historic  juncture  in  the  process 
of  the  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine.  For 
everyone should realize that the Arab countries will not 
accept  the  peace  that  Israel  wants  to  impose  as  it 
pleases and outside international legitimacy. A lasting, 
acceptable  and secure peace must guarantee the  rights 
of  the  Palestinian  people,  especially  the  establishment 
of a Palestinian State, with Jerusalem as its capital. 

For  reasons  some  of  which  we  can  understand 
and  some  of  which  we  fail  to  understand,  this  first 
decade of the twenty-first century has been blighted by 
the blind attack that has come to be known as the war 
on terrorism. Thus the fresh start of a new century has 
been  hamstrung  by  a  quagmire  of  distortions  and 
damage,  some,  if  not  all,  of  which  could  have  been 
avoided.  We  recognize 
the  existence  of  certain 
practices that clearly fall within the scope of terrorism, 
but in this regard we emphasize two premises. 
is 
a 
phenomenon 
unprecedented 

First, we disagree with the attribution of this so-
called  terrorism  to  the  Islamic  religion,  because  —  in 
addition  to  being  incorrect  —  that  ascription  is 
historically  unjust  and  is  refuted  by  evidence  from 
recent  history.  In  the  twentieth  century,  including  the 
second  half 
thereof,  unjustifiably  violent  actions 
occurred  in  the  United  States  of America,  Europe  and 
Asia,  but  no  one  has  characterized  those  acts  of 
terrorism  as  American,  European  or  Asian.  Rather, 
those acts of violence are attributed to their underlying 
political, economic, social and even ideological causes, 
without  reference  to  any  religion,  country  or  idea.  By 
contrast,  what  we  have  seen  and  suffered  in  the  first 
decade  of  this  century  —  what  is  called  the  war  on 
terror — 
in 
international  politics.  It  has  plunged  us  into  a  kind  of 
war  with  no  limits,  end,  logic  or  legal  or  moral 
conditions.  Some  of  this  is  still  happening  and, 
although  we  note  that  the  current  United  States 
Administration  has  discontinued  the  use  of  the  term 
“war on terror”, we are still looking forward to clearer 
and bolder initiatives. 

The  other  premise  that  we  disagree  with  is  that 
we  believe  that  even  though  the  phenomenon  of 
terrorism  does  exist  it  should  not  be  addressed  by 
waging wars. That approach has not achieved security, 
peace  or  prosperity.  On  the  contrary,  it  has  spread 
destruction everywhere, deprived millions of people of 
their livelihoods, spread fear, caused the displacing and 
killing  of  millions  of  people  as  well  as  economic  and 
financial  crises  that  have  shaken  the  stability  of  the 
world,  and  undermined  efforts  aimed  at  dialogue 
among cultures. 

I  do  not  want  to  take  up  too  much  of  the 
Assembly’s  time,  but  we  believe  that  the  situation  in 
which  we  find  ourselves  after  the  first  decade  of  this 
intriguing  century  should  not  be  allowed  to  continue, 
and 
should  not  go 
unchecked. What  we  fear  is  that  the  war  on  terrorism 
may 
transactions 
concluded  with  armies  of  mercenaries  who  are  given 
free  rein  to  kill  outside  of  any  international  or  human 
legitimacy. That is a very dangerous prospect. 
this  first  decade,  we  have  faced  major 

challenges. We should resolve that war is not the way 
to  deal  with  such  challenges.  Rather,  we  should  come 
to  terms  with  ourselves,  with  this  era  and  with  its 
concomitant  progress,  and  determine  to  turn  the  new 
decade and the decades that follow into an era in which 
into  a  series  of  financial 
its  corrosive 
ramifications 
turn 
In 
28 

10-54827 
their 
freedoms, 
citizens 
law-based 
institutions 
rights 


major  challenges  are  addressed  with  more  in-depth 
understanding and knowledge. 

Proceeding  from  our  belief  that  dialogue  is  the 
most effective way to resolve conflicts, we have set out 
to  seek  a  resolution  to  several  political  crises  in  our 
region  by  promoting  dialogue  between  the  concerned 
parties, whether in Lebanon, Yemen, the Horn of Africa 
or the Sudan. 

At  the  national  level  in  the  State  of  Qatar,  we 
pursue human-centred development policies based on a 
holistic approach in dealing with human development. 
We  have  set  ourselves  the  goals  of  modernization, 
reform  and  development  in  order  to  build  a  modern 
that 
constitutional  State  of 
guarantee 
and 
responsibilities. We have taken concrete steps towards 
enhancing  our  development  capabilities,  including  our 
health,  educational  and  cultural  institutions,  which  we 
hope  will  reach  international  standards,  as  well  as 
enhancing  national  industrial  enterprises  to  utilize 
natural resources in our country. 

  Mr.  Ndong  Mba  (Equatorial  Guinea),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

God  has  granted  our  country  an  abundance  of 
hydrocarbon  fuel  reserves.  We  have  endeavoured  to 
make  the  best  use  of  this  wealth,  employ  its  revenues 
in  the  service  of  Qatari  citizens  and  improve  our 
various  human  development  indicators  because  we, 
like  other  inhabitants  of  planet  Earth,  are  anxious  to 
address  the  impact  of  climate  change.  Our  interest  in 
clean  energy,  particularly  natural  gas,  is  on  our  list of 
priorities. And to contribute to the reduction of carbon 
emissions,  we  have  developed  policies  that  aim  to 
benefit from clean and renewable energy sources. 
Through  this  approach,  we  hope  to  contribute 

nationally, 
the 
establishment  of  peace,  stability  and  security,  as  well 
as to the development that comes with them. Thus, we 
hope to assume our part of the collective responsibility 
for the common good. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Amir  of  the  State  of 
Qatar for the statement he has just made. 

  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa  Al-Thani, Amir  of  the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
regionally  and 
internationally 


A/65/PV.11


role  of 
is  appropriate  and 
the  United  Nations 
Address by Mr. Mwai Kibaki, President of the 
Republic of Kenya 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya. 

  Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Mwai Kibaki, President of 
the Republic of Kenya, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President  Kibaki:  The  theme  of  the  sixty-fifth 

session  of  the  General  Assembly,  “Reaffirming  the 
central 
in  global 
governance”, 
timely.  Today’s 
transnational challenges, including issues of peace and 
security,  development,  human  rights,  the  environment 
and  health  require  genuine  global  governance  that 
encompasses all United Nations Member States. 
In  this  regard,  Kenya  fully  reaffirms  the  central 

role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance, 
consistent  with  its  Charter  and  international  law.  It  is, 
therefore,  imperative  that  the  ongoing  United  Nations 
reforms  be  accelerated  in  order  to  ensure  that  this 
institution of multilateral engagement is representative 
and transparent, is accountable to its 192 members and 
optimally achieves the aspirations of today’s world. 
When I last addressed the General Assembly two 

years ago, I briefed this august body on the major steps 
taken by my country to resolve the political difficulties 
following  our  general  elections  in  December  2007. 
Since  then,  we  have  made  tremendous  progress  in 
implementing  far-reaching  reforms  that  will  entrench 
democracy  and  secure  our  peace  and  stability. Top  on 
the  reform  agenda  has  been  the  enactment  of  a  new 
constitution,  which  was  promulgated  on  27  August 
2010 following a successful national referendum. 

the 
improves 
structures of governance and lays a firm foundation for 
political  stability  and  economic  prosperity.  It  has 
created new vitality and a sense of renewal. We believe 
that  this  step  will  go  a  long  way  in  contributing 
towards  the  pursuit  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. It is also our hope that this historic development 
The  new  Constitution  greatly 
to 
10-54827 

29 

in 
the 
thirds  of 
the  pursuit  of 
time  allotted  for 
Climate  change  continues 
in  poverty  reduction  and  education, 
A/65/PV.11 

will  contribute  to  the  continued  consolidation  of 
democratic governance in our region. 

Ten years ago, world leaders meeting here in New 
York  committed  themselves  to  pursue  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  in  response  to  the  world’s  main 
development  challenges  of  poverty,  ignorance  and  ill-
health.  Two 
the 
attainment  of  these  Goals  has  lapsed.  With  only  five 
years  left  to  the  targeted  year  2015,  the  urgency  of 
bridging  the  remaining  gap  is  a  reality  we  must  now 
confront. 
As  I  indicated  in  my  statement  to  this Assembly 

invested  significant 
three  years  ago,  Kenya  has 
resources 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  have  recorded  substantial 
progress 
in 
reducing  maternal  and  child  mortality,  in  the  fight 
against  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria,  and  in  promoting 
gender equality and the empowerment of women. 
to  hamper  our 

development  aspirations. 
this 
challenge,  my  country  has  taken  major  steps  to 
enhance 
as 
reclaiming and protecting our five major water towers; 
undertaking investments in wind, solar and geothermal 
energy;  and  making  comprehensive  commitments  to 
green our economy. 

Despite  these  efforts,  Kenya  is  facing  many 
negative  consequences  of  climate  change.  Our  crop- 
and  livestock-based  agriculture,  on  which  the  vast 
majority  of  Kenyans  depend,  is  now  at  the  mercy  of 
unpredictable  weather  patterns.  It  is  with  a  deep 
concern,  therefore,  that  we  note  the  international 
community’s  inability to make headway  in the critical 
negotiations on climate change. It is Kenya’s hope that 
the  world  will  recognize  the  urgency  of  concluding 
these  negotiations  in  the  interest  of  the  survival  of 
humanity. I look forward to positive outcomes from the 
upcoming  meetings  on  climate  change  in  Mexico  and 
South Africa. 

I now wish to turn to one of the major obstacles 
to the pursuit of peace and development, including the 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  in 
our  subregion,  namely, 
the  continuing  political 
instability  in  Somalia  that  is  festering  beyond  that 
country.  
recognition  of 
environmental 
sustainability, 
such 
In 
the 
the 
to 
of 
from 
the 
insecurity 
this  year, 
In  July  of 
today’s  Somalia 
threat  posed  by 
to  deteriorate  and 
the  support  needed 
these  decisions  by 
in  Somalia.  Today,  as 
Since  the  early  1990s,  Kenya  has  borne  the  full 

weight  of 
this 
Assembly  meets,  the  security  situation  in  Somalia 
continues 
threaten  peace  and 
stability across the entire region and beyond. Needless 
to  say, 
to 
international  peace and security is greater than that of 
any other conflict in the region. Yet Somalia continues 
to  suffer  benign  neglect 
international 
community,  leading  to  many  lost  opportunities  to 
resolve  the  crisis.  The  perceived  reluctance  of  the 
Security  Council  to  engage  with  Somalia  has  been  a 
matter of great concern for those of us who suffer the 
worst  consequences  of  the  conflict.  Today,  I  wish  to 
draw  the  attention  of  this  Assembly  to  yet  another 
opportunity that should not be lost. 

the  Intergovernmental 
Authority  on  Development  (IGAD)  Summit  identified 
critical elements of engagement and took a number of 
decisions  on  the  way  forward.  These  decisions  were 
endorsed  by  the African  Union  summit  in  Kampala  in 
July  2010.  Unfortunately, 
to 
implement 
international 
community has not been forthcoming. 

It is against this background that Kenya urges the 
United Nations and the entire international community 
to seize the opportunity created by the African regional 
initiative  and  lend  support  to  the  proposed  measures, 
which  include  the  appointment  of  an  eminent  high-
level personality for Somalia, the effective deployment 
of  the  proposed  2,000  troops,  a  review  of  the  current 
mandate  of  the  African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia  to 
enhance 
the 
extension  of  support 
the  Transitional  Federal 
Government to bolster its effectiveness countrywide. 

As  the  Chair  of  the  IGAD  Committee  on  the 
Sudan,  I  have  remained  actively  engaged  with  the 
implementation 
Peace 
Agreement  (CPA).  I  have  done  so  because  we  in  the 
IGAD  region  believe  that  the  CPA  holds  the  key  to 
peace and stability in the Sudan and the region.  
I  wish  to  inform  this  Assembly  that  I  have 

received  assurances 
from  both  President  Omer 
Al-Bashir and First Vice-President Salva Kiir to remain 
on  course  with  respect  to  the  preparations  for  the 
referendum.  I  am  pleased 
the 
Assembly  that  both  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to 
resolve  all 
the 
its  peace  enforcement  capacity,  and 
the  Comprehensive 
the  outstanding 
to  further 
issues, 
to  hold 
inform 
30 

10-54827 


referendum  on  9  January  2011,  and  to  accept  the 
outcome  of  the  vote.  We  in  the  region  are  looking 
forward  to  the  holding  of  a  successful  and  peaceful 
referendum that promotes regional peace and stability. 

These efforts by the neighbours of the Sudan and 
the  African  Union  have  created  a  momentum  that  is 
critical  to  the  full  implementation  of  the  CPA.  It  is 
crucial  that  the  world  stand  in  support  of  these 
initiatives  as  Sudan  takes  vital  steps  in  relation  to  its 
future governance. I believe that continued engagement 
with the leadership of both the National Congress Party 
and  the  Sudan  People’s  Liberation  Movement  is  the 
only  way  towards  the  peaceful  resolution  of  the 
challenges facing the Sudan.  

In view of this perspective, I wish to inform this 
Assembly that I will convene the second IGAD Special 
Summit  on  the  Sudan  in  November  2010,  in  order  to 
take  stock  of  progress,  ensure  the  process  remains  on 
course  and  support  efforts  relating 
the  post-
referendum arrangements. 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  express  my  hope  that 

through  our  unity, 
and 
commitment,  the  challenges  facing  the  international 
community  will  be  overcome.  Let  us  rise  to  the 
occasion and demonstrate our political will and ability 
to work together for the good of all humankind. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Kenya for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
cooperation 
solidarity, 
to 

Address by Mr. Emomali Rahmon, President of the 
Republic of Tajikistan 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan. 

  Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tajikistan,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 


A/65/PV.11
reaffirmed 
timely 
for 
concerted 
efforts 
at 
I  would 
like 
(MDGs) 
laid  down 
in 
opportunity 
accelerating 
the  delegation): 
leaders  not  only 
international  community,  with 
President  Rahmon  (spoke  in  Tajik;  interpretation 

provided  by 
to 
congratulate  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election  to  the 
prestigious  post  of  President  of  the  General Assembly 
at its sixty-fifth session and to wish him every success. 

Yesterday, the High-level Plenary Meeting of the 
General  Assembly  finished  its  work.  At  the  Meeting, 
world 
their  strong 
commitment  to  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  but  also 
announced  specific  new  decisions  on  their  practical 
implementation.  

The  leaders  who  demonstrated  their  renewed 
political  will  availed  themselves  of  a  very  important 
and 
the 
enhancement  of 
ensuring 
sustainable  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the 
MDGs.  Further  advancement  in  this  area  depends  on 
concerted,  coordinated  and  consistent  actions  by  the 
entire 
the  United 
Nations playing a central and coordinating role. 
We  believe  that  this  firm  commitment  must  be 

buttressed  in  every  possible  way  by  specific  practical 
measures  that  will  contribute  to  the  full  and  timely 
achievement  of  all  MDGs  without  exception.  Against 
the backdrop of the energy and financial and economic 
crisis  of  recent  years  and  the  ever-growing  impact  of 
climate  change,  our  actions  should  be  supported  with 
adequate financial resources. In this regard, the appeal 
to double official development assistance, an important 
component  of  financing  for  development,  remains 
urgent.  Allocation  of  additional  external  funds  for 
development  should  not  aggravate  the  burden  of  debt 
of  developing  countries  whose  financial  situation  has 
been exacerbated by the world economic crisis.  

Strengthening  the  global  partnership  is  essential 
if  we  are  to  provide  an  environment  conducive  to 
sustainable  economic  growth  and  job  creation.  First 
and  foremost,  it  is  necessary to  revitalize  global  trade 
and  investment,  which  are  the  driving  force  behind 
is  of  vital 
industrial  growth.  Such  an  approach 
importance 
countries,  whose 
participation  in  global  trade  is  hampered  by  their 
geographical 
to 
turn,  affect 
expanding 
industrial  growth  and 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  these  countries. 
trade  relations,  which, 
the  achievement  of 
existing  barriers 
location 
and 
landlocked 
for 
in 
10-54827 

31 
Governed  by 
A/65/PV.11 

Efforts should be focused on creating new international 
transport  systems  and  corridors  as  well  as  promoting 
the  efficient  use  of  existing  ones,  as  this  will  help  to 
end  the  marginalization  of  landlocked  countries  in 
global trade.  

Tajikistan advocates the speedy completion of the 
Doha  Round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations,  which 
will  contribute  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. Our view is that the international 
trade system must remain open, equitable, predictable, 
non-discriminatory  and  based  on  agreed 
rules, 
especially in a time of crisis.  

Our current stage of development is characterized 
most  notably  by  the  fact  that  we  have  attained 
maximum  quantitative  growth,  which  must  now  be 
followed  by  new  qualitative  development.  Such  a 
transformation  requires  an  entirely  new  conceptual 
approach to development which takes into account the 
interests of both the present and future generations.  

the  principles  of  sustainable 
economic  development,  the  Government  of  Tajikistan 
has identified three strategic goals, namely, freeing the 
country 
isolation,  ensuring 
energy security, and ensuring food security.  

In order to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals, my country adopted and has been implementing 
the National Development Strategy of the Republic  of 
Tajikistan  for  the  period  up  to  2015  and  the  Poverty 
Reduction  Strategy.  As  the  country’s  major  strategic 
the  National  Development  Strategy 
document, 
identifies  priorities  and 
lines  of 
Government  policy  aimed  at  achieving  sustainable 
economic  growth,  improving  access  of  the  population 
to basic social services and reducing poverty.  

Despite enormous difficulties associated with the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis  and  natural 
disasters, the aforementioned strategies have in the last 
five  years  contributed  to  progress  in  the  achievement 
of the MDGs.  

the 
aforementioned  strategic  targets,  the  Government  of 
Tajikistan 
sustainable 
macroeconomic  growth  issues,  improve  the  system  of 
government  management,  develop  real  sectors  of  the 
economy,  and  rehabilitate  and  diversify  industries,  as 
well  as  to  strengthen  the  country’s  export  capacity, 
improve the investment climate, support trade renewal 
from  communications 
the  principal 
intends 
to 
address 
To 
accelerate 
progress 
towards 

activities,  ensure  social  protection  of  the  population, 
develop  the  labour  market  and  strengthen  human 
resources.  

We  need  to  make  the  transition  to  sustainable 
development in order to address such long-term issues 
as  climate  change,  preservation  of  biodiversity  and 
prevention  of  desertification.  Finding 
solutions 
requires  comprehensive  and  concerted  actions.  Our 
efforts  to  address  global  climate  change  need  to 
examined  critically,  especially  in  light  of  last  year’s 
United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference 
in 
Copenhagen.  

The  lessons  drawn  from  that  meeting  should 
encourage  us  to  take  more  resolute  measures  towards 
mitigation  of  harmful  gas  emissions,  adaptation  to 
reduce  the  adverse  impact  of  climate  change,  and  the 
transfer  of  technologies  that  promote  transition  to  a 
low  carbon  economy.  We  are  convinced  that  at  the 
forthcoming  meeting  in  Cancún  the  parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  will  be  able  to  agree  upon  those  and  other 
dimensions  of  a  new  global  agreement  that  will 
become  an  important  milestone  in  the  post-Kyoto 
period.  

It is known that climate change affects freshwater 
resources  and  increases  the  probability  of  floods, 
mudflows, landslides, droughts and other water-related 
natural 
change 
aggravates  an  acute  scarcity  of  freshwater  in  certain 
regions of our planet. For example, in Tajikistan, which 
is  the  source  of  about  60  per  cent  of  the  water 
resources for the entire region, during the last 30 years 
over a thousand glaciers disappeared, out of a total of 
13,000.  I  will  add  that  Tajikistan’s  share  of  gas 
emissions is very low. All the electricity in Tajikistan is 
generated by hydropower stations.  

The  depletion  of  groundwater  in  the  world 
remains  a  serious  problem. According  to  the  available 
forecast,  by  2025  more  than  one  third  of  the  Earth’s 
population  will  experience  water  shortages,  and  by 
2050 the planet will not be able to fully meet its water 
needs. 
Tajikistan,  as  the  initiator  of  the  International 

Year of Freshwater 2003 and the International Decade 
for  Action,  “Water  for  Life”,  2005  to  2015,  actively 
promotes  the  water  agenda  in  the  United  Nations. We 
act  not  only  as  the  initiator  of  discussions  on  water 
issues in the international arena but also as the initiator 
disasters.  Furthermore, 
climate 
32 

10-54827 
In 
the 
that  context, 
the  high-level 


in adapting specific measures on the sustainable use of 
this  vital  resource. All  these  steps  are  aimed  at  an  in-
depth  study  of  water  issues  and  the  development  of 
relevant  coordinated  actions  by 
international 
community.  

international 
conference  on  the  midterm  comprehensive  review  of 
the  implementation  of  the  International  Decade  for 
Action, held in Dushanbe and organized in cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  and  in  compliance  with  the 
General  Assembly  resolution  64/198,  has  made  an 
important contribution. The conference confirmed once 
again that further strategies for water use, irrespective 
of  the  level  at  which  they  are  developed,  should  be 
based  on  the  principles  of  sustainable  management  of 
freshwater  resources.  The  universal  introduction  of 
sustainable  development  is  important  for  achieving 
progress  in  all  fields  of  economic  growth  and  the 
strengthening  of  human  potential.  Those  and  other 
recommendations  are  highlighted  in  the  Dushanbe 
Declaration  on  Water  (A/65/88,  annex),  the  outcome 
document of the conference.  

The  efforts  of  Tajikistan  in  matters  of  water  are 
aimed  at  the  sustainable  and  efficient  use  of  the 
country’s  potential  and  at  strengthening  mutually 
advantageous  and  equitable  regional  cooperation.  We 
believe that water cooperation should strengthen rather 
than  undermine  interaction  in  other  areas.  It  should 
increasingly  build  confidence  among  all  water  users 
and  contribute 
integrated 
management  of  water  resources  at  the  local,  national 
and regional levels.  
With  that  in  mind,  we  proposed  proclaiming  the 

year  2012  as 
International  Year  of  Water 
Diplomacy.  We  are  convinced  that  the  adoption  of  a 
relevant  resolution  by  the  General  Assembly  will 
contribute  to  overcoming  competing  interests  in  the 
management  of  freshwater  resources  through  such 
diplomatic  means  as  early  warning,  preventive 
diplomacy and confidence-building measures, mutually 
advantageous 
regional 
acceptable 
cooperation, and a dialogue on these issues. 

A worldwide move towards the development and 
use  of  renewable  energy,  which  considerably  reduces 
harmful  gas  emissions,  is  an  important  component  of 
efforts  to  address  climate  change.  It  is  essential  to 
encourage  and  support  in  every  possible  way  projects 
aimed at increasing the proportion of renewable energy 
introduction  of 
and  mutually 
the 
the 
to 
A/65/PV.11
for 
the 
and 
peace 
overall 
stability 
it  a  prerequisite 
used  globally,  the  transfer  of  new  and  advanced 
technologies  and  enhancing  the  efficiency  of  energy 
supply and energy conservation.  

Tajikistan fully supports the initiative on ensuring 
universal  access  to  advanced  energy  services  and 
considers 
successful 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
For  this  reason,  Tajikistan  has  been  developing  its 
energy potential in a consistent and planned manner on 
the  basis  of  the  integrated  development  of  renewable 
energy  sources.  Alongside  the  construction  of  small 
and  medium-scale  hydropower  stations,  we  are 
considering  the  implementation  of  large-scale  projects 
of regional significance and exploring the possibility of 
using solar and wind energy. 

Effective regional cooperation plays a significant 
role in establishing a global partnership for sustainable 
development. The specific feature of our region is that 
development of comprehensive cooperation depends in 
many  respects  on  the  success  of  the  process  of 
strengthening 
in 
Afghanistan. 
Counteracting  terrorism  is  a  long-term  objective 

because of the multifaceted nature of this phenomenon, 
which  is  alien  to  humanity,  and  because  of  its  deep 
roots. It is essential to intensify the concerted struggle 
for uprooting terrorism by applying the entire range of 
political, 
and  humanitarian 
measures.  We  consider  it  important  to  speed  up  the 
agreement  on  and  adoption  of  a  comprehensive 
convention on combating international terrorism. 

While  combating  terrorism,  one  should  take  into 
account  that  terrorism  cannot  exist  without  financial 
and logistical support. It is no secret that today illegal 
drug  trafficking  has  become  one  of  the  major  sources 
of  financing  for  international  terrorism.  The  urgency 
and magnitude of problems related to drugs and illicit 
drug  trafficking  are  clear  evidence  of  the  global 
menace 
international  stability  and 
security at large. 

Currently,  Tajikistan  finds  itself  between  the 
major  world  producer  of  opium  and  heroin  and  the 
countries  that  consume  those  drugs.  Given  that  our 
border  with  Afghanistan,  with  a  very  complex 
mountain  terrain,  is  almost  1,500  kilometres  long,  we 
have  to  act  as  a  buffer  blocking  the  ever-increasing 
flow of this “white death”. 
economic, 
threatens 
financial 
that 
10-54827 

33 



narcotics 
aggression,  which 
A/65/PV.11 

We  are  absolutely  confident  that  the  success  in 

combating 
yields 
multimillion-dollar  profits  to  the  countries  far  from 
Tajikistan,  can  be  achieved  only  through  consolidated 
and  collective  efforts. We  consider  it  necessary  to  get 
Afghanistan  involved  in  the  processes  of  multifaceted 
regional cooperation.  
In that regard, I would like to underline the efforts by 
the  Quadripartite  Group  —  comprising  Afghanistan, 
Pakistan, Russia and Tajikistan — which is gaining in 
strength.  Within 
that  new  format  of  multilateral 
cooperation  our  efforts  are  aimed  at  counteracting  the 
terrorist  and  narcotics  threats,  which  are  difficult  to 
uproot  unless  the  problems  of  poverty,  unemployment 
and other urgent social issues are dealt with. All those 
efforts will help to strengthen specific global measures 
to reinforce the peace process. We hope that objectives 
and goals recently voiced at the Kabul Conference will 
be put into practice.  

Intellectual  and  creative  efforts  over  recent 
decades have brought about new principles and norms 
for sustainable development, set out in Agenda 21, the 
Programme 
Implementation  of 
Agenda 21 
of 
Implementation. Those historic documents laid down a 
sound  foundation  for  transition  from  existing  patterns 
of  production  and  consumption 
to  a  sustainable 
pattern — the paradigm of today.  
The whole range of long-term objectives that we 

confront 
sound 
reconsideration  of  the  actions  by  the  international 
community  in  favour  of  sustainable  development.  We 
are  convinced  that  the  United  Nations  should  remain 
the  centre  for  coordination  and  harmonization  of  the 
efforts in this area. At the same time the consolidating 
role of the United Nations itself should be enhanced by 
strengthening its capacity to respond to problems in an 
efficient  and  appropriate  way  and  to  efficiently  meet 
numerous global challenges and the threats of the new 
millennium.  Tajikistan  confirms  its  willingness  and 
commitment  to  contribute  to  this  process  as  far  as  it 
can. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Tajikistan for the statement he has just made. 
today  demands 
Johannesburg 
the  Further 
for 
and 
clear 
Plan 
the 
a 
and 
  Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tajikistan,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 


like 
I  would 
First  of  all, 
Address by Mr. Alan García Pérez, President of the 
Republic of Peru 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Peru. 

  Mr. Alan García Pérez, President of the Republic 
of  Peru,  was  escorted  into  the  General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alan  García  Pérez, 
President of the Republic of Peru, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly. 
President García Pérez (spoke in Spanish): This 

is the second time in 25 years that I have come to this 
podium  as  head  of  State  of  Peru  to  address  the 
representatives of all the countries of the world.  

to  begin  by 
congratulating  the  President  of  the  General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  Peru  will  constructively 
support  his  actions  because  we  are  sure  that  his 
experience will help us to achieve the results we hope 
for. 

The first decade of this century has already been 
marked by the bloody attack of 11 September 2001 and 
again  by  the  greatest  economic  crisis  of  the  last 
80 years. That shows that we face enormous challenges 
that  know  no  borders  and  require  a  joint,  united 
response  from  the  entire  international  community. 
Hence, in this most important forum on our globe, Peru 
reaffirms  its  resolve  to  cooperate  with  the  United 
Nations  and  other  States  to  tackle  the  challenges  of 
climate  change, 
the 
economic  crisis,  drug  trafficking,  weaponization  and 
xenophobia, which is rearing its head again.  

For Latin America, the first decade of the twenty-
first  century  has  also  meant  confronting  a  choice 
between  two  different  models  of  social  and  economic 
development.  

The  first  is  social  democracy  exercised  through 
institutions.  This  is  a  democracy  that  recognizes 
market  policy  and  that  attracts  global  investment  with 
clear  rules,  but  which  also  has  public  policies  for 
terrorism,  extreme  poverty, 
34 

10-54827 
the 
that 
the  path 
teaching  people 
that  acknowledges 


productive  infrastructure.  This  is  a  democracy  that 
does not just wait for a trickle-down effect to reach the 
poorest, but neither does it resort to the facile approach 
of subsidizing everything or raising wages in the public 
sector.  This  is  a  democracy  that  is  open  to  the  world 
and 
immense  power  of 
cybernetics  and  communications  and  that,  therefore, 
embraces  a  global  market  policy  and  aims  to  reach 
outward  in  the  world  through  fairly  negotiated  free-
trade  treaties  that  preserve  the  rights  of  workers  and 
the  environment.  But  this  is  also  a  democracy  of 
education, 
to 
development  is  one  of  effort  and  of  individual  and 
collective merit. 

In  the  face  of  that  model  of  social  democracy, 
another  path  was  proposed  in America  at  dawn  of  the 
twenty-first  century.  That  was  a  model  of  State 
ownership,  advocated  by  countries  with  great  natural 
resources,  who  trust  their  development  to  administer 
their  resources  and  reject  global  investment.  That 
model  aims  to  control  the  political  direction  of  the 
economy and rejects global reality. It suggests growing 
the  domestic  market,  administering  international  trade 
by  State  authority,  using  subsidies  and  wages  in  the 
instead  of  promoting  productive 
public 
infrastructure  and  assuring 
future. 
Moreover, instead of affirming democratic institutions, 
this  alternative  path  affirms  the  politic  will  and 
personal agenda of leaders, which always culminate in 
an aggressive downward spiral, destroying freedom of 
the  press  and  expression  and  taking  people  down  the 
path of weaponization.  

to  us  a 
responsible one, because it avoids reality and offers no 
sustainable  solution  to  social  problems,  nor  does  it 
create jobs that people need, because poverty cannot be 
diminished  and 
true  employment  created  without 
modern  technology  and  integration  into  the  global 
economy. Therefore Peru opts for a realistic and global 
approach.  

After four years, I am proud to share the progress 
and  successes  that  we  have  achieved  in  our  social 
agenda and in the Millennium Development Goals that 
the United Nations has put forward. I can say that Peru 
is  today  a  more  stable,  independent  and  egalitarian 
country  than  it  was  years  ago;  and  all  this  means  that 
we are better able to contribute to the defence of world 
freedom and  democracy and to play a stronger role in 
fostering regional and international peace and stability. 
That  second  path  does  not  seem 
the  peoples’ 
sector 
A/65/PV.11
(MDGs)  established  by 

Peru  has  been  one  of  the  proving  grounds  for 
realistic,  global  development,  for  modern,  democratic 
development  that  follows  a  global  markets  policy  for 
sustained  development  while  pursuing  social  policies 
that  ensure  increasing  stability  and  equity  for  our 
citizens. In the past five years we have achieved annual 
growth of 6.5 per cent, and even in the year of the great 
crisis  we  maintained  employment  growth  and  poverty 
reduction.  All  the  forecasts  for  this  year  indicate 
economic growth of 8 per cent, which will enable us to 
reduce  further  the  poverty  that  still  exists  in  our 
country. 

We  have  given  priority  to  public  spending  on 
infrastructure projects in the areas of health, education, 
water  and  sanitation,  electrification  of  thousands  of 
towns  and  roads,  in  accordance  with  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
the 
Assembly. 

As  a  middle-income  country,  over  the  past  four 
years  Peru  has  achieved  an  annual  rate  of  public 
investment  of  6  per  cent  of  output,  double  previous 
rates,  and  has  invested  $24  billion  in  more  than 
130,000  specific  projects  aimed  at  raising  the  living 
standards of our poorest populations and improve their 
participation in the economy. However, besides public 
efforts, and thanks to the stability of our economy and 
to  the  rules  we  follow,  the  private  sector  has  invested 
and  reinvested  $72  billion  over  four  years,  creating 
2.1 million  new  jobs.  All  international  projections 
indicate that we will continue to grow at an annual rate 
of  6  per  cent  for  the  next  six  years,  since  we  are 
already  assured  of  $38  billion  in  investments  to  be 
made, in addition to investments in the agricultural and 
manufacturing sectors. 

Peru  has  succeeded  in  reducing  its  poverty  rate 
from 48 to 34 per cent of the population, and we shall 
reach our goal of lowering it to 30 per cent next year. 
We feel sure that when Peru celebrates the bicentenary 
of  its  independence,  in  2021,  the  rate  will  have  fallen 
to 10 per cent. 

the  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (see A/65/PV.9), Peru has achieved many of the 
MDGs ahead of schedule and will continue to work to 
meet  all  the  goals  of  poverty  reduction,  improved 
nutrition, literacy, health and education, among others, 
which  are 
that  every  good 
Government  must  aim  for.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  our 
As  I  remarked  yesterday  at 
true  objectives 
the 
10-54827 

35 

in 
confrontation 
rather 
to 
this,  some  countries 
A/65/PV.11 

infant  mortality  rate  has  already  been  cut  to  half  of 
what  it  was  at  the  beginning  of  the  MDG  period,  and 
by a third compared with five years ago. 

All  this  has  been  achieved  thanks  to  a  stable 
economic policy and an increase in basic services and 
employment.  Moreover,  our  currency  reserves  have 
tripled  in  the  last  five  years  and  now  stand  at 
$42 billion. Peru’s financial system is one of the most 
sound in the world, without debt or credit exposure that 
might put it at risk. But the most important thing is that 
the political discourse of politicians that constitutes an 
essential  element  in  driving  and  guiding  our  countries 
has consistently advocated democracy and investment, 
and  has  been  fully  in  line  with  a  broad  path  of 
expanded trade and global investment. I believe that it 
is this alignment that has granted us the results that we 
can illustrate today. 

the 
As  opposed 
Americas which chose the second route — that of State 
ownership,  political  management  of  the  economy, 
inward-looking  growth  and  State  administration  of 
trade  or 
than  productive 
cooperation with other countries of the world — cannot 
show  similar  results. Thus,  we  can  now  say  that  Peru 
has  laboured  on  the  progressive  path  of  history  in 
moving  towards  the  purposes  of  the  United  Nations. 
Moreover, the crisis has shown us that the free market 
does not mean an absent State, and that we who govern 
must  not  wait  for  wealth  to  expand  without  knowing 
when and how to steer it in order to benefit those who 
need it most. 

Besides doubling our exports over four years and 
tripling  our  reserves,  we  have  also  signed  trade 
agreements  with  most  of  the  world’s  countries  —  the 
United  States,  China,  the  European  Union,  Canada, 
Korea  and  many  others  —  providing  us  with  the 
necessary  base  to  maintain  and  drive  growth  and 
improve  our  competitiveness,  thus  providing  jobs  for 
the people. In this way Peru will be greater and will be 
able to better contribute to international cooperation — 
and  cooperation,  along  with  maintaining  peace,  is  the 
great purpose of our Organization. 

We  are  aware,  however,  that  we  live  in  a 
multipolar and interdependent system, and that none of 
Peru’s  achievements  will  be  sustainable  in  the  long 
term  unless  we  unite  our  efforts  to  combat  common 
threats. Peace, security and cooperation are inseparable 
36 

parts  of  globalization,  and  we  must  promote  them 
through coordinated strategies. 

Twenty-five  years  ago  I  spoke  from  this  rostrum 
for the first time, and I see that, 20 years after the end 
of the cold war, we have still not built the stability that 
is  a  new  multilateralism,  based  on  the  power  of 
international  law.  We  are  still  in  a  situation  of 
uncertainty, where instability encroaches on peace and 
new  threats  arise,  testing  the  agility,  creativity  and 
political  determination  of  this  Organization  and  the 
countries it comprises. 

Peru  believes  that  in  this  globalized  world, 
security  is  the  result  of  the  interaction  of  internal  and 
external  factors.  We  are  thus  deeply  concerned  about 
the proliferation of nuclear arms, which must be halted 
at  all  costs.  There  is  also,  however,  the  issue  of 
conventional  weapons,  since  in  practice  it  is  they  that 
produce  the  death  and  destruction  suffered  in  many 
parts of the world. Moreover, arms and the arms trade 
limit social development, foster poverty and inequality 
and  feed  the  threat  of  instability.  Peru  has  therefore 
proposed  to  all  countries  of  South  America,  the 
adoption  of  a  protocol  on  peace,  security  and 
cooperation  to  bring  about  permanent  peace  and 
reduced arms expenditures. 

In our view — and this has been said a thousand 
times  here  —  it  is  not  possible  that,  since  the 
establishment of the integrated, reliable Union of South 
American  Nations,  its  10  member  countries  have 
invested $25 billion in new weapons and spent another 
$150  billion  on  maintaining  military  operating 
expenditures. This is shameful, because with that sum, 
more  than  50  million  people  in  South  America  could 
have ceased to live in poverty. Over the next five years, 
if  we  do  not  halt  this  absurd  arms  race,  we  will  have 
spent  another  $35  billion  on  new  weapons  and  $200 
billion on regular military expenditure, thus fueling an 
irrational  race  which  will  always  find  justification  to 
continue. 

But  the  absurdity  we  see  in  South  America  is 
even more serious on the global scale. It is not possible 
for  our  countries  to  continue  to  allocate  so  much 
money  to  the  buying  of  weapons  when  there  are  so 
many poor people in the world. It is as though the cold 
war had not ended and was continuing to the benefit of 
arms traders. 
We  say  once  again,  as  we  did  in  the  Union  of 

South  American  Nations  and  the  Organization  of 
10-54827 
that  multilateral 
Let  us  demand 


American  States,  and  as  we  say  in  all  international 
forums  in  which  we  participate,  let  us  allocate  less  to 
the buying of weapons and more to combating poverty. 
Let  us  raise  the  flag  of  the  martyr  of  pacifism  Jean 
Jaurès or our great friend, the Olof Palme of Sweden.  

financial 
institutions  include  anti-armament  clauses  in  their 
contracts and conditions, just as they do environmental 
provisions. Why  should  they  lend  belonging  to  all  the 
citizens  of  the  world  to  countries  that  use  them  in  a 
race  to  death?  It  is  a  serious  matter  to  produce  and 
consume harmful drugs, but it is also a serious matter 
for  the  richest  countries  of  the  world  to  produce 
weapons  for  poor  countries  to  buy,  curbing  their 
development  and  road  towards  justice.  We  appeal  to 
the  leaders  of  the  world:  stop  buying  and  producing 
arms; feed the disadvantaged; develop land; and create 
employment. 

Real  strength,  real  leadership  of  nations  and 
peoples is found in intelligence and the ability to help 
the  least  developed,  not  in  the  capacity  for  arms 
production or its nuclear power. We know it is difficult 
to make this  appeal over and over  again, but  we shall 
keep doing it because one day clarity and acceptance of 
these  ideas  will  prevail  among  world  opinion  and 
among the world’s peoples. 

For all those reasons, we call for this world forum 
to  act.  It  is  important  for  us  also  to  think  of  regional 
integration,  because  we  are  not  a  cluster  of  asteroids. 
But  we  believe  in  a  modern,  different  integration.  In 
this world of computers, satellite communication, trade 
without  borders  and  human  rights  without  national 
restrictions,  this  new  integration  does  not  mean  just 
joining  those  who  are  already  geographically  joined, 
but also using the tools of technology to ensure that the 
furthest off are also integrated. This is the new space of 
freedom  that  science  and  technology  are  creating  for 
human beings and nations. 

We must get beyond the primitive idea that there 
is  not  enough  to  go  around  and  realize  that  when  the 
wealth  of 
those  who 
distribute  it  are  no  poorer  for  having  done  so.  Rather, 
they  have 
lost  nothing  by  sharing  with  others. 
Similarly, integration is a form of wealth which sooner 
or later will reach all united peoples. 

Here,  I  can  provide  a  fine  example  of  the  path 
followed  by  Ecuador  and  Peru  after  two  centuries  of 
the 
confrontation,  hatred  and  war.  Thanks 
to 
information 
is  distributed, 
A/65/PV.11
is 
this  crisis 
determination  and  political  will  of  the  Government  of 
Ecuador  headed  by  President  Rafeal  Correa,  and  its 
agreement  with  the  Peruvian  Government,  we  have 
taken a quantum leap forward in fraternity, integration 
and development. 

Barely 15 years ago, we were divided by war, but 
now  we  have  a  permanent  joint  binational  Cabinet 
thanks to which we have built bridges and thousands of 
kilometres of roads, improved our agricultural systems 
and integrated our social security systems for workers 
in  our  two  countries.  We  have  binational  consulates 
and embassies, representing both our countries in many 
parts of the world. Ours is an example we would like to 
show to the United Nations as proof of our genuine and 
active devotion to integration; we believe in integration 
and in fraternity among peoples. 

The need for greater integration was tested when 
the worst international crisis of the past 80 years broke 
out.  This  financial  crisis,  which  began  in  developing 
countries,  has  had  consequences  that  we  still  cannot 
predict.  Our  understanding  of 
the 
following:  the  beginning  of  globalization  and  the 
increase  in  world  trade  were  possible  only  with  the 
new  information  and  communications  technologies 
which, at the infrastructure level, have developed new 
forms of production and policy. 

Information  is  now  the  fundamental  fuel  driving 
the  economy  and  political  change.  It  is  gradually 
displacing  fossil  fuels  as  the  essential  form  of  energy. 
So  we  see  the  structure  of  world  trade  becoming 
increasingly  dematerialized,  but 
information  and 
communication,  by  means  of  e-money  and  computers, 
are  able  to  work  at  such  speeds  that  they  have 
outstripped  the  human  capacity  of  our  banks,  our 
financial  wizards  and  existing  institutions  to  manage 
the new economy. 

This  is  the  dawn  of  a  new,  much  swifter, 
digitalized  economy  in  crisis.  But  if  this  speed  brings 
crisis  and  chaos,  the  same  speed  of  technology  will 
also  bring  solutions  to  problems  engendered  by  the 
crisis. We must trust in human beings and their creative 
abilities. Never in human history have we had so many 
means  of  payment  and  so  much  capacity  to  consume; 
never have we had so much technological creation and 
transformation; never have we had such an interactive 
digital  market  that  allows  people,  even  the  poorest, 
from  their  homes  to  instantly  stimulate  production  in 
other parts of the world. 
10-54827 

37 
A/65/PV.11 


This enables  us to look with human optimism to 
the future of the world and to believe that after a slight 
rise  in  inflation  in  2012,  which  will  come  about 
because  of  the  expansion  of  the  means  of  payment  to 
overcome  the  crisis,  world  trade  will  accelerate  and 
help us emerge from the present circumstances. 

However,  we  must  be  prepared  for  this  greater 
speed brought about by digitalization and by creativity. 
We  must  strengthen  our  peoples’  and  communities’ 
ability  to  integrate,  strengthen  exchanges  among  our 
countries  through  transportation,  communications  and 
electronic  interconnection,  strengthen  education  and 
eradicate weaponization. 

Our message is one of optimism about the world 
situation.  Despite  ourselves,  we  are  building  a  better 
world,  without  borders,  without  tyranny,  with  more 
freedom.  We  must  act,  employing  policies  which  are 
the  crisis.  We  must  employ 
successful  against 
democracy,  sound 
institutions  and  realism,  using 
capital  and  international  technology  and  mobilizing 
investment in small and micro businesses. 

Of course, our response to the crisis must always 
be a collective one. The Group of 20 (G-20) is now the 
prime forum of international financial cooperation and 
coordination,  and  we  must  support  its  role  to  support 
its  role  in  reforming  the  system.  We  need  a  greater 
the  growing  speed  with  which 
regulation  given 
financial 
economic 
be 
manipulated. Peru commends the efforts that have been 
made,  but  proposes  that  the  work  of  the  G-20  gain  in 
legitimacy 
of 
communication  with  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
and the World Bank, and  by involving  other countries 
in this work. 
But just as in the financial crisis, all nations must 

coordinate  our  efforts  to  properly  confront  terrorism, 
drugs, 
laundering, 
trafficking of persons, xenophobia and climate change.  

With  respect  to  this  last  theme,  I  must  note  that 
Peru  is  vulnerable  to  the  environment  and  is  at  very 
serious  risk  due  to  climate  change.  But  at  the  same 
time, my country is strategically placed to mitigate and 
adapt to the effects of global climate change because it 
ranks  fourth  in  terms  of  the  quantities  of  tropical 
forests.  

We  want  to  change  our  discourse.  We  have  not 
come with hand extended to demand cooperation from 
trade,  money 
establishing 
the 
illicit  arms 
instruments 
can 
fluid 
lines 
and 
by 

the rich of the world but to demand that they fulfil their 
commitments in their own countries. We have come to 
say that we will do the same in our own countries.  

In  Peru,  our  forest  sequesters  21  billion  tons  of 
carbon per year. We have 84 biospheres and are one of 
17 megadiverse countries on the planet.  
I offer — if necessary, with hand extended to the 

insensitive world of the rich countries — our budgetary 
and humane  commitment to protect, unscathed, Peru’s 
54  million  hectares  of  forest,  thus  controlling  climate 
change at the global level. As a tropical glacier country 
in danger, we appeal to the world to implement specific 
goals  for  cooperation  and  technology  transfer  and  to 
provide  resources  to  develop  programmes  to  combat 
the effects of climate change.  

We  want  an  agreement  that  is  comprehensive, 
binding,  fast  and  effective,  and  I  reiterate  to  the 
Assembly  my  country’s  desire  to  strengthen  joint 
action through development of a clean and sustainable 
growth economy with low carbon emissions. With that 
intention  we  will  voluntarily  reduce  to  zero  the 
deforestation of the primordial natural forests and will 
alter  our  present  energy  matrix  so  that  by  2021 
renewable  non-conventional  energy,  hydropower  and 
biofuels  will  account  for  at  least  40  per  cent  of  the 
energy  consumed  in  the  country.  And  we  will  make 
annual reports to the Assembly. 

However,  we  must  not  forget  that  much  of  the 
pollution  is  still  produced  by  poverty.  Hundreds  of 
millions  of  households  in  the  world  continue  to  use 
wood-burning stoves, thus driving deforestation and at 
the  same  time  polluting  the  environment  and  causing 
serious  bronchiopulmonary  and  nutritional  problems 
among  children.  We  propose  to  reduce  the  number  of 
wood-burning  stoves  in  Peru  by  20  per  cent  by  2021 
and  to  replace  them  with  better  stoves,  and  we  want 
that issue to become part of the Millennium Goals. 

A final point is something of particular interest to 
Peru — the situation of migrants. The globalization of 
capital,  services  and  products  cannot  be  accepted 
without also accepting the free movement of people or 
facilitating  their  mobility.  Peru  actively  promotes  the 
defense  of  the  human  rights  of  migrants  and  their 
families,  because  it  is  a  country  built  by  European 
migrants,  as  is  the  United  States  and  many  other  rich 
countries  today  —  which  they  forget  when  they  expel 
today’s migrants and deport them by plane.  
38 

10-54827 
We 
that 
from 
reiterate 
investment 
the  best  way 



Peru  believes  that  migration  is  a  development 
tool that has enriched and continues to enrich universal 
culture and the social life of countries. That is why we 
condemn any type of regulation, whether in Arizona or 
elsewhere, or any kind of xenophobic or discriminatory 
expressions. It is a paradox that the countries governed 
by  the  children  of  migrants  are  today  those  that  most 
vigorously deport migrants, unwittingly creating a new 
form of domestic violence that could have very serious 
consequences in the short term. 

to  avoid 
unregulated migration is by means of unhampered free 
trade  and 
the  most  developed 
countries  that  helps  to  generate  employment  and 
improve the quality of life of people in the developing 
countries.  

Peru has an ongoing commitment with the United 
Nations, a commitment with humankind without races, 
colours or distinctions. We would like, as we proposed 
a  few  years  ago,  to  strengthen  the  entire  system  in 
order to consolidate ourselves as a modern, strong and 
free  organization,  free  of  the  contradictions  or  delays 
of  the  past,  one  that  can  ensure  peace  with  less 
bureaucracy  and  with  greater  resolve  and  stronger 
political fortitude.  

Let there be peace and well-being for all peoples 
of  the  Earth;  let  there  be  bread  with  freedom  for  all 
human beings. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Peru for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Alan García Pérez, President of the Republic 
of Peru, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
Address by Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of 
Ukraine 

hear an address by the President of Ukraine. 

  Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Viktor  Yanukovych, 
President  of  Ukraine,  and  to  invite  him to  address  the 
Assembly. 

A/65/PV.11
65/1), 
(resolution 
President  Yanukovych  (spoke  in  Ukrainian; 

English text provided by the delegation): On behalf of 
Ukraine,  I  sincerely  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  I  am 
convinced  that  his  rich  experience  will  contribute  to 
the achievement of significant results in our joint work. 

We have started our work in New York on a high 
note. The Millennium Development Goals summit has 
just  successfully  concluded.  The  summit  outcome 
document 
the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the  2005  World 
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  have  become  our 
road  map  for  sustainable  development  and  a  better 
future. Their rigorous and coherent implementation is a 
common  task  for  all  Member  States.  Ukraine  is  ready 
to work actively to this end. 

Ukraine  approaches  with  full  responsibility  the 
issues  of  poverty  eradication,  providing  high-quality 
education, developing proper conditions for preserving 
the  environment, 
improving  maternal  health  and 
reducing  child  mortality,  curbing  HIV/AIDS  and 
tuberculosis,  and  ensuring  gender  equality.  Our 
achievements  as  well  as  the  problems  we  face  are  set 
out  in  the  national  report  on  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  we  presented 
at the summit. 

is  undergoing  profound 
internal  changes.  We  have  finally  achieved  political 
stability  and  have  launched  comprehensive  economic 
and social reforms. In short, Ukraine has been given a 
new  progressive  impetus,  allowing  us  to  take  real 
practical  steps  towards  transformations  that  are  long 
overdue.  I  am  confident  that  it  will  enable  us  to 
participate  more  actively  in  the  implementation  of  the 
principles of the United Nations, to which Ukraine has 
been committed all along. 

The  world  economic  crisis  has  become  a  major 
problem that has slowed progress in Ukraine as well as 
in  other  countries.  Global  challenges  require  a  global 
response. The world must develop a new financial and 
economic 
trade 
liberalization,  prevention  of  protectionist  measures, 
new  solutions  and  transparent  tools  for  safeguarding 
global  competition  can  contribute  to  the  economic 
recovery. 
We  believe  it  is  necessary  to  support  further 

global  processes  that  expand  the  free  movement  of 
Today  my  country 
relations.  Further 
system 
of 
10-54827 

39 

that  security 
the  Nuclear  Security  Summit,  held 
A/65/PV.11 

people,  goods,  services  and  capital.  New  free-trade 
areas  and  visa-free  travel  regimes  are  an  important 
component  of  the  appropriate  response  to  the  global 
challenges of today. 
We  all  know  that  sustainable  development  is 

impossible  without  security  and 
is 
impossible  without  development.  Ukraine  has  always 
been  an  active  contributor  to  peace  and  security 
worldwide.  I  believe  that  our  contribution  in  that 
regard is beyond doubt. 
This  year  Ukraine  declared  its  non-bloc  status. 

That  helped  to  significantly  reduce  tension  in  the 
region and to establish a zone of stability and strategic 
balance around Ukraine.  
In  1994  we  were  the  first  in  the  world  to 

voluntarily give up our nuclear arsenal, the third most 
powerful  in  the  world.  Sixteen  years  have  passed,  but 
that  decision  by  Ukraine  has  not  diminished 
in 
importance. In April of this year, Ukraine took the next 
step  at 
in 
Washington,  D.  C.,  by  announcing  its  decision  to  get 
rid of all its stocks of highly enriched uranium.  

The  experience  of  recent  decades  shows  that 
nuclear  weapons  do  not  always  increase  security. 
Moreover,  countries 
to  acquire  nuclear 
weapons  may  be  exposed  to  the  impact  of  new  risks 
and become more vulnerable. The best way to counter 
the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  is  to  gradually 
eliminate them completely. We welcome the signing of 
a  new  START  treaty  between  the  United  States  and 
Russia and further reductions of their national nuclear 
arsenals. 

Today  there  is  also  an  urgent  need  for  concrete 
steps to reduce the risks related to the proliferation of 
nuclear  materials  and  technology.  We  encourage  all 
Member  States  to  follow  our  example  in  the  area  of 
global nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. 

In  view  of  the  steps  I  have  just  mentioned, 
Ukraine  hopes 
international  partners 
unswervingly comply with their obligations concerning 
security  guarantees  for  my  country,  that  is,  primarily, 
the  Budapest  Memorandum  of  1994.  Ukraine  insists 
that security guarantees for States that have disposed of 
their  nuclear  arsenals  and  for  countries  that  do  not 
belong to any military alliance should be reflected in a 
legally  binding  international  instrument.  That  is  the 
best way to discourage regional nuclear ambitions. 
to  see  our 
that 
try 
In  our  opinion,  we  also  need 

The  principles  of  peaceful  coexistence,  respect 
for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Member 
States,  good  neighbourly  relations  and  equality  have 
always  been  the  cornerstone  of  Ukraine’s  foreign 
policy.  We  believe  that  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter  are  the  foundation  for  any 
regional  agreements  and  arrangements  in  the  area  of 
security  architecture.  Yet  our  Organization  can  make 
greater use of the potential of existing regional security 
mechanisms so as to strengthen global security. 

We  have  never  distinguished  between  our  own 
woes and those of others. From the very first years of 
its  independence,  Ukraine  has  actively  participated  in 
United  Nations  efforts  to  maintain  international  peace 
and security. We strongly support the strengthening of 
United Nations peacekeeping capabilities. Ukraine also 
intends to keep working to improve legal protection for 
the  Blue  Helmets.  We  welcome  support  for  our 
initiatives by the Member States. 

to  develop 
mechanisms to respond to new or changing challenges 
to  international  peace  and  security.  One  of  these  is 
piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea.  I  am  convinced  that 
that  threat  can  no  longer  be  underestimated.  Without 
effective and decisive intervention by the international 
community,  that  evil  will  only  gain  force. The  United 
Nations  should  play  a  key  role  in  the  fight  against 
maritime piracy. Ukraine is determined to continue its 
efforts  to  increase  international  maritime  security  and 
the protection of sailors’ social rights, and we call upon 
all Member States to cooperate to that end. 

Today,  humanity  is  increasingly  confronted  with 
so-called  soft  security  challenges.  The  word  “soft” 
should  not  mislead  us, 
though.  Climate  change 
constitutes  a  global  threat  to  the  very  future  of 
mankind.  The  experts  are  saying  today  that  some  of 
those  changes  are 
the 
international  community  should  immediately  make  all 
possible  efforts  to  avoid  the  worst-case  scenario.  The 
political  will  of  all  Member  States  should  be 
mobilized.  By  signing 
the  Copenhagen  Accord, 
Ukraine has taken a step in that direction. 

The Earth is our common ship, and it should not 
become  a  Titanic.  We  believe  there  should  be  an 
effective 
the 
environment of the Earth as our only planet. The world 
needs  a  standing  global  environmental  organization 
with universal membership. 
international  mechanism 
irreversible.  That 
to  protect 
is  why 
40 

10-54827 
A/65/PV.11






Against the backdrop of environmental, financial, 
economic  and  energy  challenges,  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear energy is becoming increasingly crucial. States 
that  possess  nuclear 
technologies  bear  a  huge 
responsibility 
their 
their  own  people, 
towards 
neighbours and all mankind. 

Next  year,  the  world  will  commemorate  a  sad 
date  —  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  accident  at 
the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. That tragedy is still 
an  open  wound  for  us.  Overcoming  its  consequences 
remains  a  serious  challenge  for  the  international 
community,  as  the  scale  of  the  problem  requires  a 
coordinated  effort  involving  all  of  our  international 
partners. 

Ukraine  plans  to  host  a  high-level  international 
conference  on  the  theme  “Twenty-five  years  after  the 
Chernobyl disaster: security for the future”. We intend 
to  hold  it  in  Kiev  in April  2011,  with  United  Nations 
participation.  The  forum  should  assess  the  progress 
made in the restoration and normalization of life in the 
affected  regions  and  discuss  nuclear  safety  issues.  I 
invite all Members to take part in the conference. 
Today’s  world  is  changing  at  an  ever-increasing 

pace, and our Organization has to change along with it. 
The  United  Nations  should  be  not  an  observer  but  an 
architect  of  events.  For  that  to  happen,  it  urgently 
needs  to  undergo  comprehensive  reform.  Ukraine 
welcomes  the  progress  we  see  in  the  organizational 
consolidation of the United Nations, in particular in the 
areas  of  gender  equality,  protection  of  women’s  rights 
and peacebuilding.  

However,  far-reaching  changes  are  impossible 
without  modernization  of  the  core  of  the  United 
Nations:  the  Security  Council.  The  transformation  of 
the  Security  Council  into  an  entity  that  is  more 
representative  and  balanced 
in  composition,  with 
improved working methods and higher transparency, is 
an 
its 
effectiveness  and  for  adapting  the  United  Nations  to 
the world’s current practices and procedures. 

Ukraine  stands  ready  to  discuss  all  progressive 
concepts  relating  to  Security  Council  reform.  We 
believe  that  the  key  to  success  is  to  take  into  account 
the  interests  of  all  the  underrepresented  regional 
groups, including the Eastern European States. I would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  confirm  Ukraine’s 
intention to obtain membership in the Security Council 
for the period of 2016-2017. 
precondition 
increasing 
essential 
for 

I  am  confident  that  the  work  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  session  will  be  an 
important step on the road towards a peaceful, safe and 
prosperous  world  —  a  world  of  freedom,  democracy 
and  effective  international  cooperation.  To  achieve 
those  ends,  we  have  strong  political  will,  a  clear 
understanding  of  the  challenges  and  a  common  vision 
of the problems. I believe in our success. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Ukraine for 
the statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 

Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 


  Address by Mr. Wen Jiabao, Premier of the 
State Council of the People’s Republic of China 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Premier of the State Council of 
the People’s Republic of China. 

  Mr.  Wen  Jiabao,  Premier  of  the  State  Council  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming His Excellency Mr. Wen Jiabao, Premier of 
the  State  Council  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Wen  Jiabao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

China  is  a  member  of  the  big  family  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  China’s  development  and  changes  have 
attracted  worldwide  attention.  I  wish  to  take  this 
opportunity 
the  Assembly  my 
observations  on  how  one  should  get  to  know  the  real 
China. 

Since the founding of the People’s Republic, and 
especially  since  the  start  of  reform  and  opening  up 
more than 30 years ago, profound  changes have taken 
place  in  China,  a  big,  ancient  country  in  the  East.  Its 
economic 
has 
substantially  increased.  The  lives  of  its  people  have 
markedly improved. Its social and cultural programmes 
have  made  considerable  progress,  and  its  exchanges 
and cooperation with the outside world have continued 
to  expand.  In  sum,  my  country  has  made  an  historic 
leap from mere subsistence to moderate prosperity. 
share  with 
national 
strength 
overall 
and 
to 
10-54827 

41 

faces 
energy, 
imports 
to  meet 
resources 
A/65/PV.11 


We  in  China  are  proud  of  our  achievements, 
which  were  made  through  strenuous  efforts.  At  the 
same  time,  we  are  clear-headed  about  our  place  and 
role in today’s world. 

China’s gross domestic product is the third largest 
in the world, but in per capita terms it is only one tenth 
of that of developed countries. China has enjoyed more 
than  30  years  of  rapid  growth,  but 
its  further 
development 
and 
environmental  constraints.  It  is  a  leading  producer  of 
many  important  products,  but  it  remains  at  the  lower 
end  of  the  global  industrial  chain.  China  is  a  big 
trading  nation,  but  its  exports  are  low  in  technology 
content  and  value  added.  In  many  cases,  we  have  to 
rely  on 
the  demand  for  core 
technologies.  

China’s  coastal  areas  and  some  of  the  large  and 
medium-sized cities are thriving after modernizing, but 
many places in the central and western regions and the 
vast rural areas are still rather backward. Moreover, we 
have 150 million people living below the poverty line 
set by the United Nations.  
The  life  of  the  Chinese  people  has  improved 

significantly,  but  we  do  not  yet  have  a  full-fledged 
social  security  system.  Moreover,  we  are  confronted 
with  high  employment  pressure.  Our  people  are  more 
and more actively engaged in the country’s social and 
political  development,  and  citizens’  basic  rights  and 
interests  are  better  protected,  yet  our  democracy  and 
legal system still have room for improvement and such 
social ills as inequity and corruption still exist. 

China  has  come  a  long  way  in  modernization.  It 
is  fairly  advanced  in  some  areas  of  development  but 
remains 
faces 
unprecedented  challenges  brought  by  problems  both 
old and new.  

Taken  as  a  whole,  China  is  still  in  the  primary 
stage  of  socialism  and  remains  a  developing  country. 
Those are our basic national conditions. That is the real 
China. 

China  has  set  the  strategic  goal  of  achieving 
modernization  by  the  middle  of  this  century.  As  they 
look  to  the  coming  decades,  the  Chinese  people  will 
continue to advance along the path of reform, opening 
up  and  peaceful  development.  That  path  has  changed 
China’s  destiny  and  has  benefited  people  throughout 
the  country.  We  must  stay  on  that  path  and  make 
others.  And 
backward 
in 
it 
the 
economic 
to  deepen 
development 
China  will  continue 
further  improvements.  There  is  no  reason  whatsoever 
for us to deviate from it. 

China  will  continue  to  focus  on  developing  the 
economy.  Development  is  our  top  priority,  as  it 
constitutes the basis  for  addressing  all issues. We will 
rely  mainly  on  our  own  efforts 
in  pursuing 
development. 

As  China’s  industrialization  and  urbanization 
progress, hundreds of millions of farmers will move to 
towns  and  cities,  which  will  create  more  domestic 
demand 
than  ever,  open  up  broad  market  and 
development space and serve as a powerful engine for 
sustaining the growth of the Chinese economy as well 
as  the  world  economy  at  large.  We  will  work  hard  to 
transform 
pattern, 
restructure  the  economy  and  set  out  on  a  path  of 
balanced and sustainable development. 

institutional 
reform. We will make consistent efforts to improve the 
socialist  market  economy.  We  will  unswervingly 
strengthen  and  develop  the  public  sector  side  of  the 
economy  and  also  unswervingly  encourage,  support 
and  guide  the  development  of  the  non-public  sector. 
We  will  pay  greater  attention 
to  ensuring  and 
improving people’s well-being. We will further reform 
the income distribution system and improve the social 
security  system,  including  old-age  support,  medical 
care  and  unemployment  benefit  programmes.  We  will 
endeavour  to  narrow  the  gap  between  urban  and  rural 
areas,  between  different  regions  and  between  the  rich 
and  the  poor.  We  want  to  ensure  that  each  and  every 
citizen shares the benefit of China’s reform, opening up 
and development.  
While deepening economic restructuring, we will 

restructuring. 
also  push 
Otherwise,  we  cannot  achieve  the  ultimate  goal  of 
economic reform and we will lose what we have gained 
from  our  modernization  drive. We  respect  and  protect 
human  rights,  uphold  social  equity  and  justice  and 
strive  to  achieve  free  and  all-around  development  for 
our  people.  That  is  the  important  hallmark  of  a 
democratic  country  under  the  rule  of  law  and  a  basic 
guarantee for any country’s lasting peace and stability. 

China  will  be  even  more  open  to  the  world. 
Mutually  beneficial  cooperation  for  win-win  progress 
is a long-term strategy that we will stick to in opening 
up 
follow  established 
international  rules  in  expanding  business  ties  with 
forward  with  political 
the  world.  We  will 
to 
42 

10-54827 
for 
foreign 
investors,  optimize 
formulated  medium-  and 


other  countries.  We  will  continue  to  improve  the 
environment 
the 
structure of foreign capital utilization and explore new 
ways for overseas investment and cooperation.  

We are committed to promoting the establishment 
of  a  fair,  equitable,  inclusive  and  well-managed  new 
international  financial  order  and  an  open  and  free 
international 
against 
protectionism in all its manifestations. In the course of 
modernization,  we  will  not  only  continue  to  bring  in 
and utilize advanced achievements from the rest of the 
world  in  the  economic,  scientific  and  technological 
fields,  but  also  boldly  draw  upon  the  achievements  of 
human  civilization  in  the  fields  of  social  management 
and cultural development. 
China will continue to develop education, science 

and 
the 
technology.  How  can  China  narrow 
development  gap  with  the  advanced  countries  and 
enhance  the  sustainability  of  its  strong  growth?  I 
believe two things are of fundamental importance: first 
is  education,  and  second  is  science  and  technology. 
China  has 
long-term 
development programmes on education and on science 
and  technology.  Going  forward,  we  will  focus  our 
efforts  on  implementing  those  two  programmes  and 
building  China 
in  human 
resources and innovation by 2020. 

China  will  continue  to  carry  forward  its  fine 
culture. The development of a country and rejuvenation 
of  a  nation  require  not  only  great  economic  strength, 
but,  more  importantly,  great  cultural  strength.  The 
moral  values  and  wisdom  drawn  from  the  5,000-year-
old  Chinese  civilization  do  not  belong  to  China  alone 
but  also  to  the  world.  We  will  vigorously  develop 
cultural programmes and accelerate the development of 
a moral and ethical code that is commensurate with our 
socialist  modernization  drive  and  consistent  with  the 
traditional virtues of our nation.  

We respect the diversity of civilizations and will 
increase 
other 
civilizations  to  forge  a  common  cultural  bond  for 
humanity.  The  Chinese  nation,  which  has  created  an 
economic  miracle,  will  create  a  new  cultural  splendor 
as well. 

The world of the twenty-first century is far from 
tranquil,  but  gone  are  the  days  when  problems  were 
ultimately  settled  by  war.  Peace  and  development 
remain the defining features of our time.  
into  a  country  strong 
exchanges  with 
dialogue 
trading 
regime.  We 
are 
and 
A/65/PV.11

China  will  stay  firmly  committed  to  peaceful 
development.  One  may  ask  what  the  essence  of 
peaceful  development  is.  It  is  to  foster  a  peaceful 
international  environment  for our development and, at 
the  same  time,  contribute  to  world  peace  through  our 
development. That is something inherent in the concept 
of socialism with Chinese characteristics. 

In the course of development, China will continue 
to take upon  itself the duty of promoting the common 
progress and prosperity of mankind. We will seek and 
expand  converging  interests  with  other  countries. 
China’s  development  will  not  harm  anyone  or  pose  a 
threat to anyone. There have been Powers who sought 
hegemony  once  they  grew  strong.  China  will  never 
follow in their footsteps. 

China  values  friendship  and  also  adheres  to  its 
principles. It firmly upholds its core interests. When it 
comes  to  sovereignty,  national  unity  and  territorial 
integrity, China will not yield or compromise. 

China will continue to firmly support the leading 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  international  affairs. We 
will,  as  always,  abide  by  the  United  Nations  Charter 
and 
faith  our  obligations  under 
international 
intensify 
cooperation  with  fellow  developing  countries  and 
support  their  having  a  greater  say  in  international 
affairs.  We  will  remain  forever  a  good  partner  of  and 
brother to developing countries. 

China’s stability and development is conducive to 
a  more  peaceful  international  environment,  a  more 
democratic  international  order,  a  more  prosperous 
global  economy  and  a  more  harmonious  and  civilized 
world.  China’s  development  is  an  opportunity  for  the 
world, and the world stands to gain from a China that 
is better off. History will continue to prove that. 

A China that develops peacefully, a China that is 
full  of  vigour  and  vitality  and  a  China  that  is  willing 
and ready to fulfil its responsibilities will always move 
forward  together  with  the  world.  Let  us  join  hands  to 
work for a world of enduring peace and prosperity. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Premier  of  the  State 
Council  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  for  the 
statement he has just made.  
conventions.  We  will 
in  good 
fulfil 
10-54827 

43 
A/65/PV.11 







  Mr.  Wen  Jiabao,  Premier  of  the  State  Council  of 
the People’s Republic of China, was escorted from 
the rostrum. 
  Address by Mr. Stephen Harper, Prime Minister 
of Canada 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of Canada. 

  Mr.  Stephen  Harper,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming His Excellency Mr. Stephen Harper, Prime 
Minister  of  Canada,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr.  Harper  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  It  has 

now  been  more  than  65  years  since  the  nations  of  the 
world,  exhausted,  and  in  some  cases  devastated,  by 
years  of  war,  established  the  United  Nations.  Canada 
was  one  of  those  nations  —  one  of  the  many,  in  fact, 
whose fresh experience of conflict had persuaded their 
peoples  that  the  possibility  of  a  better  world,  one  in 
which  nations  resolved  their  differences  peacefully, 
was an objective worthy of their every effort. 

Today, the Canadian people continue to believe in 
that  purpose  and  will  continue  to  strive  to  live  by  the 
principles that would make it possible.  
(spoke in English) 

Such  principles  are  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
this  Organization;  that  same  United  Nations  Charter 
endorsed  with  happiness  and  hope  by  a  former 
Canadian  Government  on  that  auspicious  June  day  in 
San Francisco in 1945. 

the 
sovereign equality of countries. They remind us of the 
obligation  to  settle  disputes  peacefully,  and  they 
demand we seek justice and uphold the human rights of 
all people. Those are values that Canadians hold dear, 
and, as the universal membership of this body implies, 
so  do  peoples 
the  world  over.  That  widespread 
consensus continues to convince the idealist in all of us 
that so much more is possible in this world of ours. 

At  the  same  time,  it  makes  the  gap  between 
aspiration and achievement so disappointing. It calls us 
onward 
successive  Canadian 
Governments have worked diligently to do for almost a 
lifetime. 
to  do  more,  as 
foundational 
recognize 
beliefs 
Those 
the 
lead  us 
to  cease 
that  would 
Those ideals, as well as an acute awareness of the 

broad  concerns  of 
international  community, 
especially  those  of  the  developing  countries,  continue 
to animate the Government of Canada, the Government 
that I lead today. 
(spoke in French) 
Those ideals have the enthusiastic support of the 

Canadian  people,  and  I  do  not  foresee  any  day  or 
motivation 
in  our 
endeavours in this regard.  

The question, as always, is how this is to be done. 
Our preference is to take meaningful action, action that 
produces  real  results,  action  that  helps  people  in  their 
struggle with oppression, disaster and poverty. 
(spoke in English) 

Let me just run through some of those actions. As 
a  founding  member  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
seventh-largest  contributor  to  its  finances,  Canada  has 
been a consistently reliable and responsible participant 
in  United  Nations  initiatives  around  the  world.  This 
was so in the earliest days of the United Nations. It was 
so  during 
the  cold  war, 
decolonization  and  the  struggle  against  apartheid,  and 
it  remains  so  today.  Canada  continues  to  pay,  for 
instance,  a  heavy  price  to  fulfil  our  United  Nations 
obligation 
lawful  Government  of 
Afghanistan. We pay it with the resources of Canadian 
taxpayers,  but  more  profoundly  in  sorrow  for  the 
priceless lives of our young men and women who serve 
there in the Canadian forces, as well as, sadly, civilians 
who  have  also  given  their  sweat  and  their  lives  in  the 
service  of  both  our  country  and 
the  people  of 
Afghanistan. 
In  Afghanistan,  our  military  efforts  have  gone 

hand in hand with our reconstruction and development 
programmes. In particular, Canada supports those such 
as the Dahla Dam, which will have enduring economic 
benefit. 
(spoke in French) 
We  have  also  invested  heavily  in  other  programmes 
which  will  improve  the  lives  of  that  country’s  most 
vulnerable citizens, and we will continue to do so. 

Our  international  engagement  is  by  no  means 
restricted  to  Afghanistan.  In  fact,  elsewhere  in  the 
world, we have also expanded our efforts. We pledge to 
the  difficult  days  of 
to  support 
the 
44 

10-54827 


double  our  aid  to  Africa,thereby  making  Canada  a 
leader in the Group of Eight (G-8). 
(spoke in English) 
And we are on track to double our overall development 
assistance  by  March  of  next  year.  Furthermore,  we 
have  untied  food  aid,  and  all  Canadian  aid  will  be 
untied by 2013. Such measures significantly extend the 
purchasing power of Canadian aid funds. 
Canada  was  also  among  the  first  last  year  at  the 

G-8  Summit  at  L’Aquila 
to  double  support  for 
agricultural  development.  During  the  economic  crisis 
as well, we acted, in concert with our Group of Twenty 
(G-20)  partners,  to  increase  the  lending  capacity  of 
development  organizations  like  the  Inter-American 
Development  Bank  and  the  African  Development 
Bank.  In  particular,  we  have  made  a  significant 
contribution to peace and security in Africa, including 
to  peace 
initiatives,  humanitarian  assistance  and 
reconstruction  in  the  Sudan,  since  taking  office  in 
January 2006. 
(spoke in French) 
We  have  also  provided  leadership  in  peacebuilding  in 
Sierra Leone.  

Canada  welcomes  the  resumption  of  direct  talks 
between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority.  We 
sincerely  hope  that  the  discussions  will  be  successful, 
and we will continue to assist the Palestinian Authority 
in building its institutions.  

As  members  know,  we  have  also  engaged  very 
extensively in Haiti, both before and since the terrible 
earthquake  earlier  this  year.  Canada  was  among  the 
first nations to provide tangible relief in various forms, 
and  it  has  made  a  long-term  commitment  to  assist  the 
people  of  Haiti  in  rebuilding  their  severely  damaged 
country. 

Most  recently,  Pakistan  has  faced  devastating 
floods,  and  Canada  has  again  responded  swiftly.  All 
these actions are born from Canadian ideals. 

So  allow  me  to  say  one  thing.  This  Assembly 
should  know  that  Canada  is  eligible  to  serve  on  the 
Security  Council.  And  if  we  are  elected,  we  will  be 
ready to serve.  
(spoke in English) 
And if called upon to serve on the Security Council, we 
shall  be  informed  by  these  ideals  and  strive  to  further 
A/65/PV.11
of 
Initiative 
to  enact 
to 
reduce 
the  broader 
interests  of 
the  Muskoka 
the  Commonwealth, 
them,  just  as  we  have  striven  to  implement  Security 
Council resolutions. 

I  should  also  mention  Canada’s  role  this  year  as 
Chair of the G-8 and host of the most recent meeting of 
the G-20. We have tried to ensure that these gatherings 
serve 
the  entire  global 
community. In preparation for the G-20, we conducted 
wide-ranging  outreach  sessions,  including  with  the 
Secretaries-General 
la 
Francophonie  and,  of  course,  this  Organization.  We 
used  our  chairmanship  of  the  G-8  to  reach  out  to 
leaders from Africa and the Americas and to secure an 
agreement 
for 
maternal, newborn and child health. 
(spoke in French)  
Such  progress  is  literally  vital  in  meeting  the  most 
the  United  Nations  Millennium 
achievable  of 
Development  Goals  — 
the  appalling 
mortality  among  mothers  and  children  in  developing 
countries. 

We  are  mobilizing  support  from  donor  nations 
and private foundations. Together, we should be able to 
mobilize  more  than  $10  billion  over  five  years.  This 
will  contribute  in  a  major  way  to  the  Secretary-
General’s Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s 
Health. Likewise, we announced here two day ago that 
Canadian 
taxpayers  would  make  an  enhanced 
replenishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
(spoke in English) 

We  did  these  things  for  one  simple  reason:  to 
alleviate  the  suffering  and,  indeed,  save  the  lives  of 
people  all over the world  who are among the millions 
afflicted  with  these  grave  and  debilitating  diseases. 
Actions  such  as  these  are  a  moral  imperative.  It  is 
essential  that  we  strive  to  make  a  significant,  actual 
difference 
the  world’s  most 
disadvantaged  people.  Who,  seeing  his  neighbour 
distressed, will pass by on the other side of the road? 
That is why we have also used our chairmanship 

of 
the  G-8 
the  essential  ethic  of 
accountability.  We  published  the  first  accountability 
report  to  ensure  that,  as  donor  countries,  we  fulfil  the 
pledges  that  we  make.  Our  words  must  be  translated 
into action and we must make a real difference to those 
who  need  our  help. And  to  that  end,  as  many  of  you 
also  know,  Canadian  taxpayers  have  forgiven  debts 
to 
further 
in 
the 
lives  of 
10-54827 

45 

A/65/PV.11 

totalling  $1  billion  owed  by  the  world’s  poorest 
countries. 

However, let us not limit our horizons by looking 
just  at  the  least  we  can  do.  Much  higher  goals  are 
within our capacity if we will but reach for them. In the 
short time that I have here today, there is one thought 
above all others that I wish to share. 
(spoke in French)  

It is the pressing need in the twenty-first century 
for all the States of the world to adopt  an enlightened 
view  of  sovereignty.  As  I  said  earlier,  respect  for 
sovereignty  is  a  fundamental  principle  of  the  United 
Nations. However, the global recession of the past two 
years has taught us, we hope, a painful lesson. We have 
been forcefully reminded that, in this shrinking world, 
we  all  travel  together  in  a  single  boat,  not  as  solo 
voyagers, and that how we travel together matters. This 
is  because  our  interests  are  all  interconnected:  from 
climate change to health and pandemic threats and to, 
of course, the economy. 
(spoke in English) 
For  example,  nations  that  do  not  consider  the 

effects  of  their  economic  choices  on  others  may  hurt 
not only their trading partners, but themselves as well. 
Those  who succumb to the lure of protectionism soon 
find that trading partners denied a market also lack the 
means  to  be  a  customer.  To  recognize  that  is  to 
understand  the  need  for  enlightened  sovereignty,  the 
idea that what is good for others may well be the best 
way  to  pursue  one’s  own  interests.  In  business,  it  is 
called  win-win,  and  it  is  good  for  business.  In 
international affairs, it is good for development and for 
justice,  and  it  is  in  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  It  is  therefore  of the  highest  importance,  in  a 
passionate world of competing interests and principles, 
where every person left to himself does what is right in 
his  own  sight.  In  such  a  world,  the  need  for  an 
enlightened, expansive view of sovereignty is as great 
now as it ever was. 
in  part 

At  the  outset  of  these  remarks,  I  referred  to  the 
origins of the United Nations. It was founded at the end 
of the greatest and most destructive war  that had  ever 
disturbed 
the  ocean  of  humanity.  That  war  was 
certainly  attributable 
to  an  extreme  and 
pernicious nationalism. But we should never forget that 
appeasement  and  expediency  also  allowed  fascism  to 
gather  such  strength  that  it  required  the  whole  and 
undivided effort of the world’s free peoples to subdue 
it. 

The United Nations mission has grown over time, 
but  its  core  job  remains  the  same:  through  peace  and 
development,  to  build  a  better  world,  to  prevent  war 
and  conflict,  yet  at  the  same  time,  to  uphold  what  is 
right and to protect the weak and the poor from those 
who prey upon them. 
(spoke in French) 

The  Government  of  Canada  has  always  been 
deeply  committed  to  these  objectives  and  to  the 
Organization that nurtures them. It remains so today. 
(spoke in English) 
As we attend to our own affairs, in, for example, 

the  protection  of  Canada’s Arctic  or  the  promotion  of 
our  trade  or  the  pursuit  of  our  values,  Canada  will  be 
guided by the same advice we prescribe for others. We 
will  listen  to  their  concerns,  we  will  speak  the  truth, 
and we will act with vigour. We will do all these things 
ever mindful that peace and opportunity for all remain, 
always, our ultimate purpose.  

and I thank members for their attention. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Canada for the statement he has just made.  
I  know  it  has  been  a  long  meeting  this  morning, 
  Mr.  Stephen  Harper,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 
  The meeting rose at 2.25 p.m. 






46 

10-54827 
