
A/65/PV.41
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

41st plenary meeting 
Friday, 29 October 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 








  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Waffa-Ogoo 
(Gambia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 




Agenda items 13 and 115 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.7) 

The Acting  President:  In  connection  with  draft 

resolution  A/65/L.7,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the Secretariat. 
Mr.  Zhang:  In  connection  with  draft  resolution 

A/65/L.7,  entitled  “Review  of  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding architecture”, I wish to put on record the 
following statement of financial implications on behalf 
of the Secretary-General in accordance with rule 153 of 
the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. 

Under  the  terms  of  paragraphs  2  and  3  of  the 
draft  resolution,  the  General  Assembly  would  request 
all  relevant  United  Nations  actors  to  take  forward,  in 
line  with  their  mandates  and  as  appropriate,  the 
recommendations  of 
the 
co-facilitators  (A/65/868,  annex)  with  the  aim  of 
further 
the 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission. 
the  report  presented  by 
effectiveness 
improving 
of 
the 
review 
an 
the 
of 
the  work  of 
recommendations  of 
development 
strategy 
for 

Recognizing  that  the  peacebuilding  work  of  the 
United Nations requires sustained support and adequate 
resources  to  meet  the  challenges,  it  is  anticipated  that 
additional  staff  resources  would  be  required  in  the 
biennium  2012-2013  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of 
the Peacebuilding Commission. Those resources would 
allow  for  providing  capacities  for  communication  and 
outreach  and  for  undertaking  the  mapping  of  existing 
peacebuilding initiatives and resources in countries for 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  Furthermore, 
they 
would  support  the  resource-mobilization  functions  of 
the country-specific configurations, the implementation 
report 
of 
effective 
concerning 
the 
communications 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission, as well as the undertaking 
of missions to engage and consult with actors such  as 
the  European  Union,  the  World  Bank,  the  African 
Development  Bank,  the  African  Union  and  relevant 
regional  organizations  for  the  purpose  of  building 
partnership 
resource 
mobilization. 

Such  requirements  would  be  considered  in  the 
context of the finalization of the proposed programme 
budgets for the biennium 2012-2013. Accordingly, the 
adoption of draft resolution A/65/L.7 would not  entail 
any  additional  requirements  under  the  programme 
budgets for the biennium 2010-2011. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/65/L.7,  entitled 
“Review  of 
the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture”. 
for  peacebuilding, 
including 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-61179 (E) 
*1061179* 


A/65/PV.41 


draft resolution A/65/L.7? 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 

  Draft resolution A/65/L.7 was adopted (resolution 
65/7) 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda items 13 and 115. 





and 
therefore 
to  national 
independent, 
Agenda item 73 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/313) 

  Report by the Secretary-General (A/65/315) 

Mr. González Sarasa (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

May  I  begin  by  expressing  deep  condolences  on  the 
part  of  the  Cuban  Government  and  people  for  the 
deaths  of 
the  Prime  Minister  of  Barbados,  The 
Honourable  David  Thompson,  and  of  the  former 
President of Argentina, Néstor Kirchner. 

The  establishment  of  an  international  criminal 
jurisdiction  that  is  impartial,  non-selective,  effective, 
fair,  complementary 
justice  systems, 
genuinely 
free  of 
subjugation  to  political  interests  that  might  erode  its 
essence,  continues  to  be  an  objective  that  Cuba 
supports. 

a 
The 
constitutive  problem  regarding  the  limitations  on  its 
independence, given the way in which its relations with 
the  Security  Council  have  been  defined. Article  16  of 
the  Rome  Statute  gives  the  Council  the  power  to 
suspend  investigations  or  trials  undertaken  by  the 
Court,  a  matter  that  was  not  settled  with  outcomes  of 
the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  held  in 
Kampala on 31 May to 11 June. 
The definition of the crime of aggression arrived 

fell  short  of  Cuba’s 
at  during 
to 
expectations.  Thus, 
establish  a  generic  definition  covering  forms  of 
aggression 
in 
international  relations  between  States  and  are  not 
limited  to  the  use  of  armed  force  but  can  have  an 
impact  on  the  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and 
political independence of States. 
International  Criminal  Court  has 
the  opportunity  was 
the  Conference 
also  manifest 
themselves 
that 
lost 
to  affect 

For more than 50 years, Cuba has been subjected 
to  such  forms  of  aggression,  resulting  from  the 
aggressiveness and permanent hostility of its powerful 
northern  neighbour,  which  have  caused  thousands  of 
deaths and injuries and incalculable material, economic 
and financial damage to the people of Cuba. Moreover, 
the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression  that  was 
adopted in Kampala adds an ambiguous qualifier to the 
elements that the Court should consider in determining 
the existence of such an act, in that it fails to describe 
clearly  what  is  meant  by  the  gravity  and  scale  that 
characterize  such  crimes  and  render 
them  clear 
violations of the Charter of the United Nations. 

In Cuba’s opinion, the use of force by a State in a 
manner  incompatible  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  is  in  itself  a  grave  breach  of  the  Charter. The 
integrity  of  the  Rome  Statute  as  a  complement  to 
national  criminal  jurisdictions  must  be  protected.  The 
Court  must  remain  impartial  and  fully  independent  of 
the political entities of the United Nations, which must 
not  be  allowed 
functioning.  The 
responsibilities  of  the  Security  Council  under  the 
Charter  should  not  limit  the  Court’s  role  as  a  judicial 
body. 

Cuba maintains a constructive position regarding 
the  establishment  of  an  international  criminal  justice 
effective, 
system 
that 
independent 
national 
jurisdictions.  In  that  regard,  we  have  followed  with 
interest the Court’s evolution and developments within 
it. We have participated with interest as an observer in 
the  meetings  of  the Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the 
Rome Statute. 

We  would,  however,  like  to  express  our  concern 
about  a  serious  precedent  that  has  been  established  in 
the  way  in  which  the  Court  can  initiate  proceedings 
against  nationals  of  States  non-parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute,  where  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  has  not 
been accepted in keeping with article 12 of the Statute. 
The Cuban delegation reiterates that the legal principle 
with respect to the consent of the State concerned must 
be  respected,  since  this  is  a  treaty  that  is  covered  by 
Article  11  of  Part  II  of  the Vienna  Convention  on  the 
Law of Treaties of 23 May 1969. 
is  genuinely 
and 
impartial, 
to 
complementary 
its 
2 

10-61179 
to 
say, 
to 
the 
implementation  of 


My  delegation  reaffirms  its  determination  to 

contribute 
international 
criminal  law  so  that  it  is  fully  effective  and  conforms 
with  international  law,  particularly  the  United  Nations 
Charter. 
Mr.  Osman  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

delegation  has  examined  the  report  (see A/65/313)  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  before  the 
General  Assembly,  and  particularly  Chapter 
III 
regarding  the  Sudan,  which  includes  information  that 
lacks  any  objectivity  or  legal  foundation.  This  has 
strengthened our conviction more than ever before that 
our  firm  position  vis-à-vis  the  Court  is  right  and  just 
and  that  we  have  been  dragged  into  its  proceedings, 
which  are  based  on  political  deception  disguised  as 
law.  Needless 
such  politicization  of 
international  justice  runs  completely  counter  to  the 
objectives  for  which  the  Court  was  established.  The 
Sudan  was  a  full  participant  in  all  the  preparatory 
meetings  that  preceded  the  drafting  of  the  Statute  of 
this  Court,  culminating  in  its  adoption  at  the  1998 
Rome Conference. 

I should mention from this rostrum that since that 
date,  and  before  the  Statute  entered  into  force,  the 
Sudan  has  repeatedly  and  distinctly  warned  about  the 
risk of politicizing the Court and deflecting it from the 
objectives for which it was established. Since that time, 
we  have  also  warned  about 
the 
possibility  that  certain  States  might  take  advantage  of 
the  relationship  between  the  Court  and  the  Security 
Council, as addressed in article 13 (b) of the Statute, in 
order to transform the Court into a purely political tool 
disguised  as  a  legal  entity.  Now  we  see  that  the 
situation that we warned of at the preparatory meetings 
before the drafting of the Statute has materialized and 
that  the  facts  confirm  what  we  repeatedly  warned  of 
and explained when expressing our reservations. 

Africa,  our  mother  continent,  is  now  paying  the 
price  for  the  ambiguity  and  the  grey  texts  of  the 
provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  have  been 
abused by certain circles that have used the Court as a 
means  to  serve  their  political  interests,  which  can  be 
seen in the targeting of African States and their leaders, 
as if the Court’s only jurisdiction were in Africa and in 
no  other  continent.  That  politicization  of  justice  is 
completely  unacceptable.  That  is  what  has  led  the 
African Union to adopt its firm and principled position 
rejecting  such  a  blatant  politicization  of  justice,  a 
position endorsed by major regional organizations and 
the  gravity  of 
A/65/PV.41
the  Islamic  Conference, 
political  and  geographical  groups,  representing  more 
than  two  thirds  of  the  total  membership  of  the  United 
Nations: the African Union, the League of Arab States, 
the  Organization  of 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement and the Community of Sahel-
Saharan States. 

From this rostrum, I salute all the member States 
of  those  organizations.  In  spite  of  being  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute,  they  have  not  hesitated  to  declare  their 
firm  rejection  of  the  Court’s  transformation  from  a 
judicial  body  into  a  tool  for  political  intrigue  and 
extortion,  which  cannot  be  further  from  the  main 
objectives  for  which  the  Court  was  established.  What 
kind  of  justice  ignores  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
civilians  outside  of  Africa  who  have  been  killed 
collectively by means of the latest and most destructive 
tools  of  war  and  death?  Why  does  it  only  see  what 
happens in Africa? Where are the preconditions to the 
exercise  of  jurisdiction  under  article  12  of  the  Rome 
Statute? 

With  regard  to  the  competence  of  the  Security 
Council,  we  have  already  drawn  attention  to  that 
situation  based  on  the  fact  that  the  Council  is  a 
political  body  that  Member States  of  the  Organization 
have  been  attempting  for  over  two  decades  to  reform 
and have not  been  able to  do so. It was obvious to us 
that article 13 (b) of the Rome Statute would be abused 
with regard to certain cases that are before the Security 
Council  and  would  be  referred  to  the  Court  under 
Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter.  It  was  not  strange,  then, 
that  resolution  1593  (2005),  regarding  the  situation  in 
Darfur  would  be  adopted  in  a  flawed  manner  and  in 
contradiction  of  basic  justice  and  equality,  both  of 
which prohibit exceptions or selectivity. 

We could speak for a very long time if we started 
to  dissect  all  the  claims  that  have  been  made  against 
the Sudan, its leadership, its people and its sovereignty. 
The  professional  conduct  of  people  of 
law  and 
jurisprudence  is  based  on  integrity  and  impartiality. 
They do not engage in political or media campaigns in 
order to become stars or to prove themselves. Justice is 
much  larger  and  more  sublime  than  limited  personal 
gains. What we have seen in the prosecution statements 
could not be further from the provisions of article 15 of 
the Rome Statute. 

The  Assembly  is  well  aware  that  during  the 
preparatory  consultations  on  the  Rome  Statute,  many 
countries  expressed  reservations  over  the  unlimited 
10-61179 

3 

A/65/PV.41 

authority of the Prosecutor, and they were right to do, 
since mixing politics with the law would ruin both and 
transform  them  into  a  complete  distortion  that  annuls 
the  basic  tenet  of  legal  jurisprudence,  namely,  that 
peace  is  the  highest  form  of  justice. The  moves  made 
by the Prosecutor with regard to the Darfur issue are a 
clear example of the politicization of his position. The 
Prosecutor  has  become  a  real  obstacle  to  the  political 
process  aimed  at  achieving  comprehensive  and 
sustainable  peace  in  Darfur.  Every  time  negotiations 
get  closer  to  conciliation  and  the  signing  of  an 
agreement, the Prosecutor comes up with another case 
or  a  new  fabricated  accusation  that  sends  the  wrong 
message  to  the  armed  rebel  movements,  taking  back 
the political process to square one. 
In  that  context,  the  most  recent  decision  by  the 

Court  to  add  the  crime  of  genocide  to  the  list  of 
allegations  against  the  leadership  of  the  country  and 
the  symbol  of  its  sovereignty  took  place  during  the 
preparation for the presidential elections in my country 
and  at  a  time  when  negotiations  in  Doha,  under  the 
sponsorship of the brotherly country of Qatar and with 
the  participation  of  the  United  Nations-African  Union 
Mediator, Mr. Djibril Bassoulé, were close to reaching 
an agreement. It was then that the Prosecutor came up 
with a fabricated new accusation, namely, the crime of 
genocide,  an  accusation  made  against  His  Excellency 
the President of the Republic of the Sudan. 

Let me ask the Assembly: is it conceivable that a 
President of a State who is alleged to have committed 
the  crime  of  genocide  against  certain  tribes  in  his 
country would, at the same time, have five Ministers in 
including 
his  Government  from 
the 
tribes, 
Minister  for  Justice?  How  could 
that  be  when 
thousands of members of those tribes live in the heart 
of the capital, Khartoum? Scores of members of those 
tribes are also members of the federal Parliament, and 
the  state  parliaments  as  well.  Would  this  not  give  an 
indication 
is  false  and  has 
absolutely no basis in truth? 

The  irony  and  the  extreme  excesses  of  the 
Prosecutor  reached  their  limit  with  his  description  of 
the elections in the Sudan as similar to Nazi elections. 
Where  is  the  law  and  the  objectivity  in  this  purely 
political  description?  Is  this  evidence  of  professional 
conduct? 

We  were  not  at  all  surprised  with  the  new 
tendency of the Court to contradict the well-established 
the  accusation 
those 
that 
4 

the  countries  of 
and most basic tenets of international law, particularly 
with  regard  to  the  immunity  of  heads  of  State  and 
Government,  which  have  been  adopted  by 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  with  regard  to  all 
provisions  relating  to  high  officials  of  that  kind.  How 
clear, then is the difference between one Court and the 
other. 

It  is  also  ironic  that  the  Assembly  considered 
yesterday morning the report of the International Court 
of Justice (A/65/4) and reaffirmed that that Court, in all 
of its decisions and advisory opinions, was completely 
committed  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  with  regard  to  respect  for  the  sovereignty 
of States and their territorial integrity. Where does the 
International  Criminal  Court  stand  with  respect  to 
those values and principles of justice? 

In the light of the position taken by the heads of 
State of African and Arab countries, the heads of State 
of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
meeting at Sharm el-Sheikh in brotherly Egypt in 2008, 
rejected  the  Court’s  proceedings  and  decisions  with 
regard  to  the  Sudan.  We  would  like  to  commend  the 
strong position taken by the Afro-Arab summit held in 
Sirte,  Libya,  in  September  2010;  that  meeting  also 
rejected the decisions of the Court. 

In conclusion, the delegation of the Sudan, while 
participating in these deliberations on the report of the 
International Criminal Court, would like to express its 
deeply  held  belief  that  peace-loving  countries  and 
countries  that  are  guided  by  the  values  of  justice, 
freedom  and  equality  cannot  accept  the  politicization 
of  the  Court  nor  its  deviation  from  the  objective  for 
which it was established. We are firmly confident that 
all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  are  fully  aware  of 
the  just  position  of  the  Sudan,  in  which  it  totally 
refuses  to  deal  with  the  Court  in  any  way,  since  that 
body  has  deviated  from  the  path  of  law  and  justice, 
before  which  all  are  equal  and  are  treated  without 
selectivity  or  discrimination.  We  believe  that  people 
are  aware  of  and  feel  the  hegemony  of  certain 
influential  States  over  the  Court,  which  has  led  the 
targeting  of  African  leaders  in  a  way  that  recalls  the 
former abominable colonial era. 

We  wish  to  reaffirm  that  we  will  continue  our 
diligent  efforts  to  reach  a  timely,  comprehensive, 
political  and  sustainable  settlement  of  the  conflict  in 
Darfur  regardless  of  the  Court’s  actions  and  its 
10-61179 


destructive role. At the same time, we will make every 
effort to hold accountable anyone who has perpetrated 
crimes  or  violations  during  the  conflict  in  Darfur. 
Justice will be served in all cases. 

In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  refer  to  the 
statement  made  by  the  President  of  the  Court  that  it 
was not the Court’s objective to replace national legal 
systems.  I  would  respond  to  that  by  saying  that  the 
International Criminal Court, in its present form and its 
legal basis, which is completely flawed, cannot replace 
the Sudanese legal system, now or ever. 

The Sudanese judiciary has had a brilliant record 
and  a  strong  legacy  of  integrity,  credibility  and 
professionalism. That legacy goes beyond the Sudan to 
many  other  African,  Arab  and  Asian  countries.  Many 
legal figures of the Sudan have worked and still work 
in  those  countries,  using  their  legal  expertise  and 
professionalism  and  an 
integrity  and  credibility 
testified to by all. They are in a much better position to 
bring  about  justice  in  the  Sudan,  and  no  one  else  can 
do that. 
Ms.  Blum  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would  like  to  begin  my  statement  by  expressing  my 
condolences  and  those  of  the  Colombian  Government 
on  the  death  of  The  Honourable  David  Thompson, 
Prime Minister of Barbados, and of former President of 
Argentina Néstor Kirchner. 

the 
International  Criminal  Court  for  submitting  to  the 
General  Assembly  the  Court’s  sixth  report,  covering 
the  period  1 August  2009  to  31  July  2010  (see 
A/65/313). 

In  taking  note  of  the  report,  the  delegation  of 
Colombia  wishes  to  highlight  the  contribution  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
the  continuing 
development 
international 
criminal  law.  We  also  welcome  the  Court’s  own 
strengthening as an independent institution in fulfilling 
its  mandate  to  investigate  and  prosecute  crimes  under 
its jurisdiction. 

Among  the  elements  highlighted  in  the  report 
submitted  by  the  Court,  we  underscore  the  efforts  to 
support  national 
their  primary 
responsibility  to  investigate  and  prosecute  alleged 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to 
the  international  community,  as  well  as  the  Court’s 
the  President  of 
strengthening  of 
My  delegation 
jurisdictions 
thanks 
and 
to 
in 
A/65/PV.41
to  guarantee 
the  achievements  of 
Colombia  had  made  significant  progress 
efforts  to  develop  the  complementary  aspects  of  its 
jurisdiction. 

In addition, I would like to mention some aspects 
considered during the Review Conference of the Rome 
Statute,  held  in  Kampala  from  31  May  to  11  June. 
Among 
the  Conference,  we 
highlight  the  adoption  of  the  Kampala  Declaration,  in 
which  States  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  observe 
the  duties  and  responsibilities  agreed  to  under  the 
Rome  Statute,  as  well  as 
its  full 
application, universality and integrity. 

We  also  highlight  the  102  pledges  of  support  to 
the International Court made by 37 States, the thematic 
reviews  undertaken  to  take  stock  of  international 
criminal  justice  and  various  resolutions  on  some  of 
those  issues,  progress  in  the  review  of  the  Statute  in 
connection with the crime of aggression, the resolution 
on  the  amendment  that  seeks  to  include  the  use  of 
certain  weapons  as  war  crimes  under  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction,  the  resolve  to  keep  in  force  the  existing 
article  124  in  its  current  form  and  the  provisions 
adopted on the execution of sentences. 
in 

harmonizing its domestic legislation with the principles 
and rules of the Rome Statute. In that regard, it should 
be noted that in April 2009 my country acceded to the 
Agreement  on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the 
International Criminal Court. Similarly, as stated in the 
Court’s  report, 
that  on 
1 November 2009 the seven-year transition period that 
the  Colombian  State  had  set  with  regard  to  the  entry 
into  force  of  the  Rome  Statute  with  regard  to  the 
Court’s competence to recognize certain acts as crimes 
of war came to an end. 
The  Government  of  Colombia  believes  that  the 

work  of  the  Court  is  decisive  in  preventing  and 
combating  impunity  and  in  encouraging  States  to 
determine that national judicial bodies should carry out 
investigations  and  trials  of  alleged  perpetrators  of 
serious crimes, bearing in mind the complementarity of 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  In  that  regard,  it  is  important 
to  highlight 
the  International 
Criminal Court acknowledges that Colombia’s national 
criminal  justice  system  has  made  efforts  to  deal  with 
persons  responsible  for  conduct  proscribed  by  the 
Rome Statute in various broad categories. 
In  that  regard,  it  should  be  pointed  out  that 

Colombia  has  achieved  greater  efficiency  and 
is  worth  mentioning 
the  report  of 
that 
it 
10-61179 

5 
aimed 
In  general, 
through 
a  policy 
A/65/PV.41 

effectiveness  in  its  system  of  justice  by  strengthening 
its  criminal  prosecution  service.  The  Office  of  the 
Attorney  General  has  been  modernized  and  continues 
to  strengthen  its  investigative  capacity.  The  criminal 
justice  system  has  the  competence  to  be  seized  of 
alleged human rights violations committed by members 
of the security forces. 

at 
strengthening  democratic  security,  Colombia  has 
reaffirmed its commitment to respect for human rights 
and the rule of law as an integral part of State policies. 
The  national  Government  continues  to  apply,  with  the 
utmost  strictness,  the  mechanisms  available  to  it  to 
respond in an exemplary manner and to bring to justice 
complaints made to it on all violations involving State 
officials, including the security forces. In developing a 
project  within  the  Office  of  the  Attorney  General  to 
analyse  cases  of  violations  of  human  rights  and 
breaches  of  international  humanitarian  law,  301  cases 
of possible arbitrary killings have been studied. Several 
courts have issued convictions against perpetrators, and 
they have been upheld. 

Moreover,  support  has  been  provided  to  the 
human  rights  unit  of  the  Office  of  the  Attorney 
General, 
security 
guarantees  needed  to  form  1,973  commissions  to 
investigate cases of the killing of protected persons. In 
our penal code, that sort of killing is defined as a crime 
against persons protected by international humanitarian 
law,  whether  by  illegal  armed  groups  or  by  other 
actors.  That  support  has  helped  to  bring  about  trials 
and,  by  May  of  this  year,  50  convictions  had  been 
handed down. 

It is also worth highlighting the national efforts to 
ensure the implementation  of the principles of justice, 
truth  and  full  reparation  with  regard  to  victims  of 
violence perpetrated by illegal armed groups. The State 
of  Colombia  has  developed  an  operational  system  of 
reparations  for  victims 
through  an  administrative 
procedure.  A  total  of  121  defence  lawyers  have  been 
employed 
that 
programme,  trial  representation  has  been  provided  to 
111,118 victims in the past two years. 

In  addition,  the  Government  of  President  Juan 
Manuel Santos has presented Congress with a new bill 
on  reparations  to  victims,  including  the  restitution  of 
land  to  those  who  were  dispossessed  during  the 
violence. This shows that our State is giving the utmost 
represent  victims.  Through 
to 
supplying 
the 
logistics 
and 

national  priority  to  combating  impunity.  To  that  end, 
all  branches  of  the  Government  continue  to  work  to 
strengthen access to and the administration of justice. 

The  United  Nations  is  called  on  to  promote  the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute.  It  is  important  that 
the  States  that  have  not  yet  ratified  this  instrument 
consider  doing  so  promptly.  Full  and  effective 
collaboration  among  States,  multilateral  organizations 
and the International Criminal Court is essential for the 
Court  to  achieve  its  objectives.  We  therefore  reiterate 
our  call  on  States  represented  here  and  to  the  United 
Nations  to  continue  to  support  the  Court  in  order  to 
ensure  that  it  can  become  established  as  a  decisive 
international  entity  in  combating  the  most  serious 
crimes  and  ensuring  that  such  crimes  do  not  go 
unpunished. 
Mrs. Smith (Norway): Let me start by expressing 

Norway’s  continuing  support  and  full  recognition  of 
the  work  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
during  the  past  year.  Norway  welcomes  the  sixth 
annual report of the ICC (see A/65/313) and would like 
to thank the President of the Court, Judge Song, for his 
detailed  and  informative  report  and  presentation  here 
yesterday. 

I  would  like  to  focus  on  three  issues  that  are 
significant  for  the  Court’s  work.  These  are,  first,  the 
cooperation of States parties and other States with the 
Court;  secondly,  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute; 
and thirdly, the Review Conference held in Kampala in 
June this year. 
First,  Norway  welcomes  the  arrest  of  Callixte 

Mbarushimana  by  French  authorities  earlier 
this 
month. Over the past few years, Norway has increased 
its  efforts  to  strengthen  the  protection  of  civilians, 
especially  women  and  children,  from  the  atrocities  of 
war. We have had a particular focus on the widespread 
sexual  violence  that  has  been  perpetrated  during  the 
conflict  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
Sexual  violence  constitutes  one  of  the  most  serious 
international  crimes.  The  arrest  of  Mr.  Mbarushimana 
was  a  crucial  step  in  efforts  to  prosecute  the  alleged 
perpetrators  of  the  sexual  crimes  committed  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

However,  eight  ICC  arrest  warrants  remain 
outstanding.  They  pertain  to  the  situations  in  Darfur, 
Uganda  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
This  is  a  matter  of  grave  concern  to  Norway,  and 
brings me to the issue of State cooperation. 
10-61179 
6 

in 



The ICC depends on the cooperation of the States 
parties.  The  recent  arrest  was  a  joint  effort  by  many 
parties,  including  France,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Rwanda  and  Germany.  It  is  an  excellent 
example  of  successful  cooperation  among  States.  All 
States parties must do their utmost to provide the ICC 
with  the  best  possible  working  conditions.  Norway 
expects States with legal obligations under the Statute, 
or  that  have  entered  into  cooperation  agreements  with 
the  ICC,  to  fulfil  their  obligations  and  to  demonstrate 
their commitment to justice in practice. 

We therefore urge all States parties concerned to 
fulfil their responsibility to make the outstanding arrest 
warrants  effective.  In  the  Darfur  situation,  we  call  on 
all  States,  including  the  Sudanese  authorities,  to 
cooperate fully with the Court and to comply with their 
legal  obligations  under  Security  Council  resolution 
1593  (2005).  We  would 
this  connection  also 
encourage  the  Security  Council  to  consider  measures 
that would ensure compliance with this resolution. 

Turning briefly to the issue of universality, we are 
pleased  to  note  that,  with  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Rome  Statute  for 
the  Republic  of  Moldova  on 
1 January  2011, there will  be 114 States parties to the 
Statute.  The  number  of  States  parties  is  rising  every 
year. It is remarkable that so many States from all parts 
of  the  world  have  ratified  the  Statute  in  such  a  short 
time.  Norway  strongly  hopes  that  the  ICC  will  enjoy 
universal  adherence  in  the  future. We  believe  that  the 
long-term  interests  of  all  nations,  irrespective  of  their 
size, region or political orientation, are best served by 
strengthening the rule of law and promoting justice. 

We  would  like  to  thank  the  Government  of 
Uganda  and  all  other  contributors  for  a  successful 
Review  Conference.  In  his  opening  statement  in 
Kampala, the Norwegian Foreign Minister said that we 
should  not  only  review  the  Rome  Statute  but  also 
celebrate  the  ICC  and  the  political,  diplomatic  and 
legal work it took to create it. The Conference showed 
us  that  there  is  still  a  strong  political  and  diplomatic 
commitment to furthering the legal work to strengthen 
international  criminal justice.  In addition to reviewing 
articles 8 and 124, the Conference amended the Rome 
Statute 
the  crime  of 
aggression  and  the  conditions  under  which  the  Court 
could exercise jurisdiction over that crime. 

We  were  also  pleased  to  see  that  the  Norwegian 
proposal on enforcement of sentences materialized in a 
include  a  definition  of 
to 
A/65/PV.41
that  a 
parties 
In 
its 
reaffirmed 
the  Rome  Statute  and 
the  Kampala  Declaration. 
States 
to 
resolution  that  calls  upon  States  to  accept  in  their 
prison  facilities  persons  sentenced  by  the  ICC.  The 
resolution  also  confirmed 
sentence  of 
imprisonment  can  be  served  in  prison  facilities  made 
available  by  an  international  or  regional  organization, 
mechanism  or  agency.  Further,  we  also  welcome  the 
resolutions on the stocktaking of international criminal 
justice  and 
the 
their 
Declaration, 
commitment 
full 
implementation,  as  well  as  to  its  universality  and 
integrity. 

On  that  note,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Norway’s 
firm  and  long-standing  commitment  to  the  Rome 
Statute  and  to  an  effective  and  credible  International 
Criminal Court. We believe that the ICC should enjoy 
the broadest possible support of all States. We all share 
the  universal  values  attached  to  the  protection  of 
human  dignity.  This  protection  is  enhanced  by  taking 
concerted  action  to  suppress  the  most  serious  crimes 
affecting the international community. 
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Allow  me  to  begin  by  expressing  the  condolences  of 
my  delegation,  Government  and  people  to  the  people 
and  Government  of  Barbados  on  the  death  of  Prime 
Minister  David  Thompson.  Our  condolences  go 
likewise to the people and Government of Argentina on 
the death of former President Néstor Kirchner. 

the 
International Criminal Court and welcomes the detailed 
report  (see  A/65/313)  that  he  has  submitted  to  the 
General  Assembly.  We 
our 
acknowledgement  of  the  work  carried  out  by  the  staff 
of the Court over the past year. 
Since the establishment of the Court, Costa Rica 

has fully supported its work. In addition to our support 
for  its  tasks,  we  have  repeatedly  called  for  the 
universal  ratification  of  and  full  compliance  with  its 
Statute.  As  in  previous  years,  we  appeal  for  the 
cooperation  of  States  and  United  Nations  bodies,  in 
particular the Security Council, with the Court. Support 
for the Court is, in effect, support for the victims of the 
worst  crimes  against  humanity,  which  must  not  go 
unpunished. 

We welcome Bangladesh, Seychelles, Saint Lucia 
and  the  Republic  of  Moldova  as  new  States  parties  to 
the  Rome  Statute.  With  these  new  parties,  there  are 
the  President  of 
Costa  Rica 
thanks 
also 
express 
10-61179 

7 

justice, 
A/65/PV.41 

now  114  States,  including  my  country,  that  recognize 
the jurisdiction of the Court. 

The  International  Criminal  Court  represents  a 
major  step  forward  in  strengthening  human  rights  and 
international  law  as  a  whole.  However,  we  must 
continue  to  work  on  consolidating  it  as  a  key  judicial 
tool in combating impunity and ensuring accountability 
in  the  international  system.  Our  ultimate  objective 
should  be  to  build  an  international  community  on  the 
solid foundations of justice. 
Costa  Rica  believes  that  justice  is  a  cornerstone 

of  the  quest  for  comprehensive,  lasting  peace. We  see 
peace  and  justice  as  natural  allies  that  complement 
each other. One need not be sacrificed for the other. On 
the  contrary,  peace  and 
together  with 
international  security  and  stability,  can  be  achieved 
only if they are pursued together. 

The  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  in 
Kampala  in  June  was  a  fine  opportunity  for  States  to 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  its 
ongoing  relevance,  full  implementation,  universality 
and  integrity.  My  country  reiterates  its  resolve  to 
comply  fully  with  the  commitments  made  at  the 
Conference. 

Costa  Rica  welcomes  the  amendment  made  by 
States  to  paragraph  2  (e)  of  article  8  of  the  Statute  to 
include  within  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  various  war 
crimes  when  committed  in  armed  conflicts  not  of  an 
international character. We also commend the inclusion 
of  a  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression  and  the 
conditions  under  which  the  Court  could  exercise 
jurisdiction  with  respect  to  that  crime.  We  hope  that, 
when that amendment comes up for adoption in 2017, 
States  will  demonstrate  their  genuine  commitment  to 
the  Court  and  adopt  the  amendment  without  serious 
delays. 

The cooperation of States is essential to the work 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  Its  effective 
jurisdiction  depends  to  a  large  extent  on  States’ 
fulfilling their obligations to cooperate with it, help in 
the  execution  of 
its 
independence.  Among  those  obligations  is,  of  course, 
the  execution  of  its  arrest  warrants.  We  are  therefore 
concerned  that  the  report  states  that  nine  arrest 
warrants  have  not  yet  been  executed,  which  is  rightly 
seen  as  the  most  pressing  challenge  now  facing  the 
Court. 
its  decisions  and  bolster 
its 
that 
Lastly,  we 
to  comply  with 

Another task that cannot be delayed is for States 
to  enact  enabling  legislation  or  other  appropriate 
procedures  in  keeping  with  international  law  that  will 
contribute  to  improving  understanding  of  the  Court’s 
work  at  the  international  level,  as  provided  for  in  the 
Declaration on cooperation adopted by States members 
of the ICC in Kampala. 

It  is  also  essential  to  ensure  the  cooperation  and 
commitment  of  the  Security  Council.  The  Court’s 
ability  to  focus  on  its  judicial  functions  and  fulfil  its 
work, free of political pressure from any State, greatly 
depends on the Council’s support and its insistence on 
compliance  with  obligations  to  the  Court  arising  from 
its decision. 

In this connection, we reaffirm our great concern 
that the report reflects yet again the Government of the 
international 
Sudan’s  failure 
commitments.  We  emphasize 
the  Sudan’s 
responsibility to comply with the arrest warrants issued 
by  the  Court  derives  not  from  the  Rome  Statute  but 
from  the  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
very  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Therefore,  its 
failure to cooperate represents a breach of international 
obligations  voluntarily  entered  into  by  the  Sudan  as  a 
State Member of the Organization. 

to 
reiterate  our 
continuing  to  cooperate  constructively  with  the  Court 
in its work. 
(Switzerland) 

(spoke  in  French):  My  delegation  would  like  first  to 
express  our  sincere  condolences  to  Barbados  and 
Argentina. 

My delegation thanks President Sang-Hyun Song 
for  his  introduction  of  the  sixth  annual  report  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) (see A/65/313). We 
also  express  our  gratitude  to  all  of  the  Court’s  staff 
members  for  their  daily  efforts  in  carrying  out  their 
difficult work. 

The  year  2010  marks  a  turning  point  for  the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  for  world  justice. 
Twelve years after the signing of the Rome Statute and 
eight  years  after  its  coming  into  force,  the  States 
parties, meeting at the Review Conference of the Rome 
Statute  in  Kampala,  adopted  a  definition  of  the  crime 
of  aggression  and  agreed  on  the  conditions  for  the 
exercise  of  jurisdiction  with  regard  to  that  crime. 
Switzerland welcomes the fact that States have found a 
Mr.  Stuerchler  Gonzenbach
commitment 
8 

10-61179 
ratification 
international  definition  and 


common solution by consensus, in full accord with the 
Statute  and  the  United  Nations  Charter.  That  historic 
event  was  the  result  of  intensive  negotiations  and  a 
spirit of compromise. 
According  to  the  compromise,  States  parties  are 

protected  after 
in  accordance  with 
paragraph  5  of  article  121.  The  jurisdictional  regime 
provided  for  in  article  12  remains  intact,  with  two 
exceptions.  States  not  party  are  excluded  from  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in  all  circumstances,  while 
every State party may lodge an opt-out declaration if it 
wishes  to  be  excluded.  That  delicate  compromise 
shows  that  the  States  parties  all  seek  an  effective 
International  Criminal  Court  capable  of  fulfilling  its 
mandate. 
Sixty-five  years  after  the  crimes  against  peace 

tried  by 
International  Military  Tribunal  at 
Nuremberg  and  the  International  Military Tribunal  for 
the Far East in Tokyo, the crime of aggression has been 
given  an 
integrated 
permanently into the jurisdiction of the ICC. That helps 
to  strengthen  the  protection  afforded  by  international 
criminal law in the form of ius contra bellum, which is 
firmly  anchored  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  My 
delegation  calls  on  all  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute  to  ratify  the  amendment  concerning  the  crime 
of  aggression,  which  will  activate  the  jurisdictional 
system as of 2017. 

Progress  on  the  crime  of  aggression  is  not  the 
only success in Kampala that my delegation would like 
to mention. The amendment on the utilization of three 
kinds  of  weapons  in  non-international  conflicts  is 
equally  important.  It  strengthens  the  protection  of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  reduces  the  gap 
between 
in 
international  conflicts,  on  the  one  hand,  and  those  in 
non-international conflicts, on the other. 

The  convening  of  the  Review  Conference  in 
Kampala, Uganda — a country that has chosen to refer 
its  situation  to  the  Court  —  was  highly  symbolic.  It 
showed once again that the Court responds above all to 
the  needs  of  those  States  in  which  the  most  serious 
crimes  have  been  committed.  It  was  also  edifying  to 
meet the victims and to come to a better understanding 
of  their  needs  and  wants. Their  desire  to  resume  their 
lives  with  dignity  filled  us  with  a  feeling  of  great 
humility. 
the 
the  Statute’s 
treatment  of  crimes 
A/65/PV.41

The  role  of  the  Court  is  a  complementary  one. 
The main responsibility for bringing the perpetrators of 
international  crimes to justice  remains in the hands of 
national  jurisdictions. The  Rome  Statute  prompted  the 
modification  of  many  of  those  national  legal  systems. 
Amnesty  is  no  longer  an  option  for  the  most  serious 
crimes  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court. The  Court 
has shown that it can intervene when so required by its 
complementary  role.  The  first  trials  have  already 
begun. 

The  Court  has  had  a  major  influence  on  the 
response to international crimes. The Rome Statute and 
the  Court  have  the  potential  to  effect  a  fundamental 
and  lasting  change  in  the  international  legal  system. 
However, the ICC will be able to realize this potential 
only if it can count on the unshakeable  support of the 
States parties in the execution of arrest warrants. Nine 
arrest warrants are currently awaiting execution. 

Unless  all  States  give  the  Court  their  support,  it 
will  lose  credibility  and  be  unable  to  fight  effectively 
against  impunity,  pursuant  to  its  vocation  and  the 
unanimous  desire  of  all  the  countries  that  ratified  the 
Statute.  This  was  recognized  during 
the  Review 
Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute.  The  declaration  on 
cooperation emphasizes that all States are obligated to 
cooperate with the Court, whether under the Statute or 
under relevant Security Council resolutions. Moreover, 
it singles out the crucial role of the execution of arrest 
warrants in ensuring the effectiveness of the Court. 
The Court is today the main catalyst in advancing 

the  cause  of 
justice.  My 
delegation  is  confident  that  its  successes  will  induce 
those States that have not yet ratified the Rome Statute 
to  do  so.  The  system  will  be  fully  operational  only 
when  we  have  achieved  the  universal  participation  of 
States respecting their obligations. Such is the wish of 
my  delegation,  which  has  at  all  times  insisted  on  the 
need  for  a  Court  that  is  effective,  independent  and 
universal. 
Mr.  Shawabkah  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Allow me at the outset to welcome the President of the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Sang-Hyun 
Song, and to thank him for introducing the sixth annual 
report of the ICC to the United Nations (see A/65/313), 
which  was  submitted  pursuant  to  the  Relationship 
Agreement between the United Nations and the Court. 
The 
the  main 
report  provides  an  overview  of 
international  criminal 
10-61179 

9 

A/65/PV.41 

developments in ICC activities between 1 August 2009 
and 31 July 2010. 

Jordan welcomes the cooperation that the United 
Nations  has  offered  to  the  ICC  and  affirms  the  need 
and importance of States’ cooperation with the ICC in 
order to achieve its objectives and purposes. From this 
rostrum, Jordan calls on all States and international and 
regional organizations to fully cooperate with the Court 
and  to  assist  it  in  all  aspects,  be  it  by  collecting 
evidence, offering logistical support for field missions, 
transporting witnesses, apprehending and handing over 
individuals or executing sentences handed down by the 
Court  in  order  to  end  impunity  for  the  most  serious 
crimes. 

International  cooperation  is  very  important  to 
improving the operations of the ICC, be it in terms of 
coordination  or  of 
information  exchange.  Jordan 
reaffirms  its  continued  support  for  the  ICC  and  its 
belief  in  the  principles  for  which  it  was  created.  The 
ICC is a main pillar in bolstering international justice, 
maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  and 
ensuring the supremacy of the rule of law. 
Mrs. Cabello de Daboin (Bolivarian Republic of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My  delegation  would 
like to begin by expressing our thanks for the report of 
the International Criminal Court (ICC) on its activities 
for  2009-2010  before  the  General  Assembly  (see 
A/65/313).  In  the  report,  the  Court  reports  to  the 
United  Nations  for  the  sixth  consecutive  year  on  its 
main activities in bringing to justice those responsible 
for  the  most  serious  crimes  affecting  the  international 
community.  The  report  reflects  the  unifying  work  of 
the ICC and we would therefore like to congratulate its 
President and all its members. 
Section  II  of  the  report  was  written  for  the 

purpose  of  describing  the  outcomes  of  an  event  that 
was extremely important to the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela.  As  is  generally  known,  from  31  May  to 
11 June  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute 
was held in Kampala, Uganda. We would again like to 
thank the people of Uganda for their hospitality during 
the Conference. 
In Kampala, an amendment was adopted whereby 

the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression  and  the 
ICC  can  exercise 
conditions  under  which 
crime  were 
jurisdiction  with 
respect 
that 
incorporated 
into 
political 
circumstances  prevailing  on  the  international  scene  in 
Statute.  The 
the 
to 
the 
their  desire  for  a 
the  United  Nations 
1998,  when  the  Rome  Statute  was  adopted,  made  it 
necessary  for 
the  crime  of  aggression,  although 
formally included in the Statute, to remain outside the 
Court’s  jurisdiction. A  waiting  period  was  introduced, 
both for defining the crime and for the activation of the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  with  respect  to  it.  It  was  hoped 
that,  12  years  on,  the  international  political  scene 
would  have  evolved  to  the  benefit  of  countries  that, 
true 
like  ours,  have  voiced 
democratization  of 
system, 
eliminating once and for all the antidemocratic system 
that  prevails  in  the  Security  Council.  Unfortunately, 
from 1998 to our meeting in Kampala, there were few 
major changes in this regard. 

While  the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression 
has finally been incorporated into the Rome Statute, we 
all bore witness to the great pressure exerted by those 
States which, with a view to continuing to postpone the 
full  operation  of  the  ICC,  proposed  the  establishment 
of a new waiting period before which the Court could 
exercise  its  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression. 
My  delegation  recalls  the  example  of  one  statement 
made  during  the  Conference,  according  to  which  the 
International  Criminal  Court  was  not  yet  sufficiently 
mature to include the crime of aggression and it would 
therefore  be  necessary  to  await  a  further  review 
conference to discuss the question of its incorporation. 
As  a  result,  the  international  community  will  have  to 
wait  yet  again,  this  time  until  2017,  when  the  Court 
will  finally  exercise  jurisdiction  with  respect  to  the 
crime of aggression and begin to try those responsible 
for  committing that  serious crime  and bring an end to 
impunity in that regard. 

Nevertheless, with a view to striking a balance at 
the Kampala Conference, we were encouraged that the 
amendment  was  adopted  by  the  consensus  of  all 
members  of  the  ICC  and  that,  as  of  2017,  the  Court 
will  be  able  to  exercise  its  independence  and  not  be 
subject  to  political  filters,  in  compliance  with  its 
objectives and functions. 

As a State party to the Rome Statute, my country 
welcomes  the  outcome  of  the  Conference  and  notes 
that, in Kampala, we not only adopted the amendment 
to  the  Statute  concerning  the  crime  of  aggression  and 
article  8,  which  we  also  welcome,  but  that  States 
parties  also  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  the  Statute 
and the International Criminal Court in the aptly titled 
Kampala Declaration. We also welcomed the pledging 
ceremony,  which  our  delegation  considered  to  be  an 
10 

10-61179 
concern 
and 
to 
reaffirming 
the  Rome  Statute  and 


important event due to its openness and inclusiveness, 
and  in  which  States  parties,  non-parties  and  regional 
organizations participated. Venezuela was among those 
that participated and pledged. 

In this regard, we recall that, in the days prior to 
the Review Conference, the Union of South American 
Nations  (UNASUR)  and 
its  heads  of  State  and 
Government  met  in  special  session  and  issued  a 
declaration  condemning  the  most  serious  crimes  of 
their 
international 
commitment 
the  ICC. 
UNASUR  represents  the  only  region  in  which  every 
State has ratified the Rome Statute. 

Today,  UNASUR  is  mourning  the  untimely  and 
shocking  passing  of  its  Secretary-General,  former 
Argentinean President Néstor Kirchner, whose death is 
a loss not only for Argentina but for the whole region. 
In  the  words  of  our  President,  Hugo  Chávez  Frias, 
Néstor  Kirchner  was  a  pillar  of  the  continent,  a 
bulwark of the region, a friend of South America and a 
brother of Venezuela. Our profound condolences go to 
the  people  of  Argentina  and  to  his  wife,  President 
Cristina Fernández de Kirchner. We will miss that great 
builder of the new Latin American homeland who was, 
above all, a friend and brother to Venezuela. 

We would not wish to end our statement without 
first thanking the co-facilitators of the ICC review for 
their  valuable  work,  which  allowed 
the  Review 
Conference to take a genuine step forward in terms of 
the  assessment  and  future  of  international  criminal 
justice. Finally, the Republic of Venezuela asserts once 
more  its  firmest  commitment  to  the  system  that 
includes the Rome Statute and the ICC. Proof of that is 
the  fact  that  my  country  was  the  third  country  of  the 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  region  to  ratify  the 
Statute. In this context, my delegation stresses that the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is convinced that, if 
true international criminal justice is to exist, the Rome 
Statute  must  achieve  universality  as  soon  as  possible. 
To that end, we commit ourselves to promoting, in the 
various forums of Latin America and the Caribbean in 
which we participate, its ratification by those countries 
that have not yet done so. In this context, we welcome 
the  newest  States  parties  to  the  Statute:  Bangladesh, 
Seychelles, Saint Lucia and Moldova. 
Mr.  Rodríguez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his 
A/65/PV.41
the  work  of 
thorough  presentation  of  the  hard  work  accomplished 
by the Court in the past year. 

Over  the  past  year,  a  number  of  events  pertinent 
to 
the  Court  have  occurred.  First, 
Bangladesh, Seychelles, Saint Lucia and Moldova have 
ratified  the  Rome  Statute,  so  that  we  now  total  114 
States parties. This is very  encouraging,  but a number 
of States have not yet ratified or signed. Peru therefore 
calls on those States that have not yet done so to ratify 
or become parties to the Statute so that it can achieve a 
genuinely  universal  scope  that  will  prevent  the  most 
serious  crimes  of  international  concern  from  going 
unpunished. 

While the increase in the number of States parties 
is essential, so too is strengthening cooperation among 
States  so  that  the  Court  can  achieve  its  goals. To  that 
end,  it  is  always  important  to  remember  that  States 
must  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  Statute  by 
supplying information; executing arrest warrants issued 
by the Court; detaining suspects and transferring them, 
where necessary, to the Court; protecting witnesses and 
victims; and implementing and aligning their domestic 
laws with the Statute. 

Unfortunately,  the  Court  does  not  always  enjoy 
the necessary cooperation. This is a matter of concern, 
as  the  report  of  the  Court  (see A/65/313)  indicates  in 
regard  to  arrest  warrants  that  have  not  been  executed, 
that some persons whose arrests have been ordered by 
the  Court  have  yet  to  be  brought  to  justice  or 
surrendered  to  the  Court.  The  cooperation  of  States 
with respect to arrest warrants is an obligation derived 
both  from  the  Statute  and  from  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. 

Similarly,  we  must  support  cooperation  between 
the ICC and the United Nations. It should be noted that 
such  cooperation  has  allowed  the  Court  to  undertake 
important  efforts and to publicize and raise  awareness 
of its work. We trust that such cooperation will become 
increasingly  close  and  coordinated,  so  that  the  Court 
can  rely  on  the  support  of  the  various  organs  and 
entities of the United Nations. 

International  Criminal  Court  plays  a 
fundamental role in promoting the rule of law in that it 
is the only permanent judicial institution charged with 
investigating  and  trying  those  charged  with  the  most 
serious  crimes  of  international  concern.  This  task 
requires a balance to be struck between respecting the 
to 
rights  of 
the  accused  and  allowing  victims 
The 
10-61179 

11 
that 
the  one  hand, 
There  can  be  no  doubt 
A/65/PV.41 

participate  in  the  proceedings,  which  is  one  of  the 
innovative aspects of the Rome Statute. 

The  outstanding  work  of  the  Court’s  judges  and 
staff has allowed the ICC to enjoy great legitimacy in 
the  eyes  of  the  international  community.  We  can 
therefore  assert  that  the  international  community,  and 
victims in particular, recognize the Court as a genuine 
instrument of justice. This is borne out by the fact that, 
during  the  current  judicial  year,  it  has  received  559 
new communications relating to article 15 of the Rome 
Statute.  This  is  noteworthy,  given  that  behind  these 
communications  are  potential  cases  in  which  war 
crimes, crimes of genocide or crimes against humanity 
may have been committed. 

the  Review 
Conference  strengthened  the  system  created  by  the 
Rome  Statute.  On 
the  Kampala 
Declaration  and  the  exercise  of  submitting  pledges 
reflect  the  firm  commitment  of  States  to  the  Court’s 
work  and  to  international  criminal  justice  in  general. 
Similarly,  the  stocktaking  of  international  criminal 
justice  has  made  it  possible  to  address  crucial  areas 
relating to cooperation, complementarity, the impact of 
the  system  on  victims  and  affected  communities,  and 
the  relationship  between  peace  and  justice,  as  well  as 
to  identify  the  challenges  they  present.  Dealing  with 
this  requires  the  involvement  not  only  of  States  but 
also of international organizations and, in particular, of 
civil society. 

Moreover,  the  amendments  adopted  will  make  it 
possible to  fully implement the provisions of article  5 
of  the  Statute,  regarding  crimes  that  are  under  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction.  It  should  be  noted  that,  with 
respect 
its 
resolution RC/Res.6, the Review Conference expressed 
its  determination  to  make  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
operational  as  soon  as  possible.  To  that  end,  States 
agreed  on  a  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression  and 
the  conditions  necessary  for  the  Court  to  exercise 
jurisdiction, such exercise of jurisdiction being subject 
to a decision to be adopted by the States in 2017. 

Lastly, Peru wishes to reiterate its willingness to 
collaborate  actively  and  constructively  with 
the 
International  Criminal  Court 
to  combat 
impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of  international 
concern. 
the  crime  of  aggression, 
in  order 
to 
through 

its 
their  contribution 
Argentina 
to 
expresses 
the  President  of 
Ms.  Millicay  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Before  I  begin,  I  would  like  to  express  my  thanks  for 
the  heartfelt  condolences  expressed  by  the  delegation 
of  Venezuela  and  for  the  displays  of  sorrow  and 
affection received from other delegations on the death 
of  the  former  President  of  my  country,  Mr.  Néstor 
Kirchner. 
appreciation 
and 

the  International 
recognition 
Criminal  Court,  Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
for  his 
submission  of  the  report  on  the  Court  to  the  United 
Nations contained in document A/65/313. 

The Rome Statute and the International Criminal 
Court  are  among  the  most  notable  achievements  of 
multilateral  diplomacy,  and 
to 
fighting  impunity  for  crimes  against  humanity,  crimes 
of genocide  and war crimes is evident.  Only a  decade 
after  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  the  Court  is  a 
fully  functioning  permanent 
international  criminal 
tribunal. 

Since the last report of the International Criminal 
Court  to  the  Assembly  (A/64/356),  in  addition  to  the 
situations  in  Uganda,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  the  Central  African  Republic  and  Darfur,  the 
Sudan,  in  November  2009  the  Court  assigned  the 
situation  in  Kenya  to  Pre-Trial  Chamber  II,  which 
authorized  the  Prosecutor  in  March  2010  to  open  an 
investigation.  Also,  on  22  November  2010,  the  trial 
against Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo for war crimes and 
crimes  against  humanity 
the  Central  African 
Republic will begin. 

This  year  also  finds  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
International Criminal Court strengthened. To date, 114 
States  are  parties  to  the  Statute. Accordingly,  I  would 
like  to  welcome  Bangladesh,  Seychelles,  Saint  Lucia 
and Moldova to the Statute. 

The other reason to be gratified is the success of 
the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which 
took  place  in  Kampala,  Uganda,  from  31  May  to 
11 June. The Conference, excellently organized by the 
Republic of Uganda, was attended by a large number of 
States  parties,  non-parties  and  representatives  of  civil 
society.  Attendance  at  the  segment  devoted  to  the 
general  debate  and  the  adoption  of  the  Kampala 
Declaration was at the highest level. 
in 
12 

10-61179 
Allow me now to refer to the achievements of the 



Review Conference. 

The Conference adopted, as corollary to the high-
level  segment,  the  Kampala  Declaration,  whereby 
States parties reaffirmed their commitment to the Rome 
Statute  and  to  its  full  application,  universality  and 
integrity. They also renewed their determination to put 
an end to impunity for perpetrators of the most serious 
crimes  of  international  concern,  emphasizing  that 
justice  is  a  fundamental  building  block  of  sustainable 
peace,  and  decided  to  pursue  and  strengthen  their 
efforts  to  ensure  full  cooperation  with  the  Court  in 
accordance  with  the  Statute  and  to  maintain  their 
political  and  diplomatic  support  for  the  Court.  They 
also  decided  to  celebrate  17  July,  the  day  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  in  1998,  as  the  Day  of 
International Criminal Justice. 

At  the  pledging  ceremony,  many  States  parties, 
one  observer  State  and  one  international  organization 
of  regional  integration  made  pledges.  Argentina  was 
among them. 

The  stocktaking  of  international  criminal  justice 
produced  remarkable  results,  due  undoubtedly  to  the 
high level of the panellists and other participants and to 
the  active  participation  of  States  and  civil  society. 
Argentina  had  the  privilege  of  being  one  of  the  focal 
points,  jointly  with  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  and  Switzerland,  on  the  topic  of  peace  and 
justice. We were pleased to participate in the panel on 
that  topic  in  Kampala,  whose  debates  reinforced  the 
conclusion  that  there  can  be  no  lasting  peace  without 
justice  and 
thus 
complementary requirements. I take this opportunity to 
recognize 
the  devoted  and  cooperative  work  of 
Switzerland and the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and 
the  experts  providing 
background  material  and  of  States  and  non-
governmental  organizations,  which  also  provided 
valuable material. 

One  of  the  firmest  commitments  made  in  the 
Kampala  Declaration  was  to  work  actively  during  the 
Review  Conference  towards  the  satisfactory  outcome 
on  the  amendment  proposals  to  be  considered  at  the 
Conference. 

Regarding  article  124,  the  Review  Conference 
decided  to  retain  it  in  its  current  form  and  agreed  to 
further  review  its  provisions  during  the  fourteenth 
in 
session  of 
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties, 
the  contribution  of 
that  peace  and 
justice  are 
A/65/PV.41
I 
the 
that 
law. 
recognize 
determined 
recognition  of  its  merely  transitional  nature.  The 
Review Conference also adopted amendments to article 
8  of  the  Statute,  adding  to  the  list  of  war  crimes  acts 
committed  in  the  context  of  armed  conflicts  not  of  an 
international  character,  employing  poison  or  certain 
poisonous weapons; asphyxiating, poisonous or similar 
gases and all analogous liquids, materials and devices; 
or  bullets  that  expand  or  flatten  easily  in  the  human 
body.  Such  amendments  constitute  a  step  forward  in 
the  fight  against  impunity  regarding  breaches  of 
international  humanitarian 
the 
initiative of the delegation of Belgium in this regard. 
But  the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression  is 

the 
amendment 
historic 
significance  of  the  Review  Conference.  In  1945,  the 
founders of the modern international community and of 
this  Organization  decided  to  ban  the  use  or  threat  of 
use of armed force by States as a pillar of the peaceful 
relations  among  States.  The  Kampala  Conference 
reinforced  that  pillar  through  the  incorporation  of 
articles 8 bis, 15 bis and 15 ter into the Rome Statute, 
defining  aggression  as  a  crime  that  triggers  individual 
criminal liability. The adoption of articles 8 bis, 15 bis 
and 15 ter fulfilled the mandate arising from the now-
deleted paragraph 2 of article 5 of the Rome Statute. 

Article 8 bis contains the  definition of  the crime 
of  aggression.  This  definition  was  drawn  up  during 
years  of  work  by  a  working  group  open  to  the 
participation  not  only  of  States  parties,  but  also  of 
non-parties  and  representatives  of  civil  society.  The 
elements  of  crimes  were  also  adopted.  Regarding  the 
exercise of the jurisdiction of the Court with respect to 
the  crime  of  aggression,  article  15  bis,  adopted  in 
Kampala,  provides  for  the  referral  by  a  State  and  the 
commencement of an investigation proprio motu by the 
Prosecutor,  as  set  forth  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (c)  of 
article 13 of the Rome Statute. 

Referral  by  the  Security  Council  in  the  case  of 
aggression is provided for in similar terms to those for 
other  crimes  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  State 
referral  and  the  commencement  of  an  investigation 
proprio  motu  represent  a  balance  between  the  role  of 
the  Security  Council  and  that  of  the  Court  as  an 
independent  judicial  tribunal.  In  both  cases,  the  Court 
will be able to exercise its jurisdiction with respect to 
crimes  of  aggression  committed  one  year  after  the 
ratification  or  acceptance  of  the  amendments  by 
30 States parties and after the parties have adopted, as 
of  2017,  the  decision  to  activate  the  exercise  of 
10-61179 

13 

A/65/PV.41 

jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in  accordance  with  the 
amendment. 

The historic significance of the incorporation into 
the  Rome  Statute  of  the  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression  and  the  conditions  for  the  exercise  of  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  cannot  be  underestimated. 
Negotiations  began  after  the  adoption  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  as  recalled  by 
the  heretofore  unfulfilled 
mandate contained in paragraph 2 of article 5. During 
those  protracted  negotiations,  notable  progress  was 
made  on  the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression, 
leaving  for  Kampala  and  the  previous  phase  the  hard 
work  of  defining  a  formula  containing  the  conditions 
for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Court. 

The negotiating effort was enormous. Lasting for 
years, it was  guided by the successive  coordinators of 
the  Special  Working  Group  on 
the  Crime  of 
Aggression,  with  the  active  participation  of  States 
parties, non-parties and non-governmental organizations. In 
Kampala,  delegations  worked  hard 
to  achieve  a 
formula  that  may  not  have  represented  the  ideal  that 
every country would have preferred with respect to the 
exercise  of  jurisdiction,  but  that  largely  incorporated 
elements  of  all  positions  and  thereby  reflected  a 
delicate  compromise  of  the  kind  that  can  be  achieved 
when  great  effort  is  exerted  towards  a  common 
objective. That made it possible for the amendment on 
the crime of aggression to be adopted by consensus. 

We  hope  that  the  amendments  adopted  by  the 
Review  Conference  will  soon  be  communicated  to 
States parties by the Secretary-General, in his capacity 
as  depository  for  the  Statute,  and  we  encourage  all 
States  parties  to  the  Statute  to  ratify  the  amendments 
adopted  as  soon  as  possible,  including  the  one  on  the 
crime of aggression. 

The  International  Criminal  Court  is  the  first 
permanent international criminal tribunal. Cooperation 
by States, particularly the States parties, is required in 
order for the Court to exercise its full jurisdiction. Part 
9 of the Rome Statute establishes obligations for States 
parties  —  which  were  reaffirmed  by  the  renewed 
commitment  set  out  in  the  Kampala  Declaration  —  to 
strengthen  our  efforts  to  ensure  full  cooperation  with 
the  Court,  in  particular  in  the  enforcement  of  Court 
decisions and the execution of arrest warrants. 

  Mr. Mac-Donald (Suriname), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

14 

Allow me to  conclude by  recalling, as we did in 

the Kampala Declaration, 

“the  aims  and  purposes  of  the  Rome  Statute 
and ...  the  noble  mission  and  the  role  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  a  multilateral 
system  that  aims  to  end  impunity,  establish  the 
rule  of  law,  promote  and  encourage  respect  for 
human  rights  and  achieve  sustainable  peace,  in 
accordance  with 
the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations,” 
international 
law  and 
and  to  reiterate,  once  again,  the  firm  commitment  of 
Argentina to the International Criminal Court. 
Mr.  Seck  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  Senegal 

aligns itself  with the statement made yesterday by the 
representative  of  Zambia  on  the  Rome  Statute  on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/65/PV.39). 
I  would  also  like  to  make  some  comments  in  my 
national capacity. 

At the outset, I offer warm and sincere thanks to 
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  Mr. 
Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  the  detailed  presentation  of  the 
Court’s activities from 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2010. 
As  President  Song  said,  during  the  period  under 
review,  the  Court’s  activities  experienced  significant 
developments that will undoubtedly impact the life and 
the  future  of  that  body.  But  I  am  sure  that  Member 
States  will  agree  that  the  successful  organization  on 
African soil, in Uganda, of the first Review Conference 
of the Rome Statute, was the beacon that will certainly 
lead to the next phase of international criminal justice 
in  the  next  decade,  in  view  of  its  considerable 
contribution  to  the  strengthening  of  the  Rome  Statute 
and international humanitarian law. 
In  fact  and  in  line  with  our  expectations,  the 

Review  Conference  was 
another 
opportunity  to  just  gather  together  and  then  return 
home  without  having  seriously  considered  the  many 
challenges that must be addressed in order to fine-tune 
and  complete  the  system  established  by  the  Rome 
Statute.  Besides  the  list  of  subjects  considered  in  the 
stocktaking, reflecting the Court’s major concerns, the 
laudable  results  achieved  by  the  Review  Conference 
under the Statute’s mandate for the review should also 
be commended. 
simply 
not 
10-61179 
acts 
in 
toxins 
and 
from 
certain 
bullets, 
expanding 
committed 



Of  course,  that  mission  was  not  easy,  given  the 
many cases of reticence seen here and there mostly for 
political  or  strategic  reasons.  But  the  challenge  was 
within  our  grasp,  thanks  especially  to  the  belief  and 
commitment  exhibited.  Results  were  also  achieved 
with  regard  to  the  difficult  issue  of  the  crime  of 
aggression,  which  required  more  than  a  decade  of 
intensive  work.  The  compromise  reached  in  Kampala 
was  certainly  not  perfect  —  as  is  the  case  for  any 
compromise — but still allowed us to define the crime 
of  aggression  and  establish  conditions  for  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction in that regard, even though a decision must 
still be taken after 1 January 2017 in order to activate 
that  jurisdiction.  Thus,  the  decision,  which  required 
great effort to achieve, must be correctly applied. The 
Court’s credibility depends on that. 
We  should  also  welcome  the  widening  of  the 

to  war  crimes 
Court’s  competencies  with  regard 
resulting 
a 
non-international  armed  conflict,  such  as  the  use  of 
certain 
toxic 
asphyxiating  gases  and  all  similar  liquids,  solids  and 
materials, as well as the use of bullets that flatten and 
spread throughout the body. That is  an  additional step 
to  strengthen 
law  and 
should be welcomed appropriately. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  the 
unwavering  commitment  of  my  country,  Senegal,  and 
its senior authorities to the ideals of peace and justice 
that  underpin  the  international  criminal  justice  system 
and  form  the  basis  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court’s creation. Senegal’s unequivocal commitment to 
those fundamental values — which has translated into 
visible  participation  in  all  regional  and  international 
campaigns  and  initiatives  to  promote  and  create  an 
international  criminal  court  —  strengthens  its  resolve 
in  the  quest  for  an  apolitical,  non-discriminatory  and 
impartial  international  criminal  justice  system  that 
meets  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  peoples  for  peace 
and justice. 
Mr.  Gevorgian  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): First, allow me to express our appreciation to 
Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song,  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  for  his  report  (see  A/65/313).  The 
Russian  delegation  is  pleased  to  note  the  growing 
momentum in the Court’s work, its strengthened role in 
combating  impunity  and  its  contribution  to  ensuring 
wider  observance  of  international  law  in  general.  My 
delegation  notes  the  importance  of  the  Court  as  the 
international  humanitarian 
A/65/PV.41
first  full-time  international  organ  for  criminal  justice 
that is general in scope and not designed to consider a 
particular regional situation. 

The  Court  possesses  a  powerful  capability  for 
preventing  the  most  serious  crimes,  which  can  affect 
the interests of the entire international community. The 
Court’s strength is not so much that it can punish, but 
that  its  very  existence  exerts  a  serious  influence  both 
on the global political climate and on States’ domestic 
legislation.  It  is  important  that  that  potential  be  fully 
realized.  It  is  hard  to  imagine  achieving  that  goal 
without the reliable support of States and international 
and regional organizations. 

Russia favours strengthening the authority of the 
Court and is attentively following the status of cases on 
its docket. In our view, the broad participation of States 
in the Rome Statute is a vitally important factor for the 
Court.  The  Court  is  going  through  a  formative  stage. 
The  extent  to  which  it  effectively  and  objectively 
discharges  its  functions  will  largely  determine  its 
prospects  for  becoming  a  truly  universal  organ  for 
international criminal justice. 
At the Rome Diplomatic Conference Russia voted 

for  the  Statute,  and  later  signed  it.  Now,  though  it 
remains outside the framework of the Statute, Russia is 
cooperating with the Court in a fruitful manner. 
An important milestone in the development of the 

Court was this year’s Review Conference of the Rome 
in  which  our  delegation 
Statute 
participated 
the 
Government of Uganda for its excellent organization of 
the  event  and 
its  hospitality.  The  Russian 
Federation  has  a  generally  positive  assessment  of  the 
results of the Conference. Of course, the main question 
before the meeting was the adoption of the amendment 
on 
the 
jurisdiction of the Court would be incomplete. 

That  matter  is  of  great  importance  and  its 
political  significance  far  transcends  the  Court.  The 
solution that was found was, of course, a compromise. 
It  is  important  that  it  was  based  on  broad  consensus 
including  both  parties  and  non-parties  to  the  Statute. 
The  compromise  formula  reflects,  in  our  opinion,  the 
role  of  the  Security  Council  in  the  global  system  of 
collective  security.  However,  we  still  have  some 
concerns regarding the possible prospects of the Court 
exercising 
jurisdiction  over  crimes  of  aggression 
the  crime  of  aggression,  without  which 
actively.  We 
in  Kampala, 
are  grateful 
for 
to 
10-61179 

15 
the 
universal 
should  be 
implemented 
in 
international 
treaties, 
the  application  of 
A/65/PV.41 

without  the  appropriate  decision  by  the  Security 
Council. 

We  discussed  that  issue  in  Kampala,  and  we 
re-emphasize here that the crime of aggression bears a 
clear,  undeniable  political  dimension.  It  is  always 
committed  not  by  individuals  but  by  leaders  of  States 
relying  on  the  full  power  of  their  States,  so  an 
individual  cannot  possibly  commit 
the  crime  of 
aggression  without  aggression  by  the  State.  Under  the 
treaty 
United  Nations  Charter, 
superseding  all  other 
the 
prerogative of establishing that an act of aggression has 
been committed belongs to the Security Council. 

That is, in our view, the objective legal situation. 
The  Court  cannot  operate  in  isolation  from  it.  It  has 
worked and is working in an international legal context 
up until now. In that regard, we are of the view that the 
interpretation and application of the relevant provisions 
on  aggression 
full 
compliance  with  the  United  Nations  Charter.  On  that 
basis,  we  believe  it  reasonable  that  the  Conference 
conditioned 
the  provisions  on 
aggression  on  the  adoption  of  a  special  and  separate 
decision to that effect to be taken after 1 January 2017. 
Mr. Moeletsi (Lesotho): We align ourselves with 

the 
statement 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Zambia  on  behalf  of  the  African 
States  parties  to  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We 
commend  the  Court  for  its  comprehensive  report, 
contained  in  document  A/65/313.  As  a  State  party  to 
the  Rome  Statute,  Lesotho  has  consistently  expressed 
its  support  for  the  Court.  Lesotho  reiterates  that 
support  today.  My  delegation  sees  the  Court  as  an 
important  institution  in  the  fight  against  impunity  and 
in the promotion of justice. 

Our  statement  will  address  the  cooperation  of 
States  parties  and  other  States  with  the  Court,  the 
universality of the Rome Statute and the recent Review 
Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  was  held  in 
Kampala in the Republic of Uganda. Our basic premise 
is 
its  functions 
effectively  without  the  cooperation  of  States  parties 
and other States, but particularly the States parties. As 
stressed 
the 
cooperation  of  States  parties  and  other  States  in  such 
investigations,  arresting  and 
areas  as  facilitating 
surrendering  persons,  protecting  witnesses 
and 
enforcing  sentences.  It  is  in  that  context  that  we  urge 
the  Court  cannot  discharge 
the  Court  relies  on 
in 
the  report, 
delivered 
by 
the 

all States parties to do their utmost to provide the Court 
with the best possible assistance. 

However,  we  are  acutely  aware  of  the  necessity 
for States to have a consistent, clear and unambiguous 
framework  for  cooperation  under  the  Statute.  In  that 
regard,  we  note  the  Court’s  efforts  to  engage  in 
bilateral  agreements  with  States  parties  with  regard  to 
cooperation  under 
the  Rome  Statute’s  general 
obligation to cooperate. 

Regarding  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
we are pleased to note that, with the ratification of the 
Rome  Statute  by  Bangladesh,  Seychelles,  Saint  Lucia 
and the Republic of Moldova, there are now 114 States 
parties  to  the  Statute.  It  is  a  remarkable  achievement 
that  so  many  States  from  all  regions  have  ratified  the 
Statute  within  such  a  short  space  of  time.  It  is  also  a 
genuine  reflection  of  the  international  community’s 
increasing rejection of impunity for serious crimes and 
evidence that there is a rising tide in favour of the rule 
of law. 

The  crimes  falling  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court  are  universally  accepted  as  the  most  serious 
crimes  of  international  concern.  We  share  a  common 
responsibility 
they  are  effectively 
investigated  and  that  the  perpetrators  are  brought  to 
justice. We are now witnessing a historic shift towards 
universal  acceptance  of  the  thesis  that  the  long-term 
interests  of  all  nations,  irrespective  of  size,  region  or 
political orientation, are better served by strengthening 
the rule of law and promoting justice. We encourage all 
States  that  are  not  parties  to  positively  consider  being 
States parties to the Rome Statute. 

The  recent  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute  in  Kampala  was  undoubtedly  a  success.  It 
tackled  critical  questions  such  as  the  definition  of  the 
crime of aggression and the conditions under which the 
Court  may  exercise  jurisdiction  in  respect  of  that 
crime.  The  Conference  also  provided  an  opportune 
moment  to  take  stock  of  the  state  of  criminal  justice. 
The  stocktaking  exercise  covered  areas  such  as  peace 
and justice and complementarity. Lesotho continues to 
believe  that,  in  the  final  analysis,  the  success  of 
international  criminal  justice  founded  on  the  Rome 
Statute  must  partly  be  determined  by  the  capacity  of 
domestic court systems to deal with the serious crimes 
in  question.  We  therefore  deem  it  fitting  that  a 
stocktaking  exercise  was  part  of 
the  Review 
Conference. 
to  ensure 
that 
that 
16 

10-61179 
International 
the  hallmarks  of 



In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  Lesotho’s  firm  and 
long-standing commitment to the integrity of the Rome 
Statute  and  to  an  effective  and  credible  International 
Criminal Court. We believe that the Court should enjoy 
the broadest possible support from all States. As United 
Nations  Member  States,  we  all  share  the  universal 
values that are fundamental to the protection of human 
dignity.  That  protection  relies  on  concerted  action  on 
our  part  to  prevent  the  most  serious  crimes  affecting 
the international community as a whole. 
Mr. Böhlke (Brazil): I thank the President of the 

International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Sang-Hyun 
Song, for presenting the sixth report of the Court (see 
A/65/313) to the General Assembly (see A/65/PV.39). I 
also  commend  him  and  his  fellow  judges  for  their 
significant contribution towards fostering international 
justice. 
law  has  been  under  constant 

development,  and  one  of 
that 
impressive  movement  is  the  attribution  of  a  special 
condition  to  individuals.  They  are  no  longer  only  the 
subject matter upon which treaties are negotiated. Now, 
individuals are entitled to specific rights and also bear 
responsibilities under international law. 

In that context, the Rome Statute puts the human 
person at the centre of international law. The ICC is the 
first  permanent,  treaty-based  court  to  try  persons 
accused  of  the  most  serious  crimes  of  international 
concern.  At  the  same  time,  it  allows  victims  of  such 
crimes to be part of the proceedings in order to present 
their  views  and  observations,  with  the  possibility  of 
obtaining some form of reparation for their suffering. 

However, the Court cannot move ahead alone. In 
order for the Court to succeed in its efforts to provide 
justice, it needs the vital support and cooperation of all 
States.  Universality  is  a  permanent  concern  of  those 
who  helped  to  establish  the  Court.  My  delegation 
sincerely hopes that more States, large and small, may 
ratify the Statute or accede to it in the near future with 
a  view  to  granting  a  truly  universal  character  to  the 
Court. 

Like  previous  delegations,  Brazil  applauds  the 
recent  decision  of  the  Governments  of  Bangladesh, 
Moldova,  Saint  Lucia  and  Seychelles  to  ratify  the 
Rome Statute, making the number of States parties 114. 
In  becoming  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  those  States 
have contributed to strengthening the legitimacy of the 
A/65/PV.41
Court  and  have  joined  the  international  community  in 
its endeavour to put an end to impunity. 

On  a  different  note,  we  wish  to  express  our 
satisfaction  with  the  significant  achievements  of  the 
Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  held  in 
Kampala  earlier  this  year. At  the  Kampala  conference 
we took an important step in the fight against impunity. 
Based  on  a  consensus  decision  taken  by  all  States 
parties,  with  the  valuable  support  of  many  other 
interested  delegations,  we  were  able  to  amend  the 
Rome Statute to include  not only the definition of the 
crime  of  aggression,  but  also  the  conditions  under 
which the Court may exercise jurisdiction with respect 
to that crime. 

While  acknowledging  the  role  played  by  the 
Security  Council  in  determining  the  occurrence  of  an 
act  of  aggression,  the  Conference  agreed  to  authorize 
the Prosecutor, in the absence of such determination, to 
initiate  an  investigation  on  his  own  initiative  or  upon 
State  referral,  with  the  prior  authorization  of  the 
Pre-Trial Division of the Court. That approach ensures 
the independence of the Court. 
My  delegation  has  strongly  advocated  for  the 

need  to  define  the  crime  of  aggression.  That  position 
reflects  Brazil’s 
to 
international  law  and,  specifically,  the  primacy  of 
multilateral rules on the use of force. In our view, the 
adoption  of  the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression 
strengthens the Court, fulfils an  obligation undertaken 
in  Rome  in  1998  and  contributes  to  a  more  just,  safe 
and equitable international order. 

Obviously, the successful outcome of the Review 
Conference  was  possible  only  in  the  light  of  the  firm 
engagement  and 
flexibility  of  many 
delegations.  The  result  was  a  compromise  deal  that 
combined  elements  from  all  participants.  Part  of  that 
package  was  the  decision,  by  the  same  majority  of 
States  parties  as  is  required  for  the  adoption  of  an 
amendment  to  the  Statute,  to  activate  the  agreed 
mechanism only after 1 January 2017. 

Even  though  it  was  not  the  preference  of  my 
delegation,  we  accepted  that  the  Court  does  not  have 
jurisdiction  with  respect  to  crimes  of  aggression 
committed  on  the  territory  of  non-States  parties  or  by 
their  nationals.  Nor  does  the  Court  have  jurisdiction 
with  regard  to  States  parties  that  declare  that  they  do 
not  accept  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of 
aggression.  Otherwise,  the  Court  continues  to  have 
long-standing 
commitment 
remarkable 
10-61179 

17 
such  as 
the  current  status  of 
important  achievements  of 
A/65/PV.41 

jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in relation to 
all States parties. 

In  addition  to  the  progress  made  with  regard  to 
the crime of aggression, my delegation notes with great 
satisfaction  other 
the 
Review  Conference, 
the  adoption  of 
amendments to article 8 and the Kampala Declaration, 
which  reaffirms  our  commitment  to  the  Rome  Statute 
and  the  Court.  Moreover,  the  Review  Conference 
constituted  a  valuable  opportunity  to  engage  States 
parties,  observers  and  civil  society  in  a  more  in-depth 
discussion  of 
international 
criminal justice, addressing some pressing issues, such 
as  peace, 
justice,  complementarity,  victims  and 
cooperation. 
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to stress the 

importance  of 
strengthening  cooperation 
between  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
United  Nations.  The  work  of  the  Court  contributes  to 
our efforts to include the concept of the rule of law in 
the  many  ongoing  initiatives  undertaken  within  the 
United Nations system. 
Ms. Guo Xiaomei (China) (spoke in Chinese): At 

the outset, I would like to thank President Song for his 
report  on 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (see 
A/65/313). 
China  always  attaches  importance  to  the  role  of 

international  criminal  justice  in  the  advancement  of 
social development. China is in favour of setting up an 
international  criminal 
is 
independent, impartial, effective and universal to serve 
as a complement to national legal systems in punishing 
the 
promoting 
international peace and achieving judicial justice. 

We  have  been  closely  following  the  activities  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  The  Court  has  now 
been  established  for  more  than  seven  years.  Not  only 
has it made some progress in institution-building, but it 
also has entered into full judicial functioning, initiated 
the investigation and prosecution of a number of cases 
and  carried  out  explorations  in  judicial  practice.  It 
should  be  acknowledged  that  the  Court’s  activities 
have  heightened  the  attention  of  the  international 
community  with  regard  to  international  criminal  law. 
At the same time, we have also noted that some of the 
Court’s practices have affected the stability of and the 
harmony among countries in the regions concerned and 
international 
institution 
judicial 
that 
gravest 
crimes, 
further 

given  rise  to  broad  concern  in  the  international 
community. 

The first Review Conference of the Rome Statute, 
held in Kampala in June, adopted an amendment to the 
article  on  the  crime  of  aggression.  China,  as  an 
observer  State,  participated  in  its  negotiation  in  a 
positive  and  responsible  manner.  China  has  noted  that 
some  countries  still  have  concerns  and  reservations 
regarding  that  amendment.  We  will  closely  follow 
developments  in  that  regard  and  are  ready  to  further 
exchange views with all countries on that issue. 

The  Chinese  delegation  believes  that  the  Court, 
as  part  of  the  international  community  and  as  a 
member of the world peace and security system, cannot 
operate  successfully  without  the  support  of  countries 
and  relevant  international  organizations.  The  Court 
must  conduct  its  work  within  the  current  international 
law system, based on the United Nations Charter. 
International  judicial  justice  and  international 

peace  are  mutually  reinforcing  and  complementary. A 
fundamental  requirement  for  the  pursuit  of  judicial 
justice should be to safeguard the values of peace and 
security  and  maintain  a  harmonious  and  stable 
international  order.  Therefore,  it  is  our  hope  that  the 
Court  will  exercise  its  functions  more  prudently  in  its 
future  work,  further  establish  its  credibility  and, 
through  its  objective  and  impartial  performance,  win 
broader 
international 
community so as to make its contribution to peace and 
justice. 
Mr.  Ntwaagae  (Botswana): At  the  outset,  allow 

me  to  convey  my  delegation’s  sincere  condolences  to 
the  Government  and  people  of  Barbados  and  of 
Argentina  on  the  sad  loss  of  their  Prime  Minister  and 
former President, respectively. 

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  the  report  of  the  Court  (see 
A/65/313),  which  contains  useful  information  on  this 
agenda item. 

the  statement 
delivered  at  the  39th  meeting  by  the  representative  of 
Zambia on behalf of the African States parties. I would 
like  to  make  some  general  comments  on  a  number  of 
issues in my national capacity. 
trust  and  support  from 
Botswana  aligns 
itself  with 
the 
18 

10-61179 
is 
intended 
the  Court 



The  consideration  of  this  item  comes  at  time 
when  we  have  just  witnessed  the  historic  Review 
Conference  in  Kampala,  where  we  adopted  some 
amendments to the Statute, including a definition of the 
crime of aggression. 

As a State party to the Rome Statute, Botswana is 
committed  to  maintaining  the  integrity  of  the  Statute 
and  supporting  the  promotion  of  its  universality.  We 
also  believe  that  the  International  Criminal  Court 
should  be  given  the  freedom  to  exercise  its  mandate 
without political or external influence. 
We  are,  however,  alive  to  the  fact  that  the  role 

and  mandate  of 
to  be 
complementary  to  national  judicial  systems.  States 
have  the  responsibility  to  develop  legislation  that  will 
effectively  deal  with,  and  act  as  a  deterrent  to, 
perpetrators  of  crimes, 
including  crimes  against 
humanity.  That  complementary  function  of  the  Court 
should  not  be  misinterpreted  as  an  affront  to  national 
jurisdiction  and  establishments,  but  should  simply  be 
understood  as  assisting  our  own  efforts  in  closing  the 
impunity gap. 
We should never lose sight of the deterrent value 

provided  by  the  Rome  Statute  in  safeguarding  the 
interests of global peace and security. The Statute gives 
the  international  community  an  excellent  opportunity 
to advance the ideals of the United Nations Charter, in 
which  there  is  universality  in  the  respect  for  human 
rights and enjoyment of fundamental freedoms for all. 

Botswana  —  consistent  with  its  commitment  to 
the ideals and principles of the United Nations Charter 
and to the  promotion of democracy, good governance, 
respect for human rights and the rule of law — is of the 
firm conviction that it is essential for Member States to 
extend the necessary cooperation to the Court in order 
to  ensure  that  the  perpetrators  of  grave  crimes  are 
brought to justice. 

Botswana  fully  subscribes  to  the  notion  that  the 
objectives  of  international  peace  and  security  may  be 
pursued  jointly,  with  the  Court  exercising  its  judicial 
mandate  while  the  relevant  organs  of  the  United 
Nations exercise their political mandate. My delegation 
is  fully  convinced  that  the  relationship  between  the 
Court  and  the  United  Nations  system  provides  a  good 
platform  for 
initiatives  aimed  at  resolving 
conflicts  and  addressing  the  plight  of  victims,  as  well 
as  promoting  accountability  on  the  part  of  those  who 
joint 
A/65/PV.41
is 
currently 
the 
reviewing 
independence  of 
are  entrusted  with  the  rare  privilege  and  authority  to 
govern. 

We therefore believe that it is timely to invest our 
collective  energy  in  consolidating  and  strengthening 
the  role  of  the  Court  by  building  bridges  between  the 
Court and the countries in  question in order to reduce 
the  current  negative  perception  about  the  work  of  the 
ICC.  We  do  not  believe  that  the  establishment  of  the 
ICC  Liaison  Office  at  the  African  Union  will  be 
contrary to that spirit, but rather that it would go a long 
way  in  addressing  the  misconceptions  about  the  role 
and function of the Court. 

Let  me  conclude  by  once  again  reaffirming 
Botswana’s  commitment  to  the  preservation  of  the 
integrity  and 
International 
Criminal Court. To that end, I am pleased to report that 
Botswana 
its  domestic 
legislation  with  a  view  to  giving  full  effect  to  the 
provisions of the Rome Statute. 
Mr.  Joyini  (South  Africa):  South  Africa  would 

like to begin its intervention by associating itself with 
the  statement  delivered  at  the  39th  meeting  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Zambia  on  behalf  of  the 
African  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC). 
to  welcome  His  Excellency 

the  International  Criminal 
Mr. Song,  President  of 
Court,  to  New  York.  We  thank  him  and  his  team  of 
judges,  not  only  for  the  Court’s  report  (see A/65/313) 
but  also  for  their  tireless  efforts  in  the  promotion  of 
international  criminal 
the  ultimate 
objective of securing a peaceful world for all of us who 
live in it. 

We have taken note of the report of the ICC to the 
General Assembly. As  always,  we  found  the  report  to 
be  comprehensive  and  to  touch  on  very  important 
aspects relating to the Court’s work. 

We  have  particularly  taken  note  of  section  III  of 
the  report,  on  judicial  proceedings. As  a  firm  believer 
in judicial independence, we will restrict our comments 
on  that  chapter.  We  note,  however,  that  the  effective 
and  efficient  functioning  of  the  ICC  itself,  being 
independent but also accountable in its administration, 
is  also  an  important  factor  in  bringing  an  end  to 
impunity  and  for  setting  standards  for  the  prosecution 
and adjudication of the most heinous crimes of concern 
to humanity. 
I  am  delighted 
justice  with 
10-61179 

19 

A/65/PV.41 


A lot has been achieved over the past eight years, 
with  the  ICC  now  having  five  active  situations  under 
investigation or in the trial phase. We look forward to 
the  completion  of  the  Court’s  first  trial,  a  milestone 
that will make tangible the fight against impunity. 

Again, we have taken note of the situations under 
analysis  by  the  Prosecutor.  We  are  hopeful  that  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  will,  with  the  requisite 
urgency, consider those issues and come to a decision. 
We  welcome  the  draft  policy  on  the  preliminary 
examinations  phase,  and  we  are  in  the  process  of 
studying  this  policy  document.  We  also  note  that  the 
Prosecutor,  having  begun  to  deal  with  the  situation  in 
Kenya, has decided to proceed with investigations. We 
trust  that  other  situations  that  have  been  pending  for 
some  time,  including  those  in  Georgia,  Colombia  and 
Palestine,  inter  alia,  will  be  decided  upon  in  due 
course. 

In  our  statement  of  last  year  under  this  agenda 
item, we urged the Office of the Prosecutor to adopt a 
purposive  interpretation  to  article  12  of  the  Statute  in 
considering  whether  to  proceed  with  investigations.  It 
is  our  view  that,  in  order  for  the  Court  to  be  truly 
universal, it should be of benefit to victims everywhere 
in the world. 

The next two years are going to be significant in 
the life of the Court. A new Prosecutor is to be elected 
in 2012. We hope that the process of electing the new 
Prosecutor,  in  conformity  with  the  Rome  Statute  and 
the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties, has begun in earnest. We are confident that the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  will  select  a  person  of 
integrity to hold that very important office. 

Without question, the highlight for the Court and 
for international criminal justice in general in 2010 was 
the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  held  in 
June  in  Kampala.  We  are  thankful  to  the  Government 
of  Uganda  for  hosting  what  we  believe  was  a  very 
successful Review Conference. 

My  delegation  was  particularly  pleased  with  the 
conduct of the stocktaking exercise, which provided an 
opportunity  for  ICC  States  parties  to  look  back  and 
take stock of the contributions that the Court has made 
to  international  criminal  justice.  In  the  course  of  the 
stocktaking at the Review Conference, we were able to 
consider,  in  a  comprehensive  and  honest  manner, 
various  aspects,  including  cooperation,  peace  and 
justice,  complementarity  and  the  impact  of  the  Rome 
in  keeping  with 
Statute  on  victims  and  affected  communities.  In  all  of 
those areas, we were able to engage not only with each 
other as States parties, but also with non-States parties 
and  civil  society,  on  contributions  that  the  Court  can 
make  and  has  made  to  the  further  development  of  the 
international criminal justice system. 

As  an  outcome  of  those  deliberations  we  were 
able to adopt a number of resolutions and, importantly, 
a ministerial Declaration on the Review Conference, in 
which  we  collectively  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to 
the  principles  and  values  underlying  and  reflected  in 
the  Rome  Statute.  As  we  proceed  to  deal  with  issues 
after  the  review,  let  us  not  forget  those  deliberations. 
We  should  continuously  look  back  and  ask  ourselves 
whether  our  actions  are 
the 
commitments that we made in Kampala. 

My  delegation  was  particularly  pleased  to  serve, 
together  with  the  delegation  of  Denmark,  as  a  focal 
point for the topic of complementarity, which, as we all 
know,  is  at  the  heart  of  the  Rome  Statute.  Under  that 
principle,  the  Court  can  only  act  where  States  are 
unable  or  unwilling  to  genuinely  investigate  and 
prosecute crimes in their own jurisdictions. Thus, even 
where 
crimes  have  been 
committed, a case would not be admissible to the Court 
if  the  State  concerned  was  itself  conducting  genuine 
domestic proceedings. As focal points — and this idea 
was  affirmed  by  the  States  parties  at  the  Review 
Conference  —  we  believe  that,  in  order  to  give  effect 
to  the  principle  of  complementarity  in  the  Statute, 
national jurisdictions must be strengthened and enabled 
to conduct genuine national investigations and trials of 
the  crimes  included  in  the  Rome  Statute.  We  are 
delighted  to  have  been  reappointed  by  the  Bureau  to 
continue  on  as  a  focal  point  with  a  view  to  taking 
forward the decisions reached in Kampala. 

But,  of  course,  there  were  other  issues  on  the 
agenda  of  the  Review  Conference,  most  notably  the 
question  of  article  124  and  the  proposal  on  the 
enforcement  of  sentences.  We  are  particularly  pleased 
that  we  were  able  to  reach  a  decision  to  facilitate  the 
willingness  and  capability  of  States  to  offer  facilities 
for the enforcement of sentences. 

Without question the main issue on the agenda of 
the Review Conference was the definition of the crime 
of aggression. At this stage, we all know that the Rome 
Statute includes aggression as a crime but provides that 
the  Court  may  exercise  jurisdiction  only  after  the 
serious 
international 
20 

10-61179 
While 
the 
legally 
leaving 
outcome 


adoption of a definition. The deliberations, both before 
and during the Review Conference, brought into sharp 
focus  the  relationship  between  the  Court  and  the 
Security Council. It is unnecessary to rehash the debate 
on  whether  the  Council’s  mandate  in  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  is  primary  or 
exclusive; surely we all know it is the former. Many of 
us  expressed  serious  concern  about 
the 
determination  of  the  crime  of  aggression  in  the 
exclusive hands of the Security Council. 

of 
complex 
Kampala —  which  provides  for  the  possibility  of 
opting out and delays the exercise of jurisdiction — is 
less  than  what  we  would  have  liked,  my  delegation  is 
nevertheless  pleased  that  we  were  able  to  reach  a 
compromise  outcome  by  consensus.  We  trust  that  the 
required number of ratifications and a positive decision 
by  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  in  2017  on  the 
exercise of jurisdiction by the Court over the crime of 
aggression  will  allow  the  operationalization  of  the 
definition in seven years’ time. 

As we end our statement, we wish to say a special 
word  of  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the Assembly  of 
States  Parties,  Ambassador  Wenaweser,  who  will  be 
presiding  over  the  Assembly  for  the  last  time  in 
December.  We  thank  him  for  his  tireless  efforts  in 
sometimes difficult situations. 

In conclusion, the International Criminal Court is 
an institution designed to create a better world. We will 
continue to support the Court, so that it can grow from 
strength to strength. 
Mr.  Ileka  (Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo) 

(spoke in French): My delegation has taken note of the 
sixth annual report of the International Criminal Court 
(ICC) to the United Nations (see A/65/313), presented 
by the President of the Court, Judge Sang-Hyun Song. 

To begin with, we would like to concur fully with 
the  statement  made  yesterday  by  the  representative  of 
Zambia,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the  African  States 
parties to the International Criminal Court. 

The  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  was  voluntarily  referred  to  the  Court  by  our 
authorities,  acting  on  behalf  of  populations  in  our 
country,  which  has  been  stricken  by  what  some  have 
rightly  called 
the  first  African  world  war.  The 
International  Criminal  Court  was  created,  in  fact,  to 
take  on  those  types  of  situations.  That  is  why  the 
A/65/PV.41
the  Court,  and  several 
foundation of the Rome Statute, based on what to some 
is  a  simple  theory,  is  a  reality  that  the  peoples  of  the 
Congo, particularly those of North and South Kivu and 
the district of Ituri, are living every day. 

Wars — and all forms of violence that negate the 
dignity and sacred nature of human beings — have no 
nationality. That reality, which some wish to confine to 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in  order  to 
escape  their  own  obligations  and  responsibilities,  is 
intolerable  and  unacceptable.  It  concerns  us  all,  and 
cooperation with the Court must be the foundation for 
our action. Regarding cooperation — and we will never 
cease pointing this out — the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo  was  the  very  first  State  party  to  develop 
significant  cooperation  with  the  Court.  Our  country’s 
efforts  in  that  area  are  unquestionably  a  model  of 
cooperation  with 
legal 
documents testify to that fact. 

First,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  did 
not wait for the Rome Statute to enter into force before 
ratifying it. We ratified it on 30 March 2002, more than 
three months before its entry into force. Secondly, my 
country  proactively  referred  its  situation  to  the  Court 
as  of  3  March  2004,  signed  an  agreement  on  judicial 
cooperation  with  the  Court  on  6  October  2004,  and 
concluded an agreement on judicial assistance with the 
then  United  Nations  Organization  Mission  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Court. 
Thirdly,  on 
in  connection  with 
proceedings before the Court and at the request of the 
Court, the Democratic Republic of the Congo executed 
arrest warrants from the Court against its nationals. 

Clearly,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
believes that peace and justice are complementary. We 
recognize through our experience the irreplaceable role 
of  justice  as  a  factor  in  social  harmony,  national 
reconciliation, peace, security and stability. It was with 
the  help  of  justice  that  we  were  able  to  bring  peace 
back to the districts of Katanga and North Katanga. It 
is with the help of justice that we intend to bring peace 
back 
that  regard,  my 
delegation  welcomes  the  recent  arrest  in  Paris,  on  an 
ICC warrant, of the Executive Secretary of the Forces 
démocratiques  de 
libération  du  Rwanda  (FDLR). 
Mr. Calixte Mbarushimana will have to answer for war 
crimes and crimes against humanity, including murder, 
rape,  torture,  persecution  and  destruction  of  property, 
committed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 
2009. 
the  entire  country.  In 
three  occasions 
to 
10-61179 

21 

in 
risk  undermining 
this  meeting,  describes 
A/65/PV.41 


The  sixth  annual  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  to  the  United  Nations,  which  we  are 
discussing 
the  very 
significant  progress  made  in  the  work  of  the  Court, 
with  the  start  of  trials  in  some  situations  and  the 
confirmation  of  charges  in  others,  as  well  as  the 
opening  of  new  investigations.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation would like to take this opportunity to recall 
its  interest  in  seeing  the  proposal  for  organizing  trials 
in  situ  implemented.  That  would  fulfil  a  long-held 
desire  to  grant  some  moral  satisfaction  to  the  victims 
of the crimes and to deter potential recidivists. 

Such  progress  in  the  course  of  international 
criminal  justice  is  being  achieved  in  the  context  of  a 
strong  campaign  of  hostility  against  the  Court.  The 
Court  should  set  up  mechanisms  that  can  curb  such 
campaigns,  which 
the  Court’s 
reputation and compromising its achievements, despite 
the  fact  that  more  than  half  the  Member  States  of  the 
Organization  are  now  parties  to  the  Court,  less  than 
five  years  after  its  entry  into  effect.  It  is  just  as 
important,  however,  that  the  Court  consider  its  own 
operations,  reflect  on  how  it  works  and  become  more 
professional  and  less  political.  Politics  and  justice  do 
not necessarily go well together. As a final note to this 
part  of  my  statement,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
welcome  to  the  club  of  States  parties  to  the  Court  its 
most  recent  members,  namely,  Bangladesh,  Saint 
Lucia,  Seychelles  and  Moldova,  which  bring  the 
number of States parties to 114. 

The Review Conference held in Kampala in May 
and June was a valuable opportunity for Member States 
to confirm the achievements of Rome and to strengthen 
the  belief  that  the  Court  is  a  gift  of  hope  for  future 
generations  and  an  important  step  forward  for  respect 
for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  The  Kampala 
Declaration, 
their 
willingness  to  promote  the  Rome  Statute  and  its  full 
implementation,  as  well  as  its  universal  nature;  the 
stocktaking  of 
justice  at 
Kampala;  and  the  modifications  to  the  Statute,  which 
now  includes  a  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression 
and the conditions under which the Court may exercise 
jurisdiction  over  that  crime,  are  all  achievements  that 
we should guard jealously. 

In  conclusion,  and  to  reiterate  my  delegation’s 
willingness  to  watch  over  the  respect  for  the  integrity 
of the Statute of the Court, I would like once again to 
call  on  those  delegations  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
international  criminal 
in  which  States 
become States parties to the Court, so that together we 
may  contribute  to  the  universality  of  the  fight  against 
impunity. 
Mr.  Muhumuza  (Uganda):  I  join  other  speakers 

before  me  in  expressing  my  delegation’s  condolences 
to the Governments of Barbados and Argentina during 
this time of great loss to their nations. 

Uganda  is  humbled  by  the  words  of  gratitude 
expressed  by  various  delegations  concerning  our 
hosting  of  the  first  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute from 31 May to 11 June. 

To begin with, I associate my delegation with the 
statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Zambia on behalf of the African States parties to the 
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. 

We  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  for  his  report  (see A/65/313).  Uganda 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  the  Court  and  the  fight 
against  impunity,  which  it  showed  in  making  the  first 
State  referral  and,  more  recently,  by  hosting  the  first 
Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute.  At  the 
Conference,  States  parties  reviewed  and  amended  the 
Statute,  conducted  a  stocktaking  of 
international 
criminal justice and made significant pledges on a wide 
range of issues. 

Kampala was indeed a continuation of the legacy 
of  Rome  in  the  pursuit  of  a  more  humane  world. 
Holding the Conference there offered an opportunity to 
many  victims  from  the  region  to  interface  with  the 
other  stakeholders  in  the  fight  against  impunity.  The 
adoption  of  the  Kampala  Declaration  reaffirms  our 
commitment 
full 
implementation,  as  well  as 
its  universality  and 
integrity.  We  remain  particularly  concerned,  however, 
that  Joseph  Kony  and  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army 
continue  to  cause  untold  suffering  to  defenceless 
women and children, in spite of the indictment. 

The  Court  is  steadily  marching  on  the  road  to 
universality.  Accordingly,  we  welcome 
the  new 
members  —  Seychelles,  Saint  Lucia  and  Moldova  — 
whose ratification of the Rome Statute has brought the 
total membership to 114. We call upon other States that 
have  not  yet  done  so  to  consider  ratifying  the  Rome 
Statute. Universal ratification will send a clear message 
that  there  is  no  room  for  impunity  for  anyone, 
anywhere. 
the  Rome  Statute  and 
its 
to 
reaffirmed 
22 

10-61179 
that 
We  recognize 
the  Court  relies  on 



the 
cooperation  of  States,  international  organizations  and 
civil  society  to  carry  out  its  functions,  in  accordance 
with  the  Rome  Statute  and  international  agreements 
concluded by the Court. We therefore call on all States 
to  offer  the  necessary  cooperation  so  as  to  enable  the 
Court to carry out its mandate without reserve. 

Finally, unlike traditional jurisdictions, the Rome 
Statute  recognizes  and  allows  victims  to  participate 
actively  in  the  proceedings,  with  the  possibility  of 
compensation  for  the  harm  inflicted.  We  therefore 
encourage the Court, in its recruitment of staff, to take 
into  account  the  cultural  peculiarities  of  victims  and 
witnesses  who  are  required  to  be  in  The  Hague  to 
participate  in  Court  proceedings.  We  believe  that  the 
furtherance of justice calls for appropriate attention to 
that important matter. 
Mr.  Al  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 

delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran expresses its 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  for  submitting  the  sixth  report  of  the 
Court,  contained  in  document A/65/313. The  report  is 
unique in the sense that it contains the outcome of the 
first  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  held  from  31  May  to 
11 June in Kampala. 

reach 
agreement on the definition of the crime of aggression. 
That  is  a  breakthrough  in  many  respects  and  offers 
hope  that  the  most  serious  crimes  of  international 
concern  will  not  go  unpunished. While  we  rejoiced  in 
seeing 
to  criminalize 
aggression  bear  fruit,  we  cannot  help  expressing  our 
dissatisfaction  at  the  fact  that  the  outcome  of  the 
Conference  was  far  from  the  expectation,  especially 
since the implementation of the most promising clauses 
was postponed for at least seven years. 

its 
position that any act of aggression is of a grave nature, 
irrespective  of  its  consequences,  and  constitutes  an 
international crime. That finding cannot be affected by 
so-called understandings. Nor can we invoke resolution 
3314  (XXIX),  on  the  definition  of  aggression,  to 
distinguish  between  acts  of  aggression,  by 
their 
consequences. 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  reiterates 
The  Review  Conference  managed 
long-overdue  desire 
that 
to 
A/65/PV.41
Iran  attaches 

In  the  view  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  the 
inclusion  of  a  clear  reference  to  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  left  no  doubt  that  any  use  of  armed 
force by a State in cases other than those stated in the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  the  use  of 
armed  force  in  self-defence  if  a  State  is  the  victim  of 
an  armed  attack  and  the  use  of  armed  force  when 
authorized  by  the  Security  Council  under  Chapter VII 
of the Charter, is unlawful and should be qualified as a 
crime of aggression under resolution 3314 (XXIX). 

As  a  victim  of  an  all-out  act  of  aggression,  the 
Islamic  Republic  of 
the  utmost 
importance  to  the  process  of  defining  the  crime  of 
aggression and including it in the Rome Statute of the 
International Criminal Court. We are delighted to have 
actively  engaged  in  the  process,  as  a  result  of  which 
the International Criminal Court now has the necessary 
legal  jurisdiction  to  prosecute  the  perpetrators  of  the 
most serious crimes of international concern. However, 
the  mission  will  not  be  accomplished  until  and  unless 
we  make  sure  that  the  conditions  for  exercising  such 
jurisdiction are met. We look forward to see that vision 
come  true  in  2017,  and  we  stand  ready  to  cooperate 
constructively with others in that direction. 
the  Review 

Conference  had  no 
towards 
criminalizing  the  use  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
particularly  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons  as  the  most 
destructive  and  inhumane  weapons,  the  delegation  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  hopes  that  that  key  issue 
will  be  kept  high  on  the  agenda  of  the  next  Review 
Conference. 

My delegation takes note of paragraphs 81 to 85 
of  the  report,  concerning  developments  in  connection 
with the possible exercise  of jurisdiction by the Court 
over 
the 
Palestinian  territories  by  the  Israeli  regime. While  we 
understand  that  the  Court  is  still  examining  the 
jurisdictional  question,  we  hope  that  such  important 
technicalities  will,  in  the  end,  lead  to  justice  through 
the  prosecution  of  the  perpetrators  of  the  gravest 
crimes of international concern. 

the 
Registrar of the Court on 22 January 2009, pursuant to 
article  12,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Statute,  provides 
jurisdiction  to  the  Court  with  respect  to  the  crimes 
committed  on  the  territory  of  Palestine  since  1  July 
2002.  It  is  expected  that  the  Prosecutor  will  interpret 
The  declaration  filed  by  Palestine  with 
international  crimes  committed 
regretting 
chance 
that 
to  work 
Also,  while 
the 
in 
10-61179 

23 
faithful 
to 
to 

ignore 
international  rules  relating 
to 
the  African  Union, 
Mr.  Touray  (Sierra  Leone):  We 
A/65/PV.41 

article 12 of the Statute in such a manner that the main 
purpose of the Court, namely, ending impunity for the 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to 
the international community, will be realized. 
For  its  part,  the  International  Criminal  Court 

should  be 
its  Statute  and  general 
international  law.  That  having  been  said,  the  Court 
cannot 
the 
immunity of State officials, as recognized under article 
98 of the Rome Statute. Likewise, the referral of cases 
to 
the  Court  should  not  be  based  on  political 
motivation  or  selectivity. The  Court  should  cautiously 
take  into  account  the  consequences  that  its  decisions 
might have  on the advancement of peace and  stability 
in such cases. 
In that respect, I draw the Assembly’s attention to 

the  concerns  raised  by 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  as  well  as  many  other  countries, 
concerning  the  recent  decisions  of  the  Court  on  the 
Darfur situation. 
join  other 

delegations  in  expressing  our  sincere  condolences  and 
sympathies 
the  Governments  and  people  of 
Barbados and Argentina as they mourn the loss of their 
esteemed and dear departed leaders. 
At the outset, allow me to express my thanks and 

the  appreciation  of  my  delegation  to  the  President  of 
the Assembly for convening this debate on the report of 
the International Criminal Court contained in document 
A/65/313  and  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court, Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for presenting 
the  comprehensive  report  of  the  Court.  My  delegation 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Zambia  on  behalf  of  the 
African  States  parties  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court and would like to make a few comments from a 
national perspective. 
Sierra  Leone  welcomes  the  annual  report  of  the 

International  Criminal  Court  and 
the  significant 
judicial  progress  made  by  the  Court.  My  delegation 
also  congratulates  the  Government  of  Uganda,  the 
Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
Statute,  States  parties  and  other  States,  non-
governmental organizations, civil society organizations 
and  all 
in  diverse  ways  contributed 
immensely  to  the  successful  outcome  of  the  Review 
Conference of the Rome Statute held in Kampala from 
those  who 
24 

31 May to 11 June. The historic achievements made in 
Uganda, including the adoption of the definition of the 
crime of aggression and the conditions for the exercise 
of  jurisdiction  regarding  such  crimes,  form  a  major 
milestone in the development of international criminal 
justice. 

The universality of the Rome Statute is critical in 
the fight against impunity. In that vein, my delegation 
welcomes  the  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  by 
Seychelles,  Bangladesh,  Saint  Lucia  and  the  Republic 
of Moldova. We encourage States that are not parties to 
consider becoming members of the Rome Statute. As is 
the case for other international courts and tribunals — 
such  as 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda,  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the 
former  Yugoslavia  and  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra 
Leone  —  cooperation  continues  to  be  the  main 
challenge facing the International Criminal Court. With 
regard  to  the  diversity  in  the  situations  of  the  various 
courts  in  terms  of  mandate,  local  situations,  political 
will  and  methods  of  funding,  to  mention  a  few  areas 
applicable  to  each  of  those  ad  hoc  tribunals,  specific 
lessons learned in terms of cooperation as experienced 
in each case could be of tremendous significance to the 
International  Criminal  Court.  We  therefore  underline 
the  need  for  each  and  every  State  to  do  everything 
within its power to cooperate with and provide support 
for  the  Court  in  the  implementation  of  its  judicial 
mandate. We should always remember that the Court’s 
potential for deterrence lies mainly in the likelihood of 
the  threat  of  prosecution  being  carried  out.  Any 
dilution  of  that  threat  makes  the  worldwide  fight 
against  impunity  and  the  role  of  the  Court  within  that 
process  much  more  difficult  and  the  risk  of  failure 
greater. 
As we all know, the International Criminal Court 

does not have the advantage of being focused only on 
one  situation.  It  operates  in  situations  that  can  be 
volatile and where the security situation can vary from 
day  to  day.  It  operates  in  situations  where  there  are 
difficulties  in  spreading  information  and  where  the 
infrastructure  is  usually  challenging  at  best. We  know 
that  type  of  situation  very  well;  not  so  long  ago  that 
was  the  situation  facing  my  country.  Just  one  decade 
ago we were in a state of crisis, but as of now we have 
peace,  we  have  justice  and  we  have  a  functioning 
democratic  system.  Many  challenges  await  us,  but  we 
are  in  a  good  position  to  meet  those  challenges.  One 
reason  for  our  success  is  that  we  faced  the  need  for 
10-61179 


accountability  head-on  and  took  steps  to  address  that 
need. 

Of  course,  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone 
cannot  and  does  not  claim  sole  responsibility  for  our 
change  of  fortune. That  credit  may  be  claimed  by  the 
good men and women of Sierra Leone and the existing 
political  will  backed  by  the  support  and  assistance  of 
the  international  community  and  our  good  bilateral 
partners. Nevertheless, the Special Court has in its own 
way made an important  contribution to  the restoration 
of  the  rule  of  law,  which  has  helped  us  to  move 
forward.  It  has  done  so  by  being  present  in  the 
everyday  life  of  our  country,  by  not  interfering  in 
politics  or  internal  matters  and  by  being  there  and 
making  an  effort  to  be  known  and  understood  and  to 
engage  with  all  Sierra  Leoneans.  Here  we  want  to 
reaffirm and acknowledge the support and cooperation 
of  the  international  community,  the  people  of  Sierra 
Leone and civil society organizations. 

In the area of complementarity, we recognized the 
fact  that  the  role  of  national  jurisdictions  is  crucial  in 
the  prosecution  of  the  perpetrators  of  war  crimes, 
crimes against humanity and genocide. Because of that, 
our  Government  has  drafted 
the 
domestication  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  is  currently 
collaborating  with  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone 
on  the  establishment  of  a  witness  and  victim  support 
unit within the national judiciary. Thus, all actions and 
activities  through  potential  partner  countries  aimed  at 
supporting  national 
their 
obligations  under  the  Rome  Statute  —  including 
related activities, like those of the Rule of Law Unit of 
the United Nations, aimed at strengthening the rule of 
law  and  domestic  systems  —  are  pivotal  in  the  fight 
against impunity. 

Justice  must  be  protected,  as  justice  is  a  critical 
component  of  peace.  Without  justice,  there  can  be  no 
peace,  and  without  peace  the  lives  of  hundreds  of 
thousands of people are put in jeopardy, right now and 
for future generations. We must not allow a weakening 
of  international  criminal  justice  processes;  we  must, 
instead, support them, promote them, protect them and 
defend  them.  This  is  the  only  way  forward  to  lasting 
peace and a prosperous future for all. 

To conclude, my delegation reiterates its support 
for  the  Court  as  a  key  element  in  the  restoration  of 
peace  and  international  rule  of  law.  To  maximize  its 
potential,  we  must  continue  our  efforts  towards  the 
jurisdictions 
in  meeting 
a  bill 
for 
A/65/PV.41
the  fact 
the  President  of 
universal ratification and implementation of the Rome 
Statute,  we  must  provide  the  Court  with  clear  and 
steady  cooperation  and,  above  all,  we  must  assist  the 
Court  by  providing 
it  with  clear  guidance  and 
constructive  support.  We  recognize 
that 
capacity-building  is  the  key  to  the  realization  of  that 
objective. 
Mr.  Morejón  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): The 

delegation  of  Ecuador  is  pleased,  Sir,  to  see  you 
presiding  and  with  the  way  you  are  conducting  this 
portion of the debate. 
The delegation of Ecuador has taken due note of 

the  report  by 
the  International 
Criminal  Court,  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  contained  in 
document A/65/313, and we thank him. 

Ecuador  is  happy  to  note  an  increase  in  the 
number of States parties to the Rome Statute, with the 
accession  of  four  new  States,  Bangladesh,  Seychelles, 
Saint Lucia and the Republic of Moldova. The current 
total  of  114  States  parties  to  the  Statute  confirms  the 
trend  within  the  international  community  to  take 
decisive action to counter impunity. 

Ecuador attended and actively participated in the 
Review Conference of the Rome Statute that took place 
in  May  and  June  2010  in  Kampala.  We  take  this 
opportunity to reiterate to  the people  and Government 
of  Uganda  our  thanks  for  the  hospitality  that  we 
enjoyed  during  the  Review  Conference.  The  subjects 
discussed  during 
the  Conference  are  of  critical 
importance,  and  support  for  the  objectives  of  that 
historic event will ensure that progress is made in fine-
tuning the international criminal justice system. 

In  Ecuador’s  view,  the  principle  of  combating 
impunity  is  of  absolute  importance;  it  is  even  written 
into Ecuadorian law. Indeed, my country’s Constitution 
itself  states  in  article  80  that  no  statute  of  limitations 
shall  apply  to  crimes  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity,  war  crimes  and  crimes  of  aggression. 
Ecuador opposed article 124 of the Statute, because we 
cannot  condone  the  inclusion  of  a  measure  that  might 
open the way to impunity for a given State perpetrating 
one of the crimes identified in Ecuador’s Constitution. 

Along those lines, when it comes to taking stock 
of international criminal justice, and specifically on the 
theme  of  peace  and  justice,  we  must  remain  realistic. 
Although  the  International  Criminal  Court  has  not 
existed  for  very  long,  experience  has  shown  us  that 
10-61179 

25 

in 
and 
like 
truth 
adopted 
that  undertakings 
A/65/PV.41 

impunity  cannot  be  accepted,  even  in  the  interests  of 
peace, 
and 
reconciliation  commissions  will  only  be  effective  if 
they go hand in hand with punishment of the guilty. 

We  would  like  to  echo  what  was  said  by  the 
representative of Argentina, namely, that the Secretary-
General  must  be  urged  to  submit  to  States  parties  the 
amendments 
the  Kampala  Review 
Conference  and  to  urge  those  States  to  ratify  them  as 
soon as possible. 
In any case and to conclude, Ecuador, as an active 

member of the Rome Statute, reiterates its support for 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  We  agree  with  the 
President of the Court, Judge Sang-Hyun Song, that the 
Review Conference provided an impetus to disseminate 
and  strengthen  the  influence  of  the  Rome  Statute  in 
national  jurisdictions.  Furthermore,  we  agree  that  the 
United Nations is the only forum in which to carry that 
process forward. 
Mr. Nickels (United States of America): We wish 

to  join  others  who  have  expressed  condolences  to  the 
people  of  Barbados  on  the  death  of  Prime  Minister 
David  John  Howard  Thompson.  We  also  wish  to 
express our condolences to the people of Argentina on 
the death of former President Néstor Kirchner. 

We  would  also  like  to  thank  President  Song  for 
his report contained in document A/65/313 and for his 
service  to  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC). 
Although the United States is not a party to the Rome 
Statute,  we  too  have  an  abiding  interest  in  seeing  the 
Court  successfully  complete  the  prosecutions  it  has 
begun. As President Obama’s national security strategy 
states,  “the  end  of  impunity  and  the  promotion  of 
justice  are  not 
they  are 
stabilizing forces in international affairs”. 

The United States remains steadfastly committed 
to  promoting  the  rule  of  law  and  to  helping  to  bring 
violators  of  international  humanitarian  law  to  justice, 
and  will  continue  to  play  a  leadership  role  in  righting 
wrongs  of  that  type.  As  we  have  emphasized,  we 
cannot  ignore  the  terrible  crimes  that  have  been 
perpetrated, wherever they might have occured, and the 
massive human suffering that the world has witnessed. 
The  International  Criminal  Court  plays  a  key  role  in 
bringing perpetrators of the worst atrocities to justice. 

The United States was pleased to participate as an 
observer at the Review Conference of the Rome Statute 
imperatives; 
just  moral 
in 
the 
few 
that 
in  Kampala  and  at  the  meetings  of  the  Assembly  of 
States  Parties  in  The  Hague  and  New  York  that 
preceded  it.  We  sent  a  large  observer  delegation  to 
Kampala  and  participated  actively  in  the  stocktaking 
exercise,  in  the  many  important  and  stimulating  side 
events  and 
substantive  discussions  of 
amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute.  The  United  States 
Government  co-sponsored  a  side  event  on  positive 
complementarity  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  which  has  provided  an  important  foundation 
for our work on the issue since Kampala. Moreover, we 
were  the  only  non-party  State  to  make  pledges.  We 
hope  that  our  active  and  principled  engagement  has 
helped  to  enhance  the  discussions  and  to  improve  the 
outcomes of Kampala, including the outcome regarding 
the crime of aggression. 
We  recognize  that  the  amendments  adopted  at 

Kampala  were  a  compromise 
if  any 
delegations consider perfect. My delegation’s concerns, 
in particular about the possibility of investigations and 
prosecutions  under  article  15  bis,  in  cases  where  the 
Security  Council  has  not  determined  that  an  act  of 
aggression  has  occurred,  are  well  known.  We  believe 
that  it  was  wise  for  the  States  parties  to  subject  the 
exercise  of  ICC  jurisdiction  under  that  provision  to  a 
decision  to  be  taken  after  1  January  2017.  That  will 
provide breathing space in which measures that require 
attention  can  be  considered  and  in  which  progress  on 
other issues facing the international community — the 
effort  to  ensure  accountability  for  perpetrators  of  war 
crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and  genocide  —  can 
be consolidated. 

We note that the resolutions under which both the 
aggression amendments and the amendments under the 
so-called  Belgian  amendment  were  adopted 
in 
Kampala  state  that  the  amendments  are  subject  to 
ratification  or  acceptance  and  shall  enter  into  force  in 
accordance with article 121, paragraph 5, of the Rome 
the  provisions  do  not  provide 
Statute.  As  such, 
authority 
jurisdiction 
regarding 
the 
nationals of a State that does not ratify them or on the 
territory of such a State. 
In  conclusion,  the  United  States  would  like  to 

again  extend  our  thanks  to  the  States  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute 
that  our 
participation has been received over the past year after 
such  a  long  absence  from  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties  meetings.  We  would  also  in  particular  like  to 
for 
those  crimes  when  committed  by 
the  gracious  way 
to  exercise 
the  Court 
for 
26 

10-61179 
its  warm 
the  Government  of  Uganda  for 
We  look  forward  to  continued  engagement  with 


thank 
hospitality at the Review Conference. 

the States parties to the Rome Statute. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  on  agenda  item  73,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Criminal Court”. 

I  would  like  to  once  again  welcome  the  new 
accessions to the International Criminal Court, namely, 
Saint 
of  Moldova,  

Lucia, 
the 
Republic 
A/65/PV.41
Bangladesh  and  Seychelles. Allow  me  also  to  express 
sympathy  and  extend  condolences  to  the  Government 
and  people  of  Barbados  on  the  passing  of  their  Prime 
Minister,  Mr.  David  Thompson.  I  would  also  like  to 
express  sympathy  and  extend  condolences  to  the 
Government and people of Argentina on the passing of 
former President Néstor Kirchner. 

stage of its consideration of agenda item 73. 


The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
  The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. 
10-61179 

27 
