
A/65/PV.22
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

22nd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 28 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
in  unison 
to  support 
role  model 
the  current  situation  and 
must  encourage  States  to  possess  and  use  nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes. We have  affirmed many 
times  that  the  voluntary  initiative  of  our  country  to 
reject all activities related to the production of prohibited 
materials  should  be  a 
for  countries 
possessing, or seeking to possess, nuclear power. 

The  United  Nations  was  established  to  meet  the 
needs  and  concerns  of  Member  States.  An  honest  and 
strict  evaluation  of 
the 
Organization’s achievements shows that we still need to 
work 
it.  Here  we  should 
contemplate  the  suggestions  of  our  brother,  the  Leader 
of the Revolution, Colonel Muammar Al-Qadhafi, in his 
address to the Assembly during the sixty-fourth session. 

The United Nations is at a crossroads. It must be 
reformed  in  order  to  achieve  equality  for  all  States. 
This is the real reform to which we all aspire: that the 
General Assembly become the main legislature, the organ 
that can produce binding resolutions, as it represents the 
real  parliament  of  the  world.  The  Security  Council,  on 
the 
tool, 
implementing the resolutions of the Assembly. We have 
time and again called for permanent membership to be 
given  to  certain  Member  States,  but,  in  order  for  the 
Council to accommodate small States as well, the ideal 
solution  is  to  give  Security  Council  membership  to 
regional  groups.  That  would  secure  the  representation 
on  the  Council  of  all  nations,  without  the  exclusive 
veto right, which is contrary to democracy. 

The African  continent,  which  has  been  deprived 
of  fair  representation  on  the  Security  Council,  should 
should  be 
executive 
contrary, 
the 





  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Musa  Abdussalam  Kousa, 
Secretary  of  the  General  People’s  Committee  for 
Foreign  Liaison  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamarihiya. 
Mr.  Kousa  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  I  am  happy  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  to  preside  over  the  General Assembly  during 
the  current  session.  I  wish  you  every  success  in 
managing our business. 

It  would  be  remiss  of  me  not  to  express  our 
appreciation to your predecessor for his efforts during his 
stewardship of the Assembly during the previous session. 

I also wish to express the appreciation and thanks 
of  my  delegation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
efforts  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security,  which  will  not  be  achieved  until  the  world 
gets  rid  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
implements 
the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
(NPT) with respect to all, without distinction. 
I  remind  the  Assembly  that  my  country  has 

stressed the important need to amend the NPT so as to 
enable 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) to perform its tasks and verify the reduction of 
nuclear  arsenals,  whose  existence 
the  most 
dangerous  threat  to  mankind.  Equally  important,  we 

the 
is 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55276 (E) 
*1055276* 



A/65/PV.22 

have  a  permanent  seat. That  is  a  legitimate  request.  It 
would  put  the  African  continent  on  an  equal  footing 
with  all  the  other  geopolitical  groupings.  The  speedy 
pace  of  development  in  developing  countries  and  the 
need to narrow the painful gap between the developing 
and developed countries require international cooperation 
within the framework of a new and effective partnership. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  the  underdevelopment 
and  poverty  of  most  nations  are  the  remnants  of 
colonization and plunder, the theft of their resources and 
the illegal usurping of their riches. The former colonizers 
should  apologize  for  those  actions.  It  is  time  the 
Assembly  took  the  necessary  measures  to  criminalize 
colonialism, put the blame on the countries concerned and 
make them accountable for their historical responsibilities. 

Nations  suffered  immensely  from  the  two  world 
wars,  after  which  the  United  Nations  was  established. 
Since then the world has witnessed wars of aggression 
and illegal interventions which are a flagrant violation 
of all international customs and conventions. 

The  invasion  of  Iraq  is  a  shameful  example  of 
such  unfair  and  heinous  wars.  In  order  to  achieve 
international justice, the United Nations is called upon 
to  establish  an  international  investigative  panel  to 
understand  the  motivation  behind  the  invasion  and  to 
investigate 
the  mass  killings  and  executions  of 
prisoners of war, including the head of State. 

the 
Revolution,  our  brother,  Colonel  Muammar Al-Qadhafi, 
also raised the question of the political assassination of 
many  personalities, 
including  Dag  Hammarskjöld, 
John Kennedy, Patrice Lumumba, Martin Luther King, 
Maurice  Bishop  and  many  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization leaders. Those assassinations shocked the 
conscience of the world and created anger and rage the 
world  over.  However,  justice  was  not  done;  the 
perpetrators  enjoyed,  and  continue  to  enjoy,  impunity. 
My  country  has  called  for  an  effective  international 
instrument  to  secure  an  honest  investigation  of  all  the 
circumstances that led to the assassinations.  

the  United 
Nations  has  been  suggested.  We  all  know  that  certain 
considerations  were  in  play  in  choosing  the  host 
country for the current Headquarters. But for the good 
conduct  of  our  work,  and  to  facilitate  the  work  of  the 
diplomatic  missions  accredited  to  the  United  Nations, 
it  is  imperative  to  choose  another  Headquarters,  in 
another  country. We  must  study  all  the  bids  presented 
An  alternative  Headquarters  for 
the  Leader  of 
At 
this  forum 
last  year, 

We  must  distinguish  between 
by other countries, at the forefront of which is the offer 
by the Jamahiriya to host the Headquarters. 

Anti-personnel mines are weapons used by weak 
States to defend their territories against invaders and to 
protect themselves. Strong and mighty States do not need 
such weapons, because they possess advanced arsenals. In 
this connection, the Convention on the Prohibition of the 
Use,  Stockpiling,  Production  and  Transfer  of  Anti-
Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, the Ottawa 
Treaty,  should  be  amended  in  a  way  that  takes  into 
account the security interests of small States. The drafters 
should have included a provision for compensation to be 
paid to the States where such mines have been planted. 
My country suggests a review of the Treaty. 

the  heinous 
phenomenon  of  terrorism  and  the  deliberate  biased 
distortion of the struggle of nations languishing under 
occupation.  The  Palestinian  people  are  waging  an 
incredible  struggle  against  enemies  nourished  by  a 
racist  creed,  who  deny  the  right  of  that  oppressed 
people to existence and self-determination. 

The world understands the suffering and losses of 
the  Palestinian  people  over  62  years.  We  cannot  deny 
the  facts  of  history.  This  question  cannot  be  settled 
through  the  so-called  peace  process,  because  it  will  go 
on indefinitely. The solution, rather, is the establishment 
of  one  democratic  State  in  which  all  can  coexist, 
without  discrimination, 
the 
suggestion by our brother Muammar Al-Qadhafi in his 
“White Book” regarding Isratine.
In  the  framework  of  strengthening  cooperation 

between the States of the South and those of the North, 
my  country  is  to  play  host  in  October  to  an  Arab-
African  summit.  We  shall  also  host,  in  November,  a 
summit of Africa and the European Union, which will 
be  a  major  transformation  in  the  relationship  between 
all  the  States  concerned.  We  call  on  all  stakeholders 
and  all  States  to  take  part  in  the  two  summits  at  the 
highest level, as they are of prime importance. 

In current circumstances, and in the framework of 
today’s  challenges,  we  have  great  hope  that  bold 
measures  will  be  taken  to  strengthen  the  General 
Assembly,  its  authority  and  effectiveness  so  that  it 
better represents the interests of all nations. 
The President (spoke in French): I now call on His 

Excellency Mr. Sayid Badr bin Hamad Al-Busaidi, State 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Sultanate of Oman.  
in  accordance  with 
2 

10-55276 



Mr. Al-Busaidi (Oman) (spoke in Arabic): It gives 
me  great  pleasure  to  offer  you,  Sir,  and  your  friendly 
country,  Switzerland,  our  warmest  congratulations  on 
your election to preside over the sixty-fifth session of the 
General assembly. I also wish to express our appreciation 
to your predecessor, Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, of the 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  for  his  fruitful  efforts  in 
conducting the deliberations of the previous session. 

For  more  than  65  years,  since  its  inception,  the 
United Nations has registered tangible achievements. It 
has  offered  assistance  and  expertise  in  the  socio-
economic and environmental spheres, as well as in the 
cause  of  international  security  and  peace,  and  has 
contributed  to  the  establishment  of  stability  in  a 
number of regions of the world. 

The Sultanate of Oman hopes that at this session 
the Assembly will make unprecedented progress in our 
shared  pursuit  of  international  peace  and  security,  as 
well as prosperity. 

The  international  community  meets  today  in 
challenging times, faced with a whole range of thorny 
issues,  from  ongoing  political  instability  to  security 
challenges, financial crises, economic and environmental 
problems, the nuclear question and non-proliferation. It 
may  be  useful  to  recall  here  the  lesson  that  such 
challenges  can  best  be  met  through  dialogue  and 
positive participation by all, aimed at arresting threats 
to international peace and security. 

The  floods  in  Pakistan  led  to  the  dislocation  of 
more  than  20  million  Pakistanis,  who  have  lost  their 
homes  and  are  still  experiencing  tragic  suffering, 
despite  the  continuing  international  rescue  efforts. 
More outside assistance, expertise  and  capabilities are 
needed  to  help  Pakistan  overcome  this  tragedy  and 
mitigate  its  consequences  on  the  ground,  as  well  as 
push ahead with the reconstruction process. 

Those floods, the volcanic eruption in Iceland and 
the H1N1 epidemic, for example, are recent phenomena 
that have highlighted how interconnected the States of 
the  world  are  and 
international 
cooperation. What affects one corner of the world can 
truly have sweeping impacts across the globe. 

The  United  Nations,  its  specialized  agencies  and 
legal organs were established after devastating wars, in 
the  aftermath  of  the  First  and  Second  World  Wars. 
Although the international community has not yet been 
able  to  find  the  means  to  resolve  complex  political 
the  need 
for 
10-55276 

A/65/PV.22
problems, 
the  United  Nations  offers  multilateral 
mechanisms  and  goals  that  have  played  an  enormous 
part  in  the  reduction  or  neutralization  of  many  crises. 
In  addition,  it  plays  key  roles  in  helping  developing 
countries  in  numerous  specialized  fields  related  to 
socio-economic development and the protection of the 
environment. 

We  believe  that  the  effectiveness  of  the  United 
Nations must reach a new level. This requires that the 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  accept  a 
reorganization  of  the  United  Nations,  including  an 
expansion of its administrative base, with fair management 
of world trade interests, in a way which makes Member 
States feel that it is an Organization for all. 

We  look  forward  to  seeing  the  international 
community  conduct  a  comprehensive  review  of  the 
requirements  for  international  peace  and  security,  in 
view  of  all  the  lessons  learned  from  wars  in  the  past 
century and in this century. 

We  also  look  forward,  Mr.  President,  along  with 
you  and  all  Member  States,  to  a  world  of  lasting 
security,  characterized  by  good 
intentions  and 
confidence  in  the  future,  a  world  where  all  peoples 
enjoy shining freedom and the beauty of life. We look 
forward to the day when dialogue prevails on the basis 
of accepting the other, regardless of social and cultural 
variations  between  human  communities.  We  believe 
that  dialogue  between  Governments,  which  differ  in 
their  perspectives  on  issues,  will  lead  to  a  clearer 
system of global partnership and coexistence, in which 
development, welfare and prosperity prevail. 

The Sultanate of Oman believes strongly that part 
of its responsibilities in the context of development is 
to  make  the  Omani  person  the  effective  mover  of  the 
wheel  of  development.  Therefore,  my  country  has 
dedicated  all  resources  towards  that  goal,  especially 
with regard to education at all levels and medical care 
for every individual. 
The  people  of  Oman  and  their  Government  play 

their  roles  in  society  and  participate  effectively  in 
everything  concerning  the  life  of  the  Omani  citizen 
through  the  Council  of  Oman,  with  its  two  chambers: 
the Council of State and the Consultative Council. The 
role of the Omani citizen along the path of his country’s 
development  is  central  and  indispensable,  stemming 
from  the  firm  conviction  of  the  leader  of  Oman’s 
renaissance, His Majesty Sultan Qaboos Bin Said, that 
life  is  created  for  mankind,  male  and  female,  that 
3 

A/65/PV.22 

freedom  is  the  core  of  life,  and  that  free  positive 
expression  is  the  seed  of  creativity,  which  is  the  fuel 
for  development.  With  that  insightful  vision  of  His 
Majesty, the Sultanate of Oman is moving towards the 
future with firm determination. 

We wish to stress our strong belief in the absolute 
necessity of finding a solution to the chronic conflict in 
the  Middle  East.  Although  we  support  the  direct 
negotiations  between  the  Palestinians  and  the  Israelis, 
sponsored  by  the  United  States  of  America,  we  still 
feel  that  the  Israeli  policy  is  vague  with  regard  to 
accepting Israel’s responsibility towards the requirements 
of peace: the establishment of an independent, sovereign 
and  viable  Palestinian State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital, and Israel’s withdrawal from all Arab lands to 
the borders of 4 June 1967. 

We  look  forward  to  an  active,  positive  and 
continuing  role  by  United  States  President  Barack 
Obama  in  order  to  reach  a  just  and  comprehensive 
settlement.  We  call  upon  Israel  to  grasp  this  historic 
opportunity  to  establish  partnership  in  peace  and 
security with the Arab countries. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Aurelia  Frick,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, Justice and Cultural Affairs of the Principality 
of Liechtenstein. 
Ms. Frick (Liechtenstein): It is a great honour for 

me to speak to the Assembly today, 20 years after the 
admission  of  Liechtenstein  to  the  United  Nations. 
Membership  of  the  United  Nations  is  one  of  the 
cornerstones  of  our  foreign  policy  and  the  central 
platform  for  global  diplomatic  contacts.  A  strong 
United  Nations,  with  a  strong  General Assembly,  is  a 
matter of self-interest to us. 

It is therefore a special pleasure, Sir, to welcome 
you  in  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly.  We  look 
forward  to  working  under  your  leadership.  You  have 
already shown wise leadership by placing this general 
debate under the broad theme of global governance, the 
discussion  most  urgently  needed 
the  General 
Assembly,  which  is  the  main  deliberative  body  of  the 
Organization.  

The  very  purpose  of  the  Charter  was  in  fact  to 
establish  a  system  of  global  governance,  with  the 
United  Nations  at  its  centre.  Today,  we  must  ask 
ourselves:  Is  the  United  Nations  still  at  the  centre  of 
global governance? How does it relate to a number of 
in 
is  and  remains 
other  rising  actors  in  the  ever  more  crowded  field  of 
international  relations?  How  can  we  improve  global 
governance so that it better serves our peoples? 

There  can  be  no  doubt,  to  our  mind,  that  global 
governance  can  only  be  effective  if  it  is  truly  global. 
That  means  global  not  only  in  reach,  but  also  in 
participation.  A  system  where  a  few  make  decisions 
that  everyone  else  is  expected  to  implement  would  be 
not only be unjust, but also ineffective. Past experience 
has  shown  time  and  again  that  multilateral  action  can 
be very effective when it is based on a broad political 
consensus, which is not the same as giving everyone a 
right to veto. 

A strong fundamental agreement among States is 
the  only  way  to  ensure  that  decisions  are  effectively 
put  into  practice.  The  place  where  such  decisions  are 
possible,  where  genuine  political  consensus  can  be 
forged, 
the  United  Nations.  We 
therefore have to invest in the United Nations to make 
the improvements that are required, instead of looking 
for solutions outside. 

It is with this general philosophy in mind that we 
view  efforts  by  different  groupings,  most  prominently 
the  Group  of  20,  to  discuss  questions  of  global  reach. 
We  certainly  welcome 
largest 
developed  nations  and  the  most  powerful  emerging 
Powers gather to discuss matters that affect the global 
economic and financial architecture.  

The recent crisis has illustrated how important — 
indeed, indispensable — common action by the Group 
of 20 in such situations can be. And more is to be done 
to  address  the  systemic  issues  that  led  to  the  crisis  in 
the  first  place.  We  will  continue  to  support  those 
activities. At the same time, inclusion and participation 
should be placed higher on the Group’s agenda, and its 
work should be better integrated with that of the United 
Nations  system.  The  quality  of  the  discussions  within 
the Group of 20 and the effectiveness of their outcomes 
would  greatly  benefit  from  an  approach  based  on 
“variable  geometry”  —  bringing  in  the  views  of  all 
those  who  are  directly  affected  by  the  subject  matter 
under consideration.  
We are therefore an active member of the Global 

Governance  Group,  coordinated  by  Singapore,  which 
seeks  to  promote  the  principles  of  inclusion  and 
participation.  We  are  grateful  to  the  hosts  of  the  next 
two Group of 20 summits, Korea and France, for their 
constructive  exchange  with  Global  Governance  Group 
the  fact 
that 
the 
4 

10-55276 
is 
increasingly  undermined  by 


Ministers  yesterday  here  in  New  York.  We  look 
forward to continuing this dialogue. 

We  welcome  the  work  of  the  Group  of  20  and 
other  groupings  that  seek  to  contribute  to  global 
solutions. At the same time, they can only deal with a 
limited number of issues. And, more importantly, they 
can  never  be  a  substitute  for  genuine  multilateralism, 
which  must  continue  to  take  place  inside  the  United 
Nations.  But  we  can  only  safeguard  this  central  place 
of  the  United  Nations  if  we  can  put  it  to  use  to  find 
effective solutions to problems such as climate change, 
disarmament  and  other  areas  where  results  have  been 
insufficient.  If  we  continue  to  underachieve  in  the 
United Nations framework, we must not be surprised if 
solutions are sought elsewhere. 

The United Nations continues to be the centre of 
global governance in the area of peace and security, the 
domain  of  the  Security  Council.  The  Council  has  the 
power to make decisions that are binding upon Member 
States,  including  on  the  use  of  force.  This  is  the 
strongest  tool  available  in  international  law.  Yet  its 
effectiveness 
the 
perception  that  decisions  of  the  Council  lack  the 
required political legitimacy.  

A  central  ingredient  of  that  perception  is  the 
Council’s  composition.  Everybody  agrees  that  it  no 
longer reflects today’s geopolitical realities. And yet an 
agreement to change it has been elusive for well over a 
decade. We believe that there could be a middle ground 
in  the  negotiations:  the  creation  of  a  new  category  of 
seats  allowing  States  to  serve  permanently  on  the 
Council, if the wider membership elects them to do so, 
on  a  recurrent  basis.  It  seems  to  us  the  only  logical 
approach  towards  a  compromise,  given  the  various 
positions around the table.  

But  the  principal  question  may  well  be  one  of 
timing.  If  States  increasingly  believe  that  the  Security 
Council  can  only  be  reformed  in  a  climate  of  serious 
institutional crisis, a view with which we disagree, then 
we  must  reconsider  the  wisdom  of  trying  to  find  a 
negotiated solution at this time. 

Of  no  less  importance  for  the  legitimacy  of  the 
Council’s  work  is  the  way  in  which  it  arrives  at  its 
decisions.  Addressing  the  way  in  which  the  Council 
conducts  its  work  is  one  of  the  biggest  governance 
challenges we face in the United Nations system. If the 
Council is indeed to carry out its functions on behalf of 
the  entire  membership,  as  mandated  by  the  Charter,  it 
A/65/PV.22
The  role  of 
the  United  Nations 
must  be  ready  to  listen  to  those  it  represents  — 
especially when they are directly affected by its work. 

The  group  of  small  five  countries,  of  which  we 
are  a  member,  has  over  the  last  few  years  initiated  a 
process of reflection and gradual improvements that is 
very  much  in  the  interests  of  the  Council  itself.  We 
look forward  to continuing this process, with both the 
permanent and the elected members of the Council. 

in  global 
governance depends not only on the performance of its 
intergovernmental organs, but to a great degree also on 
the performance of the Secretariat. This is an enormous 
responsibility  on  the  shoulders  of  all  our  international 
civil servants, especially the Secretary-General himself.  

We  saw  a  few  years  ago  how  much  damage  this 
Organization can suffer from management failures and 
system  breakdowns  in  the  areas  of  procurement  and 
accountability.  A  number  of  important  reforms  have 
been  undertaken  since.  Most  notably,  we  have 
strengthened internal oversight and accountability. But 
can  we  be  confident  that  we  have  now  appropriately 
managed  the  risk  of  another  system  breakdown  in  the 
future? Clearly, more needs to be done in this area, in 
particular to fully implement some of the management 
reform measures already taken. 

The  strongest  emerging  tool  in  our  system  of 
global governance is the dimension of justice. We have 
made  tremendous  normative  and  institutional  progress 
in this area in the recent past. At the same time, we are 
struggling  with  the  challenge  to  reconcile  peace  and 
justice in particular. How can we balance the dignity of 
victims  and  the  justice  owed  to  them  with  the 
likelihood  of  preventing  further  crimes?  That  is  a 
choice nobody will want to face. 

shows 
is  no 
contradiction  between  peace  and  justice  over  the  long 
run. And  there  is  a  broad  international  consensus  that 
there  can  be  no  impunity  for  the  worst  crimes  under 
international law, and therefore no amnesties.  

Given  the  massive  crimes  committed  against 
civilian  populations  all  over  the  world,  this  common 
stance against impunity is more important than ever. It is 
embodied  by  the  International  Criminal  Court,  whose 
effects are felt across the globe. Most important, though, 
it  is  also  leading  States  to  make  greater  efforts  to  fulfil 
their obligations to investigate and prosecute domestically. 
These are developments of truly historic dimensions.  
But 
experience 
that 
there 
10-55276 

5 

the 
The  challenges 
justice  dimension 
A/65/PV.22 

We  are  only  at  the  beginning  of  our  efforts  to 

integrate 
into  our  overall 
governance  structure.  This  integration  will  not  be  a 
quick or easy process. But we must not shy away from 
these discussions, and we have to approach them with 
both an open mind and a determination to stand firmly 
on the principle of fighting impunity. 

in  global  governance  are 
numerous and interlinked. The governance architecture 
reflected  in  the  Charter  gives  us  the  possibility  of 
addressing  them.  It  is  up  to  us  to  make  the  necessary 
political investments to make this system work for our 
peoples. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Kamel  Morjane,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Tunisia. 
Mr.  Morjane  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First, 

Sir,  I  warmly  congratulate  you  and  the  friendly  Swiss 
Confederation  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session,  and  wish 
you  every  success  in  your  noble  mission.  We  are 
convinced  that  your  great  political  and  diplomatic 
experience  will  provide  the  best  conditions  for  the 
success of this session and enrich its contents. This will 
help  achieve  the  objectives  and  aspirations  we  all 
cherish, especially as regards the theme of the general 
debate:  “Reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations in global governance”. 

I take this opportunity to renew my congratulations 
to  Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  and  to  the  sisterly  Great 
Socialist  People’s  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  for  his 
valuable efforts as President at the sixty-fourth session, 
his  deep  knowledge  of  international  affairs  and  his 
wise  approach  in  dealing  with  crucial,  complex  and 
delicate issues, thus serving the interests of our peoples 
and  nations  and  enhancing  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly in international relations. 

I also wish to express my great respect to Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon,  the  Secretary-General,  for  his  commendable 
efforts at the head of the Secretariat to further enhance 
the  position  of  our  prestigious  Organization  and 
promote its performance, so that it can meet the many 
challenges  posed  on  the  international  scene.  In  this 
context, Tunisia reaffirms its support for all the efforts 
of the Secretary-General, and of the United Nations in 
general,  to  promote  peace,  stability,  security  and 
development in all countries of the world. 

Tunisia  highly  values  the  important  historic  step 
made  during  the  previous  session  in  the  process  of 
reforming the United Nations. I refer to the adoption of 
resolution  64/289,  which  reaffirms  the  importance  we 
all  attach  to  the  development  of  the  United  Nations 
system and the promotion of complementarity between 
its  activities  and  programmes.  That  applies  especially 
to those pertaining to women, for whom a new unified 
Entity has been created to deal with all issues related to 
gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women.  I 
take this opportunity to renew our congratulations to its 
head, Ms. Bachelet. We wish her every success. 

Under the leadership of President Zine El Abidine 
Ben  Ali,  Tunisia  attaches  crucial  importance  to  these 
issues.  Women,  in  fact,  have  a  strategic  role  in  our 
civilizational  project,  and  are  considered  a  partner  in 
making all our national choices. Tunisia strongly believes 
that  democracy  cannot  be  built,  and  comprehensive 
development  cannot  be  achieved,  without  the  active 
involvement of women in public life, and that promoting 
society  to  higher  levels  depends  on  enhancing  the 
conditions  of  women  in  all  fields.  This  conviction 
stems  from  our  vision  of  human  rights  in  their 
comprehensiveness, inseparability and complementarity. 

The prestigious status that Tunisian women enjoy 
today is confirmed by figures and indicators pertaining 
to human development and women’s involvement in all 
fields. They now represent 30 per cent of the country’s 
working population. They hold 30 per cent of decision-
making positions and other positions of responsibility. 
They  represent  33  per  cent  of  the  judicial  corps  — 
judges  and  lawyers  —  and  42  per  cent  of  the  medical 
corps. In higher education, girls account for 60 per cent 
of  the  total  number  of  students.  In  the  legislative 
branch, women’s presence has been reinforced to reach 
30 per cent in the Chamber of Deputies and 16 per cent 
in the Chamber of Advisers. 
It  is  indeed  a  source  of  pride  for  Tunisia  to  be 

ranked  first 
terms  of  fighting 
violence against women and guaranteeing their right to 
free movement and ownership of property, to be ranked 
first  in  the  Arab  world  in  terms  of  offering  women 
opportunities  for  economic  participation,  and  to  be 
ranked  first  in Africa  in  terms  of  women’s  per  capita 
income. 

The  Tunisian  presidency  of  the  Arab  Women 
Organization  (AWO),  in  the  person  of  Tunisia’s  first 
lady, is in line with that approach. Mrs. Leila Ben Ali 
internationally 
in 
6 

10-55276 
that 
reconciles 


has  endeavoured  to  spread  the  culture  of  gender 
equality, to further improve the condition of women in 
Arab societies, to allow them to enjoy their rights and 
accomplish their duties, and to preserve their dignity. All 
this, in fact, constitutes a civilizational and strategic stake 
and  an  integral  part  of  the  concept  of  Arab  national 
security and human security in all its dimensions. 

As  part  of  the  various  pioneering  initiatives  and 
activities  of  the  Arab  Women  Organization,  Tunisia 
will next month host the third AWO Conference, with 
the  theme  “The Arab  woman,  a  partner  in  sustainable 
development”. 

Since  the  change  of  7  November  1987,  Tunisia 
has adopted a comprehensive and balanced development 
policy based on the inseparability of the economic and 
social  dimensions,  a  policy 
the 
requirements of an economy based on the principles of 
profitability  and  efficiency  and  an  equitable  social 
policy  in  which  there  is  no  room  for  exclusion  or 
marginalization,  guaranteeing  a  decent  life  for  all 
citizens. 

The  electoral  programme  of  President  Zine  El 
Abidine  Ben  Ali  for  the  2009-2014  term  of  office, 
“Together  we  meet  the  challenges”,  and  the  five-year 
development  plan  for  the  period  2010-2014  have  both 
reflecting  a 
made  a 
determination 
the  process  of 
democracy  and  pluralism,  to  move  political  life  in 
Tunisia  towards  further  modernity  and  continuous 
reform,  and  to  launch  a  new  process  of  development 
based on the economy of knowledge and intelligence. 

As  part  of  that  ambitious,  future-oriented  plan, 
Tunisia has attached crucial importance to youth as the 
pillar  of  the  present  and  the  builder  of  the  future, 
through 
youth 
consultations to explore the concerns, expectations and 
views  of  young  people.  The 
those 
consultations are taken into consideration in preparing 
development  plans.  Furthermore,  Tunisia  proclaimed 
2008 
the  Year  of  Comprehensive  Dialogue  with 
Tunisian Youth. That event, with massive participation 
by  different  youth  categories,  was  crowned  with  the 
adoption  of  a  Youth  Pact  signed  by  all  the  national 
organizations concerned and the elite of Tunisian youth. 
the 

international 
the  world 
community  in  supporting  it,  our  country  launched 
during the previous session of the General Assembly an 
Keen  on  consecrating 
level  and  on 
this  policy  at 
involving 
to  further  enhance 
those  choices, 
results  of 
reality  of 
organizing 
regularly 
national 
A/65/PV.22
this 
in  organizing 
initiative,  which 
initiative to proclaim 2010 International Year of Youth, 
to  consolidate  the  position  of  youth  in  all  societies  of 
the world, youth being at the forefront of the forces of 
progress  embracing  noble  universal  values.  Tunisia 
its  deep  pride  over  Member  States’ 
expresses 
unanimous  support  for 
the 
General Assembly adopted in resolution 64/134.  

Tunisia  also  takes  pride  in  the  fact  that  on 
12  August  the  Secretary-General  himself  chaired  the 
launch  of  the  festivities  celebrating  the  International 
Year of Youth; he did so at Headquarters, in the presence 
of hundreds of representatives of the world’s youth. 

Tunisia  calls  on  all  Governments,  international 
and  regional  organizations,  and  youth  institutions,  to 
establish  adequate  plans  of  action,  programmes  and 
activities to celebrate the International Year of Youth in 
a way that makes a reality of its motto, “Dialogue and 
mutual understanding”, and leads to the adoption of an 
international pact to bind the world’s youth to common 
universal  values.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
Tunisia’s  appreciation  for  the  initiatives  of  Turkey, 
Singapore  and  Mexico 
important 
international youth events last August. 

its  modern  history,  Tunisia  has 
remained  committed  to  the  principles  and  values  of 
peaceful  coexistence,  good-neighbourliness,  fraternity 
and  mutual  support.  It  has  tirelessly  endeavoured  to 
promote relations of fraternity, friendship and cooperation 
with  all  peace-loving  countries,  and  has  invariably 
advocated peace, security and justice in the world. 
Since the change of November 1987, Tunisia has 

given particular attention to the promotion of relations 
of  fraternity  and  cooperation  with  Arab  Maghreb 
countries,  based  on  its  strong  belief  in  the  unity  of 
destiny  and  the  inevitability  of  Maghreb  integration. 
While  reaffirming  its  adherence  to  the Arab  Maghreb 
Union  as  a  historic  gain  and  an  irrevocable  strategic 
choice, Tunisia is committed to pursuing efforts jointly 
with sisterly Maghreb countries to realize the aspirations 
of 
complementarity, 
integration and solidarity. This commitment stems from 
a deep common civilizational, historic  and geographic 
belonging, and is imposed by the successive economic 
fluctuations  and 
the  deep  and  ever-accelerating 
changes taking place in our world today in all political, 
social and cultural fields. 
At  the Arab  level,  Tunisia  will  firmly  pursue  its 

efforts to promote joint Arab action and establish solid 
the  Maghreb  peoples 
Throughout 
for 
10-55276 

7 
talks, 
for  a 
its 
the 
through 
position 
supporting 
inter-Arab  economic 
the  Palestinian  cause, 
launched  on  2  September 
A/65/PV.22 

foundations  for  an  efficient 
complementarity. 

Tunisia has  continuously played an efficient role 
in dealing with Arab causes, in the forefront of which 
firm  and 
is 
unwavering 
brotherly 
Palestinian  people  at  all  stages  of  their  legitimate 
struggle,  and  calling 
fair,  durable  and 
comprehensive  solution  that  can  put  an  end  to  the 
suffering of our Palestinian brothers and allow them to 
recover  their  legitimate  national  rights  and  establish 
their independent State on their land. 

In this context, Tunisia expresses its deep concern 
about  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  as  a  result  of 
Israel’s  disrespect  for  international  legality  and  the 
basic principles of the peace process, its persistence in 
the  settlement  policy  and  its  attempts  to  obliterate  the 
Arab-Muslim identity of the city of Al-Quds Al-Sharif.  

Tunisia expresses its hope that the resumption of 
direct  peace 
in 
Washington under the sponsorship of the United States, 
will  meet  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the  brotherly 
Palestinian people.  

We  also  call  on  all  the  influential  parties  on  the 
international  scene,  particularly  the  Quartet,  to  act  to 
bring Israel to adhere to the requirements of peace, on 
the basis of international legality, the principles of the 
peace  process,  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  and  in 
accordance with a specific time schedule that covers all 
the relevant main points. 

Tunisia  also  reiterates  its  call  for  an  end  to  the 
Israeli occupation of the Syrian Golan and the remaining 
occupied  Lebanese 
in  accordance  with 
international legality, so that all the peoples of the region 
can  enjoy  security  and  peace,  and  devote  their  efforts 
to construction and development for a better future. 

Moreover,  Tunisia  hopes  that  the  efforts  made 
will  promote  peace  and  security  in  Iraq,  Yemen,  the 
Sudan  and  Somalia,  within  a  climate  of  unity  and 
national harmony. 
Tunisia  attaches  particular  importance  to  its 

the 
belonging 
its  geographic 
importance  of 
environment  and 
the  fields  of 
cooperation  and  solidarity  with  sisterly  African 
countries.  Since  the  7  November  change,  our  country 
has  endeavoured  to  realize  this  policy  by  reaffirming 
its  belief 
in 
the  expansion  of 
to  Africa,  based  on 
integration 
territories, 
its 
in 

in 
supporting 
operations, 
its commitment to the principles of the African Union, 
and  continuously  supporting  all  initiatives  aimed  at 
promoting the continent, achieving development for its 
peoples,  and  preserving  its  potentialities,  within  a 
climate of security and stability. 
Tunisia  has  spared  no  effort  to  contribute  to  the 

promotion  of  peace  and  security 
the  African 
continent,  through  participating  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping 
conflict-
prevention  mechanisms,  and  continuously  acting  for 
the eradication of hotbeds of tension. 

Moreover, our country has continuously called on 
African  countries  to  play  an  active  role  and  to  find 
adequate solutions to their problems through activating 
the  central  organ  of  the  Mechanism  for  Conflict 
Prevention,  Management  and  Resolution,  the  first 
regional  experience  of  preventive  diplomacy,  then 
through the African Peace and Security Council, which 
has helped re-establish stability in a number of sisterly 
African countries. 

We reaffirm Tunisia’s support for all the efforts of 
the African Union, which proclaimed 2010 the Year of 
Peace and Security in Africa, so that peace and stability 
would  reign  all  over 
is  a 
responsibility of the international community as a whole. 

the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), Tunisia calls 
on developed nations to act promptly to meet the needs 
of the African continent and of developing countries in 
general,  by  using 
international  and 
regional mechanisms to ensure decent living standards 
for African peoples. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  stress  the  need  to 
activate  the  World  Solidarity  Fund,  created  by  the 
General Assembly in 2002, upon Tunisia’s initiative, to 
serve  as  an  efficient  international  mechanism  for 
sustainable  development,  capable  of  achieving  the 
MDGs,  particularly  the  Goal  of  reducing  the  poverty 
rate by half by 2015. 

is 
currently  an  essential  partner  of  Tunisia  in  various 
fields. Our country has time-honoured historic relations 
with  Europe.  Yet  we  consider  that  our  relations  still 
need to be further enhanced and developed, through an 
equitable,  solidarity-based  partnership  that  rests  on 
mutual  respect  and  is  in  line  with  our  strategic  and 
civilizational  choices  in  terms  of  political  reform  and 
those  principles  and  with 
the  Euro-Mediterranean 
the  continent,  which 
level,  Europe 
the  existing 
line  with 
At 
In 
8 

10-55276 
those  principles  Tunisia  supported 


economic,  social  and  cultural  development.  This  will 
strengthen  the  ties  of  cooperation  and  solidarity,  and 
help  reduce  disparities  between  the  countries  and 
peoples of the two shores of the Mediterranean. On the 
basis  of 
the 
establishment  of  the  Union  for  the  Mediterranean,  a 
promising initiative that can create a new dynamism in 
Euro-Mediterranean 
relations,  promote  a  positive 
interaction to meet the coming challenges, and enhance 
security and stability in our Mediterranean region. 

Tunisia  is  endeavouring  to  respond  positively  to 
the huge changes occurring on the international scene, 
by  developing  the  mechanisms  of  consultation  and 
cooperation with all the American and Asian countries. 
Our country attaches great importance to the promotion 
of  its  relations  with  large  regional  blocs  in  the 
American  and  Asian  continents,  so  as  to  enrich 
cooperation  and  explore  new  fields  for  a  strong 
partnership serving mutual interests. In this context, at 
the  end  of  this  year  Tunisia  will  host  the  Japan-Arab 
Economic  Forum.  It  will  also  host,  in  2012,  the  Fifth 
Ministerial  Meeting  of  the  China-Arab  Cooperation 
Forum. 

Tunisia is also keen on promoting rapprochement 
with  South  American  countries,  within  an  Arab  or 
African framework. 

The  values  of  mutual  support  and  solidarity, 
which constitute the pillar of our country’s policy and 
orientation,  and  which  have  now  become  a  deeply-
anchored  tradition,  demand  that  we  give  immediate 
assistance  to  countries  stricken  by  natural  disasters, 
which cause thousands of deaths in many countries of 
the  world.  Tunisia  has  responded  promptly  to  the 
urgent  calls  by  the  Secretary-General  to  help  disaster-
stricken  countries,  such  as  Pakistan,  which  was 
recently ravaged by floods, and Haiti, which early this 
year  was  hit  by  a  devastating  earthquake,  in  which 
Tunisia  and  the  United  Nations  lost  one  of  their 
eminent  diplomats,  known  for  his  great  competence 
and  generous  devotion,  the  late  Hédi Annabi,  head  of 
the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. 

Today,  the  world  urgently  needs  to  adopt  an 
efficient  policy  to  protect  the  environment,  so  as  to 
spare  humanity  the  adverse  consequences  of  climate 
change,  which  over  the  past  three  decades  has  caused 
the international community huge economic losses.  
The  Assembly  is  certainly  aware  that  climate 

change  has  a  serious  impact  on  stability  in  many 
A/65/PV.22
countries, given the many problems caused, especially 
by global warming, drought and floods, and the resulting 
degradation  of  harvests  and  scarcity  of  water  resources. 
Once again, Tunisia underlines the need to accelerate the 
pace  of  international  talks  on  climate  change,  while 
giving  priority  to  human  interests  over  economic 
benefits, so as to reach an agreement guaranteeing that 
a minimum of measures will be taken to meet the huge 
challenges posed by climate change, particularly in the 
developing and the least developed countries. 

Tunisia  calls  for  the  establishment  of  a  decisive 
intervention  programme  to  help  remedy  the  effects  of 
climate change and the problems it causes in terms of 
ecosystems,  farming  policies,  and  international  food 
security in general. In this context, Tunisia reiterates its 
support  for  the  African  position  and  underlines  the 
importance  of  helping  African  countries  to  face  the 
effects  of  climate  change.  Tunisia  commends  the 
attention  given  by  Japan  and  Korea  to  this  issue.  We 
hope that the forthcoming Mexico summit will produce 
positive results that can help achieve the objectives in 
this vital field. 

At the present session the Assembly has devoted 
a  large  part  of  its  agenda  to  the  evaluation  of  our 
countries’  achievements  in  the  implementation  of  the 
MDGs,  five  years  before  2015.  Implementing  the 
Goals  and  meeting  the  challenges  resulting  from  the 
new  world  order,  with  the  deep  changes  that  it  has 
generated, require that we step up action to embody the 
principles of the Charter in international relations, and 
to  anchor  the  culture  of  dialogue  and  the  values  of 
tolerance,  civilizational  communication  and  solidarity 
among peoples. 

Tunisia  reaffirms  its  determination  to  continue 
actively  contributing  to  joint  international  action  to 
find  adequate,  fair  and  durable  solutions  to  current 
problems,  through  joining  in  all  efforts  based  on 
dialogue,  mutual 
respect,  consensus  and  mutual 
support  within  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations. 
That is the ideal framework for international action to 
promote  security,  peace  and  stability  in  the  world,  so 
that our peoples can apply all their efforts and capacities 
for comprehensive and sustainable development and for 
realizing their legitimate aspirations for prosperity and 
a decent standard of living. 

international  situation  can  only 
strengthen our adherence to the United Nations and its 
founding  principles,  and  bolster  our  determination  to 
The  current 
10-55276 

9 
largest  possible  consensus 
the  Security  Council,  and 
to 
A/65/PV.22 

reaffirm  its  central  role  in  meeting  challenges  and  to 
confer more efficiency on its activities and programmes, 
given its pivotal role in global governance.  
In this regard, Tunisia hopes that Member States 

will 
for 
reach 
introducing  the  necessary  reforms  into  the  United 
Nations  system,  especially  as  regards  the  composition 
of 
for  giving  more 
transparency  and  efficiency 
the  Organization’s 
performance;  that  is  in  addition  to  further  enhancing 
the  role  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  includes  all 
the  Member  States,  and  that  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council. 

To conclude, I once again wish all success to the 
Assembly  at  the  current  session,  at  which  we  hope  it 
will make constructive recommendations that serve all 
the  peoples  of  the  world,  promote  peace  and  stability, 
offer  wider  prospects  for  progress  and  prosperity,  and 
help meet challenges with confidence and efficiency. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  R.M.  Marty  Natalegawa,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia. 

Mr. Natalegawa (Indonesia): First I congratulate 
you,  Sir,  on  your  assuming  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  I  am  sure 
that  under  your  able  leadership  our  deliberations  will 
be  fruitful.  Let  me  also  commend  your  predecessor, 
Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, for the wisdom with which 
he guided the Assembly at its previous session. 

The  theme  of  our  session,  “Reaffirming  the 
central 
in  global 
governance”,  is  both  timely  and  well  chosen.  As  we 
enter  the  second  decade  of  the  twenty-first  century, 
humankind faces a multitude of challenges, challenges 
that  are  complex,  multifaceted  and 
transnational; 
challenges  that  defy  national  solutions  alone;  indeed, 
challenges 
international  cooperation. 
Those  are  precisely  challenges  of  the  type  that  the 
United Nations is potentially best equipped to meet. 

Such a central role for the United Nations derives, 
above  all,  from  its  near  universal  membership  —  a 
representative  United  Nations.  It  derives  also  from  its 
effectiveness, 
to  deliver  results:  an 
effective  United  Nations  that  is  capable  of  delivering 
peace  and  security  worldwide;  a  United  Nations  that 
equally serves the interest of all nations, developed and 
developing,  large  and  small;  a  United  Nations  that 
that  demand 
role  of 
the  United  Nations 

provides  a  robust  institutional  support  for  efforts  to 
achieve prosperity and equitable development for all; a 
United  Nations  that  advocates  not  only  political  and 
civil  rights,  but  also  economic  and  social  rights,  to  all 
people around the world; a United Nations that promotes 
democracy  and  justice;  in  short,  a  United  Nations  that 
can play a central role in global governance. 

A  United  Nations  that  is  at  the  forefront  in 
addressing  global  challenges  requires  that  we,  its 
Members,  must  move  together  in  cooperative  action: 
countries  of  the  North  and  South,  East  and  West, 
developed and developing. We must each contribute to 
the  resolution  of  problems  and  not  simply  accentuate 
divisions, for there is no monopoly of wisdom amongst 
any one of us. 

Each Member State can contribute to meeting the 
challenges  to  the  international  community.  Therefore, 
our  Organization,  the  United  Nations,  must  have  the 
wherewithal, the means, to ensure that the full problem-
solving potential of every nation is unleashed. Therein 
rests the importance of reform of the United Nations.  
The  Security  Council  must  better  reflect  the 

that  of  1945.  A  more 
contemporary  world,  not 
representative  Council  would  be  a  more  effective 
Council. 

The  General  Assembly  must  be  revitalized.  A 
more efficient Assembly is a more effective Assembly. 

The Economic and Social Council must be made 
more relevant, in accordance with its Charter-mandated 
responsibilities. 

Not least, the full potential of the Secretariat must 
be  harvested.  Its  structure  and  organization  must  be 
effective and efficient and made more cohesive. 

The  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance is due not only to its capacity to reform, to 
enhance  its  representative  character,  but  also  to  its 
ability  to  deliver  in  overcoming  contemporary  global 
challenges, to deliver on its Charter-provided purposes, 
or,  as  the  Charter  eloquently  puts  it  in  paragraph  4  of 
Article 1, “To be a centre for harmonizing the actions 
of nations”. 
As a Member State, Indonesia will do its part. We 

shall  continue 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping efforts. We shall also strive to ensure that 
the  recent  positive  momentum  on 
issue  of 
disarmament is maintained. Therefore, Indonesia is on 
to  contribute 
the 
the 
its  capacity 
10 

10-55276 
the 
to  promote  global  cooperation 


track  to  ratify  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty. 

Indonesia will also work tirelessly to ensure that 
the  United  Nations  continues  to  discharge  its  historic 
responsibilities  on  the  question  of  Palestine.  Thus  we 
welcome  and  support 
resumption  of  direct 
negotiations  between  Israel  and  Palestine.  This  is  a 
precious  opportunity  for  Palestine  and  Israel  to  find 
solutions on all final status issues. 

We therefore strongly deplore the decision by the 
Israeli  Government  not  to  extend  the  moratorium  on 
the  building  of  settlements  in  the  occupied  territory. 
Such  a  decision  does  not  in  any  way  contribute  to  a 
climate conducive for the direct negotiations. 
We  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the  capacity-

building of Palestine, to support the Palestinian people 
in  preparing  for  the  day  when  they  finally  exercise 
their right of sovereignty. 

Today’s  global  threat  to  security  demands  more 
effective global action. The United Nations must do its 
to  address  
part 
non-traditional 
terrorism,  people 
trafficking,  piracy  and  money 
smuggling,  drug 
laundering, to cite just a few. 

The  United  Nations  must  also  contribute  to 
achieving  common  prosperity,  to  make  a  better  world 
for  all.  We  support  the  strengthening  of  the  United 
Nations frameworks for the attainment of equitable and 
sustainable  development.  The  Rio  Declaration,  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  and  the 
Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation  have  been  the 
multilateral linchpin of this. 

We  welcome  the  renewed  commitment  of  all 
Member States to meet the MDGs by 2015. We need to 
strengthen  genuine  partnership  to  deliver  on  these 
promises and to turn hope into reality. 

The challenges we face in attaining equitable and 
sustainable  development  are  compounded  by  the  real 
and  imminent  threat  of  climate  change.  Addressing 
climate  change  is  therefore  essential. Accordingly,  the 
United  Nations  should  ensure 
the  sixteenth 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in  Mexico,  results  in  a  consensus  agreement  that 
effectively addresses climate change. It should build on 
the  Copenhagen Accord  and  the  progress  made  in  the 
two Working Groups in the fifteenth Conference. 
security 
threats: 
that 
only 
on 
10-55276 

11 
A/65/PV.22
as 
including 
the  delivery  of 
We also look forward to the 2012 United Nations 

an 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
opportunity 
to  enhance  coordination,  synergy  and 
coherence in efforts, including within the United Nations 
system, to address challenges to sustainable development. 

We need to strengthen the capacity of the United 
Nations  to  deal  with  a  complex  array  of  natural 
disasters, 
international 
humanitarian assistance. 

We attach great importance to the review process 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  2011.  We  need  to 
ensure that the Council can truly support all countries, 
developed  and  developing,  to  promote  cooperation  in 
the field of human rights. 
And, not least, we need to see the United Nations 

contribute effectively to the promotion of tolerance and 
mutual  respect  among  cultures,  religions,  faiths  and 
civilizations. 

We,  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  must 
promote  better  synergy  between  the  United  Nations 
and regional organizations and initiatives. Many global 
problems  become  more  manageable 
there  are 
simultaneous  efforts  to  address  them  at  the  regional 
level. That  is  why  Indonesia  continues  to  promote  the 
strengthening  of  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations  and 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations (ASEAN). 

Before  the  end  of  this  year  an  ASEAN-United 
Nations summit will be held in Viet Nam. Meanwhile, 
the  countries  of  ASEAN  and  other  countries  in  the 
larger  Asia-Pacific  region  are  building  a  regional 
architecture  that  will  bring  about  and  sustain  dynamic 
equilibrium  in  the  region. ASEAN  will,  of  course,  be 
the driving force in the building of this architecture. 

While  the  promotion  of  democracy  is  a  global 
concern, we are also vigorously promoting democratic 
values in our own region, through ASEAN and beyond. 
In 2008, Indonesia launched the Bali Democracy Forum, 
the 
political 
development in Asia. In doing so, we created an inclusive 
platform for sharing experiences and best practices and 
giving mutual support in the development of democracy 
in the region. This December, we will hold the third Bali 
Democracy Forum, this time on the theme of “Democracy 
and the promotion of peace and stability”. 
cherish  our  democratic 

transformation. As the world’s third largest democracy, 
intergovernmental 
Indonesia 
forum 
We 
in 
if 

that 
is  proof 
institutions,  so 
Sheikh  Al-Nahyan 
A/65/PV.22 

Indonesia 
Islam,  democracy  and 
modernization can go hand in hand. But democracy is 
not  something  that  can  be  achieved  once  and  for  all 
time. It is an endless journey, an unremitting process. It 
must  keep  evolving  to  remain  capable  of  addressing 
new  challenges.  That  is  why  we  keep  fine-tuning  our 
political 
that 
they  become  more 
effective in serving the people. 

The  same  is  true  of  the  United  Nations.  It  needs 
continuous  reform,  so  that  it  serves  all  nations, 
developed  and  developing;  so  that  it  will  be  a  more 
effective  instrument  of  humankind;  so  that  it  will 
deliver peace and the dividends of peace. It is now time 
to make the United Nations deliver. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  call  on  His 

Highness  Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al-Nahyan, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Arab Emirates. 
(United  Arab  Emirates) 

(spoke in Arabic): At the outset, I congratulate you, Sir, 
on your assumption of the presidency of the Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  We  are  confident  that  your 
expertise in international affairs will enable you to wisely 
and capably guide the work of the General Assembly, and 
we wish you every success in your endeavours. 

I would also like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Ali 
Treki,  for  his  successful  leadership  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session, and to thank Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon, the Secretary-General, for his great efforts to 
re-energize  the  role  of  this  international  Organization  in 
promoting world peace and security and development. 
The  international  community  continues  to  face 

daunting 
strengthened 
collective action, increased joint international efforts in 
the  United  Nations  framework  and  a  serious  move 
towards  reform  of  its  organs  in  a  responsible  and 
balanced manner, in order to enable the United Nations 
effectively  to  play  its  primary  role  in  addressing  the 
major challenges facing the international community. 

My Government wishes to reiterate in this forum 
its  deep  regret  at  the  continued  Iranian  occupation  of 
our  three  islands:  Greater Tunb,  Lesser Tunb  and Abu 
Musa.  It  demands  the  return  of  the  islands,  including 
their  regional  waters,  airspace,  continental  shelf  and 
exclusive  economic  zone,  to  its  full  sovereignty  as 
the  United  Arab  Emirates.  All 
integral  parts  of 
procedures  and  measures 
Iranian 
authorities since their occupation of the islands are null 
challenges 
taken  by 
demand 
that 
the 
to  build 
that  continues 
and void and have no legal effect, no matter how long 
the occupation may last. 

We look forward to seeing the Iraqi parties form a 
national  Government 
its 
security, political and economic institutions, extend its 
authority over the entire territory of Iraq and achieve a 
comprehensive  national  reconciliation,  which  is  the 
real  guarantee  for  stabilizing  the  political  process  in 
Iraq and embracing all factions of Iraqi society, with no 
exception or discrimination. 
While we note with satisfaction the withdrawal of 

foreign 
troops  from  Iraq,  we  express  our  firm 
condemnation of all acts of violence and bombings that 
have  targeted  the  Iraqi  people.  In  this  context,  we 
reiterate  the  need  to  respect  Iraq’s  territorial  integrity, 
sovereignty  and  independence,  and  to  refrain  from 
interfering  in  its  internal  affairs,  in  order  to  safeguard 
its Arab and Islamic identity. 
The United Arab  Emirates  believes that  peace in 

the  Middle  East  and  resolution  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict  cannot  be  achieved  without  ending  the  Israeli 
occupation of the occupied Palestinian and other Arab 
territories. Israel’s withdrawal to the line of 4 June 1967, 
including East Jerusalem, the Syrian Golan Heights and 
the remaining occupied territories in southern Lebanon, 
is  also  required 
just  and 
comprehensive peace in accordance with the resolutions 
of international legitimacy, and based on the principle 
of land for peace and the Arab Peace Initiative. 
the 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  stands  by 
the 
Palestinian  National  Authority,  and  supports 
Palestinian  people  in  their  quest  to  achieve  their 
national  goals  and  restore  their  inalienable  legitimate 
rights. We commend President Mahmoud Abbas for his 
persistent  efforts 
the 
Palestinian people and restore their rights. 
We affirm our support for the position adopted by 

the  direct 
the  Palestinian  National  Authority 
the 
negotiations  with 
independent Palestinian State, with its capital Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif, will see the light of day next year.  

We welcome the statement of Mr. Barack Obama, 
President of the United States, to the General Assembly, 
and  his  strong  commitment to  the  achievement of  peace 
in the Middle East. We also welcome his emphasis on the 
importance  of  leading  direct  negotiations  into  final 
results within a year, and seeing Palestine take its seat 
the  Israeli.  We  hope 
to  achieve  a 
interests  of 
to  realize 
in  order 
that 
the 
in 
12 

10-55276 
In 
the 
and 
that 
Judaization  of 
that  connection,  we  emphasize 


in  the  General Assembly  at  the  sixty-sixth  session.  In 
this context, we rely on an effective American role, and 
active regional and international support for the peace 
process in the Middle East. 

Our commitment to the achievement of peace as a 
strategic  choice  means  that  we  must  condemn  the 
Israeli  practices  against 
the  Palestinian  people, 
including  the  collective  punishment  policy  and  the 
inhumane  blockade imposed on the Palestinian people 
in  Gaza.  We  also  condemn  other  flagrant  Israeli 
violations of international law and of the principles and 
purposes of the Charter.  
the 

Israeli  settlement  activities, 
continuation  of 
confiscation 
the  occupied 
Palestinian and other Arab territories run counter to the 
pursuit of peace. We say to Israel: Either choose to pursue 
peace  or  insist  on  pressing  ahead  with  settlements. 
Combining the two is incompatible with peace. 

The United Arab Emirates will continue to pursue 
its  international  policy  guided  by  the  purposes  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  principles  of  its  Charter, 
especially with regard to the promotion of international 
peace  and  security, 
resolution  of 
international  disputes,  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of States and compliance with the principles of 
international law. 

to  make  our  distinct 
contributions to regional and international partnerships 
aimed  at  building  a  more  peaceful,  stable  and  just 
world,  free  of  all  forms  of 
terrorism,  violence, 
extremism,  crime,  discrimination,  human 
rights 
violations,  human 
trafficking,  and  any  sort  of 
humiliation  or  degradation  of  human  dignity. We  look 
forward  to  a  world  that  promotes  the  principles  of 
dialogue, 
understanding, 
cooperation  and 
interactive  civilized  coexistence 
among  all  religions  and  cultures,  without  any  form  of 
discrimination,  the  use  of  stereotypical  images,  hatred 
or  denigration  of  religions:  a  world  characterized  by 
human peace, prosperity and development. 

On  that  basis,  we  condemn  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms and manifestations, wherever it exists, and stress 
the  need  to  intensify  regional  and  international  efforts 
to combat and eliminate terrorism. 

international  partnerships  and  efforts  designed 
My country is an  active member of  regional and 
to 
shall  continue 
the  peaceful 
interaction, 
mutual 
We 
A/65/PV.22
combat  terrorism,  including  the  Global  Initiative  to 
Combat  Nuclear  Terrorism.  We  will  continue  our 
efforts  to  strengthen  cooperation  in  the  areas  of 
intelligence  exchange,  capacity-building,  combating 
and drying up sources of terrorism. We expect all other 
States  to  shoulder  their  responsibilities  in  order  to  get 
rid of this growing scourge. 

In the meantime, we welcome the positive results 
of  the  West  Point  conference  on  combating  terrorism, 
and look forward to the success of the next conference, 
to be held in the Republic of Korea. 

As  part  of  our  efforts  to  strengthen  international 
cooperation  in  addressing  the  challenges  of  climate 
change, and in order to assist States most at risk from 
the  adverse  effects  of  that  phenomenon,  we  have 
initiated  a  partnership  programme  with  the  Pacific 
small  island  developing  States,  and  we  call  upon  the 
international  community  to  support  and  expand  the 
partnership at the global level. It is our hope that States 
parties  to  the  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  will  achieve  concrete  results  before 
the 
forthcoming Conference in Mexico. 
We are pleased to see that the accord establishing 

the  International  Renewable  Energy  Agency  has 
entered  into  force  after  ratification  by  the  required 
number  of  States.  In  its  capacity  as  host  country,  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  continues  to  carry  out  its 
commitments  to  the  Agency  in  order  to  enable  it  to 
perform its duties effectively. 

My  Government  is  moving  forward  with  its 
peaceful nuclear energy programme. At the same time, 
it  wishes  to  emphasize  its  commitment  to  all  the 
requirements  of  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
its 
compliance with the highest standards of transparency 
and  nuclear  safety.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
ratified  the  Additional  Protocol  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In this context, 
we  wish  to  express  our  satisfaction  at  the  positive 
outcome of the recent Review Conference of the States 
Parties 
the 
implementation  of 
valid 
recommendations agreed in the Final Document of the 
Conference. 

is  working  on 
protecting  the  various  aspects  of  human  rights,  and 
welcomes  the  establishment  of  a  new  international 
entity  on  women  in  the  United  Nations,  UN  Women, 
and  the  appointment  of  the  Under-Secretary-General 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
look  forward 
and 
the  Treaty.  We 
responsible 
the 
to 
to 
10-55276 

13 

the 
We hope that our deliberations during this session 
A/65/PV.22 

for  Women’s  Affairs.  We  are  implementing  various 
national  programmes  to  empower  women,  enhance 
their participation in the decision-making process, and 
developing their status. 

We attach great importance to the issue of human 
trafficking.  We  have  therefore  enacted  legislation  and 
developed  national  mechanisms  compatible  with  our 
obligations  under  relevant  international  conventions 
and  resolutions.  We  call  upon 
international 
community to develop an integrated global strategy to 
eliminate this scourge.  

We  support  the  activities  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  Forum,  and  welcome  the  fact  that  its 
fourth  session  is  to  be  held  in  the  brotherly  State  of 
Qatar  next  year.  We  also  commend  the  endeavours  of 
Qatar  to  make  the  interfaith  dialogue  conference  a 
permanent institution. We welcome the decision of the 
Emir  of  Qatar  to  establish  a  centre  for  interfaith 
dialogue in Doha.  

will lead to positive results.  
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Moussa  Faki  Mahamat,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and African Integration of the Republic 
of Chad. 
Mr.  Mahamat  (Chad)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

delegation of Chad echoes previous speakers in warmly 
congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session, 
and assures you of our desire to cooperate with you as 
you carry out your mission. 

I  also  express  my  delegation’s  admiration  for 
your  predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  who 
skilfully  guided  the  Assembly’s  work  at  the  sixty-
fourth session. 

Our  tribute  and  recognition  also  go  to  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  courage 
and passion in seeking solutions to the problems facing 
mankind. 

Over  the  last  two  years  the  entire  world  has 
struggled against the effects of the financial, food and 
energy 
cooperation 
underpinning  that  struggle  has  been  exemplary  and 
unprecedented.  But,  while  it  was  able  to  curb  the 
financial crisis in the rich countries, the poor countries 
continue  to  suffer  from  the  effects  of  the  food  and 
international 
crises. 
The 
The 
finalize 
following 
fully  normalized 
the  achievement  of 
two  countries  are  also  committed 
energy  crises,  added  to  which  are  the  negative  effects 
of climate change on their environment. 

The Republic of Chad welcomes the fact that the 
United Nations is focusing on development challenges, 
in  particular 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  their  financing,  as  evidenced 
by the recent high-level meeting. But we fear that once 
again the relevant recommendations that emerged from 
that meeting will not be implemented. 

Over  recent  years  our  Organization  and  the 
international  community  have  been  particularly 
concerned  about  the  Darfur  crisis  and  its  impact  on 
relations  between  Chad  and  the  Sudan,  which  have 
been 
the  courageous 
decision of Mr. Idriss Déby Itno to travel to Khartoum 
and 
reconciliation  with  his  Sudanese 
counterpart, Mr. Omer Hassan Ahmat Al-Bashir. 

The two countries agreed, among other measures, 
to  establish  a  joint  force  to  secure  their  common 
border.  It  is  now  patrolling  the  entire  border  to 
maintain  security.  High-level  meetings  are  held 
regularly to assess the situation. 

to 
providing no support of any kind to rebel forces in the 
respective countries, and they call upon those forces to 
lay  down  their  arms  and  accept  a  political  settlement. 
As  always,  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Chad 
favours dialogue. 

Although relations between our two countries are 
being  normalized,  and  there  is  a  growing  dialogue 
between  the  Government  and  the  armed  opposition  in 
the  Sudan,  the  situation  in  Darfur  still  merits  special 
attention.  
Chad,  no  doubt  like  the  entire  international 

community, has a dream of peace in the Sudan, which 
is preparing for a major political event: the referendum 
on  self-determination  for  southern  Sudan.  That  is  a 
high-risk undertaking if the process leading up to it is 
not  controlled,  and  if  the  balloting  is  not  organized 
under the best conditions of independence, security and 
transparency. 
We  fear  that  failures  in  those  respects  could 

compromise  peace  and  security  in  the  Sudan  and  the 
subregion.  That  fear  is  reinforced  by  an  appeal  made 
this  morning  by  the  Archbishop  of  the  Episcopal 
Church of the Sudan, who expressed concern about the 
serious  risks  of  war.  In  addressing  the  appeal  to  the 
14 

10-55276 


United  Nations  and  to  the  Governments  of  the  United 
States  and  Great  Britain,  the  guarantors  of  the  peace 
agreements,  Archbishop  Daniel  Deng  drew  our 
attention  to  the  significance  of  those  risks.  We  must 
take account of that legitimate concern. 

In  any  event,  the  international  community  must 
understand  that  the  referendum  in  southern  Sudan, 
whatever the outcome, will have an impact on the rest 
of Africa. 

My  country  would  like  to  see  the  Sudan’s  unity 
and integrity maintained, but the Sudanese themselves 
are  the  only  judges  of  their  future,  and  Chad  will 
respect their choice. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  Sudanese  frontier,  in 
eastern Chad, there are still 290,000 Sudanese refugees 
and 180,000 displaced Chadians, who have been there 
since the Darfur crisis erupted in 2003. They are living 
in precarious environmental and social conditions; this 
is not to mention the situation of the host populations, 
who also deserve more attention in order to restore the 
natural  balance  disrupted  by  the  massive  influx  of 
refugees and displaced persons.  

In  anticipation  of  the  withdrawal  of  the  United 
Nations  Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
Chad  (MINURCAT),  Chad  has  committed  itself  to 
having  its  own  forces  assume  the  protection  of  those 
refugees and internally displaced persons, as well as of 
United Nations and associated humanitarian personnel. 
Thus,  in  accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution 
1923 (2010) of 25 May, the Government has developed 
a sustainment plan to ensure support for elements of the 
Integrated Security Detachment (DIS) post-MINURCAT. 
It must be remembered that DIS is composed entirely of 
national elements of the gendarmerie and police whose 
mission  it  is  to  maintain  order  and  the  rule  of  law  in 
the refugee camps and in  areas with concentrations  of 
internally  displaced  persons,  and  to  help  ensure  the 
safety of humanitarian operations. 
humanitarian 

commitments in Chad has led the Government to make 
a financial effort of around $12 million a month. That 
does  not  include  the  cost  of  the  joint  Chad-Sudan 
forces’ operations to secure the border.  

Logistical  support  for  security  and  for  managing 
humanitarian  needs  requires  the  combined  efforts  of 
all.  Therefore,  the  Government  intends  to  organize  in 
Chad in the coming days consultation with all partners 
security 
Respect 
for 
and 
A/65/PV.22
child 
recruiting 
in order to mobilize the necessary financial and logistic 
support for DIS.  

We take this opportunity to reiterate, once again, 
the  Government’s  readiness  to  continue  to  cooperate 
with  the  United  Nations  in  all  initiatives  that  will 
benefit peace and security in eastern Chad, the Central 
African  Republic  and  Darfur.  Accordingly,  Chad 
welcomes the meeting on the Central African Republic 
held  on  the  margins  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  summit.  We  hope  that  that  important  meeting 
enabled the international community to understand the 
extent  of  the  challenges  facing  that  country  and  to 
assist  effectively  both  in  the  organization  of  the 
coming  elections  and  in  the  maintenance  of  peace 
throughout its territory.  

We believe that the cessation of armed incursions 
into  the  area  will  have  satisfactory  effects  on  the 
phenomenon  of 
soldiers.  The 
Government  had  already  firmly  resolved  to  eradicate 
such recruitment, long carried out by the armed groups. 
It was with that clear intention that my country hosted 
last  June  a  regional  conference  on  ending 
the 
recruitment  and  use  of  children  by  armed  forces  and 
armed  groups.  My  country  makes  its  full  contribution 
alongside  the  contributions  of  the  African  Union  and 
the United Nations.  

In national politics, a climate of trust between the 
Government and the democratic opposition has existed 
since  implementation  of  the  political  agreement  of 
13 August 2007. This has enabled the various political 
actors to agree on the conduct of our electoral process. 
An independent joint national electoral commission has 
been  set  up  to  organize  consultations  on  the  various 
local  and national elections, and it has decided on the 
schedule  for  local,  parliamentary  and  presidential 
elections in the first quarter of 2011. 

With  regard  to  development,  the  country  has 
spent  60  per  cent  of  its  additional  oil  resources  in  the 
social sectors and on basic infrastructure as the basis of 
its  socio-economic  development.  However,  funding 
needs for the MDGs in 2008-2011 show a gap of more 
than $3.5 billion. Domestic financial resources remain 
woefully  short  of  our  needs. Additional  resources  are 
therefore  essential 
finance  our  development. 
Accordingly,  we  call  for  the  support  of  international 
financial  institutions,  including  the  World  Bank,  to 
reach  the  completion  point  of  the  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor Countries Initiative.  
to 
10-55276 

15 
aspect, 
the 

such  programmes 
A/65/PV.22 


In  spite  of  all  those  difficulties,  the  Government 
has implemented a social policy based on free access to 
education  and  exemption  from  all  charges  related  to 
maternal health, HIV/AIDS and malaria.  

On  the  environmental  front,  Chad  has  taken 
strong  measures  to  protect  the  environment,  including 
the  prohibition  of  excessive  cutting  of  green  wood,  to 
conserve  our  forests  and  savannahs  and  to  fight 
desertification.  

In  addition,  last  June  Chad  hosted  the  first 
summit  of  heads  of  State  and  Government  on  the 
establishment  of  the  Pan-African  Great  Green  Wall 
Agency,  and  on  its  programme.  Chad  was  given  the 
honour  of  hosting  the  summit,  organized  by  the  Sahel 
countries, because of its pioneering role in the large-scale 
reforestation of the region. A national programme, “Green 
Belt”,  to  plant  more  than  10  million  trees  a  year 
throughout  the  country,  began  in  2009.  Beyond  the 
subregional 
integrate 
perfectly  with  global  initiatives  in  the  worldwide 
struggle  against  the  ill  effects  of  climate  change,  and 
therefore  deserve 
international  community’s 
support. 

Moreover,  in  October  Chad  will  host  the  eighth 
World  Forum  of  Sustainable  Development,  whose 
theme  will  be  “Save  Lake  Chad”.  Lake  Chad,  part  of 
world  heritage,  is  in  danger  of  disappearing;  it  has 
shrunk  from  25,000  square  kilometres  to  less  than 
2,500  square  kilometres  in  40  years,  and  is  a  typical 
example  of  the  disastrous  consequences  of  climate 
change.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  invite  all  people  of 
good will to take part in the Forum in large numbers. 

In regard to international issues and the alarming 
increase  in  terrorist  activities  in  several  regions  of 
Africa  and throughout the  world,  we  express  our total 
condemnation of the gratuitous violence that threatens 
the peaceful and calm existence of innocent citizens. 

I  turn  to  the  issue  of  Israel  and  Palestine.  We 
remain  constant  in  our  support  for  this  Organization 
and the Government of the United States with regard to 
reaching  a  peace  agreement  allowing  the  peaceful 
coexistence  of  two  sovereign  States.  To  that  end,  we 
support  President  Barack  Obama  in  his  courageous 
initiative  with  the  two  parties. We  sincerely  hope  that 
his mission will succeed. 

Our world has changed considerably over the past 
20  years.  Peoples  and  States  aspire  to  greater  well-
16 

being, freedom and justice. Our common Organization 
must  treat  those  aspirations  as  part  of  its  primary 
vocation.  My  country  therefore  again  calls  on  the 
Assembly to work for Security Council reform, without 
delay,  in  order  to  integrate  Africa.  The  international 
community must not accept the marginalization of the 
African  continent,  which  has  so  much  to  offer  to  the 
world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  call  on  Her 

Excellency Ms. Maxine Pamela Ometa McClean, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Barbados. 
Ms.  McClean  (Barbados):  I  am  honoured  to 

address the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session 
as  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Foreign  Trade  of 
Barbados. 

The  theme  of  this  year’s  session,  concerning  the 
role  of  the  United  Nations,  multilateralism  and  global 
governance, is timely, and it permits an examination of 
the complex issues facing the global community today. 
Moreover, it lends itself to an exploration of solutions 
to those issues as well as to restoration of the centrality 
of the United Nations and its organs. 

A  week  ago  leaders  from  every  corner  of  the 
world met and confirmed that the global consensus on 
the  United  Nations  Development  Agenda  remained 
intact.  They  pledged  to  spare  no  effort  to  ensure  the 
fulfilment  of  our  collective  promise  to  the  world’s 
poorest and most vulnerable. 

Barbados  shares  the  view  of  the  Secretary-
General that the Millennium Development Goals must 
serve  as  “a  blueprint  for  ending  extreme  poverty” 
(A/65/PV.3).  The  Goals  are  at  the  core  of  the  global 
development  agenda.  They  represent  our  common 
vision  of  a  more  peaceful,  prosperous  and  just  world, 
in  which  all  human  beings  can  enjoy  better  and  safer 
lives.  For  the  past  decade  these  globally  shared  and 
endorsed  set  of  priorities  have  inspired  extraordinary 
efforts by Governments and non-State actors alike. 

Now  is  not  the  time  for  complacency.  Progress 
towards achievement of the Goals remains mixed, and, 
while  success  is  still  within  our  grasp,  it  is  by  no 
means certain. Our common task is therefore to convert 
this unprecedented consensus into collective action on 
all  fronts  and  immediately  implement  what  has  been 
agreed  in  order  to  guarantee  success  by  2015.  Failing 
this,  the  many  words  of  the  Outcome  Document  that 
we  adopted  a  few  days  ago  will  simply  serve  as  yet 
10-55276 
the 
foresight  and  wisdom 


another  solemn  reminder  of  human  needs  neglected 
and promises unfulfilled. 

This  display  of  global  solidarity  in  the  face  of 
unparalleled  economic  uncertainty  reminds  us  that  the 
United  Nations  is  an  invaluable  and  indispensable 
instrument  for  its  Member  States  and  for  the  world’s 
peoples, as we seek to respond to the challenges of our 
times.  While  we  may  not  have  the  same  degree  of 
consensus on every pressing global problem, Barbados 
cannot contemplate the prospect of a world without an 
Organization such as this. No other entity can mobilize 
global  political  will  and  coordinated  action  around 
common causes, and provide a voice for the voiceless, 
like the United Nations. 

Scarred  by  the  bitter  experience  of  two  world 
wars  and  a  great  depression,  the  founders  of  this 
Organization  had 
to 
recognize  that  only  through  multilateralism  and  a 
strong and effective system of global governance, with 
the  United  Nations  at  its  core,  could  lasting  peace  be 
maintained and international law upheld. 

Today we bear witness to a world which is more 
interconnected  and  intertwined,  yet  in  a  real  sense 
more  deeply  divided,  than  ever.  Barbados  is  of  the 
view  that  an  enhanced  and  renewed  system  of  global 
governance must be at the top of the global agenda. In 
this  regard,  Mr.  President,  Barbados  fully  supports 
your initiative to address this issue during the course of 
this sixty-fifth session. We must take stock and reflect 
in a holistic and comprehensive manner on the system 
of global governance, including the United Nations and 
its organs, to ensure that it truly delivers on the vision 
of  our  predecessors  and  serves  the  interests  of  all 
mankind, particularly the poor and the vulnerable. 
Delivering  global  public  goods  such  as  global 

economic  and 
the 
promotion and protection of human rights; maintaining 
international  peace  and 
security;  and  ensuring 
environmental  sustainability:  those  matters  cannot  be 
successfully  addressed  by  States  acting  on  their  own, 
or  even  by  coalitions  of  the  willing.  Finding  effective 
solutions to those challenges and mobilizing collective 
action provides the most immediate and obvious reason 
for  enhancing  global  governance  and  strengthening 
multilateral cooperation. 

As  United  States  President  Harry  Truman  stated 
on  25 April  1945  at  the  birth  of  this  Organization,  in 
his address  to  the  opening  session  of  the  United 
stability;  ensuring 
financial 
A/65/PV.22
and 
Its 
adjusted 
through 
reason 
efficiency. 
representative  of 
Nations Conference on International Organization, held 
in San Francisco: 

“Differences  between  men,  and  between  nations, 
will  always  remain.  In  fact,  if  held  within 
reasonable limits, such disagreements are actually 
wholesome. All  progress  begins  with  differences 
of  opinion  and  moves  onward  as  the  differences 
are 
and  mutual 
understanding.” 

Renewing  the  vision  of  our  predecessors  must 
start  with  the  United  Nations  and  extend  outwards  to 
all  organizations  with  a  role  in  dispensing  global 
governance. 

During this session we must finalize the decades-
long project of Security Council reform. If the Council 
is  to  retain  its  unique  legitimacy  it  should  be  made 
more  broadly 
international 
community  as  a  whole,  as  well  as  of  the  geopolitical 
realities of today. 

The Council’s working methods must also be made 
to  adhere  to  the  highest  standards  of  transparency, 
accountability 
to  
non-members must be significantly improved.  

Barbados continues to believe that the number of 
permanent  and  non-permanent  seats  on  the  Council 
should  be  increased,  and  that  Brazil,  Germany,  India 
and  Japan  should  join  the  ranks  of  the  permanent 
members.  Membership  from  the  African  Group  must 
also be assured. 
Sustained  and  widespread  future  prosperity  will 

require  major  reforms  in  global  economic  governance 
as  well  as  new  approaches 
to  global  economic 
development. The global financial and economic crisis 
has  made  clear  the  extent  of  the  interconnectivity  of 
financial  markets, 
inherent 
vulnerabilities.  While  there  is  no  precedent  for  the 
financial  and  economic 
current 
integration, 
rules 
institutions 
established to govern those processes are predominately 
national  in  scope,  and  global  mechanisms  highly 
compartmentalized. 
We can no longer postpone the task of reforming 

the  institutions  responsible  for  global  economic  and 
financial governance. They must be better equipped to 
address  the  challenge  of  a  globalized  and  highly 
interdependent  world. 
regard,  Barbados 
welcomes  the  broadening  of  the  Group  of  8  to  include 
level  of  global 
the  policies, 
as  well 
outreach 
In 
this 
as 
their 
the 
and 
10-55276 

17 

in 
the 
impasse 
systems.  However, 
the  Bretton  Woods 
A/65/PV.22 

the participation of developing and emerging economies 
and  the  designation  of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  as  the 
premier forum for international economic cooperation. 

We  also  recognize  the  important  role  played  by 
the  G-20  in  stabilizing  the  global  economy.  We 
acknowledge  its  ambitious  agenda  to  restore  global 
growth  and  achieve  needed  reforms  in  the  world’s 
financial 
the  Group  must 
significantly  enhance  its  outreach  to  non-members, 
including  the  smallest  members  of  the  international 
community,  particularly  when  issues  affecting  their 
economic  viability  and  survival  are  under  discussion. 
Furthermore,  it  must  also  demonstrate  real  leadership 
in  breaking 
the  World  Trade 
Organization and ensure a successful conclusion to the 
Doha  Development  Round.  It  must  also  ensure  that 
reforms 
institutions  are 
in 
accelerated. 

Small  States  have  traditionally  played  a  crucial 
role  in  shaping  global  governance,  and  our  voice 
should  not  be  diminished  in  efforts  to  reform  the 
current system. Barbados will play its part. It is against 
the background of articulating the role and importance 
of  multilateralism  and  a  strong  and  effective  United 
Nations that I will explore the response of my country 
to  these  global  challenges.  I  will  also  address  the 
strategies  to  be  pursued  by  this  small  nation  intent  on 
playing its part in this family of nations. Barbados is a 
small  island  developing  State  classified  as  a  middle-
income  developing  country. 
faces  significant 
vulnerabilities  made  real  by  the  spectre  of  climate 
change  and 
the 
consequences  of  the  recent  financial  and  economic 
crises,  and  the  threat  posed  by  transnational  criminal 
networks. My country has sought to take its place in a 
world 
economic, 
environmental  and  social  complexities.  We  take  our 
place  in  a  world  in  which  the  United  Nations  family 
continues to witness increasing economic interdependence 
and  globalization,  both  posing  challenges  to  national 
sovereignty. 

Barbados  shares  the  United  Nations  vision  for  a 
world  able  to  achieve  and  surpass  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  are  committed  to  the  fight 
against  the  ravages  of  HIV  and  AIDS  and  other 
infectious  diseases.  As  a  natural-resources-poor  small 
island developing State, we have achieved much on the 
basis  of  our 
in  human  development, 
primarily in the areas of education and health. We have 
the  associated  natural  disasters, 
characterized 
investment 
increasing 
by 
It 
to 
the 
and 
responses 
introduced  by 
(resolution  64/265), 
the  General  Assembly 
thus  prioritized  our 
those  global 
challenges  in  a  manner  that  puts  our  people  first.  Our 
successes  to  date  have  been  due  to  our  investment  in 
our key resource — our people. Given the emphasis on 
our people’s development and the dangers posed to our 
population,  we  supported 
resolution  entitled 
control  of  non-communicable 
“Prevention 
diseases” 
the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) at the sixty-fourth 
session  of 
in  2009.  Our 
responses  can  be  seen  in  our  efforts  to  achieve  our 
ultimate goal of crafting a green economy. We see the 
green economy as a tool for transforming our economy 
to achieve sustainable development. At the heart of this 
economic and social model is a commitment to people-
centred  development.  Aligning  our  development 
strategy  along  this  particular  trajectory  ensures  a 
consistency  not  only  with  our  global  obligations  but 
also,  and  more  importantly,  with  our  national  values 
and in the best interests of all our citizens. 

Even as the international community searches for 
a  definition  of  the  green  economy,  Barbados  has 
simply defined this model as an integrated production, 
distribution,  consumption  and  waste  assimilation 
system  that,  at  its  core,  reflects  the  fragility  of  our 
small 
the  basis  for  policy 
interventions  for  natural  resource  protection,  business 
and 
development 
programming,  and  the  facilitation  of  export  market 
development strategies. 

In pursuit of the green economy the Government 
of  Barbados  has  undertaken  an  assessment  of  the 
opportunities  and  challenges  of  a  green  economy 
transition.  Our  focus  is  on  the  priority  sectors  of 
tourism, agriculture, transport and housing, along with 
cross-sectoral  issues  of  water  resources,  energy  and 
waste.  In  addition,  we  have  partnered  with  the  United 
Nations  Environment  Programme 
to  promote  a 
transition  to  a  green  economy,  building  on  existing 
Barbados  initiatives  in  the  area  of  resource  efficiency 
and  the  promotion  of  sustainable  consumption  and 
production.  We  believe 
in 
transitioning to a green economy will serve as a useful 
model  for  other  small  island  developing  States  and 
small  economies,  and  we  intend  to  share  our  unique 
perspective  with  the  international  community  in  the 
preparatory process for the Rio+20 Summit in 2012. 
The efforts of Barbados to transform its economy 

into  a  green  economy  and  achieve  sustainable 
island  ecosystems  as 
that  our  experience 
investment 
choice, 
human 
18 

10-55276 
to  addressing 


development  will  be  undermined  without  ambitious 
and urgent global action to address climate change. The 
challenge  of  climate  change  remains  one  of  the  great 
threats  to  the  survival  and  viability  of  Barbados  and 
other  small  island  developing  States.  Even  as  science 
points  to  a  worsening  situation,  global  emissions 
continue to rise and the prospects seem dim of arriving 
at  an  agreement  to  provide  legal  certainty  in  the  fight 
against climate change. It is clear that the objective of 
an  ambitious  and  comprehensive 
legally  binding 
outcome  will  not  be  achieved  in  Cancún,  Mexico,  in 
December  this  year.  Barbados  nevertheless  believes 
that  the  substantive  outcomes  at  the  sixteenth  session 
of  the  Conference  of  Parties  (COP-16)  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
must  demonstrate  that  the  international  community 
remains  committed 
the  defining 
challenge  of  our  time.  In  this  regard  COP-16  should 
deliver outcomes that: prioritize the needs of the most 
vulnerable,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  adaptation  and 
finance;  finalize  issues  on  which  there  is  a  broad 
agreement  and  provide  guidance  and  clarity  on  the 
difficult  issues;  and  demonstrate  progress  on  the 
delivery of the $30 billion fast-start financing pledged 
at  Copenhagen.  Critical  to  the  success  at  Cancún  is 
arriving at a common understanding of how, when and 
where  an  ambitious  and  legally  binding  international 
climate agreement will be finalized. 

In  1994  Barbados  had  the  distinct  honour  of 
hosting the first Global Conference on the Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States.  The 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  and  the  Mauritius 
Strategy for Implementation (MSI) remain the essential 
blueprints  for  the  sustainable  development  of  small 
island  developing  States.  Barbados  welcomes 
the 
recently adopted outcome of the five-year review of the 
MSI and hopes that this will result in a renewal of the 
commitment of the international community to support 
the sustainable development of small island developing 
States. It is of great concern to Barbados that, 18 years 
after the international recognition of the special case of 
small  island  developing  States  at  Rio,  our  unique  and 
particular  vulnerability  is  being  challenged.  Barbados 
is not prepared to renegotiate the special case of small 
island  developing  States  but  urges  the  international 
community  to  focus  on  the  delivery  of  tangible  and 
concrete  actions 
to  build  resilience  and  promote 
sustainable  development  in  small  island  developing 
States. 
A/65/PV.22
to  realize 
its  full  potential, 
the 
the  earthquake, 
like  Barbados  and 

The  January  2010  earthquake  that  devastated 
Haiti  serves  as  a  grim  reminder  of  the  fragility  of 
island  States  to  natural  disasters.  In  the  immediate 
aftermath  of 
the  Government  of 
Barbados  provided  financial  assistance,  relief  supplies 
and  deployed  a  contingent  of  medical  and  security 
personnel as part of a CARICOM relief team. If Haiti 
is 
international 
community must remain fully engaged in Haiti, and the 
many  pledges  of  financial  and  technical  support  must 
be  delivered  on  time.  The  Government  and  people  of 
Haiti can be assured that Barbados will continue to be 
a  partner  in  this  rebuilding  and  reconstruction  phase. 
Our commitment remains strong, and we will play our 
part  in  Haiti’s  long-term  development.  We  call  on  all 
who  have  mobilized  resources  for  the  benefit  of  Haiti 
to  work  with  countries 
in 
collaboration with the Government and people of Haiti 
to rebuild that country. 
There  is  a  very  definite  role  for  a  reformed 

United  Nations  to  assist  countries  like  Barbados.  The 
model economy being pursued by Barbados cannot be 
achieved by unilateral action. 

As  stated  previously,  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  is  clear.  It  must  generate  the  templates  to  be 
adopted and serve as a catalyst for action: it must seek 
to mediate where conflicts arise; it must work to ensure 
that  there  are  reforms  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial  system  to  make  it  inclusive,  transparent  and 
supportive  of  the  development  aspirations  of  least 
developed  countries  and  more  developed  countries;  it 
must 
cooperation, 
supporting  the  efforts  of  these  countries  to  share 
appropriate experiences and indigenous solutions. 

Barbados  shares  your  vision,  Sir,  for  a  strong, 
inclusive and open United Nations as the guarantor of 
global  governance.  Barbados  maintains  the  strong 
position that responsibility for the setting of rules and 
the  making  of  core  decisions  on  matters  of  a  global 
nature rightfully belongs within the ambit of the United 
Nations, given its primacy as the only legitimate forum 
for global action. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Moctar Ouane, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Republic of Mali. 
Mr. Ouane (Mali) (spoke in French): It is a great 

privilege  and  signal  honour  for  me  to  address  the 
South-South 
also 
facilitate 
10-55276 

19 

to  express  our  deep  appreciation 
A/65/PV.22 

Assembly on behalf of the President of the Republic of 
Mali,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Amadou  Toumani  Touré, 
who,  because  of  a  very  busy  schedule  resulting  from 
the  celebration  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Mali’s 
independence,  is  unable  to  be  here  with  us  today.  He 
has  expressly  charged  me  with  conveying  to  the 
Assembly  his  sincere  greetings  and  his  wishes  for 
every success for the work of this current session. 

At the outset I should like to convey to you, Sir, 
the  warmest  congratulations  of  the  delegation  of  Mali 
on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  Your  election  is  a 
tribute  to  your  eminent  professional  skills  and  is  also 
an  expression  of  the  unanimous  recognition  given  by 
the international community to the commitment of your 
country, Switzerland, a friend of Mali, to the ideals of 
our  Organization.  I  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s 
constant  support  in  fulfilling  your  mandate. Allow  me 
also 
to  your 
predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  for  his  deep 
commitment  and  the  remarkable  manner  in  which  he 
guided our work during the sixty-fourth session of the 
General Assembly.  In  turn,  I  commend  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his constant efforts and 
his commitment to meeting the aims and objectives of 
this Organization. 

On 28 September 1960, only a few days after the 
proclamation of independence, my country, Mali, became 
a Member of the United Nations. Today, on 28 September 
2010,  50  years  later,  I,  speaking  to  you  from  this 
selfsame rostrum, would like to reaffirm with force and 
conviction the commitment of the Republic of Mali to 
the  promotion  of  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
Charter, the establishment of friendly relations with all 
nations of the world and the promotion of international 
cooperation,  and  to  contributing  to  the  dawning  of  a 
world of peace, justice and progress. 

Indeed, today a new Mali is on the rise. Under the 
leadership  of  President  Amadou  Toumani  Touré,  this 
new  Mali  continues 
the 
development  and  well-being  of  its  people,  each  day 
further building upon the gains of peaceful democracy, 
recognized worldwide as being exemplary, and further 
enhances its presence in Africa and on the international 
stage. Today, on 28 September 2010, I convey here and 
now to the peoples of the world, to the Governments of 
friendly countries, and to Mali’s development partners, 
the greetings and gratitude of my country and reaffirm 
to  progress 
towards 
the solidarity and commitment of the Republic of Mali 
in our shared quest for a better world. 

Mr.  Ntwaagae  (Botswana),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

This general debate has opened by setting out to 
tackle a timely subject, the reaffirmation of the central 
role of the United Nations in global governance. In this 
regard,  Mali  reiterates  from  the  outset  its  faith  in  the 
capacity  of  the  Organization  to  be  a  catalyst  in  the 
processes of global democratization and governance. In 
that connection my country, Mali, continues to call for 
a  reform  of 
the  global  economic  and  financial 
architecture, the only way to prevent the occurrence of 
even worse crises. In the same vein, Mali believes that 
just  and  equitable  representation  of  all  regions  of  the 
world  must  be  guaranteed  within  our  Organization,  in 
particular through Security Council reform. 

In that regard, Mali reaffirms its adherence to the 
Ezulwini  Consensus  and  to  the  Sirte  Declaration, 
adopted  by  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
African Union, and fully supports Africa’s demand for 
two  permanent  seats  and  five  non-permanent  seats. A 
reformed  Council  would  better  reflect  the  geopolitical 
realities  of  the  world  today,  thus  contributing  towards 
repairing  the  historical  injustices  towards  Africa,  the 
only region of the world not to have a permanent seat on 
the  Security  Council.  In  the  same  spirit  Mali,  together 
with  all  other  Member  States,  will  strive  to  reinforce 
the  effectiveness  of  the  role  of  the  Council  and  to 
promote the revitalization of the General Assembly. 
With only five years now to the 2015 deadline set 

to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  in 
spite  of  the  tireless  efforts  made  by  many  developing 
countries,  millions  of  people  worldwide  are  still 
waiting  for 
take 
concrete effect. The High-level Plenary Meeting on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  has 
just 
concluded,  would  have  been  a  useful  opportunity  for 
heads  of  States  and  Government  to  evaluate  the 
progress made in various areas, draw lessons from the 
best  practices  and  define  approaches  towards  meeting 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015.  For  its 
part,  the  Republic  of  Mali  is  resolutely  committed  to 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  a 
sustainable  manner  through  the  adoption  of  a  10-year 
plan  for 
the 
implementation  of  a  strategic  framework  for  growth 
and  poverty  reduction  and  a  project  for  economic  and 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
the  years  2006-2015,  and 
through 
to 
20 

10-55276 


social development, all of which focus in particular on 
agriculture and food security, education and health. 

From  this  rostrum  I  invite  the  international 
community  to  continue  to  support  our  efforts  in 
implementing  this  range  of  economic  and  social 
development policies in Mali, as we are encouraged by 
the results achieved in previous strategies. Indeed, the 
implementation of such strategies has made it possible 
to increase the schooling rate from 64 per cent in 2002 
to 80 per cent in 2008. Mortality for children under the 
age  of  5  has  fallen  from  229  per  thousand  in  2001  to 
191 per thousand in 2006, while HIV/AIDS prevalence 
has fallen from 1.7 per cent in 2001 to 1.3 per cent in 
2006.  Thus,  Mali  deems  it  essential  to  expedite  the 
implementation  of 
the  commitments  made  at  key 
international  conferences,  particularly  the  Monterrey 
International Conference on Financing for Development, 
the  Brussels  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  the  Barbados  Global  Conference  on  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States  and  the  Almaty  Conference  on  landlocked 
developing States. 

Undoubtedly  climate  change  poses  one  of  the 
greatest  challenges  currently  facing  the  international 
community. Today more than ever, the survival of our 
planet is threatened by natural disasters caused by this 
phenomenon,  which  seriously  affects 
living 
conditions  in  developing  countries  such  as  my  own 
through  —  in  our  case  —  the  encroachment  of  the 
desert, 
the 
deterioration  of  our  ecosystem,  the  shortening  of  the 
winter  season  and  poor  rainfall  distribution.  That  is 
why  Mali  will  spare  no  effort  to  make  its  modest 
contribution  towards  finding  a  global  and  binding 
agreement  on  climate  change.  To 
in 
November 2010 my country will host a regional forum 
on sustainable development. 

to  hamper 
development  efforts  in  many  countries  and  thus  poses 
one of the greatest threats  to the survival of humanity 
and  global  security.  In  keeping  with 
the  Abuja 
Declaration  on  HIV/AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Other 
Related 
the  Brazzaville 
Commitment for universal access to treatment in Africa 
and  the  Lomé  Declaration  on  HIV/AIDS  in  Africa, 
Mali  has  launched  a  vast  programme  of  multisectoral 
reform, both at the institutional and operational levels. 
That  programme  compels  all  the  sectors,  in  particular 
the public, private and civil society sectors, to become 
The  AIDS  pandemic  continues 
Infectious  Diseases, 
the  silting  up  of 
that  end, 
the 
the  Niger 
river, 
A/65/PV.22
better  organized  in  order  to  better  coordinate  their 
activities  to  combat  AIDS  effectively  and  be  held 
accountable to the nation. 

The  new  transnational  threats  of  trafficking  in 
drugs,  arms,  human  beings  and  terrorism  seriously 
jeopardize 
international  peace  and  security.  The 
international  community  must  resolutely  tackle  those 
threats. That means acting quickly and effectively. As I 
underscored  in  the  General  Assembly  during  the 
second  review  of  the  United  Nations  global  counter-
terrorism  strategy  on  8  September  2010,  Mali  has 
adopted  a  new  strategy  to  combat  the  lack  of  security 
and terrorism. On the one hand, this new strategy seeks 
to strengthen national capacities through robust actions 
in  the  field  of  security  and  community  development 
and  on  the  other  hand  it  seeks  to  promote  effective 
regional  cooperation  with  the  unified  commitment  of 
States  of  the  Sahelo-Saharan  region  and  with  the 
support  of  the  international  community.  Building  on 
this  same  impetus,  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Mali,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Amadou  Toumani  Touré,  has 
taken the initiative of organizing a conference in Mali on 
peace,  security  and  development  in  the  Sahelo-Saharan 
region. 

international  peace  and 
security  has  been  and  will  remain  one  of  the  most 
pressing  concerns  of  the  international  community. 
Without  peace  there  is  no  development  or  prosperity, 
nor will there be, and that is why Mali remains firmly 
attached to the ideals of peace and stability, both within 
and beyond its borders. In this regard, we welcome the 
progress  made 
and 
reconciliation,  in  peacebuilding  and  in  the  process  of 
democratic  transition,  in  particular  in  Guinea-Bissau, 
the  Republic  of  Guinea,  Côte  d’Ivoire  and 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  

In  the  Middle  East,  we  reaffirm  our  solidarity 
with our brother Palestinian people in their courageous 
struggle  for  the  creation  of  an  independent  and 
sovereign  State  with Al-Quds Al-Sharif  as  its  capital, 
and we have closely followed the evolving situation in 
that  part  of  the  world  and  continue  to  support  the 
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in this area. 

To  conclude,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  our 
solidarity  with  the  brotherly  people  of  Haiti,  as  they 
seek  to  rebuild  their  country,  and  to  express  our  deep 
sympathy  to  the  victims  of  the  natural  disasters  that 
have afflicted China, India, Pakistan, Russia and other 
The  maintenance  of 
reconstruction 
in  national 
10-55276 

21 
international 
A/65/PV.22 

countries,  in  particular  in  Africa.  Millions  of  people 
worldwide continue to place their hopes  in the United 
Nations,  and,  as  the  community  of  nations,  we  do  not 
have  the  right  to  let  them  down.  It  is  our  obligation  to 
guarantee sustainable development for future generations 
and to preserve them from the scourge of war. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Sergei Aleinik, Deputy Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Belarus. 
Mr.  Aleinik  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 

nature  of  the  discussions  and  decisions  taken  at  the 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  has  clearly  demonstrated 
that  the  various  problems,  challenges  and  threats  we 
face, however difficult and dangerous they may be, can 
only be overcome if we work together. The world has 
changed  significantly  over  the  past  10  years,  and  our 
capacity to make peoples’ lives in all continents better 
and safer has been broadened. We have seen the change 
in 
relations.  There  has  been  an 
enhancement  of  constructive,  mutually 
respectful 
dialogue between States, and a new global partnership 
is  forming.  All  the  preconditions  exist  so  that  at  this 
session  we  can  establish  a  road  map  of  international 
cooperation  on  all  strategic  issues  referred  to  in  the 
Outcome Document of the Summit. Particular attention 
should  be  given  to  the  financial  economic  sphere, 
because 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. We can achieve those 
Goals,  even  in  the  current  situation,  if  the  necessary 
financial resources, skills and technologies are used to 
support  development.  What  has  been  done  so  far  is 
insufficient.  If  we  analyse  the  current  situation  in  an 
objective  way,  we  see  that  the  largest  developed 
countries  have  spent  trillions  of  dollars  on  supporting 
their  economies.  This  has  given  some  results,  but  the 
backdrop  of  this  is  that  it  has  become  clear  that 
providing resources for official development assistance 
and  international  technical  assistance  continues  to  be 
below  the  real  needs  of  developing  countries  and 
countries 
transition.  Developed  countries  have 
adopted  protectionist  measures.  There  has  been  price 
pressure  on  small  and  medium  countries  for  many 
sensitive  categories  of  goods.  In  such  a  context, 
progress  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
cannot be smooth. 

In general terms, Belarus supports the work of the 
Group  of  20  (G-20)  and  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  to 
overcome  the  world  economic  crisis,  but  we  must 
assume that the major countries in these clubs will first 
to  achieving 
in 
it 
is  directly 
linked 

in 
in  decision-making 
and foremost promote their own interests. The General 
Assembly must take the necessary measures to improve 
the  economic  toolbox  of  the  entire  United  Nations 
system. Otherwise our Organization will not be able to 
play an important role in global economic management 
and  small  and  medium-sized  countries  will  have  no 
leverage on these processes. 

First  of  all,  we  must  continue  the  process  of 
updating  the  work  and  enhancing  the  potential  of  the 
Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  increase  the  role  of 
developing  countries  and  countries  with  transitional 
economies 
their  governing 
bodies.  The  General  Assembly,  although  it  might  not 
be able directly to influence this process, must raise its 
voice on this issue. We refer here to those bodies where 
all  countries,  without  exception,  can  put  forward  their 
positions and submit appropriate proposals. 

In  2005  and  2006,  significant  efforts  were  made 
to  improve  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, converting it from a body that coordinates the 
work  of  thematic  commissions  and  committees  in  the 
economic  and  social  spheres  to  a  body  that  adopts 
political decisions and recommendations in those areas. 
Some progress has been achieved here, of course; but it 
is  insufficient  if  we  want  to  reach  by  2015  good 
indicators  with  regard  to  implementing  the  strategic 
tasks  under  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The 
Economic  and  Social  Council  is  still  the  same:  it  has 
not  become  a  full-fledged  economic  organ  of  the 
United Nations. We suggest in the remaining five years 
that  the  Council  should  give  special  attention  to  each 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  make 
appropriate recommendations to the General Assembly 
and to Member States.  

Belarus,  which  has  submitted  its  candidature  for 
membership  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in 
2011, is ready to work actively in this regard. 

We  cannot  attain  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals unless we establish a genuine, strong structure of 
United  Nations  operational  activities.  Here,  we 
welcome  the  increased  intergovernmental  dialogue  on 
enhancing  coherence  in  the  operations  of  United 
Nations  agencies  and  the  measures  that  have  been 
taken to reform the United Nations gender architecture. 
Besides  enhancing  the  institutions,  the  financing  of 
bodies that undertake operational activities needs to be 
improved. In this Hall, we have heard many addresses 
with regard to the work of the G-8 and the G-20 and their 
22 

10-55276 
is 
trade 
system?  This 


initiative to find innovative approaches to financing. We 
have  heard  of  the  intention  of  the  European  Union  to 
monitor  the  Union’s  respect  for  its  commitments  with 
regard to official development assistance. We hope that 
those measures will indeed be implemented. 

Belarus, like many other delegations in this room, 
is concerned at the status of the Doha multilateral trade 
talks,  particularly  given  the  recent  trends  towards  a 
tougher  position  by  developed  countries.  Developing 
countries in particular suffer from this, as do medium-
income  countries.  For  more  than  10  years,  talks  have 
been  under  way  on  membership  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization  (WTO)  of  about  30  States.  Is  this  a 
normal  situation  if  we  are  talking  about  the  need  to 
ensure  that  States  move  forward  on  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  a  genuinely 
multilateral 
genuine 
discrimination  against  certain  States.  Therefore  we 
believe  that  the  rules  for  WTO  membership  by  these 
countries should be reviewed and simplified. 
If  we  are  now  serious  about  United  Nations 

management  of  global  processes, 
then  General 
Assembly resolutions on the role of international trade 
in  stimulating  development  should  be  more  targeted 
towards  achieving  long-term  results.  What  is  most 
important  is  to  make  recommendations  on  urgent 
collective  measures  to  establish  a  multilateral  trading 
system that meets the needs of today’s world. 

The General Assembly must send an unequivocal 
political signal to parties to the upcoming Cancún talks 
on  developing  a  new  post-Kyoto 
international 
agreement  on  limiting  emissions  of  greenhouse  gases. 
This  year  we  have  seen  that  the  measures  that  have 
been  taken  have  been  inadequate. The  virtual  absence 
of  targeted  collective  measures  by  the  international 
community could lead to irreversible  consequences. If 
States are ready to demonstrate genuine partnership in 
order  to  avoid  the  worst-case  scenario,  then  the 
General  Assembly  must  adopt  a  resolution  on  the 
problem  of  climate  change  and  offer 
relevant 
recommendations 
the  
29  November  opening  of  the  sixteenth  Conference  of 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change.  

It is time to end competing ambitions with regard 
to climate change. Belarus has direct experience of the 
low  level  of  cooperation  between  countries  and  the 
level of their respect for each other’s interests. This has 
proposals 
before 
and 
A/65/PV.22
so 
a 
energy 
cutting-edge 
technologies, 
Belarus  has 
the  climate,  have 
meant  that  our  attempts  to  adopt  the  most  stringent 
voluntary quantitative limits under the Kyoto Protocol, 
and thus to make our contribution to the common goal 
of  protecting 
far  been 
unsuccessful. Belarus’s  amendment to Annex B of the 
Kyoto Protocol has not yet entered into force. 

Closely related to protection of the climate is the 
issue of a reliable system of global energy security and 
the  development  of  so-called  green  economies.  Many 
States  already  have  considerable  experience 
in 
establishing  sustainable,  low-carbon  economies.  Many 
States still do not have clean technology, and this puts 
a  brake  on  their  development.  Of  course,  neither  the 
United  Nations  system  nor  any  other  international 
organization  can  immediately  resolve  this  problem  on 
its  own.  Establishing  a  promising 
international 
mechanism  of  cooperation  in  order  to  enhance  access 
to 
including 
technology  for  new  and  renewable  energy  sources,  is 
possible  only  on  the  basis  of  a  genuine  partnership, 
with  leadership  from  the  United  Nations  and  from 
States  that  have  been  most  successful  in  developing 
green economies. 

significant 
contribution to establishing such partnerships. We have 
established  an  international  laboratory  for  renewable 
sources  of  energy  based  at  the  Energy  Institute  at  the 
National  Academy  of  Sciences.  This  is  first  and 
foremost  a  platform  for  exchanging  experiences  with 
regard  to  renewable  energy.  This  is  no  less  important 
than  addressing 
in  our 
countries;  it  will  provide  an  experimental  basis  for 
developing  and 
testing  effective  uses  of  green 
technologies.  Without  any  doubt  this  will  make  a 
significant contribution to developing global renewable 
energy.  We  can  only  imagine  how  much  progress  the 
international  community  would  make  if  each  State  in 
the world would, within its means, contribute resources 
to  the  development  of  renewable  energy,  aimed  not 
only at its own domestic needs but also at exchanging 
experiences with foreign colleagues. 

The  MDG  Summit  confirmed  the  need  for  the 
international  community  to  find  longer-term  solutions 
to  problems.  By  following  such  an  approach,  States 
Members of the United Nations will, as the Secretary-
General has said, be able to provide a better future for 
all.  Achieving  this  was  the  aim  of  the  declaration  by 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Belarus  on 
establishing a partnership with young people to protect 
the  climatic  conditions 
already  made 
10-55276 

23 
is 
that 

the  objective  situation 
A/65/PV.22 

them from social decline; the theme of this partnership 
is  helping  future  generations  prosper.  The  theme  of 
young people is not new in itself, and it has often been 
discussed  in  various  forums.  But  implementing  this 
idea would enable us to take a qualitative step forward 
in  establishing  a  reliable  basis  for  sustainable  human 
development.  We  are  convinced  that  Member  States 
will  support  the  Belarus  initiative  to  convene  a 
thematic  General  Assembly  debate  on  supporting 
talented  young  people  and  protecting  the  coming 
generation from social decline. 

In April  next  year  we  will  mark  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster.  In  the  varied 
spectrum  of  contemporary  challenges  and  threats  the 
issue  of  Chernobyl  has  unfortunately  become  a  low 
priority.  But 
the 
consequences  of  that  massive  man-made  disaster  are 
still  being  felt,  which  means  that  implementing  the 
United  Nations  10-year  plan  for  recovery  and  long-
term  development  of  the  affected  regions  is  still  an 
urgent  task.  That  is  not  just  of  concern  to  Belarus, 
Russia  and  Ukraine;  the  successful  mitigation  of  the 
consequences  of  Chernobyl  is  in  the  interests  of  the 
entire international community. 

Given that situation, Belarus, Russia and Ukraine 
intend  to  prepare  a  draft  resolution  on  enhancing 
international cooperation and coordination of efforts in 
order to study, mitigate and minimize the consequences 
of  the  Chernobyl  disaster.  That  is  intended  to  further 
intensify  measures  to  implement  a  plan  of  action  and 
draw  the  attention  of  the  international  community  to 
the memorial events planned for 2011 in the capitals of 
the States most affected by the Chernobyl disaster. We 
call  for  support  for  that  draft  resolution  on  Chernobyl 
in  the  General  Assembly  and  for  the  traditional 
solidarity with the most affected countries. 

This  year  the  Republic  of  Belarus  for  the  first 
time became a participant in and donor to United Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  That  again  demonstrates  that 
Belarus not only shares the purposes and principles of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  but  is  making  a  tangible 
contribution  to  strengthening  international  peace  and 
security. 

In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  assure  the Assembly 
that  our  country  will  continue  to  play  its  part  in 
enhancing the authority and increasing the institutional 
capacity  of  the  United  Nations.  Given  its  universal 
nature,  the  United  Nations  should  guard  and  enhance 
the  world  community, 
its paramount role in the global management of peace 
processes,  improve  people’s  lives  and  protect  them 
from the threats and challenges of our unstable times. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Georges Rebelo Chikoti, Secretary of 
State for External Relations of the Republic of Angola. 
Mr.  Chikoti  (Angola)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English text provided by the delegation): First, I should 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the 
President  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session  and  to 
assure him that he can count on the support of Angola 
so  that  at  the  end  of  this  session  we  will  all  be  better 
prepared  to  respond  to  the  multiple  and  complex 
challenges  facing  the  international  community.  I  also 
take  this  opportunity  to  convey,  though  the  President, 
our most sincere gratitude to the outgoing President for 
the  selfless  manner  in  which  he  conducted  the  sixty-
fourth session. 
In the last decade several events have profoundly 

marked 
including  natural 
calamities  and  man-made  disasters,  which  should  lead 
us  to  consider  the  need  to  work  towards  a  more 
cooperative  and  increasingly  integrated  world,  for  no 
one is immune to those phenomena. The terrorist attack 
of  2001  on  the  Twin  Towers  of  New York  that  killed 
more than 3,000 people, the tsunami of December 2004 
in which more than 200,000 people perished, the recent 
earthquake  in  Haiti  that  caused  more  than  200,000 
deaths,  and  the  series  of  natural  disasters  that  have 
occurred  on  every  continent,  added  to  the  global 
financial and economic crisis, should awaken us to the 
fact  that  we  live  in  a  different  world  that  requires 
broader  cooperation  among  nations,  given  that  those 
phenomena are unforeseeable. 

Therefore, in today’s world, the consequences of 
the irresponsibility of a few can have repercussions on 
the lives of us all. It is thus imperative that we pursue 
relationships  that  have  greater  balance  and  equality 
between large and small and rich and poor, because the 
new  reality  is  that  we  are  increasingly  interdependent 
in a global world. 
the 

important role of the United Nations and of multilateral 
diplomacy in general, because no country can progress 
and develop  unilaterally, isolated  from the community 
of  nations  and  alienated  from  the  common  problems 
affecting humanity as a whole. 
Angola,  has  always  been  convinced  of 
24 

10-55276 
At 
in 
the 
and 
that 
food 
is  of 
Angola 
believes 
importance 
the  opinion 



In the President’s speech to the General Assembly 
on  the  occasion  of  his  election  (see  A/64/PV.93), 
among  other  things  he  set  the  following  topics  as 
priorities for the sixty-fifth session: climate change, the 
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
security, 
sustainable  development,  rebuilding  and  strengthening 
fragile  post-conflict  States,  and  humanitarian  aid  and 
disarmament.  Angola 
the 
environment  and  other  issues  he  mentioned  must 
remain  priorities  on  the  national  and  international 
agendas.  They  are  crucial  for  sustainable  development, 
for the growth of our economies, for the implementation 
of  national  strategies  for  combating  poverty,  and  for 
the attainment of the Millennium Goals.  

the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization’s 
Regional  Conference  for  Africa,  held  recently  in 
Luanda, the participants expressed their concern about 
the  impact  of  climate  change  on  the  world  food  crisis 
in some regions and recommended that States make an 
extra effort to reduce its impact on agriculture. 

of 
multilateralism  as  the  best  form  of  treatment  and 
resolution of the multifaceted challenges that humanity 
faces today. In that context Angola advocates a shared 
commitment  to  find  solutions  to  our  problems  at  all 
levels. 

to  political  and 
diplomatic 
to 
strengthening 
institutional  relations  with  the  organizations  of  the 
United Nations system, as well as with the regional and 
subregional organizations to which it belongs, namely, 
the African  Union,  the  Southern African  Development 
Community  (SADC),  the  Economic  Community  of 
Central  African  States  (ECCAS),  the  International 
Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region  (ICGLR)  and 
the  Commission  on  the  Gulf  of  Guinea,  the  latter 
having its headquarters in Angola. 

In  the  Commission  on  the  Gulf  of  Guinea, 
member  States  cooperate  with  a  view  to  managing 
potential  conflicts  linked  to  maritime  borders  and 
managing  shared  maritime  resources,  as  well  as 
coordinating  policies  for  the  prevention  of  maritime 
trafficking  and  piracy,  thus  providing  security  to  a 
region  that  produces  more  than  15  per  cent  of  the 
world’s oil. 

With that motivation, Angola and its armed forces 
bravely  participated  in  the  liberation  of  southern 
Africa,  having  contributed  to  the  independence  of 
My  country  gives  priority 
coordination 
A/65/PV.22
in  West  Africa,  namely, 
the  Republic  of  Congo  and 
Namibia  and  to  the  end  of  apartheid  in  South Africa. 
With  that  same  motivation  we  contributed  to  the 
stabilization  of 
the 
the  Congo.  With  other 
Democratic  Republic  of 
international  partners  of  the  United  Nations,  we  are 
participating in the training of the armed forces of the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  

Today the Angolan  armed  forces  are  a  factor for 
stability not only for Angola, but also for the southern 
and central regions of Africa, where we are part of the 
early  warning  mechanisms  of  SADC  and  ECCAS. At 
present  we  are  committed  to  finding  solutions  to  the 
crisis in Guinea-Bissau, in close cooperation with other 
partners 
the  Economic 
Community of West African States, and in partnership 
with the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries. 

It  was  therefore  with  great  amazement  that  we 
learned of the mention of involvement by the Angolan 
armed forces in alleged acts of human rights violations 
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in  a  report 
intended  to  be  circulated  as  a  document  of  the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  We  stress  that  that 
document was produced at the initiative of an organ of 
the United Nations Secretariat with no specific mandate 
from the Secretary-General or from Member States.  

It is important to emphasize before the Assembly 
that Angola  intervened  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  on  the  basis  of  a  SADC  mandate,  at  the 
request of the Government of the Democratic Republic. 
That 
the 
bloodbath  and  to  save  the  lives  of  millions  of  people 
and lay the basis for the negotiations that culminated in 
the  establishment  of  the  transitional  Government,  the 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
installation  of 
the  first 
mission  and 
democratic  elections.  It 
the 
pacification of the Great Lakes region. 

Angola  vehemently  rejects  the  insinuation  and 
considers abnormal the manner in which that so-called 
mapping  exercise  was  conducted.  We  question  the 
motivations  behind  that  venture.  We  would  like  to 
reiterate that Angola and the Angolan armed forces will 
continue  to  act  responsibly  and  on  the  basis  of 
international  standards  and  scrupulous  respect  for 
human rights. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  to  the  sixty-
fifth session contains references to peace and security, 
considering them essential for development and for the 
the  successful  holding  of 
intervention  made 
thus  contributed 
it  possible 
to  stop 
to 
10-55276 

25 

long 
it  has 
lasted  a 
A/65/PV.22 

promotion  of  and  respect  for  human  rights.  Angola 
shares  the  concerns  of  the  Secretary-General.  Our 
experience shows that only peace, the democratic rule 
of law and respect for human rights can guarantee the 
stability  necessary  for  sustainable  development  and 
improvement  of  the  living  conditions  of  our  people. 
Angola  encourages  the  efforts  by  regional  organizations 
and  the  United  Nations  in  conflict  resolution  and 
peacekeeping to ensure global security and stability. 

A situation that is certainly of concern to all of us 
is  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East.  Angola  recognizes 
that 
time,  with  serious 
consequences for the population. Therefore we support 
the  resumption  of  peace  talks  by  President  Barack 
Obama with a view to creating a Palestinian State that 
coexists peacefully with the State of Israel. 

Angola is also concerned at the persistence of the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade  against 
Cuba, despite successive General Assembly resolutions 
demanding  its  immediate  removal.  That  unilateral 
measure,  particularly  its  extraterritorial  effects,  is 
contrary  to  the  principles  and  norms  of  international 
law and contributes to the precarious humanitarian and 
social  situation  of  the  Cuban  population.  From  this 
rostrum we reiterate our vehement appeal for the lifting 
of  a  measure  whose  anachronistic  nature  has  been 
restated here on numerous occasions. 

the  question  of  Western  Sahara, 
Angola notes with concern that despite various United 
Nations  resolutions  and  initiatives,  there  has  not  been 
the  type  of  progress  that  would  lead  to  meeting  the 
aspirations  of 
the 
Secretary-General to continue his efforts to attain those 
objectives. 
Mutually beneficial cooperation, the promotion of 

peace  and  respect  for  human  rights  remain  the  major 
drivers  of  Angolan  foreign  policy,  based  on  the 
observance of the principles of respect for sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity,  equality  and  non-interference 
in the internal affairs of other countries.  

Internally,  and  as  a  result  of  experiences  during 
different  periods  in  our  history,  marked  by  three 
decades of war and political instability, Angola is now 
entering a new cycle, of which we are very proud. It is 
characterized by the adoption of a new constitution that 
marks the end of the transition period and definitively 
establishes democratic rule of law, given that elections 
will be held in June 2012. 
the  Saharan  people.  We  urge 
Regarding 

We are aware that we still have a long way to go, 
especially  in  view  of  all  the  time  lost  and  the  delays 
accumulated in several areas. But it seems important to 
us to emphasize that the progress already achieved did 
not  happen  by  chance.  Rather,  it  resulted  from  the 
leadership efforts of the Angolan executive organs, the 
pragmatism of its policies and its commitment to better 
the  human  development  indexes,  which  are  reflected 
today in the improved welfare of the people. 

After  eight  years  of  peace,  Angola  has 
implemented  economic and social reform policies that 
have allowed for the revitalization of its economy and 
the  rehabilitation  of  key  infrastructure.  Such  policies 
have  enabled  the  country’s  annual  growth  rates  to 
average  double  digits,  with  a  direct  impact  on  the 
improvement  of  basic  indicators  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.  

Since  2002  more  than  2  million  children  have 
been enrolled in primary education. The percentage of 
children  attending  school  has  risen  sharply,  to  76  per 
cent.  The  rate  of  infant  and  maternal  mortality  fell 
considerably,  from  1,400  per  100,000  live  births  in 
2001 to 660 per 100,000 live births in 2010. Moreover, 
in  order  to  eradicate  hunger  and  poverty,  Angola  has 
adopted  its  National  Food  Security  Strategy  (2009-
2014)  as  a  mechanism 
increase  agricultural 
production in a sustainable manner. 

that 
international 
community  is  also  aware  of  how  much  still  has  to  be 
the  areas  of  financing  for 
done,  particularly 
development 
and 
the 
commitments  made  at  major  international  conferences 
on financing for development. 

Finally, the reform of the Security Council, given 
its  importance  in  the  democratization  of  international 
relations,  must  remain  a  topic  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Organization.  In  that  connection, Angola  reiterates  its 
support  for  the African  common  position  embodied  in 
the Ezulwini Consensus. 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Claude  Heller,  chair  of 
delegation of the United Mexican States. 
Mr. Heller (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): Let me 

begin  by  conveying  the  warm  congratulations  of  the 
delegation  of  Mexico  to  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  this 
new session. I also wish to express our appreciation to 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the 
the  materialization 
convinced 
We 
the 
are 
to 
in 
of 
26 

10-55276 
obstacles 
to 
achieving 
in 
effectively 
addressing 
that  confront 
the  challenges 


his  predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  for  his 
work,  and  our  appreciation  and  support  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  efforts  for  peace  and 
development. 
The  recent  high-level  meetings  have  shown  the 

magnitude  of 
the 
international  community  and  thus  the  United  Nations. 
The 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  the  economic  crisis  in  all  its 
manifestations,  the  disasters  associated  with  climate 
change, the continuing threats to peace and security — 
in  either  their  traditional  or  new  forms  —  and  the 
difficulties 
nuclear 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  define  the  agenda 
of  multilateral  institutions  and  of  the  policies  of  our 
Governments.  

Nevertheless,  the  primary  responsibility  of  this 
Organization is the maintenance of international peace 
and  security.  Years  of  war  and  conflict  on  every 
continent,  with  enormous  loss  of  lives  and  significant 
economic and social costs, have tested the ability of the 
United  Nations  to  prevent,  contain  and  reverse  armed 
conflicts.  

That  is  the  case  in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq,  where 
after  years  of  conflicts  and  interventions  there  is  still 
hope  that  those  countries  will  be  able  to  fully  assume 
their  own  destiny  without  outside  interference.  In 
Somalia  and  the  Sudan  the  prospects  for  peaceful 
settlements  and  reconciliation  still  seem  to  be  distant, 
requiring the will of the parties and careful monitoring 
by 
the 
escalation, the extension, of the crises and to ensure the 
protection of the civilian population. 

the  Congo 
impunity  prevails,  and  despite  the  presence  of  United 
Nations forces, outrageous and unacceptable crimes are 
committed  against  civilians,  particularly  women  and 
children.  The  reconstruction  of  Haiti  after  the  terrible 
earthquake  last  January,  which  even  affected  United 
Nations  personnel,  is  taking  place  under  dramatic 
conditions. 

The list of challenges is endless, and indeed there 
is  the  risk  of  a  backsliding  and  escalation  of  violence 
in several critical regions of the world. 

In  the  Middle  East,  despite  60  years  of  conflict 
and  scepticism  due  to  past  failures,  there  is  renewed 
hope for peace, thanks to the resumption of direct talks 
the  Democratic  Republic  of 
international  community 
to  prevent 
the 
In 
A/65/PV.22
international 
community  has 
between  the  Government  of  Israel  and  the  Palestinian 
Authority. The creation of a politically and economically 
viable Palestinian State, living in peace side by side with 
Israel,  within  secure  and 
internationally  recognized 
borders,  is  an  essential  condition  for  the  establishment 
of  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  We  particularly 
welcome the efforts of the Administration of President 
Barack Obama to achieve that goal. 

Mexico  expresses  its  strong  support  for  the 
ongoing  negotiations.  Nonetheless,  the  hope  of  a 
definitive  agreement  is  marred  by  the  threats  and 
provocations  of  extremist  forces  that  seek  to  derail 
direct  negotiations.  The  leaders  of  Israel  and  the 
Palestinian  Authority  have  an  appointment  with 
history.  Let  us  hope  that  they  are  up  to  the  challenge. 
To that end they can count on the unstinting support of 
States genuinely committed to the peace process. 

The  existence  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
remains  a  threat  to  humanity  and  increases  global 
insecurity. In 2010, significant progress has been made 
in the areas of disarmament and non-proliferation, and 
the 
its 
commitment to nuclear safety. The signing of the new 
strategic  arms  reduction  treaty  between  the  United 
States  and  Russia, 
in 
Washington and the outcome of the Review Conference 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  are  achievements 
that  must  be 
commended. We cannot ignore that the credibility and 
viability  of  the  disarmament  agenda  depend  on  the 
universalization of the NPT and the entry into force of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  The 
creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East 
would  constitute  a  parallel  and  decisive  step  in  that 
regard. 

With  regard  to  the  cases  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  Iran,  it  will  be 
necessary  to  move  forward  through  dialogue  and 
negotiation in order to resolve the controversies arising 
from  their  nuclear  programmes.  The  adoption  of 
sanctions  is  not  incompatible  with  the  recourse  to 
diplomacy, which is still ongoing. 

However,  international  security  does  not  depend 
exclusively  on  the  elimination  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  It  is  also  threatened  by  the  existence  of 
small  arms  and 
illicit 
trafficking,  which  fuel  conflicts,  claim  the  lives  of 
thousands of people and destabilize our societies. It is 
the  nuclear  summit  held 
light  weapons  and 
renewed 
their 
10-55276 

27 
the  need 
largely  by 
to  promote 
the  failure  of 
A/65/PV.22 

time to tackle that challenge head on, implementing the 
Programme  of  Action  on  illicit  trafficking  in  small 
arms  and  light  weapons  and  progressing  towards  the 
adoption of an arms trade treaty. 

With regard to development, the consequences of 
the  recent  international  economic  and  financial  crisis, 
caused 
the  regulatory 
mechanisms  and  the  excessive  indebtedness  of  the 
world’s  major  economies,  are  still  being  suffered 
worldwide. 
The  failures  that  led  to  this  crisis  must  be 

addressed, and the United Nations must be able to play 
a  significant  role  in  that  undertaking.  The  crisis 
demonstrated 
international 
cooperation  schemes  that  would  allow  us  to  act 
effectively  and  efficiently  to  meet  the  challenges 
arising  from  it.  In  particular,  it  is  worth  highlighting 
the  positive  work  of  the  Group  of  20  in  this  regard. 
However,  we  also  believe  that  the  United  Nations 
should play a more relevant role in the discussions on 
necessary  international  economic  governance  reform. 
In  this  sense,  we  share  the  objectives  set  by  the 
President of the General Assembly. 

In  this  context,  the  prospects  for  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  have  been  severely 
hampered  by  the  crisis.  Thus,  the  commitments  in 
official development assistance made at the Monterrey 
International 
for 
Development  and  endorsed  at  the  2008  Doha  Follow-
up  Conference  have  been 
jeopardized.  These 
commitments  must  be  honoured.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  can  be  attained  in  all  countries  if 
we take appropriate individual and collective action, as 
indicated in resolution 65/1, adopted at the High-level 
Plenary Meeting held here at Headquarters last week. It 
is  also  indispensable  that  we  progress  towards  the 
successful  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round  of  trade 
negotiations,  fully  respecting  its  linkage  with  the 
development agenda. 

In  addition  to  the  traditional  challenges,  our 
Organization  faces  new  challenges  that  test  its  ability 
to react and adapt. Terrorism, on the one hand, and the 
globalization  of  transnational  organized  crime  on  the 
other,  including  drug  trafficking,  pose  new  threats  to 
peace and security that destabilize entire countries and 
of 
regions,  modifying 
international 
these 
phenomena  is  not  the  exclusive  responsibility  of  one 
security.  The 
Conference 
traditional 
fight 
against 
on 
Financing 
the 
notion 

in 
region; 
trafficking 
the  area  of  drug 
particular  country  or 
these  are  global 
phenomena that must be addressed and resolved by the 
international  community  based  on  the  fundamental 
principle of shared responsibility. We cannot ignore the 
fact  that  the  permissive  social  behaviour  in  some 
countries stimulates illicit activities in others. 

The  Government  of  Mexico  has  assumed  full 
responsibility for meeting the challenges posed by drug 
trafficking  and  activities  related  to  organized  crime, 
restoring  State  authority  in  areas  where  impunity  had 
prevailed.  This  fight  requires  an  increased  investment 
of resources and has unfortunately also led to the loss 
of lives. The cost is high, but would be even higher for 
our  society  if  the  authority  of  the  State  remained 
impassive  in  the  face  of  violence,  corruption  and  the 
accompanying impunity. Compliance with international 
commitments 
is 
indispensable in order to meet this challenge. 

Migration is a reality of our contemporary world 
that  cannot  be  ignored  by  our  Organization.  Its 
multidimensional  nature  obliges  us  to  consider  its 
causes  and  effects  from  an  international  perspective. 
The  migratory  phenomenon  should  be  addressed 
through  a  holistic  approach 
the 
contribution of migrants to the countries of origin and 
of destination alike, among other factors. In November, 
Mexico  will  host  the  fourth  meeting  of  the  Global 
Forum on Migration and Development, the outcome of 
which will be duly reported to this Assembly. 

The  Government  of  Mexico  is  committed  to  the 
promotion of human rights of all migrants, irrespective 
of their migratory status. We call on all Member States 
to ratify the International Convention on the Protection 
of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of 
Their Families. Unfortunately, the tendency to criminalize 
international  migration  has  prevailed.  Legislative 
initiatives and actions singling out minorities in various 
countries  unacceptably  codify  racism  and  xenophobia, 
establishing  new  barriers  between  communities  and 
nations. This is unacceptable. 

transit  and 
destination  for  migrants,  has  experienced  within  its 
borders  the  consequences  of  the  exploitation  and 
violence  perpetrated  by  organized  criminal  gangs  that 
not  only  smuggle  people  from  different  countries,  but 
have not hesitated to cruelly threaten their lives, as was 
the very regrettable case in our country in August. The 
competent  authorities, 
the 
Mexico,  a  country  of  origin, 
in  coordination  with 
that  recognizes 
28 

10-55276 
set 
of 
for 
decisions 


Governments of which the individuals concerned were 
nationals,  are  investigating  this  case  and  establishing 
the  necessary  coordination  mechanisms  to  prevent 
similar  events  in  the  future  and  to  attend  more 
effectively to the protection of migrants, regardless of 
their origin and legal status. 

Nature  also  poses  new  challenges.  We  cannot 
afford to remain idle in the face of the adverse effects 
of  climate  change.  The  economic  and  human  costs  of 
not  addressing 
this  problem  are  enormous  and 
negatively affect the welfare and well-being of present 
and  future  generations.  As  host  of  the  sixteenth 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change and of the 
sixth Conference of the Parties to the  Kyoto Protocol, 
to be held later this year in Cancún, Mexico is making 
every  possible  effort  in  a  transparent,  inclusive  and 
responsible manner to achieve concrete and operational 
results. In Cancún, we will be able to adopt a broad and 
balanced 
immediate 
implementation. One single action or agreement is not 
enough  to  address  such  a  complex  phenomenon.  The 
international  regime  on  this  matter  should  evolve 
constantly  in  response  to  technological  and  socio-
economic  developments  and  on  the  basis  of  common 
but differentiated responsibility. 

The  main  advantage  of  our  Organization  among 
the  multilateral  institutions  is  its  universal  character. 
Its Charter enshrines the commitments that States have 
made in all these aspects. Thus, United Nations actions 
are  fully  legitimate,  in  accordance  with  international 
law. However, we cannot ignore the difficulties that the 
Organization  faces  without  running  the  risk  of  its 
becoming  increasingly  less  capable  of  addressing  the 
enormous 
international 
community.  Its  decisions,  including  those  that  are 
legally  binding,  are  difficult  to  implement  and  its 
resources  fall  short  of  meeting  the  many  needs  that 
arise  in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  in  addressing 
natural and humanitarian disasters. The Organization’s 
budget  and  scale  of  assessments  do  not  reflect  the 
realities of our countries. 

As  a  result,  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Organization can be put off no longer; if it is, alternative 
forums  or  more  selective  groups  will  fill  the  vacuum 
created  by  our  Organization’s  lack  of  effectiveness.  Our 
Organization  requires  comprehensive  reform,  ranging 
from the adaptation and representativeness of the Security 
Council to greater coherence in activities for sustainable 
challenges 
facing 
the 
A/65/PV.22
in 
the  process  of 
development.  In  2011,  the  General  Assembly  will 
consider the status of the Human Rights Council, while 
the  Council  itself  will  review  its  own  working  methods. 
We  must  ensure  that  the  outcome  of  both  processes 
results in the increased effectiveness of its work. 

With  respect  to  peacekeeping,  difficulties  on  the 
ground  and  the  need  to  adapt  operation  mandates 
require the Security Council and the Organization as a 
whole to elaborate pragmatic actions and strategies that 
will produce results in the short term. Security Council 
reform  may  be 
the  most  urgent.  Mexico  has 
participated 
intergovernmental 
negotiations, convinced of the need for comprehensive 
reform  to  improve  the  Council’s  representativeness, 
transparency,  democracy  and  accountability.  This 
process  is  relevant  to  all  States,  and  Security  Council 
reform  can  be  neither  determined  nor  addressed  in 
alternative  forums  that  have  an  eminently  financial 
purview. This much-needed and urgent reform will not 
be  achieved  by  imposing  the  aspirations  of  a  few  on 
the collective will. 

As an elected member of the Security Council for 
the  biennium  2009-2010,  Mexico  has  been  able  to 
appreciate  the  constructive  role  that  non-permanent 
members  can  play  through  their  contributions  to  the 
work  of 
its  subsidiary  bodies. 
Nevertheless,  we  are  also  aware  of  their  limitations. 
The  short  duration  of  their  mandates  impedes  the 
consolidation  of  achievements  and  affects 
the 
continuity  of  the  work  of  the  Council  itself.  We  are 
therefore  convinced  that  the  principle  of  immediate  
re-election  or  of  longer-term  seats  for  non-permanent 
members are the best options for pragmatic and viable 
Security Council reform in the short term.  

Mexico’s  participation  in  the  Security  Council 
has been guided by its conviction of the importance of 
the contribution that elected members can make to the 
maintenance of international peace and security, in the 
understanding  that  this  is  a  shared  responsibility  in 
accordance  with  obligations  under  the  United  Nations 
Charter  and  not  the  monopoly  of  a  few.  In  this  sense, 
we  have  been  able  to  encourage  mediation  and  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes;  promote  disarmament 
and 
for 
international  humanitarian  law;  ensure  the  protection 
of  the  civilian  population  in  armed  conflicts,  with 
special  emphasis  on  children;  strengthen  the  rule  of 
law;  and  foster  activities  to  promote  stability  and 
reconstruction in States emerging from conflict. 
the  Council  and 
non-proliferation; 
preserve 
respect 
10-55276 

29 

Today,  Mexico 
the  centenary  of 
A/65/PV.22 

This  year,  Mexico  celebrates  its  bicentennial  as 

an 
independent  nation  and 
its 
revolution,  the  first  of  the  great  social  revolutions  of 
the  twentieth  century.  From  our  own  experience,  we 
are  well  aware  of  the  difficulties  and  obstacles  facing 
the  construction  of  any  nation-State  in  a  complex  and 
changing  world.  Throughout  its  history,  our  country’s 
interaction  with  the  world  at  large  has  been  fraught. 
Our  country  has  experienced  external  interventions, 
occupations  and  even  losses  of  its  territory  during 
periods  of  political  instability.  We  have  been  able 
nonetheless  to  forge  a  national  identity  and  unique 
profile in contemporary international relations. 

is  a  constructive  and  open 
country,  peaceful  and  fully  committed  to  forging 
agreements for a better world. As a  founding Member 
of  our  Organization,  we  have  been  loyal  to  its 
purposes,  consistent  with  the  principles  of  foreign 
policy enshrined in our Constitution. Our adherence to 
international  law  and  the  contributions  of  Mexican 
foreign  policy  to  various  fields  are  well  known.  We 
have  also  learned  to  appreciate  the  importance  of 
international  cooperation  inasmuch  as  there  is  no 
challenge  on  the  United  Nations  agenda  that  can  be 
tackled in isolation. The survival of humankind, given 
the  dangers  of  nuclear  war,  combating  the  effects  of 
climate  change,  overcoming  social  regression,  and  the 
relentless  fight  against  new  threats  to  international 
security  and  to  our  own  societies  require  our  greatest 
individual efforts as well as coordination among States. 
Mexico  will  therefore  remain  deeply  committed  to 
multilateralism,  of  which  this  universal  forum  is  the 
first and foremost expression. 

His  Excellency,  Mr.  Carsten  Staur,  chair  of 
delegation of the Kingdom of Denmark. 
Mr.  Staur  (Denmark):  The  world  is  undergoing 

profound  changes.  Globalization  is  progressing  at  an 
speed.  The  boundaries  between 
unprecedented 
domestic 
and 
evolving. 
Developments  in  one  region  of  the  world  may  trigger 
unintended  actions  in  other  parts  of  the  world.  New 
actors — for good or for bad — have stepped on to the 
international  scene.  The  world  is  now  on  the  way  to 
recovery  from  the  financial  and  economic  crises  of 
recent  years.  More  structural  challenges,  such  as 
climate  change,  poverty  and  demographic  projections, 
as  well  as  new  security 
threats,  however,  will 
increasingly  impact  the  global  agenda.  If  we  are  to 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the 
foreign 
policy 
are 
this 
respond  to  such  challenges,  we  need  an  effective 
multilateral  system  founded  on  universal  rules  and 
values  and  on  global  legitimacy.  Here,  we  turn  to  the 
United Nations. 

With  the  Lisbon  Treaty  in  force,  the  European 
Union  has  established  the  necessary  structures  to  take 
on  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  and  has 
enhanced  its  capacity  as  a  global  player.  We  look 
forward to seeing this reflected in the future position of 
the  European  Union  in  the  United  Nations,  and  we 
regret  that  it  has  not  been  possible  to  come  to  an 
agreement  on 
issue  (see  A/64/PV.122).  The 
European  Union  will  retain  observer  status  at  the 
General  Assembly.  The  main  effect  of  the  draft 
resolution will be to enable the European Union’s new 
permanent  interlocutors  to  represent  the  European 
Union  effectively  in  the  General  Assembly,  speaking 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  of  its  member 
States,  as  agreed  by  them.  The  European  Union  has  a 
clear commitment to effective multilateralism, with the 
United Nations at its core. 

One  of  the  most  significant  global  challenges 
today  is  to  fulfil  the  promises  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  for  a  better  world  for 
everyone.  With  last  week’s  Millennium  Development 
Goals  summit,  a  new  momentum  has  been  built  —  a 
momentum  for  action,  for  the  implementation  of 
commitments  and  for  focusing  our  common  efforts  to 
reach  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by 
2015. Five years is not a long time, especially when we 
also need to  overcome  the effects of the financial and 
economic  crisis.  But  our  task  is  clear.  We  must  make 
the  MDGs  a  reality  for  all.  We  need  to  accelerate 
progress  and  scale  up  our  efforts  where  approaches 
have  proven 
to  be 
innovative.  Developing  countries  must  focus  their 
political  will,  administrative  capacity  and  budgetary 
resources  on  reaching  the  MDGs,  while  we  as  donors 
must  live  up  to  and  fulfil  our  official  development 
assistance commitments. 

We have clear evidence that fragile and conflict-
affected  countries  are  lagging  behind  the  most  with 
regard 
the  MDGs.  The 
comparative  advantage  of  the  United  Nations  system 
and its unique possibilities in combining humanitarian, 
peacekeeping,  peacebuilding,  recovery  and  development 
approaches  are  especially  relevant  in  relation  to  these 
countries. We strongly encourage the ongoing efforts to 
strengthen  the  United  Nations  role  in  this  regard.  We 
to  be  successful.  We  have 
the  achievement  of 
to 
30 

10-55276 
improving 
in-country 
leadership, 
in  areas  such  as  strengthened 


welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  steps  to  strengthen 
the  peacebuilding  architecture,  but  more  work  is 
integrated 
needed 
missions, 
and 
strengthening  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  in 
order to forward the peacebuilding agenda. 

Green  growth  is  an  important  challenge  that 
offers  new  opportunities  for  employment,  innovation 
and  wealth  creation  in  developed  and  developing 
countries  alike.  Together,  we  must  strive  to  optimize 
resource  efficiency  and  apply  green  technologies. 
Renewable  energy  is  a  good  example  of  how  new 
technologies  can  contribute 
to  development  by 
providing secure, sustainable  and  affordable energy to 
millions of people. Green growth is not an obstacle to 
development  but  an  opportunity.  We  must  unite  our 
efforts  to  take  this  agenda  forward  in  the  immediate 
future  and  in  preparation  for  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development in May 2012. 

Climate  change  continues  to  be  one  of  the 
greatest and most pressing challenges of our time, and 
we are already starting to experience the consequences — 
from melting icecaps in the Arctic, heatwaves in Russia 
and  floods  in  Pakistan  to  droughts  in  Africa.  It 
concerns  all  of  us,  and  concerted  and  urgent  action  is 
needed.  The  Copenhagen  Accord  contains  delicate 
political  compromises,  paving  the  way  for  eventually 
reaching  a  global, 
international 
agreement within the United Nations framework. More 
than 130 countries, covering more than 80 per cent of 
global emissions, have now associated themselves with 
the  Accord  reached  in  Copenhagen  in  December  last 
year. We underline the importance of the commitments 
on fast-start financing, which must be fulfilled. We are 
looking  forward  to  the  sixteenth  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change in Cancún, Mexico, and hoping for 
a  successful  outcome  that  will  significantly  advance 
negotiations on climate change. 
In  the  ever  more  interdependent  and  ever  more 

uncertain  world  we  live  in,  it  is  of  priority  to  uphold 
the  principles,  objectives,  universal 
rights  and 
fundamental  values  that  are  enshrined  in  the  United 
Nations Charter and that form the very basis for global 
stability, 
prosperity. 
Strengthening 
the  mutual  understanding  between 
cultures  is  an  important  challenge  and  a  valuable 
opportunity for all of us. 
legally  binding 
development 
global 
A/65/PV.22
the  human 
States  must  ensure 

During  the  past  month,  we  have  witnessed  just 
how  important  it  is  to  maintain  mutual  respect  and 
understanding.  As  history  has  taught  us,  there  are 
always  those  who  are  ready  to  do  the  unthinkable  in 
order to catch the attention of the international media. 
The  threats  to  burn  the  Koran  in  Florida  were  a 
particularly repulsive example of this phenomenon. We 
strongly  condemn  such  acts,  but  as  we  have  learned, 
the  more  attention  we  give  such  individual  acts  of 
provocation,  the  more  they  will  multiply.  We  must 
never  allow  such  acts  to  steer  our  steps  from  the  path 
of  dialogue.  We  must  stand  firmly  and  jointly  against 
any call to strife and violence. 

rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  of  their  citizens  in  order  for 
each individual to take an active part in shaping his or 
her  own  future  to  the  benefit  and  prosperity  of  all. 
Women’s rights and gender issues are an essential part 
of  human  rights. The  women’s  rights  agenda  supports 
and  strengthens  the  overall  effort  of  human  rights’ 
implementation.  International  peace  and  security  rest 
upon the ability and willingness of States to ensure the 
protection  of  their  populations  from  human  rights 
violations and atrocity crimes. 

In  this  context,  I  welcome  the  ongoing  debate 
among Member States on the responsibility to protect. 
Denmark  will  take  an  active  part  in  the  further 
development  of  this  concept,  which  provides  the 
framework for a comprehensive approach. It is closely 
linked  to  another  key  Danish  priority  —  that  of 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law.  Be  it  at  the  global, 
regional  or  national  level,  the  rule  of  law  provides 
transparency  and  accountability  and  thereby  leads  to 
better  governance.  The  establishment  of  the  office  of 
Ombudsperson  in  relation  to  the  Security  Council 
Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1267 
(1999)  was  a  successful  example  of  our  work  at  the 
global level. 

Piracy  off  the  coast  of  Somalia  presents  a 
regional  challenge  that  Denmark  —  through  its  naval 
efforts  off  Somalia  and  its  chairmanship  of  the  legal 
working group of the Contact Group on Piracy off the 
Coast  of  Somalia  —  is  committed  to  meeting. At  the 
national  level  Denmark,  in  close  cooperation  with 
partner  countries,  provides  hundreds  of  millions  of 
dollars 
judicial 
capacities throughout the world. Let me stress here that 
our support  for the International Criminal Court in no 
way springs from a wish for the Court to prosecute all 
legal  systems  and 
to  strengthen 
and 
10-55276 

31 
emanating 
serious  danger 
all  States  parties 
A/65/PV.22 

international  crimes.  National  jurisdictions  are  almost 
always  better  placed  to  combat  impunity,  and  through 
our  rule  of  law  programmes  we  seek  to  promote  true 
national ownership and complementarity for those able 
and willing to face the hard choices. 
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 

is 
the  most 
from 
globalization.  Following  many  years  of  deadlock, 
however,  2010  has  been  a  year  of  progress.  We 
welcome  the  international  momentum  in  dealing  with 
the  issue  of  nuclear  weapons  as  reflected  in  the  New 
START  agreement  between  the  United  States  and  the 
Russian  Federation,  the  nuclear  summit  and,  notably, 
the  results  of  the  Review  Conference  of  the  States 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) here in New York in May. It is 
important 
to 
commit 
implementing the measures of the NPT action plan.  

The  issue  of  non-proliferation  remains  high  on 
the  agenda,  not  least  due  to  our  deepening  concerns 
about  the  allegedly  peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme.  With  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1929  (2010),  the  international  community 
has sent a clear signal to the Iranian leadership that we 
do  not  tolerate  the  continuous  and  increasingly  grave 
flouting of Iran’s international obligations. It is hoped 
that this resolution will help to convince Iran to change 
its current path and enter into negotiations. 

I should like to take this opportunity to welcome 
the  parliamentary  elections  in Afghanistan  earlier  this 
month,  which 
step  on 
Afghanistan’s  road  towards  democracy.  The  elections 
came  after  the  successful  outcome  of  the  Kabul 
Conference. We look forward to the implementation of 
the  Conference  initiatives  leading  to  the  transition  to 
full Afghan ownership in all areas. 

The  international  community  and  the  United 
Nations  must  continue  to  play  a  supporting  role  in 
Afghanistan  in  the  years  to  come.  In  this  context, 
Denmark  believes  there  needs  to  be  a  coordinated 
civilian  and  military  engagement  in  Afghanistan  as  a 
precondition  for  success.  The  regional  aspects  also 
need  to  be  addressed.  In  this  context,  my  thoughts  go 
to  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Pakistan,  who 
have  not  only  experienced  sacrifices  due  to  terrorism, 
but  also  heavy  losses  and  suffering  due  to  the 
unprecedented  flooding  of  the  country.  Denmark  has 
represent  yet 
another 
that 

support 
committed  more  than  $45  million  in  assistance  to 
Pakistan so far this year. 

Denmark  welcomes  the  recent  relaunch  of  direct 
negotiations  between  the  leaders  of  Israel  and  the 
Palestinian Authority  on  reaching  an  agreement  on  all 
the  core  issues  within  one  year. We  also  welcome  the 
Quartet’s  statement  encouraging  these  negotiations. 
They will be difficult, but we believe that an agreement 
is  possible  and  that  it  is  in  the  interest  not  only  of 
Israelis and Palestinians, but also of the peoples in the 
region  and  beyond.  We  strongly  support  the  United 
States efforts to facilitate the negotiations, and we call 
on the parties to negotiate in good faith and to live up 
to their obligations. The direct peace talks actualize the 
importance  of  enhanced  international  political  and 
financial 
for  Palestinian  State-building. 
Denmark and the European Union stand ready to assist 
in  fulfilling  the  goals  of  two  States  for  two  peoples 
living side by side in peace and security. 

Peace  needs  to  be  secured  in  all  parts  of  the 
world. In this context, the implementation of the 2005 
Comprehensive  Peace Agreement  is  vital  to  the  future 
of  the  Sudan.  The  international  community  needs  to 
support  the  referendum  process  to  secure  inclusive, 
free  and  transparent  elections.  Without  prejudging  the 
outcome  of  the  referendum,  I  should  like  to  stress  the 
importance of developing institutional  capacity and of 
creating  more  self-sustainability 
in  South  Sudan. 
Likewise,  we 
the 
humanitarian  situation  in  many  parts  of  the  country. 
Focus  should  be  on  securing  access  to  all  areas  for 
humanitarian  workers  and  international  peacekeepers. 
In  Somalia,  the  focus  must  be  on  the  need  to  support 
the  Transitional  Federal  Government  and  improve  the 
coordination of assistance, including within the United 
Nations system. 

The best way to deal with these global challenges 
is through an effective and strong multilateral system — 
through a strong United Nations system. The ability of 
the  United  Nations  effectively  and  efficiently  to  deal 
with  the  global  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century 
must  be  improved.  Continuing  the  paths  of  system-
wide  coherence  and  delivering  as  one  is  part  of  that. 
Reforms of the intergovernmental machinery and of the 
workings  of  the  Secretariat  must  also  be  pursued.  We 
welcome  the  ongoing  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  aimed  at  changing  the 
membership in order to reflect the world of today. Let 
me take this opportunity to welcome the establishment 
are  very 
concerned 
about 
32 

10-55276 
to 
In 
live  up 
the  United  Nations 


of  UN  Women  and  the  appointment  of  Ms.  Michelle 
Bachelet of Chile as the first Under-Secretary-General 
and  head  of  that  agency.  We  have  high  expectations 
that  the  new  entity  will  contribute  to  streamlining  in 
the  area  of  gender,  women’s  rights  and  development 
throughout the United Nations system. 

the  area  of  peacekeeping  we  commend 
initiatives,  such  as  New  Horizon,  to  readjust  United 
Nations peacekeeping efforts in light of the experiences 
gathered  during  the  last  decade  of  immense  growth  in 
United Nations peacekeeping operations. 

Let  me  conclude  by  emphasizing  that  today’s 
world  is  more  complex  than  ever.  But  on  so  many 
issues,  countries  want  to  work  together  towards  long-
lasting solutions. More often than not, they turn to the 
United  Nations  to  find  answers.  They  turn  to  an 
international body whose strength has been and still is 
based on its unique global legitimacy. Hence they, and 
we,  expect 
to 
expectations,  to  perform,  to  show  leadership  and  to 
push  the  envelope.  Global  challenges  call  for  global 
answers. The United Nations must live up to this call, 
fulfilling the aspirations of the Charter. No less will do 
for the twenty-first century. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel  Kafando,  chair  of  the 
delegation of Burkina Faso. 
Mr.  Kafando  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French): 

At  the  outset,  may  I,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation, 
congratulate Mr. Joseph Deiss sincerely and warmly on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at this sixty-fifth session. I assure him of our support to 
ensure a successful session. May I also extend my deepest 
gratitude  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Treki,  who  so 
effectively led the work of the sixty-fourth session. I extend 
my thanks to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for 
his commitment and resolve in defending the ideals of the 
Charter. 
The sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly is 

taking  place  in  a  difficult  international  environment, 
characterized  by  multiple  crises  of  all  kinds  — 
economic, financial, food, energy, and so forth. This is 
also  a  time  when  the  international  community  is 
wondering whether it really will be able to achieve the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015. 
From that standpoint, fortunately, the recent High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  MDGs  held  here  gives  hope 
that the commitments made to the poorest populations 
A/65/PV.22
will  be  implemented  so  that  the  world  can  take  on  a 
more  human  face  and  focus  on  social  and  economic 
well-being,  particularly  of  the  most  disadvantaged. 
However,  that  will  be  possible  only  in  a  healthy  and 
calm environment.  

We  therefore  welcome  once  again  the  Climate 
Change  Conference  held  in  Copenhagen  in  December 
2009.  Even  if  it  was  not  able  to  agree  on  a  figure  for 
reducing  greenhouse  gases,  it  nevertheless  pushed 
forward the debate on providing assistance to the most 
vulnerable  countries  and  on  measures 
to  reduce 
deforestation.  We  only  hope  that  the  commitments 
made,  particularly  in  the  financial  area,  will  be 
honoured,  and  we  ardently  hope  that  the  forthcoming 
meeting  in  Cancún  will  yield  a  viable  environmental 
agreement. Such an agreement is all the more urgent in 
that  flooding  and  other  climate  disasters  occurring 
throughout the world with unbridled cruelty remind us 
of the great fragility of the environmental balance. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


Turning to peace and security, conflict resolution 
throughout the world and particularly in Africa, which 
is  most  directly  concerned,  remains  a  major  challenge 
for  the  international  community.  While  some  crises 
have been more or less overcome, for example in West 
Africa,  others  continue  to  be  a  matter  of  serious 
concern.  In Togo,  open,  free  and  transparent  elections 
were  able 
to  everybody’s 
the  ongoing 
satisfaction.  Burkina  Faso  welcomes 
political  openness  and  appeals 
that  country’s 
partners  to  continue  providing  it  with  the  necessary 
support.  In  Côte  d’Ivoire,  major  progress  was  made 
with the effective disarmament of the Forces nouvelles, 
the publication of the electoral list and the scheduling 
of  the  first  round  of  presidential  elections  for  31 
October.  We  trust  in  the  ability  of  all  the  people  of 
Côte d’Ivoire to overcome the few remaining obstacles 
and  to  take  up  the  challenge  of  achieving  peace  and 
lasting  development.  In  Guinea,  we  still  hope  that  the 
remaining obstacles that led to the postponement of the 
second  round  of  presidential  elections  will  soon  be 
overcome. We call on all Guinean political actors to act 
in moderation so as to enable their country to open up 
quickly  to  democracy  and  to  build  a  prosperous 
economy for the benefit of all. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  convey  once  again 
Burkina Faso’s gratitude to the United Nations and the 
regional  and  subregional  organizations  that  put  their 
to  be  held 
this  year 
to 
10-55276 

33 

My  country 
A/65/PV.22 

confidence  in  the  facilitation  and  mediation  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Blaise Compaore, President of Burkina 
Faso, and that continue to support his many efforts for 
peacebuilding,  security  and  the  rule  of  law  in  West 
Africa. 

In Darfur, the results of the Doha negotiations are 
encouraging  and  should  persuade  the  international 
community  to  use  its  influence  to  speed  up  political 
dialogue and strengthen the operational capacity of the 
African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in 
Darfur.  Burkina  Faso  is  naturally  concerned  over  the 
insecurity  and  instability  in  Somalia,  with  ongoing 
insurgent attacks on the Federal Transition Government 
and the African Union Mission in Somalia. We urge the 
Security  Council  and  donor  countries  to  fulfil  their 
commitment  to  supporting  the  rehabilitation  process 
for the Somali State. The results of our efforts to put an 
end to the reprehensible acts of piracy on the high seas 
will  have  no  effect  or  sustainability  unless  we 
eliminate their root causes, including extreme poverty, 
which provides the most fertile soil. 

is  carefully  following  political 
developments  in  Madagascar  and  Niger.  We  welcome 
the  initiatives  taken  by  the  transitional  authorities  in 
the  two  countries  to  organize  free  and  transparent 
elections  that  will  ensure  a  return  to  constitutional 
order.  Turning  to  Western  Sahara,  we  welcome  the 
impetus  given  to  the  negotiations  by  the  Secretary-
General,  and  we  call  on  the  protagonists  to  pursue 
political  dialogue  with  a  view  to  a  peaceful  and 
realistic settlement of the dispute.  

One cannot speak of peace and security in Africa 
without mentioning drugs and narcotics trafficking and 
their  clear  link  with  armed  conflicts,  the  proliferation 
of  light  weapons,  money-laundering,  the  financing  of 
organized  transnational  crime  and  terrorism. The  need 
to pool our efforts to deal with all this is essential and of 
concern to every country. The open debate of the Security 
Council organized by Burkina Faso on 8 December 2009 
this  scourge  (see  S/PV.6233)  was  a 
to  address 
contribution  to  that  effort.  We  hope  that  there  will  be 
appropriate  follow-up  so  as  to  keep  the  international 
community mobilized. 

The  Sahelo-Saharan  region  has  for  many  years 
been  subject  to  recurrent  terrorist  attacks.  Collective 
and  cooperative  efforts  must  be  taken  quickly  at  all 
levels to ensure peace and security in that part of Africa. 
inter 
system-wide 
coherence,  which, 

The  situation  in  the  Near  and  Middle  East  is 
strongly marked by the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and 
the  Iranian  nuclear  question.  Burkina  Faso  welcomes 
the  easing  of  the  Gaza  blockade  and  reiterates  its  call 
for  a  total  lifting  of  the  embargo.  We  welcome  the 
direct  talks  under  way  between  the  parties  to  the 
conflict. A comprehensive and lasting peace is the only 
way to ensure the freedom of the Palestinian people in 
an  independent  State  with  secure  and  recognized 
borders, the security of Israel, and regional stability.  

On  the  Iranian  nuclear  question,  Burkina  Faso 
hopes  that  common  sense  will  prevail  by  reconciling 
Iran’s  rights  to  acquire  civilian  nuclear  power  and  the 
legitimate  fears  of  the  international  community  over 
military nuclear proliferation. 

United  Nations  reform  has  been  on  our  agenda 
for  several  years  and  some  progress  has  been  made, 
including  the  adoption  on  2  July  of  resolution  64/289 
on 
alia, 
established UN Women. We trust that other aspects of 
the reform, particularly of the Security Council, will be 
achieved  within  a  reasonable  time  frame  in  order  to 
correct  historic  injustices  —  particularly  vis-à-vis 
Africa,  which  is  the  only  continent  not  to  have  a 
permanent  seat  —  and  to  create  a  more  democratic 
United  Nations  able  to  take  up  the  challenges  of  the 
world today more effectively. 

We trust that this reform dynamic will promote a 
new spirit that will open the way to participation by the 
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  in  the  activities  of 
international bodies, particularly the International Civil 
Aviation  Organization  and 
the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change.  

Burkina Faso reiterates its faith in multilateralism 
and solidarity among peoples, and to that end we stand 
ready  to  make  our  modest  contribution  to  building  a 
world of peace and justice. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Afelee  Pita,  chair  of  the 
delegation of Tuvalu. 
Mr.  Pita  (Tuvalu):  At  the  dawn  of  the  new 

millennium 10 years ago, Tuvalu raised its flag among 
those of the States Members of the United Nations here 
in  New  York  as  a  new  member  of  this  body.  Our 
admission was a testimony of hope and opportunity for 
our  nation’s  destiny  in  the  resolve  of  humankind 
through  the  noble  pillars  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
34 

10-55276 


enshrined  in  its  Charter.  I  am  greatly  honoured  and 
privileged  to  speak  before  this  body  on  behalf  of  the 
people and Government of Tuvalu and to convey of the 
General Assembly our warmest greetings at this session. 

At  the  outset,  we  join  the  high  commendations 
expressed  by  previous  speakers  to  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth  session,  and  to  your  predecessor  for  his 
leadership and dedication during his presidency of the 
last  session.  Let  me  reassure  your  Excellency  of  our 
support during your presidency. 

As Tuvalu celebrates its thirty-second anniversary 
of independence later this week, I take this opportunity 
to  acknowledge  and  convey  our  sincerest  thanks  and 
gratitude to the international community, especially our 
traditional  development  partners  and  close  and  new 
friends, for their continued support and cooperation in 
the  pursuit  of  our  development  goals.  Without  their 
gesture  of  understanding,  friendship  and  cooperation, 
Tuvalu  could  not  have  achieved  the  progress  it  has 
made to date. 

We welcome and support the key priority issues — 
such  as  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
global  governance,  and  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
development  — 
that  you,  Mr.  President,  clearly 
highlighted  in  your  opening  address  to  the  sixty-fifth 
session.  Last  week,  the  General Assembly  convened  a 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  review  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  the  context  of 
achieving  these  Goals,  Tuvalu  has  been  reasonably 
successful.  Our  population  does  not  suffer  from 
extreme  poverty  or  hunger.  We  have  very  high 
participation 
education.  The 
participation of women in Tuvalu society is prominent, 
although representation in Parliament remains an issue. 
Progress 
reducing  child  mortality  has  been 
somewhat slow, and access to adequate health care also 
remains an issue. 

During  the  review  of  the  MDGs,  there  was  one 
very  clear  lesson  that  we  learned.  This  relates  to  the 
fact that while we have made progress in achieving the 
MDGs, these successes can be easily and very quickly 
reversed by our particular economic and environmental 
vulnerability. 

In  the  context  of  economic  vulnerability,  the 
recent global financial and economic crises continue to 
have an enormous adverse effect on Tuvalu’s economy. 
For  a  small  island  economy  like  Tuvalu’s,  which  is 
in  primary 
rates 
in 
A/65/PV.22
highly reliant and dependent on the import of products 
from overseas, the severe impact and consequences of 
such  crises  also  continue  to  be  encountered  by  our 
people.  One  element  of  that  effect  was  the  increased 
cost  of  importing  fossil  fuel.  The  cost  of  fossil-fuel 
dependency is having a crippling effect on our national 
budget. We are in desperate need of renewable energy 
and energy-efficiency technologies that are appropriate 
to the unique conditions of Tuvalu. 

Last  week,  we  also  undertook  a  review  of  the 
Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further  Implementation  of 
the  Barbados  Programme  of  Action.  During 
the 
discussions, we proposed three key outcomes. First, we 
need  support  to  help  regulate  and  police  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing. Secondly, we need 
to  ensure  that  our  economies  are  able  to  recover  after 
severe  weather  events.  This  means  that  we  need  a 
climate  risk  insurance  mechanism  that  can  draw  on 
public  international  finance  to  underwrite  the  cost  of 
premiums and pay-outs. Thirdly, we are seeking proper 
acknowledgement  of  small  island  developing  States’ 
concerns  in  the  United  Nations  process  and  their 
recognition  as  a  discrete  group  within  the  United 
Nations system. 
Much has been said and well documented on the 

importance  and 
seriousness  of  climate  change, 
especially its adverse impact on small island States and 
least  developed  countries  like  Tuvalu.  At  the  recent 
Pacific  Island  Forum  meeting,  leaders  highlighted 
climate change as the greatest threat to the livelihoods, 
security  and  well-being  of  the  peoples  of  the  Pacific. 
Our 
that  unsustainable 
development and climate change threaten not only the 
livelihoods  of  Pacific  peoples  but  also  the  islands 
themselves and the cultures they nurture. 

However,  despite  our  high  expectations  of 
concrete  and  timely  support  from  the  international 
community, we were deeply concerned and disappointed 
at  the  outcomes  of  the  Climate  Change  Conference  in 
Copenhagen.  We  sincerely  hope  that  the  forthcoming 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  be  held  in  Cancún  later 
this  year  will  lead  to  concrete  results  and  not  shallow 
promises.  In  view  of  the  slow  and  painful  progress  in 
the  ongoing  negotiations  under  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  process, 
coupled with the lack of concrete commitments shown 
by  key  greenhouse  gas  emitting  countries,  Tuvalu 
would  like  to  see  three  key  political  commitments 
come out of the meeting in Cancún.  
iterated 
leaders 
further 
10-55276 

35 
to  earlier, 
interim  steps 
that  would  provide 
A/65/PV.22 


First,  we  would  like  to  see  all  the  amendments 
and  rules  for  the  Kyoto  Protocol  agreed  so  that  such 
amendments are ready for ratification to avoid a gap in 
the  commitment  periods.  Secondly,  we  should  decide 
on  a  mandate  to  start  negotiations  on  a  new,  legally 
binding  agreement  based  on  all  elements  of  the  Bali 
Action  Plan.  Thirdly,  we  should  agree  on  a  set  of 
decisions 
to 
implement  measures  to  be  incorporated  into  the  new 
legally  binding  agreement.  That  should  be  the  bare 
minimum  we  anticipate  agreeing  upon  in  Cancún.  For 
Tuvalu, addressing climate change in a substantive way 
is  fundamental  to  our  sustainable  development  and 
livelihood.  We  cannot  allow  the  next  conference  in 
Cancún to be another failure like Copenhagen. 
Despite  the  fact  that  Tuvalu  is  one  of  the  small 

island developing States and least developed countries 
most  vulnerable  to  a  wide  range  of  global  events,  as 
alluded 
the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  have 
not  recognized  and  taken  such  vulnerability  seriously 
into  consideration  when  addressing  the  question  of 
graduation  from  the  least  developed  country  category. 
We  strongly  believe  that  Tuvalu’s  economic  and 
environmental vulnerability cannot be overemphasized 
and 
the  ongoing 
consequences  of  climate  change  and  the  recent  global 
crisis.  In  that  regard,  we  continue  to  call  upon  the 
United  Nations  and  our  development  partners  to 
recognize  our  vulnerability  as  a 
least  developed 
country in the review of the criteria and the graduation 
rule for the graduation of least developed countries. 

We  could  not  agree  more  as  to  the  need  and 
importance  for  the  General  Assembly  and  Security 
Council to be revitalized and reformed, respectively, so 
as to enable them to fulfil their mandates and roles in a 
timely 
more 
manner.  We 
reform 
processes,  and  we  believe  that  small  island  developing 
States should be allocated a seat in the Security Council. 
While  we  applaud  and  strongly  support  the 

the  United 
continuing  significant  role  played  by 
Nations  as 
the 
international community, the efforts and progress made 
by  Taiwan  in  pursuing  peace  on  both  sides  of  the 
Straits needs special recognition and encouragement by 
the  United  Nations.  In  addition,  we  strongly  believe 
that  with  its  active  involvement  and  contributions  to 
international  trade,  investment,  air  transport,  finance, 
transparent,  coherent,  efficient  and 
the  ongoing 
the  major  peacekeeping  body 
ignored,  especially  with 
fully  support 
totally 
in 

to 
such 
agencies 
profound 
appreciation 
as  Tuvalu.  Therefore, 
impact  of  sea-level  rise  on  a  small 
telecommunications 
technology  and  environmental 
protection, Taiwan deserves to participate more fully as 
a member of the World Health Organization and other 
United  Nations  specialized  agencies  such  as 
the 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  and 
the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change.  Tuvalu  therefore  urges  the  United  Nations 
specialized 
accommodate  Taiwan’s 
meaningful  participation  in  their  respective  systems 
and activities. 

In conclusion, let me reiterate and underscore the 
importance  and  seriousness  of  climate  change  as  a 
cross-cutting  issue  and  its  adverse  impacts,  especially 
the 
island 
developing  State  such  as  Tuvalu.  Although  we  do 
acknowledge  with 
the 
commitments  and  generous  pledges  offered  by  the 
international  community  and  the  establishment  of 
international  trust  funds  specifically  earmarked  for 
climate  change,  the  process  of  accessing  such  sources 
of  funds,  let  alone  their  timely  disbursement,  is 
extremely  difficult  and  time  consuming  for  small 
such 
countries 
commitments  without 
to  deliver 
concrete  results  on  the  ground  may  well  leave  small 
and  poor  countries  such  as  Tuvalu  to  continue  to 
shoulder  the  burden.  May  God  Bless  the  United 
Nations. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Marten  Grunditz,  head  of 
the delegation of the Kingdom of Sweden. 
Mr. Grunditz (Sweden): May I start by pointing 

out  that  Sweden  aligns  itself  fully  with  the  written 
statement  of  the  European  Union  (EU),  which  will 
soon be distributed to all Member States. 

By signing the Charter of the United Nations we 
have  all  pledged  to  combine  our  efforts  towards  the 
shared goals of international peace and security, human 
rights, respect for international law, and economic and 
social  advancement.  Implicit  in  that  pledge  is  the 
principle  of  shared  responsibility.  If  we  are  to  move 
beyond  divisions  to  find  common  solutions  to  global 
problems, every  country  will need to  assume its share 
of responsibility. Last  week, world leaders met in this 
room  to  confirm  their  determination  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015.  Progress 
made  over  the  10  years  since  the  adoption  of  the 
Millennium  Declaration  has  been  mixed.  The  overall 
timely  actions 
36 

10-55276 
a 
the  1930s 
is 


trend is positive, but critical areas are lagging behind. 
This is particularly true for Goal 5 on maternal health. 
Sweden  will  continue  to  do  its  part  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  is  one  of  the 
countries  contributing  the  largest  share  of  its  national 
income  as  official  development  assistance.  But 
development  assistance  can  only  complement  —  and 
never replace — development efforts based on genuine 
national  ownership.  Thus,  we  have 
shared 
responsibility, developed and developing countries alike, 
to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.  

The development and prosperity of poor countries 
to  a  large  extent  depend  on  their  ability  to  integrate 
into  the  global  economy.  The  fact  that  protectionism 
has  largely  been  kept  at  bay  during  the  most  severe 
recession  since 
therefore  a  major 
achievement. Robust international rules for open trade 
and  investment  are  key.  Free  trade  benefits  rich  and 
poor  countries  alike. The  regions  that  have  been  most 
successful  in  eradicating  poverty  are  also  those  where 
countries  trade  the  most.  In  order  to  strengthen  the 
trading capacity of the poorest countries, aid for trade 
can  play  an  important  role.  Completion  of  the  Doha 
Round  must  remain  a  shared  first  priority,  but  should 
not  prevent  complementary  free  trade  and  investment 
arrangements. 

The  devastating  natural  disasters  in  Haiti  and 
Pakistan  have  underlined  the  importance  of  a  well-
functioning 
international 
humanitarian  system.  It  is  only  through  joint  efforts 
and 
international 
community can ensure quick and effective responses to 
people  in  need.  The  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA)  plays  a  crucial  role  in 
this respect. Sadly, we see a global trend of increasing 
humanitarian needs. It is therefore of utmost importance 
that we continue to strengthen the humanitarian system 
as a whole, in particular OCHA. In parallel, we need to 
focus  more  on  preparedness  and  prevention  to  reduce 
long-term vulnerability to disasters.  

Climate  change  is  clearly  one  of  the  greatest 
challenges  of  our  generation,  affecting  the  world  and 
particularly  poor  countries 
in  unpredictable  and 
devastating  ways.  Even  if  we  meet  the  two-degree 
target set by the United Nations, disasters will continue 
to  be  a  reality.  Developed  and  developing  countries 
alike share the responsibility to ward off this threat to 
our planet by working towards concrete climate goals. 
Developed  countries,  as  major  emitters,  bear  a  large 
and  well-coordinated 
responsibility 
shared 
that 
the 
A/65/PV.22
share  of  the  responsibility  for  reducing  emissions  and 
for providing funding, but actions must be taken by all 
countries.  The  example  of  Sweden  shows  that  it  is 
possible  to  achieve  both  emissions  reductions  and 
economic growth — there is no contradiction.  

Together  we  have  a  shared  responsibility  as  the 
guardians  of  human  rights,  enshrined  in  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  the  Universal  Declaration  and  the 
relevant conventions. Without respect for human rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms,  all  other  progress  will  be 
incomplete.  The  ultimate  responsibility 
lies  with 
States.  It  is  for  us  to  put  ideals  into  practice.  The 
Human  Rights  Council  needs  to  use  all  its  tools  to 
address  the  substance  of  its  mandate:  human  rights 
violations. For that Council to be relevant, its members 
must  meet  the  membership  criteria  of  fulfilling  their 
international  human  rights  obligations.  Much  remains 
to  be  done. The  death  penalty  continues  to  be  applied 
extensively  across  the  world,  in  some  cases  even 
against  juveniles,  and  often  without  a  credible  legal 
process. As we have recently seen, in some countries a 
woman can even be sentenced to  death  by stoning for 
alleged  adultery,  and  both  men  and  women  can  be 
executed  for  no  other  reason 
their  sexual 
orientation.  The  responsibility  to  stop  such  barbaric 
acts  lies  firmly  with  us,  the  governments.  Gender 
equality  remains  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  to 
human  rights  and  democracy.  We  therefore  welcome 
the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for 
Gender  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women  
(UN  Women)  and  believe  it  will  further  the  cause  of 
gender equality.  

just 
mutually  supporting;  one  cannot  be  said  to  truly  exist 
without  the  other.  The  right  to  participate  in  a 
democratic  system  of  government  is  indeed  in  itself  a 
human right. Although we have seen democracy spread 
to new countries, a large part of the world’s population 
is still denied the right to participate in free elections. 
We call upon the Government of Myanmar to make its 
November  election  free,  fair  and  inclusive.  In  this 
context,  we  reiterate  our  call  for  the  release  of  the 
political prisoners  and detainees, including Daw Aung 
San Suu Kyi.  

Freedom of expression is a core human right and 
a prerequisite of democracy. In this era of information 
technology,  communication  has  been  revolutionized. 
New  technologies  can  assist  in  making  Governments 
more  transparent  and  can  stimulate  citizens  to  take  a 
Democracy  and  human  rights  are  not 
than 
10-55276 

37 
It 
is 
the 
in 

important 
that 
also 
expression, 
A/65/PV.22 

more active role in the democratic governance of their 
countries.  Yet, 
technology  alone  cannot  make 
information  and  expression  of  opinion  free. Access  to 
technology  is  needed  as  a  catalyst  for  human  rights. 
The harassment and jailing of journalists and bloggers 
must  stop.  The  situation  in  countries  such  as  China, 
Viet  Nam,  Egypt,  Myanmar,  Cuba,  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Eritrea and Iran is deeply 
worrying. 
international 
community  address  the  issue  of  violations  of  freedom 
of 
connection  with  new 
technologies and with greater vigour than in the past. 

Sweden  is  concerned  about  continued  human 
rights violations in the Sudan, not least in Darfur. Full 
cooperation with the International Criminal Court is an 
obligation  under  international  law.  The  upcoming 
referendum on the status of Southern Sudan will be of 
crucial  importance  to  the  country’s  future.  We  must 
spare  no  effort  to  make  sure  that  it  is  credible  and  to 
support  the  parties  in  reaching  an  agreement  on  post-
referendum  arrangements.  In  this  process  the  United 
Nations  has  a  key  role  to  play,  together  with  the 
African Union. 

The recently reported cases of sexual violence in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo,  with shocking 
news of hundreds of rapes of women and children, are 
not  isolated  incidents.  They  are  part  of  a  pattern  of 
conflict-related crimes that have been carried out with 
impunity  over  many  years.  As  so  often  in  conflict 
situations, women and children are the most vulnerable 
groups; as so often in peace processes, women are the 
most 
the 
empowerment  and  equal  participation  of  women  in 
negotiations  and  decision-making.  Lasting  peace  can 
never  be  achieved  while  there  is  impunity.  It  is  high 
time  to  fully  implement  Security  Council  resolutions 
1325  (2000),  on  women  and  peace  and  security,  and 
1820  (2008),  on  sexual  violence  in  conflict  situations. 
Sweden  welcomes 
the  appointment  of  a  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  on  Sexual 
Violence in Conflict. 

The  international  community  has  agreed  on  the 
responsibility  to  protect  populations  from  genocide, 
war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes  against 
humanity. We need to intensify our efforts and develop 
the  right  tools  to  ensure  the  full  realization  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect,  both  as  sovereign  States  and 
as  part  of  the  international  community.  Sweden  fully 
lasting  peace  calls 
ignored.  A 
for 
joint  role 
supports  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  strengthen 
the early warning capability within the Secretariat. 

Few  aspects  of  our  cooperation  through  the 
United  Nations  illustrate  shared  responsibility  better 
than  our 
in  preventing  and  managing 
conflicts,  and  keeping  and  building  sustainable  peace. 
Important  steps  have  been  taken  to  improve  global 
peacekeeping. We welcome the New Horizon Initiative 
as  a  way  of  further  enhancing  the  capability  of  the 
United  Nations  to  conduct  demanding  and  complex 
peacekeeping missions worldwide. Much work remains 
to  be  done  in  the  areas  of  conflict  prevention  and 
peacebuilding. We need to increase the capacity of the 
United Nations to help countries in transition from war 
to lasting peace, and to provide relevant support — not 
least  through  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the 
Peacebuilding Fund — for their efforts to foster peace 
and  rebuild  State  and  society.  Similarly,  the  United 
Nations  must  have  the  right  tools  to  help  prevent 
countries  from  lapsing  into  conflict  in  the  first  place. 
This is a central challenge for the United Nations and a 
key priority for the coming decade. 

We welcome  the increasingly important  role that 
the  African  Union  plays,  not  least  in  peacekeeping 
operations in Africa. Cooperation between the African 
Union  and  both  the  United  Nations  and  the  European 
Union  has  been  important  in  both  the  Sudan  and 
Somalia.  Earlier  this  year,  Sweden  led  the  European 
Union’s anti-piracy operation off the coast of Somalia, 
a  mission  that  provides  security  for  humanitarian 
transports of the World Food Programme into Somalia. 
Furthermore, the European Union, in close cooperation 
with  the  African  Union,  is  conducting  training  in 
Uganda  of 
the  Transitional  Federal  Government 
security  forces.  The  African  Union  has  made  a 
courageous and considerable contribution to security in 
Mogadishu. Yet  over  the  past  year  we  have  witnessed 
some of the most violent fighting in Mogadishu and in 
parts  of  south-central  Somalia.  Together  with  the 
Transitional  Federal  Institutions,  we  now  need  to 
prepare  and  plan  for  the  end  of  the  transitional 
arrangements  by  August  next  year.  In  this  process, 
strong United Nations leadership will be crucial. 
The  United  Nations  plays  a  crucial  role  in  the 

efforts of the international community to contribute to 
secure, 
in 
Afghanistan. At the Kabul International Conference on 
Afghanistan,  held 
there  was  a  renewed 
the 
commitment  by 
stable  and  democratic  development 
the  Afghan  authorities  and 
in  July, 
38 

10-55276 


international community to enhance national ownership 
in  this  process.  Together,  the  United  Nations,  the 
European Union and other international actors have to 
show continued strong resolve in  assisting the Afghan 
people  in  building  a  more  peaceful  and  democratic 
society. To this effect, Sweden will continue to contribute 
to civilian and military operations in Afghanistan, while 
increasing our development assistance. 

In  the  Middle  East  the  responsibility  for  the 
success of direct negotiations lies with the two parties. 
But we all share an interest in, and must contribute to, 
a  two-State  solution  with  Israel  and  Palestine  living 
side by side in peace and security. We deeply regret the 
Israeli  decision  not  to  extend  the  moratorium  on 
settlements.  The  context  of  direct  negotiations,  as 
stated in European Union Council conclusions, must be 
that  negotiations  should  be  based  on  the  pre-1967 
borders, that settlements are illegal, that all final status 
issues  are  to  be  included  in  the  negotiations  — 
including  the  status  of  Jerusalem  as  capital  of  two 
States  —  and  that  both  parties  are  to  refrain  from 
provocative actions. 

We  strive  for  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons. 
World  leaders  have  made  significant  progress  in 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  efforts  in  the  past 
year.  The  New  START  agreement 
is  of  great 
importance,  but  there  is  scope  for  further  reductions, 
not  least  of  non-strategic  nuclear  arsenals. The  spread 
of nuclear  weapons must  be stopped. The Action Plan 
adopted at the Review Conference of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  in  May, 
covering  the  three  mutually  reinforcing  pillars  of  the 
NPT, must be implemented and fully respected.  

The  early  entry  into  force  of  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  is  as  urgent  as  ever. 
The  unacceptable  deadlock  in  the  Conference  on 
Disarmament must come to an end.  
We  are  deeply  concerned  that  the  Democratic 

People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  continued 
its 
withdrawal  from  the  NPT,  even  having  tested  two 
nuclear  devices,  and  that  Iran  has  been  conducting 
activities in violation of its NPT commitments. It is of 
vital  importance  that  commitments  under  the  NPT  be 
honoured. 

The  control  of  conventional  arms  is  also  an 
urgent  priority.  The  illicit  or  uncontrolled  spread  of 
such weapons contributes to regional and international 
instability,  maiming  and  killing  thousands.  We  must 
A/65/PV.22
its 
representatives 
looking  forward 
requires  allowing 
seize  the  opportunity  and  strive  together  to  find  the 
political will to agree on regulating mechanisms, such 
as is currently being discussed in the form of an arms 
trade treaty. 

The European Union is a strong supporter of the 
United  Nations.  Following  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Lisbon Treaty,  the  EU  has  established  new  permanent 
structures  for  its  external  representation,  taking  over 
functions  previously  carried  out  by 
the  rotating 
presidency.  Ensuring  that  the  EU  can  continue  to 
contribute  effectively  to  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations 
to 
participate actively in its proceedings in the capacity of 
observer.  We  are 
to  continued 
cooperation  with a view to ensuring the adoption of a 
resolution to that effect as soon as possible. 

Our  countries  are  interconnected  today  in  an 
unprecedented  way.  In  a  globalized  world,  problems 
such  as  climate  change,  natural  disasters,  disease, 
drugs, terrorism and conflicts take on new proportions. 
At  the  same  time  the  alleviation  of  poverty,  the  fight 
for  human  rights  and  democracy,  and  economic 
development  remain  as  relevant  as  ever.  We  need  to 
cooperate  in  global  structures  and  engage  in  various 
forms  of  global  governance  to  meet  these  challenges. 
The  United  Nations  is  the  only  world  body  offering  a 
unique 
in  a 
coordinated  way.  We  need  to  continue  to  reform  the 
United Nations in order for it to fulfil its functions and 
remain relevant. Only when every country assumes its 
share of responsibility can the United Nations achieve 
its  full  potential.  Sweden  will  continue  to  be  a  strong 
supporter  of  the  United  Nations  and  will  assume  its 
share of our common responsibility. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency,  Mr.  Gert  Rosenthal,  chair  of 
the delegation of the Republic of Guatemala. 
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Our  President,  Mr.  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros, 
participated  in  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (see  A/65/PV.3)  but 
had  to  return  to  Guatemala  owing  to  commitments 
related  to  his  high  office.  Similarly,  our  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs,  who  unexpectedly  had  to  leave  New 
York yesterday. It is for this reason that I have the high 
honour of presenting this message, which was prepared 
to be presented today by the Minister. 
forum 
to  address 
these  problems 
10-55276 

39 

in  heading 
A/65/PV.22 


Before  proceeding,  I  should  like  to  express  our 
profound gratitude to Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki for his 
outstanding  performance 
the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. Likewise, Mr. Deiss, 
we wish you every success as President for the current 
session.  We  have  no  doubt  that  with  your  vast 
experience  you  will  guide  our  deliberations  and 
enhance the work of the General Assembly as the main 
policymaking organ of the United Nations. 

We  have  just  concluded  our  review  of  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, 
adopted  10  years  ago  in  an  international  environment 
that  was  perhaps  more  encouraging  than  today’s.  As 
has been highlighted in recent days, the results reflect 
both  light  and  shadow,  with  some  countries  showing 
impressive  gains,  and  others  even  suffering  setbacks. 
The majority have made progress on some of the Goals 
but  not  in  others,  or  have  made  advances  whose 
benefits  have  been  distributed  very  unequally  among 
different segments of the population.  

In  addition,  today’s  international  environment  is 
far  less  encouraging  than  that  of  10  years  ago.  The 
previous  decade  began  with  the  attack  on  the  twin 
towers  in  this  very  city,  placing  counter-terrorism 
squarely  as  a  priority  on  the  international  agenda.  It 
continued  with  a  military  confrontation  that  was  not 
sanctioned  by  the  Security  Council,  with  all  its 
consequences,  and  concluded  with  three  simultaneous 
crises  —  food,  energy  and,  especially,  financial  and 
economic — from whose effects we have yet to recover.  

Further,  after  building  up  a  cumulative  body  of 
scientific evidence that no longer allows any room for 
doubt,  we  have  confirmed  that  the  very  effects  of 
technological  progress  have  brought  with 
them 
devastating  consequences  for  our  common  habitat  — 
this  planet  —  and  that  the  destruction  wrought  by 
climate  change  is  palpable  and  dramatic.  On  another 
matter,  in  the  current  decade  we  have  witnessed  very 
clearly that organized crime does not recognize borders 
and  tends  to  spread  to  those  countries  with  the  least 
capacity to confront its considerable resources. 

My  own  country  has  been  a  victim  of  some  of 
these phenomena, which nullify or at least mitigate the 
considerable efforts we have deployed, especially since 
the  Administration  of  President  Colom  took  office 
early in 2008, to stimulate development, achieve higher 
levels of well-being for the disadvantaged sectors of our 
population,  and  strengthen  our  democratic  institutions. 
40 

Here again we see both light and shadow: in spite of an 
unfavourable  international  environment  and  as  President 
Colom noted in this very Hall on 20 September, we have 
achieved  progress  is  addressing  some  of  the  pressing 
problems faced by the our country’s most vulnerable.  

But  the  shadow  is  still  present.  Its  origin  lies  in 
phenomena  that  are  totally  or  partially  out  of  our 
control.  I  highlight  three  of  them.  First,  the  financial 
and economic crisis had a sharp adverse impact on our 
economic  performance.  Gross  national  product  grew 
less  than  1  per  cent  in  2009,  with  declining  exports, 
shrinking  family  remittances  and  collapsing  foreign 
direct  investment.  This  had  an  extremely  negative 
impact  on  our  tax  revenues,  in  spite  of  the  many 
Government  initiatives  to  raise  tax  rates  to  deal  with 
increasing  demands  for  social  services  and  public 
security. Although we have seen a modest recovery this 
year,  its  strength  will  depend  to  a  large  degree  on 
uncertain  developments  in  the  international  economy. 
In  other  words,  the  international  economic  environment 
has  not  been  very  conducive  to  meeting  our  economic 
growth  goals,  in  spite  of  the  official  cooperation  that 
we have received, which we sincerely appreciate. 

Secondly,  in  the  last  decade  a  array  of  unlawful 
activities related to organized crime have taken root in 
our country. Trafficking in persons, arms and narcotics, 
and  money  laundering  have  expanded  to  a  worrisome 
extent,  given  the  dual  abilities  of  organized  criminal 
groups  to  co-opt  and  intimidate.  Above  all,  drug 
trafficking has undermined our democratic institutions. 
In  response,  we  have  associated  ourselves  with  the 
United  Nations  and  friendly  countries,  through  both 
bilateral and multilateral cooperation. This can be seen 
mostly clearly in the International Commission against 
Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG), to which I will return 
later. Furthermore, recognizing that the struggle against 
illegal  activities  and  organized  crime  —  a  basic 
responsibility  of  all  States  —  has  today  assumed  a 
clearly  transnational  character,  we  have  joined  our 
neighbours 
in 
combating regional criminal networks. 

Thirdly,  as  if  what  I  have  already  said  were  not 
enough, we have also fallen victim to natural disasters 
with  an  unusual  frequency,  which  highlights 
the 
extreme  vulnerability  of  Guatemala  to  the  effects  of 
climate change, given its location in a tropical area. We 
had  not  even  begun  to  recover  from  the  effects  of 
tropical storm Stan of late 2005 when we were hit by a 
serious drought in 2009 and, over the past few months, 
in  Central  America  and  Mexico 
10-55276 


the  eruption  of  the  Pacaya  Volcano,  which  caused 
extensive  damage  to  agriculture,  followed  by  tropical 
storm  Agatha  in  June,  which  affected  some  330,000 
persons, killed approximately 100 and caused material 
damage 
totalling  an  estimated  $1  billion.  These 
estimates  in  human  suffering  and  material  losses  have 
continued  to  grow  with  the  unprecedented  levels  of 
rainfall  during  the  past  month,  which  has  contributed 
even more human victims and material damage. 

The Government has done all within its power to 
address the situation and has appealed for international 
assistance. I commend the fact that the United Nations 
was  among  the  first  to  respond  to  our  call,  and  I 
therefore express our appreciation to the Office for the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and 
the 
Administrator  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme. 

To date, we have been focused on the emergency 
phase,  but  it  is  imperative  that  we  move  on  to 
reconstruction  and  recovery  as  soon  as  possible.  The 
Government  has  drawn  up  a  detailed  plan  to  address 
those  goals,  and  we  will  convene  an  international 
conference  to  present  the  plan  to  our  partners  in 
Antigua in Guatemala on 11 and 12 October. 

I  shall  now  make  some  brief  remarks  on  our 
Organization and its agenda in the immediate future. I 
begin  by  reiterating  our  support  for  multilateralism  in 
general  and  for  the  United  Nations  in  particular.  We 
have  enjoyed  strong,  continuous  support  from  the 
Organization, 
supporting  our  peace  process, 
facilitating  development  cooperation  and  providing 
assistance  when  we  have  faced  emergencies,  as  at  the 
present time. 

The latest example of that fruitful and innovative 
cooperation  is  the  International  Commission  against 
Impunity  in  Guatemala.  In  only  three  years,  the 
Commission  has  shown  that  it  is  indeed  possible  to 
combat  impunity  and  strengthen  the  rule  of  law.  We 
value  this  cooperative  effort  between  the  Government 
of  Guatemala  and  the  United  Nations,  and  we  will 
continue to support it. 

We also value the work of our Organization in the 
area  of  peacekeeping. We  have  participated  in  several 
operations,  principally  in  Haiti  and  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo.  We  support  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  area  of  peacebuilding,  and  we 
hope to participate in the Peacebuilding Commission as 
a full member as of next January. 
in 
A/65/PV.22
We  welcome 
the  decision  of 
reiterate  our  profound  commitment 
significant  progress  during 

the  General 
Assembly  to  establish  the  United  Nations  Entity  for 
Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, and 
we are pleased that its first leader will be Ms. Michelle 
Bachelet.  We  also  commit  ourselves 
to  continue 
supporting 
initiatives  aimed  at  achieving  greater 
system-wide coherence. 

At the same time, we harbour the hope that, in the 
coming  year,  some  tangible  progress  will  be  made  in 
the  long-delayed  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We 
believe that it is crucial to provide greater legitimacy to 
that  body,  which  would  benefit  all  of  the  main  bodies 
and the Organization overall. In the meantime, we have 
announced  our  candidature  for  one  of  the  seats 
allocated to our region in the Security Council for the 
biennium  2012-2013,  in  the  hope  of  continuing  to 
contribute to its work. 
to 

We 
achieving 
the  next 
Conference  of  the  Parties  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in  Cancún.  We  have  participated  actively  in  the 
preparatory  work,  based  on  the  understanding  that 
rarely  has  humanity  faced  a  larger  challenge  that 
affects all countries and communities on the planet. 

In  rejoining  the  Human  Rights  Council,  we 
reiterate  our  commitment  to  the  full  respect  of  human 
rights  in  all  their  aspects,  including  the  responsibility 
to  protect  our  respective  populations  from  genocide, 
war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes  against 
humanity. 

It is commonly held that without peace there can 
be no development. Promising signs have been seen in 
various parts of the world, which, we hope, may lead to 
the  resolution  of  long-standing  tensions. We  trust  that 
the  direct  negotiations  recently  begun  in  the  Middle 
East will be fruitful and lead to a Palestinian State that 
can  coexist  with  Israel  in  peace  and  harmony,  within 
borders that are secure for both parties. 

We  also  applaud  the  engagement  and  growing 
climate  of  cooperation  being  generated  between  the 
parties separated by the Taiwan Straits. 

Finally,  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  we  have 
achieved  a  major  step  forward  in  addressing  the 
International Court of Justice, together with Belize, to 
seek  a  juridical  solution  to  the  age-old  territorial 
dispute between us. That step required the approval by 
10-55276 

41 

A/65/PV.22 

our  Congress  of  the  Special  Agreement  signed  with 
Belize in December 2008, which cleared the path for a 
popular  referendum,  as  provided  for  under 
that 
Agreement. We hope that the Belizean Parliament will 
also authorize as soon as possible the referendum to be 
held simultaneously in both countries, as the final step 
that  allows  both  parties  to  present  themselves  to  the 
Court. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Antonio  Pedro  Monteiro  Lima, 
head of the delegation of the Republic of Cape Verde. 
Mr.  Lima  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would  like  first  of  all  to  pay  tribute  to  you,  Sir,  for 
your  election  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fifth  session,  and  wish  you  every  success  as 
you  carry  out  your  duties  in  that  role.  Cape  Verde 
offers you its full support.  

I also appreciate the commitment of and the very 
fruitful  work  carried  out  by  his  predecessor, 
Ambassador  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  who  was  able  to 
lead  the Assembly  during  its  sixty-fourth  session  with 
remarkable dynamism.  

the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  as  he  seeks  to  make  the 
United Nations system ever more effective in working 
for  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world to peace, dignity and progress.  

Our theme this year is reaffirming the central role 
of the United Nations in global governance. The points 
which  I  shall  develop  relate  to  that  theme,  which  is  a 
cross-cutting issue par excellence.  

First of all, we have to save the planet. To do that 
would  seem  self-evident  —  here  everybody  would 
seem to agree — yet if one considers the negotiations 
underway  with  reference 
the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  there  is  a 
tendency  towards  pessimism  rather  than  optimism. 
Scientists  have  for  some  time  now  shown  that  our 
planet seriously risks not being able to provide for life 
in  all  in  its  plenitude  because  of  the  consequences  of 
global  warming.  We  know  today  that  time  to  act 
effectively is running out.  

The  participants  at  the  Copenhagen  Summit  left 
knowing that there was no time left for quibbling. We 
said that last year here ourselves. Now is the time for 
us to take concerted, coherent and systematic action, so 
that  we  can  substantially  reduce  greenhouse  gas 
We  confirm  our  support  for 
to 
emissions, slow down global warming and avoid a rise 
in  the  sea  level  which  could  jeopardize  vast  coastal 
regions of the world, and in particular the small island 
developing  States,  which  are  particularly  vulnerable 
and  suffer  first-hand  the  consequences  of  increasingly 
frequent and extreme inclement weather. 

Cape  Verde  is  a  State  of  the  Sahel.  For  a  long 
time, therefore, we have faced drought, desertification 
and dramatic water scarcity. Those phenomena strongly 
influence what we do to preserve the environment and 
achieve human development.  

We are seeking to adapt to and reduce the impact 
of  climate  change,  whether  it  be  in  the  specific  terms 
of  land  reclamation  and  water  conveyance  or  in  the 
development of renewable energy, all of which are part 
of our national growth dynamics, alongside education, 
health, employment, infrastructure and so on.  

We  are  in  process  of  implementing  an  ambitious 
programme to use surface water by building dams and 
reservoirs to  support the modernization  of  agriculture, 
livestock  farming  and  food 
the  development  of 
processing  —  all  of  which  will  help 
farmers 
everywhere.  Following  the  food  crisis  of  two  years 
ago,  ,  similar  efforts  were  made  in  Africa  and  small 
island developing States to help farmers make a profit, 
help  the  economy  make  progress  and  help  countries 
face  the  challenges  of  climate  change.  Financing, 
without  which  there  would  be  many  failures,  projects 
would  be  abandoned  and  obstacles  would  remain 
insurmountable, was a key factor. So we need quickly 
to set up the financing announced within the fast-track 
framework. Time is running out. 
We  believe  that  the  international  community, 

particularly 
large 
emerging  countries,  must  address  the  increased  threat 
to global security and the repercussions for everybody 
of  the  devastating  consequences  of  natural  disasters 
and  must  continue  to  support  the  specific  dynamics 
affecting  the  most  vulnerable  States  with  respect  to 
climate  change 
the  areas  of  mitigation  and 
adaptation  and  help 
risks 
threatening them in the present situation, knowing that 
some  of  them  are  already  facing  the  problems  of 
population shifts and forced migration.  

Solidarity  is  not  a  meaningless  word  for  people 
who  live  on  islands.  For  some  individuals,  it  is  a 
question  of  survival;  for  nations,  it  is  a  question  of 
their  continued  existence  as  peoples.  Let  us  not  offer 
the  developed  countries  and 
them  minimize 
the 
in 
42 

10-55276 


up the weakest as sacrificial lambs, for tomorrow all of 
us may be in a similar situation. Let us also not forget 
that  conflicts  resulting  from  water  scarcity  on  the 
planet  are  foreseeable,  which  should  be  a  major 
concern that we must start tackling as of today.  

We wish to reaffirm here that the ocean, which is 
for  our  island  country  our  vital  environment,  our 
civilization and our inspiration, as well as our potential 
for the future, must be protected and preserved. Just a 
few days ago, with six coastal countries in West Africa 
and Norway, we signed an agreement that will help us 
collectively 
to  better  manage  this  huge  common 
potential and to keep watch over the protection of our 
ocean  interests.  With  the  coastal  States  along  the 
Atlantic  Ocean,  particularly  those  in  the  southern 
Atlantic, we confirm our resolve to make it an area for 
trade  and  active  solidarity,  not  unfair  competition. 
Instead of making the ocean just one more element to 
be gobbled up by human greed, let us try to preserve its 
unique  value  as  a  precious  container  of  life  and 
guardian of the hopes of the planet.  

We must protect and empower women. We firmly 
believe that one of the major revolutions to be made in 
our  time  is  the  one  enabling  women  to  truly  become 
full  and  equal  partners  with  men  in  their  shared  quest 
for progress. In Cape Verde, we have made substantial 
gains  in  gender  equality  and  equity,  but  there  are  still 
major  challenges.  For  example, 
in  our  current 
Government  consisting  of  14  Ministers,  eight  of  them 
are  women.  The 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) for 2010 shows that Cape 
Verde  has  achieved  gender  parity  in  primary  and 
secondary  education.  Indeed,  in  some  cases,  there  are 
more girls than boys in school. 

Major  investment  in  maternal  and  infant  health 
means  that  98  per  cent  of  births  are  in  a  hospital 
environment  with  specialized  assistants.  Yet,  25  per 
cent  of  women  suffer  from  domestic  abuse.  In 
Parliament  and  in  local  authorities,  there  are  few 
women participating. Poverty and unemployment affect 
more  women  than  men.  We  continue  to  work  on  this 
issue, and we think we are going in the right direction. 

UN Women, recently launched by Economic and 
Social Council, is a universal entity charged principally 
with  overcoming  the  obstacles  that  prevented  the  four 
formerly  separate  bodies  working  in  the  gender  area 
from  responding  more  effectively  to  challenges  in  the 
report  on 
A/65/PV.22
area  of  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women.  

UN  Women  is  part  of  the  effort  to  reform  the 
United  Nations  begun  nearly  two  decades  ago  with  a 
view  towards  strengthening  system-wide  coherence. 
We  would  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet 
and  assure  her  of  Cape  Verde’s  support  in  her  new 
duties  to  defend,  promote  and  empower  women.  We 
believe  that  the  robustness  of  her  mandate  and  her 
potential  role  of  catalyst  for  the  new  entity  should 
encourage  donors  to  respond  positively  to  meet  its 
funding needs.  

We  must  continue  to  work  for  peace.  The 
evolving  international  situation  with  groups  of  States 
coming  together  to  discuss  major  regional  and  global 
issues  and  to  propose  solutions  is  evidence  of  a  trend 
that,  despite  everything,  is  struggling  to  show  its 
efficiency  and  cannot  seem  to  reduce  the  worry  of 
some and the doubts of others.  

We  continue  to  believe  that  the  United  Nations, 
where  each  one  of  us  has  his  or  her  place,  can  play  a 
truly  effective  part  by  ensuring  going  forward  so  that 
its  dynamism  is  maintained,  its  mission  is  clearly 
defined, and we all share in the responsibilities and the 
decision-making.  It  is  our  universal  institution  that 
brings  together  the  essential  conditions  for  handling 
the  problems  of  the  world  and  that  has  been  endowed 
with 
responsibility. 
Accordingly,  the  huge  mission  of  promoting  and 
ensuring better and more effective global governance is 
a job that must be carried out by the United Nations. 

World  peace  remains  a  distant  goal,  and  the 
hotbeds  of  tension,  far  from  abating,  persist,  ever 
closer.  Conflicts  weaken  entire  regions,  creating 
refugees  and  displaced  persons  by 
the  millions, 
paralysing  economies,  destroying  infrastructure  and 
obliterating  decades  of  work  aimed  at  promoting 
education, health and justice for the people. Sometimes 
the  very  concept  of  the  human  being  seems  to  be 
vanishing, giving way to an era of modern slaves who 
can  be  moulded  and  exploited  at  will.  Women  suffer 
sexual  violence,  which  has  become  a  weapon  of  war, 
and child soldiers are often deployed unscrupulously as 
combatants by both sides.  

The United Nations, in this arena as in others, is 
still  the  central  element,  functioning  as  the  collective 
conscience  of  the  community  of  nations,  dedicated  to 
managing our communal actions and finding solutions 
collective 
the 
necessary 
10-55276 

43 
in 
the  wall  and  ending 

this 
the  United  Nations 
A/65/PV.22 

light, 
the 
of  consensus  and  cooperation.  In 
revitalization  of 
seems  a 
requirement  of  our  time,  inviting  the  participation  of 
all. 

Cape  Verde  has  always  favoured  universal  and 
total  disarmament.  It  wishes  to  help  create  a  world 
where  fear  of  the  other  is  replaced  by  the  need  to 
cooperate with the other and a recognition of the other 
as a necessary, complementary partner. We continue to 
believe,  for  instance,  in  the  future  of  talks  between 
Israel  and  the  Palestinians,  and  we  continue  to  hope 
that  we  will  see  a  Middle  East  with  two  independent 
States  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  But 
restoring  credibility  to  the  Middle  East  peace  process 
requires,  more  than  anything  else,  that  the  parties 
honour  their  own  obligations,  which  derive  from  their 
commitments  and  from  decisions  and  resolutions 
agreed to here in the United Nations. From this point of 
view,  putting  an  end  to  hostilities  in  Gaza  and  on 
Israeli  soil,  halting  settlement 
the  occupied 
territories,  dismantling 
the 
blockade  seem  to  us  incontrovertible  imperatives.  We 
ardently hope that the new talks will bring us closer to 
peace. 

Organized  crime  is  a  scourge  that  my  country  is 
fighting  directly,  with  the  support  of  many  of  our 
partners.  Drug  traffickers  now  swarm  into  our  West 
African  subregion,  threatening  the  stability  of  our 
countries  and  destroying  our  efforts  towards  regional 
stability  and  peace  for  our  peoples.  A  determined 
battle, uniting producing nations, nations of transit and 
consumer  nations,  must  be  vigorously  and  tirelessly 
waged.  We  must  not  allow  drugs  to  turn  our  children 
into  pariahs,  the  unfortunate  victims  of  dirty  money. 
Human  rights  are  at  stake  in  that  struggle  for  our 
children  to  live  and  flourish  free  of  the  influence  of 
drugs,  so  that  tomorrow  they  may  become  citizens  of 
the world.  

At  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century 
things are evolving in all spheres — and especially in 
international  politics  —  because  of  circumstances  and 
events,  but  also  because  of  the  political  will  of  the 
most  enlightened.  Is  it  not  time  to  put  an  end  to 
situations  that  are  now  obsolete  vestiges  of  the  cold 
war and the Second World War, such as in the case of 
Cuba?  The  isolation  and  blockade  are  sources  of 
tension  and  frustration  and  can  hardly  serve  as  the 
basis for new hope. Generations are changing, attitudes 
are  evolving  and  the  aspirations  of  the  young  are 
44 

different  now.  New  generations  have  the  right  to  a 
future  of  peace,  understanding  and  healthy  exchange. 
Let us show the wisdom to offer them a world worthy 
of their dreams and aspirations.  

We  must  innovate  for  the  future.  When  we 
became  one  of  the  eight  pilot  countries  for  the 
Delivering  as  One  experiment  in  2006,  we  wanted,  of 
course,  to  benefit  from  positive  impact  of  such  a  leap 
forward  in  this  way  in  our  relations  with  the  various 
United Nations agencies. We also wanted to participate 
in  reforming  the  United  Nations  system,  so  that  it 
could  better  meet  the  demands  of  the  world  today. 
Moreover, our Government believes that reform means 
simplifying 
the  well-known  United  Nations 
bureaucracy. Today we are witnessing real progress and 
clear mutual benefits. The funds allotted to our country 
are increasing, the effectiveness of the various agencies 
is  improving,  there  is  a  real  sense  of  ownership,  and 
there  is  also  leadership  by  the  Government  and 
dynamic  synergy  among  all  the  parties  involved  — 
pointing  us  ever  forward  on  this  path.  The  recent 
meeting  of  the  eight  pilot  countries  in  Hanoi  was  a 
success,  and  we  eagerly  await  new  additions  to  the 
family. 

Since independence 35 years ago, Cape Verde has 
made  great  strides  in  human  development  and  has 
become  a  middle-income  country.  Between  1990  and 
2007 our human development index rose from 0.589 to 
0.708.  Per  capita  income,  barely  $300  per  year  at  the 
time  of  our  independence,  is  now  $3,041  per  year. 
School  enrolment  stands  at  96  per  cent.  Illiteracy  has 
been  reduced  to  18.5  per  cent,  declining  as  much  for 
women  as  for  men.  We  project  6  per  cent  growth  for 
the year 2010. 

We have achieved much in education, health and 
political  participation  thanks  to  our  Government’s 
policy aimed at eradicating poverty and achieving food 
security  and  gender  equality  and  equity.  In  the  last 
decade  poverty  has  dropped  from  49  per  cent  in  1989 
to  36.7  per  cent  in  2002  to  26  per  cent  in  2007. 
Estimates predict a poverty rate in 2010 of 24 per cent. 

That progress is the result of investing in people. 
Education and vocational training are the strategic axes 
of  our  governance  and  take  up  over  half  of  our  State 
budget.  We  have  also  invested  in  health  and  social 
security.  Moreover,  the  Government  is  following  a 
strategy of making the country an international service 
provider, so that it can compete in the world economy 
10-55276 
job  creation, 


and  accelerate  growth  and 
thereby 
increasing  family  income  and  significantly  decreasing 
poverty. 

While  we  know  that  we  must  act  quickly  and 
decisively to save the planet, we seem to drag our feet 
when  it  comes  to  matching  concrete  actions  to  our 
words.  While  we  proclaim  the  virtues  of  equality 
between  men  and  women  and  gender  parity  —  and 
their positive effects on development and therefore on 
peace  and  security  —  we  still  note  that  substantial 
political  will  at  the  national  level  and  a  determined 
drive at the international level are still needed to push 
forward  the  fight  to  make  women  full  partners  in  the 
future of the world. If peace is everywhere considered 
a  fundamental,  legitimate  aspiration  of  peoples  and 
nations,  and  indeed  a  universal  necessity,  it  is  no  less 
true that it must be won every day, and that millions of 
human  beings  wake  to  the  sound  of  guns  and  wonder 
every night if they will see the next morning or if their 
family  will  still  be  alive.  Peace  can  no  longer  be  a 
utopian dream or a fragile, always tentative reality,  as 
in the Middle East, Central Africa or other places in the 
world. 

In  an  increasingly  interdependent  and  threatened 
world, we need to give our collective energies a chance 
and  not  seclude  ourselves  in  a  defeatist  attitude  of 
isolation,  bereft  of  any  future. We  must  be  innovative 
in  our  ways  of  thinking,  in  our  political  ideas  and  in 
our  vision  of  the  State.  We  must  be  innovative  and 
carry  our  innovation  into  our  inter-State  relations  and 
our  defence  of  our  own  interests,  so  as  to  promote 
equity  and  democracy 
relations, 
promote  a  greater  awareness  of  fair  exchange  and 
justice  in  the  relations  of  States  and  thereby  foster 
security  for  all,  in  a  multilateralism  driven  by  the 
contributions  of  all  members  of  the  international 
community,  thus  preserving  the  hope  for  peace  all 
around the world.  

All  the  great  revealed  religions  talk  of  hope  and 
compassion. Will those universal values be condemned 
to  remain  the  poor  relations  of  international  politics? 
Let  us  make  of  their  inspired  message  the  bedrock  of 
our  international  relations.  Let  us  make  the  individual 
human  the  centre  of  our  national  concerns  and  our 
global interests. That is the basis, it seems to me, of the 
responsibility  to  protect  that  we  proclaim  here  in  this 
Hall.  Let  us  make  that  message  a  harbinger  of  the 
future  for  our  nations  and  our  peoples,  for  now  more 
than  ever  our  destinies  are  shared  and  tied  to  our 
international 
in 
A/65/PV.22
Mother  Earth.  Humankind 
is  humankind’s  best 
medicine, an old African proverb tells us. We can be if 
we want to be. 

The President (spoke in French): We have heard 
the last speaker in the general debate for this meeting. 
However,  several  representatives  have  asked  to  speak 
in exercise of the right of reply. Before calling on those 
representatives,  I  remind  members  that  statements 
made in the exercise of the right of reply are limited to 
10  minutes  for  the  first  statement  and  five  for  the 
second  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from  their 
seats. 
Mr.  Nega  (Ethiopia):  I  would  like  to  thank  you, 

Mr. President, for giving me the opportunity to present 
my  delegation’s  response  in  exercising  our  right  of 
reply  to  the  statement  made  by  the  delegation  of  the 
State of Eritrea this morning. 

Before  responding  to  the  specific  accusations 
made  by  the  delegation  of  Eritrea,  I  would  like  to 
highlight  some  of  the  distinctly  aggressive  behaviour 
of  the  incumbent  Government  in Asmara.  First,  in  the 
mid-1990s,  the  regime  invaded  eastern  Sudan,  under 
the cover of a rebel group that it organized, trained and 
armed  against  the  Sudan,  and  it  continues  to  meddle 
unabatedly  in  the  internal  affairs  of  that  country, 
including in Darfur. Secondly, Eritrea invaded Yemen’s 
Hanish Islands in the Red Sea in 1995 and remained in 
occupation there for more than two years. Thirdly, the 
Eritrean  regime  attempted  to  invade  the  northern 
borders  of  Djibouti  in  1997,  but  backed  off  due  to 
international  pressure.  Eritrea  nonetheless  committed 
another  round  of  aggression  against  Djibouti  in  2008 
and  remained  in  occupation of  those  areas  until  2010, 
when  it  was  forced  to  vacate  under  pressure  from  the 
Security  Council  and  a  combined 
face-saving 
mediation  by 
third  parties.  Fourthly, 
the  regime 
unleashed  unprovoked  aggression  against  Ethiopia  in 
May  1998  and  occupied  the  northern  borders  of  our 
country until its army was routed after facing a debacle 
at  the  hands  of  the  Ethiopian  defence  forces  in  May 
2000. 

The  Eritrean  Government  is  campaigning  wildly 
against  my  country  to  conceal  the  truth,  alleging  that 
we were the  aggressors  and that Ethiopia continues to 
occupy  sovereign  Eritrean  territory  by  refusing  to 
implement the decisions of the arbitration Commission 
established by the two parties — whereas the truth, as 
ascertained 
Claims 
Eritrea-Ethiopia 
the 
by 
10-55276 

45 

legal 
is  a 
A/65/PV.22 

Commission, is that it was Eritrea that violated Article 
2,  paragraph  4,  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  by 
invading  the  sovereign  territory  of  Ethiopia.  Ethiopia 
accepted 
the  Boundary  Commission’s  delimitation 
decision and has clearly indicated, time and again, that 
the  demarcation  on  paper 
fiction. 
International  law  regarding border demarcation knows 
no such thing as demarcation on paper. Demarcation is 
the implementation of the delimitation decision on the 
ground; demarcation is placing boundary pillars on the 
ground. 

Ethiopia, beyond any reasonable doubt, has been 
willing  to  engage  with  Eritrea  in  demarcating  the 
common  border  on  the  basis  of  the  delimitation 
decision of the Commission. Ethiopia has always been 
ready to sit down and discuss with Eritrea in good faith 
the sectors where the delimitation has not been clear or 
where  differences  in  understanding  or  interpretation 
exist. Until such time as this occurs, it is obvious that 
Ethiopia  or  Eritrea  may  be  in  control  of  each  other’s 
territory. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  Eritrea’s  alleged 
claim  that  Ethiopia  is  occupying  its  territory  is  a 
figment  of 
imagination.  The  Boundary 
the  Algiers 
Commission  had  no  mandate  per 
Agreement 
two 
parties. By the same token, as in the case of the dispute 
between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,  the  United  Nations  has 
no  power  to  enforce  decisions  of  arbitration  tribunals 
or  to  effect  a  transfer  of  territory  or  territorial 
sovereignty without a specific mandate given it by the 
parties.  It  is  up  to  the  parties  to  the  Agreement  to 
implement  the  decision  of  the  Boundary  Commission, 
that 
through 
demarcation. 

Ethiopia  is  and  has  always  been  ready  to  carry 
out the second half of the Algiers Agreement, namely, a 
demarcation-focused  dialogue.  It  is  Eritrea  that  has 
refused  to  engage  in  dialogue  with  Ethiopia  on  the 
demarcation of the border, by claiming ad nauseam the 
so-called  occupation  of  sovereign  Eritrean  territory. 
Eritrea is trying to use this to divert attention from its 
destructive activities in the Horn of Africa by creating 
a pretext for further aggression. 

its 
statement  of  27  November  2006  was  to  indicate  on 
paper  the  coordinates  that  describe  the  boundary.  The 
Commission,  in  paragraph  22  of  its  statement,  made 
the  Boundary  Commission  did 
is,  delimitation  on 
the  ground 
its  own 
to 
transfer 
territory  between 
the 
All 
in 
following 
territory  and  consequently  are  under 
the 
significant  point,  which  Eritrea 
conveniently ignores. It reads, and I quote: “Until such 
time  as  the  boundary  is  finally  demarcated,  the 
Delimitation  Decision  of  13  April  2002  continues  as 
the  only  valid  legal  description  of  the  boundary” 
(S/2006/992, enclosure, para. 22). In the final analysis, 
the  most  important  task  that  remains  is  to  demarcate 
the  boundary  on  the  ground  as  per  the  delimitation 
decision,  which  would  usher  in  a  durable  peace 
between the two parties. 
Mr.  Salsabili  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  This 

afternoon,  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
United Arab Emirates raised unacceptable claims about 
the  three  Iranian  islands  located  in  the  Persian  Gulf, 
namely, Abu Musa, Tonb-e Bozorg and Tonb-e Kuchak. 
The Islamic Republic of Iran categorically rejects those 
remarks  as  unacceptable  claims  against 
Iranian 
territorial  integrity  and  emphasizes  that  the  three  said 
islands, located in the Persian Gulf, are eternal parts of 
Iranian 
its 
sovereignty. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  while  stressing  its 
determination  to  continue  its  good-neighbourly  and 
brotherly  relations  with  the  neighbouring  United Arab 
Emirates, reiterates that all actions and measures taken 
by  the  Iranian  authorities  in  those  Iranian  islands  are 
fully  based  on  the  sovereign  rights  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  and  on  the  principle  of  its  territorial 
integrity. The Islamic Republic of Iran stands ready to 
continue its bilateral talks with the relevant officials of 
the United Arab Emirates, with a view to removing any 
misunderstanding 
to 
implementation  of  the  arrangements  emanating  from 
the documents exchanged in 1971 on Abu Musa island. 
Ms.  Haile  (Eritrea):  I  am  taking  the  floor  in 

exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  in  connection  with  the 
statement  just  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Ethiopia.  The  representative  of  Ethiopia  made  several 
unfounded  accusations  that  contribute  nothing  to  the 
peace  and  security  of  the  region.  My  delegation 
categorically rejects all such accusations. 

Let  me  set  the  record  straight.  The  Eritrea-
Ethiopia  Boundary  Commission  (EEBC),  established 
by Eritrea and Ethiopia pursuant to article 4, paragraph 
2,  of  the Algiers  Peace Agreement,  has  put  to  rest  the 
border dispute between the two countries. Referring to 
the  EEBC’s  twenty-sixth  report  (S/2008/40,  annex  II), 
the Secretary-General states that  
that  may  arise  with  regard 
46 

10-55276 



“the boundary between Ethiopia and Eritrea now 
automatically  stands  as  demarcated  by 
the 
boundary points (coordinates) listed in the annex 
to  the  Commission’s  Statement  of  27  November 
2006,  and  that  [the  Commission]  considers  this 
decision  as  binding  on 
the  parties.  The 
Commission further asserted that it ‘has fulfilled 
its mandate’”. (S/2008/40, para. 40) 

Therefore,  the  crux  of  the  matter  is  Ethiopia’s 
continued occupation of sovereign Eritrean territory, in 
defiance of the ruling of the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary 
Commission.  No  campaigns  of  misinformation  or  the 
raising of irrelevant issues in this body will erase that 
fact.  Ethiopia  has  to  face  up  to  its  obligations  if  it  is 
interested  in  the  peace  and  stability  of  the  region. 
There is no need to beat around the bush: had Ethiopia 
not  reneged  on  its  commitment  and  had  cooperated 
fully with the independent Boundary Commission, the 
issue  between  the  two  countries  could  have  been 
resolved then and there, and the successful conclusion 
of  the  Algiers  Peace  Agreement  would  have  brought 
the  huge  suffering  of  the  two  peoples  to  an  end  in  no 
time.  

The  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  is  the  core 
principle  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  But  Ethiopia 
has shown its disdain for international law and its lack 
of  interest  in  the  peaceful  and  legal  resolution  of 
disputes. The Algiers Peace Agreement provides for the 
the 
establishment  of 
commissions  have  been 
and  have 
completed  their  work. The third  commission,  with  the 
authority  to  determine  the  origins  of  the  conflict,  has 
not yet been established. That task cannot be demanded 
of any other commission. 
Mr.  Al-Yafei  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): I thank you, Mr. President, for giving me the 
floor to comment on the remarks by the representative 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran. 

My delegation expresses its regret at the repeated 
position  of  Iran,  which  has  rejected  the  numerous 
peace initiatives my country has announced to resolve 
the conflict over the three occupied Emirates islands of 
Abu  Musa,  Greater  Tunb  and  Lesser  Tunb  through 
bilateral  negotiations  or 
the 
International Court of Justice to seek a legal opinion.  

We  reiterate  our  rejection  of  Iran’s  occupation 
and of all military and civilian measures it has taken on 
the islands with a view to changing their historical and 
three  commissions.  Two  of 
through  recourse 
established 
A/65/PV.22
that 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  hopes 
demographic  nature  and  imposing  a  fait  accompli  of 
occupation. We are disappointed that Iran has repeated 
its  position  calling  for  dealing  with  marginal  issues 
pertaining  to  the  outcome  of  the  occupation  of  the 
islands,  rather  than  dealing  with  the  main  issue  of 
occupation itself. 

the 
international  community  will  support  its  position, 
which  calls  upon  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to 
reconsider its policy of illegal occupation of the islands 
and  to  respond  to  our  peace  initiatives,  which  aim  at 
reaching  a  comprehensive  and  just  settlement  to  the 
issue  of  these  islands  in  a  manner  that  strengthens 
security, stability and economic cooperation among the 
countries of the region. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

I  marvel  at  seeing  how  the  Permanent  Representative 
of 
 Sweden, representative of a supposedly civilized 
and  incorruptible  country,  assumes  the  right  to  judge 
other  countries  —  always  poor  and  underdeveloped 
countries of the South — on the issue of human rights. 
The  Ambassador  spoke,  judged,  handed  down  his 
verdict and abandoned the Hall. I asked him to stay to 
hear my reply, but he left. I ask myself with what right 
and  moral  authority  he  dares  to  judge  and  give 
opinions  on  no  fewer  than  eight  countries  that  are 
respectable and worthy Members of this Organization. 
Who told him that he  could lecture Cubans on human 
rights, something about which we are deeply proud? 

As  the  entire  international  community  is  aware, 
Sweden  is  among  the  countries  to  have  authorized 
illegal  secret  flights  over  its  territory  by  the  United 
States  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  That  is  a  dark 
chapter in Sweden’s actions, which it has yet to clarify. 
When one asks a Swedish official about this, they say 
that  the  relevant  investigations  are  being  carried  out. 
They  have  been  investigating  for  several  years.  They 
are  trying  to  cover  up  the  issue,  but  peoples  do  not 
have such short memories. 

I  could  also  refer  to  the  situation  of  prostitution 
in Sweden and of the assaults, including sexual abuse, 
against  women  and  girls  in  that  country.  But,  in  the 
interests of time, I shall not do so. I merely ask: When 
is 
its 
investigations  on  the  illegal  flights  over  its  territory? 
When  will  the  Swedish  Government  renounce  double 
standards  and  political  manipulation  on  such  a  noble 
the  Swedish  Government  going 
to  finish 
to 
10-55276 

47 
It  was 
therefore 
shocking 

A/65/PV.22 

issue  as  human  rights?  How  long  will  they  try  to 
continue to mislead the General Assembly? 
Mr.  Tag-Eldin  (Egypt):  I  take  the  floor  in  the 

exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  to  respond  to  the  false 
allegation made in the statement that was delivered by 
the representative of Sweden, which included baseless 
claims about the situation of the freedom of expression 
in my country, among other countries. 

The representative of Sweden should know better. 
He  should  know  that  Egypt  has  been  in  the  lead  of 
political  reform  in  the  Middle  East.  Freedom  of 
expression  is  guaranteed,  by  our  constitution  and 
practice, to each and every Egyptian citizen. In Egypt, 
we  have  more  than  300  newspapers  and  journals 
published  daily,  representing  all  views  from  every 
corner of Egyptian society and political life.  

the 
representative  of  Sweden  refer  to  my  country  in  this 
manner. We  would like to advise the representative of 
Sweden to become better educated about Egypt and its 
comprehensive reforms aimed at  ensuring a better life 
for Egyptian citizens and guaranteeing full respect for 
human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the 
freedom of expression. 
Egypt  totally  and  flatly  rejects  such  allegations. 

The  representative  of  Sweden  should  know 
the 
difference between freedom of expression and insulting 
prophets and defaming religions in his country, before 
evaluating  the  situation  of  freedom  of  expression  in 
other countries. 

Mr.  Ren  Yisheng  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  I 
would  like  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply 
with 
the 
representative  of  Sweden.  The  Chinese  Government 
has always protected the economic, social and cultural 
rights  of  its  citizens,  in  keeping  with  the  law.  Our 
Government  attaches  equal 
to  other 
categories  of  rights  such  as  freedom  of  expression. 
Since  the  beginning  of  the  reform  process,  the  human  

statement  made  by 
importance 
to  hear 
respect 
to 
the 
rights situation in China has greatly improved. This is 
something that is recognized by everybody; something 
that no one can deny. 

In  the  course  of  its  history,  Sweden  has  seen 
some dark incidents of human rights violations. Today 
it continues to violate the rights of minorities within its 
borders.  One  might  say  the  human  rights  situation  in 
Sweden  is  rather  sombre.  That  country  does  not  have 
the  right  to  point  fingers  at  others  over  human  rights 
situations.  Without  mentioning 
the  human  rights 
situation  in  his  own  country,  the  representative  of 
Sweden commented on human rights situations in other 
countries.  This  utterly  twists  the  truth  and  is  a  clear 
example of double standards.  

The  Chinese  delegation  categorically  rejects  the 
unfounded  accusations  made  by  the  representative  of 
Sweden. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before  giving 

the floor once again to the representative of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran, I remind him that second statements 
in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  five 
minutes. 
Mr.  Salsabili  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I 

apologize for taking the floor again. This time, I wish 
to make some remarks relating to the representative of 
Sweden  and  the  human  rights  situation  in  Iran  and  to 
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Ireland 
yesterday  (see  A/65/PV.20).  I  wish  to  say  that,  in 
referring  to  human  rights  issues  in  my  country  while 
ignoring their own records of human rights violations, 
these countries are serving their own political interests 
and  considerations.  I  recommend  that  both  of  these 
countries  avoid  abusing  the  rostrum  of  this  United 
Nations  body  to  level  politically  motivated,  distorted 
and false accusations against others. 

the last speaker in exercise of the right of reply. 

The President (spoke in French): We have heard 
  The meeting rose at 8.25 p.m. 
48 

10-55276 
