
A/65/PV.46
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

46th plenary meeting 
Monday, 8 November 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
Paris,  illustrated  the  growing  international  interest  in 
nuclear  power  as  a  clean  and  stable  source  of  energy 
that can help to mitigate the impact of climate change. 
I expressed my conviction that access to nuclear power 
should not be limited to developed countries but should 
be available to developing countries as well. 

Some  60  countries  are  considering  introducing 
nuclear  energy.  We  expect  up  to  25  new  countries  to 
bring their first nuclear power plants on line by 2030. 
Many of the countries that already have nuclear power 
are planning or building new reactors or extending the 
operational  life  of  existing  reactors.  While  it  is  up  to 
the  Member  State  to  decide  whether  or  not  to  opt  for 
nuclear  power,  the  Agency  has  a  key  role  to  play  in 
ensuring  that  the  expansion  in  nuclear  power  takes 
place  in  an  efficient,  responsible  and  sustainable 
manner.  When  countries  express  an 
in 
introducing  nuclear  power,  we  offer  advice  in  many 
areas,  including  on  how  to  put  the  appropriate  legal 
and regulatory framework into place and how to ensure 
the  highest  standards  of  safety  and  security,  without 
increasing proliferation risks. 
The Agency continues to assist countries that are 

expanding existing nuclear power programmes. It is in 
those countries that the most new nuclear power plants 
will be built and where the lifetime of existing plants is 
being  extended.  Our  work  with  those  countries  is 
focused  on  areas  such  as  operational  safety  and 
security, 
improving  nuclear  waste  disposal  and 
decommissioning old reactors. 
interest 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 




Mr.  Amano
Agenda item 87 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
  Note by the Secretary-General transmitting  

the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/65/140) 

  Draft resolution (A/65/L.10) 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  invite 

Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of 
the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency,  to  introduce  the 
report of the Agency for the year 2009. 
(International  Atomic  Energy 

Agency):  This  is  my  first  report  to  the  General 
Assembly  as  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy Agency. A  constant  theme  of  my  first 
year in office has been the pursuit of objectives related 
to  the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and  the 
promotion  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  in  a 
balanced manner. I am trying to change the widespread 
perception  of  the  Agency  as  simply  the  world’s 
“nuclear  watchdog”,  because  that  term  does  not  do 
justice  to  our  extensive  activities  in  other  areas, 
especially  in  nuclear  energy,  nuclear  science  and 
applications, and technical cooperation. 

the 
Agency’s  work  in  the  past  year  and  share  some 
thoughts  on  current  issues.  I  will  start  with  nuclear 
energy.  In  March,  the  International  Conference  on 
Access  to  Civil  Nuclear  Energy,  which  took  place  in 

Today,  I  will  review 
the  highlights  of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-62124 (E) 
*1062124* 




in 
The  Agency  signed  an  agreement  with 
A/65/PV.46 


the 
Russian  Federation  in  March  to  establish  a  low-
enriched  uranium  bank  in Angarsk,  which  is  intended 
to  provide  assurance  of  supply  for  nuclear  power 
plants. Some IAEA member States have proposed other 
mechanisms for assurance of supply. 

In  view  of  the  increasing  interest  of  many 
countries in introducing nuclear power, I would like to 
encourage international lending institutions to consider 
being  more  open  in  their  approach  to  funding  nuclear 
power  projects.  I  also  believe  that  the  benefits  of 
nuclear  power  in  mitigating  the  negative  effects  of 
climate  change  deserve  wider  recognition 
the 
relevant international forums. 

I  would  like  to  touch  upon  nuclear  applications 
next.  The  work  of  the  IAEA  in  areas  such  as  health 
care  and  nutrition,  food  security,  the  environment  and 
water resource management is extremely important for 
many  member  States.  I  made  cancer  in  developing 
countries  a  high  priority  for  my  first  year  in  office. 
Some 665 people in developing countries die of cancer 
every  hour  —  nearly  three  times  as  many  as  in 
developed countries. Around 70 per cent of cancers in 
developing  countries  are  diagnosed  too  late  for  life-
saving treatment. In many low-income countries, there 
is not  a single radiation therapy machine. Since  1980, 
the  IAEA  has  delivered  over  $220  million  worth  of 
cancer-related  assistance  to  developing  countries.  Our 
special focus on cancer this year has already started to 
bear  fruit.  I  believe  we  have  succeeded  in  raising 
awareness  of  the  problem  of  cancer  in  developing 
countries to a higher political level. 
the  World  Health 

Organization 
to  strength. 
Pledges and donations to our Programme of Action for 
Cancer  Therapy  are  running  at  record  levels.  We  are 
also  seeing  a  very  strong  commitment  by  developing 
countries  to  our  activities,  which  has  led  to  an 
improvement  in  the  quality  of  some  of  our  cancer-
related technical cooperation projects. 

sustainable 
development  is  also  a  growing  concern.  As  member 
States  make  increased  efforts  to  meet  that  challenge, 
they  need  better  scientific  knowledge  of  their  water 
resources.  Nuclear  technology  is  also  very  useful  in 
that  area.  We  have  initiated  a  new  IAЕA  Water 
Availability  Enhancement  Project,  which  is  aimed  at 
helping member States acquire such knowledge. 
The  availability  of  water 
is  going  from  strength 
cooperation  with 
Our 
for 
by 
leaders 
attended 
the  nuclear 
industry  since 
security.  Adherence 

Turning  now  to  nuclear  safety  and  security,  we 
have seen a very significant improvement in the safety 
performance  of 
the 
Chernobyl  disaster  nearly  25  years  ago.  That  reflects 
factors  that  include  improved  design,  better  operating 
procedures,  a 
strengthened  and  more  effective 
regulatory environment and the emergence of a strong 
safety culture. While it is the responsibility of States to 
ensure nuclear safety, the IAEA promotes an integrated 
approach  to  safety,  focusing  on  management  systems, 
effective  leadership  and  safety  culture.  The  Agency 
also  promotes  international  cooperation,  providing 
review  services  to  member  States  and  supporting 
knowledge  networks  and  training.  While  recognizing 
that nuclear security is the responsibility of States, the 
Agency  continues  to  assist  States  in  developing  a 
sustainable nuclear security capacity. 
In  April  2010,  the  Nuclear  Security  Summit  in 

from 
Washington,  D.C., 
the 
47 countries,  reaffirmed  the  essential  role  of 
Agency  as  part  of  the  international  nuclear  security 
framework.  It  also  pledged  to  ensure  that  the Agency 
has  the  resources  to  assist  States  in  strengthening 
nuclear 
relevant 
international  legal instruments  on  nuclear  security  has 
gradually  increased.  However,  while  it  has  been  five 
years  since  the  adoption  of  the  Amendment  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material, progress towards its entry into force remains 
slow. I encourage the parties to the Convention to work 
towards  accelerating  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Amendment. 

I  take  great  pride  in  the  fact  that  the  Agency’s 
technical  cooperation  activities  are  making  a  real 
difference  in  the  lives  of  many  people  in  developing 
countries. As I mentioned, we make nuclear techniques 
available  to  help  fight  cancer,  boost  food  production, 
combat  animal  diseases  and  improve  the  management 
of scarce water resources, to name just a few areas. 
Capacity-building  is  at  the  heart  of  our  work  in 

technical  cooperation.  The  ultimate  goal  is  to  make 
countries  self-sufficient,  to  help  them  establish  or 
maintain  a  sustainable,  highly  specialized  and  trained 
human resource base in all areas of nuclear science and 
applications. 

The  IAEA  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative,  announced 
this  year  by  the  United  States,  with  a  generous 
contribution of $50 million over a five-year period, has 
the 
to 
2 

10-62124 
I  have  stressed 
the  nuclear  programme  of 


resulted in increased funding for some of our technical 
cooperation activities, especially in the area of nuclear 
power  infrastructure  for  countries  embarking  on  new 
nuclear  power  programmes.  I  welcome  a  pledge  of 
support from Japan and encourage other countries that 
are able to do so to contribute to that endeavour. 

Turning  now  to  nuclear  verification,  I  have 
continued to report regularly to the Board of Governors 
on  the  implementation  of  the  Agency’s  safeguards 
agreements. 
that  all  safeguards 
agreements  between  States  and  the  Agency  and  other 
relevant  obligations  should  be  implemented  fully.  In 
that  connection, 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  remains  a 
matter  of  serious  concern.  The  Agency  has  had  no 
inspectors  in  the  country  since  April  2009.  The 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  not 
permitted  the  Agency  to  implement  safeguards  in  the 
country  since  December  2002,  and 
it  has  not 
implemented  the  measures  called  for  in  Security 
Council  resolutions  1718  (2006)  and  1874  (2009).  I 
call on all parties concerned to make concerted efforts 
for  a  resumption  of 
the  Six-Party  Talks  at  an 
appropriate time. 

In  the  case  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  the 
Agency  continues  to  verify  the  non-diversion  of 
declared  nuclear  material,  but  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  has  not  provided  the  necessary  cooperation  to 
permit the Agency to confirm that all nuclear material 
to  peaceful  activities.  The 
in 
is  devoted 
cooperation  needed 
includes,  among  others,  full 
implementation of the relevant resolutions of the IAEA 
Board of Governors and of the Security Council. 

Turning  now  to  the  Middle  East,  I  submitted  a 
report  on  Israeli  nuclear  capabilities  to  the  IAEA 
General Conference in September, as requested by the 
General  Conference  in  2009.  I  also  held  consultations 
on  convening  a  forum  on 
the 
experience  of  existing  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  to 
the  establishment  of  such  a  zone  in  the  Middle  East, 
but there was no convergence of views among member 
States on that issue. 

The  Agency  is  supporting  the  establishment  of 
nuclear-weapon-free  zones  in  various  regions  of  the 
world.  The  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  in  May  2010  endorsed  the  convening  of  a 
conference in 2012, to be attended by all States of the 
the  relevance  of 
Iran 
10-62124 

3 
the 
including 
A/65/PV.46
that 
community’s 
acknowledgement 
Middle  East,  on  the  establishment  of  a  zone  free  of 
nuclear  weapons  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  in  that  region.  Having  been  personally 
involved  in  the  NPT  process  since  1995,  I  was  very 
pleased 
the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference 
produced  some  concrete  results.  I  hope  that  the 
proposed  2012  conference  will  take  place  with  the 
participation of all relevant States and that it will lead 
to a productive outcome. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the Agency 
will continue to implement all aspects of its mandate in 
a  balanced  manner  in  order  to  address  the  varying 
interests  of  member  States  and  facilitate  the  safe  and 
secure peaceful uses of nuclear science and technology. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  Pakistan  to  introduce 
draft resolution A/65/L.10. 
Mr.  Tarar  (Pakistan):  Pakistan’s  recent  election 

as  Chair  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  Board  of  Governors  for  the  2010-2011  period 
is  a  singular  honour  and  a  manifestation  of  the 
international 
of 
Pakistan’s  credentials  and  the  role  it  can  play  with 
regard  to  the  matters  within  the  ambit  of  the Agency. 
We  look  forward  to  working  closely  with  the  IAEA 
member  States,  the  Director  General  and  his  staff  to 
further  our  collective  interests  in  a  cooperative  and 
equitable manner. 

An  expression  of  deep  appreciation  for  Director 
General  Yukiya  Amano  is  in  order  for  his  efforts  to 
promote  nuclear  science  and  technology,  which  is  the 
primary mission of the IAEA. The role of the IAEA in 
promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  is 
indispensable.  The  Agency  is  uniquely  placed  to 
transfer  of  nuclear 
facilitate 
to 
technology 
developing  countries.  The  global 
renaissance  of 
nuclear  power  generation  has  enhanced  the  scope  of 
the  Agency’s  contribution  to  meeting  the  needs  and 
challenges of the twenty-first century. We are confident 
that the Agency will ensure equitable access to nuclear 
materials,  technology  and  equipment  for  peaceful 
purposes. As  one  of  the  earliest  member  States  of  the 
Agency,  Pakistan  has  long  been  a  strong  advocate  of 
utilizing  nuclear  technology  for  peace,  progress  and 
prosperity for all. 

Over  the  years,  Pakistan  itself  has  benefited 
immensely from the expertise provided by the Agency 
the 
in 
form  of  expert  missions, 
the 
issues  are 
the 
design 
transfer 
and 
training 
facilities 
Programme’s 
Safety  and  verification 
A/65/PV.46 

Operational  Safety  Review  Team,  Assessment  of 
Safety-Significant  Events  Team  missions,  and  the 
Agency’s Technical Cooperation Programme. 

Pakistan  attaches  the  highest  importance  to  the 
IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme.  We  have 
contributed  to  it  in  the  form  of  training,  provision  of 
experts  and  hosting  of  seminars  and  workshops.  We 
would like to stress the need for enhanced and assured 
resource allocation for technical cooperation activities, 
technology 
for 
developing countries. We also would like to emphasize 
the importance of further strengthening and expansion 
of  the  Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
through,  inter  alia,  greater  involvement  of  developing 
countries 
in 
and 
implementation. 

important 
pillars of the IAEA mandate. We share the view that all 
States  should  comply  fully  with  their  safeguards 
obligations  and  international  commitments.  Fulfilment 
by  all  States  of  their  legal  obligations  is  the  most 
important  step  towards  maintaining  the  credibility  of 
the safeguards regime. A balance between the Agency’s 
regulatory,  promotional  and  safety  functions  will 
ensure  its  continuing  relevance  in  the  context  of 
promoting  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  and  non-
proliferation. 

There  is  a  need  for  greater  understanding  and 
cooperation among the member States of the Agency to 
advance its mandate on the basis of impartiality, equity 
and  professionalism.  Efforts  are  also  required  to 
correct the public perception of the IAEA as being just 
a nuclear watchdog agency. The Agency’s primary role 
in  the  promotion  of  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science 
and technology needs to be re-emphasized. 

Pakistan has established a strong and independent 
nuclear safety and security infrastructure. The Pakistan 
Nuclear  Regulatory  Authority,  an  independent  entity, 
has been in place for almost a decade now. Pakistan is 
a  party 
international  conventions  and 
actively  participates  in  the  nuclear  safety  and  security 
activities  and  programmes  of  the  Agency.  Pakistan  is 
also contributing to IAEA databases such as the Illicit 
Trafficking  Database,  the  International  Nuclear  and 
Radiological  Event  Scale  and 
International 
Reporting System for Operating Experience. 
energy 

indigenous 
resources, Pakistan has long been a strong advocate of 
Endowed  with 
to  several 
the 
limited 

to 
reactor  operation  and  a 
building nuclear power plants. Pakistan was one of the 
earliest  countries  to  launch  a  programme  of  nuclear 
power generation. Back in 1965, when Pakistan signed 
for its first commercial nuclear power plant, it was the 
fifteenth  country  in  the  world  and  only  the  second 
developing  country 
start  a  nuclear  power 
programme.  Our  first  nuclear  power  plant,  KANUPP, 
started operation in 1972. The second power plant, the 
Chashma  Nuclear  Power  Plant,  Unit  1,  has  been  in 
operation  since  2000,  while  the  second  unit  will  be 
commissioned next year. 
Pakistan has the experience of more than 45 years 

of  safe 
technical  and 
engineering  infrastructure  to  maintain  and  provide 
technical  support  to  those  plants.  With  a  sizeable 
civilian  nuclear  programme,  a  well-trained  pool  of 
experts  and  decades  of  experience 
in  nuclear 
operations  in  the  areas  of  power  generation,  health, 
medicine,  agriculture,  biotechnology  and  industrial 
applications,  Pakistan  is  in  a  unique  position  to  share 
its  knowledge  and  expertise  in  a  number  of  areas, 
under  IAEA  safeguards,  including  through  training 
placements and expert missions. 

Pakistan has  also been participating in the IAEA 
International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors 
and Fuel Cycles since its inception. Like other member 
States,  we  congratulated  the  IAEA  on  the  tenth 
anniversary  of 
in 
September 2010. 

The  Pakistan  Atomic  Energy  Commission  has 
been  given  a  mandate  by  the  Government  of  Pakistan 
to  install  8,800  megawatts  of  nuclear  energy  by  2030 
as  part  of  our  Energy  Security  Plan.  The  primary 
objectives of the Plan are to offset shortages in power 
generation  to  meet  the  exponential  rise  in  the  energy 
requirements  of  a  growing  population  and  an 
expanding  economy.  Nuclear  power  generation  is 
therefore  an  indispensable  component  of  our  national 
energy security strategy. The Plan envisages setting up 
several  additional  nuclear  power  reactors  to  increase 
the share of nuclear power in the energy mix from the 
current 0.8 per cent to 4.2 per cent by 2030. 

In  addition  to  utilizing nuclear  energy  for  power 
generation,  Pakistan  has  also  focused  on  applications 
of ionizing radiation and radioisotopes in the fields of 
health,  agriculture  and  industry.  The  Pakistan  Atomic 
Energy  Commission  currently  manages  14  nuclear 
medical  centres  catering  to  around  half  a  million 
that  very  valuable  programme 
4 

10-62124 
reactor, 


patients  every  year,  most  of  them  free  of  cost.  Four 
additional  centres  are  under  construction.  Using  its 
the  Pakistan  Atomic  Energy 
research 
Commission  produces  domestically  most  of 
the 
radioisotopes required for medical purposes. Recently, 
a  molybdenum  production  facility  was  commissioned. 
Besides  meeting  the  requirements  of  the  country’s 
nuclear medical centres and hospitals, that facility will 
have spare capacity for export to other countries. 

The entry into effect of the amendment to article 
VI  of  the  Statute  will  enhance  the  representative 
character  of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  thereby 
contributing  to  a  more  effective  role  for  the  Agency. 
We  hope  the  Agency  secretariat  will  strengthen  its 
outreach activities to achieve that objective. 

In  Pakistan’s  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  IAEA 
Board of Governors, allow me now to introduce, under 
agenda item 87, the draft resolution entitled “Report of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency”, contained in 
document А/65/L.10, on behalf of Albania, Argentina, 
Armenia,  Australia,  Austria,  Bangladesh,  Belarus, 
Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Burundi,  Canada,  Central  African 
Republic,  Chile,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cyprus, 
Czech  Republic,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Denmark,  Dominican  Republic,  Egypt,  Eritrea, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Germany, 
Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, 
Iraq, Ireland,  Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar, 
Malaysia,  Malta,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Paraguay, 
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation, 
Serbia,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  South  Africa, 
Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand,  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Trinidad and 
Tobago,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America 
and Uruguay, as well as on behalf of Pakistan. 

the 
consensus  text  notes  with  appreciation,  as  in  previous 
years,  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (A/65/140);  takes  note  of  the  resolutions 
adopted at the fifty-fourth regular session of the IAEA 
General  Conference  held  from  20  to  24  September; 
reaffirms  the  General  Assembly’s  strong  support  for 
the  Agency’s  indispensable  role  in  encouraging  and 
assisting  the  development  and  practical  application  of 
The  result  of  consultations 
in  Vienna, 
A/65/PV.46
report 
the  Agency’s 
atomic energy for peaceful uses, in technology transfer 
to  developing  countries  and 
in  nuclear  safety, 
verification and security; and appeals to Member States 
to continue to support the Agency’s activities. It is the 
hope of the sponsors that the draft resolution will, as it 
was last year, be adopted by consensus. It is also open 
to further co-sponsorships. 
Mr. Janssens de Bisthoven (Belgium): I have the 

honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
The candidate countries Turkey, Croatia and the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia;  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates Albania, Montenegro and Serbia; as well as 
the Republic  of Moldova, Armenia and  Georgia,  align 
themselves with this statement. 

I would like to thank the Director General of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  his 
presentation  of 
for  2009 
(A/65/140), as well as the delegate of Pakistan for his 
introduction of the draft resolution (A/65/L.10) on the 
report.  The  European  Union  member  States  are  co-
sponsors of the draft resolution. We thank the Chair of 
the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors  for  his  efforts,  and  we 
sincerely hope that the draft resolution will be adopted 
by consensus. 

The  IAЕА  was  created  more  than  five  decades 
ago to promote “Atoms for Peace”, with the mandate to 
increase  the  contribution  of  nuclear  energy  to  peace, 
health  and  prosperity,  to  ensure  that  nuclear  activities 
are  not  diverted  to  military  purposes,  to  spread  a 
culture  of  safety  and 
rigorous  safety  standards 
throughout  the  world,  and,  more  recently,  to  avert  the 
risk  of  nuclear  terrorism.  Today,  the  Agency  is  faced 
with  a  number  of  compelling  challenges,  in  particular 
nuclear  proliferation  and  compliance  issues.  In  that 
context, the European Union would like to thank IAEA 
Director  General  Yukiya  Amano  and 
the  IAEA 
secretariat  for  their  professional  and  impartial  work. 
The  European  Union  assures  them  of  its  unfailing 
support. 

The  year  2010  marks  an  important  milestone  for 
the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime,  which  has  been 
given new impetus. Committed to effective multilateral 
action  against  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, the European Union warmly welcomes the 
consensus  reached  at  the  2010  Review  Conference  of 
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  in  May  this  year.  The  action 
10-62124 

5 

fully 
spirit  of  consensus  and  cooperation 
A/65/PV.46 

plan  (see  NPT/CONF.2010/50)  agreed  on  for  all  three 
pillars  of  the  NPT  –  non-proliferation,  disarmament 
and  peaceful  uses  –  as  well  as  the  agreement  on  the 
process for implementation of the 1995 NPT resolution 
on  the  Middle  East,  including  a  conference  to  be 
convened  in  2012,  demonstrates  our  common  resolve 
not  only  to  uphold  but  also  to  strengthen  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation regime. 

The 2010 NPT Review Conference reaffirmed the 
role of the IAEA in verifying and assuring compliance 
by States with their safeguards obligations, with a view 
to  preventing  the  diversion  of  nuclear  energy  from 
peaceful  uses  to  nuclear  weapons.  We  now  need  to 
begin  implementing  the  NPT  action  plan,  building  on 
the  results  of  the  Review  Conference  and  continuing 
the 
that 
characterized  the  negotiations.  With  regard  to  the 
Agency’s  mandate,  we  will  be  particularly  keen  to 
ensure  that  the  IAEA  operates  in  an  effective  and 
efficient  manner  and  has  adequate  resources.  The 
European  Union 
the 
implementation  of  the  action  plan  and  will  fully 
support the Agency’s efforts to that end. The European 
Union  invites  all  member  States  to  engage  actively 
with the Agency in that regard. 
is  a 

fundamental 
nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime  and  plays  an  indispensable 
role  in  the  implementation  of  the  NPT. The  European 
Union reiterates its view that the measures contained in 
the  Additional  Protocol  form  an  integral  part  of  that 
system and that comprehensive safeguards agreements, 
together  with  the  additional  protocols,  constitute  the 
current  IAEA  verification  standard.  The  European 
Union  calls  for  the  universalization  of  those  two 
essential  instruments  of  the  IAEA  safeguards  system 
without  delay,  as  a  means  to  strengthen  the  non-
proliferation  regime,  enhance  security  worldwide  and 
increase 
international 
cooperation  in  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  to 
reach its full potential. 

The  European  Union  reaffirms  its  understanding 
of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  Security  Council  as 
the  final  arbiter  of  international  peace  and  security  in 
order  to  take  appropriate  action  in  the  event  of  non-
compliance with NPT obligations, including safeguards 
agreements. 
The  Agency’s  system  of  safeguards 
the  confidence  needed  for 
component 
committed 
to 
is 
of 
the 
The  European  Union  attaches 

the  utmost 
importance to a high level of nuclear safety worldwide. 
International  cooperation  is  crucial  for  promoting  the 
global nuclear safety network. 

Nuclear security is an essential programme of the 
Agency, and the European Union commends the IAEA 
for  its  activities  aimed  at  preventing  and  combating 
nuclear  terrorism.  The  NPT  Review  Conference  and 
the Nuclear Security Summit emphasized the important 
role of the IAEA in fostering international cooperation 
in nuclear security, establishing a comprehensive set of 
nuclear  security  guidelines  and  assisting  member 
States, upon their request, to enhance nuclear security. 

The European Union is of the firm view that each 
country has the right to define its own energy strategy. 
For  those  countries  that  consider  including,  or  plan  to 
include,  nuclear  power  in  their  energy  strategies,  the 
Agency  has  a  key  role  to  play  in  assisting  them  to 
ensure  that  the  development  and  operation  of  nuclear 
power  takes  place  under  the  most  stringent  legal, 
operational  safety,  security  and  non-proliferation 
conditions. 
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  Agency’s 

activities to increase the contribution made by nuclear 
technology 
economic 
development. 
The  European  Union  has  always  been  a  strong 

supporter  of  the  technical  cooperation  programme,  to 
which it is one of the main contributors. We recognize 
that  addressing 
the  global  challenges  of  hunger, 
disease,  poverty  and  water  resource  management  and 
creating  a  cleaner  and 
safer  environment  are 
particularly  significant  for  developing  countries,  and 
the European Union values the efforts of the Agency in 
those areas. 

The European Union reiterates its full support for 
the  IAEA  and  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  the  draft 
resolution  on  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency before the Assembly. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I wish 

to  begin  by  expressing 
the 
delegation  of  Egypt  to  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), for his presentation of the key elements of the 
report of the Agency on its activities in various fields. 
The  report  reflects  the  continued  effectiveness  of  the 
Agency  in  fulfilling  its  mandate  in  enhancing  the 
the  appreciation  of 
peace, 
health 
and 
to 
6 

10-62124 
that 
right 
to 
the 
IV  of 
the  Treaty  on 
last  May,  stressing 


balanced  interests  of  member  States  in  the  three  main 
pillars  of  its  activities:  nuclear  technology,  nuclear 
safety and security, and verification. 

In  that  context,  and  to  repeat  our  continued 
support  for  the  role  of  the Agency  in  all  three  pillars, 
Egypt joins, as it does every year, in co-sponsoring the 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency” (A/65/L.10). 

The  IAEA  plays  a  central  role  in  the  exercise  of 
the  inalienable  right  provided  to  non-nuclear-weapon 
States  by  article 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT) 
to 
acquire  and  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes. 
The  final  document  of  the  NPT  Review  Conference 
reconfirmed 
the 
importance  of  respecting  the  decisions  and  policies  of 
non-nuclear-weapon States relating to their acquisition 
of  nuclear  energy  for  development  goals,  and  to  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  to  implement  such 
plans,  without  restrictions,  by  means  of  international 
cooperation 
nuclear 
acquire 
technologies and material. 
While  a  large  number  of  non-nuclear-weapon 

States did not benefit from their right to nuclear energy 
in the past, the situation is changing in the face of the 
qualitative  and  quantitative  increase  in  the  energy 
needs  of  countries  of  the  developing  world,  including 
Egypt,  imposed  by  international  crises  such  as  the 
energy and climate change crises. 

Thus  in  2006  Egypt  decided,  based  on  our 
national,  scientific  and  practical  capabilities,  to  enter 
the  field  of  nuclear  energy.  We  started  the  process  in 
March  2010  by 
legislation 
establishing  a  regulatory  authority  responsible  for 
nuclear  and  radioactive  safety,  which  reports  to  the 
Prime Minister. That was part of the preparations under 
way  to  build  the  first  Egyptian  nuclear  reactor,  in  the 
context  of  the  first  phase  of  Egypt’s  nuclear  energy 
programme  for  generating  electricity.  The  larger  plan 
includes  building  four  nuclear  reactors  for  electricity 
generation by the year 2025. Therefore, and in view of 
the  IAEA’s  increasing  role  in  enhancing  sustainable 
development  and  effectively  assisting  non-nuclear-
weapon States party to the NPT to meet their growing 
needs  for  nuclear  energy,  Egypt  looks  forward  to 
increasing  cooperation  with 
this 
important field. 
adopting  national 
the  Agency 
required 
in 
A/65/PV.46
required 
safeguards 
system,  especially 
international  efforts  are 

Egypt remains among the leading States that have 
provided  unlimited  support  to  the  IAEA  since  its 
establishment,  believing  in  the  role  of  the  Agency  in 
the  field  of  verification  of  nuclear  non-proliferation 
and  its  role  in  promoting  the  benefits  of  the  peaceful 
use  of  nuclear  energy  and  supporting  development 
ambitions  and  international  needs  in  a  broad  range  of 
fields. 

However, the effectiveness of the comprehensive 
safeguards  system  remains  limited  in  light  of  the  fact 
that  it  is  not  universal,  especially  in  the  Middle  East. 
Intensified 
to 
guarantee  the  implementation  of  the  Comprehensive 
Safeguards System in  all  States of the  region, without 
exception.  To  attain  the  goal  of  universalizing  the 
comprehensive 
in 
non-nuclear-weapon  States,  it  is  essential  that  the 
Agency’s role be strengthened in verifying compliance 
of nuclear-weapon States with regard to commitment to 
nuclear disarmament. 

It  is  also  essential  to  make  more  significant 
progress in universalizing the NPT itself, especially in 
the Middle East, through the accession of Israel to the 
Treaty as a non-nuclear-weapon State. That will enable 
non-nuclear-weapon  States 
additional 
obligations,  which  may  enhance  the  non-proliferation 
regime  and  lead  to  more  balance  in  obligations  in  a 
non-discriminatory  manner  at  both  the  regional  and 
international levels. 

On  the  regional  level,  all  States  of  the  Middle 
East region have joined the Comprehensive Safeguards 
System with the exception of Israel, which continues to 
conduct  suspicious  nuclear  activities  outside  any 
international control, disregarding tens of international 
calls  and  resolutions  demanding  its  accession  to  the 
NPT as a non-nuclear-weapon State. That undoubtedly 
increases the risk of nuclear proliferation in the Middle 
East  in  a  manner  that  hinders  the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region. 

Egypt  sees  promising  prospects  for  significant 
progress  in  the  field  of  universalizing  the  NPT  in  our 
region and for the universalization of the application of 
Comprehensive  Safeguards  there  through  the  honest 
and  balanced  implementation  of  the  detailed  action 
plan adopted by the 2010 NPT Review Conference and 
through 
immediate  start  of  preparations  for 
convening  the  international  conference  in  2012  to 
launch regional negotiations aimed at the establishment 
accept 
the 
to 
10-62124 

7 

the 
to  cover 
framework 
A/65/PV.46 

of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons 
of mass destruction in the Middle East. In that context, 
Egypt reaffirms the importance of the role mandated by 
the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference  to  the  IAEA  in 
implementing the Action Plan and renews its intention 
to  work  seriously  with  the  Agency  and  with  other 
concerned  parties  to  secure  the  success  of  the  2012 
conference and its achieving the anticipated results. 

On  the  international  level,  Egypt  welcomes  the 
signature  of  the  New  START  agreement  between  the 
United  States  of  America  and  the  Russian  Federation 
and  the  subsequent  trilateral  agreement  between  the 
IAEA  and  both  countries.  Through 
trilateral 
agreement  a  large  amount  of  weapons-grade  fissile 
material  from  previous  nuclear  programmes  will  be 
subject  to  verification  by  the  Agency  and  be  down-
blended  for  peaceful  use  in  power  reactors,  thus 
ensuring  that  such  material  will  not  return  to  military 
nuclear programmes. 
Egypt looks forward to expanding the application 

of 
larger  and  more 
that 
comprehensive  forms  of  quantities  of  weapons-grade 
material and to include all other nuclear-weapon States 
in  order 
transparency, 
irreversibility  and  effective  verifiability  of  progress 
into  the  field  of  nuclear  disarmament.  That  will  help 
the  NPT  regime  to  recover  its  balance  and  allow  the 
Agency to play a real role in this crucial area. 
The  Agency  has  the  central  role  as  the  sole 

international 
the 
multilateral context on developing and supervising the 
application  of  the  highest  standards  of  nuclear  safety 
and  security 
in  nuclear  energy  reactors  and  on 
contributing  to  the  ability  of  developing  countries  to 
safely  benefit  from  nuclear  energy.  Bearing  that  in 
mind, Egypt took part in the Nuclear Security Summit 
held in Washington last April and participates in all the 
preparatory  meetings  for  the  next  summit  in  order  to 
contribute  to  any  international  effort  aimed  at  dealing 
with  such  extremely  sensitive  issues.  Our  success  in 
achieving  progress  on  those  issues  will  be  difficult 
joint  efforts  based  on 
without 
true 
strengthening 
its 
universality,  on  the  one  hand,  and  achieving  more 
progress in nuclear disarmament efforts, on the other. 

In  the  area  of  technical  cooperation,  Egypt  has 
opened  its  nuclear  facilities  and  laboratories  to  States 
in  the Arab  region  and  the African  continent  and  has 
international 
the  NPT  regime  and  realizing 
forum  mandated 
elements  of 
to  bring 
to  work 
in 
in 
for 
the 
the 
financing 
resources, 
increasing 
radioactive 
intermediate 
realization  of 
the  short  and 
placed its experience in this field at their service, as we 
believe  in  the  importance  of  international  cooperation 
activities in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. In that 
context,  Egypt  stresses  the  priority  of  IAEA  technical 
cooperation  activities,  both  for  Egypt  and  for  other 
developing countries that benefit from programmes on 
the  use  of  nuclear  technologies  in  health,  agriculture, 
food,  water 
isotopes  and 
radiation technologies, inter alia. 

While  Egypt  supports  expanding  the  Agency’s 
activities  in  the  area  of  the  production  of  radioactive 
isotopes  required 
to  cure  cancer,  and  while  we 
currently  cooperate  with  the  Agency  to  begin  the 
operation  of  a  new  medical  radioactive 
isotopes 
production  facility  for  that  purpose,  my  country  also 
welcomes  the  development  and  upgrading  of  the 
technical  cooperation  strategy  aimed  at 
Agency’s 
supporting 
the  development 
objectives  of  member  States  and  identifying  the  vital 
activities  to  which  nuclear  technology  can  effectively 
contribute 
terms. 
Consequently,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of  securing 
and 
international 
cooperation  activities  of  the  Agency,  given  that  such 
activities are among its central functions, according to 
its Statute. 

In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  that  Egypt  intends  to 
intensify  and  increase  cooperation  with  the  Agency 
within  our  continued  effort  to  enhance  our  national 
capabilities in the peaceful use of nuclear energy and to 
benefit  from  the Agency’s  full  support  in  our  national 
efforts in this important field. 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Cuba welcomes and supports the important role of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  The 
application  of  nuclear 
to 
mitigating  soil  deterioration,  desertification,  warming 
of  the  atmosphere  and  other  natural  phenomena  that 
affect  the  production  of  food  and  the  life  of  man  on 
Earth. 

We  give  high  priority  to  cooperation  between 
developing countries. In that context, Cuba salutes the 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Regional  Cooperative 
Agreement  for  the  Promotion  of  Nuclear  Science  and 
Technology  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
known as ARCAL. 

should  be  strengthened  and  should 
The  technical  cooperation  pillar  of  the  IAEA 
the 
techniques  contributes 
receive 
8 

10-62124 
The 
through 
economic, 
commercial 


resources  it  needs  on  an  unconditional  basis,  in 
accordance with its priority. 

Our  commitment  to  technical  cooperation  is 
strong,  as  can  be  shown 
the  following 
examples,  to  cite  just  a  few.  First,  Cuba  strictly 
complies with its obligations under the IAEA technical 
cooperation  programme.  In  2009,  we  achieved  an 
implementation rate for national programmes of 85 per 
cent,  which  was  higher  than  the  general  and  regional 
average. Secondly, our country participated broadly in 
the coordinated research programmes.  In 2009, Cuban 
researchers  took  part  in  29  research  contracts  under 
those  programmes.  Thirdly,  Cuba  strictly  complies 
with its financial  commitments to the  IAEA Technical 
Cooperation Fund, including a contribution of 100 per 
cent of expenses for national participation. 

financial 
and 
blockade,  which  the  Government  of  the  United  States 
of  America  has  imposed  on  Cuba  for  over  50  years, 
affects the activities of the IAEA in our country and is 
in  violation  of  the  Statute  of  the  Agency.  Up  to 
December  2009, 
the  embargo  has  caused  Cuba 
economic losses of over $100.154 billion, calculated in 
a  very  conservative  fashion.  Because  of  the  embargo, 
the 
in  purchasing 
specialized  equipment  for  projects  in  Cuba,  since 
American  companies  or  companies  with  American 
share  capital  cannot  sell  that  equipment  for  use  in 
Cuba,  since  they  face  the  possibility  of  sanctions. 
Similarly,  Cuban  citizens  have  difficulties  when  it 
comes 
training  programmes 
organized  in  the  United  States.  That  impacts  the 
implementation  of  programmes  linked  to  the  fight 
against cancer, which is a priority for the IAEA. 

By  denouncing  here  once  again  the  unjust  and 
unlawful  embargo  —  which  was  condemned  in  this 
Hall just a few days ago by the overwhelming majority 
of the States  Members of the United Nations — Cuba 
recognizes at the same time the constant efforts of the 
IAEA secretariat to seek alternatives and find solutions 
to that situation. 
The IAEA certified once again that Cuba strictly 

complies  with 
the  area  of 
safeguards,  confirming  us  as  a  country  with  no 
undeclared nuclear material or activities. 

We  note  with  profound  concern  the  climate  of 
mistrust  that  has  been  encouraged  with  regard  to  the 
IAEA verification work in the Islamic Republic of Iran 
is  having  difficulties 
its  commitments 
to  participating 
IAEA 
in 
in 
A/65/PV.46
for 
We 
also 
support 
reiterate  our 
that  would  undermine 
and the Syrian Arab Republic as a result of geopolitical 
interests  and  double  standards  known  to  all.  We 
confirm  that  verification  activities  should  first  respect 
the  sovereignty  and  national  interests  of  member 
States. Also, they should include impartial professional 
action by the inspectors and the rest of the personnel of 
the  IAEA  secretariat,  free  from  any  pressure  or 
interference 
the  Agency’s 
effectiveness and credibility. 

We call on the secretariat of the IAEA to continue 
working  to  promote  a  climate  of  trust,  understanding 
and transparency, based on objectivity and truth. In that 
context, we reaffirm the need to respect the inalienable 
right  of  all  States  to  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful purposes. 

We  confirm  our  support  for  the  denuclearization 
of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  for  a  solution  negotiated 
by the actors involved. 
the 

establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
Middle East. The call for an international conference in 
2012  to  establish  such  a  zone,  approved  at  the  eighth 
Review  Conference 
the 
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), is an important step in 
that  direction.  We  urge  Israel  to  adhere  to  the  NPT 
without delays or conditions. Israel must put all of its 
nuclear installations under the broad safeguards of the 
IAEA. 

On the subject of nuclear fuel supplies, we stress 
that  the  issue  must  be  addressed  in  an  inclusive  and 
transparent  way  that  leads  to  consensus  adoption  of 
any  decisions.  Cuba  rejects  any  attempt  to  use  the 
supply  of  nuclear  fuel  as  a  means  of  political  or 
economic coercion or as a  mechanism to establish the 
monopoly  of  a  few  over  the  distribution  of  nuclear 
fuel. 

I would like to conclude by stressing the common 
responsibility  that  we  all  have  to  bequeath  a  safer 
world  to  future  generations.  That  is  why  nuclear 
disarmament  cannot  continue  to  be  a  goal  constantly 
postponed and subjected to conditions. Cuba will stand 
firm  in  the  battle  for  a  better  world,  free  of  nuclear 
arms. 
Mr.  Hermoso  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  the 

Philippines would like to express its deep appreciation 
for the work done by Director General Yukiya Amano 
and  the  secretariat  of  the  International Atomic  Energy 
Parties 
the 
of 
to 
10-62124 

9 

the 
technology 
transfer  of 
A/65/PV.46 

Agency  (IAEA).  The  Philippines  welcomes  the  report 
of  the  IAEA  and  recognizes  the  importance  of  the 
Agency. At the same time, the Philippines reaffirms its 
strong support for the Agency’s crucial role in assisting 
its  member  States  in  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy, 
to  developing 
countries  and  facilitating  nuclear  knowledge-sharing, 
as well as in nuclear safety, verification and security. 

Through  its  cooperation  with  the  IAEA,  the 
Philippines  has  been  developing  the  necessary  human 
resources and physical infrastructure for the utilization 
of  nuclear  technologies  to  help  meet  the  challenges 
many  of  us  face  today,  particularly  in  food  security, 
environmental 
resource  management  and  human 
health.  The  Philippines  believes  that  science  and 
technology  can  help  us  achieve  our  Millennium 
Development Goals and places great importance on the 
various  applications  of  nuclear  technology,  especially 
in 
the  area  of  food  security,  where  Philippine 
cooperation  with  the  IAEA  in  agriculture  has  a  direct 
bearing on the Philippine Government’s programme to 
ensure  affordable  food  for  the  tables  of  Filipino 
families. 

The  Philippines  and  IAEA  also  have  extensive 
links in other areas of technical cooperation. There has 
been  much 
industrial 
productivity,  irradiation  of  food  exports,  providing 
access 
to  clean  drinking  water  and  addressing 
environmental challenges. 

The  Philippines  and  the  IAEA  also  cooperate  in 
the  important  field  of  cancer  therapy,  namely,  the 
Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy,  or  PACT. 
The Philippines is pleased that the Agency made that a 
priority activity, given the rise in the number of cancer 
patients,  particularly  in  the  developing  world.  My 
delegation  believes  that  collaboration  with  the  PACT 
will lead to enhanced cancer training capabilities in the 
region,  in  the  context  of  the  regional  cancer  training 
network.  The  Philippines  urges  member  States  to 
continue to support the Programme through additional 
contributions. 
The 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the 

Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
the 
important  role  of  the  IAEA  in  helping  countries 
achieve  their  Millennium  Development  Goals  through 
its  technical  cooperation  programme  and  its  various 
activities in nuclear power and non-power applications. 
Similarly,  the  Review  Conference  reaffirmed  the  role 
(NPT)  underlined 
increasing 
success 
in 
to 
in 
the 
set  out 
The  Philippines  had 
The  Philippines  subscribes 
The  Philippines  actively  participated 
implementing 
the  Final  Document 
of the IAEA in safeguards verification, with a view to 
preventing 
the  diversion  of  nuclear  energy  from 
peaceful  uses,  and  in  the  promotion  of  nuclear  safety 
and nuclear security. 

report’s 
assessment  that  the  use  of nuclear  energy  will  expand 
in the coming decades. It will be an overarching force 
that will create opportunities as well as challenges for 
member  States  and  the  IAEA.  With  that  coming 
expansion,  nuclear  safety  and  nuclear  security  are 
therefore vital and should be given high priority. 

the  distinct  honour  of 
presiding  over  the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference  and 
looks  forward  to  working  with  other  delegations  in 
moving  forward  and 
the  follow-on 
actions 
in 
(see 
NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)) related to the work of the 
Agency. 
the 

negotiation  of  the  resolutions  mentioned  in  the  report 
and  believes  that  they  can  provide  sufficient  direction 
to  the  activities  that  the Agency  will  carry  out  in  the 
coming  year.  The  resolutions  reflect  member  States’ 
ongoing  priorities  with  regard  to  the  different  aspects 
of the Agency’s work, taking into consideration current 
realities, particularly the limitations in resources vis-à-
vis 
the  growing  demands  of  member  States  for 
technical assistance. 

However,  the  Philippines  believes  that  the  IAEA 
can contribute to addressing global concerns only if it 
pursues  its  activities  in  a  balanced  manner.  We  have 
consistently  stressed  the  importance  of  addressing  the 
long-standing  concern  of  developing  countries 
in 
achieving a balance between the Agency’s promotional 
role  as  outlined  in  article  II  of  its  Statute  and  its 
activities in nuclear safety, verification and security. 

The  Philippines  continues  to  recognize  that  the 
challenges  and  issues  confronting  the  Agency  are 
complicated  by  political  realities.  The  member  States 
of the Agency need to overcome their differences if we 
are 
to  advance  our  common  objectives.  The 
Philippines, for its part, remains committed to working 
the  spirit  of  mutual 
together 
respect, 
transparency and constructive dialogue. 
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  welcomes  the 

progress  that  the  International Atomic  Energy Agency 
(IAEA)  has  achieved  so  far  in  accelerating  and 
trust, 
in 
10 

10-62124 
that 


enlarging  the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace, 
health  and  prosperity  in  the  world.  In  that  regard,  we 
commend  the  able  leadership  of  its  Director  General, 
Ambassador  Yukiya  Amano.  We  are  confident  that 
under  the  framework  of  its  three  pillars,  the  Agency 
will  continue  to  play  a  key  role  as  a  catalyst  for 
sustainable development by promoting peaceful uses of 
nuclear  energy  while  minimizing  the  risk  of  nuclear 
proliferation.  

The  progress  in  the  betterment  of  people’s  lives 
due  to  the  critical  application  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology  cannot  be  emphasized  enough.  We  are 
pleased that the Director General has put more weight 
on  the  promotion  of  nuclear  technology,  particularly 
for cancer control. The role of the IAEA in addressing 
the  world  food  crisis  last  year  and  its  work  in 
improving agricultural productivity and quality through 
scientific and technical means are also extremely vital. 
In  our  view,  those  important  roles  of  the  IAEA  will 
strengthen  its  technical  reputation,  in  contrast  to  the 
overwhelming  perception 
the  Agency  exists 
merely as a nuclear watchdog. In that regard, we stand 
ready to support the Director General’s approach. 

In  the  efforts  of  developing  countries  to  utilize 
nuclear  technology  for  the  benefit  of  humanity,  the 
Agency  makes  an 
that 
should  continue  to  be  supported  internationally.  We 
underscore  the  utmost  importance  of  the  technical 
cooperation  programme  as  a  vital  instrument  for  the 
transfer of nuclear science and technology, particularly 
to  developing  regions.  In  that  respect  the  Agency’s 
technical cooperation should be made more robust and 
operational  on  its  own  merits,  and  should  not  in  any 
way be politicized. 

We  welcome  the  IAEA  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative 
and  laud  all  countries  that  have  pledged  their  support 
to  contribute  to  that  effort.  It  is  our  hope  that  a 
significant portion of the funds for the Initiative will be 
used to finance the request-based technical cooperation 
projects. 

In  that  regard,  Indonesia  commends  the  fact  that 
the  2010  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  Review 
Conference, in action 54,  gave its clear support to the 
IAEA for making every  effort  and for taking practical 
steps 
the  Agency’s  resources  for 
technical  cooperation  activities  are  sufficient,  assured 
and predictable (see NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)). That 
decision  provides  a  sound  basis  for  the  Agency  to 
indispensable  contribution 
to  ensure 
that 
the 
A/65/PV.46
and 
While  we 
look 
forward 
planning, 
programming 
strengthen 
implementation of its technical cooperation. 

Indonesia will again have the privilege of being a 
member of the IAEA Board of Governors next year. We 
intend to utilize that opportunity to further expand the 
Agency’s  focus  in  facilitating  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  energy  in  the  world,  especially  in  developing 
countries.  Since  becoming  an  IAEA  member  in  1957, 
Indonesia  has  been  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to  the 
Agency’s  technical  cooperation.  Indonesia  itself  has 
benefited  significantly  from  IAEA  cooperation  in  the 
areas  of  food,  agriculture,  health,  water  resources 
management and other peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 

to  enhancing  our 
engagement  with  the  IAEA,  we  hope  for  greater 
collaboration  and  support  by  the  Agency  in  the 
application  of  nuclear  science  and  technology  in  the 
region.  As  part  of  our  commitment  to  nuclear  safety, 
we  continue  to  support  the  Asian  Nuclear  Safety 
Network (ANSN). In April 2010, Indonesia hosted the 
third  Nuclear  Safety  Strategy  Dialogue  meeting  of 
ANSN.  At  that  meeting,  the  participant  countries 
achieved  mutual  understanding  on  the  utilization  of 
human  and  information  technology  networks,  among 
others, 
improve  effective  and 
sustainable nuclear security in the region. 

The  IAEA  report  shows  that  the  Agency  has 
devoted its special attention to assisting Member States 
in meeting their energy needs, responding to concerns 
about climate change and helping them to ensure food 
security  and  access  to  clean  water.  Among  those 
critical  applications,  the  report  demonstrates  how 
health care can be improved through the use of nuclear 
techniques and accordingly save lives. 
In  that  context  and  as  a  reflection  of  our  deep 

appreciation of such efforts by the Agency, Indonesia is 
pleased  to  join  others  in  co-sponsoring  the  draft 
resolution 
IAEA 
(A/65/L.10). 
Mr. Wang  Min  (China) (spoke in Chinese): The 

Chinese  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), Mr. Yukiya Amano, for his report on the work 
of the IAEA over the past year. 

We  note  with  appreciation  that  the  IAEA  has 
done  much  work  to  promote  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy and to prevent proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
to  continuously 
the  work  of 
regarding 
the 
10-62124 

11 

to 
improve 
special  programme  has  been 
A/65/PV.46 

In  carrying  out  its  technical  cooperation  programme, 
the  IAEA  has  actively  assisted  member  States  in 
developing  nuclear  energy  and  using  it  for  peaceful 
purposes.  It  continues 
the  guideline 
documents  in  the  field  of  nuclear  security  and  safety 
and  to  assist  member  States  in  strengthening  relevant 
capabilities.  The  IAEA  has  also  made  efforts  to 
promote the universality of safeguards agreements and 
the additional protocol and has earnestly performed its 
safeguards function. We are glad to see that the role of 
the IAEA has been widely recognized and supported by 
member States. 

Over  the  past  year,  with  the  fast  development  of 
China’s nuclear energy, cooperation between the IAEA 
and China has been further enhanced. 
In  the  field  of  technical  cooperation,  the  nuclear 

energy 
steadily 
implemented.  In  June  2010,  China  signed  the  2010-
2015  China 
Technical  Cooperation  Country 
Programme Framework with the IAEA, which lays out 
a solid blueprint for future cooperation. 

In  the  field  of  nuclear  safety,  by  drawing  on  the 
standards  and  norms  developed  by  the  IAEA,  China 
has  put  in  place  relevant  legislation  and  a  regulatory 
system  that  is  in  line  with  international  practice. This 
year, at China’s invitation, for the first time the IAEA 
sent an Integrated Regulatory Review Service mission 
to  China  to  review  its  nuclear  safety  regulatory 
framework. 

Also in the area of nuclear safety, China supports 
the  essential  role  of  the  IAEA  and  has  actively 
participated  in  the  development  of  relevant  guideline 
documents,  which  have  been  applied  to  its  nuclear 
practices.  China  signed  with  the  IAEA  a  Practical 
Cooperation  Arrangement  on  nuclear  security,  which 
expands cooperation in such fields as the establishment 
of security legislation and standards, capacity-building 
and  personnel  training,  as  well  as  nuclear  security  for 
major  public  events.  China  will  also  cooperate  with 
relevant  countries  to  set  up  a  centre  of  excellence  for 
nuclear security in China. 
In the area of safeguards, China strictly fulfils its 

the 
accordance  with 
in 
safeguards  obligation, 
safeguards  agreement  and 
the  additional  protocol 
signed  with  the  IAEA.  China  supports  the  Agency’s 
efforts  to  enhance  its  verification  capacity  and  to 
promote  the  effectiveness  and  the  universality  of  the 
international safeguards regime. 
it  should  continue 

China  appreciates  the  great  assistance  provided 
by  the  IAEA  on  developing  nuclear  energy  over  the 
years and is willing to further enhance its cooperation 
with  the  Agency  in  all  relevant  fields.  At  the  same 
time, China is ready to provide the necessary assistance 
to  other  countries  through  the  IAEA  by  sharing  the 
experience  that  it  has  accumulated  in  developing 
nuclear energy. 

With  the  rapid  development  of  global  nuclear 
energy,  the  IAEA’s  role  is  becoming  ever  more 
important.  It  is  our  hope  that  with  the  support  of  all 
member  States,  the  IAEA’s  functions  in  all  fields  will 
be  further  strengthened  and  that  it  will  focus  its  work 
on the following aspects. 

First,  the  Agency  should  strengthen  technical 
cooperation  and  assistance  so  as  to  assist  member 
States  in  benefiting  from  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy.  It  should  take  into  account  the  opinions  of 
member  States,  especially 
those  of  developing 
countries,  and  take  steps  to  meet  their  needs  for 
technical assistance. 

the 
development  of  global  nuclear  safety  and  security 
legislation,  regulation  and  a  standards  system,  assist 
member  States  in  enhancing  their  relevant  capability, 
and  strengthen 
in 
developing nuclear energy. 
Thirdly, it should continue to play an active role 

in  addressing  sensitive  hot-spot  nuclear 
issues. 
Dialogue  and  negotiation  are  the  only  way  towards  a 
peaceful  resolution  of  the  Korean  peninsular  and 
Iranian nuclear issues. We hope that the IAEA and the 
Director General will make full use of their advantage 
and play a constructive role in restarting and promoting 
relevant dialogue and negotiation processes. 
Ms. Sodov (Mongolia): My delegation would like 

to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
presenting the annual report on the work of the Agency. 
I  also  wish  to  thank  the  representative  of  Pakistan  for 
introducing the draft resolution entitled “Report of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency”,  contained  in 
document  A/65/L.10, 
in  Pakistan’s  capacity  as 
Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  IAEA. 
Mongolia 
the 
is  co-
sponsoring the draft resolution. 
the  confidence  of 
fully  supports 
report  and 
Secondly, 
to  foster 
the  public 
12 

10-62124 
the 
especially 
community, 
international 



The  IAEA  today  plays  an  important  role  in 
dealing  simultaneously  with  freedom  from  fear  and 
freedom  from  want.  The  Final  Document  of  the  2010 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  Review  Conference 
(NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)) and the consideration of 
disarmament  issues  in  the  First  Committee  vividly 
demonstrate  the  role  that  the  Agency  plays,  and  is 
expected  to  play,  in  promoting  a  peaceful  and  secure 
future for humankind. 

The report of the Agency and the outcome of its 
fifty-fourth  General  Conference,  held  in  September  in 
Vienna,  show  that  the Agency  is  set  to  play  an  ever-
increasing role in the economic and social development 
of 
in 
developing  countries,  in  promoting  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  The  renewed  interest  in  nuclear 
energy places additional responsibilities on the Agency 
for strengthening nuclear security and the safest use of 
nuclear  energy  and 
its  other  applications.  My 
delegation highly commends the efforts of the Agency 
in  assisting  developing  countries  through  its  technical 
cooperation  programme  in  the  areas  of  the  peaceful 
uses and development of nuclear technology. 
to  express  my  Government’s 

gratitude 
its  dedicated  staff, 
especially its Department of Technical Cooperation and 
the  Programme  of Action  for  Cancer Therapy  (PACT) 
Office for their contribution in promoting the Agency’s 
noble  mission  in  that  area.  Like  other  countries, 
Mongolia attaches great importance to that programme, 
especially  its  efforts  to  promote  early  detection  of 
cancer. 

This  year,  Mongolia  has  been  designated  as  the 
eighth  PACT  Model  Demonstration  Site  (PMDS) 
country.  That  allows  it  to  combine  the  country’s 
resources  with  the  expertise  of  the Agency,  the World 
Health  Organization  (WHO)  and  other  partners  and 
stakeholders  to  combat  the  growing  epidemic  of 
cancer,  which  has  become 
the  second  cause  of 
mortality in my country. 

I would like, therefore, to take this opportunity to 
express my Government’s gratitude to the IAEA and its 
Director General for the support that they are providing 
in  that  important  field.  Mongolia  is  ready  to  continue 
to  work  and  support  the  Agency’s  efforts  to  assist 
developing  countries  in  the  field  of  human  health, 
particularly 
in  nuclear  medicine  and  diagnostic 
radiology. 
the  Agency  and 
I  would 
like 
to 
A/65/PV.46

A  week  ago,  Director  General  Yukiya  Amano 
paid  a  visit  to  Mongolia  and  we  exchanged  views  on 
further  developing  Mongolia-IAEA  cooperation.  He 
also  attended  a  workshop  of  the  PMDS  countries  on 
issues  related  to  primary  measures  to  prevent  cancers 
and  the  role  of  medical  first  services,  organized  by 
IAEA-PACT,  the WHO  and  the  Ministry  of  Health  of 
Mongolia.  The  results  of  the  workshop  will  make  an 
important  contribution  to  the  exchange  of  experience 
and  knowledge  in  that  important  area  of  fighting 
cancer. 

For  Mongolia,  like  for  many  other  agrarian 
countries, the agricultural sector is the major economic 
area  that  defines  the  welfare  and  prosperity  of  its 
people.  Therefore,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  joint 
Agency-Food  and  Agricultural  Organization  of  the 
United  Nations  programmes 
to  boost  crop  and 
livestock production, and to ensure food quality, safety 
and security, all of which represent the basic needs of 
any  people.  My  delegation  thus  agrees  that  it  is 
extremely important that the Agency continues to help 
Member  States  to  reach  the  MDGs  by  improving 
agricultural productivity. 

As  a  member  of  the Agency,  Mongolia  is  trying 
to play an important role in promoting the noble goals 
we  share  that  are  enshrined  in  its  Statute. At  present, 
Mongolia is serving on the Board of Governors and is 
working to contribute to its fruitful work. 

Mongolia  also  had  the  honour  of  chairing  the 
fifty-fourth  IAEA  General  Conference,  which  adopted 
many important resolutions and decisions in pursuit of 
the Agency’s  near,  mid-term  and  long-term  objectives 
aimed at peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 

reiterate 
like 
Mongolia’s active support for IAEA activities and their 
objectives. 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  Allow  me,  at 
thank 
the  outset, 
the 
Mr. Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
introducing  the  report  of  the  Agency  (A/65/140)  and 
his  commendable  efforts  as  Director  General  of  the 
Agency. 

My  delegation  emphasizes  the  important  role  of 
the IAEA and its internationally sanctioned mandate to 
carry out a number of very important duties in the area 
of  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  These  duties  are 
In  conclusion, 
I  would 
to 
of 
to 
10-62124 

13 

in 
A/65/PV.46 

based  on  the  three  pillars  of  nuclear  supervision  and 
verification, safety and technical cooperation. 

We  commend  the  assistance  that  the  Agency 
provides to developing nations in the  area  of peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy,  and  Libya  aspires  to  more 
intense and effective cooperation in the future with the 
Agency 
the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy, 
especially in the fields of medicine and desalination. 

The  selective  approach  being  imposed  on  the 
Agency’s  resolutions  and  decisions  by  some  of  the 
major influential Powers has brought disappointment to 
many Member States. There has been more verification 
and  supervision  of  certain  specific  countries  and  their 
activities, while a blind eye is turned to other countries. 
This is a flagrant injustice which erodes confidence in 
the credibility of the Agency and its work as well as of 
the intentions of some of the major Powers. 

In the Middle East region, we note that the Israeli 
entity  has  a  large  nuclear  arsenal  that  threatens  the 
peace  and  security  of  the  region.  Nonetheless,  that 
entity remained outside IAEA supervision. The agency 
remains  unable  to  take  any  effective  position  that 
would  make  the  Israeli  authorities  also  subject  their 
nuclear facilities to IAEA supervision. 

That is basically due to the fact that Israel has not 
joined  the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT),  something 
the  international  community  must  seek  to  achieve  in 
every possible way. 

We  believe  that  it  is  high  time  to  implement  the 
decision  of  the  1995  NPT  Review  and  Extension 
Conference, relative to the establishment of a nuclear-
free zone in the Middle East. 

Regrettably, while the Agency ignores the known 
danger  of  the  Israeli  nuclear  threat,  it  deploys  greater 
efforts to pursue the peaceful nuclear activities of other 
States  where,  thus  far,  there  is  no  evidence  at  all  that 
those States seek to acquire nuclear weapons. 
In  that  context,  Libya  reiterates  and  emphasizes 

the  right  of  all  States  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy  and  to  the  development  of  its  technology.  We 
also  call  for the peaceful settlement of  all disputes on 
nuclear  programmes  among  the  member  States  of  the 
NPT  to  be  negotiated  in  good  faith  and  through 
consultations and dialogue. 

My  delegation  expresses  its  disappointment  that 
the mandate of the Agency does not include the nuclear 
also 
include 
It 
is 
It  must 
important 
thus  urgent  and 
States  that  have  large  arsenals  of  nuclear  weapons, 
weapons  concerning  which  the  entire  international 
community  is  calling  for  their  rapid  and  complete 
elimination, as stipulated in article VI of the NPT. 

the 
that 
international  community  deploy  all  efforts  possible  to 
strengthen  the  role  of  the  IAEA  and  to  review  its 
mandate,  so  that  it  will  cover  all  countries,  without 
exception or discrimination, in conformity with a strict 
and  effective  international  approach  that  includes 
verification and supervision of the reduction by nuclear 
States  of  their  nuclear  weapons  until  they  are  totally 
eliminated. 
a  balanced 
implementation of the pillars of the NPT, namely, non-
proliferation, nuclear disarmament and the peaceful use 
of nuclear energy. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  emphasizes  the 
importance  of  the  Agency’s  technical  assistance  to 
States parties to the NPT. To that effect, we call on all 
States  parties  to  expand  their  technical  cooperation  in 
order  to  support  the  Agency  with  all  the  resources 
possible, so that it can most effectively play its role in 
that respect, given its importance in helping developing 
nations  to  benefit  from  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy in implementing development programmes. We 
appeal to advanced countries to facilitate the export of 
nuclear technology for peaceful purposes to developing 
nations,  including  to  my  country,  aspiring  to  use  it  in 
the  fields  of  medicine,  agriculture,  energy  production 
and other fields, which is a right stipulated in the NPT. 
Ms. Martina (Ukraine): The year 2010 marks an 

important  milestone  for  the  international  nuclear  non-
proliferation  regime.  The  consensus  reached  at  the 
2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the 
action plan for nuclear disarmament based on all three 
pillars  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) demonstrate the resolve of all 
States  not  only  to  uphold  but  also  to  strengthen  the 
nuclear non-proliferation regime. 

Ukraine  has  always  been  committed  to  effective 
multilateral action against the proliferation of weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  We  believe  that  we  made  a 
valuable  contribution  to  the  success  of  the  2010  NPT 
Review Conference, chairing Main Committee II of the 
Conference,  which  dealt  with  non-proliferation  issues. 
We are particularly glad that States managed in 2010 to 
secure an agreement on further steps to implement the 
14 

10-62124 
to  establish 
resolution 
on 


1995  NPT 
the  Middle  East 
(NPT/CONF.1995/32  (Part  I),  annex),  including  a 
conference on the topic to be convened in 2012. That is 
why it is of utmost importance to build upon the results 
of  the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference  and  to  avoid 
trends that might undermine the success achieved. 

Ukraine  strictly  fulfils  its  obligations  under  our 
safeguards  agreement  and  the  additional  protocol. 
Since  January  2006,  a  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreement and additional protocol has been in force in 
Ukraine.  We  continue  to  work  with  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA) 
the 
necessary  conditions  to  start  the  implementation  of 
IAEA integrated safeguards in Ukraine. 
Each  country  has  the  right  to  define  its  own 

that  human 
energy  strategy.  We  are  convinced 
resources  development, 
including  education  and 
training, is of vital importance for the safe, secure and 
peaceful use of atomic energy. 

It  is  well  known  that  both  the  Convention  on 
Nuclear Safety and the Joint Convention on the Safety 
of  Spent  Fuel  Management  and  on  the  Safety  of 
Radioactive Waste  Management  were  developed,  inter 
alia,  as 
the 
Chernobyl  disaster  and  that  both  Conventions  provide 
Governments  with 
for 
streamlining  national  activities in order  to achieve the 
highest safety levels. We consider that participation in 
such  instruments  provides  strong  incentives  and  is  in 
the  best  interest  of  any  country  with  or  planning  to 
have its own nuclear power programme. Ukraine calls 
upon States embarking on a nuclear power programme 
to  become  contracting  parties  to  those  Conventions 
without  delay  or  hesitation.  We  are  also  of  the  view 
that 
the  Agency’s  comprehensive  set  of  safety 
standards  is  fundamental  for  any  nuclear  programme 
and  any  nuclear  technology  application. We  note  with 
satisfaction 
the 
International  Nuclear  Safety  Centre  as  well  as  the 
International Seismic Safety Centre. 
In  May  this  year,  the  IAEA  presented  the  final 

the  Joint  European  Community-IAEA-
report  of 
Ukraine  project  on 
safety 
assessment  of  all  operating  Ukrainian  nuclear  power 
plants.  For  the  past  two  years,  the  Agency  has 
conducted  a  number  of  missions  to  all  15  Ukrainian 
nuclear  power  reactors,  covering  issues  of  design 
safety,  operational  safety  and  waste  safety.  The  legal 
comprehensive 
the  result  of 
learned  from 
establishment 
valuable 
instruments 
the 
recent 
of 
lessons 
the 
A/65/PV.46
and  governmental  infrastructure  has  been  assessed  via 
the  full  scope  of  the  Integrated  Regulatory  Review 
Service  mission  as  well.  We  are  pleased  to  note  the 
positive  conclusions  of  that  in-depth  review  and 
consider  such  missions  to  provide  unprecedented  and 
extremely  valuable  tools  for  many  other  countries 
striving  to  embark  on  the  development  of  nuclear 
energy.  We  would  like  to  encourage  other  countries 
both  with  mature  and  with  emerging  nuclear  power 
programmes to consider conducting such missions and 
assessments. 

I  would  like  to  inform  delegations  that  Ukraine 
participates  in  the  work  of  the  International  Uranium 
Enrichment  Centre  in  Angarsk  (Russia),  which  is  the 
first such type of joint enterprises and which may serve 
as an example for future activities in this field. 

Nuclear security is an essential programme of the 
Agency. Ukraine commends the IAEA for its activities 
aimed  at  assisting  States  in  preventing  and  combating 
nuclear terrorism. 

On  12  April  2010,  the  President  of  Ukraine, 
Viktor  Yanukovych,  and  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  Barack  Obama,  reaffirmed  in  a  joint  statement 
their shared vision of a world free of nuclear weapons, 
pledged 
to  prevent  nuclear 
proliferation  and  to  realize  the  goal  of  securing  all 
vulnerable  nuclear  materials.  President  Yanukovych 
announced Ukraine’s decision to get rid of all stocks of 
highly  enriched  uranium  by  the  next  Nuclear  Security 
Summit,  and  our  partners  will  provide  the  necessary 
technical and financial assistance to support that effort. 

The  activities  related  to  the  transportation  of 
highly  enriched  uranium  from  Ukrainian  research 
reactors  have  already  begun.  We  intend  to  remove  a 
substantial part of those stocks by the end of the year. 
The  meaning  of  our  voluntary  step  is  crystal  clear  — 
Ukraine  takes  non-proliferation  seriously.  We  expect 
that our example will serve as a pattern for others. Our 
decision  is  also  a  proof  of  our  commitment  to 
implementing Security Council resolution 1887 (2009). 
Ukraine  welcomes  the  IAEA’s  role  in  nuclear 

security 
pay 
considerable attention to the issue at the national level, 
and  this  year,  with  the  graduation  of  48  nuclear 
security  engineers  from 
the  Sevastopol  National 
University of Nuclear Energy and Technology, we have 
reached one of the important milestones. We commend 
the  Agency  for  its  invaluable  support  to  Ukraine  in 
development.  We 
competence 
to  work 
together 
10-62124 

15 
Ukraine 
also 
the 

appreciates 
the 
We  recognize 
training  and  education 
A/65/PV.46 

developing 
facilities  at 
Sevastopol  National  University  for  nuclear  security 
purposes, and confirm our willingness to contribute to 
the  implementation  of  the  IAEA  nuclear  security 
education programme. 

considerable 
activities  of  the Agency  to  strengthen  nuclear  security 
measures  at  major  public  events,  particularly  the 
support  being  provided  to  Ukraine  and  Poland  in 
preparation  for  the  2012  Union  of  European  Football 
Associations Championship. 

importance  of  supporting 
research  on  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy, 
safety,  waste  management, 
especially 
radiation 
protection, 
the  safety  and  efficiency  aspects  of 
advanced  technology,  as  well  as  the  importance  of 
enhancing  international  cooperation  in  these  fields. 
Fundamental  to  these  activities  is  the  maintenance  of 
competence  and  know-how  across  the  nuclear  sector. 
We  view  positively  the  increase  in  IAEA  research 
activities  concerning  innovative  reactor  technologies 
and fuel cycles. Ukraine offers relevant expert services 
to  the  IAEA  on  a  free-of-charge  basis  within  the 
International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors 
and Fuel Cycles. 

Ukraine  will  continue  further  active  cooperation 
with the IAEA on the development and implementation 
of  regional  programmes  addressing  the  issues  of  non-
power  use  of  nuclear  technologies,  namely,  medical 
applications,  dosimetry 
the 
consequences of the Chernobyl catastrophe. 

Ukraine has always been a strong supporter of the 
IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  which 
constitutes  an  important  statutory  function  of  the 
Agency.  Ukraine  considers  the  implementation  of  the 
IAEA Programme to be the cornerstone of international 
cooperation on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 
I take this opportunity to gratefully acknowledge 

in  planning  and 
the  work  done  by 
implementing  technical  cooperation  programmes  and 
activities, which reflect the needs of different countries 
and different regions. Addressing the global challenges 
of  hunger,  disease,  poverty  and  water  resource 
management  and  the  creation  of  a  cleaner  and  safer 
environment 
to 
developing countries. Ukraine values the efforts of the 
Agency in those areas. 
and  mitigation  of 
are  of  particular 
significance 
the  IAEA 
the 
like 
to  mention 
Regional  and  national 
the  commemoration  of 

technical  cooperation 
projects have contributed significantly to the safety and 
effectiveness  of  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  in 
Ukraine.  As  of  now,  we  can  point  to  tangible  and 
sustainable  results  of  our  cooperation,  particularly 
regarding  safety  improvements  at  our  nuclear  power 
plants.  We  also  highly  appreciate  the  results  already 
achieved in improving the quality and effectiveness of 
nuclear  medicine,  radiotherapy  and  medical  physics.  I 
would  particularly 
the  modern 
equipment  and  training  for  nuclear  oncology  and 
radiotherapy  with  which  we  have  been  provided. 
Human health will remain one of the priorities for our 
technical cooperation programme in future. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  draw  the  attention  of 
delegations  to  an  important  event  for  Ukraine  next 
year — 
twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of 
the  Chernobyl  catastrophe.  My 
country’s strategy to address the lingering after-effects 
of the Chernobyl catastrophe is aimed  at fostering the 
region’s  long-term  development  and  providing  people 
with the support they need to maintain safe and healthy 
lives.  I  would  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  of  the 
initiative of the President of Ukraine, co-sponsored by 
Belarus  and  the  Russian  Federation,  to  convene  an 
international conference under the theme “Twenty-five 
years  after  the  Chernobyl  accident:  safety  for  the 
future”  in  April  2011  in  Ukraine  to  mark  progress 
towards  the  goal  of  returning  to  normal  life  and  to 
address the issue of the safe uses of nuclear energy. We 
look  forward  to  the  broad  participation  of  interested 
States and international institutions in the conference. 

Ukraine,  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community, is still restoring the Chernobyl site. As the 
major projects enter the construction phase, substantial 
sums — estimated at €750 million — will be required 
to  complete  them.  International  solidarity  will  be 
essential  to  raising  the  necessary  funds.  We  count  on 
the  support  of  donors  and  States  at  the  upcoming 
pledging  event  on  that  occasion  to  help  us  bring  the 
Chernobyl projects to a successful conclusion. 

Finally, we would like to join other delegations in 
welcoming the IAEA report to the sixty-fifth session of 
the General Assembly (see A/65/140) and in expressing 
high  appreciation  for  the  work  of  the  IAEA  Director 
General and the Agency. 
Mr. Ruey (Singapore): The Singapore delegation 

would  like  to  thank  the  Director  General  of  the 
16 

10-62124 
of 
to 
nuclear 
integral 
disarmament 
is  made,  and  Singapore 


International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr. 
Yukiya  Amano,  for  his  comprehensive  annual  report 
(see A/65/140). We are pleased to co-sponsor the draft 
resolution (A/65/L.10) before the Assembly today. 

The  IAEA  has  played  an  important  role  in 
promoting the safe, secure and peaceful uses of nuclear 
science  and  technology.  Its  verification  activities  and 
nuclear  security  programme  are 
the 
advancement 
and 
non-proliferation.  We  believe  that  the  IAEA  should 
remain  the  global  focal  point  for  nuclear  cooperation, 
in line with its three pillars of science and technology, 
safety and security and safeguards and verification. 

There  has  been  much  movement  on  the  nuclear 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  agenda  this  past 
year. Amid  the  political  commitments  made,  we  must 
not forget the practical side of the equation, which is to 
ensure  that  these  commitments  are  implemented.  In 
this regard, the IAEA plays a vital role by monitoring 
whether  progress 
thus 
welcomes  the  Final  Document  of  the  2010  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). 

The  importance  of  the  IAEA’s  role  is  also 
growing more evident in the context of broader trends 
towards the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. The Asia-
Pacific’s  demand 
in  particular,  has 
increased  with 
economic 
development  and  can  only  become  more  pronounced. 
Thirty-four  of  the  55  nuclear  power  reactors  currently 
under  construction  are  located  in  Asia.  Singapore 
supports  the  right  of  States  to  use  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful  purposes,  as  guaranteed  under  the  NPТ. 
However,  we  also  believe  that  this  right  must  be 
balanced  by 
the  grave  responsibility  of  careful 
consideration of safeguards issues and full compliance 
with  non-proliferation  obligations.  In 
this  regard, 
Singapore urges all States that have not done so to sign 
the  comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  and 
the 
Additional  Protocol  with  the  IAEA,  so  as  to  enhance 
global and nuclear security. 

States also have a responsibility to strengthen the 
non-proliferation  regime  and  should  demonstrate  their 
seriousness  about 
IAEA 
safeguards and verification regime. The efficacy of the 
IAEA  ultimately  depends  on  the  participation  and 
cooperation  of  member  States.  As  we  have  said 
previously, we call on parties to the NPT to cooperate 
for  energy, 
the 
region’s 
this  by  supporting 
rapid 
the 
A/65/PV.46
to 
the 
and 
under 
complement 
to  receive  Director  General  Amano 
fully  with  the  IAEA  in  order  to  allow  a  conclusive 
determination  of  the  nature  of  their  nuclear  activities. 
We  hope  that  full  cooperation  will  be  rendered  to  the 
IAEA in areas where it is lacking. 

Recognizing the importance of the IAEA’s work, 
Singapore  ratified  its  Additional  Protocol  and  the 
modified  small  quantities  protocol  in  March  2008.  In 
August, we were pleased to host an IAEA workshop on 
additional protocols and trade. In that month, we were 
honoured 
in 
Singapore 
International 
Singapore 
Foundation’s  Distinguished  Visitors 
programme. 
Singapore  hopes  to  continue  contributing  actively  to 
the  work  of  the  IAEA  as  a  member  of  the  Board  of 
Governors for the term 2010-2012. 

Several  countries  in  our  region  have  indicated 
that they either will be or are pursuing nuclear energy 
programmes.  Singapore 
is  also  preparing  a  pre-
feasibility  study  to  explore  whether  nuclear  power 
should  be  included  as  part  of  our  energy  mix.  In  this 
regard,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  greater  regional 
cooperation 
strengthen 
international and national efforts in the area of nuclear 
safety and security. 

the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations (ASEAN), we have recognized the IAEA’s role 
and expertise in promoting nuclear safety and security. 
We  also  appreciate  the  IAEA’s  participation  in  the 
ASEAN  Regional  Forum  Inter-Sessional  Meeting  on 
Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, held in Singapore 
in July. Among other things, forum participants agreed 
that  the  objective  of  a  multilateral  fuel  cycle  was  to 
promote  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy,  and  that 
this  was  complementary  to  a  global  non-proliferation 
regime. 

As the issues of safety and security are important 
to  all  countries  seeking  nuclear  power,  Singapore  will 
continue  to  work  with  all  IAEA  member  States  to 
strengthen international and regional standards, and to 
strengthen  our  own  commitments.  We  have  thus 
decided to join the IAEA’s Illicit Trafficking Database, 
and  are  now  working 
the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material  and  its  2005  amendment.  We  hope  that  all 
Member  States  will  continue  working 
towards 
establishing  effective  regulatory,  administrative  and 
legislative infrastructures as they explore the option of 
nuclear power for generating energy. 
towards  acceding 
Within 
to 
10-62124 

17 
A/65/PV.46 


In  conclusion,  Singapore  continues  to  view  the 
role  of  the  IAEA  as  indispensable  and  relevant.  In 
particular, as more countries explore the use of nuclear 
energy,  we  need  to  continue  to  support  the  Agency’s 
work  on  the  three  main  pillars  of  safeguards  and 
verification,  safety  and  security,  and  science  and 
technology.  As  Singapore  continues  its  work  on  the 
IAEA Board  of Governors in the two years ahead,  we 
would like to reiterate our full support for the Agency’s 
role  and  work,  and  we  look  forward  to  working  with 
IAEA member States to advance that work. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  convey  my 
gratitude  to  the  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
for  his  introduction  of  the  Agency’s  report  (see 
A/65/140).  The  Russian  Federation  greatly  values  the 
IAEA’s  work  to  improve  and  strengthen  the  global 
non-proliferation  regime  and  to  ensure  the  broad  and 
safe use of nuclear energy. 

The Agency  is  making  a  substantial  contribution 
to resolving issues relating to reliable energy supplies, 
combating  global  climate  change,  and 
improving 
human  health  and  well-being  throughout  the  world.  It 
is  important  that  the  IAEA  pursue  its  involvement  in 
the interests of broadening international cooperation in 
the area of peaceful uses of atomic energy. The future 
development  of  nuclear  energy  and  its  large-scale  use 
for  economic  development  ends  requires  the  united 
efforts  of  interested  States  in  achieving  a  systemic 
approach  to  resolving  the  complex  issues  connected 
with  such  activities.  The  IAEA  must  continue  to 
dispose of all the resources and authority necessary to 
fulfilling 
has 
demonstrated  and  will  continue  to  demonstrate  full 
support  for  the  Agency’s  activities,  as  reaffirmed 
during the recent visit of the IAEA Director General to 
Moscow. 

Regarding the IAEA’s activities, we cannot fail to 
mention the unique nature of the Agency’s verification 
mechanism, which permits very effective monitoring of 
States’ 
their  non-proliferation 
obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  We  believe  it  important 
that  the  Agency’s  monitoring  capabilities  continue  to 
expand, 
IAEA 
comprehensive safeguards agreement and its additional 
protocol  as  universally 
recognized  standards  of 
implementation  of 
activities.  Russia 
its  mandated 
the 
including 
by 
ratifying 

in 
the  area  of 
verification  and  implementation  by  States  of  their 
nuclear non-proliferation obligations. 

Russia  participates  actively  as  a  financial  donor 
in projects to strengthen the IAEA’s safeguards system, 
including  the  allocation  of  resources  to  implement 
national  scientific  and  technical  support  programmes 
for the Agency’s safeguards activity. We fully endorse 
the  Agency’s  efforts 
technical 
cooperation and assistance to developing countries. We 
welcome  its  large-scale  efforts  to  assist  participating 
States  in  setting  up  and  improving  the  physical 
protection  of  nuclear  materials  and  facilities,  which 
undoubtedly  promotes  strengthened  physical  nuclear 
security worldwide. We advocate the broadest possible 
participation of States in the relevant mechanisms. 

In  the  context  of  the  large-scale  development  of 
atomic  energy,  the  Russian  Federation  attaches  great 
importance to the following issues: the development of 
a  new  architecture  for  peaceful  nuclear  cooperation, 
based  on  multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel 
cycle;  the  guaranteed  provision  of  nuclear  fuel  cycle-
related  services;  and  solutions  to  the  problem  of 
disposing of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. 

On  the  basis  of  these  priorities,  Russia  proposed 
an  initiative  for  developing  a  global  atomic  energy 
infrastructure  and  creating  international  nuclear  fuel 
cycle  service  centres.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that  our 
initiative has been taken up and proved to be a genuine 
contribution to resolving the issues of the provision of 
unbiased access for all NPT-participating States to the 
fruits  and  benefits  of  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy, subject to  the implementation in good  faith of 
all  non-proliferation  commitments.  It  offers  States  an 
opportunity to enjoy the benefits of nuclear energy and 
to  meet  their  nuclear  fuel  needs  without  creating 
expensive and — from the proliferation perspective — 
insecure nuclear fuel cycle elements. 

Within  the  framework  of  this  initiative,  in  2007 
Russia,  together  with  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan, 
created  the  International  Uranium  Enrichment  Centre 
through  a  publicly  traded  company,  the  Angarsk 
Electrolytic  Chemical  Combine.  In  2008,  the  Centre 
received all the necessary authorization and licences to 
launch  operations  as  a  supplier  of  services  and 
materials. Last year, the Centre was joined by Armenia, 
and 
in 
establishing  a  new  architecture  for  global  nuclear 
cooperation  was  reached  with  the  signing  —  pursuant 
this  August  by  Ukraine.  A  breakthrough 
18 

10-62124 
those 
relating 
including 


to  a  November  2009  decision  of  the  IAEA’s  Board  of 
Governors — of an agreement between Russia and the 
Agency  on  the  creation  on  our  territory  of  an  assured 
bank  of  low-enriched  uranium  under  the  direction  of 
the  IAEA,  aimed  at  helping  States  that  encounter 
difficulties  with  nuclear  fuel  supplies  for  non-trade-
related reasons. This project opens up the possibility of 
implementing  similar  initiatives  in  order  to  provide 
conditions favourable to meeting the lawful interests of 
States in developing atomic energy and simultaneously 
to end the duplication of sensitive nuclear technologies 
all over the world. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  principles  for 
the  creation  of  safeguarded  supplies  are  based  on 
article IX of the IAEA’s Statute. The rights of Agency 
member  States, 
the 
development  of their own  production capacities in the 
nuclear  fuel  cycle  area,  are  neither  infringed  nor 
restricted.  Gaining  the  right  to  receive  low-enriched 
uranium from the assured supply does not mean having 
to renounce the right to creating and developing one’s 
own  fuel  cycle.  The  material  can  be  supplied  to  any 
non-nuclear  State  member  of  the  IAEA  that  is  in 
compliance  with  its  safeguards  agreement  and  has 
placed 
IAEA 
safeguards. 
cooperation 

implemented  under  the  aegis  of  the 
successfully 
Agency  is  the  implementation  of  the  International 
Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel 
Cycles,  initiated  by  Russia.  We  support  the  efforts  of 
the Agency  secretariat  to  finance  the  Project  from  its 
regular  budget  and  urge  all  participating  States  to 
finance  it  directly  from  assessed  contributions.  The 
Russian  Federation  has  decided 
contribute 
23 million roubles per annum for the years 2008-2012 
for the long-term financing of the project. 

Regarding  regional  proliferation  challenges,  we 
welcome  the  practical  contribution  of  the  IAEA  to 
finding  multilateral  solutions.  We  pay  tribute  to  the 
Agency’s  efforts  to  implement  safeguards  agreements 
in  Iran  and  Syria  and  to  use  its  expert  capacities  to 
guarantee the sustainable operation of the nuclear non-
proliferation regime. 

The  Russian  Federation  sees  no  alternative  to  a 
political  and  diplomatic  settlement  with  regard  to  the 
Iranian  nuclear  programme.  We  hope  for  more  active 
cooperation  between  Iran  and  the Agency  and  for  the 
its  global  nuclear  activity  under 
example  of 
international 
One 
to 
to 
A/65/PV.46
the 
that 
This  year, 
it  will  continue 
full implementation by Tehran of Security Council and 
IAEA Governing Board requirements. We urge Iran to 
respond  constructively  to  the  proposal  to  resume 
negotiations  with  the  5+1  group,  and  hope  that  such 
negotiations will begin soon. 

I  should  like  to  reaffirm  our  support  for  draft 
resolution A/65/L.10  on  the  report  of  the  IAEA. As  a 
sponsor of the draft resolution, Russia fully shares the 
evaluation of the importance of the Agency’s work and 
is  convinced 
to  strengthen 
international  security  and  work  towards  solving  the 
issue of reliable energy supply. 
Mr. Kodama (Japan): At the outset, I should like 

to  thank  the  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
for  presenting  the  annual  report  of  the  IAEA  (see 
A/65/140). 

international  community  has 
embarked on a new stage of critical importance to the 
realization  of  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons.  In 
May,  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  agreed  on  an  action  plan,  which  was 
incorporated  into  the  Final  Document  adopted  at  the 
Conference.  This  agreement  presented  us  all  with  an 
restart  nuclear  disarmament  and 
opportunity 
non-proliferation  efforts  based  on 
the  spirit  of 
cooperative multilateralism. Japan believes that all the 
States  members  of 
the  IAEA  should  now  make 
combined efforts to steadily implement the action plan, 
in concert with the Agency. 
Japan  is  determined  to  be  at  the  forefront  of  the 

efforts  of 
international  community  aimed  at 
attaining a world without nuclear weapons. To that end, 
Japan  co-hosted,  with  Australia,  a  foreign  ministers’ 
meeting on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation 
here in New York in September to discuss concrete and 
practical measures to reduce nuclear risks in the world 
as an interim milestone in our endeavours to realize our 
common  goal.  The  States  that  participated  share  this 
purpose,  and  Japan, 
those 
countries,  intends  to  lead  international  efforts  in  this 
regard. 

Japan  welcomed  the  visit  of  Director  General 
Amano  to  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki  in  August,  and 
regards  it  as  a  highly  important  step  forward  that  will 
contribute  to  the  growing  momentum  being  built 
towards  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons.  We  are 
in  cooperation  with 
the 
to 
10-62124 

19 
A/65/PV.46 

greatly  looking  forward  to  his  follow-up  efforts.  He 
indicated in a symposium in Nagasaki that the Agency 
will be able to contribute to nuclear disarmament in the 
implementation stage. 

As a member of the Board of Governors since the 
foundation  of  the  Agency,  Japan  has  worked  jointly 
with  the  Agency  to  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  energy,  thus  making  a  significant  contribution 
to the Agency’s activities. Japan will make further use 
of the knowledge and experience that it has acquired in 
the civilian uses of nuclear energy and in strengthening 
and improving the efficiency of the safeguards system, 
with  a  view  to  assisting  developing  countries  through 
the Agency’s Technical Cooperation Programme. 

The  IAEA  has  been  playing  an  essential  role  in 
the  social  and  economic  development  of  the  world  by 
applying nuclear science and technology. Japan highly 
appreciates  this  role  of  the  Agency.  In  June,  the 
Government of Japan made a cabinet decision on “The 
new growth strategy: blueprint for revitalizing Japan”. 
As  one  of  the  main  pillars  of  this  strategy,  Japan  will 
actively  promote  green 
is, 
innovation  in  the  environment  and  energy  sectors  to 
create  a 
is 
convinced that nuclear energy is key to attaining stable 
supply,  environmental  compatibility  and  economic 
efficiency  at  the  same  time,  and  thus  to  fuelling 
innovation. 

The  Nuclear  Security  Summit  was  held 
successfully  in  April.  Japan  greatly  welcomes  this 
achievement 
the 
establishment  of  an  integrated  support  centre  for 
nuclear  non-proliferation  and  nuclear  security, 
to 
follow up on its announcement at the Summit. Through 
the  activities  of  the  centre,  Japan,  in  cooperation  with 
the Agency,  will  contribute  to  meeting  needs,  such  as 
those 
for 
strengthening  nuclear  security,  especially  in  Asian 
countries. 

Japan  firmly  believes  that  technical  cooperation 
should  continue  to  be  one  of  the  core  missions  of  the 
IAEA. Japan, taking advantage of its own long history 
and  achievements  in  the  application  of  radiation 
technology  —  such  as  medical  applications,  including 
cancer  therapy  —  attaches  importance  to  technical 
cooperation  activities.  Many  States  members  of  the 
Agency have significant needs, and Japan will continue 
low-carbon  society 
in  Japan.  Japan 
innovation  — 
development, 
now 
preparing 
and 
is 
that 
in 
human 
resource 

to make technical and personnel contributions in these 
areas. 

However, the worrisome reality is that  there is a 
shortage  of  human  resources  to  support  the  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy. While  attaching  importance  to 
the  Agency’s  efforts  for  the  development  of  such 
human resources, Japan will contribute to those efforts, 
more mindful of the utilization of its own experts in the 
Agency. 

Needless to say, strengthening and improving the 
efficiency of IAEA safeguards is especially vital to the 
enhancement  of  the  non-proliferation  regime.  Japan 
believes  that  the  most  realistic  and  effective  way  to 
strengthen the IAEA safeguards is the universalization 
of  the  additional  protocol  that  more  than  100  States 
have  concluded  with  the  Agency.  In  concert  with  the 
Agency  and  its  member  States,  Japan  will  further 
contribute  to  the  universalization  of  the  additional 
protocol  through  such  activities  as  hosting  the  Asian 
Senior-level  Talks  on  Non-Proliferation  and  making 
contributions to the IAEA’s seminars. 

The  North  Korean  nuclear  question  continues  to 
pose  a  grave  threat  to  the  peace  and  security  of  East 
Asia and to the international community as a whole, as 
well  as  a  serious  challenge  to  the  NPT  regime. 
Regarding  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  it  is  urgent  and 
indispensable that Iran allay the concerns and gain the 
confidence  of  the  international  community.  Japan  will 
continue to act, including by steadily implementing the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  with  a  view  to 
settling  these  nuclear  issues  in  concert  with  the 
international community. 

Today, the IAEA is expected to fully carry out its 
core  missions  under  its  Statute,  while  facing  a  great 
number  of  important  challenges  vis-à-vis  the  national 
security  of  each  country  and  the  human  security  of 
each living person. As I stated earlier, Japan will make 
further  contributions  to  the  Agency’s  activities  by 
drawing  on  its  knowledge  and  experience  with  regard 
to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy,  with  full 
international 
to 
non-proliferation.  On  this  occasion,  Japan  calls  upon 
all  States  members  of  the Agency  to  give  the  highest 
priority to maximizing common interest and addressing 
challenges through constructive cooperation. 
Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan): Kazakhstan wishes 

to congratulate Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director General of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  on 
confidence 
regard 
with 
for 
20 

10-62124 
IAEA 
safeguards  and 
the  Treaty  on 
of  Nuclear  Weapons 


his  very  comprehensive  and  forward-looking  report 
(see A/65/140). We  fully  endorse  his  vision  to  change 
the  general  image  of  the Agency  from  that  of  simply 
the  world’s  nuclear  watchdog,  with  verification  and 
security  functions,  to  that  of  an  entity  focusing  on 
nuclear  energy,  nuclear  applications  and  technical 
cooperation. 

As  a  member  of  the  IAEA,  Kazakhstan  is  proud 
of its record of collaboration with the Agency and will 
continue  to  work  to  strengthen  it  through  our  own 
nuclear  energy,  non-proliferation  and  disarmament 
policies,  and  also  by  promoting  those  policies  at  the 
regional  and  global  levels.  My  country  is  a  major 
producer  of  uranium  ore  and  has  the  fuel  fabrication 
capability  to  further  expand  its  involvement  in  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  within  the  framework 
the 
of 
Non-Proliferation 
(NPT). 
Kazakhstan collaborates with the Russian Federation in 
making  its  uranium  available  for  enrichment  at  the 
International  Uranium  Enrichment  Centre  in Angarsk, 
Siberia,  for  use  as  nuclear  fuel  in  power  reactors. 
Currently,  we  are  also  working  on  the  Kurchatov 
Nuclear  Technologies  Park,  under  the  surveillance  of 
the IAEA. 

My  delegation  has  been  following  with  great 
interest  the  initiative  of  the  IAEA  to  develop  a  new 
framework  for  utilizing  nuclear  energy  based  on 
multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  in 
order  to  reduce  the  further  spread  of  sensitive  nuclear 
fuel  cycle  technologies.  We  endorse  the  Agency’s 
criteria  that  any  mechanism  devised  should  be  non-
political,  non-discriminatory  and  available 
to  all 
safeguards-complying  member  States,  so  that  no  State 
should be required to give up its rights under the NPT. 
This  proposal  may  seem  difficult  to  realize  today,  but 
nonetheless initial efforts can be made in that direction. 

Kazakhstan  has  offered  to  host  an  IAEA  nuclear 
fuel  bank  for  the  use  of  those  unable  to  acquire 
supplies  of  nuclear  fuel  on  the  market.  We  hope  that 
there  will  be  a  positive  unified  decision  in  the  near 
future,  considering  that  the  country  has  voluntarily 
renounced  its  nuclear  weapons.  Our  national  atomic 
energy  company,  Kazatomprom,  is  in  the  process  of 
creating  a  vertically  integrated  establishment  with  a 
complete nuclear fuel cycle, in accordance with IAEA 
standards. 
A/65/PV.46
with 
rigorously 
regarding 
very 
high 
priority 
to 
addressing 
Kyrgyzstan, 
Kazakhstan  supports 
Kazakhstan  also  works 
Tajikistan, 

Together 
Turkmenistan 
and  Uzbekistan,  Kazakhstan  has 
established  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  Central 
Asia, which came into force in August 2009. The zone 
is  an  additional  contribution  to  our  efforts  towards  a 
world free of nuclear weapons and thus is an important 
regional confidence-building and security measure. We 
have  not  only  signed  but  strictly  abide  by  the  IAEA 
safeguards  agreements  and  additional  protocol  in  an 
open and transparent manner. 

the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East  as  a 
solution  for  peace  in  the  region,  and  has  therefore 
endorsed the recommendation of the May 2010 Review 
Conference of the Parties to the NPT that a conference 
be  convened  in  2012.  We  will  work  collaboratively 
with  other  member  States  towards 
its  successful 
outcome. 

to  meet 
international  standards 
the  security  of 
nuclear  facilities  so  as  to  reduce  the  risk  of  nuclear 
terrorism  and  the  smuggling  of  nuclear  weapons  or 
nuclear and radioactive materials in the region. It also 
gives 
the 
environmental concerns that are unique to Central Asia 
due  to  the  fact  all  of  the  region’s  five  States  have 
infrastructure  and  now 
hosted  nuclear  weapons 
confront  common  ecological  problems  related 
to 
radiation. 

the  International 
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear 
Terrorism, as well as Security Council resolution 1540 
(2004),  in  order  to  strengthen  measures  to  combat  the 
illicit  trafficking  of  nuclear  and  other  materials. As  a 
member  of  the  Nuclear  Suppliers  Group  and  the 
Zangger Committee, Kazakhstan maintains the strictest 
control over its equipment and installations that enrich 
uranium and reprocess spent nuclear fuel. 

the 
recommendations of the Nuclear Security Summit held 
in April in Washington, D.C., and will fully cooperate 
in the next security summit in Seoul in 2012. This year, 
my country ratified and acceded to four major nuclear 
security  conventions  and  is  reviewing  a  draft  law  to 
accede to the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for 
Nuclear Damage. We are decommissioning the BN-350 
nuclear  reactor  and,  with  the  support  of  the  United 
States Department of Energy, implementing a project to 
We  consistently 
conscientiously 
implements 
Kazakhstan 
implement 
10-62124 

21 

and 
and 
research 
radioisotope 
A/65/PV.46 

convert  the  second  research  reactor  to  produce  radio 
isotopes  from  low-enriched  uranium.  My  country 
welcomes the proposal to strengthen the infrastructure 
of  the  IAEA  Incident  and  Emergency  Centre  as  the 
global  focal  point  for  international  preparedness  and 
response to nuclear and radiological safety or security-
related incidents. 

In  view  of  the  growing  importance  of  nuclear 
energy, Kazakhstan has an agreement with the IAEA on 
technical  cooperation  for  the  years  2010-2015  to 
develop nuclear energy for nuclear education, medicine 
and  agriculture, 
reactor  safety,  nuclear 
technology, 
radiation 
applications.  We  welcome 
the  Agency’s  nuclear 
research in health care, nutrition, food security and the 
environment,  as  well  as  in  resource  management  for 
collective global human security. 

An  issue  of  great  importance  to  us  is  that 
Kazakhstan, though a stalwart and responsible member 
of  the  IAEA,  is  being  denied  the  opportunity  to 
participate  in  the  work  of  elective  bodies  due  to  the 
existing  rules  of  procedure.  In  fully  supporting  the 
early entry into force of the amendments to article VI 
of  the  IAEA  Statute,  Kazakhstan  is  confident  that  a 
solution will be found so that we may participate fully 
in its activities. 

Kazakhstan  is  among  the  sponsors  of  draft 
resolution  A/65/L.10,  “Report  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency”,  regularly  contributes  to  the 
IAEA  budget,  makes  voluntary  contribution  to  the 
Technical Cooperation Fund and stands  ready to fulfil 
its financial obligations. 

As members are aware, my country closed down 
the  Semipalatinsk  nuclear  test  site,  the  second  largest 
in  the  world,  on  29 August  1991.  On  the  initiative  of 
my country, the General Assembly declared 29 August 
as  the  International  Day Against  Nuclear Tests,  which 
is  observed  in  countries  around  the  world,  creating 
awareness  of  the  need  for  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons. 

We  share  the  prevailing  view  that  the  entry  into 
force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is 
essential to the effective functioning of the NPT. In this 
context,  my  delegation  thanks  the  Agency  for  its 
participation in our many activities. 

To  conclude,  we  extend  our  full  support  to  the 
Director  General  in  addressing  all  aspects  of  the 
reference 
Agency’s  mandate  in  a  balanced  manner  in  order  to 
respond  to  the  varying  needs  and  interests  of  member 
States, and look forward to another cycle of productive 
collaboration  to  address  the  global  issues  of  nuclear 
technology. 
Mr.  Taboul  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  should 

like at the outset to convey my gratitude to the Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) for his annual report to the General Assembly 
(see A/65/140), which includes programmes and plans 
developed  by  the  Agency  to  promote  the  transfer  of 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  uphold  the  global 
nuclear  safety  and  security  regime  and  ensure  the 
safety  and  security  of  nuclear  power  facilities.  It  also 
outlines  the  greater  role  that  the Agency  continues  to 
play  in  the  field  of  cooperation  in  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes and development. 

We take this  opportunity to commend the efforts 
of  Mr.  ElBaradei  and  to  wish  every  success  to  his 
successor, Mr. Amano. 
The  Sudan  attaches  great  importance  to  the 

report’s 
the  application  of  nuclear 
technology  in  enhancing  food  security,  combating 
insect pests and effectively managing water resources, 
as  well  as  to  technologies  for  new  irrigation  systems 
and  large-scale  agricultural  projects.  That  is  why  the 
increasing cooperation of the Agency with UNICEF in 
the educational and agricultural fields, as well as with 
the  World  Health  Organization,  is  clearly  of  special 
importance. 
Assistance  to  developing  States  in  developing 

their  national  technologies  complements  the Agency’s 
efforts  in  the  implementation  of  technical  cooperation 
plans  and  projects.  We  hope  that  cooperation  will  be 
developed within the framework of the Agency’s health 
programmes, 
revitalization  of  and 
support for regional and continental projects to combat 
malaria  and  similar  deadly  diseases  in  Africa,  and  to 
enable  the  continent  to  achieve  social  and  economic 
development, 
the 
realization  of 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
the 
internationally agreed development agenda. 
The delegation of the Sudan reiterates the right of 

all  States,  including  my  own,  to  develop  programmes 
and  research  and  generate  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes  without  discrimination  and  in  line  with 
international  standards  and  terms  of  reference.  My 
delegation  reiterates  the  need  for  all  countries  to 
including 
including 
the 
to 
the 
22 

10-62124 


refrain from exerting pressure on the Agency and from 
interfering  in  its  activities  in  order  to  protect  its  vital 
role and credibility. We therefore call for more justice 
in  resolving 
and  equity 
the  Agency’s  problems 
vis-à-vis  certain  countries 
through  dialogue  and 
negotiation. 

The delegation of the Sudan wishes to reiterate its 
firm  position  of  support  for  the  aspirations  of  all 
geographical  regions  to  nuclear-weapon-free  zones 
pursuant  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT), one of the basic pillars of the 
international  peace  and  security  architecture.  We  are 
concerned  that  the  Middle  East  is  still  far  from 
achieving  this  objective.  It  has  struggled  to  do  so  for 
decades  because  Israel,  the  only  nuclear  State  in  the 
region, refuses to submit its nuclear programmes to the 
IAEA  safeguards  regime  and  continues  to  ignore  the 
repeated appeals of the international community in this 
regard.  Israel’s  commitment  to  implementing  the  NPT 
and  its  Additional  Protocol  is  crucial  to  reducing 
tension  in  the  region  and  would  blaze  a  trail  towards 
achieving regional security and international peace. 

My  delegation  enthusiastically  hopes  that  the 
IAEA  will  maintain  its  support  for  the  right  of 
developing  countries  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy  under  the  Agency’s  full  supervision.  We  are 
convinced  that  nuclear  energy  production  for  peaceful 
purposes  will  achieve  great  results  for  development, 
given 
the  cost  and  scarcity  of  other  means  of 
generating power. The high costs of alternative energy 
sources push developing countries to seek cheaper and 
more  efficient  means.  We  believe  that  the  enhanced 
cooperation  and  assistance  of  developed  States  to 
developing  States  in  this  field  and  through  alternative 
energy sources would mitigate the dangers of resort to 
nuclear energy. 

In  our  view,  it  is  logical  that  the Agency  should 
prompt  the  developed  States  to  cooperate  with  the 
developing  countries  in  this  field.  My  delegation 
therefore  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the  IAEA  and  all 
developed  States 
to  strengthen  cooperation  with 
African States in the peaceful use of nuclear energy in 
the fields of health and medicine, along with the use of 
alternative  energy 
the 
achievement of the MDGs. 
Ms.  Anderson  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  supports  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution (A/65/L.10) on the report (see A/65/140) of 
that  would  contribute 
to 
A/65/PV.46
the 
important 
IAEA’s 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  As 
we  have  done  in  the  past,  we  have  co-sponsored  the 
draft resolution to emphasize our strong support for the 
Agency  and  its  invaluable  role  in  accelerating  and 
enlarging the  contributions  of atomic  energy to peace, 
health and prosperity throughout the world. 

To  that  end,  we  look  forward  to  continuing  to 
work with member States to ensure that the IAEA has 
the necessary resources to address the growing array of 
challenges  it  faces  and  to  respond  to  the  increasing 
number  of  requests  for  support  that  it  receives  from 
member States. In addition, the United States strongly 
commends 
technical  excellence  and 
impartiality  in  the  conduct  of  its  statutory  treaty  and 
advisory duties to member States. 

thank  Director  General  Amano  for  his 
excellent  report  to  the  General Assembly  and  express 
appreciation  for 
initiatives  he  has 
undertaken  in  his  first  year  at  the  helm  of  the  IAEA. 
The United States looks forward to continuing to work 
with  the  Agency’s  secretariat  and  Member  States  to 
advance the IAEA’s work across its three pillars. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  thank  Mr.  Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  participation  in  this 
debate and the presentation of the IAEA’s annual report 
(see A/65/140). 
Our country supports the work of the IAEA as a 

specialized 
technical 
cooperation and the peaceful use of nuclear energy and 
in  preventing  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  It 
also appreciates the cooperation between the IAEA and 
its  States  members.  We  welcome  the  introduction  of 
the draft resolution entitled “Report of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency”,  contained 
in  document 
A/65/L.10,  by  Ambassador  Raza  Bashir  Tarar  of 
Pakistan  on  behalf  of  the  Chair  of  the  Board  of 
Governors of the IAEA. 

The  outcome  of  the  International  Ministerial 
Conference on Nuclear Energy held in Beijing in April 
stated  that  nuclear  energy  will  increasingly  contribute 
to  humankind’s 
sustainable  development. 
Nuclear  technology  can  limit  the  impact  of  human 
diseases  and  contribute  to  animal  health  and  pest 
control. When applied to agriculture and food, nuclear 
technology can rid humankind of the adverse effects of 
verification, 
agency 
in 
the 
We 
future 
10-62124 

23 
the 
In 
regulatory 
the  IAEA 
infrastructure 
strengthening  of 
the  framework  of 
A/65/PV.46 

climate  change  and  help  with  food  security  at  the 
regional and global levels. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  has 
benefited from the technical and financial cooperation 
provided  by 
through  various  projects 
developed in our country in recent years. Among these 
projects  I  would  highlight  the  strengthening  of  the 
national 
for  controlling 
radioactive  sources;  the  strengthening  of  the  national 
preparedness  and  response  system  for  radiological 
emergencies; 
the  national 
regulatory  infrastructure  for  the  safe  management  of 
radioactive  waste  in  Latin  American  States;  and  the 
strengthening  and  upgrading  of  technical  capacities  to 
protect  the  health  and  safety  of  workers  exposed  to 
ionizing radiation. 

the  close  cooperation 
between the IAEA and the Venezuelan Government, in 
March  2009  the  former  Director  General  of  the 
Agency,  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei  visited  our  country 
for  the  first  time.  On  that  occasion,  he  held  important 
meetings  with  various  Government  ministers  and  the 
President  of  the  National  Assembly.  He  also  paid  a 
visit to the Luis Razetti Hospital, which specializes in 
the  treatment  of  cancer.  We  take  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate  our  appreciation  for  the  work  done  by 
Mr. ElBaradei as Director General of the IAEA. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  was 
elected as a member of the IAEA Board of Governors 
for  2009-2010.  In  this  framework,  we  support  the 
sovereign 
the 
development  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes, 
nuclear 
and 
verification.  Nuclear  energy  development  represents  a 
rational  alternative 
for 
electricity  in  Venezuela.  Our  country  depends  on 
hydroelectric  power  from  the  Guri  Dam  to  produce 
70 per cent of this energy. Natural and climatic factors 
affect  reservoirs  and  can  cause  serious  electricity 
crises, as happened recently. 

Furthermore,  the  development  of  nuclear  energy 
in  Venezuela  will  allow  our  country  to  progress 
towards  full  energy  sovereignty.  It  would  minimize 
dependence on hydroelectric power  and  fossil fuels in 
parallel  with  the  need  to  mitigate  the  negative  effects 
of  climate  change.  In  this  context,  on  15  October  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela signed a cooperation 
agreement  with  the  Russian  Federation  to  develop 
the  growing  demand 
right  of  all  States 
non-proliferation, 
disarmament 
to  work 
for 

law 
accepted 
international 
in  compliance  with 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  in  Venezuelan 
territory. The agreement provides for cooperation in the 
development  of  a  nuclear  power  programme  and  the 
construction  and  operation  of  a  research  reactor  to 
produce  radioisotopes  for  peaceful  uses  in  medicine 
and industry, as well as a nuclear power plant. 

The cooperation between Venezuela and Russia is 
conducted pursuant to the laws of the States parties and 
to  international  agreements  to  which  both  States  are 
the  principles  of 
parties, 
universally 
and 
recommendations  of  the  IAEA. The  agreement  signed 
between  Russia  and Venezuela  is  an  expression  of  the 
sovereign right of countries to develop nuclear energy 
for peaceful purposes and to optimize its advantages as 
future sources of alternative energy. The completion of 
this bilateral cooperation agreement is governed by the 
highest  principles  guiding  Venezuela’s  international 
politics, namely, independence, equality among States, 
self-determination  and  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of States. 

Based  on  the  pacifist  tradition  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela, our Constitution establishes our 
duty  as  Venezuelans  to  promote  peaceful  cooperation 
among  nations  and  to  promote  nuclear  disarmament. 
Venezuela supports the sovereign right of all States to 
develop  nuclear  industry  for  peaceful  purposes,  in 
accordance with the provisions of articles I, II and IV 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT).  Thus,  Venezuela  rejects  any  attempt 
to  nullify  the  nature  and  scope  of  these  provisions 
through actions that violate the integrity of the NPT. 

International 
Atomic Energy Agency is the sole competent authority 
for  verification,  which  must  be  based  exclusively  on 
technical and objective considerations. 

We continue to note with concern that a group of 
countries has pursued its efforts to pressure the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  to  relinquish  its  legitimate  right  to 
develop  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
industry,  seek 
technological  independence  and  diversify  its  energy 
sources.  Such  pressure  should  cease  in  order  to  open 
the  way  to  a  negotiated  political  solution  to  this 
impasse, which must take into account the interests of 
both 
the 
International Atomic Energy Agency. 
The treatment of this matter in other forums that 

are  unfamiliar  with  the  technical  nature  of  the  IAEA 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  of 
recognizes 
Venezuela 
that 
the 
to 
24 

10-62124 
like 
to  express 


safeguards  system  has  resulted  in  the  use  of  biased, 
discriminatory and subjective criteria that could affect 
the authority and credibility of the Agency. My country 
is  concerned  that  inappropriate  practices  that  violate 
the  principle  of  the  legal  equality  of  States  are 
becoming  entrenched.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to 
promote  measures  to  build  confidence  and  address 
these issues in a fair and balanced manner. 

Venezuela  regrets  that  the  State  of  Israel  is  the 
only country in the Middle East that has not acceded to 
the NPT or indicated its intention to do so. Israel must 
accede  to  the Treaty  without  further  delay  and  submit 
its  nuclear  facilities  to  the  IAEA  safeguards  regime. 
My  country  hopes  to  see  the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East.  The 
conference  to  be  held  in  2012  will  be  a  valuable 
opportunity  to  achieve  results  in  this  regard.  The 
International Atomic Energy Agency has a fundamental 
role to play. 
Mr. Kim Bonghyun (Republic of Korea): At the 

outset,  my  delegation  would 
its 
appreciation to Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director General of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
his first annual report (see A/65/140) and statement on 
the Agency’s activities and achievements over the past 
year.  We  highly  commend  the  Director  General  for 
having  adeptly  guided  the  Agency  in  its  range  of 
extensive  activities  since  assuming  office.  We  fully 
support  draft  resolution A/65/L.10,  and  would  like  to 
take 
this  opportunity 
issues 
pertaining to the report. 

We  commend  the Agency  for  its  professionalism 
and  impartiality  in  promoting  the  safe,  secure  and 
peaceful use of nuclear science and technology. This is 
a vital task whose success will lead to the realization of 
the  IAEA’s  overarching  objective:  the  accelerated  and 
enlarged contribution of atomic energy to peace, health 
and prosperity throughout the world. 

However,  the  ever-increasing  demand  for  the 
expanded  use  of  nuclear  energy  poses  considerable 
challenges  to  the  Agency.  Today  more  than  ever,  we 
need  credible  assurances  that  all  nuclear  materials  are 
used solely and entirely for peaceful purposes. We are 
of  the  view  that  the  IAEA  is  the  sole  competent 
authority  to  verify  the  non-diversion  of  declared 
nuclear  materials  and 
the  absence  of  undeclared 
nuclear  activities  and  facilities.  It  follows,  then,  that 
the  IAEA  should  be  equipped  with  the  appropriate 
to  address  several 
A/65/PV.46
In 
strongly 
support 
into  force 
capacity-building, 
this  context,  we 
to  conclude  and  bring 
authority  as  well  as  resources  to  sustain  the  capacity 
needed for this purpose. 

the 
universalization  of 
the  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreement  and  its  additional  protocol.  Together,  these 
instruments now constitute the contemporary standards 
for  ensuring  confidence  in  States  parties’  compliance 
with  their  obligations  arising  from  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  My 
delegation  urges  those  States  parties  that  have  not  yet 
done  so 
the 
comprehensive safeguards agreement and its additional 
protocol  without  delay.  We  would  also  like  to  draw 
attention  to  the  growing  importance  of  the  ratification 
of  the  revised  small  quantities  protocol  by  relevant 
States, in particular those introducing nuclear power. 

The  IAEA  has  a  unique  role  to  carry  out  in 
supporting  member  States’  efforts 
to  establish 
comprehensive  national  nuclear  security 
regimes 
through 
resource 
development  and  other  forms  of  assistance.  The 
Nuclear Security Summit held in Washington, D.C., in 
April  reaffirmed  the  essential  role  of  the  IAEA  and 
mobilized support for the Agency’s continued efforts to 
have  at 
the  appropriate  structures, 
resources  and  expertise  to  carry  out  its  mandated 
activities.  My  delegation  believes  that  global  nuclear 
security  will  greatly  benefit 
international 
cooperation  and  that  the  IAEA,  with  its  technical 
expertise,  can  make  a  significant  contribution  to 
strengthening the international security framework. 

The Republic of Korea, as announced on several 
occasions, will host the plenary meeting of the Global 
Initiative  to  Combat  Nuclear  Terrorism  and  the  next 
Nuclear  Security  Summit  in  2012.  My  Government 
will  consult  closely  with  the  IAEA  and  other  member 
States  with  a  view  to  achieving  productive  outcomes 
that contribute to international efforts in this field. 

The  nuclear  renaissance  cannot  be  sustainable 
without a high standard of nuclear safety performance 
and  the  proper  application  of  safety  standards  at  all 
steps  of  the  fuel  cycle.  We  welcome  the  Agency’s 
assistance  to  countries  embarking  on  or  expanding 
their existing nuclear power programmes in developing 
appropriate infrastructure, facilitating human capacity-
building and strengthening relevant regulatory systems. 
We  also  hope  that  the  Agency  will  continue  to  assist 
member  States  in  improving  their  national  radiation, 
its  disposal 
human 
from 
10-62124 

25 

of 
the 
integrity 
resolution  of 
in  North-East  Asia,  but  also 
A/65/PV.46 

transport and waste safety infrastructure and capacity-
building. In order to continue promoting nuclear safety 
learning  and  cooperation  on  a  global  and  regional 
basis,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  in  cooperation  with  the 
Agency,  is  offering  overseas  training  and  graduate 
courses in specific fields, such as site selection, design, 
construction  and  operation  through  the  International 
Nuclear Safety School of the Korea Institute of Nuclear 
Safety. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the 

peaceful 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  nuclear  issue  is  vital  not  only  to 
securing  lasting  peace  and  prosperity  on  the  Korean 
peninsula  and 
to 
preserving 
international 
the 
non-proliferation regime. 

We  welcome  the  adoption  of  a  resolution  on  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  at  the  IAEA 
General  Conference  in  September,  as  well  as  the  fact 
that  the  IAEA  is  continuing  to  engage  in  the  matter 
despite the absence of Agency inspectors in Yongbyon, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The  2009 
annual  report  underlined  once  again  that  the  Agency 
has  been  unable  to  implement  safeguards  in  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
since 
December  2002  and  is  therefore  not  in  a  position  to 
draw any safeguards conclusions regarding the country. 

However,  the  absence  of  IAEA  inspectors  does 
not  mean  that  there  is  nothing  for  the  Agency  to  do 
there.  On 
the  emphasis 
repeatedly  placed  by  Director  General  Amano  on  the 
authority of Security Council resolutions regarding the 
implementation  of  the Agency’s  safeguards  agreement 
with  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea. 
Although  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
is  currently  refusing  to  cooperate  with  the  IAEA,  my 
delegation  hopes  that  the  Agency  will  be  able  to 
resume an active role in the process of denuclearizing 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  has  consistently  held  the 
position  that  all  States  that  have  not  yet  ratified  or 
acceded  to  the  NPT  should  immediately  do  so  as 
non-nuclear-weapon  States  in  order  to  achieve  the 
Treaty’s  universality.  The  Republic  of  Korea 
is 
committed to the NPT’s goal of a world free of nuclear 
weapons  and  supports  international  efforts  to  bring 
about  progress  in  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear-
weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East.  We  therefore 
this  point,  we  welcome 
of 
for 
26 

10-62124 
in 
the 
reaffirmation  at 
welcome 
the  2010  Review 
Conference of the Parties to the NPT of the importance 
of the 1995  Middle East resolution  and the agreement 
to  convene  a  conference  in  2012  to  discuss  its 
implementation.  We  hope  to  find  the  best  way  to 
sustain  momentum  towards  the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East  by 
building  upon  the  outcome  of  the  2010  NPT  Review 
Conference.  It  is  our  firm  belief  that  the  IAEA, 
bolstered  by  a  spirit  of  confidence  and  compromise, 
will  play  a  facilitating  role 
the  process  of 
establishing the Middle East as a  zone free of nuclear 
weapons. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
reiterate  its  support  for  the  work  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  and  that  it  is  pleased  to 
co-sponsor draft  resolution A/65/L.10 on the  report of 
the IAEA. 
Mr.  Langeland  (Norway):  Norway  is  pleased  to 

co-sponsor  the  draft  resolution  (A/65/L.10)  on  the 
report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) (see A/65/140). My Government attaches great 
importance to the IAEA. Besides being a key guardian 
of our collective non-proliferation regime, the IAEA is 
an important partner in promoting social and economic 
development while ensuring the safety and security of 
peaceful  nuclear  programmes.  Through  its  extensive 
technical  cooperation  programme, 
is 
providing  assistance 
in 
promoting  health,  food  security  and  environmental 
monitoring.  As  such,  the  Agency  plays  an  important 
role  in  contributing  to  the  achievement  of  the  United 
Nations Millennium Development Goals. 
Nuclear  non-proliferation  and  disarmament  are 

closely 
the  goal  of 
eliminating  nuclear  weapons,  as  set  out  by  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT), 
unless  there  is  confidence  in  the  integrity  of  the 
non-proliferation  regime.  The  Final  Document  of  the 
2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  NPT 
(NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)) contains clear commitments 
on  both  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  It  is  vital 
that  we  provide  the  Agency  with  the  legal  tools 
necessary  to  implement  its  non-proliferation  mandate. 
call 
Norway 
the 
universalization 
comprehensive 
safeguards agreements and the additional protocol. It is 
only  through  the  full  implementation  of  these  two 
instruments  that  the  Agency  will  be  able  to  conclude 
the  Agency 
to  developing  countries 
linked.  We  cannot  achieve 
its 
IAEA 
reiterates 
therefore 
the 
issues 
has  made 
in  support  of 
substantial 
the  IAEA’s  work 


that  nuclear  activity  in  any  given  country  is  for 
peaceful  purposes  only.  Norway  also  urges  all 
countries  with  outstanding  proliferation 
to 
cooperate  fully  with  the  Agency  in  resolving  these 
matters  and  in  demonstrating  the  entirely  peaceful 
nature of their nuclear programmes. 

The NPT Review Conference also underlined the 
importance of international cooperation with regard to 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. It should be noted that 
the  majority  of  countries  around  the  world,  including 
Norway, do not produce electricity from nuclear power 
plants. But we recognize that, as the demand for energy 
increases, more countries may come to identify nuclear 
energy  as  an  attractive  option.  The  role  of  the  IAEA 
would  then  become  even  more  critical  in  the  years  to 
come. 
voluntary 

Norway 
contributions 
in 
strengthening nuclear safety and security in developing 
countries,  and  to  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear  fuel 
bank.  It  is  imperative  that  we,  the  member  States, 
provide  sufficient  and  predictable  funding  so  that  the 
Agency  can  fulfil  its  important  mandate.  Equally 
important  is  that  the  international  community  should 
demonstrate  full  political  support  to  the  IAEA.  My 
delegation  expects  that  the  draft  resolution  before  us 
today will be adopted by consensus. 
Mr. Abay  (Ethiopia):  Let  me  begin  by  thanking 

Ambassador  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  the 
report (see A/65/140) he presented on the work of the 
Agency.  My  delegation  would  also  like  to  express  its 
support  for  the  draft  resolution  (A/65/L.10)  on  the 
IAEA’s annual report. 
Ethiopia  strongly  believes  that  the  work  of  the 

IAEA for the safe, secure and peaceful uses of nuclear 
science and technology is a paramount contribution to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
We  acknowledge  that  the  Agency’s  growing  role  in 
promoting the socio-economic development of member 
States  through  its  technical  cooperation  is  bringing 
tangible  progress  to  our  efforts  to  reduce  poverty  and 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  this 
regard,  my  delegation  would  like  to  commend  the 
activities of the IAEA in assisting member States in the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
the 
development  of  effective  and  efficient  programmes 
aimed  at 
technological  and 
improving  scientific, 
through 
energy 
A/65/PV.46
the 
in 
It 
that 
Pan-African  Tsetse 
is  worth  mentioning 
regulatory  capabilities.  It  is  obvious  that  the  IAEA’s 
programme  has  helped  many  countries  meet  energy 
needs,  improve  health,  combat  poverty,  protect  the 
environment,  develop  agricultural  sectors,  manage 
water  resources  and  optimize  industrial  processes. 
Hence,  there  is  sufficient  reason  to  believe  that  all 
these  have  contributed  considerable  support  to  our 
efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 

My  country  is  one  of  the  States  benefiting  from 
the  IAEA’s  activities  under  the  Agency’s  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme.  Our  major  project  with  the 
Agency is aimed at eradicating the tsetse fly  from the 
Southern  Rift  Valley  regions  of  Ethiopia  with  an 
integrated  pest  management  approach.  The  project  is 
currently  being  implemented  within  the  framework  of 
the 
and  Trypanosomiasis 
Eradication  Campaign  initiative,  with  the  support  of 
the  African  Development  Bank  together  with  the 
Ethiopian Government. 

technical 
cooperation  between  Ethiopia  and  the  Agency  in  the 
area  of  human  health  has  also  resulted 
the 
establishment  of  a  modest  national  infrastructure  for 
the  application  of  nuclear  medicine  and  radiotherapy. 
Our  technical  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  to  apply 
isotope techniques in managing our water resources is 
also  well  under  way.  I  would,  however,  like  to  call 
upon the Agency to continue its efforts, particularly to 
support  Ethiopia  and  other  developing  countries  in 
combating  cancer  through  sustainable  cancer  therapy 
programmes by implementing more integrated national 
and regional programmes. 

My  delegation  is  also  most  appreciative  to  the 
IAEA for dedicating this year’s Scientific Forum to the 
theme  “Cancer  in  developing  countries:  Facing  the 
challenge”. We consider the Forum to be an important 
medium  in  consolidating  the  global  effort  to  address 
the ever-growing problem of cancer. It is also our firm 
belief  that  the  forum  will  come  up  with  relevant 
outcomes that will enhance the efforts of the IAEA and 
its member States in addressing this health hazard. 

We  firmly  believe  that  we  must  assure  the 
Agency’s  programmes  of  sufficient  and  predictable 
resources 
a  balanced 
distribution  of 
the  Agency’s 
activities  relating  to  safeguards,  nuclear  safety  and 
technical cooperation. Ethiopia is also of the view that 
the  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  is  playing  a 
and,  more 
those 
importantly, 
to 
resources 
10-62124 

27 

and 
respecting  global 
A/65/PV.46 

crucial  role  in  transferring  nuclear  technology  to 
developing countries. 

As  a  representative  of  one  of  the  founding 
members  of  the  Agency,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm 
Ethiopia’s  commitment  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
technology  by 
regional 
instruments that are designed to control radioactive and 
other  nuclear  materials  by  promoting  the  peaceful  use 
of nuclear applications. 

In conclusion, allow me to reiterate our profound 
appreciation  to  the  IAEA,  particularly  its  Board  of 
Governors, for its dedication to strengthening essential 
technical  cooperation  activities  between  the  Agency 
and  my  country.  Ethiopia  will  continue  to  do  its  level 
best to enhance this positive spirit of cooperation with 
the  Agency,  as  well  as  with  all  the  development 
partners  that  have  so  far  made  generous  contributions 
to our development endeavours in this domain. 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): Today, 

the  General  Assembly  was  briefed  by  Mr.  Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency on the Agency’s main activities for the 
year  2009.  His  informative  report  (see  A/65/140) 
indicates that the Agency is developing its activities in 
many areas of nuclear technology in the interests of the 
human community. 
The IAEA was established with the basic purpose 

of  accelerating  and  enhancing  the  contribution  of 
atomic  energy  to  peace,  health  and  development 
throughout the world. The Agency has therefore a real 
responsibility,  now  more  than  ever  before,  to  assist 
member States in using nuclear energy effectively and 
efficiently for peaceful purposes. 

Nuclear  energy  today  has  found  an  important 
place in everyday human life. Today, atomic energy is 
widely  used  in  agriculture,  industry  and  medicine,  in 
particular  cancer  treatment.  The  use  of  atomic  energy 
and its advanced applications, especially in the field of 
renewable sources of energy, has increased on a broad 
scale.  

Despite  the  global  economic  crisis  in  2009,  as 
reported  by  the  Agency,  both  energy  demand  and 
interest  in  nuclear  power  continue  to  grow.  The 
increasing  construction  and  operation  of  nuclear 
reactors  in  electricity  production  around  the  globe 
indicate that more and more States are pursuing nuclear 
energy as a component of their energy mix in the new 
role  of 
the  Agency 
in 
information 
The  essential 
to  use  nuclear  energy 
century.  The  new  global  trend  towards  decreasing  the 
use  of  fossil  fuel  and  the  encouragement  of  States  to 
adopt clean-air policies are yet added incentives for the 
further  development  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes. 

the 
development  of  activities  to  enhance  the  capacity  of 
member  States 
is  also 
acknowledged  by  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  which  in  its  article  IV 
imposes an obligation on States parties to facilitate the 
fullest  possible  exchange  of  equipment,  materials  and 
technological 
for  peaceful  purposes. 
Furthermore,  States  parties  are  urged  to  enhance  their 
cooperation  in  developing  nuclear  energy  without 
discrimination or restriction. 

Unfortunately,  the  level  of  cooperation  with 
developing nations on the part of the countries that are 
the  main  suppliers  of  nuclear  high  technology  has  yet 
to  be  promising.  Indeed,  nuclear  cooperation  between 
the suppliers and recipients has always been marked by 
restriction, hindrance and disruption. Furthermore, it is 
an  unfortunate  fact  that  being  a  party  to  the  NPT  and 
the  IAEA  safeguards  agreement  not  only  has  not 
facilitated  the  nuclear  cooperation  between  States 
parties prescribed under the Treaty, but has even served 
to create impediments to the peaceful uses of energy. It 
is  even  true  that  non-parties  are  more  richly  rewarded 
with  nuclear  cooperation  than  are  States  parties.  The 
recent trend of bypassing NPT obligations, particularly 
by  the  Nuclear  Suppliers  Group  when  it  cooperates 
with  non-NPT  parties,  which  could  lead  to  more 
proliferation, is a dangerous development. 

Israeli  clandestine  nuclear 
activities,  which  are  completely  outside  any  IAEA 
monitoring,  nuclear  exchanges  and 
transfers  of 
advanced nuclear materials, equipment and technology, 
facilitated  by  the  United  States  and  its  partners,  have 
the 
contributed  and  continue 
proliferation  activities  of 
is 
endangering global and regional peace and security. If 
anything,  failure  to  accept  the  NPT  and  safeguard 
obligations  should  burden  outsiders  to  the  NPT  with 
the  most  severe  restrictions,  rather  than  provide  them 
with impunity. 

The  189  States  parties  to  the  NPT  at  the  2010 
Review  Conference,  aware  of  the  threat  posed  by 
Israel’s 
the 
to  contribute 
that  regime,  which 
secret  nuclear 
In 
the  case  of 
to 
activities, 
recalled 
28 

10-62124 
by 
consensus 
conclusions 
to 
strengthen 
Programme; 
What  has  been  done  by  the  IAEA  on  this 


reaffirmation  by  the  2000  NPT  Review  Conference  of 
the  importance  of  Israel’s  accession  to  the Treaty  and 
the  placement  of  all 
its  nuclear  facilities  under 
comprehensive  IAEA  safeguards  and  called  on  that 
regime,  the  only  non-party  to  the  NPT  in  the  Middle 
East, to accede to the Treaty as a non-nuclear-weapon 
party at an early date. 

important issue? The answer is disappointing. 
In  addition,  the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference 

and 
adopted 
recommendations for follow-up actions, some of which 
relate  directly  to  the  Agency’s  activities.  In  this 
context,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  the  Conference 
called for continued efforts within the IAEA to enhance 
the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of 
its  Technical 
Cooperation 
the 
Programme’s  capacity 
to  assist  developing  States 
parties  in  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy;  and  to 
take  practical  steps  to  ensure  that  IAEA  resources  for 
technical  cooperation  activities  are  sufficient,  assured 
and predictable. In today’s presentation by the Agency, 
we expected to hear the Agency’s future plans on such 
important issues. 

One of the neglected tasks of the IAEA involves 
its  involvement  in  the  nuclear  disarmament  process. 
The  IAEA  Statute  stipulates  that  the  Agency  should 
conduct  its  activities  “furthering  the  establishment  of 
safeguarded  worldwide  disarmament”.  The  2010  NPT 
Review  Conference  adopted,  however  insufficiently, 
certain  actions 
the 
Conference  resolved  that  the  nuclear-weapon  States 
would  commit  to  declaring  to  the  IAEA  all  fissile 
material  designated  by  each  of  them  as  no  longer 
required for military purposes; to placing such material 
as  soon  as  practicable  under  IAEA  or  other  relevant 
international  verification; 
the 
disposition of such material for peaceful purposes; and 
to  ensuring  that  such  material  remains  permanently 
outside military programmes. 

In this context, all States were encouraged by the 
Conference  to  support  the  development  of  appropriate 
legally  binding  verification  arrangements  within  the 
context of the IAEA in order to ensure the irreversible 
removal of fissile material designated by each nuclear-
weapon  State  as  no  longer  required  for  military 
purposes.  The  Conference  also  called  for  the  wider 
to  arranging 
in 
this  regard.  For 
instance, 
for 
10-62124 

A/65/PV.46
application  of  safeguards  to  peaceful  nuclear  facilities 
in the nuclear-weapon States. 

The  question  now  is: What  is  the Agency’s  plan 
in  this  important  area?  It  is  obvious  that  the  Agency 
needs to be more active in that regard. 

In conclusion, since reference was made to Iran’s 
peaceful  programme,  I  would  like  to  point  out  the 
following.  While  all  of  the  IAEA  reports  repeatedly 
confirm  that  the  Agency  continues  to  verify  the 
non-diversion  of  declared  nuclear  material  in  Iran,  it 
seems  that  the  Agency’s  recent  reports  have  been 
prepared  under  pressure  from  outside,  using  unusual 
language with regard to the safeguards obligations. The 
Agency  has  to  basically  confirm  that  it  has  already 
verified non-diversion of the declared nuclear material; 
that all  declared nuclear material is  accounted  for  and 
continues to be used for peaceful purposes, as already 
reported  by  the Agency’s  inspectors;  and  that  that  has 
always been the case over the past several years. 

Reporting  so  much  technical  detail  about  Iran’s 
peaceful  nuclear  activities  proves  that  the Agency  has 
full  access  to  all  nuclear  material  and  facilities  in  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  including  through  frequent 
inspections  through  the  Agency’s  containment  and 
surveillance  efforts.  Therefore,  claiming  that  Iran  has 
not provided the necessary cooperation is incorrect and 
misleading.  It  has  to  be  noted  that  additional  requests 
are  beyond  the  provisions  of  the  NPT  comprehensive 
safeguards  and  that  they  have  been  made  under  the 
pretext of illegal resolutions of the Security Council. 
As a last point, I should reiterate that the people 

and  Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  are 
determined to exercise their inalienable right to nuclear 
technology for peaceful purposes and to build on their 
own scientific advances in developing various peaceful 
aspects  of  this  technology,  including  the  fuel  cycle. 
Iran  is  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to  its  obligations 
under  the  NPT  and  does  not  request  anything  more 
than being allowed to exercise its inalienable rights. 

In  the  meantime,  we  have  always  declared  our 
readiness for talks based on justice and mutual respect. 
Just  recently,  Iran  welcomed  the  return  of  the  5+1 
group to the talks. In a reply letter from the Head of the 
Office  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Supreme  National 
Security  Council  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  the 
willingness of the 5+1 group to return to the talks with 
Iran was acknowledged and appreciated. In that letter, 
the  desire  to  resume  talks  on  the  basis  of  Mr.  Jalili’s 
29 
to 
the  floor 
the  speaker 
Before  giving 
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
A/65/PV.46 

letter 
to  Ms.  Ashton,  dated  6  July  2010,  from 
10 November  2010  on  and  in  a  place  and  on  a  date 
convenient  to  both  sides,  was  reiterated.  We  are 
waiting  to  see  the  other  parties  demonstrate  their 
goodwill  and  real  intention  to  engage  in  meaningful 
and successful talks. 

speaker in the debate on this item. 

A/65/L.10. 

in 
explanation  of  vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
Mr. Kim Yong Jo (Democratic People’s Republic 

of  Korea): The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea would like to explain its position on 
draft  resolution  A/65/L.10,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”. 

The  report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  (see  A/65/140)  and  IAEA  General 
Conference  resolution  GC(54)/RES/12  of  September 
2010 show that the IAEA persists in its unfair attitude 
towards the nuclear issue  of the Korean  peninsula. As 
already  clarified  in  so  many  cases  and  on  so  many 
occasions, the nuclear issue of the Korean peninsula is 
the direct outcome of the hostile nuclear threat policies 
of  the  United  States  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  For  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  the  nuclear  threat  goes  beyond 
abstract  notions  to  practical  experiences.  The  nuclear 
issue  was  created  by  the  introduction  of  nuclear 
weapons  into  the  Korean  peninsula  by  the  United 
States  in  the  late  1950s.  Its  nuclear  threat  against  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea lasted for more 
than a half century. 

As  everybody  knows  well,  no  conventional 
weapon represents a deterrence to any kind of nuclear 
threat  from  a  third  party.  The  nuclear  threat  from  the 
United States has, in a word, resulted in the creation of 
our nuclear deterrence. 

the 
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, what is most 
important is to build confidence between both sides — 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the 
United States, which are the main parties to the nuclear 
the  process  of 
In  order 
to 
revive 

issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  Confidence-building 
between  both  sides  — 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea and the United States — is urgent as 
it has become the master key to addressing the present 
issue. 

To  this  end,  first  of  all,  a  peace  treaty  aimed  at 
putting  an  end  to  the  state  of  ceasefire  between  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United 
States  should  be  concluded,  if  possible,  as  soon  as 
possible.  The  conclusion  of  a  peace  treaty  is  the  best 
way  to  realize  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean 
peninsula.  If  durable  peace  mechanisms  had  been  set 
up earlier on the Korean peninsula, neither the nuclear 
nor  the  denuclearization  issue  would  have  arisen. The 
conclusion of peace treaties will certainly help to ease 
the  present  confrontations  between  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States  and 
accelerate  the  process  of  the  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean peninsula. 

As  long  as  the  IAEA  continues  either  to  take 
measures or to adopt resolutions that take up the issues 
from only one side, while unfairly turning its face from 
the  real  nature  of  the  issues,  it  will  never  resolve  the 
nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  Proceeding 
from 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  strongly 
opposes  resolution  GC(54)/RES/12  concerning  the 
nuclear  issue  of  the  Korea  peninsula,  adopted  at  the 
General Conference of the IAEA on 24 September. 

With  regard  to  the  argument  of  Japan  and  South 
Korea  concerning  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean 
peninsula,  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  totally  rejects  in  strong  terms  their 
allegations  because  they  are  entirely  based  on  their 
intentional  misunderstanding  and  neglect  of  the  root 
cause of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. 

speaker in explanation of vote before the vote. 

resolution A/65/L.10. 

the 
like 
introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  Georgia  and  the 
Republic of Zambia have become sponsors. 

draft resolution A/65/L.10? 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
this  point  of  view, 
the  delegation  of 
to  announce 
that,  since 
I  should 
30 

10-62124 



resolution  A/65/L.10  was 
Draft 
(resolution 65/9). 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 
adopted

wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 87? 

It was so decided. 


Programme of work 
The Acting President (spoke in French): Before 

adjourning the meeting, I would like to inform Member 
States  that  consideration  of  agenda  item  69,  entitled 
“Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian and  

A/65/PV.46
Also, 
the  United  Nations, 
disaster  relief  assistance  of 
including  special  economic  assistance”,  and 
its 
sub-items (a) to (d), which was scheduled for Monday, 
15 November 2010, has been postponed to a later date 
to be announced. 

on 
the 
development, under agenda item 115, entitled “Follow-
up to the outcome of the  Millennium Summit”, which 
was scheduled to take place on Monday, 22 November 
2010,  has  been  postponed  to  a  date  in  the  resumed 
session, to be announced. 


  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. 
specific  meeting 
focused 
10-62124 

31 
