
A/65/PV.50
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

50th plenary meeting 
Friday, 12 November 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
to 
us 
closer 
undoubtedly  move 
gave  up  the  practice  of  establishing  a  compilation  of 
adopted  decisions  and  resolutions,  along  with  the 
rather  factual  description  of  the  Council’s  work.  That 
will 
the 
recommendations made by Member States in favour of 
a more analytical report. In the same vein, the General 
Assembly still expects to see special thematic reports, 
to  be  submitted  to  it  periodically  by  the  Security 
Council, mainly on issues of international interest. 

My  delegation  recognizes  the  sizeable  workload 
undertaken  by  the  Security  Council  during  the  period 
of  time  covered  by  the  report,  particularly  as  regards 
regions  facing  tensions  and  instability,  whether  in 
Africa or in other parts of the world. We also take note 
of the field visits by members of the Security Council, 
which  give  them  a  first-hand  assessment  of  situations 
that  affect  international  peace  and  security  and  need 
urgent action by the Council. The report clearly shows 
that  the  Council  acted  with  determination  in  dealing 
with a large number of conflicts around the world. That 
will  certainly  confirm  the  Council’s  authority  in 
maintaining international peace and security. 
However,  the  Council’s  efforts  continue  to  fall 

short of our expectations when it comes to the situation 
in  the  Middle  East.  The  frustration  caused  by  the 
inability  of  the  Council  to  get  further  involved  in 
solving 
its 
responsibility  in  that  regard  does  not  help  to  remove 
that  threat,  which  looms  over  the  region  and  damages 
the authority of the Council itself. 
issue  and  honouring 
the  Palestinian 





  The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 



Agenda items 29 and 119 (continued)
Report of the Security Council (A/65/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 
Mr. Khalfallah (Tunisia): At the outset, allow me 

to  convey  to  you,  Mr.  President,  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  including  the  item  pertaining  to  the 
reform of the Security Council on your list of priorities 
during  the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Rest assured that my delegation will spare no effort to 
help  move  forward  any  action  aimed  at  securing  a 
positive  outcome  to  that  process.  Tunisia  also  aligns 
itself with the statements made yesterday on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement and the African Group. 

First  of  all,  with  regard  to  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/65/2),  I  would  like  to  thank  His 
Excellency the Permanent Representative of the United 
Kingdom  and  Northern  Ireland  for  presenting  this 
year’s  Council  report.  For  the  majority  of  Member 
States,  in  particular  those  that  are  not  members  of  the 
Council,  the  review  of  that  document  by  the  General 
Assembly  is  the  only  occasion  to  assess  the  Council’s 
activities  in  depth  and  to  identify  measures  worth 
taking to improve its methods of work. 

My delegation is of the view that there are indeed 
improvements that could be agreed upon regarding the 
preparation  of  the  report  and  that  it  is  high  time  we 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-63473 (E) 
*1063473* 


to 
With  regard 
the  reform  of 
A/65/PV.50 


We  are  convinced  that  there  remains  a  long  way 
to  go  to  make  the  Council’s  work  more  transparent, 
which  would  ensure  all  delegations  a  wider  access  to 
information,  particularly  those  delegations  that  have 
national items inscribed on the Council’s agenda. 

the  Security 
Council, my delegation commends the new stage in the 
process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  based  on 
Member  States’  proposals,  which  is  organized  in  an 
open, inclusive and transparent manner and the aim of 
which is to identify an outcome that enjoys the widest 
political agreement among Member States. I would like 
to  express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  and  thanks  to 
His  Excellency 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan  for  so  ably  conducting  the  negotiations 
and  for  the  documents  that  he  and  his  team  have 
submitted to us. 

My  delegation  believes  that  the  Council  must 
reflect  the  political  and  economic  reality  of  today’s 
world.  The  Council  must  be  equipped  with 
the 
necessary  legitimacy  in  order  to  act  on  behalf  of  the 
international community as a whole, while fulfilling its 
mandate 
the  United  Nations 
Charter. Also, my delegation believes that the final aim 
of  any  reform  should  be  to  strengthen  equitable 
representation  within  the  Council,  and,  hence,  its 
credibility and efficiency. Those objectives can only be 
achieved  through  the  Council’s  enlargement,  notably, 
in favour of developing countries. 

In  that  context,  Tunisia  firmly  supports  the 
African Union’s common position, as expressed in the 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. We are 
convinced that it is high time for the current situation 
to  be  corrected,  as  the  African  continent  has  been 
prevented  from  occupying  a  well-deserved  seat  in  the 
Council.  We  will  support  any  proposal  that  gives 
developing  countries,  particularly  from  Africa,  the 
place in the Security Council that is theirs. 

In  conclusion,  we  believe  that  for  the  Security 
Council  to  continue  enjoying  the  trust  of  all  Member 
States and world public opinion, it has to demonstrate 
its  efficiency  in  tackling  the  most  difficult  issues  and 
has,  equally,  to  become  more  representative  of  the 
international community. 
Mr.  Kit  (Malaysia):  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to 

align  my  delegation  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, of which Malaysia is a member. 
in  conformity  with 
follows.  Thus, 
if  not 

Malaysia  takes  this  opportunity  to  extend  its 
appreciation  to  the  Security  Council  for  convening  a 
special  meeting  of  the  Council  simply  to  discuss,  and 
subsequently  adopt,  the  draft  report  of  the  Council  to 
the General Assembly, which we now have before us as 
document A/65/2.  We  note,  however,  that  the  number 
of meetings that the Security Council held in this past 
reporting  period  has  decreased  to  191  meetings  from 
228  meetings  in  the  previous  year,  and  that  compared 
to  the  205  public  meetings  in  the  previous  year,  only 
168 meetings were open this past year to non-Council 
members. In terms of statistics, that represents a 2 per 
cent  drop  in  the  ratio  of  public  meetings  to  total 
meetings  held  by  the  Council,  meaning  that,  this  past 
year, the Council held more closed meetings than it did 
in the previous year. 

As we well know, the Council will take decisions 
regardless  of  whether  an  open  meeting  or  a  closed 
meeting  has  been  held.  However,  for  those  Member 
States  who  are  not  on  the  Council,  an  open  debate 
allows  our  views  also  to  be  aired  and  heard  and 
hopefully  taken  into  account  in  the  decision-making 
process 
that 
sake  of 
transparency,  more  public 
inclusiveness, 
meetings should be held by the 15-member Council. 

its 
to  express 
appreciation  to  the  past  presidencies  for  the  Council 
that  have  held  briefings  for  interested  Member  States 
on  the  programme  of  work  of  the  Council.  Those 
briefings  have  been 
insightful  and  very  much 
welcomed,  as  they  allow  other  Member  States  the 
opportunity 
the 
preoccupations  of  the  Council  for  that  particular 
month.  We  hope 
that  such  briefings  will  be  a 
permanent  fixture  in  the  working  methods  of  the 
Council,  rather  than  just  a  practice  carried  out  at  the 
discretion of the President of the Council. 

On 22 April 2010, under the presidency of Japan, 
the  Security  Council  held  an  open  debate  on  the 
implementation  of  the  note  by  the  President  of  the 
Security Council contained in document S/2006/507, in 
which  Malaysia  participated  (see  S/PV.6300).  We 
requested  then  that  the  transcripts  of  the  closed-door 
briefings  by 
the 
Secretary-General to the Council be made available to 
Member  States 
interest  of  disseminating 
information. Today, we renew that call, and hope that, 
in time, the briefings by the Secretariat to the Council 
to  Member  States 
will  become  more 
the  Special  Representatives  of 
to  obtain  clarification 
Malaysia  would  also 
transparent 
regarding 
in 
the 
for 
the 
like 
2 

10-63473 
the  agent  acts  must  be  kept  within 


outside the Council. After all, Article 24 empowers the 
Council  to  act  on  Member  States’  behalf,  and  it 
logically follows therefore that the principal actors for 
whom 
the 
information loop. 

Malaysia remembers  a time when the Secretariat 
provided daily briefings to Council members to update 
the  Council  on  what  was  happening  around  the  world 
in  terms  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
understand  that  that  practice  has  now  been  largely 
discontinued.  Even  though  the  advent  of  information 
technology  means  that  members  of  the  Council  can 
easily  find  out  for  themselves  what  the  threats  to 
international  peace  and  security  of  the  day  are,  alerts 
provided  by  the  Secretariat  could  still  prove  to  be 
invaluable  in  drawing  the  attention  of  the  Council  to 
potential problem hotspots. Therefore, Malaysia would 
suggest that the morning briefings and the discussions 
that used to follow them be reinstated. 

When  Member  States  agreed,  at  the  end  of  the 
sixty-second  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  to 
establish  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform, Malaysia was one of the countries that 
rejoiced  about  this  progressive  step  forward.  The 
discussions  and  deliberations  on  Security  Council 
reform  were  moved  a  step  up,  from  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the 
Security Council to the informal plenary of the General 
Assembly. It seemed, at the time, that we were getting 
somewhere in the 14-year discourse. 
Today,  after  two  years  of  negotiating  in  the 

intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  seem 
to  have 
reached  an  impasse.  We  thank  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss, 
for  his  initiative  in  convening  an  informal  meeting  of 
the  General  Assembly  to  discuss  the  way  forward  in 
the  negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  also 
thank  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  for  keeping  at  the 
process,  displaying  infinite  patience  with  the  way  the 
process  has  been  moving  and  maintaining  a  certain 
level  of  calmness  even  under  the  most  intense  of 
pressures. 

This  past  year,  Member  States  have  been 
involved  in  discussing  the  composite  text,  which  is 
essentially a compilation of all the various viewpoints 
regarding 
and 
Security  Council 
enlargement 
A/65/PV.50
elimination 
process,  where 
modalities. We  have  not  been  negotiating  the  text,  we 
have  simply  been  reiterating  the  same  positions  over 
and  over  again.  This  is  the  United  Nations,  where 
resolutions are negotiated all the time. Why should the 
reform of the Council be any different from the normal 
negotiation 
and 
compromise  are key? The  United Nations Charter is a 
man-made  document.  We  should  therefore  be  able  to 
come to an agreement to change it for the better when 
it  threatens  to  make  the  Organization  irrelevant  and 
expendable. 

Enough is enough. We need to stop this game of 
rhetoric  that  we  have  been  drawn  into  in  negotiating 
the  question  of  equitable  geographical  representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council.  The  last  time  that  we  enlarged  the  Security 
Council,  in  1965,  there  were  117  members  of  the 
United  Nations.  Today,  we  are  looking  at  a  family  of 
192,  representing  a  64  per  cent  increase  in  the  total 
membership  from  45  years  ago,  and  yet  the  Security 
Council has not undergone the same transformation as 
the General Assembly. 

The  African  continent,  which  counts  53  nations 
within  its  regional  grouping,  remains  unrepresented 
within  the  permanent  membership  of  the  Security 
Council.  The  United  Nations  was  meant  to  correct 
injustice,  not  propagate  it.  If  that  is  so,  then  the  steps 
towards  ensuring  justice  must  begin  at  home,  here  at 
United Nations Headquarters, by enlarging the Council 
to reflect the realities of the day, rather than the glory 
of  history.  Democracy  must  begin  with  us,  which 
means  that  no  nation  should  be  able  to  gainsay  the 
express will of the majority. There should be a practice 
of  one  country,  one  vote,  the  way  democracy  was 
meant to be. 

As  we  turn  the  page  into  the  second  decade  of 
this new millennium, we need to display more political 
will and strength to ensure that the United Nations can 
change with the times. We need to be more proactive, 
and  we  need  to  be  more  inclusive.  My  delegation 
remains committed to following any road that will lead 
us to progress in this fight for equality and justice. We 
know we are not alone in this endeavour. 
Ms.  Nyamudeza  (Zimbabwe):  We  welcome  the 

opportunity  to  participate  in  this  joint  debate.  My 
delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made  by 
Sierra Leone on behalf of the African Group and of the 
10-63473 

3 
its  partnership  with 
A/65/PV.50 

representatives of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

In  the  recent  past,  the  Security  Council  has 
witnessed  a  substantial  increase  in  the  range  of  issues 
brought  before  it  for  its  consideration.  My  delegation 
welcomes  the  role  of  the  Council  in  the  resolution  of 
conflicts  in  the  world,  particularly  in  Africa.  In  that 
regard,  we  support  the  efforts  of  the  Council  to 
enhance 
the  African  Union. 
Regional  organizations,  including  the  African  Union, 
are increasingly becoming essential building blocks in 
global  security  systems.  We  share  the  view  that 
regional  organizations  are  better  placed  to  deal  with 
peace  and  security  challenges  in  their  respective 
regions  and  should  therefore  be  supported  and  not 
undermined. That should be translated into practice and 
not simply remain easy prose. 

The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  places  a 
significant  responsibility  on  the  Security  Council  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
That  responsibility  gives  the  Council  a  far-reaching 
impact on the lives of many people all over the world. 
The ability of the Council to act fairly, effectively and 
responsibly will provide important reassurance  for  the 
international community that its concerns in the area of 
peace and security are being adequately addressed. We 
share the view that the Council needs to ensure that its 
decisions largely reflect the concerns and aspirations of 
the  general  membership.  In  that  regard,  we  call  for 
democratization  of 
increased 
transparency  in  action  and  the  co-option  of  different 
ideas, interests and sensitivities. 

My  delegation  views  with  concern  the  tendency 
of  the  Council  to  make  decisions  on  issues  that 
impinge  on  the  wider  membership  of  the  United 
Nations  without  taking  into  account  the  views  of  the 
States concerned. In that regard, we are also concerned 
about  the  Council’s  increased  resort  to  Chapter  VII 
resolutions  and  enforcement  actions,  even  on  matters 
that 
through  multilateral 
cooperation. We call on the Council to ensure adequate 
opportunity  for  the  views  of  the  wider  membership  to 
be  heard.  While  we  welcome  the  Council’s  efforts  to 
improve  its  openness  to  non-members  of  the  Council, 
we 
and 
communication. We reiterate that true effectiveness on 
the  part  of  the  Council,  as  well  as  respect  for  its 
decisions,  can  be  achieved  only 
larger 
their 
membership  believes 
the  existing  order, 
the 
represents 
transparency 
that  body 
resolved 
increase 
better 
urge 
if 
are 
it 
to 

their 
clear 
expressed 
reforming 
preference 
the  permanent  and 
the  Security  Council 
interests.  Attempts  by  some  to  recover  lost  imperial 
glory  through  abuse  of  the  Council  are  repugnant  to 
many Members. 
The  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States 

have 
for 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  That 
the  Council  as  it  is  does  not  represent  the  current 
realities  of  the  twenty-first  century  is  no  longer 
debatable.  This  debate  therefore  offers  us  a  timely 
opportunity  not  only  to  take  stock  of  and  monitor  our 
progress, but also to state and exchange viewpoints that 
may  well  facilitate  greater  understanding  of  various 
positions in our collective  efforts to move the process 
of 
forward. 
Zimbabwe’s position is guided by the common African 
position laid out in the Ezulwini Consensus. 

My  delegation  is  greatly  encouraged  by  the 
growing  acceptance  of  and  agreement  on  the  need  for 
expansion  of  both 
the  non-
permanent categories of the Council’s membership. An 
expanded  Council  will  enjoy  fresh  perspectives  in  its 
deliberations  and  broader  alliances  in  its  decision-
making,  which  is,  after  all,  the  purpose  of  our 
exercise —  to  make  the  Council  more  representative, 
legitimate  and  credible.  Going  forward,  Zimbabwe  is 
of the view that expanding both categories is essential 
in order to meet the needs and accommodate the views 
of the majority of Member States. It is also essential to 
maintain a balanced ratio between the two categories of 
the Council’s membership. 

In  that  connection,  Zimbabwe,  like  many  other 
Member  States,  has  consistently  advocated 
for 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We 
have  underscored  time  and  again  the  need  for  the 
Council  to  reflect  current  political  realities,  with 
special  emphasis  on  granting  developing  countries, 
particularly  those  on  the African  continent,  their  long 
overdue 
in  both 
membership categories of the Council. In that regard, I 
wish  to  reiterate  my  country’s  support  for  Africa’s 
continuing  demand  for  two  permanent  seats  on  an 
expanded  Council,  with 
the  same  powers  and 
prerogatives  as  those  of  current  members,  and  five 
non-permanent  seats.  We  feel  those  are  reasonable 
the  principle  of  democratic 
demands,  based  on 
representation  allotted  proportionally  among 
the 
regions. Such an arrangement would also go some way 
towards  redressing  the  historic  abuse  to  which Africa 
has been subjected. 
and  deserved 
representation 
4 

10-63473 
interactive  dialogue  between 



It  is  our  firm  view  that  reform  of  the  United 
Nations without Security Council reform is incomplete. 
Reforming only the Council’s working methods is also 
not enough, and structural reforms are therefore needed 
to  complete  the  process.  A  less  skewed  and  more 
balanced  structure  of  the  Council,  coupled  with  more 
democratic  global  governance  institutions,  is  what  the 
international community needs to be able to deliver in 
the  important  areas  of  security,  economic  and  social 
development. 

It  is  important  that  the  interests  of  all  countries 
and regions related to that sensitive issue be seriously 
taken  into  account.  In  that  regard,  transparency  and 
consensus must be the guideposts for our mutual trust 
and  confidence  with  regard  to  the  issue.  For  its  part, 
Zimbabwe  is  ready  to  work  with  other  Members  in 
order to achieve comprehensive reform of the Security 
Council. 
Ms.  Shoman  (Jordan):  Jordan  associates  itself 

with  the  statements  of  the  group  of  five  small  nations 
and  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  We  reaffirm  the 
importance  of 
the 
Security  Council  and  the  General Assembly,  and  hope 
that this year will pave the way for fruitful discussions 
promoting  a  mandate  of  Security  Council  reform, 
particularly  with  regard  to  wider  membership  in  the 
Council. 

Jordan  attaches  great  importance  to  Council 
reform and believes that a comprehensive, transparent, 
inclusive, balanced mechanism can meet and reflect the 
needs  of  United  Nations  Members,  especially 
developing countries, and would render transparent an 
important part of the international architecture. 

The  Council  has  made  noteworthy  commitments 
and begun to put them into action in order to maintain 
international  peace  and  security  in  the  most  effective 
manner  possible  and  in  cooperation  with  its  partners. 
That can be seen in the numerous statements that have 
been  made  on  the  Security  Council’s  report  (A/65/2). 
In  that  regard,  Jordan  would  like  to  thank  the  current 
presidency  of 
the 
improvements proposed by the United Kingdom, which 
have  brought  deeper  understanding  to  the  discussion 
and made it more of an exchange of views. 

Jordan  supports  transparent  and  full  discussions 
between  the  Security  Council  and  troop-contributing 
countries  during  preparation  of  the  Council’s  annual 
of 
report, 
the  Council  and 
to  commend 
importance 
stresses 
and 
the 
A/65/PV.50
its  work 
in  preparing 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  also  call  on  the 
Council  to  prioritize  and  strengthen  consultations  and 
dialogue  with  those  countries  as  part  of  its  efforts  to 
achieve peace, stability and security. 
Mr.  Bodini  (San  Marino):  I  would  like  to  thank 

the Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom, 
Ambassador Sir Mark Lyall Grant, for his introduction 
to the report of the Security Council (A/65/2), and the 
Nigerian  mission  for 
the 
document. 
I share your opinion, Mr. President, that we have 

reached  a  point  where  we  must  accelerate  the  process 
of  reforming  the  Security  Council.  It  is  time  to 
reconcile  our  differences.  Under  the  leadership  of  the 
President and Ambassador Tanin, we must relaunch the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  whose  outcome  must 
be  reached  through  consensus  or  quasi-consensus  in 
order to be successful. Security Council reform arrived 
at by a fractured General Assembly would be doomed 
from  its  inception.  It  would  not  have  the  legitimacy 
that our countries are looking for. I agree with many of 
our colleagues that the only possible solution is one of 
a  compromise  that  can  form  the  greatest  common 
denominator among our aspirations. 

To  reach  such  a  goal,  we  must  agree  on  interim 
reform.  Such  reform  would  provide  for  a  reasonable 
enlargement  of  the  Council,  in  which  half  of  the  new 
seats  would  be  allocated 
two-year  non-
permanent  category,  and  half  to  a  new,  longer-term 
non-permanent  category.  In  that  way  we  could  give 
greater  representation  to  small  and  medium-sized 
States,  as  well  as  to  countries  that  are  significant 
contributors  to  world  peace  through  financial  aid, 
and 
democratic 
peacekeeping 
rightfully 
deserve  to  represent  us  for  longer  periods  in  the 
Council.  They  would  be  elected  by  the  General 
Assembly and could seek re-election at the end of their 
terms. 

I believe that the States that would like to run for 
the  longer  term  could,  if  elected,  greatly  enhance  the 
work of the Security Council. I have no doubt that we 
will re-elect those countries that contribute effectively 
during their tenures to the peace process. 

With  that  kind  of  reform,  we  will  obtain  a 
substantial  enlargement,  we  will  have  a  more 
democratic  and  representative  Security  Council,  we 
will  create  more  transparency,  we  will  enhance  the 
forces.  Those  countries 
leadership,  growing 
economies 
the 
to 
10-63473 

5 
and 
turmoil 
A/65/PV.50 

Council’s  relationship  with  the  General Assembly  and 
we  will  obtain  a  more  equitable  representation  among 
different geographical areas. 

Finally,  we  must  move  on  from  the  inexcusable 
15-year impasse that underlines our inability to reform 
our Security Council. 
Mr.  Borg  (Malta):  The  report  of  the  Security 

Council for the past 12 months (A/65/2), which we are 
considering  today,  indicates  in  no  uncertain  terms  the 
diverse  and  complex  issues  and  situations  as  well  as 
the  challenges  that  our  Organization  is  facing.  The 
report  also  shows  that  much  more  has  to  be  done  in 
order to alleviate the often dire situations faced by the 
populations in those countries where conflicts seem to 
perpetuate  the  already  unacceptable  living  conditions, 
tension 
compounded  by  hunger, 
malnutrition and disease. Indeed, it is a recognized fact 
that  those  conditions  and  situations  are  not  only 
obstructing  the  economic  and  social  development  of 
those  countries,  but  also  continue  to  displace  large 
populations and increase poverty, refugees and political 
instability. 
Compared to the same period last year, the report 

shows that the Security Council has held fewer formal 
meetings,  fewer  public  meetings,  fewer  consultations 
and  adopted  fewer  presidential  statements,  while 
issuing  more  statements  to  the  press.  Moreover,  the 
Security  Council  adopted  fewer  resolutions  than  the 
year  before.  Whether  all  those  actions  reflect  on  the 
the  Security  Council 
real  urgency  with  which 
attempted 
the  growing 
preoccupations  of  the  international  community  with 
regard to the various situations that are still unresolved 
in  Africa,  the  Middle  East,  Asia,  Europe  and  Central 
America  is  a  matter  that  perhaps  raises  some  concern 
among 
the  United  Nations  Member  States  and 
therefore 
in-depth  analysis  and 
examination. 

My  delegation  notes  that,  again  this  year,  no 
fewer than 12 countries in Africa have been the focus 
of  attention  of  and  action  by  the  Security  Council. 
Twenty-five 
and  12 
presidential  statements  prepared  and/or  issued,  all 
relating  to Africa.  My  delegation  believes  that  a  more 
concerted  effort  and  enhanced  action  should  be 
undertaken  by  the  Security  Council  in  addressing  the 
conflicts  and  situations 
those 
countries.  In  that  regard,  it  is  important  that  the 
to  deal  effectively  with 
resolutions  were 
that  still  exist 
requires 
adopted 

that  my  delegation  wishes 
Security  Council  continues  to  be  assisted  by  all 
Governments and parties concerned in order to ensure 
that  the  action  taken  by  the  Security  Council  finds  a 
positive response on the ground. 

The  role  of  regional  organizations  in Africa  and 
especially the enhancement of the strategic partnership 
between the United Nations and the African Union are 
to be commended and supported. 
Among the important activities undertaken by the 

Security  Council 
to 
highlight are those relating to the missions carried out 
by the members of the Council to conflict areas, which 
have provided its members as well as the Governments 
of  the  countries  concerned  the  opportunity  to  interact 
and  possibly  helped  generate  the  political  backing  for 
important decisions by all interlocutors. In that regard, 
we  believe  that  the  members  of  the  Security  Council 
should review the scope and reach of those missions so 
that  visits 
to  other  places  of  conflict  could  be 
undertaken, especially in those situations of which the 
United  Nations  Security  Council  has  been  seized  for 
many  years  and  where  no  end  to  such  conflicts  is  in 
sight. 

One of the issues where the Security Council has 
made  a  contribution  relates  to  the  situation  in  the 
Middle  East,  including  the  Palestinian  question.  The 
fact that the Security Council considers the issue on a 
monthly  basis  shows  in  itself  that  the  international 
community  has  still  not  found  the  much  sought  after 
solution.  Despite  the  unstinting  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations  Secretary-General  and  the  Quartet,  a  renewed 
effort  and  a  reinvigorated  approach  is  required  in  the 
search  for  a  political  and  durable  solution  to  the 
question  of  Palestine  and  the  Middle  East  conflict.  In 
that  regard,  Security  Council  members  must  continue 
to  enhance  their  role  and  their  valid  contribution  by 
assisting  both 
the  Palestinians, 
especially  at  a  time  when  direct  negotiations,  which 
had  ushered  in  new  hopes  and  expectations  some 
weeks  ago,  are  being  severely  tested  daily,  if  not 
threatened.  My  delegation  believes  that  the  Security 
Council  has  a  primordial  role  in  the  Middle  East 
process  and  can  and  should  contribute  to  a  resolution 
of  the  question  and  bring  peace  and  security  to  a 
region,  which  for  over  60  years  has  been  a  theatre  of 
conflict, tensions and upheavals. It is important that the 
Security  Council,  backed  by  this  General  Assembly, 
strengthen 
the  peace 
negotiations,  which  would  lead  to  an  independent, 
the  Israelis  and 
its  endeavours 
resume 
to 
further 
in 
6 

10-63473 
and 
and 
regional 


democratic,  contiguous  and  viable  Palestinian  State 
living side by side in peace and security with Israel. 

Another  activity  referred  to  in  the  report  and 
which  my  delegation  would  like  to  endorse  is  the 
holding  of  meetings  of  the  Council  on  thematic, 
general  and  other  issues  focusing  on  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  the 
briefings  by  the  Chairmen  of  subsidiary  bodies  of  the 
Security Council. Malta believes that the participation 
of  the  United  Nations  Member  States  in  those  open 
debates  enhances  transparency  and  universality  in  the 
access  and  involvement  on  the  part  of  all  Member 
States in the consideration of important issues relating 
to the maintenance of international peace and security. 

My  delegation  also  welcomes  the  consideration 
by  the  Security  Council  of  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations 
subregional 
organizations in the maintenance of international peace 
and security. In that regard, we welcome the Council’s 
expression  of  its  intention  to  consider  further  steps  to 
promote  closer  and  more  operational  cooperation 
between the United Nations and those organizations in 
the  fields  of  conflict  early  warning,  prevention, 
peacemaking,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  with  a 
view  to  ensuring  coherence,  synergy  and  collective 
effectiveness in their efforts. 

Malta, as a member of the European Union and of 
the  United  Nations,  notes  with  satisfaction 
the 
participation  of  the  High  Representative  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Security  Policy  of  the  European  Union, 
Ms. Catherine Ashton, who briefed the Council on the 
commitment  of  the  European  Union  to  the  active 
promotion of peace, security, justice and human rights, 
as  well  as  to  the  protection  of  the  vulnerable  and 
helping people to live in safety and dignity. Indeed, the 
Treaty  of  Lisbon  has  enhanced  the  collaboration 
between the European Union and the Security Council 
and  United  Nations  membership  as  a  whole,  as  stated 
in the report. 

The  Security  Council  endorsed  the  European 
Union’s support for the efforts of the United Nations in 
maintaining international peace and security, since the 
two organizations shared common goals and principles, 
such as the promotion of human rights, the rule of law 
and  development.  My  delegation  welcomed 
the 
opportunity  to  participate  in  the  open  debate  held  last 
April on the working methods of the Security Council 
(see S/PV.6300). It is a recognized fact that the issues 
A/65/PV.50
by 
ensuring 
enhanced 
before  the  Council  are  not  the  sole  responsibility  of 
Council  members  and  that  the  increasing  threats  of 
today  are  becoming  more  global  and  transnational  in 
nature. No boundaries exist for such threats. Hence, the 
matters that are brought to the attention of the Council 
are  matters  that  call  for  greater  involvement  and 
engagement  by  and  with  the  non-members  of  the 
Council. 

While  much  more  has  to  be  done  to  reach  an 
optimum level of transparency, Malta believes that the 
monthly briefings by the new Council Presidents on the 
programme of work, as well as the increase in detail of 
the  Council’s  annual  report  presented  to  the  General 
Assembly, have enhanced the relationship between the 
members of the Council and the wider United Nations 
membership. 

Malta  encourages  Council  members  to  continue 
exploring  ways  to  improve  the  Council’s  working 
methods 
transparency, 
effectiveness  and  interaction  with  non-members.  It  is 
important that all Member States not only feel that they 
own the United Nations reform process, including that 
of  the  Security  Council,  but  also  continue  to  assume 
the  guardianship  of  the  Organization,  of  which  the 
Security Council is one of the principal organs. 

Malta actively and consistently participates in the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  Throughout  that  process  Malta  has 
projected,  in  an  objective  and  transparent  manner,  the 
views and aspirations of a small State as a Member of 
the United Nations. 
that  any 

is 
agreements 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  must  form  part  of  a  whole  package  for  a 
sound,  sustainable  and 
the 
Security  Council,  in  particular  with  the  underlying 
principle that all  five key  issues identified in  decision 
62/557 are inextricably linked and must be considered 
as  forming  part  of  one  package. Any  consideration  of 
any  one  of  those  issues  must  ensure  a  coherent  and 
cohesive progression on the other key issues. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  its  strong 
support for the Uniting for Consensus group platform, 
which  provides  for  regular  non-permanent  seats, 
including for small and medium-sized States, as well as 
longer-term seats. That represents a step forward and a 
major  compromise  from  the  group’s  original  2005 
position. 
the  view  of  my  delegation 
long-term  reform  of 
It 
reached 
in 
the 
10-63473 

7 

in 
their 
stand 
legitimate 
A/65/PV.50 


The  Uniting  for  Consensus  platform  is  the  only 
proposal  on  the  table  so  far  which  would  fulfil  the 
aspirations of small States with a population below one 
million  by  specifically  proposing  one  non-permanent 
seat  to  be  allocated  to  small  States  in  an  enlarged 
Security  Council. That,  in  the  view  of  my  delegation, 
would  represent  justice  for  over  40  small  Member 
States  that  are  calling  for  a  better  response  and  full 
recognition  of 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations. 

We  therefore  feel  that  that  proposal  should  be 
endorsed  by  all  small  States  participating  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  so  as  not  to  continue 
being  marginalized  or  ignored,  as  well  as  to  secure 
better opportunities in their legitimate right to serve on 
the  Security  Council,  irrespective  of  their  geographic 
location or their level of development. 

Malta hopes that other groups and countries will 
be  able  to  show  the  same  spirit  of  flexibility  and  to 
come  forward  with  positions  that  can  bridge  differing 
views. We should all embark on a process that should 
be  conducted  in  an  open,  transparent  and  inclusive 
manner  and  that  would  lead  towards  a  solution  that 
could garner the widest possible acceptance of Member 
States. 

For a number of reasons my delegation continues 
to  have  difficulty  with  the  arguments  put  forward  for 
expanding  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories of membership in the Security Council. My 
delegation also disagrees with the claims by a number 
of  delegations  that  the  expansion  in  both  categories 
enjoys  the  support  of  a  so-called  majority  of  the 
membership. 
This  is  a  process  led  by  Member  States  and 

therefore  Malta 
belongs 
reiterates  its  conviction  that  the  General Assembly,  as 
the  principal  United  Nations  organ  with  universal 
membership,  is  the  only  legitimate  and  appropriate 
forum  to  discuss  and  decide  upon  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council. 

My  delegation  looks  forward  to  receiving  a 
programme of work on how and when the forthcoming 
negotiations  will  be  held.  We  wish  to  convey  our 
support  and  cooperation  to  you,  Mr.  President,  and  to 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, for a successful continuation 
of our negotiations. 
to  Member  States,  and 
My 
to 
for 
this 
item 
associates 
in  giving 
itself  with 
My  delegation 
country  wishes 
the  allocation  of 
Mr.  Elshareef  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

delegation  has  carefully  studied  the  report  of  the 
Security Council before us today (A/65/2) under items 
29  and  119,  “Report  of  the  Security  Council”  and 
“Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”. 

the 
statements  delivered  at  the  48th  meeting  by  the 
representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Group, and by the representative of Egypt on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). 
reiterate  Africa’s 

established  position 
two 
permanent  seats  and  five  non-permanent  seats  on  the 
Security Council to Africa, based on the importance of 
the continent, which has 53 Member States. 
We  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  for  your 

the 
efforts,  Mr.  President, 
importance it deserves by including it on the agenda of 
the  current  session.  We  also  wish  to  commend  the 
efforts  of  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Treki,  who  made 
considerable  contributions  in  the  area  of  Security 
Council reform. 

Regarding  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council  and  its  decision-making  process,  we  join  the 
position expressed by the NAM, which calls for a more 
democratic  and  transparent  approach  and  for  the 
involvement  of  all  Member  States,  especially  those 
whose  issues  are  under  consideration,  so  that  the 
process may become more objective and just. 

In  that  respect,  my  delegation  calls  for  the 
abolition  of  the  right  of  the  veto,  which,  in  our  view, 
runs  contrary  to  the  noble  principles  and  purposes  of 
the United Nations,  which seek equality among States 
and respect for sovereignty. 

My delegation believes that the Security Council 
should  give  more  importance  to  cooperation  with  the 
General  Assembly,  which  is  the  most  inclusive  and 
representative body of the United Nations. The Council 
should  consult  with  the  Assembly  and  take  into 
consideration  its  views  regarding  its  treatment  of  the 
international issues that are under consideration. 
8 

10-63473 



We  also  believe  that  it  is  important  that  the 
Security  Council  should  not  take  decisions  regarding 
issues that do not pose any threat to international peace 
and security as defined in Chapter VII of the Charter. 

My  delegation  considers  it  important  that  the 
Security Council cooperate with all Member States in a 
manner that guarantees their rights, in keeping with the 
provisions of the Charter, rather than favouring entities 
that  do  not  enjoy  membership  in  this  international 
Organization,  at 
times  even  being  equated  with 
Member  States,  which  is  a  flagrant  violation  of  the 
Charter. 

In conclusion, my delegation wishes to state that 
reform of the Security Council is one of the most vital 
issues  for  our  international  Organization,  and  it  is 
indeed high time that its membership be increased and 
its working methods and decision-making processes be 
improved,  so  that  the  Council  truly  reflects  and 
expresses  the  positions  of  all  Members  of  the  United 
Nations, instead of being exploited, as it sometimes is, 
by  the  major  Powers  to  promote  their  own  political 
agendas at the expense of the developing nations. 
Ms.  Kok  Li  Peng  (Singapore):  Mу  delegation 

joins the debate today slightly encouraged by what we 
have  seen  in  the  latest  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council  (A/65/2).  It  provides  a  good  overview  of  the 
scope and volume of issues tackled by the Council this 
past  year  and  a  few  other  improvements,  in  particular 
the incorporation of material that reflects the substance 
of  the  Council’s  work.  As  a  member  of  the  group  of 
five small nations (S-5), Singapore also appreciates the 
addition  of  a  section  on  working  methods  under 
thematic  considerations,  as  opposed  to  parking  the 
issue under the “Other matters” section as in previous 
reports. We hope that arrangement will hold for future 
reports. 

We  applaud  the  Council’s  evolving  practice  of 
consulting  Member  States  before  the  drafting  of  its 
report,  which  was 
introduced  by  Viet  Nam, 
subsequently  adopted  by  Uganda  and  continued  by 
Nigeria.  Such  best  practices  inspire  confidence  in  the 
Council  and  build  trust  between  the  Council  and  the 
General Assembly. 

The next logical step in that process would be for 
the  author  of  the  annual  report  to  hold  an  informal 
session  with  Member  States  once  the  report  has  been 
completed to discuss, inter alia, issues, challenges and 
questions that came up in the preparation of the report. 
A/65/PV.50
the  solemn 
its  discharge  of 
As  Singapore  has  said  before,  the  intention  is  not  to 
find  fault,  but  to  let  Member  States  gain  a  deeper 
understanding  of  the  workings  of  the  Council  and  to 
engender buy-in for the Council’s actions. 

More  interaction  between  the  Council  and  the 
Member  States  can  also  help  to  clarify  the  type  of 
analysis that Member States have repeatedly called for 
in  each  year’s  report.  Given  the  tremendous  level  of 
resources channelled to the Council, whether by fiat or 
by  choice,  there  is  insufficient  reciprocity  by  its 
members in terms of transparency and effectiveness. It 
is not enough for the Council presidency of each month 
to  share  its  reflections  on  the  year’s  efforts.  Concrete 
procedures must be installed for the Council to account 
for 
responsibilities 
entrusted to it under the Charter. 

As  Singapore  believes  that  interaction  promotes 
effectiveness  in  Council  work,  we  would  like  to 
commend  the  efforts  of  the  United  Kingdom  to 
promote forward-looking and interactive discussions in 
the  Council,  such  as  its  horizon-scanning  event  with 
the  Department  of  Political  Affairs.  The  regular 
monthly  open  debates  are  also  valuable  opportunities 
for  candid  discussions  between  Council  members  and 
Member States. 

However, we should be mindful of the particular 
character of Council work, which is crisis-plagued and 
bound  by  strict  deadlines.  To  have  really  useful 
exchanges,  we  can  do  no  better  than  to  heed  George 
Washington,  who  said:  “Let  your  discourse  with  men 
of  business  be  short  and  comprehensive.”  Hence,  we 
should set aside beloved but lengthy rituals of prepared 
speeches  and  establish  proceedings  favouring  greater 
spontaneity 
genuine 
discussions  of  good  quality  can  enrich  the  Council’s 
deliberations and outcomes. 

On  the  broader  issue  of  the  Council’s  working 
methods, we have seen some progress in recent years, 
though  clearly  more  can  be  done.  For  instance, 
Singapore, along with others of the S-5, was pleased to 
see  the  recent  updating  of  presidential  note  507 
(S/2010/507).  However,  we  remain  concerned  about 
the lack of a follow-up implementation mechanism. We 
would  like  to  reiterate  the  suggestions  outlined  in  the 
earlier  statement  by 
the 
comprehensiveness and implementation of presidential 
note 507 (see A/65/PV.48). It would also be helpful to 
expand  the  annual  report’s  section  on  note  507  to 
interactivity, 
the  S-5  on 
improving 
and 
because 
10-63473 

9 

its 
the 
text, 
the  sixth 
assessment  of  progress  on 
A/65/PV.50 

include 
some 
implementation. 

I recall my delegation lamenting in 2008 that we 
were dancing around the same spot on Council reform. 
Fortunately, there has been a little progress since then. 
We  will  soon  embark  on 
round  of 
intergovernmental negotiations, with a compilation text 
in  hand.  However,  little  headway  has  been  made  in 
streamlining 
let  alone  embarking  on 
substantive  text-based  negotiations. As  we  resume  the 
negotiations,  we  hope 
that  Member  States  will 
demonstrate  greater  willingness 
to  find  common 
ground. In that connection, we offer our full support to 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin in his continued facilitation of 
that process. 

The election of India, Germany and South Africa 
has generated great anticipation about how the Council 
will perform next year. Many of us will be looking to 
see  how  the  Council  acts  to  bring  about  greater 
efficiency  in  the  way  it  works,  how  it  will  further 
enhance its interactions with Member States and how it 
responsibilities.  Some 
will  discharge 
optimistic  delegations  also  harbour  hope  for 
the 
stalemate  on  Council  reform  to  be  eased.  What  is 
important,  both  in  terms  of  efforts  to  improve  the 
Council’s  effectiveness  and  Member  States’  efforts  in 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  is  to  nurse  the 
momentum  so  painstakingly  generated  and  find  the 
political  will 
forward.  To 
paraphrase the words of a wise man, Мahatmа Gandhi, 
we  should  be  the  change  that  we  want  to  see  in  the 
world. 
Mr.  Park  In-Kook  (Republic  of  Korea):  Thank 

you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this  joint  debate.  I 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  my 
delegation’s  firm  conviction  that  your  presidency  will 
be successful. 

I would like to thank the current President of the 
Security  Council,  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Lyall 
Grant  of  the  United  Kingdom,  for  his  introduction  of 
the report of the Security Council (A/65/2). 

I  wish  now  to  address  agenda  item  119,  on  the 
question  of  equitable  geographical  representation  on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters. 
its  Charter 
reforms 
take 
the 
to 
to  modify 
the  current 
the  single  most 

I am pleased to note that significant achievements 
have  been  made  during  the  past  year.  Most  notably, 
under  the  stewardship  of  Ambassador  Tanin,  we  now 
have an inclusive negotiation text, which we hope will 
serve as a guide for the next phase of negotiation. 
However,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  that  any 

attempts 
text  should  be 
thoroughly  debated  and  fully  agreed  by  all  parties 
concerned.  Moreover, 
important 
guideline should be the principle of general agreement 
referred  to  in  resolution  48/26,  of  3  December  1993. 
Efforts to reform the Security Council should not lead 
to divisiveness among Member States, but rather must 
make  a  contribution 
to  a  more  cohesive  and 
cooperative United Nations for all. 

In that regard, I would like to point out that while 
all  other  groups  have  remained  stagnant  in  their 
positions, 
the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  has 
exercised  a  great  deal  of  flexibility.  I  truly  hope  that 
other  parties  will  become  more  willing  to  move 
forward  in  a  spirit  of  compromise,  so  that  tangible 
progress can be made in the near future. 
Through  the  five  rounds  of  intergovernmental 

negotiations held thus far, all of us have become more 
than  well  aware  of  the  basic  positions  of  the  major 
collectively 
groups.  Through  deliberations,  we 
identified 
to  be 
incorporated  in  the  Security  Council  reform  process. 
Also, we came to the realization that all the key issues 
are intrinsically intertwined. Therefore,  we would like 
comprehensive  approach, 
to  emphasize 
concluded 
single 
is 
indispensable. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  briefly 
reiterate  my  Government’s  position  on  the  five  key 
issues. 

First,  on  the  issue  of  categories  of  membership, 
the  unswerving  basic  philosophy  of  my  delegation  is 
that  a  more  democratic  manner  of  representation  will 
spur greater accountability and transparency. We firmly 
believe  that  that  can  be  secured  only  through  the 
periodic  election  of  Security  Council  members. 
Periodic  elections  will  provide  Member  States  with 
more  opportunities 
to  become  Council  members, 
ensuring  more  equitable  representation.  Moreover, 
through elections, the merits and demerits of a Council 
member  can  be 
thus 
the  key  elements  and 
in  a  fair  manner, 
that  a 
a 
undertaking, 
through 
judged 
issues 
10 

10-63473 
transparent  member  selection 


facilitating  a  more 
process. 

the  other  hand,  reform  of  membership 
On 
categories that merely promotes one election in which 
a  handful  of  winners  will  remain  in  the  Council 
indefinitely contradicts not only democratic principles, 
but  also  disregards  the  incessantly  evolving  dynamics 
of  our  changing  world.  Indeed,  during  the  past  few 
years we have witnessed various global challenges that 
entailed  concerted  efforts  of  diverse  new  players. 
These times, which are characterized by globalization, 
interdependence and multifaceted challenges, call for a 
so-called  new  multilateralism.  Against  that  backdrop, 
the  rigid  fixture  of  permanent  membership  would 
undermine  the  agility  that  will  be  required  for  the 
Council to rise to the occasion and meet the challenges 
of tomorrow. 

Secondly, with regard to the question of the veto, 
we all know that that peculiar mechanism was put into 
place in the aftermath of the Second World War to get 
this institution off and running. In the modern context, 
if  the  continued  existence  of  the  veto  is  deemed 
necessary as a result of the realities of power politics, 
then at the very least that action must be exercised with 
utmost  restraint,  along  with  timely  and  adequate 
explanation of the reasons why it is being invoked. 

Thirdly,  regional  representation,  while  achieving 
equitable  geographical  distribution  among  regional 
groups,  is  an  important  shared  objective  of  the  larger 
membership  and  an  integral  part  of  the  Security 
Council  reform  process.  Therefore  the  substantial 
underrepresentation  of  certain  regions  —  namely, 
Africa, Asia and Latin America — needs to be rectified 
as a priority. While we concede that representation has 
to do with more than just ratios, it certainly can be one 
clear  indicator  of  where  a  region  stands  in  terms  of 
establishing its presence on the Security Council. 

Fourthly,  on  the  issue  of  size,  my  delegation 
recognizes that there is wide agreement that expansion 
in the size of the Council must be sufficient to improve 
the  overall  representation  of  the  current  membership. 
We  are  flexible,  however,  on  what  constitutes  a 
reasonable  scale  of  enlargement  and  will  not  insist  on 
specific  numbers.  Instead,  the  final  outcome  must 
depend on what is a reasonable size for a new Council, 
one that is not only representative but can also operate 
with functional efficiency. 
A/65/PV.50
its 
transparency, 
effectiveness 
to  echo 
is  necessary 
for 

Finally,  with  regard  to  the  working  methods, 
there  have  been  continual  calls  for  the  Council  to 
improve 
and 
inclusiveness.  We  are  well  aware  of  the  underlying 
limitations imposed by the ever-increasing workload of 
the  Council  members  and  the  deluge  of  new  and 
daunting  tasks  that  consume  much  of  their  time  and 
attention.  Nonetheless,  we  believe  that  consistent  and 
structured efforts must be made to enhance the overall 
transparency,  accountability  and  inclusiveness  of  the 
Council.  That 
reaching  any 
comprehensive reform. 

Before  bringing  my  remarks  to  a  close,  I  would 
like to mention that Security Council reform should be 
a  member-driven  process,  as  stipulated  in  General 
Assembly decision 62/557. In that connection I would 
like 
the  remarks  made  by  some  other 
colleagues  in  requesting  the  presidency  to  provide 
Member States with a road map on the future course of 
action. That will help us to better prepare ourselves and 
have more engaged and productive meetings. 

Now  is  the  time  for  all  of  us  to  break  the 
deadlock  and  take  tangible  steps  towards  a  feasible 
solution,  rather than reiterating  rigid positions.  In that 
regard,  my  delegation  believes  that  the  intermediary 
approach,  with  the  establishment  of  longer-term  seats 
in  addition  to  the  regular  two-year  seats,  seems  to  be 
the most practical compromise at the current juncture. 
My delegation is ready to participate actively in earnest 
discussions  on  that  viable  solution,  and  we  hope  that 
other  delegations  will  be  willing  to  move  forward  as 
well in the coming months. 
Ms. Štiglic (Slovenia): We welcome today’s joint 

debate  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/65/2) 
and  on 
the  question  of  equitable  geographical 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters,  given  the 
important substantive connection between the two. 

I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
current  President  of 
the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  United  Kingdom  of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, for his introduction 
of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council,  covering 
the period from 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2010. 
The Security Council’s annual report is one of the 

central  channels 
the 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  and  provides  the 
rest of the membership with a valuable account of the 
the  relationship  between 
the  Security  Council, 
in 
10-63473 

11 
A/65/PV.50 

work of the body that has the primary responsibility for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
This  year’s  report  demonstrates  yet  again  that  the 
complexity,  variety  and  volume  of  the  Council’s 
workload continue to grow. 

We  appreciate  the  efforts  made  in  producing  the 
report  before  us,  especially  those  by  the  delegation  of 
Nigeria as the President of the Security Council for the 
month  of  July,  and  we  also  welcome  a  number  of 
qualitative  improvements  that  have  been  made  in  past 
years in the preparation of these annual reports. 

The relevance of the report goes well beyond the 
description  of  its  activities.  We  therefore  encourage 
Security  Council  members  to  continue  to  strive  for 
reports  that  are  more  analytical  and  to  continue  with 
the  established  practice  and  engage  with  Member 
States in an interactive exchange of views on the report 
in its preparatory process. 
We welcome the improvements in the area of the 

Council’s  working  methods.  Better  working  methods 
and  more  transparency  towards  the  wider  membership 
can  improve  the  Council’s  efficiency,  enhance  its 
legitimacy and strengthen its role as the body that the 
Charter entrusted with the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 

For  many  years  now,  Member  States  have  been 
confronted with an ever-increasing number of Council 
decisions  with  notable  security,  legal  and  financial 
implications 
The 
implementation of such decisions without participation 
in  the  decision-making  requires  greater  transparency, 
inclusiveness and engagement with non-member States 
on  a  more  regular  and  frequent  basis.  We  appreciate 
and  support  the  initiatives  of  the  Small  Five  group  in 
that regard. 
intensified  and  more 

systematic  consultation  process 
the 
Security Council, troop and police contributors and the 
Secretariat  on  peacekeeping  mandates  and  operations, 
facilitated in large part by the active engagement of the 
Council’s  working  group.  We  welcome  such  efforts 
directed towards encouraging transparent and inclusive 
dialogue  on  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  leading  to 
mobilizing 
and 
operational  support  of  all  stakeholders  throughout  the 
life cycle of a mission. 
We  also  support  an 
and  maintaining 
each  Member 
the  political 
that 
involves 
for 
State. 


Your decision, Mr. President, to choose the theme 
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global governance” for this year’s general debate was a 
timely  one,  and  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  one 
of  the  crucial  elements  for  strengthening  the  key  role 
of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance.  Slovenia 
firmly believes that the reform of the Security Council 
is 
long  overdue  and  necessary.  It  remains  our 
compelling  task,  and  it  is  widely  accepted  that  no 
United  Nations  reform  will  be  complete  without  the 
reform of the Security Council. 

Reform needs to address both enlargement of the 
membership and improvement of the working methods. 
Slovenia has been active in addressing both issues. 

While presiding over the Security Council during 
our first membership in the Council, in 1998 and 1999, 
Slovenia  decided  to  make  the  provisional  monthly 
programme  of  work  available  on  the  Internet  for  the 
first  time. That  indeed  was  a  small  but  important  step 
in  making  the  work  of  the  Council  more  transparent. 
We  are  also  pleased  that  the  practice  of  inviting  all 
newly  elected  members  of  the  Council  to  observe 
informal  consultations  during  the  month  before  their 
term has become a reality. 

the  Security 
Council,  Slovenia’s  position  is  clear:  it  is  not  only  a 
matter  of  fairness  but  also  a  necessity.  A  reformed 
Council needs to better reflect geopolitical realities and 
must  be  more  representative,  with  its  authority  and 
legitimacy strengthened. 
Slovenia  remains  convinced  that  the  Council 

should  be  expanded 
the  categories  of  both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  members.  Particular 
attention  should  be  paid  to  the  representation  of 
countries from Africa. The enlargement of the Council 
should  also  increase  the  possibility  for  small  and 
medium-sized  States,  which  account  for  the  vast 
majority of the United Nations membership, to serve in 
the Council. 

Progress  was  made  in  the  last  few  rounds  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  in  the  Assembly’s  sixty-fourth  session,  in 
particular with the presentation of the compilation text 
by  the  Chairman  of  the  negotiations.  Many  proposals 
and  models  for  the  Council’s  expansion  have  been 
suggested,  including  one  by  Slovenia,  and  all  of  them 
are well captured in the compilation text. 
the  enlargement  of 
Regarding 
in 
12 

10-63473 
tremendous  efforts  and 
today.  We  are  convinced 
We  appreciate  your  presence  during 
in  particular 



Here,  I  would  like  to  commend  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin,  for  his 
impartial 
leadership  over  the  past  two  years,  which  gave  the 
Council reform negotiations the boost they so urgently 
needed. We welcome his reappointment as Chair of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Council  reform 
during the sixty-fifth session and assure him of our full 
support  as  he  continues  to  assist  Member  States  to 
navigate  the  way  through  this  complex  issue  in  the 
months ahead. 

We  all  have  a  stake  in  this  intergovernmental 
process.  We  should  try  to  further  consolidate  the 
compilation  text,  maintain  the  momentum  generated 
and  move  forward  the  process  of  negotiations  on  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the membership of the Security Council. 
this 

discussion,  Mr.  President,  and 
the 
importance  you  and  your  Office  attach  to  the  issues 
discussed 
that  your 
leadership, experience, guidance and wisdom, coupled 
with  the  necessary  political  will,  good  faith  and 
flexibility  among  Member  States,  will  bring  us  to  a 
successful  conclusion  of  the  prolonged  debate  on  the 
issue of Security Council reform. 
Mr. Gutiérrez (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): I would 

like to express my gratitude to you, Mr. President, for 
considering  the  process  of  Security  Council  reform  a 
priority  matter  to  be  addressed  during  the Assembly’s 
sixty-fifth  session.  Likewise,  I  am  pleased  that  our 
colleague, 
of 
Afghanistan, Ambassador Zahir Tanin, will continue to 
chair  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  in  informal 
plenary  of  the Assembly  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters. I would also 
like to thank Ambassador Sir Mark Lyall Grant, current 
President  of  the  Council,  for  his  presentation  of  the 
annual  report  of  that  body  (A/65/2)  at  the  48th 
meeting. 
The annual report of the Security Council, in my 

delegation’s  view,  could  be 
supplemented  and 
improved.  More  substantial  content  is  needed,  in 
particular  with  respect  to  the  decisions  taken,  the 
process  that  precedes  decisions  being  taken,  and  their 
implementation. 
Permanent  Representative 
the 
A/65/PV.50
to  enhance 
implemented 

Likewise,  it  is  important  that  the  report  contain 
information on its working methods. That would allow 
us  to  have  a  more  comprehensive  view  of  the  issues 
addressed,  would  avoid  a  report  limited  to  being 
merely referential or descriptive and, above all, would 
provide  us  with  the  proper  perspective  from  which  to 
observe  the  tasks  before  the  Council.  Also,  self-
evaluation  by  the  Council  is  a  crucial  step,  which 
should  be  carried  out  to  determine  what  kind  of  new 
measures  should  be 
its 
legitimacy  and  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  its 
work. 

It is also of crucial importance to make progress 
towards  concrete  reform  of  the  Council’s  working 
methods  in  order  to  make  them  more  transparent  and 
efficient. To  that  end,  we  believe  that  there  should  be 
more  open  meetings  and  more  meetings  to  update 
Members  on  the  issues  under  consideration  and  that 
those meetings should be of a substantive nature and be 
carried out in a timely fashion. It is also of the highest 
importance  to  consolidate  the  practice  of  having  the 
Security  Council  consult  with 
troop-contributing 
countries before Council deliberations on the pertinent 
subject,  as  well  as  that  of  carrying  out  regular  self-
assessments  and  reviews  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Council’s decisions. 

open 
consultations held in connection with Security Council 
reports  prior  to  their  preparation  are  beneficial.  That 
practice  favours  transparency  and  better  coordination 
with  the  General  Assembly,  as  well  as  the  Council’s 
responsibility  to  be  accountable  when  listening  to  and 
respecting  the  opinions  expressed  by  Member  States. 
In  that  context,  we  ask  that  this  become  a  regular 
practice. 

The  Secretary-General’s  reports,  as  well  as  the 
practice  of  holding  open  debates  on  the  topics  the 
Council  deals  with  —  for  example,  debates  on  the 
situation  in  the  Middle  East,  the  reports  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  peacebuilding  in  the  immediate 
aftermath  of  conflicts,  and  the  role  of  women  in 
peacebuilding  —  are  all  initiatives  we  commend.  For 
that to have real and added value, it should not be just 
a formal part of the proceedings immediately preceding 
the  issuance  of  presidential  statements,  or,  worse, 
where  the  Council’s  conclusions  are  known  even 
before  the  proceedings  are  over.  Inasmuch  as  debates 
should  reflect  the  opinion  of  the  Members  of  the 
Organization  when  it  comes  to  issues  falling  under 
delegation 
believes 
My 
that 
the 
10-63473 

13 
it 
into 
In  spite  of 

important  momentum 
that  we  should 
a  more  democratic 
the  progress  made  with 
A/65/PV.50 

their  competence,  it  is  vital  that  the  Council  consider 
all  the  positions  expressed,  including  the  possibility 
that  Council  members  listen  to  non-member  countries 
first. All  of  this  will  demonstrate  the  Council’s  desire 
for openness and inclusiveness, features we believe are 
essential to the work of such an important body. 

With  regard  to  the  process  of  Security  Council 
reform,  as  my  delegation  indicated  at  the  meeting 
convened  by  the  presidency  this  past  October,  we 
believe  that  the  last  five  rounds  of  the  negotiating 
process  have  produced  positive  progress,  thanks  to  a 
high level of participation by the entire membership. In 
this regard, we reiterate our opinion that we are seeing 
some 
take 
advantage  of  in  order  to  arrive  at  a  renewed  and 
reformed  Security  Council,  with 
the  goal  of 
transforming 
and 
representative  body  that  is  also  more  effective  and 
efficient. 

the 
methodology  used  up  to  now,  we  run  the  risk  of 
becoming  mired  in  the  thematic  compilation  of  the 
various  positions  expressed.  We  need  to  give  fresh 
impetus  to  the  negotiations  and  move  towards  an 
informally structured drafting exercise that will lead us 
to  a  negotiating  text  with  clear  alternatives  that  can 
rely  on  the  support  and,  above  all,  the  political 
commitment of the membership. 

In that regard, my delegation reiterates its request 
that the Chair of the negotiations process or the Office 
of  the  President  provide  —  in  the  light  of  what  the 
membership  has  expressed  so  far  —  a  new  basic 
negotiating  text  that  goes  beyond  the  consolidation  of 
positions and identifies and analyses the options before 
us so as to allow us to move on to negotiations aimed 
at  producing  tangible,  balanced  and  representative 
results — always on the basis of the principle that this 
must be an inclusive  and transparent process aimed at 
swift reform of the Security Council. 

Peru  reiterates  its  conviction  that,  in  order  to 
adapt  the  Council  to  new  realities,  we  must  add  new 
members,  both  permanent  and  non-permanent,  while 
promoting  just  and  fair  regional  representation  that 
alters the current status quo. 

With regard to the question of the veto, Peru has 
always  held  to  a  position  of  principle  whose  ultimate 
goal is the veto’s elimination. However, in the spirit of 
being  constructive  and  in  order  not  to  paralyse  the 
negotiating  process,  my  delegation  believes  that  a 
commitment  should  be  made  to  assess,  as  a  first  step, 
limitations  on  the  use  of  the  veto,  via  an  existing 
concept  of  the  rule  established  in  paragraph  3, Article 
27, of the Charter. Additionally, Peru believes that it is 
important to reach a consensus that makes it possible to 
set precise limits on the use of the veto, eliminating the 
possibility of exercising it in cases of genocide, crimes 
against  humanity  and  repeated  flagrant  violations  of 
human rights. 

There  is  a  need  for  us  to  expeditiously  embark 
upon  a  real  process  of  negotiation.  The  constant 
repetition  of  our  national  positions  will  not  get  us 
anywhere. In a word, if we wish to reform the Council, 
as  we  say  unanimously  here,  we  must  turn  that  desire 
into concrete commitments. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic 
of Venezuela on a point of order. 
Mr.  Moreno  Zapata  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We have asked to speak 
on  a  point  of  order  because  we  noted  that  when  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic 
of  Venezuela  spoke  during  yesterday  morning’s 
meeting,  the  interpretation  from  Spanish  into  English 
did  not  match  what  Mr.  Jorge  Valero  was  saying.  In 
that regard, the Mission of the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela  to  the  United  Nations  wishes  to  lodge  a 
formal  complaint  against  the  Interpretation  Service.  I 
request that our complaint be entered into the record of 
this meeting. 
Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  Thank  you  for  convening 

today’s important meeting, Mr. President. I would also 
like  to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
United Kingdom, President of the Security Council for 
this month, for presenting the Council’s report (A/65/2) 
to the General Assembly. We did, however, note that in 
his statement, the Jammu and Kashmir dispute was not 
mentioned 
the  context  of  unresolved  ongoing 
situations. We  understand  that  this  was  an  inadvertent 
omission,  as  Jammu  and  Kashmir  is  one  of  the  oldest 
disputes on the Council’s agenda. 
The  report  of  the  Security  Council  is  an  annual 

compendium  of  its  work,  meetings,  correspondence 
and  decisions.  Its  basic  merit  is  in  its  procedural 
accuracies  and  its  reference  value.  These  attributes 
could  be  reinforced  with  a  certain  level  of  analytical 
in 
14 

10-63473 
facilitated  by 
the  Council  has  been 


explanation  on  the  work  of  the  Council  and  its 
decision-making processes. 

The Security Council acts on behalf of the entire 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  in  discharging  its 
duties  as  the  principal  organ  responsible  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  By 
presenting  its  report  to  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Security Council offers up its work to be reviewed by 
the  entire  membership  vis-à-vis  how  efficiently  duties 
have  been  discharged  on  members’  behalf. 
In 
reviewing  the  work  of  the  Council,  we  will  focus  on 
two dimensions: first, the effectiveness of the Council 
in  maintaining  international  peace  and  security  and, 
secondly, the Council’s ability to reflect the views and 
interests of the widest possible part of the membership. 

In  the  context  of  effectiveness,  our  delegation 
acknowledges  the  role  of  the  Security  Council  in  the 
area  of  addressing  violent  conflicts  by  efficiently 
laying down peacekeeping mandates and ensuring that 
they are backed up with logistical support. Such work 
by 
troop-
contributing  countries  and  the  Secretariat.  With  the 
growing realization of the importance of peacebuilding 
efforts  and  the  gradual  but  solid  consolidation  of  the 
United Nations peacebuilding architecture, the Council 
is  now  better  equipped  to  discharge  the  mandate  of 
preventing  a  relapse 
into  conflict.  The  Council 
deserves  our  appreciation  for  its  important  work  in 
handling  conflicts 
the  pragmatic  use  of 
peacekeeping mandates and peacebuilding strategies. 

However,  the  Council  needs  to  recalibrate  its 
efforts  in  conflict  prevention  and  more  often  take 
recourse  in  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes  under 
Chapter  VI  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  That  is 
particularly 
inter-State 
conflicts.  Major  unresolved  issues  on  the  Council’s 
agenda,  including  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  have  awaited 
settlement  for  a  long  time.  Even  in  the  case  of  issues 
that  are  routinely  discussed,  such  as  the  question  of 
Palestine, the Council seems to have abdicated its role 
to individual countries or informal groupings. It needs 
to redress that to efficiently discharge its responsibility 
to maintain international peace and security. 
The  second  dimension  is  the  assessment  of  the 

Security 
transparency. 
Unfortunately,  in  that  area  the  annual  report  provides 
little  information  or  analysis,  particularly  with  regard 
to  its  decision-making  processes.  It  is  a  widely  held 
Council’s  work 
the  case  of 
through 
important 
in 
and 
A/65/PV.50

view that decisions emanate from a few major players 
in  closed-door  meetings,  if  not  behind  the  scenes. 
Accordingly,  such  decisions  lack  transparency  and 
inclusiveness.  Similarly,  the  Council  should  fulfil  the 
Charter  requirement  of  submitting  a  special  report  to 
the General Assembly. 

To a large  extent, the  openness and transparency 
of the Security Council is related to an improvement in 
its  working  methods.  Improving  the  working  methods 
of  the  Council  and  enhancing  its  transparency  and 
accountability  are  the  basic  underlying  objectives  of 
the  ongoing  reform  process.  That  brings  me  to  the 
second  agenda  item  of  our  debate  today,  that  is,  the 
reform of the Security Council. 

In  that  context,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Pakistan 
made a statement today in Parliament on the subject of 
Security Council reform. 


“All  Member  States,  regions  and  groups  of 
States  have  vital  interests  in  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council. Achieving a comprehensive and 
equitable  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  a 
shared objective of the entire membership. 

“We  believe  that  an  effective  and  feasible 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  can  only  be 
to  a 
achieved 
consensus  decision  endorsed  by 
the  United 
Nations  membership.  In  this  regard,  Pakistan 
remains constructively engaged in the negotiation 
process at the United Nations in New York. 

“Our  efforts  for  reform  of  the  Security 
Council are structured around the following four 
pillars. One, the reform should be comprehensive. 
Two,  it  should  be  based  on  the  principle  of 
sovereign  equality.  Three,  it  should  enhance 
accountability  of  the  Security  Council  to  the 
general  membership.  And  four,  reform  should 
result  in  a  more  united  and  strengthened  United 
Nations.” 
During  the  recent  round  of  intergovernmental 

negotiations  on  21  October,  which 
the  President 
chaired,  Member  States  put  forth  ideas  on  the  way 
forward.  Pakistan  believes  that  real  progress  in  the 
reform  process  can  be  achieved  with  flexibility  and 
compromise. In that context, the Uniting for Consensus 
group has already shown flexibility by moving from its 
position of 2005 to endorsement of the Italy/Colombia 
paper. 
through  negotiations 
leading 

10-63473 

15 

to 
the 
the  Organization  of 
thereby  giving  prominence 
A/65/PV.50 


The  Uniting  for  Consensus  proposal  allows  for 
variable  arrangements  and  different  possibilities  and 
options, 
regional 
representation  as  well  as  the  representation  of  small 
States. That formula reflects a complex global political 
configuration,  which  essentially  implies  the  presence 
of a few large States, a number of medium-sized States 
and a majority of smaller States, and the emergence of 
regional organizations, which play an important role in 
international and regional peace and security. 

Our proposal also takes into account the concept 
of equitable  geographical  distribution, as envisaged in 
Article  23  of  the  Charter.  The  concept  of  equitable 
geographical  distribution  would  make  little  sense  if  a 
seat  allocated  to  a  region  were  to  be  occupied 
permanently  by  one  country.  That  is  why  we  respect 
and  understand  Africa’s  position,  as  reflected  in  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus.  Africa’s 
just  demand  for  a 
permanent  presence  in  the  Council  is  for  the  entire 
region.  It  is  therefore  different  from  those  that  seek  a 
seat for themselves. Similarly, we support the position 
of 
Islamic  Conference 
demanding  adequate  representation  of  the  Muslim 
Ummah in the Security Council. 

I  will  conclude  by  acknowledging  your  role  as 
President of the Assembly, Sir, in steering forward the 
process  of  Security  Council  reform.  We  value  your 
presence  here  today  and  during  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  21  October  2010.  We  are  certain  that 
your  close  engagement  will  ensure  the  Assembly’s 
oversight of the work of the Security Council, as well 
as its ownership of the reform process. 
Mr.  Koterec  (Slovakia):  I  wish  to  thank  you, 

Mr. President,  for  convening  this  highly  relevant  joint 
annual  debate  on 
items, 
namely, the report (A/65/2) of the Security Council and 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council. 

Discussing  those  two  mutually  interrelated  items 
together is essential to strengthening the much desired 
cooperation  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council, 
the  general 
membership with a unique, once-a-year opportunity to 
review  the  hard  work  of  the  Council  over  the  past 
12 months,  appreciate  its  accomplishments  and  assess 
areas  where  changes  would  contribute  to  greater 
efficiency  and  relevance.  I  believe  that,  after  today’s 
exhaustive discussion, we  will come to  an even better 
two  critically 
it  provides 
important 
as 
understanding  of  each  other’s  views  and  an  even 
stronger  determination  to  strengthen  our  concerted 
effort to bring our positions closer if we seriously want 
to move forward towards a truly effective, credible and 
reliable Security Council. 

As  for  the  report  before  us,  I  would  like  first  of 
all  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  for 
the  month  of  November,  Ambassador  Mark  Lyall 
Grant,  Permanent  Representative  of 
the  United 
Kingdom,  for  his  informative  presentation  of  the 
report.  I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  whole 
Security  Council  for  the  thorough  and  improved 
assessment  of  its  work.  We  welcome  the  inclusion  of 
thematic  debates  in  the  report  in  past  years.  The 
increasing  number  of  meetings  being  opened  to  the 
wider  membership  is  particularly  noteworthy  since  it 
gives non-members a much appreciated opportunity to 
follow  the  urgent  issues  on  the  Security  Council 
agenda  more  closely.  Equally,  we  value  the  new 
interactive  informal  talks  with  Member  States  during 
the preparatory stages of the report. 

We commend the Security  Council for providing 
us with a highly informative and comprehensive report, 
albeit  mainly  from  a  statistical  point  of  view.  Having 
first-hand  experience  of  serving  on 
the  Security 
Council  recently,  my  delegation  understands  that  it  is 
not  feasible  for  the  Council  to  compile  a  thorough 
political  analysis  of  its  proceedings,  and  we  would  in 
no way want to see its independence threatened. 

However,  there  are  few  areas  where  we  would 
appreciate getting more out of the report. For instance, 
the  Council  could  elaborate  more  comprehensively  on 
cross-cutting issues and link thematic topics to specific 
country  situations,  especially  in  those  areas  where  the 
Security Council encounters the greatest hardship. For 
example,  it  would  be  truly  helpful  to  the  wider 
membership 
rationale  behind 
Security Council decisions and to see in the report the 
Council’s  own  assessment  of 
its  successes  and 
shortcomings.  We  appreciate,  though,  that  the  report 
contains  information  on  the  working  methods  and  on 
the 
note 
S/2006/507. 

The issue of the working methods brings me now 
to the second item before the Assembly  today, that is, 
the  pressing  question  of  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. Here, I would like first of all to commend His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
implementation 
to  understand 
presidential 
the 
the 
of 
16 

10-63473 
in 


Representative  of  Afghanistan, 
for  his  excellent 
leadership  skills,  tireless  efforts  and  the  manner  in 
which  he  has  guided  us  through  our  negotiations  over 
the past two sessions. We welcome the fact that under 
his  able  stewardship  we  have  reached  a  new  stage  of 
text-based  negotiations.  We  have 
recently  also 
witnessed  movements 
the  positions  of  some 
countries. My delegation truly believes that, given our 
hard work over the past years on this issue, the time is 
ripe to break the stalemate and start showing the world 
some tangible results. 

To  achieve  that,  we  appeal  to  all  delegations  to 
show  further  flexibility  and  political  will  and  start 
narrowing  down  the  wide  range  of  proposals  on  the 
table.  Even  though  we  see  merit  in  all  of  them,  I 
reiterate  our  belief  that  we  need  to  let  go  of  those 
proposals that enjoy the least support, and concentrate 
on  those  that  stand  a  solid  chance  of  garnering  the 
widest possible agreement. 

Since  the  position  of  my  delegation  is  well 
known,  let  me  just  briefly  recap  its  main  elements. 
First,  States  capable  of  assuming  global  responsibility 
for the maintenance of international peace and security 
should  become  eligible  for  filling  the  posts  of  new 
permanent members of the Security Council, provided 
that the right of the veto is not further extended. To the 
contrary,  the  veto  must  also  be  subjected  to  a  serious 
reform  as  to  the  scope  and  the  manner  it  is  being 
applied. 

intermediate 
solution  merits  our  serious  consideration.  At  this 
moment,  the  concept  lacks  clarity  and  seems  to  mean 
different  things  to  different  delegations.  But  we  hear 
resounding calls for the notion of a review conference, 
which would make any new formats temporary. 

Thirdly,  in  order  to  allow  for  prospective  new 
permanent  members  to  truly  get  settled  in  their  new 
roles  and  prove  their  capabilities,  it  is  essential  that 
they carry out their new responsibilities for at least 10 
to  15  years.  If  they  stand  up  to  that  challenge 
successfully  and  earn  the  trust  of  the  overall  United 
Nations  membership,  they  should  go  through  another 
democratic election process for a permanent seat. 
Fourthly, as for regional representation as such, it 

equitable  geographical 
essential 
is 
representation  of  posts  within 
the  non-permanent 
category of the Security Council. We believe that some 
of the regional groups, including the Group of Eastern 
Secondly,  we  believe 
ensure 
that 
the 
to 
A/65/PV.50
in  mind 
the  need 
to  choose 
European  States,  need  to  be  allocated  at  least  one 
additional non-permanent seat. 

Fifthly,  let  me  reiterate  that  in Article  24  of  the 
Charter,  we  Member  States  conferred  on  the  Security 
Council the primary responsibility for the maintenance 
of international peace and security and agreed that the 
Council would act on our behalf. When deciding on the 
size of the Council, rather than making it ineffectively 
large for the sake of representation, it is essential that 
we  all  bear 
its 
representatives  in  such  a  way  that  we  can  fully  trust 
them to act on behalf of us all. 

As  we  have  stated  on  numerous  previous 
occasions, my country’s primary goal in this process is 
to  ensure  a  more  effective  and  efficient  Security 
Council  that  is  truly  able  to  act  and  deal  with  the 
increasing challenges we all face. Slovakia is therefore 
open  to  all  constructive  proposals,  and  will  consider 
them  with  the  utmost  level  of  open-mindedness  and 
flexibility. 

For  the  sake  of  protecting  the  environment,  this 
statement will be circulated to all Permanent Missions 
via e-mail. 
Mrs. Waffa-Ogoo (Gambia): At the outset, allow 

me to thank you, Mr. President, for convening this joint 
debate  on  agenda  items  29  and  119,  “Report  of  the 
Security  Council”  and  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters”. Let me also 
thank 
the  month  of 
November,  Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant,  for  introducing  the 
report of the Security Council (A/65/2). Allow me also 
to commend the members of the Council for their work 
on the maintenance of international peace and security. 
I  am  also  grateful  to  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Joy  Ogwu 
for preparing the first part of the report in her capacity 
as President of the Council in the month of July. 

It  is  apparent  from  the  report  that  conflict 
situations in Africa continue to dominate the agenda of 
the Council. In this regard, my delegation would like to 
note that the continuing engagement of the Council in 
Africa has helped tremendously in solving many of the 
conflicts  that  once  raged  across  the  continent.  Part  of 
that 
increasing 
engagement  of  African  leaders  and  institutions  with 
international  partners  in  the  search  for  lasting  peace. 
We  therefore  encourage  the  Council  to  continue  to 
nurture such useful partnerships across Africa. 
the  Council’s  President  for 
is  attributable 
success 
to 
the 
10-63473 

17 
its 
for  conflict 
(UNOWA) 
for  West  Africa 
its  post-conflict  development 
A/65/PV.50 


In  the  period  under  review,  my  delegation  has 
noted  that  the  increasing  involvement  of  the  United 
Nations  Office 
in 
partnership  with  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African States has helped to tackle a lot of conflict and 
potential  conflict  situations  across  West  Africa.  We 
commend  the  Council  for  encouraging  the  work  of 
UNOWA  and 
regional  partners.  UNOWA’s 
involvement  in  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau  and  the  Niger 
are  some  of  the  examples  whose  lessons  should  be 
preserved 
resolution  and  mediation, 
especially  in  dealing  with  cross-border  issues  in  West 
Africa. Preventive diplomacy should remain a core tool 
of  the  Council,  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs, 
regional organizations and other international partners. 

Allow  me  to  commend  the  Council  for  its 
engagement  with  the  authorities  of  Guinea-Bissau. 
Guinea-Bissau needs all the support it can garner from 
the  international  community  in  order  to  address  some 
of 
security 
challenges. Security sector reform, rule of law support 
and reconstruction are key areas in which the Council 
can  call  on  the  international  community  to  assist 
Guinea-Bissau.  Effective  peacebuilding  is  a  corollary 
to long-term stability. 

In  assessing  new  threats  to  international  peace 
and  security,  the  twin  threats  of  organized  crime  and 
illegal  drug  trafficking  across  West  Africa  should 
receive  the  constant  attention  of  the  Council.  The 
dividends of  the hard-won peace  and stability that  are 
now  being  enjoyed  across  the  continent  should  not  be 
allowed  to  dissipate  on  account  of  these  new  threats. 
The subregion of West Africa needs the support of the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  and 
INTERPOL  in  assessing  these  threats  and  fashioning 
new tools and information networks to combat them. 

The  illicit  flow  of  small  arms  must  also  be 
arrested. Regional efforts to take such weapons out of 
circulation  should  be  supported  by  the  international 
community.  The  Council  can  do  more  to  encourage 
institutions to tackle these threats to international peace 
and security. 

The thematic debates that the Council frequently 
holds  are  an  important  way  of  contributing  to  the 
dialogue on critical issues that relate to the mandate of 
the  Security  Council.  Those  meetings  are  useful,  but 
we  must  move  increasingly  away  from  the  issuing  of 
presidential  statements  at  the  end  of  debates  and 
and 

troop- 
We  have  noted 
towards  assessing  how  effectively  they  contribute  to 
informing decisions of the Council. On  the whole, we 
believe  the  Council’s  report  could  be  more  analytical 
than it is at present. 

the  Council’s  efforts  at 
modernizing  its  working  methods  with  a  view  to 
encouraging  greater  transparency  and  efficiency.  No 
doubt,  that  is  a  work  in  progress.  It  must  continue  to 
take  place  in  tandem  with  addressing  the  larger 
question  of  Security  Council  reform.  Dialogue  and 
interaction  with 
and  police-contributing 
countries  is  a  commendable  feature  of  the  Council’s 
work  with  non-members.  The 
timely  sharing  of 
information  on  new  or  ongoing  missions  can  help  in 
managing the planning and development processes for 
contributions. 

Another  aspect  of  the  Council’s  practice  that  we 
consider very useful is its  visiting the countries on its 
agenda.  We  believe  this  can  contribute  immensely  to 
increasing the awareness of members as to the realities 
on  the  ground  and  help  the  Council  to  arrive  at 
informed  decisions.  On  many  occasions,  members  are 
far  removed  from  the  theatre  of  conflict  and  depend 
largely on secondary sources of information to arrive at 
decisions. This is a practice that should continue. 

Under agenda item 119, allow me now to address 
issues pertaining to the reform of the Security Council. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  align  itself  with  the 
statements  made  by  the Ambassadors  of  Sierra  Leone 
and Egypt on behalf of the African Group and the Non-
Aligned  Movement,  respectively.  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin  of  Afghanistan  must  be  commended  for  the 
wonderful  work  that  he  is  doing  in  facilitating  the 
intergovernmental negotiations and for the text that he 
compiled this year. We believe that it is a good starting 
point  for  our  negotiations,  as  all  the  elements  and 
positions  have  been  spelled  out.  It  is  our  hope  that, 
now that we have a text to work with, negotiations will 
soon  start  in  earnest.  As  a  way  forward,  we  need  a 
timeline  and  a  workplan  to  embark  on  negotiations, 
with  a  view  to  concluding  them  by  the  end  of  this 
session. Various positions and viewpoints are very well 
known. What  we  need  now  is  sincerity  and  flexibility 
as guiding elements to take us forward. 

The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  was  part  of 
the  package  of  reforms  agreed  in  2000.  At  that  time, 
the  Secretary-General  reminded  us  that  no  reform  of 
the  United  Nations  would  be  complete  without  the 
18 

10-63473 
and 
the 
intense 
that  affect 
The  Ezulwini  Consensus 
the  Security  Council.  Looking  at 


reform  of 
the 
Council’s agenda, the bulk of countries with situations 
under consideration are in Africa. Africa still continues 
to  be  underrepresented  in  the  permanent  category  of 
membership, if not unrepresented at all. 

the  Sirte 
Declaration  clearly  spelled  out  that  our  position  and 
demands were just and legitimate. In the next round of 
negotiations,  we  will  relentlessly  pursue  our  fair 
representation in the Council. Piecemeal reform of the 
working  methods  and  the  establishment  of  ad  hoc 
arrangements cannot be called true reform. 
It is critical that Africa be a part of the decision-

making  processes 
it.  This  historical 
imbalance  needs  to  be  corrected  once  and  for  all.  We 
cannot  embark  on  endless  half-hearted  negotiations 
year  in  and  year  out  and  expect  reform.  It  is  for  this 
reason  that  my  delegation  believes  that  a  definite 
timeline is of the essence. 
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  representative  of  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for his 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/65/2),  which  details 
activities 
undertaken by the Council between 1 August 2009 and 
31  July  2010  and  which  we  have  read  attentively  and 
taken due note of. 
Chile  has  supported  a  comprehensive  reform  of 

the  United  Nations 
the 
principles and values of the Charter, serves to increase 
the credibility and legitimacy of the Organization. That 
is  particularly  pertinent  given  the  main  theme  chosen 
by  the  President  of  the  Assembly  for  this  session, 
namely,  “Reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  global  governance”.  That  is  essentially 
about  supporting 
is 
capable  of  addressing  the  multiple  challenges  we  face 
today,  all  the  while  recognizing  that  development, 
international security, democracy and human rights are 
interdependent and mutually reinforcing. 

The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  constitutes  a 
central  element  in  these  efforts. The  body  responsible 
for 
security  must  be 
representative  and  democratic  in  order  to  adequately 
reflect  the  international  reality  of  the  twenty-first 
century. Chile supports a Security Council reform that 
will  make  it  more  representative,  transparent  and 
efficient.  In  order  to  achieve  that,  we  must  move 
international  peace  and 
inclusive  multilateralism 
that,  while 
reaffirming 
that 
A/65/PV.50
for 
them 
to  make 
appropriate  participation 
the  Organization  and  which  stems  from 
forward both in increasing its membership with an eye 
to  balancing 
the 
developing  world  —  as  illustrated  by  the  example  of 
the  underrepresented  regions  of  Africa  and  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  —  and  in  reforming  its 
working  methods 
increasingly 
transparent  and  inclusive.  Fortunately,  we  are  seeing 
some progress on the latter. 

Chile  supports  the  expansion  of  the  Council  in 
both  its  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership,  recognizing  that  there  are  countries  that 
can and should contribute as permanent members to the 
tasks  that  the  Council  is  called  on  to  undertake.  The 
bilateral  support  Chile  has  extended  to  countries 
seeking new permanent seats is well known. Moreover, 
allow  me  to  reaffirm  once  again  our  historic  position 
against the veto, which we have held since the creation 
of 
the 
fundamental  value  we  attach  to  the  principle  of  the 
equality  of  States  and 
the  democratization  of 
international organizations. 

There  is  no  doubt  that,  under  the  wise  guidance 
of  facilitator Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of Afghanistan, 
whom  we  commend,  we  are  moving  in  the  right 
direction.  We  must  persevere  in  these  efforts  while 
exploring  options  and  alternatives  in  a  process  of 
constructive  and  pragmatic  negotiations  aimed  at 
achieving  results  that  will  allow  us  to  move  closer  to 
the desired reform. 

Mr.  Ould  Hadrami  (Mauritania),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 

In conclusion, allow me to reiterate my country’s 
willingness  to  continue  collaborating  in  building  the 
consensus  that  will  allow  the  achievement  of  the 
necessary  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  thereby 
contributing to strengthening the Organization. 
Mr. Abay  (Ethiopia):  My  delegation  would  like 

to contribute to today’s joint debate by emphasizing the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  particular,  which  is 
obviously of paramount importance both to the African 
continent  and  my  country.  Thus,  let  me  first  of  all 
express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  President 
of  the  Assembly  for  designating  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  as  one  of  his  priorities  during  his 
presidency.  Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to 
welcome 
appointment  of  His  Excellency 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin to chair the intergovernmental 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council. We 
the 
10-63473 

19 
It 
is 
the 
our 
that 
belief 
A/65/PV.50 

are  confident  that,  under  the  President’s  guidance  and 
Ambassador  Tanin’s  continued  effort  and  leadership, 
this Assembly will be able to move the reform process 
forward towards tangible results during this session. 

Ethiopia  aligns  itself  fully  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Sierra 
Leone  and  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African 
States and the Non-Aligned Movement, respectively. 

Ethiopia has always accorded great importance to 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  as  it  is  central  to 
the overall reform of the United Nations system. There 
is no doubt that our efforts and dedication to make the 
Security  Council  a  more  democratic,  representative, 
inclusive  and  transparent  organ  of  our  Organization 
will  only  be  successful  if  there  is  demonstrable 
political commitment by all Member States. 

text-based 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  which  were  launched 
during the previous session, should be  instrumental in 
concretizing  and  narrowing  down  our 
long-held 
positions  and  proposals  on  the  key  issues,  which  are 
well  known  to  us.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  is  of 
the  view  that  a  more  streamlined  and  shorter  text 
would help us make substantial progress in the reform 
process,  if  all  of  us  engage  in  the  negotiations  with  a 
sense  of 
and  genuine 
commitment.  We  are  confident  that  our  negotiations 
can lead us to real progress by identifying and dwelling 
on  areas  of  convergence  and  avoiding  overlapping 
options. 
Africa’s  common  position  on  how  the  Security 

Council  should  be  reformed,  including  all  the  key 
issues,  is  unambiguous  and  remains  unchanged.  The 
Ezulwini  Consensus  clearly  stated  that  the  Security 
Council needs to be enlarged in both the permanent and 
the  non-permanent  categories  and  calls  for  no  fewer 
than two permanent seats with all the prerogatives and, 
of  course,  responsibilities  of  permanent  membership, 
including  the  right  of  veto,  as  well  as  five  non-
permanent seats. 

Even though Africa is opposed in principle to the 
right of veto, we Africans strongly believe that, as long 
as  it  exists  and  as  a  matter  of  justice,  it  should  be 
extended  to  the  new  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council. It should, however, be noted that the 
African  Union  is  responsible  for  the  selection  and  the 
criteria  for  Africa’s  representatives  in  the  Security 
responsibility, 
fairness 

in 
in 
in 
represented 
ever  been 
the  permanent 
Council,  taking  into  consideration  the  representative 
nature and capacity of those chosen. 

As  has  been  stated  on  numerous  occasions,  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  of  paramount 
significance  for  African  countries.  That  is  clearly  the 
case, in that, since the adoption of decision 62/557 by 
the  General  Assembly,  Africa  has  been  engaging 
genuinely 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We 
strongly believe that due consideration should be given 
to the aspirations of our continent, as no African State 
has 
the  permanent 
membership category of the Council. That is not mere 
rhetoric  but  rather  a  well  reasoned  and  pragmatic 
argument  that  should  be  seen  principally  from  a 
historical perspective as well as from the perspective of 
the nature of the Council’s agenda items. 

It  is  to  be  recalled  that,  during  our  previous 
negotiations, the call for the expansion of the Security 
Council 
and  non-permanent 
categories  has  garnered  broad  support  from 
the 
majority  of  Member  States.  In  that  regard,  other 
options advanced by some Member States, particularly 
the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  only  in  the 
category  of  non-permanent  seats  and  the  creation  of  a 
new cluster of non-permanent membership, seem to be 
identical  in  terms  of  the  minimal  contributions  those 
members  could  make 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. Hence, my delegation 
is of the view that those approaches not only fall short 
of  bringing  about  meaningful  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  but  also  do  not  guarantee  real  expansion  in 
the permanent category, thus not responding to Africa’s 
rightful demands. 

In short, Ethiopia feels that, while negotiating on 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  there  will  be  no 
need  to  restate  or  reiterate  well-known  positions.  It 
should  be  unambiguously  clear  that Africa  expects  to 
be  taken  seriously  with  regard  to  its  position  on  the 
reform  of  the  Council.  The  intermediary  solution 
cannot  in  any  way  substitute  for  the  long  overdue 
fundamental reform of the Security Council. 
Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): First 

of  all,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Security Council, the Permanent Representative of the 
United  Kingdom,  Ambassador  Mark  Lyall  Grant,  for 
presenting 
report 
(A/65/2).  My  thanks  go  also  to  the  other  members  of 
the  Council  for  their  important  contributions  to  the 
the  Security  Council’s  annual 
in 
20 

10-63473 
it 
to 
successfully 
the  General  Assembly  and 


preparation of the report. I would also like to mention 
in  particular  the  Nigerian  delegation,  which  went  to 
especially  great  lengths  in  that  regard.  My  delegation 
aligns itself with the statement made by the Permanent 
Representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the Group 
of African States. 

The  theme  of  the  present  session  of  the  General 
Assembly highlights the importance of the relationship 
between 
the  Security 
Council in defining global  governance.  My delegation 
would like to note that in the Security Council’s report 
the  issues  concerning  peace  and  security  in  Africa 
continue  to  dominate  the  majority  of  the  Security 
Council’s work. In that respect, we note the importance 
of  enhancing  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the African Union in terms of peace and security to 
give  the  African  Union  the  appropriate  capacities, 
allowing 
conduct  missions 
established on the basis of Security Council mandates. 

In  addition,  Algeria  would  like  to  welcome 
measures  taken  by  the  Security  Council  during  the 
period  covered  by  the  report  aimed  at  bolstering  the 
framework  for  the  struggle  against  the  financing  of 
terrorism  through  the  adoption  of  resolution  1904 
(2009),  which  clearly  stipulates  that  the  payment  of 
ransoms  to  terrorist  groups  constitutes  a  form  of 
financing 
the 
sanctions  regime.  Moreover,  Algeria  welcomes  the 
establishment,  under  resolution  1904  (2009)  of  the 
Office  of  the  Ombudsperson  for  the  Al-Qaida  and 
Taliban Sanctions Committee, which is an independent 
mechanism  responsible  for  improving  the  regular 
procedure for the inclusion on the Consolidated List by 
reviewing  inclusions  on  the  List  for  their  compliance 
with 
the  Committee’s  rules  and  procedures.  The 
creation of that Office strengthened the principle of the 
rule of law within the United Nations. 

Algeria  reiterates  its  commitment  to  Africa’s 
aspirations, expressed in the common African position 
with regard to Security Council reform, as set forth in 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  for  the  attribution  of  no  less 
than  two  permanent  seats,  with  all  the  accompanying 
privileges  and  rights  of  that  category,  including  the 
right of veto, as well as five additional non-permanent 
seats.  The  two  categories  of  membership  are  those 
stipulated  currently  by  the  Charter. A  modification  to 
any  of  the  characteristics  of  one  of  those  categories 
would, in fact, lead to the creation of a separate, third 
is  covered  under 
terrorism,  which 
A/65/PV.50
the 
Algeria 
the  negotiation 
remains  willing 
text  drawn  up  by 
Permanent  Representative 
category, which should only be created if the Member 
States so decide. 

Moreover, my delegation notes here its complete 
willingness to work to promote substantial headway in 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform  currently  under  way,  within  the  context  of  a 
process  that  must  continue  to  be  transparent  and 
inclusive  and  seek  the  broadest  possible  political 
accord.  It is  also important to note the  comprehensive 
nature  of  Security  Council  reform  and  the  close  link 
that  exists  among  the  various  themes  and  elements  of 
the reform. 
to  examine  with 

the 
openness 
facilitator, 
of 
Afghanistan, Ambassador Tanin, whose perseverance I 
commend, while bearing in mind decisions 62/557 and 
63/565 of the General Assembly. 
In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  say  that  it  is 

important  for  Member  States  to  work  to  define  the 
guiding  principles  underpinning 
reform  before 
considering the merger of positions or proposals, which 
can  only  be  done  with  the  consent  of  the  States 
concerned, as agreed. 
Mr. Onemola (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation 

wishes  to  express  its  appreciation  to  the  President  for 
convening this plenary joint debate on agenda item 29 
on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/65/2)  and  on 
agenda  item  119  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  are 
also grateful to the United Kingdom as President of the 
Security Council for introducing the report. 

It  is  evident  from  the  report  before  us  that  the 
Security  Council  had  a  busy  and  productive  session 
during the period under review. However, the focus of 
my delegation’s statement during this joint debate will 
not be on the activities of the Security Council, but on 
its reform. 

Nigeria  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  welcomes  the 
efforts,  especially  over  the  past  two  years,  geared 
towards  moving  the  process  forward.  Those  efforts 
have  been  further  reinforced  by  General  Assembly 
decision 64/564 of 13 September, which urged Member 
States  to  continue  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the reform immediately during the sixty-fifth session. 
10-63473 

21 

of 
for 
also 
the 
as  Chair 
A/65/PV.50 


In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  President  for  having  reappointed 
the 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We 
thank 
Ambassador  Tanin 
second 
transmitting 
negotiation  text  and  for  the  meeting  that  he  convened 
on 21 October this year to continue the negotiations. 

It  is  the  expectation  of  my  delegation  that 
substantial progress will be achieved during the course 
of  the  current  session.  We  believe  that  the  time  has 
come  for  us  to  achieve  concrete  results  on  those 
elements with regard to which consensus has emerged 
during  the  negotiations.  Nigeria  therefore  calls  for  a 
shorter  text  encompassing  the  positions  and  proposals 
already  put  forward  by  Member  States.  Such  a  text 
would  not  only  provide  clarity  on  the  issues,  but  also 
give direction and guidance. 

The  current  underrepresentation  of  Africa  is  a 
clear demonstration of the lack of equity that exists in 
the Security Council. A region with 53 United Nations 
Member States remains unrepresented in the permanent 
category of membership in the Council. It has also not 
fared  any  better  in  the  non-permanent  seat  category, 
where it has only three seats. 

In that regard, we call for that historical injustice 
to be redressed, so that, of the approximately 26 seats 
proposed  by  the  majority  of  Member  States  for  the 
expansion  of  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories,  Africa 
special 
consideration and afforded at least two representatives 
in 
the 
non-permanent  category.  Other  regions  such  as  the 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  Asia  and  the 
small 
currently 
underrepresented  in  each  category,  should  also  be 
given their due. 

the 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council, and we 
believe that the current negotiation text contains much 
that  can  help  us 
to  achieve  our  objective.  As 
stakeholders,  we  must  strive  to  bridge  the  apparent 
gaps  shown  by  our  differing  views.  The  negotiating 
process should remain open, transparent, and inclusive, 
as well as be conducted in a spirit of flexibility, so that 
we  can  collectively  reach  a  compromise  solution. 
Nigeria  stands  committed  to  the  swift  reform  of  the 
Council. 
the  permanent 
developing 
therefore, 
supports 
category 
and 
five 
in 
should 
be 
given 
Nigeria, 
strongly 
island 
States, 

In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
following  salient  points,  which  tally  with  those  of  an 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States.  The 
preponderance  of  views  and  positions  expressed  by 
Member  States,  including  my  delegation,  is  for  the 
expansion  of  the  Council  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  There  is  also  a  strong 
convergence of positions to the effect that there should 
be  expansion  of  the  membership  of  the  Council  from 
its present 15 members to a range in the mid-20s. 

Nigeria  supports  the  reform  of  the  Council’s 
working methods, including measures proposed by the 
Group  of  Five  Small  Nations  on  transparency  and 
accountability.  Nigeria  also  supports  an  enhanced 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  in  accordance  with  the  Charter 
provisions. 

On the question of the veto, our preference is for 
the  total  abolition  of  the  veto.  However,  if  it  is  not 
abolished,  it  should  be  extended  to  all  permanent 
members of the Council. 

To  conclude,  let  me  reassure  all  Member  States 
that  Nigeria  will  use  its  presence  in  the  Council  to 
promote and maintain international peace and security. 
We will carefully protect the mandate given to us and 
put  it  in  the  service,  not  only  of  Africa,  but  of  the 
international community as a whole. Our efforts in the 
Council  will 
solidarity, 
by 
cooperation, commitment and consultation. 

We  believe  that  through  forthright  determination 
we  can  all  stand  and  muster  the  desired  political  will 
that  will  lead  to  the  achievement  of  a  reformed 
Security Council in due course. 
Mr. Al-Nasser  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic): Allow 

me,  at  the  outset,  to  express  to  the  President  our 
appreciation  for  his  wise  leadership  of  the  General 
Assembly,  including  its  relationship  with  the  other 
bodies  of  this  international  Organization,  and  for  the 
importance he attaches to the issue of Security Council 
reform.  Allow  me  also  to  convey  our  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Mark  Lyall  Grant,  President  of 
the 
Security  Council  for  this  month,  for  introducing  the 
report  of  the  Council  (A/65/2).  My  delegation  also 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 
characterized 
be 
22 

10-63473 
this 



The  presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council to the General Assembly is an important issue 
and  is  a  direct  implementation  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  specifically  Article  24,  paragraph  3, 
which  states  that  “the  Security  Council  shall  submit 
annual  and,  when  necessary,  special  reports  to  the 
General Assembly for its consideration”. 

The  fact  that  the  submission  of  that  report  is 
provided for in the Charter signifies that that issue is at 
the  core  of  the  functions  and  powers  of  the  Security 
Council  and  not  just  a  routine  procedural  matter.  It  is 
therefore essential that the Assembly stress the need to 
upgrade the annual report from a procedural review of 
the Council’s activities and decisions to an analysis and 
assessment  of  the  Council’s  activities,  covering  inter 
alia  the  obstacles  it  faces  in  carrying  out  the  mandate 
entrusted  to  it  by  the  Charter  and  its  responsibility 
towards the entire United Nations membership. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  symbolic  significance  of 
the  Security  Council  submitting  at  least  one  annual 
report  to  the  General  Assembly  is  that  the  enduring 
characteristic  of 
international  Organization, 
regardless of political and practical changes, is that the 
General  Assembly  remains  the  highest  and  most 
inclusive  body  of  the  Organization.  Other  bodies 
should  thus  coordinate  with  it  in  a  comprehensive 
manner,  and  should  not  infringe  on  its  powers  or 
mandates. 

for 
strengthening  cooperation  and  coordination  between 
the  General Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  is  the 
permanent  and  periodic  meetings  between 
the 
two  bodies,  which  must  be 
Presidents  of 
maintained,  enhanced  and  be  made 
include 
discussions of practical issues. 

reform,  we 
recognize that the majority of Member States hope for 
an  update  of  the  Council  as  an  integral  part  of  the 
overall  United  Nations  reform  process,  which  also 
includes  the  strengthening  and  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Even  with  an  agreement  on  the 
need  to  update  the  Council,  one  notes  differences  in 
views  regarding  the  call  for  structural  amendments  or 
adjustments to its working methods. That divergence in 
positions  is  logical  and  not  surprising,  given  that  we 
are  dealing  here  with  192  countries.  But  while  we 
understand that divergence, it remains necessary not to 
overlook  any  of  the  views  expressed  by  Member 
terms  of  Security  Council 
the  most 
One  of 
important 
factors 
those 
to 
In 
A/65/PV.50
the 
as  Chairman  of 
States,  regional  groups  or  other  groupings.  It  would 
also be appropriate, in practice, to heed the position of 
the  permanent  members  of 
the  Council.  The 
constructive  role  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  to  create  the  appropriate  conditions  for 
consensus. 

We appreciate how difficult that endeavour might 
be, but it is only fair to recognize the evolution that has 
occurred  since  the  beginning  of  the  reform  process  in 
the  mid-1990s,  in  particular  the  fact  that  the  reform 
process  moved  from  a  closed  and  informal  path  to  an 
intergovernmental one during the sixty-third session of 
the  General  Assembly.  In  this  regard,  it  would  be 
useful to build on what has been achieved, on the one 
hand, while, on the other hand, maintaining consensus. 

We  would  therefore  like  to  express  our  support 
for the President’s reappointment of Ambassador Zahir 
Tanin 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  would 
like  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  him  for  the 
tremendous  efforts  that  he  has  deployed,  and  we  wish 
him every success. 
We  stress  the  need  to  assign  the  necessary 

priority  to  that  issue  during  the  current  session  of  the 
Assembly  as  well  as  in  the  coming  session,  in 
accordance with the outcome of the intergovernmental 
negotiations at this session. 
Mr.  Sin  Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 

of  Korea):  My  delegation  is  very  pleased  to  join  with 
other delegations in debating Security Council reform. 
In  spite  of  strenuous  efforts  by  Member  States  to 
reform  the  Security  Council  in  conformity  with  the 
changed  international  situation,  the  debate  on  reform 
continues  without  any  tangible  result.  In  particular, 
there  is  no  progress  on  the  issue  of  ensuring  full 
representation for developing countries in the Council. 

The Security Council continues to be misused by 
specific countries pursuing their own political purposes 
and  continues  to  deal  with  issues  beyond  its  mandate, 
thus losing its credibility with Member States. Today’s 
realities  prove  once  again  the  urgency  of  the  need  for 
the  international  community  to  reform  the  Council, 
which  lacks  democracy  and  does  not  reflect  the 
unanimous will of Member States. 

What is imperative in the reform process is to put 
an  end  to  the  misuse  of  the  Security  Council  by 
specific  countries  and  to  the  Council’s  practice  of 
10-63473 

23 
its 
tendency 
to 
revert 
to 
A/65/PV.50 

making  an  issue  only  of  situations  in  developing 
countries, which is unjustifiable and has even led to the 
imposition of coercive measures such as sanctions. 

In order to ensure non-selectivity and impartiality 
in  the  activities  of  the  Security  Council,  a  mechanism 
must  be  established  to  limit  the  effect  of  Council 
resolutions  to  those  cases  where  they  have  been 
endorsed  by  the  General  Assembly.  The  Security 
Council  should  also  make  all  its  meetings  public, 
abandon 
informal 
consultations, and ensure impartiality in its discussions 
by  inviting  all  interested  countries  and  concerned 
parties, to all its consultation processes. 

With  regard  to  the  enlargement  of  the  Security 
Council, it is important to ensure full representation of 
the member States of the Non-Aligned Movement and 
other  developing  countries,  which  constitute  after  all 
an  overwhelming  majority  of  the  United  Nations 
membership,  and  enlarge  the  non-permanent  category 
of  membership  first,  a  measure  on  which  it  would  be 
easy to agree. 

This  is  what  is  required  by  the  reality  of  the 
situation, as proven by the numerous intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  When  the 
permanent  membership  is  enlarged,  a  country  such  as 
Japan,  which  continues 
to, 
apologizing  for  and  atoning  for  its  past  crimes  but 
resorts 
its  old  dream  of 
militarism  and  distorting  and  beautifying  its  past 
history of aggression, should never be allowed to be a 
permanent member of the Council. 

In  conclusion,  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea is confident that, under the 
able 
realistic  and 
innovative  proposals  aimed  at  reforming  the  Security 
Council  will  be  devised  during  the  current  session  of 
the General Assembly. 
Mr. Mottaghi Nejad  (Islamic Republic of Iran): 

At  the  outset,  let  me  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
President  of  the  Assembly  for  convening  this  joint 
debate and for paying due attention to Security Council 
reform  within  the  agenda  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fifth  session.  My  thanks  also  go  to  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan,  Mr.  Zahir 
Tanin, for all his efforts in presiding as the Chair of the 
informal 
the 
Assembly  on  Council  reform,  and  we  express  our 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
to  avoid  admitting 
to  resurrecting 
the  President, 
leadership  of 
instead 

gratitude  to  him  for  accepting  that  responsibility  for 
the year to come. 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  delivered  earlier 
yesterday by the representative of Egypt, but allow me 
to delve into a few more points as well. 
Last September, the General Assembly, at one of 

the  very  last  meetings  of  its  resumed  session  (see 
A/64/PV.121),  decided  to  continue  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  immediately 
in informal plenary meetings of the Assembly, and His 
Excellency  Mr.  Deiss,  in  a  very  symbolic  gesture,  put 
that decision into practice at the very beginning of the 
Assembly’s work at this session, before the joint debate 
on  the  issue  actually  took  place  in  plenary  meetings. 
That  has  symbolic  importance  in  the  sense  that  it 
shows  the  priority  that  the  President  of  the Assembly 
attaches to that issue as an extremely important agenda 
item. 

Each  year,  the  General  Assembly  receives  and 
considers the annual report of the Security Council and 
expresses its views and expectations, as an exercise in 
added  value,  on the work  of the Council. We  are here 
today  to  consider  this  year’s  report  of  the  Security 
Council  (A/65/2)  in  conjunction  with  the  question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. The linkage between the report and the reform 
process 
a 
comprehensive reform of the Council, namely, to make 
a more democratic, inclusive, equitably representative, 
transparent, effective and accountable Council. 

It  is  expected  that  the  deliberations  of  the  past 
few  years  have  somehow  mirrored,  in  practical  terms, 
the  work  of  the  Security  Council  and  its  report. 
However, it seems that the pace of that movement has 
been rather sluggish. 

That  does  not,  of  course,  seek  to  deny  the 
valuable  and  extensive  work  done  by  the  delegations 
and the Secretariat on this compilation of the Security 
Council’s  undertakings.  What  is  needed  perhaps  is  to 
think  about  the  ways  and  means  of  departing  from 
mere repetition of the reports of previous years in light 
of  the  objectives  and  key  elements  of  the  reform 
process. 
the  basic  objective  of 
represents 
increase 
in 
in 
24 

10-63473 
the 
and 
real 
necessary 



An  assessment  of  the  history  of  United  Nations 
reform  reveals  the  fact  that  only  three  amendments 
have  been  made  to  the  United  Nations  Charter  in  the 
past six decades, and all of them have dealt only with 
the number of seats. The term “reform” has been used, 
despite  the  fact  that  the  level  of  change  has  been  far 
from 
comprehensive 
constitutional  changes  to  United  Nations  policies  and 
procedures. 

Today,  that  story  could  be  changed  by  exploring 
deeper  levels  of  reform,  where  common  ground  may 
converge  and  where  we  could  thus  engage  in  an  all-
inclusive manner on substantial issues. In planning for 
the  realization  of  such  an  objective,  there  are  a  few 
points worth exploring. 

First,  this  represents  a  comprehensive  approach. 
It is necessary to respond with respect to all aspects of 
Security Council reform in order to keep all on board, 
even if there is a lengthy stretch of time between those 
aspects that can be achieved in the relatively short run 
and those that can be accomplished only in the longer 
run. It is thus reasonable to carry out a comprehensive 
study  of  the  old  as  well  as  the  possible  new  elements 
that  would  better  reflect  the  realities  of  the  day  in 
response  to  all  of  the  key  issues  of  Council  reform. 
Needless to say, the underrepresentation of developing 
countries,  including  the  Muslim  world,  in  the  Council 
needs to be seriously and satisfactorily addressed. 

Secondly,  on  the  elimination  of  the  veto  power, 
an issue that has come up repeatedly in the statements 
of  many  delegations  over  the  past  few  years,  positive 
signs have already emerged where we see that Member 
States  are  distancing  themselves  from  the  veto  power. 
That is observable even among the permanent members 
of the Security Council. That fact simply demonstrates 
that  there  is  a  strong  feeling  that  the  veto,  and  even 
more, the fear of veto, is an unjust and unconstructive 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  a  few  Member  States  that 
undermines the effectiveness of the Council and keeps 
it  from  taking  meaningful  decisions  in  many  ways. 
Therefore, the gradual elimination of the veto power is 
an aspect that forms an ideal for almost all delegations. 
Thoughts  and  further  deliberations  on  that  important 
subject could be explored, elaborated and agreed upon 
at a later stage, commencing this year. 

Thirdly,  a  pattern  of  cooperation  between  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council is needed. 
That could be elaborated through a careful and detailed 
A/65/PV.50
the 
through  collaboration  between 
definition of each body’s prerogatives, including those 
that  encompass  common  boundaries,  which  could  be 
addressed 
two 
bodies and should be tackled thoroughly. That needs to 
be done in order to avoid the old but continued de facto 
problem  of  the  encroachment  by  the  Council  on  the 
prerogatives  of  the  other  main  organs  of  the  United 
Nations.  Furthermore,  according  to  Article  13  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  the  Assembly,  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policy-making and representative organ of 
the United Nations, is primarily entrusted with the task 
of  the  progressive  development  and  codification  of 
international  law.  Therefore,  norm-setting  and  law-
making  by  the  Council  runs  counter  to  the  letter  and 
spirit  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  That  problem 
could be evaluated through an analytical assessment by 
the  Secretariat  in  order  to  enable  an  appropriate 
distribution  of  labour  between  the  Assembly  and  the 
Council. 
Fourthly, to promote the working methods of the 

Security  Council  and  honour  the  responsibility  of  the 
Council  as  regards  to  the  rights  of  non-Council 
members,  a  number  of  measures  have  already  been 
taken  that  could  be  charted  and  elaborated  as  short-
term  objectives.  They  include  permitting  non-Council 
members  to  participate  in  discussions  on  matters 
affecting  them  and  their  interests;  allowing  concerned 
countries  the  right  to  brief  the  Council  on  their 
positions  on  issues  having  a  direct  effect  on  their 
national  interests;  providing  non-selective  notification 
of  Council  meetings  and  convening  regular  daily 
briefings;  and  considering  the  right  of  reply  for 
countries  against  whom  allegations  are  raised  during 
certain formats of the Council’s meetings. 

According  to  Article  24  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  the  Council’s  decisions  should  reflect  the 
wishes and views of the general membership. For that 
reason,  the  general  membership,  and  particularly  the 
concerned  countries,  should  be 
the 
negotiations  on  resolutions  or  statements  directly 
affecting them. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  Council’s  mandate  is  not 
unlimited or above the law. It is bound by the Charter, 
and  thus  the  Council  should  not  act  against  the  spirit 
and  letter  of  its  commitment  to  exercise  its  powers  in 
accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter.  It  should  refrain  from  interfering  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  Member  States  and  from  making 
decisions based on unauthentic information, politically 
informed  of 
10-63473 

25 

and 
to  make 
comprehensively 
A/65/PV.50 

motivated  analysis  or  the  narrow  national  interest 
priorities  of  some  Member  States.  Such  acts  would 
definitely  undermine  the  Council’s  credibility  and 
reputation,  damage the legitimacy of its  decisions and 
harm  the  trust  of  Member  States  in  that  important 
organ of the Organization. 

Finally, it is often said that the United Nations is 
so  consumed  with  getting  the  process  right  that  it 
neglects  the  consequences.  Today  we  need  to  sum  up 
and streamline the consequences of the working agenda 
in  order 
the  whole  process  of  reform 
meaningful  and  complete.  In  fact,  no  Council  reform 
will be successful unless and until all major issues are 
appropriately, 
exclusively 
addressed.  Every  effort  should  be  made  to  render  the 
Security  Council  more  democratic,  representative  and 
accountable.  Let  me  assure  the  President  of  the  full 
cooperation  of  my  delegation  to  achieve  those  short 
and long-term objectives. 
Mr. Šćepanović (Montenegro): At the  outset, let 

me  express  Montenegro’s 
the 
President’s  initiative  to  make  global  governance  and 
United  Nations  reform  a  central 
the 
Assembly’s  current  session. We  commend  him  for  his 
efforts 
timely 
organization of today’s debate on one of the vital issues 
of the overall reform of the United Nations system. We 
hope that today’s discussion will give fresh impetus to 
the  negotiation  process  on  this  important  subject, 
which at its core aims to reinstate the United Nations at 
the centre of global governance. 

I would like to thank the current President of the 
Security Council, Ambassador Sir Mark Lyall Grant of 
the  United  Kingdom,  for  presenting  the  report  of  the 
Security Council (A/65/2). 

Montenegro, the youngest Member of the United 
Nations, attaches meaningful importance to the issue of 
United  Nations  reform,  while  fully  respecting  the 
importance of the reform process to all Members of the 
Organization.  In  that  context,  we  consider  reform  of 
the Security Council particularly significant, especially 
in  the  light  of  the  belief  of  a  large  majority  that  the 
status  quo  will  be  hard  to  maintain,  since  new  global 
challenges  and  realities  require  new  approaches  and 
responses  that  adequately  reflect  the  current  state  of 
world affairs. 
that  respect  and  also  for 
full  support 
theme  of 
the 
for 
in 
in 
sees 
securing 
Montenegro 
and 
reform 
the  goal  of 
a  valid 
for  Security  Council 
legitimate 

foundation 
the 
principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter, 
the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2) and in the 
recommendations  of 
the  World  Summit  Outcome 
(resolution  60/1).  We  also  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  determination  and  proposals  in  this  regard. 
Security  Council  reform  can  be  considered  a  basic 
element  of  the  overall  efforts  for  United  Nations 
reform so that it may attain wider and more appropriate 
representation and increased legitimacy, responsibility, 
transparency and efficiency. In that regard, my country 
believes  it  is  encouraging  that  multilateralism  again 
ranks high among the priorities of lead countries in the 
world. 
Security  Council  reform  is  an  ongoing  process 

that requires an active role and a flexible approach by 
all  Member  States  and  regional  groups.  Montenegro 
supports  expanding  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  with 
equitable 
representation  of  all  regional  groups  as  an  authentic 
reflection of new global circumstances. 

My country highly regards this reality, especially 
the  current  constellation  of  power,  with  the  aim  of 
achieving consensus. Consensus itself must incorporate 
and  recognize  the  growing  role  of  the  immense  new 
actors  alongside  the  traditional  Permanent  Five,  and 
also the wider emancipation of the larger affiliations of 
small  and  medium-sized  countries.  In  particular,  the 
position  of Africa  must  be  appropriately  addressed  in 
the future reformed Security Council. 

Our Eastern European Group has grown from 11 
to 23 members. Montenegro points to that new reality, 
as that Group needs to be more adequately represented 
in the Council. And that translates into getting another 
non-permanent seat. Based on its national interests, and 
expressing 
regional  group, 
Montenegro  stands  ready  to  actively,  responsibly  and 
in  good  faith  support,  participate  in  and  contribute  to 
the reform process. Our position of accountability can 
be  viewed  in  the  light  of  our  own  candidature  for  the 
Security Council for the term 2026 and 2027. 

My  country  recognizes  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations as a chance for a qualitative deepening of 
the  process,  as  well  as  an  opportunity  for  small 
countries  to  voice  their  opinions  and  articulate  their 
interests.  We  welcome  the  negotiation  text,  which 
contains  all  of  the  proposals  made  by  Member  States 
solidarity  with  our 
26 

10-63473 


since  the  process  to  move  forward  the  text-based 
solution  was  opened.  We  take  this  opportunity  to 
convey  our  appreciation  to Ambassador  Tanin  for  the 
manner  in  which  he  has  been  steering  and  conducting 
the intergovernmental negotiations. 

However, my delegation would like to stress that 
now that all  positions have been incorporated into the 
text, it is time to converge our views and take decisive 
action,  which  must  have  broad  legitimacy.  It  must  be 
foreseen  that  substantive  negotiations  will  soon  be 
necessary  if  further  and  visible  progress  is  to  be 
achieved. Therefore, we must remain engaged and join 
our efforts in order to find the most suitable modalities 
to  conduct  negotiations,  which  must  have  overall 
support so that we will all be in position to benefit. Let 
me assure the Assembly that Montenegro will certainly 
be a constructive and reliable partner along that path. 
Mr.  Vaz  Patto  (Portugal):  I  wish  to  thank  the 

President for convening this joint debate on the agenda 
items  “Report  of  the  Security  Council”  and  “Question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”.  I  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to 
the  President  of  the  Security  Council,  Ambassador 
Lyall Grant, for his introduction of the annual report of 
the Security Council (A/65/2). 

The  meeting  called  today  by  the  President  bears 
upon  a  matter  that  is  very  important  to  the  United 
Nations  membership.  The  General  Assembly 
is 
considering  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council, 
the body entrusted by the United Nations Charter with 
the  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  exercise  we  are 
engaged  in  is  a  formal  expression  of  the  Council’s 
accountability to the Assembly. 

It is the duty of the Security Council to submit an 
annual report. And it is up to the Assembly — to us — 
to receive and consider it. The work of the Council is 
central  to  the  United  Nations  agenda.  The  general 
membership follows its work closely, calling for more 
transparency,  openness  and 
is  a 
recurrent  call,  which  reflects  the  interest  paid  to  the 
Council’s  work  and  its  relevance  in  international 
affairs.  We  must  pay  tribute  to  the  efforts  of  many 
Council  members,  in  particular  those  non-permanent 
members  who  have  been  pushing  this  agenda  from 
within the Council as well. 
interactivity.  It 
A/65/PV.50
in 
recent  years 
is 
It 
today. 
represents 

Much  has  been  accomplished,  as  the  Council’s 
more  recent  practice  seems  to  reflect.  And  we  know 
how difficult it is to change long-established practices. 
The  work  carried  out  by  the  Council’s  Informal 
and  Other 
Working  Group  on  Documentation 
Procedural  Questions 
to  be 
commended.  In  particular,  we  welcome  the  work 
carried  out  and  the  results  obtained  during  the  period 
under  consideration 
further 
progress  in  the  right  direction,  while,  as  always,  the 
work is far from being completed — if it may ever be. 

But  the  work  achieved  so  far  is  the  reflection  of 
the  debate  that  has  been  taking  place  in  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  reform  of  working  methods.  Many 
have contributed to this debate here. Let me commend 
their  efforts  by  mentioning  the  relevant  work  of 
Liechtenstein,  Singapore,  Costa  Rica,  Jordan  and 
Switzerland  —  the  group  of  five  small  nations  —  on 
this concept. 

Today,  we  are  addressing  accountability.  The 
level  of  interest  of  the  general  membership  on  that 
point  is  clearly  reflected  by  the  number  of  speakers 
participating in this debate. They reflect the importance 
attached 
the  clear 
assumption of the responsibility that is entrusted to us. 
While some may say that working methods are a matter 
for  the  Council  to  consider  —  a  view  that  we  do  not 
share — it seems clear that accountability is a duty of 
the  Security  Council  in  which  the  General  Assembly 
naturally has a central role to play. In that regard, both 
organs can and should do more. 

First  of  all,  accountability  should  be  a  constant 
concern of the Council and its members. It should not 
be  confined  to  a  once-a-year  formal  exercise  such  as 
this. The United Nations Charter even suggests a more 
active practice, calling for special reports. 

Accountability  is  also  a  duty  of  each  Member 
State that serves in the Council, acting on behalf of the 
general  membership  as  required  by  the  Charter.  Here, 
too,  there  is  room  for  significant  improvements.  The 
role  of  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  in  that 
regard  should  be  enhanced,  giving  her  or  him  more 
leeway  to  interact  with  the  larger  membership.  The 
Presidents’  assessments  —  which  Portugal  was  proud 
to push forward with others as a new idea that started 
in 1997 — are still part of the annual report, while they 
vary  in  informative  contents. They  should  reflect  to  a 
greater  extent  the  substance  of  the  views  of  each 
the  Council’s  work  and 
to 
10-63473 

27 
of 
the 
as 
facilitator 
A/65/PV.50 

presidency  on  the  monthly  work  of  the  Council,  its 
achievements and shortcomings. 

For  our  part,  we  are  ready  to  assume  the 
responsibility  to  further  this  work  in  the  General 
Assembly  and  in  the  Council  and  to  give,  with  the 
contribution  of  others,  a  more  concrete  meaning  to 
accountability. 

Let  me  also  express  Portugal’s  sincere  thanks  to 
the  President  for  having  made  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  a  priority  in  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  want  also  to  stress  the  importance  of  the 
designation of Ambassador Zahir Tanin to continue his 
work 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  as  well  as  of  the  early  launch  of  the 
process  in  this  session.  I  want  to  express  Portugal’s 
deep  appreciation  for  his  work  last  year  and  for  the 
results he led us to achieve. 

I  want  also  to  stress  Portugal’s  full  commitment 
to  continuing  the  work  and  promptly  concluding  the 
long-overdue reform of the Security Council, a reform 
that  will  adequately  reflect  present-day  geopolitical 
realities  and  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  Member 
States  and  that  will  garner  the  agreement  of  the 
international community. 
Mr.  Loulichki  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the outset, allow me to voice my satisfaction to be able 
to speak under the presidency of Mr. Deiss. 
(spoke in French) 

I  would  like  to  thank  the  Ambassador  of  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant, 
for  his  comprehensive 
presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council (A/65/2) to the General Assembly. 

My  delegation  endorses  the  statement  made  by 
the representatives of Egypt and Sierra Leone on behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Group  of 
African States, respectively (see A/65/PV.48). 

Today’s  debate  allows  us  to  study  two  important 
issues  that  are  intimately  linked  with  one  another:  the 
annual report and Security Council reform. 
On reform, I would like to thank the Ambassador 

of Afghanistan, Mr. Zahir Tanin, for his excellent work 
as facilitator and to say how pleased we are that he has 
been  reappointed  to  that  function  by  the  current 
President  of  the  General Assembly.  It  is  not  at  all  an 
easy job. 


Security  Council  reform  is  dictated  by  profound 
changes  in  international  relations  and  by  the  need  for 
that important United Nations body to better discharge 
its  primary  responsibility  of  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security.  We  believe  that  more  equitable 
representation  of  developing  countries,  from 
the 
African continent and from the Arab and Muslim world 
in particular, has become a need that any reform must 
integrate and take into consideration. It is certain that a 
Security  Council  that  is  more  representative  of  the 
various  regions  and  different  cultures  will  have 
enhanced credibility and stronger moral credibility. 

Expansion  of  the  Council  should  be  based, 
furthermore, on the fundamental principle of equitable 
geographic  representation  and  on  the  contribution  of 
potential  members  to  maintaining  international  peace 
and security and their ability to take a positive role in 
preventing  conflicts,  peacefully  settling  disputes  and 
maintaining  and  building  peace,  as  well  as  in  relation 
to achieving other goals of the United Nations. 

We  have  taken  note  of  the  Council’s  efforts  to 
introduce  more  effectiveness  and  transparency  into  its 
working  methods,  as  well  as  into  its  interactions  with 
Member  States  that  are  not  members  of  the  Council. 
We  commend  the  serious  work  carried  out  to  that  end 
by  the  delegation  of  Japan,  Chair  of  the  Council’s 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural Questions. 

I now turn to the  report of the Security  Council. 
The report gives us an outline of the various activities 
conducted  and  decisions  taken  by  the  Council  in 
discharging  its  mandate.  We  must  note  that  threats  to 
international  peace  and  security  —  limited  in  the  past 
primarily to inter-State disputes — have for  a number 
of years now assumed multiple and complex forms. In 
light  of  that,  the  Council  must  continue  to  seek 
innovative  responses  to  non-traditional  threats  that 
affect societies at their very core. 

With  regard  to  peacekeeping  —  the  Council’s 
principal instrument for discharging its mandate — it is 
certain  that  the  complexity  of  current  peace  missions 
involves  both  the  establishment  or  maintenance  of 
peace  and  post-conflict  peacebuilding.  It  requires  an 
integrated approach that combines the adoption of clear 
and  workable  mandates,  deployment  of  sufficient 
military  and  civil  resources  and  the  granting  of 
adequate  financing.  The  drawing  up  of  strategies  for 
each mission is a prerequisite for its success. 
10-63473 
28 

legal  decisions  and 



During  the  reporting  period,  the  Council  has 
continued  to  address  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East, 
particularly  the  question  of  Palestine.  We  followed 
with hope and encouragement the efforts of the United 
States  Administration,  together  with  the  Palestinian 
Authority’s responsible position supported by the Arab 
countries,  that  led  to  the  relaunching  of  direct  peace 
negotiations  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians  on 
2 September  in  Washington.  However,  the  persistence 
of  the  Israeli  Government  in  its  illegal  settlement 
policy,  including  in  Al-Quds,  reduces  to  zero  the 
chances  of  negotiations  being  resumed,  as  shown  by 
the  recent  decision  of  the  Israeli  Government  to  build 
1,300 new housing units in the eastern part of Al-Quds, 
which has a majority Palestinian population. 
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  whose  King 

Mohammed VI  presides  over  the Al-Quds  Committee, 
reiterates its profound concern at the illegal acts by the 
Israeli authorities in eastern Al-Quds with the intention 
of  altering  the  demographic  composition  of  the  Holy 
City.  My  country  believes  that  only  the  establishment 
the  basis  of  relevant 
of  a  Palestinian  State  on 
international 
the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  with  Al-Quds  as  its  capital,  as  well  as  the 
withdrawal  of  Israel  from  the  other  occupied  Arab 
territories, will guarantee lasting peace in the region. 

We  note,  as  we  have  in  the  past,  that  issues 
related to the African continent continue, unfortunately, 
to occupy a major part of the Council’s agenda. That in 
no way diminishes the achievement of several African 
States  that,  with  the  help  of  the  Council  and  the 
international  community,  have  made  commendable 
progress  in  emerging  from  crises  and  conflicts  that 
have long plagued them. 

We call on the Council to persist in and enhance 
its  efforts,  using  approaches  tailored  to  dealing  with 
each  situation  on  its  own  merits,  to  assist  the African 
countries  concerned  in  their  quest  for  peace,  stability 
and  development.  The  Council’s  role  in  providing 
support and encouragement remains vital in helping the 
parties 
to  seek 
solutions 
that  are  politically  acceptable  by  all. 
Experience  has  shown  that  such  solutions  are  fleeting 
or  unattainable  if  requirements  that  they  be  reached 
realistically and in a spirit of compromise are not met. 

It  must  be  acknowledged  that  the  contribution 
and  sincere  cooperation  of  neighbouring  countries  are 
indispensable in order to reach lasting solutions to the 
in  conflict  or  disputes 
involved 
A/65/PV.50
the  Security  Council  contained 
conflicts  and  disputes  that  hinder  the  process  of  the 
integration  and  development  of  entire  regions  in 
Africa. That is even more important when we consider 
the increasing and troubling threat in certain regions of 
the  continent,  such  as  the  Sahelo-Saharan  region, 
where  only  an  inclusive,  concerted  approach  can 
ensure the effectiveness and viability of efforts against 
the acts of terrorist groups that undermine the security 
of the States of the region. 

Morocco  has  made  promoting  African  issues  a 
priority  of  its  international  agenda.  It  has  spared  no 
effort  in  its  support  for  Council  initiatives  aimed  at 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding in Africa. I can assure 
the  Assembly  that  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  will 
remain  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to  the  United 
Nations  for  the  achievement  of  the  goals  for  which  it 
was created. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on the items under consideration. 
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note of 
the  report  of 
in 
document A/65/2? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting President: Two representatives have 

asked for the floor to exercise the right of reply. May I 
remind members that statements in exercise of the right 
of  reply  are  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first 
intervention  and 5 minutes for the second, and should 
be made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  I  am  compelled  to  state 

that  Japan  cannot  accept  the  allegations  made  by  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 

First, Japan firmly believes that the qualifications 
of  any  country  for  permanent  membership  in  the 
Security Council should be based on that country’s real 
contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  Since  joining  the  United  Nations,  Japan, 
as  a  nation  committed  to  peace,  has  been  making  a 
serious  effort  to  meet  that  standard,  contributing 
actively  and  constructively  to  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 
the 

the 
representative  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  to  the  unfortunate  past,  my  delegation  cannot 
accept  his  comment,  considering  that  Japan  has  been 
addressing its past sincerely and consistently since the 
end  of  the  Second  World  War.  To  that  end,  for  more 
reference  by 
Secondly, 
regarding 
10-63473 

29 

admitted, 
that  has  not 
the  remark  made 
A/65/PV.50 

than 65 years Japan has consistently dedicated itself to 
promoting international peace and prosperity as well as 
demonstrating  its  respect  for  democracy  and  human 
rights.  Japan  stands  ready  at  all  times  to  contribute 
actively  and  constructively  to  international  peace  and 
security. 
Mr. Yun Yong Il (Democratic People’s Republic 

of  Korea):  My  delegation  would  like  to  exercise  its 
right  of  reply  concerning 
the 
delegation of Japan. 
The Japanese delegation says that its Government 

has  apologized  for  past  crimes  in  this  international 
forum  when  the  issue  of  past  crimes  has  been  raised. 
That  argument,  however,  is  aimed  simply  at  avoiding 
its  responsibility  and  denouncing  the  international 
community. 
As is well known, Japan is the only country in the 

world 
apologized  or 
compensated for the enormous crimes against humanity 
committed  in  the  past.  During  its  colonial  rule  over 
Korea, Japan illegally drafted 8.4 million Koreans into 
forced  labour,  killed  one  million  and  forced  200,000 
young  Korean  women  and  girls  to  serve  as  sex  slaves 
for the Japanese imperial army. 

the 
international  community’s  just  demand  for  settlement 
of  its  past  crimes.  Officials  of  successive  Japanese 
Governments,  including  its  Prime  Ministers,  continue, 
without  exception, 
the  Yasukuni  Shrine, 
dedicated to soldiers who died in wartime, particularly 
those  killed  in  the  Second  World  War.  Highly  placed 
right-wing  Japanese  politicians  openly  whitewash  the 
country’s  criminal  wars  of  aggression  as  just  wars 
designed  to  protect  and  liberate  other Asian  countries 
from  Western  Powers.  They  even  resort  to  describing 
the systematic sex slavery established for the Japanese 
imperial  army  as  deeds  perpetrated  by  individual 
businessmen  and  voluntary  commercial  activity  by 
prostitutes. 

As  everyone  knows,  on  9  April  2009,  Japan 
published another middle-school textbook justifying its 
aggression and colonial rule over Korea and distorting 
such  historical  facts  as  sex  slavery  and  forcible 
conscription.  That 
the 
Pacific  war  as  the  Greater  East Asian  War,  preaching 
the  revival  of  the  old  spirit  of  militarism  and  stating 
that  Japan  was  a  victim,  unavoidably  involved  in  the 
war  as  a  result  of  the  acts  of  the  Western  Powers, 
Furthermore,  Japan  blatantly  challenges 
textbook  openly  describes 
to  visit 
the  basis  of 
their  contribution 
including  the  United  States  and  United  Kingdom. 
Those  are  a  few  examples  of  how  Japan  is  trying  to 
conceal its past crimes and evade its responsibilities. 

Japan continues to state that the qualifications for 
potential  new  Security  Council  members  will  be 
evaluated  on 
to 
international  activity.  That  means  that  Japan  has 
sufficient such qualifications. Such logic is simply not 
understandable  in  our  world. A  country  that  denies  its 
past crimes will commit such crimes again. That is the 
lesson we have learned from history. Even today, Japan 
is  doing  its  best  to  claim  the  Dokdo  islets,  which  are 
part  of  Korean  territory.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
believes  that  Japan  can  no  longer  be  allowed  to  talk 
about a permanent seat on the Security Council. 
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  Since  we  have  explained 

our  position  on  the  issues  that  the  delegation  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has just raised 
here  and  also  in  the  Third  Committee,  we  will  not 
repeat it now. 

the  baseless 
statement  that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  has  made  here 
today,  using  unseemly 
expressions  and  vulgar  language.  It  is  regrettable  that 
the  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  is 
taking advantage of this meeting in order to advance its 
accusations  against  Japan,  while  all  the  Member  State 
is sincerely discussing is the issue of Security Council 
reform and the report of the Security Council. 
Mr. Yun Yong Il (Democratic People’s Republic 

of  Korea):  The  Japanese  delegation  should  take  note 
that  the  crime  committed  already  is  the  one  to  be 
addressed. A crime once committed does not disappear 
by  itself  with  time;  it  can  be  thought  of  as  having 
disappeared only once it has been clearly settled. 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 29 and agenda item 119. 
However,  we  cannot  accept 


Programme of work 
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  consult 

members  regarding  an  extension  of  the  work  of  the 
Special  Political  and  Decolonization  Committee 
(Fourth Committee). 

Members  will  recall  that  at  its  2nd  plenary 
meeting, on 17 September 2010, the General Assembly 
the  General 
approved 
recommendation  of 
the 
30 

10-63473 
the 
Special 
that 
Political 


Committee 
and 
Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) should 
complete  its  work  by Wednesday,  10  November  2010. 
However, I have been informed by the Chairman of the 
Special  Political  and  Decolonization  Committee 
(Fourth Committee) that the Committee was not able to 
complete  its  work  by  Wednesday,  10  November,  and 
would  need  an  additional  meeting  on  Monday, 
15 November,  depending  on 
the  availability  of 
conference services. 
A/65/PV.50

May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Special  Political  and 
Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) for one 
additional meeting? 



There being no objection, it is so decided. 
  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 
10-63473 

31 
