United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

4th plenary meeting 
Monday, 20 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 






A/65/PV.4
Official Records
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session)
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session) 

the 
will  be  rearranged 
in  accordance  with 
established practice of the General Assembly: 
(a)  Heads  of  State  will  thus  be  accorded  first 
priority, followed by Heads of Government; 
vice-presidents,  crown  princes/princesses; 
the highest-ranking official of the Holy See, 
in  its  capacity  as  observer  State,  and  of 
Palestine, 
its  capacity  as  observer; 
ministers;  and  permanent  representatives” 
(ibid., para. 7). 
in 
It was also decided that, 

in 
“Without  prejudice  to  other  organizations 

the  General 
which  have  observer  status 
Assembly,  a  representative  of  each  of 
the 
following  may  also  be  included  in  the  list  of 
speakers  for  the  plenary  meetings  of  the  High-
level Plenary Meeting:  





League of Arab States 
African Union 
European Union 
Organization of the Islamic Conference 
World Conference of Speakers of Parliament of 
the Inter-Parliamentary Union.” (ibid., para. 9) 

Those organizations, which have observer status, 
are  very  active  and  vital  in  coordinating  activities  in 
the  field  of  development.  With  the  consent  of  the 
Assembly  and  without  setting  a  precedent,  I  would 





This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54115 (E) 
*1054115* 

Co-Chair: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . .
Co-Chair: Mr. Joseph Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.




High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium 
Development Goals 
Agenda items 13 and 115 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation  
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major  
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields  
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit  
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.1) 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

wish  to  bring  the  following  matter  to  the  attention  of 
Member States.  

Members  will  recall  that,  in  accordance  with 
Assembly  resolution  64/184  of  21  December  2009,  it 
was decided that the afternoon meeting,  


“on Monday, 20 September 2010 … will … have 
50  speaking  slots”  and  that  “[t]he  initial  list  of 
speakers  for  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  … 
will  be  established  at  a  meeting  to  be  scheduled 
in  the  month  of  May  2010”  (resolution  64/184, 
annex I, paras. 4 and 6).  
Furthermore, it was also decided that, 
“when  each  category  of  speakers  is  organized 
following  the  order  resulting  from  the  selection 
process  …  the  list  of  speakers  for  each  meeting 










laying 
to  redress 
Ivo  Josipović,  President  of 
A/65/PV.4 

therefore  like  to  give  the  floor  to  these  five  observers 
at  the  end  of  this  meeting,  after  representatives  of 
Member States have spoken. 
It was so decided. 


The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr. 
the 
Republic of Croatia.  
President  Josipović:  Ten  years  ago,  a  historic 

moment  for  the  United  Nations  occurred.  In  adopting 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  189  Member  States  took 
the  decisive  step  to  address  the  fundamental  problem 
of  unequal  global  development.  By 
the 
foundation  for  a  more  peaceful,  prosperous  and  just 
world,  our  collective  vision  was 
this 
inequality and to offer hope to the world. 

We clearly committed ourselves to implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  before 
2015,  by  which  time  we  would  eradicate  hunger  and 
poverty and address maternal and infant mortality and 
diseases.  To  that  end,  we  needed  to  eliminate  gender 
to  primary 
inequality,  create  a  universal 
education, 
environmental 
degradation. 

The  Millennium  Declaration,  as  a  road  map  for 
the  twenty-first  century,  laid  the  foundation  for  a 
global  partnership  for  development.  This  partnership 
was  to  be  fostered  by  a  spirit  of  shared  responsibility 
and  solidarity  by  which  the  developed  world,  on  its 
part,  pledged  to  make  available  and  transfer  requisite 
knowledge and resources to meet development needs.  

to 
apply  assistance  in  a  rational  and  effective  manner  so 
as 
to  gradually  free 
themselves  from  abject  and  inhuman  conditions  of 
poverty.  Under  the  Declaration,  each  Member  State 
became  accountable  at  the  national  level  and  assumed 
collectively responsibility at the global level. It is very 
clear today that we are witnesses to the fact that these 
obligations 
and 
interdependent.  
Despite significant achievements during 10 years 

of  implementation,  the  Secretary-General  and  others 
have rightly highlighted that, where progress has been 
made,  it  has  been  only  partial  and  sporadic.  Today’s 
meeting  to  assess  what  it  will  take  in  the  remaining 
five  years  to  achieve  the  MDGs  is  taking  place  in 
Developing  countries  resolved 
increasingly 
to  enable 
their  populations 
themselves 
and 
prevent 
further 
are 
indivisible 
right 

completely  new  circumstances.  Moreover,  we  must 
factor  into  our  deliberations  trends  that  are  seriously 
impeding our efforts. 

In today’s world, not one country has escaped the 
negative  impact  of  the  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis. This  crisis,  which  has  affected  us  all  with  such 
extraordinary  speed,  has  produced  consequences  that 
we will have to bear for a significant time to come.  

Moreover,  although  States  are  on  track  globally 
to  meet  the  poverty-related  MDG  targets,  poverty 
levels are on the rise, even in countries where poverty 
was  not  previously  prevalent.  These  signs  serve  as 
important  warnings  not  to  further  derail  from  our 
collective  promises.  Even  the  slightest  shortfall  in  the 
implementation of the MDGs, which enshrine all basic 
human rights, will mean that we did not succeed. I am 
convinced that this ought not to be the message of this 
meeting. 
Over  the  past  two  years,  especially  in  the 

developed  world,  substantial  efforts  have  been  made 
towards  curtailing  the  decline  of  national  GDPs  to 
create  the  preconditions  for  initiating  a  new  cycle  of 
development.  However,  this  process  is  not  without 
serious  social  implications.  Despite  our  commitment 
under  the  MDGs  to  achieve  full  and  productive 
employment  and  decent  work  for  all,  the  current 
unemployment  trends  that  are  affecting  all  countries 
irrespective  of  their  level  of  development  are  being 
contained  at  an  exceptionally slow  pace. Furthermore, 
social  stress  on  populations  has  not  been  averted  and 
structural reforms at the national level are painful and 
often unacceptable to them.  

Despite  these  circumstances,  Croatia  remains 
committed  to  the  full  implementation  of  the  MDGs  at 
the national and global levels. By virtue of the world’s 
current  global  character,  the  consequences  of  falling 
short  of  the  Millennium  agenda  will  impact  us  all. 
Croatia  has  continued  to  approach  the  implementation 
of 
the 
difficulties that have evolved over the past decade. We 
have  prepared  two  implementation  reports,  and  this 
year we compiled an overview of our achievements to 
date,  the  summary  of  which  is  currently  available, 
including at this meeting. 

By  way  of  contributing  to  the  deliberations,  I 
would  like  to  highlight  the  context  in  which  progress 
has  been  made  in  Croatia.  Like  Europe  as  a  whole, 
is  contending  with  multiple  economic 
Croatia 
the  MDGs  with  strong 
resolve  despite 
2 

10-54115 
to  date 
ideals,  Croatia  has 
the  valuable  efforts  by 


difficulties  that  have  caused  growth  and  development 
rates  to  decline.  It  is  no  longer  as  simple  as  it  was  to 
secure domestic and foreign resources to invest in vital 
projects  targeted  at  education,  health,  environmental 
protection and employment.  
On  its  path  of  transformation,  and  inspired  by 

European 
invested 
significant  effort  and  resources  in  the  implementation 
of  the  MDGs.  Driven  in  particular  by  global  and 
European processes, Croatia has been  actively dealing 
with  numerous  environmental  protection 
issues. 
Croatia  is  rich  in  natural  resources  including  sea, 
surface water, air, forests and soil. We have embarked 
on  numerous  reforms  in  all  areas  of  environmental 
protection.  We  are  certain  that  these  efforts,  financed 
from national resources, are essential preconditions for 
creating a new cycle of sustained development. 

As  a  new  sovereign  State,  Croatia  embarked  on 
its  development  path  as  a  donor-recipient  country. We 
deeply  appreciate 
the 
international community during that period. After only 
eighteen  years,  Croatia  has  graduated  and  become  a 
donor country. 

Ahead of us lie new challenges. As all history has 
shown, we shall have to deal with them and find ways 
to overcome them. Moreover, it is a great imperative of 
these times that we undertake our efforts collectively in 
a  spirit  of  understanding,  tolerance,  dialogue  and 
solidarity.  Therefore,  during  this  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting,  we,  as  world  leaders,  must  find  viable, 
durable and affordable solutions for all. 

To  conclude,  I  call  upon  all  of  us  to  make 
constructive  efforts  over  the  next  few  days  towards  a 
successful  outcome  of  this  Meeting.  If  used  wisely, 
such an outcome will lay the foundations for ensuring a 
better future for all. 

The  Co-Chair (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Amir of 
the State of Qatar.  

Sheikh Al-Thani (spoke in Arabic): I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on 
your  election 
the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth session and wish you every 
success in your mission. 
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  thanks  to  your 

predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Treki,  for  his 
the  presidency  of 
to 
A/65/PV.4
in 
the 
impact  on 
tireless  work 
the  previous  session,  and  our 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his efforts in promoting the role 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  realization  of  its 
objectives. 

We  meet  today  to  review  progress  in  achieving 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) at a very 
critical  time,  when  the  world  economy  continues  to 
suffer  from  one  of  its  most  severe  setbacks  since  the 
Depression  of  the  1930s.  The  global  economic  crisis 
has  had  a  negative 
international 
community’s efforts towards achievement of the MDGs 
in  poor  developing  countries.  The  reduction  of 
development  assistance  and  foreign  direct  investment 
has  adversely  affected  those  countries’  development 
programmes and policies in general, and the health and 
education  sectors  and  the  battle  against  poverty  and 
hunger in particular. 

We regret to note that the record of achievements 
at  the  global  level  is  uneven.  United  Nations  reports 
indicate that, on the one hand, a number of developing 
countries  have  registered  some  concrete  achievements 
in  macroeconomic  management, 
in  an 
increase in investments and savings; on the other, many 
developing  countries,  particularly 
in  sub-Saharan 
Africa,  have  yet  to  realize  most  of  the  MDGs.  The 
number of people suffering from poverty exceeded one 
billion in 2009. This should be a matter of concern for 
each one of us. 

Ultimately,  the  realization  of  the  MDGs  is  not 
only necessary for building a better life for millions of 
people but is also essential for international peace and 
security. The achievement of all internationally agreed 
development goals depends primarily on the vitality of 
our  global  partnership,  which  we  agreed  on  at  the 
Monterrey  Conference  and  reconfirmed  at  the  Doha 
Conference  in  December  2008.  The  leaders  of  the 
Group  of  Eight  (G8)  agreed  in  2005  to  provide,  by 
2010, additional aid worth 50 billion dollars, 25 billion 
of which would be earmarked for Africa. 

They  identified  new  targets  for  universal  access 
to treatment of AIDS, universal primary education and 
free  basic  health  care. Again,  in  2007,  the  G8  leaders 
reconfirmed their commitment to increase development 
assistance  and  announced  an  additional  60  billion 
dollars to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.  

of 
The achievement of the MDGs requires that each 
its 
the  parties 
the  partnership  carry  out 
resulting 
to 
10-54115 

3 
issuing 
international 
financial 
international 
reducing 
system, 
trade,  maintaining 
A/65/PV.4 

obligations. It requires that developing countries adopt 
comprehensive  national  strategies,  promote  good 
governance,  fight  corruption,  promote  sustainable 
economic growth and create an attractive environment 
for foreign direct investment. They are required to act 
to  engage  civil  society  organizations  and  the  private 
sector  in  such  programmes.  Furthermore,  they  should 
also  mobilize  the  necessary  financial  resources,  act  to 
establish a clear system for government accountability 
and focus on increasing awareness of the importance of 
achieving those goals. 

In  contrast,  developed  countries  should  face  the 
global  financial  crisis  and  work  to  achieve  the  MDGs 
through  mobilizing  international  resources,  undertaking 
further comprehensive reforms to ensure the stability of 
the 
the 
distortions  of 
the 
credibility  of  their  commitments  to  increase  official 
development  assistance  and 
timetables  for 
monitoring  the  implementation  of  their  commitments 
vis-à-vis developing countries. 

The  delay  in  negotiations  in  the  Doha  Round, 
which was scheduled to finish by the end of June 2006, 
was  a  huge  disappointment  for  developing  countries, 
which  have  continued  to  attach  great  hopes  to  that 
Round.  Therefore, 
the 
negotiations  ought 
focus  on  establishing  a 
multilateral  trade  system  of  openness,  fairness  and 
non-discrimination. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  is  on  track  to  achieve  all  of 
them  before  2015.  The  State  has  provided  free  basic 
educational  opportunities  for  different  groups  in  the 
society  without  discrimination  between  males  and 
females.  Achieving 
the 
empowerment of women has led the State to eliminate 
disparity  between  the  sexes  at  various  stages  of  their 
education, which in turn has led to an increased rate of 
enrolment in favour of girls at all levels of education. 
The  State  has  also  eliminated  gender  disparities  in 
access to job opportunities. 

In the area of health, Qatar is among the world’s 
most  progressive  countries  in  the  reduction  of  child 
mortality  and  the  improvement  of  maternal  health, 
thanks  to  the  country’s  provision  of  universal  free 
health  care  for  all.  Developments  such  as  these  in  the 
areas of health and education are reflected in the State 
of  Qatar’s  ranking  among  countries  with  high  human 
Qatar  has  realized  most  of 
countries 
to 
involved 
equality 
in 
gender 
and 

pillar 
fourth 
development,  according  to  United  Nations  reports  on 
that subject. 

In  this  context,  Qatar  National  Vision  2030 
emphasizes  four  pillars  that  address  all  of  the  MDGs: 
The  first  is  human  development,  which  involves  the 
establishment  of  advanced  health  and  education 
systems  that  provide  the  highest  quality  services  and 
workforce  growth.  The  second  pillar 
is  social 
development, which involves the development of a fair 
and  safe  society  and  the  promotion  of  the  role  of 
women.  The  third  pillar  is  economic  development, 
which  involves  the  development  of  a  diversified, 
competitive  and  sustainable  economy,  the  optimal 
utilization  of  oil  and  gas  resources,  and  sound 
economic  management.  The 
is 
environmental  development,  which  involves  a  balance 
between  immediate  needs  and  the  requirements  of 
environmental conservation, for which we have created 
a special Ministry. In the process of the activation and 
elaboration  of  these  pillars,  the  State  of  Qatar  is 
currently  preparing  its  first  National  Development 
Strategy (2011-2016). 

Qatar  is  keen  to  sponsor  efforts  to  promote 
participation 
for  development, 
particularly  in  relation  to  combating  poverty  and 
disseminating the fruits of global growth in a more just 
and  equitable  manner.  In  this  regard,  at  the  Second 
South  Summit  in  June  2005,  the  State  of  Qatar  put 
forward  an  initiative  to  create  a  fund  aimed  at 
development 
that  would  support 
anti-poverty  programmes  in  developing  countries,  in 
particular  the  least  developed  countries,  in  order  help 
them to achieve the MDGs. 

to 
allocating the specified percentage of its gross national 
income  to  development  aid,  while  allocating  15  per 
cent  thereof  to  the  least  developed  countries. This  aid 
is in addition to humanitarian aid and relief assistance 
in  emergencies  and  disasters.  The  volume  of  Qatari 
development  aid  and  assistance  has  witnessed  a 
significant  increase  —  in  2009,  it  reached  about  
$382 million, not counting contributions to the various 
United  Nations  funds,  such  as  the  United  Nations 
Democracy Fund. 
The  State  of  Qatar  has  also  sought  to  achieve 

global  partnership 
through  ratification  of  several 
international  and  regional  agreements  and  treaties 
concerning international development issues, as well as 
Qatar  has  also  stressed 
its  commitment 
cooperation 
the  South 
and 
in 
4 

10-54115 
to  respond 
important  steps 
institution  created  by 


through the adoption of an open trading system and the 
creation  of  an  attractive  environment  for  foreign 
investment.  

Through Silatech, an institution with a capital of 
$100 million that addresses unemployment problems in 
the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa  via  programmes 
aimed  at  the  rehabilitation  and  training  of  young 
people in that part of the world, and through Education 
Above  All,  an 
the  Qatar 
Foundation in 2008 to protect, support and promote the 
right to education in areas suffering from or threatened 
by  crises,  conflicts  and  wars,  Qatar  has  supported 
numerous  initiatives  for  cooperation  with  developing 
countries  designed  to  set  up  and  implement  strategies 
that  offer  young  people  decent  and  productive 
employment. 
In the area of combating corruption, we in Qatar 

have 
taken  many 
to 
international efforts in that regard. We moved to ratify 
the United Nations Convention against Corruption and 
have  taken  many  steps  to  put  the  Convention  into 
effect,  including  through  the  establishment  of  the 
National Committee for Integrity and Transparency. We 
have acted to ensure that all the Committee’s needs are 
met in order to allow it to carry out its tasks with full 
objectivity  and  independence.  Indeed,  in  the  general 
ranking of Transparency International, Qatar is ranked 
high  among  all  countries 
fight  against 
corruption,  and 
it  has  placed  first  among  Arab 
countries. 

In the area of international cooperation, the State 
of  Qatar  hosted  the  Fourth  Ministerial  Conference  of 
the  World  Trade  Organization  in  2001,  which  in  turn 
resulted  in  the  Doha  Round,  as  well  as  the  South 
Summit  in  2005  and  the  International  Conference  of 
New or Restored Democracies in 2006. 

The  State  of  Qatar  hosted  the  first  follow-up 
conference of the International Conference on Financing 
for  Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  during 
from 
30 November  to  2  December  2008.  At  that  time,  the 
Conference  was  considered  particularly 
important 
because,  since  the  Monterrey  Conference  in  2002,  the 
international 
numerous 
developments, challenges and issues that required open 
dialogue and innovative solutions. 
At the political level, Qatari efforts to bring peace 

to  Darfur,  in  coordination  with  the  United  Nations-
had  witnessed 
the  period 
arena 
in 
the 
A/65/PV.4
In 
order 
the  Darfur 
development 
support 
in 
African Union Joint Chief Mediator have begun to bear 
fruit.  Two  agreements  have  been  signed:  a  ceasefire 
agreement  and  a  framework  agreement  for  peace  in 
Darfur.  Despite  the  withdrawal  of  one  of  the  armed 
factions from the Doha meetings, negotiations are still 
in full swing and efforts continue to be made to reach a 
final peace agreement. 
and 

to 
reconstruction  efforts 
region,  we 
announced last 23 February the establishment of a bank 
for  the  development  of  Darfur  with  a  capital  of 
$1 billion to be contributed by interested countries and 
organizations in order to advance development there. 

We are required now more than ever to develop a 
common vision and search for effective mechanisms to 
mobilize  energies  in  order  to  help  poor  countries  in 
their  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI,  Head  of  State  of  the 
Kingdom of Morocco. 

King Mohammed VI (spoke in Arabic): It gives 
me  great  pleasure  to  attend  this  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). I should like first to pay 
tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for 
ensuring  that  development  issues  are  a  top  priority  in 
the Organization’s programme of action. 

the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  as  a  common  consensus 
agreement to ensure globally consistent and sustainable 
human development. The question on everyone’s mind 
today is: what specific goals have been achieved under 
that  historic  declaration?  In  a  spirit  of  responsibility 
and frankness, we should use this meeting to pose that 
question and to make an objective assessment of what 
has  been  accomplished,  and  to  identify  the  obstacles 
that  need  to  be  overcome  in  devising  the  strategies 
needed to achieve the MDGs by 2015. This momentous 
challenge  calls  for  responsibilities  to  be  shouldered 
collectively:  not  only  by  our  partners  among  the 
developed  countries,  which  have  to  honour  their 
obligations  with  respect  to  financing  development 
projects,  but  also  by  the  developing  nations,  which 
have to ensure that the MDGs take centre stage in their 
national policies. 
Ten  years  ago  we  adopted 
10-54115 

5 
initiative 
jobs  and 
A/65/PV.4 


This  is  precisely  the  course  of  action  that 
Morocco  has  embarked  on.  In  2005  we  launched  our 
national 
for  human  development.  The 
initiative  rests  on  an  inclusive,  consultation-based 
approach,  participatory  democracy  —  a  system  of 
governance  that  is  founded  on  close  proximity  to  the 
citizens — as well as on the deep, active involvement 
of  the  actors  concerned  in  the  initiative’s  projects, 
seeking to address shortcomings in social development 
efforts  by  creating 
income-generating 
activities. 

Thanks to this bold initiative, and to the in-depth 
reforms, sectoral plans and major workshops that it has 
triggered,  Morocco  has  made  great  progress  towards 
the  accomplishment  of  the  MDGs,  in  particular  with 
regard  to  fighting  poverty,  precarious  conditions  and 
social  exclusion,  as  well  as  improving  people’s  living 
conditions in both urban and rural areas, especially by 
ensuring widespread  access to electricity and drinking 
water. 

Concurrently,  a  compulsory  medical  insurance 
scheme has been established in our country, along with 
a  health  coverage  plan  to  assist  the  needy  and 
vulnerable. Furthermore, the Kingdom of Morocco has 
made  a  sovereign  decision  with  regard  to  gender 
equality  in  the  areas  of  the  family,  health,  education 
and  the  job  market,  as  well  as  ensuring  enhanced 
representation  and  active  participation  of  women  in 
political  institutions  and  public  life.  The  policy  of 
making primary education available to all has resulted 
in  93  per  cent  of  children  between  6  and  11  years  of 
age  being  enrolled  in  school.  Moreover,  in  2008  we 
adopted  an  emergency  response  plan  to  speed  up 
reform of our education and training system. 

the 
importance  we  attach 
environmental  dimension  in  development  projects,  we 
have  been  able  to  take  successful  measures  to  protect 
the  environment  and 
to  combat  climate  change. 
Similarly,  and  in  order  to  promote  sustainable  human 
development  through  the  optimal  use  of  clean  and 
renewable  energy  technologies,  we  have  launched  a 
groundbreaking  solar  energy  plan  and  an  integrated 
programme for wind-power production. Through these 
two projects,  Morocco will be able to generate 42 per 
cent of its energy needs from clean, renewable sources 
by 2020. 

the 
Millennium  Summit  has  changed  the  lives  of  millions 
The  common  commitment  we  made  at 
Given 
the 
to 

of  people  who  are  now  enjoying  their  right  to 
education,  health  care,  employment  and  a  dignified 
life.  However,  can  mankind’s  conscience  remain 
indifferent  to  the  plight  of  the  more  than  1  billion 
people who continue to suffer from hunger, and to that 
of  the  millions  of  children  who  die  annually  from 
malnutrition,  as  well  as  from  diseases  and  epidemics 
for  which  treatment  is  both  available  and  affordable? 
Certainly  not.  Such  a  bitter  reality  simply  cannot  be 
tolerated. Not only is it inconsistent with the principles 
of 
the  revealed  religions,  of  democracy  and  of 
international  conventions;  it  also  contradicts  the  lofty 
human  ideals  of  brotherhood,  solidarity  and  justice. 
Sadly, this situation is being exploited to foment hatred 
and fuel extremism. 
To  promote  a  global  partnership  based  on 

solidarity, Morocco has made human development and 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  the  core  of  a  practical, 
innovative  South-South  cooperation  policy,  especially 
with  regard  to  sister  African  nations.  I  believe  that  a 
firm  political  commitment  made  by  all  countries  and 
supported by a global, specific partnership mechanism 
with  a  clear  implementation  timetable,  provides  the 
best  guarantee 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

At the same time, we need to anticipate potential 
problems,  and  to  start  thinking  proactively  about  the 
broad lines of our actions beyond 2015, so as to ensure 
the continuity of our endeavours and to be prepared to 
meet  new  challenges.  We  should  do  this  through 
collective  action  to  strengthen  the  foundations  of  a 
global, harmonious, solidarity-based system to promote 
sustainable  human  development  in  which  efficient, 
equitable governance should play a key role, so that we 
may offer future generations a dignified life and build a 
future  of  peace,  stability,  progress  and  prosperity  for 
all. 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the 
Republic of Tajikistan. 

President  Rahmon  (spoke  in  Tajik;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Ten  years 
ago 
the  Millennium 
Declaration 
fundamental 
the 
document  that  identified  the  major  directions  of  the 
efforts the international community was to make at the 
dawn  of  a  new  century.  The  key  importance  of  the 
this  Hall  we  adopted 
(resolution  55/2), 
achieving 
for 
in 
6 

10-54115 
in 
is 
aimed 
at 
uneven 
(MDGs) 
progress 
laid  down 
and  goals 


Declaration  lies  in  the  fact  that  it  defined  a  set  of 
practical  objectives 
the 
development  of  each  individual,  and  at  meeting  the 
needs of the most vulnerable populations, in particular 
children, to whom the future belongs. 

Today, 10 years later, it is of extreme importance 
not only to discuss the progress achieved and identify 
the  shortfall  in  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
the 
Declaration but also to work out specific measures for 
further  accelerating  and  strengthening  efforts  towards 
the timely and complete achievement of the MDGs. It 
important  at  present,  when  already 
is  especially 
unsustainable 
and 
being 
undermined  by  the  food,  energy  and  financial  and 
economic crises. 

Climate  change  and  its  adverse  impact,  which 
appear  to  be  gaining  momentum  today,  confront  us 
with additional complex tasks, which are impossible to 
address  without  concerted  joint  efforts  by  the  entire 
international  community.  Given  these  new  challenges 
and the increasing interconnection and interdependence, 
we  deem  it  essential  to  accelerate  the  implementation 
of the commitments made at the beginning of the new 
millennium. 

Tajikistan  is  one  of  the  eight  pilot  countries  that 
were  identified  for  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs. 
Our 
the  National 
Development  Strategy  of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan 
until  2015. As  the  country’s  major  strategic  document 
the National Development Strategy identifies priorities 
and  major  directions  for  Government  policy  aimed  at 
achieving  sustainable  economic  growth,  easing  access 
by the population to basic social services reducing and 
poverty.  That  document  provides  an  essentially  new 
approach  towards  ensuring  of  development.  It  takes 
into  account  world  experience  in  the  preparation  and 
implementation  of  similar  strategic  documents  and 
lessons and conclusions gained during previous stages 
of  our  country’s  development,  and  it  addresses  the 
current realities and prospects for development. 

Moreover,  the  National  Development  Strategy 
serves  as  a  basis  for  all  existing  and  developing 
concepts for the Government and economic sectors, for 
the  country’s  development  strategies  and  programmes 
and  for  the  activities  of  all  governmental  managerial 
bodies,  including  the  third  Midterm  Strategy  for 
Poverty  Reduction  2010-2012.  As  a  result  of  the 
therefore 
adopted 
country 
A/65/PV.4
of 
half 
about 
Currently, 
to  considerably  reduce  poverty 
implementation  of  the  measures  envisaged  by  the 
National  Development  Strategy,  we  have  already 
managed 
in  our 
country. 

the  Tajikistan 
Government  budget  is  channelled  to  the  social  sector, 
predominantly  to  education  and  health  care.  At  the 
same  time,  I  would  like  to  note  that  the  potential  for 
Government financing of the social sector is restricted 
by  the  rate  of  growth  of  the  real  national  economy, 
which  has  slowed  down  in  recent  years  due  to  the 
impact  of  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
natural disasters and artificially created barriers to the 
normal  functioning  of  transport  corridors.  Today,  the 
Government  of  Tajikistan 
is  undertaking  extra 
measures  with  the  aim  of  mitigating  the  negative 
impact  and  not  to  allow  social  sector  funding  to  be 
reduced, as well as to take systematic advantage of its 
own  potential  for  economic  growth.  These  measures 
will expand the possibility of funding the social sector 
and providing access to basic social services, and will 
eventually ensure the achievement of all the MDGs. As 
a result of such measures,  for instance,  the number of 
children  attending  elementary  and  high  school  has 
increased, and the quality of social services offered to 
the population has improved. 

the 
acceleration  of  progress  in  MDG  implementation,  in 
addition to the mobilization of internal resources, is the 
creation  of  a  favourable  international  environment  for 
achieving  sustainable  development.  This  is  especially 
important at the current stage, when the  consequences 
of  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  have  not 
been completely dealt with, and when the necessity of 
accelerating reform of the international finance system 
is still relevant and of critical importance.  

It  is  essential  that  reform  of  the  international 
finance system not only strengthen the system but also 
help  give  extra  impetus  to  the  reactivation  of  world 
trade  and  investment,  which  are  the  driving  force 
behind  world  economic  development  and  increased 
employment.  Measures  must 
focus  on  creating 
favourable  external  conditions  and  strengthening 
global  partnerships  which  promote 
timely  and 
complete  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  These  measures 
must  not  increase  countries’  external  debt  burden, 
which  remains  one  of  the  most  serious  obstacles  to 
progress. 
the  key  factors  contributing 
Among 
to 
10-54115 

7 

A/65/PV.4 


Ensuring  access to  energy for everyone can be a 
key  prerequisite  for  accelerating  progress  on  MDGs 
implementation.  We  believe  that  this  issue  should  be 
given priority alongside the MDGs themselves. In this 
regard,  we  support  the  initiative  to  provide  universal 
access  to  modern  energy  services  by  2030. The  major 
challenge  today  is  how  to  ensure  access  to  energy 
while  giving  due  consideration  to  the  continuing 
growth  of  the  Earth’s  population  and  to  reducing 
anthropogenic impacts on climate.  

In  our  view,  these  goals  do  not  give  rise  to  a 
dilemma;  to  the  contrary,  they  provide  opportunities 
for  new  cooperation.  In  this  regard,  we  consider  it 
essential  that  reliable  and  stable  access  to  energy  be 
accompanied  by  advocacy  for  a 
larger  share  of 
renewable  energy  worldwide,  for  the  transfer  of  new 
and  advanced  technologies  for  and  enhanced  energy 
efficiency. Comprehensive development of hydropower 
engineering,  coupled  with  the  use  of  the  potential  of 
other  types  of  renewable  energy  such  as  solar  and 
wind,  would  not  only  enable  us  to  provide  access  to 
energy  but  would  also  contribute  to  the  stability  and 
efficiency  of  energy  systems  and  to  a  considerable 
decrease  in  harmful  emissions  into  the  air.  The  latter 
are  key  objectives  for  MDG  implementation  and  for 
mitigating the impact of climate change. 

enormous 
hydropower  potential,  is  continuously  increasing  its 
efforts 
comprehensive  development  of 
hydropower engineering. Currently, a number of small, 
medium  and  large  hydropower  stations  are  under 
construction in the country. They are intended not only 
for  energy  generation  but  also  for  irrigation,  which  is 
of  importance  for  the  entire  Central  Asian  region.  In 
our  view,  effective  development  of  our  country’s 
hydro-energy potential is an important factor that could 
have  a  multiplier  effect  on  enhancing  progress  and 
ensuring success. 

Water is a vitally important resource that links all 
the  MDGs.  Increasing  water  scarcity  and  climate 
change,  which  affects  water  resources,  add  growing 
urgency to the issues of water delivery to people and to 
water-dependent  economic  sectors.  Lack  of  access  to 
safe  drinking  water  and  adequate  sanitation,  human 
deaths  caused  by  water-borne  diseases  and  unsanitary 
conditions,  droughts  and  desertification  threaten  the 
source  of  subsistence  for  a  huge  number  of  people  on 
our  planet.  The  breadth  of  these  and  other  problems 
related  to  water  resources  was  the  focus  of  attention 
Today,  Tajikistan,  which 
towards 
has 
and 
introduce 
those 
system 
sequentially 
for  glaciers  and 
and  discussion  among  participants  at  the  International 
Conference on the Midterm Comprehensive Review of 
the  Implementation  of  the  International  Decade  for 
Action,  “Water  for  Life”,  2005-2015,  held  at  the 
initiative  of  Tajikistan  in  its  capital  city,  Dushanbe, 
from 8 to 10 June 2010. The Dushanbe Declaration on 
Water,  the  outcome  document  of  the  conference,  was 
approved  by  the  representatives  of  more  than  75 
countries.  It  contains  a  number  of  recommendations, 
including  the  following:  to  develop  adequate  policies 
and  allocate  sufficient  funds  for  the  water  sector;  to 
gradually 
integrated 
management of water resources at the river basin level; 
to  pay  greater  attention  to  issues  related  to  ensuring 
access  to  safe  drinking  water  and  basic  sanitation;  to 
take  measures  for  adaptation 
to  ongoing  global 
changes,  including  climate  change;  to  improve  the 
monitoring 
freshwater 
resources;  more  concerted  actions  by  all  stakeholders 
at  all  levels  with  the  aim  of  incorporating  the  water 
issue into national development plans and programmes; 
to increase the involvement of women in the decision-
making  process  on  water  resources;  and  to  increase 
financing  and  strengthen  cooperation,  including  the 
development  of  water  diplomacy.  We  are  convinced 
that 
recommendations  will  be  a  worthy 
contribution to the implementation of the action agenda 
for achieving the MDGs by 2015. 

It  is  necessary  to  note  that  the  new  challenges 
emerging  in  today’s  world  demand  the  international 
community’s  undivided  attention.  For  instance,  in 
recent  years  the  disparity  in  the  development  of  the 
economies  of  developed  and  developing  countries  has 
significantly 
the  process  of 
integration.  For  that  reason,  it  is  necessary  to  take 
measures to strengthen the global partnership, with the 
aim of consolidating the  efforts  of  all members of the 
international community without exception. 

In conclusion, I would like to note that, 10 years 
ago,  the  goals  set  out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration 
became  a  powerful  incentive  for  all  of  us.  Today,  on 
the  eve  of  the  last  five  years  remaining  for  the 
achievement  of  the  Goals,  I  am  convinced  that  the 
MDGs  can  be  attained. We  must  urgently  make  every 
effective and comprehensive effort to that end. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr.  Abdullah  Gül,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Turkey. 
increased,  hampering 
8 

10-54115 


President Gül: It is a great honour to address this 

High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  I 
would  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  dedication  to  drawing  attention  to  the  global 
challenges  of  development.  His 
leadership  has 
certainly created the much-needed political momentum 
towards the timely achievement of the MDGs. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  have 
provided a solid framework for development in the past 
decade. Global challenges, including the economic and 
financial  crisis  and  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate 
change, have made them even more pertinent today.  

Five  years  from  the  deadline,  there  is  an  urgent 
need  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  and  strengthen  our 
partnership  in  order  to  meet  the  Goals  on  time.  Our 
efforts should not be limited to Government activities. 
We  must  also  rally  non-governmental  organizations 
(NGOs)  and  the  private  sector  around  a  revitalized 
development agenda. We must attach equal importance 
to each and every goal. It is also crucial that the MDGs 
are dealt with as one holistic package in order to create 
synergies between all the Goals. I therefore believe that 
it is important to work along the following guidelines. 

the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger.  We  need  to  adopt 
strategies  in  favour  of  the  poor  and  vulnerable. 
Investment  in  agriculture  is  essential  to  ensure  food 
security. We need to make progress on gender equality 
and  women’s  empowerment.  There  should  be  more 
emphasis  on  education  and  health. We  need  to  pursue 
environmental  sustainability  with  stronger  political 
commitment  and  action.  We  should  acknowledge 
mutually  reinforcing  relations  among  the  notions  of 
democracy,  development  and  security. 
I  should 
these  guidelines  are  drawn  from 
underline 
Turkey’s  own  experience 
in  development  as  an 
emerging economy. 

Turkey  is  well  on  its  way  towards  achieving  the 
MDGs.  We  have  adopted  the  Goals  as  our  primary 
national development goals and integrated them in our 
development plans. In recent years, we have introduced 
ambitious 
social  welfare 
programmes 
living  standards  of 
vulnerable  segments  of  our  society.  Those  policies 
have proven to be very effective and sustainable, with 
solid financial resources to support them. 
Our  overarching  objective  must  remain 
comprehensive 
improve 
and 
to 
that 
the 
A/65/PV.4
and 
check-ups 
in  cooperation  with 

We are on track towards reaching a 100 per cent 
rate  of  primary  school  enrolment,  thanks  to  direct 
payments given to mothers to promote the enrolment of 
girls  in  school. We  have  recorded  significant  progress 
on  maternal  and  child  health  by  implementing  free 
pre-maternal  health 
compulsory 
vaccination  programmes.  With  the  introduction  of  a 
new  social  security  system,  our  citizens  now  enjoy 
universal health coverage. 

We  have  also  provided  extensive  scholarship 
programmes for students of limited financial means, in 
all levels of education. We have taken every measure to 
contain HIV and have provided access to treatment for 
those who need it. In recent years, more than 500,000 
new  houses  have  been  built  by  the  State-owned 
housing  development  administration.  Comprehensive 
measures and important policies have been introduced 
for environmental sustainability.  

As part of our commitment to the MDG agenda, 
we  hosted  a  regional  review  meeting  in  Istanbul  last 
June, 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and  the  United  Nations 
Economic Commission for Europe. The conclusions of 
that  review  provided  significant  input  to  this  High-
level Plenary Meeting. 

Turkey stands ready to lend its full support to the 
global  partnership  for  development.  Development 
issues  now  form  an  integral  part  of  our  broad  foreign 
policy  agenda.  As  a  reliable  partner  in  development, 
our  focus  is  particularly  on  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs). In order to deliver on our pledges to LDCs, in 
recent  years  we  have 
increased  our  official 
development  assistance.  With 
the  contribution  of 
Turkish  NGOs,  our  overall  development  assistance 
exceeds $1.5 billion annually. 

In  2007,  as  Foreign  Minister  and  Deputy  Prime 
Minister, I had the pleasure and privilege of hosting in 
Istanbul  my  counterparts 
least  developed 
countries at the United Nations Ministerial Conference 
on  Least  Developed  Countries.  Once  again,  we  feel 
privileged  to  host  the  fourth  such  United  Nations 
Ministerial  Conference  next  year.  We  hope  that  this 
meeting  will  generate  strong  political  momentum  and 
new partnerships to address the persistent challenges of 
LDCs in the next decade. I look forward to the support 
of world leaders in that regard. 
While  we  may  not  have  too  much  time  left  for 

progress towards the MDGs, we certainly have the will 
from 
10-54115 

9 

join  other  speakers 
A/65/PV.4 

and capacity to achieve them. But we need to act now, 
and act swiftly. Let us commit here once again to join 
our  efforts  in  reaching  our  common  goals.  But  let  us 
not  forget  that  our  partnership  and  solidarity  for 
development  must  continue  beyond  2015.  We  must 
continue  with  a  new  and  enhanced  development 
agenda. This must be our pledge to future generations. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency Mr. Choummaly Sayasone, President of the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic. 
President  Sayasone  (spoke  in  Lao;  English  text 

provided by the delegation): At the outset, I would like 
to 
in  extending  my  sincere 
congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss 
and His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on their 
elections  as  Co-Chairs  of  the  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  I  would  also  like  to  thank  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and all United Nations 
agencies for extending their utmost efforts in assisting 
United  Nations  Member  States  to  attain  the  MDGs 
throughout the past decade. 

Ten  years  ago  in  this  Assembly  Hall,  we  the 
world  leaders  adopted  our  shared  commitment  to 
realizing the MDGs by 2015. On the whole, important 
progress  and  outcomes  have  been  achieved  in  the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs  at  the  global  level. 
Nevertheless, if we take a closer look at the results of 
implementation of the goals at country level, the wide 
achievement  gap  remains  unchanged.  Moreover,  the 
gap  is  ever  widening,  due  to  the  fact  that  countries 
throughout 
the  world  have  encountered  daunting 
challenges caused by such crises as climate change and 
economic and financial turmoil, which have also posed 
major constraints on attaining the MDGs. 

Only  five  years  remain  for  us  to  prove  that  we 
can  live  up  to  our  joint  commitment  to  achieve  the 
MDGs. Therefore, at this most important gathering we 
should  discuss  and  exchange  views  on  best  practices 
and good lessons learned so that we may adopt firmer 
measures  with  a  view  to  accelerating  implementation 
so as to achieve the MDGs in the next five years. 

In 2003, the Lao Government adopted a national 
growth  and  poverty  eradication  strategy,  which  was 
later  mainstreamed  into  the  sixth  five-year  National 
Socio-Economic Development Plan for the period 2006 
to 2010. By implementing the five-year plans, the Lao 
25 
the 
results, 
including 
cent 
in 
representation 
People’s Democratic Republic has been able to achieve 
sustained economic growth while establishing a strong 
foundation for the country to make important progress 
towards the MDGs.  

Through  implementation  of  the  fifth  five-year 
Plan  for  2001  to  2005,  we  achieved  an  annual 
economic growth rate of 6.2 per cent. By executing the 
sixth Plan for 2006-2010, we expect to attain an annual 
economic growth rate of 7 per cent — a key factor in 
reducing the poverty rate from the 48 per cent recorded 
in 1990 to 26 per cent in 2009.  
In  addition,  the  social  and  cultural  sectors  have 

also  achieved  satisfactory 
the 
improved enrolment rate of children in primary school 
from  58  per  cent  in  1991  to  84  per  cent  in  2005. The 
maternal  mortality  rate  dropped  from  650  deaths  per 
100,000 live births in 1995 to 405 in 2005. During the 
same  period,  the  infant  mortality  rate  also  went  down 
from  104  per  1,000  live  births  to  70.  Likewise,  the 
status  of  women  in  general  has  risen,  as  indicated  by 
the 
of  woman 
per 
parliamentarians 
the  National  Assembly.  Such 
achievements would not have been possible without the 
adoption  of  sound  policies  and  appropriate  measures, 
combined  with  assistance  from 
international 
community. 

Despite  such  laudable  achievements,  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic  still  needs  to  overcome 
numerous  challenges.  As  a  vulnerable  and 
least 
developed  country,  it  has  also  been  affected  by  the 
financial and economic crisis and the impact of climate 
change, which have all posed major constraints on our 
achievement  of  the  MDGs. Against  this  backdrop,  we 
must  redouble  our  efforts  to  mobilize  resources  from 
both domestic and external sources for advancing some 
key  sectors,  especially  human  resource  capacity,  the 
education  system  and  infrastructure,  in  particular  in 
relation to transportation and communication. 

Drawing from the lessons learned throughout the 
past  10  years,  it  is  clear  that  all  domestic  forces  have 
played a critical part in attaining the MDGs. However, 
without  the  valuable  support  and  assistance  of  the 
international  community,  it  would  have  been  far  more 
difficult  for  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  to 
overcome the challenges and achieve the targets set. 

On  this  note,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
my  heartfelt  thanks  and  sincere  appreciation  to  the 
international  community,  especially  to  the  donor  and 
10 

10-54115 


friendly  countries,  and  international  organizations  for 
their  continued  support  and  assistance  to  the  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic over the years. We hope 
that  such  invaluable  support  and  cooperation  will 
continue in the future. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Bingu Wa  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi. 

President  Mutharika:  I  am  glad  to  say  that  the 
news of Africa’s progress in the implementation of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is encouraging. 
African Governments are making heroic efforts to meet 
the targets by 2015. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goal  reports  for 

African  countries  show  a 
thorough  and  realistic 
assessment  of  Africa’s  possibility  of  attaining  MDG 
targets by the year 2015, as well as the challenges that 
we  are  facing  in  Africa.  The  2010  reports  also 
demonstrate  that  many  countries  are  committed  to 
meeting the MDGs.  

However,  my  address  is  confined  to  my  own 
country,  Malawi.  Malawi  is  confident  that  we  shall 
meet all eight MDGs in varying degrees. This is largely 
because  Malawi  has  fully  embraced  the  MDGs  in  the 
Malawi  Growth  and  Development  Strategy,  which  is 
our  main  overarching  policy  for  development.  It  was 
designed  in  a  manner  such  that  it  addresses  all  the 
MDGs.  Thus,  in  implementing  our  own  national 
Strategy, we are also implementing all the MDGs.  

The  Malawi  Growth  and  Development  Strategy 
focuses  on  nine  main  priorities.  These  are  agriculture 
and  food  security;  irrigation  and  water  development; 
transport  and  infrastructure  development;  education, 
science  and  technology;  energy,  mining  and  industrial 
development;  integrated  rural  development;  climate 
change, 
environment 
management;  youth  development  and  empowerment; 
and  the  management  of  HIV  and  AIDS.  All  of  these 
bear  on  our  ability  to  implement  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

I  am  glad  to  report  that  five  of  the  eight  Goals 
will  definitely  be  achieved  and  even  surpassed. These 
are  eradicating  extreme  poverty;  reducing 
infant 
mortality; combating HIV and AIDS, malaria and other 
diseases;  ensuring  environmental  sustainability;  and 
developing  a  global  partnership  for  development. 
resources 
natural 
and 
A/65/PV.4
In 
the  effort 
However, for the other three goals — universal primary 
education,  reducing  gender  inequality  and  reducing 
maternal mortality — a more concerted effort will have 
to be applied to achieve them. 

to  eradicate  extreme  poverty, 
indicators  show  that  the  percentage  of  the  poor 
declined from 15 per cent in 2000 to nearly 9 per cent 
in  2009.  Notable  among  the  reasons  for  this  progress 
has  been  the  continued  targeted  Farm  Inputs  Subsidy 
Programme. We provided 5 billion Malawi kwacha for 
the  Malawi  Rural  Development  Fund,  which  targeted 
the  poor.  We  also  established  the  One  Village  One 
Product  scheme  to  encourage  people  to  add  value  to 
agricultural products, and we have recently established 
a  3-billion  kwacha  Youth  Enterprise  Development 
Fund. 

The  goal  of  reducing  child  mortality  will  be 
attained  and  surpassed.  The  under-five  mortality  rate 
was reduced from 189 deaths per 1,000 in 2000 to 122 
in 2009. This goal will be attained as the provision of 
health services continues to improve in all parts of our 
country. 
With  regard  to  halting  HIV  and  AIDS,  malaria, 

tuberculosis  and  other  diseases,  Malawi  will  attain 
those  objectives.  The  HIV  prevalence  rate  declined 
from  24  per  cent  in  2000  to  12  per  cent  in  2009.  We 
have  also  reduced  other  diseases,  such  as  tuberculosis 
and  malaria,  and  the  trend  shows  that  Malawi  will 
reverse their incidence by the year 2015. 

The goal of ensuring environmental sustainability 
is  also  on  course,  and  the  Government  is  putting  in 
place adequate measures so that the country’s land area 
covered by forest will be increased. During the past six 
years, we have planted over half a billion trees as part 
of our reforestation programme.  
The  number  of  households  with  sustainable 

access 
resources  has  been 
increasing,  and  the  MDG  target  will  be  surpassed  by 
about  20  per  cent.  The  achievement  of  universal 
primary  education  will  also  be  made.  In  Malawi, 
primary  school  education  has  been  free  for  more  than 
10  years,  and  the  net  enrolment  rate  has  gone  up  to 
about  83  per  cent.  The  Government  is  continuing  to 
expand 
constructing 
additional colleges to improve the quality and increase 
the  number  of  qualified  teachers  in  primary  schools, 
constructing  new  classrooms  to  reduce  the  pupil-per-
improved  water 
colleges, 
to 
teacher 
training 
10-54115 

11 

feeding 
in  fields 
that  have 
the  Goal  of 
In  connection  with 
ratio,  and  scaling  up  school 
training  and  encouraging  girls 
A/65/PV.4 

classroom 
programmes. 

improving 
maternal health, we are now focusing on achieving the 
desired  MDG  target  of  155  deaths  per  100,000  live 
births  by  2015.  In  this  regard,  the  Government  is 
constructing  and  upgrading  health  facilities  to  offer 
essential health services, particularly focusing on rural 
and underserved areas and training health personnel. 

Malawi has achieved considerable progress in the 
promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of 
women. More women now hold high positions, such as 
those of the Vice-President of the country, the Attorney 
General,  heads  of  important  Government  institutions, 
cabinet  positions  and  ambassadorial  positions.  Also, 
the  number  of  women  among  Members  of  Parliament 
more than doubled in the most recent general election. 
The  country  is  constructing  and  expanding  girls’ 
boarding  facilities  in  secondary  schools,  improving 
teacher 
to  pursue 
education 
traditionally  been 
dominated  by  men,  such  as  science,  technology  and 
mathematics.  We  are  also  taking  affirmative  action  to 
increase  the  number  of  women  in  high-level  decision-
making positions. 

and 
Development  Strategy  shows  that  we  are  making 
continuous  progress  towards  achieving  the  MDGs. 
Ultimately, the efforts of the Malawi Government, the 
private  sector,  development  partners  and  civil  society 
will all need to be harnessed to ensure that the progress 
that has already been made is maintained. 

For Africa as a whole, we  strongly appeal to the 
United  Nations  to  review  the  supply  side  to  improve 
the  access  of  ordinary  people,  especially  women  and 
children, 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Most  of  the  Goals 
depend  on  the  availability  of  more  schools,  more 
hospitals,  more  rural  infrastructure,  more  boreholes, 
dams  and  wells,  more  trained  teachers,  more  doctors, 
more nurses,  more agronomists and more trained civil 
servants. We need teaching and learning materials; we 
need  school  feeding  programmes;  we  need  extensive 
immunization programmes. These need to be produced 
as  part  of  the  MDG  agenda.  I  said  that  when  I 
addressed  the  General  Assembly  in  2005,  and  I  have 
constantly  said  so.  I  am  saying  it  again.  Let  us  pay 
services  envisaged  under 
the  Malawi  Growth 
summary, 
the 
In 
to 
to 
the  supply  side  of 
attention 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals if they are to be attained by 2015.  
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov, 
President of Turkmenistan. 
President Berdimuhamedov (spoke in Russian): 

On  behalf  of 
the  people  and  Government  of 
Turkmenistan,  I  cordially  welcome  and  congratulate 
participants on the beginning of the sixty-fifth session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  wish  to  congratulate 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
Assembly and to express confidence that the Assembly 
will  work  successfully  and 
fruitfully  under  his 
leadership.  I  also  express  our  gratitude  to  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session,  for  his  effective  activity  in  that 
post. 
This  year  our  country  is  preparing  to  widely 

celebrate a remarkable date — the fifteenth anniversary 
of Turkmenistan’s neutrality. It was within the walls of 
the  United  Nations  that  our  desire  to  be  a  neutral, 
peaceful,  non-aligned  country  acquired  the  support  of 
the  whole  international  community  and  became  a 
reality.  Throughout 
then 
Turkmenistan  has  remained  committed  to  that  choice, 
based on a clear understanding of its role and place in 
today’s  world  and 
its 
international  obligations. From this high rostrum I  am 
addressing  all  United  Nations  Member  States  and  the 
community  of  nations 
for 
providing  support  and  assistance  in  implementing  our 
international initiatives.  
For us, neutrality is not just a legal status. It is an 

in 
full-scale 
active 
international  processes 
through  peacemaking  and 
assisting in working out effective models of economic 
cooperation.  It  also  includes  providing  a  political 
platform  for  solving  problems,  both  within  the  region 
and  beyond,  for  the  purpose  of  consolidating  peace, 
security  and  creating 
for 
sustainable development and progress. This is the main 
purpose and content of our steps and initiatives on the 
world arena.  

contemporary 
problems  is  based  on  confidence  in  the  ability  of  the 
international  community to find  the  right  solutions,  to 
overcome stereotypes, to free itself from the burden of 
favourable  conditions 
to  express  gratitude 
Turkmenistan’s 
fulfilment  of 
involvement 
the  years 
the  strict 
approach 
position, 
since 
all 
a 
to 
12 

10-54115 
of 
are 
reasons, 
particular 
importance 
energy-related 
For  objective 
socio-economic, 


stagnant thinking and to attain a new view of prospects 
for  global  interaction.  We  call  this  a  strategy  of  the 
future, implying the achievement of a broad and stable 
international  consensus  on  key  development  issues  — 
political, 
and 
ecological matters. 

issues  of  economic 
cooperation 
for 
Turkmenistan. A strategic priority for us in this area is 
diversification  of  energy  routes,  provision  of  a  new, 
multi-option  pipeline  infrastructure.  We  have  started 
working  actively  in  that  direction,  based  on  clearly 
defined  principles  of  State  policy  in  this  sphere,  a 
realistic  evaluation  of  our  own  resource  base  and  the 
possibilities for its long-term exploitation. 

Last  year,  construction  of  new  Turkmenistan-
China  and  Turkmenistan-Iran  gas  pipelines  was 
completed  successfully, 
in  cooperation  with  our 
partners. We  consider  that  to  be  a  real  contribution  to 
international  energy  cooperation  and  an  effective 
stabilizing factor that will have a positive influence on 
the  overall  situation  and  will  provide  additional 
stability to the whole system of political and economic 
ties on the Asian continent. 

Today  we  are  actively  working  on  implementing 
another  project  —  a  Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-
Pakistan-India gas pipeline. We are convinced that that 
is  beneficial  for  all  parties  involved.  The  project  will 
promote an economic upturn, create a large number of 
additional jobs, build social infrastructure and support 
and consolidate political stability in the region. 

Currently,  issues  of  equal,  uninterrupted  and 
secure  access  to  energy  sources  and  their  means  of 
transport  have  taken  on  global  importance,  having  an 
increasing impact on the overall situation in the world 
and  on  the  nature  and  the  lines  of  international 
cooperation  and  the  level  of  the  engagement  of  States 
and  regions  in  development  processes.  That  requires 
raising this issue to the United Nations level, working 
out  common  principles  and  intelligible  regulations 
governing relations among producers, transit countries 
and consumers, under United Nations auspices. 
In this connection, Turkmenistan intends to make 

a  statement  in  the  course  of  the  current  session, 
proposing  adoption  of  an  Assembly  resolution  on  the 
creation,  under  United  Nations  auspices,  of  an  expert 
group  that  would  develop  an  international  mechanism 
for a stable energy supply in the world. We understand 
A/65/PV.4
in 
of 
is 
issues 
resolving 
it  call  up  political,  diplomatic, 
that  working  on  such  a  mechanism  requires  from  the 
international community time and effort, responsibility, 
flexibility  and  readiness  for  sensible  compromise,  and 
that 
intellectual, 
financial  and  organizational  resources.  However,  we 
are  also  convinced  that  from  the  standpoint  of  global 
security  and  stability, 
the  strategic  benefits  and 
advantages  will  immeasurably  surpass  all  costs  and 
expenses.  

Obviously,  in  current  conditions  only  the  United 
Nations — with its unique legitimacy, enormous moral 
authority,  available  legal  regulators  and  extensive 
experience 
universal 
importance — is able to give impetus to this process, to 
provide  conditions  for  broad  dialogue  and  act  as  a 
guarantor if agreements are reached. 

The  world  community  has  an  understanding  that 
the  problem  of  globally  secure  and  reliable  transit  for 
energy  carriers  requires  multilateral  discussions.  In 
confirmation  of  that,  in  2008  the  General  Assembly 
supported  our  initiative  to  launch  such  a  dialogue, 
which 
already  being  held  within  various 
international and regional meetings. We believe that we 
need  to  move  forward  and  raise  it  to  a  fundamentally 
new 
level.  Therefore  Turkmenistan 
suggests considering the matter of eventually creating a 
special  body  —  the  United  Nations  Energy  Council. 
The  purpose  and  content  of  its  activity  would  be  to 
provide 
and  organizational 
conditions  for  a  systemic,  professional  discussion  of 
the  whole  range  of  problems  related  to  energy.  With 
due respect, we call on all Member States to formulate 
their suggestions in light of this initiative. 

Ten years ago, in its Declaration, the Millennium 
Summit declared all Member States responsible for the 
destiny  of 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  have  organically  fit 
into our own development plans, matched the ideology 
and outlook of the reform of the national economy, the 
social sphere and public relations, and to a large extent 
they  have  defined  the  lines  of  our  cooperation  on  the 
world arena. 

Turkmenistan has set a strategic course for active 
participation  in  a  broad  international  partnership  from 
the  position  of  a  peaceful,  politically 
stable, 
economically 
for  multidimensional 
regional  cooperation  based  on  the  compatibility  of 
interests  of  various  countries  and  support  of  its  own 
the  planet.  For  Turkmenistan, 
strong  State; 
a  political 
institutional 
format 
10-54115 

13 
inflow  of 
it  appropriate 
for  Europe  and 
investment  and  create 
that  sphere.  We  believe 
A/65/PV.4 

and  other  large-scale  international  projects  involving 
countries and companies of the region and beyond. 

Owing  to  the  geographical  characteristics  of 
Central Asia  and  the  Caspian  Basin,  the  development 
of  transport  and  communications seems  promising 
here.  Building  an  extensive  modern  railway,  road  and 
communications network in the region could provide a 
great  impetus  to  our  countries  successful  participating 
in  the  global  economic  development.  That  would 
ensure  an 
the 
conditions  for  effective  North-South  and  East-West 
cooperation  in  the  context  of  the  intercontinental 
economic realities in the Eurasian space. 

We  propose  that  the  United  Nations  earnestly 
consider the prospects for the development of transport 
and communications infrastructure in Central Asia and 
the Caspian Basin. We are ready for close cooperation 
in 
that 
specialized  United  Nations  bodies,  first  and  foremost 
the  Economic  Commission 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific, to become actively involved in that task. 
Solving the serious ecological problems, first and 

foremost,  saving  the  Aral  Sea  and  rehabilitating  the 
unique  natural  resources  of  the  Caspian  Sea,  is  a 
crucial 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  in  the  region.  More  specifically, 
we  believe  it  necessary  to  create  a  special  group  of 
international  experts,  which,  in  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations  and  its  entities,  could  draw  up  a 
comprehensive international legal document on saving 
the  Aral  Sea.  That 
task  should  be  undertaken 
immediately, 
of 
on 
based 
understanding  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Executive Committee of the International Fund to Save 
the Aral Sea, signed in Ashgabat on 3 March 2010. 

In  short,  we  believe  it  necessary  to  create  the 
opportunity for United Nations specialized bodies to be 
present  in  the  Central  Asia  region  and  the  Caspian 
Basin  without  delay.  We  expect  the  United  Nations 
Environment  Programme  (UNEP)  to  actively  work 
there  first.  We  propose  considering  opening  a  UNEP 
regional  office  in  one  of  the  States  of  the  region. 
Turkmenistan 
the  necessary 
infrastructure for that. 

A critical issue directly linked with the ecosystem 
is  the  use  of  water  resources.  More  specifically,  the 
rational use of water in Central Asia is one of the key 
the  memorandum 
to  provide 
achieving 
is  ready 
factor 
in 

of 
other 
reliable 
in  order 
to  certain 
factors  having  a  significant  impact  on  the  momentum 
for  our  countries’ 
socio-economic  development. 
Turkmenistan  believes  that  water  disputes  should  be 
settled on the basis of the universally recognized norms 
of international law, taking into account the interests of 
all  countries  of  the  region,  with  the  world  community 
represented by the United  Nations and  with the active 
participation 
international 
organizations. 

Our efforts are aimed at establishing a strong and 
effective  system  of  regional  security  and  stability  in 
Central  Asia  and 
the  Caspian  Basin,  with  a 
commitment to peaceful negotiations to settle problems 
or  disputes.  Here,  mutual  understanding,  confidence 
and  openness,  as  well  as  the  frank  and  objective 
discussion of all topical issues, are crucial. 

That, in turn, requires that there be a mechanism 
for  regional  dialogue  and  continuing  multilateral 
communication 
to  develop  mutually 
acceptable  approaches 
issues.  Such  a 
dialogue  should  be  held  regularly,  with  a  clearly 
specified  agenda,  and  participants  should  have  the 
authority  necessary  to  take  decisions.  We  believe  that 
that  form  of  communication is needed  today owing to 
the current state of regional development. We propose 
establishing  a  high-level  forum  on  security,  peace  and 
cooperation  in  Central Asia  and  the  Caspian  Basin  to 
serve as the political format for such cooperation. The 
forum  should  meet  on  a  regular  basis,  with  each 
country in the region hosting it in turn. We are ready to 
organize 
in  Ashgabat  within  a 
reasonable period of time. 

This  year,  international  conferences  on  resolving 
the situation in Afghanistan have been held in London 
and Kabul. In general, we are satisfied with the results 
of  both  meetings,  and  would  like  to  outline  our 
approaches in the light of the decisions made there. 

First, Turkmenistan understands and supports the 
efforts of the Afghanistan Administration to resolve the 
situation  through  talks  to  establish  national  unity  and 
reconciliation.  That  is  in  line  with  our  view  on  the 
prospects for development in Afghanistan. We consider 
it necessary for the international community to provide 
international  assistance  to  its Afghan  partners.  In  that 
regard,  taking  into  account  its  neutral  status,  our 
country  is  prepared  to  hold,  under  United  Nations 
international  meeting  on 
auspices,  a  high-level 
confidence-building 
the 
its  first  meeting 
in  Afghanistan 
and 
14 

10-54115 
a 
help 
to 
in 
railway 
building 
proposes 
territory,  with 
institutions.  We  would  welcome 


development  of  effective  State  institutions.  We  are 
ready  to  discuss  organizing  such  a  meeting  with  our 
Afghan  partners,  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  Afghanistan,  other  specialized 
United  Nations  bodies  involved  in  the  Afghanistan 
issue and all interested parties. 

Secondly,  based on our wish to assist the people 
of  that  country  in  State-building  and  in  line  with  the 
outcomes of the London and Kabul meetings, we offer 
our  assistance 
training  Afghan  personnel  for 
management  in  various  fields  in  Turkmenistan,  under 
United Nations sponsorship and programmes. 

Thirdly,  we  believe  that  it  is  crucial  to  assist 
Afghanistan in developing transport infrastructure. Our 
country 
from 
Turkmenistan  to Afghanistan  that  extends  further  into 
international 
Afghan 
the  help  of 
international 
organizations,  donor  countries  and 
financial 
the 
international community’s participation in that project. 

Fourthly,  we  believe  that  efforts  to  build  a 
Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India  gas  pipeline 
must  be  considerably  stepped  up.  A  trans-Afghan 
pipeline 
develop 
Afghanistan’s  economy,  resolve  major  social  issues, 
including in the area of employment, attract investment 
and have a positive influence on the political situation 
in the country. 

Fifthly,  Turkmenistan  is  prepared  to  consider 
increasing the electric power supply to Afghanistan and 
extending  its  energy  infrastructure  in  order  to  connect 
it to Afghanistan’s network in the future. We invite the 
international  community  to  consider  that  proposal  at 
the United Nations. 

Comprehensive and targeted cooperation with the 
United  Nations  Organization  is  a  strategic  choice  for 
Turkmenistan. For us, the United Nations is not just the 
most representative international body. We see it as the 
mainstay  of 
the  entire  current  system  of  global 
cooperation,  guaranteeing 
and 
maintenance  of  peace  and  the  balance  of  interests  in 
the  international  arena,  and  safeguarding  the  current 
security architecture. 

Together with the international community, based 
on the ongoing positive experience of the cooperation, 
wisdom and responsibility of all States Members of the 
the  preservation 
significantly 
could 
A/65/PV.4
is  faced  with 
The  contemporary  world 
this  High-Level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
United Nations, Turkmenistan will continue to strive to 
achieve the lofty goals and ideals of the Organization. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki):  I  would  like  to 

remind  speakers  that  the  time  limit  for  statements  is 
five  minutes.  I  hope  that  they  will  respect  that  to  the 
extent that they are able. 
(spoke in Arabic) 

The  General Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address 
by  His  Excellency  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the 
Republic of Serbia.  
President  Tadić:  I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to 

address 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. I would like to thank 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  exemplary 
leadership  on  this  crucial  issue  for  the  future  of  our 
planet. 

the 
challenge  of  global,  shared  responsibility  for  the 
fulfilment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Since  we  last  met  here  in  2005,  significant  if  uneven 
progress has been made, despite the setbacks caused by 
the  financial  and  economic  crisis,  volatile  energy  and 
food  prices,  climate  change  and 
loss  of 
biodiversity. 

the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  and  the  African  Union,  the  Republic  of 
Serbia  is  well  aware  of  the  great  efforts  made  by 
developing  countries  to  meet  their  commitments.  Our 
traditionally warm ties, together with our long-standing 
solidarity  and  assistance  policies,  will  continue  to 
serve  as  a  strong  foundation  of  cooperation  with  the 
developing world. 

the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
stands as one of the defining challenges of the twenty-
first  century.  Levelling  the  economic  playing  field,  in 
the  context  of  globalization,  is  perhaps  the  most 
important contribution developed countries can make. 

I  am  confident  that  the  Republic  of  Serbia  will 
meet  all  eight  Millennium  Development  Goals  by 
2015.  While  they  are  all  interconnected  and  mutually 
reinforcing, I would like to focus my remarks on  four 
of them and on how we have effectively synergized our 
efforts to meet them through Serbia’s poverty reduction 
strategy, 
the  Serbian 
Government’s  efforts  to  achieve  our  central  strategic 
priority — membership in the European Union. 
As  an  observer  State 
integral  part  of 
itself  an 
Meeting 
the 
to 
10-54115 

15 

to 
through 
We 
have 
committed 
and  organized 
A/65/PV.4 


across-the-board, 
evidence-based  policymaking.  This  has  resulted  in  a 
more  efficient  use  of  public  funds,  combined  with 
greater  transparency  and  a  successful  fight  against 
corruption 
crime.  The  Serbian 
Government has also taken measures to ensure that the 
prices  of  basic  food  items,  such  as  milk,  cooking  oil, 
flour  and  so  on,  will  never  again  be  manipulated  by 
speculators. 

In these difficult economic times, we have placed 
a  premium  on  expanding  the  social  safety  net.  The 
enforcement of equality of opportunity, gender equality 
and  the  empowerment  of  women  and  minorities  is 
being  emphasized,  and  we  have  redoubled  our  efforts 
to  ensure  that  pensions  and  savings  are  protected  by 
maintaining macroeconomic stability.  

Moreover, significant investments in health care, 
education  and  family  care  services  have  begun  to  pay 
off,  with  Serbia’s  poverty  reduction  strategy  being 
leveraged into a progressive recovery plan for jobs and 
growth,  attracting  additional  foreign  direct  investment 
and  modernizing  infrastructure.  The  absolute  poverty 
rate  was  reduced  by  half  in  just  five  years.  However, 
our  work  is  not  done  yet.  Poverty  reduction  amongst 
children is still a great challenge. 
to  our  efforts  has  been  ensuring 

Integral 
environmental 
innovative 
financial  mechanisms  at  the  national  and  regional 
levels. A  good  example  of  just  such  an  attempt  is  the 
Belgrade 
subregional 
cooperation in the field of climate change. 

In my country and throughout South-East Europe, 
paying  for  environmental  infrastructure  is  a  very 
important  public  policy  priority,  but  it  is  becoming 
more  difficult  to  cover  the  costs.  In  my  view,  the 
solution  is  closely  linked  to  broader  environmental 
policy  reforms,  specifically  in  the  setting  up  of  an 
efficient  and  decentralized  system  of  environmental 
financing 
upgrade 
environmental infrastructure and monitoring systems. 

But  it  is  not  just  about  finding  ways  to  pay  for 
environmental sustainability. On a broader, conceptual 
level,  it  is  about  working  towards  a  knowledge-based 
economy.  That  is  why  we  are  working  to  implement 
inventive 
scientific 
breakthroughs  and  to  raise  awareness,  so  that  further 
environmental degradation can be prevented and long-
term sustainable development achieved. 
finding  ways 
sustainability 
educational 
enhancing 
Initiative 
on 
policies 
and 
and 
in 
to 
Mr.  Merafhe 
(Botswana):  Allow  me 

The only efficient way for mankind to address the 
numerous challenges of modern civilization is through 
the  investment  of  each  and  every  country  in  science, 
innovation and education, in synergy with politics and 
economy.  We  are  fully  committed  to  continuing  to 
prioritize  our  legislative  agenda  to  do  so,  and  we  are 
willing,  ready  and  able  to  assist  other  States  in  their 
efforts. Solidarity with the developing world is the only 
way  to  save  the  natural  treasures  of  our  planet  and 
ensure health and prosperity for all of humankind. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Lieutenant-General  Mompati  Merafhe, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Botswana.  
to 

congratulate Mr. Deiss on his election to the presidency 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  Let 
me also seize this opportunity to thank his predecessor, 
Mr. Ali Treki, for his leadership of the Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth session. I would also like to commend the 
Secretary-General,  under  whose  stewardship  we  have 
been able to convene for this crucial summit. 
Five years ago, we convened here in New York to 

review 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) since their adoption in the 
year 2000. That review showed that the enthusiasm and 
commitment  displayed  by  world  leaders  at  the  2000 
Millennium  Summit  did  not  translate  into  the  results 
we  desired.  It 
that  many  developing 
countries are lagging behind on most of the targets. In 
this  regard,  we  should  renew  our  pledge  and  do 
everything  possible  to  take  our  people  out  of  the 
dehumanizing  conditions  of  abject  poverty  and 
deprivation, in line with the Millennium Development 
Goals.  

This  notwithstanding,  I  have  no  doubt  in  my 
mind that all Members remain committed to the cause 
of 
the  case  of 
Botswana,  we  believe  in  the  spirit  and  thrust  of  the 
Declaration, 
that,  as  a  Government,  we  should 
endeavour  to  eradicate  poverty.  My  President  has  laid 
before the nation a road map towards prosperity for all 
that is underpinned by a quest for human development 
and  dignity.  We  believe  that  through  the  road  map, 
Botswana can achieve more in terms of improving the 
livelihood of its citizens.  
Our commitment to the Millennium Development 

Goals  has  been  amplified  in  our  current  National 
the  Millennium  Declaration.  In 
the  progress  made  on 
is  evident 
16 

10-54115 
for 
sustainable 


Development  Plan,  which  runs  from  2010  to  2016. 
Botswana has made some progress towards eradicating 
poverty, as evidenced by the decline in the percentage 
of  people  living  below  the  poverty  bottom  line.  The 
percentage  of  people  living  below  that  line  declined 
from 47 per cent in 1993 to an estimated 23 per cent in 
2009. As  a  Government  we  firmly  believe  there  is  no 
tolerable level of poverty. 

To  this  end,  different  categories  of  vulnerable 
groups  such  as  those  on  pensions,  destitute  persons, 
orphans  and  other  vulnerable  children,  as  well  as 
home-based  care  patients,  have  access 
to  food, 
education,  subsistence  allowance  and  other  basic 
necessities.  However,  realizing  that  the  fight  against 
poverty  should  be  sustained,  Botswana  has  adopted  a 
flexi-programme on poverty eradication that focuses on 
promoting  broad-based  growth  for  sectors  that  create 
opportunities 
livelihoods.  The 
programme  is  geared  to  enhancing  human  capabilities 
of  the  poor  through  investing  in  and  strengthening 
institutions that promote poor people’s participation in 
the growth process. 

significant 
resources  to  literacy  and  skills  development  of  its 
citizens.  Consequently,  we  have  achieved  universal 
primary education, with more than 95 per cent of the 7- 
to 13-year-olds enrolled in primary education by 2007. 

My  Government  has  also  made  notable  progress 
in  the  provision  of  health  care  for  the  population.  For 
instance,  the  proportion  of  mothers  who  are  attended 
by  qualified  health  professionals  during  delivery  has 
remained  at  approximately  90  per  cent  since  1998.  In 
addition,  Botswana  continues  to  make  significant 
inroads  in  the  fight  against  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic. 
Similarly, 62.7 per cent of people living with HIV and 
eligible for antiretroviral therapy were on treatment in 
2005,  while  today  more  than  90  per  cent  are  on 
antiretroviral drugs. In 2001, an estimated 40 per cent 
of  infants  born  to  HIV-positive  mothers  were  infected 
with  the  virus.  That  proportion  has  declined  to  just 
3 per  cent.  Notwithstanding  the  progress  I  have  just 
alluded to, we continue to face challenges with respect 
to maternal and infant mortality. 

in  Botswana. 
However,  my  Government  has  been  able  to  provide 
potable  water  to  more  than  95  per  cent  of  the 
population since the year 2000. In addition, more than 
is  a  scarce  commodity 
Botswana  continues 
to  commit 
Water 
A/65/PV.4
to 
increase  risks 
80  per  cent  of  our  people  have  access  to  improved 
sanitation facilities.  

One  of  the  greatest  challenges  to  humanity  is 
climate  change.  The  impact  of  climate  change  is 
already  being  felt  around  the  globe,  as  shown  by  the 
never-ending  natural  calamities  bedeviling  many  parts 
of  the  world.  It  goes  without  saying,  therefore,  that 
climate  change,  if  not  adequately  and  expeditiously 
addressed,  will  continue 
impede  development 
efforts, 
to  public  health,  frustrate 
poverty-eradication  interventions  and  reverse  gains 
made  towards  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

As part of its response, Botswana has established 
a national climate change committee whose mandate is 
to oversee national policies on climate change and the 
implementation 
of  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change activities. 
At  the  2000  World  Summit  we  pledged  to 

strengthen the United Nations with a view to enhancing 
its  authority  and  efficiency,  as  well  as  its  capacity  to 
effectively  address  the  full  range  of  challenges  of  our 
times.  Let  us  make  that  possible  by  providing  the 
Organization  with  the  necessary  support  to  respond  to 
development  challenges  in  a  timely  and  proactive 
manner.  We  commend 
the  Secretary-General  for 
establishing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
Advocacy  Group  of  eminent  personalities,  who  will 
support  him  in  building  political  will  and  mobilizing 
global action to make the MDG summit a turning point 
in the collective effort to achieve the goals by 2015.  

I  believe  that  there  should  be  more  emphasis  on 
supporting groups of countries with special needs such 
as  middle-income  countries,  landlocked  developing 
countries  and  small  island  developing  States.  On  their 
own,  those  countries,  or  groups  of  countries,  do  not 
possess  enough  capacity  and  resources  to  mitigate 
disasters and development challenges.  
to  an  action-

looks  forward 
oriented outcome at the end of this High-level Plenary 
Meeting. I believe such an outcome will be adequately 
resourced.  

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  José  Ramos-Horta,  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste. 
My  delegation 
10-54115 

17 

A/65/PV.4 


President  Ramos-Horta:  In  the  year  2000,  the 
world gathered here for six days in September. We met 
to discuss the role of the United Nations system on the 
cusp of a new century whose dawn we eyed with hope 
and anticipation and made a commitment embodied in 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

And  here  today  we  meet  again.  My  hope  for 
today  and  coming  days  is  that  same  genuine  will 
fostered  in  September  2000  can  be  reinvigorated,  but 
this time infused with valuable lessons learnt. 
While  many  countries  have  been  guided  by  the 

MDGs  to  improve  social  and  economic  conditions, 
there  remains  a  unique  group  of  countries,  fragile 
nations  and  post-conflict  nations  that  have  been  less 
fortunate. Those fragile and post-conflict countries face 
unique challenges whose significance was not realized 
during  the  formulation  of  the  MDGs.  At  the  time, 
concepts  such  as  peacebuilding,  State-building  and 
fragility  were  not  part  of  the  normative  international 
discourse,  and  therefore  an  understanding  of  their 
impact  on  contextualizing  MDG  achievement  and 
timeframes  for  that  achievement  was,  regrettably, 
absent. 

I  am  here  to  say  that  despite  our  combined 
efforts,  we  must  be  realistic  and  acknowledge  now, 
here and today, that fragile and post-conflict States are 
the  farthest  from  meeting  the  MDGs  and  most  likely 
will not meet them under the time frame the architects 
intended. The sooner we all accept this reality, begin to 
make amends and take urgent action, the better. 
I  deliver  this  message  not  just  as  the  Head  of 

State  of  my  country,  Timor-Leste,  but  as  a 
representative  of  a  group  of  fragile  and  post-conflict 
States, known as the g7+. We advocate a new paradigm 
as  a  means  to  meeting  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  by  placing  peacebuilding  and  State-
building at the forefront of international engagement. 

In  my  country  and  in  the  very  corridors  of  this 
building, we fought long and hard for our right to self-
determination, with independence regained less than a 
decade  ago.  In  Timor-Leste,  now  more  than  at  any 
other time in our brief history of nationhood, we enjoy 
a genuine will that has allowed us to adopt and put into 
action  a  reformist  agenda  tailored  to  the  diverse 
historical,  linguistic,  geographic,  political  and  cultural 
landscapes that make up the united Timor-Leste. 
reforms 
in  public 
for 
the 
ideas; 
aggressive 
first 
time, 
We  adopted, 
To  achieve  this  success,  imported  ideas  were 

substituted  with  home-grown 
international 
expertise,  while  welcomed,  was  contextualized  with 
local 
innovation;  and  domestic  knowledge  was 
recognized,  valued  and  prioritized.  The  nation 
implemented  key  peacebuilding  and  State-building 
functions,  consolidating  and  reforming  the  security 
sector to foster peace and establishing such institutions 
as  the  Civil  Service  Commission,  the Anti-Corruption 
Commission and the National Petroleum Authority for 
the  best  management  of  our  natural  resources,  and 
forged 
financial 
management and decentralization for better delivery. 

socially 
compassionate  policies  —  pensions  for  the  elderly, 
disabled  and  veterans  —  and  returned  some  150,000 
internally displaced persons to their homes in less than 
two  years,  against  all  odds.  Above  all,  dialogue 
replaced discord. With this, I am glad to report that, in 
Timor-Leste, much progress has been made.  

While, as previously reported, between 1999 and 
2006-2007  some  $8  billion  were  allocated  by  the 
international  community  for  Timor-Leste,  between 
2000  and  2006  poverty  apparently  increased.  The 
$8 billion  allegedly  allocated  to  my  country  begs  the 
question:  why?  Since  2007,  as  our  Government  took 
ownership  of  our  resources  and  responsibilities, it  has 
been able to reverse this trend, making public spending 
a cornerstone of the efforts to ease the suffering of our 
most  vulnerable,  to  spur  economic  growth  and,  above 
all, to consolidate a newfound level of stability. 

Mr.  Merafhe  (Botswana),  Vice-President  of  the 
General Assembly, took the Chair. 

I  promulgated  State  budgets  that  were  tripled  in 
size and with a targeted spending level of $1.4 billion 
since  2007.  I  am  pleased  to  report  a  9-per  cent 
reduction  in  poverty,  with  the  key  MDG  poverty 
indicators significantly improving, and this only in the 
past two years. 

Averaging  three  years  of  consistent  double-digit 
economic  growth  since  2007,  Timor-Leste  has  been 
cited as one of the top 10 fastest growing economies in 
the  world  for  2008  and  2009.  Our  non-oil  per  capita 
income has increased significantly; 30  per cent of our 
general  State  budget  will  be  devoted  to  public  health 
and basic education over the next 10 years. 
18 

10-54115 



The  MDG  target  for  infant  mortality  and  our 
under-five  mortality  rate  has  reached  its  target  for 
2015,  as  have  the  detection  and  cure  of  tuberculosis, 
with  new  targets  being  set.  School  enrolment  has 
increased  from  65  per  cent  in  2007  to  83  per  cent  in 
2009-2010.  In  fact,  across  the  board  for  all  MDG 
indicators,  Timor-Leste  shows  improvements,  some 
major and some minor. 

In  addressing  the  need  to  fast-track  achievement 
towards  the  MDGs,  we  have  created  an  innovative 
programme,  to  be  launched  next  year.  Our  MDG 
programme  for  sucos  —  that  is,  villages  —  provides 
direct  funding  to  all  442  villages  in  Timor-Leste, 
giving  ownership  and  responsibility  for  community 
works and giving Timorese the opportunity not just to 
witness development but to be a part of development. 

For  a  country  that  regained  independence  in 
2002,  are  these  endeavours  enough  to  overcome  the 
challenges of 400 years of occupation and 24 years of 
war and to reverse the effects of decades and centuries 
of neglect, and can we now say that the MDGs will be 
met  in  Timor-Leste  by  2015?  Our  answer  is  that  we 
will  have  met  some,  and  we  could  meet  most  if  there 
were  a  change  in  the  way  aid  was  delivered  by  the 
donor community. 

We  must  trust  in  the  practices  and  principles  of 
the  Paris  Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness  and  the 
subsequent  Accra  Agenda  for  Action,  with  ownership 
and harmonization at the forefront, guided first by the 
principles of peacebuilding and State-building, because 
without peace to secure the lives and livelihoods of our 
citizens  and  without  State  capacity  to  protect  and 
deliver  vital  services,  the  MDGs  will  remain  a  distant 
dream for many countries. 
When  we  do  this,  as  in  the  case  of Timor-Leste, 

we demonstrate that we can, together, make significant 
progress. We must now make the collective decision to 
move from fragility to agility, and do so with the same 
vigour and effort with which the MDGs were originally 
asserted. May God the almighty and the merciful bless 
us all. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an address by His Excellency Mr. Nguyen Minh Triet, 
President of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. 
in 

Vietnamese; English text provided by delegation): The 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) represent the 
President  Nguyen  Minh  Triet 
(spoke 
A/65/PV.4
to  see 
international  peace, 
strongest  commitment  of  all  Member  States 
to 
equitable  development,  which  lays  a  solid  foundation 
for 
security  and  enhanced 
multilateral cooperation. 

the  positive  results 
We  are  pleased 
recorded thus far, which have helped improve the lives 
of  hundreds  of  millions  of  people,  including  those  in 
the  poorest  countries.  Women  and  children  have 
received better care and been able to benefit more from 
it.  The  most  valuable  lesson  to  be  drawn  from  this  is 
that the implementation of the MDGs must be placed at 
the  heart  of  international  cooperation  and  of  the 
development  strategies  of  developing  countries.  Only 
by so doing can the international community mobilize 
the required resources via new policies and measures at 
the national and international levels. 

We  are  glad  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  Viet 
Nam  has  achieved  a  number  of  MDGs  ahead  of 
schedule  and  is  on  track  to  attain  the  remaining  goals 
by  2015.  Viet  Nam’s  encouraging  achievements  — 
particularly  in  poverty  reduction,  universal  primary 
education,  the  promotion  of  gender  equality,  the 
reduction  of  child  mortality,  the  improvement  of 
maternal  health  and  the  control  of  malaria  and  other 
pandemics  —  have  won  the  recognition  of  the  United 
Nations, 
international  organizations  and  Member 
States.  

Viet  Nam  fulfils  its  commitments  by  localizing 
and mainstreaming the MDGs into strategies, plans and 
development  programmes  at  all 
levels  and  by 
promoting the participation of its people. The progress 
made is also due to Viet Nam’s comprehensive reforms 
and 
international 
community. 
Despite those encouraging accomplishments, Viet 

Nam  still  faces  a  range  of  difficulties.  The  country’s 
infrastructure  is  still  underdeveloped  and  the  living 
standards of our people remain low, particularly among 
communities  residing  in  remote  and  mountainous 
regions  and  areas  devastated  by  the  war,  as  well  as 
among victims of agent orange/dioxin. 

Viet  Nam  shares  the  common  concern  over  the 
fact  that  more  than  1  billion  people  are  still  living  in 
poverty, the uneven progress made between Goals and 
among  countries,  as  well  as  the  possibility  that  most 
regions  will  not  achieve  many  Goals  without  further 
strong  measures.  This  unfortunate  situation  is  deeply 
rooted  in  unfair  international  economic  relations  in 
the  effective 
support  of 
the 
10-54115 

19 
it 
is 
our 
are 
forced 
countries 
developing 
Secondly,  we  must 
A/65/PV.4 

which 
into 
disadvantageous  positions,  and  in  defects  in  national 
development  policies.  In  addition,  over 
the  past 
10 years,  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  has  been 
negatively  affected  by  increased  unilateralism  and  the 
use of force, war and tension in parts of the world and, 
most  recently,  by  the  global  economic  and  financial 
crises,  coupled  with  the  volatility  in  energy  prices, 
food insecurity and the impacts of climate change. 

Viet  Nam  supports  the  overall  solutions  and  the 
specific  measures  for  each  Goal  defined  in  the  draft 
action agenda to be adopted at this Meeting (A/65/L.1). 
In  addition,  the  Vietnamese  delegation  wishes  to 
underline the following. 

First,  peace  and  stability  are  prerequisites  for 
development.  Therefore, 
common 
responsibility  to  support  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international  disputes,  actively  seek  fair  solutions  to 
conflicts,  facilitate  peaceful  and  friendly  relations 
among nations, and resolutely oppose war and the use 
of force. 
to 
expand 

international 
cooperation 
conditions 
in 
policymaking  and  in  strengthening  their  management 
capacities.  In  that  connection,  developed  countries 
should  deliver  on  their  pledges  and  commitments, 
including  with  regard  to  maintaining  macroeconomic 
stability,  contributing  to  the  successful  conclusion  of 
the Doha Round, eliminating unfair trade measures and 
increasing development assistance.  

economic embargo against Cuba.  

Within its capacity, in recent years Viet Nam has 
expanded  South-South  cooperation  with  countries  in 
South-East Asia and other regions. 

Thirdly, to implement the measures set out at this 
Meeting,  we  should  quickly  develop  international  and 
national 
sustain 
progress, accomplish all MDGs in all regions, and even 
strive for higher goals.  
The past 10 years have shown us the significance 

and  feasibility  of  the  MDGs  and  brought  us  rich 
experiences.  We  are  now  presented  with  new 
opportunities,  including  the  full  recognition  of  the 
importance of multilateral cooperation with the United 
that  basis  and  with 
Nations  at 
Viet  Nam  strongly  calls  for  an  end  to  the 
implementation  programmes 
continue 
favourable 
the  centre.  On 
developing 
and 
to 
countries 
create 
assist 

an 
hear 
address 
determination,  creativity  and  cooperation, 
I  am 
confident that we will make new progress in our joint 
efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 
The  Acting  Chair:  The  General  Assembly  will 

now 
by  His  Excellency 
Mr. Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Namibia. 
President  Pohamba:  I  join  previous  speakers  in 

thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  convening  this 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  It  is  a  timely  event, 
coming  as  it  does  10  years  after  the  adoption  of  the 
Millennium  Declaration  and five years before the  cut-
off  date  of  2015,  by  which  the  MDGs  should  be 
achieved. 

In  2005,  a  high-level  plenary  meeting  was  held 
here  at  the  Headquarters  of  the  United  Nations  to 
review  the  progress  that  Member  States  were  making 
towards achieving the Goals. Today, 10 years after the 
adoption of the Millennium Declaration and five years 
before the target date, it is time to take stock in order to 
see  how  much  we  have  achieved  and  how  much 
remains to be done. 

On  its  part,  Namibia  recognized  from  the  outset 
that  achieving  the  MDGs  would  be  a  daunting  task. 
Hence, we decided to integrate the achievement of the 
Goals  into  our  national  development  programmes  and 
policies,  such  as  our  five-year  national  development 
plans and Vision 2030. To that end, national targets and 
indicators  were  also  developed  to  monitor  progress 
towards the achievement of the goals. 
For  example,  we  have  expanded  the  delivery  of 

public  services  and  social  amenities.  Today, 
the 
majority  of  our  people  have  access  to  clear  water. 
Three  quarters  of  our  urban  population  has  access  to 
rural  communities  have  been 
electricity.  Many 
provided  with 
electricity 
rural 
electrification  programme.  However,  there  has  been 
less  progress  with  regard  to  access  to  sanitation, 
particularly in rural areas.  

the  provision  of 
education and training to our people as one of its most 
important  national  priorities.  For  that  reason,  over  the 
years  we  have  constantly  allocated 
largest 
percentage  of  the  national  budget  to  the  education 
sector. Today, our country is on course to achieving the 
goal  of  providing  universal  primary  education.  I  am 
Our  Government 
through 
regards 
the 
the 
to 
20 

10-54115 


happy  to  say  that  Namibia  has  achieved  and  in  fact 
exceeded gender parity with respect to enrolment ratios 
for girls to boys in our schools. 

Overall, progress in reducing infant mortality has 
been  rather  slow,  while  in  the  area  of  maternal  health 
progress  has  been  made  with  regard  to  the  number  of 
births  attended  by 
trained  personnel.  Maternal 
mortality  currently  stands  at  4.9  deaths  per  100  live 
births.  Our  goal  is  to  reduce  that  figure  and  move 
closer to achieving Goals 4 and 5.  
Complications  from  HIV/AIDS  have  become  the 

main cause of death in our country. However, there has 
been  a  significant  decline  in  the  number  of  new 
infections  as  a  result  of  the  ongoing  country-wide 
public  awareness  campaigns.  Likewise,  although 
malaria is the third main cause of death in our country, 
it  has  been  contained  through  the  distribution  of  free 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets  and  by  the  spraying 
of  household  materials.  As  a  result  of  ongoing 
treatment and awareness campaigns, progress has been 
recorded  with  regard  to  successfully  treating  cases  of 
tuberculosis, especially during the period since 1996. 
international 
Namibia 

development 
country’s 
classification as a middle-income country. In the spirit 
of 
on 
Development  Cooperation  with  Middle-Income 
Countries, which was adopted in August 2008, I appeal 
to  the  Bretton Woods  and  other  international  financial 
institutions  to  create  special  mechanisms  to  enable 
middle-income  countries  such  as  Namibia  to  access 
financial  resources  for  development  on  concessional 
terms. 

Indeed,  there  is  a  need  to  strengthen  the  global 
partnership  for  development  to  promote  and  facilitate 
effective  international  cooperation  and  achieve  the 
MDGs.  I  would  like  to  further  urge  our  development 
cooperation partners to honour the obligations made at 
various  international  forums  to  provide  consistent 
financial and technical support to developing countries. 
By  working  together,  we  can  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals by 2015. 
The  Acting  Chair:  The  General  Assembly  will 

now  hear  an  address  by  His  Serene  Highness  Prince 
Albert II, Head of State of the Principality of Monaco. 
Prince Albert  (spoke  in  French):  Ten  years  ago 

from  this  very  rostrum  (see  A/55/PV.5),  I  resolutely 
the  Windhoek  Ministerial  Declaration 
faces  a  decline 
assistance  due 
to  our 
in 
A/65/PV.4
together 
reaffirmed  our  determination 
made  the  commitment  before  the  General  Assembly 
that  my  country  would  effectively  support 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), which we set for ourselves when we adopted 
the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2). In 2000, 
we decisively expressed our active desire for a new era 
and 
to 
implement the objectives of human dignity in the new 
millennium.  We  also  determined  to  spare  no  effort  to 
combat  poverty,  thereby  making  the  world  fairer  and 
more united in solidarity. 

So  how  can  we  today  justify  a  woman  dying 
during childbirth as a result of the lack adequate care? 
How  can  we  justify  a  child  dying  from  hunger  or 
preventable  disease  when  so  much  technical  and 
scientific  progress  is  at  our  disposal?  That  moral 
quandary  and  the  conviction  that  world  peace  and 
security  cannot  be  achieved  without  sustainable 
development  for  all  are  at  the  heart  of  the  political 
compact  uniting  the  whole  international  community, 
which we have come here today to consider. Five years 
from  a  deadline  that  will  constitute  a  decisive  test  for 
the  Organization,  our  collective  responsibility  and  the 
survival of the planet are what is at stake at this crucial 
juncture. 

There  have  been  some  encouraging  results,  in 
particular  in  the  areas  of  primary  education  and 
combating HIV/AIDS, which lead us to believe that the 
Goals  continue  to  be  realistic. They  should  prompt  us 
to  redouble  our  efforts,  lest  we  backslide  on  the 
progress  made.  We  should  courageously  reaffirm  the 
basic  values  that  guide  international  relations  in  our 
interdependent  world: 
liberty,  equality,  solidarity, 
tolerance, respect for nature and shared responsibility. 

In  that  connection,  I  reaffirm  my  country’s 
commitment to carry out an international development 
cooperation policy based on achieving the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Monaco’s  official  development 
assistance will therefore reach the target of 0.7 per cent 
gross  national  income  by  2015,  thereby  enabling  the 
Principality  of  Monaco  to  join  the  group  of  countries 
that have shown the greatest solidarity. Our assistance, 
which  has  increased  five-fold  since  2000,  is  growing 
by 25 per cent annually. Provided entirely on the basis 
of  grants,  Monaco’s  assistance  is  essentially  geared 
towards  our  partners  among 
least  developed 
countries, and targets development projects in the areas 
of 
and 
microfinancing. 
environment 
education, 
health, 
the 
the 
10-54115 

21 
regard 
A/65/PV.4 


Poverty is unacceptable. It is not intolerable that 
nearly 1 billion people are still affected by hunger, that 
one  in  four  children  in  the  developing  world  is 
underweight  and  that  almost  1  billion  persons  lack 
daily  access  to  water.  Five  years  from  the  2015 
deadline,  we  still  have  a  collective  responsibility.  We 
must  take  the  opportunity  afforded  us  in  this  crucial 
period  to  find  a  way  to  honour  our  commitments.  In 
that  regard,  I  would  like  to  propose  making  the 
Principality  of  Monaco  in  coming  years  a  special 
centre  for  promoting  the  partnership  for  development 
between the various public and private stakeholders.  

In  addition,  beyond  our  increasing  development 
efforts,  my  country  will  continue  to  be  active  on 
emergency  assistance,  especially  with 
to 
vulnerable  groups  affected  by  natural  disasters  linked 
to climate change. 

The  new  millennium  has  given  rise  to  many 
hopes,  which  have  been  damped  somewhat  by  the 
explosion  of  threats  pressing  on  humankind  and  the 
environment.  During  this  year  devoted  to  biodiversity 
and on the eve of the high-level meeting on that issue, 
we must bear in mind the importance of preserving the 
environment  in  which  we  live.  I  personally  commit 
myself  to  developing  innovative,  ethical  solutions  in 
the  areas  of  biodiversity,  climate  change  and  the 
sustainable management of water resources.  
than  ever  before,  we  must  urgently 

mobilize 
the  Rio+20  preparations. 
Achieving sustainable development and the MDGs are 
interlinked; we must pursue them synergistically. I am 
certain that the MDGs will not be achieved unless we 
bear  in  mind  the  concept  of  sustainability.  In  that 
regard, everyone must be involved in this effort and in 
the  decisions  taken.  Governance  should  be  global, 
multilateral  and  shared,  as  espoused  by  the  informal 
Global  Governance  Group  with  which  Monaco  has 
fully associated itself. 

As the Indian poet Vikram Seth has written, you 
should never make a child a promise that you cannot or 
do not intend to keep. I am sure that everyone speaking 
from  this  rostrum  today  believes  in  the  urgency  of 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  the 
next five years. But now is not the time for believing; 
now is the time to act. 

The  Acting  Chair:  The  General  Assembly  will 
now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mikheil 
Saakashvili, President of Georgia. 
to  complete 
More 


President  Saakashvili:  It  is  a  pleasure  and  a 
privilege  to  address  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) review summit this year. As a result of 
the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2), over the 
past  decade  we  have  seen  significant  changes  in  the 
way  we  approach  urgent  development  needs.  Two 
pillars  of  this  new  approach  are  the  introduction  of 
innovative  financing  mechanisms  and  reliance  on  the 
idea of local ownership.  

First of all, with regard to financing, I think that 
the International Drug Purchase Facility is an excellent 
example  of  innovation.  It  could  have  become  just 
another  bureaucracy.  Instead  it  has  been  a  spectacular 
success  that  now  serves  as  one  of  our  most  efficient 
tools  in  addressing  the  millennium  challenges.  Of 
course we need more money. More money matters. But 
aid  money  will  not  deliver  concrete  results  unless  we 
pay  more  attention  to  the  essential  idea  of  local 
ownership.  

If we understand local ownership just as a way of 
giving  money  to  local  bureaucrats  and  then  allowing 
them  the  freedom  to  spend  it,  as  we  have  seen  in 
Georgia  and  many  other  countries  throughout  the 
world,  it  would  mean  giving  money  to  local  officials 
for  housing  with  which  they  would  build  wonderful 
villas in their native countries or abroad. We have seen 
them  given  money  for  education,  with  which  they 
would send their children to the best universities in the 
West  or  elsewhere,  without  giving  anything  to  their 
own  people.  They  have  been  given  money  for  health 
care, while hospitals have remained in miserable shape 
and  people  have  had  no  access.  However,  they  would 
send their wives and daughters to give birth in the best 
foreign hospitals and enjoy all the other luxuries while 
enriching  themselves.  That  is  what  local  ownership 
means in some countries. 

However,  the  way  local  ownership  should  really 
be  understood,  and  as  it  is  understood  in  the  better 
cases,  is  that  it  inspires  and  reinforces  responsible 
governance.  The  Millennium  Goals  are  not  only  an 
expression  of  a  new  global  ethics  or  an  absolute 
economic  and  financial  philosophy.  The  Goals  are  at 
once  global  and  profoundly  local  in  their  political 
importance 
local 
stakeholders to take political responsibility for success. 
Countries  simply  cannot  be  stable  without  reducing 
poverty  and  improving  their  educational  and  health 
care systems. 
impact.  They 
demand 
and 
22 

10-54115 



Nor  can  the  broader  world  be  stable,  and  we  all 
know  it.  It  is  not  only  about  terrorism,  but  also  about 
trafficking,  illegal  immigration  and  the  other  scourges 
that  no  wall  can  protect  us  from.  We  cannot  build 
walls; they do not protect. A very smart governor in the 
United  States  once  said  that  if  he  were  to  build  a 
50-foot  wall,  the  traffickers  would  build  a  51-foot 
ladder.  We  must  be  smarter,  faster,  more  innovative 
and, above all, more united to achieve our goals.  

Yet  we  face  a  dilemma  when  it  comes  to  local 
ownership that is a modern-day version of the chicken-
and-egg  problem.  The  fight  against  poverty  requires 
responsible  and  stable  local  actors.  Yet  we  need  to 
reduce  poverty  in  order  to  generate  local  political 
stability.  How  can  we  square  the  circle?  It  is  not 
impossible, but it demands clear vision and dedication. 
With the Assembly’s indulgence, I would like to share 
some  of  our  experiences  in  Georgia,  in  the  hope  that 
these might help to shed light on how to achieve local 
ownership. 

Since  2003,  Georgia  has  made  great  strides  in 
fighting  poverty,  in  providing  education,  employment 
and  shelter,  in  improving  maternal  and  child  care,  in 
fighting  HIV/AIDS  and 
sustainable 
environmental  practices,  which  will  hopefully  help  to 
inform  the  work  of  others,  just  as  we  hope  to  learn 
from others so we can accelerate our efforts to address 
the  MDGs.  Our  experience  has  shown  that  the  first 
thing  we  need  to  develop  is  a  feeling  of  and  capacity 
for  local  ownership. The  essential  thing  in  that  regard 
is combating corruption.  

Fighting  corruption  might  not  be  on  the  official 
MDGs  list,  but  all  of  us  know  that  it  is  a  prerequisite 
for any meaningful progress. It is all about corruption 
when  it  comes  to  starting  programmes.  When  the 
Millennium  Declaration  was  signed,  Georgia  was  a 
failed  State  crippled  by  decaying  infrastructure  and 
systemic  corruption.  Billions  of  dollars  in  aid  had 
amounted to essentially next to nothing. Electricity was 
off more than it was on. Pension payments rarely made 
their way to the elderly. Educational opportunities were 
allotted  based  on  bribes  rather  than  merit.  The  vast 
majority  of  aid  enriched  those  in  power,  rather  than 
benefiting those desperately in need. 

The  2003  Rose  Revolution  dramatically  changed 
the playing field. Fighting corruption was the first goal 
of my Government, and we implemented radical legal, 
legislative  and  practical  measures  needed  to  confront 
introducing 
A/65/PV.4
corruption  head-on.  It  is  no  accident  that  in  the 
following  years  Georgia  started  to  make  considerable 
progress  towards  addressing  the  MDGs.  We  have 
fought  poverty  and  hunger,  both  directly  and  by 
providing  employment. That  has  included  focusing  on 
rapid economic development and job creation, creating 
a  favourable  investment  climate  to  attract  foreign 
direct  investment,  reforming  the  pension  system  and 
expanding the social network for pensioners and other 
socially vulnerable groups. 

In  2003,  our  poverty  rate  was  more  than  42  per 
cent.  Now  it  is  less  than  18  per  cent.  Extreme 
poverty — people living on less than $1.50 per day — 
stood at 18 per cent. Now it is less than 6 per cent. The 
progress we have made encourages us to continue our 
work.  Of  course,  when  we  talk  about  6  per  cent,  it  is 
6 per cent too much. When we talk about 18 per cent, it 
is 18 per cent too much.  

Improving  education  —  another  Millennium 
Development  Goal  —  is  an  essential  element  of  our 
economic  vision,  including  leading  people  out  of 
poverty.  We  have  expanded  universal  primary 
education  to  a  12-year  programme.  We  also  have 
introduced new professional training schools to enable 
people 
the  economy.  We  have 
introduced  an  ambitious  English  language  education 
programme and invited 10,000 teachers who are native 
English speakers to our schools in order to ensure that 
our  next  generation  will  have  a  world  of  opportunity 
open  to  them.  We  are  initiating  the  construction  and 
operation of a new world-class technological university 
in  Batumi,  the  most  wonderful  city  of  the  Black  Sea. 
We  are willing to channel  tremendous sums of money 
to  make  that  university  come  into  being  and  work  to 
create the highest world standards for our country and 
for our region. 

Again,  however,  building  schools  and  putting 
money  into  programmes  is  not  enough.  We  must 
empower stakeholders in the education system, making 
them  feel  responsible  —  in  other  words,  endowing 
them with a sense of local ownership. That is why I am 
proud that Georgia was the first post-Soviet country to 
introduce nationwide self-governance of schools.  

Since  2003,  Georgia  has  also  been  working  to 
massively  overhaul  our  health  care  system  to  enhance 
transparency 
and 
pharmaceutical markets. We also have a comprehensive 
HIV/AIDS  programme,  including  programmes  that 
to  participate 
insurance 
in 
in 
the 
health 
10-54115 

23 
is 
the 
taking 
following 
lead  and 
A/65/PV.4 

target  high-risk  groups,  treatment  programmes  for 
those  in  need  and  education  campaigns  to  slow  the 
spread  of  this  disease  and  lessen  the  social  stigma 
associated with it.  

We  have  also  tried  to  address  some  of  the 
secondary  illnesses  often  related  to  HIV,  including 
tuberculosis  and  hepatitis-B.  The  establishment  of 
tuberculosis  rooms  in  primary  health  care  facilities 
resulted  in  daily  direct  observation  of  drug  intake, 
which rose from 28 per cent to almost 98 per cent. On 
this  and  other  health  care  issues,  Sandra  Elisabeth 
Roelofs 
the 
programmes.  She  also  happens  to  be  my  wife.  She 
works not only as the director of a foundation but also 
as  a  medical  nurse  in  hospitals  who  attends  deliveries 
and  cares  for  other  patients.  That  is  why  I  happen  to 
know this subject so well. 

Our  work  is  also  focused  on  maternal  and  child 
health  and  includes  nationwide  initiatives  to  improve 
family  planning  and  more  comprehensive  care  for 
expecting  mothers  and  newborns.  This  is  an  area  in 
which  the  private  sector  has  been  integrally  involved. 
We  believe  that  it  will  help  us  to  provide  sustainable 
long-term solutions for improvement across Georgia. 

Georgia  was  the  first  country  to  serve  as  a  pilot 
for  the  World  Health  Organization  course  in  modern 
evidence-based  obstetric  and  neonatal  care,  which 
resulted in reducing caesarian sections to 10 per cent of 
all deliveries and episiotomy rates from 69 per cent to 
9  per  cent,  as  well  as  an  increase  in  partner-attended 
deliveries from 0 per cent to 91 per cent. 

We are fortunate that our revolution was driven as 
much  by  women  reformers  as  men.  As  a  result,  this 
created  many 
new 
opportunities 
to 
participate  in  the  economy  and  political  life.  We 
continue  to  look  for  ways  to  improve  gender  equality 
in  Georgian  society  and  encourage  women  to  seek 
elective  office.  We  now  have  more  women 
in 
Government,  Parliament  and  at  every  level  of  public 
life.  

Finally,  I  would  like  to  say  a  quick  word  on 
environmental sustainability. If there is one lesson that 
a  former  Soviet  republic  should  have  learned  from 
Soviet  planning,  it  is  that  economic  growth  should 
never  come  at  the  expense  of  the  environment.  In 
addressing  Georgia’s  economic  development,  we  have 
sought to ensure that we do so in accordance with safe 
and  vibrant  Georgia  has 
for  women  and 
inspired 
them 

environmental  practices.  In  fact,  the  transformation  of 
our  energy  sector  was  achieved  primarily  through 
investment  in  hydro-power  generation,  which  is  a 
clean, safe and renewable source of energy. 

We do, of course, have one major environmental 
concern at the moment, but it relates to the situation in 
Russian-occupied  Abkhazia,  where,  unfortunately,  the 
Government  of  Georgia  currently  has  no  ability  to 
intervene  to  preserve  the  environment. We  are  greatly 
concerned  about  the  environmental  impact  of  the 
resource-stripping occurring in Abkhazia in support of 
the  construction  of  the  venues  for  the  2014  Olympic 
Games  to  be  held  in  the  bordering  Russian  resort  of 
Sochi.  

I  would  ask  our  partners  to  help  us  carefully 
monitor  this  situation  because,  if  the  MDGs  are  to  be 
achieved, we need to avoid black holes of governance. 
Today,  20  per  cent  of  Georgia  consists  of  such  black 
holes. This is why I ask the whole Assembly to support 
the implementation of Georgia’s proposed engagement 
strategy with all the occupied territories, which offers a 
variety  of  people-to-people  programmes.  Even  if  we 
have around 500,000 refugees and internally displaced 
persons  from  these  territories  and  most  of  those 
territories  are  virtually  devoid  of  people,  we  do  not 
want  any  of  our  remaining  citizens  there  to  be  left 
behind  by  development  plans.  The  implementation  of 
this  strategy  will  not  be  possible  without  the  serious 
involvement of the international community. 

Georgia’s  success  in  overcoming  the  plague  of 
underdevelopment  would  not  have  been  the  same 
without  its  MDGs  programme.  The  MDGs  make  it 
easier to form partnerships that can address local needs 
more  efficiently  and  effectively.  This  new  mechanism 
of 
for 
developing  countries  with  responsible  and  responsive 
Governments.  In  Georgia,  where  we  saw  corruption 
destroying  our  nation,  we  were  fortunate  to  still  have 
food in our bellies and the ability to organize ourselves 
to fight against those who believed that self-enrichment 
was a right of leadership.  

But I am realistic that, in many places, people can 
worry  only  about  their  own  survival  and  that  of  their 
children,  leaving  them  little  time  to  dream  of  what  a 
better  future  might  look  like.  So  it  is  vital  today  to 
speak  for  those  who  cannot  speak  for  themselves. 
Fighting  corruption  and  creating  a  sense  of  local 
ownership  are  essential  for  the  upcoming  last  five 
international 
is  a  great 
integration 
tool 
24 

10-54115 
the  Union  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 


years  of 
programme and beyond. 
The  Acting  Chair:  The  General  Assembly  will 

now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmed 
Abdallah  Sambi,  President  of 
the 
Comoros. 
President  Sambi  (spoke  in  French):  The  efforts 

made  by  countries  individually  and  collectively  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
have  produced  progress  in  many  areas.  Nevertheless, 
most of the scourges we identified in 2000 have not yet 
been eliminated. Some have even worsened, expanding 
the  scale  of  the  challenges  we  have  to  overcome  by 
2015.  
Like  other  countries,  the  Union  of  the  Comoros 

has  made  remarkable  progress  on  some  of 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  despite  the  difficult 
economic  and  financial  situation  in  which  it  currently 
finds itself, especially as regards the lack of resources 
and,  in  particular,  of  an  investment  budget.  That  has 
led to many other delays in meeting other MDGs.  

We  have  great  hopes  with  regard  to  primary 
education  and  child  health.  Between  1991  and  2008, 
primary  school  enrolment  rates  increased  from  63  per 
cent  to  76  per  cent  and  the  percentage  of  children 
completing  primary  education  increased  from  41  per 
cent to 57 per cent. Similarly, between 1991 and 2007, 
under-five child mortality dropped from 130 to 66 per 
1,000  live  births,  while  mortality  for  children  under 
one year of age fell from 86 to 49 per 1,000 live births. 
We very much hope to reach the relevant targets in that 
regard with minimal support from our partners. 
On the other hand, it will be very difficult for us 

to  achieve 
the 
environment.  My  country  has  experienced  too  many 
delays  in  those  areas,  and  our  implementation  of 
policies and strategies has been hampered by numerous 
financing 
problems. 
Nevertheless,  we  will  continue  to  redouble  our  efforts 
to overcome those challenges. 

Our planet faces an exceedingly serious situation 
from  climate  change,  as  was  noted  in  Rio  de  Janeiro 
17 years ago. We should therefore take this opportunity 
to  mobilize  in  our  common  desire  to  act  to  create  a 
cleaner  and  more  viable  world  and  to  make  the 
necessary commitments to put us in a position to save 
the 
targets  on  employment  and 
and 
institutional 
capacity 
10-54115 

A/65/PV.4
in 
the  world  and,  in  particular,  small  island  States 
threatened with submersion by rising seas.  

By  2025,  sea  level  rise  could  lead  to  the 
displacement of a large part of my country’s population 
and  to  the  destruction  of  parts  of  our  economic 
infrastructure.  Forecasts  made  in  2003  indicate  that 
there  will  be  a  decrease  in  the  availability  of  water 
owing to the drying up of 63 out of 75 rivers surveyed 
throughout  our  islands  in  1960.  In  addition,  over  the 
past 30 years we have experienced annual temperature 
increases of one Celsius degree. That increase has had 
a  negative  impact  on  socio-economic  development  by 
serving  to  expand  the  spread  of  malaria  and  other 
contagious  diseases.  There  could  also  be  a  dramatic 
impact on security and on tourism, which is one of the 
sectors  on  which  our  country’s  economic  growth  is 
based. 
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  Union  of  the 

Comoros  has  enormous  potential 
terms  of 
hydroelectric,  solar,  wind  and  geothermal  resources. 
Financial  and  technical  assistance  to  exploit  that 
energy will make it possible for us to participate in the 
global  mitigation  effort  and  to  improve  the  economic 
and social well-being of the people of the Comoros. 

I  believe  that  the  limited  progress  made  in 
achieving  the  MDGs  is  due  in  large  part  to  inadequate 
financing  for  development.  The  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable  countries  often  have  very  limited  access  to 
official  development  assistance.  The  assessment  of  the 
costs and needs necessary to achieve the MDGs carried 
out  in  developing  countries  at  the  recommendation  of 
the  2005  World  Summit  led  those  countries  to  adopt 
very  ambitious  development  plans 
that  were  not 
financially sustainable without appropriate international 
assistance.  The  Union  of  the  Comoros  has  limited 
domestic  resources,  and  our  programmes  speed  up  the 
achievement of the MDGs appear unrealistic against that 
backdrop. We are therefore prioritizing our ambitions in 
the  context  of  a  programme  of  action  for  our 
development  strategy  that  is  based  on  achieving  the 
MDGs. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our  great 
hope that this summit will be a historic success so that 
multilateralism and international solidarity live on. 
The  Acting  Chair:  The  General  Assembly  will 

now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gjorge 
Ivanov,  President  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia. 
25 

A/65/PV.4 

President Ivanov (spoke in Macedonian; English 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the 
outset,  let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  my 
gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  and  to  all  those 
involved  in  the  preparation  and  organization  of  this 
meeting  for  their  leadership  and  commitment  to  keep 
us  focused  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  I 
am  honoured  to  have  this  opportunity  to  address  the 
General Assembly at this moment when we all remain 
united  in  our  desire  to  build  a  future  with  more  hope 
and  a  new  era  of  prosperity  where  everyone  will  be 
given a chance to live in dignity. 

We  live  in  a  time  when  the  world  is  slowly 
coming out of the global economic crisis. We must not 
forget that an economic and financial crisis is always a 
humanitarian  crisis  as  well,  because  it  brings  poverty 
to many people. The slow progress in the eradication of 
extreme  poverty 
is  yet  another  problem,  as  are 
numerous  other  challenges  such  as  conflicts,  food 
insecurity and increasing inequality among the world’s 
countries and regions.  

We  are  also  experiencing  a  rapid  increase  in  the 
number  and  intensity  of  natural  and  human-caused 
disasters.  In  conditions  where  climate  change 
is 
accelerating,  such  disasters  could  result 
in  more 
casualties  and  greater  material  damage.  Neither 
developing  nor  developed  countries  are  spared  the 
effects  of  such  disasters.  We  must  therefore  take 
immediate action. Strong political will is necessary. We 
all  know  what  our  countries  and 
international 
organizations  have  already  achieved  and  we  are  all 
aware of the future challenges and tasks. However, not 
all  countries  and  regions  of  the  world  face  the  same 
challenges. 

The  region  of  South-East  Europe,  to  which  my 
country  belongs,  has  made 
in 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals. I recall 
that, as compared to just 10 years ago, the entire region 
has  achieved  dramatic  success.  Ten  years  ago,  when 
the Millennium Development Goals were adopted, our 
region was recovering from a traumatic period. Guided 
by the idea of a common future in the European Union 
(EU)  and  NATO,  and  with  the  dark  period  of  conflict 
still fresh in our minds, all the countries of the region 
have  now  begun  to  move  their  societies  towards 
prosperous  overall  regional  cooperation.  Everyone  in 
the region has been focused on the common goal. This 
was  a  precondition  to  focusing  on  the  Millennium 
tangible  progress 
What  are 
the  achievements  attained  by 
Development  Goals  as  well,  and  it  is  thus  that  we 
achieved certain results. 

the 
Republic of Macedonia in meeting the Goals? In areas 
such as reducing health risks and expanding education, 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  has  made  significant 
progress.  There  has  also  been  progress  in  improving 
the  environment.  However,  we  can  conclude  that  in 
areas such as poverty and the development partnership, 
little progress has been made.  
There is a reason that there has been insufficient 

progress in those sectors. For many in this Hall, it may 
be  strange  to  hear  that,  in  part,  the  reasons  for 
inadequate  development  should  be  sought  in  actions 
taken  by  an  EU  and  NATO  member  State. 
Unfortunately,  I  must  tell  the  Assembly  that  the 
economic  development  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia 
is being hampered by our immediate neighbour.  
A  problem  has  been  imposed  on  us  concerning 

the  name  of  my  country.  That  is  not  only  a  political 
problem;  it  also  has  serious  implications  for  our 
economic  development  and  for  attracting  foreign 
investment,  which  can  directly  reduce  poverty  and 
unemployment.  Fifteen  years  after  the  first  trade 
embargo  by  the  Hellenic  Republic,  Macedonia  today 
faces a new blockade that is dissimilar to the embargo 
of the 1990s, but that has the same consequences.  

It  is  a  fact  that  Greece  is  one  of  the  biggest 
investors in the Republic of Macedonia. But it is also a 
fact  that  the  blockades  in  connection  with  integration 
processes indirectly impede our ability to attract other 
investors and investments. But we are not discouraged. 
We  believe  that  we  will  soon  find  a  solution  with  our 
neighbour  to  ensure  our  European  and  Euro-Atlantic 
future,  and  thus  the  prosperity  of  our  citizens. We  are 
indeed ready for that. 

The  Republic  of  Macedonia  remains  committed 
to reducing poverty and social exclusion. We therefore 
started  with  the  preparation  of  a  national  strategy  for 
social inclusion. I believe this strategic framework will 
help us improve social cohesion.  

We give special attention to the Roma community 
in the Republic of Macedonia. We have designated the 
period 2005 to 2015 Roma Inclusion Decade, with the 
intention  of  helping  this  vulnerable,  socially  excluded 
community  on  the  margins  of  society  to  become 
integrated  in  every  social  sphere. This  is  a  huge  task, 
26 

10-54115 
for 
the  best 
treatment 


which  we  are  implementing  in  close  cooperation  with 
United Nations agencies. 

Today  Macedonia  can  probably  boast  that  it 
provides 
this  vulnerable 
population,  not  merely  in  the  region  but  well  beyond. 
In the Republic of Macedonia the Roma population has 
its  own  local  self-government,  schools,  media  and 
everything  that  makes  for  the  normal  life  of  a 
community. From the independence of the Republic of 
Macedonia  to  the  present,  the  Roma  have  had  their 
own representatives in the parliament, the Government 
and  all  areas  of  State  administration.  We  are  ready  to 
share our positive experiences and lessons learned with 
all. 

The key to individual success and social progress 
lies  in  comprehensive  education,  and  therefore  both 
primary  and  secondary  school  in  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  are  mandatory.  We  are  increasing  the 
opportunities  for  and  investment  in  further  education 
for  young  people  every  day,  and  the  Republic  has 
implemented  a  project  titled  “A  Computer  for  Every 
Student”. 
We  are  aware  of  the  synergy  of  the  various 

MDGs. Accelerating progress in one area entails doing 
the  same  for  other  areas.  Such  synergy  has  been 
brought  to  bear  in  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  in  the 
area  of  maternal  and  child  health,  resulting  in  lower 
child  mortality.  In  addition,  we  are  committed  to 
combating  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  other  serious 
diseases. 
However,  there  are  issues  that  require  a  global 

response.  The  consequences  of  climate  change  are 
already  a  reality.  We  therefore  need  to  act  jointly  to 
adapt to climate change and for disaster risk reduction.  

In the spirit of cooperation and solidarity, we are 
optimistic that the Millennium Development Goals will 
be  attained.  We  will  continue  to  work  constructively 
and to be fully committed. 

The  Acting  Chair:  The  General  Assembly  will 
now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jens 
Stoltenberg,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Kingdom  of 
Norway. 

Mr.  Stoltenberg  (Norway):  Ten  years  ago  I 
signed  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2) 
here  in  New  York  together  with  other  world  leaders. 
We promised to improve the livelihoods of millions of 
people  all  over  the  globe.  For  the  first  time  world 
A/65/PV.4
by 
fighting 
by 
leaders made concrete commitments to reduce poverty 
and provide access to education, health and other basic 
services.  We  have  five  years  to  make  good  on  those 
promises. 

And  we  have  made  progress.  Hundreds  of 
millions  have  been  lifted  out  of  desperate  poverty. 
More children than ever before are in school. Millions 
of  lives  have  been  saved  through  vaccination  and 
improved  health  services,  clean  water  and  better 
sanitation.  However,  we  are  still  lagging  in  the 
achievement of our goals. Our task has been made even 
more  challenging  by  the  global  financial  crisis,  the 
dramatic effects of climate change and the international 
food crisis. And many countries have defaulted on their 
promises. 

More  than  one  per  cent  of  Norway’s  gross 
national income is allocated to development assistance, 
and  we  are  committed  to  retaining  that  level.  I 
encourage other countries to follow our example. Many 
have the capacity to do so, even in difficult economic 
times. I call on developing countries to mobilize more 
of  their  domestic  resources,  by  broadening  their  tax 
increasing 
base, 
improving  accountability. 
transparency  and 
Illicit 
financial 
from  developing  countries  are 
estimated  to  be  more  than  six  times  their  total  annual 
development  assistance.  This  drain  on  vital  resources 
for development must be stopped. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  have 
taken on special responsibility for the goals of reducing 
child  mortality  and  improving  maternal  health.  These 
are the goals that are lagging furthest behind. But they 
are within reach if the world makes an extra effort. It is 
in  our  power  to  save  those  millions  of  women  and 
children  by  2015  —  to  save  them  from  dying  from 
easily  preventable  causes,  simply  by  providing  basic 
health services, clean water and vaccines, services that 
every  child  in  every  developed  country  receives  as  a 
matter  of  routine.  That  is  why  Norway  has  tripled  its 
aid for global health since we met here 10 years ago. 

We have worked with a network of global leaders 
to  develop  effective  policies  for  maternal  and  child 
health,  policies 
that  reward  results.  Donors  and 
taxpayers  need  to  see  results  from  their  investments. 
Partner countries must do their part. To access new and 
additional  resources,  they  must  develop  their  own 
is  a  staunch  supporter  of  all 
corruption, 
Norway 
flows 
10-54115 

27 
The  health  of  our  populations  decides 
A/65/PV.4 

health systems and deliver  basic services to their own 
citizens.  

the 
economic health of our nations. Health is a vital driver 
of  development.  I  therefore  commend  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  leadership  in  bringing  our  collective 
efforts to a new level. His Global Strategy for Women’s 
and  Children’s  Health  deserves  our  wholehearted 
support.  I  call  on  all  countries  and  leaders  gathered 
here  this  week  to  support  the  Strategy  with  concrete 
political and financial commitments. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  cannot  be 
seen  in  isolation  from  climate  change,  armed  conflict 
and  women’s  empowerment.  All  countries  will  be 
affected by climate change. But the most vulnerable — 
the  poorest  countries  and  peoples,  those  who  have 
contributed  least  to  the  causes  of  climate  change  — 
will suffer most.  
It  is  in  regions  affected  by  armed  conflict  and 

violence that we have made the least progress. And we 
know that the single most important catalyst for change 
is women’s empowerment. We must honour our solemn 
promises  made  10  years  ago  here  in  New  York, 
building on the visions of the United Nations Charter, 
in which so much hope is enshrined. 

The  Acting  Chair:  The  General  Assembly  will 
now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Tuilaepa 
Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Minister  for  Finance  of  the 
Independent State of Samoa. 

(Samoa):  The  Millennium 
Declaration 
is  our  collective 
reaffirmation that all people deserve to live in dignity, 
free  from  the  dehumanizing  conditions  of  extreme 
poverty  in  its  many  dimensions.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  represent  a  vision  of 
concrete  and  measurable  achievement  —  not  mere 
aspirations of what might be, but tangible outcomes of 
what  should  be.  Being  time-bound,  with  quantified 
targets, the MDGs respond more to our hopes than our 
fears.  Such  a  vision  is  rooted  in  the  concept  of  a 
peaceful,  prosperous  and  just  world  for  everyone  to 
live in and enjoy. 

The Millennium Development Goals have been at 
the top of the world’s development agenda for a decade 
now.  Today,  we  take  stock  of  our  progress  to  help  us 
make  decisions  to  meet  the  Goals  by  the  2015  target 
(resolution  55/2) 
Mr.  Malielegaoi

date. The level of achievement will vary across regions 
and  among  individual  countries,  but  it  would  be  a 
mistake  at  this  review  to  be  defensive  or  to  assign 
blame for failures if some of the MDG targets are not 
yet on track to be met by 2015. After all, this should be 
an  honest  self-assessment  to  identify  the  gaps  and 
obstacles  in  achieving  the  goals  and  the  remedial 
actions  required  to  hasten  meeting  them  in  the  time 
remaining. 

Our choices are limited. Postponing the deadline 
to attain the MDG targets must not be an option; if we 
do, we risk assigning more of our people to remain and 
slip  into  destitution. The  next  five  years  will  be  vital. 
They  will  determine  whether  the  Goals  will  become 
tangible  realties  for  everyone  to  enjoy,  or  mere 
aspirations  of  what  might  have  been  but  out  of  reach 
for the majority of people. 
Samoa  is  committed  to  achieving  the  MDGs  by 

2015.  The  Goals,  by 
their  very  nature,  are  a 
restatement  of  our  own  people’s  development  needs 
and  hopes.  As  a  Government,  we  have  to  respond 
accordingly.  Our  MDGs  current  scorecard  is  neither 
perfect nor desperate. Indeed, our level of achievement 
is substantial, but the true value of the exercise for us 
is  in  pinpointing  areas  for  consolidation  and  where 
greater effort must focus in the next five years. 

Mr.  Carrión  Mena  (Ecuador),  Vice-President  of 
the General Assembly, took the Chair. 

From  this  point  forward,  Samoa  would  need  to 
work hard to maintain our current gains and to further 
improve  our  performance  particularly  on  those  goals 
where  our 
to  date  has  not  been 
satisfactory.  Amongst  these  is  the  proportion  of  the 
population  living  below  the  basic  needs  poverty  line, 
particularly  when  considered  against 
the  gains 
achieved  in  the  overall  economy  through  a  growth-
oriented macroeconomic policy framework.  

Additionally,  we  need  to  ensure  that  there  is 
expanded  and  comprehensive  coverage  and  effective 
service  delivery  of  preventive  measures  for  children’s 
health 
through  greater  community  participation. 
Similarly greater emphasis would be placed on further 
strengthening  a  rights-based  approach  to  facilitate 
universal access for women to such reproductive health 
services as voluntary family planning, information and 
counselling. 
record 
track 
28 

10-54115 
through 
Samoa  recognizes 
that  gender  equality, 



the 
empowerment of women and their full enjoyment of all 
human  rights  are  essential  to  economic  and  social 
development, including the achievement of all MDGs. 
The  empowerment  of  women 
increased 
representation 
in  Parliament  will  continue  be  a 
challenge,  given  existing  social  structures.  However, 
we  have  set  out  under  MDG  3  the  reality  of  the 
situation  of  Samoan  women.  This,  as  well  as  the  full 
record of Samoa’s performance over the past 10 years, 
is  contained  in  Samoa’s  Millennium  Development 
Goals second progress report for the year 2010. 

The global recession and other crises, natural and 
man-made, have constrained our efforts, even with the 
best of political will. The aftermath of the tsunami that 
struck Samoa almost a year ago inevitably affected the 
progress  of  our  MDG-linked  efforts.  However,  the 
support  of  the  international  community,  particularly 
our  development  partners  and  friends  of  Samoa 
worldwide, ensured that recovery was not delayed and 
that our MDG work could therefore be brought back on 
track. We are very grateful. 

In  a  few  days’  time,  the  United  Nations  will 
review 
the  Further 
Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action 
after  its  first  five  years.  The  Mauritius  Strategy 
provides a comprehensive blueprint for addressing the 
national and regional sustainable development of small 
island  developing  States  (SIDs)  like  Samoa.  In  many 
ways,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  would  also 
be  considered  as  a  normative  framework  for  SIDs’ 
development  targets,  and  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for 
Implementation as providing some of the key inputs for 
their achievement. 

Thus,  within  the  architecture  of  the  different 
United  Nations  global  frameworks, 
the  Mauritius 
Strategy  should  continue  to  be  a  primary  vehicle 
through  which 
international  community  must 
engage  with  the  small  island  developing  countries  in 
order to assist them respond effectively to their special 
vulnerabilities.  The  success  of  the  Strategy  would 
necessarily support the achievement of the MDGs. 

is  a 
vulnerability  common  to  all  the  Pacific  SIDS  and 
remains  a  major  impediment  to  the  growth  of  their 
economies.  Overcoming 
remoteness  would 
enhance the islands’ resilience to the many challenges 
they  face  individually  and  collectively.  Infrastructure 
the  Mauritius  Strategy 
the  world 
for 
the 
Isolation  from 
the  rest  of 
this 
A/65/PV.4
the 
the  answer 
to  much  of 
development,  particularly  in  telecommunications,  will 
provide 
region’s 
development needs across the board in terms of distant 
education,  telemedicine,  tourism,  education,  health, 
fisheries  and  agriculture.  The  availability  of  such 
critical  infrastructure  would  greatly  reduce  the  digital 
divide  and  the  islands’  isolation,  and  ensure  the 
sustainability of their economic development. 

Finally,  the  draft  outcome  document  of  our 
meeting should re-energize the resolve of our Member 
States  to  deliver  on  their  respective  commitments  and 
responsibilities; if it does not, the success of our global 
undertaking  for  a  better  future  for  the  world  will 
continue to remain elusive. 
The  Acting  Chair  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr. Yves  Leterme,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Belgium. 
Mr.  Leterme  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf of my country, Belgium, I would like to convey 
four messages that we consider to be essential. 

First,  we  believe  that  the  core  objectives  of  our 
common efforts for development are and should always 
be  human  development  and  poverty  eradication. 
Human  development  is  much  more  than  a  matter  of 
economic  growth  or  environmental  policy;  it  is  about 
putting  people  at  the  centre  of  development  and 
helping  them  to  realize  their  potential,  enhance  their 
choices  and  enjoy  the  freedom  to  decide  their  own 
futures.  And  poverty  is  much  more  than  a  lack  of 
income  and  material  wealth.  It  is  also  a  factor  for 
social and cultural exclusion and, in practice, prevents 
the enjoyment of fundamental rights. Putting people at 
the centre of development is giving access to education 
and to culture in the broad sense. 

Our  second  message  today  is  an  alarm  bell. The 
major  stumbling-block  on  the  road  to  achieving  the 
MDG’s  is  growing  inequality  —  inequality  not  only 
between  countries  and  between  North  and  South,  but 
also  within  countries  themselves. There  is  now  plenty 
of evidence about growing disparities within a majority 
of countries. Unfortunately, reports on the Millennium 
Development  Goals  often  do  not  reveal  this,  as  the 
targets  and  indicators  have  been  designed  to  measure 
progress  by  means  of  averages.  This  can  lead  to  the 
paradox  whereby  a  country  as  a  whole  progresses, 
while  some  population  groups  —  the  underprivileged, 
10-54115 

29 
for 
lower 
A/65/PV.4 

women and rural populations, for instance — are worse 
off in relative and even in absolute terms. 

when she pointed out  

Mrs.  Graça  Mandela-Machel  denounced 
“the obscene gap between those many struggling 
poor  and  the  few  who  are  rich.  …  The  ‘first 
world’ also exists in the southern hemisphere. … 
There  are  rich  people  in  Africa  amidst  abject 
poverty.” 
United  Nations 
reports 
this 
inequality 

show  how  gender 
disparities are at the very heart of the inequality issue: 
gender  inequality  in  education,  inequality  in  access  to 
decent  work  and  inequality  in  the  benefits  of  health 
care,  along  with  the  alarming  fact  that  in  developing 
countries only one out of three rural women receive the 
recommended care during pregnancy. 

Thus in our view, dealing with inequalities is the 
priority  among  priorities. This  is  not  only  a  matter  of 
fairness;  it  is  also  a  matter  of  sound  economic 
management, 
to  be 
correlated with economic growth that is more durable.  

This  leads  me  to  a  third  message:  concrete 
progress  towards  achieving  the  Millennium  Goals  is 
not  only  a  matter  of  financial  means,  but  is  also  a 
matter  of  political  will  and  good  governance  in  each 
country.  
Policies that succeed in reaching the Millennium 

Goals  will  be  policies  geared 
inclusive 
development,  policies  that  aim  at  maximum  citizen 
participation 
in  wealth  creation  and  at  creating 
opportunities 
the  poorest  populations.  That 
for 
necessarily  requires  accountable,  participatory  and 
efficient governance that enables people to have a say 
in  the  way  in  which  they  are  governed,  in  the  way 
decisions  are  made  and  implemented  and  in  the  way 
resources are allocated. 

Tamala Tonga Kambikambi: 

“An 
accountable 
Government  is  essential  in  the  fight  against 
poverty.  It  should  protect  human  rights,  provide 
security,  promote  economic  growth  and  deliver 
essential services.”

Finally,  my  fourth  message  is  a  reminder  of  our 
collective  responsibility  and  of  the  global  partnership 
for  which  the  Millennium  Declaration  calls. This  idea 
To  quote  the  Zambian  agronomist  and  lecturer 
effective, 
towards 
stable 
and 
tends 

of  global  partnership  led  most  donor  countries  — 
decades ago, it should be said — to commit themselves 
to  increase  their  aid  volume  to  0.7  per  cent  of  their 
GDP.  In  spite  of  the  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
Belgium has reconfirmed this target in its 2010 budget.  

Moreover, the solution to global problems we are 
discussing  requires  not  only  global  government  but 
also  global  financing.  As  one  of  the  initiators  of  the 
group  that  considers  innovative  financing,  we  work 
hard for a broader agreement on the subject, within the 
European Union but also on a worldwide scale. 

Beyond  quantities  of  aid  however,  we  should, 
more  than  in  the  past,  look  at  aid  allocation  and  aid 
modalities. Aid  policies  should  first  help  countries  to 
take their fate into their own hands and make them less 
dependent on aid.  

The partnership we desire is one among countries 
that  are  more  aware  than  they  are  today  of  their 
responsibilities  and  conscious  of  their  duties,  with 
some  being  in  a  position  to  help  and  others  realizing 
they can be helped only if the help themselves. 
The  Acting  Chair  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Klaus  Tschütscher,  head  of  Government,  Minister  for 
General Government Affairs, Minister for Finance and 
Minister  for  Family  and  Equal  Opportunity  of  the 
Principality of Liechtenstein.  
Mr. Tschütscher  (Liechtenstein):  Ten  years  ago 

world leaders gathered in New York and agreed on the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  one  of  the 
noblest efforts ever undertaken in the framework of the 
United Nations. The world’s leaders promised to spare 
no  effort  to  free  our  fellow  men,  women  and  children 
from 
the  abject  and  dehumanizing  conditions  of 
extreme poverty. 
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are 

the  centrepiece  of 
the  most  broadly  supported 
multilateral  development  campaign  in  history.  They 
constitute  the  benchmark  by  which  we  will  measure 
success 
landmark 
achievements  of  the  Organization.  The  Millennium 
Declaration  was  complemented  by  the  2005  World 
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1),  which  firmly 
established  that  development,  peace  and  security,  and 
human  rights  are  interlinked.  The  activities  of  the 
United  Nations  are  based  on  all  three  of  these  equal 
and complementary pillars. 
in  2015  and  are  one  of 
the 
30 

10-54115 
requires, 
We  welcome 
the  adoption  of 
reinforcing  because  all 



the  outcome 
document  (A/65/L.1)  later  this  week  as  an  important 
reaffirmation of the international consensus in the field 
of  development.  The  constructive  and  successful 
negotiation  process  has  strengthened 
the  United 
Nations  as  the  centre  of  global  governance.  The 
outcome  document  presents  concrete  measures  that 
will help us achieve each of the MDGs. 
All  efforts  towards  realization  of  the  MDGs  are 

mutually 
the  Goals  are 
interlinked. Unfortunately, some crucial challenges that 
will  have  to  be  addressed  as  a  matter  of  priority  have 
not  received  the  required  attention  in  the  outcome 
document.  Armed  violence  and  conflict,  for  example, 
are a constant threat to human security and the rule of 
law  and  as  such  represent  a  major  impediment  to 
development.  Preventing  and  ending  armed  violence 
and  conflict  must  be  at  the  core  of  every  sustainable 
development  effort.  That 
in  particular, 
determined action to eradicate impunity for those who 
use violence against civilians as a tactic of war. 

With two thirds of the road to 2015 behind us, we 
have a wealth of experience with factors conducive and 
detrimental to sustainable development. We know that 
development  achievements  remain  fragile  if  they  are 
not  supported  by  serious  efforts  to  strengthen  good 
governance,  the  rule  of  law,  human  rights,  gender 
equality and an active civil society. 
Liechtenstein continues to support such efforts by 

prioritizing 
its  bilateral 
development  assistance, with a particular emphasis on 
projects empowering women. We are also keenly aware 
of 
illicit  capital  outflows  from 
developing countries. This problem must be addressed 
on both the demand and supply sides. 

We  have  been  a  long-standing  supporter  of 
initiatives  that  build  good-governance  capacities,  for 
example  through  the  fight  against  corruption  and  the 
recovery  of  stolen  assets  that  have  been  transferred 
abroad.  Liechtenstein  fully  implements  international 
standards  against  money 
laundering,  as  well  as 
internationally  recognized  standards  of  transparency 
and  exchange  of  information  in  the  field  of  tax 
cooperation. 

The  international  partnership  for  development  is 
of  particular  importance  for  the  achievement  of  all 
MDGs.  As  of 
today,  our  official  development 
assistance (ODA)  represents about 0.6  per  cent of our 
education  projects 
the  problem  of 
in 
A/65/PV.4
fully 
recognize 
income.  We 
Liechtenstein 
is  particularly 
gross  national 
the 
benchmark  of  0.7  per  cent  ODA  as  an  internationally 
agreed  development  goal  and  will  continue  to  do  so, 
despite  temporary  domestic  budget  constraints  as  a 
consequence of the financial and economic crisis. 

to 
committed 
addressing  new  development  challenges  in  connection 
with  climate  change. We  have  signed  the  Copenhagen 
Accord and already set aside the first round of new and 
additional  funds  to  help  developing  countries  address 
these challenges.  

The  international  partnership  for  development  is 
an  undertaking  that  entails  collective  and  individual 
responsibility. A  renewed  commitment  is  needed  from 
all of us to achieve the MDGs by 2015. This gathering 
provides  a  unique  opportunity  to  do  so.  We  can  still 
succeed if we stand united. 
The Acting  Chair  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by Her Excellency 
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  People’s 
Republic of Bangladesh. 
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh):  I  am  pleased  to 

the 
address 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
I  am 
particularly  pleased  because  I  was  one  of  the  189 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  who  adopted  the 
Millennium  Declaration  and  the  MDGs  during  the 
United  Nations  Millennium  Summit  in  September 
2000. The Millennium Declaration is the Magna Carta 
for a poverty-free world, and I am glad to have been a 
part of its adoption. 

facilitating 
development and eradicating poverty, were adopted by 
an  unprecedented  consensus.  This  consensus  was 
reinforced  by  world  leaders  at  the  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  of 
the  General 
Assembly.  The  MDGs  have  given  us  a  benchmark  to 
measure  the  performance  of  national  Governments, 
private sectors, civil bodies, development partners, the 
United  Nations  and  other  intergovernmental  bodies. 
The  benchmark  also  provides  an  opportunity  for 
assessing  progress  in  achieving  the  internationally 
agreed development targets. 

During  my  last  tenure  as  Prime  Minister,  our 
Government  took  steps  to  mainstream  MDGs  in  our 
national  development  plans.  The  aim  was  to  ensure 
national  ownership  of  the  MDGs  and  to  demonstrate 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
the  sixtieth  session  of 
The  MDGs,  which 
(MDGs). 
aim 
at 
10-54115 

31 

or 
achieving 
sonar  Bangla, 
A/65/PV.4 

our  commitment  to  achieving  them  by  the  stipulated 
deadline of 2015. The planning and budgeting process 
since 2001 thus sought to achieve the MDGs as part of 
our national development.  

During our present tenure, we have set a five-year 
plan  to  achieve  the  MDG  targets  as  a  step  towards 
making  Bangladesh  a  middle-income  country  and 
establishing  a  digital  Bangladesh  by  2021,  the  golden 
jubilee year of our independence. We are on our way to 
“golden 
finally 
Bangladesh”, as dreamt by my father and the father of 
our nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.  

However, the world food and energy crises of the 
past  years,  the  ensuing  global  economic  recession, 
world trade decline, dismal investments and the impact 
of climate change have retarded our pace for achieving 
the  MDGs.  Yet  Bangladesh  has  been  able  to  achieve 
satisfactory  progress  with  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations system and bilateral and multilateral partners. 

Our  achievements  on  MDG  1,  on  poverty 
alleviation;  MDG  2,  on  universal  primary  education; 
and MDG 3, on gender equality and the empowerment 
of  women,  are  encouraging  and  on  track.  As  for 
MDG 4,  our  excellent  progress  was  recognized  this 
year  by  the  MDG  Awards  Committee,  the  United 
Nations Millennium Campaign and the United Nations 
Office  for  Partnerships  with  the  prestigious  United 
Nations award for reducing child mortality. Projections 
indicate our success in lifting 12 million people out of 
poverty  by  2015,  thereby  reducing  poverty  by  half  by 
then, as targeted in MDG 1. 

Our  success  also  includes  enhancing  minimum 
dietary  energy  consumption,  net  enrolment  in  primary 
education,  gender  parity  in  primary  and  secondary 
education, 
infant  mortality, 
improving 
rolling  back 
malaria,  controlling  tuberculosis,  low  prevalence  of 
HIV/AIDS, and improved access to safe drinking water 
and  sanitation.  But  we  are  facing  difficulties  in 
achieving  other  MDGs  for  lack  of  resources,  such  as 
the  reduction  of  underweight  children, 
those  on 
maternal  mortality  and 
the 
completion  of  primary  education; adult  education  and 
the ratio of girls to boys in tertiary education; antenatal 
care;  the  vulnerabilities  of  women;  health  for  all;  the 
planned  use  of  land  and  urbanization;  creativity; 
human capital and social justice. 
reducing  child  and 
immunization  coverage, 
inequality; 
income 

A  formidable  challenge  confronting  Bangladesh 
are  erratic  and  frequently  occurring  natural  disasters 
due  to  global  warming,  which  are  pushing  climate 
migrants  into  our  overburdened  cities  and  posing  a 
threat  to  our  achievement  of  MDG  1  by  2015. 
Estimates  indicate  that  a  1-metre  rise  in  sea  level 
would submerge a quarter of our land mass, displacing 
30  million  people  and  making  it  difficult  to  sustain  a 
poverty-free post-2015 era. One in every seven persons 
in  Bangladesh  would  be  a  climate  migrant  due  to  the 
excessive  greenhouse  gas  emissions  of  industrialized 
countries.  Sadly,  while  climate 
forums  debate 
adaptation,  mitigation,  technology  transfers,  a  green 
fund,  the  unfortunate  plight  of  climate  migrants  is 
deftly  sidetracked.  I  urge  the  global  community  to  be 
sensitive  to  this  emerging  challenge  and  to  find 
innovative ways for their rehabilitation. 
We  deeply  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s 

report,  “Keeping 
the  promise:  a  forward-looking 
review to promote an agreed action agenda to achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015” 
(A/64/665).  The  report  concludes  that  the  MDG  track 
record is mixed and underlines that, at the global level, 
there exist normative and implementation gaps in terms 
of  addressing  the  core  development  issues.  Findings 
from 
recent  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  report  “What  will  it  take  to  achieve  the 
MDGs?”, indicate that the MDGs are achievable when 
nationally  owned  development  strategies,  policies  and 
programmes 
international 
development partners. Bangladesh is in full agreement 
with these findings. 

Moreover, Bangladesh is  committed to  playing  a 
part  in  attaining  the  MDGs  by  2015.  While  the 
countries of the developed world are also committed to 
doing 
their 
sincerity by helping to reduce the implementation gap. 
Clearly,  the  answer  lies  in  fulfilling  their  official 
development assistance commitment of 0.7 per cent of 
their  gross  national  income  to  developing  countries, 
and  of  0.2  per  cent  to  least  developed  countries  by 
2010,  as  reaffirmed  in  the  Brussels  Programme  of 
Action for the Least Developed Countries. 
Meanwhile,  with  United  Nations  assistance, 

Bangladesh  has  prepared  a  document  entitled  “MDG 
Needs  Assessment  &  Costing  Report  2009-2015”  for 
Bangladesh. The report indicates that $22.1 billion will 
be  required  to  attain  all  MDGs  in  Bangladesh  from 
2009 to 2015, implying an outlay of $4.4 billion a year. 
to  demonstrate 
they  need 
the  same, 
supported 
the 
are 
by 
32 

10-54115 
take 
and 
natural 
Although  Bangladesh 


A substantial portion of these funds has to come from 
into 
development  partners.  These  estimates 
account  global  declarations  on  resource  flow 
to 
developing  countries,  especially  the  least  developed. 
The Monterrey Consensus in particular is a cornerstone 
of this ambitious resource budgeting. 

external 
seeks 
assistance  it  needs,  its  absence  has  never  halted  our 
programmes. We continue with our domestic efforts, as 
we  did  in  the  area  of  sanitation  and  water  supply, 
where external support fell short by $560 million. 

I would like to refer to a seminal comment made 
by  Ms.  Helen  Clark,  Administrator  of  the  United 
Nations Development Programme, Chair of the United 
Nations Development Group and, as the former Prime 
Minister  of  New  Zealand,  co-signatory  of 
the 
Millennium Declaration, who said, “If we are to reach 
the MDGs by 2015, then 2010 must spark five years of 
accelerated progress”.  

I agree with  Ms. Clark that the global  recession, 
the  food  and  fuel  crises,  the  challenges  of  climate 
change 
generally 
complicated the road to 2015. But they do not make the 
MDGs  unattainable  if  we  collectively  determine  and 
partner to achieve them. Let us rise and resolve in that 
spirit  as  one  community  in  a  globalized  world  to 
achieve  all  our  internationally  agreed  development 
goals, including the MDGs, thereby serving ourselves, 
our progeny and our posterity. 
to  pledge 

the 
Bangladesh’s 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  and  beyond.  We  will 
achieve  self-sufficiency  in  food  by  2021,  but  we  will 
try  to  do  so  earlier.  We  will  ensure  100  per  cent  net 
enrolment  at  primary  school  level  by  2011,  eliminate 
gender  disparity  at  all  levels  of  education  by  2014, 
raise  the  economic  participation  of  women  to  40  per 
cent by 2021, reduce maternal mortality by 15 per cent 
and  infant  mortality  to  15  per  1,000  live  births  by 
2021,  increase  life  expectancy  to  70  years  by  2021, 
provide  safe  drinking  water  for  all  by  2011  and 
hygienic  sanitation  by  2013,  and  achieve  a  digital 
Bangladesh  for  global  connectivity  by  implementing 
our 
communications 
technology policy by 2021. 

The  Acting  Chair  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
conclusion, 
resolve 
I  would 
and 
commitment 
to 
disasters 
have 
national 
information 
and 
In 
like 
the 
A/65/PV.4
if  fully  harnessed,  can  make 
Excellency  Mr.  Mizengo  Pinda,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
United Republic of Tanzania. 

Mr. Pinda (United Republic of Tanzania): Much 
has  happened  as  we  have  made  national,  regional  and 
global  efforts  to  rid  the  world  we  share  of  abject  and 
unconscionable  poverty  and  to  bring  decency  to  the 
lives  of  our  fellow  human  beings.  We  are  here  to 
recognize  the  progress  achieved  and  celebrate  the 
valuable  partnerships  and  experiences 
that  have 
brought  us  this  far  and  that  should  now  form  the 
bedrock  of  renewed  efforts  as  we  seek  to  accelerate 
progress based on lessons learned. 

It is true that much remains to be done in the five 
years that remain until the target date of 2015, but we 
cannot afford to be discouraged. It is true that progress 
has  been  uneven  and  that  some  of  the  targets  will  not 
be met unless efforts are significantly stepped up. But 
it  is  also  true  that  the  strength  and  resilience  of  the 
human  spirit, 
the 
impossible possible and the difficult easy. This meeting 
therefore  provides  us  with  an  opportunity  to  reaffirm 
our  commitments  and  galvanize  needed  support  at  all 
levels  to  ensure  that  all  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  are  met  in  all  regions  of  the  world  by 
2015. 
My Government believes that the United Nations 

is  best  placed 
track  global 
commitments and efforts to ensure the achievement of 
the  MDGs,  in  particular  in  those  on  which  we  are 
lagging  behind.  We  welcome  and  support  the  United 
Nations  Strategy  on  Women’s  and  Children’s  Health 
and commend the Secretary-General for his vision and 
leadership in the development of the Strategy. 

Partnerships  lie  at  the  core  of  the  successes 
achieved  and  will  determine  the  level  of  success  we 
will  ultimately  achieve.  Such  partnerships  include 
bilateral  and  regional  partnerships  between  developed 
and  developing  countries,  as  well  as  between 
developing  countries  themselves.  They  include  the 
United Nations system, as well as partnerships with the 
corporate  world  and  civil  society.  Without  such 
partnerships, there is little hope. Let us reaffirm them. 
The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  reaffirms  its 

commitment 
the  MDGs.  Policies 
conducive  to  achievement,  including  economic  and 
governance  reforms,  have  spurred  economic  growth 
averaging  7  per  cent  over  the  past  decade,  but  that  is 
to  coordinate  and 
to  achieving 
10-54115 

33 
initiative 
in  particular 
Poverty,  as  measured  by 
A/65/PV.4 

not enough to achieve all of the MDGs. These policies 
will need to be further strengthened. 

the  proportion  of 
population  earning  below  $1  a  day  declined  from 
38.6 per  cent  in  1991-1992  to  33.6  per  cent  in  2006-
2007 for the Tanzania mainland, and from 61 per cent 
in  1990  to  49  per  cent  in  2004  for  Zanzibar.  This 
decrease does not give us much hope. 

In  Tanzania,  more  than  80  per  cent  of  the  entire 
population,  which  is  estimated  to  be  40  million,  live  in 
rural  areas. These  80  per  cent  depend on  agriculture  for 
their livelihoods. If we are to emancipate most Tanzanians 
from  poverty,  investments  in  agriculture  are  imperative. 
In  realizing  this  fact,  the  Government  has  embarked  on 
the  comprehensive Agriculture  First  initiative,  popularly 
known as Kilimo Kwanza, with the aim of accelerating a 
green  revolution.  The  Kilimo  Kwanza 
is 
comprised  of 
training  of  agriculture  extension 
officers; investing in irrigation infrastructure systems and 
mechanization, 
the  use  of  modern 
technologies  including  agro-processing;  and  use  inputs 
such  as 
improved  seeds,  fertilizers,  pesticides  and 
insecticides. Furthermore, the initiative aims at addressing 
the critical problem of agricultural financing. 

the 
Government  has  continued  to  increase  its  budget 
allocation 
take 
measures to improve agriculture marketing systems.  

If  the  Government  is  to  realize  the  ambitious 
goals  enshrined  in  the  Kilimo  Kwanza  initiative,  we 
appeal  to  the  institutions  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
international  community,  the  private  sector  and  other 
development  partners  to  support  our  efforts.  Given 
timely 
support,  Tanzania  will 
undoubtedly realize MDG 1, as we have managed to do 
with  regard  to  MDG  2.  We  can  also  do  so  for  the 
others.  

HIV prevalence rates declined from 7 per cent in 
2003  to  five  per  cent  in  2008  on  the  Tanzanian 
mainland. We are pleased that in Zanzibar the rate has 
remained at 0.6 per cent. 

Zanzibar  has  done  very  well  on  the  issue  of 
malaria.  The  prevalence  of  malaria  shows  a  drastic 
decreasing trend, from 49.2 per cent in 2000 to 0.8 per 
cent  in  2009.  That  outstanding  performance  puts 
Zanzibar in the pre-elimination phase. The challenge is 
to hold on to this achievement and ensure that Zanzibar 
the  agricultural  sector  and 
these  objectives, 
and  predictable 
In  order 
to 
realize 
to 
to 
the 

is totally free from malaria, as well as to replicate those 
measures  in  mainland  Tanzania.  The  achievements  in 
Zanzibar are a result of key cost-effective interventions 
for  prevention  —  namely,  insecticide-treated  nets, 
indoor  residual  spraying  and  intermittent  preventive 
treatment  in  pregnancy  —  and  case  management  with 
effective drugs. 

In  the  area  of  child  mortality,  we  have  made  a 
little  progress.  Between  1990  and  1999,  there  was  an 
11  per  cent  reduction  in  under-five  mortality  rates, 
from 165 per thousand live births to 147 per thousand 
live  births,  whereas  infant  mortality  rates  increased 
from 91 to 99 per thousand live births during the same 
period.  Over  the  past  decade,  there  was  a  45  per  cent 
reduction in the under-five mortality rate and a 49 per 
cent  reduction  in  the  infant  mortality  rate.  Over  the 
same  decade,  neonatal  mortality,  which  accounts  for 
50 per cent of infant deaths, decreased by 35 per cent.  

Zanzibar has also made significant progress in the 
reduction  of  under-five  and  infant  mortality.  The 
under-five  mortality  rate  dropped  from  202  per 
thousand  live  births  in  1990  to  101  per  thousand  in 
2004/05,  and  the  infant  mortality  rate  dropped  from 
120  per  thousand  live  births  to  61  per  thousand  live 
births in 2005. 
Achievements in child health are attributed to health 

sector 
effective 
interventions,  immunization,  vitamin A  supplementation, 
integrated  management  of  childhood  illness,  improved 
malaria  control  through  insecticide-treated  nets  and 
access to effective antimalarial treatment. 

We  have  done  well  on  the  education  targets.  In 
1990, the net enrolment ratio in primary education was 
54.2 per cent for mainland Tanzania and 50.9 per cent 
for  Zanzibar.  In  2000,  the  rates  went  up  to  57.1  per 
cent  for  mainland  Tanzania  and  to  67  per  cent  for 
Zanzibar. In 2006, the ratio increased to 94.8 per cent 
for  mainland  Tanzania  and  77  per  cent  for  Zanzibar. 
The net enrolment ratio continued to increase, reaching 
95.4 per cent in 2010. 

through  good 
We  realized  all 
policies, budgetary increases, comprehensive education 
programmes  and  a  participatory  approach  that  allows 
people  to  be  in  the  driver’s  seat.  These  factors  have 
made  it  possible  for  the  Government  to  expand 
capacities 
increase 
education materials and classrooms. 
to  recruit  more 
teachers  and 
these  results 
coverage  of 
increased 
reforms, 
34 

10-54115 
to  keep 
the  opportunity 
like  on  behalf  of 



We  are  committed  to  do  all  in  our  power  to 
accelerate the implementation of the remaining MDGs 
in the next five years. We will strive to do much on our 
own,  including  focusing  on  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development.  But  to  succeed  we  count 
significantly  on  similarly  renewed  and  expanded 
commitment  on  the  part  of  our  development  partners. 
We know what works in achieving the MDGs. With the 
leadership,  partnership,  commitment  and 
requisite 
resources  we  have 
the 
millennium  promise  to  the  world’s  people.  Let  us  not 
fail them. 
The  Acting  Chair  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr.  Gilbert  Fossoun  Houngbo,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Togolese Republic. 
Mr.  Houngbo  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 

outset  I  would 
the  Togolese 
delegation  to  convey  to  the  Co-Chairs  my  warm 
congratulations on their election.  

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
remain  and  will  continue  to  be  relevant  for  all 
development  actors,  and  all  of  our  efforts  should 
therefore  be  aimed  at  achieving  results,  which  are  the 
foundation  of  our  duty  of  solidarity  for  a  world 
committed to peace and justice. 
With respect to my country, since 2006 Togo has 

profited  from  the  calm  in  the  political  climate  to 
relaunch the economic and social development process. 
Thus  my  Government  adopted  its  national  long-term 
development  strategy,  which  is  based  on  the  MDGs, 
and  that  strategy  has  formed  the  base  for  drafting  our 
Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  Paper.  The  investment 
costs  under  the  strategy  have  been  estimated  at 
$7.2 billion between 2006 and 2015. 

improve  good 
governance,  we  have  taken  measures  to  improve  the 
rule  of  law,  and  we  have  taken  measures  to  foster 
transparent management of public finances, to optimize 
mobilization  of  domestic  resources  and  to  reinvest  in 
sectors that promote growth and in social sectors.  

We  have  also  greatly  facilitated  access  for 
farmers  to  fertilizers  and  improved  seeds.  We  have 
taken  measures 
towards  better  organization  of 
agricultural  producers  and  the  opening  of  agricultural 
areas, among other initiatives. Those measures explain 
the  surplus  production  and  economic  growth  — 
taken  measures 
We  have 
to 
A/65/PV.4
to  analyze 
the  obstacles 
modest,  yes,  but  sustained  at  more  than  3  per  cent  — 
that  Togo  has  registered  despite  the  world  economic 
recession.  In  fact,  I  am  certain  that  the  growing 
contribution  of  small  farmers  to  the  increase  in 
production, beyond the base level of food security, will 
be one of the principal levers to bring about growth of 
the  Togolese  economy  to  at  least  7  per  cent,  so  as  to 
reverse the trend to poverty. 
The  framework  for  acceleration  of  MDG  1  has 

the 
permitted  us 
to 
improvement  of  agricultural  productivity  and 
to 
propose  solutions  for  acceleration  that  have  already 
been  proven.  For  MDG  1  this  entails  financing  needs 
of  $225  million,  whose  mobilization  will  make 
possible  advances  in  wealth  creation  and  poverty 
reduction in rural areas. We also need to further invest 
in  infrastructures  to  continue  to  provide  better  access 
for areas of production, create markets and process our 
products. 

In the area of education, the establishment of free 
primary education has enabled us to improve schooling 
rates from 74 per cent in 2006 to 87 per cent in 2008. 
But  in  the  long  term  we  cannot  focus  all  our  efforts 
solely  on  primary  education.  It  is  important  also  to 
invest  in  secondary  and  higher  education  —  and 
especially in research. 

the  prevalence  of 
HIV/AIDS  has  been  cut  in  half,  and  care  for  affected 
persons has been improved by improving access to free 
treatment.  With  respect  to  infant  health,  integrated 
campaigns  for  vaccination  and  for  the  distribution  of 
treated mosquito nets have enabled us  to considerably 
reduce infant mortality rates.  

We  should  therefore  like  to  thank  all  of  our 
partners, who, for a number of years in the wake of the 
Brussels  conference,  have  been  providing  us  with 
crucial  assistance.  This  progress,  which 
is  still 
tentative,  needs  to  be  consolidated  and  expanded  to 
other  areas,  such  as  access 
to  drinking  water, 
sanitation,  protection  of 
the 
and 
adaptation to climate change. We therefore firmly hope 
that  the  values  of  international  solidarity  and  justice, 
without which the United Nations will never be able to 
meet  the  many  challenges  of  our  time,  will  prevail  at 
this session. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Spanish): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gervais  Rufyikiri, 
Second Vice-President of the Republic of Burundi.  
environment 
to  health, 
regard 
With 
10-54115 

35 
A/65/PV.4 

Mr.  Rufyikiri  (Burundi)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) in Burundi is possible for some targets, but for 
others there is a long road to travel. In order to better 
understand  the  progress  that  has  been  made  and  the 
difficulties encountered, I would like to briefly explain 
the  sociopolitical  conditions  that  have  had  a  deciding 
influence  on 
the  pace  of  social  and  economic 
development in Burundi.  

Burundi  is  a  country  in  a  post-conflict  situation. 
Starting in 1993 and over the course of a decade, it has 
experienced  a  serious  sociopolitical  crisis.  Of  course, 
that  has  had  a  negative  impact  on  development 
programmes  and  on  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs 
in particular. However, I would point out that Burundi 
has  just  reached  an  historic  stage,  and  I  would  like  to 
express my satisfaction and that of my Government at 
the fact that the international community and Burundi’s 
partners  have  recognized  that  there  has  been  progress 
in the areas of security, development and democracy.  

In  2005,  democratic  elections  were  organized, 
putting  an  end  to  the  period  of  civil  war.  The 
Government that arose from those elections, as soon as 
it  assumed  power,  began  addressing  the  issue  of  the 
MDGs  and  undertook  significant  efforts  to  achieve 
them, despite the time lost due to the war.  

As  the  first  five-year  mandate  has  now  come  to 
an  end,  general  elections  have  just  been  carried  out 
successfully,  from  May  to  September  2010,  in  a  spirit 
of 
international 
community and civil society in Burundi, acting through 
their  observers,  have  witnessed  the  determination  of 
the  people  of  Burundi 
their 
achievements  in  the  areas  of  peace,  democracy  and 
reconciliation.  

Although  Burundi  has  only  just  emerged  from  a 
conflict that lasted several  years, the Government that 
has led the country over the past five years has spared 
no  effort 
time.  The 
determination and the commitment of President Pierre 
Nkurunziza and the successes achieved in this area by 
Burundi  have  been  welcomed  by  Burundians  and  the 
international community.  

The  situation  in  Burundi  with  regard  to  progress 
made  in  achieving  the  MDGs  shows  that  some  target 
areas  have  seen  improvement  as  a  result  of  the 
proactive policies adopted by the Government that took 
power following the 2005 elections.  
transparency  and 
fairness.  The 
to  achieve 
the  MDGs  on 
to 
consolidate 


For  example,  on  MDG  2,  Burundi  is  set  to 
achieve this Goal, thanks to the measures taken by the 
Government  since  2005 
to  provide  free  primary 
education.  In  particular,  we  are  happy  to  see  that  the 
net  percentage  of  children  in  school  has  gone  from 
53 per cent in 1990 to 90 per cent in 2009.  

On  MDG  3,  Burundi  has  made  significant 
progress  in  eliminating  gender  inequalities  in  primary 
as  well  as  secondary  education.  The  objective  of 
gender  parity  should,  normally  speaking,  by  achieved 
by  2015,  given  that  the  ratio  of  girls  to  boys  was 
estimated in 2009 to be 0.87 for primary education and 
0.72  for  secondary  education.  As  to  representation  in 
institutions,  women  currently  represent  32  per  cent  in 
the  national  assembly,  compared  to  12  per  cent  in 
1993.  I  would  also  point  out  that  women  currently 
account for 44 per cent of the senate and 42 per cent in 
the Government. 

MDG  6,  target  2,  concerning  the  prevalence  of 
malaria and tuberculosis, should be achieved by 2015. 
Of  course,  that  will  involve  a  lot  of  effort. A  positive 
development in this area is the significant reduction in 
the prevalence of malaria and the number of deaths due 
to this illness. This is due in part to the high number of 
mosquito nets distributed in 2006.  

On MDG 7, it is very probable that Burundi will 
achieve  target  2,  since  significant  progress  has  been 
made  with  regard  to  access  to  clean  drinking  water, 
which has increased from 47 per cent in 2000 to 64 per 
cent in 2005.  
On  MDG  8,  Burundi  has  made  significant 

progress,  in  particular  with  regard  to  strengthening 
dialogue with its partners and national ownership of its 
development  policy,  which  enabled  my  country  to 
reach,  in  January  2009,  the  completion  point  of  the 
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and 
witness  a  progressive  increase  in  the  flow  of  official 
development  aid  since  the  2005  establishment  of 
democratic institutions. 
Mr. Deiss (Co-Chair) returned to the Chair. 


Burundi is also proud of the progress  made with 
regard  to  MDGs  4  and  5,  thanks  to  the  presidential 
initiative in 2005 to provide free health care to children 
under five years of age, pregnant women and women in 
labour.  This  has  brought  about  a  fivefold  increase  in 
the  proportion  of  births  attended  by  health-care 
personnel between 1990 and 2008. 
10-54115 
36 

and 
to  new 
information 



Significant progress has been made with regard to 
the  abovementioned  MDG  targets,  and  we  do  hope  to 
reach  them  by  2015.  But  that  is  not  the  case  with 
others, in particular the elimination of extreme poverty 
and hunger, the reduction of the spread of HIV/AIDS, 
access to sanitation and safe housing, the preservation 
of  biodiversity  of  forest  zones,  the  mobilization  of 
official development assistance that is compatible with 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs,  and  access  to  markets 
and 
communications 
technology.  

Therefore,  sufficient  resources  must  be  provided 
for us to reach these Goals and targets, the majority of 
which  we  are  in  the  process  of  achieving,  and  to 
overcome the challenges. The Government elected this 
year is more determined than ever to make significant 
progress on achieving the MDGs. Among the strategies 
planned  is  the  commitment  of  the  Government  to  lay 
out the guidelines for successive  strategic frameworks 
for growth and for the fight against poverty, beginning 
with the second generation of those policies in 2011.  

We urgently call on the international community, 
and in particular our partners, to take into account the 
needs  of  the  people  of  Burundi,  who  are  so  eager  to 
reap 
the  dividends  of  peace  and  reconciliation. 
Burundians  are  very  much  aware  of  how  great  these 
challenges  are,  and  they  want  more  than  ever  to 
continue  to  benefit  from  the  many  different  forms  of 
political  and  financial  support  from  the  international 
community.  The  international  community  has  thus  far 
shown  enormous  willingness  to  help  Burundians,  and 
we welcome that. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  George 
Rebelo  Chicoti,  Secretary  of  State  for  External 
Relations of the Republic of Angola. 
Mr.  Chicoti  (Angola)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English text provided by the delegation): At the outset, 
I would like to welcome the holding of this important 
event, which offers us a unique opportunity once again 
to  discuss  frankly  the  state  of  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  launch  new 
ideas  to  help  realize  in  a  more  effective  manner  the 
commitments  we  have  assumed.  My  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group  of 77 
and China. 
A/65/PV.4
to 
to  negotiate  more  commitments 

In  his  report  entitled  “Keeping  the  promise:  a 
forward-looking  review  to  promote  an  agreed  action 
agenda to achieve the Millennium Development Goals 
by  2015”  (A/64/665),  the  Secretary-General  stressed 
that  several  countries  have  obtained  very  positive 
results  in  the  fight  against  extreme  poverty,  have 
improved  their  levels  of  school  attendance,  children’s 
health  and  access  to  potable  water  and  HIV/AIDS 
treatment  and  have  made  strides  in  the  fight  against 
malaria, tuberculosis and tropical diseases. 

Nevertheless,  10  years  after  the  adoption  of  the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  attainment 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  themselves  is 
still far from being a reality. The fight against poverty 
cannot  be  won  only  with  the  holding  of  conferences 
and  summits 
to 
development.  Overcoming  hunger 
and  poverty 
primarily requires that we implement the international 
commitments we have already made, for otherwise we 
would  be  locking  ourselves  into  an  unproductive  and 
repetitive cycle. 

The  international  community  must  ensure  that 
these commitments are translated into concrete actions. 
National  policies 
supplemented  and 
supported by international efforts aimed at creating an 
their 
overall  environment 
the 
implementation.  Therefore,  while  we  defend 
principle  of  national  responsibility,  we  urge 
the 
strengthening  of  regional  and  global  partnerships  for 
development. Eradicating extreme poverty continues to 
be  a  big  challenge  of  our  time  and  represents  a  major 
concern  for  the  international  community.  Hence,  it 
requires that Governments, civil society and the private 
sector join forces as part of a closer and more effective 
partnership for development. 

Eliminating  hunger  and  poverty,  improving  the 
provision  of  public  services  such  as  health  care  and 
education,  reducing  child  mortality,  respecting  the 
environment, 
infrastructure, 
eliminating  social  exclusion  in  all  its  forms  and 
achieving gender  equality are  ambitious  but attainable 
goals. Accordingly, it remains important to include the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  national  strategies 
for  poverty  reduction  and  in  national  development 
plans. 

We  attach  great  importance  to  this  meeting, 
because  we  believe  that  all  is  not  lost.  We  must  act 
swiftly and wisely in order to ensure that from this year 
is  conducive 
should  be 
that 
building 
adequate 
10-54115 

37 
in 
leading 
to 
Thirdly, 
improved 
deregulating 
international 
A/65/PV.4 

forward  there  will  be  a  better  dynamic  capable  of 
contributing  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed 
commitments. 

I  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  a  number 
international  mechanisms  already  agreed  upon,  which 
have been applied inconsistently or simply ignored. 

First,  increasing  official  development  assistance 
would  boost  economic  and  social  sectors  that  are 
facing  difficulties, 
living 
conditions for people. In short, it would create greater 
social welfare. 

Secondly,  reform  of  the  international  financial 
architecture is now a pressing need, since it is evident 
that  the  world  needs  an  international  financial  system 
that is more agile, more dynamic and responsive to the 
needs  of  developing  economies.  Also 
this 
framework,  international  financial  institutions  should 
play a greater role. 

trade, 
especially  reducing  farm  subsidies  and  eliminating 
trade barriers for agricultural products from developing 
countries, would boost free competition in international 
markets  and  would  strengthen  the  agricultural  sectors 
of developing countries. 

Fourthly, increasing investments in agriculture in 
Africa  in  the  context  of  the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture Development Programme must not only be 
encouraged, 
the 
construction  of  roads  that  are  necessary  to  transport 
goods  from  farms  to  cities  as  well  as  to  stimulate  the 
industrial sector. 

Fifthly,  the  creation  of  an  integrated  microcredit 
programme  for  small  and  medium-sized  farms  and 
other small producers has proved in many countries to 
be an effective means of combating poverty. 
for 

the 
development,  as  called  for 
broadening  of  international  cooperation  are  vital  to 
achieving the other Goals. 

Collectively  and  individually,  all  countries  that 
are  combining  the  efforts  of  their  public  and  private 
sectors  should  feel  obliged  to  fight  tenaciously  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals, especially 
in African countries where the situation is particularly 
difficult.  We  are  convinced  that  Africa  has  potential 
partnership 
in  Goal  8,  and 
supplemented  with 
finally, 
but 
also 
And 
the 
global 

the 
and  that,  once  it  is  supported  by  the  international 
community,  it  will  be  able  to  overcome  challenges  in 
order  to  make  possible  the  economic  growth  and 
sustainable development of the continent. 

The right to development, along with other rights, 
is  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter,  and  we 
believe that the Millennium Declaration is a vehicle for 
the  realization  of  this  principle,  for  its  vision  and 
provisions remain pertinent. 

Shortly  after  the  war  ended  in  2002,  Angola 
started  a  broad  national  reconstruction  and  poverty 
reduction  programme.  However, 
international 
economic and financial crisis and the adverse effects of 
climate  change  have  seriously  affected  the  economic 
performance  of  most  developing  countries,  and  they 
have  not  spared  the  gigantic  efforts  that  Angola  had 
previously  begun.  Nevertheless,  Angola  has  seen 
improvements in all basic MDG indicators. More than 
2  million  children  have  been  enrolled  in  primary 
education  since  2002.  The  percentage  of  children 
attending school has risen substantially, by 76 per cent. 
Child  survival  has  increased  by  20  per  cent,  and  the 
percentage  of  children  suffering  from  malaria  has 
dropped by 23 per cent. 

With  respect  to  health  sector  commitments,  we 
hope 
transmission  rates  of  major 
to  reduce 
infectious  diseases 
including  AIDS,  malaria  and 
tuberculosis  by  2015  and 
reduce 
mortality  of  children  and  women.  Figures  are 
beginning  to  be  encouraging  as  a  result  of  strong 
investments 
infrastructure,  especially  hospitals. 
Between 2000 and 2006, more than 250 hospitals were 
built throughout the country, resulting in a reduction of 
maternal  and  infant  mortality  rates  from  1,400  per 
100,000  live  births  in  2001  to  660  per  100,000  live 
births in 2008. Moreover, in order to eradicate hunger 
and poverty, Angola has adopted a national strategy for 
food  security  for  the  period  2009-2014,  which  will 
enable  us  to  increase  agricultural  production  in  a 
sustainable manner. 

Fighting hunger and poverty seems to my country 
to  be  a  central  pillar  of  harmonious  and  sustainable 
development. It enables us to ensure respect for human 
rights while at the same time providing adequate living 
conditions  for  all  citizens.  The  Republic  of  Angola 
hereby  expresses 
the 
implementation of the Millennium Declaration through 
mechanisms  that  include  the  building  of  human  and 
its  strong  commitment 
to  drastically 
the 
in 
to 
38 

10-54115 
later 
the  continuous 
improvement  of 
it  will  affect  us  all. 


institutional  capacities,  good  governance,  gender 
equality  and 
the 
socio-economic conditions of the people. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. George A. Papandreou, Prime Minister 
of the Hellenic Republic.  
Mr.  Papandreou  (Greece):  Ten  years  ago,  the 

Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  expressed  a 
realization:  the  realization  that  we  are  all  in  this 
together.  Whatever  the  problem,  wherever  it  hits, 
sooner  or 
In  our 
interdependent  world,  there  is  no  problem  that  can  be 
dealt with in isolation and no country that is immune to 
job  losses,  environmental  disasters,  pandemics  or  the 
whims  of  the  financial  markets. We  know  this  well  in 
Europe, and our Union has created a stronger potential 
to deal effectively with many of these challenges. 
In Greece, our recent experience has given us real 

insight  into  how  one  small  country’s  problems  can 
ricochet  around  the  world.  The  Greek  people  have 
taken  unprecedented  steps  to  overcome  our  fiscal 
crisis.  It  is  a  painful  process,  but  we  are  making  real 
progress  and  delivering  on  our  commitments,  and  we 
will  emerge  stronger  —  with  one  prerequisite:  we 
decided  to  change.  Greece  is  not  a  poor  country.  But 
did  we  manage  our  resources,  our  environment,  our 
human  capacity  prudently,  transparently,  equitably, 
sustainably?  No,  we  did  not. And  that  is  what  we  are 
challenged to change. 
But  is  that  not  also  the  core  challenge  of  our 

Millennium  Development  Goals: 
to  manage  our 
planetary  resources,  our  human  capacity,  our  amassed 
technological  advances,  our 
capital,  our  amazing 
commonwealth  of  knowledge 
in  a  much  more 
responsible way; to manage our resources in a way that 
respects  our  natural  resources,  respects  the  rights  and 
needs of all our people  and respects the  well-being of 
future generations?  

In Greece, we are dealing with more than simply 
a sovereign debt crisis. The world is not dealing simply 
with a financial crisis. We in Greece — and all of us — 
face 
revitalize  our 
democracies  and  ensure  good  governance,  to  redefine 
what  we  mean  by  quality  of  life,  to  change  our 
consumption patterns in order to stimulate clean, green 
growth around the world, and to do so in an equitable 
manner. 
fundamental  challenges: 
to 
A/65/PV.4
I  would 
though  Greece 

This  is  why  in  Greece  we  have  launched  radical 
reforms to make our Government more transparent, our 
institutions  more  efficient,  our  economy  more 
competitive  and  green,  and  our  society  more  just.  We 
are delivering these  changes with our citizens and not 
in spite of them. 

But  we  are  also  more  aware  than  ever  before  of 
the need to work together to change our world for the 
better.  Environmental  disaster  and  climate  change  are 
wiping out positive gains made in the economies of so 
many  countries  and  are  putting  new  burdens  on  the 
poor. And  this  affects  us  all.  There  is  the  example  of 
women.  If  women  are  illiterate  in  parts  of  the  world, 
they  will  suffer  more  violence,  they  will  be  unable  to 
plan  their  families  and  they  will  be  less  likely  to 
contain pandemics such as HIV/AIDS or malaria. They 
will  bring  up  children  who  are  more  desperate,  more 
marginal, more violent. And this, in the end, affects us 
all.  So  even 
is  facing  daunting 
challenges  in  its  economy,  we  plan  to  contribute 
development aid in areas such as green growth, health, 
hunger,  poverty  alleviation,  women’s 
rights  and 
freedom from violence. 

to 
congratulate the Secretary-General on the appointment 
of  Michelle  Bachelet  to  the  United  Nations  Entity  for 
Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN 
Women).  But  we  need  to  transcend  our  national 
boundaries  and  work  together  for  another  reason. 
Around the world, many of our citizens — I would say, 
particularly  our  youth  —  feel  disempowered.  They 
know  that  we  have  the  resources  to  make  poverty 
history, to wipe out illiteracy, to prevent pandemics, to 
protect women and children and to protect biodiversity. 
But  they  also  know  that  we  are  not  managing  our 
resources  and  capabilities  to  do  so  effectively. That  is 
why  our  citizens  question  our  political  will  to  move 
forward  as  a  global  community.  They  expect  —  and 
rightly so — political leaders to do more to correct the 
imbalances  and  inequities  that  the  current  system  of 
global governance has created. 

Underlying  our  failure  to  act  on  our  good 
intentions  is  a  crisis  in  governance  —  democratic 
governance,  global  democratic  governance.  Our 
national  institutions  lack  the  capability  to  deal  with 
global  issues.  At  the  same  time,  the  concentration  of 
power, capital and media has enabled privileged elites 
with  vested 
to  capture  our  democratic 
processes. 
the  opportunity 
interests 
take 
like 
to 
10-54115 

39 

that 
financial 
resources,  change 
A/65/PV.4 


So we must step up to the challenge to strengthen 
our  local  and  global  democratic  institutions  with 
greater  urgency  and  resolve.  We  must  prove  that  our 
democracies can protect and empower our citizens and 
equalize  opportunities,  and 
the  benefits  of 
globalization  can  be  fairly  and  evenly  distributed. We 
need  to  create  new  tools  that  will  optimize  the  use  of 
our 
incentives  and 
redistribute  wealth.  A  financial  transaction  tax,  a 
carbon  tax  or  green  bonds  could  be  used  to  fund 
education,  health  care,  green 
infrastructure  and 
technology, particularly in developing countries. 

Instead  of  national  austerity,  we  ought  to  be 
thinking in terms of global responsibility. Yes, we need 
to manage sovereign debt, but we also need to plan for 
social protection, decent jobs and green growth. Unless 
we join forces to face the challenges ahead, we will all 
remain  vulnerable  to  new  crises.  Either  we  provide 
direction,  vision  and  action  for  a  sustainable  world 
society, or we will be subject to more conflict, poverty 
and suffering. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  have 
challenged  us  to  develop  global  governance  that  will 
empower  our  citizens  in  order  to  transform  the  world 
of  free  markets  into  a  world  of  free  people.  We  will 
either  have  politics  of  solidarity,  or  we  will  have 
politics of fear, xenophobia and scapegoats. Either we 
humanize  globalization  or  globalization  itself  will 
undermine humanity. The choice is clear, and it is time 
to act. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Reem 
Ibrahim  Al  Hashimi,  Minister  of  State  of  the  United 
Arab Emirates. 
Ms.  Al  Hashimi  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  The  United  Arab  Emirates  supports  the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  out  of  its 
conviction  that  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  is  a  main  factor  for  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  and  the  realization 
of  prosperity  throughout  the  world.  Today,  we  renew 
our support for the Declaration and affirm our intention 
to  continue  working  to  achieve  the  Goals  by  the  year 
2015, as we have pledged.  

The  recent  prevailing  international  economic, 
political  and  security  conditions  have  demonstrated 
how  the  interests  and  concerns  of  the  countries  of  the 
world  are  interlinked.  The  economic  crisis  and  its 
(ODA) 
assistance 
aftermath  proved  that  no  country  is  safe  from  its 
impact  regardless  of  its  isolation  or  local  economic 
conditions. The United Arab Emirates strongly believes 
that  success  in  achieving  the  MDGs  requires  an 
effective  and  solid  global  partnership  within 
the 
framework  of  the  agreed  recommendations  of  the 
Millennium  Declaration  and  other  development 
conferences and forums.

While we recognize that the global economic and 
financial  crisis  led  to  recessions  in  developed  donor 
countries,  we  urge  those  countries  not  to  withdraw 
their  commitments  and  to  keep  working  towards 
earmarking 0.7 per cent of their gross national income 
for  official  development 
to 
developing  countries.  We  also  urge  them  to  take 
effective  steps  to  alleviate  or  cancel  the  debts  of 
developing  countries  and  to  provide  them  with  new 
technology to help them build environments conducive 
to sustainable development. 

In  this  context,  we  emphasize  the  importance  of 
reforming  the  international  economic,  financial  and 
trade  systems  so  as  to  allow  developing  countries  the 
opportunity to play an active role and to participate in 
the international market in a just and equitable manner. 
At  the  same  time,  we  urge  developing  countries  to 
adopt economic policies that encourage production and 
help attract foreign investment. 

The  United Arab  Emirates  strove  successfully  to 
contain  the  aftermath  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis  and  its  impact  on  our  development 
achievements  so  we  could  honour  our  commitments 
and  maintain  our 
for 
development.  Our  success  in  achieving  the  MDGs  at 
the  national  level  has  allowed  us  to  enhance  our 
contributions 
to  assist 
developing  countries  in  achieving  their  development 
goals as quickly as possible. 

We have exploited our oil revenues to expand and 
diversify sources of national income while, at the same 
time, maintaining a focus on human development in all 
fields.  In  a  short  period  of  time,  we  were  able  to 
eradicate poverty, raise the average income per capita, 
provide  free  universal  education  at  all  levels,  and 
achieve gender equality and women’s empowerment. 

At  the  same  time,  we  are  working  to  ensure  the 
sustainability of the environment and the realization of 
a  comprehensive  national  strategy  to  integrate  an 
environmental  vision  into  all  development  activities, 
foreign  aid  contributions 
the  global  partnership 
to 
40 

10-54115 
in 
the 
these 
the  rest 
partnership 
international 
contributions 
projects 
are  directed 
in 
is  given  as  grants,  while 
relief  and  development  assistance 


while  mitigating  the  effects  of  climate  change  and 
reducing emissions.  

The  United Arab  Emirates  has  adopted  a  foreign 
policy  focused  on  cooperation  and  bilateral  and 
international  partnerships  to  achieve  development  in 
other  countries.  The  Emirates  is  one  of  the  major 
donors 
for 
development.  A  number  of  national  institutions  make 
foreign  development  contributions  that  constitute  a 
high  percentage  of  our  gross  national  product  and  are 
distributed  as  ODA  to  approximately  100  developing 
countries around the world. Ninety-five per cent of that 
assistance 
is 
distributed  as  concessionary  loans. About  80  per  cent 
to  major 
of 
education, 
development 
health, 
infrastructure and energy in those countries. 

For  instance,  the  Khalifa  bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan 
Foundation, founded in 2007 by our Head of State, His 
Highness  Sheikh  Khalifa  bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan, 
provides 
to 
developing  countries  and  those  affected  by  natural 
disasters  and  armed  conflicts. 
finances 
development  projects,  including  health  and  social 
centres,  in  more  than  35  countries  in Asia, Africa  and 
Europe.  

The  Dubai  Care  Initiative  founded  by  His 
Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashed Al Maktoum, 
Vice-President  and  Prime  Minister  of  the  United Arab 
Emirates and Ruler of Dubai, works to provide primary 
education  for  4  million  children  in  14  developing 
countries  to  fight  poverty,  empower  citizens,  and 
achieve  development  within 
framework  of 
MDG 2.A, on universal primary education. 
The United Arab Emirates plays an effective role 

in  strengthening  international  assistance,  be  it  in 
emergency or long-term cases such as natural disasters 
and armed conflicts. In 2009, the United Arab Emirates 
donated  approximately  $3  billion  in  humanitarian  and 
development  assistance,  with  a  special  focus  on  the 
countries most affected by natural disasters and armed 
conflicts. 
In conclusion, the United Arab Emirates reaffirms 

its  commitment  to  continuing  to  work  to  realize  the 
MDGs  and  to  strengthen  the  international  partnership 
to implement them by 2015. In this regard, we call for 
the intensification of international efforts to address the 
root  causes  and  challenges  that  hinder  the  timely 
It  also 
the 
A/65/PV.4
It 
by 
and 
numerical 
benchmarks 
that  development 
is  widely  agreed 
achievement  of  the  MDGs,  and  to  find  effective  and 
permanent solutions for them all. 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kamel 
Morjane, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Tunisia. 

Mr. Morjane (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): Let me 
say  how  pleased  I  am  to  take  part  in  this  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  to  assess  progress  in  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  identify 
the means to attain them on schedule.  

is  a 
fundamental aspiration of all countries. Guided by our 
strong  commitment,  we  adopted 
the  Millennium 
Declaration,  which  reflects  the  aspirations  of  the 
peoples  of  the  world  to  a  better  life  through  the 
realization  of  a  carefully  selected  series  of  objectives 
defined 
clear 
timeframes.  We  have  agreed  to  halve  the  rate  of 
poverty, promote primary education at the global level, 
enhance  gender  equality,  reduce  mortality  among 
children  and  mothers,  fight  AIDS,  ensure  sustainable 
development,  preserve  the  environment  and  build  a 
global partnership for development. 

Although many countries have managed over the 
past  decade  to  achieve  significant  progress  towards 
attaining  some  of  the  Millennium  Goals,  we  note  that 
the  pace  of  this  progress  is  still  slow  and  has  not  met 
global  expectations,  due  to  the  huge  development 
challenges  that  most  countries,  particularly  those  of 
Africa, are facing. Many relevant reports have pointed 
to  the  slowdown  of  progress  due  to  the  acute  world 
economic crisis. 

Economic  projections  for  African  countries  that 
register  a  growth  rate  below  3  per  cent  anticipate  an 
annual  growth  rate  below  the  required  7  per  cent, 
which  is  too  low  to  help  them  realize  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  within  the  fixed  timeframe.  The 
achievement  of  the  development  goals  in  our African 
continent will require financing the economy, investing 
in  the  health  and  education  systems,  and  additional 
efforts  to  fight  poverty  and  ensure  early  education, 
laying  the  foundations  of  a  dignified  life  for  African 
citizens. 

We  are  convinced  that  the  establishment  of  a 
genuine  partnership  with  Africa  represents  the  most 
suitable way to advance development in the continent, 
help achieve our development goals and bring hope to 
10-54115 

41 

the 
utility 
experience 
demonstrates 
the  support  extended 
A/65/PV.4 

millions  of  Africans.  In  this  regard,  we  call  on  the 
Group  of  Eight  and  the  Group  of  20  to  renew  their 
commitment to the African continent so as to enable it 
to attain its development goals. We are also of the view 
that 
through  North-South 
cooperation  in  the  endeavour  to  meet  development 
goals will never outweigh the scope and importance of 
South-South  cooperation  in  promoting  economic  and 
social development in Africa. 

Attaining the Millennium Development Goals on 
schedule will require us all to work in solidarity and to 
pool  our  sustained  efforts.  In  this  spirit,  allow  me  to 
highlight the success of the Tunisian national solidarity 
experience  in  promoting  development  in  poor  areas. 
Our 
and 
effectiveness of this policy, which earned international 
recognition  through  the  adoption  of  resolution  57/265 
endorsing  the  establishment  of  the  World  Solidarity 
Fund,  designed  to  help  poor  countries  advance  their 
achievement of the MDGs. 

Although  my  country,  Tunisia,  is  a  medium-
income  country  with  limited  natural  resources,  it  has 
managed  through  self-reliance  to  achieve  significant 
economic  development  over  the  past  two  decades, 
enabling 
in  human 
development indicators. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  prepared  jointly  by  the  United 
Nations and the Tunisian Government, underscores the 
progress achieved by Tunisia with regard to sustainable 
development.  This  report  stresses  that  the  increase  in 
gross  domestic  product  reached  5  per  cent  in  recent 
years.  Owing  to  the  fair  distribution  of  economic 
growth  income,  the  poverty  rate  witnessed  a  sharp 
decline  from  60  per  cent  in  1960  to  7  per  cent  in  the 
mid-1990s,  and  to  3.8  per  cent  at  the  current  time. 
More  important,  the  report  underlines  the  tremendous 
progress achieved by Tunisia in meeting the remaining 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  report  stresses 
that my country will succeed in attaining these goals, if 
not exceeding most, by the year 2015. 

Tunisia  has  pursued  sound  development  policies 
based  mainly  on  reconciling  the  requirements  of  an 
efficient  economy  and  dynamic  social  policies  to 
ensure 
life.  This 
comprehensive  development  vision  arises  from  the 
firm  belief  that  there  is  an  inextricable  link  and 
interdependence among all dimensions of development, 
the  fundamentals  of  a  decent 
to  enjoy  a  high  ranking 
Our  national 
report 
it 
on 
the 
justice  and  ensures 
and  that  there  is  no  progress  in  the  absence  of 
economic  prosperity.  Moreover, 
there  can  be  no 
sustainable economy in the absence of social peace and 
national  concord.  Indeed,  comprehensive  development 
consecrates  social 
fair 
distribution of growth dividends in all areas and to all 
sectors  of 
the  population,  while  preserving  and 
enhancing  social  assets  and  gains.  It  also  helps  to 
improve  the  living  conditions  of  vulnerable  sectors  of 
the  population  with  specific  needs  and  to  enhance 
solidarity among various national components. 

Thanks  to  this  sound  policy,  and  despite  the 
turbulent  international  economic  climate,  our  country 
has  managed  in  the  aftermath  of  the  unprecedented 
to  secure  various 
financial  and  economic  crisis 
achievements  and  progress 
in  all  sectors,  and 
succeeded in minimizing the impact of the volatility of 
world  markets  on  the  national  economy  by  taking 
timely  and  appropriate  measures  to  safeguard  the 
development process, which continues apace to achieve 
positive  results. Tunisia  has  also  achieved  tremendous 
progress  in  schooling  at  all  levels  and  a  significant 
improvement  in  health  and  demographic  indicators, 
including  medical  coverage,  life  expectancy  at  birth 
and the extension of social security. 

Among  Tunisia’s  various  achievements,  income 
has continued to rise, the poverty rate has witnessed a 
sharp decrease and job creation has continued to grow, 
thus  improving  living  conditions  in  different  areas, 
especially  in  rural  ones,  where  genuine  progress  in 
terms  of  access  to  electricity  and  drinking  water  is 
noticeable. 

The world of 2015 will be what we make of it. It 
will  be  a  pure  reflection  of  our  common  success  or 
common 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  afford  the  means  to  ensure  a 
decent life free of need and anxiety about the future for 
all  people.  In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
best wishes for the success of our summit and to thank 
all participants for listening. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. R. M. Marty 
M.  Natalegawa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Repulic of Indonesia. 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  This  High-level 

Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals 
fast-
approaching  2015  target  date.  The  urgency  of  this 
timely,  considering 
(MDGs) 
achieve 
failure 
the 
to 
is 
42 

10-54115 


Meeting is further accentuated by the turn of events in 
the past years that have stalled efforts on the MDGs. 

As  highlighted  by  the  Secretary-General  earlier, 
while  some  parts  of  the  world  are  well  advanced  in 
meeting  the  MDGs,  overall  implementation  is  lagging. 
We must ensure that the multifaceted, multidimensional 
and interconnected challenges and crises that our world 
is  facing  do  not  derail  our  gains  towards  achieving  the 
MDGs.  This  Meeting  reminds  us  that  we  have  to  stay 
engaged.  Indeed,  we  need  to  redouble  our  efforts. 
Failure is not an option. 

The  adoption  of  the  MDGs  a  decade  ago  was  a 
groundbreaking  moment  and  certainly  a  major 
achievement  for 
the  United  Nations.  The  Goals 
inspired  a  rebalancing  of  the  security  paradigm  to 
strengthen development as a way of realizing freedom 
and peace. Since their adoption, the MDGs have been a 
beacon for development policies, guiding development 
strategies  at  all  levels.  Central  to  the  successful 
transformation  envisioned  10  years  ago  are 
the 
mobilization  of  national,  regional  and  international 
efforts.  Each  has  vital  function  to  perform  in  a 
mutually reinforcing way.  

level,  each  respective 
Government needs to create policies and have the fiscal 
space  to  accelerate  and  sustain  progress.  The  MDG 
targets  also  need  to  be  included  in  our  respective 
national  development  agendas.  However,  and  more 
importantly, a mechanism to monitor progress needs to 
be  put  in  place.  Not  least,  Governments  should 
encourage  all  stakeholders  —  including  the  private 
sector  and  civil  society  —  to  take  ownership  of  the 
Goals. 

to 
achieving  all  MDG  targets  is  strong  and  unwavering. 
We have embraced all eight MDGs. They are consistent 
with  the  basic  fabric  of  our  national  development 
policies  and strategies  and  are an important feature of 
Indonesia’s  foreign  policy.  We  have  made  significant 
strides to improve water and sanitation, education and 
health. In support of the Global Strategy for Women’s 
and  Children’s  Health  launched  by  the  Secretary-
General,  we  have  also  introduced  a  policy  to  provide 
free birth care for all mothers. 
climate,  we  have  been 

implementing  domestic  programmes 
reduce 
emissions  by  26  per  cent  by  2020  and,  with 
international assistance, to reduce them by 41 per cent. 
Indonesia’s  commitment 
For  our  part, 
the  national 
First,  at 
regard 
With 
to 
to 
A/65/PV.4
for 
initiatives  can  contribute 
Intensifying  actions  to  curb  deforestation,  enhance 
reforestation  and  promote  renewable  energy  is  key  in 
this regard. 
As to some aspects of the MDGs, we are an early 

that  further  efforts  will 
achiever  and  we  hope 
contribute  significantly 
to  reducing 
the  maternal 
mortality  rate  and  halting  and  reversing  the  spread  of 
HIV/AIDS.  
Secondly,  at  the  regional  level,  all  regional 

organizations  and 
to 
achieving  the  MDGs  by  promoting  coordination  and 
cooperation  among  countries,  which  should  contribute 
to  the  attainment  of  the  Goals  by  the  countries  of  the 
region.  There  should  be  a  mechanism  to  further 
monitor MDG targets. There should be a machinery to 
accelerate the closing of remaining gaps.  

We  realize  that  not  all  countries  in  our  region 
have  fully  achieved  the  MDGs.  As  part  of  our 
responsibility to ensure success in achieving the MDGs 
in  our  region,  Indonesia  recently  held  in  Jakarta  the 
Special  Ministerial  Meeting 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  Review  in  Asia  and  the  Pacific: 
Run  up  to  2015.  In  that  regard,  I  have  the  honour  to 
transmit to the Assembly the declaration of the Jakarta 
Special Ministerial Meeting on the MDGs as a concrete 
contribution of the countries of Asia and the Pacific to 
this High-level Meeting. 

The Ministers recognized that, while Asia and the 
Pacific as a whole have made progress on some of the 
there  are  still  gaps  between  and  within 
MDGs, 
countries.  To  address 
the  Ministers 
resolved,  inter  alia,  to  address  the  extreme  poverty  of 
900  million  people  residing  in  the  Asia  and  Pacific 
region.  The  countries  of  Asia  and  the  Pacific  region 
reaffirmed 
their 
commitments  on  social  protection,  financing  and 
environmental  sustainability,  not  only  on  the  basis  of 
their 
convictions,  but  more 
importantly by engaging in honest partnership with all 
stakeholders. 

Thirdly,  at  the  global  level,  genuine  global 
partnership is imperative. The MDGs are a project for 
humanity.  They  are  not  only  for  the  North;  they  are 
also  not  only  for 
the  South.  They  are  for  all 
humankind.  The  commitments  of  our  development 
partners should be fulfilled. Innovative mechanisms for 
mobilizing  resources  should  be  further  explored. 
their  determination 
these  gaps, 
to  achieve 
individual 
strong 
10-54115 

43 

A/65/PV.4 

South-South  cooperation  and  triangular  cooperation 
should be further strengthened.  

Ultimately,  our  long-term  objective  is  to  have  a 
prosperous,  peaceful,  safe  and  stable  global  society. 
Achievement of the MDGs by all is an important step 
towards realizing these long-term objectives. However, 
much  remains 
to  be  done  now  and  post-2015. 
Achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015  must  not  be  our  end 
goal. Efforts to build on the MDGs must be continued 
beyond  2015.  To  this  end,  we  must  strengthen  our 
national  efforts  and  promote  partnership  at  the  global 
level in support of these efforts. 

Mr.  Carrión-Mena  (Ecuador),  Vice-President  of 
the General Assembly, took the Chair. 
In  closing,  the  promise  of  creating  a  global 

society  that  is  prosperous,  peaceful,  safe  and  stable  is 
one  that  must  be  fulfilled.  And  today  we  have  the 
opportunity to contribute to fulfilling it. We cannot let 
the opportunity lapse. That objective requires all of us 
to  work  together  as  part  of  a  global  society,  for  the 
benefit of our people, for the next generations and for 
the sustainability of our planet. 

The Acting Chair (spoke in Spanish): I now give 
the floor to Mr. Elmar Maharram oglu Mammadyarov, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Azerbaijan. 
Mr. Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan): At the outset, I 

would like to join previous speakers in expressing my 
deep  gratitude 
the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  this  well-organized 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  I  am  confident  that  this 
Meeting  will  be  an  important  step  forward  in  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) by 2015. 

We  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
entitled  “Keeping  the  promise:  a  forward-looking 
review to promote an agreed action agenda to achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015” 
(A/64/665), which reviews the successes, best practices 
and lessons learned, obstacles and gaps, and challenges 
and  opportunities  leading  to  concrete  strategies  for 
action 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

Despite the ongoing military occupation of about 
20  per  cent  of  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan  by  our 
neighbour,  the  Republic  of Armenia,  and  the  resulting 
presence  of  almost  1  million  refugees  and  forcibly 
in  achieving 
to 
completed 
the  progress 
report  on 
share  Azerbaijan’s  perspective  on 
displaced  persons  in  our  country,  the  Government  of 
Azerbaijan  reiterates  its  strong  commitment  to  fully 
and  effectively  implementing  the  MDGs  by  2015.  We 
have 
the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs  in  2010.  Let  me  now 
briefly 
and 
experience in working to achieve the MDGs. 

With respect  to Goal 1, on reducing poverty  and 
extreme  poverty,  Azerbaijan  has  demonstrated  the 
political  will  and  has  implemented  a  number  of 
consecutive  steps  to  eradicate  poverty.  Our  political 
will was clearly stated in the first State Programme for 
Poverty  Reduction  and  Economic  Development  and  is 
reflected  in  the  new  State  Programme  for  Poverty 
Reduction  and  Sustainable  Development  (2008-2015). 
The  main  objectives  of  the  latter  Programme  include, 
inter alia, ensuring sustainable economic development, 
significantly decreasing the number of poor, protecting 
vulnerable  groups,  improving  the  living  conditions  of 
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons,  improving 
and  providing  equal  access  for  all  to  health  and 
education  services,  ensuring  sustainable  management 
of the environment, supporting gender equality and so 
forth.  To 
successful 
implementation  of  the  Programmes  we  have  managed 
to reduce the poverty rate from 29.3 per cent in 2005 to 
11 per cent in 2010. 
to  eliminating 

unemployment.  In  this  regard,  the  Government  has 
launched 
the 
implementation  of  the  employment  strategy,  reducing 
the  unemployment  rate  from  7.06  per  cent  in  2005  to 
6 per cent in 2009. 

Regarding  Goal  2,  on  achieving  universal 
primary  education, the relevant  reforms for improving 
the  quality  of  school  education  have  been  launched. 
Our  education  reform  strategy  for  the  period  2003-
2013, supported by the World Bank, is focused mainly 
on  reforming  general  compulsory  education.  Within 
this framework, we have adopted a new programme for 
preschool  education.  We  declared  2009  the  Year  of 
Children  in Azerbaijan  to  coincide  with  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights  of  the  Child.  The  relevant  action  plan  was 
adopted  to  address  the  special  needs  of  disadvantaged 
and  vulnerable  children,  with  particular  emphasis  on 
efforts  aimed  at  promoting  children’s  rights  and 
encouraging their talents. 
We  also  give  high  priority 
special  State  programme 
the 
this 
end, 
through 
a 
for 
44 

10-54115 
a 
coordinated 
empowerment, 


Regarding  Goal  3,  on  gender  equality  and 

women’s 
set  of 
measures —  such  as  the  adoption  and  implementation 
of  a  national  action  plan  on  women’s  affairs,  a 
presidential  decree  on  a  policy  for  the  self-realization 
of  women,  the  establishment  of  a  State  committee  for 
family,  women’s  and  children’s  affairs,  and  many 
others  —  have  laid  a  firm  legal  and  institutional 
foundation for the achievement of gender equality, the 
provision  of  secondary  and  higher  education  for 
women, equality in salaries, and the broad involvement 
of women in the decision-making process. There have 
been increases in women’s representation in Parliament 
and Government bodies. 

Regarding  Goals  4  and  5,  on  child  and  maternal 
mortality, sustainable progress in this area will depend 
on  poverty  reduction  and  further  improvements  in 
access  to  and  quality  of  health  services  through 
primary health care reform. Azerbaijan is committed to 
reducing child and maternal mortality by half by 2015 
and  has  taken  coordinated  steps  to  that  end.  With  the 
adoption of State programmes for protecting the health 
of  mothers  and  children,  a  national  strategy  on 
reproductive  health,  and  a  State  programme  for 
regional  social  and  economic  development  for  2004-
2008, our child mortality rate has fallen to 3.1 per cent 
in the past five years. 
Of all the MDGs, Goal 5 on improving maternal 

health,  with  its  related  targets  —  reducing  maternal 
mortality  rates  by  up  to  three-quarters  by  2015  and 
achieving  universal  access 
to  reproductive  health 
care —  requires  additional  effort.  In  practice,  the  full 
realization  of  this  Goal  demands  financial  resources 
and 
technical  assistance 
that  many  developing 
countries can hardly afford. 

Regarding  Goal  6,  on  HIV/AIDs,  malaria  and 
other  diseases,  Azerbaijan  has  so  far  managed  to 
contain  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria,  and  has 
succeeded  in  improving  the  prevention  and  cure  of 
tuberculosis.  The  national  response  to  HIV/AIDS  has 
also  been  considerably  strengthened  in  recent  years, 
with  a  major  reorganization  of  the  National  AIDS 
Centre. 

Regarding Goal 7, on environmental sustainability, 
we have to work on reversing the loss of our  forested 
areas,  and  to  ensure  that  environmental  concerns  are 
taken  into  account  at  all  levels  of  policymaking.  We 
have announced 2010 as the Year of Ecology and have 
A/65/PV.4
social 
inclusion, 
the 
and 
eradication 
region  with 
the  United  Nations,  and 
adopted  various  special  programmes  in  the  area  of 
environmental protection. 

Regarding  Goal  8,  on  developing  a  global 
partnership for development, Azerbaijan is determined 
to  contribute  to  the  realization  of  the  development 
goals  agreed  within 
is 
fostering  global  cooperation  in  all  spheres,  paying 
particular attention to addressing the special needs and 
vulnerabilities  of  developing  and 
least  developed 
countries. 
We have launched  and successfully implemented 

several regional infrastructure projects that have made 
a significant contribution to the development of certain 
neighbouring  countries. Taking  into  consideration  that 
information and communications technology is viewed 
as  an  important  instrument  for  fostering  economic 
growth  and  competitiveness  and  for  contributing  to 
poverty 
the 
Government of Azerbaijan has launched an initiative to 
jointly build and manage a Trans-Eurasian information 
superhighway, which is expected to facilitate supplying 
the  countries  of 
Internet  and 
telecommunications  systems,  e-information  resources 
and e-economies. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my  hope 
that  this  High-Level  Plenary  Meeting  will  contribute 
significantly  to  mobilizing  the  efforts  of  all  Member 
States  in  achieving  the  development  agenda  of  the 
United Nations and creating a better future life for all 
of us. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Spanish): I now give 

the floor to His Excellency Mr. Ricardo Patiño Aroca, 
Minister  for  Foreign Affairs,  External  Commerce  and 
Integration  of  Ecuador,  who  is,  as  it  happens,  my 
respected compatriot. 

Mr. Patiño Aroca (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
Three years ago, the President of Ecuador asked us to 
demand  more  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), to go beyond poverty reduction and to bring 
about social change capable of overcoming inequality. 
Then  we  would  not  need  to  speak  of  goals  of  human 
subsistence,  measurable  by  market  consumption 
figures, but rather of the joy of a dignified life for all 
our  peoples. With  that,  we  would  move  beyond  social 
well-being, not merely reducing the distances between 
human  groups  but  also  bridging  enormous  economic, 
territorial, environmental and cultural chasms. We must 
give  renewed  prominence  to  collective  action,  restore 
10-54115 

45 

A/65/PV.4 

the value of the public arena as the space in which the 
actors  of  our  civil  societies  interact  as  a  function  of 
their  collective  interests,  guaranteeing  and  ensuring 
access  to  justice  and  to  all  their  rights:  the  rights  to 
work, to recreation, to artistic creation and to life lived 
well. 

That is also the path that could lead us to finding 
peace  among  our  nations.  I  say  this  because  my 
country  is  concerned  that  social  issues  are  not  given 
the central importance they deserve when we consider 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  On  the 
contrary,  what  we  have  seen  increase  is  one  of  the 
pathological aspects of the policy of military spending. 
As a global phenomenon, it now totals $1.531 trillion. 
This  represents  an  increase  of  49  per  cent  since  the 
start  of  the  millennium,  and  constitutes  the  greatest 
obstacle  to  our  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  The 
persistence  of  hunger  in  the  world  contrasts  most 
strongly with this military spending globally, since the 
first Millennium Development Goal is that of reducing 
the number of poor people in the world. 
It  is  clear  that,  so  long  as  military  spending  is 

growing 
in  social 
spending  will  not  be  of  prime  importance  to  the 
Governments of many of our societies. That is why my 
country  would  exhort  everyone  to  demonstrate  the 
political  will  to  reverse  the  direction  of  such  policies, 
so  that  we  may  come  here  not  to  present  poverty 
reports but rather to report on how we have overcome 
inequities.  If  we  cannot  bring  political  earnest  to 
solving the problem defined as our first global goal — 
eliminating hunger and extreme poverty — how can we 
tackle the other MDGs? 
As  President  Correa  said  three  years  ago,  we 

believe 
to  act  collectively, 
consciously  and  democratically  to  take  charge  of  our 
lives  and  organize  world  society  in  a  different  way, 
with  a  more  human  face.  If  we  fail  to  do  so,  we  will 
continue  to  live  in  a  world  of  war,  with  hundreds  of 
millions of hungry people, and with the threat of major 
humanitarian  catastrophes  caused  by  climate  change. 
That is how we have understood things in Ecuador, and 
that is why we can tell the whole world that we need to 
move beyond the language traditionally used by States 
and  Governments.  How  can  we  believe  in  countries 
that  seem  to  support  and  commit  themselves  to 
pioneering  initiatives  such  as  the  MDGs,  and  that  in 
fact have not honoured or acted according to them? 
in  most  countries, 
is  possible 
investment 
that 
it 
illiteracy 
and  have 
implemented 
the  goal  of  reducing 
infrastructure  and  providing  services 

In  Ecuador,  we  can  cite  statistics  from  the  past 
three years to show that we have improved the quality 
of  life  of  our  people.  These  statistics  attest  to  the 
reduction  of  poverty  during  these  years  from  61  per 
cent to 53 per cent in rural areas as a result of a social 
investment  of  almost  $1.5  billion,  double  that  of  the 
previous  seven  years.  Today,  we  allocate  8.3  per  cent 
of GDP for these expenditures, compared with 2.8 per 
cent previously. We are on track in achieving our goals. 

With respect to equality in education, let me note 
that we have doubled our investment in education and 
have  made  it  universal.  We  have  taken  action  to 
eliminate 
an 
intercultural  policy  by  providing  teaching  materials  in 
the original languages of our indigenous peoples. 

In  the  health  sphere  too  we  have  doubled  public 
investment  in  recent  years,  and  we  have  succeeded  in 
reducing  infant  morality.  It  is  our  hope  that  we  will 
achieve the figure of 11.8 deaths per 1,000 live births, 
which  goes  beyond 
infant 
mortality  by  two  thirds  compared  with  1990.  We  are 
making  similar  progress  on  maternal  health  and  are 
building 
to 
previously marginalized populations. 

There  is  a  lot  to  say  about  sustainability  of  the 
environment. 
the  Yasuní-ITT 
initiative,  policies 
the 
promotion 
through 
enhancing  multilateralism  and  regional  integration  as 
effective  strategies  for  making  progress  on  social 
development. Yet  we  believe  that  little  has  been  done 
to date. 

We  do  not  wish  merely  to  attain  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. We want to build societies marked 
by development and equity. That will be possible only 
if  we  rebuild  the  global  structures  of  trade,  finance, 
technological  innovation  and  power  structures  in  such 
a way that they enable us to foster social development. 
This  requires  unity  among  peoples  and  Governments 
who  will  be  determined  to  build  —  completely 
independently  —  this  new  international  economic  and 
political order. Any other path will lead to failure. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Spanish): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Murray 
McCully, Minister for Foreign Affairs of New Zealand. 
Mr.  McCully  (New  Zealand):  I  welcome  the 

opportunity 
the 
for  human  mobility  and 
I  would  mention 
of  worldwide 
partnerships, 
to 
review 
progress 
towards 
46 

10-54115 


achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  and  to  identify  steps  we  might  take  that  will 
improve progress.  

I  come  from  the  South  Pacific  —  a  region  that 
according  to  recent  reports  sits  second  only  to  sub-
Saharan  Africa  in  terms  of  lack  of  progress  towards 
achievement  of  some  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  New  Zealand  is  a  small  nation  of  4.5  million 
people. We have limited resources. We cannot be major 
players  in  development  assistance  on  a  global  scale. 
And  so,  we  have  decided  increasingly  to  deploy  our 
resources  within  our  region,  where  they  are  most 
needed and where we can make a difference.  

Those  resources  are  greatly  needed  within  our 
region. The  effects  of  the  global  economic  crisis  have 
been severe even for the most robust of Pacific States. 
Budget  support  has  been  required  by  many.  Other 
forms  of  supplementary  assistance  have  also  been 
required. But that is at the easy end of the spectrum. 

At  the  tougher  end  of  the  range  we  have  places 
like  South  Tarawa  in  Kiribati,  with  50,000  people 
crowded onto a narrow atoll with a population density 
similar  to  that  of  downtown  Hong  Kong,  in  poor 
housing, 
frequently  with  highly  polluted  water, 
minimal  sanitation  and  minimal  solid  waste  disposal, 
and  with  all  of  the  attendant  health  and  humanitarian 
challenges one would expect  as  a  consequence. Given 
its  position  only  a  couple  of  metres  above  sea  level, 
Kiribati  is  better  known  in  this  forum  for  its  climate 
change challenges. But climate change is merely one of 
the  challenges  confronted  by  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  Kiribati.  This  and  other  parts  of  the  South 
Pacific remain at the very lowest end of the register in 
relation to some MDG outcomes. 
Some  might  observe  that,  given  the  population 

levels  in  our  region,  we  are  dealing  with  small 
numbers.  These  are  problems 
lend 
themselves  to  relatively  easy  solutions.  But  they  have 
not and they do not. Some will suggest that it is merely 
a  matter  of  more  money  being  provided,  of  donors 
being  asked  to  dig  deeper.  Despite  the  effects  of  the 
global  economic  crisis,  most  nations  are  digging 
deeper.  New  Zealand  is  digging  deeper.  But  more 
money alone will not solve these problems. We need a 
much greater focus on aid effectiveness. And we need 
to  place  a  much  higher  premium  on  donor 
coordination. 
that  should 
A/65/PV.4
the  health 

On  that  latter  point,  New  Zealand  is  a  strong 
supporter  of  the  Cairns  Compact  on  Strengthening 
Development Coordination in the Pacific, a product of 
the  Pacific  Forum,  which  we  hope  will  lead  to  a 
significant  lift  in  donor  coordination  in  our  region. 
Already we have achieved a high level of coordination 
with our friends and neighbours in Australia in relation 
to  our  shared  work  within  the  region.  But  we  have  a 
long  way  to  go  to  achieve  better  harmonization  of 
efforts amongst donors generally. 

With  regard  to  aid  effectiveness,  without  in  any 
way  diminishing 
and  humanitarian 
programmes  that  we  continue  to  support,  we  have 
decided to focus on sustainable economic development, 
in  particular  on  the  building  blocks  for  sustainable 
economic  development  in  the  region.  Already  we  are 
significant  funders  of  education  within  the  South 
Pacific.  We  want  to  do  more  of  it  and  do  it  better, 
especially  on  basic  literacy  and  numeracy.  We  are 
substantially  upgrading  our  efforts  in  horticulture, 
agriculture,  fisheries  and  tourism.  In  each  of  these 
sectors, Pacific nations have considerable potential for 
economic growth. We are trying to remove the barriers 
to trade, so that we can start to correct the major trade 
imbalances  within  the  region.  And  we  are  giving 
serious attention to transport infrastructure, air and sea, 
for  these  are  the  essential  arteries  for  tourism  and 
trade. 

A  major  feature  of  all  Pacific  States  is  that  their 
economies  suffer  severely  because  of  a  dependence 
upon  electricity  generated  from 
imported  diesel, 
usually at a far greater cost than would be encountered 
elsewhere. We  are  trying  to  drive  a  major  programme 
of 
infrastructure, 
especially  solar  and  wind. This  is  essential  to  achieve 
both climate change and economic objectives. 

My final point is to echo the sentiment expressed 
by  other  speakers  who  have  called  for  follow-up 
actions to match the fine  words we have heard during 
this meeting. I share the optimism of those who believe 
we can make better, faster progress. But it will not be 
because  we  have  established  new  committees  or  new 
procedures,  or  developed  new  slogans  or  new 
acronyms. We  need  to  get  more  practical:  to  focus  on 
outcomes, not process. And we need more cooperation 
and less duplication. Those are the essential challenges 
we now confront. 
in  renewable  energy 
investment 
10-54115 

47 

the  Government  of 
A/65/PV.4 


The Acting Chair (spoke in Spanish): I now give 
the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Oldemiro  Balói, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of 
Mozambique. 
Mr.  Balói  (Mozambique):  On  behalf  of  the 

people  and 
the  Republic  of 
Mozambique,  and  on  my  own  behalf,  I  would  like  to 
join previous speakers in congratulating the Co-Chairs 
of  this  important  High-Level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the 
sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  are 
confident  that,  under  their  enlightened  and  skillful 
guidance,  our  deliberations  will  be  crowned  with 
success. 

Allow me to take this opportunity to reiterate the 
importance  of  this  gathering  aimed  at  reviewing  the 
progress,  obstacles,  challenges  and  strategies 
in 
strengthening our collective resolve and partnership for 
the  effective  realization  of  the  objectives  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

When Mozambique joined other nations 10 years 
ago  in  adopting  the  Millennium  Declaration,  the 
country  was  aware  of  the  challenges  it  would  face  in 
meeting  the  Goals  set  therein.  Indeed,  since  the  first 
years  of  its  national  independence,  Mozambique  has 
been  engaged  in  the  attainment  of  some  of  the  Goals 
set,  which  are  part  of  our  national  development 
programmes  and  strategies 
to  fight  poverty  and 
promote economic growth. 

At this point in time when, only five years before 
2015, we would like to briefly share our evaluation and 
fundamentally  point  out  our  reflections  regarding  the 
path  Mozambique  is  to  take  towards  meeting  the 
MDGs, as reflected in the 2010 edition of our national 
progress report, which is available in this Hall. 

In this regard, allow me to focus this intervention 
on  MDGs  4  and  5,  on  reducing  child  mortality  and 
improving maternal health, as we believe that investing 
in  women  and  children’s  health  constitutes  an 
unequivocal  way  of  investing  in  social  and  economic 
development  while  at  the  same  time  meeting  the 
remaining Millennium Development Goals. 

Women and children’s health care indicators have 
shown some progress since the adoption of the MDGs 
that is reflected in the reduction of maternal and infant 
mortality rates. It is obvious that these indicators show 
the  path  that  our  country  and  our  people  have  yet  to 
take  in  order  to  meet  the  objectives  defined  for  our 
48 

children’s  and  women’s  health  care.  It  is  also  obvious 
that,  for  our  Government,  the  issue  of  women’s  and 
children’s  health  care  goes  beyond  being  simply 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  as  they  constitute 
permanent  development  goals  of  our  country  and, 
above  all,  represent  the  social  justice  to  which  all  of 
our people aspire. 

Our  Government’s  main  focus  is  to  ensure  that 
women  in  Mozambique  give  birth  without  the  risk  of 
facing  death,  that  each  child  born  is  able  to  grow  and 
attain  his  or  her  full  development,  and  that  five  years 
should  no  longer  be  an  unattainable  age  limit.  The 
desire  to  bear  life  should  not  represent  a  threat  and 
sorrow  for  our  women.  Our  experience  during  these 
past  years  has  seen  some  actions  of  particular 
importance  and  great  impact  in  improving  health  care 
and  reducing  maternal  and  infant  mortality  rates. 
Among  these  actions,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the 
following. 

First,  recognizing  the  impact  of  social  factors  in 
community  health,  we  favour  the  implementation  of 
joint  measures  undertaken  by  various  Government 
sectors  aimed  at  increasing  access  to  clean  water  and 
basic sanitation, mainly at the rural community level. 

Second, we implement programmes that promote 
the  presence  of  girls  at  school. We  would  like  to  take 
this opportunity to point out that, at this point in time, 
Mozambique  has  almost  reached  parity  between  boys 
and girls at the primary school level. 

Third,  since  the  first  years  of  our  independence, 
women  and  children  have  had  free  access  to  health 
care. This free access has had a great impact on access 
to  differentiated  health  care,  such  as  caesarian 
deliveries, for pregnant women, with a major impact on 
the reduction of maternal mortality. 

Fourth, throughout the years we have established 
a  strong  relationship  between  the  Government  and 
local  communities.  While  guaranteeing 
families’ 
capacity to adopt basic domestic measures that help in 
dealing  with  conditions  that  threaten  children’s  and 
women’s  health,  with  a  focus  on  the  prevention  of 
mortality  due  to  malaria,  respiratory  infections  and 
children’s  diarrhoea,  and  in  the  identification  of  signs 
of  danger  to  pregnant  women. Today  in  Mozambique, 
we  have  a  network  of  community  workers  who 
galvanize 
in  adopting  domestic 
practices  for  the  prevention  of  diseases  as  well  as  for 
the protection of health, particularly that of children. 
the  communities 
10-54115 
for 
after 
care, 
surgery 
reflection 
though  which, 
pregnant  women  with 



Fifth,  recognizing  the  country’s  limited  number 
of doctors, at a very early stage Mozambique took the 
initiative  to  train  non-doctor,  middle-level  technicians 
to  offer  differentiated 
including 
caesarians 
labour 
complications. 

Sixth, the  need to increase  access to and the use 
of  health  services  by  women,  in  particular  during 
pregnancy and labour, led us to invest in the expansion 
of  the  network  of  health  facilities,  particularly  in  the 
construction of maternity wards as close as possible to 
communities  and,  at  the  same  time,  to  prioritize  the 
training  of  maternal  and  infant  nurses.  It  is  worth 
mentioning  here  that  the  lack  of  human  resources  in 
Mozambique  constitutes  a  major  challenge  for  our 
Government in meeting all of our goals. 

Seventh, as an example of success in community 
mobilization,  we  would  like  to  mention  the  national 
movement that was created through the implementation 
of  a  children’s  and  women’s  presidential  health  care 
initiative 
and 
consultative  meetings  at  the  national  level,  various 
similar meetings were held at the provincial and local 
levels  that  contributed  to  a  dramatic  increase  in  the 
level of awareness of women’s and children’s health. In 
the past couple of years, we have actively participated 
in  advocacy  actions  at  the  global  level  through  our 
involvement  in  the  activities  of  the  network  of  global 
leaders  tackling  Millennium  Development  Goals  4 
and 6. 

Although  progress  has  been  made,  the  current 
international context poses a threat to this trend, as we 
have  witnessed  in  the  negative  impacts  of  climate 
change, the food and fuel crisis and, more recently, the 
global economic and financial crisis. In this regard, and 
with only five years to the target date for achieving the 
MDGs,  it  is  now  imperative  that  we  all  reinvigorate 
our  engagement  to  implement  the  commitments  made 
in Monterrey. We therefore hope that the draft outcome 
document  of  this  High-Level  Plenary  Meeting  will 
reflect  that  urgency.  Indeed,  we  expect  that  the  donor 
community  will  ensure  sufficient  financial  support  to 
developing  countries.  For  our  part,  we  would  like  to 
stress  our  firm  commitment  to  implementing  sound 
social 
and  good 
governance and, in the long term, reducing dependence 
on external aid by increasing national revenue, making 
sustainable  use  of  natural  resources,  improving  the 
and  promoting  broad-based 
investment 
and  macroeconomic  policies 
climate 
A/65/PV.4
relevant 
Mr.  Paet  (Estonia):  The  framework  of 
economic  growth.  Once  again,  investing  in  women’s 
and  children’s  health  is  investing  in  the  survival  of  a 
nation. We therefore recommit ourselves to continuing 
to place health care for women and children at the top 
of our development agenda. 
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that,  by  fulfilling 

these  and  other 
internationally  agreed 
commitments,  we  will  be  able  to  successfully  address 
the  remaining  challenges  in  attaining  the  social  well-
being of our people. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Spanish): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Urmas  Paet,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia. 
the 

Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  represents  a 
unique  global  effort  and  the  most  significant  promise 
ever made to reduce poverty and inequality worldwide. 
In  order  to  keep  our  promise  and  provide  hope,  it  is 
essential to learn from our past experience. We should 
keep in mind that what worked well in one context may 
not be a success elsewhere.  

To date, the global record is mixed, as pointed out 
in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/665).  It 
draws  attention 
to 
significant areas where much still remains to be done. 
There has been insufficient progress on gender equality 
and the empowerment of women, which is an area that 
has  one  of  the  largest  multiplier  effects  on  other 
Millennium Development Goals.  

As  a  result  of  various  crises,  there  are  higher 
rates of unemployment, malnutrition and hunger. There 
are  still  areas  with  unacceptably  sharp  discrepancies. 
For  example,  while  almost  all  births  are  attended  by 
skilled  health  personnel  in  developed  countries,  less 
than  half  of  women  in  parts  of  the  developing  world 
receive such care. 

There are also success stories that I would like to 
touch upon. First is the remarkable progress in overall 
poverty  reduction.  More  and  more  children  go  to 
school,  and  their  health  has  improved.  More  people 
have access to clean water, and remarkable success has 
been  achieved  in  fighting  malaria,  tuberculosis  and 
AIDS.  No  less  important  is  the  fact  that  the  MDGs 
issue  of 
have  directed  more  attention 
influenced 
development  worldwide.  That 
governmental 
aligned 
important  gains,  but  also 
priorities 
spending 
and 
has 
the 
to 
to 
10-54115 

49 
for  Gender  Equality 
A/65/PV.4 

development  priorities  more  closely  with  poverty 
reduction. 

I  would  also  like  to  touch  upon  the  connection 
between  achieving  the  MDGs  and  human  rights;  the 
two  notions  are  strongly 
interconnected.  Estonia 
entrusts the  United  Nations system with a  central  role 
in supporting national Governments in the achievement 
of  the  MDGs.  We  also  supported  that  role  in  the 
discussions  on  United  Nations  system-wide  coherence 
reform.  Estonia  warmly  welcomes 
the  consensus 
reached on that reform a few months ago, which paved 
the  way  towards  a  more  efficient  and  coherent  United 
Nations operational system (see resolution 64/289).  

I welcome the historic consensus achieved just a 
few  months  ago  on  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations  Entity 
the 
and 
Empowerment  of  Women,  or  UN  Women 
(see 
resolution 64/289). I note with satisfaction the Entity’s 
positive  impact  on  strengthening  the  ability  of  the 
United  Nations  to  address  the  gaps  in  its  activities  on 
gender  and  to  support  countries  in  promoting  gender 
equality.  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  Michelle 
Bachelet  on  her  appointment  as  Under-Secretary-
General for the Entity, and look forward to her strong 
leadership in  making it fully operational by 1 January 
2011. For that purpose, Estonia has already decided to 
make its first contribution to UN Women. 
I  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  the  important 

link  between 
communications 
technology  (ICT)  and  development,  as  the  MDG 
framework 
to 
technologies. Estonia has experienced the relevance of 
that goal in the past 20 years. For us, the development 
of  ICT  has  truly  been  a  crucial  engine  for  economic 
progress  and  modernization. 
ICT  solutions  have 
provided  better  access  to  information  for  our  citizens. 
ICT  has  enabled  them  to  participate  at  all  levels  of 
decision-making;  it  has  improved  transparency  in 
governance  and  provided  new  methods  to  fight  crime 
and corruption. Based on that experience, I call for an 
adjustment  of  development  paradigms.  In  today’s 
world, ICT should not be a luxury good, but part of the 
basic infrastructure. That is why ICT networks need to 
be  developed  in  parallel  with  other  infrastructure 
projects, such as roads, ports and energy systems. 

With the help of the United Nations Development 
Programme and the Open Society Institute, Estonia has 
established  a  special  agency  to  assist  Governments  in 
includes  a  commitment  on  access 
information 
and 

to  note 
developing  countries  with  advice  on  and  training  in 
electronic  governance  and  the  use  of  ICT  in  public 
services.  Estonian  experts  are  currently  advising 
Governments  all  over  the  world.  In  several  countries, 
we  support  the  development  of  an  interoperability 
network  for  better  governance  and  for  making  public 
services  more  transparent  and  efficient.  We  have  also 
assisted  computerization  projects  aimed  at  putting 
contemporary  ICT  systems  into  use  in  educational 
systems. 

As  for  education,  which  is  the  best  engine  for 
innovation  and  growth,  I  am  glad 
that 
significant  progress  has  been  made  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa,  where school enrolment has increased fivefold 
since the 1990s.  
The Co-Chair (Mr. Deiss) returned to the Chair. 


Estonia  is  firmly  committed  to  supporting  the 
global  achievement  of  the  MDGs  by  2015.  Since 
initiating  our  first  development  cooperation  project  in 
1998,  Estonia  has  become  an  international  donor. 
Today, development cooperation enjoys a steady place 
on  our  foreign  policy  agenda,  and  its  importance  is 
growing year by year. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Mr. Alexis  Thambwe  Mwamba, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. 
Mr.  Thambwe  Mwamba  (Democratic  Republic 

of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow  me  to 
congratulate  the  Co-Chairs  on  their  joint  appointment 
to  preside  over  this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting,  thus 
demonstrating  the  great  importance  that  the  General 
Assembly  gives  to  development  and  the  achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals.  

the  final 
countdown to the deadline for attaining the Millennium 
Development  Goals:  only  five  years  remain. That  is  a 
short  time  if  the  pace,  slow  at  best,  and  the  current 
trends  continue.  However,  it  will  be  enough  if,  from 
now  on,  we  all  decide  to  reverse  those  trends, 
implement  the  commitments  undertaken  and  thereby 
express  our  international  solidarity  to  achieve  the 
Goals. 

We  are  convinced  that,  with  the  appropriate 
means  to  act  and  sufficient  financial  resources,  the 
Millennium Development Goals can be achieved in all 
developing countries in general, and in the Democratic 
This  meeting  marks 
the  start  of 
50 

10-54115 
and 
hence 


Republic of the Congo in particular. We are aware and 
we  are  convinced  that  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  is  primarily  the  responsibility  of 
each  country.  It  is  up  to  us,  therefore,  to  ensure  the 
implementation  of  appropriate  policies  and 
the 
mobilization  of  sufficient  support  to  take  us  out  of 
poverty. 

We are also aware of the domestic constraints that 
have so far hindered implementation of the Millennium 
Development  Goals 
sustainable 
development  in  general.  These  include  the  lack  of 
quality  data  to  indicate  progress  made  and  guide 
decision-making,  the  gap  between  commitments  and 
payments  of  resources  pledged  within  the  framework 
of  the  many  African  initiatives,  conflicts  and  the 
continuing economic and financial crisis.  

Notwithstanding  those  obstacles,  there  is  reason 
to  believe  that  developing  countries  as  well  can 
achieve essentially all of the Goals, provided that they 
strengthen  their  efforts  and,  in  particular,  increase 
financial investment in the public sector and encourage 
private business. 
With  respect  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 

Congo,  my  country,  we  are  working  to  intensify  our 
efforts  to  create  an  enabling  environment  and  an 
investment  climate  favourable  to  development  of  the 
private sector in order to make up investment shortfalls 
and  attract  foreign  direct  investment,  in  particular 
through tax incentives and eliminating red tape. 

The Democratic Republic of the Congo has made 
noticeable  progress  towards  achieving  some  of  the 
Millennium  Goals.  That  progress 
includes  net 
enrolment  in  primary  schools,  adult  literacy,  parity 
between  boys  and  girls  in  primary  education,  and  the 
political empowerment of women. The participation of 
women 
their 
the  national  parliament  have 
representation 
increased. 
for  children  have 
improved;  mortality  for  children  under  5  years  of  age 
has  been  reduced  and 
transmission  rate  of 
HIV/AIDS  slowed.  Substantial  progress  has  also  been 
achieved  in  the  fight  against  tuberculosis,  and  the 
proportion  of  children  sleeping  under  insecticide-
treated  nets  is  showing  a  marked  and  continuous 
increase.  

The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  has  also 
increased  its  earnings  due  to  its  economic  growth 
through  austerity  measures,  discipline  and  a  civic  tax 
in  decision-making  processes  and 
Immunization 
rates 
the 
in 
A/65/PV.4
that 
is 
to 
favourable 
required of everyone. My country is working to reform 
the security and justice sectors and to improve control 
within  its  public  administration  in  order  to  manage 
staffing levels.  

Such  good  governance  efforts  have  enabled  my 
country to recently achieve the completion point of the 
Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative. 
However  that  work  has  not  yet  ended.  We  must 
strengthen  the  national  statistics  system,  which  since 
February  2010  has  been  governing  the  generation  and 
use  of  statistics  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. We must advance decentralization and promote 
land reform. We must work to protect the environment 
as the cornerstone of our efforts to protect species and 
ecosystems. 
Those  efforts  will  not  suffice  and  enable  us  to 

the  Millennium  Goals  without  a  global 
achieve 
environment 
achieving 
development. Additionally, with regard to our partners, 
both bilateral and multilateral, each as it is concerned, 
we must secure the necessary changes in attitude. 

We  recognize  the  praiseworthy  efforts  of  our 
development  partners  to  improve  their  assistance  to 
developing  countries.  We  also  acknowledge,  as  I 
mentioned 
the 
Millennium Development Goals lies first of all with us. 
But  our  international  partners  must  also  honour  their 
pledges and support the strategies implemented by the 
developing  countries.  If  our  partners  wish  to  see  our 
countries achieve the Millennium Goals, they will need 
to increase official development assistance, as so often 
promised.  From 
the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  all  the  other  commitments 
made.  
We  must  break  down  barriers  that  continue  to 

impede  implementation  of  an  international  treaty  to 
regulate  the  arms  trade,  because  in  countries  such  as 
mine  the  uncontrolled  circulation  of  those  lethal 
devices  maintains  in  our  countries  and  the  entire 
subregion 
that  prevents 
implementation of development programmes. 
The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a post-

the 
conflict  country,  where 
Millennium  Development  Goals  meets  with  more 
challenges  than  elsewhere.  Clearly  it  is  impossible  to 
assess  today  the  consequences  of  the  conflict  for 
implementation of the Millennium Goals. Thousands of 
women  have  been  raped  and  subjected  to  violence. 
that  standpoint,  we 
implementation  of 
implementation  of 
an  unstable 
situation 
recall 
earlier, 
that 
10-54115 

51 

A/65/PV.4 

Millions  of  children  have  no  possibility  of  attending 
school because they are constantly on the move to flee 
the war, and people have been forced to abandon their 
fields  and  herds  and  small-scale  or  subsistence-level 
economic  activities.  Thousands  of  men,  women  and 
children  have  been  infected  through  no  fault  of  their 
own  with  HIV/AIDS  and  various  sexually  transmitted 
diseases or suffer from malaria. Many women also die 
from giving birth in inappropriate conditions.  

Because  of  all  that  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  requests  that  it  be  included  among  the 
priority  programmes  of  development  partners,  with 
more  flexible  assistance  and  financing  modalities. We 
need  sustained  assistance  and  action  to  consolidate 
peace and security and our national institutions, to train 
our armed forces and police, to create jobs for youth, in 
particular  to  keep  them  occupied,  to  strengthen  the 
State’s capacities to provide quality social services, to 
resettle the many displaced people and to accelerate the 
strategy  to  reduce  emissions  from  deforestation  and 
forest degradation — REDD-plus — in short, to bring 
about  sustainable  development  and  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
In  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  we 

remain  convinced 
international 
governance  and  in  working  together,  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals by 2015 is possible, in 
order  to  eradicate  hunger  and  poverty  and  put  the 
developing 
and 
collectively,  on  the  path  to  growth  and  sustainable 
development. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hoshyar  Zebari, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Iraq. 
Mr.  Zebari  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow  me 

first to congratulate you, Sir, on co-chairing this high-
level  meeting  on  the  follow-up  to  the  implementation 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) agreed 
upon  by  our  leaders  in  2000.  We  are  sure  that  the 
experience  of  the  Co-Chairs  will  be  a  main  factor  in 
the success of our work in the light of the purposes and 
principles of the United Nations.  
In  the  year  2000,  our  leaders  defined  the  basic 

goals  for  bringing  about  sustainable  development  for 
all.  That  would  be  accomplished  through  various 
actions  to  eradicate  poverty  and  hunger,  achieve 
universal  primary  education,  promote  gender  equality, 
reduce  child  and  maternal  mortality,  fight  HIV/AIDS, 
that  with  good 
individually 
countries, 
both 
In 
terrorism, 
violence, 
fertile  ground 
epidemics 
preserve 
the  environment  and  establish  a  global 
partnership.  In  general,  we  support  the  provisions  of 
the  draft  outcome  document  to  be  adopted  at  this 
Meeting (see A/65/L.1).  

Certainly,  some  progress  has  been  made  in 
achieving  the  Goals,  including  with  regard  to  the 
elimination  of  poverty.  There  has  also  been  progress 
with  regard  to  international  cooperation  and  solidarity 
in  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  —  even  though,  five  years  from  the  target  date 
for attainment of the MDGs, more than a billion people 
are  still  living  in  extreme  poverty.  If  significant 
progress is not made during these five remaining years, 
there  will  be  negative  consequences  for  all  of  our 
for 
societies,  which  will  create 
instability, 
and 
environmental degradation. In our view, the MDGs can 
be  achieved  with  political  will,  sound  policies, 
adequate resources, committed efforts and international 
cooperation.  

The  economic  situation  in  Iraq  has  improved 
significantly  thanks  to  the  financial,  economic  and 
investment legislation adopted by our Government. As 
a  result,  personal  income  and  individual  purchasing 
power  and  prosperity  have 
increased.  The  Iraqi 
Government  has  prepared  an  ambitious  budget  for 
2010 not only to provide for reconstruction, but also to 
build  a  healthy  and  strong  economy  as  we  move 
forward.  

On  4  April,  the  Iraqi  Government  launched  a 
five-year national development plan for 2010 to 2014. 
It  sets  out  some  2,700  strategic  projects  in  various 
areas at an estimating a cost of $168 billion, to develop 
the Iraqi economy and improve the quality of services 
provided 
to  Iraqis.  The  plan  will  create  around 
4 million  jobs  and  will  thus  contribute  to  addressing 
the problem of unemployment in Iraq.  
include 

enhancing 
improving 
agricultural products by providing subsidies to farmers. 
This  will  help  to  provide  more  food,  reduce  extreme 
poverty  and  hunger, 
income, 
improve  nutrition  and  health  care  services  and  reduce 
the  level  of  infant  mortality  and  post-partum  maternal 
mortality.  

the  area  of  primary  education,  we  are 
rehabilitating and reforming the education sector, after 
the  arbitrary  war  launched  by  the  previous  regime 
the  agricultural  sector  and 
increase  household 
Iraq’s  efforts 
the  MDGs 
to  attain 
52 

10-54115 
in 
to 
laws 
including 
the  health  care 


against  its  neighbours  and  its  people  and  after  the 
violence  and  destruction  that  Iraq  has  experienced 
since  the  fall  of  that  regime.  The  rehabilitation  effort 
has  been  extended  to  all  Iraqi  provinces,  including 
rural areas, and a programme to raise social awareness 
has  been  carried  out  to  warn  children  not  to  leave 
school early. Iraq is planning to overcome all obstacles 
and restrictions that stand in the way of girls pursuing 
primary,  secondary  and  university  education.  An 
awareness-raising  campaign  has  also  been  carried  out 
to  address  social  customs  which  sometimes  prevent 
girls  from  attaining  a  university  education.  Social 
protection  measures  for  women  have  also  been 
adopted, 
that  ensure  employment 
equality  between  men  and  women.  There  are  three 
women  Cabinet  ministers 
Iraq  and  women 
ambassadors  represent  Iraq  in  important  countries. 
Women make up 25 per cent of members of parliament. 
That  is  the  highest  proportion  of  women  members  of 
parliament in the region. 
In  the  area  of  health,  the  Ministry  of  Health  has 

strengthened 
infrastructure  and 
increased  the  number  of  hospitals,  pharmacies,  health 
care  centres  for  pregnant  women  and  centres  for 
chronic  and  epidemic  diseases.  Health  care  training 
takes place in Iraq and abroad with the help of United 
Nations  specialized  entities 
improve 
national  capacity,  create  health  care  centres  and 
provide health care to all citizens, particularly in rural 
areas and for poor and young people of both sexes. 

Global  partnership  is  seen  as  the  cornerstone  of 
international cooperation. We are currently engaged in 
cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies  and  programmes  as  part  of  our  international 
partnerships  for  reconstruction  and  for  building  a 
liberal  economy  integrated  with  other  countries  in  the 
region  and  worldwide,  as  well  as  for  improving  the 
social  and  economic  conditions  of  our  people.  The 
Iraqi  Government  has  also  adopted 
significant 
economic measures at the global level and has met its 
commitments  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund.  It 
has  concluded  bilateral  agreements  with 
trading 
creditors  to  address  and  adjust  the  debt  it  inherited 
from the previous regime. Iraq has accomplished a lot 
in this area and has managed to reduce by 80 per cent 
its debts to the Paris Club. We hope that other creditor 
States will act in the same way with a view to reducing 
our bilateral debt.  
in  order 
A/65/PV.4
(Dominica): 
Mr.  Bernard 
thus  contributing 

Finally, development remains primarily a national 
responsibility and can be driven only through national 
ownership and national leadership. Development takes 
its characteristics from national and regional capacities 
and  specificities,  and  national  resources  play  a  large 
role  in  designing  a  country’s  development  strategy. 
There is no pre-established strategy that can be applied 
throughout all areas of development.  

The  next  five  years  will  require  continued  work 
by all in order to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals. Iraq hopes that this period will be decisive and 
that  it  will  lead  to  a  qualitative  leap  in  Iraq’s 
development, 
to  stability  and 
progress in the region. 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alvin 
Bernard,  Minister  of  State  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Dominica. 

I  commence  by 
congratulating  the  Co-Chairs  on  the  effective  manner 
in  which  they  have  been  conducting  this  High-level 
Plenary Meeting so far.  

During  the  first  five  years  of  this  millennium, 
slow  but  steady  progress  was  being  made  towards  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Globally,  there  was  a  reduction  in  the  number  of 
persons  living  in  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  greater 
access  to  primary-level  education  and  a  reduction  in 
child mortality.  

That  progress,  however,  has  been  stymied,  and 
some gains have been reversed as a result of the world 
food crisis in 2006 and the energy crisis of 2007. The 
global  economic  and 
in  2008 
exacerbated  the  situation,  with  a  more  pronounced 
impact  on  small,  open  and  vulnerable  economies  like 
ours.  These  crises  brought 
the 
interconnectivity of the world’s economies. In order to 
overcome these challenges and to move apace with the 
achievement  of the Millennium Development Goals, a 
global approach is required. It is paramount that such a 
global  approach  recognize  the  central  role  of  the 
United Nations. 

With only five years left, we need to intensify our 
efforts.  A  good  starting  point  is  the  fulfilment  of  the 
commitments  made  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus  of 
2002.  This  must  include  the  reconfiguration  of  the 
international  financial institutions to take into account 
into  sharp  focus 
financial  crisis 
10-54115 

53 

the  achievement  of 
These  efforts  must  complement 
A/65/PV.4 

the  special  needs  of  developing  countries.  The 
international financial institutions must take on the role 
of  facilitators  of  development,  without  preconditions 
which  are  too  onerous  and  in  most  cases  alien  and 
impractical  to  the  countries  where  the  institutions’ 
prescriptions are being applied. 

the  Doha 
Development  Agenda.  Developing  countries  must  be 
given a fair chance to participate in the global trading 
system. The recognition of the special and differential 
status  of  developing  countries,  especially  small  island 
developing  States  with  small,  open  and  vulnerable 
economies,  is  critical  to  their  survival  in  what  has 
become a hostile global trading environment. This will 
ensure  that  developing  countries  have  a  better  chance 
to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  a 
sustainable manner. 

Another  area  requiring  urgent  attention  is  the 
contribution  of  official  development  assistance  and 
technology transfer. To date, the contributions of most 
the 
developed  countries 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
been 
commendable. Their contributions, at both the bilateral 
and  multilateral 
levels,  have  made  a  significant 
contribution  to  the  realization  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  But  as  was  alluded  to  earlier, 
there needs to be a greater role for the United Nations 
in this process within a framework that is transparent, 
equitable and predictable. 

In  spite  of  the  many  challenges,  Dominica  has 
been able to make some major achievements in pursuit 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. We  have  been 
able  to  make  these  achievements  through  sound  fiscal 
policy, strong political leadership and the hard work of 
our  people.  The  developed  countries,  especially  the 
States members of the European Union, continue to be 
reliable  partners  in  our  development  efforts.  Over  the 
past  five  years  we  have  seen  an  unprecedented 
collaboration 
of  South-South 
cooperation  with  China,  Cuba,  Venezuela  and  Libya. 
These  interventions  have  been  in  the  areas  of  social 
infrastructure  development.  These 
and  physical 
partnerships  have 
in 
household  poverty  in  Dominica  from  39  per  cent  in 
2002  to  28.8  per  cent  in  2009.  Per  capita  income  has 
also moved, from $11,430 in 2005 to $14,184 in 2008. 
In  2005,  we  achieved  universal  secondary  education. 
This programme provides equally for boys and girls. 
to  a  marked  decrease 
context 
have 
led 
to 
in 
the 
the 
framework 
efforts  by  our 
The  Caribbean  region  has  been  heavily  affected 

by  HIV/AIDS.  The 
regional 
Governments  to  date,  in  partnership  with  the  Clinton 
Foundation, the Pan American Health Organization and 
the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS)  are  commendable.  The  education  and 
public  awareness programmes have brought the issues 
of HIV/AIDS to the fore. We look forward to continued 
assistance  by  UNAIDS  and  other  partners  in  public 
education  programmes  and  the  provision  of  drugs, 
which will help to improve the quality of life of those 
who are affected. 

The  prevalence  of  chronic  non-communicable 
diseases  is  also  of  concern  to  us  in  the  Caribbean. 
Earlier this year, the States members of the Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM) sponsored General Assembly 
resolution  64/265  to  bring  international  focus  to  the 
increasing  threat  of  non-communicable  diseases.  We 
look forward to a high-level meeting during the current 
session,  which  will  provide 
for 
combating non-communicable diseases. 

Dominica  has  been  dubbed  the  nature  island  of 
the  Caribbean.  This  is  due  to  prudent  environmental 
policies  supported  by 
the  well-
established  practices  and  traditions  of  our  people. 
Consequently,  we  have  been  able  to  protect  our  water 
catchments, 
forests  and  marine 
reserves and to enjoy the sustainable use of our natural 
resources.  In  that  light,  the  effects  of  climate  change 
have also made us more vulnerable to natural disasters. 
These  pose  real  threats  to  our  ability  to  continue  to 
work towards the achievement of the MDGs. 

Since the early 1990s, up to 40 per cent of local 
electricity  has  been  generated  from  hydro-powered 
turbines.  This  has  not  only  reduced  the  cost  of 
electricity  but  has  also  reduced  our  dependence  on 
imported  fossil  fuels.  Our  target  is  to  ensure  that  by 
2015  we  will  be  able  to  provide  100  per  cent  of  our 
electricity  from  renewable  sources.  Over  the  past  10 
years  we  have  been  vigorously  pursuing 
the 
development of geothermal energy. In partnership with 
the  Government  of  France,  the  regional  councils  of 
Guadeloupe  and  Martinique  and 
the  European 
Commission,  we  have  been  able  to  complete  the  first 
phase of the project. 

The  next  phase,  to  determine  the  quality  and 
quantity  of  the  resource,  will  begin  shortly.  We  look 
forward to the commercialization phase, when we will 
rivers,  beaches, 
legislation  and 
54 

10-54115 
Small 


be able to generate electricity not only for our domestic 
market but also for the neighbouring French islands of 
Martinique and Guadeloupe. 

As  I  indicated  earlier,  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  requires  global  action.  It  must  be  underscored 
that  such  action  must  be  premised  on  strong  global 
partnerships, with a central role for the United Nations. 
We must therefore continue to work towards the reform 
of the United Nations. Reform of the Security Council 
must be addressed urgently so as to ensure that we can 
create a more democratic institution which reflects the 
realities of the world today. 

island  developing  States  must  be 
recognized  as  a  special  entity  within  the  United 
Nations  system.  Our  small  geographical  size  and  our 
small  and  open  economies  with  a  narrow  economic 
base not only leave us susceptible to the vagaries of the 
international community but limit our policy options in 
responding  to  emerging  developments.  Nonetheless, 
the Commonwealth of Dominica remains committed to 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Mr. Abubakr Al-Qirbi,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Yemen. 

Mr.  Al-Qirbi  (Yemen):  I  am  pleased  to  deliver 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdullah  Saleh,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen 
and  Chairman  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  on  this 
auspicious occasion.  

Ten years ago, the world joined its forces here at 
the  United  Nations  Headquarters  to  commit  itself  to 
eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  combating 
inequalities,  ensuring  primary  education 
for  all, 
promoting  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women,  strengthening  global  public  health  and 
promoting  sustainable  development.  To  that  end,  a 
global  partnership  for  development  was  established  to 
harness  global  solidarity  and  promote  national  and 
international commitment in favour of development.  
The  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2) 

and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
represent  worthy  commitments  by  the  United  Nations 
and its Member States. With less than five years to go 
until  2015,  today’s  High-level  Meeting  is  a  timely 
opportunity  for  all  of  us 
to  highlight  effective 
development strategies and initiatives that can serve as 
A/65/PV.4
in  conformity  with 
international 
guidelines  in  our  countries  and  regions,  as  well  as  to 
reflect on shortcomings and challenges that need to be 
urgently overcome.  

Indeed, one of the main goals of this summit is to 
scale  up  the  global  partnership,  to  mobilize  the 
additional resources urgently needed and to address the 
remaining  gaps  and  continuing  challenges.  It 
is 
incumbent  on  all  of  us  to  ensure  that  no  country  falls 
short of the MDGs simply because of lack of resources. 
In this regard, we must be fully committed to assisting 
those  countries  that  are  lagging  behind,  especially  the 
least  developed  countries,  the  landlocked  developing 
countries  and  the  small  island  developing  States,  as 
well  as  Africa.  The  Group  of  77  and  China  believes 
that a strong global partnership for development should 
be the  centrepiece of international  cooperation, with  a 
view to ensuring the timely achievement of the MDGs.  
We  also  must  be  committed  to  fulfilling  our 

obligations 
law 
through  taking  further  concrete  collective  action  to 
remove all obstacles to the full realization of the rights 
of  peoples  living  under  foreign  occupation,  obstacles 
which continue to adversely affect their economic and 
social  development  and  which  are  incompatible  with 
the dignity and worth of the human person and must be 
combated and eliminated.  

The  development  challenges  that  we  face  today 
should  not  be  underestimated.  We  express  deep 
concern  over  the  current  multiple  interrelated  and 
mutually  exacerbating  global  crises,  in  particular  the 
world  financial  and  economic  crisis,  volatile  energy 
prices  and  the  ongoing  concern  over  food  security,  as 
well as the challenges posed by climate change, which 
could  further  undermine  the  achievements  of  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

The ongoing world financial and economic crisis 
has  reversed  many  important  development  gains  in 
developing  countries  and 
to  seriously 
undermine 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015.  Two  years  after  the 
outbreak  of  the  global  financial  crisis,  developing 
countries have still not fully recovered from the social 
and economic effects of the crisis. 

We  recognize  that  all  developing  countries  have 
made significant efforts towards the achievement of the 
MDGs.  Nevertheless,  progress  has  been  uneven  from 
country  to  country  and  from  Goal  to  Goal.  Despite 
the  achievement  of 
threatens 
10-54115 

55 
in 

efforts 
accelerating 
development 
in  support  of  accelerating 
development  and 
the 
implementation  of  internationally  agreed  development 
goals. We stress the pivotal role of the United Nations 
in  promoting  coherence  and  coordination  in  global 
economic  governance.  We  stress  the  need  to  increase 
the  commitment  of  the  United  Nations  development 
system  to  supporting  national  efforts  to  achieve  the 
MDGs.  The  United  Nations  needs  to  strengthen  its 
capabilities  and  capacities  to  fully  implement  its 
mandate  and  to  ensure  the  effective  delivery  of  its 
development activities. 
This  High-Level  Meeting  is  an  important  step 

towards 
and 
achieving  the  MDGs,  but  much  more  remains  to  be 
done. The international community must now focus on 
implementing  agreed  commitments  and  scaling  up  the 
global  partnership  for  development.  It  is  clear  that 
economic  growth  is  a  critical  factor,  but  that  alone 
cannot overcome the profound structural problems that 
beset  most  developing  countries.  In  order  to  ensure 
their  effectiveness,  development  strategies  must  be 
pursued  in  the  context  of  a  supportive  international 
environment,  with  global  institutions  that  take  full 
account of the needs of developing countries. We have 
seen  that  whatever  progress  has  been  made  towards 
meeting the MDGs has been possible only through the 
combined  efforts  of  national  commitment,  effective 
programmes,  resources  and  international  support.  In 
order  to  support  the  national  efforts  of  developing 
countries, scaling up the Goals is critically important to 
the achievement of all MDGs. 
The G-77 and China stand ready to do their part 

to  promote  development  and 
in 
developing  countries  with  a  view  to  ensuring  the 
timely achievement of the MDGs everywhere. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Eminence  Cardinal  Peter 
Kodwo  Appiah  Turkson,  President  of  the  Pontifical 
Council for Justice and Peace of the Holy See. 

Cardinal  Turkson  (Holy  See):  I  have  the  great 
honour to convey the cordial greetings of His Holiness 
Pope Benedict XVI to the Co-Chairs and to the Heads 
of  State  and  Government  assembled  here  during  these 
days  to  work  together  towards  a  world  free  of  the 
plague  of  extreme  poverty  and  to  ensure  that  all 
children,  women  and  men  in  every  country  of  the 
world enjoy the conditions necessary to live their lives 
foster  growth 
there  are  still  more 
the  area  of  gender  equality  and 
A/65/PV.4 

positive  developments, 
than 
1 billion people living in situations of extreme poverty. 
The  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations recently noted a reduction in world hunger, but 
the  numbers  of  malnourished  and  undernourished 
remain  staggering.  Progress  has  also  been  slow  in 
improving  in  improving  maternal  health  and  reducing 
maternal  mortality.  Insufficient  advances  have  been 
made 
the 
empowerment of women. Almost half of the people in 
developing countries continue to live without access to 
basic  sanitation.  Too  many  people  remain  jobless  or 
underemployed,  and  more  attention  needs  to  be  given 
to promoting growth and sustainable development. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  stress  the  critical 
importance of official development assistance both as a 
complement  to  other  sources  of  financing  and  as  a 
catalyst  for  development,  facilitating  the  achievement 
of  national  development  objectives,  including  the 
MDGs.  The  global  crisis  cannot  be  an  excuse  for 
avoiding  existing  aid  commitments.  On  the  contrary, 
today  more  than  ever,  developed  countries  must  meet 
and  scale  up  their  existing  bilateral  and  multilateral 
official  development  assistance  and  aid  targets,  in 
particular,  the  commitment  to  reach  the  target  of 
0.7 per  cent  of  gross  national  product  for  official 
development  assistance  to  developing  countries  by 
2015, and to reach the level of at least 0.5 per cent of 
gross  national  product 
for  official  development 
assistance  by  2010,  along  with  the  target  of  0.15  to 
0.2 per cent of gross national product for development 
assistance to the least developed countries. 
We confirm the importance of the United Nations 

Millennium  Declaration 
and 
underscore the continuing relevance of the outcomes of 
all  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the  economic,  social  and  related  fields,  as  well  as  of 
the 
therein. 
they  constitute  a  coherent  development 
Together, 
agenda,  providing 
international 
development efforts. We stress that the achievements of 
the 
goals, 
including  the  MDGs,  should  continue  to  be  the 
overarching  framework  of  the  development  activities 
of the United Nations system. 

The  G-77  and  China  believe  that  the  United 
Nations,  given  its  universal  membership,  legitimacy 
and  comprehensive  mandate,  must  play  a  vital  role  in 
for 
the  promotion  of 
international  cooperation 
the  backbone  of 
internationally 
development 
(resolution 
55/2) 
important 
commitments 
contained 
agreed 
56 

10-54115 
In 
the 
international 
the  year  2000,  with 


in freedom and dignity. And the Holy Father assures all 
participants the support of his prayers. 

the  unanimous 
endorsement of the Millennium Declaration (resolution 
55/2),  all  Heads  of  State  at  the  United  Nations 
acknowledged 
struggle  against 
poverty,  and  that  it  could  not  be  limited  to  the 
management  of  the  great  economic  variables,  such  as 
finances and foreign debts, commerce and development 
aid. Rather, the family of nations appreciated the more 
specifically  human  aspects  of  development,  such  as 
eradicating  hunger,  promoting  education,  providing 
health  care  and  social  services,  ensuring  equal 
opportunities  for  work,  and  advocating  responsible 
stewardship of the environment. 

Although  many  countries  are  still  far  from 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
on time, great progress has been made in various ways 
towards halving the number of people living below the 
absolute  poverty  line.  This  encourages  us  all  to 
discover the weaknesses, incongruities and conflicts in 
the programme, to resolve them and so to move on to 
attain full success. 

Indeed,  much  still  needs  to  be  done  to  maintain 
and strengthen political mobilization through continued 
economic and financial solidarity in order to guarantee 
the  availability  of  resources.  In  this  regard,  the  Holy 
See  emphasizes  the  importance  of  strengthening  the 
global  partnership  for  development,  which 
is  a 
necessary condition for the achievement of all the other 
Goals, and supports the full and integral compliance of 
the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha Declaration on 
Financing for Development. 

All  Governments,  of  developed  and  developing 
countries alike, must accept their responsibility to fight 
corruption, tax evasion and all reprehensible conduct in 
the areas of business and finance. The rule of law and 
the  promotion  of  the  right  to  education,  job  security 
and basic health care must be upheld. 

The  campaign  for  development  carried  out  by 
international  agencies  has  revealed  that  success  is 
attributable not so much to economic assistance as it is 
to  creativity,  resourcefulness,  commitment  and  the 
sacrifice of countless small actors, such as the plethora 
of  faith-based  organizations.  These  give  life  to  the 
expression  “small  is  beautiful”,  predicted  many  years 
ago  by  economists  and  strongly  inspired  by  the  social 
teachings of the Church. 
A/65/PV.4
like 
the 
not 
countries, 
developed 
to  ask 
the 

For  all  of  these  reasons,  population  policies  that 
violate  human  dignity  do  not  help  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  achieve  their  sublime  objectives; 
still less do they alleviate poverty. I know the poverty 
of  deprivation  and  exclusion,  as  an  African  myself.  I 
have  encountered  really  poor  and  destitute  people  in 
my life and in my ministry as a religious leader, and I 
would 
international  community, 
especially 
to 
underestimate  the  resourcefulness  of  the  poor  and  not 
to  find  them  burdensome.  If  we  assure  poor  countries 
of the effective mainframe of Millennium Development 
Goal 8, they will assume the shared responsibility and 
national  ownership  of  achieving  the  other  Goals.  The 
Millennium Development Goals should be used to fight 
poverty, not to eliminate the poor. 

The inherent and equal dignity, individuality and 
transcendence  of  each  human  being  must  be  the 
foundation  of  each  and  every  policy  on  development. 
In  this  regard,  on  the  much-debated  issue  of  maternal 
health, the Holy See respectfully  and fervently invites 
the  countries  participating  in  this  High-Level  Meeting 
to  provide  quality  resources  for  the  health  care  needs 
of  mothers  and  their  babies,  including  the  unborn. 
Moreover, the repeated references in the World Summit 
Outcome  Document  (resolution  60/1)  to  sexual  and 
reproductive  health  and  family  planning  raise  deep 
concerns.  These  are  controversial 
terms,  often 
interpreted as including access to abortion and methods 
of  family  planning  that  are  not  in  accord  with  natural 
law, known by reason. 
The  family  of  nations  has  committed  itself  to 

fighting material poverty. This is a key and noble goal 
to  pursue,  but  in  this  effort  let  us  never  forget  that 
material  poverty  has  partners  —  relational,  emotional 
and spiritual. The human person must be at the centre 
of concern in our quest for development. If everyone’s 
political,  religious  and  economic  rights  and  freedoms 
are respected, we  will shift the paradigm from merely 
trying  to  manage  poverty  to  creating  wealth;  from 
viewing the person as a burden to seeing the person as 
part  of  the  solution.  It  is  in  this  conviction  that  the 
Holy See desires to collaborate with this summit in the 
quest  for  an  era  of  peace,  social  justice  and  authentic 
and holistic human development. 

The  Co-Chair (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Tomáš Dub, 
Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Czech 
Republic. 
10-54115 

57 
in 
the 
translate 
that  will 
into  national 
fulfilment  of 
them  gradually 
A/65/PV.4 

Mr. Dub  (Czech  Republic):  It  is  my  honour  and 

pleasure to address this High-level Plenary Meeting on 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to review 
progress 
the  Millennium 
Declaration, which the Czech Republic fully supports. 

We  welcome  the  political  will  to  achieve  the 
MDGs by 2015, which is to be confirmed at the highest 
level  in  a  declaration  at  the  end  of  this  summit. 
However, we are convinced that the major task for the 
forthcoming  2010  —  2015  period  will  be  to  create 
mechanisms 
these  reconfirmed 
commitments into reality at the local level. 

It  is  also  necessary  to  regularly  update  all 
national  development  strategies  and  plans  in  the  light 
of current realistic statistics and lessons learned, and to 
integrate 
legislative 
systems.  We  think  that  all  meetings  related  to  the 
MDGs  up  to  2015  should  focus  especially  on  the 
exchange of best practices in specific areas. 

In any case, innovative approaches leading to the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  at  the  national  and  local 
levels  must  be  designed  from  the  bottom  up  on  the 
basis of country-specific facts and holistic, community-
led  approaches.  We 
therefore  appreciate  ongoing 
projects  such  as,  for  example,  the  United  Nations 
Global  Compact  and  the  Millennium  Village  project, 
which emphasize the involvement of the private sector 
in  supporting  the  MDGs,  not  only  in  financial  terms, 
but  also 
terms  of  ensuring  decent  working 
conditions and respect for human rights within society.  

In addition, non-governmental organizations play 
an irreplaceable role on the ground. Their experience is 
very  valuable  and  we  should  maintain  a  regular  and 
open dialogue with them. 

We  are  convinced 
that  official  development 
assistance or measures to curb inflation and public debt 
are  not  the  only  way  to  eradicate  poverty.  What  is 
needed  is  a  combination  of  measures  encouraging 
employment,  fiscal  and  monetary  stabilization  with  a 
countercyclical  effect,  the  mobilization  of  domestic 
resources  and  good  governance. We  believe  that  these 
together  with  concrete  mechanisms  of 
measures, 
mutual  accountability  and  policy  coherence 
for 
development, 
sustainable 
development  of  many  countries.  We  have  therefore 
identified these topics as priorities in the new strategies 
for  development  cooperation  and  transition  policy  of 
the Czech Republic. 
crucial 
in 
are 
to 
the 

Last  but  not 
is  a 
least,  we  believe 
fundamental  prerequisite 

The  transition  experience  gained  by  the  Czech 
Republic  in  the  recent  past  gives  us  a  comparative 
advantage  in  development  issues,  as  it  has  been 
acknowledged even by the Organisation for Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  and 
the  European 
Union.  Our  expertise  can  help  developing  countries 
with  creating  their  public  sector  reform  strategies, 
building  democratic  governance  and 
institutions, 
promoting the rule of law, and in the fight against tax 
evasion, as well as with other fiscal reform matters. 

We believe that transition promotion should be an 
integral part of the development assistance provided by 
the  international  community.  The  Czech  Republic 
actively  contributes  to  this  objective  by  its  efforts 
undertaken  especially  in  Eastern  Europe  and  the 
Western Balkans. 
that  social 

development 
for 
achieving  all  MDGs.  However,  we  must  approach  it 
from a broader perspective, integrating such sectors as 
health,  education,  gender  equity,  water  and  sanitation, 
poverty reduction, nutrition and social protection. 
Good  governance  and  respect  for  human  rights 

are  among  the  main  priorities  of  the  development 
agenda  of  the  Czech  Republic.  We  are  determined  to 
advance  and  support  good  governance  and  the  rule  of 
law  at  all 
levels,  as  well  as  solid  democratic 
institutions responsive to the needs of our people based 
on  the  key  principles  of  participation,  accountability, 
integrity and transparency. We are convinced that these 
are essential not only to the achievement of the MDGs 
but  also 
inclusive  and  equitable 
development in general. 

The  Co-Chair (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sayyid 
Badr bin  Hamad  Al-Busaidi,  State  Minister  of  the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Sultanate of Oman. 

Mr. Al-Busaidi (Oman): The Millennium Summit 
held in the year 2000 was a milestone in international 
cooperation.  There,  our  Heads  of  State 
and 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
Government  adopted 
(resolution  55/2), 
identified  eight 
development goals that, if implemented, would lead to 
a world with less poverty, hunger and disease, and with 
greater access to health care and education. 

Here  we  are,  10  years  later  and  five  years  from 
the target date, meeting to undertake  a  comprehensive 
in  which 
sustained, 
they 
to 
58 

10-54115 


review  of  progress  made  and  to  determine  what  extra 
measures  we  could  adopt  to  accelerate  action  on  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) between now 
and 2015. Success in some areas has put many regions 
on  track.  Progress  continues  to  be  made  in  poverty 
reduction,  school  enrolment,  controlling  malaria  and 
HIV, and the provision of safe water resources in rural 
areas.  However,  there  is  a  danger  that  many  of  the 
MDG targets may not be met in most regions. 

In this time of economic crisis, combating global 
poverty,  disease  and  inequality  is  no  easy  task.  The 
negative  impact  of  natural  disasters,  epidemics  and 
civil  unrest  serve  to  make  debt-ridden  developing 
countries poorer still.  

The  MDGs  are  the  most  broadly  supported, 
comprehensive and specific objectives upon which the 
world  has  ever  agreed.  They  constitute  the  most 
ambitious  plan  in  human  history  to  combat  global 
poverty and produce sustainable progress in the quality 
of  life.  It  is  this  global  participatory  approach  that  is 
key.  This  summit  is  invaluable  in  reviewing  the 
progress,  achievements  and  challenges  we  have  faced 
over  the last  decade. It is  equally important, however, 
to  develop  a  plan  for  the  coming  years  in  order  to 
ensure 
targets  do  not  become  empty 
idealism.  

Moreover,  this  initiative  does  not  end  in  2015. 
Across  the  world,  progress  towards  these  Goals  has 
been  unequal.  Politicized  aid-giving  factionalizes  the 
global  community  and  reduces  the  MDGs  to  a  cruel 
charade. We call upon all to do what they can to ensure 
that  development  reaches  everyone  and  everywhere. 
Global  partnership  is  a  key  tool  and  an  important 
approach.  Donors  and  recipients  must  work  together 
with these aims as their common and unifying goal. 

The Sultanate of Oman, under the wise leadership 
of  His  Majesty  Sultan  Qaboos  Bin  Said,  continues  to 
achieve  positive  progress  in  all  of  the  identified  areas 
in  the  context  of  the  MDGs.  This  has  had  a  tangible 
effect  on  our  society  and  economy.  For  example,  our 
mortality  rates  for  infants  and  children  under  five  per 
1,000 live births have fallen by 29 per cent since 1990, 
while His Majesty’s promotion of women to numerous 
leadership  positions  in  our  society  has  provided  a 
meritocratic example, founded on the basic principle of 
equality. 
I  would  like  to  put  before  the Assembly, however, 

two  challenges  for  consideration.  These  challenges  are 
these 
that 
A/65/PV.4
being faced both globally and locally and should be taken 
into  account  in  our  action  plan.  Non-communicable 
diseases and road traffic accidents are the cause of almost 
60  per  cent  and  15  per  cent,  respectively,  of  premature 
deaths worldwide. I am sure that members will share our 
concern at such figures and our desire to approach these 
issues together. 

Resolution  64/255  of  2  of  March  2010 
proclaimed  a  Decade  of  Action  for  Road  Safety.  It 
acknowledged  road  safety  to  be  a  major  public  health 
crisis  which,  if  unaddressed,  would  “hinder  progress 
towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals”.  Road 
safety  has  been  overlooked  as  a  contributor  to  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  despite  its  cross-cutting 
impact upon six of the MDGs and the fact that it has a 
key role to play in alleviating poverty. 

The attainment of the MDGs is a realistic aim for 
the future. If politics is the art of the possible, then let 
us be clear — achieving the MDGs is possible. But this 
is  only  the  case  if  we  foster  a  more  active  global 
community  and  a  shared  humanitarian  ethos.  To 
succeed in these intentions, we must reflect on the old 
saying, “a stranger is a friend I have not yet met”. Let 
us help our friends, let us help strangers and let us help 
each other. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to Mr. Max Henderson Hernández, 
Vice-Minister of Planning of Mexico. 
Mr.  Hernández  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Ten  years  ago,  world  political  leaders  met  at  the 
Headquarters  of  this  Organization  to  express,  through 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  their 
commitment  to  fighting  poverty  and  hunger  and  to 
improving the health and educational conditions of the 
world’s most vulnerable groups. 

Five  years  from  the  deadline  established  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
this  Meeting  is  of  the  highest  relevance  because  it 
allows  us  to  assess  the  progress  achieved  and  the 
challenges  that  remain.  In  particular,  it  allows  us  to 
reiterate  our  decisive  commitment  to  achieving  the 
Goals. 

For  Mexico,  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals is a State commitment. Mexico has 
therefore 
taken  decisive  action,  nationally  and 
internationally,  to  achieve  the  MDGs,  since,  even  if 
they  are  concrete  goals  that  help  us  to  organize  our 
10-54115 

59 

is 
infrastructure.  Second 
A/65/PV.4 

efforts,  they  are  only  a  basic  framework  and  the 
minimum  necessary 
to  guarantee 
that  our  most 
vulnerable populations can live better. 

We  reiterate  that  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals are an integral part of Mexican social policy. The 
sustainable  human  development  focus  of  the  social 
programmes of the Government of Mexico emphasizes 
the  relationship  between  the  economic  and  social 
spheres. To effectively integrate these two spheres and 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  Mexico 
relies  on  a  “live  better”  strategy,  with  the  following 
areas for action.  

First is the development of Mexicans’ basic skills 
through  programmes  on  food,  health,  education, 
housing  and  social 
the 
consolidation  of  a  social  protection  network  so  that 
Mexicans  can  face  diverse  contingencies,  such  as 
accidents, diseases or material losses caused by natural 
disasters.  Third  is  the  establishment  of  bridges  that 
connect social and  economic policies, with the  aim of 
increasing  Mexicans’  capacities  and  skills  so  they  can 
be successfully included in economic development. 
In  this  context,  Mexico  has  registered  important 

advances 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  It  is  my  pleasure  to  inform  the 
Assembly that we have achieved the goal set for 2015 
of  reducing  by  half  the  percentage  of  people  with 
incomes  lower  than  $1  a  day.  Similarly,  Mexico  has 
registered  significant  progress  in  the  Goals  related  to 
primary  education  for  all  children  and  the  elimination 
of  gender 
in  primary  and  secondary 
education. 

It  is  my  honour  to  inform  the Assembly  that,  in 
the  framework  of  the  International  Year  of  Youth, 
Mexico hosted the World Youth Conference from 23 to 
27  August.  Its  outcome,  the  Guanajuato  Declaration, 
which  was  endorsed  by  112  countries,  underlines  the 
importance of the achievement of the MDGs for young 
people  and  offers  a  series  of  recommendations  to 
address comprehensively and transversally the needs of 
that population group. 

Furthermore,  we  in  Mexico  are  fully  convinced 
that health is of the utmost importance to every family. 
We also acknowledge the importance for all Mexicans 
to  be  able  to  receive  health  services  whenever  they 
need them. 
the  achievement  of 
inequalities 
in 

From  the  very  start  of  the  millennium,  Mexico 
has offered public insurance that makes health services 
available to all Mexicans who, for whatever reason, do 
not  contribute  or  have  not  contributed  to  the  social 
security  system,  recognizing  that  health  is  a  social 
right, not a labour right. By 2012, all Mexicans without 
exception  will  have  access  to  a  doctor,  medicine  and 
medical treatment when needed. That is to say, Mexico 
will  achieve  universal  health  coverage,  which  is  a 
priority  of  the  social  policy  of  President  Felipe 
Calderón.  Through  this  mechanism,  we  are  fighting 
child and maternal mortality, offering medical care and 
services to women at risk, starting from the gestational 
period.  In  addition,  we  prevent  disease  through  a 
universal  programme  of  vaccination  for  children, 
which provides more than 98 per cent of children with 
15  vaccines,  including  against  pneumococcus  and 
rotavirus. 

Mexico,  along  with  many  other  nations,  has 
registered significant improvements in the treatment of 
people  with  HIV/AIDS.  Today,  we  guarantee  free 
universal  access  to  antiretroviral  medicines  for  all 
Mexicans. 

The  adverse  effects  of  climate  change  confirm 
that we cannot afford the luxury of doing nothing. The 
costs  of  not  addressing  the  problem  are  huge,  both  in 
economic and human terms, and they negatively affect 
the  well-being  of  present  and  future  generations. 
Mexico  will  host  the  sixteenth  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  and  the  sixth  Conference  of  the 
Parties  serving  as  the  meeting  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Kyoto  Protocol,  from  29  November  to  10  December 
2010 in Cancún. 

Mexico  hopes  for  a  successful  conference  and 
will  do  everything  possible  to  facilitate  and  identify 
solutions, but we need other countries to do the same. 
We have begun this task and we have received  a very 
positive  message  from  the  international  community 
that  we  can  reach  concrete,  operational,  specific  and 
ambitious results in Cancun. We make an emphatic call 
to  political  leaders  around  the  world  to  find  the 
political will to enable us to take actions of the needed 
scope. 

the  Millennium 
Development Goals it is necessary to move forward in 
the  consolidation  of 
for 
development.  Mexico,  a  determined  promoter  of 
the  global  partnership 
Moreover, 
achieve 
to 
60 

10-54115 
the 
in 
types  of 
to  other  countries,  particularly 


multilateralism in its foreign policy, maintains this goal 
as  a  priority.  In  this  regard,  Mexico  affirms  the 
importance  of  the  agenda  set  forth  in  the  Monterrey 
Consensus  of 
International  Conference  on 
Financing  for  Development,  which,  in  its  holistic 
approach,  enumerates  conditions  necessary  to  achieve 
the MDGs. 

International cooperation in development must be 
made  more  effective  through  better  use  of  human  and 
resources  and  by  promoting  positive 
financial 
synergies  among  various 
technical  and 
scientific  cooperation,  including  traditional,  triangular 
and South-South models of cooperation. Mexico fulfils 
its part as a committed partner in plans for South-South 
cooperation  and 
triangular  cooperation.  We  are 
convinced  that  our  experience  in  development  can  be 
useful 
the 
achievement of the MDGs. 

Further,  Mexico  reiterates  that  trade  can  and 
should  play  an  essential  role  in  overcoming  poverty 
and in the attainment of the well-being of nations. It is 
therefore  essential  to  resist  protectionist  pressures, 
particularly  those  that  affect  developing  countries,  to 
reject  all  forms  of  protectionism  and  to  promote 
investment in trade. 

its 
responsibility to contribute to a global aid architecture 
that  is  better  coordinated  and  that  better  promotes 
development,  allowing  effective  progress  towards  the 
full and comprehensive attainment of the MDGs. They 
are all achievable. 

Five  years  from  the  deadline,  this  is  without  a 
doubt  the  moment  to  redouble  our  efforts  and  move 
forward  in  building  a  more  unified,  inclusive  and  fair 
world that is humane and respectful of all rights. Let us 
put aside doubt and lean into the work of achieving the 
goals that we have set for ourselves. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by 
Ms. Caroline  Ziade,  deputy  chair  of  the  delegation  of 
the Lebanese Republic. 
Ms.  Ziade  (Lebanon)  (spoke in Arabic):  First  of 

all, I would like to thank the Co-Chairs for their efforts 
in  this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). I would also like to thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  report,  “Keeping  the 
promise:  a  forward-looking  review  to  promote  an 
Our  country  assumes  as  an  obligation 
A/65/PV.4
to  achieve 
the  Millennium 
agreed  action  agenda 
Development Goals by 2015” (A/64/665). 

Inasmuch as the vital lesson to be learned is that 
political  will  is  needed  to  turn  words  into  deeds  and 
attain  the  MDGs  by  2015,  today’s  meeting  is  of 
particular  importance.  It  must  be  an  opportunity  to 
reaffirm  commitments  to  implement  the  Goals  and  to 
strengthen  partnerships  among  Governments, 
the 
private sector and specialized financial institutions. 

Like  other  countries,  Lebanon  has  suffered  and 
continues  to  suffer  from  the  negative  repercussions  of 
climate change, the food crisis and the world financial 
crisis,  as  well  as  from  other  aspects  of  globalization, 
which  have  widened  the  gap  between  the  world’s  rich 
and poor. My country is committed to taking up these 
challenges. In the first half of this year, in cooperation 
with the United Nations Development Programme, we 
published  a  report  on  Lebanon’s  commitment  to  the 
attainment  of  the  MDGs.  The  report  indicates  that, 
overall,  Lebanon  is  on  track  to  implement  the  MDGs 
by 2015.  

Let me give a few examples. The report shows that 
Lebanon has managed to  reduce  the  rate  of  its  citizens 
living in poverty from 27 per cent in 1995 to 8 per cent 
in  2004.  The  number  of  students  who  have  finished 
primary  school  rose  from  95  per  cent  in  2001-2002  to 
96 per  cent  in  2005-2006.  The  report  also  shows  that 
gender equality, with respect to the level of education of 
girls,  has  increased.  Still,  more  effort  must  be  made  to 
achieve  equality 
the  political  decision-making 
process. The  number  of  women  parliamentarians  at  the 
last  elections  was  no  more  than  six.  However,  the 
number  of  seats  won  by  women  in  the  most  recent 
municipal  elections  went  up  slightly,  from  1.9  per  cent 
in 2004 to 4.68 per cent in 2009. 

Until 2006, Lebanon had been able to make some 
notable  achievements  in  the  area  of  environmental 
sustainability, and according to performance indicators 
in  that  sphere,  it  ranked  thirty-sixth  among  133 
countries, and first among Arab countries. But Israel’s 
war against Lebanon in 2006 had devastating effects on 
the environment and economic and social development. 
That  aggression  caused  large-scale  damage,  costing 
more  than  $2  billion.  Thousands  of  homes  were 
destroyed,  as  well  as  basic  infrastructure  such  as 
bridges and roads. The bombing of hydroelectric plants 
and fuelling stations created an environmental disaster, 
in 
10-54115 

61 
countries 
strengthen 
In  conclusion,  we 
realize 
the  world’s  poor,  mirages 
to  eradicate  poverty.  But  we  reaffirm 
A/65/PV.4 

including an oil spill that spread over 150 kilometres of 
coastline.  

The  level  of  our  indebtedness  is  very  high  and 
places a great burden on our treasury. We are trying to 
reduce  the  servicing  of  public  debt  through  various 
measures, and we have managed to reduce debt-service 
costs from 18 per cent of GDP in 2000 to 12 per cent in 
2008.  

that  developing 
countries  must  make  basic  structural  reforms,  build 
their 
institutional  capacities  and  develop  national 
strategies  to  revitalize  sustainable  development  and 
help 
that 
developed  countries  should  also  keep  their  promises. 
They should provide financial and technical assistance 
to  help  developing 
their 
economies,  so  that  the  promises  will  not  be  vain 
dreams  for 
that  keep 
receding with every step forward.  

The Co-Chair (Mr. Deiss) (spoke in French): In 
accordance  with  resolution  64/184,  of  21  December 
2009,  and  decision  65/504,  of  20  September  2010,  I 
now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. José Manuel 
Barroso,  President  of  the  European  Commission,  who 
will speak on behalf of the European Union. 

(European  Union):  The  new 
millennium  brought  with  it  a  great  vision  and  a  great 
goal  —  to  reduce  poverty  by  half  by  2015.  Never 
before  has  humankind  set  itself  such  a  daunting  task, 
nor such a meaningful one. 

Extreme  poverty  is  the  most  challenging  global 
issue.  Our  technical  progress  is  mocked  when  men, 
women  and  children  are  still  starving,  continue  to  be 
vulnerable  to  HIV  infection,  are  forced  to  subsist  in 
degraded  environments  or  are  unable  to  exercise  the 
most  basic  of  their  human  rights.  It  need  not  be  like 
this.  We  must  strengthen  our  collective  resolve  to 
confront the social and gender inequalities that lock all 
too  many  people  into  poverty.  If  developing  countries 
stand by their priorities and developed countries stand 
by  their  commitments,  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  will  become  millennium  development 
achievements. 
The  European  Union  has  kept  the  fight  against 

poverty  high  on 
its  agenda.  European  citizens 
themselves demand this. As the world’s leading donor, 
accounting 
than  50  per  cent  of  all 

development  aid,  the  European  Union  has  contributed 
to  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  from  the  beginning. 
Much  has  been  achieved  so  far.  The  European 
Commission alone has helped put 9 million more girls 
and  boys  in  schools  since  2004.  We  have  connected 
31 million  households 
to  clean  drinking  water. 
However, much remains to be done. There is no place 
for complacency. We must increase our efforts to reach 
our common objectives over the next five years. 

In  June  of  this  year,  Europe’s  leaders  agreed  an 
ambitious plan that takes things up a gear. It prioritizes 
action  on  those  goals  where  we  have  made  least 
progress  and  in  those  regions  and  countries  that  are 
most  lagging  behind,  including  those  experiencing 
conflict,  crises  and  fragility  of  governance.  The  plan 
also confirms our commitment to meet the 0.7 per cent 
gross  national  income  target  by  2015  and  to  assess 
progress  on  this  every  year.  My  hope  is  that  this  will 
encourage  other  donors,  including  emerging  partners, 
to step up their own level of ambition. 

The  European  Union  stands  with  countries  in 
difficulty.  We  are  a  reliable  partner,  even  in  times  of 
economic  downturn.  During 
the  food  crisis  we 
provided  €1.5  billion  in  additional  support  through  a 
food  facility  and  a  flexibility  instrument  reaching 
50 countries and benefiting 50 million people. 

Today,  I  have  come  to  the  General Assembly  to 
reaffirm Europe’s commitment to this challenge. I wish 
to announce that the European Union is ready to offer 
to  the  most  committed  and  needy  countries  an  MDG 
initiative amounting to €1 billion to make progress on 
those Goals we are furthest from achieving. 

We  have  to  produce  more  effective  results, 
because time is running out. But aid is a catalyst, not a 
cure.  No  country  has  ever  been  transformed  by  aid 
alone. That is why it is also important that our partners 
take  charge  of  their  own  development.  That  means 
mobilizing  domestic  policies  and  resources  to  support 
the  MDGs.  It  also  means  being  fully  accountable  for 
development results, for the management of aid as well 
as domestic budgets, and being totally transparent. 

We share the  responsibility for ensuring  success. 
Just  as  donors  should  be  held  accountable,  partner 
countries  should  also  be  accountable  for  the  results 
they  achieve.  We  owe  this  to  all  our  fellow  human 
beings fighting to survive on a dollar a day. 
Mr.  Barroso 
for  more 
62 

10-54115 
the  Organization  of 



We must all act now and in solidarity to make the 
MDGs a reality by 2015. But halving poverty will only 
solve half the problem. If we can achieve our goals, an 
even  greater  prize  will  be  within  our  grasp  —  the 
ultimate  eradication  of  all  poverty  in  its  various 
manifestations. That is something worth fighting for. 

The Co-Chair (Mr. Deiss) (spoke in French): In 
accordance  with  resolution  64/184,  of  21  December 
2009,  and  decision  65/504,  of  20  September  2010,  I 
now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ekmeleddin 
Ihsanoglu, Secretary General of the Organization of the 
Islamic Conference. 
Mr.  Ihsanoglu  (Organization  of  the  Islamic 

Conference):  I  am  extremely  delighted  to  address  this 
Meeting. I am equally delighted to note that the major 
objectives  of  human  capital  development,  which  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) process seeks 
to  achieve,  have  considerably  inspired  the  economic 
component  of 
Islamic 
Conference (OIC) 10-year programme of action, which 
will run its full course in 2015. The welfare of the poor 
and  vulnerable  segments  of  the  population  of  the  57 
OIC  member  States,  most  of  which  are  developing 
countries,  was  foremost  in  the  minds  of  OIC  leaders 
who  adopted  the  programme  at  the  Mecca  summit  in 
December  2005.  Poverty  remains  one  of  the  biggest 
challenges  to  the  socio-economic  development  of 
developing  countries,  especially  those  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa and South Asia.  
The  OIC  has  undertaken  a  host  of  initiatives 

towards 
through  a 
partnership  with  its  member  States  and  affiliated 
institutions. The Organization has always felt an urgent 
need  to  develop  interaction  among  its  member  States 
by  setting  up  several  relevant  mechanisms  in  various 
fields  for  the  attainment  of  goals  that  are  in  line  with 
the MDGs.  

Given that seven of the eight MDGs are directly 
related to poverty alleviation — while the eighth calls 
for  a  global  partnership  for  development  —  the  OIC 
Islamic  Solidarity  Fund  for  Development  provides  a 
$10  billion  financing  window  that  serves  as  a  unique 
example  of  innovative  South-South  cooperation.  The 
Fund targets the least developed OIC countries.  

least  developed 
countries today, 22 are OIC member States, 18 of them 
in Africa.  In  addition,  12  OIC  member  States  in Asia 
and Africa  are  landlocked  developing  countries,  while 
the  world’s  50 
Indeed,  of 
the 
the  attainment  of 
the  MDGs 
A/65/PV.4
six  others  in Asia, Africa  and  the Americas  are  small 
island  developing  countries.  Both  those  groups  face 
unique  development  challenges  because  of 
their 
geographical  limitations  and  are  in  dire  need  for 
scaled-up  targeted  development  assistance  if  they  are 
to make progress towards the attainment of the MDGs. 

OIC  poor  countries  will  benefit  from  sustained 
capacity-building  assistance  for  poverty  alleviation 
projects  and  investment  in  the  development  of  trade 
and  industry,  technology  transfers,  the  cancellation  of 
bilateral and multilateral debt by donor member States 
and the promotion of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  —  all  of  which  have  been  identified  as 
necessary  steps  for  poverty  alleviation  and  economic 
development. 

At the cultural level, the OIC is working hard to 
disseminate the culture of moderation while combating 
extremism  and  terrorism.  The  OIC  was  a  pioneer  in 
calling  for  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  cultures 
and  for  interfaith  dialogue,  including  launching  the 
appeal  for  historic  reconciliation  between  Islam  and 
Christianity. 
In  addition  to  its  General  Secretariat,  the  OIC 

runs  different  subsidiary  organs  and  affiliated  and 
specialized institutions. In this era of globalization, the 
OIC  mandates  encompass  all  domains,  ranging  from 
politics,  economics,  trade  and  social  and  cultural 
development  to  education,  Islamic  jurisprudence  and 
science and technology.  

The OIC Special Programme for the Development 
of  Africa  is  a  $12  billion  facility  aimed  at  advancing 
activities  favouring  the  poor.  The  sectoral  priorities 
under  the  Programme  are  specifically  geared  towards 
attaining  the  MDGs  and  promoting  economic  growth 
and regional integration. It focuses, first, on agriculture 
for food security; secondly, water and sanitation; thirdly, 
generation and distribution of power; fourthly, transport 
infrastructure; fifthly, education and, sixthly, eliminating 
major communicable diseases. A total of 191 operations 
have  been  financed  in  sub-Saharan  African  countries, 
with a total value of $1.8 billion. 

Significantly, the reinvigorated funding mechanisms 
under the OIC Islamic Solidarity Fund have created the 
desired impact in the educational sector. Consequently, 
the  three  OIC  universities  in  Bangladesh,  Niger  and 
Uganda  have  continued  to  prepare  youth  in  OIC 
member States for development goals. 
10-54115 

63 

the  OIC 
the 
the 
Similarly, 
reform  of 
international 
international 
the  creation  by 
A/65/PV.4 


Let  me  say  at  this  juncture  that  the  ongoing 
cooperation  between  the  OIC  and  the  United  States 
Government on the eradication of polio in affected OIC 
member  States  has  opened  up  new  perspectives  for 
increasing 
partnership  with  OIC 
countries. 

the  OIC  of  an 
organization  for  the  promotion  of  the  welfare  of 
women  in  OIC  countries  is  complementary  to  the 
ongoing  series  of  activities  within 
to 
mainstream women into trade. 

Notwithstanding the efforts of OIC in mobilizing 
support for actions to mitigate the effect of crises, there 
is a need for global partnership to address the pertinent 
issues  raised  by  the  crises.  It  that  regard,  I  wish  to 
commend  the  participation  of  three  OIC  countries  in 
the  Group  of  20  (G-20),  which  is  now  preoccupied 
with 
financial 
architecture. We are of the view that wider consultation 
within the G-20 is necessary so as to reflect the varied 
financial systems in the world, particularly considering 
the  current  mandate  of  the  meeting  of  central  bank 
governors of OIC countries. 
As  we  continue  to  concretize  our  efforts  in  the 

next  five  years 
these 
objectives,  let  me  underscore  the  OIC’s  unwavering 
commitment to the MDGs. 

The Co-Chair (Mr. Deiss) (spoke in French): In 
accordance  with  64/184,  of  21  December  2009,  and 
decision 65/64, of 20 September 2010, I now give the 
floor to His Excellency Mr. Anders Johnsson, Secretary 
General of the Inter-Parliamentary Union.  

Mr.  Johnsson  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  I 
bring to this Meeting, at this late hour, the greetings of 
the  President  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU), 
Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  who,  as  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly  who  presided  over  the  adoption  of 
the Millennium Declaration in 2000, much regrets that 
urgent  business  prevents  him  from  being  with  us  here 
today. 

A few weeks back, under his leadership, speakers 
of  parliaments  from  most  countries  in  the  world 
convened 
third  World 
Conference  of  Speakers  of  Parliament.  Their 
parliamentary summit issued a call for securing global 
democratic  accountability  for  the  common  good.  We 
have circulated the outcome document, and I commend 
towards  the  realization  of 
in  Geneva 
to  attend 
the 
in 
to 
The 
involvement 
support  of 
strengthen  democracy 
speakers  of  parliament  call 
it  to  the  Assembly’s  attention.  It  contains  several 
commitments 
through 
parliaments, including here at the United Nations.  

for  an 
imaginative leap of faith. They emphatically state that 
today’s  multilateral  systems  should  allow  for  much 
greater consideration for the feelings and aspirations of 
people  everywhere.  The  speakers  call  for  greater 
parliamentary involvement in international cooperation 
to  help  remedy  this  deficiency  and  propose  actions  to 
be  taken  by  parliaments  and  by  the  IPU  in  pursuit  of 
this objective. 

The  speakers’  summit  had  a  dual  objective:  to 
take  stock  of  progress  in  developing  a  parliamentary 
dimension  to  international  cooperation,  and  to  assess 
parliamentary 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). The  MDGs, 
the  speakers  declared,  will  not  be  met  without  an 
accompanying  sense  of  accountability.  Democracy, 
security,  development,  human 
rights  and  gender 
equality  are  inextricably  linked. The  speakers  pledged 
to  support  efforts  in  parliaments  to  ensure  that  the 
Development  Goals  are  taken  into  account  in  their 
daily  work  and  translated  into  national  programmes 
and  laws.  They  encouraged  all  parliaments,  when 
examining  draft  budgets  and  bills,  to  assess  their 
impact on the fulfilment of the MDGs. 

Women  speakers  of  parliament  who  met  in  Bern 
on  the  eve  of  the  parliamentary  summit  called  for 
stronger efforts at meeting MDGs 4 and 5 and invited 
all parliaments to join them in implementing the Bern 
Initiative for Global Parliamentary Action on Maternal 
and Child Health. 

Taking stock of progress, the speakers noted that 
much  work  has  already  been  done  in  parliaments  to 
legislate  to  make  the  Goals  achievable.  Where  there 
has  been  less  progress  is  in  the  area  of  parliamentary 
oversight and review of progress. Here, there is scope 
for  improvement.  It  is  of  course  understandable  that 
officials,  already  burdened  by  elaborate  and  time-
consuming  MDG  reporting  requirements,  might  be 
disinclined to extend the process further by tabling the 
reports in parliament. However, the investment is well 
worth it. 

At  the  end  of  the  day,  none  of  the  Goals  will 
succeed  unless  there  is  broad  political  support  and 
national  ownership.  In  fact,  the  only  way  to  forge  a 
truly  national  agenda  is  by  bringing  all  parties  on 
64 

10-54115 


board.  The  only  place  where  that  can  be  done  is 
parliament. In other words, the fulfilment of the MDGs 
is also an exercise in democracy. 

The  work  that  the  IPU  and  member  parliaments 
have  carried  out  in  support  of  the  MDGs  over  several 
years,  as  well  as  the  recent  debate  among  speakers, 
demonstrate palpable progress on the MDGs — enough 
to  justify  a  more  upbeat  mood  than  in  the  past. 
According to the debates, there is universal support for 
the  claim  that  better  oversight  of  development  aid  is 
essential.  

Additionally,  the  trade  regime  must  change. 
There is no hope for balanced trading conditions when 
domestic  production  is  still  so  heavily  subsidized  in 
some parts of the world.  

Excessive  policy  conditionality  also  remains  an 
issue in many countries. Good governance remains key 
to  the  success  of  the  MDGs,  and  good  governance 
correlates positively with development results. 
Several  delegations  present  in  New  York  these 

days 
include  members  of  parliament.  The 
IPU 
welcomes  this  growing  practice  and  encourages  other 
Governments to follow suit. We are meeting with them 
tomorrow  to  develop  a  strategy  for  ensuring  greater 
parliamentary  involvement  and  active  support  for 
attaining the MDGs by 2015. As we do so, we will of 
course  look  to  the  Assembly’s  outcome  document 
(A/65/L.1)  and  to  the  many  reports  and  comparative 
studies  we  are  ourselves  have  prepared  and  circulated 
in advance of today’s summit. But more than anything, 
we  will  want  to  regenerate  that  very  special  moment 
which  existed  at  the  turn  of  the  millennium,  an 
extraordinary  moment  when  all  the  world’s  leaders 
congregated  in  New  York  to  make  a  commitment  to 
improving  the  lives  of  people  everywhere,  the  very 
people  we,  as  members  of  parliament,  represent.  The 
IPU has a special place in the declaration they adopted 
on that occasion (resolution 55/2), and we are happy to 
shoulder the responsibility they have placed on us. 

Let me end therefore by making a commitment on 
behalf  of  the  IPU.  We  will  redouble  our  efforts  to 
mobilize  and  assist  parliaments  in  doing  their  part  in 
attaining  the  MDGs  by  2015.  We  will  also  start 
working  with  them  here  and  now,  so  that  by  the  time 
they meet five years from now, parliaments will be part 
of  the  process  that  will  set  future  development  goals. 
That  will  be  both  a  political  and  a  practical  way  to 
A/65/PV.4
strengthen  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance. 
The Co-Chair (Mr. Deiss) (spoke in French): In 

accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution  64/184 
of  21  December  2009  and  decision  65/504  of 
20 September  2010,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Sima 
Bahous, Assistant Secretary General for Social Affairs 
of the League of Arab States. 
Ms.  Bahous  (League  of  Arab  States)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): At  the  outset,  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  the 
League  of  Arab  States  and  its  Secretary  General, 
Mr. Amre  Moussa,  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  for  their 
able  efforts  to  achieve  comprehensive  and  sustainable 
development and for their support for and cooperation 
with  Arab  States,  in  particular  the  less  developed 
among them, in various areas of development. I would 
also  express  our  appreciation  to  all  our  international 
partners who are present today at this important High-
level  Meeting.  We  hope  the  Meeting  will  be  an 
opportunity  to  evaluate,  objectively  and  responsibly, 
our progress in achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  We  also  hope  that  the  Meeting  will 
clarify  the  steps  we  need  to  take  to  move  forward  to 
attain  the  MDGs  by  the  year  2015  —  and,  beyond 
2015, 
future 
challenges and guarantee a better life for our peoples.  

The  League  of  Arab  States  attaches  great 
importance to the achievement of the MDGs by 2015. 
Since  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2),  the  various  mechanisms  for  joint 
Arab  action,  such  as  Arab  ministerial  councils  and 
specialized Arab organizations, have been establishing 
strategies,  plans  and  programmes 
that  effectively 
contribute  towards  achieving  the  MDGs  on  the  Arab 
regional  and  national  levels.  An  example  of  Arab 
leaders’ efforts to achieve comprehensive development 
in the Arab region was the Arab Summit held in Riyadh 
in  2007,  which  called  for  a  consultative  meeting 
focusing 
social 
development  issues  and  aiming  directly  at  improving 
the  lives  of Arab  citizens. Accordingly,  the  League  of 
Arab States, backed by strong political will, carried out 
an assessment of the development situation in the Arab 
region, the level of progress in achieving development 
goals,  the  difficulties  that  development  processes  as  a 
whole  were  confronting  and  various  visions  and 
programmes  aimed  at  accelerating  the  achievement  of 
these goals.  
sustainability,  address 
to  achieve 
specifically  on 
economic 
and 
10-54115 

65 

the 
focused  on 
in  achieving 
implemented  on 
A/65/PV.4 


The  first  Arab  Economic,  Development  and 
Social  Summit,  which  was  held  in  Kuwait  in  January 
2009, reaffirmed the commitment of the Arab region to 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  through  the  Kuwait 
Declaration and Programme of Action, which outlined 
a  complete  vision  for  setting  into  motion  policies  and 
programmes  aimed  at  social  integration,  reduction  of 
poverty  and  unemployment,  improving  the  levels  of 
health care and education, empowering youth, ensuring 
social  equality  and  empowering  women,  including 
increased,  effective  participation  by  women 
in 
economic,  political  and  social  life  and  an  invigorated 
role  for  civil  society  organizations  and  the  private 
sector.  These  programmes 
less 
developed Arab States because they are most in need of 
the  MDGs  by  2015.  These 
help 
programmes  are  now  being 
the 
international and Arab regional levels. 

In  further  pursuit  of  the  efforts  of  the  Arab 
Summit  in  these  areas,  the  second  Arab  development 
summit will be held in the Arab Republic of Egypt on 
19  January  2011  in  order  in  anticipation  of  2015  to 
assess the situation and evaluate our achievements and 
the  difficulties  we  still  confront  in  the  light  of  new 
international and regional developments and changes. 

this  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  on  the  MDGs,  the  Secretary  General  of  the 
League  of  Arab  States,  through  the  Council  of  Arab 
the 
Social  Affairs  Ministers,  which 
specialized  Arab  ministerial 
in 
coordination  with 
and  Social 
Commission  for Western Asia,  coordinator  of  the  task 
force on the implementation of the MDGs in the Arab 
region,  as  well  as  specialized  United  Nations 
organizations  and  agencies  and  members  of  the  task 
force,  prepared  the  third  Arab  regional  report  on  the 
MDGs, for 2010, with particular attention to the effects 
that  the  international  economic  crisis  has  had  on 
achieving the MDGs.  
This report is being submitted to this Meeting as 

one of several regional reports. It sets out the situation 
of the Arab region in terms of achieving the MDGs. It 
emphasizes  the  interdependence  of  the  MDGs,  since 
interdependence 
important  aspect  of 
strategizing  for  their  attainment,  individually  and 
collectively. The  report  discusses Arab  States’  varying 
levels  of  performance 
the  Goals, 
especially the less developed among them.  
is  one  of 
and 
the  Economic 
In  preparation 
in  achieving 
is  a  very 
for 
councils, 
the 
the 
impact  of 
transformation  of 
The  report  also  covers 

the 
international economic crisis on the achievement of the 
MDGs, especially in the aftermath of the oil crisis, the 
food  crisis  and 
the  world 
financial  crisis  into  an  economic  crisis  that  has 
undermined the ability of Arab developing countries to 
preserve what they had achieved with such great effort. 
The  report  also  reaffirms  the  need  to  intensify  efforts 
aimed  at  coordination  among  States  of  the  region  and 
to  find  innovative  and  complementary  solutions  to 
issues  such  as  employment  and  investment  in  human 
development,  with  an  emphasis  on  skill-building  and 
the  protection  of  natural  resources  in  the  context  of 
addressing environmental and climate challenges.  

The  Arab  report  also  indicates  that  poverty  has 
been  greatly  reduced  in  most  Arab  States  and  that, 
compared  to  other  States, Arab  States  still  have  lower 
levels  of  poverty  and  a  medium  rate  of  income 
inequality.  However,  despite  that  success,  fighting 
unemployment  and  ensuring  appropriate  employment 
remain  a  major  challenge,  especially  since  the  Arab 
region  has  one  of  the  highest  youth  unemployment 
rates in the world. The less developed Arab States are 
still far from achieving their poverty reduction goals.  
Despite  the  great  progress  achieved  on  universal 

primary  education  and  on 
improvement  of 
children’s  health  in  the  region,  there  are  still  some 
Arab  States  that  are  confronting  these  challenges, 
which are exacerbated by geographic variations within 
a  single  State.  Quality  of  education  remains  a  great 
challenge,  as  do  the  empowerment  of  women  and 
youth,  maternal  health  and  contagious  diseases  —  all 
of  which  require  attention  because  they  have  such 
crucial importance in combating poverty and achieving 
the other MDGs.  

In  general,  the  Arab  region  has  made  tangible 
progress in achieving the MDGs, but it will be difficult 
for the less developed Arab States to achieve the Goals 
by  the  year  2015,  especially  in  the  light  of  the 
challenges  that  they  continue  to  confront  along  with 
the  Arab  region  as  a  whole.  Primary  among  these 
challenges 
are  poverty,  unemployment,  gender 
inequality and the lack of empowerment of women, as 
well  as  the  Israeli  occupation  and  other  strategic  and 
security  threats  to  the  Arab  world.  Those  challenges 
and  threats  prevent  Arab  States  from  achieving  the 
MDGs  and  impel  us  to  address  their  root  causes, 
strengthen  our  efforts  to  end  them  and  strive,  in 
to 
partnership  with 
international  community, 
the 
the 
66 

10-54115 


finance  development  projects  in  the  less  developed 
Arab States within the set time frame to which we are 
all committed.  

In  conclusion,  I  express  our  gratitude  to  our 
partners in international and regional organizations for 
the  considerable  cooperation  that  they  have  provided 
and  continue  to  provide,  and  for  their  support  for  the 
initiatives  of  the  League  of Arab  States.  I  underscore 
the  importance  of  providing  support  and  assistance  to 
the  less  developed  Arab  States  in  order  to  help  them 
achieve the MDGs.  

We would also like to stress the vital importance 
of continuing to strive towards attaining the MDGs in  
A/65/PV.4
incorporating 
those  Goals 
We  also  emphasize 
the  Arab  region, 
into 
national  development  strategies  and  plans  and  finding 
the necessary funding mechanisms, in partnership with 
Arab States and Governments, the private sector,  civil 
society organizations and inter-State partnerships. 

the 
the  significance  of 
ongoing cooperation among the League of Arab States, 
the  United  Nations  and 
in 
promoting  a  global  partnership  to  achieve  the  MDGs 
and  to  ensure  peace,  security,  stability,  progress  and 
prosperity  for  the  peoples  of  the Arab  region  and  the 
entire world. 


  The meeting rose at 10.30 p.m. 
international  partners 
10-54115 

67 
